

Just as some movies that should be great turn out to be awful, some movies
that should be awful turn out to be great - Masters of the Universe.
Unfortunately, for a film that's based on a cartoon that today's
20-somethings used to watch in the 1980's, none of the said 20-somethings
are going to admit to liking it now. Few will give it a chance and realize
the direction is good, the acting is good, the music is good, that it's
exciting, funny, scary, suitably epic and absolutely action-packed and
that
it looks fantastic. But Superhero Cinema does.
He-Man and the Masters of the Universe was a hugely successful mid-80's
cartoon based on a line of action figures. The success of each fed the
other, as well as a popular comicbook and loads of other merchandise.
Finally in 1987 came the big one: the motion picture.

What looks like suicide at first glance - converting a cartoon based on
action figures into a full-length feature - gets more appealing when you
look at thes ource material closer. The cartoon is a epic hybrid of
fantasy
and sci-fi, with ancient castles and sorcerers mixing with laser guns and
cyborgs. It also has a very mythic feel, mixing Ancient Greece-era
monsters
and challenges with fairy tale locations.

There are also hordes of exotic characters - warriors, mutants, monsters,
magicians of every description, so the film makers could pick the coolest
ones to bring to the screen. The ones they've chosen are He-Man and his
arch
enemy Skeletor (obviously), amazon-type female warrior Teela and her dad
Man-At -Arms, the Sorceress of Grayskull, Skeletor's second in command
Evil
Lyn (which is always pronounced 'Evil-In'), and Beastman. Added to these
are
four characters that were created for the film - Gwildor, a dwarf-like
inventor, Karg, a cross between Captain Hook and a bat, snake-like Sauron,
and Blade, a sword and knife-obsessed slaphead. So that's eleven fantasy
characters running about, which is a pretty good total.

Masters of the Universe succeeds because it takes the cartoon and adapts
not
it's superficial qualities, but it's essence into a movie, turning it into
a
mature sci-fi/fantasy adventure. This is where so many comic and cartoon
based movies fail. They don't adapt their source material properly to make
a
successful feature film. You need to make the movie a natural progression
from what it's based on, altering the look enough so it looks acceptable
in
real action, altering the characters into real people, choosing actors who
can give real performances. It's not simply dressing superstars up as
characters from a comic or cartoon, it's re-imagining the ideas as a
movie.
MotU does this perfectly. You can fault it as a film itself, of course,
but
you can't fault it as an adaption.

The production design is superb, with some superbly realized sets and
costumes. Everything has been adapted to look more realistic on the big
screen. The cast give uniformly decent performances. Nobody lets the side
down - these are all 3D characters, not cartoons. Dolph Lungren proves
he's
one of the European bodybuilder brigade who can act. Frank Langella gives
an
outstanding performance as Skeletor, his powerful presence almost bursting
out of the TV and into your living room. Langella gives a shining example
to
all actors portraying comicbook and cartoon characters in live action.
There
is a pervading sense of dread whenever he appears, especially during
Castle
Grayskull sequences, and the script gives him some awesome lines which he
delivers with pure evil dripping from his voice.

The monsters are pretty bloody scary, especially for a family film,
especially the Beastman (who's had a 'the' added to his name). The
sequence
where they invade a school gym and chase Julie around it is excellent, far
more exciting and scary than similar chases in many horror films
(including
some of those Courtney Cox has been in). It's also, like the rest of the
film, surprisingly violent, as the bad guys attack Julie with swords,
claws,
laser guns and high velocity darts. That she manages to escape is not
unbelievable at all, because of the way the chase is staged - it's just a
relief she gets out of there, the goal of any such chase scene. The sheer
ammount of bad guys that the small band of heroes has to face adds greatly
to the drama.

Setting half of the movie on Earth has it's advantages and disadvantages.
It
does give the film a human component, and two ordinary teenagers to be
pulled into the adventure with. It also makes the monsters scarier -
rather
than being in a distant galaxy, they are in the neighbourhood, viciously
attacking people and destroying whatever they come across. On the other
hand, it would have been cool to see some more of the war torn Eternia and
the planet's weird inhabitants and locations, but MotU had a relatively
small budget, so that sort of stuff was off limit anyway. A little too
much
time is spent on the almost soap-opera angle of Julie and Kevin, but it
helps flesh out their characters to make them believable.

MotU is also packed with action, and we do mean packed. There is an
outbreak
of violence every 15 minutes or so, usually even less, and there is
variety
and imagination among the content, unlike many action films, which consist
of repetetive shoot outs and nothing more. It could possibly be said that
it's quantity over quality, as some of it, particularly the shoot-outs,
are
badly filmed, and none of the action ever reaches adrenalin pumping.
However, it's good enough, in-yer-face and quite exciting to watch, with
He-Man taking out hordes of bad guys with his sword, laser beams
everywhere,
mass destruction and some good old rough and tumble. And all the action
grows organically from the story - none of it seems put in simply because
the movie needed an action scene at a certain point.

One of MotU's greatet assets is it's atmosphere. The sense of an
intergalactic civil war is tangible, as is the sheer menace of the
villains,
the desperation of the good guys, the growing sense of doom as Skeletor
captures the Cosmic Key. There is a cower-behind-the-sofa scariness
similar
to that of TV's Doctor Who.

If Masters of the Universe was re-released at cinemas this summer, people
would realize how good it is compared to the blockbuster summer fare we
get
these days. And all for $17m, which was hardly anything, even in 1987.


<|_=00=_|>

I feel a bit guilty, reading some of the other reviews posted, but I liked
MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE! Perhaps because I was never 'into' the cartoon
series, I am more forgiving of characters or plot devices left out, and I
certainly recognize that it is derivative of both STAR WARS and FLASH GORDON
(particularly in Bill Conti's bombastic musical score), but there is so much
energy in the film, such abundant confidence in the ultimate victory of Good
versus Evil, and such a wonderfully campy performance by Frank Langella as
rubber-masked Skeletor that I get a kick out of it, whenever it
airs.

Physically, no actor could be more perfect as the hero, He-Man, than ROCKY
4's Dolph Lundgren. At 6'6" (that's two inches taller than JOHN WAYNE,
trivia fans!), with flowing blond hair and blue eyes, the 30-year old
Swedish actor combined a Herculean physique (if Marvel Comics' "The Mighty
Thor" is ever filmed, he would be perfect as the Thunder God), with a knack
for weapons that would earn him the future title of 'King' of 'B' action
flicks. True, his English was so poor at the time of filming that his dialog
was kept to a minimum, but who watches this kind of film for dialog,
anyway?

Supporting Lundgren's He-Man is crusty veteran soldier, Duncan
(Man-at-Arms), played by character actor Jon Cypher, who makes up for
He-Man's taciturn nature by reminiscing constantly about a life in the
military (with observations EVERY soldier has made, through history), and
his daughter, Teela (pretty Chelsea Field, one of the busiest actresses of
the decade), serving as a "Xena Lite" for the proceedings.

Opposing the Forces of Good with the irreplaceable Langella is one of my
favorite actresses, Meg Foster, as the sublimely wicked Evil-Lyn, using her
piercing green eyes and barely suppressed sexuality to great advantage. With
an array of the cartoon's more colorful villains in support of Skeletor and
Evil-Lyn, He-Man has his hands full!

The plot involves a tonal 'key', created by a dwarf, Gwildor (screen legend
Billy Barty, in an initially irritating, but eventually endearing role),
that can transport individuals wherever they desire. Stolen by Evil-Lyn,
Skeletor uses it to capture He-Man's Castle Greyskull and it's resident
Sorceress ("St. Elsewhere" alum Christina Pickles). With a hidden prototype
'key', Gwildor leads our heroes into the castle...where they are nearly
captured by Skeletor, before the dwarf throws together some random numbers,
and transports our heroes...to Earth.

The 'key' is lost, as the four arrive on our planet, to be found by aspiring
musician Kevin Corrigan ("Star Trek: Voyager" star Robert Duncan McNeill)
who thinks it's a Japanese musical instrument! With girlfriend Julie Winston
(future "Friends" superstar Courteney Cox, looking young and gorgeous), the
pair are astonished by the musical complexities of the device, unaware that
each time it is 'played', Skeletor is getting a better 'fix' of it's
location. Eventually, our planet is pinpointed, and Skeletor leads an army
of villains to subdue us, and capture He-Man. 

With great comic support by bald character actor James Tolkan (BACK TO THE
FUTURE), as a bewildered police detective, some spectacular 'set' pieces
(Skeletor's invasion force, backed by 'Darth Vader'ish music, is a
highlight), and an ending that concludes that "ANYTHING is possible",
MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE is great cheesy fun! 

Certainly, the film is not a classic, but if you accept it on it's own
terms, I think you might find it to be a lot of fun! 


<|_=00=_|>

"I Have the Power!"

For those of us who grew up in the 80's, that phrase is all too familiar. 
Especially for those who would rush home after school to watch our favorite
strongman face off against the forces of evil that threaten the safety and
security of his homeworld.  For my money, it was never better than when
He-Man faced off against Skeletor for the struggle for
Eternia.

I also remember the fantasies that I and my friends would have of traveling
away to that world of magic and fantasy, to fight alongside He-Man as he
defends Grayskull.  It truly was a series that was out of this
world.

And now it's on Earth.

When I first heard about a live action movie, (mind you, I was twelve at the
time), I was overly excited about it.  But I didn't get to see it until my
late teens.  And I must say that it was very well done, especially in its
presentation.  In fact it brought back those far away childhood memories of
those late afternoons in front of the tv, or outside with the toys a
make-shift Eternia setting with my friends.

I'll grant a few things that were wrong with the movie though.  There were
times that I think the script was either badly edited, or just too rushed at
certain points.  I'm also not thrilled about them being on earth, but
understanding budget constraints and the idea to make these characters more
real than fantasy help feed into that decision, so I let that one go.  I
would have also liked to see more of the characters from the toys in the
movie, but have no complaints that they made up a few cool characters, like
Blade.

The casting choices, I felt, were really good.  Dolph Lundgren worked as
He-Man, even though he can't act.  He looked the part, and even pulled off
the role.  I could tell that he wasn't walking through the part, as many
actor will do with character roles (right Mr. Clooney?).  And Frank Langella
the PERFECT choice for Skeletor.  Langella managed to bring that character
to life in a way that gave me chills.  Skeletor is perhaps one of the
greatest villains ever imagined, but the cartoon made him a cackling
villain, who was more a buffoon than anything, therefore he didn't seem
threatening.  But seeing Langella make Skeletor more dark and evil put my
faith back into the conviction as a great villain.

You don't have to be a die hard fan of the series to enjoy the movie.  It's
great fun, imaginative, and it captures a moment in time.  Don't scrutinize
the movie because it's different from the cartoon.  Look at it for what it
is, and don't focus on its faults.  It had the power to recapture my
imagination, so its not all that bad.
<|_=00=_|>

Not only does this film stand tall on it's own achievements but it is also
clearly the inspiration for that well loved classic "Beastmaster 2:
Through
the Portal of Time".  It follows the mythos of the original He-Man mini
comics (the ones that came with the toys) more than the plot of the
animated
series, as such He-Man is not secretly Prince Adam. (My fellow post
teenage
virgins as well as losers in general will probably understand what I'm
talking about.)
Anyway Langela proves the perfect Skeletor.  Unlike the cartoon character
he proves to be convincingly pure evil.  I must say that he honestly did
succeed in being one of the most terrifying villains in movie history.
Hat's off to director Gary Goddard and the cast for taking the story
entirely
seriously and not just dismissing it as a campy hour and a half long toy
add.  It's that kind of conviction that distinguishes between art and
commercial shlock.
This movie also taught me some valuable life lessons.  For instance, if a
guy with a skull head gets massive god-like power the only real change he
will make to his life is giving himself golden armour.  (Both Skeletor and
the Red Skull have done this.)  I also learned that when some one gets
god-like power, to defeat them all you need to do is push them into a
muddy
ditch.
Having the characters travel to late 1980's earth made this movie all the
better specially since they got to meet Courteney Cox (what a babe.
Grrrowwlll).  Why doesn't anybody ever ask her about this movie when she's
on talk shows? Oh wait it's cause there's no reason they should care.
Anyway if you don't have anything better to do give it a rent... and wait
till the end of the credits for the secret surprise.  You can probably
find
it at your local Blockbuster Video!  Make it a Blockbuster Night!

<|_=00=_|>
I first saw this movie way back in the 80's, and recently got hold of
the DVD. I'm pleased to say I still enjoyed it as much as I did back
then! While the decision to place part of the story in 1980's suburban
America, planet Earth, was no doubt a way to keep the budget low, the
end result is still a lot of fun, and the main characters manage to
stay pretty close to their original characters. Naturally, though, I'd
loved to have seen some more of Eternia instead. Unfortunately, the
promised sequel never came to be.

Frank Langella is simply brilliant; his bigger-then-life portrayal of
Skeletor may be different from what they did in the TV series, but it
works great. He commands every scene he is in, and his performance is
powerful yet subtle at certain moments. Wonderful! By the way, be sure
to watch until the end credits are over...

Dolph Lundgren, while perhaps not quite the eloquent thespian Langella
is, does make a formidable old-fashioned hero.
<|_=00=_|>

Some people say it was the Star Wars of the 80's and some people say it
was
completely horrible.  I wouldn't quite agree with either statement. Though
not as good as Star Wars, it really isn't that bad of a movie.  Especially
if you remember growing up watching He-man on TV and pretending that you
could hold a magic sword above your head and become all powerful. Yes,
some
of the lines are cheap and the acting is stilted and questionable at
times,
but it is still a fun movie.  If you forget what I've just mentioned and
just sit back and enjoy the fantasy and the adventure, and you will enjoy
the movie.  Some memorable scenes are the battles in the junk yard, the
flying hover craft fight and the final fight between He-man and Skelator.
If
you're a fan of He-man or any action movie made in the late 80's, I would
recommend that you rent this movie. 
<|_=00=_|>

If you're looking for a film to sit back and take in on a lazy Saturday
afternoon, look no further. "Masters of the Universe" is one of the best
examples of this type of film. There is no deep thinking, you just sit back
and watch. I really enjoyed watching this, it's the kind of movie you can
get wrapped up in, just like "The Ice Pirates". All in all a worthwhile
view.
<|_=00=_|>
I have read a number of reviews on this movie and they are accurate and
good for the most part. My credit is to Gary Goddard for all he endured
and still getting a credible and succinct movie made.

The fight scenes are real and actual so they seem methodical but
they're great. The hair, clothing, make-up, special effects, and down
the list we go, is so caked in '80s gunk it would be hard to fight for
this as a classic. It is the only He-Man movie out there, and although
a sequel beckons, eighteen years have passed without a stir.

If a sequel were to made Langella would have to be Skeletor. I mean the
best acting from both he and Lundgren comes when He-Man is being led by
the Centaurian. Langella saying "I give you a choice: return to Eternia
with me as my slave and save their despicable lives, or perish with
them here on this tasteless, and primitive, planet." It's cold and dark
and it's authentic. It's chilling and you get chills. Langella overacts
sometimes but mostly is great. He took Skeletor from a whiny,
irritating, and downright pathetic worm of a guy to a believable,
earthy, credible, and despicable evil-doer. We get a taste of the
importance of He-man and all that he does, here in this scene, too.

Goddard did something brilliant here, he made the movie personable. He
puts these people on Earth, interacting with Earthlings, and putting a
grasp on how out there these "aliens" are. But it is also probably why
this movie is so widely disregarded, because it doesn't have great and
illustrative fight scenes. Instead they are sensible and plotted. To
see this movie remade could be a real treat.

Gwildar is, essentially, Orco. He was easy, sensible, irritating, but
not nearly as annoying, and unfairly Billy Barty was nominated for a
Razzie. The story interlocks with this missing "key" as created by
Gwildar. This cosmos idea of God-like power through the manifestation
of a fourth dimension is highly advanced. This is why the movie is
good. Portals are doors and He-Man is definitely a science fiction
adventurer. This puts an Earthy spin on an idea wiling out.

Teela works and Man-in-Arms (Duncan) is good as a faithful sidekick to
He-Man. That's what he is. He can hold his own but mostly is fighting
for duty of right, and he follows He-Man for he is the epitome of it.
Teela's gritty and pitched voice, with her desperate actions, are very
formidable. Duncan is best when inspiring Kevin. Kevin is a sensitive
guy with a talent. What these Eternians do is showcase pessimism on
Earth for their planet is dying at their own hands. They are their own
good and evil and it is hard to differentiate, so why care? By the end
of the movie Courtney Cox and Robert Duncan McNeill (Julie and Kevin)
see that. So does Lubic. The Eternians have no planet and yet they
continue to hold hope and forge ahead: He-Man. 

Tolkan is not so much a distraction as he is pretentious. McNeill
yelling to Tolkan "Lubic this is for real" as he dodges a Centaurian
blast doesn't hold much weight, or reality. It is about unity,
division, and strength. Both literal and figurative.

Meg Foster is great as Evil-Lyn because she improves the movie rather
than take time from Skeletor. Goddard lets most of the acting chops
fall to the incomparable Frank Langella. He-Man is the ambassador of
good. He is to talk slow, be level-headed, and search for justice.
Lundgren does all of these things. He mission isn't to be malicious and
blood seeking. When he runs into Julie (and a great fight sequence
ensues) it is Duncan and Teela doing some leg work. He-Man is a
protector. He'll abate killing Skeletor to keep any and all safe. In
all honesty how many lines can you give someone? Someone suggested Brad
Pitt as He-Man for a remake. I don't mind Pitt, but he would ham up the
screen like some feel Skeletor did. Skeletor's was good, He-Man's would
not be. Lundgren, in all honesty, is great. He has a mullet but looks
the part, and contrary to popular belief, acts it. He wields the Sword
of Grayskull gracefully, yet with force and some clumsiness. It's
heavy, but he's well-skilled and versed in the sword. These oppositions
are found in the Soceress. She would normally seem bad to us; however,
she is the greatest power of good. Christina Pickles gives great lines
of philosophy allowing for good banter and humor with Skeletor. And her
love for He-Man is very evident and clear with solid acting.

The cartoon is hardly to be found here, aside from the characters and
Eternia. Battle cat, and all other characters good and bad, could cloud
a remake. But it would be great to see history revealed for He-Man like
the new Batman series has done. People forget we like to see depth in
our characters. And the character Charlie is filler, not unimportant,
but certainly not integral. He's written well. All in all watch this
movie because it's really, quite engrossing.
<|_=00=_|>
I love this movie, yes it has bad acting and cheesy effects but so did
the original star wars movies, right?? the only thing star wars had was
that intangible you cant describe when talking about movies. it had
"it" Masters of the universe had "it" as well but i think it had a
different kind of it. Frank Langella has probably the most underrated
performances as the evil and sinister Skeletor, one of my votes as
baddest bad guy in movie history if they had something like that...
this is the Jack Nicholson performance of the Joker before Batman. I
don't know why people are giving it such a low rating, there are a ton
of movies that are a lot worse out there. You have to realize that this
was made in 1987 and SFX weren't as good as they are today, but this
had heart and it shows if you watch it. If you go into it watching for
deeper meanings and all this other stuff that art fans go for, i can
see why you'd bash it afterward. But if you go into it expecting a
fantasy story and great sci fi action, you will not be disappointed...
you might actually be surprised with it!
<|_=00=_|>
A corpulent hero named He-man , a veteran warrior (John Cypher), his
daughter (Chelsea Field), a likable midget (Billy Barty) fight in
Eternia against a vile villain named Skeletor (Frank Langella as a
Darth Vader clone) in a fantasy/Sci-Fi about rebel forces battling for
the sake of freedom and engaged in a life or death war with the tyrant
leader of a far planet . They transport themselves by means of a
mechanism that creates a time hole to earth in which nothing less the
future of the universe is at stake . There they meet an intimate and
youthful couple ((Courney Cox , Richard Duncan). Meanwhile , Skeletor
wants to get a chance by destiny to receive the powers of Grayskull.

This is a big-budgeted live-action rendition of the cartoon roles'
feats in the ¨Star Wars¨ mold and characterized by He-man , Skeletor
and many others . All of them blend together with wonderful and
terrific special effects courtesy of Richard Edlund and special designs
by Moebius .¨Masters of the Universe¨ is basically numerous spectacular
fight-scenes with a tiny bit of plot movement, full of sympathetic
dialog and flashy blasts of light and energy . It features stunted and
disjointed action, as well as the hilarious but quite conventional
characters fitting partially to animated series . The abundant
breathtaking images , which labor mightily to reproduce the source
materials in some impressive scenes and eye-popping look .

After his nasty roles in in ¨Rocky 4 (85)¨ and ¨A view to kill(85)¨ ,
the Swedish muscle mountain Dolph Lundgren starred this film and
followed by ¨Red Scorpion(90)¨ and ¨Universal soldier(92)¨ in his
successful period during the 80s and early 90s . Lundgren has enough
acting ability and charisma to play this kind of heroes . Based on
cartoon and famous toys by ¨Mattei Inc¨ that proved to be one of the
biggest of all time . The characters and story may aim a little more at
kids than teenagers and adults. For comic relief is in charge of Billy
Barty with his antics and jokes . Other support actors making brief
appearance are James Tolkan and Christina Pickles as the imprisoned
sorceress . The special effects are all they're cracked up to be and
set a new cinematic standard for realistic realization . Action scenes
have the zip and excitement you'd expect . The motion picture is well
directed by Gary Goddard in his only realization , subsequently he
dedicated to production and 3D . This would-be epic about ¨ Sword and
witchery¨ is an entertaining romp through space and time .
