

Please, don't judge me too harshly, but I love Moonraker, the peak of all
things Roger Moore. Never again would the Bond films be this over the top or
overtly silly, but the truth is that Moonraker does it right. It will never
win awards for being the most subtle Bond film ever made, but it should not
be trashed in the way that it usually is because deep down Moonraker is just
great fun. Roger Moore's Bond is just fun to be with, the on going joke that
everytime Jaws tries to kill Bond he almost gets killed himself, complete
with close ups of his exasperated face are brilliant (not subtle, but
guaranteed to get you chuckling) and one of the loveliest Bond girls, CIA
agent Holly Goodhead. 

The script here is definitely not in the same league as the likes of From
Russia With Love, The World is Not Enough, Licence to Kill or For Your Eyes
Only, but Bond films never set out to be thought provoking pieces of art,
they are meant to be grandiose fun pieces of entertainment and if you take
Bond films on those levels then Moonraker succeeds admirably. Sure none of
the acting is award worthy, and its frequently over the top in every regard.
Over the top humor, over the top action sequences (a fight scene in a glass
shop sees every bit of glass get destroyed) while the space sequences
features a gigantic space battle complete with laser beams.

However there is a lot to like here. The pre title sequence is superb,
featuring some of the best stunt work you will ever see in a pre-Brosnan
Bond, the special effects are magnificent and lastly John Barry's music is
quite simply the best he has ever come up with. For a film so over the top
his music is beautiful and would set the hallmarks for his future scores.
The sweeping orchestra and beautiful theme song by Shirley Bassey are
classics.

Once again I end my review with a note not to judge me, but Moonraker is
simply wonderful entertainment and one of my favorite Bond film of all
time.
<|_=00=_|>

"Moonraker" is the most unfairly criticised of all the Bond films. The 11th
film in the series and the fourth starring Roger Moore, "Moonraker" works
very well for a number of reasons. As Ian Fleming's original novel (written
in 1955) had become too dated to translate to the screen, the producers
decided to capitalise on the sci-fi craze started by Star Wars, and so
created a spectacular space-age adventure where Bond himself journeys into
outer space.

Whilst this film was certainly inspired by Star Wars, this is not meant to
imply that "Moonraker" copies directly from the former. Don't forget that
only the last 20-30 minutes of the film takes place in space. Although the
laser battle looks dated by modern standards, it is still a classic slice of
Bond action, that, as one reviewer has stated, compares with the underwater
battle in "Thunderball". And on that level it works superbly.

 What I especially like about "Moonraker" is the way it glides smoothly from
one action sequence to another. This way, there's not only no shortage of
thrills, but an overall level of consistency in the storyline is maintained,
where Bond hops across the globe (to Venice and Rio, for example) uncovering
clues as to the disappearance of the Moonraker space shuttle. On the way, he
survives the customary assassination attempts by the bad guys (Drax and
Jaws), and then at the end of the film all the clues piece together to
complete the jigsaw. It's steady, consistent storylines like this that prove
the key to a successful Bond film.

Purists often accuse "Moonraker" of being too stupid. Although there are
some pretty outrageous sight gags, the film still retains its enormous
appeal. Certainly, "Moonraker" is the most light-hearted Bond film, and it's
quite clear that Roger Moore was enjoying himself tremendously here. His
performance in this escapade certainly brought a smile to my
lips.

There's also a wonderful cast. Drax is quite possibly the best Bond villain.
His one-liners are great and he is certainly not short of ideas on how to
dispose of Bond. The beautiful Lois Chiles proves to have the right
qualities as an astronaut/CIA agent, and she is a worthy ally to 007. Bond's
first romantic encounter Corinne Dufour (Corinne Clery) brings a lot to the
film.  Richard Kiel makes his encore performance as the
steel-toothed giant Jaws. After his superhuman appearance in "The Spy Who
Loved Me", Jaws plays more for laughs this time round, but his
Roadrunner/Wile E. Coyote-type battles with 007 are still entertaining.
There's also another henchman, Chang (Toshiro Suga) who provides more
credibility if somewhat less invincibility in a superbly staged duel with
Bond in a glass factory.

"Moonraker" also sees John Barry at his composing best. He provides a number
of rich, atmospheric tracks that perfectly reflect the film's outer space
theme. Shirley Bassey's third title song isn't quite as good as "Goldfinger"
but better than "Diamonds Are Forever", and is certainly as
good as Carly Simon's song for TSWLM.

"Moonraker" has often been placed at the bottom of the Bond spectrum. It
doesn't belong there. It has everything a successful Bond film needs: a
great plot, superb villains, exotic locations, beautiful women, brilliant
special effects (for which visual effects maestro Derek meddings received an
Oscar nomination) and action by the bucketful. There are scenes which
generate genuine suspense and which feature awe-inspiring stunts in mid-air
and on water. The space scenes are well done and all aspects of the space
shuttle look true to life. In summary, "Moonraker" is a brilliant film in
its own right and should rank up there with "Goldfinger" and "The Spy Who
Loved Me" as one of the best Bonds ever made. I strongly urge you doubters
to take a second look.

<|_=00=_|>
When a Moonraker space shuttle, on loan from the United States to
England, is hijacked, Bond is called in to investigate...

Bond surely possess the latest knowledge about nuclear power and is
able to fly a rocket ship... Bond's girls too have moved with the times
and now join battle alongside him, fighting off the enemy with equal
proficiency...

It's nice to see Bond dressed as a Brazilian gaucho, galloping up to a
16th-century Benedictine monastery, and safecracking in a magnificent
French château...

Roger Moore is seen humorous and light hearted, gliding through St.
Mark's Square in his motorized gondola... He fights with a Chinese
manservant in the Venice Glass Museum with great style, and stops
himself from throwing a priceless bowl valued at £1 million... He takes
out one speedboat with some mines, another with a torpedo and takes off
on a hang-glider as his boat goes over the falls...

Bond was initially surprised that a top rocket scientist at Drax
Industries was an attractive young woman… He set aside his aggressive
attitudes when he realized that not only was Holly a fully trained
astronaut on loan from NASA—she was also a CIA agent… She liked better
working alone and he had to exhaust himself to win her over…

The eleventh Bond film seems to recycle a number of elements familiar
from earlier adventures, most obviously Stromberg's hired killer, Jaws,
played once again by Richard Kiel... Hugo Drax, the vengeful ex-Nazi of
Fleming's novel, is reinvented as a psychotic who is obsessed with the
conquest of space, and plans to wipe out the globe's population with a
powerful type of nerve gas... His plan for mass murder completed, Drax
will then repopulate the planet with his own master race… His fleet of
shuttles—the Moonrakers—which are based in South America, will
transport his master race into space… There they will live on a
radar-invisible space station until Earth's depopulation has been
completed…

Drax likes to play a little Chopin on his grand black piano, and enjoys
a cucumber sandwich... His vanity leads him to control his ferocious
hounds by the click of his fingers… He brings from France every block
of stone used on his California residence... According to his charming
pilot, "What he doesn't own, he doesn't want!" and, like Auric
Goldfinger, affects a desire to play English country sports...

Michael Lonsdale's performance is astonishingly controlled and precise
as Hugo Drax... There's something really scary about his true
personality and character... He gives sarcastic remarks about 007: 'You
appear with the tedious inevitability of an unloved season.' 'At least
I shall have the pleasure of putting you out of my misery!' 'Mr. Bond,
you persist in defying my efforts to provide an amusing death for you.'

Jaws returns in "Moonraker" and adds some tension to the film… Richard
Kiel has become something of a cult figure since his appearance in 'The
Spy Who Loved Me'. He reappears as indestructible as ever... He
impersonates Christopher Lee in Dracula mode, and has an entirely
different trip down a mountain... His little scenes with a cute little
blonde girl are very sweet... His despairing search for her on the
disintegrating space station is wonderful... The bitter little smile he
and Bond share as they prepare for their set-to atop the cable car is
inspired...

Corinne Dufour (Corinne Clery) becomes one of Bond's early bedmates…
Corinne is Hugo Drax's beautiful helicopter pilot and executive
assistant… Unfortunately, in Drax's eyes, her amorous byplay with Bond
also marks her for early elimination...

Sadly, 'Moonraker' would mark the end of Bernard Lee's 45-year film
career... Already visibly frail, Lee would succumb to stomach cancer;
he died in London's Royal Free Hospital on 16 January 1981... Although
he made a notable contribution to such outstanding mystery dramas as
Carol Reed's 'The Third Man,' and Basil Dearden's 'The Blue Lamp,' it
is for his definitive 'M' that he will be remembered...
<|_=00=_|>
Considered almost unanimously as one of the worst films in James Bond
series, it is time for Moonraker to have a defender. On my opinion,
this is Moore's best fourth outing as 007(may be not saying too much,
but there are three films left), and a very entertaining sci-fi film.
Critics argue that humor plays a strong hand in this movie-strong to
such a degree that Bond character loses all personality, becoming
blurred in an impressive set of FX and stunt men. I reply: certainly
there are flaws, some of them (particularly Jaws conversion towards the
end) very ridiculous. But there are good points, too. Remember that
pre-credit scene, which was ACTUALLY shot in the air, the motorboat
chase or the final space battle, one of the most spectacular moments of
the entire series, (yeah, it was unrealistic, OK, but tell me how much
realism you can find watching other Bond movies which are frequently
referred to as" the best". Think of Goldfinger or You only live twice)

However, Moonraker does not compare to Octopussy or TSWLM, because of a
sometimes plodding pacing, due to the addition of unnecessary scenes,
especially during the first half, when James is Drax's guest in
California. The love story is a mere and inferior copy of TSWLM. And,
while in other Moore's films the blend of humor and Bond's trademark
coolness worked smoothly, here Bond is not given a scene to show, not
necessarily ruthlessness, but a bit of harshness, as we could see in
FYEO or Octopussy.

Following Moore's outings will feature Cold War elements which seem to
fit more with the character, and better screenplays from Richard
Maibaum,the series' screenwriter who was mysteriously absent here.

But action remains mostly exciting, sometimes brilliant, and highlights
what could have been a mediocre entry.
<|_=00=_|>
Of all the Bond films, MOONRAKER is, imo, the most visually striking of
the entire series. It looks like it cost a billion bucks to make. The
sets by Ken Adams are amazing (he should have won an Oscar for them).
The locations are stunning. The fx are well made and still hold up
today. The women are above average gorgeous (they all look like
supermodels before supermodels were in). All of this beautifully filmed
by cinematographer Jean Tournier. I love watching MOONRAKER just
because it's so damn gorgeous to look at. I don't know how many times I
saw it at the movies when it came out just to appreciate the beauty of
it all. Unfortunately, we are talking about a James Bond film and of
course there has to be the usual formulaic stuff seen in every other
James Bond film. 

Basically, MOONRAKER is a remake of YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE and THE SPY WHO
LOVED ME. I always preferred MOONRAKER over the schintzy SPY WHO LOVED
ME, which was made just before this one. Lewis Gilbert directed those
three Bond films and MOONRAKER is his crowning achievement. Personally
speaking, Gilbert is a bad director. His films are always bloated and
sorta soulless and yet still gorgeous. Aside from his Bond films, he
rarely made an impression with his other films. In fact, he's the one
who directed THE ADVENTURERS, which is a good looking film but it's
really, really awful. I'm glad Gilbert stopped making Bond films. He
was always too laid back for action films like this.

There ARE a lot of memorable scenes in MOONRAKER: the entire intro is
now a classic and much better than the one in SWLM. Corinne being
chased by dogs. The simulator scene. Bond fighting with Chang in
Venice. My favorite scene is when Bond and Goodhead are stuck below a
shuttle's rockets and are about to be burned alive. A near perfect
action moment there. The climax in space is fun if improbable. I love
the scene when they have to destroy those globes as they re-enter the
atmosphere. Really suspenseful. But as good as those scenes are
individually they almost don't register as a whole because the story
and direction are so lackadaisical, so relax. It's like everyone was on
vacation. There's absolutely no grit to this film. It's really sleek
and smooth but nearly bite-less. The whole story seems to be just a
preamble to the action set in space. 

What really stands out about MOONRAKER are the many long moments with
no dialogue. I'd say about 50 to 60% of the film has no dialogue. Just
music and sound effects. It's almost a silent film. Moore didn't have a
lot of dialogue to remember and this was an easy film to dub. 

The story is as easy as connect-the-dots: The British owned Moonraker 5
disappears in mid-air and 007 is sent to California to investigate its
disappearance. At the Moonraker plant in California (France really)
Bond find blueprints of vials which leads him to Venice, where the
vials are fabricated. And from Venice Bond goes to Brazil where the
vials, filled with deadly nerve gas, are shipped to the underground
layout of Drax (boringly played by the usually reliable Michael
Lonsdale. Love the name "Drax" though). Oh and we learn that Drax wants
to create a new race of super humans by killing everyone on earth by
dropping those nerve gas filled globes from space while Drax and his
super humans reside in Drax's space station. I actually like that part
of the story and some of the grandeur of it (Drax wanting to be God) is
actually achieved with the striking visuals and the amazingly lush
score by the brilliant John Barry. Unfortunately, again, this is a
James Bond film and thought provoking ideas are set aside for formulaic
action. 

I wish this wasn't a James Bond film. Take away all the Bond elements,
the stupid humor, flesh out the screenplay and this would be a
spectacular kick ass science fiction film.

Anyway, back to James Bond.

I really like Lois Chiles as Holly Goodhead. She's my favorite Bond
girl ever. Beautiful and sophisticated but tough. She's no bimbo. I
remember a lot of my friends in school didn't like her because they
thought she was too tough for a babe. I guess Holly Goodhead was Girl
Power before Girl Power was in. For me, Chiles epitomizes everything
chic and sexy about the late 1970s. She's unforgettable in that black
jumpsuit. But the Holly Goodhead role is a really badly written one.
She's almost an afterthought to the whole story. They basically needed
a character to fly the space shuttle and Bond into space (something 007
obviously couldn't do) and Goodhead was basically that: just a pilot.
Then there's Corinne Clery who is truly gorgeous but sadly, again, her
role is minimal. Then there's the not so beautiful Jaws. Jaws was so
popular in SPY WHO LOVED ME they brought him back here. I don't mind
this but they turned him into a good guy and he even falls in love with
a ditsy girl. This part of MOONRAKER is *really* bad. Someone should
completely edit that storyline out of the movie and its rating would go
up exponentially. And like in THE SPY WHO LOVED ME, the musical
in-jokes were needlessly distracting.

These bad aspects about MOONRAKER are almost negligible though because
the film is such a visual (and aural) feast. Whether it's one of the
best or worst of the series, I really don't care. I can positively
state though that this is THE best looking Bond film ever, with an
actually cool science fiction story somewhere in it. I give MOONRAKER
10 stars for the look of it all but 5 stars for the laid back and
sometimes silly direction. So an average of 7 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
Roger Moore's first two 007 films - 'Live & Let Die' and 'The Man With
The Golden Gun' - clambered aboard whatever cinematic bandwagons were
rolling at the time, such as blaxploitation and martial arts. By the
end of the '70's, sci-fi was back in vogue thanks to 'Star Wars', hence
'Moonraker' replaced 'For Your Eyes Only' as the next Bond movie.

Until 'Die Another Day' in 2002, it was universally regarded as the
nadir of the series. I disagree. One has to remember that around this
time Kevin McClory was threatening a 'Thunderball' remake starring Sean
Connery, and thus Cubby Broccoli could not afford to takes risk with
the formula.

The film bears little resemblance to Fleming's book, which concerned a
nuclear rocket attack on London. As 'The Spy Who Loved Me' had proved
popular with audiences, it was decided to give them more of the same,
hence Christopher Wood's script had the villain hijacking space
shuttles instead of submarines, and Richard Kiel's 'Jaws' returned to
menace Bond. Lewis Gilbert once more supervised the mayhem.

Bearded French actor Michael Lonsdale made an excellent 'Hugo Drax'.
Like 'Stromberg', he is wealthy, and plans to create a new civilisation
by destroying the old one. Ken Adam once again delivers some marvellous
sets, such as the Pyramid control centre and Drax's Space City.

The action scenes were even wilder that those of 'Spy', including a
magnificent free-fall pre-credits scene, Bond's gondola turning into a
hovercraft, Jaws and Bond getting to grips on a cable car over Rio, a
speedboat chase in South America, and a shoot-em-up finale in outer
space. John Barry produced another fabulous score, particularly 'Flight
Into Space'.

As a strapping young lad growing up in '70's Britain, I always made a
point of seeing the latest Bond, usually with my friends in tow. We did
not care if the films were faithful to Fleming, if there was too much
humour, or if Moore was wooden, we went to have a good time and did.

No offence to Connery, but for us Moore was The Man. Suave,
sophisticated and debonair. On leaving the theatre we would attempt to
recreate Bond's fights, usually resulting in one of us being cautioned
by the police.

And the gadgets! 'Moonraker' outdid them all. I once tried to build
Bond's wrist-dart gun. I don't think anybody walked out of a Timothy
Dalton Bond feeling like they could conquer the world, but with Roger's
we did. And we saw them more than once in theatres.

I do wish that some of the gags had wound up on the cutting room floor,
namely 'Jaws' flapping his arms after his parachute breaks, Alfie Bass'
cameo as a drunken Italian, and a pigeon doing a double-take as Bond's
gondola roars by. Take these out and you have a pretty decent Bond
movie.

Sadly, 'Moonraker' marked the final appearance of Bernard Lee as 'M'.
<|_=00=_|>
My Take: The comedy is occasionally off, but the special effects and
action sequences are terrific. 

Why do some viewers think this entry in the series is by far the
weakest of Bond. I beg to differ, I actually think this is one of the
better Bonds with Roger Moore. Despite its occasional decline to
over-silliness (even for Bond standards), I actually find it more
entertaining than Roger Moore's early entry "The Man with the Golden
Gun". 

The plot, which is more like a variation of THE SPY WHO LOVED ME and
YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE (only a little sillier), involves the theft of the
Moonraker space shuttles. 007 is sent to Drax Industries, the
manufacturers or these shuttles. He soon discovers that the owner, Hugo
Drax (Michael Lonsdale) uses this rockets to fulfill his dastardly
plans to create another civilization. 

One of the main reasons that critics mistreat this Bond entry is
because it doesn't go with the trend of the other Bonds. MOONRAKER
tries to be more faithful to the then-popular trend of science fiction
movies (after the enduring success of such classic as STAR WARS and
CLOSE ENCOUNTERS). Another would be its occasion to go beyond the level
of silliness and not knowing when to stop. A humorous moment where Bond
drives a gondola with wheels is OK, but it's other scenes like Jaws
(Richard Kiel) finding a girlfriend are just too silly. More extreme
silliness ensues (there are moments of true high-camp standards here),
but as long as the sharp wit, the panache and style made famous by many
other Bond films are there, there's no real harm in trying something
else to go along with it. 

Rating: ***1/2 out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
Roger Moore's entry in which faces dangerous adventures around the
world . Moore's outing with overwhelming action and spectacular
scenarios , the film teams Bond with an American agent (gorgeous Lois
Chiles) in an effort to stop an industrialist from destroying the
surface world so he can rule an outland kingdom . After his first
introduction in ¨Live and let die¨ as tough and attractive James Bond
of the Ian Fleming's famous creation , Roger Moore went on playing
various 007 , and ¨Moonraker¨ is one of the best . The picture starts
with an overblown free-fall opening , the best part of this film and
introducing a giant villain (Richard Kiel who will repeat in subsequent
entry). This Bond film deals about seductive James Bond OO7 as the
ultimate spy hero who is assigned by MI6 a dangerous mission pursuing
an intergalactic mad man (Michael Lonsdale in a potentially sinister
presence as the head baddie) . Meanwhile , Bond goes to Venice there
happens a high-octane race and Bond discovers clues in Rio De Janeiro.
James is double-crossed and continues to follow the lead , deciding to
investigate in Amazonas . Following the tracks all lead a nasty
billionaire , a maniacal villain who schemes a world conspiracy.

Roger Moore as James Bond is cool , he does remarkably well , he earns
in irony, suavity and sympathy, however also has coldness ,cunning ,
intelligence and toughness . Here Bond is an efficient , relentless
agent trying to chase obstinately the criminals , traveling around the
world as always , as this globe-trotting story is set in England
,America, Venice, Amazonas , Rio De Janeiro and exterior space . Bond
to achieve his aims , along the way uses violent means even pulling off
brutal killings against enemies who wreak all sorts of havoc . As
always Bond will use gadgets provided by ¨Q¨ (Desmond Llewelyn) . In
addition , there appears the usual as Lois Maxwell, ¨MoneyPenny¨ , Sir
Gray as Geoffrey Keen , Walter Goetell as Russian general and Bernard
Lee's last appearance as ¨M¨ .

The picture contains comic-strip adventure , sensational pursuits ,
silly set pieces, great stunts, tongue-in check humor, frantic action
packed , amazing gimmicks and stimulating images like are the
happenings on the spectacular races, the breathtaking aerial scenes,
and the spacial fights . As is like a roller-coaster , as is
fast-paced, light, excitement, funny and entertaining ; it's a winner
for oo7 fans and non-fans alike . The chase and suspense formula wears
strong in this entry .Enjoyable title song by Shirley Bassey and
stirring musical score fitting to action by the usual composer, the
classic John Barry . Riveting and fancy main titles by habitual Maurice
Binder , furthermore eye-popping production design by Ken Adam . It's
brimming with colorful and fascinating cinematography by cameraman Jean
Tournier. The motion picture produced by habitual producers, Albert R
Broccoli and Michael G. Wilson , being professionally directed by Lewis
Gilbert who directed various outings though with no originality .
Director Gilbert keeps this moving at an incredibly fast pace and this
story about every's favorite super-spy falling in love with a CIA agent
is one of author Ian Fleming's best . The film will appeal to James
Bond series's buffs but good for fans only ; because this one goes on
far too long . Rating : 6'5 , well worth watching .
<|_=00=_|>
Moonraker is directed by Lewis Gilbert and adapted to screenplay by
Christopher Wood from the novel written by Ian Fleming. It stars Roger
Moore, Lois Chiles, Michael Lonsdale, Richard Kiel and Corinne Dufour.
Music is scored by John Barry and cinematography by Jean Tournier.

Bond 11 and 007 is tasked with finding out what happened to the
Moonraker space shuttle that mysteriously disappeared up in space. His
investigation takes him to the billionaire builder of the craft, Hugo
Drax, where Bond discovers a fiendish plot to start a new world of
perfect human beings.

At the end of The Spy Who Loved Me we were told that James Bond would
return in For Your Eyes Only, but the gargantuan success of Star Wars
and a rekindling of all things sci-fi led Albert Broccoli to send 007
out into space! Armed with a $30 million budget and using only the core
base plotting of Fleming's novel, the makers crafted what many feel is
the runt of the James Bond litter. The money "is" up there on the
screen, it's excess overdrive, outlandish from start to finish and
actually is very very entertaining. The problem is that in James Bond
terms it barely feels like a Bond movie, it actually could be any bloke
propelling the story, this is a guy reliant on gadgets and not his
brain or brawn, quipping away purely for the sake of a cheap laugh.
Ultimately it's a cash in, both in terms of the sci-fi boom hitting the
late 70s and of the James Bond name.

If judged away from the Bond universe on its own popcorn terms, film is
a blast, literally. As a whole it's a bit choppy, but many of the parts
desperately trying to make up a cohesive blockbuster are great
entertainment. Mid air scrap for a parachute, a cable car sequence
brilliantly realised, centrifuge chamber peril, boat chase, laser fight
and much space age malarkey, the film is chocked full of crowd pleasing
moments. In fact it's often mistaken as being a film set in space, when
in fact the action doesn't move up there until the last half hour, the
previous hour and a half is spread out over France, Italy, Brazil, USA,
Gutemala and of course England. The score and the title song, however,
are very much Bond. With Barry and Bassey back respectively, film is
filled with appropriate atmospheric space strains and a hauntingly
emotive theme song. 

Charaterisations are a mixed bag. Lonsdale's Hugo Drax is one of the
better Bond villains, dignified, well educated and wallowing in a life
of luxury, he's perfectly understated in Lonsdale's hands and in fact
steals every scene he shares with Moore's Bond. Holly Goodhead (Chiles)
is a bold Bond girl with many skills, she's a scientist and an
astronaut, attractive and decently played by Chiles, if a touch
unmemorable in the Bond girl universe. Kiel is back as Jaws, with the
makers choosing to make him some love sick puppy dog, where once was a
unique villain, now is cypher for slapstick and a crappy flip-flop of
plotting, while the "love interest" for Jaws, Dolly (Blanche Ravalec),
is cringe worthy. Sadly this would be the last appearance of Bernard
Lee as M, but he leaves a favourable mark, as does Desomond Llewelyn as
Q, but once again Moneypenny (Lois Maxwell) is all too brief, the flirt
and banter she used to share with Bond now seems long gone.

With a committed Bond fan base trudging through the turnstiles to see
the latest instalment, the sci-fi fans intrigued by the themes of the
story, and the general blockbuster loving crowd, Moonraker made a
colossal $203 million at the worldwide box office. Making it the
highest grossing Bond film so far, a record that would stick until
Brosnan's debut in 1995. While critical notices were not as bad as some
would have you believe, the critics clearly judging it on non Bond
terms. Broccoli took notice of the fans, though, who were upset by the
lack of respect to the serious side of Bond. He promised things would
be different for Bond 12. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

This James Bond adventure from 1979 takes our beloved agent
007
to outer space after he chases the crooks all over the
world.
He goes there with Dr. Holly Goodhead (Lois Chines) and after them is the
steel teeth Jaws (Richard Kiel) so that life in space doesn't get too
boring.

Roger Moore does his job well without taking it too seriously.Humor has a
big part in this movie.Moonraker is an excellent Bond adventure which is a
little underrated.It has some brilliant action scenes for you to
enjoy.

I really envy James Bond because he gets all the ladies and he gets to
travel all over the world and in outer space.Sure his life is in danger all
the time but that's what it takes to be a super agent.

If you want to see James Bond going sci-fi then this is a movie for you to
watch.

