

You wouldn't necessarily think that an adaptation of an albeit famous 17th
century French novel would make a relevant and fascinating piece of
cinema... but it does.

The first thing that strikes you is how well the film is lit and shot. The
period locations and costumes are visually sumptuous and perfect. Better
yet, the acting entirely matches the skill of the direction that takes its
method from the theatre - emotions are conveyed by expression and not
dialogue. Glenn Close gives her best performance on celluloid as the
scheming Madame de Merteuil, amorally hellbent on bending everyone to her
will, no matter the method or the cost, and John Malkovitch is her perfect
foil as the cynical hedonistic but world-weary Valmont. Michelle Pfeiffer
engages our empathy as the tortured and manipulated target of Malkovitch's
desire and Close's plotting.

The film is basically a morality tale, but one that fascinates in its
exposure of ego, vanity, intrigue and the war between the genders, subjects
that are timeless in their relevance, despite the period setting. The
storyline, which sticks faithfully to the original novel, remains compelling
throughout as we watch deceits within deceits take their tragic course.
Whole-heartedly recommended - take your time over it, and enjoy.

<|_=00=_|>
"Dangerous Liaisons" is this incredible movie that is so under rated.
It's the battle of the sexes and this book was written over 200 years
ago! I love to know that there was this same problem that we still have
to this day. That's why enjoyed "Dangerous Liaisons" so much because it
proves that we have so many differences from the opposite sexes. Men
are usually expected to have sex and with a few clever words destroy
women's reputations in minutes, while women have to be careful of
sleeping with whom, because it's considered shameful.

Glenn Close plays Marquise Isabelle de Merteuil, a proper lady with a
secretive double life of sex and wishing to destroy a girl's reputation
for revenge on her ex for dumping her for this young lady. She also
makes a bet with her closest friend, Vicomte Sébastien de Valmont
played by John Malkovich, that he could not bed a lady of such high
stature and morals, in return if he succeeds, he will finally have the
conquest he's been dreaming of, bedding Marquise Isabelle. I don't care
what people say, this was Glenn's best performance and she was so
brilliant. Her speech of "Dominate your sex and avenge my own" was
perfect and as a woman I rooted for her in the story. She is a tragic
figure that was over looked by many as just another slut. Glenn had my
sympathy and I agreed with a lot of her dialog.

John as Valmont was absolutely perfect, he's not that sexy looking but
has such charm and charisma on the screen you believe him as a lady's
man. "It's beyond my control", he repeats this several times throughout
the film and it becomes more darker each and every time he says it to
Michelle's character. He does the Marquise a favor of bedding young
Cecile to help the Marquise's plan of revenge and does such a good job.
It was almost too easy for him, but he has a more difficult task of
bedding Madame Marie de Tourvel who is married and has very high morals
and standards of God and love. He falls in love with her in the process
of getting to know her and is so believable, you can see how it breaks
his heart to break her's. But he feels he must stand by his reputation
and your own heart goes out to him despite his cruel manors as a "man".

Michelle Pfeiffer as Marie de Tourvel is so beautiful and elegant and
is the only one who knows of Valmont's true side. But she cannot help
but fall for his charm and love for her, when she talks to his aunt,
this is one of the most true speeches ever in cinema that all women can
relate too "I'm sorry to say this but those who are most worthy of love
are never made happy by it. Do you still think men love the way we do?
No... men enjoy the happiness they feel. We can only enjoy the
happiness we give. They are not capable of devoting themselves
exclusively to one person. So to hope to be made happy by love is a
certain cause of grief." That is so incredibly and painfully true that
Marie knows better but can't help but give herself to Valmont.

Swoosie Kurtz, Uma Thurman, and Mildred Natwick are all so exceptional
and amazing as well in the film. They truly bring the story to life and
keep it going with their dialog and actions. Keanu? Shudder, his acting
is like... how do I put this delicately? I think it's... wood. :)
Otherwise, trust me this is one of the best movies of all time. This
deserves higher than a 7.6 and should be in the top 250. But it's
beyond my control. :D 

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
The Age of Enlightment gave to the world some pretty controversial
minds. At one end of the spectrum there was the Marquis de Sade who, no
secret to anyone, created the concept that is now known as sadism. At
the other end there is Choderlos de Laclos, who is widely known for
creating this story which in essence is very close to Sade's dark heart
even when it never reaches the extremes of his florid depictions of
ritualistic, sexual perversion.

DANGEROUS LIAISONS, based on the novel "Les Liaisons Dangereuses", is
this tale, Laclos' most known, adapted many times for television and
screen, but never like this with such attention to detail to make it as
French as possible, and bringing a classical sensibility to the front.
Stephen Frears, in his American film debut, creates a lush visage of
restrained yet swooning passions, icy stares, and hushed, measured
speeches against the backdrop of the Ile-de-France and should have been
the film of the year had it not been for the usual sentimentalism
prevalent during the 1980's which gave the major awards to RAINMAN, a
film centered around autism that, while delicate as a subject matter
was hardly dramatic and today is barely memorable.

On the other hand, this story is. The dark comedy that pins two bored
aristocrats against each other as they play God with other people's
lives without realizing the devastating consequences that will result
from this has been the stuff of legend and allure. Glenn Close, John
Malkovich, and Michelle Pfeiffer all are beyond awards in their
exacting and multidimensional portrayals of three very different people
caught in a web of deceit. However the star of this adaptation has to
be Christopher Hampton who immortalizes Laclos' vision in a subtle, yet
powerful story filled with subtext and restrained cruelty. He's the one
who suggests pages about his characters, most tellingly of the Marquis
de Merteuil in three key scenes: in the first, opening sequence (which
she also shares with the Vicomte de Valmont), she admires her
reflection in a mirror with a smug expression akin to the Mona Lisa.
She is in control and about to go through with her activities. She is
dressed into an orgy of corsets and fabric, looking directly into the
camera -- the Vicomte does the same as he is dressed -- which sets
their characters' tones. They are mirror images of one another, each in
their gender. Both are apparently, in full control.

The second telling revelation of the Marquise is when she arrives to
the Volanges' to give advice to Cecile about virtue. You can see how
she has her Mona Lisa smile on, which as soon as she gets off her
carriage turns to a rictus of anguish. Cut to her later saying about
shame: "You find the shame is like the pain. You only feel it once." As
her head rests against a window you may see her eyes briefly moisten.
Her expression is, however, blank, but very deep and expressive. It's
the first time she cracks open the door to her inner face, but just a
little and only for a second, but what a second! The last time Hampton
describes Merteuil is in a scene which mirrors the first scene: watch
how again, she looks at herself in her mirror. Her traps have been
discovered and she faces her own self and uncertain future, having
destroyed everyone around her and being left alone. It's the calm right
before the taking of the Bastille, hence why the timing of the story
has to be in the Eighteenth Century, right before the French
Revolution. And in being so revealing while using expressions, Hampton
creates the internal dialog that was the driving force behind the
epistolary nature of the novel. His rendition of the Madame de Tourvel
and Valmont are no less complex. Michelle Pfieffer, with minimal dialog
and her wide, doe eyes, is given a rewarding role that explodes during
her face-off with Malkovich when her character is betrayed. Their
physicality skirts with sadism and sets the stage for Valmont's own
internal pain as he faces his own mortality, since he has been led to
destroy the one he loves, and for a promise and nothing else.

It's been no mystery that films that lose to other, "of the moment"
films become timeless and the stuff that makes movie magic. DANGEROUS
LIAISONS, nearly twenty years later, still bites, especially when from
a light comedy it becomes this horrific monster staring at us from the
abyss, more so because of the exquisite cruelty that we cause to others
in the name of reputation and vanity. And in that, the Marquise is
right: vanity and love are incompatible. Just look at Valmont and you
will see why.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is so incredibly well done, and all three lead characters
are at their peak career performances. It is clever, funny, and tragic
all rolled together, and one that you will be thinking about long after
the movie is over. Of the three main characters, Michelle Pfeiffer has
the least stretching to do as an actor, but her character calls for a
demure, soft-spoken individual. John Malkovitch and Glenn Close are
both deliciously malicious and carry the film well. Keanu Reeves is
better suited for an action film - he appears wooden - but does a
decent job, anyway. Lastly, Uma is refreshing and captivating, and
plays opposite John Malkovitch without losing her identity. All in all,
masterful, and visually and intellectually stimulating to watch. Still
to this day it holds its' own in a world where action is the name of
the game.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is elegant. The performances are magnificent. John Malkovich
is totally believable as the sector that destroys the life of countless
naive women. Glenn Close is amazing as one of the greatest "bitches" of
the story of cinema. Michelle Pfeiffer and Keanu Reeves gave their best
performances ever and Uma Thurman is amazing with a tremendous mix of
innocence and sexuality. The script and the direction really made an
amazing job giving an environment of sickness and degradation. The
makeup and the beautiful costumes only aggregate the force that the
story needed to be told. An amazing movie you really wish to enter in
that snake's nest. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

  I believe this is the best of the four adaptations of the play/novel
Dangerous Liaisons.

  Glenn Close plays Mertuil, who, with Malkovich's Valmont, manipulate and
seduce others for entertainment.  In comes Michelle Pfieffer's beautiful
Madame de Tourvel, whose husband is off at a trial (or something to that
extent).  Valmont realizes what a capture it would be if he were to succeed
in seducing her, and making her forget all her vows of fidelity.   Uma
Thurman also has a smaller part, one of those who was seduced by
Valmont.

  Uma Thurman is great, Michelle Pfieffer is exquisite, but it's Close and
Malkovich who dominate the screen.  Close's mercilessly cunning character
has most of the great lines.  When asked if betrayal is her favourite word,
she replies, "No.  Cruelty is.  It's much more nobler, don't you think". 
Malkovich plays a Machiavellian character you lies and cheats to get what he
wants

  The climax is thrilling, and the finale is incredible.  Glenn Close's
performance was certainly worthy of the Oscar nomination, and maybe the
award.  It is her best performance.
<|_=00=_|>
Stephen Frears directs a top-notch movie adaptation of Choderlos de
Laclos' novel about several manipulative Rococo-era French aristocrats.
Marquise Isabelle de Merteuil (Glenn Close) is a seductively evil
character who will stop at nothing to get what she wants. Vicomte
Sebastien de Valmont (John Malkovich) knows how to trick the peasants
into thinking that he's a good guy, despite his vampiric intentions.
Madame Marie de Tourvel (Michelle Pfeiffer) and Le Chevalier Raphael
Danceny (Keanu Reeves) may be only products of this vile society, but
they are practically helpless to do anything about it. Maybe it's a
little strange to see Keanu Reeves in a movie like this, but he makes
the best of his role. All in all, "Dangerous Liaisons" is a movie that
you can't afford to miss. Perfect.
<|_=00=_|>
(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut
to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it
at Amazon.)

This is a tale about the ancien régime in 18th century France before
the revolution in which the moral decadence of the privileged classes
rivaled that of Sodom and Gomorrah and the ancient Romans. The story
comes from a novel by Choderlos de Laclos that was made into a stage
play by Christopher Hampton. It is a cynical satire on human sexuality
as well as a very subtle examination of sexual hypocrisy and desire, a
kind of oh so sophisticated laugh at bourgeois morality that would have
delighted Voltaire and Moliere and greatly amused Shakespeare. It is a
tale of elaborate lechery and revenge that backfires because it seems
that anybody, even the most jagged rake can fall in love, and thereby
become the victim.

John Malkovich plays the rake, Vicomte de Valmont, whose sole purpose
in life is to seduce women, rob them of their virtue and then move on.
Glenn Close plays his back-stabbing confidante and one-time lover, the
Marquise de Merteuil. Michelle Pfeiffer plays the coy and virtuous
Madame de Tourvel, who is to be Valmont's latest conquest. Uma Thurman
is cast as a teenaged ingenue who is betrothed to Merteuil's lover
while Keanu Reeves plays her naive music teacher and would be lover,
Chevalier Danceny. Stephen Frears, who has directed such diverse films
as The Grifters (1990) and My Beautiful Laundrette (1985), after a
somewhat cryptic start, does an excellent job of bringing the biting
cynicism of Laclos and Hampton to the screen.

I know of two other versions of this film, Milos Forman's Valmont
(1989), starring Colin Firth and Annette Bening, and Roger Vadim's
Dangerous Liaisons (1960). Regrettably , I haven't seen Vadim's film,
but Forman's Valmont is excellent. In polite society comparisons are
said to be odious. I shall proceed anyway:

John Malkovich vs. Colin Firth. Malkovich is widely recognized as a
great actor, but he is clearly miscast in this role, yet he brings a
predatory dimension to the part that is in keeping with the overall
psychology of the movie. Firth, while not as celebrated for his acting
skills as Malkovich, is nonetheless a fine actor, and his charm and
playful inventiveness are more in keeping with the character of
Valmont, whom women love. Call it even.

Glenn Close vs. Annette Bening. Again Close is considered the more
accomplished actor, but Bening is sexier, prettier and considerably
more charming. Whether that is a plus as far as the reality of the
novel and play are concerned is debatable. For my part I found Bening a
lot more fun to watch. Edge to Bening.

Michelle Pfeiffer vs. Meg Tilly. Pfeiffer is a much bigger star and has
more experience as an actress. She is beautiful, but Tilly is more
passionate. Pfeiffer was nominated for an academy award for best
supporting actress for her work, but did not win. Personally I thought
Tilly was more believable and was especially effective in projecting
first the repressed passion and then the complete abandonment as she
gives herself to Valmont. Pfeiffer's portrayal of Tourvel's coy
awakening, with just a hint of duplicity, and then her utter
dissolution when he leaves her, was star quality. Edge to Pfeiffer.

Uma Thurman vs. Fairuza Balk. I loved them both. Thurman, of course, is
a more statuesque beauty with a polished and controlled acting style,
but Balk's wide-eyed innocence was a delight. Call it even.

Keanu Reeves vs. Henry Thomas. Thomas was cute, but almost too juvenile
to be believed. Reeves seemed just right for the part. Clear edge to
Reeves.

Frears vs. Forman. Frears's direction was more cynical, especially in
the duel between Valmont and Merteuil in which their mutual and
complementary debauchery is in sharp focus. And his resolution was more
clearly defined. Forman's strength was in the delight and playfulness
of many of the scenes, especially those relating to the seduction of
Tourvel. His direction was more comedic and he allowed a greater
development of secondary characters, while Frears concentrated more on
the two leads. I give a very small edge to Forman, but would not argue
with those preferring Frears.

Bottom line: I liked Forman's movie better, but the voters at IMDb.com
preferred Frears's Dangerous Liaisons, giving it an average of 7.7
stars out of ten to 6.7 for Valmont. 

Some bon mots:

Valmont tells Madame de Tourvel as he dumps her, "My love had great
difficulty outlasting your virtue. It's beyond my control."

Valmont demands that the Marquise de Merteuil reply to his proposal of
a night together, will it be love of war? He says, "A single word is
all that is required." Long pause, and then she gives him three, "All
right. (Pause.

Cut to satisfied smile on Valmont's face.) War."

When Valmont returns from making love to Madame de Tourvel he reveals
to Merteuil that for the first time he may be in love. He relates his
feelings to her, "I love her. I hate her..." The camera turns to Close,
who yawns.

Valmont's aunt while consoling Madame de Tourvel, who has confessed
that she is in love with Valmont and can't help herself, says,
reflecting the wisdom of all who have been there, "In such matters all
advice is useless."

Toward the end, Valmont says, "I have no illusions. I lost them on my
travels."
<|_=00=_|>

I loved this movie. Glenn Close was wonderful as usual, John Malkovich
(wonderful as the bad guy we all love to hate in every movie) and Michelle
were great, and the ending was great although sad. Glenn Close should have
won the Oscar, as well as Michelle. Costumes and sets are beautiful. Watch
this one if you are in the mood for betrayal, deception and characters that
you want to slap. 
<|_=00=_|>

This movie had an extraordinary cast (the incomprehensibly bad Keanu Reeves
definitely excluded) which created a movie that still looks great 15 years
later. I watched "Cruel Intentions" before "Dangerous Liaisons" and I like
both of them, but in a different way. "Cruel Intentions" is a very cool
movie mostly intended for the younger generations, simplifying the plot but
still maintaining the very essence while "Dangerous Liaisons" puts more
importance to the actors performance. Malkovich is amazing, so is Glenn
Close and I especially liked the 17 year old Uma Thurman!
8/10 
