
The year 1983 saw a strange phenomenon; two rival Bond films.
"Octopussy", starring Roger Moore, was part of the official Cubby
Broccoli Bond franchise. "Never Say Never Again", made by a rival
producer, is, apart from the awful "Casino Royale", the only Bond movie
which does not form part of that franchise. Its big attraction was that
it brought back the original Bond, Sean Connery; its title reputedly
derived from Connery's remark after "Diamonds Are Forever" that he
would never again play the role. Some have complained that Connery was,
at 53, too old for the role, but he was in fact three years younger
than his successor Moore, who not only made "Octopussy" in the same
year but went on to make one further Bond film, "A View to a Kill", two
years later.

The film owes its existence to the settlement of a lawsuit about the
film rights to Ian Fleming's work. It is perhaps unfortunate that the
terms of the settlement included a clause that the new film had to be a
remake of "Thunderball", as that was perhaps not the greatest of the
Connery Bonds. (A remake of "Dr No" or "Goldfinger" might have worked
better). The plot is much the same as that of the earlier film; the
terrorist organisation SPECTRE, acting together with a megalomaniac
tycoon named Largo, have stolen two American nuclear warheads and are
attempting to hold the world's governments to ransom by threatening to
detonate them unless they receive a vast sum of money. It falls to
Bond, of course, to save the world by tracking down the missing
missiles.

The film is fortunate in that it has not just one but two of the most
beautiful Bond girls of all, Barbara Carrera as the seductive but
lethal Fatima Blush and Kim Basinger as Largo's girlfriend Domino who
defects to Bond's side after learning of her lover's evil plans. A
number of the Bond films have a plot that hangs upon the hero's ability
to win over the villain's mistress or female accomplice- there are
similar developments, for example, in "Goldfinger", "Live and Let Die"
and "The Living Daylights". In the official series, Bond's ally is
normally regarded as the female lead, but here Carrera, playing the
villainess, is billed above Basinger, who was a relatively unknown
actress at the time. Basinger, of course, has gone on to become one of
Hollywood's biggest stars, whereas Carrera is one of a number of Bond
girls who have somewhat faded from view.

Of the villains, Max von Sydow makes an effective Blofeld, the head of
SPECTRE, but Klaus Maria Brandauer seemed too bland and nonthreatening
as Largo, except perhaps during the "Domination" game, a more
sophisticated variant on those violent computer games such as "Space
Invaders" that were so popular in the early eighties. Brandauer can be
an excellent actor in his native German, in films such as "Mephisto"
and "Oberst Redl", but he does not comes across so expressively in
English.

One of the film's features is that it both follows the normal Bond
formula and, at times, departs from it. There is the standard
world-in-peril plot, chase sequences, a series of exotic locations,
glamorous women, sinister villains and a specially written theme song
based on the film's title. There is, however, no extended pre-credits
sequence, and we see some familiar characters in a new light. For
example, Bond's boss M becomes a languid, supercilious aristocrat, his
American colleague Felix Leiter is shown as black for the only time,
and the scientist Q is portrayed by Alec McCowen as a disillusioned
cynic with (despite his characteristically upper-class Christian name
of Algernon) a distinctly working-class accent. There is also an
amusing cameo from Rowan Atkinson as a bumbling British diplomat.
Although Connery was perhaps not quite a good here as he was in some of
his earlier films in the role, this ringing the changes on the familiar
theme makes this one of the more memorable Bonds. 7/10 

A goof. Rowan Atkinson's character states that he is from the British
Embassy in Nassau. As, however, the Bahamas is a Commonwealth country,
Britain would have a High Commission in its capital, not an Embassy.
<|_=00=_|>

Never Say Never Again got its title because Sean Connery had said in the
1970s (shortly after Diamonds Are Forever) that he would "never" do another
Bond film. However, in 1983 he was persuaded to return to the role for a
one-off special, a remake of his fourth entry Thunderball, and his wife
rather humorously said to him that in the future he should make a point
never to say never again. This film actually came out close to a Roger Moore
entry in the series (Octopussy), and although Connery had more admirers as
007 than Moore, it was surprisingly Octopussy that scored a bigger box
office hit.

Connery's Bond is older and more vulnerable than we remember him. His boss,
M, doesn't hold him in very high regard and actually suggests that he take
some time off in a plush health spa. During his time here, Bond uncovers a
strange plot and the further he delves into the mystery the more he
discovers. It seems that his old adversaries SPECTRE, fronted by the
nefarious Blofeld (Max Von Sydow) have stolen two nuclear warheads which
they will detonate if they are not paid an extortionate ransom. Chief
overseer of this hideous plan is Emile Largo (Klaus Maria Brandeur), and
Bond pursues Largo around the globe in an attempt to stop him, visiting such
places as Monte Carlo and North Africa during the course of the
mission.

The music by Michel Legrand is poor by series standards. It sounds rather
similar to his music for the sleazy 1981 movie Your Ticket Is No Longer
Valid, and is really ill-suited to this Bond production. However, in terms
of villains, they've come with a couple of great ones for this film. Largo,
as personified by Brandeur, is smooth but deadly, and hench-woman Fatima
Blush (the sensual Barbara Carrera) is uncommonly disturbing. Rowan Atkinson
also has a fairly good role as a dim-witted agent assigned to "help" Bond.
The big action sequences are quite good, especially the horse chase around
the North African sea-fortress and the motorbike chase, although some of the
underwater moments are tough to understand because it's hard to figure out
who is who behind the diving masks.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1965 producer Kevin McLory -who owns a part of the Bond cinematic
rights- associate with EON Productions (Harry Saltzman and Albert
Broccoli) for making "Thunderball", the fourth film of the 007
franchise. The star is Sean Connery, of course.

In 1982 McLory wins a legal battle and can produce an "independent"
Bond film. "Never say never again" (NSNA) is one of the two
"unofficial" 007 films made outside EON (the other is the 1967 comedy
spoof "Casino Royale"). NSNA is a remake of "Thunderball" and stars the
original Bond, Sean Connery -who comes back to the role after many
years of absence.

The film is released some months after "Octopussy" with Roger Moore,
the 13th episode of the EON series. At the time press calls it "War of
the Bonds"... Both films are a big success in 1983, even if "Octopussy"
earns more money at the box office.

NSNA is a luxurious film made by excellent technicians -director Irvin
Kershner who led "The Empire strikes back", Douglas Slocombe
-cinematographer of "Raiders of the lost Ark"-, and screenwriter
Lorenzo Semple Jr -who wrote "The three days of the Condor"- among
others...

The cast is excellent with Connery, a then relatively unknown Kim
Basinger, Barbara Carrera, Klaus Maria Brandauer, Max Von Sydow, Edward
Fox...

Although all that the film remains inferior to the original
"Thunderball". It lacks many fundamental ingredients for being a real
Bond movie: there's not the traditional gun barrel sequence, there's
not the "James Bond theme", M and Q are not played by the traditional
actors... It's a copyright reason: EON only is allowed to use these
elements. Briefly, NSNA lacks the classic cinematic 007 atmosphere.

On the other hand the film is exciting and enjoyable. Brandauer is a
very good villain and the women (Basinger and Carrera) are sensual and
gorgeous. But the main highlight is Sean Connery! He's once again
wonderful in the role, he's older but looks fitter and nicer here than
in "Diamonds are forever", his last performance in the role of the
British super-spy before NSNA.
<|_=00=_|>
Only Connery could bring that particular style with a line like that
Fatima crashes into Bond's arms when she water-skis up to the super
agent in Nassau and apologizes, 'Oh, how reckless of me. I made you all
wet.' The super agent replies, 'Yes, but my martini is still dry.'

Barbara Carrera makes a great villain, stealing the show as SPECTRE
executioner Fatima Blush Fatima is number 12 in the SPECTRE chain of
command, and is a gorgeous assassin who takes intense sensations of
pleasure in killing 

Fatima assumes all the deadly characteristics of Fiona, proving to be
one of Bond's toughest adversaries She is a victim of her vanity
She's good at what she does, and wants the world to know it But her
vanity is her downfall Using every possible approach to eliminate 007,
Fatima is a wild and cunning woman who makes love to the man she is
about to kill 

Austrian actor Klaus-María Brandauer (Largo) does not make a very
formidable opponent for 007 Referred to as number one in the SPECTRE
chain of command, Largo resides in the Bahamas, and travels aboard his
super yacht, the Flying Saucer 

Max Von Sydow becomes the fourth actor to appear as SPECTRE chief Ernst
Stavro Blofeld, once more plotting to put the world at ransom 

Kim Basinger takes the part once owned by the lovely French actress
Claudine Auger She is Domino, the mistress of Largo, who soon falls
deeply in love with her rescuer 

Black actor Bernie Casey becomes the sixth actor to play CIA agent
Felix Leiter after Jack Lord, Cec Linder, Rik Van Nutter, Norman
Burton, and David Hedison...

Edward Fox portrays the new, unsympathetic 'M.' Pamela Salem is the
third actress to play Miss Moneypenny. Lois Maxwell was the first and
Barbara Bouchet was the second.

Valerie Leon is the sexy lady in the Bahamas who fished 007 out of the
blue water and saved his life by making love to him in her own room
Valerie was the Sardinian hotel receptionist in 'The Spy Who loved Me'
when Bond and Anya arrive seeking Stromberg

Prunella Gee is Shrublands physical therapist Patricia Saskia Cohen
Tanugi is Nicole, Bond's Secret Service contact in the South of France 

Gavan O'Herlihy is Jack Petachi, the U.S. Air Force communications
officer who duplicates the President of the United States' 'eye print'
and arms two cruise missiles with nuclear warheads 

Rowan Atkinson is the bumbling foreign officer Nigel Small-Fawcett; and
Alec McCowen is Algernon, the armorer who provides 007 some formidable
items 

If you like to see Connery playing a tense battle of wills, disguised
as a masseur, attacked by robot-controlled sharks, giving away a
considerable amount of money for a tango dance, thrown into a medieval
dungeon, don't miss this second of only two "unofficial" James Bond
films
<|_=00=_|>
MASTER PLAN: blackmail the world after stealing two nuclear warheads.
Haven't we heard this plan before? Yes, in "Thunderball"(65). And, wow,
two Bond films in the same year (the other was "Octopussy") - what can
it mean? This is now a curiosity in the Bond film series (and not a
part of the canon series), an anomaly, an oddity, a film stemming from
the real-life battles between Eon Productions and their nemesis,
producer McClory, who won rights to remake the earlier film. It
probably would have been better if he'd succeeded earlier - say, around
1976 or so; as it is, Connery, who managed to equal Roger Moore's
number of Bond portrayals with this film, is a full dozen years older
since his previous Bonder "Diamonds Are Forever," and it shows. This
isn't really a parody, like "Casino Royale" from 1967, though there are
some too-cute moments, right up to the conclusion, a freeze-frame of
Bond winking at us. There are also elements of a weird re-start, such
as the first scene with Bond and M, who mentions he is new to the
position, much like the Bond & female M scene in "GoldenEye." In this
version, M (Fox) is still male, though he's a stuffy high-strung
bureaucrat, opposed to double-0 agents, and looks a bit younger than
Bond. This is a bit strange to take in, just on its own. Q is played by
one of the best British actors, McCowen, so his scenes have a nice
flair, though he has a silly name, Algernon.

There's no teaser sequence or fancy credits such as we're used to - in
fact, the beginning is so mundane, it's as if we're watching a
typically substandard seventies thriller, with a wretched song and an
awful score. Many of the early scenes are perfunctory; in other words,
they're presented as the stuff we're used to seeing in a Bond film
(Bond shoots bad guys, Bond is eyed by the ladies, Bond is menaced by
sharks), but without the style and panache of the regular film series.
As in "Thunderball," Bond is sent to a health spa early in the film. In
an early action scene, he's attacked by a brawny assassin/henchman in
the 'Oddjob/Jaws' mold who seems unstoppable, and things appear to be
picking up, until he's stopped by a silly gag. I admit I did laugh when
I saw this in the theater way back when - but I don't nowadays. I also
get the impression of a conspiracy by the producer to throw in some
banal stuff amid the standard spy action, not helped any by what seems
like in-joking involving Bond's aging hero bit, including M's comically
shrill disapproval. It mirrors the problem with Moore in his last
couple of Bonders, where the audience is laughing at the hero -
undesirable conditions for a Bonder. Things seem to improve again in
the middle half, as much of the action here is dominated by the female
villain, Blush (actress Carrera in her best role). She exults in her
performance as the persistent killer with some odd sexual
preoccupations, anticipating the much later lethal ladies such as
Onatopp in "GoldenEye." 

But, the best performance is by Brandauer as the main villain, Largo -
a much different Largo than the one in "Thunderball." He's almost on
another, superior level from the rest of the cast, suggesting insanity
better than most other Bond villains, somewhat effeminate in some of
his gestures, but also magnetic when sparring with Bond, especially in
their memorably electrifying video game duel, a bizarre yet entrancing
confrontation. Von Sydow, always good, has a much briefer role as
famous uber-villain Blofeld, staying behind the scenes for most of the
movie. Basinger as Domino the Bond girl is, unfortunately, similar to
many of the Bond girls of that period: nice to look at, but usually
helpless and kind of an airhead, though she demonstrates fear
convincingly. Connery, looking his age (early fifties), goes through
the motions here, but hey, it's still Connery as Bond; he can do this
kind of thing in his sleep (which he nearly does) and is always
watchable, with that easy charisma. The pace is actually pretty good
for awhile up until the climactic shoot-out, in spite of some cheap
production values. The finale, underwater with Largo, is murky stuff,
with no tension, as if the filmmakers just gave up by this point and
wanted to get it over with. We kind of forget what the threat is about
half-an-hour before the end. Oh, and, Atkinson is his small role is
abominable, like nails on chalkboard. Connery would not return. Bond:7
Villain:9 Femme Fatales:5 Henchwoman/men:8 Leiter:6 Fights:5
Stunts/Chases:6 Gadgets:4 Auto:5 Locations:6 Pace:6 overall:6
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, it's Sean Connery playing Bond again, looking more alive and into
his part than any time since the first time they made this film, in
1965 when it was called "Thunderball". But the tongue is so firmly in
cheek one wonders if Connery isn't employing a few observed tricks from
his friend and more humorous successor, Roger Moore.

Moore is my favorite Bond, but Connery makes a strong case for himself
in this unusual outing. The only serious Bond film not made under the
aegis of the classic Eon Bond series, "Never Say Never Again" is an
irreverent return to the well. Soft on action, it's nevertheless strong
on character and clever dialogue.

Bond, it's made clear right away, is a man in disfavor. No matter how
many times he has saved the world, his new boss thinks little of his
fat lifestyle. "Too many free radicals, that's your problem...Caused by
eating too much red meat, white bread, too many martinis." "Then I
shall cut out the white bread, sir," Bond smartly replies.

An early fight sequence in a spa represents the movie's high point
action-wise, with Bond and an attacker fighting their way through a
kitchen, a bedroom, and a laboratory before Bond finally douses his
opponent, ironically with no small help from those free radicals. Humor
is liberally applied in the film, rather more cleverly than most of
Moore's outings, though Connery seems to be having more fun sending
himself up as a result of Moore's less egotistic example.

Was it because he was making a good chunk of the gross? Or was it
working for less stingy producers? Whatever it is, the screenplay
serves his laid-back style well, and the result is richer and more
entertaining than Connery's prior two Eon Bond outings, "You Only Live
Twice" and "Diamonds Are Forever".

The 1980s were not a good decade for Bond, whether it was Connery,
Moore, or Timothy Dalton. Leg warmers, video games, and ugly sports
cars are all in evidence, and the Bianca Jagger sunglasses Klaus Maria
Brandauer is seen wearing in his first scene do him no favors. Forget
first impressions. Brandauer's role as the chief villain, Maximilian
Largo, is one of the best in any Bond film, with Brandauer enjoyably
playing up his character's menace and mania. At one point, he allows
Bond free roam of his situation room, with a martini to boot, and his
dancing eyes and mad, engaging grin make for compelling company
throughout.

The best thing in this film, other than Connery, are the Bond girls,
shot with more attention to personality than normal in Bond films, a
testament to cinematographer Douglas Slocombe and director Irvin
Kirshner. Barbara Carrera was nominated for a Golden Globe for her role
as the villainess Fatima Blush, every bit as crazy as Largo and even
nicer to look at. She doesn't last the whole movie; you almost need her
gone in order to focus on the others.

Kim Basinger's breasts and buttocks should have had their own agents
for the screen time they get in this film, but I'm not complaining.
Basinger's a rare beauty who in this early role as Largo's mistress
mixes incredible hotitude with a childlike vulnerability that brings
out the Bond in me, and many others I suspect. (Her lips and cheekbones
are pretty sweet, too.)

It's not a well-constructed film. It's a knockoff of a better Bond
movie with a sloppy storyline, a terrible score, and a flat ending. But
it does have Connery, proving his was the definitive take on cinema's
definitive secret agent, even if he steals a page or two from my 007,
Mr. Moore. The end result is entertaining enough, so I'm not
complaining.
<|_=00=_|>
"Never Say Never Again", as everyone knows by now, was the second Bond
film to be released in 1983, and was nearly as big a hit as "Octopussy"
was (that film was still playing in some theaters when "Never Say Never
Again" was released). Lacking the distinctive gun-barrel opening and
famous Bond theme among other distinctive features of the EON franchise
films, this lacks not only the feel of the EON Bond series, but of
Fleming's work, leaving a seriously bloated mess of an American action
thriller which happens to feature Bond as the lead character. 

Why? That's the first question anybody should be asking about this
film. A cynic (which I probably qualify as) would say 'for the cash',
others might say it was just to get Connery back as Bond and give him a
proper goodbye. Some might say it was in retaliation to the direction
the Moore films were headed in, although "For Your Eyes Only" is a far
superior and far less bloated film than this, so that argument doesn't
quite work.

Of course, there's a lot to dislike here. Connery has moments of
inspiration where he slips right back into character, but for most of
the film he just looks really old and slightly ridiculous, which fits
the plot but doesn't make his performance any less tired. Still, I'd
argue that this is a better send-off for him as Bond than "Diamonds are
Forever". Kim Basinger is a terrible Bond girl, and as much as I like
Rowan Atkinson he shouldn't be anywhere near a Bond film. In addition,
the villains here fall flat as well. 

That said, "Never Say Never Again" is not a film I can hate, even if I
wanted to (and I never want to hate anything), simply because little of
it comes off as especially bad yet all of it comes off as flat, bland,
and uninspired, and far, far too American for a Bond film. It's just
sort of... there being the bloated, over-long, but not terrible film it
is. I don't count it as a 'Bond film', as it doesn't feel remotely like
one, but even just as an action thriller it doesn't quite work.

5/10
<|_=00=_|>
You don't review James Bond movies, you evaluate them, rate them
according to how well they meet expectations. There are certain things
one has come to expect, even demand of a Bond film and each individual
effort either delivers or it doesn't. So, here are ten elements that
make a Bond film a Bond film. And even though NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN is
not technically part of the official Bond filmography, the mere
presence of Sean Connery returning as 007 makes it something more than
merely an honorary member of the series. Anyway, here's how it rates on
a scale of 1 to 10: 

Title: NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN: The clever title has no apparent link to
the actual storyline, but is instead an in-joke reference to Sean
Connery's vow to never play OO7 again after having been lured back once
before for DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER. Whatever the case, it is a catchy
title. 8 points.

Pre-Credit Teaser: Perhaps trying to avoid any obvious parallels to the
official EON series of Bond films, there is no Teaser; the opening
scenes are just shown behind the credits. And even that is
disappointing: yet another "oh-no, Bond has been killed" fakeout. 4
points.

Opening Credits: Other than a screen full of tiny 007's, they didn't
even bother trying to jazz up the credits with graphics or split
screens or interesting camera angles. 1 points.

Theme Song: As written by Michel LeGrand and sung by Lani Hall "Never
Say Never Again" would make for a perfectly pleasant part of a
particularly long elevator ride. As a Bond theme, it's merely okay. 6
points.

"Bond, James Bond": Appropriately, since this film sees Connery being
lured back into service as Bond after a decade's hiatus, the story
begins with 007 facing the question as to whether Bond/Connery is still
up to the job. Happily, Connery more than proves himself ready for
Bondage again. Though he is a bit grayer, sporting a bit more girth and
wearing a slightly more obvious toupee, he seems to have no trouble
slipping back into action. All in all, it is one of Connery's best, and
most relaxed, turns as the character. 9 points.

Bond Babes: Even in the best of the Bond films, the female characters
aren't given much dimension; they exist largely as necessary props for
Bond's use. Future Oscar-winner Kim Basinger is granted a great deal of
leeway in creating her character of Domino Petachi and the film
benefits from this. She does a nice job -- and she's not bad to look at
either. 8 points.

Bond Villain: The reports of his death being obviously exaggerated,
Blofeld is back -- at least, for the moment -- showing he has more
lives than his prized pussycat. One-time Jesus
portrayer-turned-stereotypical villain, Max von Sydow isn't given a lot
to do in the role, but is a silky presence nonetheless. But he is
overshadowed by a wonderful performance by Klaus Maria Brandauer as
Maximilian Largo. After a string of banal Bond villains, it is so
refreshing for Brandauer to gave a performance that is both subtle, yet
colorfully evil. Funny without being campy, ruthless without seeming
cartoonish; his Largo ranks right up there with Auric Goldfinger as one
of Bond's best villains. 10 points.

Bond Baddies: Fatima Blush! What can I say? As played with all the bold
style of a particularly flamboyant drag queen, Barbara Carrera breezes
through the film, displaying a mix of self-amused evil and more than a
tad of pure psychotic insanity. Bond has crossed paths with a variety
of femmes fatales, most of whom have been so easily disposed of that
they existed more as amusing eye candy than as characters. But few
dared to exhibit such a flare for the dramatic or such fierce
determination. Even her untimely demise is spectacular, even by Bondian
standards. 10 points.

Sinister Plot: As a remake of sorts of THUNDERBALL, the film does seem
a bit been-there-done-that: nuclear missiles are stolen and major real
estate will go kaboom if all the countries of the world don't pay a
multi-kazillion dollar ransom. But at least producer Kevin McClory was
lucky enough to find himself forced to remake one of the weakest Bond
adventures. By comparisons, this effort blows THUNDERBALL out of the
water. And despite the absence of many Bondian trademarks, the film
succeeds on its own. 9 points.

Production values: The film starts out with an uneasy style, like a TV
movie trying to be more than it can. But as the story progress, the
film gains momentum and a sense of purpose, making it a superior
adventure. 8 points. 

Bonus Points: There are several odd changes that sets this Bond film
apart from the official series. Miss Moneypenny is hardly acknowledged;
as played by Edward Fox, "M" is a cranky old grouch with no respect for
the "Double Os," a foreshadowing of how Judi Dench would later play the
part; and "Q" suddenly has a cockney accent and is all buddy-buddy with
Bond. And there is a curious sense of nostalgia throughout the film,
such as replacing Bond's Astin-Martin with a vintage Packard and a
tango dance number that is cleverly inserted into the story. And a big
rescue near the end is on horseback, an homage to THE RAIDERS OF THE
LOST ARK, which was itself a tribute to the Bond films. 5 points.

Summary: NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN is a mixed bag. In the really important
areas, it more than holds it own thanks to hero Connery, villain
Brandauer, assassin Carrera and damsel-in-distress Basinger. But the
devil is in the details; as seemingly unimportant as the opening
credits, theme song and such seem, the film is lacking because of their
absence. It all comes off as a faux Bond film; a very good substitute,
but a substitute nonetheless.

Bond-o-meter Rating: 78 points out of 100.
<|_=00=_|>
I've always liked Sean Connery, but as James Bond I've always favored
Roger Moore. Still it was Connery who set the Bond standard and while
he had by 1983 established himself as something other than James Bond,
the money must have been irresistible for him to make one more
appearance as 007 and save the world from the evil designs of Spectre.

And what designs they are in Never Say Never Again. SPECTRE with the
help of a foolish young Air Force officer who happens to be Kim
Bassinger's brother stole two nuclear missiles during a war games
exercise and now SPECTRE headed by Blofeld, played here by Max Von
Sydow is threatening blackmail of the world.

Von Sydow's operations guy is Klaus Maria Brandauer who is also
courting Bassinger and is a bit on the crazy side. And he's got a
female assassin working for him in Barbara Carrera who makes Angelina
Jolie as Nora Croft look like Mrs. Butterworth.

But before Sean Connery can even get started he's got to deal with a
new 'M' running things at British Intelligence. Edward Fox thinks
Connery is old fashioned in his methods and costs the British taxpayers
too much money with his violent ways. I really did enjoy Fox's
performance, he's like the great grandson of Colonel Blimp.

I also enjoyed Carrera, she's something to look at and quite
resourceful in her methods. When she's scuba diving with Connery in the
Bahamas, note how she puts Mr. Shark on 007's case.

Will Connery do James Bond again? He was widely quoted as saying who
would they cast him as at this point, Roger Moore's father? But I think
Connery would still be formidable in a wheelchair.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw this on tape, about 10 years after it had been
released, I thought it was one of the better James Bond movies.
However, after seeing it again around the turn of the century, I was
disappointed.

I think it's a bit overrated only because critics were so happy to see
Sean Connery end his 12-year hiatus from playing Bond that they didn't
dare criticize the film. I guess what disappointed me was the ending.
After investing two hours into the film, you expect a less-hokey, more
satisfying ending. And, it may be nitpicking, but I was disappointed in
not seeing the regular actors in the supporting roles such as Miss
Moneypenny, Q, Felix Leiter, etc.

On the positive side, there was plenty of unique action scenes,
particularly early on, and the two villains were interesting. I thought
Klaus Maria Brandauer was the more intriguing of the two because he was
so low-key and looked the "nice guy next door." He wasn't your normal
Bond villain.

This had plenty of "skin," for a PG movie, especially with Kim Basinger
starring, never being an actress known for hiding her figure. The
language was very tame, but most Bond movies are pretty good in that
department.

All in all, it's a "fair" Bond and nothing else. Just because Connery
is in it, it doesn't mean it's automatically good. Roger Moore and
Pierce Brosnan have proved they could play the role well, too.
