

I wondered that when the interior of the Leonov (CCCP ship) was so
freegin'
dim. Or maybe the Ruskies were trying to save power by keeping all of the
lights off! That really piqued my curiosity...
On the whole, 2010 is an above average, yet not superior movie. If any
fans
of AC Clarke's series have read the book "The Odyssey File", which
chronicles the making of 2010 (the book is composed of e-mail
correspondence
between Clarke and director Peter Hyams. They were among the first users
of
e-mail technology - in 1984!) reveals the director's paranoia and even
humility as he hopes his film will even come close as a worthy successor
to
the peerless original. That peerless original, of course, is
2001.

2010 is dated, somewhat forgotten, and does fall short of the power of
Kubrick's vision (how many times have you heard THAT before?). But Stan
the
Man is a hard act to follow. While 2001 is timeless, 2010 reveals its
easily
dated personality on a couple of occasions. The Cold War theme is the most
obvious. The computers, monitors, and graphics used throughout are
instantly
identifiable, dressed-up Commodore 64-era tech hardware. Roy Scheider's
character, Dr. Floyd, instructs his crew to "listen to your cassettes" to
receive updates on their mission. Okay, so that line of dialogue wouldn't
fly past 1992, when CDs were on the verge of killing the audio cassette
star
(*). But 2010 is not without merit. It follows its predecessor's footsteps
to a faithful degree, filling in the aftermath of the Bowman-HAL fiasco,
and
the slew of interesting and dangerous ramifications it
created.

Peter Hyams obviously set out to create a cerebral, based-in-reality
production, unlike the other sci-fi movies of his day, which gave 2010 a
distinct image. Return of the Jedi came out the year before, 1983, and the
moviegoing public was probably still hot on heels of the Star Wars
depiction
of space movies, which I assume hurt the box-office chances of
2010.

It is a dated, yet hidden gem, crafted together with solid intentions and
performances. The supporting cast of Helen Mirren, John Lithgow, and Bob
Balaban play off each other very well and supply some thought-provoking
and
entertaining moments. The scenes with Bowman and Floyd are gripping, as is
the later dialogue between Bowman and HAL. There are no explosions or
corny
"director tools" used, and the special effects (well, excluding the
interior
computer sets of the Leonov) were not revolutionary but get the job
done.

2010 hasn't enjoyed the staying power of its contemporary brethren (Blade
Runner, 1982; the Star Wars trilogy, 1977-1983; Alien/Aliens, 1979, 1986)
and is a circle-square comparison to 2001. But it holds its own in many
respects and is worth a few repeated viewings.
<|_=00=_|>

I looked this film up before renting it since I had never seen it. The
comments I saw for a review saying it was boring as the original (first
one) and ..."uninvolving"? This movie blew me away, I really thought it
was great. This is NOT an action movie and for that matter neither was
"2001". If you're looking for a fast paced and, well.. shallow movie
this isn't that either. You thinkers, this movie is for you. The acting
is wonderful and special effects are very convincing and not diverting.
The story is very interesting although it certainly dates it more than
special effects. I can probably name about 120 sci-fi movies that
aren't as enjoyable to me as 2010 and most of those are still more than
worth seeing. Not only worth seeing but for genre fans it is worth
owning on DVD.

<|_=00=_|>

It's definitely a division maker, a film that splits it's viewers down the
middle. If you're a 2001 fan then you'll hate it - the sense of mystery
and
discovery is lost as events and motivations are layed-out and explained
every step of the way. If you didn't like 2001, wondering aloud what the
heck you just saw, I suggest you do see 2010 since you'll love the
directness of the workmanlike treatment.

It's not a a put-down - it's just that the styles are so completely
different that you have to consider the messenger as much as the message.
2001 was visionary in nearly every sense the word has -- it threw out the
concept of the narrative (visual or otherwise) in an attempt to make you
reach your own, personal conclusion of what happened. Rebirth? Ascension?
Some Nietche-ish evolution to a "superman"? You tell me -- 2001 expects
quite a lot from the viewer that 2010 would much rather even mention.

By comparison, 2010 is very much an old-fashioned Hollywood movie. It
explains *everything*, step by step, and includes a Roy Scheider
voice-over
to help thread the small gaps in time between scenes together. The voice
over is often beyond silly - it's in the lyric of a series of emails from
Heywood to his wife who, it should be noted, is fearful for her husband's
safety. Any spouse sitting through a reading of the atmosphere braking
technique will probably not sleep for weeks. Any husband who could write
that deserves a slap for scaring the beegeezus out of her.

2010 is not a strong film - frankly, it's quite derivative. It's visual
sensibilities leech directly into "Alien" while inside the spacecraft
(from
the control buttons and displays on the Russian craft, to the lighting of
the of EVA room as Baskin and Lithgow take their walk to Discovery, to the
smoky "atmosphere" in the interiors when discussing the "troubles" at
home).
Outside, Hyams tries and is successful in the sense of scope and grandeur
of
space, and out pitiful size in relation to the course of the Universe.
While
he apes Kubrick, probably to establish a sense of continuity between the
two
films, he is at his best in the action scenes as the Leanov (sp?) enters
Jupiter space. Either way, you watch this movie and get the feeling you've
seen it all before.

To be fair, Scheider is very good in his role of Heywood Floyd, that is if
you dismiss the style of the previous occupant of that role, William
Sylvester, as only a Kubrick mannequin. Again, the camps are divided -- I
believe I understand the tact Kubrick chose to take, the sense of human
alienation and evolutionary boredom, and while 2010 puts "real people" in
space and makes the voyage to the stars more human, this wasn't the goal
of
Kubrick. Kubrick wanted to show man at a spiritual, cultural and
evolutionary dead-end, and so human reactions (like 2001's Bowman going
after HAL) only escape from people as their vestiges of civilization fail
them. Different approaches, different movies. So why compare them? Well,
life's just not fair, now is it?

If you really don't need to compare the two, you can enjoy 2010. It's not
a
bad film, it just doesn't give much credit to the intelligence of the
audience. That may not be a bad thing, so long as it's entertaining
(insert
Jim Carrey/Adam Sandler joke here) and 2010 can be entertaining at times.
So
long as you dismiss 2001 as a separate work of art.

If you have the time and the patience, see 2001 twice, giving yourself a
week or two to let it all set in, and then remember that not everything in
the Universe has added value by being strictly described.

Actually, whenever I watch 2010, I often wonder if Bob Balaban, hanging in
HAL's memory center, is really as nauseous as he appears. And to the
people
who believe Kubrick was egotistical for destroying his sets, he did so
because of what happened after Spartacus: Once production has ceased and
the
company left Italy, nearly every gladiator film of the '60 were shot on
his
old sets, some even coming out before Spartacus did.

Stanley Kubrick and Steve Reeves? Now THAT'S the ultimate
trip...
<|_=00=_|>
Of course it comes nowhere close to the brilliance of "2001: A Space
Odyssey", but I don't think that ever was the makers intension. I
believe that "2010" was made to tie up the loose ends and answer some
of the questions that "2001: A Space Odyssey" left.

While "2001: A Space Odyssey" was more a visual movie, "2010" actually
has many dialog but that doesn't mean that the movie isn't visually
spectacular. The sets look beautiful and the special effects also have
improved a lot. 

The story is easier to follow and therefor the movie is more better to
watch for a wider range of people then "2001: A space Odyssey" was. And
I even think that this movie is pleasant to watch even if you haven't
seen "2001: A Space Odyssey". luckily HAL is still scary even though
his role is smaller in this one. And the space walk is actually still
one of my favorite moments in cinema history!

The performances by the actors are good, and the tension and relation
between the Americans and Russians is done very well.

Although not as brilliant, easier to watch as "2001: A Space Odyssey"

8/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>

I never knew a sequel was made of "2001: A space odyssey" until a few months
ago.  When I finally had watched this film, I understood why.  "2010" is
anything but a bad movie, but it doesn't offer the same remarkable
innovation its predecessor did.
Nevertheless, this film has some great special effects which are, just like
"2001", way ahead of its time.  Watching this film, it's hard to believe
that it's already more than 15 years old!  Because this film sets off
immediately where the previous one ended, you're involved the second you
start watching!  As a result of this, "2010" sheds some serious light on
many unanswered questions of "2001: A space odyssey".  This alone makes the
story of "2010" very appealing, because one wants to know the true meaning
behind the mysterious monolith.

The only let down of the film is that the characters are quite thin and the
acting isn't always very convincing.  Add to that one or two scenes that can
be a bit monotonous and you know why I think "2010" is not as good as
"2001".

Even so "2010" is worth-watching thanks to breathtaking special effects and
a storyline that'll make the previous movie a little bit more
understandable.
<|_=00=_|>

The reactions to this film sum up a problem of perception that many film
buffs seem to have. To such people, Kubrick was a genius. Kubrick made
2001.
2001 is a *Kubrick* story. Therefore 2010 is by definition a presumptuous
attempt to explain what Kubrick deliberately left unsaid. etc.
etc.

Sorry, 2001 is an *Arthur C Clarke* story. He wrote a sequel to his own
story, called it "2010" and *he* explained what Kubrick left unsaid. I'd
say
he had a right. Then someone buys the film rights and produces a fine
movie
from it.

And it *is* a fine movie. Intelligence far in excess of the usual
Hollywood
SciFi garbage (Independence Day or Starship Troopers anyone?).

The scenes with Keir Dullea were far more chilling than anything in the
original.

Arteur theory is still alive and well, I see.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an excellent SCIENCE-fiction film. It carries on the story
introduced in Kubrick's "2001", and ties up many loose ends and
clarifies what happened in the first film. The effects are excellent
even by today's standards, the acting is believable, the characters are
well-developed, its pacing is tight, and its plot is well-executed.
Finally, this is TRUE science-fiction, not space-opera, and I wish more
movies were like this. I hope someone worthy picks up the remaining 2
Clarke novels for the screen.

Now:

1. To everyone saying this is a weak film because it doesn't match the
depth, mystery, and style of Kubrick's 2001: You guys need to open your
minds a bit! It's ridiculously unfair to measure this sequel, or any
film, against 2001. It is, frankly, impossible for ANYONE to produce a
film that matches Kubrick's style unless that someone *IS* Kubrick
himself! 2010 was not produced to COMPETE with 2001 at all, the
director stated that he never would have produced this film without
Kubrick's and Clarke's BLESSING. I'm sure the director deliberately
avoided copying any of the style of 2001 at the risk of failing
miserably and upsetting his own idol. Kubrick told the director to make
this movie his own, thus the director did! If you go cynically
comparing all sci-fi films to rare masterpieces you will only end up
ruining your own chance of enjoying them for their own merits. It's
like saying all music is of dubious value because it wasn't composed by
Beethoven! You're only hurting and embarrassing yourself.

2. A number of reviewers felt that the monitors on the ships (actual
CRTs built into the sets) look cheesy due to their pixellated graphics
and curved faces. Well, you guys are assuming that Kubrick's film has
flat panels because of some scientific rationale about the future. Did
you think that maybe Kubrick didn't use CRTs on his sets was because
they did not have color CRTs available in 1968 that were small or cheap
enough to build into his sets? All his screens were flat because they
used slide projectors to flash static images against the back of
semi-transparent screens. Most images were hand drawn to resemble
possible computer generated images. The original 2001 scene of the
videophone was created by projecting a reel of film against the back of
a screen. In 1984, the computer industry was just starting to explode,
and color-CRT displays as small as 12" were readily available! When
those set designers sat down to think about what the ship of the future
would look like, they rationalized that they would be full of CRT
displays in 2010, which was only 27 years in the ACTUAL future! How
could they know we'd have low cost high resolution LCD flat-screens
after only 17 years? You limit your enjoyment by over-intellectualizing
everything with a cynical attitude. Of course the graphics were blocky!
They were rendered by REAL computers, not hand drawn by artists. I'm
sure in 1984 they felt that was a great idea and a nod towards future
possibilities! 

3. Many people criticize the heavy amount of dialog in 2010 contrasted
to the lack of dialog in 2001. Again, we're falling back on the "not
Kubrick" style issue. Regardless, you do realize that the BOOK for 2001
was FULL of dialog, right? You DID realize that 2001 is not JUST a
film, it has a companion novel several hundred pages long? Since it's a
story developed by TWO people, and not just Kubrick, perhaps the lack
of dialog is only one director's idea at visualizing the novel and not
integral to the STORY itself? 

4. Some have heavily criticized the scientific components of 2010,
stating that Kubrick had NASA consultants available when he made his
film, and that 2010 is weak in this area... Well, I'm wondering why you
assume that it wasn't the same case for 2010? Do you have some kind of
special insider info about the making of 2010? Because, I believe that
there are numerous production notes readily available clearly stating
that the director of 2010 was careful in this regard and had many
scientific consultants involved in the production of 2010. There is a
whole book containing copies of emails between the director of 2010 and
Clarke! I remember reading that even Carl Sagan had input into 2010! Oh
yeah, lets not forget that Clarke makes a brief cameo in the film, and
that both Clarke and Kubrick appear on a magazine cover in the film? If
that's not an official endorsement of the film's authenticity and
canon, then I am sorely mistaken.

I'm just getting tired of these seemingly angry, cynical,
ego-maniacally tedious reviewers bashing the merits of decent films.
These people often assume they're brilliant enough to understand what
Kubrik (or any filmmaker) was thinking. Dude, you're not Kubrick,
you're not a genius artist, you don't even make films! Cynical
attitudes are self-destructive, intelligent people are by nature
open-minded, and analyze things on their own merits and faults instead
of holding everything against rare artistic standards from previous
works. The merits or faults of any work are entirely subjective. Many
people rate 2001 as one of the greatest movies ever only because all
the smart-sounding people do. How many call 2001 a "masterpeice"
because they truly, emotionally, and intellectually appreciate the work
itself, or simply because it's Kubrick's? How many of you can even
honestly answer that question without lying to yourselves? 

For the rest of you... if you are open-minded, and consider 2010 for
what it is: a DIFFERENT director's take on telling a story from a
DIFFERENT book, produced in a DIFFERENT era, then you will enjoy this
movie, appreciating that it stands on it's own as one of the top
science-fiction films made. And I bet you really enjoy yourselves when
you watch movies too, even if they have some flaws.

Good for you!
<|_=00=_|>

When I saw 2001, I thought how brilliant a piece of film it
turned
out to be.  Many people could not understand the meaning of
the
Monolith, but its meaning became clear in this sequal 2010.
The acting is first rate throughout, with superb casting
and
Roy Scheider in one of his best films since Jaws.

The atmosphere generated by both films (more so, this one) is
down
to the excellent writing behind them.  Arthur C.Clarke had a
vision
of a future and although he admits being 100 years out (talking
today)
there will be a time when computers like the HAL 9000 and
expeditions
into space take place just like in the films.

I only hope that sometime in the future, the two novels 2060
and
3001 will make it from paper to film.

I recommend this film to anyone, it is enjoyable for all the
family.

<|_=00=_|>

2010 is not a bad movie.  It really clears up points made in 2001 that no
one would ever figure out without this film, like why Hal went mad.  The
cast is good, special effects look OK, however they seem a bit cheap
compared to 2001. My biggest problem is everything in the movie is so
direct, every little thing is explained to you.  This is the complete
opposite of 2001 where nothing is given.  Hopefully is they make a 2061 or
whatever the next book in the sequence was, a happy medium will be found
between the two styles.
<|_=00=_|>

The first movie in the series, 2001, was a very artistic piece that had
only
moments of dialogue in its more than two hours of film.  2010 appears
nearly
apologetic in comparison, explicating somewhat excruciatingly every nuance
of the plot through the main character's supposed messages back to planet
earth.  All of the blurry details of 2001 are made crystal clear in this
fashion.  It is a very wordy movie.

Nevertheless, 2010 has images that can captivate audiences just as well as
they did in 1984.  Today's movie goers will notice slight glitches in the
special effects as well as a couple of discontinuities.  The movie also
dates itself because the plot includes a lot of tension between the
Americans and Russians.

Because 2001 was such a great movie, 2010 tends to pale in comparison.
However, it is still a very good science fiction movie and it is worth
viewing (but probably not buying).
