

Amadeus is an extremely well written story, covering the last ten years of
Mozart's massively prolific yet unusual life.  I have read much that it
paints a rather inaccurate picture of the genius's life, and yet I am not
dissuaded from ranking this film as one of the greatest made.  The
historical problem should be addressed first, because it draws the most
criticism.  I would advise anyone to shut out the self-righteous whining
of
those people who fancy themselves as Mozart experts, when they really have
little solid evidence for their assertions.  History is only seen by us in
fragments, be they documents or eye witness accounts.  These fragments
certainly do not amount to a full picture of events, and so Milos Forman
and
Peter Schaeffer are perfectly entitled to form their own story of genius.

This issue aside, the picture is one of fantastic colour and scale,
crammed
with lavish costumes and wonderful architecture.  This keeps the eyes
occupied, but the ears get the biggest reward.  The film uses a large
amount
of Mozart's music, and does so in a way which is carefully considered.
For
example, when the insane and enfeebled Antonio Salieri (F. Murray Abraham)
reminisces on the sheer beauty of Mozart's compositions, we hear music to
match his words, "And there... an oboe, high and unwavering... until a
clarinet takes over, and forms a phrase of such longing..."  The effect is
deeply moving.  Examples of this collaboration of music and picture are
many; when Mozart (Tom Hulce) swaggers through the streets of Vienna
taking
swigs from a bottle of wine, we hear a jolly piano concerto; and he is
hurled into a mass grave to the sorrowful Lacrimosa of his requiem mass.
The music should move any viewer, however much they confess to hating
anything classical.  If you haven't seen this film, watch, or rather
listen,
for the scene where Salieri inspects samples of Mozart's music.  The
originality in switching the music as he turns the pages is
profound.
The acting is superb, particularly from Abraham.  Hulce's cackle provides
comic relief, and his wonderfully child-like mannerisms are testament not
only to his acting skills, but to Forman's exceptional direction and
vision.
On the other hand, we are shown two moments of antithesis, namely when he
is composing at his billiards table (his face taking on a look of such
mature concentration), and when he is dictating his Confutatis to Salieri.
Yes, we do get to see Mozart compose, and talk about tonic, dominant,
second
measures, etc.  I would have preferred to have seen more of his thought
processes though, because Forman's glimpse of how Mozart applied his
genius
is extremely exciting to watch, but short lived.
Characterisations are brilliantly engineered.  Salieri is scheming and yet
outwardly indifferent to Mozart.  We can see that he loves the music of
his
superior, and yet is torn apart by his own inadequacy.  Inadequacy is a
fitting word for Salieri's skill as portrayed by Forman, who wanted to
give
the greatest contrast possible in terms of the virtuosity of the two men,
without making Salieri look like a complete cretin.  He is, after all,
known
as maestro Salieri.  Constanze Mozart (Elizabeth Berridge) is on first
appearances a giggling girl, and yet through the course of the film we are
shown that she is very shrewd, and is ruthless when dealing with finance.
Roy Dotrice's Leopold Mozart has a masterful air, and maintains an
oppressive paternal hold over his son even after his death, the analogy
being the use of an enveloping cloak.  The cloak is used as part of
Leopold's street wear, but is also part of the costume of the statue in
the
first showing of Don Giovanni, where Salieri is certain that the imposing
figure of the giant statue represents the recently deceased Leopold.  In
short, Forman presents us with a marvelous psychological essay on weakness
and power, both superficial and real.  This is obviously no average
biographical motion picture, but a film conceived with an intelligence
nearing that of it's subject.
We are shown Mozart's virtuosity several times, which again provides
wonderful excitement.  He not only plays variations of his music thought
up
on the spot (at the party scene) but plays them in the styles of other
composers, upside down.  He infuriates Salieri by arranging a welcoming
march actually written for Mozart (and taken to be wonderful by the
Italian
up to this point), showing off his outstanding skills whilst looking
around
at the assembled courtiers and cackling with glee.  Those who have watched
this scene with me have either laughed or smiled in sheer wonderment at a
majestic combination of music, acting and direction.
This film is a gem, combining sometimes ridiculous comedy with deep
tragedy.  On the negative side, it would benefit opera buffs more than
concert goers, because opera is the dominant musical genre of the movie.
(Specially designed opera productions have been woven into the film;
greatly
extending it's length but adding that extra colour and vibrancy).  The
film
becomes heavy and slow moving as it nears its astonishingly refreshing
conclusion at the lunatic asylum, noticeable largely due to the contrast
with a lighter beginning.  This may test the patience of some viewers, but
once the credits roll, I guarantee that the majority of those who have
watched Amadeus will be struck by the passing of such a wonderfully
colourful and rewarding masterpiece, and will not want to move from their
seats until the tranquil piano concerto fades away.  The film deserves all
its eight Oscars, and I give it 9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

OH! This movie is WONDERFUL, this movie is BEAUTIFUL! I just love it,
and not because of my fixation on Mozart, but because it is a beautifully
made, completely moving work of art.

What many people do not seem to understand is that the film is
entirely
Salieri's--it is NOT in any way about Mozart himself, nor is it a
biography
about the composer. It is about Salieri's madness and obsession WITH
Mozart,
and yet because the character of Mozart is played so unforgettably by Tom
Hulce in such an unconventional performance, the viewer takes most notice
of
him and will think him the central figure. The film chooses to highlight
the
comparison of mediocrity versus genius; Mozart is obviously the better
of the two composers, and Salieri can see his own mediocrity and recognize
his inferiority to Mozart so well that he is driven insane. Watch the film
again; while it is true much biographical information about Mozart's life
is
given while telling us relatively little on Salieri's, you will see that
the
purpose of this is only to highlight Mozart's genius, his natural and
uncanny abilities that come so easily to him. We see how his life affects
Salieri's directly and we see Salieri old in his wheelchair, long after
Mozart has died, still being affected by it.

One might say "Then WHY is it called 'Amadeus?'" as that is Mozart's
middle name, and naming the film after him would certainly cause one to
believe that the central figure would have the title (was not "Forrest
Gump"
about Forrest Gump?) But why, then, "Amadeus?" Why not "Mozart" or
"Wolfgang," the only names he is referred to as in the movie? Look at the
connotative meaning of the name "Amadeus:" In Latin it means "Loved by
God."
It's so perfect, so fitting that this should be the title; Peter Schaffer
could not have asked for better! Not only does Salieri throughout the
entirety of the movie express his disdain for Mozart, but he keeps coming
back to God: "Why does God not give me talent? Why Mozart? Why does God
love
him, but not me?" Indeed, Mozart IS loved by God, if God's love is shown
through gifts and abilities. "Amadeus" does not stand for Mozart himself,
but for a major theme expressed throughout the film.

Oh, the themes, motifs, symbolism and hidden meanings! But what of
the
movie itself? The brilliant acting, the beautiful dresses and jackets, the
unforgettable scenes? F. Murray Abraham is perfectly cast in this
perfectly
acted role; he grimaces and holds back hatred so perfectly, and nothing
about his performance makes you think he is acting. Tom Hulce as Mozart is
wonderful-most will remember his annoying laugh that bursts forth at the
most inappropriate of times. The most memorable scene occurs at the end,
when Mozart is on his deathbed, dictating his requiem to Salieri as
Salieri
struggles still to understand the brilliant notes flowing through Mozart's
mind. The importance lies not in the fact that Mozart is dying (though his
departure from the movie, for me, was quite traumatic) but in seeing how
Salieri must have more of Mozart's work; he hates this man and yet he
recognizes the brilliance of his music, a brilliance he will never posses.
Some of the most enjoyable scenes depict productions of Mozart's operas;
"The Abduction from the Seraglio" finale in the beginning is bright and
joyous; "The Magic Flute" Queen of the Night aria scene is shown and
contains of the most beautiful arias I have ever heard. Even if you don't
like opera, you will be amazed at how high the soprano must sing.

This is just my absolute favorite movie, and I certainly did not
analyze it like this the first time I saw it. I did not see everything
either, the important themes and such, but every time I watched it I got
more out of it. And it really is just so enjoyable, so funny, so perfect.
The music, the actors-there is just something about them. Perhaps because
none went on to be stars, and all you see is the movie, not the actors. I
am
basing everything on the original cut, not the new director's version,
which
I have seen, but I have entirely different things to say about it. The
original is perfect as is. Watch it, you will see what I mean. You'll love
it. I know I do!


<|_=00=_|>

In 1984, Saul Zaentz, Peter Shaffer and Milos Forman collaborated in
bringing a truly remarkable life to the silver screen. The story of
Wolfgang
Amadeus Mozart, through the eyes of rival composer, Antonio Salieri. The
film is complete with an insightful script (courtesy of Mr. Shaffer),
magnificent acting, wondrous sets and costume designs, incredible
choreography (thanks to Twyla Tharp), and, above all, the glorious music
of
Mozart himself.

The movie of Salieri's life, through which Mozart played an integral part,
is told in flashback mode, beginning in around the year 1822. An old and
perhaps emotionally disturbed Antonio Salieri attempts suicide, and in
doing
so, apologizes for killing Mozart some 31 years earlier. He survives and
is
admitted to an insane asylum, where he tells a young priest his tale of
jealousy and mediocrity.

The priest is fascinated and alternately troubled by the lengthy and
emotional story. Salieri tells of growing up in Italy with a father who
did
not care for music; and how he rejoiced for the chance to go to Vienna
after
his father's untimely death. He tells of how he first had met the young
Mozart, and how immature and dirty minded Mozart was. He also tells of how
"The Creature" had an intimate relationship with the girl that Salieri had
cared for. Most importantly, however, he confided in the priest that he
had
learned to hate God for giving him a deep love of  music, only to deny him
the talent to create truly memorable music. He thought God had given him
Mozart to mock him. Salieri's heart filled with such rage, such hatred and
such jealousy, that he had vowed to himself to make God an enemy and to
kill
the young Mozart.

As the movie moves along, carrying with it a deep sadness of the human
condition, it also celebrates life by giving the audience joyous music,
wonderful atmosphere and a general appreciation of humanity for not only
eighteenth century Europe, but in any age where music speaks for our
emotions.

The movie won eight Academy Awards in March of 1985. The only reason it
did
not win nine was that Tom Hulce was nominated for best actor instead of
best
supporting actor. He actually was in a supporting role, and in a strange
twist of irony, F. Murray Abraham won the best actor statuette; citing
probably the only time when Salieri beat out Mozart in
anything.

The movie itself was shot in Prague where Milos Forman said "(It) is a gem
because it's possible to pivot the camera a full three hundred and sixty
degrees and never encounter a modern vision." Very few new sets had to be
built, as the scenes and buildings they found were quite often apropos to
their needs.

Amadeus works well on virtually every cinematic plane that exists. It is a
masterpiece that must be viewed multiple times to receive what the film
has
to offer. The emotions of humanity, through the eyes of the troubled
Salieri, indeed speak for all of mediocrity. He is their champion and
their
king.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the greatest movies of all time. This is a movie that speaks for
itself. Beautiful Cinematography and stellar performances by all especially
F. Murray Abraham who carries the film. Tom Hulce was a terrific choice for
this movie.  True this is historically incorrect but it doesn't matter this
film works on so many different levels... the music ahhh the music. Mozart
is pure genius and his music touches this film and everyone involved. You
can just sense that Mozart's inspiration drove everyone on this film to
perfection. A must see film for all!
<|_=00=_|>

The unseen star of this film is the Academy of St Martin's in the Field,
London. Buy the soundtrack and you will be rewarded with some of the most
stunning music you can hear. Mozart's music excells with brilliant
treatment
and dies with a bad performance. And that, after all, is what the film is
about. Without his music, Mozart would be lost in time, a fate that the
narrator of the story, the composer Salieri, saw as his own. Ironically,
while Salieri has indeed been completely overshadowed by Mozart, his music
still survives and has its followers.

But beyond the music this is an outstanding film. Set in the prettiest and
most flamboyant century of the last millennium, it is visually stunning and
the writer's portrayal of jealousy is perceptive. The casting of the
Austrian King and courtiers, (indeed all the actors in this film) that
Mozart needed to impress capture the gentility and courtesy of the time,
and
also subtly shows their growing indignation and impatience at Mozart's
personality and behaviour; the presentation of Mozart as punk musician is
probably the only failing in the film. As a theatrical device to show that
genius can come in disastrous packages it succeeds well, but anyone with
any
historic sense of social ettiquette or manners will know that Mozart's sill
y
behaviour would be well wide of the truth, as might, perhaps, be the
concept
of Salieri as murderer-in-chief. Only in the final scenes is Mozart's
brilliance as a composer truly explored in what amounts to a deconstruction
of his final composition - his moving, uncompleted and poignant Requiem
mass.

Another unintended star in this film are the candle lit sets and theatres
of
the 18th Century; their operas and drama ooze a magic  that is lacking in
the present world and which modern producers might well try to reintroduce;
so lovely are these buildings with their flickering lights and theatrical
techniques that one is left desperate to to seek out these rare theatres to
experience them.

This film leaves one breathless from its visual beauty, its magnificent
score and the choreography, indeed, of the two together. Mozart's life had
the air of tragedy, and his undoubted genius speaks to us now and forever.
This film is a monument to the skills of the writer, maker, performers and,
of course, Mozart's music. If you have not yet done so, see
it.
<|_=00=_|>

"Amadeus", while historically inaccurate in numerous ways, is a brilliant
film.  Its central character is not a man but an attribute of man at his
most remarkable: genius.  Mozart's genius was at the highest level, on par
with Shakespeare, Michelangelo and Balanchine.  Forman knew this when he
undertook translating Peter Shaffer's play.  Although most of the acting is
on a very high plane, the actors themselves are not top tier, not should
they be.  A famous, easily recognizable actor would have detracted from the
central thesis that genius is greater than the one on whom it has been
entrusted.  Mozart was, of course, deeper than the character shown in the
movie, but no personal life could equal the extent and depth of the musical
genius that flowed from this little man.  The letters he sent to his father
show a remarkable sensitivity and depth of understanding.  However, they
are
not paradigms of literary greatness.  The immense contribution of W. A.
Mozart lay in some of the most sublime music ever written.  Fortunately,
the
film gave us snippets of some of the real gems in the Mozart canon: the
great C Minor Mass, the Requiem and "Don Giovanni".  Forman realized that
no
human being will ever be great enough or have the background to pen such
masterpieces without intervention from elsewhere.  This is certainly true
of
Shakespeare as well.  So what we have here, ultimately, is a celebration of
genius, that great gift to mankind that nearly always proves to be too much
for the person who is chosen to manifest it to the rest of us.  Many thanks
to Milos Forman for the wisdom to keep out of the way and allow genius to
shine through.  In that sense, "Amadeus" is an exercise in humility.  Few
films come across as blessings for those who experience them.  "Amadeus" is
one such film.

<|_=00=_|>

"Amadeus" is a great film that is deep, thought-provoking, and overall
exceptional.  The film deals with the last few months of Wolfgang Amadeus
Mozart's (Oscar-nominee Tom Hulce) life, told in flashbacks by an old,
washed-up musician named Antonio Salieri (Oscar-winner F. Murray Abraham). 
Salieri tells of the genius, the ingenuity, and the insanity of the young
musician who died mysteriously at the age of 35.  Salieri's jealousy may
have led him to kill the young composer, but that is something that will
never be known.  "Amadeus" is an interesting commentary that tries to fill
holes in history and succeeds amazingly.  By mixing fact and probable
fiction, the film-makers succeeded in creating a truly remarkable motion
picture that is easily one of the best of the 1980s.  5 stars out of 5.

<|_=00=_|>
Before I saw this movie, I respected Mozart's genius, but his music
wasn't my cup of tea. Beethoven was more to my taste, I tended more
toward heavier classics. But this movie moved me to tears, especially
at the end when they did Mozart's REQUIEM while he was working on what
was to be his last piece of music. Now, I'm a Mozart fiend. This was a
great movie. True, there are some historical inaccuracies. Anyone who
has studied music history knows that Sallieri did not help Mozart with
his Requiem. It was a student of his named Sussmayer. But it does make
this story ironic, that the man who was so dedicated to the ruination
of Mozart ended up helping him in the end. (I question the historical
accuracy of that as well.) I recently bought the director's cut to this
movie. Until I saw the director's cut, Sallieri seemed like a more
sympathetic character, someone who just couldn't buy a break. Who can't
identify with that? But after seeing the director's cut and seeing what
I think is an important scene between Sallieri and Mozart's wife, he
seemed more like a jerk. You also understand why Frau Mozart was so
rude to Sallieri at the end of the movie, whereas before, you see the
next to the last scene and you think, "Whoa! Where did this come from?"
This was a great movie, for entertainment value only. If you want
historical accuracy, watch a documentary or read a biography from the
library or something. Because of this movie, I am now a rabid Mozart
fan. If the movie can make Mozart converts, then it can't be bad at
all.
<|_=00=_|>

Amadeus is one tremendous film. The acting was great. Tom Hulce did
wonderful and I have only seen him once in a film and that was Animal
House. The rest of the cast was great to like F. Murry Abraham did a
terrific job in his performance. The music was brilliant, I have never
seen a film with such great performances in their plays. I really did
admire this movie, everything in it was very interesting and after I
watched the film I did a little research on Mozart. The script and
directing was superb and the cinematography was brilliant. I couldn't
of asked for a better film than Amadeus. I'm glad I saw this film!

Hedeen's outlook: 10/10!! **** A+

<|_=00=_|>

F. Murray Abraham portrays Salieri, a hard working but mediocre composer
driven mad by the arrival of a ``natural'' talent, Mozart (played by Tom
Hulce) in a highly political environment.  The movie provides some crucial
insights into the motivations of the characters, and shows both a
superficial image and reveals deeper truths (e.g. Mozart appears to party
all the time, but is actually a very diligent worker).
I am uncertain as to the historical accuracy, but this movie (i) was
entertaining, (ii) inspired a greater love and knowledge of Mozart's Music,
(iii) dramatized the undoing of a great talent by both external forces and
his own weaknesses (iv) has great costumes and music and (v) has a great
supporting cast.
