
Oliver and Company is probably the least appreciated Disney movie ever,
and yet it is excellent. I have loved it since I was very very young. I
had a giant poster from its original release, and I would sing along to
"Why Should I Worry?" and "Streets of Gold" while jumping around on top
of couches, pretending I was Dodger and Rita. That's how "into" the
movie I was. And I wasn't alone. My friends memorized the soundtrack,
too, and we would persistently sing the songs in school. I guess there
is just something very appealing about dogs getting around the city by
jumping around on top of cars! And when we ran the sprinklers, I would
wash my feet in them like Dodger-singing, of course. Oliver and Company
is really, really good. It has superb voice talent and animation. Yeah,
Tito's ear tear does switch from left to right at one point, but I
would NEVER have noticed that...anyway, the story is not weak at all.
It is unusual, granted, but then it's a weird twist on Oliver Twist.
Most people love this movie. A few have bashed it for petty little
reasons. Overall, there's nothing not to like. The music is
outstanding. The character design is great. My favorites are Rita and
Georgette. They're both very different but they're both very pretty.
And they can sing, too. If you look at the backgrounds, at one point
you can see dogs from other movies. During "Why Should I Worry?" there
are Peg (she found a home!), Jock, and Trusty from Lady and the Tramp,
and dalmatian who resembles Pongo. There are a lot of cute dogs in this
movie who only appear for a second..like the two in the convertible
during the WSIW reprise that Dodger and Tito gawk at until Rita pulls
Dodge away. Sykes is one of the baddest bad guy ever-- He's got a scary
car and scary dogs. This movie is funny, the chase scene exciting.
Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I've seen this movie for the first time when I was 6 years old...
This movie was actually made in 1988, the year I was born I haven't
seen it in 11 years, and now I'm 17 I love this movie even more then I
did before!

The songs are lovely, and the story is really heartwarming!! The dutch
version of this movie is just as funny as the English is! My favorite
character is Dodger, because he's the "cool street dog" and Oliver is
just cute!!

I know I'm a real Disney freak and this movie really belongs to one of
my favorites!!!
<|_=00=_|>

We've seen a musical version of Oliver, even an animated series, but an
animated musical with a cast of dogs and kitten called Oliver set in New
York, you'd think it would be a disaster.  But, thanks to Disney magic, this
film is a classic filled with songs that are never forgotten as well as that
wonderful combination of comedy and family drama.

When a homeless kitten comes across a street-wise dog with a gift for song
and stealing hot dogs, little Oliver finds himself the member of an
exclusive gang of thieving dogs.  But before he even executes his first
crime, he is discovered by a lonely little girl in need of a friend.  Chaos
soon ensues as Jenny and Oliver get caught up in a kidnapping by the classic
evil villain.

It's a fun filled romp to be enjoyed by one and all over and over
again.
<|_=00=_|>
I think this is one of the greatest Disney films ever, yet it does not
get much credit. I mean films like, Toy Story, Cinderella, etc, can be
seen often on TV. But I've never seen Oliver and Company on TV, have
you? I am 13 and originally viewed it at 6. I loved it then and love it
more now! I must have watched it about 100,000,000 times!!!! And I got
the soundtrack and am playing now as we speak. My fave character is
Dodger, the streetwise, quick talking mutt. I used to jump about on my
sofa pretending to be him jumping form car to car. Hey? What's cooler
than a dog getting around by standing on a car? I always sing-a-long
and I am always being told to be quiet as I am singing sooooo loud my
parents can't hear the TV!!!! The songs are all stuck in my head with
super-strong superglue! I especially like Why Should I worry and
Streets of Gold. Dodger and Rita are so cool. I really love this movie
and recommend it!!!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Inspired by the timeless Charles Dickens novel , "Oliver Twist" ,
Oliver & Company is the thrilling animated classic full of action ,
friendship , courage , and heart that starts when Oliver , the orphaned
kitten , is befriended by Dodger , the cool dog from a New York pack of
pickpocket pooches. Soon , Oliver is lovingly adopted by Jenny , a
lonely little rich girl , until tough-guy Sykes and his Doberman
sidekicks , Desoto and Roscoe , try to keep Jenny and Oliver apart. Now
it's up to Oliver, Dodger , and all his colorful , street-smart canine
pals to outwit the villains and rescue the girl in an electrifying
chase that will leave you breathless!Filled with laughter , loyalty ,
and great music by Billy Joel , Huey Lewis , and Bette Midler. Oliver
and Company is family fun you'll love watching over and over again!

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

I just read the previous comment about this being a bad movie and that
kind of indirectly hurt my feelings. It's just a nice little movie
Disney made for pure entertainment and yes, it is directed toward
children. It wasn't intended to be catered toward an adult audience. I
also can't see how people can criticize such a nice little movie by
picking on the animation and Disney's "incapabilities." Disney is
awesome and can do whatever they want in a feature. Maybe they wanted
to portray it the way they did. Besides, the focus of the movie is the
story. And based on that, it's a touching tale. This will always be one
of my favorite childhood movies and no criticism from other drippy
movie reviewers will ever make me see it any differently.

<|_=00=_|>
Curiously endearing Disney animated feature inspired by "Oliver Twist",
transposing the Dickensian favorite fairly successfully to a modern-day
New York setting - with the villainous Bill Sykes as a mobster (flanked
by a couple of vicious mastiffs). Stylistically, it lies somewhere
between LADY AND THE TRAMP (1955) and the adult-oriented films of Ralph
Bakshi (without the sex and violence, naturally); as such, it stands
oddly alongside the studio's usual fare from this rather lame era - and
its vitality can now be seen to have foreshadowed the renaissance in
quality (and critical appraisal) which they witnessed soon after,
beginning with THE LITTLE MERMAID (1989). The anthropomorphic
characters (which generally swamp the humans - Fagin is very much a
good guy here, if still pitiful) are quite nicely fitted to class
stereotypes: hence, we get a Hispanic chihauha (with an eye for the
ladies) and a posh bulldog, among others, while Dodger is basically an
updated version of Tramp and Oliver himself a cute but very brave
kitten. The familiar and involved plot is all but jettisoned
(especially in its second half) in favor of boisterous action and
character comedy, with a bouncy score and rapid pace to match. In the
end, it proved surprisingly good - and, at just 74 minutes, short
enough not to overstay its welcome.
<|_=00=_|>
OLIVER & COMPANY, in my opinion, is a very touching Disney classic
about a special friendship for all ages that will warm your heart. I
really loved the things that Oliver (voice of Joey Lawrence) and Jenny
(voice of Natalie Gregory) did together. If I were Jenny, I'd care for
Oliver myself. I would even do the same kinds of things that they did
together. I inititally wanted to cry when nobody wanted him. The music
was good, everyone was cast perfectly, and the direction was flawless.
My favorite song was "Why Should I Worry?" In conclusion, I highly
recommend this very touching movie about a special friendship for all
ages to anyone who hasn't seen it. You're in for a real treat and a
good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with
someone close to you, and watch it. I guarantee you you'll thoroughly
enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
I know it sounds weird because this movie was made when I was a child,
you'd think I would've seen it at an earlier age. But I never did and
my friend had the movie, I was curious and wondering why I never had
the chance to see it. But I'm glad that I just got to see this movie,
it was so much fun and I just missed the old time animation. It had
great music by the awesome Billy Joel and the animals were just so
adorable.

Basically, Oliver is an orphan kitten the big city of New York and
meets a smooth street smart dog, Dodger. When Oliver follows Dodger to
his layer of other dogs who are led by a homeless man, Fagin, they
decide to keep Oliver. But when Oliver is learning the street smarts, a
little girl sees him and takes him home where he gets a nice loving
place to stay, not to mention extremely wealthy. But the guys want him
back and kidnap him to pay back the mean Mr. Sykes.

I thought this was a great introduction of Charles Dicken's immortal
classic for the kids. Not to mention that it was clever and witty, the
music is memorable and there are some very funny moments that both kids
and adults could get a kick out of. Believe me, this movie is good fun,
but I'm still trying to find out why I didn't see it sooner.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has an unmistakable 1980s vibe that gives it a certain
charm. Viewers familiar with "Oliver Twist" will find it interesting
how Dickens's story is adapted around dogs and their owners in
modern-day New York City.

Billy Joel impresses as the voice of Dodger, a mutt with New York
attitude. He's joined in the cast by Cheech Marin, Bette Midler, and
Dom DeLuise (as a derelict Fagin).

The best character, in my mind, is the city itself. This is definitely
a New York City movie, tapping into the city's personality and
capturing many of the landmarks in the animation.

The movie has a visual aesthetic that is not quite like the style of
other Disney films, which is kind of cool. There's some great character
animation, such as with the imposing villain Sykes (Robert Loggia). CGI
framework is used effectively throughout the film to animate cars and
things.

OLIVER & COMPANY is definitely a product of its time: the late 1980s.
The movie is dated by the clothing worn by the humans, the models of
the cars, the music (smooth and synthesizery, with the main title song
sung by Huey Lewis), the gritty urban look, and even the character
designs (see the hot dog vendor or the hairspray-loving canine Rita).

In a superficial way, OLIVER & COMPANY reminds me of THE RESCUERS. Both
have a unique aesthetic "feel" that strays from the classic Disney
style and seems to capture the sensibilities of the times. OLIVER is as
quintessentially 1988 as THE RESCUERS is 1977. (Both films also portray
contemporary New York City, involve animals helping a cute little girl,
and explore some dark and emotional territory.) OLIVER & COMPANY is
dated, but gloriously so.

The next animated film released by Disney would be THE LITTLE MERMAID
(1989), which launched the company's 1990s renaissance of timeless
masterpieces, shaped by Alan Menken's Broadway-influenced musical
direction. It's interesting to see the quaint, contemporary style of
OLIVER, knowing that Disney would soon go off in a different direction.

With no nostalgic ties to this film, I can say that it's a decent
flick, although it wouldn't crack even my top 20 Disney movies. Love
the NYC stuff. Joel's "Why Should I Worry?" is a musical highlight. The
story has a surprising emotional impact and the climax is both dark and
exciting.
