
This doesn't have the well-known cast of the previous Nightmare 3 movie
but the special effects are still good.....each very different and some
of them very funny. They make this perhaps the most entertaining entry
in the series.

Memorable scenes include a junkyard, a water bed, a classroom, faces in
a pizza, a girl bench pressing and faces coming out of Freddy's flesh.
The storyline, however, features its usual dumb and ridiculous theology
and has its usual share of unlikable obnoxious teens. Their parents
weren't pictured as any better, perhaps worse.

In fact, the kids and parents are so bad you wind up rooting for Freddy
to do them in. Perhaps that's the idea!
<|_=00=_|>
A Nightmare on Elm Street 4: The Dream Master, the fourth installment
in the Nightmare on Elm Street series. I was lucky enough to get the
boxed DVD set of Nightmare on Elm Street series and I just finished all
the sequels and while the fourth isn't a bad sequel or continuation of
the story, it was pretty silly. It was cool to continue on with the
dream warriors who were clever enough to defeat Freddy in the third
Nightmare on Elm Street. But Freddy's back and he is more ticked off
than ever and you know that's not good. But while the story was a good
idea, the way it was executed, I wasn't really that into it, just the
acting I think is what killed it for me. The way the movie was made was
what made it feel like it was more of a cheesy TV show like on the
Sci-fi Channel than an actual movie.

We start off where the third installment of the Nightmare on Elm Street
series left off, the kids from the hospital are now grown up and are
all on their own. But they are quickly killed off by Freddy hoping to
get Kirsten back to help them, but they are too late. But when Kirsten
finds a girl, Alice, she finds out that Alice has the same powers as
she does. She has the ability to pull other people into her dreams and
of course Alice is scared to find out how to use her powers, but she
may just have to use them since Freddy is now after her and other kids
too.

A Nightmare on Elm Street 4: The Dream Master was a good enough sequel,
but it just could have been better. I liked it, but so far it's not my
top favorite sequel. Again, we've got some very cool deaths, don't
think I could choose one, I think the water bed one was very cool. But
once again, I don't wanna spoil it. Of course if you wanna see the
Nightmare on Elm Street sequels, this is recommended, but as a horror
movie on it's own, it's OK.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>

This is the first elm street film I saw and it fascinated me back
then.
Of course I was only 10 at that time but it still is great. The flick is
not
scary like the original, but is more grotesque. Robert Englund is
excellent
as Freddy Krueger because he enjoys playing that character.
You always sense Krueger presence with his twisted nightmares.
Dark humor is my taste and I always laugh when he pops his
quotes:
"You shouldnt have buried me; I'm not dead!"
"Now how's that for a wet dream?"
"Welcome to Wonderland, Alice!"
There are a few things that blows; Patricia Arquette should have been
recast
as Kirsten Parker and the resurrection is a bit lame but then the S/F
effects rocks, the director likes action scenes and the music is well
above
average for a 1998 film.

Definetly recommended
<|_=00=_|>
Renny Harlin (Die Hard 2) directs Dream Master, the fourth entry in the
franchise about a maniacal dreamstalker named Freddy Kruger. The entry
is extremely passable and enjoyable.

The survivors of Dream Warriors are still haunted by memories of Freddy
Kruger. But Freddy isn't quite dead as he picks up his glove and takes
up where he left off...with vengeance. The only flaw in his plan: a shy
outcast named Alice who harbors powers that will enable her to do
battle with Kruger as she assumes qualities of past Freddy victims.

Although some of the more interesting characters are sacrificed first,
the Nightmare franchise proves to be deeper and more original than any
other slasher series around. Some inventive deaths and imagery on
display as Robert Englund devours the scenery as Freddy.
<|_=00=_|>

"Nightmare on Elm Street 4" is one of the best entries in the series. Okay,
the first is considered a classic, maybe because it had a feeling of poetic
surrealism that is indeed lost here. But, come on, it is the FOURTH Freddy
film, did you REALLY expect it to be scary? Freddy delivers indeed too many
puns, however some of them actually hit the mark. After all, the quality of
a slasher film doesn't depend exclusively on how "serious" and "vicious" the
killer is - he was more serious in "Part 2", which was an embarrassment, he
was less serious in "Part 3", which was an imaginative, entertaining film.
As for "Part 4", it has way-above-average acting, a polished look (just
compare it to some early "Friday The 13th" cheapies) and some gruesome,
stunning visual effects. Above all, the movie exploits more possibilities
about the links between reality and dreams than the "classic" original did.
It is worth seeing. 
<|_=00=_|>
Kristen Parker (Tuesday Knight), Roland Kincaid (Ken Sagoes) and Joey
Crusel (Rodney Eastman) are having normal lives and studying in
Springwood, Ohio, after defeating the evil Freddy Krueger (Robert
Englund). Kristen is very close to her boyfriend Rick Johnson (Andras
Jones) and his sister Alice (Lisa Wilcox) is her best friend. Kristen
has a premonition with Freddy Krueger, who has resurrected and is
chasing the trio of survivors of the Elm Street. When Freddy kills the
three survivors, Kristen transfers her ability to draw other people to
her dreams to Alice, and Freddy uses the power of the teenager to
gather the souls of her school friends.

"A Nightmare on Elm Street art 4: The Dream Master" is a weak sequel to
the classic "A Nightmare on Elm Street". Patricia Arquette, who
performed Kristen Parker in the previous "A Nightmare on Elm Street 3:
Dream Warriors", was pregnant and not able to film this sequel. The
actress and musician Tuesday Knight that replaced Patricia Arquette
recorded the song "Nightmare" used during the film's opening credits.
My vote is five.

Title (Brazil): "A Hora do Pesadelo 4 – O Mestre dos Sonhos" ("The Hour
of the Nightmare 4 – The Master of the Dreams")
<|_=00=_|>
I make no apologies on awarding A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 5/5 stars.
And I certainly don't consider it a "guilty pleasure." Let's say I grew
up on this movie. It was one of my initial "Movie Event of the Year"
films as I watched it 5 times in the theatre in 1988, all at the now
defunct AMC Gateway. (Twice alone, twice with my sister and the final
time with my father who wanted to know what "evil" I was watching so
many times.) Also, since I was so young (14, and I am puzzled on how I
frequently got into a rated R flick – even my sister was younger than
17) not only was this my first introduction to Freddy – I hadn't seen
1-3 yet, this movie made a huge impact on my future movie-going
experiences as well as my life.

It's strange to even think about rewarding a #4 in a 1980s horror
franchise more than, say 2½ stars, but I absolutely loved this movie.
The soundtrack (which I had bought and have listened to hundreds of
times, we'll get more on that later), the score, the comedic tones, the
frights, the fights, the inventiveness and the acting. They really up'd
the ante this time with an obvious budget and special effects. But more
so, Freddy finally came out of the closet, so to speak.

Not only was he absolutely hilarious, we finally got to see more of him
and his glove. I obviously didn't know at the time how privileged the
audience was to finally see him out of the shadows and into the
limelight where he (and his clever one-liners) belong. I guess some
might have problem with that – they probably felt he was more "scary"
hidden away. I didn't. I felt he was too strong of a character not to
show.

Well, Freddy's back, but mostly because Kristen (the newly replaced
Tuesday Knight, due to Arquette being pregnant, and Knight also did the
wonderful opening song) couldn't leave well enough alone and kept
thinking of him in her dreams. She also has a bad knack for involving
others in her dreams, including #3's survivors Joey & Kincaid.

When Freddy eventually stalks them and murders them (including one of
the series most memorable/creative death – "How's this for a wet
dream?") the series actually keeps continuity by stating Freddy's
mission was to murder all of the original "Elm Street Children" and
these were the final three. Kristen does manage to transfer her power
of pulling someone into the dream to another innocent she pulled into
the dream, Alice (Wilcox.) Positive: this gives someone else the
opportunity to defeat Freddy. Negative: most likely Freddy would've
been done with his task complete.

Alice, sweet Alice, doesn't know what to think of all this, barely
being informed of the back story earlier. In fact, had she been a
little more prepared, she might not of inadvertently brought her
friends into her own dreams for Freddy to collect souls. As Alice
attempts to put the pieces together there's another side effect – just
like with Kristen, she collects their powers, or personalities, habits
(smoking, bad!) and strengths. Freddy's not stupid and plans to stop
her before she stops him. Does he succeed? Does she happen to remember
an old nursery rhyme at the most opportune time to defeat the man of
their nightmares? Duh.

I loved this movie on so many levels. I have the entire movie
memorized, shot-by-shot, frame-by-frame and all the dialogue in
between. So much so, I have to consciously stop myself from quoting it
so I can enjoy the 30th time viewing it. I loved the soundtrack, but
some songs were vacant. For those, I had to search – way pre-internet –
by asking around school while just humming some of the lyrics. (The
ones missing went onto become some of my favorite songs: Anything,
Anything by Dramarama and I Want Your Hands On Me by Sinead O'Connor.
Do you know how hard life is without the internet to look things
up!?!?) I always love a good female combatant, but the nerdy-girl Alice
(the very BEST Nightmare heroine, sorry, Nancy fans) turned warrior
wasn't just awesome, but beautiful and a great challenge for the
exciting climax/showdown in the church in the closing. In addition,
since I was about the same age, give or take a couple of years, of most
of the teens in this movie, I can safely say: they got how teens act
and what they say down to a tee, much like any of the John Hughes
movies.

The death/nightmare scenes weren't just clever and topical (for the
time) but they kept the story going, whether you were laughing or
reminiscing in the moments. Freddy proved himself as the number one
villain of all 1980s horror franchises. It's no wonder this was the top
grossing of all the Nightmare films (if you don't count Freddy Vs.
Jason.) I loved seeing Freddy at his best and especially his glove –
many a scene they acted like his claws/knifes sprung like Wolverine's.
I loved seeing him in different costumes and with as many one-liners as
most comedies.

On a personal note, as a critic (in my own mind-dammit) I generally
will always try to be unbiased. Such as, a movie of this stature would
be 4 to 4½ stars with all the (non-personal remembrance) positives I
mentioned. But, for once, I am taking this to a personal level and how
much this movie meant to me. To hell with the majority of critics, the
audience and my own personal impartial views – even when the movie is
dear to me. I am selfishly rewarding this the highest rating due to how
much it means to me.

See it anyways. It's fun horror. Something they rarely get right in
today's time.
<|_=00=_|>

It's a pity that Wes Craven's initial idea for another sequel to his film,
involving time travel in dreams, wasn't used.  Instead of another
Craven-directed masterpiece like Part 1 and Part 3 we get this gaudy
pantomime instead.  The makers of NOES 4 admitted that they designed and
filmed all the special-effects sequences and then found some excuse to
cement them together.  It shows.  Freddy is resurrected, though quite how
is
never explained.  Wasn't it fire that killed him, not brought him back to
life?  Anyhow, he begins another killing spree.  There are some
interesting
ideas - a narcissist being turned into a cockroach, an asthmatic having
the
air sucked out of her, but the whole thing lacks the tension and
nightmarish
qualities of the previous film.  Early scenes involving the survivors from
Part 3 hold promise, but when Freddy appears he's no more than a
wise-cracking buffoon, and the ninja-style violence is pointless and
unnecessary.  The climax, if you can call it that, involves Freddy dying
as
a result of being shown his reflection.  As there's no build-up to it at
all
it just stands out as an obvious excuse for another special-effects
set-piece.

Overall, this film might provide entertainment, but it's just
disappointing,
badly-acted dross, the sort of thing you watch if you've nothing better to
do.
<|_=00=_|>

All of the Elm street movies have something special about them , and i
believe ALL of them are above average.

This one reflects on alot of the 80's culture , its so
terrific.
The storyline is smooth freddy invades kids minds, this one is somewhat
complex, and great dream sequences.

rated R.
<|_=00=_|>
A Nightmare on Elm Street 4: The Dream Master is the point in the
franchise where comedy began to eclipse the franchise's almost
unbridled devotion to horror sensibilities. It was the film that turned
Freddy Krueger into a pop culture figure, capable of regurgitating
every lackluster pun imaginable like an MTV VJ rather than a horror
figure you'd hate to see in your nightmares. Finally, it was the film
to bear the franchise's peak budget, showing it off by including very
elaborate and immaculately detailed dream sequences that toyed with the
perception of reality in a manner so believable that you swore you were
being haunted yourself. It's safe to say that the series most expensive
installment also turned out to be its most divisive and revolutionary.

The story picks up on characters from Dream Warriors, the previous
installment, such as Kristen (Tuesday Knight), Kincaid (Ken Sagoes),
and Joey (Rodney Eastman), all of whom have been released from the
mental hospital that confined them for the past months and back into
the public school system and their normal homes. Kristen winds up
reacquainting her friend Alice (Lisa Wilcox) and her boyfriend Rick
(Andras Jones), and is enjoying living her normal life until she
realizes that dreaming of, or even expressing paranoia over, Freddy
Krueger, the burned-faced, sweater-clad killer that haunted them
before, could potentially make him return. When Freddy (Robert Englund,
the only constant in this series, so it seems) winds up returning to
haunt the victims in his dreams, the focus lies in Alice, as she's the
most ignorant of Freddy's ways.

Consistency has long been a problem with this franchise and The Dream
Master shows a refusal for it to accept any kind of remote pattern.
Because of the constant directorial and screen writing shakeups, and
Craven's varying and largely debatable involvement with each individual
film, little in the way of tonal or narrative cohesion could be
retained. The overall scope and reach of the Freddy Krueger character
got hazy with the second film and found itself resorting back into the
laws of the first film, with no acknowledgement of the second film
other than a vague, ambiguous line of dialog from A Nightmare on Elm
Street 3: Dream Warriors. The Dream Master's refusal to assert itself
by accepting the emphasis on fear and vulnerability ideas from the
first and third film or the metaphorical significance of the Freddy
Krueger character is evident by the film's emphasis on comedy from what
was previously the franchise's main source for terror.

Being that The Dream Master is the most expensive film from the
Nightmare on Elm Street franchise, one can see where director Renny
Harlin and his set/production designers wanted to put their emphases -
the dream sequences. To the film's credit, the dream sequences are the
most elaborate and well-conceived dream sequences the franchise has yet
to see, even more-so believable and immersive than in Dream Warriors.
Consider the scene where Kincaid is trapped in a nightmarish junkyard
that molds and crafts itself at what is ostensibly the snap of Freddy's
fingers, effectively trapping him in a sea of broken-down cars that is
revealed to be a lot bigger in scope than we could've imagined. The
scene works beautifully because it focuses on the core idea of being
trapped in a dream lucid enough for you to actively move around and
possess your own decision-making skills but not lucid enough where you
can control the dream. The result is especially terrifying and this is
one of the few dream sequences where Freddy is mostly serious.

The remainder of the dream scenes only get more decorated in
appearance, and continue to live up to this first major one in size and
scope. The problem is, with each sequence, Freddy gets less and less
convincing. Writers Brian Helgeland (who would go on to direct
Oscar-nominated screenplays for films like L.A. Confidential and Mystic
River) and Scott Pierce turn Freddy into a pun/quip machine, who seems
to always be in search for the next cheeky line to say rather than
anything that provokes a kind of uneasiness for the audience. This
desecration of a frightening character, turning him into a second rate
comedian, significantly lessens his effectiveness as a character,
especially when we see him command some of the most visually stunning
locations he has yet to be apart of in the entire series.

Finally, though it's a relatively minor, almost moot, point, the acting
here has noticeably taken a turn for the worst. The Dream Master feels
like a lackluster display of amateur-hour, Second City acting,
particularly from the likes of Tuesday Knight and Andras Jones, who
just do an immensely poor job at being believable screen presences.
While acting in horror films is traditionally never the first thing one
judges on, when it's so wooden, as it is here, it can't help be a
jarring feature, especially when the film itself already isn't
particularly good.

A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 works in the way it decides to further
construct and elaborate on the many worlds of which Freddy inhabits, in
addition with taking on some seriously twisted and quirky scenes the
franchise has never seen before. However, it does a miserable job of
sticking to whatever guns the series had drawn at this point by
sacrificing scares for cheap quips and capable actors for whomever
could fill the part quickly and inexpensively. The result is a film
that was evidently rushed on every level that wasn't visual effects or
production design.

Starring: Lisa Wilcox, Robert Englund, Tuesday Knight, Andras Jones,
Ken Sagoes, and Rodney Eastman. Directed by: Renny Harlin.
