

This is the first time I commented on a film. I saw this yesterday night for
the first time. And I just cried.

I cried for Jim. I cried for the pain our country caused in the innocent
civilians. (Japan can be so stupid!) I cried for the pilots of the Zero-sen.

I've read and seen lots of movies of these pilots. They're called tokoutai
in Japanese. They get on their planes knowing they will die. It's a suicide
mission, and they were very proud of it. I know if you're on the winning
side you may not sympathize these pilots, but they were just fighting for
their country. In those days, the emperor was everything. They taught you to
die for the emperor at school when you were only in 1st grade.

But I don't know the war. I've never experienced it. I can't understand the
concept of dying for your emperor. So I sympathise with Jim. Jim is a symbol.
A symbol of innocence, of the horrors of war. His singing proves that too.
He's also the ray of light for these prisoners. His energy and vitality are
important aspects. It brings out some human characteristics in the sergent
as well.

Christian Bale was remarkable. He should be commemorated or something for
this performance, cause it was just brilliant. So was John Malcovich.

Overall it was great. One of the best movies I ever saw. It made me think, a
lot. About war, about Japan, about history, and about humans in
general.
<|_=00=_|>

Reading through the reviews, there were a lot of people who didn't
understand this film.  This is Spielberg's venture into the realm of art in
cinematography.  This film is a visual masterpiece and you are swept along
from beginning to end.  Yes, the tale gets a bit loose in spots and you
never know what's going to happen next.  But, if you're willing to give up
warm and fuzzy for lush visual images and startling leaps of character,
you'll see what Spielberg's trying to accomplish.  This film makes use of
the talents of Miranda Richardson and gives some early exposure to the
likes
of John Malkovich and Ben Stiller, but young Christian Bale steals the
show.
The reviewer that commented on the "gothic" effect of the Tai-Pan's going
to the costume ball being driven through Shanghai was right on.  This film
is rife with such scenes and does not disappoint.  It's wholly misleading
to
look for some kind of action story underlying this film.  The tale, taken
from the book, is straightforward enough:  a young boy's boost into manhood
through the second world war.  The film is full of memorable moments and
visually very, very pleasing.  As art, it is excellent.  That's likely why
it wasn't a blockbuster, as say, e.g., Poltergeist, Close Encounters and
the
Jurassic Park films, were.  But, hey.  That's the cost of creating art as
opposed to crap. And, crap does draw a lot of flies...
<|_=00=_|>
I came across this film while I was flipping through the channels on my
t.v. This is truly an astounding film. The inimitable dialogue, the
dazzling scenes, and most importantly the profundity of its premise
make this film unforgettable and worthy of sycophantic obsession. I was
completely enraptured by the brilliant acting. I believe this is Steven
Spielberg's most noteworthy film. His other movies pale in comparison
to this one. John Malkovich and Christian Bale are incredible as usual,
but in this film they bring to life a story of a boy who loses
everything due to a country trying to conquer everything. The physical
and mental destruction of war and the injurious effects of loneliness
are very clichéd themes, but this film conveys them in an incomparable
way. This is undoubtedly one of my favorite films, and I suggest that
everyone take the time to watch it. It would be exceedingly foolish of
one to not watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie 17 years ago as a ten year old in the theater and saw
it again for the first time since then last night on a TV movie
channel. I have to say I'm almost ashamed that I forgot what a great
movie this was...what a great movie it still is. The film contains
parts very competently played by the then relatively un-knowns John
Malkovic, Joey "Pants" and Ben Stiller. The lead was played, and very
well done at that, by a then young actor Christian Bales (sp?). The
acting in this movie is fantastic and the story line is is as rich as
any other of the best movies I've seen. Following the trials and
tribulations of a child from an affluent family separated from his
parents in China after the Japanese invasion. This movie will make you
angry, it will make you laugh, it will make you cry, it will frustrate
the living daylights out of you and in the end you'll feel warm and
fuzzy: but the hollow kind of warm and fuzzy that only comes after a
very harrowing experience. If you don't like war movies don't worry!!!
When you watch this film you'll see it's not as much of a war movie as
it is a story of survival and the brutal realities of life when the
world has been turned upside down. The movie really spoke to me
partially b/c I was a young kid when I first saw it and the main
character is also a young man. However, this movie also spoke to me on
a much different, deeper level. Ever since I was child I was always
fortunate/blessed enough to have my family along with everything I
needed and most of what I wanted. This movie depicts what happens when
all of those familiar things and creature comforts are taken away...it
makes you ask yourself: What would I do in this situation? How would I
react? A fantastic movie for almost all ages!!!
<|_=00=_|>

When I saw this movie for the first time I was a fifteen year old kid more
interested in the fact that Christian Bale was in it than what it was about.
I had no idea what it was about or how it would effect me.  From the
opening frames of the film to the last scene of young Jim's eyes slowly
closing, it is  a masterpiece in film making.  This film should be regarded
as one of the most visually stunning films of all time.  Spielberg, in his
infinite wisdom, has created a film of such beauty and sadness, that I can't
compare it to anything else I have ever seen.  Bale's performance brought me
to tears.  I had never seen anyone his age or older give such a performance.
He has remained, not just a pretty face, but a true jewel in the craft of
performing.  Entranced by each moment and each actor in the film, I was
inspired to continue my own performing in hopes to move someone the way the
actors in this film moved me.
I also began to study more on the period and read the novel itself.
Speilberg was so true to the novel that you can even pick up the most minute
details in the film.  I recommend this film to anyone who hasn't seen it.
It is my favorite film of all time and will continue to be an inspiration to
me as a performer and as a person.

<|_=00=_|>
I had put off watching this until recently, I do not know why, I had
not read reviews and for some reason imagined it to be a movie about a
young Japanese prince(!!).

I was captivated by the performance of Christian Bale as a privileged
young boy named Jim Graham, growing up in Shanghai, very far removed
from the poverty and despair all around him. When war breaks out, this
changes him forever and hence the story.

After some harrowing experiences he winds up in a prisoner of war camp
where he befriends some interesting characters and quickly adapts to a
life of conniving and subterfuge to survive.

The transformation of Jim is beautifully captured, Steven Spielberg is
a gifted director of child actors and gets a maximum performance
always.

I was enthralled from beginning to end, young Jim was forever changed
by his experiences and this change is portrayed starkly here when he is
finally reunited with his parents.

8 out of 10 for equally impressive performances from John Malkovich and
Miranda Richardson, but Christian Bale's performance deserved an Oscar.
<|_=00=_|>
Empire of the Sun, I have just revisited this film on DVD and was
amazed the effect it left on me. This is almost an unknown film
relative to most other Spielberg work. The DVD is not even available in
Australia, so I had it 'Amazoned' from the US.

Christian Bales performance as the 12 year old Jim is mesmerizing. He
is in virtually every scene of the 2.5 hour movie and gives us the full
range of emotions. He also one of the best looking kids I've seen,
which add tremendously to the viewing appeal of the movie. A true heart
throb in the making.

As a history lesson Empire give us an insight to the happenings in
China in WWII, and the ambitions of the Japanese Empire, which are
never touched on in other WWII movies.

The most emotional part of the film for me: Jim is looking through the
fence at the Japanese airbase, the sun is setting, he is dreaming of
flying in those incredible machines, pilots are smartly uniformed and
decorated, offices passing drinks to the young pilots, superb music
playing, Zeros ready to go, Jim salutes the Japanese heroes as they are
flying out. What we know is that the war is lost for Japan and these
pilots are surely on Kamikaze suicide missions. We feel great empathy
for these fellow human beings despite the fact that they are the enemy.

The images in Empire are beautiful to look at, the movie is thought
provoking and provide some history lesson, if somewhat fantasy and
sacrine sweet. A behind the scenes war movie with heart. My favourite
Spielberg movie and in my top 15 of all time. Other favourites in no
order. Titanic, Patton, Unforgiven, Airport, Terminator, Salaam Bombay,
2001, Bridge on River Kwai, Minority Report.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was a visual, character driven movie of superior quality, even
for Steven Speilberg. Some say that Speilberg has too much the eye of a
child, but I tend to disagree. Too many filmmakers today are producing
slick, throw away action flicks that at first seem promising but eventually
fall into predictable, fluff and special effects laden, thinly plotted,
dialogue-poor, characterless movies that are gone before the popcorn. Yes,
this film has a lot of great Special Effects (So did Schindler's List.)
Moreover, a lot of great action to keep the story pace from dragging. The
idea of a movie is for the actors and directors to show their stuff
(Hopefully around some good writing.) This movie did it for me. I have to
agree with all those who praised Christian Bale for his performance in this
movie. He was brilliant. In addition, I got to see Ben Stiller in an unusual
role for him. I thought that John Malcovitch acted perfectly for this film
and yes he was a Han Solo/Indiana Jones character, but with even less depth.
His role was pivotal only in so far as it affected the boy. We were not as
concerned with his character in so much as his shadow was cast on Jim
through out the movie. The war was bigger than this little  boy was and it
was exquisitely done. Steven Speilberg gives us wonder, mystery, action,
adventure and history in everything he does. He's the consummate
filmmaker.
<|_=00=_|>
Empire of the Sun is about a wealthy British boy living in British
controlled states of China during WW2. He is torn from his parents and
placed in a camp for British citizens. He tries to find a way to
connect the good of his old life to the good life in the camp and a
life filled with war, but finds that no matter what there is no good
out of war. This is an amazingly underrated film that should be watched
by a mature, attentive person. This film is laced with compassion and
power put in one. A must see for war buffs (or for Spielberg buffs). No
matter what even if you hate this film, you will have a favorite part.
One of Spielberg greatest films ever made (personally his greatest).
10/10
<|_=00=_|>

When I first saw the epic film 'Empire Of The Sun' by the inspirational
director Steven Spielberg I became emotionally involved in the story and
could not help but shed a tear for the truly remarkable piece of cinema.
Christian Bale performs, without question, better than any other actor has
in a Hollywood film that is twice his age. As he closes his eyes at the end
of the film in one of the most moving scenes I can remember, you see what a
simply fantastic job Spielberg has done to bring J. G Ballard's classic
book
to the screen. Not ever has a film been more inspirational to me whilst
following my dream to become a director as this. At the end of it you feel
you want to move people when making a film as much as you were moved by
this
one. Wonderfully acted, beautifully shot - no other film will ever compare
to this.
