

This is the most underrated film in the series.  It's ironic that the first
of the EON films not to draw its title directly from an Ian Fleming story
is also the closest in spirit to Fleming since "On Her Majesty's Secret
Service." Of course, the titles had long since become the ONLY connection
between Fleming's original stories and the movies -- the film plots and
Roger Moore's portrayal bore almost no resemblance to Fleming's Bond.

In "License to Kill" continues what he started in "The Living Daylights": he
portrays a Bond that is still an ultra-suave superagent, but is also moody
and reckless -- in other words, human.

Bond is driven to avenge the near murder of his friend Felix Leiter (and the
murder of Leiter's wife) at the hands of drug lord Franz Sanchez.  Sanchez
is excellently played by Robert Davi.  He ends up being assisted by CIA
agent Pam Bouvier.  Bouvier is played by Cary Lowell, in a performance that
earns her automatic entry onto the list of top 5 all time Bond
women.

Some elements of the story come from Fleming's short story "The Hildebrande
Rarity."  Sanchez's doomed henchmen Milton Krest is lifted directly from
"The Hildebrand Rarity," and elements of the relationship between Sanchez
and his girlfriend Lupe echo that of Krest and his wife Liz in the original
story.

The other Fleming story drawn upon is "Live and Let Die" for the
plot-driving scene in which Leiter is thrown to the sharks. (This marks the
second time that Fleming's "Live and Let Die" was drawn upon for a key scene
in a movie other than the film version of LALD.  The other is the "dragged
behind a speedboat over the reef" scene in "For Your Eyes Only."  It kind of
makes you wonder what the powers that be at EON were thinking when they
couldn't find a place for these powerful, effective scenes in the pastiche
that is LALD.)

"License to Kill" features a realistic, believable story. Add to it the
equal ruthlessness of Bond and Sanchez in their respective portrayals by
Dalton and Davi and you have a movie that will stand out over time as one of
the best in the series.
<|_=00=_|>
Licence To Kill is one of the most underrated Bond movies since On Her
Majesty's Secret Service. Slipping easily back into 007's shoes with
style after his previous role as Bond, Timothy Dalton embodies the
character. With a break away from the comic-book villains and
fantastical locations, the filmmakers decide to focus instead on a very
adult and contemporary story about drug smuggling and revenge. Michael
G. Wilson and Richard Maibaum's story is engaging and exciting, with a
steadfast confidence in their leading man. This is a Bond movie that
took risks -- it was the first 15-rated Bond film in the UK -- and
surely deserves kudos for doing so. Make no mistake; this is not a
family Bond picture. Its themes require a more mature perspective than
its predecessors, and the violence is certainly stronger than anything
that had come before. Unfortunately, these factors seem to be what
critics of Licence To Kill call 'faults'. But why is change so bad, I
ask? Casino Royale is getting major appreciation from critics for its
grittiness and its darker edge. So why not Licence To Kill? After all,
this is the movie that started the current trend, with Dalton's mature
portrayal of Bond paving the way for Pierce Brosnan and, without doubt,
Daniel Craig. It always amazes me that people do not give Dalton more
respect for what he did with the character. This guy started the ball
rolling. And boy did he give it a hard push.

The characters in Licence To Kill are one of it's major plus points.
James Bond is the most human we have seen him in 20 years, as Dalton
brings a real sense emotional depth to the character; a tortured man
full of hurt and pain and vengeance, his determined and stony face
almost cracking with the burning hatred that is barely contained inside
of him. We also get a strong female lead with Carey Lowell, whose
portrayal of Pam Bouvier is at once intelligent, sexy, and funny. On
the flip side of the coin, we have a genuinely terrifying villain in
the shape of Robert Davi, playing his role deadly straight with not a
hint of camp. It's a rare scenario where you feel Bond has met someone
of equal competence. The Sanchez character is a frightening presence,
and an early role from Benicio Del Toro is just as effective; his
chilling grin a fear-inducing sight.

Technically speaking, John Glen's direction is taught and assured, with
the pace never really letting up for the 130+ minutes running time,
save at the very end of the movie where the spectacular truck chase
sequence perhaps drags just a little. The brilliant Michael Kamen also
supplies us with an elegant, sensual and brooding score that is a vital
player unto itself, complimenting the visuals excellently.

In spite of these pluses, there are some minor quibbles. As I said
before, the truck finale is perhaps a bit long, even though the stunt
work is amazing, but it does slow the pace a bit. Talisa Soto is indeed
beautiful as Sanchez' girlfriend but, bless her, she isn't exactly the
most talented actress on the planet. She plays her part well enough,
but the role isn't exactly Oscar-worthy, and it's not helped by the
fact that the script tends to relegate her to the sidelines. Everett
McGill's cigar-chomping Killifer is rather too pantomime for me - he
just doesn't stand up to the characters of Sanchez or Anthony Zerbe's
Krest but he doesn't stick around long so doesn't get in the way too
much.

With a striking leading man in Bond's shoes, Licence To Kill deserves a
lot more credit than it gets. This is the film that broke the mould,
opening the doors to a more adult, violent Bond world that continued
briefly with some of the Brosnan films and certainly with Daniel
Craig's portrayal of the character. In Timothy Dalton we have a
brilliant actor in the starring role who brought us a more human and
believable Bond, yet it is Daniel Craig who is currently getting the
credit for these exact traits. Don't get me wrong, his characterisation
is superb. But Dalton is the one who started it off, and it is a shame
that he only made the two films.

John Glen says that from all of the Bond movies that he directed,
Licence To Kill is the one he is most proud of. And rightly so. Not
only do we get a more fleshed-out character in Bond than previous
outings, we get a more believable and mature storyline, with great
characters and competent direction. Definitely one of the most
underrated Bond movies, this engaging film is a great piece of
entertainment, and one that I hope will gather praise with time. See
it.

4 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

Timothy Dalton only played Bond twice, but he tried to base his
interpretation of the character on the descriptions provided by Ian Fleming
in the original novels. Therefore, his Bond is quite ruthless and
embittered, and always ready to stick two fingers up at the establishment if
he feels they've got it wrong. 

Bond is vacationing in Florida, acting as best-man at his friend Felix
Leiter's wedding, when the unthinkable happens. Leiter and his wife are
assaulted by some Central American thugs; the wife is murdered and Leiter is
crippled by sharks. Bond is obviously deeply unhappy about this, but his
bosses instruct him to let the matter drop and get on with another
assignment. 007 knows who is responsible for the injuries to his friend, so
he revokes his licence to kill and becomes a rogue agent, tracking down the
villainous drug lord Sanchez (Robert Davi) to his Latin America
headquarters. Here, aided by Sanchez's unfaithful mistress Lupe (Talisa
Soto) and CIA agent Pam Bouvier (Carey Lowell), Bond attempts to wipe out
their enormous clandestine drug operation single-handedly.

There's definitely an uneasy, hard edge to the film which makes it unique
among the Bond series. Whether or not this improves the film depends on your
personal taste: if you like safe, humorous Roger Moore escapades, you'll
probably find this too jarring, whereas if you prefer espionage stories with
a bit of grit and sweat, this may be just what you're after. The action
sequences are still outrageous in the tried-and-trusted Bond style, with
memorable episodes featuring a daring helicopter .vs. airplane pursuit; a
barefoot water-skiing sequence; and a truck chase down the side of a
mountain. Some of the language, though not out-and-out "foul", is a bit
stronger and more believable than in other Bond entries. The theme tune from
Gladys Knight and the Pips is one of the better 007-tracks.

Licence to Kill is a new twist on the Bond theme. It isn't the best, and
some of its new ideas don't fit with the usual routine (which may or may not
be a good thing), but it is certainly interesting.
<|_=00=_|>

The worst-performing movie in the Bond movie in terms of grosses, it
probably failed because it wasn't really a Bond at all.  True, it is the
character Fleming created, and Q is in there, but this extremely violent
thriller with its strong female characterisation (Carey Lowell, perhaps the
only Bond girl with `balls') is not a neat fit with the
others.

The only one of the franchise created especially with star Timothy Dalton in
mind (perhaps the sexiest Bond of them all?) it is a tale of loyalty, drug
cartels, sharks, and 007 losing his licence and setting off as a vigilante. 
Lowell plays agent Pam Bouvier, who shines in a bar fight and gives 007 as
good as he gets.  And boy, do these two have chemistry
together!

The only problem with this movie is that it gets so truncated on its TV
showings that it loses a lot of its point (and in the worst edit I saw, its
sense).  There is perhaps too much going on - the abused Latino bimbo, the
crooked evangelist, the Japanese businessmen touring the factory, the casino
…

Not at all as bad as many commentators at the time and since have suggested.
 What a pity the series stagnated after this before its big budget Pierce
Bronson revival.   Dalton should have had the chance to show us more of the
character he portrays in `Licence to Kill'.  And what a great theme tune
from Gladys Knight.

<|_=00=_|>

I really liked Timothy Dalton as Bond. I really thought the guy did a
great
job. The Living Daylights was an excellent Bond thriller, more in line
with
Dr No and From Russia With Love in tone and style, but with Licence To
Kill
you can tell that Broccoli decided to compete with the big boys with this
action packed spectacular that aims high and scores. What we have here is
Bond with spectacular action scenes and a more nastier steak with regards
to
the violence that is  more in line with Hollywood action blockbusters than
with quintessential British spies. This is why the film works. Licence To
Kill is much more darker than any of the Bond films that has come before,
and after the silliness of the Moore era, that was what  this franchise
needed. Why have world domination craving villains when you can just p*ss
Bond off, big time. Having Felix Lieter maimed and his wife killed on
their
wedding day is inspired and immediately puts the film on a darker streak.
The script here is very strong as we watch a darker more violent Bond
infiltrate the bad guy's lifestyle and then proceed to work from there.

Don't make any mistakes this is not a Bond film that would be broadcast
during a Bank Holiday afternoon. What we have here is a film that is
graphically violent. Check out the head explosion scene or the nasty
incidents involving sharks. Having Bond on the revenge path makes for a
more
interesting tale than just another villain trying to take over the world.
The more personal element fits in with this more darker Bond. Dalton
really
rises to the occasion here and ensures that he will be remembered as a
fine
actor who played the part of James Bond. The ice cool look of anger as he
dumps a bad guy into a shark tank with a case fool of money is fantastic
as
is his reaction to finding Lieter's dead wife. It may not be said, buy
OHMSS
is being referenced. Helping Dalton along the way is a great support cast.
Robert Davi is superb as Franz Sanchez, without doubt the nastiest Bond
villain there has ever been. We have two Bond girls too. Talisa Soto is
beautifully sultry, but Carey Lowell just pips her to the post as Pam
Bouvier who really gives Bond a run for his money. Another great casting
point is an increased role for Q. Desmond Lewellyn appears here more than
he
ever has done before, helping out in the mission that makes one wonder the
Bond writers never thought of it before, or why they never did it
after.

Licence To Kill is classic Bond. Purists may give of with the more
American
touch to the narrative (you just know that any theatrical trailer is
crying
out for voice over man to go "this time it's personal"), but the more
darker
narrative suits the film and it shows that Dalton was a good Bond no
matter
what his critics say. With some of the most spectacular action sequences
at
the time, this is a genuine Bond classic.

Shaken and stirred most definitely.
<|_=00=_|>
Licence to Kill is directed by John Glen and written by Richard Maibaum
and Michael G. Wilson. It's an original story that uses characters and
instances created by Ian Fleming. It stars Timothy Dalton, Carey
Lowell, Robert Davi, Talisa Soto, Anthony Zerbe, Desmond Llewelyn,
David Hedison, Benicio Del Toro, Frank McRae, Everett McGill and Wayne
Newton. Music is scored by Michael Kamen and cinematography by Alec
Mills.

Bond 16 and 007 goes rogue when drug baron Franz Sanchez leaves Felix
Leiter mutilated and his wife dead. With licence revoked by MI6, Bond
has to go it alone to enact revenge for the Leiters.

The controversial Bond for many reasons, Licence to Kill even today has
been known to induce fearsome arguments in Bond fan circles. Not since
On Her Majesty's Secret Service has a Bond film so polarised opinions.
In one corner are the folks who determine it's not a Bond movie, in the
other is those who say it's a stripped to the bone human Bond. You
either love it or you hate it it seems. True to say that it is more an
action thriller than a outright Bond film, no humongous sets, no
megalomaniac villain (Davi's drug baron a very realistic menace) and of
course there is Bond being pursued by those that have courted him
previously as their number one agent. Yet there's a whole raft of
scenarios that could only exist in a Bond universe, there's gadgets,
too, for those that enjoy that side of Bond. Where else would you see a
tanker driving on its side? Or exploding toothpaste and alarm clock,
camera's that turn into weapons and a broom that is actually a
transmitter? Not Bondian enough? Really?

Licence to Kill is a superior action thriller movie, the script is
tight, the cast ace and the picture is crammed full of exceptional
action set pieces. From the pre-credits sequence that sees Bond and
Leiter enact a mid-air arrest, to the rather brilliant tanker carnage
at the finale, the film rarely pauses for breath, and right there in
the centre is a brilliant Dalton giving a rogue Bond plenty of layers.
He's brainy and classy, fallible and driven, intense and tough, always
sexy and always dangerous. Dalton's ability to convey raw emotion as
each challenge comes his way is a real treat to watch. But most of all
he is right there restoring Bond to being a serious action figure. What
Bond fans didn't realise at the time was that it would be 17 years
before Bond would be this raw again, then it would be heralded as a
brave new start for Bond!

Another of the film's strengths is bringing back Hedison as Leiter,
last seen playing the role in Live and Let Die, Hedison has great
chemistry with Dalton and it's a joy to see Leiter play an active part
in the action on screen. However, the makers do make a misstep by
having Leiter be all too jovial at the end of the film, weird since he
is minus a limb and his wife was raped and murdered by Sanchez's
henchmen. Another big plus is Lowell's Pam Bouvier, a tough and brave
Bond girl, sexy as heck, her pilot skills come in handy and she's no
mug when it comes to brawling. Lowell does fine work in the role and
keeps it away from being a token interest cliché. Davi keeps Sanchez as
believable, a very driven drug baron who is cultured and funny, but
always pulsing a vicious streak, while McRae has presence, McGill
neatly keeps the cards close to his chest, Del Toro a nice line in
nastiness and Soto is pretty as a picture and plays Lupe Lamora with
skilled vulnerability. And of course there's Llewelyn as Q, who here
gets a right old meaty role as he goes out in the field to become
Bond's only aid from MI6. Again, not Bondian enough?

Licence to Kill saw the end of Dalton's tenure as Bond, legal issues
between Danjaq and MGM/UA meant that no Bond movie would be made for
another six years. By then Dalton had moved on to other work and was
51. It also marked the end of production duties for Cubby Broccoli, the
final direction by John Glen (5 Bond films in total), Richard Maibaum's
last script and the last performances by Robert Brown as M and Caroline
Bliss as Moneypenney. One of the many misconceptions about the Dalton
era is that Licence to Kill was a flop, it made $156 million worldwide,
considerably down on The Living Daylights but more than A View to a
Kill. A huge profit of over $100 million, this in spite of it being
pitched against Batman and sequels to beloved American films by a
studio head who had no idea how to market a film. The best actor to
take on the role of Bond, Dalton's impact on the series cannot be
overstated, he (rightly so) is very proud of his work in the two films
and still talks very fondly of a role he respected beyond compare. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
In the most serious Bond movie since "From Russia with Love," writer
Michael G. Wilson eliminated some of the very elements that have
contributed to the longevity of the series—namely, the biting humor,
fascinating locations, and a grandiose scheme perpetrated by a fantasy
villain… "Licence to Kill" was almost a claustrophobic Bond considering
its limited and uninteresting trips to Key West and Isthmus City…

Dalton—who is once again serious and on target—should have been
lightened up a bit… Audiences who spend two or more hours with Bond
need to laugh once in a while… Thankfully, Q, awarded the biggest role
of his film career (following a tip-off from an anxious Moneypenny),
was on hand to provide some crucial comic relief… 

The story was a brave departure from anything previously ventured:
shortly after acting as best man at the wedding of Felix Leiter, Bond
discovers that Leiter's bride has been murdered and that his friend has
been savaged by a shark… With grim determination, 007 launches a
personal vendetta against Frank Sanchez, the sadistic drug baron
responsible; his obsession sees him stripped of his license to kill by
a furious M (Robert Brown).

Robert Davi proved to be an excellent choice for the role of murderous
South American drug lord Franz Sanchez… Surrounded by a private army
that keeps potential assassins at arm's length, Sanchez was not an easy
target… His main associates include corrupt seaman Anthony Zerbe, a
drunken pervert and a sadist Benecio Del Toro…

Carey Lowell showed to be the best Bond girl in years… She was
delightful as Pam Bouvier, a resourceful, beautiful CIA pilot and
undercover operative who helps Bond at every turn… Her excellent
introduction in the Barrelhead Bar is nothing but pure dynamite…
<|_=00=_|>
After a major drugs bust CIA agent Felix Leiter gets married with his
friend James Bond as his best man. However in a revenge attack drug
lord Franz Sanchez mutilates Leiter and kills his wife. James Bond
wants revenge but is ordered to stay out of it. Ignoring the order Bond
goes on a personal vendetta to bring down Sanchez's organisation.

This was Dalton's second and last Bond movie. It was also his best. The
nature of Bond is a lot darker than during the Roger Moore years and
this lends itself to a more violent film with revenge as the
motivation. The story is actually OK and allows some humour, however
some may not like the idea of Bond as a vigilante type. The action is
pretty good although not as visually stunning as other blockbusters.
The drama is good and the Bond girls are all good.

Dalton was a good Bond no matter what is said – all he did was take it
back to the root rather than playing it camp like Moore, he gave a
harder edge to the role that was missing. Davi is a good bad guy – he
can do this in his sleep and he's good here even if his 'evil Cuban
guy' dial is turned up to 11! The girls are both good in different ways
– Lowell's more demure comedy role or Soto's vixen. The inclusion of
faces like Everett McGill is good and the rising star of Benicio Del
Toro is an interesting find in retrospect. Wayne Newton is also really
funny in a funny cameo.

Overall this isn't the best of the Bonds but it is a nice change after
years of Moore being camp. The darker edge may put some off but it does
add more action to the proceedings that had been missing recently.
<|_=00=_|>

Licence To Kill came out during the huge box office summer of '89 (which
included Batman, Indiana Jones, Ghostbusters II, etc). Unfortunately,
lousy
advertising and Timothy Dalton's lack of appeal to American audiences did
not bring in the big bucks that could have been expected. While the film
did
not do great in the US compared to other Bond films, it still did well
overseas. Because of the assumption that LTK was a flop, people consider
it
one of the weakest entries in the series. Needless to say, they're dead
wrong.

(Possible Spoilers)

Sanchez is one of the most realistic, deadly villains Bond has ever met,
and
this is also 007's most personal mission yet. Felix Leiter, the trusted
ally
and Bond's best friend is fed to sharks and his newlywed bride has been
murdered. After Bond decides to attend to Felix and find out what happens
and doesn't leave for his mission, he resigns and his license to kill is
revoked by M. Bond goes on a personal vendetta which involves more spying,
more detective work and less gadgets and over the top villanious plans.
Licence to Kill isn't everybody's cup of tea, and some think it's a
Charles
Bronson rip off, but personally I see it as more of an Ian Fleming Bond
movie, which is ironic since this is the first movie title not to be taken
from a Fleming novel. Q has a nice supporting role rather than the smaller
role he usually has.

In a way, I always see Licence to Kill to be the end of an era for Bond
films. It seemed with Goldeneye's release in 1995, Pierce Brosnan's Bond
is
not the same Bond as portrayed by his four predecessors. I don't know why,
but with Felix Leiter out of action, Bond losing his license, the last
appearance of so many members of the Bond crew and cast, it seems like
Dalton's final portrayal was the end of one continuity, and Brosnan's is a
new, revamped Bond. Nonetheless, this is one of the best Bond films of the
entire series, both pre-Brosnan and the Brosnan era. 
<|_=00=_|>
The Bond film series has been with us since the early sixties and for a
character to stand the test of time, there requires a certain
reinvention and reinvigoration for it to maintain longevity. Opinions
are subjective as we all know, so make of this what you will.

'Licence to Kill' is one of the top five best Bond movies of all time
along with it's powerhouse theme song. Up until this particular
picture, we were introduced to Sean Connery's unique suave, set against
an array of exotic backdrops and a strong supporting cast. George
Lazenby, although criticised for being boring, offered us some great
action sequences in his short time as the British spy. A sophisticated
edge that was overpowered by it's comical tone throughout his run,
Roger Moore took the reins during the 70's and early 80's. Then in
1987, Welsh actor Timothy Dalton donned the role of 007.

With 'The Living Daylights' establishing Dalton as James Bond, we were
given fair warning on the tonal shift. Given this was the 80's, where a
number of films were heavily inclusive of hard 'R' violence - 'Licence
to Kill' adapted and not only brought us a visceral Bond film, but as
many film historians have cited, one of the, if not the closest
portrayals of Ian's Flemming's character.

For those giving current Bond actor, Daniel Craig the credit (or hate
in some cases) for a cold and stoic interpretation of the character, I
suggest you watch the Timothy Dalton Bond films, because this is where
it started.

In 'Licence to Kill', Bond is essentially a one many army taking on a
South American cocaine czar. This is a James Bond that up until this
point was never seen like this on screen before. His best friends are
maimed, he's stripped of his rank, his government and as it relates to
the title - his licence to kill is revoked. He is left with almost
nothing aside from his skills and weapons expert, Q.

Dalton plays Bond as a wounded wolf with a sensitivity and
vulnerability visible in his eyes and the way he emotes. As opposed to
his predecessors, Dalton plays the character with an introspective
approach, where you can feel the torment and tension bubbling inside.
Even when he smiles, there is pain, reminding us of what he has endured
as a human being.

Bond's antagonist is played by Robert Davi - another underrated
performer known mostly for his roles as a villain. He plays a drug king
with a code, where loyalty seems to matter more than the money. We are
immediately set with these two huge characters on a road to collision;
the dark angel's raid on the reaper that claimed the lives and elements
that held Bond together.

The whole film is non-stop and that also reflects the carnage and
violence. The climactic chase is one of the best with the inclusion of
trucks, jeeps and a plane against a beautiful Mexican mountain view.

As a huge proponent for Timothy Dalton's Bond, I advise any fans of the
series to watch or re- watch his incarnations. Hopefully an
appreciation will come about for how truly great and underrated he was.
