

A movie I like to recommend to people who really dislike Woody Allen
(because of his on-screen characters or off-screen life).  And I usually get
positive feedback.....he does not appear in this movie, and that makes sense
because there really are no characters he could play in The Purple Rose of
Cairo.  It is a hugely entertaining movie--one of his best.  Sharp,
hilarious, and poignant.  And anyone who can keep a dry eye for that ending
must be a machine.
This is the movie where Jeff Daniels really gets to strut his best comic
stuff.  He's always been underrated in my opinion.  He's terrific at playing
the "Everyman," but in Allen's movie he has a duel role--the clueless movie
hunk who leaps off the screen to be with Mia Farrow, and the frustrated
actor who plays him.  Farrow is also good, back to playing mousey after her
bold turn in Broadway Danny Rose.  
I really can't say enough about this.  I would rank it as his best film of
the '80s.  I never get tired of watching it.  I don't like using this
adjective, but it seems to fit the movie....it is magical.
<|_=00=_|>

Woody's stories are often derivative, but he's forgiven that, usually,
because the results are good and ultimately do deserve his signature.  For
PURPLE ROSE, he swipes Buster Keaton's gimmick in SHERLOCK, JR., then lets
his imagination run free as he did in the best of his NEW YORKER stories.
We wind up with the most fascinating and realistic meditation regarding
what
it is to be an audience, a viewer's relationship to art, art's
relationship
to reality.  The triumph is amazing, because, despite the depth of the
symbolism, PURPLE ROSE can also be seen as sheer entertainment; on its
surface, it is still one of the most entertaining pictures Woody has ever
made.

Farrow and Aiello are marvelous here; Mia, who is quite underrated, has
only
been as good once -- in BROADWAY DANNY ROSE.  The photography is superb,
influenced perhaps by Edward Hopper with generally less obvious light
sources.

Splendid, splendid work.
<|_=00=_|>
The Purple Rose of Cairo really does rate up there with Woody's best -
from Annie Hall, Manhattan to the earlier, more slapstick efforts, such
as Love and Death and Sleeper. Cairo happens to be one of the best 80's
movies Woody actually made - Crimes and Misdeameanours and Braodway
Danny Rose being other greats.

The reason why I think that Cairo is better than the other 80's efforts
is that the idea is really inventive. The movie raises so many
questions of reality and fantasy, but does so in a highly surreal
fashion. The switching of scenes, from reality to fantasy (movie) made
me realise where movies take us as a viewer. Cecelia finds solace in
the world of movies and comes up against the decision of which is
better - the perfect world of movie, or reality, where things are never
certain.

Jeff Daniels is so enigmatic in this movie. Not only as Tom, the screen
legend, but as Gil the actor. Two very different characters, both
played brilliantly. Mia Farrow is great as usual, and shows how broad
her talent is (Broadway Danny Rose and Radio Days - both very different
characters. Danny Aiello is good as the lazy slob-of-a-husband, Monk.

Like Radio Days, Woody isn't actually on screen (he narrated Radio
Days, mind) and in a way this eased me up. Woody is fantastic when he
is on screen, but this film benefited from losing his neurotic nature,
and instead concentrated on the era, the love of movies and the complex
themes of a movie within a movie. I will admit, some neurosis is
retained in the dialogue (talk of morality to prostitutes!) - and this
added to the surreal nature of the movie.

This has to be one of my favourite films Woody has directed. Annie Hall
probably being my fave, Manhattan, Crimes and Misdeamenours and Sleeper
following. Cairo is so constantly fresh and inventive, I couldn't help
being captivated during it's short running time. I recommend this to
any fan - or any lover of movies themselves. A real treat.
<|_=00=_|>
Woody Allen's Purple Rose of Cairo is a brilliant piece of film-making.
He combines drama, comedy and even a little bit fiction (people jumping
out of movie screens into the real world). Its a great story involving
a woman with marital problems played superbly by Mia Farrow. Here
Farrow gives one of her best performances, much better than she was in
a film i recently viewed called Shadows and Fog. Jeff Daniels is also
good in his role as the movie character who comes into the real world,
as well as the actor who plays that role. This is by far one of the
most complex yet well written Woody Allen flicks. All the performances
are good as well as the direction and writing, almost everything is
perfect. A must-see for any Woody fan.10/10 #60 on my list of all-time
favorite films
<|_=00=_|>
THE PURPLE ROSE OF CAIRO is a lovely, funny, and heartbreaking entry
from Woody Allen that still remains one of my favorites. This romantic
fantasy tickles your funny bone and tugs at your heartstrings at the
same time and I go through a myriad of emotions whenever I watch it.
Mia Farrow stars as Celia, a depression era housewife, trapped in a
dead end marriage to a pig (Danny Aiello) whose only escape comes from
going to the movies. She goes to see the movie of the title several
times and then at one show, the main character in the movie (played by
Jeff Daniels)speaks to Celia directly from the screen saying, "You must
really love this movie, don't you?" The character then walks off the
screen and into Celia's life, claiming that he loves her and wants to
be with her forever. Meanwhile, the actors in the movie on the screen
are stuck and don't know what to do because they can't finish the movie
without Daniels' character and they are seen conversing with each other
about what to do and to the audience in the theater, who for some
reason, sit and watch the actors on the screen trying to figure out
what to do. Further complications arrive when the character starts
walking off the screen in other theaters around the country and the
actor who played the character (also Daniels) arrives in town to try to
convince his character to go back in the movie. Woody doesn't delve
into the territory of fantasy too much, but this one totally works with
one of his most intelligent screenplays and winning performances from
Farrow and Daniels and the ending is a heartbreaker. A must-see.
<|_=00=_|>
Woody Allen's "The Purple Rose of Cairo" is a film that speaks to the
heart of anyone who has been mad about the movies. In a now-legendary
scene, intrepid explorer Tom Baxter (Jeff Daniels) steps off a movie
screen and into the life of Cecilia (Mia Farrow), an unhappily married,
unemployed, movie-lover. Together, Tom and Cecilia brave the
complications of the real world, including the arrival of Gil Shepard,
the actor who plays Tom.

Farrow is sweet as Cecilia and Daniels is wonderful in his dual role.
Brimming with quotable dialogue, "The Purple Rose of Cairo" toys with
reality while maintaining a feather-light touch. This is a valentine to
the movies, and more so, to movie-lovers.
<|_=00=_|>
The only Woody Allen that I hadn't seen. I was waiting for the
opportunity to see it on a proper screen in a proper movie theater,
with other people you know, like in the previous century. At the end I
was convinced to see it in a friend's living room but in one of those
super duper mega wide TV screens. What a delight! A movie about the
love of something not quite real but that it becomes the more real
thing in our lives. The transportation that Mia Farrow goes through
while sitting in the movie theater brought tears to my eyes - my friend
turned to me in disbelief "Are you weeping? He asked. Well yes, I was.
I can't explain it. Have you seen the movie? Sometimes I felt I wanted
to sit next to Mia Farrow in see the movie she's watching all the way
through. Why not, Jeff Daniels, Mia Farrow, John Wood, Zoe Caldwell,
Van Johnson, please! It's so much better in here than out here. You can
bet I will see this again. Top notch.
<|_=00=_|>
The Purple Rose of Cairo (1985)

There's no way you can't like the ingenuity of the movie, and the fun
it has. It's about the joy of life, and love of the movies, and the
difficulty to tell the difference sometimes (at least when in the
theater). 

In some ways this is one of Woody Allen's lightest movies, and
certainly lightweight compared to the more serious movies of this
period (like the stunning gem, "Another Woman"). It's not zany like his
earliest comedies ("Love and Death"). And it's not deeply observant and
sometimes downright moving and brilliant like his best movies (like
"Annie Hall" or "Crimes and Misdemeanors"). In that way it feels like
what some novelists would call an "entertainment" to distinguish from
their heavier masterpieces, and sometimes these are the most readable
of all. Or the most watchable.

"The Purple Rose of Cairo" is inventive, warm, and touching. It's
really high brow hilarious when the people on the screen react to the
situation, not only because of the existential reality shift going on,
but because they are all high brow types. Then there are the everyday
scenes with Mia Farrow, the lead actress in the real world (usually),
and support from Danny Aiello, really just a foil for the main romances
(two) going on with Farrow (singular). It's not as complicated as it
sounds, which might prove the elegance of Allen's writing. 

A beautiful, delicate movie without undo weightiness. Joyous, yes, even
in its melancholy end.
<|_=00=_|>
THE PURPLE ROSE OF CAIRO has got to be one of the most original and
inventive of all the films Woody Allen has done--and all the more
enjoyable because we're not subjected to the Allen character in the
film itself. Instead, we get MIA FARROW (one of her very best
performances) and JEFF DANIELS in what has to be the most original role
of his career, as the man who walks off the movie screen and into
Farrow's humdrum life.

Farrow is the Depression-era movie fan whose film idol walks right off
the screen and interjects himself into her life--brightening it, at
least for awhile, until the rather downbeat ending. DANNY AIELLO, as
Mia's abusive husband and DIANNE WIEST have good supporting roles, but
the story really depends on the wonderful chemistry between Farrow and
Daniels--and they truly bring the bittersweet comedy and fantasy to
credible life.

Furthermore, the script is not only very clever, but the film is
technically brilliant in the way it has the film within a film
characters on the screen interacting with the movie audience.

Summing up: Stylish mixture of comedy and fantasy, fully deserving the
many nominations and awards it won that year.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a unique storyline - a character comes right out of the movie
screen to join the "real" world - at the time. I've seen several others
copy this sort of thing, although it also was done in some silent
comedies, too, if memory serves. Nonetheless, it was done well here and
I got a kick out of watching it back in the '80s. It's part fantasy,
romance, drama, comedy. Woody Allen, who made this movie, is not on
screen. 

I have found (with one or two exceptions) that I like the best when he
only narrated, such as in "Radio Days" and "Sweet And Lowdown." I like
it when he leaves the acting to others.

Mia Farrow as "Cecilia" Jeff Daniels does a terrific job in a dual
role, playing Tom Baxter and Gil Shepherd. One an actor, the other a
"real-life" guy. Mia Farrow is appealing, as she usually was, as
"Cecilia." Danny Aiello is another usually-interesting actor who gets
your attention no matter who he is playing.

An inventive film that still holds up today.
