
Before I review this film, I want to mention that I've seen it about
ten times and have yet to stop laughing at any of the jokes. This is
one of the best written and acted comedies that I've ever seen. The
plot is airtight, and the jokes are perfectly timed and delivered. This
is due in large part to the spectacular cast of the film. Jamie Lee
Curtis, Johh Cleese, Michael Palin, and my personal favorite Kevin
Kline as Otto the moronic ex-CIA agent who's too stupid to realize that
he's stupid. The film centers around the four aforementioned actors who
are involved in a bank robbery, and the conniving and backstabbing by
each that takes place afterwards. A large portion of the comedic
material in this film comes from the mixture, or more precisely clash,
of British and American cultures. Kevin Kline's portrayal of Otto the
red-blooded American with entirely too much ego and confidence is
contrasted perfectly by John Cleese's reserved and in Otto's words
"sexually repressed" English gentleman who is too scared to go out and
live his life. Jamie Lee Curtis is also great as the title character
who is determined to back-stab and cross anyone and everyone in order
to get what she wants. Finally, there's Michael Palin as Ken the
hit-man/animal lover/severe stutterer who must kill a key witness in
order to protect his boss. If there are any funnier scenes than the
ones where Ken must kill this witness, I haven't seen them. Palin is
absolutely brilliant, easily one of the best comedic performances ever.
The film is close to 2 hours long, but the plot is so clever and well
structured that it's over before you know it. To me, that is one of the
trademarks of a great film. You don't want this movie to end, and
you're disappointed when it does. Do yourself a favor and watch A Fish
Called Wanda and you will wonder why you haven't seen (or in many cases
even heard of) this film before.
<|_=00=_|>

This is the only film I ever paid to see two days in a row. I missed too
much of it the first time because of my own hysterical snorting
laughter.

This is a work of comic genius. And, like any good film, the screenplay is
at the heart of the belly laughs. Every character is given a detailed
personality quirk or two, and then it is shamefully exploited for laugh
after laugh. Note for example, John Cleese's speech to Jamie Lee Curtis
about how awful it is to be British - the eternal fear of embarrassment.
Moments later, he is caught buck naked in a marital tryst in some else's
flat by the people to used to live in his own home. Also, the
funny-offensive envelope is pushed to the limit when K-K-K-Ken (Michael
Palin), the passionate animal lover inadvertently kills three innocent
dogs
in his attempt to murder an old woman who would otherwise be a prosecution
witness. Now that's funny!

Cleese's character, Archie Leach (Carey Grant's real name) is a likable
buffoon  of a lawyer, happy in his banal existence until he meets the sexy
American, Wanda (Jamie Lee). I cannot even being to describe the plot
beyond
that point without doing it a grave disservice. It twists and dangles
about
in a world of double-cross and goldfish-eating for no other reason than to
set up a joke.

You cannot speak of this film without mention of Kevin Kline as Otto, a
role
that won him a richly-deserved Oscar. Otto is the ex-CIA "weapons man" who
makes it his business to read philosophy but would be more at home with
Curious George. An obsessive, self-indulgent, painfully stupid, violent,
deceitful, gullible  egomaniac, the character of Otto is amongst the best
comedic performances ever delivered.

The film's funniest scene takes place at Leach's (Cleese) house. In a
scene
that rivals anything that has ever hit the screen for laughs, the film and
its scripts looks deep enough into itself to even give Cleese's
dry-as-toast
wife a laugh or two. Then, later on, this scene proves to be the set up
for
even more jokes. A Fish Called Wanda is pure comedy and every scene either
provides a laugh or sets one up - it graciously does not waste our time
trying to be moral or turning into a formula car-chase
flick.

My comments are choppy but so is this movie. If you see it and don't
laugh,
check your pulse. We have only been given a handful of good comedies in
the
last decade. A Fish Called Wanda is a treasure. **** out of
****.

NOTE: TBS and some other TV networks show this film with the "offensive
language" edited out. It kills the movie - if you can't hack the language,
pass this one over.
<|_=00=_|>
Brief and simple: this movie is terrific entertainment! With its
uniquely eccentric characters and delightfully absurd storyline, 'A
Fish Called Wanda" unquestionably is one of the funniest films ever
made. The exhilarating screenplay works on so many level (a diamond
heist gone wrong, Brits vs. Americans, romantic comedy...) and the
top-notch cast obviously had an excellent time doing this film-job.
There's not a dull moment throughout the entire movie and every
sequence contains at least two or three hilarious moments. The humor is
very over-the-top at times but, what the hell, it remains a joy to
behold. The cast is nearly perfect with John Cleese, Michael Palin and
Jamie Lee Curtis at their absolute best. Still, there's one actor who
deserves extra praise for his role here and that's Kevin Kline. His
hyperactive, deranged and extravagant character Otto is one of the most
brilliant roles in comedy cinema ever! His moves, grimaces and
monologues will make you fall off your seat laughing. Kline won an
Oscar for his role and, everybody who has seen "A Fish Called Wanda"
will agree on the fact that this was a well-deserved price.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the funniest films I have ever seen. The film is so well put
together that time flew on by and I was sitting there wanting more.
This movie is perfectly cast and well directed. There is no real style to
the direction, but when you have a script like this all you need to do is
point the camera and let it rip. I would like to point out that if you
haven't seen this movie yet, check it out for Kevin Kline's performance
alone. It is one of the best comedic performances you will ever witness.
Great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
To make a comedy that can be lauded with the comment 'absolutely
hilarious' isn't an easy thing to do. It's not so difficult, however,
when you are one of the funniest men on god's green earth; and the
extremely talented John Cleese has certainly managed to write a fine
piece of comedy here. Teaming up with Monty Python buddy Michael Palin
and Ealing studios director Charles Crichton, these talented comedians
have managed to create a film that is most certainly one of the
funniest; laugh per minute and lasting hilarity when it's over, movies
ever made. The plot is taken straight from the classic Ealing comedy
era (no wonder it works so well) and it follows four crooks that have
stolen a bunch of jewels and now decide to double cross one another to
take the loot solely for themselves. The plot thickens when the female
of the bunch decides that the best way to get the loot would be to get
close to a grassed-up co-conspirator's barrister; John Cleese.

Aside from an inch-perfect screenplay, A Fish Called Wanda also
benefits from a fine cast of actors to deliver it. John Cleese steals
every scene he's in, as you might expect, and he more than justifies
his reputation as one of, maybe even the, finest British comedy actor
ever. He is joined by a talented pair of Americans; Kevin Kline and
Jamie Lee Curtis, along with, as mentioned, his fellow Python Michael
Palin. Kline is certainly one of the most underrated actors working
today, and his comic timing in this movie is right on the money. Makes
you wonder how much better he could have been used over the years.
"Scream Queen" Jamie Lee Curtis also does well in the title role; and
Michael Palin obviously knows his way round a comedy script. The jokes
in the film come thick and fast, and I can't think of a single one that
didn't work. It's the big gags that are the real stand out of the
movie, though, and one in particular that sees Kevin Kline trying to
explain to Cleese's wife what he's doing in their home is absolutely
priceless. I nearly fell of my chair laughing. This film is a must see.
<|_=00=_|>

When four people team up for armed robbery then all try to keep the whole
lot for themselves, hilarity follows. The humor in this film is clever and
constant, never letting up for a minute. Watch especially for Kevin Kline's
performance of Otto, it's one you'll remember for years to come. His
attitude and his character suit him so well. His contrast with John
Cleese's
Archie Leach is phenomenal.
A must see for all. Brilliant film.
<|_=00=_|>
'The Fish Called Wanda' and 'Some Like It Hot' are the two best
comedies that I have ever seen. They're both very unique films and
represent one complete story and manage at same to be devastatingly
funny films. They don't need sequels because they are both 'perfect' in
their own right. I have seen these films so many times but they always
surprise me again and again when I find out how good they are.

'The Fish Called Wanda' is not only well made but also happens to be
funny. I call this movie 'the best', which may sound ironical, because
Cleese and Palin have even been more funny as Pythons. Also ironical is
that Jamie Lee Curtis says only one joke (Aristotle was not...) in the
whole film. Kevin Kline is hysterically funny without one-liners and
slap-sticks. It is the overall situation that makes the film complete.
This is to say, that the film is not at all stuck up with gags but has
absolutely right timing for every event. This feature makes the film
even better than anything what Monty Python and the Marx Brothers have
done. Or at least reaches the same level with them. This film proves
that a movie can kill you in laughter using only everyday realism.

A Masterpiece from John Cleese, who proves here that he can be funny
even without Pythonity. He actually did the same with 'Fawlty Towers',
but as a single film is this the very best. It just works.
<|_=00=_|>
Portraying a heist gone awry, "A Fish Called Wanda" goes all out in
every way possible. Maybe the whole thing is little more than an excuse
for a bunch of silly situations, but they have some great ones here.
Whether it's John Cleese's dance, Kevin Kline's rips at England,
Michael Palin's stuttering, or Jamie Lee Curtis's deadpan performance,
they know how to do everything here. I can't describe how funny the
movie is; you just have to see it. And you may very well die laughing -
or if nothing else, you'll want to take a trip to England. Kevin Kline
definitely deserved his Oscar. And of course, the cast teamed up again
for the equally funny (maybe even better) "Fierce Creatures". This is a
comedy classic in every way.

Oh, and in case Kevin Kline is reading this: Happy birthday! You're my
favorite actor!
<|_=00=_|>

A Fish Called Wanda is my favourite movie of all time and always will be.
John Cleese has written this masterpiece very cleverly, his best best
writing piece since Fawlty Towers. Kevin Kline, who won an Oscar for his
role in the film, is excellent as the looppy, arm pit sniffing Otto, and is
my favourite in the film. Michael Palin is also brilliant as the stuttering
Ken. John Cleese, in a role rather different to Basil Fawlty and his Monty
Python characters, plays the lawyer Archie Leach fantastically. But the
movie is all around Jamie Lee Curtis' Wanda, who is an American thief, after
diamonds that she, Otto, Ken and George (Tom Georgeson) stole. In order to
get the diamonds, Wanda has a fling with just about everybody. The movie
will leave you in suspense wondering who will get the diamonds. Along the
way, there are plenty of funny lines and gags, especially from Kline. A top
movie. Watch A Fish Called Wanda, don't skip it. A++++
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the best, if not THE best, caper comedies of the modern era. 
The writing is very witty and at the same time sometimes turgid.  The cast
is absolutely perfect; Cleese makes a great subdued lawyer who wants to be a
bad boy, Curtis is wonderful and just keeps you guessing (as perhaps her own
character is guessing, as to what it is SHE wants), and Kline is perfectly
annoying as the Nietzsche-quoting American.  This movie has strong shades of
"The Big Sleep" and other Howard Hawks comedies, even going so far as to
name Cleese's character "Leach" in honor of Cary Grant. 

This film should appeal to those with no classic movie knowledge, but for
those who have seen "To Catch a Thief" and other caper classics, this is
even more of a treat. Romantic, funny, and slick. 

Also big ups to Michael Palin for another memorable supporting performance. 

