

What would you do if your new neighbors were wildly sexy, uninhibited,
and made a sport of playing with your emotions and desires, in
seductively teasing and dangerously exciting ways? If you think you're
happily married (Wife & Kid) and nothing exciting ever happens to you
because your too straight edge and repressed (like Belushi's character)
then you can only react. And react John does. This comedy works on so
many different levels. I have seen every thing Belushi and Aykroyd have
ever done on screen, big and small, together and separate, and this is
their best work. This movie is unpredictable, and it's meant to be that
way. It is a comic reminder that one night can turn your world upside
down, inside out and backward. The laughs are both in your face and
subtle, one of my favorites comes right at the end, when Vic (Aykroyd)
deadpans "It's not enough". You'll just have to see it to know what I
mean. If you liked the dialog and humour in "Fear and Loathing in Las
Vegas", "Snatch" and other Dark Comedies, and you like Belushi &
Aykroyd, You'll love this.

<|_=00=_|>

As is evident from the many split decisions to be found on this site,
"Neighbors" is not everyone's cup of tea.  However, for those who have a
taste for dark comedy, it is quite a good film.  As has been stated numerous
times, this film was a critical and box-office failure, and there were many
tensions between Belushi and the director on set.  Despite this turmoil, or
maybe because of it, "Neighbors" has an authentically skewed, uncomfortable
tone.  This works in it's favor, however, considering the subject matter. 
As does the casting of Aykroyd and Belushi in the roles of tormentor and
victim, respectively.  This choice is probably most responsible for some's
dislike of the film.  Unfortunately, Belushi, near the end of his life, was
being pigeon-holed as a crass, boorish "wild man" of comedy, mostly due to
his turns in "National Lampoon's Animal House" and "1941."  However, he was
a fine comedic actor capable of great subtlety and fine nuance, which is why
he consciously chose the role he did (the film was originally conceived with
John in the role of Vic).  This film and many scenes from his first year on
"Saturday Night Live" grandly illustrate his range.  Likewise, Dan Aykroyd
was quite an intense performer back then - in many "SNL" scenes (again,
mostly from the first year), Aykroyd paraded out a variety of high-strung
bizarre characters which practically vibrated with energy... indeed, though
he did not end up playing it, the role of "D-Day" in "Animal House" was
conceived with Dan in mind.  Here, he really gets to cut loose and, as
always, his and John's interplay are priceless.  Not to be overlooked is the
incredibly hot Cathy Moriarty who, not to take away from her own formidable
comedic prowess, was quite the piece of ass (she was also stunning in
"Raging Bull").  This is by no means a perfect film, and it does slow in
spots, but it is by no means the disaster many make it out to be.  See for
yourself... love it or hate it, at least admire it for trying to be
different.  Funny stuff!
<|_=00=_|>

Belushi and Aykroyd team up for a dark comedy unlike any I've
seen.

Earl (Belushi) is quietly living his life in the suburbs with his wife and
daughter, but it takes a decided turn for the worse  when a lunatic
(Aykroyd) and his wife move in next door.

Earl's life is turned into a nonsensical nightmare by the new couple; Vic
tells nonstop lies about everything including whether his 'home-made'
spaghetti sauce came from a jar and if the spaghetti is from a non-existent
Italian restaurant while his wife Ramona (Cathy Moriarty) alternately
seduces and blackmails Earl.  Particularly funny is the segment in which
Earl tries to sneak out in the middle of the night for a rendezvous with
Ramona, only to be caught by Vic, who is awake, on his rooftop, and wearing
scuba gear.

I didn't really care for this movie the first time I saw it, because almost
nothing made any sense.  Now, it's one of the few movies I've purchased.  I
suppose it's an acquired taste, but don't give up too quickly on it.  After
all, Belushi isn't making any new ones, is he?

ps- Great musical score!  No instruments lend themselves to bizarre
going-ons quite as readily as a trombone and kazoo.
<|_=00=_|>

My memories of real youth, like from five to ten years old are completely
blurred for the most part but for some reason I remember watching John
Belushi movies.  I remember going to see `Neighbors' and `Continental
Divide' in the theater!  I haven't really examined this but basically since
I was born I have adored John Belushi.  I remember renting `Neighbors' when
the VCR was a new item and I'd watch it over and over again.  I guess I was
a pretty strange ten-year old.  Memories of watching his movies, his death
and whatever else are still with me in strange little flashes.

I find `Neighbors' to be his best work.  This is a controversial opinion! 
I've recently reread Woodward's `Wired' and it seems John detested
everything about this movie.  He had sincere hatred for the director,
Alvidsen- he continually asked to replace him. Yet, John's biggest concern
for `Neighbors', again citing from Woodward's book, was the soundtrack.  He
wanted it to be punk rock and Holy Christ did it ever wind up the
antithesis. Of course I would love to have seen `Neighbors' done the way
John would have intended it but I still am very fond of this movie as is. I
think Alvidsen did a great job of bottling all of John's manic energy and I
think he summoned his best performance.  It's such a strange contradiction
that, again from reading `Wired', John wanted desperately to lose the
`Bluto' stigma and prove he could be a versatile actor.  This role reversal
gave him that chance and yet he was against this film from the beginning.

I think `Neighbors' is fantastic.  It's like `Who's Afraid Of Virginia
Woolf' on acid or something.  This film should be examined by future
filmmakers as an example of how what seems like all the wrong ingredients
can make a positive and an unforgettable piece of cinema in the end.


<|_=00=_|>
not a mainstream comedy by any means This movie fails on nearly every
front but has 2 things going for it, the cast, its an almost forgotten
piece of Ackroyd and Belushi in their prime, secondly its off kilter
pace and atmosphere, these alone are enough to give it a place in my
collection.

If your not into either of the above then give this a wide berth as its
sure to disappoint. apparently the film had a difficult gestation and
this seems plausible as its very inconsistent and aimless at times,
shifting gear unexpectedly. an eclectic and patchy dark comedy it
should suit die hard fans who want to see more of A&B
<|_=00=_|>
I have no hesitation in recommending this to any viewer with a warped,
dysfunctional, black sense of humor. It is absolutely brilliant.

A cruel, mean-spirited world view is loose in this classic, a
relentless assault on one man's senses that marked John Belushi's final
screen appearance... and what a way to exit! Ackroyd, Belushi's new
neighbor, begins to harass and take advantage of Belushi's goodwill
just hours after he has moved in. Cathy Moriarty, as Ackroyd's
tempestuous wife, is a revelation as she toys with Belushi's raw
emotions.

Director John Avildsen chose to shoot this comedy like a sitcom and his
choice proves to be the correct one.

It's brilliance on a stick for specialized tastes.
<|_=00=_|>

Neighbors is a great comedy. The humor is a bit offbeat and you may have to
have a really good sense for humor to get the hilarity of whats going on.
Dan Ackroyd is great as Vic, the wacky next door neighbor. Some people may
think the film is a bit strange, but that's what makes it so funny. The
novelty of the film is the best thing about it. Undoubtedly, the greatest
moment is when Vic and Romona (the new neighbors) are sharing a spaghetti
meal with Earl and Edith Keese, the conservative couple next door. Vic
claims the meal came from a new restaurant called "Ceasar's Garlic Wars"
Earl grills Vic as to where the food came from, because he saw Vic making
the food next door in Vic's kitchen. What ensues is a hilarious tongue-tying
dialogue between slick Vic and a very sceptical Earl. You'll understand when
you see it. It's hysterical! The fun only begins there, as Vic and Romona
and the rest of the clan have more hilarous run-ins with each other through
out the night. It definitely is a must see for all lovers of comedy!!

<|_=00=_|>
I read Belushi's Biography and was surprised to learn of "Neighbors",
his last movie. I tracked it down just out of curiosity, as I'm also a
Berger fan, and had read the novel that the movie is based on. I liked
the novel, and wondered about the movie. Although the movie does depart
from the novel, it's a great movie in its own right. It's not the sort
of humor that everyone would enjoy, and it does poke fun at suburban
America. In a lot of ways, I think this is an even better film than the
celebrated "Blues Brothers"- but it's more subtle and less of a cartoon
than that one. Belushi and Akroyd are great in this film, and it's very
funny. I found myself laughing out loud. I wish someone would release
it on DVD so more people would get the chance to watch it.
<|_=00=_|>

Nutty, miserable and touching... the best Belushi film.

Yes!! I think this was Belushi's finest film.  And it took me at least 2
viewings before I even liked it... Probably the most underrated comedy of
the 1980s.

This film captures the desperate isolation of Earl (Belushi) and Enid
(Kathryn Walker) Keese, two deadpan suburbanites who barely have any
feelings left due to the changelessness of their lifestyle.  Suddenly, two
insane neighbors show up to occupy the only other house on Bird Street,
which has gone vacant for some time.

The neighbors Vic and Ramona (Dan Aykroyd and Cathy Moriarty) play
alternating head games on Earl, while showing a much more reasonable face
to
Mrs. Keese.  Each lopsided encounter becomes increasingly confrontational
and humiliating to poor Earl, who in the course of about 18 hours comes
close to losing everything he has... wife, car, house, daughter, health,
freedom and sanity.  It's an extreme hard-luck story through most of it,
reminding me for some reason of Jack Lemmon in The Out of Towners.  It's a
real train wreck, but lots of fun.

You have to watch carefully to see the real beauty of this film.  The
subtlety of Belushi's performance is a large part of what makes it work.
Although Earl could shut the door and lock it at any time to escape these
people, he is actually intrigued by them, being quite desperate to make
ANY
friends from outside his tomblike neighborhood, no matter how insane.
Each
time, he seems resolved not to fall for the next ploy... yet can't help
himself.  You can really see the conflict in him.  The ultimate payoff at
the end is worth every ounce of misery along the way... a real catharsis,
and very appropriate.

The dialogue is witty and jabby, and lots of fun.   There are lots of
great
one-liners throughout.  Here's one of my favorite exchanges between Earl
and
Vic, Vic is trying to get Earl to admit what secret arrangement he's made
with Ramona.

DA: Tell us Earl.  Or do I have to pound it out of ya?
JB: (stands abruptly, shouting) DON'T EVER SPEAK TO ME THAT WAY IN MY OWN
HOME!
DA: Why would I?
JB: You just did!
DA: It's just something a guy says...
JB: Well I never say it!
DA: I don't blame you.

Well it's funnier in context, trust me.

There are great directorial touches along the way.  Camera angles at times
get very creepy, referring to Hitchcock and Romero.  The musical score is
wonderful.  It is the very essence of insanity, tumbling from
Twilight-Zone
with theramins to 50's cartoon to Native-American drumbeats to circus
marches.   And listen to the narration coming from the TV in the Keese's
living room (voiced by Aykroyd), hilarious.

The reason some people disliked this movie I think is the expectations
they
have about Belushi.  This is definitely not Animal House or the Blues
Brothers.  He plays the straight man, and it seems conceptually strange,
but
if you watch with an open mind you won't be disappointed.  I think if he
hadn't died so young, in Belushi we would have seen a tremendously
powerful
comic/dramatic actor and lasting box-office draw, on the scale of Tom
Hanks.
Ah, what might have been.

Thanks for reading.

--James Hakola


<|_=00=_|>

(May contain spoilers)

I don't even think I can begin to describe this movie. It was totally
illogical and none of the events connected in any way, shape, form, or
fashion. I'm not saying it was bad, in fact, I did a good amount of
laughing, but as was stated before, they were more "where the hell did that
come from?" laughs. Once or twice, I think I tried to figure it out, and I
think I hurt myself in the process. The performances were great on the part
of Belushi and Aykroyd, they were very convincing and probably made the
movie a little more logical than it could've been (if that's even
possible).
Its the kind of movie that leaves one speechless at the end. It was
incredibly realistic and predictable in parts, and then, in the next
moment,
became totally unrealistic and surprising. I thought the movie ended three
times, and it just kept going. Belushi's character did show a couple of
signs of stupidity when he kept entertaining the notions of his wacky
neighbors, and kept getting burned by them. One of the parts that confused
me the most was when Belushi's character locked Aykroyd's character and his
wife in the basement, and all of a sudden you hear a chain saw and screams
coming from the cellar. The line that got Belishi's character to open the
door was, "How do you know he's not an escaped vivsectionist?" I recommend
you see this movie, but only out of morbid curiosity. Don't say I didn't
warn you!!!
