

Shawshank is superb.  Roman Holiday is perfect.  Raiders is a blast.  But
The Man from Snowy River has been, is, and always will be my favorite movie.
 Some movies just match your personality more than others, trumping any
technical deficiencies they may have.  No, Snowy River doesn't have the best
acting, the best screenplay, the best direction.  But in all of them it's
great, and the combination of the story, the cast, the scenery, and music
(Bruce Rowland deserved an Oscar for his score) is much greater than the sum
of its parts.  For me, it's everything a movie ought to be: uplifting,
heartwarming, optimistic, romantic, adventurous.  It swept me away when I
was 13 and its magic hasn't dimmed at 34.  What a wonderful
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The Man from Snowy River is by far one of the best movies about cowboys
I have seen. It shows cattle ranchers doing what they do best, riding
their horses! But as it is with most of our favorite movies, we can
find flaws in them. Kirk Douglas should not have played two characters,
and the girl playing Jessica could not act to save her soul. But poor
acting aside this movie has possibly the greatest horse chase sequences
ever! The riders do things with their horses I never thought possible
especially when Jim jumps over a cliff while on his horse. The movies
musical score makes every sequence truly beautiful and accents the
background of the Austrailan highlands perfectly. The music during the
chase scene makes the sequence all the more inspirational. I would
recommend this movie to any fan of westerns, young or old, American or
Australian, this movie is for you!
<|_=00=_|>

The Man from Snowy River is a family favorite. The cinematography of
this film was breath-taking. The love story was convincing and the
acting was superb. Kirk Douglas plays both the father and the brother
and although the plot is somewhat contrived, it is set up extremely
well. All of the elements work to make a good movie and one that I
watch over and over. The scenes of the Australian mountains and the
horses along with the musical score make this a very picturesque,
romantic, and warm film. A romance and an action-adventure movie rolled
into one which can charm a woman and still be a manly film. The 2nd
movie Return to Snowy River was a worthy sequel and Tom Burlinson as
Jim Craig does an excellent job in both films. If you are a horse
lover, I would definitely recommend this film.

<|_=00=_|>

It is hard to believe that so many years has past since I first saw "A Man
from Snowy River."  I was young and borrowed it on Betamax (yes Betamax)
from a friend. Although I wish that I could of seen a full screen version
of
it, I will have to settle with the still fantastic small screen
version.

The story is fairly simple.  After his father dies, a boy tries to prove he
a man worthy enough to live on his beloved Snowy Mountain. In order achieve
this prize, he finds work on lower ground on a big ranch. A sweet romance
is
set between Jim, the boy, and the Rancher's daughter, Jessica, who is a
feisty and strong female.  There are wild horses, a sympathetic-but-bad-guy
rancher, and beautiful scenery all which are an integral part of the story.
(I don't want to give too much of the movie away).

I recently saw this movie (this time on VHS)with my niece and nephew. I
could not believe how much I enjoyed it again.  The thrilling horse riding
scenes kept me at the edge of my seat.
It is an ultimate family film one that has no foul language, gratuitous sex
or violence.  Nothing is dumbed down, the viewers being treated with the
respect we deserve. GO RENT IT NOW!
<|_=00=_|>

The Man From Snowy River (1982) demonstrates the quality of the Australian
film industry in recent years. The cinematography, the score, the quality
of
acting - all combine to make this film a romantic classic, a Gone With the
Wind parallel.  Having grown up with this film, twelve years later, it is
the still the most beautiful, most awesomely inspiring epic I have ever
seen.  Clearly one of the best stories of love, life and horses ever filmed
in one of the most astounding paradises on Earth.
<|_=00=_|>
My ONLY regret about this movie is that I didn't go with my wife and
her brother to see it in the theater. Its magnificent scenery is paled
on the small screen. As for the plot, it's the classic "boy turns into
a man" tale. Jim Craig's father dies and Jim must move off the mountain
until he's earned the right to live on the mountain.

He's a prideful young man and falls in love with a powerful rancher's
daughter who he has more in common with than he realizes. Rather than
spoil the plot, take my word for it, this is a great movie. No, it does
not have the best acting in the world; however, Sigrid Thornton is a
noted Australian actress on a par with some our own American actresses.
This movie is a must see and the soundtrack will stick in your mind for
years...it's even used as the intro music for one of the network's golf
broadcasts.
<|_=00=_|>
THE MAN FROM SNOWY RIVER....

There was movement at the station......

The Man From Snowy River tells it how it is. I go up in the snowy
mountains on my horse to drive cattle and love going to the exact
places the the movie was made. I have camped over in Craig's hut and
camped in the snowy's. There are only a few brumbies left up there
because of people shooting them but now and then you catch a glimpse of
brown and black, dim shadow's on the grass. It is THE greatest place on
earth. I hope everyone who see's this movie appreciate's the magic of
the snowy mountains and the high country.
<|_=00=_|>

Horse lover are you? This will be the ticket for you because they were in
abundance. Good tale of lost love, rejection, and romance set in the
Austrailian outback: truly magnificent scenery. Good acting and lots of
action kept the pace quick and interesting in this story of life when men
were men and so were women.
<|_=00=_|>
Fairly ordinary movie about a boy suddenly alone in the world . In
1880s Australia , Victoria Alps , when young Jim Craig's father
(Terence Donovan) dies he becomes an orphan boy and he is seeking a
life of his own . Meanwhile , a reclusive mountain man (a bearded Kirk
Douglas) helps Jim overcome his sudden state as an orphan . Jim (Tom
Burlison) takes a job at the Harrison cattle ranch and there the men
challenge him and then he is forced to become a man . Jim falls in love
with the well brought-up Jessica (young and beautiful lead Sigrid
Thornton) . But her daddy (non-bearded Kirk Douglas, though Burt
Lancaster and Robert Mitchum were also considered for the dual role)
aims to keep the lovers apart . And a wild horse is a stunning
highlight . 

This big hit entertaining adventure contains melodrama , thrills ,
action , a love story , spectacular outdoors and stunning photography
highlights . More like Disney style than a John Ford Western , this
Australian film takes its wake from ¨Wilderness family¨ saga . Being
based on the poem by A.B. 'Banjo' Paterson , scripted by Fred Cullen
and John Dixon . Very good acting by the great Kirk Douglas in a dual
character -a cheap gimmick of casting- , as portraying two battling
brothers , one a wealthy land-owner and the other an one-legged
prospector . The starring couple , Tom Burlison and Sigrid Thornton ,
suffers through the inexperience and being newcomers actors . Tom
Burlinson performed all his own horse riding stunts in the film .
Colorful cinematography , as photography of horses in breathtaking . It
was an Australian huge success and was one of fifty Australian films
selected for preservation as part of the National Film and Sound
Archive of Australia . It is continued by ¨Return to Snowy River¨ by
Geoff Burrowes who produced first entry and also with spectacular
scenarios . Following the lives of the previous ranch hand and the rich
rancher's daughter ; Brian Dennehy takes over from from Kirk role as
stubborn dad . 

This Down Under motion picture filled with enjoyable moments was
professionally directed by George Miller , but with no originality
because takes too many elements from former films . Not to be confused
with another Australian director, George Miller, of the Mad Max movies
. Miller is an Australian director usually working for television
(Tidal wave , Journey to the center of the earth , Attack of the
Sabretooth and many others) and occasionally for cinema (The man from
Snowy river , Zeus and Roxanne , Robinson Crusoe ). Rating : 6 .
Acceptable and entertaining flick with glimmer cinematography making
the whole film worthwhile watching .
<|_=00=_|>
THE MAN FROM SNOWY RIVER ***** An Australian western that centers its
story on a coming-of-age mountain man (Tom Burlinson) who's father dies
and must go to the lowlands to earn enough money to support the family
farm. There, he finds work at a cattle ranch owned by Kirk Douglas, who
wants to expand his success to something greater: unmined gold in the
mountains. As Burlinson comes to grips with his new work setting and
first love (Sigrid Thornton), he evolves into the man he needs to be to
follow in his father's footsteps back home. It's excellent family
entertainment, with a story that is basic enough for everyone to
comprehend, yet doesn't hold a corny or simpleton status because of it.
Be sure to rent it.
