
Montgomery Brewster (Richard Pryor) is a down and out baseball player
in the lower leagues along with his best friend Spike Nolan (John
Candy). Out of the blue he inherits 30 Million Dollars that he must
spend in 30 Days and have nothing to show for it, so he can get his
real inheritance of 300 Million Dollars; oh yes and he he can't tell
anyone why he has to waste all this money.

This excellent and hilarious story is played out brilliantly by Pryor
and Candy, and it takes us on a spending spree that has its up and
downs for poor Mr Brewster. Because of the nature of the movies theme,
Brewsters millions is quite firmly rooted in the 80's when it was made,
but it still entertains with ease and is well worth watching.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

You can imagine that any movie that stars Richard Pryor and John Candy must
be a funny one, and this definitely qualifies.

The plot is disarmingly (and misleadingly) simple. Montgomery Brewster
(Pryor) stands to inherit a $300 million fortune from a long lost uncle
(played by Hume Cronyn), whose will is videotaped. The catch? To get the
money, Brewster must first spend $30 million in 30 days. An additional
catch? After spending the $30 million in 30 days, Monty still isn't allowed
to own anything. At first I still didn't think there would be that great a
challenge, but in fact, as Monty discovers, it's hard to spend $30 million
without actually purchasing anything of lasting value.

The movie progresses through Monty's spending spree on hotel rooms, parties,
employees, the minor league baseball team he played for and finally his
campaign to NOT be elected mayor. Other candidates spend millions to get
elected; why not spend millions to convince people not to elect you? It's
also interesting to see the reactions of his friends (especially Candy) to
his squanderings, because another condition to the will is that he can't
tell anyone what's going on.

It's really quite a lot of fun, and Pryor and Candy together make it worth
watching.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
When people think of the long legacy of Richard Pryor as a comedian,
this film may not be at the top of the list. He has achieved greater
heights personally and professionally elsewhere. Many Pryor fans may
have skipped over this one altogether with a catalog of films to choose
from that include luminaries from "Car Wash" to "Stir Crazy" to "Harlem
Nights." That's unfortunate really, because as comedic performances go,
Pryor strikes pure gold in this unheralded film. His manic energy, his
sheer frustration with the impossibility of his dilemma (spend 30
million dollars until you are dead broke and not have a single penny or
asset left at the end, in order to inherit three HUNDRED million) and
the fact that he channels so much believability into what would
otherwise be absurd are highly laudable. With an excellent supporting
cast that included the likes of John Candy and Jerry Orbach, it's hard
to imagine anyone too jaded to enjoy this film. It's ridiculous and
over the top, to be sure, but it's also supremely funny in a way much
more pretentious comedies can't touch. Pryor breathes life into the
film and the film glows as a result. Whether it's on your personal
"best comedy" list or not, it's not a film you can easily excuse not
watching whether a Pryor fan or not. From third rate baseball playing
bum, to toast of the town millionaire, back to a bum again before a
highly rewarding ending comedically and emotionally, "Brewster's
Millions" pulls off the best trick of all - it makes the viewer feel
like a million bucks for having watched it.
<|_=00=_|>
I cant understand the low IMDb rating for what is a very funny film
with two great stars in Richard Pryor and John Candy. Even though its a
re-make and very much of its time (the 1980's) there is till plenty of
entertainment to be had. Some of the areas of the film are still very
relevant if you really could vote for none of the above isn't that a
better vote than many of todays politicians? In tone this film is very
similar to another 80's comedy - Trading Places, although this is the
slightly lesser film it's still very enjoyable with plenty of comedy
highlights. Pryor is outstanding and with the talented John Candy in
support the film certainly doesn't lack laughs. There is even a message
attached in places about the perils of greed and money but the ending
feels quite abrupt and it would be nice to see the other characters
re-action to the outcome.

8/10 - A bright and breezy comedy.
<|_=00=_|>

Richard Pryor stars as a minor-league baseball pitcher in New Jersey who
gets an inheritance, but the inheritance has a large catch. Pryor will
inherit $300 million in 30 days if he can spend $30 million in that time,
but he must have nothing of value after that time period. A really smart
idea that works due to the comedic talents of Pryor more than anything else.
His uncanny ability to portray highly sympathetic characters is also very
important here. John Candy shines as Pryor's best friend. A nice little film
that toes the line on being something really special. It does not quite
reach high levels, but it does come close and overall it is an entertaining
and noble work. 3.5 out of 5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is consistent with it's humor throughout.  So many 80s films
start out with an original idea but seem to lose site of it halfway
through
as it becomes a love story.  Not this film, Brewster is trying to spend
that
money right up until the clock chimes midnight.  One of my favorites by
Richard Pryor.  John Candy only added to it's hilarity.
<|_=00=_|>

The film is a comedy of how Brewster finds creative ways of spending the 30
million dollars and not always getting it right. He is unable to tell anyone
of his real intentions of inheriting 300 million by successfully blowing 30
million dollars in 30 days. As soon as he receives news he goes on a wild
spending spree and recruits lawyers, security guards, decorators  etc. all
at very inflated salaries. Eventually the word goes around and soon everyone
is jostling to benefit from his generosity. Some of the people close to him
are unnerved by his spending prowess and tries to help him acquire more
money through investments which is exactly the opposite of what he wants.
This all adds up to a series of very comical events which is most enjoyable
to watch. Look out for the upcoming remake of this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

In one of his all time best film performances, Richard Pryor portrays
Montgomery Brewster, the pitcher for a minor league baseball team in New
Jersey. His wealthy uncle dies and leaves him a $300 million
inheritance....but there's a catch. In order to get it, he must spend $30
million in 30 days. It might sound simple enough but a position in the New
York stock market as well as a phony election campaign for mayor sometimes
keep bringing spent money back to him. Hilarious complications ensue as
Pryor attempts to spend all of the money and keep it spent without getting
any of it back. Pryor shines in a fine character role that's away from his
usual con man typecasting.
<|_=00=_|>

I just watched this film for this first time and I thought it was pretty
good.  I have read several of the other reviews which are dismal to say
the
least but I am now a fan of Richard Pryor after this film.  For truly
awesome Pryor watch " Stir Crazy " instead.  This is a revamp of an older
film of the same name that came out even before
" talkies " in fact Thomas Jefferson may have seen the original!  The
1919
version could only be an archaic dusty relic that should be examined by
archaeologists.  That is exactly why this film needed a fresh new take,
forget people that feel it is not close enough to the original; it was
1985
during the " me " era and people were spending their dough like it was
going
out of style.  Ronald Reagan was president and Michael J. Fox was Alex P.
Keaton on " Family Ties " the Capitalist was the flavor of the
week.
Richard Pryor is Brewster a washed up baseball player who has been in
the
minors for 15 years, it seems as if his dreams are being washed up along
with his game.  His friend Spike played by John Candy (not a super
performance from him I might add) is his good friend and catcher on the
minor league ball team.  Brewster discovers that his great uncle ( a "
honky
" in his own words) is giving his last surviving heir a chance to get $
300,000,000 or play it safe and get $1,000,000.  The only stipulation to
get
a the big pay out he needs to play a little game, his great uncle was a
crotchety tormented man (too much cigar smoke, watch the flick).
Brewster has to spend 30 mill. in 30 days, with absolutely no assets.
That
is a tough situation if ever there was one.
The movie is really fun, its fantastic to watch Pryor trying to spend
every last penny.  I guess the movie's intention is to show how
extravagance
can be a real pain in the ass!!  I loved Pryor as Brewster, I wanted him
to
be successful, he is so damn funny and a truly likable guy.  Candy is the
buddy role, and his character is unfortunately, two dimensional.  I love
John Candy (Bless Him) but he cannot make much out of an under developed
role.  Watch a hilarious performance of Seventh Heaven (TV Minister) as
the
conniving lawyer who seems like he has a rake up his ass and you really
want
to see him get his just desserts. The movie is a little slow at times but
you will be cheering for Brewster along the way and see the hordes of
regular people (those without 30 mill to blow) enjoying his riches.  The
conclusion is a little bit weak as well but the many comic moments make up
for it.
Watch this flick, it might be a winner for you.

6.5/10


<|_=00=_|>

This is a story about a minor league baseball player, Richard Pryor, who is
well liked and comes into money!  He has to spend $30m in 30 days in order
to inherit #300m; however he's not allowed to tell anyone about the $300m
deal.  Pryor is very funny with all the excitement of spending a lot of
money recklessly and trying not to receive any back, but he has to have
receipts for all spent.  The casting of some great comedians like John
Candy, Jerry Orbach, and Hume Cronyn are a great asset to this film.  There
is a lot of excitement and the baseball game between Hackensack Bulls and
the New York Yankees is especially fun!  The last scene straightens out the
big complication of 'no receipts', just in time to win the big money.  So
who said money buys everything!?  Well recommended!
