

Back To The Future is such an inventive and exciting piece of filmmaking
that it is impossible to forget about it. The casting of every character
involved was absolutely perfect, and the performances were spectacular. I
first saw this film when I was six years old, and it is the only movie that
I know of that I don't think I could ever get sick of.

One of the best things about Back To The Future is that it really makes you
think. You can have in-depth conversations about the plausibility of the
story-line and spend hours discussing the film. The story is awesome, it is
delivered cleverly and entertainingly, and the movie as a whole is just so
much FUN that it can be forgiven whatever number of time-travel
discrepancies that may be found in the plot. 

I cannot recommend this movie enough. I have never found a movie other than
this one that provides such a huge dose of great fun, and it has the
desirable quality where you are able to see something new each time you see
it. The only problem is that they stopped at part III.
<|_=00=_|>

Back To The Future (1985) is my all time favourite movie. It's a thoroughly
feel good film, accessible to all ages and enjoyable from the 1st to the
45th time of watching and never fails to bring a smile.  Humour for all ages
and a kick-ass car to boot, what more could a young kid want? Or those young
at heart?

From Marty's "Johnny B Goode" to Doc's classic "Run For It Marty!" You'll
find that even though you know what's coming next, you'll still laugh. It is
the ultimate feel good movie, the weed overcomes the bully, the dreamers
wishes come true and all because a nosey old bird thrusts for a nickel "Save
The Clock Tower!"

It's popularity spawned 2 sequels and although it got decreasingly good in
terms of quality as a film, Back To The Future remains the best film in my
repetoire and a safe bet when you need to feel good.

It gets a solid 9 out of 10, comedy, fantasy, the gorgeous Lea Thompson, the
insane but comic Doc and the typical teenager Marty make this film a must
for all young at heart.
<|_=00=_|>

A funny sci-fi? Unusual but here it not only works but does so
spectacularly. A whimsical but very clever time travel story that bedazzles
you leaving you wanting more.

The charasmatic Michael J Fox plays a wonderful bumbling high schooler
searching for love, a guitar gig and his existence which he himself
threatens to erase.

Clever and humourous references litter this fun flick; references which are
further improved upon in the sequels. Views of the same scenes from
different angles, different perspectives and different timelines
abound.

Fun for the entire family.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the last movies I went with sister to see back in 86. The film
blew my mind. My friends never wanted to see this one. I was happy I
went. Many year's latter, I bought "Back to the Future" at Mc Donalds
for $2.99 or for some other low price with a meal. The film ages well,
and I love it just the same. The director and screen writer mixes
science fiction, humor, and action perfectly. A big component of the
script is time line theory which drives the story. Marty has many
problems to fix, and finds out more than anyone wants to know about
their parents. Michael J Fox and Christopher Loyd were excellently
casted. Marty and Doc what a chemistry. With the film series one see
the many dualities with time travel, that become a constant with the
movie. The town clock, being awoke in a strange place, and letters.
Keep this in mind when watching the 2 other sequels. The theory that
time repeats itself is evident. What a time machine, the Delorian adds
to this movie. Worth watch over again. 10 out of 10! Thank you TBS for
showing all 3 films.
<|_=00=_|>

Back to the Future is one of those rare, almost forgotten, pieces of pop
culture that, surprisingly, draws little attention to itself.  Unlike such
notable gimmicks as Star Wars, Indiana Jones, Jaws, and Independence Day,
there aren't any low-budget leeches trying to imitate off this work and
cash-in on its success.
This is due to the near flawless script.  Why it didn't win an Oscar, you're
guess is as good as mine.  Making a time-travel storyline as in this movie
that doesn't fall into plot holes the size of Terminator's is exceptionally
difficult.  I'd know.

The film starts slow, and gradually accelerates as it progresses.  You could
almost call it a Jerry Bruckheimer movie for kids with Spielberg's trademark
nostalgia.  The characters themselves are typical stereotypes for a movie
like this and none of them, not even Marty himself, gel with potential.  In
some ways it's as if MAD magazine made the film in an attempt to be
serious.

With such an automotive obsession as this film has, one must wonder if
George Lucas was involved.

Overall, I have to praise this movie for its inventiveness and originality,
even if it created most of our time-travel cliches.  4 out of 5 stars.  Well
worth your time.
<|_=00=_|>

Time travel movies never disappoint-that is because the concept of time
travel is a very interesting one which most people must have thought about
at one time or another. What would happen if you went back in time and an
innocuous act changed the course of history for better or worse? It's
something to think about.

I won't reveal any plot details for this movie because it will spoil it for
those who haven't seen it. Let's just say that Michael J. Fox as Marty McFly
ends up back in 1955 where a sequence of events inadvertently orchestrated
by Marty threaten his very existence. He is aided by Doc Brown played
brilliantly by Christopher Lloyd who tries to get him back to 1985 without
causing any damage to the fabric of time.

The movie is great-and I feel it can be enjoyed by anyone regardless of
their individual tastes in film genres. In fact, I find it hard to believe
anyone could dislike a film like this. It has action, adventure, plenty of
humour and some cool moments. All the actors involved in the movie play
their parts great.

Anyone who watches this movie will love it.
<|_=00=_|>
Zemeckis's 'Back To The Future' trilogy has been a childhood favourite
for a long time. Having revisited it today, brought me to a nostalgic
state. The 80's saw a lot of excellent original fun 'young' films like
'Back To The Future' (of course), 'Better Off Dead', 'Heathers', 'The
Breakfast Club' etc. What really made these films immensely enjoyable
then, and classics today, is that they really reflected what it was
like being a young person in the 80s. The movies themselves were well
written, well executed, well acted and they cut straight to the point.

Back to 'Back To The Future'. This one is sheer fun, even today.
There's an incredible energy about it but it still manages to stay an
'innocent' film. The music is very effective. It's slick and follows a
steady pace. The special effects are decent. Though people might pick
on the plausibility of the time travelling, I think this is really a
very minor flaw because it is overall a well written movie and the
point was to entertain. Yet, this is not to say that it's brainless
entertainment. I think it cleverly brings forth some interesting themes
and I liked how they funnily used some ideas of Oedipus Rex's story.

The acting is superb overall. Christopher Lloyd as the over-the-top mad
scientist is a laugh riot. Michael J. Fox totally owns Marty McFly with
his natural charisma, raw energy and brilliant dialogue delivery. Lea
Thompson is cute and vivacious and Crispin Glover is good.

'Back To The Future' is one of the most enjoyable time-travelling
classics. It's over 23 years old and it still hasn't gotten old. Sadly,
they don't make it like this these days but then again we always can
revisit them. That's why they're classics.
<|_=00=_|>

BACK TO THE FUTURE (1985) **** Michael J. Fox, Christopher Lloyd, Lea
Thompson, Crispin Glover, Thomas F. Wilson, Marc McClure, Wendy Jo Sperber. 
This generation's "It's a Wonderful Life"?  Think about it.  Very popular
and very entertaining sci-fi comedy that made Fox a movie star after success
with tv's "Family Ties", casting him, after Eric Stoltz was dropped, as
Marty McFly who winds up in a nuclear-powered DeLorean time-machine and is
sent back in time to 1955 by his quintessentially eccentric friend Dr. Emmet
Brown (Lloyd doing a fine Art Carney).  There he meets up with his parents
to be and realizes his chance encounters have changed his future and he must
see history repeat itself or perish.  High-concept hilarity and some truly
ingenious schematics thanks to screenwriter Bob Gale and director Bob
Zemeckis.  Wondering what it would be like to never be born and/or what it
would be like if things were different...see what I mean.  Oscar-nominated
song "The Power of Love" by Huey Lewis (who has a fun cameo) fuels this
dynamo gem of a film.  Classic.
<|_=00=_|>

"Back to the Future" is a very smart film that benefits from likeable
characters and an insightful screenplay.  Michael J. Fox accidently goes
back to 1955 in a DeLorean that has been turned into a time machine by the
wacky Christopher Lloyd.  Now Fox must bring his parents together after he
inadvertently changes the future.  It is not quite as complicated as it
sounds.  The film is great fun that seems brand new 15 years later.  A great
movie by Robert Zemeckis.  4.5 out of 5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
I just asked my friend that I'm speaking with through instant messenger
if he had ever seen "Back to the Future" and he said "Yeah, who
hasn't?", sadly, I never had the opportunity until tonite and he called
me a failure as a movie buff, well, at least I've seen the movies now!
Ha ha! I'm back on track! Well, obviously, this is my first review for
the first Back to the Future and when I came her to IMDb, I knew this
was a well loved movie, I was just amazed at it being on the top 250,
but I can't give it a lower rating because Back to the Future was an
excellent film that was ground breaking for it's time and still today.

Marty McFly and his good friend, The Doc, are two science nuts. Marty
isn't really happy with his home life and the fact that he and his
parents are very square and strict, The Doc calls Marty and shows him
his latest invention, his De Lauren that he built into a time machine.
When the government go after The Doc and Marty has to get away, he
jumps in the car and goes back to the year of 1955, when his parents
met. Instead of the way his mom and dad met happening to his dad, he
ends up being in the position and mom ends up falling for her son, not
even knowing! But he has to make sure his parents are together in time
so he can get back without altering the future.

Back to the Future to this day is still a timeless treasure that I
notice more and more is becoming part of a newer generation. Michael J.
Fox should be proud, his work will be remembered for a long time. Back
to the Future worked so well because of the great story and the humor
was great, the whole cast worked together and made a terrific movie
that will be looked back on thirty years from now and still be
considered cool.

10/10
