
I loved this movie. I totally disagree with some (negative) critiques
that I've read over the years. This was a great vehicle for Eddie
Murphy! He appeared to have a great time with his part as Chandler
Jarrell and he should never care about what the critics say, if he had
fun doing it – and most of his audience enjoyed it! And, it WAS fun to
watch as it combined some great fantasy tension with Mr. Murphy's great
comedic style. You have to keep in mind that 'Golden Child' is a
'fantasy' film – just an imaginative work of magic and wonder amidst
the 'real' world. During the time this film was released, I was working
in a video rental store. This was one of the most popular with all our
customers. Every single time, we put this one up on our monitor, ALL
the copies we had went out fast with wait-list requests that kept it on
the queue for months! Everyone who rented it loved it! I was the
resident film critic and all my regular customers would ask my opinion
before they rented – this was one of my favorites and I knew the taste
of my customers so I highly recommended this one to most of them. I
really feel that this film is a Sleeper – it may not have done too well
at the box office – due to very poor marketing – but it hit a high in
the video rental and purchase market later! (YES, I did buy this film
for my own video library!). I adored the little boy who played the
'Golden Child' – J. L. Reate - but after looking at his profile in
IMDb, I noticed that he never did any more films. That is sad, because
he definitely had an on-screen aura and could have continued with a
film career. I also adored Victor Wong, who played the Old Man (I LOVED
him in his part as 'Egg Shen' in 'Big Trouble in Little China' - 1986).
At any rate, this was a great film. The only drawbacks that didn't seem
to fit with the theme were some of the parts that got a bit more
'adult' in nature – such as 'Chandler's rather sexual remarks about the
serpent lady that was presented to him as a silhouette. It was funny,
but it still was out of sync. OK, so there were a few suggestive
gratuitous scenes – those were put in for the mind-set of the day
perhaps. This was still an adventurous and escapist type of film which
we do need today to get away from all the hard core reality and
depressing fluff that we are hit with from Hollywood. Now that's
Entertainment!
<|_=00=_|>

Why hardly anybody seems to appreciate this film anymore is without doubt
one of the greatest mysteries of our time. I'm truly perplexed. Roger Ebert
seems to be the only critic to at least half-realise how truly funny,
entertaining and brilliant a film THE GOLDEN CHILD really is.

Without doubt it's one of Eddie Murphy's finer films; it's impossible to not
have a good time while watching this movie... his one-liners keep coming
thick and fast, and if you can't find humour and fun in this movie, then
surely your heart is made of stone. Visually, its cinematography is executed
very well, the special effects are fantastic (except in one poorly executed
shot where Charles Dance turns into a rat) and the theme tune has a strange
kind of catchiness to it.

Don't be prejudiced against this movie, just because everybody else is.
People are so easily swayed by popular opinion these days that true
cinematic gems like THE GOLDEN CHILD are forgotten. Four stars out of four.
Long live 80s movies!
<|_=00=_|>

The premise may seem goofy, but since Murphy's character doesn't take it
seriously, it helps ease the audience into this mix of mysticism and
modern-day hard-boiled child abduction.  Excellent cast, particularly
Charles Dance and Charlotte Lewis, and Murphy is at the height of his 80's
peak in comedy/action.  There's also some great F/X, a very surreal dream
sequence, and a fairly original plot.  Often overlooked in the pantheon of
Murphy flicks, but this one is worth a look. 
<|_=00=_|>
Whenever I see most reviews it's called 'a misfire for Eddie Murphy'.
These critics want to take a look at some of the stuff he's doing these
days, and maybe soften their stance in retrospect... "The Golden Child"
is not highbrow entertainment, but thanks to some of the cast it
breathes new life into old clichés, and gives Murphy one of his best
roles. I don't understand the pervading lack of 'love' for its efforts,
at all. Perhaps it was released at a time when the establishment had
grown weary of knockabout, thrill-a-minute adventures? Steven Spielberg
started it with Indiana Jones; it's unfair to make this one a scapegoat
when what is possibly its biggest sin is also utterly harmless. There's
nothing necessarily wrong with trying to capitalise on trends.

Yes it's silly, but even an occasional observer should be able to
understand that 'ridiculous' is where Hollywood's idea of mysticism
begins and ends. What's more important than believability with a story
like this is that the audience have entertaining tour guides on hand to
show them the mysterious sights. Michael Ritchie and Eddie Murphy fit
the bill for this capacity just fine. My advice to you is to buy the
ticket and take the ride.
<|_=00=_|>

"The Golden Child" was Eddie Murphy's first film since his megahit
"Beverly
Hills Cop". And even though it's not as good as "Cop", it's a fun comic
adventure. Murphy stars as a finder of lost children who's assigned a most
unusual case. His assignment: to find the title character, a child with
mystical powers. This movie could have been titled "Beverly Hills Cop and
the Temple of Doom" since parts of this movie plays like a Spielbergian
adventure, kinda like an Indiana Jones comedy. It's got comedy with
laughs,
and adventure with special effects. Lots of fun.

*** (out of four)

<|_=00=_|>
I first saw this movie on television some years ago and frankly loved
it. Charles Dance makes one of the most terrifying villains anyone can
imagine. His sophistication is such a perfect contrast to the crudely
good hero. I have never been much of an Eddie Murphy fan but find his
irritating portrayal here a winner: a bit of "Axel Foley Through the
Looking Glass". Charlotte Lewis is, to utilize a hackneyed phrase but
the only one applicable, luminously gorgeous. Some scenes are
wonderfully created: the dream sequence, the bird, the silly fight
scenes, and the climactic confrontation. Through it all Murphy is the
modern man suddenly dropped into an oriental myth, a stunned and
quieter version of Kurt Russell in his oriental fantasy romp. Like that
movie we have James Hong, the incomparable actor whose scenes, however
short, raise the quality even of Derek. Since 1955 Hong has defined the
fine supporting actor, the "class act" of his profession. "The Golden
Child" is silly; it is not perfect; but it has so many redeeming
features that it is an enjoyable and amusing fantasy, well worth
watching. After four years I have seen "The Golden Child" again; I
enjoyed it even more! It truly is great fun.
<|_=00=_|>

Every once in a while, Eddie Murphy will surprise you.

In a movie like "the Golden Child", especially.  This is a movie you'd
figure would star maybe Harrison Ford or Kurt Russell or someone.  But Eddie
really does work; he's smart, he's funny, he's brave, kind, courteous,
thrifty, clean and everything else a hero should be.

Having been chosen to secure a mystic child who holds the key to protecting
the world from complete evil (embodied perfectly by Dance), Eddie goes from
California, to Nepal and back, all while the beautiful Kee Nang (Lewis)
wonders if he's all he says he is and a crazy old holy man (Wong, perfect as
always) knows that he is.

It's exciting, breathtaking in spots, shocking and, of course, funny.  Eddie
is the only action hero I know who could begin a movie by making rude
remarks behind some guy reading a porno magazine and end it with smart-aleck
remarks about Ed McMahon.

No problem with this "Child": it's a "Golden" find.

Nine stars.  Viva Nepal!
<|_=00=_|>
Like most people, I enjoyed Eddie Murphy in the 1980s with the
humorous, wild movies he made. Many of the characters he played were
similar: wisecracking, loud, funny and obnoxious. This is one of the
wilder stories he was involved with with a very good mixture of action,
romance, fantasy and comedy.

The female lead in here was an attractive actress named Charlotte
Lewis. With her looks and manner, I thought she might go places, but I
think this was the only hit movie she's been in.

Twenty years after "The Golden Child," I have found most of those
Murphy films not the entertainment they used to be. Maybe it's just me
getting older, but Eddie's constant shouting and abrasive boorishness
is too much to take now. That includes this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I love this film. It is well written and acted and has good
cinematography. The story blends action, humor, mysticism, and
tenderness with great sets and beautiful location shots. See it, buy
it, show it to your friends.

The acting is good and Murphy especially does a fine job portraying the
reluctant/unlikely hero. I enjoyed all the characters and found them to
be interesting and well developed with dynamic interactions.

I cared what happened to these people and, while the outcome was pretty
predictable (the good guys win, the hero gets the astonishingly
attractive girl and the holy child saves lives--who doesn't see that
coming?), it still made me happy when everything worked out well in the
end. Thank God this film's dignity was never ruined with a crappy
sequel. Grab some popcorn, cuddle up on the couch, and watch this fun,
happy and entertaining film.
<|_=00=_|>
When the only truly pure being on Earth is taken by a Demon and his
bizarre, circus freak troupe of minions from the holy place where he is
being raised who you gonna call? In this case Chandler Jarrell (Eddie
Murphy), a private investigator who focuses on locating missing
children while wearing ridiculous hats.

But Chandler sez "No" when initially asked by the exotic-hot Kee, who
is working on behalf of the Tibetan forces of good - some business card
that would be.

"No matter", she replies, "You are already on the case". So Na-Na to
you Mr Jarrell.

Jarrell is fast talking, hip, and irreverent but well meaning - in
other words everything that summed up Eddie Murphy in his "relevant"
phase, which ended around the release of Boomerang when Murphy got all
serious and introspective and sh*t.

Kee on the other hand is poised, deliberate, sombre and calm, but
surprisingly well equipped at unexpected times - and I'm not just
referring to the scene where she gets her white blouse soaked for no
good reason... well two good reasons.

After the two team up the trail takes them to the lair of a bikie gang,
then Chinatown where they meet Kala the Oracle (of sorts) who informs
Chandler of the magnitude of his quest - being that he is the Chosen
One after all...

Chandler also learns that the Golden Child is a once in a thousand
generations birth, born specifically to rescue humanity, capable of
restoring life with a touch, wise beyond reason and with the ability to
make a Pepsi can dance to classic 1950s songs...

So there's that.

There is a cool oddball dream sequence and a trip to Tibet to obtain
the sacred dagger that can free the imprisoned Golden Child, and a
pretty hilarious scene where Chandler and Kee have to bluff the airport
security to escape from Tibet.

When finally meets his nemesis Sardo Numspaa (Charles Dance) formally
to discuss the dagger for child swap things heat up, before a good
quickie 80s finale in which everything builds to a crescendo, the
figureheads of good and evil have a showdown and all is resolved in
about 6 minutes.

Perhaps The Golden Child doesn't move quite as fast as films do today
and the FX - which were pretty cool in the 80s - don't hold up quite so
well now, it is fun and enjoyable while it lasts and also has a few
quotables, including "One of her ancestors was raped by a dragon",
which is a line you don't hear every day.

Final Rating - 6.5 / 10. Not often listed among Eddie Murphy's
highlights, but The Golden Child is a very solid and worthwhile - if a
little dated - relic from the 80s.
