
Sheena wasn't made to win any Academy awards. Nevertheless, for a "B"
film the photography is actually quite good. Granted, Tanya's acting
ability at this time in her life needed a lot of work. I'm sure the
producers knew this going in and didn't care. They knew the attraction
would be to watch Sheena doing her thing in her jungle outfit. Tanya
was the perfect choice considering the reason for the film. Sheena was
made to showcase Tanya Roberts stunning physical attributes and was
successful in this regard. She is the reason the movie is still
moderately popular after 20 years. So if you like this type of
eye-candy film, enjoy! It wasn't meant to be anything else.
<|_=00=_|>

People really like to dump on this movie! Sure, it's dumb.... but it's NOT
boring! And to the guys who say that Tanya Roberts looks more like a Valley
Girl gone Troppo than a Jungle Queen (because a jungle girl would have hairy
armpits)......LIGHTEN UP! This is Hollywood, remember? The Dream Factory!
Escapism! Who wants Sheena to look like a bush pig?? Not me! As silly as it
is, this movie is no worse than the Saturday afternoon matinees of long ago
and it certainly is fun to watch, even though the dialog and a couple of the
situations are a little cringe-worthy. The scenery (and the cinematography)
is awesome and the animals are wonderful. The whole thing moves at a nice
pace and yes, Miss Roberts DOES take her clothes off.... and that can't be a
bad thing! Oh yeah, look for the string holding up the helicopter just
before it crashes....marvelous!! This dvd deserves pride of place on your
shelf right next to ANACONDA and GODZILLA. 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

I just have to say now that this film has aged rather well.  What with
"Charlie Angels" up on the big screen audiences are a little less
politically correct with regards to heroines.  As long as the lead is smart,
strong, and independent, it is okay that she is beautiful too.  "Sheena"
shares the same orb as "Wonder Woman," "Supergirl," Emma Peel of "The
Avengers," "Le Femme Nikita," and most obviously, "Xena."  This is a family
adventure film that is most of all fun where the children seem to enjoy it
equally as well as the adults.  Children like things that are pretty, and
this includes people, so Tanya Robert's natural beauty is appealing to
children too on a more simpler level.  Yes, there is a little violence (of
the adventure film variety) but not grotesquely, frightenly, or sickenly so.
 The same can be said about the display of skin which is never shown to be
associated with sex or violence.  What a concept!  Thank you!  Yes, there
are two scenes where Tanya Roberts is fully nude, one of Sheena showering
under a waterfall, and another of Sheena walking across the screen to bathe
in a pond.  But, they are so natural and appropriate (especially for
children) that I have to applaud the screenwriter for creating these two
scenes in lieu of the usual stupid reasons movie makers have to include nude
scenes.  Roberts does a terrific job as Sheena.     
<|_=00=_|>

I remember watching this on TV in the 80's. The old gang back at the college
dorms really enjoyed this too. This film has a lot GREAT eye candy. Tanya
Roberts was sooo worth watching in BEASTMASTER that the big wigs at the
studio thought they'd give her another film to "show off" more of her
special talents. Not to be sexist, they threw in SOAP's Ted Wass as her love
interest and made him show some of his "special talents". Just like in the
BEASTMASTER, there are plenty of those adorable animals to entertain and
attack those nasty old villains. 

With so many bad things happening in this world, do yourself a favor and get
away for 90 minutes. Watch something mindless like this to make you forget
about elections, markets, wars, terrorist, and J Lo. Let Tanya tame
you......

<|_=00=_|>

Not that bad.  The production values are excellent and the story line is
no
worse than TV or low-budgeted action adventure.  This is a PG film after
all.  I remembered this being marketed as a family film, however there are
some very violent scenes.  The shots of her swinging on a vine were very
realistic as were the flamingo and rhino attacks.  I was twelve when I
first
saw it and it was good to have a female action hero.  She was very
beautiful
AND strong.  In her early scenes she is shot sexy beautiful, but as the
film
progresses we see her more as healthy beautiful.  I never saw earlier
versions of Sheena, however no updated comic book hero movies ever match
the
originals (Batman, Superman, etc...)  Lois Lane is forever updated to
match
social change, why can't Sheena become more politically correct when it
comes to not wearing fur?  I think Tanya Roberts has gotten a bum rap over
the years.  Besides being so beautiful, she has a certain charm and
sweetness to her.  The hauntingly beautiful theme song is one of the best
of
any movie.  The final shot of Tanya Roberts, a reprise of her first shot,
galloping on a zebra along an endless beach of flamingos in the background
is breathtaking and worth the rental.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, PG apparently at the time allowed a brief nude scene. A
refreshing deal really. The violence really isn't too bad; surely of
the comic variety. Not an "R" picture. 

Second, the movie obviously is not to be taken seriously. As harmless
entertainment, it is pretty good, especially if watched in the right
frame of mind. The evil countess (best line was demanding equal harm to
be done to Sheena ... no ERA stuff for her!), big city reporter
(reference to his view of the Towers), mystical shaman (imdb has the
actress having a pretty interesting backstory), and Sheena (talk to me
in words I understand!) all are fun.

Commenting on Tanya Roberts' acting skills is a bit redundant. She is
there because she fits into the costume, so to speak, and she does that
rather well, thank you. As an actress ... well, she isn't THAT
horrible, really. If Heidi Fleiss can be in a movie, TR can play
Sheena! And, really, her performance adds to the fun too.

I saw this at about 2am. Perfect time.
<|_=00=_|>

Tanya Roberts certainly got the best part of her career (alongside the
Roger
Moore Bond movie, of course) in "Sheena". It's hard to pretend so much
innocence and naivete after a life spent in NY and Hollywood, of all
places.
That's acting... I'd like to point out many scenes with the animals,
arranged better than in many Tarzan competitors, and I am not afraid to
admit I still am fascinated by this fairy tale that was kindalike the
last
survivor in 1984 - before digital FX took control. Seen the OTT animal
scenes in Jumanji? Maybe you feel the same then.

<|_=00=_|>
Sheena has been entertaining us for close to 70 years now, but you sure
wouldn't know it to look at her. She still looks as beautiful and sexy
as ever. I've had a ball following Sheena's adventures in the pulps,
comic books, on TV, and in this Sheena movie from 1984. My favorite
actress in the role of Sheena is Irish McCalla, but I've enjoyed Tanya
Roberts and Gina Lee Nolan too. Roberts is stunningly beautiful and she
conveys a wonderful sense of innocence as Sheena. This 1984 Sheena
movie is a blast of cheesy fun that provides plenty of entertaining
moments that make for great escapism. Enjoy this one with good friends,
beverages, and lots of popcorn. Sheena is fun!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a classic Tanya Roberts , I feel she was so natural in
the role instead of fake acting, she is also very magnetic in all her
attractions.Shenna is truly the Queen of the jungle , also the villains
are superb in there ability to make you hate them for there dirty
deeds. Also some comedy relief in some scenes, the best scene of course
, is Tanya bathing ala natural , which shows her real outside beauty ,
no way around this , she is gorgeous and thats that. The actual jungle
scenery is great , and her animal magnetism was done well, and her re
pore with the animals was great as was the rest of the cast. This
should have been rated better, possibly more jealous women voting,
Tanya is just drop dead gorgeous.
<|_=00=_|>

I will admit this is not a masterpiece of cinema but as for  jungle
adventures go this is very good and entertaining.
It moves along at a swift pace,  lots of action plus a very likeable and
sexy heroine.  There is quite some nudity (but no sex) from Tanya Roberts
ofcourse but also from the evil black princess. Director John Guillermin
makes sure you get a good look at their (great) bodies.

Guillermin  is familiar with the topic because in the early sixties he made
some excellent Tarzan movies starring Gordon Scott.
In my mind he is also an undeserved neglected director who had his fair
share of flops ("Shaft in Afrika","King Kong lives",etc...)but who  almost
always succeeds in delivering an entertaining movie, not great art, but
rousing actioners as "The Blue Max", "Guns at Batasi", "The Bridge at
Remagen" or even the 1976 "King Kong". Whatever the topic, you won't get
easily bored by a Guillermindirected movie. 

Just compare "Sheena" with other so-called jungle movies from the early
eighties : "Tarzan the Ape Man" with Bo Derek, one the true worst movies of
all time or the two abysmal Allan Quartermain movies starring Richard
Chamberlain and Sharon Stone.

Sheena comes off quite nicely.

I gave it 7/10.


