
If there is something I connect to the 80's more than anything it's
movies like this one. It came at the shivering end of the decade, when
the cold war was nearly over. But it shows a technique honed through
literally dozens of cold war action movies. A genre of it's own.

The Russian KGB-agent Nikolai (Dolph Lundgren) is sent to Africa to
kill a native revolutionary. However he is betrayed by his own people
and instead befriends the man he was to kill. Soon he exacts his
vengeance on his deceitful commanders.

Dolph Lundgren is known from cold war epics like Rocky IV and
Pentathlon. It seems his blonde Swedish looks are very Russian in the
eyes of the American audience. Also his garbled accent might be
appropriate as a substitute for real Russian. Here he shoots, explodes
and slices half the Russian and Cuban armies in his quest for vengeance
on the men who betrayed him. The machine of the communist party just
needed one small deceit to see the error of his ways and instantly team
up with natives and guerrillas to fight for their freedom.

A touching story if you don't think about it. So, you've seen Rambo II
and III? You've seen Missing in action with Chuck Norris? You've seen
dozens of other cold war action movies where Russians are killed in the
hundreds and the hero hardly flinches when he is shot? Then you KNOW
what this is about. And this might just be the best of the lot. This is
simply 80's propaganda-action in it's most purified form. Entertaining
to say the least. Rating is 1/10 for quality, 7/10 for entertainment
and 10/10 for accents.
<|_=00=_|>

Red Scorpion was filmed and released in the final months of the Cold War
when communism was soon to fall.  The 1980s saw a whole range of
anti-Soviet
films (which, in their style, were technically propaganda) as well as
films
promoting peace between the United States and Soviet Union (the most odd
example probably being Red Heat)

This is certainly of the former camp.  Portraying Dolph Lundgren as a
mindless automaton of Soviet-era Russia, he fights with dedication for his
Soviet commanders, until he is thrown in jail for drunken behaviour.
There
he meets a resistance fighter, who the Soviet command have designated as a
terrorist threat, and learns the "truth" about the Soviet
presence.

Looking beyond the mindless action scenes (which, despite the countless
guns
and explosions), there is a good fable about the possibility of
manipulating
truth, and how appearance is not always truth.  It's nothing deep, and
won't
have film academics breaking out in a sweat, but it does add some
interesting twists to the story.

Dolph Lundgren's acting, as always, does leave a lot to be desired, but
then
this film does seem to be concentrating more on the storyline and action.
His education by an African Bushman is particularly funny, even touching
at
times as you see the relationship between Nikolai and the Bushman develop.
It's just a shame that more wasn't made of it.

All in all, the film does try to be what it isn't but doesn't suffer for
it
- indeed, at times, it even shows signs of succeeding.
<|_=00=_|>
There are four rules that seem to be required for a "great" movie:

1. Acting = Dialogue

2. Excitement = Explosions

3. The Russian is not allowed to be the hero

4. There should be romance, even when irrelevant to the story

Red Scorpion is one of my all time favourite movies, precisely for
breaking all of these rules

This is a brilliant, well paced movie. Well acted by Dolph Lundgren,
who is one of the few actors with the ability and charisma to succeed
with the "quiet but strong" type of hero.

9 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
OK now I'm not going to try and say that this film is by any means a
true classic, BUT it is a type of classic.

in so much as that it has the man Dolph, mostly half nude, and it has
guns, and some really nasty ones at that. so the plot is really weak,
nobody is going to buy into the fact that one guy can save a nation but
thats not the point, its really just a vehicle for Dolph to do his
thing, which is to look tough and sound funny in a monotone kinda way.

i really like the torture scene where the guy is sticking large needles
through Dolphs anatomy, actually looks pretty realistic considering its
not a big budget film, and also i like the scarification that Dolphs
little tribesman friend does for him while he is drugged.

the highlight of the film for me is probably the goofy relationship
that is forged between Dolphs character and the little bushman, its
really fun. the language barrier is well played out but the writers and
actors have enabled this element to flow very well and their means of
communication is really very effective at translating the messages of
the relationship for the film.

so do yourself a favor and go rent the DVD as it has at long last been
released, and sit back and enjoy some cornball action for all its
worth.

just don't expect any special features cause their isn't any.
<|_=00=_|>
All true film fans must check out this classic example of the genre.
Dolph Lundgren, never a poor man's Arnie by any standards, stars as
Nikolai - a Russsian 'spech-nach' special forces, one man army type.
There's a corny American journalist dude who likes rock n roll and
democracy, a bushman who wanders around (yup you guessed it - Dolph
switches sides and helps out the local tribespeople against his evil,
commie ex-comrades) and there's the Russian Hind helicopter. Even if
this sounds like pure hell you should check it out. Made in 89, it's a
strange bit of forgotten film history - dozens of Rambo-style war
movies came out at this time, preaching the sort of right wing Ronald
Regan style pro-American politics. Most disappeared without trace but
this sticks out. Dolph Lundgren in his prime, lots of AKs, a Raiders of
the Lost Ark style Lorry chase - what more could you want?
<|_=00=_|>

It's a fantastic movie and very touching. It may appear 'slow' at times,
but
bear with it, because it's well worth it. I love the switching. First he's
on the soviets side, then pretends to be on the african side, go back to
the
soviets only to be tortured and then escapes to re-join the african
rebels.
The theme music for this movie is FANTASTIC. The best scene is after Dolph
blows off the Cuban commanders arm; he is outside firing a heavy machine
gun
(in slow motion with the theme song playing in the background). That part
may only be 5 seconds long, but it's the best part in my
opinion.

<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe all the negative reviews and low rating given to this
excellent film. This is one of Dolph's best film. 

There is a scene which I will never forget: the tall Russian standing
alongside the tiny bushman.

The film is about the oppression of the Communist regime against an
anti-Communist black revolutionary. A Spetsnaz-a Soviet agent (Dolph
Lundgren) par excellence trained in deep undercover work is assigned to
infiltrate and stop a rebel African uprising.

He does this by being a sort of decoy: a drunk and undisciplined solder
in a jail cell where he makes friends with one of the captured rebels
and American journalist (M. Emmet Walsh). They all escape together and
inadvertently Nikolai is lead to the leader of the rebels. In the
middle of the night he attempts to assassinate him but is caught
red-handed and imprisoned.

He is recaptured and placed under inquiry.

Nikolai unexpectedly finds himself drawn to the guerrillas cause, a
betrayal that enrages his Russian superiors, who order his immediate
termination. He is awaiting torture but manages to escape through the
desert, but is stung by scorpions in the process.

A bushman rescues him and cures him of the poisonous stings. He also
tattoos a scorpion on him, according to their tribal customs. Thus the
title of the film RED SCORPION.

Nikolai recovers and the bushman starts to train him in the art of
survival in the harsh desert environment. Nikolai learns fast and soon
reunites with the rebels and helps them overthrow his former masters. 

Very good acting, action and cinematography of the Namibian desert and
bushmen. A must film for all action lovers. Highly recommended. I give
a full 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the best '80's action films you have never seen or heard of! I
stand by my statement having watched 'Red Scorpion' aged 9 and finding
it even better than I remember when watching it again as an adult. If
you want the quick explanation, it's up there with 'First Blood part
2.' It's also a thoughtful war film that leaves America out of the Cold
War picture and instead ponders on just how much death and destruction
a man must witness before he realizes he's fighting a war that is
inherently not only wrong but simply evil.

Dolph Lundgren is Nikolai Rachenko, one of the Spetsnaz's finest
soldiers. He is exactly how the Motherland has cut him out to be, an
intelligent, resilient, unstoppable and obedient killer. Unable to
march through Africa because of anti-communist revolutionary Sundata,
the Russians send Nikolai in to gain the trust of whoever will lead him
to his target where he will then assassinate his target.

The plan fails and Nikolai is first captured by the Africans and then
sent back across the desert with one intended message; to tell the
Russians that even their greatest soldier cannot kill Sundata. Barely
surviving, Nikolai finds himself disgraced and left to the Cubans to be
tortured and killed but escapes and then only survives the desert a
third time thanks to the Bush Man, a lone member of a secretive African
tribe, who takes Nikolai under his wing and teaches him the ways of the
free African.

Nikolai learns how to survive the desert and then learns of the
atrocities executed against the innocent people of Africa first hand.
Accepting that he is no longer with the Russians after the way they
treated him and left him for dead, when he is ready to move on, Nikolai
takes it upon himself to go back to see Sundata and show that he now
bears tribal honours only to find that the revolutionary has been
mortally wounded by the encroaching Russian forces.

Feeling that he owes it to Sundata and his people after a heart to
heart with the dying man, Nikolai goes on to lead an offensive against
the invaders, his former leaders and fellow soldiers, to smash the
Soviet and Cuban forces and send them out of Africa.

The film was directed by Joseph Zito who reached varying degrees of
success in the '80's with three other titles; two Chuck Norris
vehicles, 'Missing in Action' and 'Invasion USA' and intended franchise
finale 'Friday 13th part 4: The Final Chapter.' Turning Chuck Norris
into a legitimate action movie star, the same could almost be said for
Lundgren, only it was Lundgren's later features that failed him.

Zito makes a great film by taking the old-school action and war molds
and applying a sensible amount of politics and intelligence into the
African characters and their purpose. Lundgren plays not only an
atypical brute of a soldier with little to say for himself, he plays a
man reprogrammed by the military to obey who learns to listen to the
voice of reason instead and as much as people might argue that Lundgren
cannot act, watching his face turn from a constant menacing scowl to
one of resolve and respect is effective enough. His change from villain
to hero simply does what no other action film of its time dared to and
this makes for a feelgood moral tale.

The film is literally exploding with stunt doubles doing their various
acrobatic death rolls and grenade explosion somersaults etc. Special
effects come courtesy of 'Wizard of Gore' Tom Savini (who worked with
Zito previously on Friday 13th) and M. Emmet Walsh has a co-starring
role as a terminally offensive American photographer, which helps you
settle into the very ethnic feel of the movie. Add the Little Richard
soundtrack and you have a classic action film with something a little
different to offer.

'Red Scorpion' is like many other action films of the '80's that could
have gone on to have successful and valid sequels, however it's a
perfect little gem all by itself and one of the reasons Dolph Lundgren
was such a promising star back in the day.

I recommend 'Red Scorpion' for an action movie night if you're planning
on watching 'Missing in Action' or 'Rambo' or Schwarzenegger's
'Commando.'
<|_=00=_|>
Russian agent named Nikolai (Dolph Lundgren) is a Spetsnaz , a perfect
killer machine . The Soviet lieutenant journey to Africa where is the
headquarter in which lives the Russian and Cuban militia (Carmen
Argenziano , Brion James). He is assigned to infiltrate and to
assassinate an adversarial anti-Communist black revolutionary named
Sundate as leader of a rebel group who is assisted by Kallunda (Al
White). Nikolai unexpectedly , commits a betrayal that enrages his
Russian commandant as the General Vortez (T.P. McKenna), who orders his
immediate punishment . In this case the nasty General is a genocide
officer who uses his helicopter to cause mayhem and slaughter in
minority communities. Making his getaway through the dangerous desert,
Nikolai switches sides and join forces with the rebels, in the company
of an American reporter (M. Emmet Walsh). Nikolai allies himself with a
tribe of bushmen, and earning the nickname "Red Scorpion" . As
Nikolai's new-found independence and switch allegiances with new
friends . All of them , lead in his leadership of the rebels against
his previous comrades .

This moving film contains thrills ,fiercy combats , tortures , lethal
shootouts and lots of explosions and noisy action . From the beginning
to the end the comic-book action-packed and extreme violence is
continued and it's fast movement ; for that reason the picture is
pretty entertaining , though contains some perfunctory scenes .
Passable performance of Sweden Dolph Lundgren as Soviet agent par
excellence trained in deep undercover job and finds himself drawn to
the guerrillas' riot . This is a routine actioner with Karate expertise
star Dolph Lundgren as the Soviet veteran resulting to be one of the
best roles he'd made to date , as he's fine -though some wooden- as
tough, cold , obstinate agent Nikolai. It provides some interesting
background on Dolph Lundgren 's rocky relationship with communism and
switching allies with spectacular final climax storming their
headquarters in a no-quarter , deadly showdown . Poor acting abounds
but packed with violence , bloodshed and exciting action scenes as when
Lundgren shoots his machine gun , several explosions or scenes from
spectacular helicopters similarly used in ¨Rambo III ¨ at Afghanistan.
Catching musical score by Jay Chattaway and regular cinematography by
cameraman Joao Fernandez , both of whom worked in the trilogy
¨Braddock's Missing in action ¨ who bears certain resemblance in some
qualities to ¨Red Scorpion¨. The motion picture produced in average
budget is professionally directed by Joseph Zito (Invasion USA, 13th
Friday final chapter, Missing in action , The prowler). Rating :
Acceptable, passable and amusing but violent . Although the movie has
some aspects a little tough to take , this thrilling film still has its
nice moments getting a bemusing atmosphere with agreeable results ,
furthermore grossed moderated success at the box office .
<|_=00=_|>
OK now I'm not going to try and say that this film is by any means a
true classic, BUT it is a type of classic.

in so much as that it has the man Dolph, mostly half nude, and it has
guns, and some really nasty ones at that. so the plot is really weak,
nobody is going to buy into the fact that one guy can save a nation but
thats not the point, its really just a vehicle for Dolph to do his
thing, which is to look tough and sound funny in a monotone kinda way.

i really like the torture scene where the guy is sticking large needles
through Dolphs anatomy, actually looks pretty realistic considering its
not a big budget film, and also i like the scarification that Dolphs
little tribesman friend does for him while he is drugged.

the highlight of the film for me is probably the goofy relationship
that is forged between Dolphs character and the little bushman, its
really fun. the language barrier is well played out but the writers and
actors have enabled this element to flow very well and their means of
communication is really very effective at translating the messages of
the relationship for the film.

so do yourself a favor and go rent the DVD as it has at long last been
released, and sit back and enjoy some cornball action for all its
worth.

just don't expect any special features cause their isn't any.
