

I saw Heaven's Gate on its opening week nearly twenty years ago. Tickets
were sold in advance based on the great anticipation of seeing Cimino's long
in the making follow up to his 1978 masterpiece "The Deerhunter." The
reviews came in and critics trashed the film with vehemence. An influential
New York film critic led the way and most critics followed suit, and the
3hr. 40-min. film was pulled from distribution. United Artists had Cimino
shorten the film by about an hour and it was re-released many months later
to equally horrible reviews and to dismal business. The film at that time
cost about 40 million dollars (now considered low budget) making it one of
the most expensive in history and Cimino had free rein on the project with
endless retakes despite it being only his third film. "The Deerhunter" had
also received a negative backlash based on a perceived political ideology,
which was not popular. I mention all this to present a possible bias
building up against Cimino.                        At the time I thought the
film was very good and when I saw the shorter version it was still very good
only less so. The film showed up again in a museum in the early 1990's. They
were supposed to show the long version but they could not find an existing
print. Nevertheless, seeing the film years later I now thought Heaven's Gate
was a masterpiece. Finally, the long version started to appear in a few
select cities, I got to see it recently and it was well worth the wait.
Heaven's Gate begins with the graduation
ceremony at Harvard University. Two of the graduates are Kris Kristofferson
and John Hurt and we some of the flaws in their characters early on. Despite
the mandate Joseph Cotton gives in his speech to the graduating class to use
their education to enlighten and improve their country, many of the
graduates behave as if they are part of an elite country club.
The film flashes ahead 20 years to Johnson County in Wyoming. A
cattle company called "the Stockholders Association" has hired poor people
to shoot 125 poor immigrants claiming they are cattle thieves. Kristofferson
sides with the immigrants while John Hurt is part of the Association.
Although Hurt is totally against this insane action he is too ineffectual a
character to do anything about it.                             A massacre
takes place but the immigrants do well in defending themselves. A United
States Cavalry comes to the rescue of the Association  to allegedly arrest
them after most of the damage has been done when in fact they sanctioned the
mass killing. Kristofferson also suffers a great personal loss and the film
ends with him years later as part of the elite class of his Harvard days
married, bored, on a yacht, living but dead on the inside.

This is a very complex film which is brilliant in every department such as
it's themes, structure, direction, cinematography, writing, music, editing,
set designs, and acting.   Kristofferson, Walken, Hurt, Huppert, Dourif,
Bridges, Waterston, and Cotton are all excellent portraying very complex
characters.
Some of the major complaints I read about this film
state that is ugly to look at, incoherent, too long, that the characters
make no sense and that the words are often unintelligible.             In
its defense, Heaven's Gate has the look of photographs of that period just
as "McCabe & Mrs. Miller" did. Some of the scenes are smoky looking to
suggest the industrial revolution or sometimes horses, wagons, people are
passing by from all sides creating a sense of reality.(The critic who called
it one of the ugliest movies ever made likes to use his thumbs a lot.) But
in spite of all that, the composition of each frame and the cinematography
are impeccable.                                                     The film
makes a great deal of sense if you pay attention to it.  Everything is not
spelled out for the viewer and one has to observe closely to understand the
motivations of the characters or its themes. As to its length, it is a
beautifully structured piece,  at times moving, poetic, exhilarating, or
devastating with virtually one great scene following another.
At times some of the words are unintelligible
especially in some of the scenes bustling with activity. But one could
understand such a cinematic film as this through its use of film language,
the glances between characters or their actions.
One day soon this film should be re-released in its full length so that
people and critics could give it a second chance. Do not let Michael Cimino
become another Orson Welles- under appreciated in his lifetime and not able
to make the  kinds of great films he is capable of making.
<|_=00=_|>

'Heaven's Gate' is not a masterpiece, which apparently was what it
needed to be upon first release to justify its great cost, and, more
importantly, the continued uneasy reliance of Hollywood on the Auteur
model of film-making. Yet 'Heaven's Gate', seen today at last on DVD in
a cut of 229 minutes, is a superb film. It is a touch lethargic in
pace. But at least it is paced. Quite apart from the incompetence of
construction that marks many films today, there have been many films
which, deliberate in form, have been severely damaged by being hacked
down with no care for rhythm so the films become shapeless and
confusing. Beyond this, the criticisms leveled at the film have become
in retrospect quite lame. If the good guys and bad guys are too
obviously pronounced for a serious film, and yes Sam Waterston's
mustachioed, fur-clad villain is comic-opera (and not in the
multi-leveled manner of Bill The Butcher from 'Gangs of New York'), and
yes, the townsfolk do seem a touch 'Fiddler On The Roof' on occasions,
then a few dozen serious films made since then, including 'Titanic' and
the graceless 'Cold Mountain' (which bears certain similarities and is
a notable failure in convincing qualities compared to this film) can be
castigated for exactly the same reason. 

Also despite accusations, the film has a plot, quite a well-essayed
plot at that. It simply does not bow to standard-form 'epic' quality,
by providing Titan heroes, rafts of sub-plots and confusion. It
experiments with telling in a manner more like much smaller, modest
films, by carefully-caught moments of character interaction, and
well-textured pageant-like explosions of communal action, as with the
opening at Harvard and, most specially, the wonderful scene where the
Johnson County folk, following the lead of a brilliantly physical
fiddler, make celebration on roller-skates.

'The Deer Hunter' was a critical and commercial success but abandoned
the first half's inspired, mosaic-like accumulation of detail, and I
think in a manner similar to criticism of Robert Penn Warren's novel
'All The King's Men' and its dictionary of Jacobean stunts, if Cimino
had not had such a strong grasp of the conventions of Hollywood epics,
he might have made a special rare work of art based in honest
visualisation of people within their milieu. In contrast, 'Heaven's
Gate' succeeds in screwing its narrative momentum and tension upwards
in a slowly expanding arc, until the finale explodes, whilst not
abandoning the mosaic approach.

The central romantic triangle, for instance, resists standard
inflections; a decent, intelligent, but psychically defeated man, James
Averill (Kris Kristofferson) competes with a hot-shot but
identity-challenged young gunman Nate Champion (Christopher Walken) for
the hand of a young Madame, Ella Watson (Isabelle Huppert); there is no
self-conscious bed-hopping, no slaps in the face, recriminations, or
typical sad-sack moments, but more a sad and distanced decision by Ella
to choose the younger man whom she loves less because he is ready to
make the commitment. Ella emerges as the film's true hero (Huppert's
performance, though initially awkward, is really quite excellent,
balancing a dewy emotionalism with a hard-hammered spirit), attempting
first to rescue Nate and then mustering the resistance party of
immigrants into an enterprising defence. Subsequently, Averill is stung
into action as friends die. Indeed, in the process of overcoming so
many traps of cliché and style, 'Heaven's Gate' successfully and
willfully throws off the defeated outsider-heroes grace note of so many
'70s Westerns and portrays an eventual, vigorous, cheer-the-heroes
rallying to a compromised but still relished victory. 

The social conflict of so many '70s Westerns at last hardens into a
fully-fledged war; where capital attempts a crushing final victory over
the miscreants who stand in their way, suddenly they find a massed and
more-powerful people's army, led by the man who played the
thoroughly-destroyed Billy the Kid a decade before. This is what led
the film to be described as the first Marxist Western, but really it
simply deflowers a theme of the genre extant well before the '60s. Such
various and classic old-school works as William Wyler's 'The
Westerner', and even 'Shane', tell awfully similar stories. It is
simply here that the romantic myth of the gunslinger has been replaced
by the romantic myth of the people's revolt. In a spectacular, exiting,
but realistic and thus chaotic finale, the marauding Cattlemen's
encampment is attacked, ringed by dust clouds punctuated by fallen
horses, writhing bodies, and gunfire. Averill puts his classical
education to work finally by stealing a Roman trick and bringing the
Cattlemen to the brink of annihilation before they are rescued by the
Cavalry (another distinctly seditious touch, but surely not so
offensive after 'Little Big Man's unrelenting depiction of Native
American massacres). Really, it's hard to think of a more heroically
American vision of grassroots resistance. The film's only real dead
spot stands as an unnecessary coda indicating Averill's eventual
relapse, a rather potted piece of tragedy. 

Despite then certain failings and a slow mid-section, 'Heaven's Gate'
is a supreme piece of work, a genuine attempt to create a contemporary
Western and a new kind of epic. If one has to still join the chorus
that reckons Cimino was absurd in his behaviour on set and expenditure,
it is regretfully. When, today, flops like 'The Adventures of Pluto
Nash' and 'K-19 - The Widowmaker' see nearly a hundred million dollars
sink down the drain, and yet a tag of infamy still hangs on this film,
one ponders what exactly its grim death signified. The attempt at
original style, the bawdy sexuality, the very hard-won sense of detail,
the breathtaking rigor of the film-making and what is being filmed, all
throw into contrast what is sorely lacking in so much contemporary
Hollywood product.

<|_=00=_|>

I seriously don´t know why this movie got such a hostile reception when it
was first released. Sure, it´s overlong and somewhat gratuitous in its
depictions of sexuality and violence but so are lots of well regarded
movies. I seriously don´t think that the people who hated "Heaven´s Gate"
really understood it. "Heaven´s Gate" in its uncut form, much like "The
Deer
Hunter" shows the gross differences of living an insecure and dangerous
life
(like the immigrants and Averil in Wyoming) and living in comfort and
privilege (like the settled "Americans" in Wyoming and Averil in the
prologue and epilogue). Living a hard life is painful but it can also be
invigorating as opposed to the dull life Averil leads in the epilogue.
Also, as Michael Cimino took great pains to make the picture historically
accurate , it is fascinating as a document of (and maybe indictment of)
American life in Old West Wyoming. The dialogue is often genuinely clever
and emotional. Combined with great music and cinematography, the movie
works
like a truly poetic work of art. Granted, "Heaven´s Gate", with its
refusal
to patronize the viewer, is not for all tastes. However, Hollywood turns
out
so much commercial dreck each year which is so much easier to dismiss as
mindless eye candy (even when an example of it becomes a blockbuster) that
"Gate" and Cimino really do deserve more respect.  All people should see
the
uncut version at least once and then they should make up their own
mind.


<|_=00=_|>
I first saw this film when released in 1980. From other sources, I've
learnt that the only release of the 219-minute cut was in New York
City, after which it was severely cut to 149 minutes. So, I guess I saw
the shorter version first which, at the time, I thought, was a very
interesting anti-Western, if a trifle confusing...

So, it was with even more interest that I finally obtained a DVD of the
full-length version. I'm glad I did because this second viewing has
confirmed for me that the movie is a true classic, and the critical
vitriol poured on Michael Cimino was unwarranted, to say the very
least.

Yes, it's a long movie, but so have been many others. For example: Once
upon a time in America (1984) at 227 minutes; Cleopatra (1963) at 320
minutes; The Ten Commandments (1956) at 220 minutes; Spartacus
{restored version} (1960) at 198 minutes; Gone with the Wind (1939) at
222 minutes and others. So, it can't be the fact of running time that
made so many froth at the mouth way back, when Heaven's Gate came on
the scene.

But note this: all of those above movies have everything to do with
reinforcing myths about history and heroes.

Not so Heaven's Gate: in this narrative, the American West is shown in
all its grim and unrelenting harshness, injustice, and poverty. And
that's probably the first reason why so many disliked this film: it
laid out the circumstances of the Johnson County War of 1892 in
Wyoming, showing how the Wyoming Stock Growers Association hired 50
assassins to hunt down and murder a large group of European immigrants
accused of cattle rustling; and all with the assistance and conniving
of authorities, right up to the President of the United States. For an
essay on that war, with the background and what happened, there is a
link at Wikipedia under Johnson County War.

Very few like to be reminded of the really dirty periods in their
country's history, and which fly in the face of what the country is
supposed to be. Had it been a documentary, it would have been barely
palatable for most; as entertainment, it was almost bound to fail
commercially and be torn to shreds by the shrill and infamous.

Leaving aside the socio-political diatribe, for a moment, that Cimino
launched herein, what about the narrative – the story of the three main
characters? Well, it probably wasn't unusual for men of that time to
fall for a local prostitute, just as it's probably not unusual now.
It's a fairly standard love triangle whereby Ella must choose between
the two men, and ultimately decides upon the younger man, Nathan, who,
although not above resorting to cold-blooded murder when it suits him,
shows more spirit and commitment than the older James (or Jim, as most
people in the film say). For some, that part of the story threads too
slowly, perhaps; in the context of the wider narrative about the war,
however, it is, I think, entirely appropriate.

And that war is depicted graphically, viciously and cruelly with scenes
of carnage that are exquisitely staged and edited flawlessly – although
in the final massacre between the Association and the immigrants, I'm
certain that some scenes of wagons blowing apart are repeated. A minor
point and perhaps brought about when the 219-minute cut was restored?
Any way you look at it, though, it hits you in the face with the noise,
dust, chaos and confusion of war...

Which brings me to another criticism by others: the noise and dust is
such that it's often difficult to hear the dialog and even see clearly
what is happening. I'll admit that I found that to be a trifle annoying
at first, even backtracking to replay parts to try to catch the image
or the words – until I realized that really wasn't necessary if you
accept the director's intent: life is chaotic, it is difficult to hear
and see in crowded situations and, in war, it's the sine qua non of
this mise-en-scene. In short, it's as though you truly are present in
and within the scenes...

And what of the title? From Shakespeare, it refers to a figurative
nearness to God and so, if you equate God with the natural world, the
stunning scenery that pervades the movie – and it is stunning,
hauntingly equal to that of David Lean's Doctor Zhivago (1965) – is a
useful metaphor. I tend to think, however, that Cimino had something
more to say, namely the idea that the brave immigrants – the
God-fearing salt of the earth – were denied entry to heaven on earth
and the freedom to build a life for themselves in the land that
espouses to be freedom's champion.

Was that Cimino's intent – to gut the myth of the American West? To
show how, in America, only the rich get rich while the poor are
massacred, one way or another, throughout history? Is that anything
new? Not really, as we all know. Where it really hurt, however, is in
showing how America was not and, by implication, is not the land of the
free and the home of the brave. Instead, after absorbing this
narrative, we are left with an impression that the underpinnings of
America have more to do with a land of dispossessed slaves and a home
for knaves...
<|_=00=_|>

     Until today, I thought there only three people, including me, who
considered Heaven's Gate (1980)to be a masterpiece and perhaps the last
great western, (since the 1970), after, Little Big Man (1970), Jeremiah
Johnson (1972), The Outlaw Josey Wales (1976) and The Long Riders
(1980).

     I was stunned and pleased to see that 22.5% of those voting at IMDB
rate this movie a 10, as do I.  A recent book, the Worst Movies of All Time,
includes Heaven's Gate.  Through it's production and release it was
vilified, as no movie since Cleopatra, almost twenty years before.   At one
time it was considered the most expensive over-budget movie of all time,
surpassing even Cleopatra.  It was blamed for the downfall of its studio,
United Artists, until everyone finally saw all the studios were falling. 
Michael Cimino, fresh from his glory with the Deer Hunter was hated and
despised for his success and movie making excess, but clearly, that was
petty jealousy at its worst.

     Cimino ended up fashioning one of the great expositions of the American
experience.  This film is not to be missed but any serious student of
American filmmaking.

<|_=00=_|>

HEAVEN'S GATE will always be remembered for at least three things: 
destroying United Artists, wrecking director Michael Cimino's career, and
ending the last golden age of Hollywood, when the directors could make the
types of films they wanted to make.  To this day we are still living through
the effects from 
HEAVEN'S GATE.  Although the film was made for only $36 million, back in
1980 that was a fortune.  Many films since have lost more money, but this
one wrecked a respected studio.  There is no question as to where all the
money went, for it is on the screen to see.  Everything was carefully
detailed exquisitely down the extras' clothing.  An entire town was built in
a remote area of Montana.  The film opens with a graduation sequence that
takes place at Harvard in 1870, which is nicely shot and choreographed, but
is completely unnecessary.  Many such scenes are scattered throughout, and
the film is more than halfway over before the plot finally starts to move
forward.  The actors all play characters who are one-dimensional and/or
irrelevant, especially the John Hurt character.  Why Cimino needed so many
extras to play the immigrants is unclear, because we never get to know any
of them and they are so annoying when they gather together to plot
strategies against the rich bad guys who want to kill them off.  The editing
is pretty bad, but that's to be expected because there really isn't much of
a story here, just a series of vignettes.  Vilmos Zsigmond's photography is
good, but too often there is too much dust and smoke everywhere that
obscures the characters and locations.  Also, the colors in the film are all
washed out; it looks like the filmstock was left out in sun.  For example,
in the middle of the roller-skating scene, the color simply vanishes,
leaving only light brown and black!  Granted, there are a few things in the
film that I admire, like David Mansfield's score.  Isabelle Huppert always
looks sexy even without makeup.  The battle scenes are pretty exciting,
although I could swear that I saw one particular wagon blow up four times. 
The film has a rather odd denoument that takes place on board a ship, but
everything else in this movie is pretty odd.  Why the studio didn't bring in
another writer or two to rewrite the script is a mystery because inside this
mess there was a good movie trying to get out.  It's a shame that Michael
Cimino still hasn't recovered from this debacle.  I sure hope he makes a
comeback.  
<|_=00=_|>

I was expecting this movie to be a stinker but I wanted to see for myself,
but I was surprised how good of a movie this was.  I know longer movies
often don't do well at the box office but why this was pulled and not
allowed to be viewed by the public is beyond me.  It maintained my
interest
throughout and the scenery and photography is breathtaking at times.  The
plot was good and the morality play was a good one.  I liked the realism
which was along the lines of "Unforgiven".  I had to rent this movie to
see
it but it was definitely worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been a fan of Heaven's Gate since its first release. I've seen it
at least half-a-dozen times and have long thought of it as a
masterpiece. So, it was with excitement and a sense of anticipation
that I took myself off to see the restored director's cut.

To my surprise, I was disappointed on seeing it again and have since
revised my estimation of the film. Heaven's Gate touches upon greatness
in parts, but overall, lacks the thematic and narrative consistency and
the passionate urgency characteristic of a truly great film.

Firstly, two technical problems: The sound quality is diffuse
throughout the film, verging on inaudibility at times. Some of this,
perhaps, is intentional - a way to mimic the chaos and confusion of
history as it is unfolding. But at key points, one is unable to
register what it is the characters are saying.

The cinematography is similarly diffuse. The images lack sharpness and
particularity of detail. The result is a certain graininess and lack of
pictorial sharpness which succeeds in blurring foreground and
background.

Structurally, the narrative is off-key throughout, as if Cimino can't
quite make up his mind as to the effect he is after. He wanted an epic,
for sure. But a pastoral or dramatic epic? The film sits uneasily and
unconvincingly between styles, and perhaps even genres. At times it
reminded me of Terrence Malick's 'Days of Heaven' or even 'Elvira
Madigan' in its languid pace and elegant scene painting. At other times
it threatens to turn into a robust 'western' more akin to 'The Wild
Bunch'. In fact the latter film offers an instructive reference point
for an assessment of 'Heaven's Gate' as it shares the same period
concern and employs a similar tone of ambivalent nostalgia for a darker
yet more heroic America. 

This structural and thematic uncertainty isn't helped by the
poor-quality script which often sounds forced and jarring to the ear.
The result is an inauthentic sense of period speech. 

The near-greatness of Heaven's Gate resides in its set pieces. The
roller skating sequence, in particular, is astoundingly beautiful, one
of the most evocative scenes ever put to film.

Another set piece which works very well in terms of unifying theme,
mood, and setting occurs when Kristofferson and Huppert go riding in
the new rig to the lake and she washes herself while he naps in the
shade. The languid pacing, evocative music and monumental scenery
combine in this scene to convincingly portray the love story which
might just lie at the heart of the film - and which could have been its
saving grace if pursued more convincingly.

Some critics have complained about the length of the film. This in
itself doesn't bother me. A good film can't be long enough. The
restored minutes are critical in restoring the motivation and
characterization absent from the cut version, and they are full of
pictorial interest.

Perhaps the chief glory of Heaven's Gate lies in the achingly evocative
soundtrack. The repeated waltz motif and its different scorings
throughout(full band, guitar, solo fiddle etc,)lends a haunting quality
to the foreground action and establishes a thematic consistency lacking
in the narrative itself.

Despite its obvious flaws, most notably the absence of a compelling
narrative, there is a sense of grandeur about the film. One leaves the
cinema with a rueful sense of missed greatness and a wish that Cimino
could revisit the film -with the wisdom of time and hindsight, to put
right what is so badly amiss.
<|_=00=_|>

I won't entirely pan this movie because I think it was a noble effort. It's
basic story is good (based on fact), but it's a loooong haul in steerage.
We've heard the stories regarding this movie...the bloated budget,
(incidentally the 5 min scene on the yacht at the end supposedly cost 1
million to shoot???) the expensive set that was torn down because of an
imperfection, it's infamous New York opening. 
But as far as the film itself......

It's hard to imagine that a 3hr 40min movie could not generate any memorable
characters, but thats what they've done here. There is no one to relate to,
everybody seems to have had a lobotomy and is just mouthing their dialogue
as if they could care less, which is odd because this film has great actors
in it!

The story takes forever to unfold. By the time it really gets going it seems
too late. Literally nothing happens in the first 90 minutes! the film feels
longer than it actually is and I've heard that originally it was meant to be
released at over 5 hours.

 Another major problem... and I think Roger Ebert said it the best. "This
film opens at Harvard..continues in Wyoming and closes aboard a ship, yet
there is a grim industrial pall that hangs low over everything. The film is
so foggy, so smoky, so unfocused and so brownish yellow, that you feel like
you want to wipe windex on the screen. A director's in very deep trouble
when we don't even enjoy the primary act of looking at his
movie."

  I personally think that Michael Cimino is very talented. Trouble is,
thanks to this film and the financial disaster that it became, he has been
somewhat branded, and was never really given much control of his projects
since (so I've heard). It seems too bad as I think he could have made some
great American films. 
<|_=00=_|>
...they'd probably be better than this.

Towards the end of "Heaven's Gate", it dawned upon me that Michael
Ciminio has no idea what his movie is about. Is it an epic adventure, a
revisionist western, a character study, a snapshot of a historical
period, a love story, a dramatic expose of corruption, an artful
meditation on humanity? Cimino has no idea. He tries to make "Heaven's
Gate" into all of these things, more or less failing.

It's not as if he was concerned about the damage this incoherence would
do to the plot, characters, pacing, etc. The bottom line is SPECTACLE.
The audience is supposed to be overwhelmed; by the epic subtext, cast
of thousands, artistic lighting, the sheer money apparent on the
screen. But any self-respecting viewer will tell you that being
overwhelmed is not the same as being entertained.

Every scene presents a bare minimum of information to tell the story:
There's a guy. We saw him before, I think. Now he's on a train. Now
he's talking to somebody. Now he's mad. And so on. We get the gist of
what's going on, with little clue why or how. Not that we care anyway,
the characters are all constructed as supporting players to spectacle.

To make matters worse, every shot, scene, sequence, and subplot is
about four times too long. There is one exception: the roller skating
scene, filled with such energy and cinematic prowess that it seems
tacked on from another picture. That alone was worth the price of
admission. Almost.

Cimino has a relatively unimaginative style of direction, which appears
standard on prime time TV. Yet Ciminio constantly gets lost in
"fetishes", which apparently are dust, trains and horses. Dust is
everywhere. Everywhere. Indoors, outdoors, in the middle of grassy
fields. Sometimes there's so much dust you can't even see what's going
on. Whenever a train appears, we are treated to beautiful, laborious
shots that clog up the storyline. There are apparently less people in
Johnson County than horses, who repeatedly hog the foreground. Even in
the battle sequences. In fact, the dramatic scene at the end of Part I
consists of horses riding off a train, obscured by dust. I'm serious.

This would be a film forgotten by time if it weren't for the titanic
production misadventure that bankrupted an established movie studio,
bringing the New Hollywood era down with it. Of course, "JAWS" and
"Star Wars" are guilty too, but only in the best possible ways.

But "Heaven's Gate" is a sheer mess. Not a disaster, or an ostracized
masterpiece. An unguided, absolute, sheer mess. Like T.S. Elliot, "This
is the way the world ends/not with a bang but a whimper." It would feel
a lot better if the age of the auteur that included "The Graduate",
"Bonnie and Clyde", "2001", "The Godfather", "Taxi Driver", and
"Apocalypse Now" had ended with a spectacular bomb.

But no. "Heaven's Gate" is Hollywood's whimper.
