
Beverly Hills Cop was a big hit in the 1980's. The film was loved by
many action fans, as well as comedy fans and movie buffs at the time.
It is still being admired by many people as one of the funniest cop
movies ever made.

The thing I love about this movie is that Eddie Murphy was perfectly
cast as the Axel Foley character. Originally, Sylvester Stallone was
considered for the role. Thank God he wasn't! Eddie Murphy was perfect
for the role, because he can be a clever cop, and can at the same time
be very funny! Another great thing about Beverly Hills Cop is its
smashing soundtrack. There are some great hit songs from the 1980's
featured in the soundtrack, as well as an excellent musical score which
can be heard throughout the movie (to me, the musical score is the
Beverly Hills Cop "theme song").

Perhaps the only downside of Beverly Hills Cop is that it can be pretty
slow in certain scenes. Hardcore action fans would probably be
disappointed by this. But let's face it: Beverly Hills Cop is not an
all-out mindless action movie. It is actually a clever comedy with
elements of action present within.

To conclude, Beverly Hills Cop is arguably Eddie Murphy's best film
since he fits the Axel Foley character perfectly. There are many funny
scenes featuring Eddie Murphy that will have people laughing (even the
action scenes can be cleverly funny)! 

P.S: Look out for cameos by Paul Reiser, Bronson Pinchot, and Damon
Wayans!
<|_=00=_|>
Detroit cop Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) is in Beverly Hills for a few
days to investigate the murder of an old acquaintance. Axel assumes the
suspect is a local tycoon, but no one seems to believe him – including
the police force, being semi-run by Ronny Cox (in one of his rare
good-guy roles).

Axel comes into trouble with the law his first day on the job after
getting thrown through a glass window by some thugs. He is arrested,
and when released finds himself hounded by a pair of inept police
officers around the town for a few days. After outsmarting them (in one
of cinema's most delightful moments – ever) Axel gets hooked up with an
old friend and manages to roam the streets looking for clues – which,
of course, he finds very easily.

Before this film Eddie Murphy had starred in one film that had launched
his name into Hollywood: "48 HRS." But by all reasonable comparisons
this is a much, much better film, and it's also much, much funnier,
too. What's most refreshing is that it doesn't fall back upon the
stereotypes of African-Americans inherent in so many mainstream motion
pictures – the role of Axel Foley was originally written for Sylvester
Stallone (who was actually attached to star early on in pre-production
before dropping out of the project) and it's quite clear that Foley was
intended as a white character. Although massive rewrites were employed
only two weeks before shooting, script flaws can still be spotted – the
heroine of the story is a white businesswoman, for example, and we
expect some sort of sexual tension between them but there is none. We
begin to question the very presence of the female lead because in
essence it leads nowhere. We can imagine how it might have developed
into a love story, but Murphy works against the flow, awkwardly
treating her as nothing more than a friend.

These sorts of things sometimes bring out the occasional odd touches in
the film – ironically they unintentionally set the film apart from
other such movies of the genre because it's not typical in any sense.
Sure, it has the routine shoot-outs but there is no romance subplot, no
pointless racial comparisons (more of which would be seen in the two
sequels), etc. The movie greatly benefits from this because it seems so
fresh, and far more believable – after all, rarely are romances
developed in two days. The action genre always seems to end with the
hero sending off the crooks to jail, and finally getting a long-awaited
kiss from the leading lady. "Beverly Hills Cop," to its credit, manages
to avoid this and the result is a far more enjoyable film, even if most
of its sequences are far from being 100% realistic.

The film's director, Martin Brest, has a clear handle on the buddy
genre and would go on to direct the immensely successful Robert De Niro
/ Charles Grodin road-buddies-comedy "Midnight Run," one of the most
popular (and best) of the genre. Beverly Hills Cop works just as well –
it's funny when it needs to be, thrilling when it wants to be, and
features a stellar lead performance by Murphy in his most unusual role.

Murphy is the driving force behind the film, presenting us with a truly
likable character – the most likable character he's ever played, as a
matter of fact. Axel is unorthodox but a generally good guy – Murphy is
sometimes typecast into playing roles similar to that of which he
played in "48 HRS." (being the loud, obnoxious racist who's got it all
together), but here he plays someone we actually want to root for. At
one point in the film he manages to get a couple of police officers in
trouble with their superior – but he takes all the blame, and actually
fabricates a lie wherein they were heroes doing their job, despite the
fact that they were all actually hanging out at a strip club. Axel is
tough, cool, quick-witted, nice, sarcastic, and likable – one of
cinema's most enduring characters, and proof that African-American
cinema heroes don't always have to be loudmouths in order to succeed as
characters (pay attention, Chris Rock and Chris Tucker).

The now-famous soundtrack (including 'Axel F' by Harold Faltermeyer) is
a great blend of techno-pop and electronic rock – the movie's theme is
bouncy, rambunctious and fun: a good parallel to Axel himself.

Overall "Beverly Hills Cop" exceeds exceptionally well, even if a great
deal of the film's success itself derives from pure accident and
chance. I don't think anyone can say that those involved in the
production knew exactly what they were doing at the time (DVD
supplements include anecdotes about hectic filming and the project
almost falling through at one point) -- but as luck would have it
everything turned out fine. "Beverly Hills Cop" is an immensely
enjoyable film, and one of the best examples of the cop-comedy genre
executed properly.
<|_=00=_|>

Eddie Murphy became a true bankable superstar with "Beverly Hills Cop". The
film is an unconventional detective story that has Murphy, a Detroit police
officer, go to Beverly Hills after his close friend is killed. Murphy wants
to find out who killed his friend and why. What he discovers is one of the
largest illegal drug fronts around in an art museum. Now it is up to Murphy
to bring down the bad guys and save the day. "Beverly Hills Cop" is a film
that showed the greatness of the 1980s. A pop-culture, box office hit that
was funny and full of action and sported a smashing soundtrack. A nice film
that is one of the most memorable money-makers of the decade that was the
80s. 4 stars out of 5. 
<|_=00=_|>
Beverly Hills Cop is by far Eddie Murphy's most popular role, and the
movie that officially launched his career as a genuine movie star. It
was one of those movies that my dad would let my brother and I watch on
weekends, after my mom made him promise not to show us any rated R
movies, and over the years it's easy to forget the level of violence
and profanity in it that earned it that forbidding rating. Of course,
as a kid I was just excited that I was getting to see something that I
shouldn't, but in retrospect I tend to think that it was this
combination of clever comedy and the ingredients from harder action
thrillers that ensured Beverly Hills Cop's status as a cop comedy
classic. 

You see, Foley has a bit of a criminal past of his own, but he is
clearly much more at home on the right side of the law, and he uses his
experiences in crime to his advantage in working his way into the
criminal underworld, where he routinely attempts to bring down major
crime ring kingpins. One day an old friend comes to visit him after
having been released from prison and spending some time relaxing in the
California sun. The two have a great time at the bar recounting their
old criminal days together, until we learn that this guy, who once took
the fall for one of Axel's crimes and served prison time for him
without ever mentioning his name, now has stolen bearer bonds with him
worth millions. Before long the owner of the bonds shows up and is not
in a reminiscent mood. Axel is knocked out as they're staggering back
to his apartment for the night, and he wakes up to find his friend
murdered.

The movie follows one of the biggest 1980s action movie clichés to the
letter. Every single line is here, 'take some time off,' 'stay away
from this case,' 'if you go after this guy don't bother calling in on
Monday,' etc. My eyes tend to glaze over whenever I hear this situation
in a movie, probably because I work so much and in such situations can
only think of how great it would be if my bosses told me to take some
time off, go on vacation, don't let them catch me working or they'll
fire me. But Foley's trip to Beverly Hills to perform his own
investigation yields results so promising that it keeps the movie
moving along at a pretty fast pace. Of course we realize the real life
odds of a police officer traveling to the other side of the country and
immediately stumbling across the major crime organization that he's
looking for, but Murphy's quick-talking wit and street-wise charm makes
it pretty easy to root for him. 

The movie has the perfect premise to combine with Murphy's personality
– he's an urban cop from Detroit named Axel Foley who is always driving
his boss insane because he doesn't wait for piddly things like
authorization when he wants to do major undercover work. The movie
opens with one of these undercover and under the radar missions, which
culminates in the police being called and then a major car chase
through city and residential streets that must have caused millions of
dollars in damage. Of course, when the cops have Axel at gunpoint, he
gives them a grin and they shake their heads and lower their guns. Aw
shucks, it's that crazy Foley again!

Judge Reinhold and John Ashton play Detectives Rosewood and Taggart,
two of Beverly Hillss finest who are assigned to keep an eye on Foley
and make sure he doesn't start doing police work while a dozen states
or so outside his jurisdiction, from which he's suspended anyway. So
Foley moves around among the Ferraris and BMWs and Mercedeses of
Beverly Hills in his ancient, beat up Chevy Nova, cheerfully laughing
at Taggart's and Rosewood's bumbling efforts to tail him and doing his
investigation right under their noses. 

In the standard buddy cop movie sitcom, you have two wildly different
people thrown together in a police partnership situation and forced to
work together. This was a staple of the 1980s and has remained popular
to this day, with classic movies like Lethal Weapon, Tango & Cash, 48
hours (one of Murphy's own earlier comedies), Red Heat, Rush Hour
(could two cops ever be more different than Chris Tucker and Jackie
Chan?), and possibly my favorite, Hot Fuzz. And of course I shouldn't
forget Bad Boys, which may very well have so much in common with
Beverly Hills Cop as to warrant suspicion of plagiarism. I'll let it go
though. I'm sure Eddie Murphy doesn't mind. Anyway, Beverly Hills Cop
does follow all of the basic rules of your standard buddy cop movie,
but somehow manages to avoid feeling like a formula film. 

The combination of Axel's determination to avenge his friend's murder
is juxtaposed with hilarious situations involving Taggart and Rosewood
trying in vain to keep an eye on him, as well as various police
organizations tearing their hair out trying to keep him under control.
Picture the police chief in Last Action Hero, a bad movie for which I
maintain a certain affection, and make him intelligible and add a lot
of profanity and you'll get some idea of what's going on here. I don't
know that Beverly Hills Cop can quite be called a comedy classic, but
it is definitely an action comedy classic.

Also keep your eye out for the hilarious cameo from Bronson Pinchot,
who you may remember as Balki from Perfect Strangers! Eleventh best TV
show ever!
<|_=00=_|>

This film came out, Eddie Murphy's star was still rising and this pretty
much was the pinnacle of his career.  This film is a funny, fast paced,
action filled fun ride and Murphy really made the film an enjoyable
experience.  Thank God that Sylvester Stallone backed out because I feel the
film would have been a very dark intense film.  At least Murphy made Axel
into a smart aleck who helped to lighten the mood of the film.  Also, the
one underrated performance has to have been Judge Reinhold.  Reinhold makes
an art of playing slightly goofy out of it characters and his portrayal of
Detective Billy Rosewood was a perfect example of that and John Ashton was
the perfect foil as Taggart.  This is definitely one of the top films of the
1980's
<|_=00=_|>

Without a doubt this film sums up the 80s; a feel-good movie
with a great soundtrack and jaw-dropping stunts -- like that shot in the
opening chase sequence with the bus doing a powerslide. And of course, Eddie
Murphy's hilariously funny one-liners serve as a comic contrast to the
violence and profanity. Why can't they make movies like this
anymore?
<|_=00=_|>

In the past thirty years, there have been more movies made in the cop genre
than any other genre. Out of all of the cop movies made, BEVERLY HILLS COP
still stands out as the best very best one. Twenty years after it was
released into theaters in December of 1984, the movie remains to be one of
the most popular and highest grossing action comedies of all time, making
$234 million in the U.S. and $316 million worldwide.

When his friend Mikey Tandino is murdered, Detroit police officer Axel Foley
(Eddie Murphy) travels to Beverly Hills to investigate and find Mikey's
killer. Lots of gunfire, laughs, and memorable quotes ensue.  Highlights
include Bronson Pinchot's cameo, the banana scene, and Eddie Murphy's
"supercop" speech. ****
<|_=00=_|>

Martin Brest has only made five feature films (Going in style, BHC, Midnight
run, Scent of a woman, and Meet Joe Black), films strikingly different from
one another, but that all share certain traits.  They are finely crafted,
energetic, and extraordinarily human.  The warmth and friendship shine
through, even through the gun- and fist-play which are obligatory in a
cops-and-robbers movie.  This is one of the first and best prototypes of the
buddy movie.

 Brest's casting is superb, and he elicits performances which are often the
best of even young actors' careers.  Judge Reinhold, John Ashton, and Ronnie
Cox are outstanding, and the ensemble clicks like a well-oiled infield. To
me, this movie is still far and away Eddie Murphy's best performance.  He is
remarkably talented, a comic genius.  As an actor, his expressions are
sometimes outlandish, but always completely in character, and appropriate to
the dramatic situation.  Villain Victor Maitland (played by Steven Berkoff,
the husband of Alberta Watson, Madeline in La Femme Nikita) is chillingly
underplayed; the cold-blooded evil shines through the
civilized facade.

BHC is one of the few movies which I can watch with my loved ones again and
again and never tire.  Even as a comedy, it has a solidness and integrity
which make it extremely durable. I look forward eagerly to Martin Brest's
next film.  Meanwhile, I always
have Beverly Hills Cop.
<|_=00=_|>

BEVERLY HILLS COP (1984) ***1/2 Eddie Murphy, Lisa Eilbacher, Ronny Cox,
John Ashton, Judge Reinhold, Paul Reiser, Bronson Pinchot.  Murphy, hot off
his debut in `48 HRS' wisely continued to ride his rising star in this his
first starring vehicle, tailor-made for his fast-talking, fun-loving,
street-smart persona as Detroit undercover cop Axel Foley in this
blockbuster hit who heads to posh Beverly Hills to investigate the murder of
a good friend mixed up in a drug smuggler's art dealer front headed by
equally good friend Eilbacher, and faster than you can say fish-out-of-water
he's rousted by Beverly Hills finest, Ashton and Reihold – a modern day
Laurel and Hardy if you will, only to continue to fluster as he tries to
unearth the muck in the richest city in America.  Pinchot steals the show as
the effete, espresso hawiking art shop clerk Serge. Lots of laughs and a
good blend of action (this was once earmarked for Sylvester Stallone!) and
sprinkled with pop tunes that led to an even bigger soundtrack goldmine. 
Waycool instrumental theme music via Harold Faltemeyer.


<|_=00=_|>
Cocky rule dodging Detroit Cop Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) heads to
Beverly Hills in search of those responsible for murdering his friend.
Upon getting there he falls foul of everyone he meets with his tough
Detroit approach work. Undaunted, Foley, aided by old friend, Jenny
Summers (Lisa Eilbacher) and two intrigued local detectives, starts to
unravel the mystery.

There was a time when Eddie Murphy ruled the world. After Trading
Places had introduced us to his sharp comedic tongue, and 48 Hours had
shown him to be a more than capable action character actor, Beverly
Hills Cop fused the two and propelled Murphy to super-stardom. Directed
by Martin Brest and produced by Messers Simpson & Bruckheimer, it's
really no surprise that "Hills Cop" is shallow, simple (fish out of
water comedy standard) and utterly commercial. Yet with its gusto,
humorous script (Daniel Petrie Jr) and neat plotting, it becomes a
hugely entertaining film. One led superbly by Murphy with his comedy
fuelled energy and knack for timing.

Hard to believe that the likes of Sly Stallone and Al Pacino were first
mooted for the role, not as a comedy one imagines, but as it being a
standard police action movie. But enter Murphy and it ended up a fine
blend of action and comedy. There's little digs at Beverly Hills and
its smugness, a way of life that Foley, with his down on the streets
toughness, can't comprehend. While opposing police methods also get a
wry once over; wonderfully threaded by the relationship between Foley,
Taggart (John Ashton) and Rosewood (Judge Reinhold). Steven Berkoff's
by the numbers villain is something of a let down and Ronny Cox is
sadly playing filler time with an underwritten character. But this is
about Murphy, the fabulous stunt work and the successful union of
action and comedy. And hey! Even Harold Faltermeyer's bobbing synth
score, "Axel F," has a nippiness that remains quintessentially 1980s.
8/10
