
This is, hands down, one of the funniest movies ever made. Weather we
laugh because of the jokes written in or because of how awful some of
the movie is, it doesn't matter. Laughter is a good thing, and this
movie generates plenty of it. I especially like the bits with the
always entertaining Tim Thomerson, Jack Deth of the Trancers series.
His turn as Barnett Kale is fantastic. Also showing a nice sense of
comedic timing is the inimitable Richard Farnsworth as Noah, the father
of Dolly Parton's character.

It is bad, it is cheesy, and it is side-splittingly funny.

And if you cannot appreciate my fashion sense, I resignate.
<|_=00=_|>

I love this movie.  Not because it is a particularly good movie but it
definitely leaves a memorable impression.  In what other film can you see
Sylvester Stallone adorned in a fringed jacket, western shirt, tight
pants,
chaps, and high heeled cowboy boots?  I mean please, who could ask for
more?
Stallone attempts to sing as well.  I have heard worse.  Also, the
dialog
is hilarious.  Being from the South, it resonates with the sounds of my
youth.  Of course, Rhinestone is filled with the obvious stereotypical
portrayals of rural residents.  However, it is not rude or mean spirited
to
the populace located below the Mason Dixon line.  In a fashion, the movie
rather celebrates and embraces those individuals.  Believe me, there are
some memorable moments to this cinematic adventure.  Just give it a
chance -
spend 111 minutes laughing at Stallone and singing with Dolly.  If the
more
urbane members of my clan can appreciate this film even high brow viewers
can participate in parody from time to time.   
<|_=00=_|>
There are some hilarious moments in this movie. Yeah, I know, Sylvester
Stallone as a country singer? But that is one of the things that makes
it funny. I love the part where Dolly is trying to teach Sly to speak
with a southern accent. I didn't think that he was singing "that badly"
by the end of the movie. The dinner scenes in both locations were very
funny. Sly playing the organ and singing at the top of his lungs while
the funeral was going on was hilarious. And when Sly is walking down
the road at night and that creepy guy pulled up and said "get in" had
me rolling. Taken for it's entertainment value only, I was very
entertained by this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Can you say "Oscar snubs"? Think about the range here... Dolly Parton,
a friendly country singer? Sylvester Stallone, a complete moron? I want
awards all around! And that's just the acting. The story is also quite
the ringer... Dolly Parton makes a bet that she can turn an illiterate,
marble mouthed Stallone into a country music sensation. Wait, don't
just run out to the video store and pick this little gem up, I have
much more to say. This might sound like sassy romantic comedy, with
sprinklings of musical bliss laced throughout, but it's much more.
Rhinestone is by far and away, the funniest movie that I have ever had
the privilege to lay eyes on. It's got it all, ethnic stereotypes,
snappy one liners and Sly on a horse. It's a shame that I didn't really
see that because I was in a Rhinestone induced, fetal position for most
of the latter parts of the film. When the film mercifully came to an
end, I was left with only one emotion: Utter pity and sadness for
Parton. Not for Stallone, though. All I could muster for him was touch
of anger and heapin' helpin' of disdain. But Dolly, I like her. I don't
know much about her music, but she seems like a nice lady. The fact
that she had to endure hours, days and weeks of hearing that arm
wrestling', grenade throwing, mountain climbing, Russian punching,
Judge Dredding, Tango & Cashing embarrassment attempt to sing is a
tribute to her apparently good nature. Somewhere at the end of this
muddled disaster, Sly wins over the crowd is obviously on his way to
Nashville. Only problem is he sounds exactly the same as when he
started! But now everyone thinks he's good...I guess the music business
is more than I grasp. All that said, it is hilarious. Sure you laugh AT
it, rather than WITH it. But who am I to judge? There is one scene in
the movie that will make you laugh AND was intended to be funny, that's
the unfortunate wanna be singer who belts out "The Day My Baby Died".
The actor pulls it off and I have to admit, the song is pretty funny.
My only conclusion is that it's the lone part of the movie that
Stallone had absolutely nothing to do with. Just a hunch.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember RHINESTONE's extremely short tenure in theaters when I was a
teenager but never saw the film until it turned up unexpectedly on
Country Music Television (CMT) earlier this week. I sat down expecting
to laugh AT the movie, not WITH it, because on paper, the idea of
Sylvester Stallone learning to become a country singer so that Dolly
Parton can win a bet with her sleazy manager sounds like a train wreck
of Biblical proportions. But y'know what? In spite of myself I found
myself chuckling at the screwball humor in RHINESTONE. Stallone is not
exactly known for his comedic stylings, but I have to give him credit,
he gave it the old college try in his role as a mumble-mouthed NYC
cabbie who tries hard to discover his inner redneck. Dolly Parton,
well, she's Dolly Parton. She made quite a few movies in the late 70s
and early 80s and though she may not be considered a great actress,
she's light, funny, and easy on the eyes as well. Some of the priceless
moments include Sly's fringed, sparkly stage wear (which wouldn't have
looked out of place in the Blue Oyster Bar of "Police Academy" fame),
Dolly punching out Tim Thomerson (Jack Deth would be horrified at how
easily she took him out!), and Sly's race through the mean streets of
1984 Times Square on horseback to rescue Dolly from her manager's
clutches. On the musical side, well, let's just say I doubt that the
soundtrack album to RHINESTONE burned up the charts back in '84. Dolly
can sing anything and make it sound good, so Sly should be grateful
that she joins him on stage in the big finale to salvage his
"performance" (and I use that term loosely). I doubt Sly Stallone looks
back on this movie with much fondness, but considering that I was
expecting a total cheese fest I was pleasantly surprised by this fluffy
'80s comedy. They really don't make'em like this anymore.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the funniest Stallone comedies there is, if nothing else for
the fact that Stallone is so bad at it!  Imagine an NYC cab driver turned
country & western singer?  What could be better than that?  Dolly provides
a
solid comedy performance as well.  If nothing else check this out just for
the laughs!
<|_=00=_|>
Okay it's not that bad. I mean Stallone in that glittery cowboy outfit
has to be at least two points in itself. And he doesn't sing that bad
either. I've actually watched it more than once. And if it has repeat
and some entertainment value it shouldn't be that low. I've seen movies
that have been nominated for Academy awards that were less entertaining
than this. The story if you don't know is about a country and western
singer who has to train a novice in order to get out of her contract
with a weasel type producer. The novice in question is a NYC cabbie
played by Stallone. So she brings him home with her to the country and
has to turn him into a cowboy basically. It's a fish out of water
story. Yeah it's not Shakespeare, but it's definitely watchable.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this the other day FOR THE FIRST TIME might i add. I never
even knew about this film until i saw it round a mate's house.

I watched it thinking is was one of those early cheese flicks that were
around during the 80's, after Sly success with Rocky and before his
success with Rambo. Happily i was wrong, this was hilarious.

The story is well done and one that was entertaining. I was expecting
to fall asleep during this film but i stayed awake the whole time and
didn't yawn once. Sly looked well out of place in this picture but that
was the whole idea and he does it brilliantly, playing a New York
Cabbie who don't know the first thing about country music. And when he
sang during the first half of the movie it was in stitches. He was
excruciatingly awful,and I was literally crying laughter. However when
he did sing with the lovely Dolly Parton, he was good. This film is
kind of like Rocky meets Nashville with a great performance from
everyone involved.

Rhinestone is one of those gems of a movie that is a classic later on
in it's years. This is Sly at his comedy best,he don't play it for
laughs he is just himself (so to speak). Forget Stop or my mom will
shoot or Oscar, this is Sly at his comedy best. he can do comedy and it
shows right here.

I dare you not to be tapping your foot by the end. This will go with my
Good Sylvester Stallone films.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been watching the comments about this movie for twenty years.
Yes, the singing by Stallone should have been toned down and shortened
BUT...

The plot is simple and unconfusing. The point is made in the first 20
min of the movie.

The gags and one liners are HILARIOUS. Think about it, an Italian New
York cabbie suddenly asked by chance to sing country music to win a
bet..the possibilities are endless. The "fish out of water" theme to
this movie is JUST THAT, A FISH OUT OF WATER! To try to find a deeper
hidden meaning is the sign of a pseudo-intellectual trying to impress
people. Take this movie for what it is...FUN.

As I said earlier, I have been watching reviews for this flick for
years. People, it's COMEDY...not real life and NO... Stallone is NOT a
real country singer. Everyone knows it. Get over yourselves, open a
beer, untuck your shirt-tail, put your feet up and keep it in
perspective.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a genuinely funny movie in parts and that may really be what it was
all about and perhaps I should just accept it as such and leave it be. But
this movie is so fun to trash! Dolly plays, well... Dolly, as she usually
does in every movie she has ever been in. She is poured into impossibly
tight outfits and she is indeed formidable. One wonders how she is able to
breath in these tight outfits, much less talk and sing. Richard Farnsworth
plays old codgers pretty well. Sylvester, steals the show playing a
character so unlike anything he had played before (or since in fact). Well,
the basic New York/East Coast type of guy seems to be a constant thing, but
to take him out of Tennessee and attempt to make him into a country singer?
Unfortunately, we see why his singing career never took off, despite his
attempts to "sing funny" he sounds like a drunk in a karaoke bar at 2am and
moves like he trying to do half-remembered Mick Jagger stage
routines.

Funny movie though, his yelling and screaming while playing the organ made
me laugh even before the scene's real punchline was revealed.

Recommended if you enjoy getting good looks at Dolly Parton's early 1980s
figure and like seeing Stallone make fun of himself. Show this one movie
with a selection of his early porn work and make the debacle
complete.
