

The well-deserved negative comments about this beautifully-filmed fiasco
have all but obscured one important good deed: the attempt to update the
Lone Ranger on the wide screen, in all his majestic conservatism. Where
the
studio, in my mind, failed, was in treating the Ranger as "someone we
know."
For anyone who grew up in the late '40's or early '50's, and remembers
Brace
Beemer's voice [one God would have envied], or even his predecessor's
[Earle
Graser], or remembers how naturally Clayton Moore assumed the role for
television, the expensive exposure of Klinton Spilsbury was cruelly
unnecessary.  Why trifle with the Masked Man's origins? He was perfect as
we
knew him! The Ranger, for all you out there in cyberspace, was NEVER named
John; that his last name was Reid was well-known, but to give him a first
name [and an unremarkable one at that], was to snatch away some of the
mystery and aura surrounding the character. The Wrather Corporation, which
bought the rights to the Lone Ranger from George W. Trendle, made this
foolish mistake, and they robbed the Masked Man of any heroic pretense by
making him, in essence, one of us. If someone bought the rights to the
Superman character, changed his planet from Krypton to some other
location,
and did away with his earthly name of Clark Kent, can you imagine the
reaction? The Wrather Corporation robbed themselves of a valuable property
by re-tooling the Lone Ranger, and the result was this cinematic fiasco.
It
could have worked well, even without a "name" actor. The film was shot
through with admirable creative strokes. Two come to mind. First, the
racist
attack on the young Tonto, second, the planned gang-rape of Amy Striker on
the hijacked stagecoach, neither of which could have been broadcast nor
televised in the '40's or '50's. Even the scene in the confessional could
have proved a brilliant stroke [indeed, we saw it imitated in the 1998
"The
Mask of Zorro" to wonderful effect]. The point is that it all could have
worked! The sadistic ambush of the Texas Rangers at Bryant's Gap was
realistic and moving, but could have been dealt with far more effectively
by
means of flashbacks. The film failed because the studio didn't care enough
to probe the reasons for the Ranger's motivation [the superficial one of
revenge for the massacre at Bryant's Gap wasn't enough] and Tonto's
reasons
for his remarkable and deeply humane devotion to his friend. A
re-orchestration of the Republic and classical overtures would have
heightened the film [as expensive as this might have been] from an
ordinary
Western into something else; a retelling of a classic myth and cultural
icon. We Ranger fanatics are much the poorer because a rich corporation
bought the rights to a character without understanding [or caring] about
the
emotional underpinnings of the legend. American audiences were ready for a
"modern" Lone Ranger in 1981; I'm not certain that anyone cares anymore,
and
that's the tragedy. 
<|_=00=_|>
I thought Klinton Splsbury was a good Lone Ranger and Michael Horse was
a good Tonto.

The magic of this film, for me, is the first half, when we see how John
Reid becomes the Lone Ranger.Also, a great scene where he finds a wild
white horse, breaks him, and names him Silver. But a later scene just
blew my mind away.

In that scene,after Reid and Tonto bury his brother and the other
ambushed Texas Rangers, he decides to wear a mask so the bad guys won't
recognize him. He tells Tonto the mask will be a symbol of justice. At
this point, we have not yet seen his alter ego.

That changes when we see him from the back kneeling at his brother's
grave and vowing to avenge his death. Then he puts his hat on, turns
around, and as we see him in his mask for the first time, blaring
trumpets sound out the start of the William Tell Overture. Being a Lone
Ranger fan, this literally sent shivers down my spine.

The scene continues as they both ride away to more of the overture,
and, of course, we hear "Hi yo, Silver, away." 

Breathtaking!
<|_=00=_|>

I know that I am in the minority here, but I've always really liked this
movie. I fondly recall viewing it in the theater with my parents when i was
6 years old. Maybe I am blind when it comes to the film, but i don't see any
major problems with it. It's not a perfect film, but it is quite enjoyable.
Let me put it this way, there are many films out there which are much
worse!

I think what i liked the most was the music score, that theme song was
haunting to my ears and one of the few that stayed fresh in my mind for so
many years. John Barry truly did a marvelous job on this one, and many other
movie scores over the years as well. I wish i could find the original theme
song on CD, or at least on MP3.
<|_=00=_|>

The Legend of the Lone Ranger is an earnest adaptation of the origin and
earliest adventures of John Reid's masked alter ego. Not particularly well
made or well acted, Legend does have its moments, especially after lead
Klinton Spilsbury dons the familiar black mask and white hat. To hear the
upbeat tempo of the William Tell Overture truly does bring shivers to old
fans' spines once more. Spilsbury, despite a nationwide search, was not a
good choice for the Lone Ranger. He is not especially tall, broad
shouldered, or very heroic in his movments. And obviously his voice was not
good enough for the role either, as James Keach was brought in to dub over
Spilsbury's lines. However, Spilsbury does prove to be physically capable,
and his fight scenes and shoot outs are very much like the legendary Clayton
Moore's. Michael Horse has departed from Jay Silverheel's monosyllabic and
subservant version of Tonto. He is an activistic sidekick, prepared to
defend his people to a fault, even if he has to step over his partner, the
Ranger. Look for fairly good acting from the various co-stars, including
Christopher Lloyd as the fiendish Butch Cavendish, Richard Farnsworth as
Buffalo Bill, and especially Jason Robards as a frequently inebriated
President U.S. Grant. All in all, not a great film, but one that tries
incredibly hard to keep the Legend of the Lone Ranger alive.

<|_=00=_|>

After reading so many bad comments on this film, I guess I'm one of the few
that disagree with the critics.  I really liked this movie.  I thought it
was well directed by William Fraker, with terrific photography and a well
written story.  So, for once, there isn't a lot of blood and guts all over
the place.  Who cares?  It was also interesting to me to see how the Lone
Ranger got his name and the whole silver bullet legend, which I never knew. 
So, thanks for filling me in on that subject.  

Some wonderful performances by all of the leads.  How wonderful to see Jason
Robards as President Grant.  He added so much to the role with his usuall
unbeatable acting abilities.  This is a terrific actor in all that he does. 
And Christopher Lloyd as "Butch" Cavendish, the villain, plays the part with
simplicity and not the usuall western bad guy.  It was nice to see Lloyd
play a different kind of role other than the character from "Taxi" he's
known for.  I liked Matt Clark as the Sheriff.  You see Clark in many films
and most of the time his work goes un-noticed.  This actor, too, does fine
character work.  Then we have the Lone Ranger and Tonto.  Yes, there are
many legends that lean on the gay relationship, but this viewer liked these
two actors.  I didn't know that Klinton Spilsbury's voice was dubbed as the
Ranger.  But I thought he had lots of charm and certainly good looks, with
or without the mask.  His scenes with the horse, Silver, were wonderfully
humorous and appealing.  His scene in the church with Amy was also well
played and well photographed.  I liked this actor and don't understand why
he never appeared again in a film.  It must have been his own
choice.

As Tonto, Michael Horse was perfection.  Simply played with dignity for his
race, he brought some nice quality to the film.  You felt that unsaid
respect and devotion the two heroes had for one another.  If you want to go
the gay route, do so.  I guess in this day and age, one must take that
aspect and build on it.  What, then, does that say of the Three
Muskateers?
<|_=00=_|>

What is most interesting about this film, other than it's parallels to
Zorro
(which was written in the early 1900's):  is the fact that Klinton
Spilsbury
never spoke a single word of dialogue throughout the entire piece, his
lines
being completely dubbed by James Keach, Stacey Keach's brother; Harrison
Ford's stunt double from the later release of Raiders being run over
during
the stagecoach stunt homage to Yakima Canutt; and that John Hart,
temporary
replacement for Clayton Moore on the TV version of the Lone Ranger, being
cast as Mr. Striker, newspaper editor and creator of the Lone Ranger
mythos.

I personally like this film despite it's flaws.  It's good, but could have
been so much better.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Legend of the Lone Ranger" will always be one of my favorite
movies. I am really tired of people bashing this movie. I will take
"The Legend of the Lone Ranger" over a lot of the pretentious and
overrated snoozers that have won Best Picture at the Academy Awards
year after year. The movie is fast paced, entertaining and a great
re-telling of the Lone Ranger story. Great cinematography! A wonderful
and scenic film to look at. Klinton Spilsbury takes a lot of
unwarranted criticism for his performance but I see nothing wrong with
it considering his entire performance was dubbed by the less than
stellar James Keach. Blaming Spilsbury for the acting makes no sense
since Keach seems to phone his performance in. All in all, a fun movie
deserving of a little more respect.
<|_=00=_|>
When you were a kid and listened to the Lone Ranger on the radio it was
exciting. Years later, when Clayton Moore and Jay Silverheels played
the Lone Ranger and Tonto in the TV series The Lone Ranger, it brought
ones heroes to life through the eyes of a youngster. Who can forget the
masked man riding away at the end of the program shouting, "HiHo
Silver,and Away", all to the stirring music of the William Tell
Overture! Wow!

We all loved and respected the lone ranger and his faithful companion
Tonto, but we never really knew the story of how the two came to be
such great friends and why they had chosen fighting evil and injustice
as an occupation. Well,the Ledgend of the Lone Ranger brings us right
up to speed in a fashion that reveals many of attributes and flaws that
are found as choices for all us. Loyalty, honesty, character, and fair
play are pitted against deception, greed, cruelty and murder! Sounds
just like another Lone Ranger episode. But,No! This time the hero is
portrayed in the role of the victim. Will good have its day and triumph
over evil? Things look mighty grim, after all, we've been into at least
half the movie and haven't even seen or heard of our hero. And that's
the point. Stick around for the wonderful second half to see how the
Lone Ranger evolves, when he comes upon Silver, when he's reunited with
Tonto and when he rides like the wind to even the score, as Rossini's
Overture creates goosebumps, just like it did when we were kids!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was wonderful and one of the most memorable of my life. It
was much more interesting and exciting than any of the old Clayton
Moore stuff. The action sequences were well done, and it was
emotionally effective. It gave me some good thrills, like when The Lone
Ranger shoots the rope that is about to hang Tonto and then rides up
and carries him off with a dazzling display of gunfire, and of course,
all to the rousing William Tell overture. This is touching because you
remember how Tonto found The Lone Ranger left for dead after the Butch
Cavendish attack and nursed him back to health. I can't believe that it
was not a hit. No, it wasn't perfect, but it certainly deserved a lot
more respect than it got. And Jason Robards performance as Ulysses S.
Grant was charming. I just hope I can find a copy somewhere as soon as
possible.
<|_=00=_|>
I was surprised to read that this movie did so poorly at the box
office. We saw it 6 or 7 times in the theater and just assumed everyone
else did too! We loved it as kids and still do today as adults. I still
want to gallop around the living room on my pretend horse when I hear
the song. If you want to look at this movie from a cinematic
standpoint, I guess it isn't as good as the blockbuster, special
effects extravaganzas produced today, but it is a good quality story
and film without a lot of needless blood and guts. I can't wait to show
it to my son, who is the same age now as I was when I first saw it.
It's a classic and will forever be in my top 5.
