

I avoided this when it came out in 1989 having seen Coming Home (1978) 
and not wanting to revisit the theme of paraplegic sexual dysfunction 
and frustration. I also didn't want to reprise the bloody horror of our 
involvement in the war in Vietnam that I knew Oliver Stone was going to 
serve up. And Tom Cruise as Ron Kovic? I just didn't think it would 
work.

Well, my preconceptions were wrong.

First of all, for those who think that Tom Cruise is just another 
pretty boy (which was basically my opinion), this movie sets that 
mistaken notion to rest. He is nothing short of brilliant in a role 
that is enormously demanding--physically, mentally, artistically, and 
emotionally. I don't see how anybody could play that role and still be 
the same person. Someday in his memoirs, Tom Cruise is going to talk 
about being Ron Kovic as directed by Oliver Stone.

And second, Stone's treatment of the sex life of Viet Vets in 
wheelchairs is absolutely without sentimentality or silver lining. 
There are no rose petals and no soft pedaling. There was no Jane Fonda, 
as in Coming Home, to play an angel of love. Instead the high school 
girl friend understandably went her own way, and love became something 
you bought if you could afford it.

And third, Stone's depiction of America--and this movie really is about 
America, from the 1950s to the 1970s--from the pseudo-innocence of 
childhood war games and 4th of July parades down Main street USA to 
having your guts spilled in a foreign land and your brothers-in-arms 
being sent home in body bags--was as indelible as black ink on white 
parchment. He takes us from proud moms and patriotic homilies to the 
shameful neglect in our Veteran's hospitals to the bloody clashes 
between anti-war demonstrators and the police outside convention halls 
where reveling conventioneers wave flags and mouth phony slogans.

I have seen most of Stone's work and as far as fidelity to authentic 
detail and sustained concentration, this is his best. There are a 
thousand details that Stone got exactly right, from Dalton Trumbo's 
paperback novel of a paraplegic from WW I, Johnny Got His Gun, that sat 
on a tray near Kovic's hospital bed, to the black medic telling him 
that there was a more important war going on at the same time as the 
Vietnam war, namely the civil rights movement, to a mother throwing her 
son out of the house when he no longer fulfilled her trophy case vision 
of what her son ought to be, to Willem DaFoe's remark about what you 
have to do sexually when nothing in the middle moves.

Also striking were some of the scenes. In particular, the confession 
scene at the home of the boy Kovic accidentally shot; the Mexican 
brothel scene of sex/love desperation, the drunken scene at the pool 
hall bar and the pretty girl's face he touches, and then the drunken, 
hate-filled rage against his mother, and of course the savage hospital 
scenes--these and some others were deeply moving and likely to haunt me 
for many years to come.

Of course, as usual, Oliver Stone's political message weighed heavily 
upon his artistic purpose. Straight-laced conservatives will find his 
portrait of America one-sided and offensive and something they'd rather 
forget. But I imagine that the guys who fought in Vietnam and managed 
to get back somehow and see this movie, will find it redemptive. 
Certainly to watch Ron Kovic, just an ordinary Joe who believed in his 
country and the sentiments of John Wayne movies and comic book heroics, 
go from a depressed, enraged, drug-addled waste of a human being to an 
enlightened, focused, articulate, and ultimately triumphant spokesman 
for the anti-war movement, for veterans, and the disabled was wonderful 
to see. As Stone reminds us, Kovic really did become the hero that his 
misguided mother dreamed he would be.

No other Vietnam war movie haunts me like this one. There is something 
about coming back less than whole that is worse than not coming back at 
all that eats away at our consciousness. And yet in the end there is 
here displayed the triumph of the human will and a story about how a 
man might find redemption in the most deplorable of circumstances.

--Dennis Littrell, author of "Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't 
Believe I Swallowed the Remote!"
<|_=00=_|>
When asked why he wanted to make another film about Vietnam after the
success of 'Platoon,' Oliver Stone is quoted as saying, 'There was
another war waiting for the soldiers when they returned home.' Indeed,
he was right. 'Born On the Fourth Of July,' based on the book by Ron
Kovic, follows Kovic's account of his experiences in Vietnam and the
indifferent nation that he returned to. Although released in 1989, it
holds up to the current situation that exists in Iraq now-many refer to
it as the new Vietnam. Regardless of anyone's opinion on the current
Iraq war, 'Born On the Fourth of July' is one of the most affecting,
and important war related films of all time. 

As the film opens, we find a young Kovic pretending to be a soldier
with friends-a time when the idea of being a soldier was heroic since
their father's had been heroes in WWII. The film then follows Kovic as
a popular athlete in high school up to his recruitment as a Marine.
Kovic rationalizes his reasons for joining up as Communists have
missiles pointed at us now and we have to save our country from its
threats. 

During his time in Vietnam, Kovic sees the true nature of war. His
platoon mistakenly fires upon a town where the enemy is supposedly
hiding; however, they end up killing women and children. During the
confusion that follows, Kovic accidentally shoots a fellow soldier-his
guilt would encompass him for years to come. But when Kovic himself is
wounded in a field, he is sent home paralyzed from the waist down. He
spends the first few months in a veteran hospital, which in this case,
was a slum. The doctors inform him that he will never be able to use
his legs again, and that he no longer has the ability to have children. 

When he returns to his home, he realizes that the world has changed.
People protest the war, sometimes protesting against the soldiers
themselves. His own family is indifferent to the war, as are his old
friends. In one scene, he is told by an old friend who has become
successful as a fast food manager, 'people here-they don't give a s**t
about the war! To them it's just a million miles away.'

Eventually becoming disillusioned by everything in his hometown, Kovic
spends a great deal of time with other veterans like himself at a
resort in Mexico. Later he becomes an activist-his first public
activism took place at the 1972 Republican National Convention where he
was televised for exposing the reality of what soldiers endured in
Vietnam, but also on the reasons why we did not belong there in the
first place. 

'Born On the Fourth of July' spends a good deal of time focusing on the
misplaced patriotism that the politicians spewed at the public to drum
up support not only for Vietnam, but the Cold War, in general. The film
shows this by Kovic's own mother constantly reminding her son that he
was doing the right thing by going over there and fighting and that he
was in God's hands. When Kovic returns home and his disillusionment
grows, he gets drunk one night and yells at his mother, 'There is no
God. There is only me in this chair for the rest of my life!'

The film does stand up today just as strong as ever. With soldiers
returning home from Iraq, and the constant media attention of terrorist
attacks over there and seeing our own soldiers ambushed all the time,
those who fight now must feel the same anger and frustration that Kovic
felt year ago. It does make one wonder, when will the politicians ever
truly get it! ****
<|_=00=_|>
Oliver Stone's Born on the Fourth of July to me is better than Platoon,
or at least more psychologically moving and cinematically compelling.
While Platoon, Stone's totally personal account of the Vietnam war is
quite accurate and superb in many ways, this film is better if only
because it's not Stone's story. He takes the tale of Ron Kovic (who
wrote the book with the same name as the film and scripted by him and
Stone) and turns it into a blisteringly awesome and ultimately
harrowing picture that has performances, scenes and direction that top
Platoon (maybe it's a sign that practice makes perfect)

Anyway, the tale centers on Ron Kovic (played to a utter T by Tom
Cruise) good old-boy-type of American kid who decides he wants to fight
for his country in the Vietnam war even if he has to die for his
country. He fights, witnesses horror and makes a tragic mistake and
comes back home a crippled from the waist down veteran, who has to
endure the emotional and physical pain of just being a veteran of
Vietnam in a country where they are put down more than revered. All
this, and more (including one of the most volcanic scenes I have ever
seen between Cruise and Dafoe on a Mexico road) lead him to become a
anti-war activist.

In making the big theme of the picture Kovic and his feeling on the
war, Stone depicts his journey excellently by showing his desire to be
in it, his confusion afterwards, his eventual hatred and then placement
in being against the war all the while still being a patriot. Not only
does it work as a saga/war movie, but also as a 180 degree change tale.
Must, must see for all Stone fans and for anybody who wants to see what
Cruise can actually do with proper direction and script.
<|_=00=_|>

You've heard the express "can't see the forest for the trees", right?  It
refers to someone who gets so caught up in details, they miss the big
picture.  Reading other comments on IMDb regarding "Born on the Fourth of
July", I think people have the opposite problem with this film.  So many
people seem to get caught up in talking about Vietnam, war, Nixon, America,
Communism, and hippies, that they totally overlook Ron Kovic. 

Ron Kovic is the center of this film.  In "Platoon", war was the center, and
the central character (Charlie Sheen's Chris Taylor) was merely a POV
character through whose eyes we could see war.  Not so in "Born on the
Fourth of July".  Vietnam is the setting, the context, and the backdrop. 
But Ron Kovic is the story.  

Oliver Stone really understands a character arc.  Look at Kovic's life,
where it starts, where it ends.  The film is the journey, how he got from A
to B.  It is a dramatization of a life, as opposed to an actual life, but it
still rings true.  It feels true.  It reaches an artistic level of truth,
even if some literal truths are overlooked, distorted, or rearranged. 
That's what Stone is trying to do.  People who quibble about the facts miss
the point.  (This is a theme I will take up again when I review some of
Stone's other films, as Stone is constantly being bashed for historical
inaccuracies.)  The connections from one point to the next work admirably,
and the progression is completely believable, which is quite a feat for such
a dramatic change of attitude (compare to "American History X", where the
main character goes through a similar about face with scant motivation). 

Anyway, what impresses me about this film is the honesty and respect with
which Stone presents the opposing views of the film.  Say what you want
about Stone's political beliefs, but the argument in this film is presented
in a very neutral light.  It's a story about Kovic's choices, Kovic's
politics, Kovic's judgments.  And the anti-Vietnam beliefs he finally
supports in the final act are a very natural and believable outcome of the
story.  This film isn't anywhere near as didactic as some people like to
imagine.  

The tragedy of Oliver Stone is that, because he has been so edgy, so
controversial, so deliberately provocative, no one can really just sit down
and, with a neutral eye, watch his films.  They have become so burdened by
this giant, irrelevant, political squabble.  The films have been subsumed by
the very issues they sought to raise.  And it's a shame, with this film
especially, because it is excellent.  

Tom Cruise gives possibly the greatest performance of his career (I can't
think of anything that tops it, though his performance in "Eyes Wide Shut",
for very different reasons, is just as remarkable).  The script is
fantastic, taking time where it needs to take time, but not overly
deliberate in its approach.  It's very economical with time.  It knows what
each scene needs to say, and says it without any excess baggage, wasted
space, or dead time.  The direction is excellent, as is the editing and
cinematography.  The supporting cast is excellent.  

But this movie would be nothing without the remarkable, heart-rending, true
story of Ron Kovic.  So, while we admire the technical achievement of the
film, while we debate the points raised, while we enshrine or excoriate the
director (as the case may be), let's not forget the story.  Let's not get so
fired up about Vietnam that we forget Ron Kovic.  He is the heart and soul
of this film.  

One final note:  I bristle when people call this an anti-war film.  That
really diminishes it, I think.  It's so much more than that.  It's not just
saying that war is brutal, nasty, and horrific.  It's saying something far
more specific about a specific war, and about the effect of that war on a
specific man.  
 
  
<|_=00=_|>

What defines a great film?  I believe that for a movie to be great,
it
should move you.  It should make you think.  It should make you reconsider
your views and outlooks.  It should make you take a closer look at its
subject matter.  It should draw attention to itself.  Above all, you
should
gain some amount of enjoyment from a great film.  I believe that BORN ON
THE
FOURTH OF JULY was a great film.  I say this because, whether or not you
agree with Ron Kovic's message, and although Oliver Stone almost ruined it
with his attempts to personalize reality, the movie still made people stop
and look.  It literally defined the Vietnam War for a generation of Tom
Cruise fans, and made many more aware of what the vets went through.  The
cinematography, score and fabulous acting made it a pleasure for many
people
to watch, if only to see how Cruise would deliver his next
line.

The film grossed $70,001,698 nationwide.  In 1989, when BORN ON THE
FOURTH OF JULY was released, movie tickets cost five dollars.  Therefore,
over fourteen million American people went to the theater to see this
movie.
The number of viewers increases when you take into consideration the
people
who rented it on video or watched a television broadcast.  It had that
special something that made people think about issues that they might not
have thought about before.  It is lamentable that by 1989, many of the
members of Generation X had paid little or no attention to the Vietnam
War,
even though only sixteen years had passed since the war's end.  The
younger
generation was reminded that the war did, indeed, happen, and that the
country was still being lambasted with the side effects.

The camera work was extremely effective in relaying the messages in
the
film.  Different moods within the film were indicated by different tints
in
the color.  Combats were filmed in red, while blue indicated sadness, and
white tints where used in the dream sequences.  Whether intended or not,
the
colors of choice also coincide with that of the American flag, which is
very
appropriate for the film.  The film also employed a wide variety of
interesting angles without becoming confusing to the viewer.

The musical score is one of the best of all time.  John Williams is a
genius in the music industry.  His fabulous music can make a film feel the
way it was intended to.  He seems to simply know what sequence of notes
will
produce what emotions.  Along with Williams' music, the score also
includes
some of the popular music from the time of the film's setting.  For
instance, AMERICAN PIE by Don McLean, MY GIRL by the Temptations, and
MOONRIVER by Henry Mancini, all give the viewer who remembers the music a
sense of nostalgia, taking them back to those years.

Two words sum up why the movie got the attention it did: Tom Cruise.
Many critics were skeptical whether or not the pretty boy of RISKY
BUSINESS
and TOP GUN fame had what it took to portray a real life Vietnam veteran
and
make the audience believe he was that person.  Fans crowded into the
theaters to watch Cruise's handsome face (which was not so attractive
through most of the film).  Critics went to watch him blow the role.  But
he
proved himself and went above and beyond what was expected of him in one
of
the most moving performances I have ever seen.  He literally became Ron
Kovic.

Many people were affected by BORN ON THE FOURTH OF JULY.  It had
great
cinematography.  Its soundtrack was inspiring and beautiful, pulling out
of
the viewer all possible emotions.  Tom Cruise's performance as Ron Kovic
blew almost everyone away.  In short, BORN ON THE FORTH OF JULY has what
it
takes to be a great film.  It overcomes Stone's blatant manipulation of
facts, such as the violent conflict that in the movie occurs during a
republican convention, but in reality occurred during a democratic
convention.  Powerful and touching, it drives its point home and back
again,
never missing a beat.

8 out of 10 stars
<|_=00=_|>
Everything that people love and detest about Oliver Stone's films is in
full flower here—ambitious theme, strengthen visual style, undisguised
political biases… 

The film is also an important turning point in Tom Cruise's career,
completing his transformation from rising star to serious actor… He
received his first Academy Award nomination for his role as antiwar
activist and Vietnam veteran… Though Ron Kovic's story is presented as
a distillation of the political and a violent social commotion that
America went through from the mid-sixties to the mid-seventies... At
heart, it's propaganda… 

Stone begins the story as a twisted cinematic version with boys playing
war in suburban woods… It's Massapequa, Long Island, 1956…

Ron Kovic grows up as a typical American white kid who believes in God,
country, sports, and sex… His father's (Raymond J. Barry) leaving his
forceful mother (Caroline Kava) as the dominant personality in the
home… To Ron, she's a repressive slave driver who sets a standard he
can never measure up to… That, in part, is why he enlists in the
Marines, straight out of high school… Cut to the Cua Viet River,
October 1967, where Sgt. Kovic is in his second tour…

The short vision of Vietnam that Stone presents here is even more
surreal and horrifying than the violence in "Platoon." An attack on a
village is a disaster, and the Marines' retreat from it is even worse
for Kovic… That nightmare is settled when Kovic is seriously wounded,
sent to a MASH unit, and then to a Bronx Veteran's Administration
hospital... 

Paralyzed from the waist down, Kovic sank into a deep depression… From
that moment, the next hour or so is a steep downward spiral of
self-pity, drunkenness, anger, misery, and, most important, guilt over
one incident for which he cannot forgive himself… It's honest,
unflattering, and ugly… 

Cruise's performance is one of his best, capturing both the cocky,
insecure young man and the haunted veteran…The motion picture is never
boring and, until the last reel, the action moves forcefully… 

If Stone had elected in the middle section to spend less time rolling
about with pleasure in Mexican fleshpots and to pay more attention to
Kovic's full development, he might have created the antiwar epic he was
aiming for, revealing the physical and psychological costs of one of
the most tragic events in history…
<|_=00=_|>

I remember when i first watched this film I became totally absorbed in it. I
had to search out songs that I heard in the move.....I had to see other
Vietnam movies again.....I had to watch other Stone movies. Its a superb
film.
Cruise gives the best peformance he ever will in a film as Kovic.....the
golden boy who comes home paralysed and confused at the way his country is
reacting to Vietnam. Some of the  scenes in the film are very disturbing but
the ones that affected me the deepest were not any battle scenes. When Ron
comes home and looks at himself as a young boy in his wrestling kit was
almost unbearable to watch. 
Also, the scene when he is drunk in the bar and comes out of his wheelchair
had me turning away from the screen.
This is a true epic film and the support cast and soundtrack are also
superb. 5/5 easily.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's start with the good news. "Born on the Fourth of July" is an
absorbing piece of work, based on a true story, about Ron Kovic (Tom
Cruise), a gung-ho Marine-turned-war-protester. We first meet Kovic as
an all-American boy as strong in his faith as he is in his will to
succeed. After high school he proudly joins the Marines, hoping he'll
be shipped to Vietnam to stop the spread of communism. But the
barbarities of war, including civilian casualties, friendly fire and a
paralyzing bullet through the chest, gradually turn him against the
conflict. Director Oliver Stone's method of telling Kovic's story over
a period of several years is highly effective and convincing. Cruise is
at his best as Kovic, portraying a wide range of emotions and
developing apathy with the viewer. The audience feels what he feels,
from confusion on the battlefield to the terror of being paralyzed from
the waist down.

Now for the bad news. The picture is overly political, with Stone once
again (and unnecessarily) casting Republicans as the bad guys and
Democrats as the good guys (seemingly ignoring that the Dems initially
sent the troops to 'Nam). The film also takes a while to build up
steam, and the all-American life of the pre-Marine Kovic seems a little
too perfect to be believable. Obviously a story such as this requires
adequate screen time, but the 145 minutes is slightly drawn out,
particularly toward the end. And although one of its central themes is
the opposition to the war that greeted returning vets, the genesis and
rationale of that opposition are not adequately explored.

As a whole, however, "Born of the Fourth of July" is recommended.
Kovic's biography and Stone's masterful storytelling are a perfect
match. It's not your typical war movie. In fact, it's not your typical
movie, period.
<|_=00=_|>

"Born on the Fourth of July" is a film based on the real-life experiences of
Vietnam veteran Ron Kovic (Tom Cruise in an Oscar-nominated role).  As a
young man he feels that Vietnam is just another battleground for the United
States.  Even after he returns home paralyzed from the waist down, he still
feels that Vietnam is important and that if you do not support the fighting
then you should leave America.  However, he has a change of heart and
becomes an anti-war activist who realizes that one gets nothing out of
combat but heartache and sorrow.  Oliver Stone's screenplay is pretty
strong, but it is his unrelenting direction that makes the material work
throughout.  Tom Cruise established himself as a high-class actor and the
film stays above water because of that fact.  The lack of character support
does impede the progress of the film though.  Willem Dafoe, Tom Berenger,
and Kyra Sedgwick make somewhat token appearances and the impact of their
screen-time is all minimal.  Cruise's character dominates the film.  This is
both the film's strong point and weak point.  All in all a strong film, but
could have been so much more.  4 out of 5 stars.    
<|_=00=_|>
When you see a war veteran campaigning against the very war in which he
was willing to die once, you begin to have second thoughts about the
intent behind the war. Many Americans went deep into this deliberation
when veterans like Ron Kovic went on record questioning the wisdom
behind US's offensive against Vietnam. Regardless of historical outcome
of the war, the question will haunt USA forever -was the Vietnam War a
noble and just cause. Your answer could be anything depending upon your
political and ideological preferences, but the reality of thousands who
lost their lives and limbs continues to hurt.

Oliver Stone's Born on Fourth of July - based on the true story of Ron
Kovic - takes the audience through the triumph and trauma of a crusader
who went from one side of the war debate to the other. Ron wanted to
fight for his country and stop the evil force of communism dead in its
tracks. He went to Vietnam to defend his nation but came back soon,
injured and doomed to suffer further. In the inadequately equipped
hospital, his dreamer instincts crashed against the harsh realities of
political ambivalence, not for the first time though.

Over next eight years that are depicted in this masterpiece, the
character of Ron Kovic (played by Tom Cruise with unprecedented
brilliance) goes through the trauma of knowing that no one will "love
him now", that even his own sibling is not on the same side of
ideology, that the government had more pressing issues than taking good
care of war veterans, that his countrymen did not necessarily endorse
of his view point. The reality that he killed a soldier from his own
army, the reality that he was the unfortunate one to butcher children
and women in Vietnam, the reality that he would not be able to father a
child, the reality of his realization that his government had made a
wrong case for the war - it all kept gnawing at his conscience. It kept
gnawing him until he opened up to speak about what was wrong about this
war. Thus 'ended' the patriotic fervor of a driven person, but he
continued his passion as an antiwar activist.

Born on Fourth of July may have been the story of one Ron Kovic, but
there are many others whose sentiments would echo with this veteran's.
At the end, there is no easy way out of this debate. War always comes
with its baggage of pain, trauma and hurt. Whether Vietnam was a
mistake or not - the arguments would go on forever. So would the
history of people who aspired to be motivated by JFK's historical urge
- Ask not what your country can do for you, See what you can do for
your country - only to realize that in every war there is only one
casualty - the human spirit. And this reality hurts.
