
This is a classic 70s/80s 'hot for teacher' movie about a teenage boy
whose sexy housekeeper seduces him. The plot, mediocre at best. The
acting, salvageable. The art direction...wait a second! This movie is
about recollecting those teenage years with your 70's glasses on, not
about quality film-making. It's about T&A and tan lines, cheesy dialog,
and being able to see boom mics in the shot. Nothing but FUN! 

Don't listen to all the 'boring' people who weighed in on this movie,
they shouldn't have watched it in the first place. I hate that PC
people like that are actually out there comparing these types of movies
to Oscar contenders. News brief: THIS MOVIE ISN'T SUPPOSED TO AND ISN"T
TRYING BE IN THAT LEAGUE. This is plain old fun and teen fantasy. All
this crap about 'oh that poor boy' is ridiculous. There isn't a 16 year
old boy in the world that wouldn't give his left arm to be in this
situation.

If you have fun with the 70s and 80s and you can enjoy low budget,
cheesy films...see this. If you take life too seriously and suffer
allergic reaction to nudity and political INcorrectness...avoid at all
costs.
<|_=00=_|>
When a rich man leaves town for a business trip, he leaves his young
15-year-old son Philly (Eric Brown) at home in the care of his sexy
foreign housemaid, Miss Mallow (Sylvia Kristel) and their sniveling
chauffeur Lester (Howard Hesseman - 'Johnny Fever' of WKRP IN
CINCINNATI). Like many red-blooded teenage boys, Philly and his young
buddy Sherman are looking for cheap thrills by spying on sun bathing
girls and dreaming of sex. What a surprise Philly's in for when Miss
Mallow catches him watching her undress from outside the window one
night and then invites him inside to get the best view. Soon, the maid
is seducing the boy, and Philly begins to experience every adolescent
male's fantasy - scoring with an older woman. The problem is, Miss
Mallow and her partner Lester have other plans in store for this
aspiring Casanova.

I first saw this unusually risqué teenage comedy/sex fantasy back in
1981 when I was 19, which was considerably older than the 15-year-old
character is. But the dream was still something I could relate to, and
when I saw that a DVD release was coming out I decided to revisit it
and see how it stood up, so to speak, after 25 years. Turns out it's
still fun, and Eric Brown is humorous as he stammers while trying to
contain his excitement at seeing Sylvia Kristel (and her body double in
some shots) naked. Kristel was popular doing this type of film in
Europe, so it was interesting to see her in an American production
doing something that would never be allowed at your local cineplex
today. Not only are some of her sequences sensual, but there are a fair
amount of laughs, some of them courtesy of Philly's pudgy know-it-all
friend Sherman, and also from Howard Hesseman who has some funny
moments being pushed around and humiliated by Ed Begley Jr! As is the
case with many early '80s teen comedies, the soundtrack is pretty good
too, and features music from Rod Stewart, Air Supply and John Cougar,
among others.

The most easily obtainable version of this film I would guess is now
the 2006 Lions Gate DVD, but purists should be warned that a couple of
quick lower frontal nudity shots have been obscured on this release by
an annoying white dot. Well, it's not like this is great art, and the
movie doesn't really suffer from the brief obliteration. Besides, this
was a forgotten cult classic of sorts and hard to locate for so long
that it's just good to be able to view it again. I know some people get
uptight about this daring film, especially in these days, but relax.
It's just a fun little movie, if not a great one, and sometimes even
has a little bit of charm to it as well. And it's nothing that many
average teenage boys aren't thinking about already. *** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>

This excellent, though aging badly, film, is well worth digging out of the
dusty shelves of your video store. It's definitely not highbrow fare, but
this story of an earnest 15 year old's relationship with his sexy French
housekeeper is certainly watchable.

Although the subject matter is actually quite serious, many moments in the
movie will have you laughing out loud. Patrick Piccininni is priceless as
the best friend of the 15 year old Phillip, who eggs him on. Eric Brown is
even better as Phillip, who isn't quite sure how to respond to his
housekeeper's advances.

"Private Lessons" is more than just a reversed-role "Lolita"--it's far
more
entertaining to watch. It does, however, join a whole series of fairly
predictable teen guy-and-teacher/housekeeper movies like "My Tutor". What
I
especially like about this film, though, is that it doesn't have the heavy
air of moral judgment hanging around it. The characters are depicted as
perfectly-capable agents of their own will, which is extremely refreshing.
It was hard to watch "Private Lessons", though, without looking back on my
teen years and longing to be in Phillip's shoes!

<|_=00=_|>

Imagine having the chance to film scenes with Emmanuelle
herself...
But enough about the actors. This film is a humorous romp into/through the
sexual curiousity of a young boy. His seductress is softened by his
naivity
and he comes away with confidence and poise.
It also has an excellent soundtrack.
<|_=00=_|>
The last time I saw this movie before getting the newly-released DVD
was back in my childhood, let's say 6th or 7th grade. Back then, the
naughty scenes were quite exciting and the plot was good for a giggle.
And of course young, awkward boys enjoy some small hope that one day
they will become more suave through kind experiences of female beauty.
On general principal I thought I should add the DVD to my collection.
Overall, I was not disappointed.

One major detraction I didn't remember seeing before was the crude
white-paint censor blots in the two full-frontal nude scenes
(boooooo!). This film has a few details on refused-classification.com
which suggest that it might have been doctored in this way in order to
gain its R rating, even back in 1982. I wonder why it was not offered
with a "director's cut" as a special feature of the DVD (e.g. "Dressed
to Kill") - artistically speaking, I would rather have a scene cut than
done up with something so cheesy and distracting as a censor box
(shame!).

This movie is what it is - for me it represents just a little piece of
my childhood, and contains a few moments that were interesting to
revisit. If the features of the DVD had been more complete I would have
given it about an 8. I'm hoping I will be amused by the commentary when
I hear it.
<|_=00=_|>
I just finished watching this on TMC. I haven't seen it in its entirely
since I was about "Philly's" age...20+ years ago (ugh). Anyway, I
enjoyed it thoroughly. Yes, the acting isn't first-rate (except for
Begley, Jr's); the production is B-movie; the subject is taboo; the
plot's full of holes; but, it has great moments of humor, sensitivity,
eroticism without being 'dirty'; and one of the best 80's soundtracks
ever. This movie is about having fun. Philly's best friend was
hilarious. For me, it was reminiscing about the fantasies it provided
when I was a teen. I had forgotten how sweet and sexy Sylvia Kristel
was in this movie. Some of her acting was still a bit amateur, but her
sweet seduction was first-rate. She put a smile on my face when I
needed it most...and that's all that matters.
<|_=00=_|>
"Private Lessons" isn't astonishingly bad... if you can look at it from
the standpoint of it being a cheap adolescent thrill on late-night
"Skin-emax" or any other premium station du jour. I'm mostly fine with
plots involving taboo; even the "Onegai" series of anime doesn't phase
me. But I will say this: the one and only reason anyone should feel
compelled to watch this movie is to see the rather hot (back then
anyway) Sylvia Kristel in the nude. It does have a cute premise, but
it's never done much justice due to all of the amateurish writing and
pacing.

Eric Brown is Phillip Fillmore (Philly Philly??), a 15-year-old kid
with hormones gone berserk. In other words, he's pretty damn average.
His deadbeat dad has left on a... business trip (wink wink nudge nudge)
and has left Philly back home with his recently arrived immigrant
housekeeper Nicole Mallow (Kristel) and sleazy chauffeur Lester (Howard
Hesseman). Seems Philly's got the hots for Nicole, and Lester takes
advantage of this, persuading Nicole to fake her own death at the hands
(or loins) of the boy so he can make off with Philly's money like a
bandit. But Nicole switches around mid-plot, deciding instead to help
stop Lester's Half-Baked Evil Scheme™. Cue several slapstick hijinks
culminating in a final sex scene and serve.

Obviously, you don't watch movies like this for plots, no matter how
inane and far-fetched they may be; you watch them to get sprung. Alas,
this was back in the early eighties, and unless you had a big name
and/or a lot of cash to burn, your film was almost destined to rot in
film quality hell. Such seems to have been the case with "Private
Lessons," and the fact that it is billed as a comedy rather than an
adult movie bewilders me to no end. Even with the nudity, the
filmography is agonizing to watch, but since this was probably produced
as a "quick buck" teen-pleaser, that's not surprising. Panning shots of
Kristel fondling or teasing Brown while the kid makes goofy,
unrealistic "shocked and amazed" expressions are about as dynamic as
this thing gets.

I should also mention that the character of Philly's chubby friend
(Patrick Piccininni) is simply the most irritating part of the movie in
my opinion. Some people have commented that this character, who comes
across as being doomed to remain a virgin for the rest of his life, is
rather cute in his behavior, and I fail to see how they arrive at that
judgment... as if one gawking teenage boy wasn't enough. Hesseman's
character is strictly porno-level, period, end of story. Even Dan
Greenburg, the author of the book this film is based on, had the ego to
have a bit role as the hotel owner, even going so far as to appear
fully credited in the "profile" shots of the cast during the closing
credits! 

It's hard to recommend "Private Lessons" for any other reason than the
aforementioned Ms. Kristel and the fact that it is better than most
soft-porn out there. Aside from these aspects, it's downright mediocre.
<|_=00=_|>
Every boy's wet dream… well that's how the early 80's sex teen comedy
"Private Lessons" plays out… and maybe more audacious than most with
its precariously lurid context. While I wouldn't call it one of the
best of its sub-genre, it still was rather a popular and influential
outing that would spawn knockoffs like "Homework", "My Tutor" and to
some extent "Class". This is one of those films that its best to just
go along with its low-brow attitude, as its quite asinine (especially
the plot progression)cringe-like (with the circumstances characters
find themselves in) and smutty. But then again the hormones run wild.
Older lady… young boy. What fantasy can you think up? 

15 year old Philly Fillmore's father has gone away on business, where
he's left home alone with Nicole the new French housemaid. Soon Philly
becomes infatuated in her, but her open advancements towards him come
at a surprise. While shy at first, she slowly starts gaining his
affection. But unknowingly to him, his crooked chauffeur Lester has
blackmailed Nicole to seduce Philly in the scheme of getting money out
of him.

What the film has going for it is the iconic soundtrack of buoyant
tunes from the likes of Rod Stewart, Eric Clapton, Crazy Horse, Air
Supply and Earth, Wind & Fire. It was like a jukebox at times with some
oddly placed tunes. The other distracting element (other than spending
a lot time leering of its attractive female cast and extras) was that
of European goddess, Emmanuelle's Sylvia Kristal as teasingly upfront
foreign housemaid. She looks beautiful; the best moment arises when she
seductively strips in front of a gobs-smacked Eric Brown. Although
another body double was used for Kristal's nude scenes. Eric Brown
plays the gawky naïve young lad Philly whose curiosity turns to
obsession --- in what he believes is love for the housemaid. Howard
Hesseman is good as the deviously slim bag chauffeur Lester and Ed
Begley Jr. has fun with his little support role. In one humorous
sequence he does his best "Dirty Harry" persona with Hesseman at the
end of it. Patrick Piccininni plays Philly's obnoxious pal Sherman and
Pamela Jean Bryant is Sherman's stuck-up older sister that Philly kind
of fancies. Or better put likes to see naked. Ron Foster turns up as
Philly's father and Dan Barrows amusingly chips in as the gardener.
Also showing up in minor, but enjoyable parts are Peter Elbling, Dan
Greenberg (the writer) and a delightfully titillating Meridith Baer as
an uptight school teacher. It's technically well-made by director Alan
Myerson and breezily paced with Greenberg's simple material.
<|_=00=_|>
Great topic about a boy coming of age lead by an older mature woman.
The movie gathered much publicity not only in the US, and Europe, but
also in Asia when it came out.

The movie was made in the transitional time when the raw sexual
expression of the '70s was starting to change to cuter expression of
the '80s. It carries some of the sexual topics that were prevalent in
the '70s, but the expression is much more juvenile and charming.

Silvia Kristel was spot on for the role. She was by then well known for
her role in the movie "Emanuelle". The movie was like the "JAWS" of
that segment of the movie industry. Just like Richard Dreyfus became a
big star, Krystel rightfully became a star.

The movie doesn't have much story to it, but it's mostly about the
comical scene of youngster getting seduced by an older woman. Even so,
the movie keeps things entertaining, and it's a good movie even after
all these years.

I kind of liked the subplot that went between Phillip and Sherman too. 

A good movie that captures the culture of the early '80s.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, after about 27 years of only seeing the first 30 minutes of this
movie on HBO (due to my fears of my parents finding out that their
then-teenage son was watching something R-rated), I finally saw the
whole thing today on a used VHS tape that still had a clear picture. In
summation, I mostly found this movie mostly humorously touching
concerning the sex scenes between Sylvia Kristel and Eric Brown (who
was 16-playing-15 when he filmed this), pretty hilarious whenever the
ridiculous blackmail plot goes into gear during the second half (though
I thought it was a mistake to intentionally film the "burial" of Nicole
in such a not-so-serious manner), and just nostalgic whenever many of
the Top 40 hits of the late '70s play on the soundtrack. Not a great
film but Private Lessons was mostly entertaining. P.S. The movie's
writer, Dan Greenburg who has a cameo as a motel clerk, is from my
birthtown of Chicago, Ill.
