
First Blood is simply one of the best films ever made. I think it
transcends the action film genre and has stood the test of time.
Stallone was immensely popular back in the 80's and if it is true that
he hated the first cut of the film, then one can only say that he is
lucky that he didn't get his wish to scrap the entire thing.

John Rambo is first introduced to us as he is walking into a small town
to look for a friend of his that he served in Vietnam with. Upon
discovering that he contracted cancer coming back from the war, Rambo
wanders aimlessly into town. He is greeted by a small town overzealous
sheriff named Will Teasle, played wonderfully by Brian Denehy. He at
first tells Rambo that he will help him out and give him a ride. When
Rambo asks if he can find a good place to eat, Teasle directs him to a
diner about 10 miles up the highway. Rambo asks if there is a law
against him eating in the town, Teasle, says yea, me. This sets up the
premise as Rambo begins walking back into town. Arrested for vagrancy,
Rambo is taken to the local jail and we meet some of the local redneck
officers, notably, a young David Caruso, who seems to be the only one
who empathizes with Rambo. Finally, he escapes the jail and takes the
entire small town sheriff department and the military on a hunt into
the local "jungle." 

First Blood has strength of character. It has frenetic action scenes
and every actor in the film is at the top of their game. Samuel
Trautman, Rambo's mentor and former Colonel in the war, is played by
Richard Crenna as a no nonsense but empathetic man. He knows Rambo has
pushed back a little too hard but he understands where his plight comes
from. He wants to avoid more bloodshed but at the same time he doesn't
completely agree with how Rambo has been treated. He is obviously a law
abiding citizen, but he knows that not all the laws were upheld when
dealing with Rambo.

Sylvester Stallone is RAMBO. There is no one else that could play him.
Just like Harrison Ford embodies Indiana Jones and Bruce Willis is John
McClane, Stallone is about as good as he has ever been here. He is
quiet, he is strong and his physicality creates a character that many
of us can empathize with and eventually root for. David Morell wrote a
different character in his book but Stallone paints him more as a
sympathetic character. He is correct in doing so. While Morell's vision
is still present, this is more of Stallone's creation. Rambo is about
as unique a character present in film history.

First Blood is a film released in 1982, but in my opinion it set a new
standard for action film stars. I think James Bond was pretty much your
standard action film star before that. He was smooth and debonair and
nothing went wrong for him. Rambo, at least in First Blood, is
realistic. He bleeds, he cries, and he wears his emotion on his sleeve.
This is someone that many of us could and can relate to. The sequels
made him larger than life and that is fine, but this small film done by
the Carolco guys is about as perfect a film as you can get.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

this is certainly not the greatest film ever made.  in fact, it's plot is
predictable and formulaic, and every character is two-dimensional.

having said that, this is a film that is often dismissed as a macho action
flick with no redeeming feature.  these are opinions i would
defy.

while the only imagination put into the film seems to be the various ways
in
which John Rambo can kill people, the basic theme is nevertheless a pretty
strong one.  this is not meant to be a Fellini-esque commentary on life,
the
universe, and everything.

the three most important characters in the film are all played by pros.
you
have Stallone's John Rambo, Dennehy's Sheriff Teasle, and Richard Crenna's
Colonal Trautman.

Brian Dennehy hasn't missed a beat in his entire career; he's been a
superb
character actor since i've been watching movies, and - like Michael
Caine -
he always puts everything into each performance.  his Sheriff Teasle is
menacing, bigoted, and protective.  he comes across like a man who's
marked
his territory and won't permit intrusions.  i won't say he's brilliant,
but
he is absolutely believable as a small-town sheriff faced with a situation
so far out of his own experience that he cannot figure out why he can't
solve the problem.

Crenna is a patriarchial character, such as he often seems to play.  he
gives the Spec Ops Colonal Trautman enough soul to make him seem human,
and
enough blood and guts to make him seem like a veteran soldier.

of course, the centrepiece to the film is Sylvester Stallone.  Stallone
always suffers from the perception engendered by his appearance.  he is a
somewhat short fellow with a body of bulging unpronoucable muscles, and a
sad bassett-hound face that looks like it was designed by someone out of
"Oliver Twist."

but the man can flat-out act.  he gives John Rambo depth and reality.  he
comes across as far too fit and far too silent because Rambo is far too
fit
and far too silent.  like his character in "Copland," Stallone is playing
a
guy who pretty much wants to be left alone and is caught up by a bunch of
people around him who are overly enthused by their own status.

while i can understand the dismissal of this film as just a patriotic
action
sop, i cannot also accept that Stallone does not give a good performance.
the man has been characatured; he's an easy target.  he's a really built
short-guy.  but Stallone's intelligence and creativity drove his first
film,
"Rocky," and neither quality has deserted him since.  like Michael Caine,
he
does seem to take any old lame role offered to him.  but he always gets
paid, and he always puts everything into his performances.

i'll never campaign for this film to be considered a "great" film, but i
think i'll always defend it's star as a guy who works too hard too often
to
get the such little credit.

i guess the best way i can put it is, i watched "First Blood," and i
believed him.  i believed Stallone.

last time i checked, that is what an actor is supposed to
do.
<|_=00=_|>
The character of John Rambo became more popular in films such as
"Rambo:First Blood,Part II" and "Rambo III".The character were treated
like a comic book hero spawning action figures and a short lived
animated series which lasted only a short while.There are not that many
people who has heard of the Rambo character.He's well known through
out,but today's generation would have been lucky to catch him on VHS or
DVD.Back in 1982 when the character of John Rambo was introduced to
movie screens,filmgoers were dealing with a character that was not
displayed as an action icon,but a man who had a lot of demons within
him.The best thing about "First Blood" is that John Rambo is not
portrayed as an action hero.He is portrayed more as a man.A man who is
haunted by memories of the Vietnam War.Sylvester Stallone plays the
character of John Rambo very convincingly and Director Ted Kotcheff
brings out the story to an effective scale allowing us to see the
action through the character's eyes.Violence in films are the main
aspects in film today.Or at least one of.It's fun to watch a violent
film,but the violence in this film was not filmed to thrill the
audience,but to make us understand what John Rambo is going through.I
have these memories of first watching this film twenty years ago when I
was twelve."First Blood" doesn't deal with CGI nor does it deal with
special effects.It deals or tries to deal really hard on what is real.I
like "First Blood" because I understand the character.He feels that
society is against him and he is angry.A lot of films there is only one
villain where as in this one society is the villain.That is according
to Rambo.Actually,there is one villain named Sheriff Teasle played by
Brian Dennehy.He and Rambo seemed to clash against each other and Ted
Kotcheff let's us experience these two men go at it.I liked how the
film shows Rambo trying to survive out in the woods while the guards
are in hunting him when in turn he is hunting them creating these traps
putting these officers in painful situations.The best thing about
"First Blood" is that we know that John Rambo was in the Vietnam War
and was trained to kill,yet,he doesn't kill a single human in the film
on purpose.The killing of Galt was accidental and was deserving
according to my eyes.This film is the best in the Rambo series because
I understand the character and I understand why he is acting
violent."First Blood" doesn't bring us John Rambo,the action hero but
John Rambo,a regular man with a lot of demons he must face."First
Blood" is the best of the Rambo series.
<|_=00=_|>
Everything about this is brilliant. From Goldsmith's rousing score to
Stallone's perfect performance. Yes, you heard me. Stallone does act in
this movie. I feel so sorry for Rambo. People are real nasty to him.
Especially the deputy with the moustache. He was a real jerk. The scene
in which Rambo finally explodes in the jail cell is way cool. The music
that goes with this scene is SO intense. 

I highly recommend this movie and the soundtrack. This is a proper
movie by the way. I know that the character of Rambo became a 'little'
exaggerated and silly in the sequels but do not let that alter your
opinion of this movie.

The Pacific Northwest scenery is also very beautiful and atmospheric.
The sound design seems to be crafted so that dialogue sound natural
like it would in a mountain forest or in dead cold environments where
the air cannot carry sound so well.

See this movie in widescreen to appreciate how cool it really is.
<|_=00=_|>

The adaptation of this novel to the big screen is a great accomplishment. 
The film is not only the beginning of one of the greatest action trilogies
of all-time, but it charts the developments of its characters, something
rarely done by an action movie.  "First Blood" is a moving story about the
realities of post-Vietnam America and is very underrated as a
film.
<|_=00=_|>

   Surprise, a "Rambo" movie that tries to say something profound about the
plight of its main character and his mental state.  For the most part it
succeeds.  Not for this movie the ridiculously oiled pectorals of part II,
where Rambo is transformed into a grunting, soul-less killing machine.  He
actually begins the movie as a fairly nice chap, someone we can sympathise
with, and it's his unnecessarily rough treatment at the hands of small-town
sheriff Dennehey and his crew that is likely to shift audience sympathies
firmly in the direction of the 'misunderstood' Vietnam
vet.

   Here, Rambo is also a character who is reluctant to kill unless he
absolutely has to.  A far cry from the eventual homicidal maniac he was to
become, who is seemingly responsible for more death than World Wars 1 & 2
combined.  So, to those expecting bucketloads of gore and senseless killing,
you'd probably be better off watching the news.  "First Blood" is actually
more akin to those 'survival in the wilderness' programs you might see on
the Discovery Channel; with Rambo having to rely more on guile and cunning
than brawn and an M-16 to get him out of tricky situations.

   That's not to imply that this is boring.  Far from it.  Director Kotcheff
shows a keen awareness of pace, it's never by any means certain that Rambo
will survive (if you discount the other films, of course!) and the
supporting characters are all wonderfully unsympathetic.  Even Trautmann,
Rambo's supposed mentor, has a touch of the villain about him for being
complicit in the ultimate dehumanisation of Rambo during the war.  By far
the best character here is played by Dennehey; always watchable, but
Stallone too is good; nicely restrained, more "Cop Land" than "Cobra"

   Not an action film as such, it sits better as suspense. In that sense, it
does exactly what it says on the tin; rendering John Rambo a far more
interesting character here than his incarnation in the other two films. That
is basically just wet-dream material for inadequate, spotty faced adolescent
boys everywhere.  This Rambo is recognisably human.  Having said that,
neither should you view expecting a solemn Vietnam protest movie in the vein
of "Platoon" or "The Deer Hunter".  It's different in tone and style to the
both of those movies, but in my view at least, is better than either of
them.

 


<|_=00=_|>
How people can call this the worst one of the series or just a bad
movie in general is beyond me. The action is actually believable and
not something out of a video game. And the storyline is good and paints
a good picture of life in America after the Vietnam war. Following the
tale of the best of the best it is certainly not the best but very
good. Better yet is the laughs that come from watching the bad cops get
theirs. The only I have to complain about this movie is that the
sequels were atrocious and painful. This is often looked over excellent
movie that puts many other in the genre to shame. Many of you who find
it boring are just gore junkies who thrive off of cheap explosions and
a plethora of bullets in the air. Take it for a man trying to survive,
not bringing down a whole army.
<|_=00=_|>
Sylvester Stallone achieved amazing heights during the 80's, along with
Arnold Schwarzenegger, especially as a movie character synonymous with
the muscled guy who is a pure fighting machine

In Ted Kotcheff's "First Blood," John Rambo (Stallone) is a highly
decorated Vietnam veteran who was trained specifically as a killing
machine He has come to a quite little town in Oregon, only to visit
one of his platoon buddies He was told that his friend has died, last
summer, of cancer 

Disheartened, Rambo continues to walk the streets of Hope when he is
annoyed by the local Sheriff (Brian Dennehy), and booked for vagrancy
and resisting arrest 

Beaten, kicked all over, treated like trash, and pushed too far by the
other cops in the Sheriff's office, Rambo is taking back to traumatic
flashbacks, to the enduring torture in POW camp Rambo, by that point,
fights his way out and wages a one-man war against the police force
that escalates out of control... Rambo is seen as a one man army
overpowering all the sheriff's deputies and escaping into the
surrounding woods 

"First Blood" communicates the rage, the depression, the frustration
and the psychological wounds of one Vietnam soldier that fought for his
country and was then hassled by it upon his return 

But what makes Rambo such a dangerous hero is Brian Dennehy being
incredibly efficient as the cruel officer who doesn't like the looks of
Stallone... Sure he's the abusive sheriff who is the victim of his
environment, but he's also arrogant and incessantly underestimating a
man who was 'the best, with guns, with knives, with his bare hands'

Dennehy got a presence of his own pushing an 'expert in guerrilla
warfare' at the breaking point
<|_=00=_|>
I totally agree with the comments of a previous reviewer who said that
Sylvester Stallone is greatly underestimated as an actor. I wouldn't go
as far as calling him the best actor that Hollywood has ever had, but
he IS so much better than a lot of people say that he is. In my opinion
Stallone shouldn't make comedies, but when it comes to action movies
(Rambo, Rocky, Cobra, etc.) he's definitely one of the best! Rambo was
a sensational movie in the 80's, but every time that I see it nowadays
I'm amazed by the fact that it is actually a very good, original story.
Brian Dennehy really shows his acting skills as well, leaving the
audience confused whether to have sympathy for the character that he
plays or to hate the character. First Blood is a movie filled with
action. Like all the action movies from the 1980's "First Blood" also
tends to become slightly over the top in the end. Still I gave it a
10/10 for the simple fact that I wanted to compensate for the people
who "underrate" this movie. Normally I would give this movie an "8". If
it had not been for the action scenes that are over the top this movie
could even have scored a bit higher!
<|_=00=_|>

This is a truly unique movie that quickly became obscured due to the later
sequels.  It tells the story of a man who survived one hell, only to
return
home despised and forsaken because of it.  There was a time when America
didn't quite know what to think of the lost war, and so it was forgotten -
and the men who came out of it as well.  Rambo finds he cannot survive
this
war, because it is still going on within him.

Finally, pushed too far by a small town sheriff, Rambo returns to the only
thing he can relate to.  War.  Yet it is a war he almost mercifully wages
on
the macho egotistical deputies and week end warriors that pursue.  To
potentially misquote Rambo :

"I coulda killed them all, I could have killed you.  In town you're the
law,
out here it's me.  Let it go..."


