

I was pleased with the cast of reputable players. The story is one of
standing up for a cause, even if you are at personal risk in doing so. In
a
time where violence and pain are often in the movie forefront, this movie
focuses on the old fashioned good cop. Although similar plots have been
done
repeatedly, these guys pull it off well. Kick back and enjoy. Dennehy is a
master of taking over a movie.
<|_=00=_|>

The Last of the Finest, also released as Street Legal, is a fair action film
from 1990, starring Brian Dennehy as Officer Frank Daly of the LAPD, and he
and his fellow officers (Joe Pantoliano, Jeff Fahey and Bill Paxton) are up
aganist a drug operaton headed by a US Government agent (Guy Boyd). After
the investigation grows cold, Daly is forced to turn in his badge, but he
takes matters into his own hands and also doesn't realize that his former
police captain (Henry Darrow) is also apart of the operation. After Bill
Paxton's character is killed, Daly does what any honest cop would, to bring
justice back, or let the Government get away with the crime. Director John
MacKenzie tries to build up a good cop story, but seems to rely mostly on
tongue in check, not to mention some slow moving scenes, without action or
adventure. However the ending showdown on a Los Angeles football field was
pretty good, the helicopter crash looked rather authentic. But like most
early 90's action films, The Last of the Finest is an average film most of
us have probably seen.
<|_=00=_|>
While I can't say "Last of the Finest" will go down as one of the most
memorable films ever made, I am a bit surprised at how few reviews
there are for it on this site since it is pretty decent for what it is.
The movie is about a squad of four elite vice cops, who take their
favorite past time of football just as seriously as do their job. They
were formed to do the stuff that the ordinary cops couldn't. But when
they start hitting brick walls after a failed drug bust, they begin to
suspect that their superiors and possibly even some powerful players in
the US government are involved in the drug trade in order to support
some rebels fighting in Central America. So in order to find out the
truth, they decide to resign and work outside the law. Admittedly this
probably sounds similar to other films you might have seen. But the
film manages to maintain it's own feel, manly due to the camaraderie
and chemistry among the actors who play our heroes. You have the always
enjoyable Brian Dennehy as the group's leader Frank, Joe Pantoliano as
Wayne, Jeff Fahey as Ricky, and Brian Paxton as Hojo. All play their
parts well and Brian Dennehy is able to shine as the one of the good
guys instead of the usual heavies he's played through out his career.

And while the story may not be the most original ever written, it is
one that has good dialog and also one that has an important message
under the surface: Never, under any circumstances, trust your
government, especially when they claim to be doing something for the
common good! The film especially shows this at the very end in a sly,
clever way. When you see it, you'll know what I mean. The movie does
start out a little slow but at the same time you do get a chance to
really know the characters and care about them. The movie also has some
pretty decent villains in the form of Michael C. Gwynne as the Slimy
Anthony Reece and Guy Boyd as Norringer. Like I mentioned earlier, the
film seems to have gone under the radar. Perhaps it's because the
market was already saturated with cop-buddy films at that time and the
audience probably was getting tired of them by then. Still, if you
should find yourself with nothing to do and are looking for a decent
cop film, give "Last of the Finest" a chance.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Last Of The Finest" didn't do a great deal of business when it was
first release, possibly because the studio tried to market it as an
action movie (it really isn't), and Dennehy, best known for playing
heavies, possibly didn't fit audience's idea of a hero. Actually,
Dennehy is pretty good playing his atypical role, believable as a cop
who is honest and tries to do the right thing. The supporting cast is
also pretty good in their roles. But the central conflict, dealing with
bad guys in high places trying to interfere with the conflicts in
Central America, is pretty standard stuff. I think that if they had
tried to make this more of an action-oriented movie, it would have
played a lot better. It's not a bad movie, just somewhat flat as it is.
You will find it more entertaining if you watch it on commercial TV,
however, because the ludicrous dubbing to remove the extensive foul
language is unintentionally funny.
<|_=00=_|>
Outstanding acting from Brian Dennehy, Joe Pantoliano, Jeff Fahey, and
Bill Paxton vaults this vigilante cop film into way above average
territory. While character development is good for the good guys, it is
rather skimpy when it comes to the villains. This does not detract
enough to spoil the fun however. There is nice chemistry between the
rogue cops, and the script though derivative is totally acceptable.
It's rare to get the kind of likable performances delivered in "The
Last of the Finest" from all four leads. Special mention must be made
of the stunt work, because it's good, and the movie has some very
unusual and exciting parts. This is a real surprise, and fans of the
actors will not be disappointed. - MERK
<|_=00=_|>
This is a radical change from the movies of today that MUST have an X
rated scene, lots of noise, lots of face to face rhetoric that means
nothing, and who could miss the windshield that doesn't leak with 6
bullet holes.

I had viewed it many years ago, but just last week found a VHS, which
really shows the changes in the movie industry. For one thing, there
was no shot thru the heart and lives scenes. True, some risky theatrics
with dangerous people, but not like a Harrison Ford/James Bond film
bordering on Science Fiction.

They selected a group of actors for everyday-like people of lean means,
who are proud to be honest.

The plot is totally believable in today's major crime activities. And
it has a believable ending.
<|_=00=_|>
For those viewers out there that are sick of having just ONE cop on the
edge, here we have FOUR - Daly (Dennehy), Gross (Pantoliano), Hojo
(Paxton) and Rodriguez (Fahey). They are four lifelong buddies and they
fight the war on drugs for the LAPD, with a little football against the
DEA team in their leisure time. When the team of four is suspended for
doing things their own way (the right way), they decide to go after the
baddies themselves, the main culprits being the sinister Norringer
(Boyd) and the slimeball Reece (Gwynne). When one of the team is
murdered, the remaining three not only go rogue, but now they're out
for revenge - but department corruption from their higher-ups and a
stash of 22 million dollars complicates matters. The conspiracy
thickens when politicians grandstanding about the then-current events
in Nicaragua get involved. What will become of the...last of the
finest? Last of the Finest is an extremely underrated and
under-appreciated film. It's a film about the camaraderie and the
brotherhood of the four main leads. And what killer leads they are -
Dennehy is very real and likable as the world-weary Daly, Jeff Fahey is
perfect as Rodriguez, Pantoliano is the somewhat nerdy but reliable
Gross, and Paxton as Hojo is spot-on as well. Interestingly, it's like
The Shield before the Shield, as these guys are a sort of strike team
as well, and even some plot points in this film bear striking
similarities to ones on the first few seasons of The Shield. Could that
be a coincidence? Regardless, to have these four actors come together
like this is truly a gift. For that reason alone, this movie should be
more well known.

Most of the budget probably went to the top-flight actors on display,
and there are some classic cop movie/TV show clichés, but they're
likable and inoffensive clichés. In fact, they pretty much have to be
there so I don't fault the movie at all, especially a movie of this
quality, which is higher than a lot of the dreck you'll find elsewhere
out there (including on this site).

But it's also a very human story with some good realism, especially the
idea that these are good cops doing impossibly hard work in extremely
dangerous situations, but the top brass and the pencil-pushers have no
clue what goes on in the real world, but they're always telling the
cops on the ground what to do. That conflict drives a lot of the film
(but not all of it). It seems very relevant, and it also makes for an
exciting, interesting and highly watchable film.

The only question now is - when are we getting a DVD release? For more
insanity, please visit: comeuppancereviews.com
<|_=00=_|>

Three good, honest L.A. cops are up against hundreds of heavily armed and
highly powerful corrupt senior cops, government officials and politicians.
Who do you think is going to win? It doesn't really matter, as long as
they
have the incredibly sexy Ricky Rodriguez (Jeff Fahey) on their side in
tight
jeans and a black leather jacket.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this on TV and was disappointed in how small a role Bill Paxton had
in
it. He was the main reason I was interested in seeing it. The movie is not
that bad, but it wasn't anything I hadn't seen before, either. If you're
interested in cop dramas, this one is average.
