
This is a consistently funny story with some serious action scenes
thrown in here and there. That combination of mob movie and comedy
makes this a fun film to watch.l The characters in this movie are just
that: characters. Everyone is a little off, actually a little too wacky
for any believability. It's just a outrageous story played for laughs
with few things making sense or being realistic.

Michelle Pfeiffer and Matthew Modine are the stars but Mercedes Ruehl
steals the show, in my opinion, as the jealous wife. Dean Stockwell is
great as the smooth mob man. Even with all the makeup to make her look
cheap, Pfeiffer ("Angela de Marco") still can't hide that fabulous
face. The costumes in here are great, too.

This is not family fare with a deserved R-rating for language, violence
and some nudity but it's not really a rough movie. It has its charms,
that's for sure. Modine plays the nice guy "Mike Downey."

Note: stay with the ending credits, because there is a lot of footage
of scenes that never made it to the movie but were very interesting.
<|_=00=_|>

I had to write this review because the only user comments on file don't
begin to do this film justice.   For one thing, Michelle Pfeiffer is
TERRIFIC in this role -- she demonstrates a marvelous comedic style we
don't
often get to see.  (Maybe the other reviewer prefers her serious work, but
I
dispute the comment that Pfeiffer has "matured" beyond this role.  It's a
comedy, for goodness' sake!)

And yes, Alec Baldwin is quite good, but it's Matthew Modine who steals
the
picture!  (He also has much more screen time.)  Mercedes Ruehl and Dean
Stockwell (as Tony 'The Tiger' Russo) are absolutely delicious.  The plot
is
delightful, and sometimes manages to touch on some more somber issues, as
all great comedies do.

In short, I've seen this hilarious film two or three times over the years,
and thinking about it now makes me eager to watch it all over again!


<|_=00=_|>
Time does extraordinary things. It's the ultimate judge. Time has
granted "Married To The Mob" an extra doses of freshness. There aren't
any dead moments or cheap shots. It's more of a delight now than it
ever was. Michelle Pfeiffer creates a mafia widow that it's as far away
from a caricature as anything she's ever done. A true original creation
touching or hinting at the stereotype just to guide us through but her
Angela is quite unique. The legendary Dean Stockwell presents us with a
a mafia boss that it's just as menacingly real as he is hilarious. And
Matthew Modine? Why did I think back then that he didn't have any
chemistry with Pfeiffer? I was wrong. They are wonderful together. They
reminded me, this time, to the Barbara Stanwyck, Fred MacMurray of
"Remember The Night" I'm writing this comment now to entice you to
visit or revisit this Jonathan Demme gem.
<|_=00=_|>
Michelle Pfeiffer and Matthew Modine are a joy to watch in this
screwball comedy. Alec Baldwin, who was an up and coming star when the
film was made, is a hoot. Dean Stockwell, in a sendup of John Gotti, is
hysterical. But Mercedes Ruehl, as the paranoid and over the top Connie
steals the movie.

Jonathan Demme, previously known for wacky comedies like "Something
Wild" and "Melvin and Howard"-proves once again that he is a genius. I
was not surprised at all when he went on to win the Oscar for directing
"Silence of The Lambs." The performances he evokes from his actors in
"Married" are inspired, and the audience is taken along for a wild and
wooly ride.

One of the cutest, most endearing films of the 80's, it stands head and
shoulders above many of the satires of its era.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a fun movie with subtle intention. Its off-beat comedy is
hilarious to me, unfunny to my friends. The soundtrack is perfect.

I own this on VHS and I have watched it many, many times, because it's
simply a fun and funny love story with great performances by all the
principals (though using Joan Cusack solely as a perch for big hair was
a waste of her talent. I know, I know, she was still young...).

On a sad note, I decided to check out the DVD last night (instead of
watching my VHS tape), and was SHOCKED to find many crucial scenes cut.
And on the copy I watched, there was no special feature of deleted
scenes: it was as if the deleted scenes never existed!! I am so glad I
bought the used VHS at a flea market.

It is clear there was a great deal of choreography in this, which is
another reason I love it so much. It takes great skill, talent, and
genius to move around the scenes like Mercedes Ruehl, Dean Stockwell,
and Matthew Modine do from scene to scene (Note the scene when the
grocery carts converge, the rolling on the floor during the shoot-out
in Miami, the Chicken Lickin' debacle, the foot massage, the salon
hair-washing.) There is a very "theatrical" feel to this film, which
may be the turn-off for so many whose poor reviews follow: I know some
viewers who don't quite understand this style mistake the exaggerations
and over-the-top performances for poor acting and worse direction. Not
so. Jonathan Demme does a great job bringing to life the entire company
and their respective roles.

The opening credits and first scene rank among my all-time favorites,
as well (another favorite opening credits/first scene: Fly Away Home).

Too bad Matthew Modine so ardently skipped out of the public eye; I
really like him, and found his casting PERFECT in the role of Mike
Smith. Actually, this film is well-cast from soup to nuts: everyone is
believable and true to his role. As for the question of expecting
audience to accept Pfeiffer and Stockwell as Italians - why not? I
thought they pulled it off perfectly well.

Charming, fun, exciting... what is there not to like? If you want a
little fun, watch this quirky, colorful adventure-mob-love story. If
you are looking to learn more about organized crime and families, tune
to HBO's The Sopranos.

<|_=00=_|>
The mobster 'Cucumber' Frank de Marco (Alec Baldwin) is married with
the housewife Angela de Marco (Michelle Pfeiffer) and she in unhappy
with their marriage and wants the divorce. Frank is having a love
affair with Karen Lutnick (Nancy Travis), who is the mistress of his
boss Tony 'The Tiger' Russo (Dean Stockwell). When Tony discovers their
love affair, he kills them in a party. Tony is under surveillance of
the FBI agents Mike Downey (Matthew Modine) and Ed Benitez (Oliver
Platt) and during the wake, Tony kisses Angela. The agents and Tony's
wife Connie Russo (Mercedes Ruehl) believe that the widow Angela is
having an affair with Tony. Angela takes the opportunity to move from
the suburbs to a small apartment in New York with her son. Meanwhile
Mike bugs her apartment and soon they fall in love with each other. But
Tony discovers her new address and courts her. Soon the FBI Senior
Management blackmails Angela to force her to get close to Tony to help
the FBI to arrest him and she discovers that Mike is an agent. Will
Angela give a second chance to Mike?

"Married to the Mob" is another great film from the 80's, directed by
Jonathan Demme and with a story with comedy, romance and action. The
chemistry between Michelle Pfeiffer and Matthew Modine is impressive
but Mercedes Ruehl steals the show. There is cameo participation of
famous people and this movie is still attractive and has not aged after
being watched many times along almost thirty years. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "De Caso com a Máfia" ("In an Affair with the Mafia")
<|_=00=_|>

Michelle Pfeiffer is ideally cast as the frustrated mob widow in this
colourful black comedy. Matthew Modine plays a clumsy FBI agent who has
taken a fancy to her. Dean Stockwell steals the show as the big shot who
keeps on pestering Pfeiffer; Mercedes Ruehl is dynamic as his jealous
wife.
It's all very eighties, but that just adds to the fun. A nice little
flick,
though not for every taste.
<|_=00=_|>

I just wanted to write a quick response to all those people who give this
film a bad review because they think it isn't funny or that it's boring. 

Here's the trick --- the film is not meant to be just a comedy.  It's got
some depth to it.  Like many Demme films it deals with people living in some
of the odd corners of our society who are trying to work out how to put
together a fulfilling life for themselves. 

Unfortunately, the movie and home video industries don't deal well with
subtlety and drop this in the "COMEDY" bin.  It IS funny, but a lot of the
humor is off-beat.  However, the heart of the movie is not about the humor
but about the people in it.

It may not be one of the greatest films in the world but it is solid and
entertaining. 

And the cast is one of those that shows why casting is an art unto itself. 
Michelle Pfieffer is great and this may be the film that showed she had some
acting chops to add to her beauty.  Mercedes Ruehl is a big hoot and gets to
chew the scenery in the way only she can, in a role which requires it. 
Throw in Oliver Platt, Joan Cusack in smaller roles and the talented Dean
Stockwell ... and even Chris Isaak and you've got a great cast throughout
which here, as usual, makes a great difference.

Matthew Modine is fun, but more important, he's a major hottie in this
movie.  Hot, cute and sexy.

Sit back, expect the unexpected and let the movie take you where it wants to
go and you should have a great time.

<|_=00=_|>
This is a romantic comedy, so it's really a fairy tale, but an
unconventional one. Cinderella, rather than living in the ashes, lives
in an overdecorated castle in the suburbs with a good looking husband
who's no prince. She does find her prince, but he's not that handsome.
Instead of a castle, at least initially, she gets a tiny walk-up in
Manhattan.

Pfeifer, Stockwell and Ruehl lead a cast of fully realized, if a little
over-the-top, characters. 

Demme reaches the highest level of movie-making in my mind. He creates
a world I want to move into - a Manhattan neighborhood and street life
teeming with life and community.

I wish IMDb linked to reviewers' other comments. I'd like to know what
other movies the people who panned this one hate. I am always looking
for a lot of laughs and for nice places in which to "live" at least for
an hour or so.
<|_=00=_|>

It ain't Shakespeare, that's true, but it is a light and breezy romp. 
Pfieffer and Modine and Baldwin and Dean Stockwell are all having a
great time with this 'dissatisfied mob wife' tale, and you will too.
Interesting to watch this in the light of the "sopranos"- they are like
loopy relatives somehow. Demme went on to greater, darker films (silence
of the lambs, philadelphia) but I still enjoy his lighter period. So
will you.    
