

Off Limits is a tense and even paced
thriller. It concerns two cops is Viet
Nam investigating a murder of a
prostitute and the first suspect is a
high ranking Army Officer. The film
contains shock after shock, with
plenty of plot twists. The dialogue is
snappy and the interplay between Dafoe
and Hines is excellent. The supporting
actors are convincing as well. Kudos
to Keith David who plays a paranoid
witness to the murder. And one may not
soon forget Scott Glenns portrayal as
a crazed Officer. The scene in the
helicopter is as tense and thrilling
as a scene can get. The film is not a
preachy summary of the war in Viet Nam
but rather just a good mystery and
slam bang action. The ending comes
around too fast but you have to check
it out for yourself. I suggest this
film for a rainy Sunday afternoon if
you are looking for a good action flick.
<|_=00=_|>
Off limits became something of a quasi-cult film for me. I was in
Vietnam with the Marines north and south of Danang in 1968 and once
fantasized about hitching a ride down Highway 1 to see Saigon, no small
feat as it is something like 580 road miles. But the highway was full
of vehicles during the day and you could always catch a ride. I never
did get Saigon during the war, but finally did with a group of war vets
in 1994. One of my favorite quips in the movie is when Dafoe turns
around and finds some South Viet QCs (MPs) coming toward him and says,
"We've got mice." That's what we GIs called Viets wearing helmets with
QC (Quan Canh) on them. I am now spending several months in Saigon on
sort of a temporary assignment, i.e., staying with the in-laws of my
Viet wife on a winter break. I would like to see Off Limits again just
to critique the city backdrop it used and how realistic it was. I
thought this movie could have become a TV mini series but realize it
would have been more expensive than China Beach in coming up with SE
Asian sets to shoot on. I give it a 7, perhaps too high of a rating, as
it goes good on a rainy Saturday afternoon over drinks with friends,
especially if they happen to be Vietnam vets.
<|_=00=_|>
Off Limits (AKA: Saigon) is the missing Vietnam film, a film I feel not
many have actually seen since I never see it mentioned on the message
boards out there in net land. While I have certainly never heard it
spoken about when talk of Vietnam films crops up. The film is in
essence a who done it police drama, two cops on the streets of Saigon
during the war are searching for a high ranking officer who is, erm,
offing prostitutes.

It is the backdrop of the war that gives the film added substance and
lifts it way above average, because we see not only the problems a
murder investigation brings, but also the horror of war getting in the
way as well. Some damn fine and tidy performances flesh out the
characters, with both Gregory Hines & Willem Dafoe as our two stoic and
battle weary coppers engaging us from the off, whilst the supporting
cast of Fred Ward, Keith David (look out for his dance man!) & Scott
Glenn are interestingly watchable; the latter of which who leaves the
lasting impression with what has to be the best 5 minutes work he ever
did during a brilliant interrogation sequence during a mid-air flight.

It's gritty and interesting and deserves to be better known and sought
out. It doesn't pull up any trees as regards formula, and it certainly
isn't one you will want to go back to time and time again for thrills
and spills, but it hits the spot and as the mystery and stifling heat
of Vietnam pervades the mood, you will remember watching it long after
the credits have rolled. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Here's an oblique shot and a direct hit at the Vietnam war, from the
streets
of Saigon. Want to get a gritty feel for the tension and the ambiguities
of
the military politics of Nam from the top brass to the lowest levels of
the
latrine? Follow Dafoe and Hines as CID salt and pepper, good cop-bad cop,
along the labyrynthine story of a serial killer U.S. "officer," with
scrambled eggs on his hat and blood on his hands. The levels of tension
are
almost unbearable (a rare thing for me!) during the stand-off scenes
between
the Vietnamese police (wonderful, suspenseful scenes), whose point of view
is given fair play and credibility and the amazing helicopter
"interrogation-murder scene (itself horrendous) only to be topped by Scott
Glen putting  an unforgettable sucicide leap as a final argument for his
own
argument as to his genuineness (and madness that is equal to the war
itself.) Whodunnit? Who cares? Sure, it's the least--and the most--obvious
character; a fact that is anticlimactic, but does not detract from the
more
important quality of the film: moral ambiguity, cheapness (and richness)
of
human life, and the overarching sense of a world gone mad. One man (Dafoe)
in the guise of a slovenly, hardnosed grunt/cop rises out of the muck and
mire to make a solitary single morally redemptive act. Too bad there was
no
such redemption, no moral order restored by the war itself. A fine film; a
strong portayal of the men, madness, and the immorality of that era.
Recommended at a 7 level from me.
<|_=00=_|>
Never heard about "Off Limits" before when it aired on late Friday
night television here in my country, but everything about it instantly
appealed to me big time. There's the obscurity status for starters (I'm
particularly intrigued by films I never heard about before), the
prominent cast (Willem Dafoe, Gregory Hines, Fred Ward, Keith David,
Scott Glenn), the period of release (late 80's) and - most of all - the
concept in its entirety. As you can derive from the alternate title
"Saigon", the film is set in Vietnam during the infamous war, but it's
definitely not just another epic illustrating the horrible battles in
the jungle or the traumatizing impact on its soldiers. "Off Limits" is
first and foremost a genuine cop thriller, set in a hellish environment
torn apart through warfare, and an effectively disturbing portrait of
the horrible issues caused by American soldiers outside of the
battlefields. McGriff and Perkins have the worst jobs in the world,
since they're employed as army police officers in Saigon and
responsible to investigate the crimes committed by American soldiers.
One day they're assigned to investigate the murder of a Vietnamese
prostitute who had a child with an American soldier. They quickly
discover this isn't the first gruesome crime of its kind, as no less
than seven similar cases were reported during the past year and they're
clearly the work of a serial killer with a strict modus operandi. The
devoted and headstrong duo also discovers that the previous officer
prematurely quit his investigation even though he came fairly close to
capturing the killer, undoubtedly because several high ranked officers
got involved and his own life became endangered. McGriff and Perkins,
however, are determined to stop to sadist killer, especially when they
receive help from a beautiful and street-wise young novice. "Off
Limits" is a fast-paced, suspense and frequently very violent thriller
with a screenplay that is full of misleading twists, false leads and
red herrings, like a legitimate and compelling whodunit thriller ought
to be. Some sequences are even downright fantastic, for instance the
helicopter-interrogation (Scott Glenn is sublime) or the nail-biting
scene where the copper duo is surrounded by a mob of furious and
vengeful Vietnamese people. Christopher Crowe's direction is tight and
consequently surefooted – which is quite remarkable for a debut feature
– and his own script is *almost* completely devoid of dreadful clichés
and irritating stereotypes. I do emphasize the word 'almost' because a
Vietnam movie without mad-raving American officers and/or foul-mouthed
Vietnamese prostitutes is practically unthinkable. Dafoe and Hines
provide some terrific on screen chemistry, but they certainly aren't
your typical witty interracial buddies like Eddie Murphy & Nick Nolte
in "48 Hours" or Mel Gibson & Danny Glover in "Lethal Weapon". They
tease and provoke each other all the time, but the atmosphere of the
film and the nature of the events are simply to austere to mix with
comedy. The film is beautifully shot and has a marvelous soundtrack
filled with timeless contemporary songs from James Brown, Jimi Hendrix,
Janis Joplin and Arthur Resnick. "Off Limits" is a terrific and
incomprehensibly overlooked film. If you have the opportunity to watch
it, please do so without hesitation.
<|_=00=_|>

Gregory Hines and Willem Dafoe make an excellent team in this unusual
murder
mystery set in Vietnam.Actual filming overseas add to the realism.Anyone
ever serving in the Pacific can attest to that.The soundtrack was great,
using music not usually heard in most of the Vietnam movies.Supporting
actors performances were also very good ( Fred ward, Amanda Pays ).I have
collected all the Vietnam movies and rate this one of the
best.
<|_=00=_|>

I watched this film on Sky movies the other night, it is called Saigon
here
in the UK. It is of course set in Saigon and I think if you took this cop
thriller and set it in LA or New York it would just be another average cop
film. What makes it different is the setting and the backdrop of the
Vietnam
conflict. I must admit though I guessed the murderers identity about
halfway
through the film. It was also refreshing for the guy not to get the girl
as
it were! A decent  if a quite forgotten film.
<|_=00=_|>
During the sixties,Anataole Litvak made "the night of the generals".A
nazi officer was on a prostitutes murder's trail in Varsaw,Poland:and
it seemed that the culprit was a general (check the title).That script
was absurd -in Varsaw,during WW2,there was worse,to say the least!-and
dubious taste.

So back in Saigon,during the Vietnam war.Two cops are on a prostitutes
' murder's trail...and it seems that this killer is a general....Well
you get the picture.

Well,it's not that bad.It's rather entertaining,thanks to Dafoe's good
performance.A lot of things do not rise above routine:the two cops who
,of course, are very different,the de rigueur swearwords ,and strip
tease galore.What's more interesting is the conflict between the
American cops and their local colleagues ,although it's much too
superficial,as the Dafoe/nun 's relationship is.Unlike Litvak's Polish
extravaganza in which we soon know the murderer's name,"off limits' is
a whodunit,saving his identity for the last minutes.

Best moment:although over the top,the scene on the plane where two
simultaneous questionings take place gives goosepimples.
<|_=00=_|>
The Army has always wondered what side army CID is on so said Colonel
Smokin' Joe Woodward to me many years ago. This film may answer good
Colonel's question. In Vietnam the USACIDC worked for the VC.

Following string of prostitute murders, Buck McGriff (Willem Dafoe) and
his partner Albaby Perkins (Gregory Hines) are on the case. The
suspects are all high ranking officers. Everyone including the ARVN
(Army of The Republic of South Vietnam) QC (South Vietnamese Military
Police) stand in their way. Only a French nun Sister Nicole (Amanda
Pays) is of grudging assistance.

Along the trail, they're kidnapped by troops fiercely loyal to their
Colonel, witness US war crimes called playing helicopters, and finally
take a taxi to VC headquarters to consort with Charlie himself.

Yet despite their many adventures the answer has always been staring
them in the face.

Much of the film has been borrowed from WWII movies: In Vietnam with
rotation and change over troops weren't quite as loyal to each other,
their commanders or their units as had been the case in previous wars.
The sidestory of the love affair with the French nun comes straight
from HEAVEN KNOWS MR ALLISON; in the 1960s catholic nuns regularly left
the convent to marry.

Gregory Hines' character was about a decade before his time. The Army
was late in placing Afro-Americans in the Military Police or in
Criminal Investigation Command.

Yet despite these shortcomings the film is well played and highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
In Saigon, during the war, Buck McGriff (Willem Dafoe) and Albaby
Perkins (Gregory Hines) are U.S. Military Policemen trying to do law
enforcement in a chaotic city. When a prostitute is executed on bed,
they investigate and they find a witness – the G.I. Maurice (Keith
David) that is scared since the killer is an American officer. However
Maurice is murdered and soon they find that there are six other
prostitutes that have been murdered but their cases have vanished from
the files. 

They meet the former investigator that gives a copy of his findings and
they have five colonels as prime suspects that might be the serial-
killer, but their friend Sergeant Dix (Fred Ward) warns that only three
of them were in Saigon in the night of the last murder. McGriff finds
that Sister Nicole (Amanda Pays) has a witness hidden in the jungle
with the Vietcong and he tries to convince her to let them meet her to
find who the serial-killer is.

"Off Limits" is a good movie with great cast and a storyline similar to
"The Night of the Generals", i.e., a high ranking officer is killing
prostitutes during the war. However, the movies are absolutely
different and also in common the manhunt of the serial-killer in time
of war. This movie is also a great chance to see the lovely Amanda Pays
that has disappeared from the screens. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Saigon - Império da Violência" ("Saigon – Empire of
Violence")
