

Reading the few awfully and derogatorily negative reviews for this film
here on the IMDb, it still befuddles me about the total oppression and
negativity that people throw out of their mouths without expressing
themselves in a more precise and intelligent manner, mainly on a film
that presents such important issues and social commentaries. Even
though the film is set in the past, all it says is still very
noteworthy and easy to relate to in the past few decades and definitely
in the decades to come.

YENTL is a film to be shared and enjoyed regardless of ethnicity,
religion or background. Its universality speaks and raises voices to
different generations and social groups.

Motivational, moving and exquisitely shot with rich period flavor and
mood (AND THIS IS WITHOUT HAVING SEEN THE DVD YET, SINCE IT IS NOT
AVAILABLE, AND MS. STREISAND HERSELF NOTED THAT THE COLOR TINT ON THE
VHS TAPE IS INCORRECT, SOMETHING SHE HAD CORRECTED FOR THE UPCOMING
DVD), this is the type of story about conquering your fears and stop at
nothing to achieve your dreams that is fatally missing from films in
our present time.

If there is an aspect to this movie that is the most formidable, it's
the music and songs in it that's what is most successful about it,
since they carry the story as it progresses through its tale of
passion, love, struggle and perseverance.

Ignorance has kept the film from being enjoyed and appreciated by
several groups and individuals. Hopefully someday they will find the
courage and wit to understand such incredible gem.

"NOTHING'S IMPOSSIBLE"

<|_=00=_|>
Barbra Streisand has referred to herself as 'an actress who happens to
be a singer'. I doubt I am alone in viewing her professional legacy in
the reverse: as a great singer who happens to be an actress . . .
director, producer, screenplay writer, musical score composer,
humanitarian, and lately, concerned with using her production and
direction talents to bring out important social issues (like
ageism--"The Living Century" is about centurions--people a hundred
years old or more).

"Yentl" marks the beginning of a woman blazing a new trail as a
director, singer, composer, her hands in the screenplay, and
production. She's spoken in a segment on "The Directors," about how
various cultures have treated her as a result of her deliberate
transcendence of Hollywood's gender-biased boundaries. One of her most
interesting points reveals how well she was treated in England by the
British filming crew. Since gender-bias against women is not even
comparable to gender bias in the US, because England is so far advanced
beyond gender discrimination because one is a woman, Streisand remarks
how much easier it was for her to accomplish her goals on the set
because the British film crew treated her without gender-bias, and with
the respect she is certainly due.

"Yentl" royally upset the AFI in the US because Streisand entered into
no woman's land when she had a hand in nearly every aspect of the
motion picture. "Yentl" has some of the most memorable, touching,
humanely familiar music and lyrics, yet it received no Academy Award.
The direction was brilliant--no Academy Award. The screenplay was one
that was serious, hilarious, religious, spiritual, and even addressed
the issues of gender-bias head on--no Academy Award. Streisand's and
Amy Irving's acting was stupendous--no Academy Award.

Streisand paved the way and took the non-recognition by the Film
Academy without stopping. This musical motional picture pales many that
are classics. The story is an extra interesting one, the likes of which
have not been reproduced with anything close to as much skill and
class.

I'll give this classic about six Academy Awards, including several that
go to Streisand alone.
<|_=00=_|>
Streisand's directorial debut is easily her most passionate and
personal film to date. It was hailed by Steven Spielberg as the "best
directorial debut since Citizen Kane," and I am in complete agreement.
Streisand worked for more than 15 years on bringing this film to the
big screen, and it was well worth the effort. YENTL is an absolute
triumph Every single aspect of the film works flawlessly: the story is
clever, the dialogue is extremely well-written, the cinematography is
beautiful, and the performances are first-rate.

Many critics and fans found Streisand's performances in A STAR IS BORN
and THE MAIN EVENT to be labored and overly-mannered. However, there is
little doubt that she once again emerges as a true actress in Yentl. As
a matter of fact, Streisand's pitch-perfect portrayal of Yentl/Anshel
is quite possibly the best performance of her legendary career - I
simply cannot think of any way her performance could be bettered.
Broadway tenor Mandy Patinkin is terrific as the object of Yentl's
affections; it is a role which should have made him a huge screen star.
The character of Haddass could have easily turned into a thankless
role, however Amy Irving brings a layered depth to the part that many
other young actresses could have glossed over.

YENTL is also showcase for the wonderful music of Michael Legrand (with
outstanding lyrics by Marilyn and Alan Bergman), and the film uses
these songs to brilliant effect. There are no production numbers, nor
singing out in the street. Except for the finale, Streisand only sings
when she is completely alone or silently as a voice-over. The songs
take the place of spoken soliloquies and represent Yentl's private
thoughts. This device has a great Shakespearean feel to it and (along
with Streisand's ever passionate singing) help cement the film into the
realm of fantasy. Though YENTL was infamously snubbed by the Academy
Awards, justice was served when Streisand was awarded with the Golden
Globes for Best Picture and Best Director, the first female to ever win
the latter honor.

Appropriately for a musical, the film's song score is first-rate.
Composer Michael Legrand is an unrecognized genius, and his score is
both complex and inviting. Alan and Marilyn Bergman have penned the
lyrics to many of Streisand's best-loved recordings (the #1 hits "The
Way We Were and "You Don't Bring Me Flowers," just to name a few), but
they really outdo themselves here. Their words and Legrand's music
complement each other perfectly, and their collaboration is largely the
reason the film's score is as consistent and as cohesive as it is. 

However, the main factor to YENTL'S artistic success is the phenomenal
vocal performance of Barbra Streisand. The songs for this film were
recorded twenty years after her official studio debut, and she has
never sounded better than she does here. Whether the tone of the song
is anguished ("Where Is It Written," "Tomorrow Night"), euphoric ("This
Is One of Those Moments"), or incredibly sensual ("The Way He Makes Me
Feel"), Streisand's hushed restraint and dramatic range are nothing
short of incredible. Her phrasing is put to excellent use in "Will
Someone Ever Look At Me That Way" and the three renditions of "No
Wonder" (each with different lyrics and a different meaning), while
both "No Matter What Happens" and "A Piece Of Sky" are terrific
showcases for Streisand's astonishing vocal prowess. 

YENTL also marks the first appearance of "Papa, Can You Hear Me," which
instantly became one of Streisand's signature songs due largely to her
intensely soulful performance. YENTL is a motion picture that is very
close to the heart of many Streisand fans. It is a project that
Streisand believed in with all her soul, and both the film and its
soundtrack remain near the top of the list of the best things any
popular artist has ever done.
<|_=00=_|>
Just watched the movie on our local PBS-TV here in Bflo., N.Y. tonight.
(Fri., Feb. 17, 2006.) Have seen it several times before, the 1st when
it was released in 1983, the year my own father died.

With Streisand dedicating the film to her dad, who she never knew,
that, the music & story deeply reached me at the time & still does.
Coupled with this, I was assigned by Billboard Magazine to interview
composer Michele LeGrand here when he was appearing with the Bflo.
Philharmoic Orchestra. I'd always admired his dream-like work, like
"Windmills of My Mind" & "What are You Doing the Rest of Your Life?" I
learned he was working on a film with Barbra & it turned out to be
"Yentl." I was thrilled when I later saw the movie & heard the score.
Streisand should have been recognized for her directing abilities with
an Oscar nomination. OUTRAGEOUS! But then, her film can still touch us
& that is worth more than ANY Oscar! Thanks Barb ...
<|_=00=_|>
I discovered this film recently when it came out on DVD in France at a
knock-down price. Picture quality is no more than average and seems to
have a little over-dominance of sepia. I assume the film was originally
destined for a Jewish audience as many of the references contained
therein concern the Jewish religion of which I know nothing ! All that
said, I was very very satisfied with this film, Barbra Steisand gave a
magnificent performance, you could see that she put her heart into
this, apart from being really cute, her voice and songs were
magnificent. There's also quite a lot of humour and potentially
embarrassing situations which is normal, given the fairly original plot
line. I think that the end is a satisfying one indeed the only
satisfying one possible. I know little about Jewish culture but do, as
an "outsider" find it attractive. Indeed this may indeed be a
prerequisite to fully appreciate this film.
<|_=00=_|>
An excellent film, it has a wonderful complexity in the characters'
personalities and relationships that maintain a level of enjoyable
tension and curiosity throughout the film for the viewer. Excellent
performances given by Mandy Patinkin, Amy Irving and Barbra Streisand.
Great songs throughout. Not a brainless ha-ha movie. It is a thinking
person's film, in the same vein (in my opinion) as Fiddler On The Roof.
Well directed by Streisand. And I'm a Republican! I have been waiting
it seems for ages to buy the DVD (pirated copies sold on eBay a few
years ago for $45+), but it seems legitimate copies are now available
with special features to enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
Yentl is a young Jewish woman who shall be married, but she is too
curious, she wants to know more and she wants to learn all about the
Talmud, which is forbidden to women by this time. So she dresses
herself like a young man and goes to the yeshiva, always frightened to
be discovered, and there she meets Avigdor, a brilliant student, who is
meant to be her mentor, and she fells in love with him. He is in love
with a beautiful Jewish girl (Amy Irving) but he cannot marry her,
because his brother died of suicide. So he asks Angel (Barbra
Streisand) to marry her, and she does....

It's a real Barbra Streisand masterpiece, I think no one could have
done this picture more sensual and beautiful like she did. A story,
that never should be forgotten, of a woman that fights against the male
world, wants to be more than the role that was meant to be hers.
Brilliant songs, perfectly written by Michael Legrand, brilliant
directed and also the sets are chosen very well, the picture of a
Jewish world like it was in former times is set originally. Also Mandy
Patinkin and Amy Irving are brilliant actors who can show their
different faces in this movie. Thios movie is a MUST for everybody.
<|_=00=_|>
for basic idea of equal rights out of any feminism. for the flavor of
"80 years and for slices of shtetl life, for Jew space in Russian
Empire as place of interior freedom, for music and for the delicate
story. for last image of a way to happiness. for fabulous role of young
Yentl/Anschel and for fragile performance of Amy Irving. it is
difficult to define it.because it is a profound humanist pledge for
normality. not accusation against a community. not stone against
rules.but a open window.that is all. central piece - courage. central
message - nothing is impossible. axis - force to be yourself. after 20
years, it is more important today.because in time of globalization,
time of positive discrimination, Yentl is a wise advise. and good model
to build personal trip in life.
<|_=00=_|>

Another abominably self-indulgent monstrosity from the empress of unabashed
kitsch and narcissism.  What in the world is "The Nails" thinking when she
picks these little projects for herself?  And why does she have to direct,
act, write, sing, do the costumes, the catering and the gaffing?  Does she
know any limits?  No!  Which is why this movie has nothing to do with the
original story.  Instead, it has everything to do with what Streisand
hallucinates she is (young, beautiful, greater than female and male
combined, limitless) and what she hallucinates the world is about (glory,
triumph and more glory).  But who cares.  I just hope she can keep me
laughing, because these turkeys she bakes are so preposterously hilarious
there's nothing to match them in the laughs department.
<|_=00=_|>
A seemingly endless movie that really deserves a zero rating. The
premise seems simple enough: Yentl, a girl interested in studying the
Talmud, wants to go to school. But only boys are allowed to study, so
after her father's death she decides to disguise herself as a boy to
get in. She does and becomes close friends with Avigdor, who is to be
married to a beautiful woman named Hadass. Hadass' family learns
Avigdor's brother committed suicide, and the wedding is called off.
Yentl, now calling herself Anschel, is then selected to marry Hadass.
She does but it is never consummated. Yentl/Anschel and Avigdor go away
for a few days, and Yentl/Anschel reveals her secret to him. The movie
ends with Avigdor returning to (and marrying?) Hadass, and Yentl going
to America to continue her studies although she will have to continue
to do so in disguise.

The plot above seems interesting at first for a movie over 2 hours
long, but there are several things that ruin it. For starters, there is
the constant SINGING. (I can already hear the critics shouting.) Yes, I
know this is a musical so there are supposed to be lots of songs and
dance numbers. But the movie could have been improved if it were
directed and played without them. The songs become tedious after a
while, and there isn't as much dancing as one would expect. Many of the
songs are forgettable, with no real memorable lyrics, and those with
any significance could easily have been substituted by a voice-over.
Only one song stands out from the rest, "Papa Can You Hear Me". It is
obvious that most of the others were deliberately placed so Streisand
could simply have a reason to show off her vocal abilities every five
to ten minutes. Chances are anyone who will see this film will already
know what a superb singer and actress she is, so the songs really
aren't necessary. 

Second, Streisand's makeup, which can be seen during her scenes as a
man (the lipstick, enhanced lashes, and traces of blush are all
obvious) makes it hard for the audience to believe in the Yentl/Anschel
character, that she is actually serious, and fooling her new friends,
colleagues, and even Hadass, into believing she is a man. Yet we are
asked and expected to believe that very thing. There seems to be a
contradiction, as her character talks, or rather sings, of how she
doesn't think she can pull it off, but is surprised that everyone seems
to be fooled because she is wearing men's clothing. This means that we
are then expected to believe the other characters are so naive they
can't see the other differences, such as her actions, which are clear
giveaways. The facial differences alone cannot be included, as other
characters in the film mention that some of their male relatives or
friends didn't have a beard or other facial hair. Nevertheless, in the
1900s, if a woman dressed as a man, but wore as much makeup as
Streisand's character did, and still tried to pass herself off as a man
solely because she wore men's clothing, it would have been deemed
unacceptable and caused an outrage. Chances are she would probably be
forced to leave the town, or even the country. Therefore the "feminine"
makeup on Streisand does not lend to the character's credibility, and
only weakens the plot. If it was only applied to make Streisand look
more beautiful, it should have been scrapped. 

Thirdly, when Yentl/Anschel herself reveals who she truly is toward the
end, we are then asked to believe that the other characters are not as
smart as Streisand's and only when they learn the "truth" do they
become a little wiser. By now it becomes more and more apparent that
the whole plot is so far fetched that it is nothing more than a
custom-made vehicle for Streisand to fuel.

Lastly, there are those who are fans of Streisand who will find no
fault with this film, its plot, or the songs. To those I must
respectfully disagree. While she has excellent vocal and acting
abilities, I am not a "fan" of her style of singing. However, I have
enjoyed many of her other features including musicals. There are even
some songs of hers that I like, so I am not a "hater" nor have set out
to bash her. I have written this review from an honest perspective,
from someone who has tried their best to watch this movie - several
times even - and has noted the problems within. If Streisand was
interested in creating a great or even believable film, she could have
done so here by not injecting her need to show off and prove how
talented, beautiful and smart she is at nearly every turn. This movie
does nothing more than hurt her abilities, make her appear
self-absorbed, and thus turn the film into a laugh-fest unworthy of her
fans or audience.
