

With the exception of part 9, ALL of the "Jason" movies just keep getting
better!  In my honest opinion, this sequel comes in third as far as Jason
"sequels" go (ps:part 1 will always rule) and this sequel comes in right
after parts 2 and 4.  Part 1 is simply a classic.

Director/Writer Tom McLoughlin has literally recreated Jason after the turn
of events in part 5, replacing the character's once-human figure from parts
2-4 with a better, more menacing, grosser, unkillable, zombie-like figure.
In this installment, it seems that Jason has stopped chasing his victims
and
has become a little more quiet and subtle about his "kills".

Most of all, McLoughlin really makes "Jason Live" in this movie.  Jason
thrives!!  McLoughlin, in my opinion, has directed what is probably the
most
"scary" Jason of them all.  I've seen them all a hundred times, and I still
jump when he appears in the window in front of Sissy.  The acting is
extremely acceptable from its predecessors, especially the roles of Tommy
Jarvis (Thom Matthews) and Sheriff Garris (David Kagen).  Even the camp
counselors liven up their roles a bit.  Though it was inevitable for them
to
be slaughtered, I still thought that it was cool that I still remember
their
characters.  There is just something about this one.  Jason Lives has an
excellent story line that delivers, however, the gore is relatively low at
certain times, but McLoughlin never fails to bring it all back with shots
of
that very very bloody machete of Jason's.

This sequel contains many of my favorite death scenes so far in the series.
What McLoughlin did in this movie that previous directors didn't was he
actually made Jason unpredictable.  I mean, you KNOW he's gonna kill the
counselors, but you don't know when or where. I absolutely LOVE that
feeling
of uncertainty.  McLoughlin has Jason lurking out of windows, behind doors,
and the scariest part is when Jason is unknowingly in the motor home as the
teenagers pull away from camp.  There is also a lot of the usual CH CH CH
HA
HA HA and deep black darkness to enhance Jason's (CJ Graham's) menacing
figure.

For once I didn't want any of the characters to get killed.  I enjoyed all
of their roles.  I especially didn't want Paula (Kerry Noonan) to die, and
her responsible, soft-spoken, motherly role had me rooting for her to be
the
lone survivor.  That was a first for me...except for Chrissy in part III I
never really cared much for the campers.  However, my hopes were mutilated
in the cabin when Paula dies probably Jason's most notorious kill to date.
My God, that cabin is bloody!

Overall, I recommend this installment to any hardcore Jason fan.  It is a
real horror movie, this time it's for real.  Rent it, buy it, do whatever!
It's great!   Jason Lives...he breathes...he can never
die

<|_=00=_|>
From its spectacular, squirm-in-your-seat opening to its exciting
finale, "Friday the 13th Part VI: Jason Lives" delivers. Still haunted
by his killing of the masked maniac two films ago, our hero Tommy
Jarvis (Thom Mathews) ventures to Jason Voorhees' grave just to be sure
he's really dead. When a lightning bolt strikes the metal fence post
Tommy uses to puncture the corpse, Jason is resurrected (remind you of
someone?) and ready to hack his way through another terrified group of
campers and innocent bystanders. But with no one ready to believe that
Jason is indeed back, it again falls to Tommy to put evil in its place.

The "Friday the 13th" series got back on track with this installment
following a Jason-less fifth entry that remains a bitter disappointment
for many horror buffs. Director Tom McLoughlin struck a magnificent
balance between breathing a new life into the franchise and maintaining
the look and feel of what fans have come to expect. The picture is
fast-paced, smart and, at times, legitimately scary. Jason suddenly
seems more evil and terrifying given his newfound strength as a member
of the Walking Dead Club. McLoughlin's oft-praised attempts at humor
are rarely successful, but at least he chose (wisely) not to mock the
zombified star, as the most recent Jason films have.

"Friday the 13th Part VI: Jason Lives" is not Hitchcock, but it is a
highly-entertaining effort that never once reveals its low-budget
limitations. Horror fans and those looking for a good scare will be
pleased.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie starts off fairly well, relatively speaking. Tommy Jarvis has
grown up into a young man and returns to Jason's grave, unable to go on
living unless he can completely verify for himself that Jason is really
dead. On the other hand, digging up Jason's grave and essentially
freeing him (since Tommy doesn't believe that Jason can be killed)
doesn't exactly strike me as the best course of action. What was he
planning to do, collect Jason's teeth and go check his dental records?
At any rate, at least there is some thought put into an interesting way
to bring Jason back to life, at least long enough to kill enough kids
to fill up another movie.

Tommy digs Jason up and then stabs his decayed corpse with a nearby
fencepost, which is promptly struck by lightning thus bringing Jason
back to life. It was earlier in this scene in the movie that someone
utters the line, "Some folks have a strange idea of entertainment,"
which I had planned on using as the summary line in my review. Sadly, I
logged on to the IMDb and the first thing I noticed was that I was not
as clever as I thought. It is, after all, one of the best lines in the
movie, since it is such a tongue in cheek jab at the movie's biggest
fans.

During the paintball scene that soon follows, I was immediately struck
by the intelligence of the characters. I really appreciate that this
movie has people in it who are boneheads but they're not stupid. These
are regular guys with undeveloped intellects rather than the typical
horror movie moron, one of the worst things to ever see in a horror
film. Or any other film, for that matter. It is a great scene when
Jason gets his hands on a machete, for example. One of the boneheads in
the movie, Burt, is shot by a woman during the paintball game, after
which he proceeds to hack away at the trees around him, and check this
out. He curses to himself that she shouldn't have been out there in the
first place, she should have stayed where she belonged (presumably the
kitchen), etc. This is a development of his character as well as the
revelation of a deep character flaw that allows the audience to enjoy
his death even after learning something about who he is. When was
someone invented as fodder ever given that depth of character? Never!

Sure, we hardly learn about his childhood and his dreams, but the point
is that he ceases to be nothing but some poor sucker to get hacked up
in a creative way by Jason. Then you have the other guy who loses his
gun. Again, a lesser horror film would have had him lose his gun
through some monumental act of paralyzing stupidity. In this film, he's
just an office geek who isn't used to handling guns. He thinks he's in
a warzone but he is just out of his element, and Jason is closing in to
remind him of where he belongs. These are some of the best characters
ever put into the Friday the 13th series.

Granted, the movie does have its share of lame goofiness. The cemetery
man (that's a good movie, too), for example, at the beginning responds
to Tommy's request to dig up Jason with something like, "Dig him up?
Does he think I'm a farthead?! Huh huh huh!" but the characters clearly
have the most depth and meaning that we have seen in the series so far.
The dumbest characters in the movie are the cops, which I'm sure has
some sort of hidden message (which Hitchcock would have appreciated, no
doubt), and there is also a clever scene involving the TV. One of the
kids staying at the camp (oh, I forgot to tell you, they've changed the
charming name of Camp Blood so that they can operate as a summer camp)
one night swears that she saw a monster. The counselors tell her that
it's okay, it was just a bad dream, but she insists that it was real,
"just like TV." Hear that, parents? Don't let your kids watch too much
TV or they'll grow up and watch movies like this!

Besides that, the little girl's name was Nancy. Could this be an homage
to Nightmare on Elm Street?

There is an interesting plot structure that involves the police
thinking that Tommy is doing the killing, which ties in neatly with
their status as the dumbest guys in the movie. This is leaps and bounds
better than the sequels that preceded it (and light years better than
Part VIII!!), there's even some good direction. The shot of Jason
standing on top of the burning motor-home is one of the best shots thus
far in the series. If you're going to watch some Friday the 13th
movies, definitely don't miss this one. It's easy to get tired of the
same old thing by this point, but this one is worth skipping ahead to
see.
<|_=00=_|>

Finally, a decent sequel has come out to make Friday the 13th a
respectable
horror. This is due to a good storyline, good effects and also because one
of my favourite actors is the main star in this movie. I thought Thom
Mathews was wicked in Return of The Living Dead, and he is just as good
playing Tommy Jarvis in this sequel.

Especially like the cool Alice Cooper soundtrack at the end, and well, as
for Jennifer Cooke, the girl who plays Megan.....she is just gorgeous. If
I
would have been Tommy, I would have forgotten about Jason and spent the
rest
of the movie trying to chat her up. Total babe.

Cool film, my rating, 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

Friday the 13th Part 6: Jason Lives is almost a straight-up comedy.  After
five movies I suppose they just gave up on trying to scare people.  The
director and screenwriter have definitely planted the tongue firmly in the
cheek for this installment.  An example of the humor can be found when Jason
decapitates three people in one foul swoop.  There are a ton of little
comedic touches like that which push Part 6 into horror/comedy territory. 
Return of the Living Dead alumni Thom Mathews has taken over as Tommy and
does a fine job.  Sadly, this is the last we'll see of Tommy and I believe
that is a mistake.  The character of Tommy Jarvis almost gives Jason a
reason for killing.  When they lose Tommy, the lose any meaning they may
have had.  Oh well, I should save those complaints for Part 7.  As far as
Part 6'es go, I enjoyed this one. 

Best kill: The sheriff being bent backward.
<|_=00=_|>

I love the Friday the 13th series, and after watching them all countless
times over the years I have to say that Part 6 is my all time favorite,
plain and simple, it is just awesome. Tom McLoughlin (he did another
favorite of mine, One Dark Night) does an excellent job directing and
really
piles on the atmosphere (the opening shot of the misty forest is creepy)
and
Thom Mathews is the best actor to play Tommy because he is very heroic,
attempting to save the lives of those around him and trying to kill Jason
once and for all. Jennifer Cooke is appealing as the blonde (aren't they
always blonde?) lead girl and CJ Graham's Jason is, plain and simple,
awesome. Full of thrills, action, humor, gore murders, and Jason, what
more
could you ask for? This one is the best, no doubt about it.

<|_=00=_|>
Friday The 13th Part VI:Jason Lives is an excellent and thrilling
sequel and is one of the best films in the series that is filled with
great atmospheric direction,a good cast and a memorable score and
soundtrack. All of those elements make Jason Lives my favorite movie in
the series and a classic in the Friday The 13th franchise.

Friday The 13th Part VI:Jason Lives finds Tommy Jarvis(Thom Matthews)is
still haunted by the events in part IV and V wants cremate and burn a
dead Jason Voorhees(C.J Graham)at his grave site but things go wrong
when Jason is brought back from the dead by a bolt of lighting and is
ready to kill again at his old stomping ground Camp Crystal
lake(renamed Camp Forest Green). With the help of feisty Camp Counseler
Megan Garris (Jennifer),Tommy vows to destroy Jason once and for all.

Friday The 13th Part VI:Jason Lives is a brilliant Friday The 13th
sequel and is one of the best and better films in the franchise that
was my introduction to Friday The 13th and Jason Voorhees and to this
day remains my favorite Friday The 13th film. After the unintentionally
hilarious Friday The 13th:A New Beginning left a bad taste in Friday
fans mouths,Jason Lives was seen as a return to form for the series and
has become a fan favorite since it's release in 1986. What makes Jason
Lives very entertaining and memorable is the way writer-director Tom
McLoughlin approaches the material giving the series a shot in the arm
giving fans a movie that is stylish and atmospheric as well as very
explosive and thrilling with intensity and fun. And while Jason Lives
has most of the trademarks that are associated with the Friday The 13th
series and other Slasher movies there are thing Jason Lives that feels
fresh and creative with an energy and pace that never stops until the
very end. One of the things that makes Jason Lives such a great sequel
is the Humor that is hilarious and nonstop with lines and characters
that are funny which makes JL light but not too light. The Humor and
laughs are also funny because the pop culture references and self aware
thinking that the characters have which predates the Humor and style
that Scream(1996)would do 10 years later. Although the film is funny
there is a creepy and intense atmosphere with white hot suspense that
hangs over the film with fog,dark clouds,rain and wind which is a
homage to the universal Horror films of the the 1930s and 40s and when
Jason is around the atmosphere is more intense. Where most characters
in Friday The 13ths and other Slasher films are lined up to be killed
and slaughtered the main characters in JL are likable and memorable to
the point we feel bad for them when things start to go haywire. What's
interesting about JL is the fact that little kids are at the camp which
raises the stakes of the movie even higher because when you watch the
movie you will wonder would Jason go after the kids? Watch the movie
and find out. By the sixth film in the series Jason not only became a
Horror icon but also a pop culture icon and antihero and with Jason
Lives Jason is the star of the movie. When Jason comes back from the
grave he is stronger and more powerful than he was before because
guns,knives or any other weapon will stop him from killing people in a
brutal fashion. While Jason in 2,3 and 4 was running a lot in Jason
Lives he is in some cases a Zombie who walks really fast and no matter
how far the victims run Jason will catch up with you. The blood and
gore are on full display here with Jason doing what he does best and
that's sneaking up on his victims and killing them in gory ways with
some of the biggest body count in the series and while the blood and
gore is light compared to some of the other films in the franchise the
red plasma is still there. Jason Lives is Jason at his brutal and
bloody best. The ending in Jason Lives is amazing and one of the finest
endings in the entire series with tons of thrills and excitement with a
few surprises that will stay with Friday The 13th fans. An incredible
ending.

The cast is wonderful. Thom Matthews is terrific as Tommy Jarvis with
Matthews bringing the right emotion to the role. Jennifer Cooke is
wonderful and sexy as Megan Garris,a camp counselor and sheriff Garris'
daughter that helps Tommy. C.J Graham is outstanding and menacing as
Jason Voorhees and is a great precursor to Kane Hodder's Jason. David
Kagen is fantastic as Sheriff Michael Garris,a tough sheriff with a
heart of gold and Megan's Father. Renee Jones(Sissy),Kerry
Noonan(Paula),Tom Fridley(Cort),Nancy Mcloughlin(Lizbeth)and Tony
Goldwyn(Darren)do fine jobs as the other camp counselors. Vincent
Guastaferro(Deputy Rick),Courtney Vickery(Nancy),Darcy DeMoss(Nikki)and
Ron Palillo(Hawes)give good performances as well.

The direction by Tom Mcloughlin is amazing and stylish,with Mcloughlin
always moving the camera and giving the movie an atmospheric and
stunning look. Great direction,Mcloughlin.

The score by Harry Manfredini is sensational,creepy,intense and is one
of the best scores in the series matching the tone of the movie
perfectly. Incredible score,Manfredini. There is also great Rock songs
in the movie from Alice Cooper(He's Back-The Man Behind The
Mask,Teenage Frankenstein,Hard Rock Summer)and Felony(Animal).

In final word,if you love the Friday The 13th series,Jason
Voorhees,Horror films or Slasher movies in general,I highly suggest you
see Friday The 13th Part VI:Jason Lives,an excellent and thrilling
sequel that is one of the best films in the franchise. Highly
Recommended. 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Jason gets revived by a lightning (hmm...that's original) and wakes up
really angry and a lot of innocent bystanders get to feel his wrath.
It's up to Tommy Jarvis (again) to take a stab at disposing of Jason.

After the horrible 5th entry this one comes as a real treat. Old Jase
is back and the Friday series are back on. Little more humor this time
around, which annoyed many but I dig it. The movie's brutal and very
violent but not as gory as the first four films and that's a miss. The
music is pretty good, with that Alice Cooper song in the end credits a
nice touch.

All in all, a solid Friday sequel which knocks the socks of part 5 and
entertains fans of the series.
<|_=00=_|>
"Friday the 13th Part VI: Jason Lives" starts off pretty interesting.
Tommy Jarvis, who is now all grown up, goes back to Jason's grave one
stormy night to make sure the maniacal murderer is really dead and that
he has no chance of coming back. He opens the coffin, and stabs Jason
with an iron fencepost, which is then incidentally struck by lightning,
which somehow revives Jason's body. Now Jason is back, alive as ever,
and he continues his rampage of teenage slaughter in the forests
surrounding Camp Crystal Lake.

I really enjoyed the opening of this movie. At least the writers made
an attempt to revive Jason in a interesting way, rather than just have
him randomly come back to life for more murders. Jason was presented as
a more supernatural presence in this movie, which should've been well
established way earlier, because no average human could survive all of
the severe battle scars he's taken throughout the series. I mean sure,
it is your run-of-the-mill "Friday the 13th" sequel, but this one at
least tries to be something a little different, putting interesting
spins on things. 

There were also some pretty inventive murder sequences too, which isn't
uncommon in this series. The director keeps Jason lurking in the
shadows throughout the film, having him pop up all over, which, while a
little unbelievable, is also pretty effective and good for a couple of
scares. It's still a pretty silly movie in it's essential form, but all
of these movies are, really, but this one manages to have a lot of
strong points and not too many weak ones.

Overall, this is one of the better installments of the "Friday the
13th" series. And if you compare this to the pointless fifth
installment, this film looks like cinema gold. While most of the other
sequels are just cheap recycled stories of the other movies, at least
"Friday the 13th Part VI: Jason Lives" offers something a little fresh
in the dulling series. 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm very glad they decided to stop messing around and finally make Jason a
super-natural being!  He was pretty much just a hard-to-kill human in parts
2,3 and 4 (and Jason wasn't even the killer in parts 1 and 5).  So they
finally decided to make this guy truly unstoppable!

I wouldn't say this was a very mind stimulating movie.  This film was made
purely for the fans!  There is no real rhyme or reason to the film, it's
just Jason running around killing people.  I guess that's cool if that's
what you want.

The cast was surprisingly good, some of the acting was sub-par, but what can
you expect from this sort of movie?  There is one cast member that I think
really deserves some notice, Jennifer Cooke, a fine actress and quite the
looker too.  It was also a pleasant surprise to see a younger Tony Goldwyn
("Ghost", "Kiss the Girls", "The 6th Day") in a very small role in the
film.

I didn't think this installment was anything spectacular, but it had some
good stuff in it.  Like I said above, the story is for the fans, so don't
expect anything special.  If you liked the previous Friday the 13th films,
then go ahead and give this one a shot.  If you didn't like the previous
films, don't even bother.  Thanks for reading,

-Chris
