
Driving Miss Daisy is an unusual film. Although it's really more of an
extended pair of entwined character portraits--spanning a quarter of a
century--it has all of the narrative focus and tightness of a more
traditionally structured mystery plot.

The character portraits are of Daisy Werthan (Jessica Tandy) and Hoke
Colburn (Morgan Freeman). The film is set in suburbs of Atlanta and
begins in the late 1940s or early 1950s. Daisy is wealthy, but she
wasn't born that way. Her son, Boolie (Dan Aykroyd) runs the successful
family business--a large textile factory. At the beginning of the film,
we see Miss Daisy, who is already around 60 years old or so, have a
driving mishap--she has the car in the wrong gear and runs off of her
driveway, almost completely backing over a 10 foot drop to the
neighbor's driveway, at about 20 miles an hour. This naturally concerns
Boolie, and when Daisy has a problem finding a company that is willing
to insure her after the accident, Boolie hires Hoke--also rapidly
approaching "elderly"--as her driver, against her protests. She doesn't
want a driver. She doesn't want someone else in her house. She doesn't
want to be treated as if she's incapable. Driving Miss Daisy is an
exploration of Hoke and Daisy's relationship, all the way into the
early 1970s.

Alfred Uhry adapted the script from a play he wrote by the same name
that was first produced Off-Broadway. Although the play began in a
small theater, it had good reviews and good word of mouth,
necessitating a move to a larger theater. Uhry eventually won a
Pulitzer Prize for his work. He has said that that Driving Miss Daisy
was semi-biographical about his grandmother and her driver.

That fact probably helped create the remarkable depth of character
shown in the film, although certainly director Bruce Beresford,
Freeman, who also starred in the play, and Tandy do more than their
share to build a charming, frequently funny and poignant portrayal of
two very different humans learning to see eye to eye.

It's significant that Driving Miss Daisy is set in the South and spans
the period prior to and slightly after the civil rights movement in the
US. And it's significant that Hoke is an African-American while Miss
Daisy is Jewish.

Miss Daisy is humorously fussy, prim and proper. Well, to the audience
at least--I don't suppose it would be so humorous to have to deal with
it. This helps create an initial "formal antagonism" between Daisy and
Hoke. Only infinite calm and patience from Hoke earns a gradual
softening of Daisy's public displeasure and curmudgeonliness. The
unusual structure means that Driving Miss Daisy is more a series of
vignettes, each significant to the gradual coming together of Hoke and
Daisy, although most incidents are relatively minor in isolation. Uhry
makes the film a collection of those small but memorable, important and
frequently amusing (at least in retrospect) moments that make up a
lifetime of telling memories in any familial relationship--and Hoke
does become family. Eventually, Hoke and Daisy form a bond that is
perhaps stronger than Daisy's bond with her own son.

As for the significance of Hoke and Daisy's ethnic orientations, Miss
Daisy makes a vocal point of not being racist or otherwise
discriminatory. She also likes to focus on her humble beginnings--a few
incidents near the beginning of her relationship with Hoke hinge on her
being embarrassed at her wealth. And of course, as a Jew in the South,
she is well aware of discrimination and disadvantage, having
experienced it first hand.

One of the more touching scenes of the film features Hoke and Daisy
driving to Alabama to attend her brother's 90th birthday party. It's
Hoke's first time outside of Georgia. They've parked temporarily on the
side of the road. Two white Alabama policemen see Hoke and pull over.
They want to know what Hoke is doing with a nice, new Cadillac. When
they discover that Daisy is Jewish, they are disparaging through
implicature, and they make a literally discriminatory remark to each
other when Hoke and Daisy drive off. Although these kinds of events are
much more major than say, apparently stealing a can of salmon, Uhry and
Beresford tie them together wonderfully so that they all have about the
same significance.

Related to these themes, the film is also charming and moving for
juxtaposing a kind of personal consistency throughout time with a
rapidly changing society. That's why the profound social changes
happening "just next door", so to speak, are largely kept in the
background.

Technically, Driving Miss Daisy is a gem. It's full of subtly complex
and aesthetically pleasing cinematography, well blocked scenes and a
fabulous and deservedly famous score from Hans Zimmer. But the story
and performances are so good that it's almost difficult to notice the
technical stuff.

Unless you are completely averse to anything even slightly in the realm
of realist drama/light comedy, Driving Miss Daisy is a must-see. It's
sentimental but not syrupy and touching but not overly serious--you'll
laugh just as often as anything else. Don't miss this one if you
haven't yet seen it.
<|_=00=_|>
Man, did I change my mind about this film, maybe more than any film
I've ever watched. The first time I saw it I did not like it and
thought it was very overrated. Why I gave more looks, I don't really
remember but it went to "fair" the next time and "excellent" by the
third. I think the main reason is that I shifted my focus off the
irritable old woman (Jessica Tandy) to the long-suffering servant
(Morgan Freeman).

Once I looked at this story through "Hoke's" eyes, it became an
inspiring story. Freeman's character, "Hoke Colburn," simply provides
the best the example of a what true servant of God should act like,
plain-and-simple. It's one of the best examples on film I've seen of of
patience, kindness, dedication and dignity in a difficult situation.
It's also always inspiring to see a nice, good person overturn and win
over the opposite with sheer kindness.

Another factor that has raised my rating of this film is the latest
"newly-restored widescreen edition," which finally presents this movie
as it should be, with all its beautiful cinematography. The sets in
here are great, a terrific look at the 1950s through storefronts,
billboards, automobiles, etc.

One thing this film taught me: "Hoke's" attitude isn't the only
important aspect of this story. It's how we, as viewers, look at
things, too, that makes a difference.
<|_=00=_|>
Morgan Freeman and Jessica Tandy (in Oscar Winning performance) invoke
grace and dignity in this sensitive treatment of race relations and old
age. Freeman stars as a gentle, wise black chauffeur in the service of
a spunky Jewish widow, played by Tandy. As the years pass, their
relationship evolves into a remarkable friendship despite their
different backgrounds.

The film is skillfully adapted from the award-winning play, unfolding
against the backdrop of civil rights changes in the South. Somewhat
simplistic to be considered a strong statement about race relations,
the Best Picture/Best Screenpaly Oscar Winner makes a heartwarming
effort to give witness to dignified aging.

Freeman was never better, and the chemistry between the two leads is
simply beautiful to watch. This is a very special cinema experience.
<|_=00=_|>

"Driving Miss Daisy" is one of the nicest movies ever made. Winner of 4
Academy Awards including Best Picture of 1989, "Driving Miss Daisy" is about
a black man who goes to work as a chauffeur for a stubborn old Jewish woman.
Morgan Freeman and the late Jessica Tandy give brilliant performances in the
lead roles, and they've never been better. I sure do miss seeing the
presence of Tandy in the movies. She was good in just about everything she
did in both feature and TV movies (her heart in acting always belonged to
the stage). She very deservedly won the Best Actress Oscar for her role as
Miss Daisy, a person who at first is not happy about this man coming into
her life but learns to accept it and forms a real special friendship.
Freeman is every bit her match here as Hoke, the chauffeur. The exchanges
between the two in the beginning are very funny and very touching at the
end. Dan Aykroyd takes on a rare serious role in "Driving Miss Daisy" as
Tandy's son Boolie, a businessman who hires Hoke to be Miss Daisy's driver.
And the late Esther Rolle (of TV's "Good Times" and "Maude") has a nice
small part as Miss Daisy's maid. When this movie came out in late 1989 it
was guaranteed many Oscar nominations. Then the nominations came out in
February 1990 and "Driving Miss Daisy" got the most with 9 nominations. But
one nomination was missing: Best Director. And what a gyp that was! Bruce
Beresford did a terrific job of directing "Driving Miss Daisy" and to this
day I will never understand why the Academy didn't nominate him. The Academy
voters for the Best Director category got stupid that year and Beresford was
omitted unfairly. This is a terrific movie and the director should have been
nominated. Richard Zanuck, one of the producers of "Driving Miss Daisy",
said something in March 1990 when accepting the Best Picture Oscar for this
movie along with the other producer and real-life wife Lili Fini Zanuck that
I completely agree with. He said quote: "Were up here for one very simple
reason and that's the fact that Bruce Beresford is a brilliant director.
It's as simple as that!" And "Driving Miss Daisy" is proof. It's a great
movie.

**** (out of four)

<|_=00=_|>

After watching this film for the second time I realized just how
important
the affection that occurs between Hoke and Daisy really is.  What grows
between these two is something most people only wish to have in their
lives.
What is so special about it, though?

From the beginning of their relationship, the two are forced to be
together.
Daisy is forced to have a driver and Hoke is hired on for that position.
For both, the relationship is one out of need.  Hoke needs a paying job
and
Daisy needs a driver in her old age (although, she would never admit it
to
anyone especially herself).

As time goes by, though, Daisy's need of Hoke becomes clearer to herself.
She begins to depend on him.  This is definitely made clear at the end
when
Hoke is feeding Daisy her pumpkin pie, and she enjoys each bite
fully.

Another aspect of the movie which got to me was the great array of
choices
the director made with the filming.  Hoke is a character of very few
words
but teaches Daisy so much.  Morgan Freeman's acting in this character is
amazing.  The knowledge he shows within his eyes is one reason I almost
felt
closer to him than Daisy did throughout the first half of the movie.  In
a
way, he teaches her a new way of life.  He does so by showing himself
truly
and honestly.

Another choice the director made was in the symbolic way the film was
made.
The beauty of the many seasons is shown through the changes of the
landscape.  The trees transform from winter to spring and the streets go
from sheets of ice to warm asphalt.  And the cars get larger and more
high
tech.  Time is so important in Daisy's and Hoke's affection/friendship
that
this is a great way to show that.

There are so many aspects of this film which I could go on and on about.
It
is a wonderful film of which any person can get a fulfilling movie
watching
experience out of.  They can also learn a lot from it, too!  Watch
it.
<|_=00=_|>

Looking for a great, in-yer-face fast-moving action THRILLER? Driving Miss
Daisy ain't it.

Looking for a great MOVIE? You're in the right place.

"Driving Miss Daisy" charts the subtly-shifting relationship between "Miss
Daisy," a very reluctantly aging Jewish lady who's no longer able to drive
for herself, and her new (and, as you can expect, rather unwelcome!) driver
-- a not-terribly-young-himself Black guy (or African-American guy,
whichever you prefer) named Hoke.

Bear in mind this is the Deep South of the 1950's and 60's we're talking
about here, and the racial attitudes and prejudices of that time make for
fascinating background -- as does the whole general culture, which I
believe
was well portrayed.

The directors frankly took on some delicate racial subject matter here (and
certainly the racial divide in those days was very deep indeed) -- but they
handled it with remarkable skill. I think they succeeded so well because
they brought you into the lives of people as people, not just as cardboard
stereotypes. Long before the movie is over, you find yourself really caring
about the two main characters -- Daisy and Hoke.

This is a movie about life, relationships, and people. You see some good
things -- and also some very human weaknesses, not the least of which is
sheer stubborn pride.

I personally was a child of the deep South, and I appreciate movies such as
this one and Jessica Tandy's other wonderful movie Fried Green Tomatoes
(which is in some ways very similar) which give us a glimpse into the
culture of those days. There are definitely things we can learn from the
past, and there are also things we can learn from watching how people
change
over the course of their lives.

Several moments from this movie stand out, some of which are funny, some
sobering, and some of which are particularly moving:

The scene involving Dr. Martin Luther King.

The unashamedly bigoted comments of a 50's or 60's police officer.

A great scene involving Hoke and Miss Daisy's businessman
son.

An incredible scene in which Jessica Tandy portrays the aging Miss Daisy.

And, perhaps most of all, what Miss Daisy says to Hoke towards the end of
the movie.

Now personally, I love action movies so well that I was initially reluctant
even to watch this one. This is not a movie of action, but it IS a movie of
substance and beauty, mixed with some funny moments.

The acting is great, the script and directing are beautifully done, and the
substance, humor and beauty are such that overall, I consider "Driving Miss
Daisy," one of the best movies I've ever seen.
<|_=00=_|>

Why spend millions of dollars on special effects and scenes, when the
actors
still are most important? This movie proves all that. This movie gives a
strong feeling of being back in a time I`ve never experienced myself. It
is
somewhere in my consciousness. This is a cozy comedy for the whole family.
This film is much about how our daily life meets new inputs, and how we
deal with it. Time doesn`t change, it is our daily lifes inputs. This
serious comedy is as deep as it is easy, because it is more about
ourselves
than we sometimes think.
Enjoy the art, the music, the lovely seasons..
10 out of 10.

<|_=00=_|>

Only those with dull minds would find this boring.  A truly perfect movie,
in my opinion.  I never saw the stage production, but I can't believe it
could have been better.  I believe the movie was perfectly cast, as well,
even though I adore Dana Ivey, who originated the role of Daisy Werthan.  By
the way, I can see a day far in the future when Morgan Freeman will win an
Oscar for a small supporting role in an otherwise forgettable movie.  That
Oscar will be the reward for movies like this one.
<|_=00=_|>

Driving Miss Daisy is the story of a frienship between a hard to live with
Jewish lady and her chauffeur. Morgan Freeman and Jessica Tandy give great
performances along with Dan Aykroyd as
a loving son to Miss Daisy. Great score and cinamatography add to this films
enjoyment. If you're an old car buff like me, note that beautiful 1948
Hudson that is used in the first half of the movie.
