

Sure, the movie shows some skin, but that's not all there is to it, so
don't
let the prospect of that keep you from watching this movie. There's much
more to it than that. Sitting down to watch this film, you're immediately
drawn in by one of the most ambitious parts of the film - the history of
the
Chicken Ranch, decade by decade, depicted with singing, dancing and huge
productions that last only a moment, all set to the tune of "Twenty Fans"
and narrated by Jim Nabors.

Some people would probably be surprised to find that this movie was
nominated for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical in the 1983 Golden Globe
awards. Dolly Parton was also nominated for a Golden Globe award in the
Best
Actress - Comedy/Musical category, while Charles Durning, in his role of
the
Texas governor, was nominated (quite rightly) for an Academy Award for Best
Actor In A Supporting Role.

The best thing about the film is the character of Miss Mona, played by
Dolly
Parton. I read that Barbara Mandrell or Crystal Gayle were also up for the
part, but I can't imagine anyone else playing Miss Mona. You can't help
liking Miss Mona - she's not like any prostitute or madam the 1982
movie-going public had ever seen. She's a ray of sunshine, totally
forthright, honest, optimistic, generous, open-hearted and sweet. She even
contributes heavily to local charities and causes, and one of her lines is
"Well, I always just thought if you see somebody without a smile, give 'em
yours!" As usual in her films, Parton, who is a singer/songwriter, not a
trained actress, holds her own and more. Her entrance, singing "Lil' Ole
Bitty Pissant Country Place" as she slowly walks down the stairs in that
red
dress, is something else. Throughout the movie, Miss Mona's fiery temper
and
tender heart provide some of the most authentic moments.

Reynolds plays the character his audience loves best - the smart ass. And
he
plays it very well. This movie shows him in the character of a sheriff,
which must have been amusing to moviegoers accustomed to seeing him
outrunning sheriffs and state police in his "Smokey & The Bandit" movies.
Ed
Earl is a typical Reynolds character - getting most of the funniest lines,
cussing up a storm, getting philosophical in his semi-ignorant way and
defending Miss Mona to the best of his hot-tempered ability.

Dom DeLuise plays the part of Melvin P. Thorpe to perfection, right down to
the corset and the stuffed pants. He is a delight. Perfect comic timing.
"Watchdog Report/Texas Has a Whorehouse in It" is a production number that
is completely right for him.

Jim Nabors is, well, Jim Nabors. I still laugh thinking about the opening
line of the movie, delivered in his "GOL-LEE" tone: "It was the nicest
little whorehouse you ever saw!" Nabors plays Deputy Fred, who also
narrates
the movie.

Also of note is Charles Durning as the governor of Texas, who
is
perfect as he schmoozes and avoids the facts. It is no surprise to me that
this actor, who has now made over 100 movies, was nominated for a Best
Supporting Actor Oscar for this role.  My favorite part of his brief
airtime
is the business with his cowboy hat (four or five times he puts his hat on
sideways and then whirls to the side so that it falls correctly onto his
head). His singing and dancing in "The Sidestep" pulls out no stops - you
can't stop watching him. I couldn't help wondering how Steve Martin would
have played this role, but Durning makes it his own.

The movie is, of course, a musical, and it was a musical before it was made
into a movie - so we get lots of musical numbers, including one with the
Aggie football team. If you like musicals, you will like this, because the
songs were clearly written not to be hits, not to be videos, but to be part
of a musical. Mona's Girls and the Aggies are not actors - they're
extremely
talented dancers, some of whom can sing.

The Aggies, who are supposed to be the Texas A & M football team, push
their
scenes to the limit. It does stretch dramatic license a bit when the
football players have most of their clothes off and are dancing around the
locker room - their physiques are clearly not football material - but no
matter. Yee-haw!

Mona's girls have been chosen to represent many different physical types of
women, and besides their obvious dancing talent, each gets a small solo
(one
or two lines) in one of the movie's final songs, "Hard Candy Christmas" (a
song which sounds as if it was written by Parton but wasn't). This is, to
me, the best song in the movie, and it's a shame that a different version
was used on the soundtrack (in the movie, each girl sings a line or two,
with Parton singing the choruses, but on the soundtrack version, Parton
sings it all). Nothing against Parton, but I enjoyed hearing/seeing all the
different reactions as expressed by their distinct voices as the girls
faced
their uncertain futures.

Parton also contributed two of her own original songs to the movie. "I Will
Always Love You," which she originally wrote and released in 1974, became
this film's love song and went to number one for a second time (of course,
it went to number one again when covered by Whitney Houston in 1992. The
other song that Dolly contributed is "Sneakin' Around" (a "9 to 5"-like
duet
between Parton and Reynolds). According to some information on the WWW, she
also contributed other songs which were not used, including a song which
she
later re-wrote for "Rhinestone."

Looking back on this film from 18 years in the future, I'm sure that many
people have a low opinion of it, but I think it's a classic. Supposedly
based on a true story, this film invites you in and never lets you go,
keeping you hooked with sharply written dialogue and fast-paced action.
Once
you start watching it, it's impossible to stop - some of the comedy is very
subtle, and each performer seems perfectly cast and enthusiastically
performs her or his role.

There aren't as many serious moments, but they are well-acted. Ed Earl and
Miss Mona have a long-term relationship, spiced with something more
perhaps?
Miss Mona's face after her fight with Ed Earl conveys such weary hurt that
you can't help wanting her to get a break. There's much more to this movie
than Mona's girls. It's about friendship, tradition, honesty, promises and
tolerance as well. Managing to express valid points and make a 1982
audience
sympathize with prostitutes, it also manages to poke fun at
society.
<|_=00=_|>
How could anyone not love this movie? Being a big fan of musicals
myself, I love this movie for the fun, campy performances, larger then
life, sassy, characters,smalltown southern charm, the surprisingly
sweet romance between Reynolds and Parton(I'm a big fan of both) and
the homage to the south in general-YEEHAW!!! This is a perfect movie to
watch directly after you've watched a heavy movie and want to "come
down". It's bright, fun and filled with wicked gaiety. Anyone who's a
fan of musicals should see this, I've seen many a stage show as well,
my one big regret is I never saw the play version of this.

I don't see how anyone could fault Burt Reynolds performance in this,
in my opinion the casting choices-all of them-were as close to perfect
as there is. Although I do not live in Texas, I have visited and hold a
deep admiration for Texas and all it has to offer. I love movies about
one of my favorite states in the country, as well as musicals, so this
was a double plus. And everyone played their roles with such charm,
Dolly was so lovable, Reynolds, the tough sheriff yet so decent at
heart and Charles Durning as mentioned by nearly EVERYBODY was amazing.

This ranks up there as one of my all time top musicals, it's got so
much gaiety and is so infectiously warm, inviting and a celebration of
fun! A must see. 8 of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Big, splashy, fun musical about a whorehouse (the Chicken Ranch) in
Texas run by Miss Mona (Dolly Parton). She's in love with the sheriff
(Burt Reynolds) and the town has no problem with the house. Then a
sleazy TV showman (Dom DeLuise) exposes the ranch and all hell breaks
lose.

This was a modest hit in 1982. It's easy to see why--it's full of
energy and enthusiasm, has great songs and some fantastic all out
production numbers. Reynolds is just OK but Parton is an absolute
joy--she gives one of her best performances and even sings "I Will
Always Love You" (I prefer Whitney's version). Also there is equal
amounts of male and female nudity and has a healthy attitude about sex
(this was made before AIDS was well-known about). And Charles Durning
stops the show with his "sidestepping" number...he was nominated for
Best Supporting Actor for this. 

Only complaint is the ending. It's way too serious and realistic--I
wish they had opted for a fairy tale like ending. Also Lois Nettleton's
subplot is seriously underdeveloped--I assume it was shot but cut out
for the running time.

See it and enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
The Texas county where Burt Reynolds is sheriff has only one thing that
makes it stand out from all the other counties in the state. And I'm
not referring to Dolly Parton's 40Ds. It's rather the old and
established institution of the Chicken Ranch, The Best Little
Whorehouse In Texas. Or maybe west of the Mississippi truth be told, if
everyone left there as happy as they seem.

This film is a real gem, a timely and historical film as well as a fun
country musical. The story is a true one, the names changed to protect
the innocent as that other American institution used to say. Although
few people but Dom DeLuise seem to have their innocence intact in this
film.

In this county west of Houston for over 100 years servicing the
veterans of five wars was the Chicken Ranch, The Best Little Whorehouse
In Texas. It's existence was the most open secret in the state and
everyone seemed happy with the arrangement. In fact the current owner,
Dolly Parton, is a valued member of the community, paying her taxes and
giving of money and time to community endeavors. She runs a disease
free establishment and insists that of her customers.

But this was the time the Moral Majority was flexing it's muscles in
the person of Dom DeLuise. He's really quite the scream as the
crusading reporter going to close this den of vice and corruption. He
stirs up quite the hornet's nest in the state.

Best scene of the film is the annual party for the winner of the Texas
A&M, University of Texas football game. Those Aggies play hard and plow
hard. And that's the night when DeLuise and his television crew decide
to pull their own raid. The party is hosted by State Senator Robert
Mandan playing the part in his best sanctimonious tradition.

Of course he pales beside Charles Durning as the governor of Texas.
Durning was nominated for Best Supporting Actor and his political credo
of never saying anything is embodied in that wonderful Sidestep number
he has. Durning looks like he's having a great old time.

Carol Hall wrote the rollicking score for The Best Little Whorehouse In
Texas and Dolly Parton also had the good sense to get a couple of her
songs interpolated in the film, one of them her beloved I Will Always
Love You. For all her good works Dolly is still the Madame of a
bordello and that fact prevents her from being taken too seriously by
Burt Reynolds as marriage material.

I'm sure the film was not a favorite of the late Jerry Falwell, DeLuise
lampoons him so viciously. It is an entertaining reminder of times that
sad to say haven't gone altogether away.
<|_=00=_|>
Surprisingly good musical about the infamous "Chicken Ranch". The women
are pretty, the songs are good, the dancing is OK. I wasn't expecting
much, but I found the movie enjoyable, even fun to watch. Burt Reynolds
and Dolly Parton both give good performances. Great songs by Parton.
She sings "I Will Always Love You" even better than Whitney. Another
good song: "Sneaking Around with You" by both Parton and Reynolds. He
sings! 

Get over the title and rent this one. I actually got the movie from my
local public library. The movie does make some kind of statement on the
issue of prostitution, but also on the power of the media. But don't
expect lengthy analysis! 

Seen at home, in Toronto, on April 20th, 2005. I first saw this movie
in the early eighties.

79/100 (***)
<|_=00=_|>
5.3? 

The problem, I suspect, with this movie is that the wrong people are
watching it, and the right aren't.

Let's see, who does this movie offend? Christian fundamentalists,
politicians and Texans. I don't know how many of the former are
watching it and then rating it (perhaps they just rate first, watch
later), but it looks like some Texans don't have a sense of humor.

And then there are Burt Reynolds fans who might be shocked to find this
is not a typical Burt Reynolds movie, and hate it. But folks who aren't
Burt Reynolds fans will probably enjoy it. Reynolds' excellent acting
is natural, understated, and properly nuanced to the scenes. I think
Reynolds and Parton are very well cast together and have real
chemistry.

As to Dolly Parton, who knows? All I know is you don't have to be a
Dolly Parton country music fan to love this movie. My estimation of Ms.
Parton went up enormously after first seeing this movie. She is one
smart lady and a fine actress.

So, to add it up, if you are not from Texas, not a Bible-thumper, not a
politician, not a Burt Reynolds fan and not a Dolly Parton fan, you
should definitely watch The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas.

Oh, and folks expecting porn are going to be disappointed, though there
is the briefest of cameos by none other than Kay Parker, dressed. Don't
blink. Too bad she didn't get a speaking part. This lady can actually
act! I saw her reciting Shakespeare, for some reason I can't recall, in
one of her movies, and she was real good.

Watch this movie because it is laugh out loud funny. You need to watch
closely at the details because the scenes are beautifully crafted.
Watch the one of Dom DeLuise getting dressed in front of Reynolds
before going on air. It is hilarious, especially the sock. But the most
memorable scene is of "Governor" Charles Durning doing his "Sidestep"
number. It is a masterpiece.

It is easy to forget this is a musical, perhaps because the storyline
is so strong it could survive as a movie without music. But a musical
it is, in the tradition of Seven Brides for Seven Brothers and
Oklahoma! with its masculine cowboy acrobatics dancing, though with an
80s twist, given the locker room dance number.

Thats what makes this movie great: It takes the concept of the musical
comedy and brings it out of the Fifties and into the Eighties in a way
that is still relevant and pretty outrageous today because of its swipe
at hypocrisy. Did I say swipe? Perhaps dagger thrust or kick in the
face to hypocrisy would be more accurate. In this regard, The Best
Little Whorehouse is hardly subtle.

So perhaps I should add to the list of people who will not like this
movie, hypocrites. For them, there is "Hello, Dolly!"
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is brilliant. Great soundtrack, great acting and a great
story. It's not for everyone but if you like a good light heated movie
with a great soundtrack then this is for you. Dolly Parton is beautiful
and brilliant as miss Mona and Burt Reynolds is perfect as the sheriff.
the supporting cast is as good as you could hope the only downside i
can add is nothing its brilliant. towards the end the Governor is
brilliant and Dom Delouise play as usual a great part. in finishing its
a great movie to watch with the girls with a bottle of wine. But also a
good movie to watch with a loved one, i must say the soundtrack is so
good i bought it which may not be so impressive but it's the only one i
own. Watch the movie i'm sure you will enjoy it
<|_=00=_|>
The pure part of this film is Dolly's voice, with its warble, its touch
of yodel, its complete inability to resists little trills, mordents,
all the musical embellishments that are mirrored in her visual
presence, her couture. And since the sumptuous breasts are maybe even a
bit too much here--with many gown changes in the big numbers--that is
all the more striking that it is still the singing that stands out. Jim
Nabors, for example, takes some time to seem bearable to me, but
finally the whole context works; but the movie seems like it is going
to be horrible till Dolly's first phrase in the "Pissant Country Place"
song.

Carol Hall's "Rock Candy Christmas" is a good number, but putting
Dolly's "I Will Always Love You" was the smartest thing done musically
here; in no way is the subsequent Whitney Houston version comparable in
either sincerity or just naturalness of lovely sound--she uses little
ornaments, too, but changes them as if to be original; all you really
notice is that she didn't use the ones Dolly had already made perfect,
as if they were as firm and fixed as the melody line itself. It was a
considerably smarter thing than using "My Man" in 'Funny Girl', when
"The Music that Makes Me Dance" would have made the show keep its
original musical integrity; and leaving out the Ziegfeld Follies type
numbers "Cornet Man" and "Rat-tat-tat" depleted this film, leaving it
only great in moments ('Don't Rain on My Parade' is really the only
great one.)

Burt Reynolds is a charmer as the sheriff and his and Dolly's affection
for each other is sweet and moving. All of their scenes together work
because they fully enjoy them, enjoy each other.

Certain big production numbers--the Aggies football players dancing in
the locker room, then when they get to the Chicken Ranch, for
example--seem to be low imitations of old Agnes de Mille choreography
in 'Oklahoma', full of old-fashioned "cowboy high spirits" (one cannot
keep from enjoying how non-cowboy most of the dancers must surely be)
that have nothing new in them and merely seem mechanical.

It's a better Dolly Parton movie--though certainly not great--as a
whole than 'Nine to Five', but nothing has ever quite surpassed the
poetic genius of that picture's title song, in which Dolly has captured
so basic a part of most people's daily life that you can hardly believe
that the song is actually there to question its very validity, which it
does with no qualms at all.

"Workin' nine to five, what a way to make a livin'... and later: "You
would think that I would deserve a fat promotion... They just use your
mind, and they never give you credit, It's enough to drive you crazy if
you let it."

The real artist that she is peers through all the fluff from time to
time, perhaps getting it through the fluff is the way it is proved.
<|_=00=_|>
There is a commitment to authenticity in film production of "The Best
Little Whorehouse in Texas." The people are fictional, in that no
real-life sheriffs or governors or madams are depicted, but the movie
is unafraid to use the names and likenesses of real, powerful Texas
institutions to fill out the whorehouse clientele portion of its cast.
Early on, Jim Nabors's goofball deputy explains one of the key plot
points: the winning team of each year's famed football match between
Texas A&M University and the University of Texas gets a free night at
the Chicken Ranch, a house of ill repute west of Houston. To allege
such a thing in a movie today would be impossible: the lawsuits would
be swift and many. But here, it isn't just allegedit's depicted in
vivid detail and with the flamboyant abandon of a great movie musical.
The sequence begins on the gridiron, with the trademarked logos of A&M
and UT on proud display, and transitions to the victorious Aggies'
locker room where the men do a gleeful choreographed routine and strip
down to their bare asses right underneath the "Gig 'Em Aggies" sign.
Soon enough they're at the Chicken Ranch, where a Senator looks on
approvingly as the team and the employees dance and carry on in various
states of undress. It's a very funny string of scenes, and it wouldn't
have the same sense of stakes or impropriety if instead of the Aggies
the team was some made-up, generic stand-in; in Texas, there is no
stand-in for A&M. One wonders how the large and powerful Aggie alumni
community feels about this film. The movie walks a delicate line
regarding the morality of its subject matter. It satirizes politicians
(Charles Durning shows himself to be a physical comedy genius in his
single, show-stealing number) and condemns "gotcha" journalism (Dom
DeLuise's TV investigator dandy even uses that exclamation), and these
are easy targets, but its discussion of the whorehouse itself is
confined to a limited set of debate parameters. The perspective of the
whores themselves is mostly missing, as is the criticism of
prostitution as a kind of slavery. In its place is the less troubling
contest between the support of safer, legalized, pimp-free prostitution
and the old-fashioned condemnation of it on religious grounds. Most
modern theater- and film-goers take the former view when those are the
only two options, and the movie does so as well with a compelling and
well-meaning righteousness. What it lacks in nuance on the subject of
paid sex, it makes up for with really touching character moments
between Burt Reynolds's duded-up sheriff and Dolly Parton's dolled- up
proprietress. Their relationship is kept on impressively equal footing,
and it feels as real and lived-in as the footage of the Texas capitol,
the small-town courthouse square, and the Texas A&M stadium.
<|_=00=_|>
For those of us who really watch musicals for the music this is one of
the quintessential musicals of it's time . There is in particular one
song that is constantly stuck in my head from this show even 25 years
after its original release. The classic " Nothing Dirty Going on"
stands up well with the likes of Moulon rouge , and Chicago. Expect a
bit of camp humor here as Dolly was made for this roll.

It's classic dolly showing up everyone else in this over the top cast
and making em all look like a bunch of fools by doing her part so well.
Deloise and Reynolds are clearly struggling to keep up with her acting
wise throughout the film and it's blatantly obvious Dolly had way way
too much fun in this roll.

A great musical on a true story that really could use a remake with the
right cast .
