

Following the Heaven's Gate debacle it must have been questionable if
Michael Cimino would ever helm another epic film. Having shot The Deer
Hunter and Heaven's Gate on such a grand scale, you expect that type of
film from Cimino. Well, he was given one last shot to work the big
screen using his considerable talents to create one last masterpiece.
If there is a Michael Cimino trilogy it's his three epics The Deer
Hunter, Heaven's Gate, and Year of the Dragon. In all honesty Hollywood
does not make a lot of films like these so when they come along they
are something special. These are films that show Hollywood at it's
best, stretching, pushing the limits, and trying to create something
huge fueled by a clear artistic vision. It may fall flat, as Heaven's
Gate did, but the risk can be exhilarating. Looking back on Heaven's
Gate now, many critics find it to be one hell of a film. There's a
simple reason for that, they just don't make 'em like this much any
more. So, in retrospect the Hurculean effort now looks refreshing. 

Year of the Dragon is a powerhouse film. Where Heaven's Gate meandered
on the plains, Year of the Dragon charges across the screen. I believe
this was powered by Cimino probably giving his best effort to entertain
as well as create on a grand scale. The result is a breathtaking ride
and one of the best cop films we'll ever witness. Rourke as Stanley
White is in his prime 80's form. There was no doubt about it, in the
80's the camera loved Mickey Rourke. If he had not gone off track it
makes you wonder what could have been. His is not the only great
performance in the film. John Lone as his prey is nothing short of
magnificent. He is everything Al Pacino was in the Godfather films. I
would say his performance owes a debt to Pacino and watching the film I
wondered if he had used him as a model for Joey Tai. These three
elements alone could be enough to make great film, two great actors
dueling on screen and a director giving his best effort.

It doesn't stop there though. They are working from an Oliver Stone
script which is beautifully composed to blur the lines between good and
evil. It's not as simple as good guy and bad guy. These characters are
fully fleshed out and complex. White may be the cop but he is deeply
flawed as a human being. This script doesn't pander to the audience and
you will not like Stanley White much of the time. Joey Tai is not pure
evil. He follows a moral code and is an honorable man. This kind of
writing is not for everyone and some may be put off or confused by the
nature of these characters but that's what makes for great cinema. 

Not only are the leads good but the supporting cast is also fantastic.
Kava as Connie White brings nice weight to her performance as Stanley's
wife. Raymond Barry and Victor Wong are excellent as are the entire
supporting cast. There is one often noted exception. Ariane as Tracy
Tzu the reporter and White's fling is very wooden. What causes her to
stand out is the fact that all the other actors are so good. I believe
this was her first film and she is out of her element. She just doesn't
have the chops to keep up. Her performance doesn't drag down the film
but it does stick out whenever she's on screen. 

1985 saw a couple of fantastic cop films in this and To Live and Die in
LA, which not surprisingly was directed by another great William
Friedkin. Films like these are hard to come by. We were lucky to see
Friedkin's film released as a special edition DVD. Year of the Dragon
has been sold by MGM to Warner Brothers and now sits in limbo. It would
be unfortunate for films like this and Sidney Lumet's Prince of the
City (1981) to sit and rot on some shelf. The work of directors like
Cimino, Friedkin, and Lumet should not be ignored. It's interesting
that each of them made a fantastic film about cops in the 80's. Two of
the three films though appear to be lost. Let's hope someone rescues
them to DVD.

<|_=00=_|>

When "Year of the Dragon" was released in 1985, it was ripped to pieces by
Chinese anti-defamation organizations as being a very racist film. The
film
was likewise given lot of bad reviews by critics, who probably wanted to
be
politically correct.

Being a Chinese American who was raised in Boston's Chinatown, I had
expected bad things about this film. Even though "The Deer Hunter" is a
great film, the depictions of Vietnamese and Chinese in that film are
truly
horrendous (no, Chinese DID NOT engage in Russian Roulette!!)  I expected
the same with "Year of the Dragon." I was totally shocked after I saw the
film at how realistic the film was about Chinatown.  I do understand many
Chinese Americans do not want themselves portrayed as drug dealers, gang
members, etc. However, I don't think there has been any film in Hollywood
history who portrayed the dark side of Chinatown as accurately as this
film.
I know because I grew up in the area when there lot of Chinese street
gangs
and mafia activity.

The sad thing is after this film was released, depictions of Chinese
Americans has gotten a LOT worse; they are depicted as chopsocky kung fu
gangsters (now isn't that ironic!!) in Jet Li and Jackie Chan movies, or
as
baby killers, rapists, or domineering bigots in "The Joy Luck Club" (by
the
way, this film is truly truly AWFUL in it's portrayals of Chinese; the
ignorant critics however gave this movie great reviews.)  Strangely,
Chinese
anti-defamation leagues has been very silent during these
years.

"Year of the Dragon" is Cimino's unappreciated gem. According to my view,
it's his second best film.  I understand this film has flaws but Cimino
was
brilliant in showing the side of Chinese Americans that few Americans
know.
Not all of us Chinese went to CalTech or MIT and became successful
software
engineers or research scientists.
<|_=00=_|>
Year of the Dragon is something of a little known masterpiece. It is
well written by oliver stone, and directed by cimino at a turning point
in his career. The centre piece, however, is Rourkes performance, which
was caught while he most likely was at the peak of his acting
ability's. You will be totally blown away by the realism of his acting,
and it's even more noteworthy that the film was made while Rourke was
youthful while making this and was made to look more senior (that grey
hair is dye). A heartfelt performance from an actor playing a cop with
"scar tissue on his soul", will never be forgotten once seen. While the
main character is far from perfect, it is just that which makes him
believable as well. Stanley White is on a crusade and would die for his
principles, which effects all those involved with him. It is a complex
film, often talky, which is punctuated throughout with explosive
violence, well shot with use of excellent set pieces. Bloody in places
and above all gritty and realistic, in parts it is even beautiful. The
film works on many levels from it's slow burn beginnings with emphasis
on conspiracy to the final pay off on the dock yards. Well drawn
characters are everywhere in this film, and it never losses its hard
edge. Rourke has seen a much needed and deserved return in recent
years. He may have lost his handsome good looks due to boxing and due
to too many face lifts, but the guy will never lose his acting ability.
We, the true fans, never gave up on this chance. And now he's finally
gaining popularity with a new generation, who need to see and
experience The Year Of The Dragon, To believe the hype. Also check out
his other classics Angel Heart and Barfly.
<|_=00=_|>

In the mid eighties Mickey Rourke was considered a cult figure in
Hollywood
(he still is, only at that time we was a promising one). This movie truly
reflects all of his talent in the role of a police officer and Vietnam
veteran, who tries to clean up China Town. It's easy to realize that
Oliver
Stone wrote the script, and it's probably Stone's personal opinions that
come out of Rourke's mouth.

It's still good after all these years and although it's no masterpiece,
it's
quite entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
Next to "Barfly", this is Mickey Rourke's best performance. His turn as
an uncompromising, tough New York cop is unforgettable. 

The story is complex and involved, and much more engaging than your
average 80's cop movie. The cinematography is stylish, and the acting
performances all around are outstanding, especially John Lone and
Raymond J. Barry. 

There's some very graphic violence and some revealing sex scenes, so
not for the kiddies! (I'm sure my parents regret taking me to see this
one in the theater as a teen, but I made them!)

Overall I think this movie was misunderstood and overlooked by the
"award people" and critics. Michael Cimino always has a gritty way
about his films and this one is no different, maybe the brutality and
violence in this film turned some people off. But if you haven't seen
it I would highly recommend it. I really hope this one comes out on DVD
at some point!
<|_=00=_|>

This is the first movie in Rourke's golden years: Year of the dragon (1985),
9 1/2 weeks (1986), Angel Heart (1987), Barfly (1987): every single one
underrated IMO.  His glory started to erode heavily with Johnny Handsome
(1989), really hit an all-time low with Wild Orchid (1990) and confirms that
as the Marlboro Man's sidekick Harley Davidson (1991).  Nevertheless I'm
sorry that his footage was cut out of the Thin Red Line (1998), because I
like his style.  Michael Cimino (Thunderbolt&Lightfoot, Deerhunter) and
cinematographer Alex Thomson (Excalibur, the Keep, Legend) apparently know
their way in the eighties as well, although the story plays just
before.

Is the recent wave of violence in Chinatown caused by Stanley White, the new
(Polish originate) gung-ho sheriff in N.Y. Chinatown, or by the hunger for
power by the young chinese gangsters?  White, ironically, makes his own job
harder because he has serious trouble respecting the Chinese in any way. 
Stanley hits the crime in chinatown like Popeye Doyle in the tradition of
the French Connection, instead of a sheriff with brains.  He will have to
pay for his callousness and hypocrisy.

'Year of the dragon' depicts some of the the money and gambling problems of
the Chinese in an early but profound eighties' style.  The score sounds
cheap, but fortunately is scarce too.  I particularly like the noirish feel
of this way-above-average cop-flick.  Michael Mann could only wish he made
this: it's one of my favourite tv-movies.  The few negative points are
probably due to interference of producer Dino de Laurentiis. 
8/10

<|_=00=_|>
I first saw this electrifying film when I was thirteen years old. I was
way to young to watch it, but it definitely made an impression. Most of
it went over my head, but I loved the chaotic feel of the piece and
even then I knew Mickey Rourke was fascinating to watch. I have seen
the film many times since then and I am still amazed at how fluid and
dexterous Michael Cimino's film-making is. The propulsive forward
momentum of this movie is not something that just any filmmaker would
be able to capture. Cimino goes for a heightened realism that in lesser
hands would be laughably over the top. The major characters scream and
rage at each other and the dialog scenes are so emotionally violent it
is a wonder the characters have strength left for the action
set-pieces. 

At the center of this wild, carnival ride of a movie stands Mickey
Rourke. At this time Rourke was being courted by Hollywood for
cross-over mainstream success. He instead took roles that would have
scared off more timid actors. For people who relished tough minded
movies that pulled no punches every film he did at this time was an
event. Year of the Dragon is not a well-regarded part of his
filmography, but upon closer inspection it reveals itself to be one of
the best vehicles he ever had. His Stanley White is a man at war with
the world. For him the job is everything and he throws himself into it
consequences be damned. His wife despises him and his cavalier attitude
towards their relationship. His superiors hate him because he
constantly points out their hypocrisies. To him the job is a ceasless
conflict. The fact that he is a Vietnam vet is the key starting point
for his character. He wants to win at all costs and he really never
left the battlefield. There have been many characters like this, but
never played with such world weary and yet heartfelt passion. Rourke's
performance is the fulcrum that the entire movie spins around. The way
he enters a room or throws his hat around for emphasis is not just
actorly business. His characterization is impeccable. Stan White is
incapable of speaking in bullshit and he does not care to hear it
either. His uncompromising and undeniably racially tinged viewpoint
makes the character into a powder keg waiting to explode. He has many
showdowns with corrupt local leaders, John Lone's reptilian crime boss
and his own police superiors. In all of these encounters it is clear
that for Stan White there can be no compromise. He will use every
weapon in his arsenal to bring down those who would break the law or
attempt to profit from it. His relentless pursuit of a personal brand
of street justice gives the character a mythic resonance. Rourke is
unafraid to show how truly insane White really is. When an action scene
happens it comes as a welcome release from the coiled spring intensity
that Rourke brings to his performance. 

John Lone matches Rourke measure for measure as the oily, yet seductive
crime boss Joey Tai. There is a terrific scene where he basically lays
out his world view to the unimpressed Stan White. Joey sees himself as
a businessman and if drugs, gambling, prostitution, murder and
intimidation are the course of doing business than so be it. He is
smarter than Rourke's thuggish cop and what he says makes a lot of
sense from a certain point of view. This is not the typical shifty
crime boss that we have come to know in gangster movie after gangster
movie. He is a civilized and rational man whose stock and trade happens
to be drugs and violence. Like all good capitalists he has identified a
need and is profiting from it. The moral ambiguity that director Cimino
and scriptwriter Oliver stone inject into the proceedings gives the
film an intellectual and thoughtful flavor it might otherwise not have.
This is exemplified by Lone's sinister, savvy and ultimately tragic
performance as Joey Tai. Special mention must also be made of the
gifted character actor Dennis Dun's wonderful performance as one of
White's undercover officers. Dun finds a million different ways to
project uncertainty and anxiety as he comes to understand that Stanley
White would willingly and easily sacrifice him to the altar of his
crusade for justice. 

Year of the Dragon takes off like a rocket during it's major action
set-pieces. The violence in the film is sudden and always shocking.
These characters truly play by their own rules and will do anything
they can to turn the game to their advantage. There is a scene toward
the end of the film when Rourke confronts Lone in a dance club that is
one of the best action scenes I have ever witnessed in a film. The
kinetic intensity and white hot energy displayed in this scene is
thrilling to behold.

I know I will never see a better police thriller/crime drama than Year
of the Dragon. This is a film that has the brash confidence to tell a
compelling story in a stylish and exciting fashion. The visceral
excitement this film generates puts modern action films to shame. I
hope that there will be a reconsideration of this piece now that Rourke
is getting attention for his work again. This movie is an example of
the kind of special magic that can happen when a writer, actors and
director go for the throat and don't let go.
<|_=00=_|>

Cimino has crafted a tough, gritty policier. I went into this film
thinking
that it would be mediocre at best. Boy, was I surprised. An intelligent
script and passionate performances keep this film moving along. The movie
kept me enthralled throughout it's length.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's a nice recreation of the Chinese underworld and the Chinese
mafia in New York. A great detective movie that combines drama and
violence with a touch of film-noir. Nevertheless there's something in
the script fails: it looks like Cimino and Stone had written a longer
story and the had to cut it or something. The main plot is so solid but
there some parallel stories that are not clear enough (Stanley White
and Joey Lang's characters are rather confusing).

Mickey Rourke makes a good job, as usual... Tood bad he decided to
become a boxer and destroy his own career.

Although Cimino's masterpiece is still "The deer hunter", "Manhtattan
Sur" is worth seeing too.

*My rate: 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

In this entertaining and illuminating 1985 crime thriller,Mickey Rourke
stars as Capt. Stanley White,a hard-bitten cop with a weary intelligence
far
beyond his years.

Transferred to a new precinct,the abrasive detective White soon finds
himself involved in a crusade to take down the corrupt,criminally run
higher
powers of NYC's Chinatown. To boil a complex storyline down to it's
basics:
White must balance his intense desire to bring the violent Triad leader
Joey Thai(John Lone)to justice,despite the protests of his bought-off
supervisors, with his crumbling personal life(his wife has grown to
despise
him and he is attracted to a Chinese-American reporter working his
Chinatown
expose). Adding color to his predicament is his attempt to stay true to
justice by fighting off his racist attitudes towards Chinese. While there
is
no doubt that the triads are engaged in illegal Mafia-style activity,and
that White is justified in pursuing them,there is the strange possibility
that his rough treatment of Chinatown as a whole stems from his
unwillingness to lose another war "because of politics",like he did in
Vietnam.

Directed by the stylish Michael Cimino(recovering quite well from the
*bloatatious* "Heaven's Gate") and boasting a strong script from the early
years of (pre-P.C.)Oliver Stone,"The Year of the Dragon" is a very fine
addition to the cop-on-a-mission subgenre. Mickey Rourke,an
ever-underrated
talent-gives one of his finest performances in the lead,and,despite all of
his character's flaws,we become endeared to the character and enraptured
by
his pursuit of the oft-overlooked Triads of Chinatown. Rourke is a strong
and capable presence here,and it's a shame his career didn't survive the
80's.
Only the occasional logical gap or plot hole,and the juvenile performance
of
the obnoxious(but gorgeous) Arianne as the reporter detract from the
film's
glory. A little trimming of it's excessive 136 minutes would have helped
as
well.

Regardless of these few failures,"The Year of the Dragon" is a sumptuous
and
exciting thriller,and awaits a larger audience to discover it's
challenges.
Stay tuned for this one.
***1/2 out of ****stars.     "It's always about politics.This is Vietnam
all
over again. I'm not gonna lose another war over politics." -Stanley
White

Note: A ridiculous,politically-correct disclaimer has been attached to the
film by it's distributers. This is a stupid move as the film is in NO WAY
demeaning to Chinese-Americans as a whole. The movie only attacks the
old-world criminal elements feeding on the underbelly of  a few of the
larger Chinese communities in the U.S.-the Triads,youth gangs,etc. These
organizations do exist,but are not representative of the Chinese-American
majority. In the end,crime does not discriminate between the races,and
neither does "The Year of the Dragon".
