
In spite of the negative review above I would say this is a good film
and a story that may hang around in your mind for a long time. It isn't
so much a "movie story," a la Meg Ryan romantic comedy type, as it is a
slice of life. The characters in this movie are much more like the
people you went to high school and college with than they are like Tom
Hanks and Meg Ryan! Life is messy and confusing and people change.
People are attracted to the wrong people all the time. They make bad
choices. They do things they can never forget. This movie reflects
these human foibles and that is why it is a great small movie that got
overlooked and under-appreciated.
<|_=00=_|>

I always dreamed and fantasized about falling for a hood like Sheik.
"Nice"
girls who grew up in the 1960's and were in the honor society were
supposed
to achieve the questionable goal of marrying a nice boy who would earn
well
and buy us a nice house in the suburbs, where we would presumably have
some
nice children...

And this, in a word, is what lends "Baby, It's You" its poignancy. High
school is the one place, the last place, in which the unlikely and
all-too-temporary coupling of a female "achiever" bound for suburban
"niceness" and the magnetic male "underachiever" bound for urban
"unniceness" can occur.  Sheik/Albert Capadilupo ("Is he an Arab?" "No,
Italian.") embodies all the qualities that leader-type Jill Rosen has been
told time and time again do not make a good, suitable husband or match or
date:  he disdains academic achievement, he is "good" with his hands, he
drives fast, he has underworld connections, he knows how to kiss..and
possibly how to do other things. Jill Rosen, in turn, has dreamy eyes,
answers questions in class, gets good grades, and has ambitions of being
something very much more than a "wife," qualities which fascinate and
often
infuriate Sheikh.

In the course of the movie, the on-again, off-again romance between them
-which features all the quirkiness and unpredictability of most
high-school
romances, and then some- lights up, then sputters, then heats up again. My
favorite movie scene of all time takes place when a sleepless maniacal
Sheik
barrels up US Route 1 from Miami in a series of stolen cars, then collars
numerous shocked and amazed debutante types in the Student Center in order
to locate Jill.

Free of sci-fi special effects or surrealistic flashbacks, this is a movie
for people who love and believe in "romance" in the truest sense of the
word
- that one brief "Camelot"-like time when two people from different
backgrounds and even worlds light up the world for each other, even though
they sense it will end all too soon.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay... let's start this review off by saying I do have the movie taped
from an old HBO showing. The fact that it's not on DVD seems to have
actually DEtracted it from the better rating it should be getting. As
far as I know, it's still the Bruce Springsteen songs that are holding
up a DVD release. Are they worth it? YES! Until you see the movie, you
cannot understand the relevance of Springsteen's music to a movie set
in the mid 1960s. They really do make all of the difference and to
release a DVD without them would be criminal. For the movie itself...
it's a wonderful slice of teenage life, whether it be the 1906s or
today. Who cannot relate to Jill with her little 45 player, singing
along in her room? Has losing your virginity ever seemed so realistic?
And the end, where Vincent Spano goes to Rosanna Arquette's dorm room,
tears it apart, leading to the confrontation on the staircase???? My
best romantic moment ever in cinema, because it is so real. That scene
sticks with me as being one of my favorites in cinematic history, it's
that good.
<|_=00=_|>
After finally getting a VHS copy of this film, I find it is ranked
right up there with my all-time favorites. Perhaps you had to have
lived in that time, or attended a big-city high school or just be an
incurable romantic to relate.

Even though this film is 23 years old, the emotions, settings and
tragedies of young, rudder-less love are universal and timeless. Is
there any among we female viewers who has not either had or wanted to
have a "Sheik" type pursue you? Dangerous, enigmatic and probably a big
no-no, but extremely intriguing.

The film has many subtle nuances that younger audiences my not
recognize since the scenes are not thrown at the viewer in quick-time,
but the gentle, heart-wrenching moments with the main characters tend
to stick in your mind. I will never listen to "Strangers in the Night"
again without thinking of the two dance scenes and the emotions they
evoke.

Spano and Arquette are outstanding as the two star-crossed leads and
the acting is both understated and powerful in the same moment. When
Jill tells Shiek she just doesn't love him in the dorm scene and he
backs up and with a whipped look on his face asks, "why not?", his
character is stripped of all pretenses.

Shop around for this video, as it is film making with heart like you
don't find very often in the current film catalogs. Watch and remember
and weep a little for what was and never could be.
<|_=00=_|>
This wonderful movie, saddled by an awful title and a really bad first
two minutes, played only one screen in Washington DC --- but my
attention was called to it by critic Arch Campbell. Thank you, Arch.

Within five minutes the audience will be taken in to a love story,
intensely heartfelt, between a Jewish A+ student and a smooth Italian
greaser. This is the kind of love story which has slim chance of a
happy outcome but slimmer chance that anything can dowse either the
flame or the memory. Although technically a comedy, the serious
under-theme is worthy of the great classics of European cinema;
enhanced by true skill in framing the right scenes.

Many films are aimed at persons who view LOVE as pretty similar to
attraction to a rented car; i.e. love what you've got, forget about
what you ain't. This film isn't for them. If you've felt love's pain,
see this one.
<|_=00=_|>

This is definitely one of my favorite romantic films. It's well acted,
well
written and well directed. Arquette and Spano's chemistry is wonderful.
With
the people I've talked to who have seen this film, there seems to be
something personal that they can relate to the story. It's definitely not
a
happy movie, but I think that's what makes it really stick with you. It's
starts out somewhat like a period romance you might have seen before.
About
midway through it takes a turn and may seem to lose momentum. This is what
sets it apart from other romances. It has this unpredictability to it that
some people might find unsatisfying. I have seen it several times and each
viewing is fascinating. It is very rare that such a bittersweet marvel of
a
film comes along and even rarer that it gets the attention it deserves.
One
of John Sayles' finest.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this when I had just graduated college, and it was my first John
Sayles movie. Along with "Return of the Secaucus 7", this was Sayles at
his peak powers. Incredible dialogue. That was how I remembered high
school, and that was how we spoke in high school. And I guess because I
graduated college that year, I picked up on the theme of graduation,
and having to move on in your life. One of the last scenes between
Spano and Arquette was achingly real as they both seem lost trying to
adjust to a new life in unfamiliar surroundings. When Spano tries to
say, "In high school...", and Arquette cuts him off with tears in her
eyes and screams, "we're not in high school, anymore", well, that's
something I never forgot, as I'm playing that back for you now.

"The Big Chill" was good, but this was the best film of 1983.
<|_=00=_|>

I echo the comments of the other review posted here. The movie seems very
uneven, and that adds to its lure. The interaction of Spano and Arquette
seems all at once real and surreal. Any movie which makes me think of it
into the next day, must have significant substance. It is rare to consider
"uneven" a positive quality to a movie, but somehow this one pulls it
off..
<|_=00=_|>
Part of what I do in my IMDb reviews is look for hi-quality films that,
for whatever reason, are not getting their due. That this film makes
the list is a no-brainer. For reasons which have more to do with human
nature than common sense, John Hughes' productions from the same period
have become iconic and cool, but this John Sayle gem (what another IMDb
member correctly described as unforgettable) has been lost in the
shuffle. It deserves much more. As I keep saying in my reviews, the key
to entertainment is viewer connection, engagement. The late Roger Ebert
nailed it when he revealed the "watch test" to the audience. The more
times you check your watch, the less the connection, the lower the
entertainment value. (Hollywood does not get this and never will. As
this is written, the Oscars, one of the most brilliant and deceptive
self-promotions in the sordid history of advertising, is all about what
actors and directors think about EACH other, not about the audience!)
This could be Spano's best performance, pitch perfect, makes Travolta
(from the same era) look like an amateur. And Rosanna Arquette has not
been treated kindly by the critics in retrospect. She was not merely
eye candy. She knew how to sell a character. One of the best "love
stories" (not merely teen movies) ever, and deserving of a higher
rating.
<|_=00=_|>
*** Contains Spoilers*** 

I first saw this film in ninth grade 23 years ago, and fell in love
with it as a teenage girl. I saw it again the other day, and loved it
just as much. It's flat out a great movie, and the chemistry between
Vincent Spano and Rosanna Arquette is palpable. These two fantastic
actors bring a warmth and sensitivity to their characters who would be
otherwise unlikeable if played by any other actors. Arquette's innocent
beauty and Spano's edgy good looks are perfect for these roles.

When they meet in high school, Jill (Arquette) is a sheltered, pampered
princess whose grand passion is acting in the school play. Sheik
(Spano) is the new boy at school who sticks out like a sore thumb
compared to all the schoolboys that Jill is surrounded by. His grand
passion is Jill, and she's attracted to this dark and dangerous
charmer. The fact that he's obsessive and volatile only make her more
titilated, and when he kidnaps her and holds her and her friend at
gunpoint (albeit it's an unloaded gun), she doesn't hesitate to date
him again. Only later on in college does the experience come back to
haunt her.

While in her freshman year, Jill finds herself in Sheik's shoes in the
sense that she's an outsider in the crowd she's surrounded with up at
school. In high school, she was a big fish in a small pond. At college,
she's a little fish in a large pond. When she seeks him out in Miami
Beach where he's attempting to break into show business in a seedy
little club, she ends up sleeping with him all the while knowing that
they have no future because he's not the kind of man she can see
settling down with. He's too volatile and obsessive for her somewhat
still innocent liking, and their personalities just don't mesh together
for any real future together. He's old-school macho and she's a
liberated pseudohippy.

The music is terrific-60's classics mixed with two of Jersey's finest,
Springsteen and Sinatra that carry the storyline and add to the emotion
of the film.

Breakout performances by both stars, with strong support from Tracy
Pollan, Matthew Modine and Liane Curtis (in a one-eighty from her role
as Molly Ringwald's best friend in Sixteen Candles). This film is a
coming of age love story for the ages, and it absolutely stands the
test of time. A 10 of 10!
