
I'm surprised by the number of people on here who don't like this
movie. Like a few of the positive reviewers I'd have to say this is one
of my favorite, "contemporary classics." The story is exquisite, who
wouldn't want to go back to a time when things were a bit simpler and
someone was there to take care of you and make you feel safe? Whenever
I stumble upon it, I end up watching it. Too many scenes start the old
water works for me.

Peggy seeing her little sister for the first time, going into her old
bedroom, and hearing her grandmother's voice on the phone are all quite
touching.

Call me crazy but I just love the moment where Charlie takes Peggy down
into the basement and confronts her about what is going on. When he
leaves, Peggy opens a music box, pulls out a cigarette and lights it.

Another special moment happens when Peggy smokes a joint and talks
about what she'd like to be when she grows up, as she turns around and
around under a starry sky.

This is quite a good movie, filled with many special performances and
scenes along the way.
<|_=00=_|>

Kathleen Turner is great in this movie, she more or less pulls off her task
and is very believable as the teenager who gets to relive and, to some
point, change and correct her past. Francis Ford Coppola knows exactly where
to draw the fine line between heart warming and pathetic and does so with
great artistic knowledge and taste. This movie is filled with memorable
quotes, like "No more jello for me, mom!" and is altogether very
funny.
Great performances from a pile of familiar faces, Nicholas Cage is
irritating at first, but is likeable at the end. A great score, a great and
heart warming story, solid acting and nostalgia make this movie more than
worth a second viewing. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
In the reunion of the twentieth-fifth anniversary of high school, the
former popular student Peggy Sue, who is facing a divorce of her
husband Charlie Bodell (Nicolas Cage), faints and wakes up in 1960. The
experienced Peggy Sue decides to change and improve her life in this
new opportunity.

"Peggy Sue Got Married" is a delightful and charming fantasy about
reevaluation and a second chance in life. The story is very beautiful,
the production is very careful and I am really surprised how underrated
this movie is in IMDb. I do not get tired of this film, and it is among
my favorite romances. Kathleen Turner is extremely beautiful in the
lead role, and watching this movie in 2005, it is a great chance to see
names like Jim Carrey, Joan Allen and Sofia Coppola twenty years ago in
the beginning of their careers. In Brazil, unfortunately this movie has
not been released on DVD. My vote is nine.

Title (Brazil): "Peggy Sue – Seu Passado a Espera" ("Peggy Sue – Your
Past Waits For You')
<|_=00=_|>

I rented this film the other night when I knew I would be alone - that's
just the way I have to watch this, alone - guess I'm not comfortable with
people seeing me cry.  I cried when it was in the theatres in 1986 and I've
seen it maybe 10 times now - and it gets me each and every time, as if I
were watching for the very first time!  Sorry to drone on, but it has just
the right touch - you've heard a lot of comparisons with "Back to the
Future" - believe me, it isn't!  If you liked the two movies I mentioned in
my header, especially "Frequency" since it is about to be released on video
- you will love this film!

Kathleen Turner was excellent - I have seen Debra Winger (originally
scheduled to play the title role) in several films, including "Terms of
Endearment" and though I respect her as an actress, she just couldn't have
done this part justice.  Nicolas Cage was great in his role - the whiny
voice was a bit much - but it's hard to believe he was only 21 when this
film was made.  He plays a high school kid and a guy in his 40's equally
well - he's always had a gift for that.  Jim Carrey - then mostly unknown -
displays some of the physical slapstick routines that would later earn him
praise and renown.  Then there's Joan Allen - as I saw this movie for the
first time, I thought how much she resembled former first lady Pat Nixon in
her earlier years - and sure enough, that's who she played in Oliver Stone's
"Nixon".  Helen Hunt portrays Kathleen Turner and Nicolas Cage's daughter -
ironic, since she is older than Cage!  It was one of her beginning roles as
well.

Without a doubt, the scenes with Peggy Sue and her grandparents are the most
touching in the whole film.  Think about it - if you had the chance to see
someone again who had died long before, what would you say to them?  What
would you do?  This wonderful film gives us the chance to find
out.

Will "Peggy Sue Got Married" ever be available on videocassette for home
purchase again?  I hate to have to rent it each time I want to see
it!
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is definitely on my Top 20 list of all time favorite movies. 
Whenever I come across it while channel surfing, I end up watching it
again-and I hate watching movies that are edited for TV!

As others have pointed out, it showcases so many talented actors.  Joan
Allen is great here, as is Catherine Hicks.  And the amazing Barbara Harris,
whom I adore for her work on the stage, is excellent and dead-on as Peggy's
mother.  Jim Carrey is here as well and surprise, he's overacting in most of
his scenes!  While I've never completely figured out why Nicholas Cage was
encouraged to employ the weird-ass voice that he did, his performance winds
up being very likeable.  Barry Miller is also great as
Richard.

The premise is cool.  Who among us wouldn't want to have such and
opportunity (OK, maybe not the passing out in public part)?  As a person
that grew up in the 60s, I'd love to return and see some of the sights and
sounds that filled my innocent, pre-Internet world.  And the scene when
Peggy hears her Grandmother's voice on the phone makes me cry every
time.

I likey!

<|_=00=_|>
Every time I see this film, it leaves me thinking about it for days.
The subject of time travel is a fascinating subject and this is the
only non sci-fi film that I can think of that revolves around the
subject. Kathleen Turner is wonderful as the 40-something year old
mother of two who is in the process of getting divorced from her
husband(Nicolas Cage), but gets hurled 25 years into the past when she
passes out at her high school reunion. This is a truly touching film
about going back in time and being able to experience your youth and
priceless times that you will never be able to experience again. One of
the most touching scenes is when Peggy Sue gets a call from her long
dead Grandmother and doesn't know what to do or say. Also, be sure to
watch out for some very early bits from Joan Allen, Jim Carrey, and
Helen Hunt. ***1/2 out of ****.
<|_=00=_|>
In the 1986 film, "Peggy Sue Got Married", a question is asked during
the 25-year class reunion, and Peggy Sue answers, "If I knew what I
know now, I'd do it a lot differently." So, she faints, her heart
stops, and she wakes up in 1960, with a chance to do it all over again.
Would she still get pregnant at 18 and marry Charlie, who grows up to
be a cheating husband, bringing her much misery?

She seems to try hard to do it differently. She spends lots of time
with Richard, the high school geek, helping him understand the types of
things that will come - man on the moon by 1969, pantyhose, small
computers, large radios! She asks, "Is time travel possible?" He says,
"Time is like a burrito, folds over on itself." She laughs when her
father brings home a new Edsel. Richard says, "Change your destiny,
marry me." "No", she says, "Peggy Sue got married, and that's it."
(Thus the title of the film.)

Later, when Peggy Sue wakes up in 1985 again, in the hospital, we must
ask ourselves, was this just a dream? No, it wasn't, because Charlie
shows her a book classmate Michael had given her, a book he wrote, that
he dedicated to her, based on a one magical night they had together,
which had not happened the first time through. During the "dream", she
had suggested he write a book based on that night.

Thus, the movie answers, at least for Peggy Sue, the question of doing
it all over again. In the end, she still did the same thing, but the
future somehow looked brighter for her and Charlie. The right
conclusion, I think, because it has become well-established that
"nature" is more important than "nurture" in forming our adult
tendencies.

It was fun seeing all the fine actors, most before their prime. Of
course Kathleen Turner (Peggy Sue) was already established at age 32,
with hits like Body Heat (81), Romancing The Stone (84), and Prizzi's
Honor (85) on her resume'. Nick Cage (real name Nick Coppola), who
plays Charlie, was 22 and in his 9th film, but the first with a
featured role. Jim Carrey was only 24, still 8 years before he was
noticed with Ace Ventura, Mask, and Dumb/Dumber films, all in 1994. 

Joan Allen was an old 30, playing a high schooler, in her first
theatrical film, and 9 years before her defining role in Nixon as Pat.
Helen Hunt, Peggy Sue's daughter, was 23 and already in her 28th film,
3 years after Quarterback Princess, but 6 years before the hit TV
series, Mad About You. And then there was Sofia Coppola, 15, who played
Peggy Sue's little sister, in her 7th film. Had she either been
attractive, or a good actress, she might not have become a director
(Virgin Suicides, Lost In Translation).

I was a teenager in the 60s, and this film for me is nostalgic,
especially hearing all the original songs from that time. My only
complaint about the movie is Nick Cage's voice. Something about it at
age 22 made it very irritating to listen to. Now that he has grown up,
I find his voice much more pleasant. Had he not been the director's
nephew, I doubt that he would have gotten the role of Charlie. Overall
I rate this one "8" of 10. I like it a lot.
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe I am a bit prejudiced about the greatness of this film; I grew up
in Sonoma County, and the sight of Peggy Sue Kelcher standing on the
senior steps at Santa Rosa High School (where I drop off my
granddaughters every morning) gives me a great thrill. When I drop them
off, I often say, "If you see Peggy Sue, tell her I said hello." And
they respond--"We will, grandpa." (And they no doubt think: "What an
old cornball.") What a beautiful school! And it still looks just the
same as it did in the 80's (or the 60's, for that matter). The place
seems to be in a time warp. In a certain sense, taking this movie to
heart has mythologized my world. Francis Ford Coppola's talent for
finding the perfect settings for his comic philosophic masterpiece is
unerring throughout--even if he had to paint the streets in Petaluma
purple just to get the exact effect that he wanted.

"Peggy Sue" would be very high on my all-time top 100 film list, if I
had such a list. The film is not only funny and soulful, it also
directly addresses what is perhaps life's central existential question:
"If you had the opportunity to relive your life, making the same
mistakes and suffering the same consequences, would you do it?"
Remember, in making your decision, that your children's lives, and the
loves and friendships you have experienced in your lifetime, are
contingent upon your answer.

When you watch "Peggy Sue," notice how the film parallels "The Wizard
of Oz." Like Dorothy, Peggy Sue goes 'over the rainbow' into a magical
world. It is in fact the world of her own past, but everything has been
enchanted and transformed by her adult point-of-view. The Wizard
himself, who must contrive to return Peggy Sue back home, is Peggy
Sue's kind old grandfather, with his wonderful bogus lodge magic. Her
friends at the reunion have their counterparts in the "over the
rainbow" world of the past, just as Dorothy's friends on the farm have
their counterparts in Oz. When Peggy Sue awakens from her trip, her old
stale world and her old disappointing husband appear in a new light.
Like Dorothy, Peggy Sue awakens and learns that there is no place like
home, and the time-worn cliché is suddenly vital and alive. Like
Dorothy, she is once again back in "Kansas," but it is a Kansas in
which the characters, and she herself, have assumed new depths of
meaning. She is now ready to step into her fate--her new enriched life
(and there are also nuances of "It's a Wonderful Life" in the film).

One last comment: nowadays, I cannot watch this "comedy" without tears
in my eyes through pretty much the whole movie, and much of this effect
is due to the masterful performance of Kathleen Turner as Peggy Sue.
Turner is usually on the hysterical edge of breaking down, and her
proximity to the precipice is a knot in my gut through the whole movie.
It is a shame that she did not win the Best Actress award for this
performance.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't remember anybody who didn't like this movie when it came out
just over 20 years ago. It was very popular, and justifiably so. It had
a lot of charm to it and romance, comedy and time-travel seem to be a
good mixture.

Also, it had an intriguing premise and made us think about it. If you
could go back in time, knowing what you know now, would you do it and
what would you do? I'm not talking short periods like in "Groundhog
Day" (which was done seven years after this film) but if you could do
it ALL over, from a certain point, like high school. Anyway, it's fun
to think about.

Nicholas Cage and Kathleen Turner were fun to watch. If you view this
film today, be prepared to be shocked how young Cage - and Jim Carrey -
look in here. Turner isn't so shocking only because today we don't see
her in films regularly as we do those two guys. In fact, Turner was a
big star in the '80s and most people remember her looks from that
period, beginning with "Body Heat" (1981). She is the star of this
film, too.

When I last watched this, in the late 1990s, I found it wasn't as good
as I remembered, but it still has a lot of charm and sentiment to it.
It's nothing super, but it is more-than-decent entertainment. It helps
to be fascinated by time travel, which I am.

I had forgotten this was a Francis Ford Cappola-directed film, which is
a bit of a shock because most of us associate him with "The Godfather"
films and "Apocalypse Now," not some fantasy-romance-comedy. However,
it comes together a little more when you realize Cage was his son.
Cappola also finds a small role in here for his young daughter Sophia.

If you are a film buff, you'll be shocked at all the familiar faces in
this movie, from veteran actors like John Carradine to a young Helen
Hunt. Check out the names in this cast! If you haven't seen this film,
you owe it to yourself. I'm not saying it's terrific, but it's
definitely worth your while not just for the actors but the
thought-provoking subject matter.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has a lot going for it. First, there's a superb acting by
both Turner and Cage. Both embody the 60s. The cars, settings and
attitudes are fully representative of the era and bring back memories
of a seemingly simpler time. But, in this movie, things are complicated
by the culture of a later period. I found this movie enjoyable and
thought-provoking. It is fun, also, to see Jim Carrey in what must have
been his first (or nearly so) role. The mannerisms and cartoonish
characteristics that would make him a super-star are evident. In this
movie there is character, with one theme about how people treat others,
especially thoise of us with personality or other challenges. Good
stuff.
