

I remember watching "Silent Rage" along time ago when I was very young, and
I could barely sit through the whole film because of the suspense. I would
get up and walk into another room, then come back to check out what was
going on. It was quite intense for a young kid. I can certainly sit through
the whole thing now, without trouble, but the movie is still suspenseful.
And, like my one line summary says, this movie creates and maintains
suspense better than a lot of the slasher movies that were being made back
the the early '80s.

This isn't a well known movie, but it's really one of Norris' best that he's
been in. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
A young, unstable man hacks to death the lady and man he lives with,
and Texan Sheriff Dan Stevens comes face to face with the killer, to
only see him gunned down by his men after he tries to escape when
captured. At the hospital, he's pronounced dead, but secretly he's used
in an experiment by some surgeons working on a formula to help the body
genetically heal in quick succession. They thought they could control
him and this development would bring them success, but now this
homicidal murderer is an unstoppable killing machine and Sheriff
Stevens and his rookie Deputy are on the trail.

Norris' fans might dig it, but others might find this cheap-jack b-film
a boring chore. I thought it was fair. Anyhow who's the man, Chuck's
the man. Not much of an actor though, but we know. He gets by with that
golden blonde hair and legendary chop-suey who-ha. And not forgetting
that distinguishable fuzz above the lip. The premise is like an
over-extended episode of "Walker, Texas Ranger" meets John Carpenter's
"Halloween (1977)". Actually a lot scenes and filming techniques
closely resemble "Halloween" and even its first sequel, but the main
difference it's headed by Norrissssssss. The far-fetched concept isn't
bad with slasher tones, a lady in peril get-up and a mad scientist
theme, but it throws so much in that there seems to be too much useless
filler (like the corny romance sequences, biker trouble (nice work in
the bar Chuck, but we already know how good you are), scientific moral
dilemmas and non-effective comic humour) interrupting what could've
been more fun. Silly it is to begin with, but do we want to see Norris
romancing, or kicking ass? These redundant acts only slowed it up and
got in the way on the main story. What outweighs the film is the weakly
lacking script with many clumsy dialogues. Norris even gets time to
share some heart-warming advice. Director Michael Millar starts off
pretty slowly, but in the second half demonstrates well-shot camera
placement and steady pockets of poignant tension. The atmospheric
synthesizer score seemed to work. Chuck gets his hands dirty with some
gusty scuffles involving the super-human killing machine, like the
modest, if unspectacular showdown with him using his jump-kicks (in
slow-motion of course) and sudden close-ups to show that focuses on his
face. Norris' chimes in with a stoic performance, but goes gusty when
the action calls. Brian Libby's menacingly towering figure is
effective. Ron Silver sticks out as the humane doctor, while William
Finley goes all-smarmy as deceitfully mad doctor looking for that Nobel
Prize award. Stephen Furst as the overweight, downright clueless deputy
was there for the laughs, but where were they. Toni Kalem looks
all-sweet as Norris old flame.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, I know that Chuck Norris is predictable. He hardly ever says 
anything and he just kicks butt. We that is true for this movie also, 
but there are some extras that make this an unusual movie for Norris.

First, Sheriff Chuck has a girlfriend, Toni Kalem, and they spend as 
much time as possible in bed giving us a great view of her ample chest. 
Now, that is not typical Norris behavior! When Norris visits a biker 
bar, we get to see some of his typical style as he cleans the place 
out. You knew that was going to happen, but, before he does, his 
Deputy, Stephen "Flounder" Furst (Animal House) gets an eyeful from one 
of the biker chicks, Lillette Zoe Raley, in her only movie. What a 
shame! We also see some action from the other biker mommas (Linda Tatum 
and Kathleen Lee) before Norris arrives. I've never seen so much action 
in a Norris film.

All of this is just titillation as the real story is the mad scientist 
and his partner (Steven Keats and William Finley) develop a serum that 
resuscitates a dead man and causes his wounds to heal immediately, 
Bullets, falls from second stories, cars, fire - nothing stops this 
guy. Well, you know who will eventually stop him, or does he? This is 
the only film in which I have seen Ron Silver in a humane role. He was 
the third doctor who tried to stop his boss. I actually was starting to 
like him, but, fortunately, he gets killed off before that happens. 
That was close! If you want Norris action with a little sci-fi 
craziness, then this is the flick.
<|_=00=_|>

I always liked this film and have wanted a sequel to 
it.  Yes, it could have been better than it was, but 
it was fun to watch.  Stephen Furst's character has 
to be the most pathetic deputy ever.  There really 
wasn't much of a plot.  But it was fun to watch this 
unkillable guy and no matter what you do to him, he 
just keeps on ticking like the energizer bunny.  
It's a fun movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Just as fresh today as when I first saw it in 1982, this movie is in a
class by itself because it explores a topic that is rarely discussed
anywhere: cures for diseases that the public doesn't know about.
Director Michael Miller gives us a science fiction movie mixed with
chiller dementia. I will never forget the first time I saw this in the
theaters. From beginning to end my eyes were glued to the screen. Brian
Libby's maniac is one of the most realistic madmen you will ever see.
The score by Peter Bernstein and Mark Goldenberg is wicked, especially
in the opening credits. Some of the murders in this movie are downright
brutal. Chuck Norris does a good job as the Texas lawman on the case,
while Ron Silver and Steven Keats are spectacular as two doctors
bickering over medical ethics. The international poster for this movie
is one of the most chilling one's I've ever seen. I hope there's a
sequel in the works.

Score, 9 out of 10 Stars
<|_=00=_|>
At a little town from Texas a tough sheriff (Chuck Norris) and his
helper(Stephen Furst) pit a dangerous killer series with a supernatural
force. The monstrous man is a Frankestion-alike creation from
scientific (Steven Keats, William Finley, Ron Silver) and acting
similarly to Jason Vorhees and Michael Myers.

This Chuck Norris vehicle contains action-packed, thrills, chills and
lots of blood and violence. The comic relief at charge of Stephen Furst
as silly and botcher police saying stupid things , furthermore
imitating Taxi Driver's Robert De Niro. Chuck Norris demonstrates his
qualities as action hero on a fights against some nasty punkies into a
saloon by means of punches, kicks , bounds and leaps. Peter Bernstein's
screeching musical score is made by synthesizer . The motion picture is
regularly directed by Michael Miller. This is an inferior Norris film
in spite of it he was on his best period with his hits such as ¨The
Octagon, An eye for an eye, Forced vengeance, Lone Wolf MacQuade, and
Missing in action¨ among others. Rating : Average but entertaining. The
picture will appeal to Chuck Norris fans.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is pretty much how everyone describes it (a B-grade flick),
but there is one worthy element that I feel most people have missed.
Brian Libby's character creation was nothing short of brilliant. During
the first half of the movie this might not be so noticeable, but
towards the end, and especially during the final fight sequence, his
movements and mannerisms are highly original and unique. The director
would have told him to play the part of a man that has become almost
zombie-like, and who has the ability to recover quickly and suddenly,
and then left the rest up to the imagination of Brian. Well Brian
certainly rose to the occasion, and his work in that last portion of
the movie alone should have earned him an award. So yeah, the movie
overall might be B-grade stuff, but Brian Libby deserves credit and
recognition where it is due, and it is worth while seeing the film just
for what he brings to the screen in that last half. I'll add an extra
few points out of respect to Brian Libby, and give the film 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>

I liked it.  With Norris you expect lots of martial arts and/or guns versus
normal criminals and terrorists.  But then you run across this flick!  This
is as close to a supernatural flick as you can come without any actual
suernatural elements.  The mute killer is one scary guy, far more terrifying
than Jason Vorhees or Michael Meyers.
Oh, and like all good Frankensteinian critters, he's still there at the
end, waiting for a sequel that will never get made.
As most people are used to seeing Stephen Furst doing comedy, it's really
disturbing to see him die in a flick.
<|_=00=_|>
If you can get past the painfully slow and boring parts of this film,
you should have a rather good time watching it much like I did. It's a
fun little horror from the 80's with the ridiculous but hilarious Chuck
Norris so of course, you can expect cheesy lines and poorly placed kung
fu moves from him.

I was actually surprised by some of the suspense in this film. They
actually managed quite a bit of it. The story is pretty silly but it
seems like every Chuck Norris movie has the same premise in a way: some
sort of bad guy is terrorizing people and Chuck Norris has to fight
him. The acting was pretty bad but I guess that's expected. Don't
expect an Oscar worthy film from this but turn off your brain for 100
minutes and have a good time!
<|_=00=_|>

This, in my opinion, is the best Chuck Norris movie ever made.  It has a lot
of action, Chuck Norris in his usual position, and an invincible psychopath
made by three doctors, one who's behind it and another one who's trying to
let the killer rest in peace.  What's probably best about this movie is the
drum beats during some parts and the music during the credits, gosh, I love
that music.  It also has a cool ending from the time Chuck Norris shoots the
psychopath out of the window of the institute to the very end when the
psycho emerges from the waters of the well.  It's a shame they haven't made
a sequel like I thought they would.  Without a sequel, the story is
unfinished.  They should make another one.  This movie is da Chuck Norris
bomb.  I recommend it to everyone.
