

I'm biased. There's no two ways about it. They could have gotten two six
years olds to draw the cels, a troop of monkeys to write the dialogue and
then printed the film upside down and full of static and I'd still have
loved
it (if anybody out there says 'Didn't they do that anyway?', I'll thump
them.) I am one of a dying but suprisingly populous breed: the Tranformers
fan, and to me this film is like the Holy grail.

If you think I'm going to get all gooey and teary-eyed then go into
nostalgia overload then forget it because I'm not. I say this with a
straight face and a critic's eyes: this is a good film. It may be a two
hour
toy commercial. It may have made zip at the box offce. It may get bad
press
from idiotic fossils that just aren't prepared to make the effort to tap
into the universe the film is set in. But the
fact remains that to anybody that's grown up with Transformers, this film
is
marvelous. Why? Because it does it right! The characters act right. The
style is right. It's all done so perfectly that no right minded Transfan
could possibly complain. How many Batman fans (and I mean real Batman
fans)
can honestly say the same thing about their film franchise.

It's easy to get preachy about the violence in a film aimed at kids. It
gives the moral majority something to do other than examine each Disney
film
for subliminal messages. I found it refreshing to actually see this kind
of
film refuse to pull its punches. It's an action film without tapping into
the over-sentimental gushy stuff that usually turns kids off anyway. This
is
a war. Death and violence are part of it. Will it effect the children that
watch it. Maybe, but I don't know which way. I saw first saw the film when
I
was 7. I saw all of my favourites get blown apart. I saw my absolute,
total,
complete and utter hero, the person that personified all that was good and
noble to me (you know who I mean) get killed saving his friends in an
ultimate display of bravery and courage. I cried. My mum cried. I still
do.
I think that one moment made me more afraid and ashamed of death and
destruction than a dozen Private Ryans.

The animation is top notch, there's an amazing soundtrack and the voice
talent is good too. Not perfect, but Nimoy's portrayal of Galvatron is
incredible. Espicially when you consider that it was probably done as a
'For
the money not the art' job. The script isn't bad either. It has a host of
sharp, quotable one-liners that would put Bruce Willis to shame ("I've got
better things to do tonight than die.") The story is a rip off of Star
Wars
but what isn't and who cares? It's cool. The animation is superb. I said
that earlier but I really do believe that it's better than Disney at some
points. Certainly better than the average output at the time. It doesn't
compare with today's graphics but it hasn't aged badly at all. The
sountrack
can sound a little too cheesy at times but the energy and verve of the
film
is there and it backs up the visuals with ease.

In the end it won't matter. This film won't mean a thing to anybody that
doesn't know who Jazz, Bumblebee and Soundwave were to begin with. They
won't watch it. They won't like it. And you know what? We don't care.
Those
of us that can name all five mebers of the Stunticons know better. They
gave
us what we wanted. And we remain eternally grateful.
<|_=00=_|>

Transformers the movie is a retro 80's cult classic that not only took the
original series forward in the animation department but also took the
story
forward in to the future with the next generation of Transformers. The
plot
is a recreation of the King Arthur legend of a young man trying to find
his
way with out knowing that he is destine to rule his tribe one day. All the
fan favorites are here with new ones to be cherishing, and the soundtrack
to
this movie is probably one of the best sounding albums to come out of the
80's. This movie still holds up as one of the best TV to Movie
translations
of all time, and it still kicks major league butt as well. The only
drawback
that it has that they did not make a sequel to this classic in
animation.

a must own for all animation fans. 
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I agree that the appeal of this movie is mostly to fans, but I
was never a big fan of the series, and I loved it. It's definitely not
mainstream, but for anyone who can appreciate robots voiced by some big
names (even Orson Welles!) thrashing each other with a very cool,
hugely 80s soundtrack, this is where it's at. The main plot, although
not exactly inspired, is at least compelling. Any of the scenes with
Unicron (Welles) or Galvatron (Leonard Nimoy) easily make the movie
worth watching, and there are a few scenes that actually have heart. If
you don't like 80s cartoon action, stay away. But if you'll always be a
Megaman-playing, Ninja-Turtle-watching kid at heart, check it out.
<|_=00=_|>

The Transformers, the animated cartoon from the 1980's, was a typical
cartoon: cheesy and childish, things we would not recognize until we were
grown.  But when Transformers: The Movie was released in 1986, when I was
11, the movie scared the hell out of me. But so did Superman and Star Wars,
which was exactly its intention.

As when Batman came to the big screen in 1989, the filmmakers took something
old and made it new again.  In the case of the Transformers, the movie was
dark, loud, and very adult considering the fact that it springs from what was
another silly fad the children of the 80's latched onto.

I don't know how people older and younger than I will perceive it, but the
film is Shakespearean in its beauty. The 1980's soundtrack works
surprisingly well, even now, unlike other 80's attempts, like, say Heavy
Metal.

The movie picks up in 2005, or about 20 years after the cartoon supposedly
took place. Young Spike is now older and has a child of his own, and all the
Autobots and Decepticons are back, with some new faces. In the opening
moments, Unicron (Orson Welles), destroyer of worlds, eats a planet of
peace-loving people (supposdely robots, but still eerily reminiscent of our
Earth populi), killing millions. Decepticons don't just plot against the
Autobots-- they murder them in cold blood (er, oil?)

This is the equivalent of the X-Files movie getting made, and Cigarette
Smoking Man getting to use dirty words. It is a true expansion to the big
screen, an intelligent version of the TV show, made not to pander to their
audience, but to elevate it.

This movie is impossible to find in the States, but if you ever watched the
TV show, it will bring you to a new level. If you've never heard of the TV
show... it's still a great Anime-yarn, and a helluva lot better than that
X-Files flick.
<|_=00=_|>
Transformers the movie is a brilliant animation with an epic storyline,
great cast and great characters. War is shown as it is with death,
despair and hope. Some memorable quotes and decent soundtrack.
Transformers is indeed a great film, but under rated unfairly by many
due to it's toy connections. Those that watch the cartoon series will
appreciate it more as characters are well developed in the series,
although the film is of much better quality. The fact it is still on
sale today, shows clearly, that class will eventually come through in
the end, as it's box office record was surprisingly poor. Well worth a
watch.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, anyone who has left a negative comment on this movie has 
something wrong with them, seriously.

I have no idea when I first saw this movie but I was about 6-ish. I'm 
now 22 and this is still a bloody awesome film. I have always been a 
big Transformers fan and I know I might seem a bit bias, but I own the 
movie on DVD and have shown it to a number of transformer illiterates, 
male and female, young and old and still the only people I know who 
have ever got a bit sick of it are my parents, as they have seen it 
about as many times as myself.

Everything about this movie is excellent, from the new characters, to 
the fact that the autobots seem to suck at shooting anything ( as 
opposed to the usual 'bad guys can't shoot for doit'.) even down to 
what would be, if not for the movie it's in, one of the crappiest songs 
ever 'the touch', by the Loins I think. THE Battle, Primes death, the 
creation of Galvatron, the Junkbots, Sharkticons, Unicron, IT IS ALL 
GOLD!!!!

Anyone who liked 80's cartoons should love this movie, and so should 
all your Kids, if not, I think it's time to go and get checked out by 
your G.P.


<|_=00=_|>

Dig:
I have just seen this movie for the first time tonight, at the age of 23. 
Yessum, I'm an old man....too old to watch this kind of smeg.  I'll tell
y'all, this blew my hair back.  I don't know why I loved this so, but the
six pack of Mickey's certainly didn't hurt.  I picked up the DVD version,
unedited, as a comparison to Bride of Frankenstein in a paper I'm writing. 
I was expected some sort of cheesy mid-eighties esoteric nostalgia circle
jerk.  I actually found this to be a great time. Fun conceit, entertaining
pop music, brilliant catchphrases, and even wonderful animation.  Now I'm
not into sci-fi, the thought of robots battling each other does not really
warm me over.  But, my God, every second of this movie made me happy.  I'll
be damned if that isn't all that matters.  If you care I gave it a 10/10. 

<|_=00=_|>
In 2005, years after series 2, the Decepticons rule Cybertron. The
Autobots are limited to bases on Cybertron's moons and Autobot City on
Earth. Optimus Prime is planning a massive assault on Cybertron, but
Megatron has similar ideas, and launches an attack on Autobot City,
nearly decimating the entire Autbot force before retreating. Of course,
this being a movie, things get complicated: Unicron, the devourer of
worlds turns up, and is heading for Cybertron. Now the Autobots have to
reclaim a relic from the Decepticons while defending Cybertron from a
giant transforming planet that eats other planets. 

Simple, no? Couldn't follow that? Stop reading now, this movie is only
for fans.

Essentially, this a feature-length toy commercial. The story is cool.
After all, its about giant robots that transform into cars. Awesome.
The movie just follows these robots along as they spend most of the
84-minutes fighting. All the new characters are introduced by having an
established character say to the new character "Hey! (new guy) Blow up
that thing!" or, "Hey! (new guy), attack those bad guys!". Awesome. I
love movies where fights aren't disrupted by petty things such as plot
details or character introductions, it makes things much more fun.

The animation is generally better than it was in the TV series. Add to
that an 80s soundtrack, consisting of only 80s pop and hair-metal.
Awesome. Of course, not everyone is going to like the soundtrack. In
fact, I'm willing the bet that a majority of people would loathe the
soundtrack, but that is not important, because the soundtrack is
awesome. Plus there are some really cool quotes. Yay.

9/10 - Only for fans (of either Transformers or 80s music)
<|_=00=_|>

I thought it was perfect for its time. I recently acquired a VHS and
enjoyed the movie all over again. The over rocked song, extra dramatic
statements, the whole bit sent chills up my spine when I first saw it
in 1986 and again in 2004. The animation wasn't the best, even for
then, but that was not important. At the time I was a teenager and I
enjoyed every bit of it. Transformers was my favorite cartoon, right
after Voltron (the lion one). I liked the new characters, it didn't
matter. It was a perfect 80's over sentimental, over rock tracked,
bravado of a male ego movie aimed at little boys, even down to the
vehicles, Semis, race cars, dump trucks, construction vehicles.
Nowadays it wouldn't wash, with the violence and destruction (Unicron)
but those were the 80's. Now everything is sanitized.

They should, however do a 2004 or 05 version revisiting OptPrime and
MegaT - Imagine Pixar or whoever doing this movie it would look
serious. Dinobots forever, (I dislike with a passion that stupid animal
transformer series where Optimus Primal has to twist his whole body to
transform. He looks rather stupid.

<|_=00=_|>
If you love techno-anime, certainly you need to see Transformers the
movie, this classic is a epic tale of death, the eternal battle of good
and evil, an many things more tell in a bombastic way. If you are a fan
of the character-construction of Superheroes (Marvel-Dc) you need to
see Transformers. The mix of American storytellers and Japanese
animators in the original 80's Transformers series turned out to be one
of the most successful and remembered cartoons of that era. And the
colossal movie that worked as introduction to a whole new cast of
characters is a magic piece of cinema. Many will ask if these words are
true, after all we are talking about a piece of animation. Yes, this is
a cartoon conceived for kids, but it has all the drama and solid
storytelling that is vital to all good movies.

The movie starts with a roll-down resume of the entire story (a la Star
Wars) and seconds later, the well-known tunes the title song of this
robots pounds the air. But this time is different, this is a
heavy-metal version that song. It is not only fitting the mix of Heavy
Metal and Transformers, these songs are used adequately as a composer
uses his variations to call the attentions on certain moments. The
unfairly forgotten composer is the responsible for the rest of the
soundtrack he used all kind of synthesizers to create a futuristic and
emotional score.

Every sequence is a masterpiece by itself. There are no weak points,
even comic relief moments like the introduction of the junk-ions is
something big and great. If there were not enough reasons to give T:
The Movie a chance, think about the famous actors that are part of this
mega-event using their voices to give life to some of the new robots
(besides the cast of voices of the original series).
