

So here's this movie "Flashdance" which has been staring me in the face
for
years, both in pop culture for over half of my life and on the video
rental
store shelves, and yet I've never gotten around to checking it out until
now.

I was fifteen when this movie was first out and popular. I heard the
soundtrack, of course, and loved it to pieces... but I had never been able
to watch the movie because it was rated R.

I had grown up having it be, in an odd sort of way, both a part of my life
and at the same time *not* a part of my life. I was familiar with its
music,
images, and even its basic plot outline, but had never seen the
movie.

And as an adult, I felt extremely dubious about checking it out. Over the
years, I had heard that people either loved it to pieces or hated it. I've
heard critics both call it uplifting and fun while others called it
nothing
more than a string of glittering little music videos strung together on an
extremely thin strand of plot (a creation device for a LOT of MTV-era
movies
such as "Top Gun", "Footloose" and "Purple Rain").

To add to my confusion about whether or not I should give it a try, I had
had the same experience with "Saturday Night Fever": I grew up loving the
soundtrack to pieces but having never seen the movie... and when I finally
did I felt utter disappointment at first, discovering the film to be far
darker than expected. Oh sure, I later liked "Fever" okay (actually, I
should use the term "appreciated") but still preferred the gorgeous
soundtrack to the actual film that was the basis for its
existance.

Would I have the same experience with "Flashdance"?

Tonight, I finally decided to, as one character in the film puts it, "hold
my breath and take the plunge".

As it turns out, I found it to be a surprisingly charming, entertaining
and
uplifting film. I was fearing it to be something raunchy, but at it turns
out it has a very special, starry-eyed sweet innocence that is difficult
to
define.

The performance of the equally starry-eyed and innocent Jennifer Beals
helps, of course. She brings a wide-eyed sparkle and hopefulness to her
role, plus a determination to keep her life on the right track precisely
as
she feels it ought to go without any major morality screwups, and this
adds
a wonderful flavour of hope and childlike wonder to her character Alex
that
just simply grows on you.

Now, it IS true that there are a few flaws here and there, and a couple of
editing flaws as well. Plus, the other characters aren't really as
developed
as hers (but they are developed just enough to demonstrate to her
personally
the various dos and don'ts regarding attitudes to have while pursuing a
dream, voices for her to observe and learn from representing both
directions). But none of that matters because the film has a charm all its
own. Looking at it today, I can easily see why so many out there loved it:
its a beautiful and very encouraging little film. It has a heroine whom
anybody could relate with and like; it has wonderful music in it; it has a
delicate and lighthearted touch to it which, language and a couple of
scenes
aside (such as the film's most heartbreaking scene in which Alex saves a
desperate friend from throwing life away in a strip joint (a sequence
which
only lasts about two minutes long--but it's sad and disturbing, not "Oooh,
let's put this in to grab male members of the audience!"--which is most
likely the only ingredient to earn the film its R rating)), is
nevertheless
still so pure and true that it could have come straight out of a '70s-made
Walt Disney Productions movie (!!!); it's touching and moving... and, of
course, it has dance sequences which are fun to watch.

In other words, it was a comforting and uplifting movie released during a
time when people, youngsters with career goals in particular, needed one.
And if anything, folks still need movies like that out today. It's a happy
little film with a happy ending which isn't overdone or unconvincing, and
precisely the sort of flick which should be perscribed to those suffering
severe depression. Heaven knows that I myself certainly felt encouraged
about my own career and life in particular after watching
it!

It might not be for everybody, but if the above description I've written
voices the sort of movie you personally enjoy then do yourself a big
favour
and give it a try. Chances are that if you are as naturally starry-eyed
and
hopeful as Alex is--and believe me, *I* certainly am--then you will easily
relate to this delightful little fable.


<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Sometimes, it just helps to review the narrative, it really clarifies
things. Go out into the world and find: a welder by day, dreams of
being a ballet dancer, has a dinosaur as a mentor, lives in a warehouse
that must rent for $10,000 per month, dances at the local bar that
appears to have a multimillion dollar lighting and sound system? Does
this sound real to you? I wish I could explain the plot to you; it does
not have one. Basically, Beals and the ugliest dog on earth, hang out
either at the dance bar or the warehouse. She does set the template for
Baby in DIRTY DANCING by watching out for the world's worst ice skater
and exotic dancer. This was later ripped off in the aforementioned
stink bomb. The movie has one good song, WHAT A FEELING, that they play
twice for a reason. The indigenous score is so awful: Bette Davis'
Eyes, Maniac, that they ripped off Gloria by Laura Brannigan to make
the soundtrack not stink quite so bad. Oh, I forgot hamburger boy, the
world's worst stand up comic. Take it from me, unless it is FATAL
ATTRACTION, if it says directed by Adrian Lynne, put the movie back. Do
not believe me watch: 9 1/2 Weeks, Jacob's Ladder: his movies suck.

Show of hands, who thought the movie ends with her failing and jumping
off a bridge? Please, we all know how it will end even the death of
Jurassic woman. The acting is awful; only Triassic woman can even act
and she is rarely on screen. Beals and Nouri may be attractive people
but their reading of their lines is painful. The movie is slow, boring
and badly acted. The music is dreadful. We know the ending before it
happens. The climax is awful. If you are going to use a body double for
Beals try not to pick someone five inches taller with a more muscular
body and lighter skin tone. They have her throw her hair over her face;
hey, I could hardly tell. Why does she fly through the air? Did she
have the chili? Did the earth stop rotating? Is she from Krypton? Young
people, in my theater people were laughing at this scene; it is not
moving, it is hilarious. The movie is one of the worst pieces of poop
you will ever sit through, don't, get up and turn it off. ABYSMAL MOVIE
<|_=00=_|>

In recent years there have been a number of British films based on the
theme
of working-class people who find fulfilment through their cultural
activities; examples being Educating Rita (the first and most
distinguished), Brassed Off, The Full Monty and Billy Elliott.  Such films
are frequently described as `quintessentially British' or `something that
we
can do and Hollywood can't', whereas the truth is that twenty years ago
Hollywood was indeed making very similar films, mostly centred upon
dancing,
such as Saturday Night Fever, Dirty Dancing or Flashdance. Whereas these
American films may not have had the covert (or, in the case of Brassed
Off,
highly overt) political message of their British counterparts, they
nevertheless concentrated on differences in social class far more than
Hollywood movies usually do.

The heroine of Flashdance, Alex, is a young woman who works as a welder
and
whose main joy in life is dancing. She moonlights as a dancer in a local
nightclub, but her great ambition in life is to become a ballet dancer.
The
film tells the story of how she achieves that ambition, as well as the
story
of her romance with a wealthy middle-class divorcee, set against frequent
dance sequences as Alex and her ice-skating friend Jeanie go through their
paces. The climax comes with a scene in which she auditions for a place at
a
prestigious ballet academy and treats the judging committee to a bravura
display of breakdancing. (Would a ballet school really be prepared to
offer
a place to a candidate whose dance skills owe more to the disco than to
Swan
Lake and who seems completely ignorant of balletic idiom?)

The film has its weak points. Although the plot is not as non-existent as
some reviewers have felt, it nevertheless tends to take second place to
the
showpiece dance numbers; at times, it felt as if I were watching an
extended
series of pop videos. Potentially interesting themes are ignored; for
example, Alex is a practising Catholic, but this seems to be a plot device
to enable scenes set in the confessional to be used as soliloquies in
which
she can air her emotional problems. No attempt is made to explore the
possible conflict between the demands of her religion and her sexually
provocative dancing or her love for a divorcee.

The acting is undistinguished; Jennifer Beals makes an attractive and
personable heroine, but it is clear why, despite the success of this film,
she did not go on to become a major star. Her acting is too weak to enable
her to carry a film; certainly I felt that she would be out of her depth
in
one that depends more upon plot and less upon song and dance. The other
characters are little more than ciphers, with the exception of Hanna, the
old lady who acts as Alex's mentor. I could certainly have done without
the
tasteless ethnic jokes told by Alex's comedian friend.

Yet, despite its faults, I enjoyed this film. Its redeeming feature is the
zest and energy of its dance sequences, set to some well-chosen music such
as Laura Branigan's Gloria or Irene Cara's title song. It may not be deep
or
significant, but it is an enjoyable, well-made piece of popular
entertainment. 6/10. 
<|_=00=_|>

Flashdance is one of my Top Ten Films.  I don't care that it has no twisting
plot.  I don't care that Jennifer Beals used a body double.  I REALLY don't
care that it's a chick flick.  I love this movie!!  
Some people, after seeing Flashdance, choose to see a movie about exotic
dancing.  For one reason or another, I see a movie about chasing dreams,
taking chances, and maximizing life.  

Jennifer Beals' character Alex Owens's dream of attending a formal dance
school and becoming a ballerina is the central theme of the film.  Her
friends Jeanie and Richie are aspiring figure skaters and stand-up
comedians, respectively.  However, Alex is the only dreamer receiving any
encouragement.  Her senior citizen friend Hannah, a former ballerina
herself, gives Alex practical advice and unconditional faith.  Jeanie's
father openly criticizes Jeanie's dream as well as her beau, Richie. 
Richie, a cook at Mawby's Bar, is put down by his boss for wanting to go to
Hollywood and being a comedian; "You're too short.  They don't let short
people into Hollywood."

The sub-plots facilitate Alex's dream to create a captivating story.  To
support herself (and possibly, to keep life interesting), Alex holds 2 jobs:
a welder by day and a dancer at aforementioned Mawby's Bar during the night.
 Her welding boss Nick takes a liking to her and pursues her.  Alex resists
his charms but gives in eventually.  Johnny C., the sleazy strip bar owner
continually tries to lure Alex into dancing for him.  As mentioned before,
Alex's friends Jeanie and Richie have dreams of their own, and we see where
their dreams take them.  

The factor that made Flashdance a hit was the music, of course.  "What a
Feeling" took away an Oscar for Best Song.  "I'll Be Here Where the Heart
Is", sung by Kim Carnes ("Bette Davis Eyes") fits Alex's personal-crisis
scene perfectly. 

The first time I watched Flashdance was 4 years ago; I bought the video
knowing I'd like it.  After 20+ viewings, I still love it.  Flashdance is
for anyone who has a dream but not the courage to pursue it.        

<|_=00=_|>

No movie can sparkle if you don't! Dull serious people may not care for
this
movie of a lovely young woman driven to accomplish,despite hardships and
heartbreak. But good music, good chemistry between the romantic co-stars,
great dancing, an optimistic tone, make this a gem. "Rocky" with a dance
motif and female star. Unless you're irretrievably burdened by life or
just
don't like good-looking women who achieve, you'll be cheered by this fine
romantic flick.
<|_=00=_|>
I know how much Flashdance became such a huge hit of the 80's, it
defined a whole new generation of clothes, behavior, and dance moves.
That's what made Flashdance so special. Now I was born in '85 so I
kinda missed out on these things, but I understand it's importance. I
just bought this movie yesterday, it was back to back with Footloose,
two iconic 80's movies, and I watched Flashdance this afternoon. While
this film defined a huge part of the 80's, it was an average film with
a simple plot. The acting and story is just pretty average, but it's a
cute and fun one.

Alex is a welder by day, but at night she is a sexy exotic dancer who
grabs the attention of all the men. But she has big time dreams to
become a ballet dancer, she has promised her grandmother that she would
apply to the top ballet school and try to get an audition. But Alex is
always intimidated by the other "proper looking" dancers with tons more
experience than her. She falls in love with a fellow co-worker, Nick,
who wants her to make it just as badly. She goes through rough times,
but she just wants to make it and will do anything for that chance.

Flashdance is one of those must see movies if you wanna see the
important films of the 80's. I just wanted to see what this movie was
about since it's such a huge part of film culture. Jennifer Beals
actually did a great job as Alex, she was absolutely beautiful and made
the character very likable. While this film did not live up to my
expectations, it still was a good film. It has an awesome sound track
and really is a lot of fun to dance too. Now excuse me, but I wanna try
to take my bra off without removing my shirt, lol.

5/10
<|_=00=_|>
What makes a good film for me is that it is enjoyable, entertaining,
gripping, likable and emotional. Flashdance without a doubt ticks all
these five boxes. Flahdance is a very retro, cheesy entertaining film
that is at no point boring and never drags, and is also a very clear
symbol of the great 1980's and the night club exotic dancing scene of
the time. Jennifer Beals puts down an amazing performance, as a dancer
and as an actress. I guess the story comes down to the fact that
reality bites, that life is tough, but if you push hard you just might
make it.

All in all, Flashdance despite its few undeniable faults is a very
decent and enjoyable film in my opinion. As it mostly meets all of my
requirements I am happy to give it a positive review. This film is one
of the quintessential 80's films, that works well as a symbolic
artifact of its time. I highly recommend this film to anyone who loves
80's.

Overall rating: 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>


	There are already many comments on this film in the IMDb database, and I
had no intention of writing another until to my surprise I noticed that it
was frequently being replayed on several different local TV channels.
Flashdance is a very outdated movie that has never appealed to most film
critics, so I felt this was sufficiently unusual to justify an attempted
explanation.

	Since the DVD of Flashdance was released, it has appeared for hire in many
small local convenience stores and service stations that only maintain a
very small rack of films for hire Clearly although it is now very much of a
period movie, it continues to retain an enormous appeal for many of those
who have seen it before. Personally I have watched our tape of Flashdance
more often than most of the other tapes we have at home. This is not because
it would be my first choice, but because it is a film that my wife loves to
watch again and again; whilst I find I can view it repeatedly more readily
than many of her other favorite tapes, so when we are discussing what to
view and have rejected a number of other possibilities we tend to turn back
to Flashdance. This reinforces the comments already made in your database
about Flashdance being a "feel good" movie for which most people seem able
to ignore the faults and just enjoy the music, the dancing and the romance.
(It also features "Grunt", a very appealing dog, who remains one of the
reasons why my wife is always ready to rewatch this film.) As a film
Flashdance is therefore something of a paradox. Originally the final product
was not very highly regarded by the studio and only received a limited
release. This was severely panned by most of the critics, and  not
surprisingly the film initially received very little support from the
public. The reviews and the low attendance led to plans to withdraw it from
circulation early, but before these were implemented the audiences started
to grow and continued to increase until cinemas showing the film were mostly
packed out. Clearly those few who saw the film at an early showing started
telling their friends to ignore the critics and see it. This escalated
exponentially until the film finished up as a major hit. In commenting on
this film it would be equally invalid to ignore the very real concerns of
the critics or the equally real appeal it had, and still seems to have, for
most of the public.

	The story is trite - a female welder in a steelworks dreams of being a
ballet dancer and practices her dancing in one of the local bars at night.
Here she meets and starts to fall in love with her fairly young divorced
boss. With his support she is able obtain an audition with a major dance
company who are essentially only interested in her dance training, and lose
any interest they may have had when she says she has never attended a dance
school. However she proceeds to audition for the very bored selection
committee and gives an electrifying free dance performance that in true
fairy story tradition brings the committee to its feet. Some critics have
complained that doubles replaced the star Jennifer Beals for this sequence,
but this is surely not important - the real question is how effectively the
film plays, and this sequence has rightly been very widely admired. About
the time the film was released, modern dance companies were being formed
alongside traditional ballet companies in many major cities in North America
and this sequence certainly added to the appeal of the film at the time, but
it is decidedly not the only reason for watching it.

		I could spend pages criticizing the screenplay in several different
respects, but other comments in your database have already done this, and
these criticisms are ultimately not damming. The important thing is that the
film maintains an ongoing flow which sweeps most viewers along and earns it
a place as one of the finer musical comedies to have been released in the
past quarter century. The object of a film is to entertain the public and in
ranking Flashdance I feel I must base my rating on its undeniable success in
doing just this. So 7 out of 10. 

 
<|_=00=_|>

Although I've long known, generally speaking, what this movie is about, I
never saw it when it came out in 1983 or 1984, because I was too busy
"living" the 80's (yeah, right, whatever that means!). But I just saw it
recently, in its entirety, the other night on TV.

I don't know, maybe it's the current sorry state of affairs of the world
today that made me want to watch this film, just so I could revisit the
"happy days(?)" of the eighties, when, although the world was also in a
sorry state of affairs, at least there was an underlying pretense of hope
and glory, a pervasive (albeit childlike) adherence to the belief that
wishes DO sometimes come true, miracles CAN happen, and for every ugly frog
there IS a beautiful princess waiting to kiss him...

This movie sucks, bigtime... but it also rocks! And that, people, is the
honest to God truth. This movie is so bad it reeks of the stench of the very
phoney-baloney on which it is based (and we all know how awful THAT is).
BUT, it also rocks you to your very soul, and hey, how can you possibly
fault a movie that dares to offer people (and not just young people, but ALL
people) that little thing called HOPE??? 

I hope you don't take my "critique" the wrong way... Honestly, I don't think
the movie is really all that good, but the message, and the feeling, and the
spirit of this movie, are all very wonderful and infectious indeed and
should NOT be discounted. It makes it a wonderful movie. Strange, isn't it?
If those of you reading this are parents with up-and-coming kids, make them
sit through this film!! Make them watch it!! I guarantee you, at least there
is not a single scene in it where some teenager just HAS to have sex with a
baked pastry object!! 

Finally, let me comment on the fact that many in filmdom have dissed
Jennifer Beals over the fact that a stand-in dancer performed various or
several of her dance segments. Well let me just mention, that at the very
end of the film, in the credit roll, there is a disclaimer that states: "The
people and events in this film are fictional. Any similarity to actual
people or events is unintentional." So, with this in mind a stunt double
performed some of the dance steps!?? I was shocked, shocked to find that
stunt doubles are used in Hollywood!!

<|_=00=_|>

I'll never forget this film;It came out a month before I graduated High
school.The music influenced the class of "83". "What a feeling"and the
song
"maniac" dominated the radio air waves."FlashDance had many emotional
scenes
and"Jennifer beals" did a great job. The critics said it was like an MTV
video. SO WHAT? I LOVE MUSIC VIDEOS. THIS MOVIE VIDEO HAS ONE DIFFERENCE;
IT
MADE YOU FEEL AS WELL AS DANCE. 10/10
