
Before all the slapstick, before re-writing "Home Alone" umpteen times
and before selling his soul to "Disney Pictures Inc.", John Hughes was
believed to be THE scribe for teen angst. 

He wrote eloquently of it in "Sixteen Candles", "The Breakfast Club"
and "Pretty in Pink". And with "Ferris Bueller's Day Off", he creates a
person and a time in life that just about anyone who's ever been a
teenager can relate to.

Who hasn't known someone like Ferris Bueller (Broderick)? Someone who
always has a plan, someone who made loafing off an art form, someone
who could fall in a barrel of you-know-what and come out smelling like
a rose?

All he wants to do is take a day off from school and enjoy the day in
Chicago - simple enough, but he must also try and convince his best
friend Cameron (Ruck) and his best girl (Sara) to join him and, in the
process, learn to enjoy what life has to offer.

Naturally, there is a tyrannical school dean (Jones) who is determined
to catch Ferris in the act of hookey and Ferris' own sister (Grey,
pre-nose job) who has it in for her brother, the "trouser-snake". 

There are funny situations throughout the movie, and the characters are
ones that grow on you, especially Ruck's worry-wart portrayal of
Cameron Frye, constantly fretting about his dystalic, cursing his
father and nearly drowning in a pool, all in the name of friendship.

Sara has less to do, but she plays the object of desire well, and
Ferris' passion for her is understandable. At least he thinks about the
right things, like what their lives would be like after high school.

All the way from beginning to end, this movie is a great trip in search
of fun, relaxation, not taking life too seriously and how to sing Wayne
Newton songs in the middle of a parade. 

You want to catch vintage John Hughes and classic '80s teendom at its
best? Seize this "Day"!

Ten stars for "Ferris Bueller's Day Off".
<|_=00=_|>
My friends knowing that I'm a huge film buff asked me to come up with a
list of my favorite movies of all time, when it came down to number
one, there was one film that stood out in my head that I knew I could
watch over and over again and never get sick of: Ferris Bueller's Day
Off. One of the best comedies of all time, Ferris Bueller is a movie
that just stands the test of time. How anyone could not love this film
is beyond any of my understanding, Ferris Bueller is my hero among many
others. John Hughes is usually remembered more for The Breakfast Club,
which is an incredible movie as well, but I think this was his
masterpiece. He said in an interview that this was his childhood,
getting his wife and best friend and skipping out on school to go down
town and just have a good time. If you are a Chicago citizen, you've
pulled a Ferris Beuller's day off too, it's like a law here, lol, if
you haven't, I pity you. The reason that this movie works is because of
it's outrageous story that everyone wants to live, Matthew Broderick,
there was no other choice, he is who everyone wants to be: Ferris
Bueller.

Ferris Bueller is a teenager who fakes out his parents on being sick,
even though it is his worst performance of being ill, somehow it works
and his parents let him stay home. He takes the gorgeous day outside,
takes his really sick best friend and his girlfriend and goes into
beautiful Chicago for a blast of good times. I'm not kidding fellow
Chicagoians, this is the best Chicago movie! Ferris has two problems
though, his principal who is sick of being made a fool of and decides
to bust Ferris on his fake illness. And his sister Jeanie, who cares
more about Ferris's life than her own and just wants to prove that he's
faking it.

Even though, you have to admit that it's a bit unrealistic that it is
broadcast throughout Chicago that Ferris is "dying" and no one notices
that he's singing in the Chicago parade, on a field trip to the Art
Institute with an elementary class, getting "snootie" with a waiter at
Chicago's finest restaurant, and catching the Cub's home run ball at
Wrigley Field, you just have fun and cannot stop laughing. Plus you
have got to love Edward Rooney, the obsessed principal who is actually
sicker than Ferris in one way of putting it. He goes through the whole
city to find him just so Ferris doesn't make a fool of him, but he
fails on all levels because Ferris is just that awesome. The scene
between him and Grace when Cameron prank calls to get Ferris'
girlfriend out of school is just too hilarious and will have you in
stitches. I don't know what else to honestly say other than this movie
is the best comedy to watch if you are looking for a great laugh. So
sit, back and enjoy because "life moves pretty fast. If you don't stop
and take a look around once in a while, you might miss it"; my
philosophy. I will love Ferris Bueller till the day I die.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Matthew Broderick looked so brilliant in those days. While this film
single handedly made him Ferris Bueller forever, at least this is a
film that can be seen all throughout the years without dating too
badly. Sure, the music and props will signify a time of discontent and
bad hairdos, but the idealistic look of a man simply wanting to ditch
school has never been made more daringly and charmingly. 

Everything about this film was gold, from the postmodern
"conversations" with the audience to the little back stories which seem
to shape the overall canvas of the film. While Alan Ruck was way too
old to play in this movie, at least he proved to be a great opposite to
the cool and nonchalant Ferris. Gross-out comedies may now be the norm,
at least we can look back to this film and enjoy a good, genuine laugh.
<|_=00=_|>

"Ferris Bueller's Day Off" is the funniest 80's movie EVER! I can list some
reasons why I liked this movie so much.

1. Matthew Broderick brings such joy to us playing Ferries Bueller, a
character no one would hate. Ferris NEVER gets caught, is an expert at
fooling his parents, everybody likes him, and nobody can avoid his favor and
all. I want to be just like him!

2. Cameron, a geek friend of Ferris, is someone that portrays everybody's
weakness. He is afraid of his parents, negative, and also very sensitive of
his father's favorite car. This actor who plays Cameron was very, very
good.

3. The principal who tries to prove that Ferris is not innocent and also
kind of jealous of Ferris, is the most hilarious character in this movie. He
sorta reminds me of my principal at High School.

4. Jennifer Grey plays Ferris's annoyed sister. She was great, and her bad
attitude was somewhat hilarious.

5. Charlie Sheen's cameo of a guy in police station was absolutely
funny.

6. This is John Hugh's BEST flick ever. 

7. Mia Sara was sweet, she played Ferris's pretty girlfriend.

8. The most memorable scene was "Twist and Shout" scene, where all people
dance in this song with Ferris lip-synching.

9. Cameron's speechless and hopeless stare was excellent.

10. After watching this movie, I am planning to take a Day-Off of my
own!

Overall, I give A+ for being the best teenage movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I think it is only fitting that I dedicate my first movie review to my
favorite movie, Ferris Beuler's Day Off.

This movie got me through High School.. and much of my adult life as
well. That is, until Office Space came along, but that is another
review.

Ferris Beuller (Matthew Broderick) was the kid in High School who never
got caught, had fun doing whatever it was and was popular with
everybody. On this particular day in the movie, Ferris decides he is
taking the day off. After all, "How can anyone be expected to handle
school on a day like this?" Ferris calls his best friend, Cameron Frye
(a young Alan Ruck), who is always sick, and tells him to pick him up.
After all, Ferris does not have a car. He wants to show Cameron a good
time before High School is all over and wants him to have something
good to remember about it. Also, Cameron is Ferris's phony caller
voice. Whenever Ferris needs a call made, such as from a police officer
or another parent, Cameron is the man.

Eventually, Ferris and Cameron gets Sloane Peterson (Mia Sara) excused,
by using the dead grandmother excuse. Ferris is always one step ahead
of his adversary, Principal Ed Rooney (Jeffrey Jones). Rooney is
portrayed as a hard ass principal who does not let anything get by him.
He sets off to catch Beuller in the act and put a permanent mark in his
record and hold him back another year, so as not to have other Ferris
Beuller wannabes for years after Ferris's departure. Jones was perfect
for his role as Rooney and I do not think that role will ever be
surpassed for him.

Most of the movie is spent with Rooney looking for Ferris and, as
mentioned earlier, is about one or two steps behind him. He comes very
close to catching him but never gets the job done. Rooney is the stooge
in the movie that every teen and even the adults enjoy seeing him
beaten and outsmarted by his young student. I don't think anyone has
expected otherwise.

All throughout the movie, it pokes fun at the boring and tedious high
school classroom. Ferris will say something like, "If we played by the
rules right now, we'd be in gym class" and then it cuts to an
exaggerated look at a gym class, which more resembles a boot camp. Ben
Stein will forever be remembered here as the extremely boring economics
teacher.

There are many more characters to this movie that make it great. There
is Grace (Rooney's secretary), Jeanie and the rest of Ferris's family,
the parking garage guys, the snooty waiter, Charlie Sheen and others.
My friends and I still quote randomly from the movie in our everyday
situations. That is how much of an impact this movie has made on many
lives.

There are so many great parts and quotes from this movie, they are too
numerous to list in a review, nor would I want to ruin it for anybody
who has not seen it, although I can not fathom why you haven't. If not,
it is a must see.
<|_=00=_|>

Broderick banked off that boyish charm that made him
so
popular on the Broadway stage (Brighton Beach Memoirs) and brought it to
this witty laugh ride about a high schooler who one day, just didn't want
to
go to school and puts himself and his friends in constant mayhem and
jeopardy. Broderick is
perfect, but it is Jeffrey Jones who gives a searing comic
potryal of Ed Rooney, a Mr. Weatherbee-like principal wanting
to catch Ferris in only act of treachery; holding him back
for one more year of high school. John Hughes is at his
best
here. The dialogue for this film has received such a following
that it has even been printed on shirts and recited at
parties
by true fans of the film. I don't blame them. It's a classic!

<|_=00=_|>
Ferris Bueller was either loved or hated by his peers for always
getting away with anything he'd do. Some would want him expelled,
others want him for Class President. On this extremely eventful day,
the audience is invited to follow Ferris, his best pal and his
girlfriend from morning to afternoon (when they all should have been in
school), enjoying a holiday declared by the resourceful Ferris Bueller.

They get to speed on the freeway in a Ferrari, sing "Danke Schoen" on
an Octoberfest Float, eat at the most exclusive restaurant in town and
always keep just one step ahead of a furious principal in hot pursuit.
With fake computer grade and attendance records, Ferris has it made.

The scene where the principal hitches a ride on a school bus after
having been "torn up" by Doberman watch dogs is worth the ticket price
(Oh Yeah!). This is one of the funniest "high school prankster movies"
ever! Has it been 20 years already? This is a definite Cult Classic!
Right up there with Animal House and Caddy Shack.
<|_=00=_|>

John Hughes does a tremendous job of portraying school as an oppressive 
prison in which children are forced into the most unnatural setting to
memorize useless facts to "get their grade." _The Breakfast Club_ is another
example of this, but FBDO does it tremendously well.  The setting portrayed
at the school of the bored students listening to a nasal monotone lecture,
while intended to be a caricature of the nature of classroom lessons and
children's reactions, was pretty much on target.

Ferris Bueller takes the day off and what does he do?  Certainly not what
Rooney assumed smart teenagers will do.  He didn't use this time to damage
some bedsprings with his girlfriend, or play video games.  No, he viewed
fabulous pieces of art, ate at a very classy restaurant, participated in a
parade, and taught his friends a few lessons in some interesting
ways.

As a believer in education as an organic experience, this movie is a real
eye opener to anyone wishing to educate their children outside of the public
school venue.  It's funny, and shows just how worthy time "living your life
before it passes by" can be.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I hate this movie. Ferris is a whiny spoiled little ass who believes
himself worthy of having a day off from school, stealing his best
buddy's dad's Ferrari and becoming the grand marshal of a parade. All
of this might have been forgiven if Ferris were in the least bit
likable , but he's not. He is a bullying, snobbish, jerk who uses his
parents, hacks on to a computer , destroys Cameron(his buddy)'s dad
Ferrari, and escapes with no punishment. Everybody, save the
unfortunate principal and his sister loves Ferris and thinks he's a
great guy. Sorry, but if I had to choose a friend I would choose his
buddy, the likable and put upon Cameron, rather than the egotistical
jackass that is Ferris. It has good music though which is the only
reason it rises above a "1" for me.
<|_=00=_|>

I have an ongoing discussion with my friends and family about what movie
defines your generation, and for me, this is it!  Ferris' commentary
throughout the movie is hilarious and irreverent, giving a voice to those
on
the borderline between Generations X and Y.  It's Office Space, the
teenage
years!  This movie is witty and fast-paced, not relying on the bathroom
humor and physical comedy that most teenage and college comedies do these
days.  Yes it is dated, but that's part of what makes it great.  I love
it!
