

The Neverending story is by far the best "Fantasy" film ever made and I
doubt that it will ever be topped. I saw this movie with my dad one cold
autumn afternoon, and my life changed forever that day. This movie taught
me
that fantastic places and wonderful creatures really do exist. You only
have
to want them to. Even today, aged 23, working in the computer industry, I
find myself slipping in the Neverending Story soundtrack in my CD player
and
dreaming away to Fantasia...

This movie the most beautiful and touching movies ever created. It's an
example of a timeless story, told with wonderful creatures and dazzling
vistas of the land of Fantasia. The amazing and perfect soundtrack help
capture your heart and won't let go until the end credits fill the screen.
At which time you notice that you've been crying for the last ½ hour. I
consider myself extremely lucky that this wonderful movie was shown to me
at
such a young age, telling me that the world is what you make of
it.

And luckily, this September I can watch it all on DVD!!

This is a masterpiece, nothing less
<|_=00=_|>

Although I was only a year old when the Neverending Story first came out,
I
remember watching it over and over as a little girl. My grandma got it for
me when I was little and I remember making her watch it with me almost
every
day--sometimes two or three times in the same day. Then somehow I lost the
tape, and although I still remembered and loved the movie, I forgot just
how
magical it really was. Then finally, (after years of "I wonder what
happened
to...") I found it. I realize now that in finding it I not only
rediscovered
a part of myself, but a beautiful world I forgot existed.

I admit that I am still waiting for a luck dragon to come and take me home
to Fantasia. I belong there. A part of me lives there and so does a part
of
everyone, although they may not be aware of it. This is without a doubt
the
most beautiful movie ever made (although Legend comes close) and its
message
will never die as long as people hold on to their dreams. Barret Oliver's
performance as Bastian still makes me cry. He speaks to that part of all
of
us that is not afraid to "do what we dream." Noah Hathaway was perfect for
the part of Atreyu. He is one of the most beautiful and realistic heroes
ever depicted. And Tami Stronach as the Childlike Empress (Moon Child)
remains one of the most beautiful characters ever to grace the screen. The
acting is wonderful, and the background scenery is breathtaking.

But the Neverending Story is more than just a movie. It speaks to that
part
in all of us that will never let go of our dreams. It is a story that will
never end as long as there are people to appreciate its message. Everyone
should see this movie and remember: Fantasia IS real. And "Fantasia can
arise in you."
<|_=00=_|>
This film was a favorite of mine as a kid, but even back then I
recognized that the book by Michael Ende was superior. Overall, it's a
wonderful children's film marred by an inconsistent tone and an
unsatisfying ending.

No fantasy film I've seen has tapped more successfully into the kinds
of philosophical thoughts that kids have. Think of Rockbiter's speech
describing the Nothing: "A hole would be something. Nah, this was
nothing. And it got bigger, and bigger, and bigger...." This is the
type of film that greatly appeals to introspective kids who think about
things like infinity and the end of the universe. Do children really
think about such things? I did. People who find that surprising have
forgotten how profound children can sometimes be.

The whole of Fantasia, indeed, seems to be built out of children's
dreams and fears. Some of it is about exhilaration, as when Atreyu
rides Falkor. Others reflect anxiety, as in Atreyu's trek through the
Swamps of Sadness. What appealed to me most as a kid was how an
imaginative but passive child, sort of a young Walter Mitty, opens up a
book in which an older, braver version of himself goes on adventures.
But "Neverending Story" isn't so much escapism as it is about escapism.
It's essentially a fable about the destruction of a child's fantasy
world as he grows older and adapts to the modern world.

The special effects are good for their day. Although they look phony at
a few points, the film's distinct visual look, from the shimmering
Ivory Tower to the assortment of weird creatures, holds up well today.
What makes the film work especially well is that the two child
stars--Barret Oliver and Noah Hathaway--prove themselves capable
actors. I use the word "capable" because almost everyone in the film
overacts in an annoying way, which I blame primarily on the director.
But there's a wonderful cameo by Gerald McRaney as Bastian's father. He
has the perfect tone for the scene, appearing loving but distant,
unable to fathom Bastian's mind. I wish the film had followed through
by returning to their relationship at the end and exploring how Bastian
changes as a result of his experiences in Fantasia.

The reason the ending doesn't work is obvious to anyone who's read the
book. Simply put, the movie shows only the first half of the book!
While this isn't the movie's fault entirely--there was no way the
entire story could have fit into one movie--this could have been
handled better. "The Wizard of Oz" faced the same problem yet managed
not only to become one of the greatest fantasy movies of all time but
to surpass its source material in some ways. "The Neverending Story"
doesn't accomplish that feat. The story feels unresolved at the end
while at the same time failing to clearly set up for a sequel. It
attempts to wrap everything up with a sequence in which Bastian takes
revenge on his old bullies. I enjoyed this scene when I was a kid, but
in retrospect it creates a clash between the real world and the fantasy
world. Bastian never grows as a character, he never learns to put his
feet on the ground, something the early scenes suggest will happen.

There's one other problem, and that's that Wolfgang Petersen never
really figured out the proper tone for a children's movie. He must not
have had a clear idea what age he was shooting for. Some of the scenes
are quite scary and violent, making this film inappropriate for younger
children. Yet the muppet-like characters are presented in an annoyingly
condescending way that I doubt older kids (not to mention teens and
adults) would appreciate. For example, the first scene in Fantasia
plays like a revival of Sesame Street, with Rockbiter filling the
Cookie Monster role. By the time I was old enough to appreciate the
deeper aspects of the story, I cringed at the film's cutesy moments.
Petersen didn't have to direct the film this way. Had he shot for a
wider age group, the result would have been fresher and more authentic
for everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie you'll enjoy no matter how old you are; it's not just
for kids. It's got a message to keep fantasy alive, for good reasons,
that every watcher will agree with! Bastian (Barett Oliver) is having a
hard time getting over his mother's death & spends most of his time in
dreamland. His teachers & father want him to get serious, & he's a
constant target for bullies. Hiding out from them 1 morning in an old
bookshop, he meets Coreander (Thomas Hill), the reclusive owner who
piques his curiosity about the book he's reading, but warns it's not
"safe". Since Bastian loves reading, he "borrows" the book, The
Neverending Story. Reading it in hiding, he glimpses Fantasia, an
incredible world of rock-biters, night hobs, gnomes, a Child-like
Empress who's dying of a mysterious illness. The quest to find a cure
is appointed to Atreyu (Noah Hathaway), a young warrior who goes
through amazing journeys. Bastian becomes more wrapped up in this book
than any other he's read, sharing Atreyu's sadness & horror. What he
doesn't realize is that he himself is in the plot of the book - he must
choose a new name for the Empress. As Bastian tries to follow the
characters' adventures & to choose whether he can do his task, you'll
become entranced w/the characters and touching plot. The movie shows
fantasy is a big part of reality, & it's important! Watch for yourself,
& BELIEVE!
<|_=00=_|>
Finally, the truth about stories. The fact is, nothing ever really
ends, and thusly, someone had to say so. That's what this movie does,
and it does it ever so elegantly. A young boy, who knows so much about
the "Lord Of The Rings", and "Beowulf" is about to find out something
more real as he borrows a mystical book he finds enchanting. the even
more powerful fact, is that once the book is opened, it will never
close. Just as life never really ends on this earth, neither to
stories. The book, titled "The Never Ending Story", is about Fantasia,
a world that is dying, and an unbelievably horrifying substance known
as "The Nothing", is enclosing it. A young warrior must face the danger
of finding a cure. On earth, or in the book, life is intertwined to
reach the ultimate answer to a young boys fears, and a young warriors
quest. Film is full of some really lovable characters such as Falkor,
the luck dragon, and the Rock Biter. Then, there is the Gmorg, whom I
believe, is the most wretched creature in cinema. That thing is scary!
In any case, film starts out as colorful and mystical, and grows dark
and nightmarish with every scene, leading to a wonderful message about
the substance that keeps Fantasia , and every other world out there,
alive. Beautiful, just beautiful. A classic.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the best kids fantasy films of the 80's. This is a great films about
troubled young boy Bastien who escapes some pursuing bullies in an old book
shop finding a story. As he reads this story alone, in hiding, he becomes
enraptured in it and soon begins to feel more than a reader but involved in
the story and is sucked into the world of Fantasia.

Now, does the film have the important elements of a fantasy yarn? Yep it
sure does. It looks great it has strange creatures and wonderful landscapes
and it's fair share of adventure. The book bastien read centres around
Artreyu a young warrior who is the only hope of saving Fantasia from the
evil that is "the Nothing" which is what it's name suggest and will turn
Fantasia into nothing.

I had never watched this until recently when purely by chance it was on TV
and had a good write up (ah the power of movie critics!) so I thought that
as a lover of fantasy, I would watch it. Glad I did people, glad I did. It
takes you back to feelings of childhood and captures the imagination.
Wolfgang Peterson, who didn't particularly impress me in recent flop Troy,
directs preceedings with class and control. There are some good young actors
too. ****
<|_=00=_|>
This is something special. "The NeverEnding Story" is a truly
remarkable movie experience. A stunning and unique movie with this
fantastic feeling and the feeling of being something
"out-of-this-world". The finest fantasy movie of all time. A timeless
and nostalgic classic.

The rich production is notorious in so many ways: the gorgeous settings
and landscapes/sceneries; the amazing special effects, visual effects
and blue-screen effects; the magic; the spectacular combination of
sounds, which impress even more if heard loud; the music...

Another major strength is the wonderful soundtrack, work of Giorgio
Moroder and Klaus Doldinger, with that genial synthpop orientation.
It's so 80's and I very much welcome that. The songs are all beautiful.
Another great song is Limahl's "Never Ending Story", as well as the two
lovely Tami Stronach's singles "Fairy Queen" and "Riding on a Rainbow".
It's impressing how she sings so well.

The movie is thrilling, very involving, exciting, great fun, contains
lots of adventure, danger, strong suspense, darkness, drama, strong
emotions, fantastic and strange creatures, interesting and well
developed characters and a great cast.

There are strange and fantastic creatures such as the Racing Snail, the
creepy Gmork, Morla the ancient one, the friendly Rockbiter (a gentle
giant), the Sleepy Bat and Falkor the luckdragon. I like Falkor very
much: he's so big, so cool, so fluffy, so cute and so friendly. He also
has a great sense of humor and his dog-like appearance makes him
irresistible.

Other interesting characters are the somewhat rude Nighthob, Teeny
Weeny, the hilariously typically grumpy old man Mr. Koreander, the
eccentric and amusing gnomes Engywook and Urgl, Cairon and especially
Atreyu (and his horse Artax), Bastian and the Childlike Empress.
Atreyu, Bastian and the Childlike Empress are all terrific kids. Atreyu
is a different kind of hero: a true hero child, which is unusual and
amazing. Bastian himself is another hero child.

The movie is promising since the very beginning, with those stunning,
dazzling and colorful clouds, which bring it a magical touch. The
beauty of the Ivory Tower palace, the golden of the Sphinxes and the
blue of the Southern Oracle are also magical details about this movie,
among many others. On the other hand, the storm called "The Nothing" is
spectacular but slightly creepy. Nevertheless, it is another precious
help to give magic and beauty to the film. Not to mention details like
the sky full of stars and no clouds and when the sky has clouds...

It's amazing how one gets involved into the story. While watching the
movie, one can feel deeply involved in the story as much as Bastian
does. It's impossible to ignore it because it captures one's attention
and heart. Also, one can't help but get deeply involved in Atreyu's
quest and everything he confronts to save Fantasia, including his
emotions and despair.

The actors are all wonderful. Barret Oliver is amazing as the shy and
imaginative Bastian, Noah Hathaway is awesome in the role of the young
warrior Atreyu and Tami Stronach is terrific as the Childlike Empress.
Her role is minor but very relevant and significant. She really looked
like a little princess by portraying the Childlike Empress. It's kinda
surprising that this was her only movie role ever. Noah Hathaway...
that long hair really fitted very well on him and his character Atreyu
resembles an Indian, but only a little bit.

"The NeverEnding Story" is more than one of the greatest movies from
the 80's. It is one of the best, most beautiful, magical and
distinguish movies ever. A fine movie with a very good message as well.
I can positively say that Mr. Wolfgang Petersen knew what he was doing.
This is his masterpiece.

The movie is a German production filmed in English with mostly American
and English actors. The majority of the film takes place in Germany.
And it was officially launched under its original title, "Die
Unendliche Geschichte", despite being filmed in English. By the way, I
was born in 1984 and I'm very proud that this movie is from that year.
After all, it's a movie that I love.

This should definitely be on Top 250.
<|_=00=_|>

‘Turn around, tell me what you seeeee', flying through the clouds as the
titles roll. It is on every Christmas, I own it and I simply love it. The
Neverending Story is one of the least offensive and nicest family films out
there. It has numerous sequels, but it is the first one directed by Wolfgang
Peterson that is the best of the three.

Bastian, a young boy lives in a dream world, his father wants him to grow up
his school would like him to get his head out of the clouds and is tormented
by bullies. On his way into school while trying get away from the bullies he
runs into an old book shop. While hiding inside the owner shows him ‘The
Neverending Story' a huge volume decorated with the Orin the symbol of the
child like emprise of the Land Fantasia. When the owner isn't look Bastian
takes the book. 

This is a beautiful film; it enthralled me as a child and still does as an
adult. I have watched over and over again, never tiring of it and always
enjoying it.  If you have young children or are an old child it doesn't
matter this is pure a adventure fantasy for all ages, with colourful
characters.

<|_=00=_|>

I think most people that have seen this will agree that this is one of the
best fantasy films ever made!  I think I may have to agree with
them!

This film has a special place in my heart, cause I grew up with this film. 
I've probably seen this film more times than any other movie (although, it
may be too close to call with "Labyrinth", "The Wizard of Oz" and "The Dark
Crystal" in the running)!  Isn't it funny how when you were young you could
watch the same movie over and over and over and over and never get sick of
it...not that a whole lot has changed since then, but it cracks me up how
well I remember this film ever time I see it.  I remember just about ever
line, every scene, every nuance, every single little miniscule detail about
this movie!  Ok...I'm sounding a bit obsessed aren't I.

Well, what I'm trying to say here is that this is a great film and with an
excellent story.  The acting, directing, special effects, and everything
else is just excellent in this film!  Wolfgang Petersen really out-did
himself with this film!  I would definitely recommend this film to anyone
that likes fantasy films...what am I saying, I would (and do) recommend this
film to EVERYONE!  What are you reading this review for?  Go see this
movie!!!  Thanks for reading,

-Chris
<|_=00=_|>
The boy Bastian (Barret Oliver) misses his mother, who has died, and is
bullied at school by three bullies. One day, he is running away from
the three boys and hides in a bookstore, where the owner shows him a
book that he has never read called "The Neverending Story". 

Bastian does not resist and shoplifts the book, leaving a note telling
that he will return the book after he reads it. He goes to the school
attic and anxiously reads the book that tells the story of the magic
kingdom of Fantasia that is doomed to destruction, unless the boy
Atreyu (Noah Hathaway) can save it. But he needs the help of an
Earthling boy to avoid that The Nothing destroys his world. 

The first times that I saw "Die Unendliche Geschichte", a.k.a. "The
Neverending Story", I was younger and younger and I simply loved it.
Twenty-eight years later, I have just bought the Blu-Ray and after
watching it again, I liked but less that I remember.

The state of art especial effects in 1984 is now dated and the acting
is only reasonable. But the story of the coming of age by force of a
boy that sees his innocence lost due to the death of his mother and
bullying at school has a beautiful message in the end and is still
worthwhile watching it. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "A História Sem Fim" ("The Neverending Story")
