
I'm not sure what Diane Silver was thinking when she was making this
movie, but it obviously had nothing to do with Richard Wright's novel,
which the movie is based on.

We read the novel this past summer for AP English 12, and just watched
the film. During periodic note-taking and checking of the clock, I
contemplated the chances of being struck by lightning. Of course, the
sky was completely clear, and I was forced to watch the rest of the
movie... and then write a 5-paragraph essay on it.

Wright's novel discussed very real themes, of the mind of a killer and
the psychology behind it. Silver's movie turned a murderer into a
victim, which is NOT what Wright wanted (see: "How Bigger was Born"
454).

I'm going to make this short and sweet: if you want to leave your
consciousness, in Raphael Lambert's words, unsullied, skip the movie
and read the book. The 1986 adaptation is not thought-provoking
material.

... ::sigh:: Now I have to write the essay.
<|_=00=_|>

Synopsis: A young black man from the poor streets of Chicago, gets the
opportunity of a lifetime working as a chauffer for a wealthy family. But
in
an effort not to jeopardize his first day on the job, something goes
horribly wrong leaving him responsible for a murder.

The Review: Richard Wright's novel is an intense depiction of one man,
trying to protect and better himself, whose own self is unwillfully
brought
into something he just gets into deeper. The book itself is five hundred
pages and broken down into three separate novellas. One chunk of the book
is
exclusively devoted to a lawyer's speech about racism, that was completely
excised from the film. The film, in a manner of speaking, is relatively
different because it's compressed all the information. The film lacks the
spark the book had as well as the impact. Not much sympathy can be said
for
any of the characters because their development just isn't strong enough.
It's a distorted film that doesn't have any strengths to it, and the
climax
at the end, is really broken down to nothing more than just a series of
edited scenes and voiceovers. If you love the novel, and want to see the
film, just stick with the novel, because they simply aren't the same.
Grade:
C-
<|_=00=_|>

This was a good film.  It had some flaws, but was well worth a viewing.  It
takes on many issues which most current films gloss over or ignore
entirely.

This is the second film of "Native Son," a Richard Wright book about a
young
black man who gets caught up in some tragic events in 1940's Chicago.
Bigger Thomas, the young protagonist, goes to work for a wealthy white
family after some prodding from his mother, played by Oprah Winfrey.  He is
drawn into the aforementioned events by the family's young and slightly
wild
daughter, played by Elizabeth McGovern.

There are several good scenes where the tension and a sense of
claustrophobia is palpable.  A scene near the end in a police station, in
which all the main characters convene around Bigger, is effective but
problematic.  This scene is overwrought and unrealistic - there is no way
all those people would be in the same room at once.

"Native Son" delves into the issues of racism, poverty and integration.  It
doesn't have easy answers for the audience, but rather leaves the questions
out there for the viewer to ponder.
<|_=00=_|>

Bigger is a teenager who is so poor he and his mother must share a bedroom
in an apartment that appears to be falling apart, and they don't have enough
money to eat well.  When they get out of bed, two other hidden children pop
up from under the covers--Bigger's sister sleeps with her mother, and his
brother sleeps with him, and the males must turn around while the females
get dressed.  To improve their situation, Bigger's mother knows of a great
opportunity for him and hopes he will finally get a job he can hold on to. 
If he doesn't, things could be even worse (at least they HAVE a home
now).

Bigger goes to be with his friends when he should be interviewing for the
job.  He lets them know he will NOT work for the white man.  Yet he does
finally show up at the home of a rich family, and immediately turns into
what his friends would likely call an Uncle Tom--not Stepin Fetchit, but
respectful and polite.

Everything appears to be going well for a while, but then something quite
terrible changes the situation drastically.

Oprah Winfrey came across quite convincingly as a poor black mother.  This
was in the days before she became a superstar talk show host.  I won't say
it's too bad she was successful in her best-known career, because she did so
much good, but she could have been quite a fine actress.  Victor Love was
good as Bigger, primarily because Bigger had to be so convincing in order to
keep his job.  A great performance came from John Karlen as a defense lawyer
(yes, someone needed a lawyer).

This was an African Heritage Network Monthly Movie Classic.  It wasn't as
good as some movies selected for this honor, but it was pretty
good.
<|_=00=_|>
Few movies ever measure up to the books they're based on, and sometimes
the only safe way to judge a literary adaptation is on its own terms,
as if the source material never existed. Which makes the screen version
of Richard Wright's celebrated novel — faithfully set in 1940 Chicago —
a curiously dated social artifact. It demands a little mental
arithmetic to update the story, about an angry young ghetto black who,
in a moment of fear and desperation, accidentally suffocates the
daughter of the wealthy, white family for whom he works as a servant.
The issues of black and white are rightfully shown to be shaded with
gray, but the production may be too slick for its own good. The film
might have worked better had it been more harsh and controversial, more
willing to disturb the complacency of self-satisfied viewers who, like
Elizabeth McGovern's character, seek to prove their open-minded color
blindness by their condescending ignorance of the wide gulf separating
the two races. A talented, high profile cast is enough reason to
recommend the film.
<|_=00=_|>
Having been on set a few days I can say the acting overall was very
good. A good early dramatic performance by Oprah. (Hint: She get's in a
funky blue mood by singing spirituals offstage between takes) And a
very impressive performance by Victor Love. Since everybody was working
for scale all the names were to be listed and evenly credited.

Question: Who played Oprah's daughter? Diamond Dawn Cook (AKA:
AdrienneCook) That's not in the IMDb database.

I was also impressed by the rat wrangler. Who knew so much effort went
into that one scene. One rat to skitter across the floor. One to cower
in the corner. And one killed, though not really with a frying pan.
<|_=00=_|>
Of all the movies I've seen, this one rates almost at the bottom
(Haunted Mansion, Nothing but Trouble and a few others keep it from
reaching rock bottom.) It is hasty, the story is shaky and the events
depicted are poorly acted. Of course we have to lay some of this at the
book writer's door. The book the movie was filmed after is outrageously
ponderous, and illogical. Oprah gives a palatable appearance as
"Bigger's" mom, but is not nearly at her potential. Other famous
performers also seem to be at their worst. The plot which centers
around an African American who decided to take a job as a chauffeur. In
driving the family daughter to a communist dinner he becomes
acquainted. One thing leads to another and the girl gets drunk. Now the
family he's working for are not against blacks, but he thinks they are.
So when he comes home he puts her to bed, but she begins caterwauling.
The blind mother (yes) hears this, so Bigger tries to silence her, but
instead smothers her. Now fearing he's really in trouble for killing a
white girl he does what any logical thinking man would do--he shoves
her into the coal furnace. So investigators are carrying out a missing
person case and lo they check the furnace (the idiot didn't have the
foresight to get rid of the ashes. He is then arrested and the last
hour or so are obnoxious segments from the courtroom. If your desperate
for a bad movie, this one could do the job, but if you seriously want
to learn about culture issues in th 40's and 50's or see a good drama,
there are a lot better options. Avoid this.
<|_=00=_|>
Hey look, deal with it, there are much better portrayals of the
hardship of black America than this. Although I think this story is
weak, my criticism is focused on the poor execution of the story, which
I have mentioned, blows.

This was made in the mid-80's and is horrible in the music/score
department. It's funny to see Oprah as a latter-day crack-whore type.

The scene where Bigger stuffs Elizabeth McGovern into the incinerator.
Pure classic cinema. First off, I don't care how drunk you are, you
will react to 1200F degree flame (no matter how bad your acting). But
they really milked that scene...it was comical. I'll tell you what
though, I had great satisfaction in seeing Elizabeth McGovern burn in a
faux death; she annoys me.
