
Anytime a film delivers what it promises, it gets at least a 5 rating
from me, and "Armed Response" gives you exactly what you would expect
from a low budget action movie. The weak points would be , numerous
explosions and gratuitous car crashes, a paper thin plot, finally a
shootout in Chinatown with grenades and automatic weapons that goes
totally unnoticed by anyone. The strongest point is the fun of seeing
David Caradine, Lee Van Cleef, and Michael Berrymen together, and they
do not disappoint. Another plus is the musical score, which seems to
fit perfectly. Top that off with some lively one liners and you have an
entertaining action film. - MERK
<|_=00=_|>
"Armed Response" qualifies as one of B-movie director Fred Olen Ray's
better crime thrillers. David Carradine plays Jim Roth, a Los Angeles
barkeeper in his own bar who suffers from Vietnam War flashbacks.
Interestingly, the Vietnam sequences in his memories emerge as much as
an indictment of the historic American-Asian conflict as the after
effects that the fighting inflicted on his psyche. Unfortunately, the
helmets and the uniforms don't contribute to the authenticity of the
action, though everything else about this sequence passes muster,
especially the choppers. Carradine dons the smallest possible helmet
imaginable and looks too old. Meanwhile, spaghetti western star Lee Van
Cleef minus his hair piece is effectively cast as Carradine's crusty,
ex-detective dad Burt Roth. Japanese actor Mako of "The Sand Pebbles"
does a credible turn as ruthless Yakuza boss Akira Tanaka. Last, but
not least, horror movie icon Michael Berryman of "The Hills Have Eyes"
registers a memorable appearance as one of Akira's more sinister
henchmen. The scene where Berryman blasts one of expendable members of
the Roth family with a shotgun will stick in your mind because he wears
a jump suit with a yellow smiley face on the left breast pocket. 

Chiefly, the predictable but entertaining T.K. Lankford screenplay pays
homage to the 1940s mystery thrillers that starred Humphrey Bogart,
particularly "The Maltese Falcon." The Yakuza wants a valuable statue
back, so they hire an unscrupulous gumshoe Cory Thornton (B-movie
veteran Ross Hagen of "The Devil's 8") who dresses the part
persuasively from fedora to trench coat) and his honest partner Tommy
Roth (Brent Huff of "I Spy Returns") who is also Carradine's younger
brother to collect it. Carradine has yet another younger sibling who
gets involved in the plot later and suffers horribly at the hands of
the Yakuza. Initially, at the rendezvous to exchange the stature for
the money, treacherous Cory double-crosses bad guy Steve (Roger Corman
stock player Dick Miller of "Small Soldiers") and his sexy,
pistol-packing sidekick Deborah (Laurene Landon of "Yellow Hair and the
Fortress of Gold") at a remote spot in the desert. Cory makes it look
like Steve and Deborah pulled the double-cross, when in fact he
engineered it and his gullible partner fell for it. No sooner have they
apparently dispatched Steve and Deborah than a carload of thugs careen
toward them out of the nearby hills. Tommy takes them out with a
Vietnam era M-16. Cory wounds Tommy, but Tommy manages to escape in a
bullet-riddled car with the statue. Tommy makes it back to older
brother Jim's residence, dramatically smashes through the window and
falls on Jim's wife (Lois Hamilton of "The Electric Horseman") as they
are quarreling about the night-sweating flashbacks that have made Jim
so irritable. Of course, neither Burt nor Jim tells the police anything
about the statue. They decide to launch their own investigation. 

Fred Olen Ray keeps the action moving at a fast clip in this
trimly-paced 85 minute melodrama. He sets up the plot in about 30
minutes then has Akira and Jim tangling with each other over not only
the statue but also his $100 thousand dollars. Moments of humor are few
and far between in this straight-laced Chinatown shoot-em up. You'll
hate Ross Hagen's deceitful private eye, but you'll cheer his just
comeuppance in the final scene. X-rated porn star Michelle Bauer has an
eye-spinning turn as an exotic dancer in what ranks as the only
semi-nude scene in "Armed Response." 

Mind you, "Armed Response" is NOT a classic, but it doesn't waste time
telling its formulaic, hard-edged story. Olen Ray maintains more than a
modicum of credibility while he adheres to the conventions of the
genre. Lee Van Cleef gets to trade shots with the bad guys, but he
plays more of a sidekick to Carradine than a leading player. If you
look hard enough, you'll spot Fred Olen Ray as one of the bad guys.
Atmospheric locations and film noir style lighting enhance this
respectable actioneer.
<|_=00=_|>

There are two sides to every war.  There are the chivalrous heroes and the
treacherous villains.  The honorable heroes include Burt Roth (the late
Lee
Van Cleef), and his sons, Vietnam Vets Jim (David Carradine), Tommy (Brent
Huff), and Private Eye Clay Roth (David Goss).  This close-knit family
will
either go down fighting or stand together in victory.

Now, meet the worthy adversaries.  The ringleader is Akira Tanaka (Mako),
the insidious mob boss who controls the Japanese Yakuza in Los Angeles.
This antagonist gives new meaning to the word "evil."  Then, there is F.C.
(Michael Berryman, star of THE HILLS HAVE EYES), a gigantic bodyguard who
is
seemingly unstoppable.  When this guy gives you a fortune cookie, be
afraid...be very afraid.  Get ready to panic, for that is just a sign of
heinous things to come...

The setting is the mean streets of Los Angeles's Chinatown.  The object of
affection is a priceless Jade statue.  The Yakuza has intended to use this
statue as a "gift" of reconciliation aimed towards the Chinese mob.
However, after murdering one of his own perfidious men, Tanaka realizes
that
the statue is in the hands of someone else.  Tanaka wants this Jade statue
back...and he is willing to torture any soul just to obtain that prized
possession...

The Roth family realizes that after one of their own kin unwittingly
clutches the Jade statue in his hands, Tanaka is targeting them for
termination. They have no choice.  The Roth family has only one option:
WAR.
The forces of good and evil will clash in a fists-and-firepower battle.
The
Roth family is prepared...for an ARMED RESPONSE...

One of the best characteristics of ARMED RESPONSE is its all-star cast.
With favorites including David Carradine, Lee Van Cleef, Mako, Michael
Berryman, et. al., ARMED RESPONSE is armed with a terrific cast.  The cast
is glooming with talented character actors and actresses.  Both David
Carradine and Lee Van Cleef are capable as a father-and-son fighting duo
who
are bonded by courage, strength, and honor.  Carradine may not portray the
most poignant Vietnam Veteran, but at least his character still has
intermittent flashbacks of the horrors of the Vietnam War.  Mako is great
as
the sadistically evil bad guy who is a master of torture!  He may be an
intelligent nemesis, but sadism is his true forte.  Ross Hagen is cool as
a
back-stabbing con artist who is posing as a detective.  This guy is only
interested in making a profit.  Laurene Landon (MANIAC COP) and Dick
Miller
(GREMLINS) are amusing as a couple of thieves who are also weapons
experts,
mind you.  Michael Berryman plays it straight as Tanaka's right-hand
henchman.  ARMED RESPONSE features some of the best exploitation veterans
in
this particular genre.

ARMED RESPONSE is not bad for a B-movie.  For a mere budget of probably no
more then a million dollars, this film features a lot of explosive car
crashes and high caliber thrills.  ARMED RESPONSE is reasonably fast-paced
with a few expertly directed action scenes and stunts.  Another redeeming
factor is the film's fatuous sense of humor.  In a way, ARMED RESPONSE
satirizes on the action genre itself, poking fun at certain types of
characters, behavioral characteristics, and character stereotypes.  This
film also benefits by having a few interesting one-liners...

Though ARMED RESPONSE is much better than some of the competition, it is
still, nonetheless, a low budget film with its defects.  Though the cast
is
excellent, the material and plot are very simplistic.  This movie is
nothing
more then a simple tale of "heroes with a vengeance."  There are a few
twisted deviations, but those are nothing exceptional.  If only the
characters and story-line had more insight, then maybe this movie could
have
been an outstanding thriller.  I also kind of resent the Asian
stereotypes.
Not since "Fu Manchu" has there been such a negative portrayal of Asians.
"Here we go once again...the evil yellow man torturing the valiant white
hero."  That quote is a classic example of the villain pointing out the
jingoistic attitudes of some Americans.

If you want to see an enjoyable B-movie, then look no further.  Your
search
has ended here!  This is one of Fred Olen Ray's first and foremost action
films.  ARMED RESPONSE is definitely worth a Saturday night rental.
Granted, some people may detest this movie's blatant jingoism, but the
overall permeating silliness of this movie makes you glad that it was made
strictly for fun. This movie does not demand to be taken seriously at all!

Overall, the production values of ARMED RESPONSE are adequately adept,
especially for a low budget film.  This film is almost worth **1/2, but
sadly, the film's ethic biases bring this film down a notch.

ARMED RESPONSE is an unrealized action flick that did not deserve to be
ignored by critics.  Though this movie may fall short of being an
ambitious
thriller, it works perfectly as a perfunctory, crowd-pleasing lunacy for
action fans. ARMED RESPONSE may be junk food, but it is certainly
delicious.

RATING: ** out of ****.


<|_=00=_|>
David Carradine and Lee Van Cleef star as father and son cops who join
forces to avenge the murder of their sons/brothers at the hand of the
triads who are after a priceless artifact that the hapless family has
gotten their hands on. Brent Huff is the ill faded brother who keeps
the family proud by being tortured and not caving in. Also is Lois
Hamilton the wife of Carradine who also is kidnapped with her and
Carradine's daughter in this plot heavy but generally enjoyable guilty
pleasure. I haven't seen many movies from Fred Olen Ray but I figure
this has to be one of his better features, this one is alone worth
watching for the cast. Which include David Carradine, Lee Van Cleef,
Mako(As the head mobster) and Michael"Hills Have Eyes" Berryman who are
always fun to watch in anything. The movie is fairly predictable and
Carradine is obviously a tad too old to jump in and kick ass but Armed
Response gives of the unpretentious vibe that makes the response of of
general acceptance from the audience.

* * out of 4-(Fair)
<|_=00=_|>

"Armed Response" is one of Fred Olen Ray's earliest directorial efforts,
and
it also less schlocky than some of his other ones, closer to an actual
legitimate action film (it's hard to believe he would make a film as
unbelievably bad as "Hollywood Chainsaw Hookers" only two years later). It
has a fairly complicated plot, which would be hard to summarize in a
single
paragraph, and a cast that's a B-movie fan's dream (where else could you
find Lee Van Cleef and Michael Berryman together?), though it must be
noted
that David Carradine is particularly awful in this movie.
(**1/2)
<|_=00=_|>
Father and son Chinatown bar owners, Burt & Jim Roth(Lee Van Cleef and
David Carradine)become inadvertently involved in a war with the Tanaka
crime family over a jade statue, quite a pricey artifact desired by a
powerful Yakuza family.

Clay Roth(David Goss), Burt's son/Jim's brother, is partners with a
no-good, dirty, rotten scoundrel, Cory Thorton(Ross Hage, perfectly
vile and two-faced)who has taken a job to exchange money for a jade
statue, commissioned by powerful mobster Akira Tanaka(Mako). It would
be a 5 thousand dollar payday to orchestrate what seems like an easy
task, but Cory's greed and avarice throws a cog in Akira's plans. Cory
is to take all of Tanaka's money, kill the thieves(an unhinged Laurene
Landon and Dick Miller offers another cameo), and set up Clay as the
one responsible for the botched job. But, a wounded Clay delivers the
jade statue to Jim and Burt before dying. With the money, Cory goes
into hiding, with Tanaka targeting the Roth family desiring to get the
statue he must provide to a major Yakuza boss arriving by plane in the
coming days. Kidnapping Tommy Roth(Fred Olen Ray regular Brett Huff),
and torturing him with acupuncture needles, Tanaka and his men will
stop at nothing to secure the statue, but waging war with Burt and Jim
may not be the smartest idea despite how powerful and dangerous a
threat they are. When Tanaka captures Jim's wife and daughter, as well
as show him his slain brother, Tommy(..whose courageous escape attempt
ends in a shot gun blast to the chest), there'll be hell to pay.
Another development is that one of the thieves, Deborah(Landon)didn't
die after all(..she's one tough chick)and wants the money Cory took
from her.

I imagine it was a dream come true for director Fred Olen Ray to obtain
the star power of Carradine and LVC in his movie. To have them in a war
with Mako, Michael Berryman, and a litany of mobster vermin must've
been a joy. FOR also has two major action set pieces, the double-cross
when Cory betrays Clay, with hired guns(..paid by Cory)blasted in their
cars before they could cause any damage. There's the Chinatown showdown
where Carradine faces off with Mako and his goons(..my biggest
disappointment was not seeing LVC getting to partake in the festivities
very long). There's also a chase where a cop pursues a wounded
Berrymen, with innocent bystanders(..in their vehicles)impacted,
resulting in car crashes(..and FOR gets to demolish a telephone booth).
Carradine's Jim has some plot development as FOR establishes some
trauma that has left scars from a combat experience in Vietnam.
Berryman seems to be having fun as one of Mako's assassins. Unfortunate
for me, LVC doesn't have as substantial a role in the movie as I, a
major fan, would prefer, but he was on up in age by this time. When
Carradine tosses grenades at Mako's gunmen, explosions hurl lots of
stuntmen in the air.

I think fans of low budget action, not expecting strong acting or a
challenging plot, might enjoy this rather straight-forward,
undemanding, uncomplicated B-movie. Carradine's revenge over Mako("Rest
in Pieces.")is certain to amuse. Brett Huff has a great scene where
Mako and company seek information, using torturous methods which would
make most squeal, not allowing them to benefit from his anguish. LVC,
in his seventies, gets a chance to kick some ass, punishing a pack of
loathsome customers looking to start some crap when they enter Jim and
Burt's bar. Lois Hamilton, as Carradine's wife, gets to blow away a bad
guy with a machine gun in a memorable final scene after a car is driven
into Jim and Burt's bar! Another rather unfulfilling scenario for me
was not seeing Cory get his comeuppance in gruesome style(..while he
does pay, it's not nearly the fate he deserves for the trouble he has
caused).
<|_=00=_|>
Armed Response is a movie that doesn't exceed one's expectations, never
trying to be any more than a typical action film, but does what is
expected of it in the best way possible. It's silly, not terribly
original, but also entertaining through an trough, just as an action
movie ought to be. The movie's terrific B-movie cast help to make this
a thoroughly enjoyable experience for action fans. 

The plot focuses on the Roth family, Burt (Lee Van Cleef) and his sons
Jim, Clay, and Tommy (David Carradine, David Goss, and Brent Huff), who
become targets of mob boss, Akira Tenaka (Mako) after coming into
possession of a stolen jade statue. The plot isn't hard to follow,and
it is able to hold one's interest despite not being terribly complex or
original. The plot is also filled with action it the form of
shoot-outs, fist fights, and one terrific car chase. The plot moves
along quickly thanks to a fair amount of action and the presence of
some great B-movie stars. 

David Carradine makes a great leading man for this sort of movie; his
performance is not technically "good" but he is nevertheless enormously
appealing in his role. Mako is also good as the movie's villain, but
the film's most stand-out cast member is without a doubt B-movie
veteran Lee Van Cleef, who is a joy to watch as Carradine's tough,
irritable dad who doesn't crap from anybody. His character is
undeniably rather clichéd, but he plays the part better than anyone
else could. 

Armed Response delivers exactly what it offers, and provides a fun hour
and a half for fans of its genre. It doesn't offer anything new or
special for those who aren't already fans of the genre, but those who
are should find it consistently entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a truly HUGE Brent Huff fan, and have been since seeing Perils of
Gwendoline.

Mr. Huff looks great in this movie and though his part is short, he is
seen enduring a bone-scraping torture through his bare chest that looks
like evil acupuncture.

Brent was one of the most handsome and sexy actors in these actioners
and he could act when given half a chance. I don't know why he did not
have a larger career, but I am thankful for the one he had.

In some ways, he was the Mark Damon of the Eighties (though Mark got
more notice for a little while during his heyday.) Mr. Damon has gone
on to do very well as a producer. I hope the best for Brent as well.

The VHS version has nice picture quality. I have not seen the DVD
version.

An 9/10 for shirtless torture sequence.

The rest of the movie is okay. The actor who plays Huff's interrogator
is a good one who shows up in many similar roles.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, as another reviewer, WebsterGrayson already stated right off in
the beginning of his excellent review, 'The movie delivers exactly what
is expected' Now, come on! You already bloody KNOW that this is not
going to be high art. You've got David 'well, tie my genitals down!'
Carradine and ol' Lee 'Angel Eyes' Van Cleef for Goodness sake! And,
you even have Mako and the ULTRA-cool Asian guy who was the b*tch'n
Alien with the awesome looking eyes in the 6 total episodes of 'Space
Rangers' (which I have, BTW - and, I'm sorry, but this guy even
out-COOLS David Carradine) ANNNNND, if that is not enough, you even
have the ICONIC Dick Miller! ANNNNNND the cooler than cool Michael
Berryman!!! (even snapping his misshapen fingers in a David Lynch
syncopated way and giving a Lambada glare to the camera when the radio
suddenly turns on after a guy he just shot get's thrown into it! (you
notice I didn't say WHO got shot, so no 'Spoiler Warning' needed)

I mean, what the HELL more do you want for this kind of film...? I'm
not normally a fan of outright CheeeeeZ as a rule, but this is good,
solid, MASTER CheeeeeZ. And it is a total blast!

So, yeah, I'm gonna give it an '8' because '4.8' just simply ain't
right...
<|_=00=_|>
Disclaimer: If you are a viewer that mainly prefers art-house-type
movies, then you might as well ignore this review. In addition, if
you're not able to take an underrated solid action flick of the 80's
from Lee Van Cleef and David Carradine, ignore this review, as well.
We'll both be better off.

Armed Response (1986) is a good solid action film of the 80's , It has
flaws but I still like it. I love action and horror movies from the
80's and Armed Response (1986) Is one of them. I am an Lee Van Cleef
fan and for a Lee Van Cleef fan and his character is definitely my
favorite film that I like. For a Few Dollars More (1965) and Escape
from New York (1981) are two my favorite films from Lee Van Cleef, I
seriously like his two characters in those two films: Col. Douglas
Mortimer and Bob Hauk New York Police Commissioner are two of Lee Van
Cleef's characters I like, but now I love his character Burt Roth
retired police officer, the father of his three sons. I like this
action film, for a cheaper action film it was really decent it had nice
shoot outs and a nice car explosion and the twist around. I love the
Music theme by Thomas Chase and Steve Rucker. Almost everyone who was
involved in making this movie is dead now. David Carradine, Lee Van
Cleef, Mako, Lois Hamilton all past away are no longer with us anymore.

Plot: One of Tanaka's underlings has stolen a rare statuette that he
had planned to use as a peace offering between the local Yakusa and
Chinese Tong. He hires two private investigators to exchange ransom
money to recover the statuette, but the trade goes down bad and Clay
Roth is killed. This angers Roth's brothers and father, all combat
veterans, and they go after the people responsible.

Jim Roth (Carradine) is a Vietnam veteran, family man, and owner of a
bar. His father Burt (Van Cleef) hangs out there, as do other brothers
Tommy (Huff) and Clay (Goss). It's a close family, as Jim's wife Sara
(Hamilton) and young daughter Lauren (Chodan) also stop by on occasion.
But the Roth family is about to encounter some trouble in the form of
Yakuza boss Akira Tanaka (Mako), who desperately wants a valuable
statue and will stop at nothing to get it, mainly because he will use
it as a bargaining chip to prevent a Chinatown mob war with the Tongs.

When Clay stupidly gets involved with Tanaka (and his evil bodyguard
F.C. (Berryman), it sets off a chain of events where various members of
the Roth family get in trouble - and Jim, who suffers from Vietnam
flashbacks and nightmares, must team up with his father, Burt, to go
back into an American-Asian war by gearing up to blow away the Yakuza.
Add into this mix the slimy Cory Thorton (Hagen), as well as other
various and sundry unsavory characters, and there's going to have to be
an ARMED RESPONSE! 

The acting performance from this movie is solid, the script is terrible
but the action in here is pretty good. This movie is more about a
betrayal, stolen statue, family and a theft of a half of million
dollars. Laurene Landon is also as extra in here as a thief in this
movie, she has only two scenes, she was also cast in Maniac Cop 1 and
2. I seriously love movies from the 80's, they are part of my life and
the two main heroes in this movie are decent. David Carradine is the
main hero and his father Lee Van Cleef is the hero who does everything
that keeps his only son alive. This film isn't about revenge and
honestly I think Jim Roth (David Carradine) is well written character,
honest, loyal and decent. He is not selfish he returns the statue to
Tanaka (Mako) and he didn't want to killed him, even tough Tanaka was
responsible for his two brothers death.

The shootings and the action scenes were great I like it, the automatic
weapons are a lot and they are used well. You have one car explosion.
You also have Michael Berryman in it as another villain from Wes
Craven's classic horror films The Hills Have Eyes 1 & 2, you also have
a flashbacks on a Vietnam war when Jim is having another nightmare on
his past life as a Vietnam Vet soldier, what he had to do, to surviving
the war. He even has a wife and a young daughter. I also like the
fighting sequence when Jim is fighting off a few drug dealers, while he
is searching for Cory Thorton. I like that Lee Van Cleef kills 2 bad
guys. One in a bar when he was holding Jim as hostage and one in a
shoot out, while he was helping his son Jim saving his wife and his
daughter. Burt shoot the bad guy and killed him, the baddie fall in an
electric wire and was electrocuted. 

Overral: This action flick is forgotten and is not bad for cheaper
film, it could have been a better action film but because of the money
they couldn't make such a big action film that would get a higher
rating or would be famous. This movie get's an 8 by me mainly for Lee
Van Leef and David Carradine awesome action performances.

Armed Response is a 1986 action crime film, starring David Carradine
and Lee Van Cleef and directed by Fred Olen Ray. This is the first
action film made by CineTel Films which would become famous in that
genre.

8/10 Grade: B Studio: CineTel Films Starring: David Carradine, Lee Van
Cleef, Mako, Lois Hamilton, David Goss, Ross Hagen, Laurene Landon
Director: Fred Olen Ray Producer: Paul Hertzberg Screenplay: Peter T.L.
Lankford Rated: R Running Time: 1 Hr. 26 Mins. Budget: $1.500.000 Box
Office: $1,368,912
