

This film still has me rolling whenever I see it.  This film not only
makes
fun of the grade Z stinkers, but in it's on weird way, pays tribute to
these
films at the same time.  The only problem I have with it is the fact that
it
includes two classic sci-fi films, "The Incredible Shrinking Man" and "War
of the Worlds".  Other than that this is one funny film, especially Cheech
and Chong's look at the anti-drug films like "Reefer Madness" and "High
School Confidential".
<|_=00=_|>

I've always enjoyed this hodge-podge of "bad" movie scenes and previews. 
But only for the previews themselves.  Unfortunately, this movie takes a
very smug and pompous attitude toward its subject matter, largely due to the
fact that Golden Turkey Award creator Michael and Harry Medved were
"advisors" on the project.  

Anyone who is a real fan of these movies enjoys them for the silly schlock
that they are.  The Medveds revel in ridiculing and lampooning them with no
appreciation for them at all.  Surprisingly, this is the sense one gets from
hosts Dan Aykroyd and John Candy, two performers one would think would have
a special place in their hearts for these classics.

Only Cheech and Chong and Gilda Radner seem to get into the spirit of
things.  While Candy and Aykroyd poke fun and insult the movies, Cheech,
Chong and Radner play along with them, and create some genuine
laughs.

But the real stars are the clips themselves, which are great fun and great
nostalgia.  Oddly, amid these "bad" movies are such recognized classics as
THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING MAN, WAR OF THE WORLDS and THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD
STILL.  Scenes from outrageously over-the-top cautionary films about sex and
marijuana are utterly hilarious.

Highlights are Chong ordering a truckload of candy at the concession stand
and Radner doing her little girl schtick from Saturday night live.

<|_=00=_|>
It's just sad how little this movie is recognized and how it has been
recalled for DVD. You have some of the biggest stars of the time taking
about bad B movies of the 50's 60's and 70's like A.p.e the giant claw
Earth vs the flying saucers the Colossal man. I can only imagine a
movie like this today stars like johnny Depp Leonardo Dicaprio Jake
Gyllenhaal Taking about old B movies of the past including ones from
the 80's like Hobgoblins the Abomination Deadly spawn Lobster man from
mars and bad shot on video movies. This is a classic that more people
should know about all the stars do a good job the clips are great it
never takes it self seriously. I first saw this on HBO way back in 92
or 93 and i will never forget the first time seeing it this any fan of
John Candy Gilda Radner Dan Aykroyd or b movies should see it.
<|_=00=_|>

A film that I always enjoyed. Various comedians host 
tributes to some really bad movies. There's one 
whole section just for Ed Wood. If you like MST3K, 
you'll like this. In fact, look for Phantom of 
Krankor in a cameo!
<|_=00=_|>
Good intentions aside, at times I had trouble really getting into this
pleasantly interactive, short-lived little documentary/Mystery Science
Theater 3000 style arrangement that presents a variety of random clips
from supposedly old b-grade to z-grade Hollywood features (though its
hard to grasp why "War of the Worlds", "The Incredible Shrinking Man"
and "The Day the Earth Stood Still" made its way in) that are set-up
through specific genders (monsters, gorillas, animals going berserk,
brains, troubled teenagers, Ed Wood, Aliens, giants and musicals) with
them being wittily dissected/or informatively discussed by comedians
Dan Aykroyd, John Candy, Gilda Radner, Cheech and Chong. The thing was
I thought the best moments actually involved the crazy movie clips
themselves, than that of it focusing on its mugging stars and the
wraparound sequences. The problem was that I found most of the remarks
(which at times were surprisingly sparse) not to be all that funny,
well Cheech and Chong came across more so genuinely smooth in their
humour within the cinema (especially Chong at the candy bar and sitting
their watching the films) and it came across an inspired choice for
them to rip on the eccentrically pitched cautionary drug movies.
However some of those scenes with the other stars in between the
collection of clips just didn't gel, as for one Aykroyd really did get
on my nerves. Some skits were better implemented than roughly penned
others, but the feature does feel like one big trailer (or movie
preview) for bad schlock movies… some which are hard to believe you're
actually seeing it on screen. Nothing is safe in the wryly
tongue-in-cheek "It Came from Hollywood".
<|_=00=_|>

I've read a lot of negative reviews of IT CAME FROM HOLLYWOOD since it was
first released, but I have to admit, I think it's hilarious. The film is
broken into several sections, each introduced by one or more of the
comedians. for example, John Candy pays tribute to Ed Wood (Including a
remake of the "coming out" scene from GLEN OR GLENDA with Dan Aykroyd),
Cheech and Chong introducing clips from the likes of THE COCAINE FIENDS,
etc. Some of the clips drag, some clips have been "doctored" to seem even
sillier then they really are, but with the likes of PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE
and MARS NEEDS WOMEN on display, there are some great moments.
<|_=00=_|>
A weak movie that celebrates weak movies, "It Came From Hollywood"
presents clips from more than a half-century of movies, most bad, some
not, presented in the form of themes hosted by popular comedians of the
day.

Sometimes, the result is amusing. Richard "Cheech" Marin and Tommy
Chong work their stoner screen personas to solid effect watching clips
of famous drug cautionary films like "Reefer Madness." I don't care for
Cheech & Chong generally but found their work here entertaining in a
low-burn way.

A clip from the Ed Wood classic "Plan Nine From Outer Space" features
Dudley Manlove pondering an attack on mankind: "As long as we think,
we'll have our problems."

Cut to Chong at the ticket window: "I want my money back." 

Alas, that's as much as I can offer in the way of positive comment
about the interstitial sketches which make up the original content in
this film. That's a shame because I am a fan of both Dan Aykroyd and
Gilda Radner from their "Saturday Night Live" heyday and John Candy of
SCTV. They make up the other three players introducing the recycled
content here. Seeing Gilda and Danny relive their small- screen glories
playing SNL characters like Judy Miller and a short- fused detective
should be more fun than it is.

Some reviewers here see a connection between "It Came From Hollywood"
and "Mystery Science Theater 3000," which ran bad movies over caustic
commentary that was often funny. But the blog Dead 2 Rights has it
right: This is a cracked remake of films of the prior decade like
"That's Entertainment." Producer-directors Andrew Solt and Malcolm Leo
are out for cheap yuks

Instead of overblown reverence for Hollywood's great films with scorn
for silly B-movies about rampaging gorillas and brains that fly around
and attack people.

"C'mon, honey, you want it and you know it," Aykroyd says over footage
of a woman being jumped by a brain in "Fiend Without A Face." "Don't be
a brainteaser."

Chuckles do come, but never develop into anything more, the way they so
often did on MST3K with their zany sketches and running gags. The clips
are more interesting for curiosity value, like a chance to see Rosey
Grier try to sell the idea of having Ray Milland's head attached to his
body in "The Thing With Two Heads."

"This picture started the black street fad of wearing middle-aged white
men," Aykroyd explains.

The inclusion of clips from classic films like "The Day The Earth Stood
Still" and good genre flicks like "The Creature From The Black Lagoon"
is annoying, though, as are any of the sequences featuring Radner, as
lost here as she did in any other movie she made.

"The movie theaters just show scary monster movies so you drop all your
popcorn and candy on the floor and they put in back in the boxes and
resell it," she explains as her Judy Miller character.

A decent sequence showcases two Ed Wood films, "Plan Nine" and "Glen Or
Glenda?" It's hosted by Candy, who makes the fair point that it's hard
to make a movie when there's no budget. If the rest of the film
followed this more explanatory approach, rather than generally
commenting on the weak plots and overacting, it could be worth your
time.

To be fair, "It Came From Hollywood" came from 1982, the year of David
Letterman's late-night debut when snarky irony became suddenly
fashionable. Snarky irony is mostly what you get here, and while it
works at times, it isn't enough to make it that interesting.
<|_=00=_|>
Consider this science fiction movie history 101, not quite in the
serious vein as "Watch the Skies!", the more professional and
non-sarcastic documentary aired on TCM about 10 years ago. Then
consider the fact that the narrators of this are all veterans of the
original company of "Saturday Night Live" with "STV's" John Candy
thrown in for good measure. In order to understand the cult following
of such deliciously bad science fiction movies as "It Conquered the
World" and "Plan Nine From Outer Space", you also need to be able to
compare it to "The Day the Earth Stood Still" and "War of the Worlds".
Great time and artistic effort was put into creating those masterpieces
which stand the test of time, while the others stand the test of time
because they are so delightfully silly you can't help but turn them
into comedy classics that just happen to involve outer space creatures.

Then, there's killer trees, wobbling rocks that manage to crush their
victims even though they stroll around on turtle time while human
beings can certainly outrun them (if they would only stop wasting their
time trying to shoot them!), white furred apes, creatures from the sea
that look like they are trying to break the Coney Island record for
eating hot dogs and various other inhuman beings that can't remotely
compare with the artistic talents which went into making "The Creature
From the Black Lagoon". Giant turkeys, leeches, lizards, insects and
even vegetables pounced up on our drive-in movie theater screens,
making the giant ants of "Them!" and tarantulas seem like classics,
much like the original "Dracula" and "Frankenstein" were 25-30 years
before most of these movies were made.

The funny thing about these bad movies is the fact that once you get
past the idiotic subplots, you really find yourself enjoying them. They
are extremely clever in their own inept way, maybe unintentionally, but
some filmmakers must have known that their subject matter and monsters
were ripe for ridicule. Some of these films make Ed Wood's notoriously
bad turkeys step up a notch. I guess you could say that there's an art
to making bad movies. Some of the narration here truly is bad, but it
will be the film clips that you'll want to experience here, not the
dumb quips from the original not ready for prime time players.

Two specialty segments cover "teens gone wild" and the bad musicals of
the golden age of Hollywood. Certainly, the teens gone wild segment is
truly funny, totally reminding me of the Lois Bromfield spoof,
"Sorority Girls From Hell", but it is the musical sequence narrated by
Gilda Radner which struck my interest. Main-stream movies such as
"Sunny Side Up" and "Wonder Bar" get included with two truly campy
production numbers. The "Sunny Side Up" number, "Turn on the heat!",
shows dancing girls making bananas grow on the vine just by wiggling
their chests at them, while "Goin' to Heaven on a Mule" strikes
controversy today with its depiction of blacks in a small section of
heaven (the white section is three times as large) eating pork chops
right off the tree, plucking chickens and frying them, and most
tastelessly, a giant watermelon which opens and has a tap-dancing Hal
LeRoy in black face popping out. Other musical segments aren't really
from musicals; One of them is actually from an MGM Technicolor short
from the mid 1930's, and the rest are silly brief song interludes from
some of the worst Z grade adventures ever filmed. So the film is a
mixed bag of clips, but there is something here for everybody to enjoy
and it might inspire future filmmakers to go out and research these
films to try new ideas of their own.
<|_=00=_|>
As advertised, this is truly a documentary with scenes from early, and
poor budgeted, 'B' movies dealing mainly with cheap horror films from
the 50's. I would not say that this film is outstanding but it was
humorous to see the sets and costumes worn in the golden era of 'B'
type films with the narrative performed by comedy actors from the early
80's.

I really do not understand how people can say that it was a 'Gem' since
the entire film consist mainly of footage from non-classic films with
added commentary by the hosts. It was a nice look back at early
low-budget films but not much else in the form of entertainment.

The best thing is that nearly all the cheap, low-budget, corny 'B' type
movie scenes are now in one place. Other than that not much to see
here.

But again it is a documentary and as documentaries go-- it was
interesting.
<|_=00=_|>
This isn't as much a movie as it is a loose assembly of B- to Z-grade
movies that have been produced between the 1940's and late 1970's (and
not only did they come from Hollywood but Japan as well), narrated by
numerous "Saturday Night Life"-comedians. We're talking movies like
"Mars Needs Women", "Reefer Madness" (who but Cheech and Chong would be
more likely to make fun of that one?), "The Incredible Strange
Creatures who stopped living and became mixed up Zombies"; indeed,
we're talking the works of Edward D. Wood Jrn.

It's nice to see some of your favorite 80's comedians, some which have
passed on since (John Candy, Gilda Radner), others which have fallen
into obscurity (Dan Akroyd, Cheech and mainly Chong). Granted the gags
and jokes are all rather silly, definitely not especially gifted (and
considering that this is from 1982 and that we are used to a little
sharper, even cynical humor these days, they haven't aged very well),
but then again, we're dealing with bottom-of-the-barrel films, hence
let's just call them appropriate.

It's also interesting to reflect, 30 years down the road, how many
truly awful movies have been produced since then and the path that the
industry in general has taken. Movies like "Battlefield Earth" or M.
Night Shyamalans "The Last Airbender" (well, actually every Shyamalan
picture since "The Sixth Sense") would certainly not be out of place if
they ever remade "It Came from Hollywood". However, there is one
exception: while "It Came from Hollywood" focuses on films that were
generally generated by a shoe-string budget, the more recent cinematic
train-wrecks have swallowed millions upon millions of dollars.

Seven from ten points out of sheer curiosity value – wait; make those
six points for having included "The Incredible Shrinking Man" and "War
of the Worlds".
