

Psycho II is, without a doubt, the greatest sequel of all time. Having to
make a follow-up to a film as unique and wonderful as Psycho seems like an
impossible task, but director Richard Franklin and brilliant writer Tom
Holland knew how to pull it off. This isn't a rip-off of the original like
some sequels are; this really stands on its own. It's unpredictable,
chilling, gruesome, exciting, interesting, and surprisingly touching.

With Psycho II, we are able to see exactly what kind of man Norman is. We
get such a clear feeling of how he thinks and feels, and we realize what a
fascinating character he really is. He is no longer the villain here, and
instead, we just wish that everyone could leave the man alone. Anthony
Perkins' performance is too good for words, and the other actors shine as
well, especially Meg Tilly, Robert Loggia, and Dennis Franz.

The only real misfire in this movie is that they showed the shower scene
from the original Psycho at the very beginning. It doesn't serve any real
purpose, especially since there is so much more to Psycho than that one
famous scene. However, it recovers quickly during the opening credits when
we see the sun set upon Norman's creepy house, making it look lovely. One of
the best things about this movie is the music. Jerry Goldsmith contributes
some really lovely scores, and they are used perfectly throughout the movie.
I honestly can't get enough of the main score; it's beautiful.

Try to avoid seeing this on TV. USA does a lot of editing, and they
completely cut out a couple really special parts, in my opinion. The parts
they cut out are the most sensitive/sentimental parts of the movie, so try
and rent Psycho II instead!!!

Just as good as the original, in my opinion. ***** (out of
5)


<|_=00=_|>

This is the most frightening movie I've ever seen.  I was expecting it to
be
kind of funny in a bad horror movie way but it plays with your mind to
such
a masterful extent that every time I've seen it I've been shaky
afterwards.
Anthony Perkins does such a good job of playing the rehabilitated Norman
Bates who for 2 hours you have to decide if what's going on is in his head
or really going on.  That puzzlement stays suspenseful for the entire film
until the very involved ending.  This is really a top notch psychological
suspense/horror movie which is very underrated.
<|_=00=_|>

Psycho II is a great horror sequel. Not only is it entertaining, it has many
wonderful twists and turns through out which make it even more enjoyable.
Anthony Perkins, Vera Miles, Robert Loggia and Meg Tilly are all great and
turn in very good performances. Vera Miles turns in a very eccentric
performance, it shows how much she hates Norman. Anthony Perkins makes the
viewer feel sorry for him as he slowly becomes confused again. Meg Tilly has
a lot of charm and Robert Loggia is very good as the very caring Doctor.
It's a well done thrill- ride, highly entertaining and full of suspense,
thanks to director Franklin. Well done to every one involved. I think this
is the best Psycho sequel. 
I love it a lot! You'd think that as it is the sequel to the classic Psycho,
it would suck, it does not!

My personal rating: 10 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Safe to say that Psycho II suffers from all the prejudices possible.
Numberless elements could be used as an excuse to avoid this movie and to
place it among other pointless and money-making sequels. Brought out 22
years after the original masterpiece by Hitchcock himself, I can imagine
that many fans refuse to give a subjective look at it. Very wrong, though!!
Number two is a very worthy and underrated sequel, which brings perfect
homage to the Master of Suspense best film. Even though Franklin can't fully
live up to Hitchcock's style, he shows a pretty intense and mind-blowing
story here. Franklin obviously worships Hitchcock (which was also clear in
one of his previous films - Patrick) and this sequels is made with nothing
but respect and goodwill. The very creative script - written by Tom Holland
- has more than enough positive aspects and perplexing twists to consider
the entire movie a triumph. Sure, some of the twists are far-fetched but
overall the continuation of the Psycho couldn't be better. It actually takes
place 22 years later with Norman Bates judged sane and released from the
mental institution. Some people immediately want to forgive and forget but
some others are convinced that Norman will soon go crazy again. This last
group of people also has a complete plan worked out to make Norman snap
again. Soon there are people dying again in the infamous Bates ' Motel but
who is the vicious murderer this time??? 
Psycho II manages to keep you guessing the entire movie and the terrific
acting performance by Anthony Perkins keeps you even closer to the screen.
If you were a fan of the original masterpiece ( and I can't imagine anyone
isn't a fan of that ), make sure you catch this sequel too!! There were made
two more sequels after this but you can easily skip then....and whatever you
do...keep your hands off the Gus Van Sant remake of 1998. I wish I had!!

<|_=00=_|>
Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) is released after over 20 years in an
asylum, supposedly cured. He goes back to Bates Motel...but then he
starts seeing his dead mother again, gets phone calls from her and the
murders start up again. Is it Norman going crazy again or is someone
trying to drive him to it?

A very good, intricately plotted sequel to Hitchcock's classic. This
could have been a disaster, but it isn't. The plot has many twists and
turns and moves quickly. Director Richard Franklin does an excellent
directing job, setting up some very eerie shots and duplicating some of
Hitchcock's shots from the original. Perkins is just OK (he should have
toned down on the twitches) and Meg Tilly is her usual blank self but
there is a strong supporting cast including Vera Miles and Robert
Loggia. One minor problem--was it necessary to get so violent and
bloody at the end (although it's restrained for a 1980s horror film)?
Still, worth catching. Great final shot too.
<|_=00=_|>

Back in the 60's the genre wasn't popular or hadn't a definitive film to
represent it. PSYCHO came and gave a name to the genre. Now picture Norman,
his mother, and the elements that PSYCHO had mixed in the 80's craziness. It
worked. 
This has to be one of the best sequels to a horror masterpiece.

PSYCHO is probably the most important horror film of all time and doing a
sequel to it deserves a honorable mention. This sequel is by no means better
or even close to the original Alfred Hitchcock masterpiece, no. But the
result is a great and important horror film influenced by the slasher genre
of the early 80's. 
PSYCHO II has everything to succeed: good acting (Anthony Perkins is great!,
Meg Tilly delivers and does it right), mystery, gore, a terrific script by
Tom Holland (the master behind Fright Night and Child's Play), and a
shocking ending. 
Watch this movie if you think sequels are always a disaster when trying to
match the original. This film delivers expectations and I'm proud to say
that it's one of the best horror movies from the 80's, the decade when
horror was at it's peek.

Now in color Norman Bates manages to convince everyone that he is normal and
ready for a normal life which is highly doubted by police and townspeople
that still remember the events in 1960 when Bates started a murder spree.

Norman returns to the Bates Motel and gets a job as a waiter. In the place
where he works he falls in love with Meg Tilly's character and soon the
murders begin to start once again.

Norman's mother is back as well (?) and this time it won't be easy to blame
Norman for the murders. 
Who's behind Norman's actions? How far will he get? 

8/10. Excellent sequel.

<|_=00=_|>
I first saw this movie as a horror loving kid, and I loved it. But
then, as a grownup, I was reluctant to watch it again since so many
films I loved as a kid turned out to be junk, after all. Since I'm a
big Meg Tilly fan, I kinda wanted to keep my good memories... so I
watched it again, for the same reason (go figure).

Well, it was even better than I remembered. Anthony Perkins gives a
truly moving performance, and it's an accomplishment in itself
considering the fact that it's an 80's horror movie - not to mentioned
the legacy of the first. But the actor proposed a completely convincing
continuation of the character. And yes, Tilly is quite good; not at all
your average damsel in distress. I wish she'd consider a comeback (she
was the ultimate wicked step-mom in Body Snatchers).

All in all, a very nice surprise, and certainly no disgrace to the
original.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why, but when I was shopping for DVD's at Best Buy I found
the triple feature for all the Psycho sequels, it was ten dollars, so I
figured what the heck? So I bought it and I watched Psycho 2 last
night, it actually was not as bad as I expected. It was an interesting
plot and made the story work, I'm not going to say that it was
un-necessary, yeah, Psycho did not need a sequel, but it wasn't a bad
movie to watch. My only problem with the film, the blood, Hitchcock did
something that made the first film scary, he left things to the
imagination, the mind's power and thought is more powerful than seeing
something and jumping so quickly to conclusion. Psycho 2 shows a lot
more blood and gore. But Anthony Perkins performs well and makes Psycho
2 worth the watch.

Norman Bates is back in business, he is released from the mental
institution, but when Lila Loomis finds out about this, she freaks out
and sends her daughter, Mary into undercover duty to try to get Norman
back where he belongs. But something is odd, Norman seems actually like
he could have a normal life, just everyone is playing tricks on him to
where he's loosing his mind once again, or is he? Mary tries to keep a
cool Norman so she's not the next Marian Craine.

Psycho 2 is over all a decent sequel, I wouldn't mind watching it again
actually. The story keeps your attention and there are some chilling
moments. It was a little predictable I think, I had a feeling with
Mary, that her story wouldn't end so well, but it's all good, you'll
have to see what I mean. Psycho 2 is worth the watch if you loved the
first Psycho, just like I said, I think they did mess up on showing too
much blood and gore, Hitchcock got it right by leaving it to the
imagination.

5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Alfred Hitchcock's 'Psycho' is a classic piece of cinema. It has become
one of the defining iconic pieces of film that is heralded as a holy
grail. What I admire about it is it's simplicity and the audacity it
has to create a bizarre character like Norman Bates. I can only imagine
what audiences must have thought going into that film because the
implications of such a character for an audience coming out of the
conservative fifties must have been truly unsettling. What makes Norman
such a great character is how clear the divide is between Mother and
Norman. Norman is a likable guy. Anthony Perkins does not scream
psychopath, he could just as easily be your friend or neighbor. There
is a large chunk of Psycho were we even are encouraged to identify with
Norman and I imagine that is what made the film so endearing to 60's
audiences. 

Flash forward twenty years to 'Psycho II'. Norman's secret is out of
the bag and you don't even need to see 'Psycho' to know it. 'Psycho II'
was released in the sea of Freddy Krueger wanna be's and going into
'Psycho II' I expected something along those lines. I put off seeing it
as sort of an exercise in film snobbery as I thought the attempt to do
a sequel should be shunned. I feared Norman Bates would be turned into
a Freddy Krueger. That isn't to say I don't like Freddy Krueger I just
saw 'Psycho' as above it. This may have been my great mistake in
looking at the film. Hitchcock probably wasn't setting out to make a
Holy Grail with 'Psycho' and Robert Bloch's initial novel was nothing
more than a dime story scandal novel. It makes perfect sense taking
Norman Bates and putting him in the culture he created. I expected
Norman to wield a knife with no motive other than shock value and going
in with little knowledge of the film I was pleasantly surprised to see
that the film does not take this approach, in fact it violently rejects
it as it's main arc. 

Norman Bates wants to be cured and turn over a new leaf and
surprisingly the audience wants him to too. Norman is our hero here.
Anthony Perkins gives an absolutely wonderful performance as Norman
Bates. The character is multi-dimensional and has grown since the last
film. Perkins plays up all of Norman's good qualities, he is a polite
and kind man with a horrible alter ego. We see that the last thing
Norman wants in the world is to become Mother again. In a way 'Psycho
II' is kind of a tragic film. With Norman we see an addict whose
addiction completely dominated his life. In 'Psycho II' he starts off
clean and sober but slowly he begins to relapse and we can't help but
feel sorry for him. Perkins brings Norman to low points. He becomes
absolutely pathetic and powerless by the climax of the film and we feel
for him because Perkins shows that Norman has genuinely tried to
overcome the demons in his closet.

There are grisly killings in 'Psycho II' and I expected them. 'Psycho
II' feels like an 80's slasher when the bodies start littering the
screen. Frankly, this is the least interesting aspect of the film.
'Psycho II' is a character study and the murders merely serve to mess
with Norman's sanity. It doesn't matter who the killer really ends up
being in 'Psycho II' because we know it is not Norman. One thing that
really strikes me about the original 'Psycho' and indeed any good
horror film is that it is not the monster that we fear but the presence
around the monster. 'Psycho II' is all about presence. 'Mother' is an
entity. I would be perfectly fine with 'Psycho II' if all the killings
took place in Norman's imagination because the weight of the violence
is so strong. Stylistically, the killings have more in common with a
Friday the 13th film than Hitchcock but what matters is this isn't a
film with a body count for the sake of having one.

The film isn't really completely about Norman however. 'Psycho II' does
a very good job in showing how the community and Norman's victims were
affected by what he did. The plot involved Lila Loomis and her daughter
Mary is pitch perfect. Bringing back Vera Miles was a wonderful choice
as her character has become just as disturbed as Norman. And really
what reaction does someone have to such grisly events? No one has any
faith in Norman to come back from the depths of insanity and it really
is symbolical of 'Psycho' and it's slasher clones. By the end of
'Psycho II' Norman is back for good and it is satisfying to see the
cost it has on the character and the fruitless battle he put up to save
himself from this fate.
<|_=00=_|>
Psycho II is a fine follow up to Hitchcock's original, Anthony Perkins
returns as Norman Bates After twenty-two years of psychiatric care he
returns to the Bates motel the scene of his previous crimes. But the
sister of one of his victims Marion Crane (Janet Leigh) Vera Miles vows
revenge on him and plots to send him back to the asylum, Bates
befriends the troubled Mary (Meg Tily) and the pair form a friendship
which see's the troubled girl reside with Bates at the motel. Psycho II
has some fine suspenseful scenes and also some clever gore which
remains typical of the 'slasher' period and their are some clever
twists and turns which are clever.
