

For me this wonderful rollercoaster of a film bears repeated pleasurable
viewings. Its about the tangled lives of three very different people.
Holly
Hunter is the obsessive workaholic producer. Albert Brookes plays the
unprepossessing but brilliant journalist. William Hurt is the affable but
dumb new kid on the block, news anchor.

The classical love triangle emerges with the stunningly witty and self
deprecating Brookes in love with Hunter but she of course is attracted to
Hurt.

This film works on many levels. At the very least it is a brilliant comedy
with the one liners flying so thick and fast that each viewing bears a new
harvest of ones that you may have missed last time. Its also a film about
attraction and unfulfilled romance.

But perhaps most importantly the film examines the modern obsession with
physical appearance and its ultimate triumph over intellect as a valued
human attribute. This is personified by the meteoric career success of the
Hurt character in contrast to Brookes relative decline.

Despite being fifteen years old the film has some startingly relevant
messages about modern news values and the continuing decline in
journalistic
standards.

This film is a classic in every sense and it is difficult to understand
why
it has been so neglected
<|_=00=_|>

BROADCAST NEWS marks the first time I saw Holly Hunter and I was mesmerized
at her focus, quickness, passion, and finally her eccentric prettiness and
sex appeal. The movie is hers from start to finish, and makes the 'love
triangle' subplot almost unnecessary. She's so smart in the film (a rarity
for a lead female) that you almost think if her only romantic choices are
William Hurt's style-but-no-substance anchor or Albert Brooks's neurotic but
intellectually arrogant reporter, she'd be better off with Robert Prosky.
Though I can best relate to Albert Brooks (the guy who loves the smart,
alluring girl who only sees him as a 'brother'), he still ticked me off a
bit. My favorite scene in the film is him pouring his heart out to Hunter on
a front porch confessing his love, then taking her by surprise and kissing
her romantically (the only time he gets the chance). When he goes petulant
later in the story, it's a bit hard to take. Fortunately, the James Brooks
script and direction are a joy throughout, culminating in two perfect
scenes: one with Joan Cusack unraveling seconds before a tape feed, and a
marvelous 360 (?) pan thru the studio showing a live news feed from producer
to anchor in one shot. 
<|_=00=_|>
I say sadly because if you see this movie now, you realize how low our
media has sunk- all the warning signs are in this movie.

It's a great film, I think the last great James Brooks film, but others
may disagree. It has rich characters (who are believable as well),
great acting, great writing, and although the music got a little
cheesy, I even liked that.

William Hurt has never been better. Holly Hunter is stunning. And
Albert Brooks walks away with every scene he's in- this triangle of
people is beautifully drawn and compelling and made the whole movie
soar above it's vital and important topic of the News, and how it's
slowly being compromised in our nation.

Watch this with NETWORK for a truly fun and frightening evening.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is one of my favorite comedies of all time. The dialog is
crisp, the pace is fast. Not only is this a clever comedy, this is an
interesting look at what goes on behind the scenes in the television
news business.

There are so many funny lines...a couple of my favorites:

Ernie Merriman: (sarcastically) It must be nice to always believe you
know better, to always think you're the smartest person in the room.
Jane: (seriously) NO, it's not, it's awful!!

Aaron: He must be good looking Jane: How do you know that? Aaron: No
one invites a bad looking idiot to their room!

The performances of Holly Hunter, Albert Brooks, and William Hurt were
absolutely brilliant! Even years later, I remember this movie well.
Often forgotten is the wonderfully funny Joan Cusack! I love the scene
where the newsroom personnel are racing to beat a deadline. There are
so many funny scenes that it's hard to pick a favorite. I highly
recommend this film.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm sitting around going through movie listings and not really seeing
anything I want to see.  My appetite keeps saying, "Something like
BROADCAST
NEWS."  That's what I want.  Something smart and funny, with adult ideas
and
great acting and writing, and a directorial style that doesn't call
attention to itself.  This may well be Hurt's best performance (is this or
THE BIG CHILL, to my mind): however eccentric, Hurt is smart, and to play
an
unintelligent person without making sure -- wink wink -- the audience
knows
-- wink wink -- hey, I'M not stupid... well, that's fine acting right
there.
Hunter is note-perfect, and Albert Brooks is a revelation.  (And he can
read and sing at the same time!)  Great, great work.


<|_=00=_|>

Excellent movie about a big media firm and the goings on both on and off
camera. Covering several years, the film centers on 3 upwardly mobile,
young
hopefuls, all striving for their place within the corporation. Well written
dialogue, flawless acting, and a riveting story made for 2 hours of solid
entertainment. 
<|_=00=_|>

BROADCAST NEWS brings the world of network television newscasts to the
screen in a very realistic way--where ratings rule and flash wins out over
substance and the "charisma" of the anchor who brings us the news is seen as
more important than the news itself.

The film was nominated for seven Academy Awards, including Best Picture and
acting nominations for each of the three leads.  Amazingly, no statuettes
were achieved.

Holly Hunter deservedly won an Oscar six years later for THE PIANO, but her
portrayal of Jane Craig, the no-nonsense producer for the Washington News
Bureau, is perhaps her most memorable performance.

Craig is an "old-school" newswoman who came up the hard way, by being a good
reporter.  She is disturbed over what is happening in the broadcast industry
as she sees quality being sacrificed over the battle for good ratings with a
cheap pricetag.  Hard on her peers in her demands for excellence, even
against the flow of pressure in the other direction, she manages to turn
everybody off, including potential relationships.  Whenever she's alone with
her thoughts, even for a moment, Jane breaks down in tears, then is
incredibly able to go right back into a professional mode at a moment's
notice.

William Hurt is Tom Grunick, the young newscaster with no experience but
plenty of good looks--and, after all, that's what the public wants.  Tom
finds himself attracted to Jane, but she is at first upset with what she
perceives is his undeserved success.  Tom Grunick is exactly what Jane Craig
has been campaigning against.

Later, though, even Jane succumbs to Tom's charm, much to the dismay of
newswriter Aaron Altman, played by Albert Brooks.

Altman is the antithesis of Grunick--a gifted journalist who really knows
his stuff, but lacks the presence and confidence that Tom displays before
the cameras--and he's been secretly in love with Jane for
years.

Brooks is one of the funniest actors of all-time.  When the station starts
to cut back in personnel to cut expenses, Brooks' character, Altman tries to
save his job by trying out for the weekend anchor position.  In the middle
of the newscast, Altman breaks out in the worst case of "flop-sweat" in
history--"Even Nixon didn't sweat this much."

Frustrated when he sees Tom getting ahead of him career-wise as well as
winning the affections of Jane, Aaron pours out his heart to her, calling
Tom 'the devil.'  "He'll be attractive, he'll be nice and helpful...he'll
get a job where he influences a great God-fearing nation...he'll never do an
evil thing, he'll never deliberately hurt a living thing...he'll just bit by
little bit lower our standards where they're important...just a tiny little
bit.........and he'll get all the great women."

In the end, Jane finally recognizes Tom for the phony he really is, but that
doesn't stop him from going all the way to the top.  Altman, rather than
compromise his standards, leaves the Washington Bureau and goes to work at a
small station in the Pacific Northwest where he will be appreciated.  Years
later, they all meet again and find they've come to accept each other and
how they fit in the grand scheme of things.

Anyone who has spent any time in the broadcast industry will recognize some
of the inner workings of this crazy business--and will be able to laugh and
cry right along with Jane and Tom and Aaron.
<|_=00=_|>

Essential viewing for anyone who watches TV news as it may help to become a
little more sceptical, or even cynical. On a personal note I recall taking a
course some years ago about being interviewed for TV - what to do, what not
to do. The course instructors impressed on us that TV news was a "branch of
show-biz". That depressing view, which is probably even more valid today
than when it was made, is reinforced by this film. Never mind journalistic
integrity, what counts is the ability to look good and smile nicely. And
make sure you don't sweat on camera.

The interactions between the three main characters form the centre-piece,
each with his or her own ambitions, capabilities and beliefs. Brooks takes
these differences and sets them into the volatile setting of a TV news
studio, and adds more than a pinch of love interest to the mixture. The
result is a complex, if somewhat overlong, portrayal of how we compromise
every day in order to meet our ambitions and take others with us. It is
always entertaining, although the final scene was, perhaps, unnecessary
given everything that had gone before.
<|_=00=_|>
James L. Brook is one of those directors who always seems to take a
quirky look at life. He isn't only the producer for "The Simpsons," he
has some classic comedies under his belt -- "Broadcast News" is one of
them.

Although it doesn't match his later effort "As Good As It Gets,"
"Broadcast News" is still a very clever, funny and witty movie about a
television broadcasting station and all the problems they suffer.
There's a great comedic sequence of physical humor where Joan Cusack is
running around the building trying to rush a news tape to the editing
room in a matter of mere minutes before it is to be broadcast live on
TV.

This isn't only very truthful in terms of how hectic broadcasting
stations are operated, but also a skillful and honest portrayal of
human beings.

A low-key, subtle movie with good acting (especially from Hurt, who I
don't always like so much) and apt direction.
<|_=00=_|>

"Broadcast News" deals with news journalists who are all trying to keep
their sanity in an insane business.  William Hurt (Oscar-nominated) is the
man who will do anything to become the head news anchor with his television
network.  He knows that the top anchor (Jack Nicholson) will be retiring
soon and he must have that seat in front of the camera.  Holly Hunter (also
Oscar-nominated) is the smart producer who realizes that not everything in
the news business is just black and white.  Albert Brooks (Oscar-nominated
as well) is the reporter who does not take anything too seriously.  He is a
great newsman, but does not have the drive or charisma to make a splash like
Hurt does.  This is definitely a black-comedy because the comedy comes to a
screeching halt throughout the film to make way for heartrending drama that
is both realistic and sometimes difficult to take.  Brooks' screenplay is
smart for the most part, but the film is flawed in several areas.  Sometimes
the direction is not clear.  I think that Brooks was going for something
like "Network".  He comes close, but this film is in a lower class than that
movie.  The performances are top-notch.  However, Jack Nicholson's token
appearance is somewhat wasted here.  He shows up for one or two minutes at a
time and his character is never explored.  More Jack Nicholson would have
provided more insight into Hurt's character and his motives.  Though flawed,
"Broadcast News" is still a very good film that is a winner for the most
part.  4 stars out of 5.
