

I read all the commentaries and disagree with most, but particularly those
who moan about this being "slow" for the first 45 minutes.  Look. This is a
classic.  The story is great.  A misanthropic rabbi comes to a congregation
in San Francisco and get waylaid and falls into (mis)adventures with a seedy
character.  This unlikely duo make their way to SF undergoing a number of
adventures.
If you do not understand the yiddishekeit of this film, go take a look at
the Marx brothers.  The scene where battered Wilder sees the Amish and goes
screaming in Yiddish only to discover the cross in the bible in one of the
farmer's pockets and faints dead away, is worth the price of admission
along.  The voting scene at the Yeshiva where only the little boy votes for
Wilder invoking the older Rabbi turning his eyes to heaven and saying, "It's
going to be close!" is likewise great. This is zany Yiddish theater at its
best.  Wilder, always overacting, is SUPERB as the rabbi.  Ford is merely
great as the kindhearted outlaw.  The bad guys are bad, the characters they
meet along the way, Schiavelli and veteran character actor Ian Wolfe are
great as the Trappist monks, even Joe Kapp is great as the Mexican RR
worker.  This is great watching and one of my favorite films.  Don't knock
it.  It's hilarious.  Check it out!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has withstood the test of time ... 25 years so far. At times
it appears to contain obvious, silly and even base comedy. But that
only mildly disguises the depth of humanity and profound philosophy
that it successfully presents. Like other commentators, I consider this
film to be one of my all-time favorites. Gene Wilder was at the peak of
his career, having made a big splash in The Producers with Zero Mostel,
and then going on to memorable performances in other Mel Brooks'
classics: Blazing Saddles and Young Frankenstein. In fact, many people
erroneously believe that The Frisco Kid is a Mel Brooks film. (Indeed
the writers, Elias & Shaw, had several years earlier written a TV Pilot
based on the Blazing Saddles plot, but it had failed.)

Though I am a big fan of Mel Brooks, I think that one reason this film
succeeds so well is that Robert Aldrich directed it instead of Brooks.
In other words, it is essentially a dramatic western that is filled to
the brim with comedy -- instead of the other way around. Aldrich had
previously directed serious epic westerns, and he became famous in the
sixties for directing What Ever Happened to Baby Jane, Hush... Hush,
Sweet Charlotte, The Flight of the Phoenix, and The Dirty Dozen. These
films, as well as his classic The Longest Yard, showed how infusing
humor into serious drama can make plots more interesting and characters
more human and sympathetic. 

Frank DeVol provided the music ... and you can see him in the part of
the old time piano player. DeVol had provided music for a number of
Aldrich films, including the five films mentioned in the previous
paragraph. He was famous for his comic scores (e.g., Pillow Talk, Cat
Ballou, and The Trouble with Angels) and his music for TV series (e.g.,
My Three Sons, The Brady Bunch, McCloud, and the Love Boat). 

Another gem in this film is Harrison Ford -- in a role that seems so
second-nature to him, but showcases his versatility. His character is
not that much different from Hans Solo. (Star Wars appeared in 1977 and
Empire Strikes Back appeared in 1980, while The Frisco Kid came out in
1979.) In fact, it seemed emblematic of the movies in the sixties and
seventies that some of our big screen heroes were selfish rogues with a
heart of gold. Think of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, which came
out in 1969. 

The executive producer was Hawk Koch, whose father, Howard W. Koch was
a Hollywood icon, having produced scores of films, including The
Manchurian Candidate and The Odd Couple. This was one of Hawk Koch's
first jobs, and he has now been the executive producer of over twenty
outstanding features, including Mike Myers' Wayne's World and --
another great comedy exploring religious belief -- Keeping the Faith,
with Ben Stiller and Edward Norton. 

Finally, because the DVD is not yet available, here's a gem that was
not included in the IMDb Memorable Quotes section, though I have edited
it to avoid giving too much away for those who haven't seen the film
yet:

"Chief Gray Cloud: Yes or no, can your God make rain?"

"Avram: Yes."

"Chief Gray Cloud: But he doesn't?"

"Avram: That's right."

"Chief Gray Cloud: Why?"

"Avram: Because that's not his department!"

* * * 

"Avram: ... He gives us strength when we're suffering! He gives us
compassion when all that we feel is hatred! He gives us courage when
we're searching around blindly like little mice in the darkness! ... "

HOW TRUE! Whether you identify with Gene Wilder's Rabbi or with
Harrison Ford's Rogue, this film is filled with valuable lessons. The
world is unpredictable. Sometimes we suffer. And sometimes we find
strength, courage, compassion, ... and humor to deal with it all.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a great film. Gene Wilder plays an authentic Polish rabbi with a
believable Yiddish accent in a buddy movie romp through the Wild West.
Harrison Ford, in his pre-Indiana Jones incarnation, makes an effective
side-kick. This is truly among Wilder's best roles. Robert Nurenberg's
review couldn't have said it any better... except Wilder did not portray a
rabbinical school dropout, though he was not likely the most outstanding
pupil. He was a trained rabbi sent to America to assume a pulpit in San
Francisco where he would marry the woman hand picked by a match-maker. What
happens on the way from Poland to California is more than worth a single
viewing! The Frisco Kid is a most enjoyable, insightful, and entertaining
film. A well-deserved 10/10!
<|_=00=_|>

When the "Frisco Kid" first came on tv two decades ago I recorded it and
watched it over and over, my wife and friends and I quoting parts of it at
each other at appropriate moments in our lives.

I read the (some) lukewarm comments here on the Database and the more
positive ones and let them ride, just keeping this small pearl tucked away
as my favorite movie. Then last night I came home, turned on the tv and
caught Gene Wilder as the rabbi Avram Belinksi trying NOT to look at the
woman on the train's wondrous cleavage as he was making his way to 1850 San
Francisco, so I and sat down and watched the movie through again. It is
still as funny, quaint, realistic, well acted and kind as it has ever
been.

Gene Wilder demonstrates the best acting he has ever done. He IS Avram
Belinski. Complex, human, childlike and oh so (what I imagine) European
Jewish. A stranger in a doubly strange land. Strange by being an urban Pole
in the "wild west" and strange by being a Jew in that world.
 
I learnt a lot about "Jewishness" from this movie, and at the same time a
lot about Americanism too. Being neither myself I can still appreciate the
humour. Humanist, long suffering, realistic and proud.

Whatever it is inside me that makes me feel good and part of humanity is
touched by "The Frisco Kid". That is why I regard it as my "favorite" movie,
not the best movie ever made. That title I reserve for another totally
different obscure B/W movie called "King and Country" whose demonstrated
injustice is counter-balanced by Avram's integrity.   


<|_=00=_|>

Of course I'd have to be crazy to call _The Frisco Kid_ the best movie ever
made, but it's certainly a strong contender for the flick I love the most
(an opinion shared by my parents, brothers, cousins . . .).  From the
premise -- a Polish rabbi in the Wild West -- you'd expect a *spoof* a la
_Blazing Saddles_, but in fact this is played absolutely straight, the
comedy arising 100% from the believable human situations the characters are
thrust into.  

Because of this, the first third of the movie is much devoted to setting up
what follows, and might strike the first-time viewer as a bit slow
(actually, it's subtle and as deliciously re-watchable as the rest). 
Patience will be rewarded, though, because once the pieces are in place, and
especially once our hero meets Harrison Ford's bank-robber with a heart of
gold, there's just one indelibly great scene after another.

It's important to note that this is much, much more than a comedy.  It's
episodic, of course, but an early story element returns unexpectedly (more
than once); you think you've been watching just an entertainment and you
gradually realize there's a real (and genuinely moving) *point* to all this,
as is rarely seen in movies this funny.  Rabbi Avram Belinsky (played, of
course, with pure magic by Gene Wilder) starts off the movie as a
well-meaning schlemiel, someone as ineffectual as he is nice, and ends as a
mensch, as a moral force to be reckoned with.  (Typical and classic moment
along the way: when he's forced to explain the nature of God to a bunch of
Indians, he is downright Talmudic in his wisdom -- but the Talmud was never
hysterically funny!)  The final, genuinely dramatic scenes raise issues
about faith, friendship, and personal identity and destiny that are
downright profound (at least on repeated viewings) -- without ever missing a
comedic beat.  Extraordinary.

This is a movie that does for faith and friendship what "Manhattan" and
"Tootsie" did for romance and gender roles.  Can they please get this out on
DVD while my folks are still around to enjoy it?
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of my all-time favorite comedies. A lot of it is gritty,
but the movie never loses sight of the humor it's trying to get across.

Gene Wilder is the center of it. Anyone could have played Ford's role,
but he does a competent job. He's not really believable, but the ROLE
isn't believable. It's hard to be a good guy when you're threatening
peoples' lives in order to rob them.

Wilder is the whole movie, except for Val Bisoglio as Chief Gray Cloud.
Wilder portrays a lost man in the wilds of frontier America, and he
does it well. The movie itself deftly avoids moralizing about the
'right' religion. The Amish people helping the Rabbi on his journey is
very realistic. They would not have turned down another religious man;
they would have helped him, just as they do, in the film. I appreciate
little touches, like this. It would have been far too easy to portray
the Amish (or Mennonites; it's hard to tell, with a movie set in that
time period) as ultraconservative bigots, but instead, the production
crew chose to show them realistically.

This is a sweet, funny movie, with some real drama, unless you're just
too cynical to care. And if you ARE too cynical to care, I truly pity
you. This is a fun, exciting movie that anyone should like.

knsevy KCMO
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is hysterical, from its depiction of what the American west must
have looked like to an outsider to its terrific Jewish guilt and humor,
although it does have a lot of "insider" Jewish humor. That's not to say it
can't be enjoyed by non-Jews, as well, but a familiarity with Jewish culture
definitely makes the movie more enjoyable. 
Wilder is at his funniest and Harrison Ford is charming as a side-kick, a
role I wasn't accustomed to seeing him in. Watching Ford succumb to Jewish
guilt--even when it means freezing his butt--is fantastic.
My apologies to Blazing Saddles fans but I think this is way funnier. And it
didn't even have to rely on fart-humor.

<|_=00=_|>

It is hard to find movies about the Jewish experience in America that are
positive.  At best most are cynical journeys from belief to assimilation. 
At worst, they depict Jewish as consisting merely of someone with a New York
accent eating a bagel.  There are few (I can't actually think of another
one, but I'll be optimistic) films in which a person is depicted as being
happily, actively Jewish, religiously, not just culturally.  This film is a
happy exception.  Rabbi Belinski encounters many different kinds of people
in his journey. He is confronted with many new cultures and pressures, but
never abandons his beliefs.  He may learn to ride, but not on Shabbat. He is
happy to make friends with anyone who will respect him in his
"differentness" just as he respects them.  It may not be the greatest comedy
or human drama, but it is near and dear to my heart.  
<|_=00=_|>

One of the best "feel-good" movies I have ever seen.  I once heard Gene
Wilder say that he got the Rabbi's accent from his grandfather, and I can
believe it!

A few weeks ago, my husband and I were channel surfing in the middle of
the
night, and came across the movie, dubbed in Spanish.  We ended up staying
awake until the wee hours of the morning, just to watch this
gem.

A gentle film, not afraid to show a love of religion and of friendship, I
wish that more movies were like this.


<|_=00=_|>

I agree with a few of the other commenters who say this is an overlooked
film. I think many people gave up on it because the first 45 minutes or so
are VERY slow. After that, the pace picks up nicely and the film becomes
quite humorous. Gene Wilder stars as a Rabbi sent from Europe to San
Francisco. He must traverse the entire US and has several adventures and
misadventures along the way. He also meets up with Harrison Ford, who
portrays a bank robber. There are a few scenes where there is some violence.
The film is a combination of western drama and comedy, with elements of both
in about equal amounts. As I said earlier, give this film a chance...suffer
through the first 45 minutes or so. The remainder of the film is well worth
it.
