
One thing I can always promise you is that when people talk about the
best vampire movies of all time, The Lost Boys is guaranteed to be on
their list. In the 1980's, films were all about action, sex appeal,
muscles and very good looking teenagers. Joel Schumacher, who was
starting out at the time, was given the script and it was about kid
vampires. He thought it sounded silly and offered a different idea of
it being teenage vampires on motorcycles; who knew he had one of the
best ideas that would create such a huge cult classic for decades? I
absolutely adore this movie, everything about it: it's style, the
script, the humor, the horror, the make up, the cast and the music.
While dated, it still has a timeless fun style to it that will
entertain those who are seeing it for the first time as if it was the
opening weekend at the movie theater. I've watched this movie since I
was a little girl and it's interesting to see that I still love The
Lost Boys so much, as an adult I have a different love for it than "the
boys are sooo cute!", well, they still are, but besides the point, The
Lost Boys is a great movie that will not disappoint.

Michael and his younger brother, Sam, move with their just-divorced
mother, Lucy, to Santa Carla, plagued by gang activity and unexplained
disappearances, what better place to take your children?! The family
moves in with Lucy's father, an eccentric old man who lives on the
outskirts of town, and enjoys taxidermy as a hobby. The center of town
life is the Boardwalk, which is plastered with flyers of missing
people. While Lucy gets a job at a local video store run by a
conservative man named Max, Michael becomes fascinated by Star, a
beautiful young woman who lives with the mysterious leader of the local
gang, David. Meanwhile, in the local comic book store, Sam meets
brothers Edgar and Alan Frog, self-proclaimed vampire hunters who give
Sam horror comics to teach him about vampires. When Michael meets Star
the next night, David provokes him into a motorcycle race, in which he
is baited into almost going over the edge of a sea cliff. David invites
Michael to their lair, where he is put through an unsettling initiation
that includes drinking blood from a wine bottle. The next night, while
Sam takes a bath, his dog, Nanook, is forced to fend off Michael's
bloodlust-driven attack on Sam. When Sam looks for his dog, he finds
his brother has been attacked, but also that Michael's reflection in a
mirror has become transparent. Sam calls the Frog brothers for help,
they say the only way to save his brother is by killing the head
vampire who they suspect is Max, Lucy's boss and new boyfriend.

It's hard to pin point what is so great about this movie. I love the
cast, starting with Kiefer Sutherland who plays David, the lead of the
Lost Boys. He has only a few lines, but you'd think he was the title
character the way he presents himself, you can tell he had so much fun
with this bad boy role. Dianne Wiest, one of my favorite actresses,
what a beautiful lovely woman she is, her character is so warm and
wonderful. She plays a great mom and is so believable the way she
reacts to the situations she's put in by her crazy sons. This was also
the start of "The Two Corey's", Corey Haim and Corey Feldman who had
great chemistry along side with Jamison Newlander as they are hunting
for vampires. They're like Rambo's who take themselves way too
seriously and that's why they are so hilarious but great at what they
do. The make up effects are just great and the vampires had such a
sleek sexy look to them but still terrifying; the scene where they show
Michael their vampire faces is one of the most memorable and most
frightening. This is without a doubt the sexiest vampire movie you
could watch. It has everything a vampire film should have to entertain.
I still love showing this movie to my friends who never saw it, I envy
the look on their faces at the end when they fall in love with it too
as I wish I could say I was seeing it for the first time too. But I
watch it each time and love it as if I were watching it for the first
time, it's a fantastic movie, I could go on and on, but I'll just end
with: please watch this movie. You better be buying this movie right
now as you're finished reading this comment.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Without a doubt, among the most brilliant of vampire movies ever made,
in the modern film era. Jason Patric and Kiefer Sutherland are destined
to blow away all audiences of this visual masterpiece. However, the
twist at the end, which I plan not to give away, was made slightly
obvious, though well hidden at the same time. Joel Schumacher does a
splendid job directing this true work of art. The frog brothers did a
great job of adding humor to this otherwise, mainly serious film,
without spoiling the suspense. That made the film far more enjoyable to
people with interests in multiple genres. Jami Gertz looks absolutely
attractive in her role as Star. However, the show is undoubtedly stolen
by Kiefer Sutherland, in the role of David, the rebellious, dangerous,
rude and rambunctious, teenaged vampire, who seduces Michael (Jason
Patric) into joining his gang of vampires. The story is of a woman
(Dianne Wiest), and her two sons, Sam (Corey Haim) and Michael
(Patric), who move to a small Californian town, called Santa Carla,
often referred to as the murder capital of the world, to live with her
father after getting divorced. Little to their knowledge, the town
happens to be inhabited by a motorcycle gang of Jim Morrison obsessed,
teenage vampires. While the mother begins to fall in love with her boss
from the video store, where she has been employed, Sam spends his time
reading vampire comics, which were given to him by two brothers (Corey
Feldman, Jamison Newlander), who claim the town is infested by
vampires. He does not believe them, but grows to almost immediately,
upon realizing that his brother, Michael, has been seduced by the
beautiful half-vampiress, Star (Gertz), and joins the gang, led by
David (Sutherland). He realizes that neither Star nor Michael are true
vampire until they make their first kill, and they will not become
normal again until the head vampire is killed. So, he calls up the
brothers Frog, and gets them to come in and help him solve the job,
though he is scared that he might have to kill his brother. Overall, a
cinematic masterpiece. The directing, acting, writing, camera work,
special effects, stunts and, of course, the epic cinematography work
with the astounding score to bring together one of the most loved films
of all time. The story is in fact an allegory to that of the lost boys
of Neverland, from Peter Pan. A contemporary, without the temporary,
classic.
<|_=00=_|>

OK everyone agrees THE LOST BOYS was way ahead of its time. Dead set right!
In essence it hasn't aged at all, only the fashions! By far Corey Haim's
best flick, Cory Feldham's too, although I rather liked TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA
TURTLES (The original, that is)

Schumacher's concept of placing the vampire myth in sleepyville USA was
commendable, it really worked. Sutherland took his role in both teeth and
gave us a stylish vampire-on-a-Harley with Jami Gertz in tow. God does SHE
look young here compared to her role as Bill Paxton's neurotic fiancee in
TWISTER?)

Absolutely outstanding soundtrack that my kids have totally worn out the
last decade or so. As a family we have probably watched THE LOST BOYS more
than any other film. Everything gels, gr8 fx and, given the subject matter,
a literate script. 

Deserving of the relatively high rating it has received here. WE have the
same problem here in Castle Hill, WAY too many damn vampires!
<|_=00=_|>

This movie to me is more of a comedy than a horror.  The scenes I remember
most are the funny ones.  Not to say it is a pure comedy, it isn't.  It is
though a very good vampire tale.  The cast is superb, even Corey Haim and
Feldman.  This is definitely the best movie they did together.  This one has
a family of three (a mother and two sons) moving into her dad's home.  They
go around town and the younger one hears from some comic book workers that
there are vampires in town.  The older son is in fact being recruited by
said vampires and is already becoming one after drinking a strange liquid. 
All in all I love this film and it is one of my favorite vampire flicks. 
Good mixture of action, horror, and especially for me...comedy.  This movie
is so very well made that you will find it hard to believe that the director
of this would go on to make the pretty bad "Batman and Robin".  This movie
though is good, and has one of the best ending lines of any
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The Lost Boys is one of the movies that I think epitomizes the 1980's.
It has a genuine 80's look and feel, as well as an awesome soundtrack
and some fantastic performances by 80's legends like Corey Feldman.

This movie really draws you into it and makes you feel like you're
right there in Santa Carla. The music fits the film perfectly. Nothing
would have worked better. The setting is perfect. If you were a vampire
and you were never going to die, where else would you want to spend
your time? The amusement park, the abandoned cave with all that great
stuff in it, and the railroad tracks (trust me, you'll understand after
you see it) are absolutely incredible. The way Joel Schumacher uses
certain POV shots and the eerie fog only add to the mood and atmosphere
of the movie.

The gore and special effects are great! Since this is an 80's movie,
there is no CGI thankfully, so everything you see is really real. The
make-up of the vampires is excellent with their piercing eyes and long
fangs. The gore doesn't really show itself until the end, though there
is a very bloody (but quick) campfire attack in the middle. Once we do
get to the blood and guts, it's great! There's a melting vampire in
holy water, an exploding vampire, two excellent impalings, and more
where that came from.

Finally, the acting is great. We have a very good cast, especially
Kiefer Sutherland, who puts everyone else to shame. Jason Patric is a
little dry, but he's great in his role. Max and Lucy have good
chemistry, as well as Star and Michael. The Frog Brothers are classic
and are responsible for most of the humor. Superb performances by all!

The Bottom Line: 

A true 80's flick, with great performances, awesome special effects, a
rocking soundtrack, and Corey Feldman!!!
<|_=00=_|>

Browsing through IMDB I was shocked to see this film has only scored 6.7!
The brilliance of this film is undescribable, I first saw it when I was
about 11. It changed me! I wanted to be a teenage vampire and live forever!
I have probably since seen this film more than any other, I haven't a bad
word about it. Fantastic effects, acting, writing, and the music, believe me
you'll be straight out to buy the soundtrack once you've seen this, and play
it as if it was one of your favourite albums. Everyone is great in this film
but Feldman was born for this part, he's like an older version of 'Mouth'
from The Goonies, in many ways this film like an older brother to Goonies
and cousin of American Werewolf. They truly don't make movies like this
anymore, they finished in the 80's (Gremlins, Fright Night, American
Werewolf in London, Return of the Living Dead, Evil Dead, I'm sure there's
more...). What more can I say?
<|_=00=_|>

This is the best popcorn movie I've ever watched. It has to be one of the
best vampire flicks to hit 80's screens. (Well actually I can think of
others but this one tops them.) Some critics refer to it as just one big MTV
music commercial with all the pop culture references and all, but the
soundtrack is the best feature of it.
Kiefer Sutherland makes a fantastically sexy vampire and Jamie Gertz acts
the best I've ever seen. Good to see some older pro's in for the ride as
well (Dianne Wiest and Edward Herriman).
I totally recommend this movie for a Friday night in. 9/10

<|_=00=_|>

I loved this film as a kid and it has always stayed at the top of my
vampire
genre list, you could bet I was plenty surprised when I found out that
this
little jewel of 80's cinema was directed by the now yawn worthy "Phone
Booth" helmer, Joel Scumacher (the man who massacred the "Batman"
franchise).

The best element of this movie is that fact that it doesn't take itself
very
seriously, but in no way does that effect the relative creepiness of the
main storyline. The makeup is top notch, as are the special effects and
the
acting is a perfect fit to the context of the film. Yeah, Corey Haim may
not
be a Dean or Brando, but he is pitch perfect as the annoying little
brother
who talks big and runs fast in the face of trouble.  Jason Patrick is as
good as an actor could possibly be in a role that requires very little
character development but the big star here is Kiefer Sutherland who
channels his "scary bad boy" look into a character who is as fun to watch
as
he is frightening. Rounding out the rest of the cast is Dianne Wiest as
the
sweet mother, Corey Haim and Edward Hermann as the vampire killing duo
Edgar
and Alan (a cute Poe reference) Frog and 80's movie staple Jamie Gertz as
the gypsy-esque Star.(sidenote: Yes that is Alex Winter of "Bill and Ted"
fame as one of the lesser vampires)

The film has many memorable scenes including the vampire initiation and
the
scene where Patrick first approaches his brother in vampire form. Though
the
80's fashion and music are powerful throughout they borderline overdone
and
are still enjoyable. Plotwise the set up is acceptable: Wiest and her two
sons(Patrick and Haim) move into her father's house in Santa Carla,
California, a quaint little beach side town that has been suffering from a
high homicide rate. While mom looks for a job the boys look for something
to
do, Patrick setting his sights on the alluring Star and Haim settling into
the local comic den, both fail to notice the ridiculous amount of
"MISSING"
posters on the walls. Patrick is led astray by a group of youths who like
to
drag race and hang out in a cave, eventually peer pressure rears its ugly
head and soon enough Patrick is one of them. Then he finds out exactly why
they only hang out after dark.

Full of great one liners and comedic performances (Barnard Hughes is great
as the eccentric taxidermist/grandfather) "The Lost Boys" is a film
showcased by the small touches: we still have the usual vampire yarn, but
the youthful overtones create a different effect. Yes its 80's but its
damn
fun to watch. Schumacher creates a film that is not only a fun take on
vampires but a creative take on teenagers and their neverending trek to
belong.

Reccommended to those who have a sense of humor and enjoy vampire films.

8 out of 10. 
<|_=00=_|>
There are many films about vampires, but one that is almost always
remembered with a shy smile on the face is definitely "The Lost Boys".
As one of the best remembered films of the 80s, this movie has become
part of pop culture and a defining film for that period as it showcases
most of what was cool or hip in that decade. While its status as
"horror classic" has a lot to do with the nostalgic factor, it's an
entertaining film on its own right and its modernization of the vampire
myth along with its tongue in cheek humor still make for a charming and
funny session of pure mindless entertainment.

The movie begins with Lucy Emerson (Dianne Wiest) as she moves to Santa
Clara, California, with her two teenager sons, Michael (Jason Patric)
and Sam (Corey Haim) after a bitter divorce. In Santa Clara, Michael
becomes involved with a local gang of bikers who have a dark and
mysterious secret while Sam becomes friends with two weird boys who
claim that the town is being invaded by vampires and its their mission
to get rid of them. As Michael begins to act strange, Sam suspects that
his brother has become one of the undead and begins to take his friends
seriously.

Directed by Joel Schumacher, "The Lost Boys" is a movie that
effectively combines a cool and attractive look with a simple but
entertaining plot resulting in a successful and charming film. The
story modernizes classic elements of the vampire myth and adapts it to
its time with intelligence and definitely tongue in cheek humor. In
fact, this self-aware comedy approach is what makes the film enjoyable,
and it relies more on fun and laughs than in actual scares. The plot is
rather simple, and lacks some character development, but it makes an
interesting (although also quite simplistic) analogy between the
troubles of youth and becoming a vampire.

Visually the movie looks great, although by now it has that dated
nostalgic look of a past decade. Still, the flamboyant visual
composition fits perfectly in the film's time and context and it is one
of the films biggest assets. Schumacher's fluid and energetic
camera-work makes the movie flow at with a nice rhythm and the movie
never becomes dull or boring.

The cast is very effective and everyone makes a great job. Corey Haim
is remarkably good and while he may not be a good actor, in this film
he is perfect for the role of Sam. Jason Patric is less lucky and he is
overshadowed by the very talented Kiefer Sutherland, who steals every
scene with his charm and presence. Jami Gertz gives a somewhat
forgettable performance but veterans Dianne Wiest and Edward Herrmann
are both excellent in their roles and have some funny lines.

"The Lost Boys" suffers a lot from its own self-referential nature, it
looks old and severely dated by now even when it's 20 years ago when it
was released for the first time. The cleverly written plot is very
entertaining, but somehow the lack of character development and the
comedy take on the story make it to never reach its full potential. The
premise is quite interesting but the "Lost Boys" theme is never fully
explored leaving at a nice but a bit shallow experience.

Definitely most of the charm of "The Lost Boys" is due to nostalgia, as
the movie is now basically a time capsule of the 80s. However, it is
hard to deny that despite being what one would call a "popcorn movie",
in its time it was an intelligent, original and fresh take on vampires.
While it may not be a landmark of horror of a life-changing experience,
"The Lost Boys" is one of those films that will definitely deliver what
they promise: a healthy dose of mindless entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
Haha, that line makes me laugh every time, just for how old school 80s
it is. Not to mention the vampire that the kids just "trashed" didn't
really look like Twisted Sister as he did more of a generic 80s pop
metal dude. Middle school life in the late 80s (junior high back then)
had some movies that were almost universally thought of as "cool". Some
of these were Predator, Coming to America, Top Gun (yeah I said Top
Gun), Big, and of course The Lost Boys. TLB was so popular with kids, I
remember knowing the details of the plot before I had ever seen the
movie.

Two kids named Sam (Corey Haim) and Michael (Jason Patric) move to
Santa Carla, CA with their mother in hopes of a new life. Sam is
looking to just have some fun and find a cable hook up for MTV, while
his older brother Michael gets involved with some teenage vampire punk
kids. Michael is slowly being recruited into the vampire clique that
hangs around the boardwalk, while Sam desperately tries to turn him
back to a normal human with the help of the overzealous Frog Brothers
(Corey Feldman and some other guy).

Slick, stylish and shot like an 80s music video, this movie was a lot
of fun. A few of the 1987 fashions here are enough to make this movie
illegal in a some countries, but the hip feel of the film keeps it from
being too dated. Well, in my opinion anyway, some kid today might think
different. Afterall this movie is nearly 20 years old. Typing that just
made me feel very, very old. Anyway the cinematography is absolutely
gorgeous, director Joel Schumacher especially knows how to shoot night
scenes. This film was both a horror and a comedy at the same time,
though I'm not sure which I preferred. Any movie that features both
Corey Haim and Corey Feldman is going to be one that you can't take
very seriously. If you don't know who these two guys are, better you
never find out. Just watch the movie. Keep an ear out for INXS, Run DMC
and The Doors.
