
CLASSIC.........bad movie. It does all the things that critics would
laugh at and more. It has bad acting, and a lame story. However, it's a
lot of fun for those of you that enjoy lazy afternoon cheeseball films
(such as myself).

The best scene has to be the slow motion shot of Chuck Norris emerging
from the swamp water with a rifle letting rounds off and keeping a
"stone face"...hahahaha.

Oh wow, how i love this movie. You really cannot argue a movie's
credibility with a powerhouse lead actor such as Chuck Norris.

RATING: 8/10 - Because it's an entertaining bad movie...great for those
times when you're bored out of your mind on a rainy day.
<|_=00=_|>

After reading all the Bin Ladens here claiming that "Missing in Action" is a
"pseudo-patriotic", "racist" or jingoistic film, I thought I'd weigh in:
"M.I.A." was made for the same audience that all overdone, action-packed,
unreal, B-films are, AND for the same purpose--pure entertainment. I'm no
mind-reader but the people watching "M.I.A" aren't doing it for a serious
understanding of past social and political issues or controversies. They're
watching it to see guys get beaten up with karate moves or shot up by M-60s,
or to see completely naked women make total asses out of themselves by
dancing around or strutting their stuff. I pity those who use their review
of this film to make some grand, anti-American political statement. If you
know what Norris flicks are like and you can't stand them, why the Hell did
you pop this one in!?
<|_=00=_|>

SPOILER ALERT! Further down, I will reveal what I thought was the most
funny
parts of this movie, including stuff from the ending!

I would like to start off with introducing myself as a fan of Chuck Norris.
Although (or perhaps, just because) I'm a member of Mensa and have just
recieved a bachelor's degree in computer networking, I enjoy to sometimes
just put the whole intellectual/elitist attitude behind me and dive into a
macho B-action from the 80's starring people like Chuck Norris, Steven
Segall, Charles Bronson, Dolph Lundgren or Jean-Claude Van Damme.

The mid-80's was the age of bazookas, M16s and M60s, and the heroes were
super-heroes who could stand how much punishment as imaginable by the
director, just as long as they stayed focused on getting to the goal. 10
years later it became more popular to depict action with a somewhat deeper
touch of realism, often performed by people acting as elite troopers with
M4s and M249s (weapons which are "successors" of the classical M16 and the
M60). I like both decade's action movies, but the mid-80's action has the
power of nostalgia...

After having heard a lot about this particular movie from several friends
in
my class at college - who were also into B-actions - I decided to dedicate
a
couple of hours trying to find it. Since the DVD version of this movie
probably hasn't been printed in too many copies, there were no DivXs
available anywhere. So I settled out to do what I should've done from the
beginning - supporting one of my favorite action heroes by buying his
stuff!
I mean, Chuck doesn't seem like the gazillonare-type actor that you see in
Sylvester Stallone :)

So finally, the day before yesterday, tuesday 2002-03-12, I found it at
Mega
Skivakademien, Stockholm's largest (?) record/video store in the very heart
of the capital kernel. It was on sale, too! Only 99 swedish kronas (less
than ten bucks) for 1 hour and 52 minutes of brainless
entertainment!

So I watched it, and what did I like? These are the things i remember and
will carry with me until I become old and senile (or maybe turn psycho
after
having watched too many B-actions from the 80's):

1. The sunglasses Chuck wear at the diplomatic meeting in Vietnam!
Brown-to-transparent fade, and they are HUGE!

2. Chuck's attack-raft... Its potons are made out of kevlar and therefore
it
is regarded as bullet-proof! It can take fire from an AK-47 Kalasjnikov
without being punctured! Brilliant! :D

3. After the vietcong have sunk the attack-raft with a rocket launcher and
stand laughing at their typical Pacific-Rim-fishing-boat-ish boat, Chuck
surfaces with the M60 from the raft that he seems to have dismounted at
swimmed up with (those things weigh in at... Like... 30 pounds!) and
finished off all three of them in one sweep! Is he cool or
what...

4. When Chuck returns home with the POWs at the very end of the movie and
enters the hotel where the diplomatic conference is held with an american
MIA soldier under his right arm, the movie is abruptly ended and the
aftertexts starts scrolling up. Now THAT'S a Norris movie in a nutshell...
No bull to be found there! :) 
<|_=00=_|>

Then I say go for it! But for those of you who want a movie with real
substance and plot, run away from this film. I kind of found this movie
entertaining in a brainless sense. Chuck Norris turns in a typical
performance, the action is the same as we've all seen before, and it was
pretty much 80's all over. A definite must-see for action
addicts.
<|_=00=_|>
There has been great controversy about U.S. prisoners of war (POWs) and
those missing in action (MIAs) during the Vietnam War

While Colonel Braddock - one of the outspoken proponents of the theory
that Americans are still being held in Vietnam today - is now in Saigon
at the president's request to see if there are more MIAs in Vietnam 

The American delegation hopes Braddock's presence would increase their
ability to negotiate But General Trau (James Hong) believes that
Colonel Braddock is not a prisoner of war, but a common criminal,
brought to Saigon only in an attempt to embarrass his government

The sexy aide of Senator Porter, Lenore Kasdorf, thinks that Braddock
is the most undiplomatic man she has ever met 

The action begins when the Vietnam vet - not supposed to leave the
hotel without an escort - assaults General Trau's residence, pays for a
bullet-proof speed riverboat and blazes his way with an old war buddy
called Tuck (M. Emmet Walsh) through the jungles of Saigon

Norris, challenging several unpredicted attacks from his enemies, takes
at last his revenge after he experiences the fear, chaos and atrocities
of the Vietnam hell
<|_=00=_|>
A Vietnam war vet (Chuck Norris) and previous POW goes back to Vietnam
ten years after . When Braddock arrives is accused of war crimes by a
Vietnam general (James Hong) . He then schemes to free some American
soldiers still held prisoners in a far prison camp into Vietnam . As
long as he's there , Braddock decides to head Thailand where is pursued
by a former enemy who tortured him in the concentration camp where he
was prisoner . He's helped by a gunrunner friend (M. Emmet Walsh) . The
two-fisted Colonel Braddock tries continuously to free the prisoners
held captives suffering various tortures in charge of the camp wardens
and the evil ruler. 

This is a routine actioner with Karate star Chuck Norris as the Vietnam
veteran resulting go be one of the best roles he'd made to date , as
he's nice as tough , cold and stubborn Colonel Braddock . It's a
predictable , shallow and brainless film , though it will appeal to
Chuck Norris enthusiasts because of it contains some excellent action
sequences (when Braddock shoots with his machine gun or scenes about
bounds and leaps aboard a motorboat) . Chuck stated that he made this
picture as a memorial honor of his younger brother who was a war
casualty in the long Vietnam conflict . In the wake of ¨ Uncommon
courage ¨(by Ted Kotcheff) and ¨ Rambo II ¨(George Pan Cosmatos) with
Norris attempting to imitate Silver Stallone or Arnold Schwarnezzegger
like an one army man . 

The film is the original from a trilogy , concerning the second part
(directed by Lance Hool , the first one 's producer) about tortures and
Braddock suffering in a prisoner camp , and the third part (directed by
Aaron Norris , Chuck's brother , who in 'Missing in action 1' was the
stunt coordinator) upon looking for his wife after downfall Saigon .
Shot right after Missing in action 2 (1985) , this movie was supposed
to be the follow-up . Nevertheless, when ¨Cannon¨ realized this film
was the better of the two , they re-titled them and made the other film
a prequel . In the three movies there are some nasty , ominous villains
well played by Asian players : James Hong , Soon Teck Oh , and Aki
Aelong , who bear offensive racial stereotypes . Appropriate musical
score by Jay Chattaway and adequate as well as atmospheric
cinematography by cameraman Joao Fernandez , filmed in Philippines .
The motion picture produced by Cannon films (Mennahem Golan and Yoram
Globus) was professionally directed by Joseph Zito (USA invasion ,
again with Norris). The motion picture will appeal to Chuck Norris fans
.
<|_=00=_|>

This was filmed back-to-back with part 2, and was originally intended to be
released as the second film in the series, but Cannon executives moved it to
be the first entry after realizing it was much better than the other film.
It is indeed a better movie, but it still can't be called a good movie. To
be sure, the production values are decent, and director Joseph Zito
occasionally creates an effective moment. But for the most part, the movie
is extremely dull; it takes more than halfway through the movie before
Norris starts his primary mission, and the action sequences (the few that
there are) are mediocre at best. Zito also shows no sense of pacing; there
are a number of scenes that serve no real purpose, or are let to run on for
what seems like forever. As for Norris, he is his usual stony near-mute
self, though he is to be admired for doing some of the risky stunt sequences
himself.
<|_=00=_|>
Colonel James Braddock (Chuck Norris) was a POW during the Vietnam war.
He escaped ten years ago and has tried repeatedly to get the government
to go back in looking for other POWs. Finally, he gets fed up with the
cowardly politicians and decides to go back in and get them himself!

This is not a bad movie. Get real, haters. Yes, it has something of a
cheese factor but even the best action films do. It just adds flavor.
It's a great action movie tailored to Chuck's strengths -- namely being
the strong, silent hero who kicks ass and can't be bothered to take
names. I'm not surprised certain types hate this so much. No doubt it
reminds them of their inadequacies. Some people derisively refer to
movies like this and Rambo as "revisionist fantasies." Well, so what?
What is fantasy without wish-fulfillment? That's what this is -- a
movie for Americans who wish we could have gone back in and gotten our
boys out. If you're an American, put your petty politics and misplaced
sympathies aside and tell me what's wrong with that? 

There's awesome fist-pumping action as well as lots of drama but there
are some lighter moments with foxy Lenore Kasdorf and sidekick M. Emmet
Walsh. Despite the serious nature of the story, neither of these seem
out of place. It's one of Chuck's best movies. If you're a fan of his
and haven't seen this one yet, you're in for a treat. Followed by a
prequel and sequel. Children of the '80s -- this is the only time
you're ever going to catch Chuck Norris watching Spider-Man and His
Amazing Friends so cherish that memory.
<|_=00=_|>

Okey, first of all...those who where against the Vietnam war hate this
movie, no doubt about that.  But i liked it, because i have great respect
for those American servicemen lost or died in Vietnam. 

Chuck Norris performance in this and the following two movies is really
good.  He is a fine actor, i hope we could see more of him =/

One thing thats irritates me is that i can hear the same sound FX in this
movie as i hear in 'Invasion USA' .. but thats just about it.

<|_=00=_|>
In Thursday 4th May Chuck Norris arrived in Ljubljana Slovenia and he
visit us to make a car commercial. He stays by us till tomorrow then he
returns back to his homeland. I love Chuck Norris I grew up watching
his movies and Missing in Action defines my childhood and I grew up
watching this movie. I am writing this review in honor of Chuck Norris.
Slovenia loves Chuck Norris! 

Missing In Action is an underrated solid, very decent, good, pure
bad-ass action war flick. It is my number 1 favorite Chuck Norris
movie! I love this movie to death and I have it on Blu-ray in Hi-def in
my collection. I love the music score from Jay Chattaway it is a
beautiful score. it is rated Hard-R RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR. It
is not for kids it is a pure sample entertaining flick, it has
explosions, a lot of gun shootouts, martial arts, climbing the electric
wire and walls, you have even bobby traps, you see a lot of boats on
the water, a lots of jungle and it is one-man army action hero type.
One man on a mission to find American POW's who are still imprisoned in
the country. You'll see lots of heavy automatic and explosive weapons,
and you'll see them used well. This is my favorite Chuck Norris film
for the simple fact that it has one of the best action hero moments
ever with Braddock coming out of the water in super slo- mo and
blasting bad guys to pieces.

Missing in Action and Missing in Action 2: The Beginning were made
back-to-back, with part 2 being ready first, so they released it as
this movie, Missing in Action. I am defending this film: Why I am keep
hearing from film critics and assholes like Maziun who has no dick
about movies how bad this movie is, it is as a rip-off of the Rambo
film series. Rambo was better, Rambo was looking for American POW's and
blah, blah, blah! Shut up all of you!! Missing in Action and Chuck
Norris is not yours kind of type action hero or his movies, they are
just not for you so f**k You! 

"It was more like 20,000. Why don't you tell us why there was a price
on my head?" *For your war crimes, of course.* , "For killing assholes
like you!" 

I am big fan of Rambo movies I love all of them, but Missing in Action
is different Vietnam action-War movie who is really fictional
portrayed. The movie is not perfect, it is not great, realistic, or the
best it does have a plot holes which I am little confused but I love
Colonel James Braddock I love the character portrayed. Chuck Norris
does a fine and solid job as the hero. I love the action the rescue
mission I love this movie from the 80's and I miss these kind of action
movies today. They don't make'em like this anymore. He saves people, he
saves 4 American POW prisoners and he help them I love the ending of
the movie. I love the jungle I love how Col. James Braddock (Chuck
Norris) uses the M60 during the POW rescue mission and he opens fire
with the M60 mounted on the fast boat classic scene and he blast all
the bad guys away.

There's a lot of Chuck Norris sneaking around in this movie more than
Norris smashing guys, but that's present too. Norris doesn't take any
crap, and I love the muscle duel between him and one enemy where Chuck
slaps a knife right into his heart, literally. James Hong makes an
appearance as General Trau as the villain and he's good at his job. He
constantly taunts Braddock until Braddock literally attacks Trau in his
sleep! The movie really lets you know where they stand on the issue of
whether or not there are POWs being secretly kept in Vietnam with its
exhilarating, "In your face, Vietnamese government!" ending.

Missing in Action get's 8/10 it my favorite Chuck Norris film a brisk
action/adventure with good old Chuck playing a stoic American super
soldier fighting for America's freedom no matter the risks. It's a
great Regan-era action flick, unapologetic and brutal.

Missing in Action is a 1984 American action film directed by Joseph
Zito and starring Chuck Norris. It is set in the context of the Vietnam
War POW/MIA issue. Colonel Braddock, who escaped a Vietnamese prisoner
of war camp 10 years earlier, returns to Vietnam to find American
soldiers listed as missing in action during the Vietnam War. The film
was followed by a prequel, Missing in Action 2: The Beginning (1985),
and a sequel, Braddock: Missing in Action III (1988).

8/10 Grade: B Studio: The Cannon Group, Inc. Starring: Chuck Norris, M.
Emmet Walsh, Lenore Kasdorf, James Hong Director: Joseph Zito
Producers: Menahem Golan, Yoram Globus Screenplay: James Bruner Story
by John Crowther, Lance Hool Based on the characters by Arthur Silver,
Larry Levinson, Steve Bing Rated: R Running Time: 1Hr. 42 Mins. Budget:
$2.550.000 Box Office: $22,812,411
