

Star Trek: The Motion Picture is the first film in the Star Trek series,
the
most successful series in movie history.  After all, the fact that a movie
series can hold the public's interest for 21 years (and nine films) and
that
the whole Star Trek concept is alive and well after over 30 years says
something about the genius of Gene Roddenberry, Star Trek's
creator.

People seem to cricitize this film heavily.  Some of the criticisms of the
film that I have heard in my discussions with people include phrases such
as
"frightfully boring," "way too long," and "chronically lacking in action."
However, if that is all you saw in the film, then you clearly missed out on
the film's beauty.  This film is not about guns, explosions, blood, or
machismo.  It is about the philosophical relationship between logic and
emotion.

The film is masterfully directed by Robert Wise, the academy award winning
director of "The Sound of Music."  The film reunites the original cast of
the Star Trek series with a few new faces ... Stephen Collins as "Capt.
Decker" and Persis Khambata as "Lt. Ilia".  It also recaps the events that
have transpired in each original series character since the television
series in the late 60's with a sensitivity to newcomers to the Star Trek
universe.  It effectively introduces newcomers to Star Trek without
insulting the intelligence of those of us who are thoroughly familiar with
Star Trek.

The plot features an intelligent, logical entity that calls itself VGER.
VGER is an innocent entity with one mission ... "learn all that is
learnable... transmit that information to the creator."  VGER in its
incredible
journey has in essence gained knowledge that spans the very essence of the
universe.  VGER now has set a course for Earth in an attempt to share its
knowledge with its creator.  VGER believes that its creator is on
Earth.

VGER becomes a threat to life on Earth when its destroys three Klignon
vessels and a Federation space station with incredible destructive power.
To counter this threat, Admiral Kirk takes command of the Enterprise and
leads the Enterprise in an intriguing battle with this alien
entity.

While battling this alien entity, Admiral Kirk, Spock, and the rest of the
crew learn about the relationship between human logic and emotion.  They
explore philosophical issues such as "Is this all that I am?" and "Is there
nothing more?".  I believe Spock summarizes the quest for answers to these
questions by his statement about two-thirds of the way into the film that
indicates that "logic alone is not enough".  They eventually learn to
appreciate the unique attributes that make us human ... "our weaknesses ...
and the drive that compels us to overcome them."

In conclusion, this film has a great plot, great special effects, and
excellent music and cinematography.  Definitely see it if you are truly
interested in taking a philosophical journey into the essence of what makes
us human.
<|_=00=_|>
It's amazing how many Trekkies I meet describe Star Trek the Motion
Picture as "A good sci-fi film, but an awful Star Trek movie."....And
that's when they're feeling generous! 

This statement can't be farther from the truth. The story is well
written and director Robert Wise makes the characters believable. The
movie is not filled with the goofy jokes and ridiculous Shatner
back-flip fight scenes that some Trekkies seem to enjoy. Instead, the
battle with the mysterious alien entity reveals the dynamics and inner
conflicts of the crew. Spock realizes that pure logic alone cannot
answer all, but must be coupled with emotion in order to tap into our
creative imagination and see the possibilities of our universe. Kirk is
portrayed as a daring and brilliant captain, who learns that as a
leader he needs to rely on the expertise of those around him. He is a
more believable figure who is fallible and struggles to learn from his
mistakes.

The Enterprise is not envisioned as an easy to fly wonder ship that
requires no more than the main Trek cast to run, but as a complex
machine that needs precise tuning of components balanced by a crew of
hundreds. The scene where Spock and the engineering crew struggle with
balancing the mathematical models needed to program the warp engines
convey the real dangers of space flight. 

Additionally, both the visual and audio effects add to the impact of
this movie. For a film made in '79, before the advent of believable
CGI, the special effects are superb. Believe it or not, I've noticed
special effects scenes in Independence Day taken directly from Star
Trek:TMP footage (scan the shots of the inside of the mother ship
(ID4)when Will Smith is making his escape run). 

All in all, the ingredients of good character development, believable
conflict, and hard science make this movie the true precursor to Star
Trek: The Next Generation. Unfortunately, Star Treks III, IV, and V
avoid the hard work this movie required and depend on the silly antics
of its maturing crew.
<|_=00=_|>
This was an under-rated film in the first version, and it is improved a
great deal with the changes that Robert Wise made just a few years
before he passed away. There has been a backlash against this picture,
mostly for two reasons; it was not Star Wars, and it was not what
people expected of Star Trek.

If you put these expectations aside, and if you also have some
attention span and willingness to relax into a picture this is a
remarkable experience. I often here people use words like boring, too
long etc. Well yes, if we are expecting a quick-hit, film that can be
digested in 90 minutes like a TV show, this is not that type of film.
If we apply these standards to Lawrence of Arabia, 2001, Blade Runner,
Bridge on the River Kwai, or Citzen Kane (which Robert Wise edited,
none of these films would have ever been made.

If you put Star Trek The Motion Picture in context of it's scale and
the craftsman involved you start to appreciate it's quality and
elegance. Robert Wise does not need qualification. He brings an
elegance and texture to work and life in space that StarWars has not
put to screen to this day.

Star Wars even now seems like nothing more than an impressive exercise
in effects and sound. It is always reminding us that it is a movie.
ST-TMP on other hand departed into an "immersive experience" developed
by Robert Wise, with the amazing talents of Doug Trumbull and John
Dykstra, and the enormous contibutions of Jerry Goldsmith. Likewise,
the photography, the scale of the sets and the editing of the film all
contribute to a immersive world that saturates the viewer into the
film.

You gain a lot of knowledge and appreciation of this film and the
experience that they achieved by watching the Director's Edition DVD
and listening to Wise, Trumbull, Dykstra, Goldsmith and others discuss
the production. This was a uniquely creative and enormous effort, and
considering the technological limitations, the demands of the studio,
and the many demands of the Star Trek Bible that qualified the creation
of the movie. I am pleased to see that other reviewers here have come
to appreicate this movie many years later. I encourage the skeptics to
find the time to relax and watch it on the biggest screen you can find.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

This film is not slow; this film is like geological time. It felt like
several years long. When I waited in line for hours, in 1979, after
Paramount acted like it was the second coming, you had a whole lot of
angry people. By the time the film was over, the theater was half
empty. Some people were asleep, I am not exaggerating. Long shots of
every possible angle of a poorly glued, crappy model. Do you blame
them? I really like Alan Dean Foster; this is the man who wrote ALIEN.
Let's look at this great script; an intelligence way ahead of us and it
cannot tell scans from weapons attacks? It only thinks sentience is
machine based on its travels through the universe it never encountered
organic intelligence? Its ignorance of organic life is so profound, it
needs to hijack a bald woman and remake her as a mechanical probe? It
thinks a cheap piece of junk some monkey boys sent into space is like
it is? Was Alan on medication when he wrote this?

The acting, even for Star Trek, is just awful. This film was
legendarily bad; the studio went nuts and rushed Wrath of Khan out as
fast as they could, they even used the effects scenes from this movie.
If you watch carefully, in Wrath of Khan, you can see the scenes they
lifted right out of this. They had no choice; the Trekkie's had a baby
when this came out. It is so slow, boring and poorly written. Wise made
my favorite movie: The Sand Pebbles, what happened Bob? It is the worst
film made in the entire 1970s; nothing even comes close. We are the
Creator? In your dreams, pathetic humanists. Oh, how they loved saying
those words every humanist's dream to be God. They killed off theirs,
they believe, and their quest is to make themselves God. Yes, this
hyper intelligence never knew you made that piece of junk and needs to
bow down before you. I am going to vomit. 

Trust me, you do not need to know the esoteric plot; it is the most
boring movie you will ever watch. I filled a room with 12 people;
within a half hour everyone but me and my best friend were sound
asleep. Robert Wise never made another Trek movie for a reason young
people; when this was released people were really, really angry. The
first 45 minutes, nothing and I mean nothing happens. Bring a pillow
and an alarm clock, you will need them.
<|_=00=_|>
Oooh, a difficult one this. Very difficult indeed. Unless you are
particularly patient, or are a hardcore Star Trek fan this is going to
take some effort to stick with. It doesn't seem like a Trekkie movie.
Nowhere near as much fun as Wrath Of Khan, or First Contact. Not as
much humour as The Voyage Home. In fact, there is no humour at all.
Something that cripples the film badly. Everything is very
straight-faced and sincere. To introduce someone to Star Trek with this
film would be a bad idea.

Being the first Trek product since the original series one might expect
the familiar campy story lines and beaming down to "M-class" planets -
a bit of desert 10-minutes drive from LA - but there's none to be had.
Veteran director Robert Wise has crafted a film very much in the style
of his original version of The Haunting. His w-i-d-e-s-c-r-e-e-n
compositions are beautiful and he really manages to lift Trek from the
small screen to the cinema screen. It was a hard undertaking, but he
set the standard for nine sequels to date.

The plot has a giant alien force destroying three Klingon ships on its
direct course with earth. If the Federation doesn't stop this thing, it
will blow up the planet. Admiral Kirk leaves his sunny San Francisco
home to assume command of the Enterprise from Captain Decker and stop
the alien menace. But Decker has a chip on his shoulder. The new
Enterprise is not finished yet and he doesn't appreciate Kirk moving in
on his territory.

Very slowly the original crew return and are in command of their posts
again and there is a weird new navigator, a bald-headed, celibate alien
woman named Ilia. Decker seems to have a thing for her. For some
reason.

Once they reach the mysterious alien mass, the crew learns its name is
Vger. Ilia is kidnapped and replaced with an android. Spock is driven
to tears as he finds TOTAL logic in Vger actions and motivations. This
is all sub-subtext and the actual explanation behind Vger might not
come as a surprise to most. Once they fly inside Vger's mass of clouds
and orifices it takes a healthy hour for the damn thing to be fully
revealed.

To criticise a film for its length may be an ignorant thing to do.
Audiences today are too satisfied with any plot lasting less than 100
minutes. This is not a good sign. Films with the scope and, dare I say
it, class of Star Trek: The Motion Picture need their full and proper
running time. Coherent story lines can be sacrificed for fast paced,
exhilarating storytelling, or a dull, seemingly endless narrative can
be the result of a big story being fully fleshed out. It's difficult to
achieve both length and pace. Sadly, this film doesn't. But it looks
very good, is well directed and has the balls to bite off more than it
can chew.
<|_=00=_|>

**No Spoilers**

I think Orson Welles said it best in the trailers for this
film.

"It will startle your senses. Challenge your intellect. And change your
perception of the future....by taking you there."

Indeed it will and does.

Let me start off by saying, by all means: You don't have to be a fan of
Star
Trek to get into this movie. I'm not. Just watch it, and the motion
picture
will do the rest. I've been told countless times that Star Wars is the
greatest Sci-fi film of all time. I'd like to correct those people. Star
Wars is the greatest "action and special effects sci-fi film" of all
time.
Nothing more....and nothing less. I'm a big fan of Star Wars. It was my
favorite sci-fi movie--even beating out Alien, 2001, and Starship
Troopers.

That was until I saw this film. I remember right after watching Star Wars
that I felt good inside because it was a rush that one can only get--from
eye candy. Star Trek: The Motion Picture gave me a different rush--a more
profound touch that made me realize movies can have a deeper meaning.
Much
like 2001, this deals with life....actually more about the "meaning" of
life. The purpose of existence. Some of the best quotes in cinema history
can be traced to this film. My favorite line is from Spock. It pretty
much
sums up the theme of Star Trek: The Motion Picture

"Each of us, at some point in our lives, turns to someone - a father, a
brother, a God - and asks, "Why am I here? What was I meant to
be?"

One thing that really stands out in Star Trek: The Motion Picture is the
musical score by Jerry Goldsmith that makes me wonder if it was blessed
by
God. Star Wars could never get me to buy the soundtrack on CD. This movie
has. I wonder why this didn't win an Oscar for best score.

Now to the plot:

When three Klingon (Alien) Starships are attacked and erased from
existence
by a vast giant omnipotent cloud, drifting in space; a close by Star Base
finds out that not only is the cloud headed directly towards them, but is
also on a direct path for Earth. The Star Base in question (The Epslion
9)
sends a message to Star Fleet for a Starship  to be sent and prevent it
from
reaching Earth.

The only Starship in enough range to stop the cloud in time is none other
than the famous Enterprise from the infamous 1960s television series. The
Starfleet legend and hero Captain Kirk and the rest of his crew from the
also famous five year mission of the show, make a comeback for one last
mission (and many more later, but those are other movie
reviews).

Before the crew can start on their mission, they patch up old wounds put
aside their anger for each other to face the menacing unknown that awaits
them, realizing this may be the last time they speak to one
another...alive.

Not much is known about the cloud or why it is erasing everything in it's
path from existence; other than what Spock, the science officer of The
Enterprise, has sensed from it....

"It only knows that it needs, Commander. But, like so many of us, it does
not know what."

Suspense eats away at you when the final showdown between The Enterprise
and
the intelligent vast cloud finally comes. And the movie doesn't stop
their.
Like I said, the movie talks about the meaning of life.

If you can, buy the director's cut on DVD or VHS. This IS the most
beautiful
science fiction movie you will ever see.
<|_=00=_|>
I recently watched this movie for the first time in ten or fifteen
years. When I was younger I thought this one was even worse than Star
Trek V, because as bad as "The Final Frontier" was, at least it had
some action and colour.

The version I just saw wasn't the new Director's Edition, just the old
video, but I was still completely surprised by just about everything --
partly because I hadn't seen it in so long, and partly because it's so
totally different from all the following Trek movies. I even kinda
liked the silly space pajamas everyone wears.

After this, the movie series turned to action-oriented stories, a more
militaristic look and feel, and infinitely less challenging concepts.
True, the pacing of "Star Trek: The Motion Picture" drags in parts, and
the behavior of its stars is a little cold and stiff. But instead of
treating us with space battles and phaser shootouts, it gives us long,
loving shots of the newly revamped starship Enterprise, and instead of
rather tawdry plots grounded in mundane reality, it takes us on a
metaphysical voyage into an unknown, bizarre, and palpably huge alien
device. The relationship of the three main characters has changed a
little after several years apart, and they're each getting used to
things all over again: Kirk has to deal with the unfamiliar new ship;
Spock, after trying to purge his emotions, must confront his human
half; and McCoy is "shanghaied" out of retirement for the trip. Decker
and Ilia, the new characters, provide enough interest that they were
virtually resurrected as Riker and Troi in Star Trek: The Next
Generation.

The sense of scale is important. The cloud surrounding V'Ger is
gigantic, and the ship at the heart of the cloud is a whole world to
itself. The Enterprise must fly into the cloud and communicate with the
ship, and it's the only time in any of the ten movies that the heroes
actually confront something new and unknown. This was a staple of the
original show, and some of the best episodes of the spin-off series.
The subsequent films were content with setting their battles and chases
in space, but "Star Trek I" actually wants to explore that space. The
question at the centre of the film, posed by Spock, is "Is this all we
are? Is there nothing more?" Kirk, Spock, and V'Ger are all searching
for an answer to that question.

However, the thing that definitely drags the film down is the sound.
The red alert blares every other minute, and mechanical computer
voice-overs announce just about everything they possibly can. In the
process of updating the ship, they've emphasized the computers and
mechanics of the vessel in a way they never had before or since, and
the effect is jarring and interesting at the same time. The Enterprise
is much more of a physical ship traveling in space, and less of a
device to facilitate storytelling.

The visual effects are amazing enough to warrant some digital cleaning,
and the movie should be seen in widescreen, preferably on a large
television.

It's too bad that this movie wasn't more of a success, because I would
like to see more Star Trek in this style. After many years and many TV
shows, I admit I've gotten a little tired of space battles.

UPDATE: I recently watched the Director's Edition DVD. The sound
effects are fixed, and the film has been re-edited to tighten the pace
ever so slightly. The changes made are not on the level of the Star
Wars special editions, but they do make the movie more watchable. It's
a little more coherent now, and I like it even more.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is bursting with action scenes! The scene where Kirk stares
at the Enterprise, the scene where Scotty stares at the Enterprise, the
scene where Bones stares at the Enterprise. The scene where the
Enterprise is being stared at by Kirk is also a highlight. The scene
where the Enterprise is being stared at by Scotty. The scene where the
Enterprise is being stared at by Bones is another great one. The scene
where they are ALL staring at the Enterprise at the same time is one of
my favourites. The scene where the Enterprise is being stared at by ALL
of them at the same time is even better.

I love this movie! It's long. I took a girlfriend to see it and by the
time it was over I had not only kissed her but we had had three
children and a holiday in Greece.
<|_=00=_|>
Like a slug-paced parade that never ends (and that's just the first
half-hour), iconic director Robert Wise brings to the big screen the
beloved characters from that wonderfully cheesy '60s sci-fi TV show
that, although it didn't last very long (three years), snowballed into
an even larger cult following throughout the '70s, enough to merit a
"motion picture" - too bad it had to be this one. 

William Shatner as Captain James T. Kirk returns to the Enterprise with
a solemn, angry air, as does McCoy, even grumpier than Kirk... And
finally Spock - duller than even a Vulcan should be... As they set out
to intercept a giant mysterious cloud heading to earth to... blow it
up. 

A boring side-story involves the new young Enterprise commander (whom
Kirk must replace), portrayed by the milky Steven Collins, and a very
sexy bald chick who's as grumpy as the rest of the cast... especially
when she becomes a robot, or something. 

And most of the film has the crew standing on the bridge, gazing out in
awed-wonderment at all the expensive, and impressive, special effects -
the only thing somewhat worthwhile. But the eye-candy gets stale quick
since there's nothing "solid" to chase it with - and we're FINALLY led
to an incredibly lame "twist" ending that tries hard for
Kubrick-esquire wonderment but ends of pretentiously stale. 

If this were a condensed forty-five minute episode of the original
series it'd still be a throwaway, lacking the mysteriously brainy
chess-match aura that made the show so endearing, interesting, and fun. 

The next film, THE WRATH OF KHAN (which actually has a title), is where
the film series should've started. Not only is there a palpable
villain, but the three leads are actually likable, and the classic
side-characters, including Scotty, Uhura, Sulu, and Chekov, have more
to do than stand around looking... familiar.
<|_=00=_|>
Watched this one after few years, didn't remember what it was all
about. Oh yes, it was the one with "V'ger"...aka amazingly beautiful
Persis Khambatta...with her head shaved. Most beautiful bald woman I
can think of right now...

The film is about huge unbeatable "cloud" approaching and threatening
Earth, only thing standing in between is Enterprise with its legendary
crew. It appears I enjoy the film more and more each decade I see it
again.

I thought there was slightly too much time used on introduction and
drafting of old crew, but once the "action" began it kept me on edge of
my seat all the way through. Don't think that "action" I mention was
fighting and shooting, it wasn't. Perhaps lack of silly fighting makes
(all too) many people to say that this film was too long and slow
paced. Well, I disagree - this is exactly the kind of science fiction I
love, you are given chance to use your own imagination. Some say pacing
and the film is similar to Kubrik's 2001...I won't argue against it.

The film had amazing special effects for its time. No, not amazing,
incredible. But don't watch it for special effects only, the real
interest of this film lies in the nature of the alien "cloud" and
Enterprise crew trying to figure it out and trying to cope with it.
Special effects were used as a tool to launch YOUR imagination, as they
should be.

This film is probably closest to spirit of original series, without
much campiness though. A thinking man's Star Trek film. What a
wonderful treat. They don't make films like this any more.

9/10
