
The stock title promises action and suspense, and we get that, but with
a story by Akira Kurosawa, expert direction by Russian émigré Andrei
Konchalovsky and superior lensing by Alan Hume, we get a study of what
defines a man.

John Voight and the vastly underrated Eric Roberts play two cons who
escape from a hellish gulag and board a train with no driver. Their
struggle to stop the train and battle their own inner demons is the
movie.

Konchalovsky creates a cold, alien, ethereal world inside the train
that, in the oddest way, provides a haven for self-examination for the
two leads. Rebecca de Mournay is layered into the mix, as is the
indefatigable John P. Ryan as a prison warden who risks death to return
his charges to custody, but the movie belongs to Voight and Roberts who
both bring tremendous humanity to their finely sketched characters.

The final image is as powerful as cinema gets and marks RUNAWAY TRAIN
as a modest masterpiece.

Though often criticized for producing cheap rubbish, the Cannon Group,
in fact, also produced many fine films including this, 52 PICK-UP and
MARIA'S LOVERS (also Konchalovsky).
<|_=00=_|>

Runaway Train is about far more than a runaway train.  It is about
personal
freedom and how hard we are willing to struggle to get it.  It's about how
willing we are to
give up our personal freedom to be comfortable.  It's about dehumanization
inflicted by social institutions.
It's also one gripping, suspenseful action-flick.  The two main
characters,
played by Jon Voight as Manny and Eric Roberts as Buck, are escaped
prisoners, but they are humanized.  Not that we would really like to meet
them, but we can see how they work, and we can identify with them.  I
found
it fascinating that the character I really hated was John P. Ryan as
Renkin,
the warden.  This official of society has turned his efforts to recapture
the prisoners, particularly Manny, into a personal mission of
hatred.
The cinematography and imagery in the film are excellent.  Whether
exterior
shots of the train hurtling across the desolate Canadian wilderness, or
claustrophobic shots of the characters in the train, we are there and
cannot
help but be involved.
There's not a bad performance in it.  John Voight, Eric Roberts, Rebecca
De
Mornay and John P. Ryan are all tremendous, with an intensity that matches
the demands of the film.
This is one of those few films that really disturbed me, that really
caused
me to think about my life.
It is unforgettable.  It is a great work of art.

<|_=00=_|>

'Runaway Train' is a rare thing, an intelligent action movie, full of both
exciting sequences and strong character development. This combination makes
it all that much more suspenseful and powerful. For me it could well be the
best action movie of all time. Interestingly enough it's based on a
screenplay by Kurosawa, but criminal turned novelist Edward Bunker (who
plays Jonah here but is best known to most people as Mr. Blue in 'Reservoir
Dogs') gets the main writing credit. Jon Voight gives one of his very best
performances as Manny, but Eric Roberts is also just great. Roberts is
overlooked these days, making too many b-grade and straight-to-video movies
to be taken seriously, but boy, back in the day this guy was GOOD! Check him
out here, and in 'Star 80', and especially 'The Pope Of Greenwich Village'
with Mickey Rourke. Roberts actually scored an Oscar nomination for 'Runaway
Train'. Just why his career subsequently went in the direction it did is one
of the great mysteries of Hollywood. Voight and Roberts are supported by
Rebecca De Mornay, super tough guy John P. Ryan ('It's Alive') and well
loved character actor Kenneth McMillan. Also keep an eye out for Danny Trejo
in the boxing sequence towards the very beginning of the film. 'Runaway
Train' is a movie I never tire of watching. The interplay between Voight and
Roberts is wonderful to watch, the action sequences are breathtaking, and
the ending is one of the all time greats!
<|_=00=_|>

NO SPOILERS

Has Jon Voight ever been better?   No.  Or Eric Roberts?  No.  And have you
ever seen a more perfect, perfect ending ...?

No.

Runaway Train's scene is set in a rather average prison sequence.  But as
soon as the guys break out, the fun begins - Eric Roberts' accent, the
incredible feeling of cold, Manny's animal-like grunting (I think he was
laughing) - and the pumping, spot-on soundtrack, raising goose-bumps
beautifully as the train majestically appears through a thick flurry of
snow
like a ghost ...

One scene - Jon Voight's ".. and you gonna RUB that little biddy spot ..."
monologue - is right out of the top drawer.  And the rest is as efficient
and nerve-shredding as you could ever want.  Action (train crashes!!),
blood
(fingers!!), surprises, satisfying revenge - and an ending that, I'm sorry
but I've got to go on about it a bit, is just simply breathtaking.

How I wanted the movie to end on that final shot, and how wonderful that it
did, with the choir and everything.  Superb - a gem.  Just a gem.  And what
a surprise - from the marketing, the hype, even the video and DVD sleeve,
you couldn't pick this out from 1000 other bottom shelf dwellers in the
video shop.  Just give yourself a treat and watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
Based around a screenplay written by the legendary Akira Kurosawa,
Runaway Train simultaneously follows three threads. The escape of two
prisoners, Manny & Buck, who jump on a train only to find that the
driver has a heart attack, thus it speeds out of control. Then there is
the efforts of the train dispatching office to try and safely stop the
out-of-control train. And also there's the hunt by the sadistic prison
warden who is hellbent on recapturing the fleeing convicts.

Relentless and engrossing action film from start to finish, Runaway
Train boasts two Oscar nominated performances from John Voight {Manny}
and Eric Roberts {Buck} and no little intelligence with its well
scripted characters. The opening quarter is pretty stock routine prison
fare, these guys are tough, the warden is a bastard and we just know
they are going to escape. But once the guys board the train the whole
film shifts in gear and tone. The dynamic that exists between Manny &
Buck, partners but very different in life approach, is riveting stuff
courtesy of the nifty dialogue exchanges. Things are further enhanced
by the appearance of Rebecca DeMornay's also stranded railway worker,
Sara, who far from being a shoe-horned token female character, is the
crucial piece of the emotional jigsaw. He presence gives the guys room
to exorcise their demons and pour out their feelings of anger, bravado
and mistrust.

The action scenes are very well handled by director Andrei Konchalovsky
and his crew. As the train hurtles thru the snowy Alaskan wilderness we
are treated to a number of crash bang wallops involving the train
itself; derring-do from our boys on the icy outside of the locomotive,
and a helicopter pursuit chartered by the obsessed John P. Ryan as
Warden Ranken particularly stand out. Bona fide action sequences that
are executed skilfully. Then we get to the finale, a finale pumped up
for emotional impact, both visually and orally it closes the film
justly. We even get time for a bit of Will Shakespeare as we go about
reflecting on what we have just witnessed. A fine movie it be. 7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>

Everything about this film has a surreal, visceral, in-your-face quality;
the anguished, violent intensity of the prison scenes, the frozen wastelands
of the lands outside the prison (gee, a metaphor?), the train -- not just a
lifeless machine but a huge, juggernaut-like beast -- that the title refers
to, the fierce, animalistic performance by Jon Voight, who plays the
character of Manny with such raw emotion and conviction that at no moment do
we doubt that he is anything other than what he appears to be on
screen.

It's based on a screenplay by the legendary Akira Kurosawa -- knowing this
makes a lot of the elements a bit more familiar; the snow, the hopelessness,
the apocalyptic atmosphere -- and it's directed by Russian Andrei
Konchalovsky, who after this film directed two Hollywood embarrassments
called "Homer & Eddie" and "Tango & Cash" (apparently trying to corner the
market on ampersands), and most recently helmed the acclaimed Armand Assante
mini-series "The Odyssey" for television.  "Runaway Train" is not a perfect
film, some of the minor supporting performances are really awful and some
viewers may find Eric Roberts to be irritating, but the sheer kineticism,
among the other stronger elements, makes it worthwhile.  Often called an
intellectual action picture, it's more of an existential one, i.e. man
versus a indifferent/hostile universe, etc.  Everything in the film has a
greater, more universal meaning, and it's not rocket science to figure out
what stands for what.  The simplicity of its metaphors doesn't dull the
impact of "Runaway Train" as a sensory experience, though, because it's
still pretty potent stuff.  Provided you're not completely close-minded,
this is one you'll remember for a long, long time.
<|_=00=_|>

WARNING: SPOILERS AHEAD

Runaway Train is one of the most fast-paced movies I've ever seen; there's
tension in every scene, especially whenever Manny and Ranken or Manny and
Buck interact. This fine movie doesn't take its thrills out of the fact
there are two escaped convicts inside a runaway train. What's really
thrilling is meeting two characters like Manny and Buck, watching them act
and talk and understanding their complex personas.

Join Voight gives a fantastic performance as Manny, a toughened, ruthless
convict whose only motivation is to escape prison; truth is, Manny is a
bigger-than-life person who can't be confined, and yet he's a human monster
who doesn't have a place on Earth either: the tragic ending he meets is most
fitting.

And Eric Roberts proves he can act after all - his role as Buck, a young
loud-mouth who worships Manny as a role-model, and is full of mannerisms is
a great contrast to the weary, bitter Manny. What's great is that their
relationship is explored to the last consequences once they find themselves
in a runaway train - and it's not until then that we finally find out what a
horrible human being Manny really is.

I enjoyed this movie very much - I expected a cheap thriller, and instead
got a careful character study, enhanced by the straightforward, simplistic
plot - which is however smarter than many others I've ever seen. It is true
the best stories are the simplest ones: editing, cinematography, sound and
directing are just outstanding in Runaway Train.

This is an action movie that doesn't dumb down the plot or insult the
viewer's intelligence. This is a fine piece of film-making that's been sadly
overlooked in modern times. I can say I'm glad I managed to see this movie
once in my life time.

9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on a screenplay by the Japanese director Akira Kurosawa, "Runaway
Train" is bloody, intense and oppressive It is a movie with arresting
images about a notorious life term prisoner who has been welded in a
hole for 3 years and a psychotic warden who practically hopes that his
dangerous prisoner will make the first move, so that he can have an
excuse to 'stop his clock.' The film takes place in the freezing
landscapes of the Alaskan wilderness, and in a maximum security prison
where the only escape is death 

Soon enough, Manny (Jon Voight) is on the loose along with another
fellow prisoner, an unbalanced prizefighter called Buck (Eric Roberts),
infected by Manny's madness Their escape is a serious blow to the
obsessive warden (John P. Ryan) who knows that his prison will be out
of control if he fails to get them back 

Faced with certain death in the world's most inhospitable climates,
Manny and Buck wind up on an unmanned train ignoring that its driver
has suffered a heart attack, and the locomotive is rolling into
something very fast 

Jon Voight completely embodies the brutal convict The fierce intensity
in his eyes, the ferocity in his voice, the hardness to withstand pain,
these are indications of his madness He has an injured hand, a scar
around his eye, and a desire for revenge rooted deeply in his thoughts 

Though the movie is a character study of the dangerous inmate... We see
the aftermath of Manny's last encounter with the warden... We don't get
the opportunity to examine his mind or figure out what makes him so
fiery... Just like Buck, we're looking at a man at war with world and
everybody in it 

The film's centerpiece is the showdown between the warden and Manny...
At this point it becomes clear that the warden's personal obsession
overrides any human consideration It is a thrilling show Manny
believes in nothing, and is capable of anything 

Andrei Konchalovsky depicts prison life with all the usual clichés:
uptight guards, beatings, and murders He does an admirable job of
taking us into strange figures on a killer train Konchalovsky crafts a
memorable screen moment that reminded me the dramatic sequence of John
Huston in Moby Dick
<|_=00=_|>

I remember being wowed by "Runaway Train" back in 1985 when it first came
out. Seeing it again on DVD in 1999 reminded me of just how excellent a
movie this really was. I recommend "Runaway Train" to anyone who wants a
large portion of philosophical meat and meaning mixed in with gripping
action and a solid story. In the 15 years since "Runaway Train" was first
released,  I can't think of a movie other than "The Matrix" that has
combined so much action, tension, and a strong  philosophy so
successfully.

Chances are you've never heard of "Runaway Train." Amazing too. The movie
was even based on a Akira Kurosawa screenplay and it shows. Jon Voight and
Eric Roberts were at the top of their craft. In fact, both received well
deserved Oscar nominations for very powerful performances.

It makes me sad to think that so few have had a chance to actually see
this
movie due to the sloppy studio backing and licensing turmoil born out of
the
collapse of the former Golon-Globus production studio. Surprise!
Golon-Globus actually made at least one excellent movie outside of the
their
usual roster of shlock. But their poor reputation might have become so
tarnished by that time that audiences didn't get a chance to know what
they
were missing. As a result, the movie rarely if ever gets airplay or any
notice. Since the DVD was one of the very first DVD's to be released when
the universe of DVD owners was measured in thousands not millions, it has
once again fallen below the radar. Does a tree make a noise if it falls in
a
forest when there is no one around to hear it happen?

Maybe that was how "Runaway Train" became all but forgotten. If the title
were to be reissued today in an SE package, I believe that a whole new
generation of DVD viewers would be delighted to have this title in their
collection. In the meantime it is worth seeking out for rental or
purchase,
you won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Bad original title there. It sounds as if Ben Johnson should be at the
controls and Charles Bronson should be the expert who figures out how
to save all the passengers except the nut-case villain, maybe Dennis
Hopper, who expires along with all the machinery in an exploding
fireball as the locomotive plummets from an open bridge into a ravine.
But, nope. 

Kurasawa was having his problems at the time he supervised the writing
of this story and it was given over to Konchalavsky to direct. There
aren't very many characters in the film. Mainly John Voight, Eric
Roberts, and Rebecca DeMornay (looking fresh faced, freckled, and quite
attractive), with John Ryan thrown in mainly to provide a real
flesh-and-blood living villain, in addition to the impalpable
philosophical ones that are everyone's chief concern. Existentialism is
one of those now practically-dead passing French intellectual fads,
become a word now loosely thrown around that can mean pretty much
anything you want. But in its original post-war form it had a rather
specific definition, if you could distill it from Sartre and Camus. The
main point was that existence precedes essence, meaning that you
weren't born for any particular purpose -- good or bad -- and that you
defined yourself through voluntary actions. The second point was that
social rules meant very little and could be disregarded at will, as
long as you were ready to accept the consequences of breaking those
rules. This whole movie illustrates exactly those points in a symbolic,
yet realistic and exciting way. 

Voight and Roberts are introduced in a rather lengthy, suspenseful
introduction set in a Northwestern prison run by Ryan. They escape by
slipping naked through a long and filthy sewer pipe and are shot out
through the air into a clear cold fast-running river. (Getting an
anatomical allusion here?) They manage to steal some clothes and board
the empty, second locomotive of a train whose sole engineer drops dead
and falls off. (The engineer stands for Somebody, too, with a capital
S. I hope you're getting all this.) Another passenger is discovered.
Always nice to have a young woman around. But with nobody at the
controls of the unreachable lead locomotive, and with its brakes burned
out, the train begins to pick up speed. The three of them wind up stuck
on a train rocketing in the general direction of nowhere and, try as
they may, they have no influence over its course or speed. Worst of
all, it's rapidly approaching a "dead end" (get that one?). 

By means of ingenuity, sacrifice, and simple human doggedness the lead
locomotive is uncoupled from the rest of the train. While the remaining
cars slowly roll to a halt, the lone locomotive roars towards its
finish. We don't see the expectable slow-motion drop and explosion for
the simple reason that we don't need to. We already know the end is
upon us -- I mean upon the "train." And the final image, of Voight
standing alone atop this hurtling monster of speed, weight, and power,
holding his arms upward in defiance, the air filled with huge flakes of
wet snow, is finish enough. You don't need a fireball after that
climactic shot.

I'm afraid I've made this movie out to be some sort of dumb, talky,
too-long allegory -- but believe me, it's not. The simple narrative
itself is riveting. I can hardly remember another movie in which the
performers seemed so terribly cold and uncomfortable, wrapped in rags,
caps pulled in an unsightly way around their ears, their faces flushed
by the whistling wind, their fear and desperation so visible in
everything they do, their failures and minor triumphs looming so
pathetically large in the story. This train -- or the compartment of
the locomotive, which is about all of the interior we see -- has no
oysters on the half shell, nor a nice warm Franklin stove or any other
source of heat. It's nothing more than cold, dull iron, and we are all
aboard, bound for the end of the line. The musical score couldn't be
more apt -- sustained, low, rumbling, elephantine -- a massive and
powerful and inexorable chord. 

What a gripping picture. How did Goldang Globus Hystericus ever manage
to produce such a great film?
