
The Outing is a textbook example of how great artwork can entice you to
pick up a movie from your local mom and pop video store's shelf. Now,
the status of the movie inside said case could be questionable, but how
can you pass up that art? Luckily The Outing is not that bad. Granted,
the acting could use some touching up and the formula is an old one,
but the gore effects stand out and the sheer eighties-ness of the piece
shines through. The Outing (aka The Lamp) is about a group of high
school students who decide to spend the night at the local museum.
Unbeknownst to them the newest piece at the museum is a genie lamp
harboring an evil Djinn. Keep in mind that this was many years before
Wishmaster was made. When the horny teens decide to split up and
explore the place (and each other) the Djinn is set loose to work his
evil magic. That's the formulaic part. But there are some interesting
moments along the way. Highlights include: A man getting ripped in half
under water, a scientist being thrown into a ceiling fan, and a nubile
teen taking a bath with snakes. It's just campy enough to keep me
watching and gory enough for me not to give it a bad review.
<|_=00=_|>

   If scary movies are supposed to have morals than the lesson taught by
this movie is "Be careful what you wish for".  Okay, forget the fact that
all the "teens" in this movie look too old even for grad school and
concentrate on the plot.  A girl (Andra St. Ivanyi) has an argument with her
father and wishes he were dead.  So what?  Well dad is a museum curator and
he just happened to come into possession of a real magic lamp ("from Iraq")
and whoever, or whatever, is inside heard her wish.
   This isn't one of those nice "Your wish is my command, O Master" sort of
djinn's; he has a mean streak a mile wide.  When the same girl and her
friends decide to spend the night in the museum for a little carnal fun he
pops up and starts killing everyone in various exotic ways.  Watch for a boy
snapped in half at the waist and dead snakes brought back to life to deliver
poisonous bites.  They had to save the budget for the big FX at the end so
we just get to see the aftermath of the really gory stuff.  The snake bites
and impalements are all shown though.
   So is this a good movie?  Yeah, I thought so.  The ending left me
wondering though . . .I mean it is kind of inconclusive.  What DID that shot
of the Pepsi truck mean?  Well, maybe I will just have to see it
again.
<|_=00=_|>
Something about a bunch of brainless teenagers caught in a museum after
closing. One of them is possessed and is purposefully leading her
friends to their deaths.

No great shakes to be sure but, for 1986, this was pretty impressive. I
saw it in a movie theatre and found the special effects just
incredible. Yeah, they look cheesy today but back then were state of
the art. Also I found some of the acting good with some nice blood and
gore.

So, while I agree it's not a good movie I have a real soft spot for it.
And, come on! It's not THAT bad! I give it a 7.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was filmed at the Houston Museum of Natural Science. There
are a few glimpses of the sign in the front of the building and current
Museum patrons will notice that the Planetarium is mysteriously
disconnected (pre- grand hall) and the "side door" where the kids get
back into the building after the building is locked down now leads to a
ramp and into the parking garage. I am the Museum's Overnight
coordinator now and have spent the night in this same museum many times
- unfortunately there is no jin to be found... or is there? 

Obviously we've updated the Museum a bit since this was filmed but if
you grew up in Houston going to the Museum on field trips take a closer
look at this movie for a good laugh. Don't worry - the laughs
definitely continue as you examine the plot, dialog, special effects
and fashion! 

This movie is beloved by HMNS staff and we were especially excited to
find out about the secret bathtub/snake room!
<|_=00=_|>
There's no denying that The Lamp has its fair share of clichés and
silliness but if you're a fan of the genre you can't help but love it.
The story behind it is actually quite original and interesting, there's
not many films out there about killer genies is there? And of course
there's the typical "3 wishes" trap with the moral of be careful what
you wish for (the girl at one point wishes her father was dead). The
genie effects used at the end are ultra cheesy, but cool at the same
time. I love the camera angles from the perspective of the genie as it
floats along corridors. The best camera view is one that is apparently
from 'inside' the lamp. Obviously they would have done this with a
piece of red plastic over the screen, but it's still a cool trick. The
deaths are decent, but weren't very gory (at least in the VHS version I
watched). 

If you're a fan of slasher films, I would add this to your collection.
It's unique in its own way and probably one of the only slasher films
with a killer genie in it!
<|_=00=_|>

I recently saw this movie for the first time and if you like really cheesy
B
movies, this is definitely one for you!  It's got it all...bad acting,
horrible effects, random naked people.  I found it particularly enjoyable
because it's set in Houston, TX (where I live!)  So I got to look back and
remember what this city looked like 15 years ago!  All in all, this movie
is
a good way to spend a couple hours.
<|_=00=_|>

Teenagers spending the night in a museum are attacked by an evil genie
intent on world destruction. A very creative idea ( remember this came out
way before Wishmaster ), is given the standard 80's teen horror film
treatment. But still isn't all the bad. The first half is so-so, but once
there in the museum, it is nothing but good times from then on out. 7 out
of
10.
<|_=00=_|>
The mostly 'ho-hum' reviews here have me a little confused. Anybody
looking for a cheesy-as-all-get-out 80s horror flick should scoop up
THE OUTING without a second thought.

We start with a bunch of white trash people with white trash names like
Harley robbing this old lady. She's apparently absurdly rich, but the
main thing they find is an ancient lamp (from Irag!). Obviously, the
lamp has a genie in it, Harley unwittingly unleashes its angry power,
and it kills him and his friends. The lamp is given to a local museum,
where its dark powers are re-awakened by a stupid teenager. Add a group
of stupid teenager's friends staying the night in the museum for a
little bit of foolin' around, and we've got ourselves a great slasher
set-up! Not only do we have a handful of great deaths here (we've got
snake baths, death by ceiling fan and mummy zombies!), there's also a
great deal of 80's absurdity. We've got a high school class that
teaches its students about Vlad the Impaler and genies, security guards
that sing opera instead of doing anything, and potentially the most
d-baggy out of all '80s d-bags (they get in butterfly knife fights and
are attempted rapists!).

It's all just fantastic, and is fun from start to finish. The ending is
a little head-scratching: the genie makes its first true appearance,
finally grants the main character's "wish" she made a few days before,
and then presents itself as unstoppable. But there's some Iraqi-speak
on the lamp, and after a truly heart-poundingly suspenseful (kidding)
scene with a computer translating the characters, it's revealed that
the main girl has to (wait for it) destroy the lamp to kill the genie.
Isn't that, like, the first thing you would try? Don't think I would've
needed a translator to tell me that.

So to wrap up, the whole thing's a lotta fun and I don't see any fan of
80s cheese having a bad time with THE OUTING.
<|_=00=_|>

Not bad, seen it a couple of times. If you like splatter flicks with
mediocre acting, watch this one. Those poor teens get to die in
some
pretty nasty ways.
<|_=00=_|>

An enjoyably cheesy B-movie that has bad acting all around (everyone seems
to agree on that), but also some imaginatively gruesome scenes that make
it
worthwhile for undemanding genre fans. Inarguable highlight is the scene
involving a naked girl (of course!), a bathtub and several snakes.....ugh!
See if you can understand the point of the brief shot after the closing
credits.      (**)
