

I am aware of much of the criticism this movie received. Basically that
it was awful and not worth seeing. To all those who have said such
words I just have to ask, what movie were you watching? In my opinion
Ishtar was a wonderful movie. It's about two grown men, whose only
dream is to become great musicians but are so horrible that no one will
have them but the tourist industry in Morocco. All the songs that these
two, Warren Beatty and Dustin Hoffman, sing are written by Elaine May
and I found them to be simply hysterical. Warren Beatty and Dustin
Hoffman make a great team, with humor vaguely reminiscent of Woody
Allen. This is one of the only movies in which you get to see Warren
act in such a way. I would defiantly recommend it to anyone despite its
poor reviews.

<|_=00=_|>

This is actually a brilliant comedy that utilizes the subtle jab to the
funny bone rather than the thundering blow. Unfortunately, this type of
humor died out sometime in the middle of the television show NEWHART's run.
Why? Read The Wasteland! I don't know! Ishtar works in the same vein as
Billy Wilder and Preston Sturges. No, the jokes do not come out and slap you
in the face... You have to look for them to find them. Needless to say, do
not rent this if you want a cathartic, mindless jolt. However, do not slam
this movie just because it isn't slaptick or screwball. (Which are the only
kind of comedies made anymore!) Elaine May comes from the comedy team of
Nichols and May (Yes, Mike Nichols! [In fact one could argue that the comedy
in The Graduate is bad for the same reasons as the comedy in Ishtar is
supposedly bad.]). This duo practically perfected the witty, acerbic brand
of humor which is now completely missed and misunderstood but was used
masterfully in this film. In the age of Saturday Night Live and Ace Ventura,
a comedy of this sort most assuredly would bomb and continue bombing.
Nevertheless, if you are sick and tired of being force-fed ridiculously bad,
hackneyed comedy then I suggest renting Ishtar (then buying some Nichols and
May albums and watching the Bob Newhart reruns on Nick at Nite). Oh...
Carter was President when I was born by the way...  This is not
nostalgia!
<|_=00=_|>

I have never understood the seemingly universal disapproval of this fine
film.  Is it "Reds"?...No.  Is it "Rain Man"?...No.  Was it intended to
be?...Of course not.

Ishtar is a comedy of the first measure.  Start with two struggling
musicians trying to make it big, who find themselves trapped in a circle of
espionage and intrigue in a far away land.  Include some of the funniest
text ever written for the big screen.  Add two of the greatest actors of our
day, Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beatty, (both of whom are playing characters
that could not be farther from the traditional roles that these actors have
played, which was, I'm sure, a challenge in and of itself) and throw in a
blind camel for good measure, and you have the recipe for a cinema classic.
If this film had managed to avoid the negative press that it received early
on, it would have gone done in history as one of the great comedies of the
1980's.  Now, everyone wants to be on the "I hate Ishtar" bandwagon.  It is
truly unfortunate that this film has not received the credit that it
deserves.

"Ishtar" is not the most under-rated film ever, but it may be
close.
<|_=00=_|>
If ISHTAR had starred Steve Martin and Chevy Chase, been directed by
John Landis and shot for $10 million on a Hollywood sound stage, I
think people would have enjoyed it for what it is, a sophomoric, silly
road movie.

However, it stars Warren Beatty and Dustin Hoffman, and was directed by
Elaine May, a trio of actors and filmmakers who were known for comedy
classics as HEAVEN CAN WAIT, THE HEARTBREAK KID and TOOTSIE. Therefore,
people expecting to see the most brilliant American comedy of all time
were shocked and appalled when, instead, they got a glorified Cheech
and Chong movie.

Is this fair? Yes and no. ISHTAR definitely falls flat at times. There
are some curiously lifeless moments and awkward scenes that reek of
last minute re-editing. The movie is far from perfect. But it is often
very funny, and features two terrific, underrated performances from
Beatty and Hoffman.

Watching Beatty play such a well meaning dim-wit is a real treat. And
Hoffman is just as good playing an equally dense, overly self-assured
jerk. Elaine May and Paul William's intentionally awful songs are
hilarious as well. People who criticize the quality of the songs or
Beatty and Hoffman's vocal talent are obviously missing the joke, as
both are SUPPOSED to be bad.

A pre-obnoxiously conservative Charles Grodin adds plenty of laughs as
a CIA agent, while Isabelle Adjani does well in a deceptively complex
role, which requires her to play it totally straight while engaged in
completely ludicrous scenes with Beatty and Hoffman.

Beatty and Hoffman's interaction while trapped in the desert is
classic. One of the movie's funniest moments involves the wind kicking
up after they have been told by Adjani that "there is no wind in the
desert". Hoffman asks, "Is the wind blowing?" Beatty answers, "This
must be one of those once in a lifetime things, like the glaciers
melting." If you don't find that funny, you'll hate this movie.

But if dry, silly humor is your cup of tea, and you can view a movie
without being overly distracted by it's star power, then you just might
enjoy ISHTAR. It doesn't always work, but I found it to be pretty
funny, with a fair amount of really great laughs. Considering the
barrage of moronic, unfunny Hollywood comedies that have come and gone
in it's wake, ISHTAR should be considered a triumph.
<|_=00=_|>

"Ishtar was great," I think defiantly every time by some off chance someone
I come in contact with who has actually seen it cites it was the worst movie
ever. I suppose it's part of cinematic pop culture to hold that opinion as a
safeguard against being called a fool.

The most charming quality of Ishtar is its consistently dry,
tongue-and-cheek disposition. It offers brilliant insight to the types of
people in the world that, despite the fact that to everyone else their
talent is cheesy at best, continue to try and try.  Rogers and Clarke are
the "Every Men" for that entire segment of the population with their
songwriting musical act.

Their third-rate, leisure-suit-wearing manager does his job by getting them
a few gigs; the biggest gig of all is in Ishtar, a politically unstable
Middle Eastern country. Which, of course, is unbeknownst to Rogers and
Clarke, who are just reveling in their love of playing music. Their naivete
(and sometimes outright stupidity) is a character unto itself, and plays
brilliantly throughout the ridiculous adventure that they
experience.

I've seen Hoffman and Beatty in interviews joking about how they knew the
movie was so bad that, instead of quitting, they simply got into the spirit
by over-acting at parts. But, whether they know it or not, they were very
REAL people, and THAT was the best part of all.
<|_=00=_|>
I am just old enough to remember the two movies of the same approximate
era (1980s, anyway) that became synonymous with big-budget box office
bombs: "Ishtar" and "Heaven's Gate." 

At the time, "Ishtar" was considered so bad as to be unwatchable. It
was skewered and vilified so strongly that the critics rapidly drove it
out of the theaters. Few--including me--ever had the nerve to rent the
movie.

It wasn't until roughly 10 years after its release that my in-laws
introduced me to the comedic greatness that is "Ishtar." To this day
when I tell friends and family that I love Ishtar, it is somewhat like
saying, enthusiastically, "Hey, I just contracted leprosy!" Such is the
stigma that still lingers with this film.

To the credit of critics, this is by no means a work of pure comedic
genius.

The movie has essentially one theme that works--the effortless
cluelessness of Lyle and Chuck as the world's worst songwriters--and
this is exhausted almost completely within the first 30 minutes. Still,
it is a totally knee-slapping hilarious 30 minutes. The meandering
remaining plot that takes them to Morocco for a singing gig and leads
them to become CIA "agents" is what cemented the bad taste in the mouth
of critics for time immemorial. This theme by the end of the movie is
rather re-treaded and worn-out. We kind of want Warren and Dustin to
just shut up by then.

This second act suffers from a kind of Hope-Crosby wannabee syndrome,
and the writing isn't up to the slapstick pedigree the movie had begun
revealing quite hilariously in the first act. Considering this film
came from the pen of Elaine May--of "Nichols and May" comedy duet
fame--I would have expected more, but perhaps this movie spiraled out
of her hands because of the oft-misunderstood first act. I could easily
see studio test audiences handily rejecting it and thus twisting the
movie's priorities out of whack.

Still, "Ishtar" shouldn't be brushed aside as a mere footnote in movie
history. It is worth watching for its true hilarity and the
performances of both Hoffman and Beatty.
<|_=00=_|>

I know it's not the best. Arsenic and Old Lace is the top comedy of all
time. Citizen Kane the greatest film. Gone with the Wind the greatest
epic.

Wizard of Oz the finest fantasy. And L.O.T.R. 1,2,3 trilogy is the
ultimate film legend.

But for me, Ishtar is pure fun. I saw it when it came out. Bought the
video. Watch it twice a year and have my daughter hooked on it too.

It's the Vinyl Cafe /Dave and Morley type of humour that gets me. I
can't hold a tune with a forklift and I find the singing style and
lyrics of Rogers and Clark inspirational.

I feel for these guys. The Warren Beatty line to Dustin Hoffman " You'd
rather have nothing, than settle for less. " reminds me of my own (
self-deprecating ) personal credo, 'Lower your standards and achieve! "

These innocents are taken on a journey of discovery through Ishtar and
back home to the struggle against 'lives of quiet desperation.'

<|_=00=_|>

For the most part, films that bomb badly usually deserve to, but Ishtar is a
curious exception. For the life of me, I cannot understand the critical
drubbing it took upon its initial release. Admittedly, it did go way over
budget, and none of that opulence is visible on screen (the film has a murky
and washed out look to it, and its sets and locales are not particularly
impressive) but this is a comedy after all, and so lives or dies based on
the quality of its jokes and situations, not its production design. And on
that level Ishtar not only gets by but succeeds wonderfully.

Beatty and Hoffman play two dim bulbs who fancy themselves songwriters and
pair up in an attempt to become the next Simon and Garfunkel. The tortured
lyrics these guys come up with must be heard to be believed, and the scenes
showing them working on their songs or presenting their act to audiences are
some of the most screamingly funny ever committed to film. If for no other
reason than to see these scenes, you should rent the movie.

Perhaps the film might have been funnier (and better accepted by critics) if
it had focused exclusively on the show business dreams of its stars.
However, early on the two get a booking to play an extended gig in Morocco
(that alone should tell you how bad they are); they get waylaid in the
fictional Middle Eastern country of Ishtar where they become inadvertently
roped into a shady CIA dominated plot having something to do with
rebellions, arm shipments and military coups. It's all rather hokey and
confusing - but deliberately so, in the best screwball sense. And through it
all Hoffman and Beatty truly shine: the bafflement on their faces and in
their gestures as they are shepherded from place to place as dupes in a plot
they don't understand is just priceless. Who would have thought that two
such intelligent actors could play stupid so convincingly (either one of
them, for example, would have made a preferable sidekick to Jim Carrey than
Jeff Daniels was in Dumb and Dumber - his performance showed all the strain
of a bright guy trying to force himself into a pose of ineptitude). Even
more, who would have imagined that two such prima donnas could put their
egos aside to work off each other so well and become a truly great comedy
TEAM? No matter how crazy the plot may get, Hoffman and Beatty are never
less than a delight as they hold down the center of the
film.

Oh yeah, and if that weren't enough, there's also the treat of the
wonderfully droll and deadpan Charles Grodin as the CIA operative in Ishtar.
He's the villain of the piece, but his beautifully underplayed exasperation
at the exploits of the two stars makes you like him almost as much as you do
them.

So what are you waiting for? If you like a good, well done comedy with sharp
performances and a kooky atmosphere, check out Ishtar today. Don't allow all
those sourpuss, stone-faced critics to ruin your fun.

<|_=00=_|>

I have no idea why "Ishtar" is often called "the worst movie ever made."
It
is rolling-on-the-floor, sidesplittingly hilarious!  The scene towards the
beginning with Hoffman and Beatty writing *really* bad songs, and the ones
later in the film with a very cantankerous camel had me laughing so hard
tears were coming out of my eyes.  I saw the movie at the recommendation of
a friend, without having heard any of the media hype, so I wasn't biased
against it.  I can't understand why the critics bandwagoned against it so
heavily.  They must have absolutely no sense of humor.  Maybe they were
expecting another "Reds" or "Little Big Man" or something, instead of a
higher-class "Spies Like Us."

Everyone I know thinks "Ishtar" is a very funny movie.  Even my mom liked
it!


<|_=00=_|>

It constantly amazes me that some consider Ishtar as one of the worst
movies
ever. It is not citizen Kane nor was it meant to be. It made me chuckle,
grin and laugh out loud. Silly me, I thought that was what a comedy was
supposed to do. I have heard others criticize the music, *HELLO* it was
supposed to be bad.  If you want great music listen to Mozart. If you are
amused by farce listen to the words from the songs in Ishtar. They make me
smile just thinking about them now. I think the thing that really stuck
with
me about this movie was the fact that Hoffman and Beatty really seemed to
be
having a good time making it and it shows.
If you don't watch many comedies or are easily swayed by others comments,
don't bother watching this movie. If you have a sense of humor and can
think
for yourself, do not rent this movie... Buy it.
