
OK, we all have our favourite poignant movies right?....you know the
type - the ones that hold you in rapture - time and again, because it
speaks to you on a very personal level and effortlessly touches some
part of your emotions that you keep hidden from the world - evoking
deeply sad or blissfully happy memories from our own passage through
life. Biloxi Blues is that movie for me.

Which of us do not carry emotional scars from; Our first time away from
home. Our first time interacting with a group of strangers in a mutual
climate. Our first sexual encounter. Our fist kiss. Our first love. Our
first brush with authority. Our first glimpse at death.

Biloxi Blues is a movie that embraces many of the "rites of passage"
that we all face in life and deals with them using comedy as a foil to
gently explore them, without diminishing their poignancy. Neil Simon is
peerless in this. The casting is faultless. The acting is immaculate.
The humor is intelligent.

If you haven't seen this movie, do so. You can thank me later.
<|_=00=_|>
Biloxi Blues is a wonderful character comedy with strong dramatic
scenes as well. Eugene Jerome (Matthew Broderick) is an anti-hero, who
is typically concerned with making wisecracks, rebelling against the
rigid drill Sergeant (Christopher Walken), and talking about wanting to
become a writer. Similar to the dark pathos of characters in Catch-22,
Biloxi Blues exposes men in the service who do not want to be there,
who are incompetent, and basically as far from battlefield heroism as
you can imagine. Mike Nichols directs, and his comedic and dramatic
pace is pitched perfectly for the film.

The movie has quotable lines throughout. But if you are looking for a
typical war movie, this is not for you. There are no heros, at least in
the conventional sense, as the story focuses upon the dusty boot camp
in Biloxi, Mississippi. The story does deal with sharp internal
conflicts, and the cultural topics addressed emerge strongly against
the backdrop of one of the US's most traditional institutions: the
military. Although it has been over fifteen years since the release of
the movie, the conflict in the movie feels timely and relevant for
today's world. It's the type of tight, well-written comedy that rarely
exists in current cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a fantastic movie that you will want to watch again and again.
The story is perfect, the cast is perfect and the acting is perfect. A
coming of age story that combines young recruits from all different
sections of life that have come together and now have to learn how to
live with one another as they go through the rigors of boot camp. Neil
Simon always knows how to combine that perfect blend of realism, a
comic touch and something you can identify with into everything he
writes and makes you feel so comfortable in his story because you feel
you're in the story. He makes you want to be become a writer. This is
what makes Neil Simon unique. If only every movie could be written this
well. This is what great Hollywood film-making is all about.
<|_=00=_|>
It seems strange to say this about a movie that has very few moments of
high drama and virtually no moments of great excitement, but "Biloxi
Blues" has a strangely compelling quality to it. Once you begin to
watch, you'll stay with this through to the end. Director Mike Nichols
does an excellent job of bringing the viewer into the lives of the
disparate group of young men who find themselves suddenly soldiers in
1945, facing the prospect of being sent to the Pacific to fight and
quite possibly die for their country. From the very beginning, we want
to know about these men: who they are, what makes them tick, and, most
important - what's going to happen to them?

There are several fine performances in this movie. Matthew Broderick is
excellent (he seems to have a knack for military roles, as in both this
and "Glory") as Private Eugene Jerome, a young, idealistic Jewish
teenager, just out of high school, who dreams of being a writer rather
than a soldier. Much of the movie is seen through his eyes as we see
him come of age in many different ways. There's great humour involved
as he loses his virginity with the understanding prostitute Rowena
(Park Overall). Eugene is simply a likable young man who we enjoy
watching grow up. Corey Parker put on a strong performance in a
supporting role as Private Albert Epstein, who challenges military
authority from Day 1. Another scene of brief humour is when Epstein
presents a note from his doctor in New York, asking that he be excused
from having to eat army food. Also offering a strong performance is
Christopher Walken as the slightly off-balance Sargeant Toomey, who
drives his platoon relentlessly.

If you're looking for a classic war movie, you'll want to avoid this.
But if you're interested in a story about genuine people, give it a
try. I enjoyed this movie very much, and would rate it as a 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I must say I'm a little surprised this movie did not scoring higher
with the IMDb readers. I really expected it to be marked higher. While
the movie is a comedy I would not say it is hysterically funny, so
perhaps that is why the score is not higher. Maybe people felt it
should have been funnier. I don't know.

Regardless, this movie is very well done and funny. Not funny as in a
bust your gut kind of way - but funny enough to make you smile and
laugh most of the time. It has a few serious moments that tie it into
the reality of war and living in the armed forced. Although it is
period sensitive the writers did well to make it applicable even years
later.

The acting is excellent, and Walken is brilliant as the complex Sgt. in
charge of the young troops. I'm not sure Walken was ever better in a
role, he is just pure genius.

The rest of the cast is wonderful as well, from top to bottom you end
up liking the cast more and more as the movie unfolds. And in the end
it is impossible to say anyone was miscast or uncomfortable.

I would say if you have not seen this movie, you should because it is a
classic.
<|_=00=_|>
A wonderfully entertaining film. Everything seems to be in it's place.
The only thing that one could grab at as being off somewhat, are some
of the Simon jokes/funnies, which tend to sound too dated, corny or ill
fitted. One must take into consideration on that point that this is a
film and a story of an earlier time. A period piece and a script from
quite a few years ago. Because of some of the tried for laughs, it
seems that none of the Simon plays as they stand or the adaptations for
screen will stand the test of time. A bit of re working on the
script/dialog would help immensely Even with that BIG flaw that sticks
out like a sore thumb, this film is wonderful. One might refer to or
call these imperfections in the dialog,New York City Corn. Being form
New York City myself, perhaps it's just the way it plays to me, but I
doubt it. Most of today's viewers would have the same problem with some
of the lines.

The characters could not be more interesting or endearing. The scenes
are right on track as one follows the other in perfect harmony. The
acting and casting is superb with standouts being just about all of the
main characters. Christopher Walken continues to take command. But it's
also the great by play and perfect casting of his buddies of all
religious persuasions that are just as marvelous. Terrific performances
by Matt Mulhern, Corey Parker, Park Overall, and of course Matthew
Broderick are all great. A perfectly cast movie I would say. Everyone
was terrific but what stands out so nicely about this work is that we
don't want the relationship that Simon creates between our beloved
characters to ever end. There is always a Bully right? Matt Mulhern is
cast as the lovable, honest, Bologna sandwich slamming cretin. Yet he
is wonderful in the part he plays, and becomes my favorite. Then their
is the enigmatic, always unearthly Christopher Walk en who endears
himself to both the audience and to his boys that he makes into pretty
good soldiers.

The interplay between the different characters is what makes this work
so well. There really isn't a single one in the group that we don't end
up liking, at least to some degree. I really think this is where
Simon's genius lies, what makes his plays so popular, so likable. We
like both Oscar and Felix (opposite personalities) in the Odd Couple,
right? Well, despite mostly minor bickering some major which is
predictable among a bunch of guys from mostly different backgrounds and
religions, in Biloxi Blues, the guys end up liking each other. They
even end up realizing that St Toomey is a good guy. They understand
that he is raking them over the coals in order to save their lives if
and when they are shipped over seas during WWII The adventure really
doesn't leave much out. Matthew Broderick goes through all or most of
the adventures that we would expect. I found myself easily fitting into
the group as the same kinds of things happened to me as I was growing
into manhood. Somehow they grow together, they move threw some of
life's more difficult moments as young men. In the end, Simon's or
should I say Sgt. Toomey's bunch makes it, and we love it. I kept
thinking that they really didn't have a care in the world. It was of
course, a time of great anxt and worry as the guys wondered what in the
world would ever happen to them. However, I couldn't help but go along
with Broderick at the end, when the war is over, when none of the guys
is actually sent over seas to fight. He states to the affect that as he
looks back (narrating in talk over), it was the best time of his life
that he seemed to bond with every one of those guys.

I was surprised to find that there is no Sound Track available of any
kind. Yet, the choice of songs, taken from the era, the WWII songs some
refer to as a wonderful time for Romantic Tunes are perfectly placed
throughout the film. I gave this movie a 10 despite the mentioned
imperfections because it simply is one piece of great entertainment,
and every time I decide to watch it again, it brings me home, home to
the comfort of those great characters that I just love to watch and
hear.
<|_=00=_|>

Well I'm disappointed. :-(  This film deserves much more than a 6.6 rating!
If you watch Brighton Beach Memoires you will love this film. Personally the
1st film was better but maybe because I could relate to a younger
Jerome.
But this film, oh yes! Christopher Walken you are my GOD! He is so funny in
this film in my view! The way he makes the wise-cracking Jerome (Broderick)
and fellow NY boy Epstein (Corey) is great. Ok he is a nut but that is
Walken- he would be the worst Army officer I would want!
Great film- the scene with the 'escort' is great! "You're not breathing!
Breathe!" Unbelievable!
It is also heart-warming and I love it!
Overall I must give it a 8.5/10. Give it a try dont let the 6.6 rating fool
you!
HO NO!
<|_=00=_|>
Biloxi Blues is directed by Mike Nichols and written by Neil Simon. It
is based on Simon's semi-autobiographical 1985 play of the same name.
It stars Matthew Broderick, Christopher Walken, Penelope Ann Miller,
Corey Parker and Matt Mulhern. Music is by Georges Delerue and Bill
Butler is the cinematographer.

The second part of Neil Simon's Eugene Morris Jerome trilogy, the plot
centres around Eugene's (Broderick) draft into the United States Army
during the last year of World War II. Sent to training camp at Biloxi,
Mississippi, Eugene is thrust in amongst people from all walks of life.
Here he will not only learn about life, but also have it changed for
him.

Straight from the off I have to say that this has become one of my
favourite films of all time. From the moment I first caught it back on
release, where I only went to see it because it was written by the guy
who wrote The Odd Couple, I have been humoured and charmed every year
since without fail. On synopsis it seems to be yet another run of the
mill coming of age picture, or just another tales from the boot camp
time filler, but with Simon holding the pen and Nichols painting the
narrative with careful nostalgic splendour, Biloxi Blues is much better
than it's often given credit for. A film that is that rare old beast
that strikes the right balance between laughter and sentiment. 

"It was hard to believe these guys had mothers and fathers who were
worried about them" 

Although this is primarily Eugene's story, film is propelled by the
bubbling concoction of a group dynamic. At training camp Eugene and the
other lads have to face up to a number of challenges, not just growing
up into men, but learning about bigots, bullies, homosexuals and
intellectuals, all while under the borderline crazy command of Sergeant
Merwin J. Toomey (Walken). They may all be different, from different
backgrounds, but one thing binds them together, none of them want to be
there! In other hands this group would have consisted of annoying
stereotypes, but Simon and Nichols, courtesy of the writing and the
garnering of acting performances, ensure this isn't the case. The
audience isn't short changed with these characterisations because they
are stripped down to being survivors by way of humour and naive honour.
Thus it never feels false. 

"I wasn't in on that Pearl Harbour thing" 

One of America's most celebrated film critics said Biloxi Blues
contains limp dialogue! That's something which I certainly can't begin
to comprehend. For the film is an advertisement for witty retorts,
where often responses are used as a survivalist tool, to de-heat a
flare up or to hide nervousness. In this respect Biloxi Blues pays big
on revisits, each time another little one-line gem registers where
previously it had been missed, maybe because we are too focused on the
airy sound track first time around? Or most likely because we are too
lost in a "Eugene" or "Toomey" facial moment. One of the best passages
in the story concerns a last week on Earth game the lads play, the
writing is sharp, yet tender, funny, yet telling, it really is a case
of laugh whilst being drawn into the frightening reality that these
boys are a long way from home, and possibly soon to be fighting for
their lives in some muddy trench. 

The cast are uniformly strong. Walken delivers one of his
quintessential mania turns, marking Toomey out as being one click away
from either sane or insane. Broderick holds court and narrates with
earnest style, while Corey Parker is a revelation as intellectual
Arnold Epstein, a guy who no matter how much he is persecuted by Toomey
and the other rookies, refuses to be shaken and lose his principles.
Miller and Park Overall get the two female roles of note, both
memorable in short appearances, with the latter deliciously dry as a
hooker with a heart. In the support there's macho mirth from Mulhern
(stomach of a goat) and Markus Flanagan (he calls his mother Louise),
homespun mystery from an excellent Michael Dolan, and wistful tunings
from Casey Siemaszko as Don Carney (can anyone count on him?). 

The ending doesn't quite have the dramatic impact that many would
expect, and there is indeed some mellow periods of tinted nostalgia
that will have some viewers urging the pace to go faster. But these are
mere fly specks on a mound of horse droppings. Biloxi Blues, a
wonderfully rich comedy drama, and to my mind the best thing Simon has
written. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
In one of the many looks at days gone by, Neil Simon's alter ego Eugene
Morris Jerome (Matthew Broderick) and friends go down to Biloxi,
Mississippi, in early 1945 for basic training. Once there, they have to
cope with one bad-ass sergeant (Christopher Walken) and a status quo
totally unlike the one in New York. But we also see how the experience
turns Eugene into a very different person, partially due to his
relationship with local babe Daisy (Penelope Ann Miller).

"Biloxi Blues", in my opinion, is far from Mike Nichols's best movie. I
find it having strength in showing these young men's coming of age and
wondering what to do with their future. But still, it's fun to see the
environs of the WWII-era South. And I really liked Eugene's fake name
when he met that one woman; I couldn't have come up with anything like
that! Worth seeing, along with "Brighton Beach Memoirs".

When Matthew Broderick played Ferris Bueller, who ever would have
guessed that he would later play the guy - or the alter ego thereof -
who wrote "The Odd Couple"?
<|_=00=_|>
Matthew Broderick plays a Jewish youngster named Eugene Morris Jerome,
who goes to the army in 1945.This young intellectual wants to be a
writer so he writes some stuff down to his journal about his army
buddies.He, for instance, writes about his suspicions about this also
Jewish guy Arnold Epstein (Corey Parker) that he might be a
homosexual.When Arnold gets to read what Eugene has written about him,
Eugene wants to rip and destroy the page.Arnold stops him and delivers
this great line; "Once you start compromising your thoughts, you're a
candidate for mediocrity."That's very well put.There are many other
great lines and this is overall a well written movie.That's not any
wonder since it's written by Neil Simon.The great director Mike Nichols
directed it in 1988.The movie is full of terrific actors and
characters.Christopher Walken is the somewhat obnoxious Sgt.
Toomey.Matt Mulhern is the somewhat obnoxious recruit Joseph
Wykowski.Michael Dolan is the much more sympathetic recruit Hennesey,
who actually turns out to be homosexual and is sent to military
prison.Casey Siemaszko is Don Carney, who Eugene can't count on
according to his journal.Penelope Ann Miller is Daisy, the girl Eugene
fancies.Park Overall is the prostitute Rowena, who delivers the boys
some joy.There are lots of scenes to remember in the movie.One of the
most memorable ones must be in the end where Arnold makes the drunken
sergeant do 200 push-ups.The movie deals with some important themes,
like racism, anti-semitism and homophobia.I truly recommend Biloxi
Blues for each and every one of you who read this.
