

Candy's best performance ever.  As hard as it is to pick a favorite role
that John Candy ever portrayed, I'd have to say it was Uncle
Buck.
Although this wasn't the only title he and Culkin ever shared, it was the
only film the two ever shared any time on screen together.

Basic plot:  Candy's sister-in-law's father has just had a heart attack in
the middle of the night and the two parents rush trying to find someone to
watch the kids for them while they hop the next flight to go see her father.
 In a desperate last resort, they call the husband's brother.  Buck.  Of
course, the concerned uncle comes to the rescue and takes the task with no
complaint. However, the oldest of the children doesn't care for her bumbling
uncle, and the discipline and protection he places upon her, while her
parents are away.

A great heart-warming comedy that will make you laugh and possibly even cry
at times.  A classic, and certainly a triumph that wouldn't have happened
without John Candy.  Hollywood truly lost a great actor.

I give this movie a 9 out of 10.  One of the funniest and most wonderful
stories, but not my favorite.

And that's my review.
<|_=00=_|>
I gave this an '8', which is one or two more points than it really
should get, but the simple fact is - I enjoy watching it over and over.
John Candy shines as Uncle Buck. He brings the character alive and you
can't help but wish you had a crazy guy like that as an uncle.

Well, maybe a distant uncle, but still he's warm, lovable and helpless
in so many ways. As one would expect, the story is simple, the scenes
mostly predictable (except maybe the ax-murder scene?) and of course
there's a happy ending.

The little kids, Maisy and Miles, played by Gaby Hoffman and a slightly
younger Macaulay Culkin, are simply adorable! The teenage daughter
(Jean Louisa Kelly) perfectly portrays a teenage girl in the throws of
that classic imbalance between childhood and adulthood.

Anyway - no one dies. No one loses an eye or an arm. No houses burn
down. There are no explosions, no fighter jet scenes, no wild car
chases - just plain old silly fun.

Go watch it. This is not a request! Uncle Buck says watch it!
<|_=00=_|>

Simply Candy's best film, second only to Planes, Trains & Automobiles.
Only
hughes knew what to do with Candy. He is completely charming as a total
hapless slob who invades his newphew and neices life. Every scene in this
film is memorable! Its sad such a comic genius is no longer with us, but
he
will always be rememered. If you see only one John Candy movie make it
UNCLE
BUCK.
<|_=00=_|>

There isn't really much to be said about Uncle Buck. It is very good but it
is a simple little film, one of those nice films to watch on a Sunday
afternoon without having to rack your brain or think too
hard.

The late John Candy excels here as Buck Russell who at first glance is a
slob and without much going for him. However, as the film goes on, we learn
that Uncle Buck does indeed have a heart. The film really is about a guy who
looks like the type of man you would keep your family away from but who is
in fact a guy with a heart of gold.

I recommend Uncle Buck to anyone who fancies watching a nice simple little
film for the whole family to enjoy. And watch out for the scene with the
drunken clown on the doorstep!
<|_=00=_|>

John Hughes' Uncle Buck is a comedy that isn't as recognized as much as
his
acclaimed films (Home Alone, Pretty In Pink, Weird Science, Breakfast
Club,
16 Candles), but this is just as funny and heartwarming as the others.
Courtesy mainly of the lead John Candy as Buck Russell.  He brings to the
screen sarcastic humor that works best for him.  Enjoyable throughout,
even
if sometimes the mushy stuff is unbearable.  Favorite line "He, he, he,
you
ever hear of a ritual killing?  hehehe".  A-
<|_=00=_|>

Uncle Buck is a brilliant and fun comedy for everyone. John Candy plays
Uncle Buck, a guy who has to look after his brothers children for a while,
as his brother and sister-in-law have to go away. The kids include a
rebellious teen, Tia, and two sweet young kids, Maisy and Miles. As well as
the great Joh Candy starring here, the just as great Gaby Hoffmann and
Macaulay Culkin also star in this movie. I give Uncle Buck a 10/10.

<|_=00=_|>

This in My opinion is one of the late great John Candy's best films! The
story,acting,music,and cast is just right.The film is very funny and it is
never boring.I just love the Uncle Buck character.The character always
wants
to have a good time,is always kind and does small and big things for
people
that he doesn't even have to do. I wish more people in the world was like
this.Anyway I have seen it many times and in My opinion its a classic!If
you
haven't seen Uncle Buck and love John Candy,silly and serious comedies
then
check out this great movie!I highly recommend it!
<|_=00=_|>

Uncle Buck is a lovable character who, though irresponsible at times, loves
his brother's children like his own. He winds up trying to deal with more
than he bargained for when he must keep track of his teenage niece who tests
the limits while her parents are not at home. It is funny and touching,
something Candy does very well. This is a movie worth renting and one that
teens and up can really enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

Uncle Buck is a typical John Hughes family film, and probably the first
of the beginning of a series of family films as director/writer Hughes
left the world of teenage film-making (though Career Opportunities
would be released the early 90s).

Uncle Buck is a cute, innocuous family film about an unusual uncle
trying to adapt to parenting skills, of which he basically has none.
When their mother's father has a heart attack, the parents of the three
children have to leave town to visit him, so they need a babysitter,
pronto! Call it misadventures in babysitting because they get the
father's somewhat irresponsible, but loving uncle, Uncle Buck (John
Candy).

The story is typical. Uncle Buck is a big mess at first. Not really
sure how things work, but trying hard to make friends with the younger
kids (Gabby Hoffman and Maculay Culkin), and trying very hard to make
peace with the older, cynical niece (Jean Louise Kelly) who for some
reason, just can't take a liking to Buck. In part, that's
understandable considering that he does try his bess to embarrass her
at times in order to get her to see how stupid she's being (especially
when she's around her idiot boyfriend, Bug). But in her case, she
really has an overdose of teen angst, and that spells trouble for Buck.
The niece does her best to get revenge on Buck, and make life as
difficult as possible for him so that her parent's will see what an
irresponsible bafoon he is, or at least that she pegs him to be.

The story also examines typical John Hughes elements, namely class
divisions. Buck isn't exactly wealthy, let alone classy. Also, there
are familial tensions, since the oldest daughter doesn't get along with
her mother well at all (or either parent really, but we really don't
see her relationship with her father). But, like all Hughes comedies,
it is resolved and everyone lives happily ever after. 

This is a better movie for kids in their mid teens and younger, since
Buck's comedic antics (the monster size pancakes, the washing machine
mishap, and the revenge on the boyfriend, Bug) will generate plenty of
laughs. Buck has his own way of doing things, kind of like Michael
Keaton in 'Mr. Mom' (although Keaton follows a standardized process
afterwards unlike Buck, who's improvisations are his own, and he sticks
with them). The interaction between Bug and Buck are the best because
Bug is such an idiot and scared as hell of Buck. Though, I think the
funniest scenes are with Laurie Metcalf (always a scene stealer) as the
seductive, cooky next door neighbor who takes a liking to Buck.

John Hughes fans in general will probably enjoy this comedy, though
that depends if you kept maintained faithfulness to his film catalogue
even after he started going strictly with mindless family films (and
not teenage comedies). Though, this is the earliest period of that
transition, about the same time as Dutch and Curly Sue, so it really
depends on what serves your taste as far as John Hughe's family film
collection goes.

It is a nice little comedy, and one that wouldn't hurt to try. You'll
probably get a few good laughs in there. John Candy always does.

<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

First, the movie is the funniest of all of Candy's films. There are not
weak spots like Summer Rental or The Great Outdoors. It is good all the
way through. The short length of the movie works very well. It flows
well with no boring parts. The movie is his best because of the moral
depth to the character. The jokes all come at his expense what a
bumbler he is and how out of his element he is trying to be responsible
for the first time in his whole life. The film was criticized for his
sinister tone towards Bug when he is preying on Tia. The violence and
threats of violence were a target of Siskel and Ebert. Well, when some
guy is going around preying upon angry, upset teenage girls using them,
getting them pregnant then dumping them, I did not find Buck's
protective reaction wrong in any way. The parents are such a disaster;
clueless yuppies obsessed with improving their lifestyle and abandoning
the poor kids. This really is the core of the film that gives it such
depth. Tia is ignored by the snobby, clueless mother seeking the
affection she is denied at home. Buck is thrown into the middle of this
dysfunctional family with a very angry, bitter teenage girl.

Candy's self deprecating humor is at its best here. His protection of
the children is well done without being gooey. The scene where he
almost takes them to the race track and looks in the rear view mirror
at them after cursing them; that is really a great distillation of why
the film is his best. Candy made a lot of bad movies: Harry Crumb,
Delirious, Wagons East, they tended to be very superficial and often
boring. This is a glaring exception. The protection of Tia, her coming
to realize that he is not controlling her but protecting her; the last
scene is the image that stays with you forever. After the yuppie
parents go back in the house, Tia sees him truly for the first time.
Their eyes meet and he raises his hand. She understands that despite
his awkwardness, mistakes and being in general, kind of a bum, he truly
loves her. The scene is the quintessence of the movie. The connection
and the love, real love that sacrifices and protects not today's vapid
verbiage devoid of any real actions of love. It is a real gem, I cannot
tell you how many times I have watched it. He is not here but I bet he
would tell you it was his favorite. Certainly, he has the greatest
moral depth to it. A Great Little Movie: Love That Risks All For
Another
