
David Anspaugh's "Hoosiers" is a film about the passion to excel in
sports. It's also about a man's comeback to the game after a rough
patch in his own life. "Hoosiers" is a timeless film that will look
good after years of its release because it speaks to us about how
someone can inspire a group of people to do their best, as they become
confident in what they are trying to accomplish. The film was lovingly
written for the screen by Angelo Pizzo.

Coach Norman Dale gets a reprieve in life when he is hired to coach the
Hickory basket ball team in rural Indiana. Basketball is the game where
most people in that state take an unusual interest. Their passion for
the sport is evident. The new coach is looked with suspicion because he
is an outsider and he believes in teamwork. He wants everyone to
participate equally, which doesn't make for excitement in the court.
The coach doesn't want anyone overshadowing another, that's why he
insists in total involvement. Needless to say, his method clashes with
the parents and towns people from the start.

The coach's past comes to haunt him when Myra Fleener, one of the
teachers, discovers an article that reveals an incident Mr. Dale would
like to forget. At the same time, Myra realizes the goodness in the
coach's heart by involving the drunken Shooter into helping him with
the team.

Gene Hackman has one of the best opportunities of his distinguished
career with his portrayal of Coach Dale. He is splendid in the film and
he wins us with his decency and by sticking to his principles, which he
passes on to the team members. Barbara Hershey is also good as Myra,
the young woman who falls in love with Dale. Dennis Hopper plays
Shooter, the father of one of the kids in the team who has a drinking
problem.

"Hoosiers" is an inspiring film that ought to be seen by young people
because of its message about team spirit and how to interact with one
another in peace and harmony.
<|_=00=_|>
What makes this one of the most popular sports films of all time isn't
just the sport, it's because it's such a human-interest film, such a
wonderful story of giving people second chances in life. Add a
true-life David beat Goliath story and you have an appealing film.

It doesn't hurt that Gene Hackman is the star, either. He may not have
that celebrity appeal or the looks of Clark Gable or Bratt Pitt, but
this man can flat-out act! He makes a very believable high school
basketball coach who is tough-but-fair on the outside and
soft-and-compassionate on the inside.

The story of an extremely tiny school defying the odds and becoming a
state champion in dramatic form was so inspiring that this film has
played thousands of times for 20 years now by high school coaches to
their kids for motivation.

But the key to the story is the coach getting a second chance in life
to do what he loves and does best and he, in turn, giving others a
second chance such as the alcoholic here played by Dennis Hopper. There
are great lessons on teamwork, patience, tolerance and a whole bunch of
other qualities. In one of the DVD documentaries, both Hackman and
Hoppper comment on how many times people have approached them and THIS
is the movie they mention that meant so much them. That says a lot
since both men have made many famous movies.

An unsung hero of this movie is the cinematography. Man, this is
beautifully filmed and the rural Midwest has never looked so pretty and
appealing. It paints a beautiful picture of this part of the United
States. It also paints a fond remembrance of the early 1950s. You get
an honest-to-goodness feel of what it's like to be part of a basketball
in this area during that time, 

Basketball meant an awful lot - and still does - to these folks. If you
are sports fan in particularly, this movie will bring a tear or two to
your eyes. However, this story is for everyone who believes people
deserve chances to overcome previous mistakes. Few films, whatever the
topic, have the "heart" this movie demonstrates.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been reading, and summing up comments about this movie. I can't
believe how misunderstood this movie is. First and foremost this is not
a movie about the Milan team's championship, and Bobby Plump's winning
shot. The Milan game is the most famous, and storied game in Indiana
and is only used as the quientessential example.

The movie is a collection of typical things that happen in Indiana High
School basketball which is known as "Hoosier Hysteria". The locker room
scenes are typical, found each year at tournament time. The small town
involvement is typical. Players deciding if they want to succumb to the
social pressures of the sport, or dreaming of winning is typical.
Teacher nudging is typical. The appearance of religious faith is also
typical in small town Indiana. It's right in the bible belt.

Smaller, less talented underdog teams are the life-blood of passion
about playing, and winning. Winning systems, coaching tactics,
fundamentals, and character-building are staples of the Hoosier H.S.
game. Read John Wooden's books and you'll see them clearly. (John
Wooden-Martinsville, IN; Purdue, and UCLA).

The character played by Dennis Hopper is underscored, not by his
drunken state and redemption, but by his basketball knowledge. In
Indiana, everyone from every walk of life knows more about the history
of the game, and how to win the game than the coach. There are walking,
talking Hoosier basketball historians in every small town.

Another Hoosier staple is the sequence of the tournament. Every march
since the 1920's the Indiana H.S. tournament starts with a sectional,
regional, sweetsixteen, and final four state championship. Hence, all
games and scores that were shown in the movie. Although, Hickory H.S.
is fictictious, the opposing team names were real Indiana schools in
the western part of the state: Jasper, Linton, Logootee, etc.

The movie actually tried, but fell short in my opinion of the
excitement at tournament time. The noise level, and absolute excitement
of the H.S. tournaments is something you have to experience. Just
walking into the gyms gives you chill bumps. Being the local game night
hero is paramount, (but it creates it's own special problems.) I firmly
feel, having experienced it myself, that the movie makers were trying
to capture a unique phenomenon in sports using typical events. They
displayed the key aspects of Indiana H.S. basketball in film to
communicate the experience to the rest of the world.

I was pleased, and excited to see how many reviewers were inspired by
the film. Many who lived these events over the years are similarly
motivated.

P.S. Coaches do not kiss teachers except in Hollywood.
<|_=00=_|>

A movie that defines the idea of the underdogs rising to meet the challenge
of greatness, Hoosiers gives the audience something to cheer for.  A
tough-as-nails coach with a heart of gold, a team of farmboys with dreams of
making it to the state finals, a small town pinning their hopes on their
little high school - the movie has it all.  It is well-paced, and is not
overladen with side-plots and frivolities.  There are no doped-up,
foul-mouthed players, no need for gratuitous "party hearty" shots of the
players behaving like hedonists or abusing their opponents.  Some sports
movies may trade in that stock and be considered "great" for it; this film
doesn't and it's better for it.  Superbly cast, superbly acted, and superbly
executed.  A worthy addition to the library of any sports film
fan.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is authentic nostalgia for anyone who grew up in the
mid-west in the 50's and 60's. It's what life looked like when I myself
"came down to this planet" in the late 1940's and experienced my teens
in the 60's.

The old school with high ceilings and gleaming wooden floors, the gyms
with the gold-toned wall-tiles, even the hospital scene with the nurse
in her starched white uniform -- all evoke a peculiar beauty that you
no longer find today.

There is even a scene where a young teen girl yells "NO!" to an unjust
referee call, and her pointy glasses and pony tail look so much like me
back then, it feels like a glimpse into a parallel dimension.

I'd say this is a must-see experience for people my age -- although all
ages can thoroughly enjoy the basketball action.

I'm glad for the social progress since then. But there is a "peculiar
beauty" from those times that is starkly missing today.
<|_=00=_|>

Everybody, especially those who live in the Midwest, will love this movie
about an intense coach (Gene Hackman) with a questionable reputation who
finds himself in a small Indiana town faced with the unenviable task of
turning around tiny Hickory High's 8-man basketball team.  Basketball fans
will appreciate the movie for its authentic portrayal of small-town high
school basketball in the 1950's.  ALL viewers will enjoy this fun film for
its triumphs and its classic, feel-good story of David and Goliath.  This
movie is not about a basketball team.  This movie is about an entire
community that comes together and rallies around the one thing they can all
share - the Hickory High Huskers.  10/10
<|_=00=_|>
When I heard that a movie was being made about Milan (Indiana) High
School's improbable 1954 boys' basketball state championship54, I was
excited. Not only because I, like most Hoosiers, love basketball but
also because of my family connection to "The Milan Miracle," as it's
widely known. One of my uncles, Bob Wichmann, was a member of that
team. MHS was by far the smallest school to win the championship in
Indiana's 87 years of single class basketball. I was really looking
forward to see who they were going to choose to play Uncle Bob!

When I learned around the time of the movie's release that it wasn't
going to be be an actual biography but merely inspired by the Milan
1954 team, I was disappointed. Shortly afterward, on my 16th birthday,
my maternal grandparents - Uncle Bob's parents - took me to see the
movie at a theater. I didn't dislike it but I had a hard time being
objective about it because it was something other than what hoped it
would be.

But I recently gave "Hoosiers" another shot. I bought its two DVD
collector's edition - largely for the bonus features - and saw the
movie for only the second time ever and the first time in 18 years, a
little over half of my life. The second time, I managed to view it
simply as it is as opposed to my original expectations and I enjoyed it
much more.

"Hoosiers" in a fictional story about the 1951-52 Hickory High School
team. The Huskers are coming off a solid 15-10 season but are now in
disarray following the death of their coach and the subsequent
departure of their best player, the painfully quiet Jimmy Chitwood
(played by Maris Valainis).

Their new coach, Norman Dale (Gene Hackman), arrives after practice for
the new season has already begun. Dale is a former college coach who
has spent the last 10 years in the Navy and his tenure with the Huskers
gets off to a bad start. Two of the team's seven remaining players quit
during his first practice - though both end up returning - and he
alienates much of the town with his dogmatic philosophy and sometimes
abrasive style.

Among those not pleased with Dale is fellow teacher Myra Fleener
(Barbara Hershey) who thinks that basketball is over emphasized and
academics are under emphasized. She and Dale clash a few times early
on, which means, of course, that they end up falling in love.

The season starts off badly for the Huskers and a town meeting is soon
scheduled to decide whether to fire Dale of keep him. Fleener has
discovered that he was fired from his college coaching job for hitting
one of his players but doesn't reveal that information and speaks on
his behalf. Still, the audience seems largely unmoved.

It looks like Dale is about to be fired but Chitwood enters like the
calvary and, speaking for one of the few times in the movie, says that
he is ready to return to playing but will do so only if the coach
stays. Dale's job is saved and from there, the team improves greatly
and becomes a state championship contender.

You can probably figure out what happens in the end, but the movie
works the underdog formula to perfection without being overly cliché.

The performances in "Hoosiers" are great, particularly Dennis Hopper's
best supporting actor Oscar nominated role as Shooter, the father of
one of the players. Hopper does a phenomenal job of acting like a
basketball crazed drunk, though I thought it was a bit much for Dale to
make him an assistant coach. That is one of a few cases of over
Hollywoodization in this movie.

And where I think the movie succeeds the most is in portraying
Indiana's unique love for high school basketball. Many non-Hoosiers who
see the movie probably think that the residents criticizing the coach
on the street, the caravan of cars traveling to away games, the
emotional town meeting on the coach's fate and the general hysteria are
an exaggeration. That is not the case.

High school basketball in Indiana was an obsession for several decades
and still is, though to a lesser extent. Many small towns passionately
embraced the local high school team, which was often a point of unity,
identity and pride.

One other strong point about the movie, the late, great Jerry
Goldsmith's adrenaline pumping music heightens the emotion of the game
scenes down the stretch.

The collector's edition DVD set also contains three bonus features that
I think are worthy of mention here:

*A 29 minute documentary about the making of the movie, the Milan '54
story and Indiana's love for basketball.

*The 1954 state championship game between Milan and Muncie Central. I'm
almost 100% sure that the commentary is done by Tom Carnegie, who was
been the voice of the Indianapolis 500 since 1946. Tom was the
commentator on the ESPN broadcast of the game last year.

The game footage is far from great but it's not bad and it's good to
have any at all. The audio quality is shaky. But it's great to finally
have this monumentally historic game easily available.

*Several deleted scenes, introduced by director David Anspaugh and
writer Angelo Pizzo. In my opinion, a few of the scenes were
unnecessary but many should have been included. One of those scenes
gives insight in Buddy Walker's (Brad Long) return to the team and
several others give deeper insight into the romantic relationship that
developed between Dale and Fleener. Pizzo and Anspaugh said they wanted
to include some of those scenes but were told by the movie company to
make the movie under two hours.

In conclusion, I now greatly enjoy "Hoosiers" as fiction and its new
collector's edition DVD set is a great buy for any sports movie fan!
8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Classic movie which effectively transports the audience to 1952 Indiana
countryside and the story's circumstances.One of the all time best sports
dramas ever and also one of film's all time best pure dramas as well.The
lead actors are so believable and the attention to detail so admirable.Love
story subplot is created to please romance fans as well as add more to the
story.To Basketball fans,it is also a great lesson regarding the POWER OF
GAME  FUNDAMENTAL KNOW HOW.Athletics is a great weapon in Basketball BUT
INTELLIGENT KNOW HOW can take a player with little athletic ability to a
very high level.When a young player with great athletic ability takes the
patience to learn the KNOW HOWS,he becomes superhuman like.This is the
lesson HOOSIERS has effectively demonstrated.A must see for all Basketball
fans and most sports movie fans......      
<|_=00=_|>

This film is primarily about Basketball, but don't let that fool you, I have
no interest in the game but I was yanked into it and was feeling the passion
of the coach, players and the town all the way through.

The underlying thread is of forgiveness and second chances. You never really
know what was behind the need for these second chances, but that doesn't
matter, you feel for these people, and a lot of that is to do with Gene
Hackman.

One of my favourite actors, Hackman pulls off a fantastic performance here,
with an amazing backup from Dennis Hopper. What a combination.

Passion, guts, determination, and without too much of a sickly taste in the
mouth. A lovely film to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Gene Hackman gave his usual Oscar-winning performance while Dennis
Hopper was simply outstanding. What can you say about a feel good movie
like this. I've always enjoyed happy ending and this was one of the
best. It almost made me feel like I wanted to be a basketball fan in
Indiana in 1951. This movie left me feeling that I wanted to watch it
again (I've already seen it five times). That's what great movies do to
you, they force you to keep coming back. For me, Patton and The Sting
were like that. I've seen Patton 15 times and The Sting at least 10.
That's why I purchased Hoosiers instead of renting it. I've recommended
it to my friends so they can derive the same satisfaction from it that
I did. It helps to be a sports fan but not necessarily because this
movie was a metaphor for life. It was truly a David versus Goliath-type
story.
