

Gremlins was a fantastic comedy film from 1984-the best year ever in my
opinion for great movies.

Basically, a guy called Billy Peltzer picks up a new pet called Gizmo and
after breaking a few rules he shouldn't have, ends up spawning a bunch of
ugly creatures called Gremlins who proceed to terrorize the
town.

The film is a success because it succeeds at producing both a comedy and a
horror in one go which can't be easy. Most comedy horror films are a joke
(such as some of the Ghoulies films which emulated the Gremlins series) but
Gremlins is both funny and scary. It's funny seeing the Gremlins cause
mischief but it's also scary throughout-they're not exactly pretty creatures
and are quite scary as well.

Gremlins deserves a look from anyone interested in seeing a good comedy
horror movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Exactly 20 years ago today "Gremlins" opened in theaters across the U.S. It
went on to be one of the biggest smash hits not only of the summer of 1984,
but of the entire year. And in my opinion, it deserved to be a hit. I
remember seeing this movie at a movie theater with some friends of mine
right after it opened 20 years ago, and I said afterwards, "this is going to
be a huge hit". And it was. 

"Gremlins" is a story that plays like a darker version of Steven Spielberg's
"E.T." Which is funny, because it was Spielberg himself who had the vision
of "Gremlins" becoming a movie. Spielberg, along with his then collaborators
Frank Marshall and Kathleen Kennedy (the trio founded the production company
Amblin Entertainment), served as executive producers of the film. Spielberg
got a then up-and-coming screenwriter named Chris Columbus to write the
script (Columbus would go on to become the director of the first two "Harry
Potter" movies as well as the first two "Home Alone" pictures), and Roger
Corman protege Joe Dante to direct the picture (Dante directed 1978's
"Piranha", a witty spoof of Spielberg's first smash hit "Jaws", and a
segment of Spielberg's "Twilight Zone: The Movie" a year earlier). What they
created was a movie that was great fun from start to finish.  

"Gremlins" is about a young man who receives a very unusual Christmas gift
from his inventor father. He gets a little friendly creature called a
Mogwai, which is as cute as a button. But there's a twist. There are three
rules that must be followed in caring for the Mogwai: Rule #1 - Keep them
away from light; Rule #2 - Don't get them wet; and Rule #3 - Don't feed them
after midnight. When the rules get broken, all hell breaks loose as
mean-spirited little monsters turn everything upside down. "Gremlins" then
turns into a super-duper special effects picture, with the creatures created
exceptionally by Chris Walas (Oscar winner for the makeup job on the 1986
remake of "The Fly"). These monsters are scary to be sure, but also very
funny with some of the antics they provide. 

Even though the special effect monsters steal the show, the acting by the
human actors is very good too. Zach Galligan makes the most of his film
debut as Billy Peltzer, the young hero who tries to stop the gremlins;
Phoebe Cates is effective as his girlfriend; the late Hoyt Axton is a hoot
as the inept inventor father (some of his crazy inventions are hilarious,
especially when the inventions backfire into slapstick catastrophes);
Frances Lee McCain is good as the mother and housewife (who has one big
scene with the nasty critters); Polly Holliday is wickedly funny as Mrs.
Deagle, the meanest woman in town; and Dante regular Dick Miller is a riot
as Mr. Futterman, the nice man who's always complaining about hand-made
products being made out of foreign parts. Judge Reinhold and Corey Feldman
have small roles as Billy's bank co-worker and good friend, respectively,
and look for a quick cameo by Spielberg himself. 

"Gremlins" was such a big hit in 1984 that it got re-released back in
theaters the following year before it made its debut on video. The movie
grossed over $153 million at the box office (combining the original 1984
release and the 1985 re-release). And it stands alone as a great creature
feature. "Gremlins" was also imitated many times shortly afterwards.
Following in its footsteps came 1985's "Ghoulies", and 1986's "Troll" and
"Critters". All these movies spawned sequels of their own, and none of them
came close to capturing the greatness of "Gremlins" (although the original
"Critters" came the closest; it was the only movie out of that bunch that I
mildly enjoyed). Six years later came the "Gremlins" sequel "Gremlins 2: The
New Batch". It wasn't as good as the original, but it's still a good movie
sequel. I'll take "Gremlins 2" as well as the original "Gremlins" over
"Ghoulies" or "Troll" anyday.

***** (out of five)
<|_=00=_|>

Some films are not what they seem. Take "Gremlins" (1984) for example. It
is
the story of a small-town kid who acquires a strange creature that spawns
a
pack of menacing green beings that terrorize the inhabitants of the cheery
little area.

A silly idea, yes, but surely a fun one, and surely one to be cherished.
It
isn't technically a great movie, or even a very good one, but it doesn't
mean to be. The genius lies in the modest scale of the film -- it isn't
just
a crude horror film with evil alien species (see "Critters"), but a
tongue-in-cheek parody of the rest, that still manages to fit in a few
thrills along the way as if by accident.

Thank Joe Dante for this movie. And thank him for providing us with
magnificent and imaginative films over the years. He is one of cinema's
great underrated directors, the man responsible for bringing other
creatures
to life very often, whether it is werewolves or small toys or Looney
Toons.

The movie is centered around Billy Peltzer (Zach Galligan), the small-town
kid mentioned above who is handed a Mogwai by his father (Hoyt Axton), who
picked the puffy furball up in Chinatown during one of his routine
salesman
trips. Billy's father is a sort of failed inventor, reminding us of the
frizzle-haired Doc Emmett Brown played by Christopher Lloyd in "Back to
the
Future," only not quite as eccentric. "Back to the Future" came out a year
after "Gremlins," and the two are similar in the way they entertain --
silly
little ideas that nevertheless become almost genius. Time travel was a
myth
before "Back to the Future," which turned it into an adventurous notion, a
way of being able to transport people back in time to see their own
parents.
(H.G. Wells himself hadn't even approached these topics, and I can
guarantee
he would have never sparked a relationship between the sibling and his
mother.)

"Gremlins" is milestone movie-making magic, a simple idea like "Back to
the
Future," stretched out into a bigger picture. I won't kid you -- it's not
as
complex as "Future" is, but it doesn't need to be, and certainly doesn't
want to be. It relies on humor and charm, and it has plenty of
it.

Billy works at the town bank, hounded by the city grouch (Frances Lee
McCain) and threatened by the vice president (Judge Reinhold). His
long-time
sweetheart (Phoebe Cates) works there, too, and at the local bar, occupied
by drunks at night (and on occasion some nasty gremlins). The town loon
(Dick Miller) is convinced there are gremlins about, and soon he is
right.

"Don't ever get them wet," Billy is more or less told by his father. "And
don't feed them after midnight." (See if you can spot the huge flaw in
that
rule.) Well, the small little Mogwai, Gizmo (voiced in burps and small
cutesy sentences by Howie Mandel), does get wet, and spawns a set of
fellow
furballs -- all apparently mean-spirited and vile. And after tricking
Billy
by cutting the power on his clock, they get fed after midnight -- and
basically evolve overnight into a bunch of green, nasty little gremlins,
all
of which continue to spawn throughout the town and cause absolute
chaos.

Will Billy defeat the gremlins, get the girl, and save the town? Take a
wild
guess.

Everything Joe Dante touches is usually magic. Even his
live-action/animation film "Toy Soldiers" was a load of fun because of its
charming disposition. Dante doesn't try to make his films anything other
than what they are -- charming and wildly, wickedly funny -- and that is
undoubtedly the key to the outrageous success of "Gremlins," one of the
biggest box office moneymakers ever released.

I wasn't a huge fan of the sequel, even though I have it in my DVD
collection right next to the original. It lost the darkness of campiness
of
the original and went for all-out laughs (many of which failed) instead of
the laugh-out-loud laughs of the original, which were concealed within a
film that actually made sense (in some ways) and still managed to be dark
and fun. The sequel also introduced the mandatory Goofy Idiot Character.
In
fact, it had two -- a Donald Trump-like manager and a gremlin that more or
less belonged in The Three Stooges, and definitely not in a movie about
menacing creatures. In fact, another of the first film's highlights was
the
way it made its creatures dark, hurtful, and just plain funny. (People
complained that the launching of Frances Lee McCain out a window was too
much, but come on.)

As a whole, I didn't think that the sequel worked especially well. But it
has as big a fan following as the original in some respects, for those who
favor goofy, pointless cash-ins over original, hysterical
movies.

I wouldn't expect many people to love "Gremlins" as much as I do, but its
charm is certainly worth commenting on -- and so is its wicked humor.
Dark,
chaotic and pretty darn infectious, the film's sense of humor quickly
kicks
into boot even during the campy voice-over narrative. The whole film is
campy. And unlike something like "Critters" (which I loathe), this film is
endearing and fresh and funny and has a bunch of likable characters --
especially Gizmo, the favorite and most infamous little critter ever seen
on
screen, and Stripe, the lead gremlin whose unfortunate frying incident at
the end of the film actually makes you sad. No sequel for that little
creep.

5/5 stars.

- John Ulmer
<|_=00=_|>
A dark, crazy, twisted, inventive, and violent Christmas classic.
There's really no way to classify or categorize Gremlins. It's too
mean-spirited to be a kid's film, but not quite intense enough to
justify a higher rating (but the 15-rated UK version makes a mockery of
the BBFC guidelines).

Gremlins has long been an annual tradition for movie fans. The cozy,
snowy atmosphere of Kingston Falls (which appears to be in upstate New
York somewhere) is the perfect small town that we all wish we came
from. Even when the Gremlins invade it's a homely place to be envious
of.

I was frightened of the Gremlins when I was a kid, but they're really
nothing more than gigantic smiles with arms and legs. They exist only
to have fun at the expense of human life and private property. I
suppose they could be a metaphor for hedonism or apathy.

Originally a much more evil script (intended to be an anti-Wonderful
Life), Chris Columbus was inspired to write Gremlins as he listened to
the rats in his apartment scurry about in the dark during the night. He
lightened the material somewhat before filming began, but Joe Dante's
wild vision makes it a twisted, festive reality.

Special mention must be made of Jerry Goldsmith's outrageous score and
that famous theme tune 'The Gremlin Rag', a demented circus fanfare of
anarchy and mayhem. It's crazy to think that over 26 years later it's
still never been released on CD.

Gremlins sparked the rise of Chris Columbus as a creative force in
Hollywood. Only 25 at the time of filming his career has been made up
of classics, and Christmas classics, such as The Goonies, Young
Sherlock Holmes, Home Alone, Home Alone 2, Harry Potter, and
Bicentennial Man. Joe Dante never scored a bigger hit, but his
subsequent career significant;y defined 80s and 90s cinema with movies
such as Innerspace, The 'burbs, Gremlins 2, and Small Soldiers.
Goldsmith scoring every one of them until his death in 2004.

Neither of them knew the massive franchise and fan-following which
Gremlins would provoke, but it certainly deserves it's place in pop
culture history.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie used to scare me immensely when I was younger. It was the
first "scary movie" I saw as a kid, and I think that may effect why I
love it so much today. Nostalgic purposes, indeed.

I think this movie is good for it's purpose. It's not meant to be some
life-changing, or hysterically funny, or terrifying suspense movie.
It's meant to give you some scares, some laughs, and entertainment. And
it does indeed entertain.

We've heard since the 50's about little green men, and in this movie,
they are there. And they don't even have to come from outer space, just
Chinatown. The actual mogwai (what the gremlins are before they
transform) are adorable. So at first you are surprised at how this cute
little furry creature who sings a little song could produce other
mogwais whom are not so nice. I won't give away how they reproduce or
turn into gremlins, but it's all kind of strange, and very
fantasy-like.

A great movies for adults to watch with kids for their first "scary
movie". I watched it when I was three, and while it did scare me there
for a while, I still loved it a lot. I would recommend maybe six years
or older, and if they get too scared, tell them it's really just
puppets. (It is.) Overall, this film is entertaining, very 80's, a
little scary, and pretty funny.
<|_=00=_|>
Randall Peltzer (the late Hoyt Axton), while going all around town
trying to sell his faulty wacky inventions, accidentally stumbles on a
cute little Mogwai at an antique china store. The owner refuse to sell
it, but the kid sees dollar signs and sells it to Mr. Peltzer, telling
him three things never to do to the creature. So back in Kingston
Falls, the misguided inventor presents it to his son, Billy (Zach
Galligan) telling him the warning that the Chinese boy imparted to him.
Needless to say, Billy ignores all three rules and soon evil little
Gremlins are all over town causing rampant destruction.

This movie is greatness in every single way. With style, charm, and
humor to spare, this film was among the top echelon of movies from the
glorious '80's (Man that decade was GREAT to be a kid or teenager
in).Never overtly slapstick comical, this film is still tongue firmly
in cheek none the less and seeing the amazingly great Dick Miller is
ALWAYS a treat. By the by, call me dense but I never realized that
Howie Mandell did the voice for Gizmo. That's kinda neat. This was
followed by a sequel that's just about every bit as good as the
original.

My Grade: A 

Special Edition DVD Extras: Commentary by Director Joe Dante, Producer
Mike Finnell and Gremlins Creator Chris Walas, Second Commentary by
Dante and Actors Zach Galligan, Phoebe Cates, Dick Miller and Howie
Mandel; Cast & Crews bios; 8 Additional Scenes (with Optional
Commentary; Photo Gallery; short vintage featurette; Theatrical &
Re-issue Trailer; and Trailer for "Gremlins 2: The New Batch"
<|_=00=_|>
A film like Gremlins doesn't call for a review, so much as it demands a
detailed discussion. This isn't because the film is particularly
complicated, nor does it imply that there are loose ends to theorize
about. It is simply because Gremlins can be interpreted in a number of
different ways. Is it a dark family film? Or a cheesy horror flick? Is
the film a clichéd product of the 80's? Or perhaps a smart satire that
was years ahead of its time? For me, it is all of these things. It's a
joyous romp that's hilariously silly - so much so that the absence of
truly serious moments can be completely forgiven.

The plot is simple; a young man receives a strange present from his
dad: a mysterious creature called a Gremlin! There are 3 rules that
must be obeyed to insure that nothing goes wrong. One, the Gremlin must
stay away from sunlight, or it will die. Two, the Gremlin must not get
wet. And most importantly, the Gremlin must not be fed after midnight.

Care to guess how many of these rules get broken before the film ends?

Gremlins is a rare kind of a film, in that it has actually improved
with age. The characters are laughably stupid, there's an abundance of
product placement, and the Gremlins - even in their "cute" stage - are
(perhaps) unintentionally creepy. These are legitimate problems, and
yet, they actually manage to enhance the film. I think the over-the-top
silliness of the film is to thank for this, as this allows for an
environment in which unintentional laughter is not detrimental to the
movie experience. This bizarre blend of self-aware comedy and
unintentional humor has resulted in a film that will only continue to
get better as the years pass. 

Admittedly, one could argue that Gremlins is a bit of an awkward film
to watch, in that the the intentional and unintentional comedy is often
indistinguishable from the other. One scene that effectively hones in
on this issue is the famous monologue, in which one character recalls a
tragic memory from her childhood. Supposedly, this scene caused a stir
among studio executives, whom requested that the scene be removed as it
was uncertain whether this was supposed to be sad or funny (if you care
for my two cents, I laughed myself nearly to tears at this part).

This could definitely be an issue for some. Is a film that contains so
much unintentional humor and laughable flaws worthy of a
recommendation? My answer is an unequivocal "yes." The film thrives on
clichés of the past. Now that what was modern in the 80's is also a
tired cliché in the 21st century, Gremlins has become an intentional
parody of itself. It's the tone that the film was always aiming for,
and has managed to re-achieve that goal decades later.

Another fascinating aspect of this film is the violence. Gremlins
received a PG rating from the MPAA, and the criticism thrust at both
this film, and the MPAA due to the violent images resulted in the birth
of the PG-13 rating. Yes, as expected, Gremlins die (albeit, in highly
creative and massively unexpected ways), but several humans perish as
well. If one considers this film to be a horror movie, than this isn't
unusual at all. But if one thinks of this as a family picture, than
this is very unusual indeed. Once again, I reiterate: this kind of
movie simply demands discussion!

The acting is terribly hammy, but in spite of - or rather, because of -
this, the performances are delightful. Zach Gilligan is the lead actor,
and Phoebe Cates portrays the love interest. Both characters are dull
as dirt in terms of personality, but their moronic inclinations make
them highly entertaining to watch all the same. The other actors tend
to fall in the same territory.

Jerry Goldsmith composed an appropriately maniacal score for this
picture. It contains his signature synthesizers (adding to the film's
dated feel even further), and ties in Christmas tunes to reflect the
holiday setting. In terms of music, there are no questions here: the
tongue is absolutely in the cheek.

There is roughly 45 minutes of build-up, followed by nearly an hour of
Gremlins mayhem. Thanks to the camp nature of the film, the 45 minute
build-up is no less entertaining than the Gremlin destruction later on.
The last hour is almost non-stop craziness, and needless to say, it
becomes exhausting. But it's the best kind of exhausting; the kind that
comes with knowing that you're having an absolute blast. Indeed, the
amount of fun here is almost overwhelming at times. It's tempting to
spend the entire run-time of the movie trying to analyze its
intentions, but the best route is to save this kind of thinking for
afterwards. It honestly doesn't matter much in the long run whether you
think Gremlins is a dumb movie for smart people, or a smart movie for
dumb people. Just let it be known that Gremlins is good, dark fun for
everyone!
<|_=00=_|>
A perennial Christmas favourite, Joe Dante's monster movie is a kid's
film for grown ups, made when children's cinema still had real bite.
Watched today, twenty-six years after it was first released, it still
holds a great deal of charm for the adult viewer who grew up in the
'80s. As with most of Dante's movie, a lot of the fun alone comes from
the director's clear affection for the genre, watching for all the gags
and references that are surely to come, such as the scene involving the
classic Time Machine.

As for the rest of the movie...the depiction of small town and family
life is very well realised. There's a cosy feel to film's first half.
Zach Galligan is a charming hero, and Phoebe Cates the fitting object
of his affection. Dick Miller, a genre standby since the '50s, has a
nice role to sink his teeth into, and it's also great to see Keye Luke
in a pivotal role. The supporting characters, particularly Hoyt Axton
as the inventor-father, are well drawn. When the gremlins and their
brand of anarchy take over, I was less impressed. The film descends
into silliness I could have done without, but then picks up for a
climax in which Gizmo shows his true colours, so it's not all bad. I
found the sequel, GREMLINS 2: THE NEW BATCH, to be equally fun.
<|_=00=_|>
After this movie there were several other movies that tried to
capitalize on the success of this movie. For the most part though they
failed to live up to the energy and fun of this movie. Heck, not even
the sequel of this one had the energy of this movie. Here we have a guy
getting a pet as an early xmas gift, a cute creature called a Mogway.
It however, does have a few problems, as it needs special care. One
thing you can't do to it is get it wet. Well Billy does (that is the
guy who got it). This breeds more of the little critters, and they are
harmless enough at first as well. Then they are fed after midnight and
this turns them into Gremlins. This new form is a beer drinking, candy
eating, mischief machine that isn't above killing. Most of the original
batch is killed off in a gruesome kitchen scene, but the leader,
Stripe, gets away and dives into a ycma swimming pool, so the whole
town gets overrun by the little monsters. This movie is very funny and
enjoyable to watch. Even though the Gremlins do kill, this movie never
gets as dark as some of the copycats, or too goofy like some of them
do. It ends up being a well-made movie that is fun to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
"Gremlins" starts out well enough, as an inventor looking for a
Christmas present for his son buys a strange little creature from a
Chinese boy, despite the boy's grandfather's warnings that taking care
of a "mogwai" requires a great amount of responsibility. Gizmo the
mogwai goes home with the inventor to a small town where a mean old
lady tries to make everyone's life hell and the inventor's son, Billy,
has a crush on a girl. There are three rules to taking care of a
mogwai: never get one wet, never expose one to sunlight, and never feed
one after midnight. Of course, we know that by the end of the movie,
all of those rules will have been broken at least once.

"Gremlins" goes downhill once it becomes clear that it's a movie
without any kind of intended audience. Gizmo, the only good gremlin, is
as adorable as a stuffed toy and the characters are portrayed in a
broad way children can easily understand, but shortly after Billy's
friend accidentally breaks the "no water" rule, the movie turns into
something between satire and horror. It's too scary for kids, but not
clever enough, scary enough, or sharp enough to hold the interest of
adults. Kids will be the ones eager to see the mean old lady get her
comeuppance, but the way in which she does will probably give them
nightmares. Likewise, Billy's girlfriend's story of why she doesn't
like Christmas is completely out of place for a movie geared at
children. The movie doesn't know whether it wants us to laugh at the
gremlins or to be truly afraid of them. The whole thing might have
worked as a campily over-the-top shorter film, but there's not enough
substance for a full-length movie, and after a while it grows tiresome
waiting for the gremlins to be defeated and the movie to end.

I kept thinking of another 80's movie in which buying something strange
from an old Chinese man leads to chaos, "Little Shop of Horrors."
Unlike "Gremlins," "Little Shop of Horrors" knows what it is (a satire)
and knows who it was made for (teenagers and adults). Its twists and
turns are capable of holding the audience's attention and it's
genuinely funny. "Gremlins" could have been a children's movie about a
cute gremlin named Gizmo, a horror film, or a tongue-in-cheek sendup of
horror films. Trying to be all three at once doesn't work.
