

Landing after the TV sitcom-level cast/plot of "Airport 1975", but arriving
before the ludicrous "The Concorde-Airport '79" is this slick disaster film
entry.  Featuring Oscar-winning and nominated stars like Lemmon, Grant, de
Havilland, Quinlan, Kennedy and Stewart, it also offers one of the best
caliber casts of the '70's disaster cycle.  There is no deep thinking
involved in watching the film, but it does offer some watery thrills and
some fun thrashing around as the plane first skips along the surface of the
water and then slips under.  Suspense builds as the pressure continues to
wreak havoc on the plane's outer skin and, unusually for an "Airport" film,
pretty many lives are claimed!  The death toll in this film is higher than
the other three combined.  It's great to see so many once and future stars
flopping around in the underwater tomb, but the main attraction is Lee
Grant.  Clocking in with only about a dozen or so total minutes of screen
time, she is utterly hilarious and unforgettable as a shrewish, boozy,
sarcastic lush.  No one is safe from her rude, brash comments and she is a
joy to behold for bad-move connoisseurs.  Her husband in the film is
Christpher Lee.  Fortunately, they didn't marry offscreen or she would have
become Lee Lee, but that's another story.......  
<|_=00=_|>
Gazillionaire James Stewart is shipping his collection of art to a
museum and he's using his private jet to fly the collection and a few
friends down to meet him in Florida. 

Of course this attracts the attention of a few crooks who have a pretty
well thought out plan and the copilot, Robert Foxworth, working with
them. Of course all good plans go awry and they go down in the Bermuda
Triangle into some relatively shallow area of the Atlantic.

Hey they could have gone down and been lost for decades like the
Titanic was.

That's essentially the plot here and in true Seventies disaster film
tradition you load the screen with big names, dress them fashionably
and put them in harm's way. The rest of the film is devoted to their
rescue.

Incidentally the footage devoted to the air sea rescue is the best
thing about Airport 77. No member of the audience will not go away
impressed with the U.S. Navy's capabilities in that regard.

Jack Lemmon is the pilot and in an action role which is normally
against type for him, he does quite well. Almost twenty years before he
supported James Stewart in Bell, Book,and Candle and now the billing is
most definitely reversed.

My favorites in the film are Joseph Cotten and Olivia DeHavilland, a
classy and elegant pair of passengers who so typify the glamor of old
Hollywood.

Christopher Lee also performs against type, he's not the villain here
in fact he turns out quite the hero among the passengers. Lee Grant is
his trollop of a wife and I remember seeing this in theaters and the
shouts for joy from the audience when Brenda Vaccaro punches her out.

I'm not sure which is a wilder rescue this one or that other James
Stewart film The Flight of the Phoenix. There's no way any of them
should survive.

But this is a Hollywood disaster epic, so all things are possible.
<|_=00=_|>

Of all the disaster flicks, this seems to be the one I enjoy most, perhaps
it was the first one I would see. 

But looking back at the hot pants in Poseidon Adventure & Dunaway's dress
and the tuxedoes in Towering Inferno, Airport '77 is quite an elegantly
dressed cast, aren't they?

The movie would get famed Hollywood fashion expert Edith Head to dress the
cast and it shows. Anyone else would have made Brenda Vaccarro look obese
trying to put her in that pullover sweater.

Airplane! would make fun of Edith Head being credited for '77 like that, by
crediting their own costumer, but 27 years later, the wardrobe makes the
cast of '77 appear tremendously dashing, giving the tragedy that greater a
feel as well.

Jack Lemmon was an incredible standout as the hero of the piece, in
comparison to Paul Newman's sexism in Towering Inferno (he never speaks to
Jennifer Jones as a human during their entire ordeal with the children) or
Heston's stiffness or McQueen's inexpressiveness. 

Two years after her Oscar nomination, Vaccarro was hardly the disaster
flicks idea of a leading lady as well, so she is quite a one-of-a-kind
casting also.

When I was little, I was most fascinated with Arlene Golonka, who I knew
from the Andy Griffith show. 

Later, identifying the rest of the cast just made it more and more fun.
Dracula, Buck Rogers, Kolchak the Nightstalker (Darren McGavin & Jack Lemmon
were a powerhouse duo).

Then the names and stars figured into it. DeHavilland, Cotten, Grant. No one
looked more out of place than Olivia DeHavilland in an underwater
airplane.

Robert Hooks as the crippled bartender and Tom Sullivan (who is actually
blind) as the pianist added even more flavor. 

There is M. Emmet Walsh, "The Name, But What Which One Is Him?" actor. He is
the doctor, and I do enjoy his one scene when he explains who he really
is.

Monica Lewis, disaster movie staple. She would appear in Earthquake and
Concorde: Airport '79. Check out her expression as she and Olivia
DeHavilland enter the lifeboat. It reads "Miss DeHavilland, I'm one of your
biggest fans. I really enjoyed you in Gone With The Wind."  Lucy Ricardo
lives.

Should it have been a commercial airline, instead of a private plane? Not
necessarily. 

I enjoy watching it now and observing a few of the female extras at the
beginning of the crash don't seem to be present anymore by the end. It seems
that they weren't available for filming then. 

I would argue, as a movie, that this one is more fun to watch than the first
one. Lancaster and Seberg in the first Airport movie are comical to me
trying to be so serious.

And the second Airport movie, Airport '75, is funnier than Airplane.

There is a very strong and different feel from Airport '77 than the other
Airport flicks or the other disaster films in general.

       
<|_=00=_|>
Following the not-so-spectacular "Airport 1975" comes "Airport '77"
which is a welcome addition to the Disaster Movie genre. In typical
"Airport" fashion, a routine plane ride, this time carrying various
celebrities and other high-profile people, gets into some trouble when
it crashes into the ocean in the middle of the Bermuda Triangle....

Though the decor of the flash plane filled with VIP's is dreary
compared to the fabulous colours of the chairs in "Airport 1975", the
characters are a major improvement, along with the actual danger that
the passengers and crew are placed in.

In typical Disaster Movie style, the cast is large, and many of them
are forgettable, however, stand-out performances in "Airport '77"
include Jack Lemmon in a serious role as the likable Captain Gallagher,
Lee Grant is Karen Wallace a VIP guest of the nasty variety, the
underrated Pamela Bellwood as a young mother, the lovely Kathleen
Quinlann is as usual outstanding, but unfortunately under-used here,
but the stand-out star of the film is of course Brenda Vaccaro as
Captain Gallagher's girlfriend Even Clayton. Vaccaro is certainly one
of the better leading ladies in a Disaster Movie, but is also a
surprising choice. Nevertheless, she is fantastic, it is a shame she is
not more recognized for her work.

Overall, "Airport '77" is a terrific, and often overlooked addition to
the genre, with a super cast, great direction, and a very interesting
scene in which the plane is raised from the ocean, according to the
credits, this is the actual method used by the Navy, which is a nice
addition to the film.
<|_=00=_|>
1st watched 8/12/2007 - 6 out of 10(Dir-Jerry Jameson): Surprisingly
appealing rescue movie despite some of the silly characterizations and
typical goofiness that tends to accompany these type of movies. The
thing that the movie does well is hold your attention to the very end.
You genuinely care for some of the characters involved primarily
because of the good acting by leads like Jack Lemmon, who plays the
pilot in this one. The danger also seems very real all the way up to
the end which adds to it's believability. The movie starts setting up
the story as an airline president and master collector, played by
Jimmie Stewart, is promoting the opening of a museum and a new plane
that will be sent down to the island paradise with his very special
guests. Included on the plane are his daughter and grandson, whom he
has not seen for a very long time. A small group including one of the
co-pilots decide to capture the plane while it's airborne, putting the
passengers to sleep, in hopes to take it's valuables and run off to
South America. Their plan goes awry when the pilot crashes in a shallow
part of the ocean(wherever that might be) in the Bermuda triangle. The
rest of the movie is an underwater rescue movie as the plane drifts to
the shallow bottom. There are the usual stupid moments, like allowing
the pilot to go nuts but the women passengers can't for some reason,
and the attempt to save the plane in-tact with the people is a little
far-fetched. These are the moments that get you talking to the screen.
But despite this, the overall effect of the movie is satisfying which I
honestly didn't expect because these movies usually don't appeal to me.
I really think that the strong presence of the believable hero in Jack
Lemmon as the pilot really helped the movie become a little more than
the typical disaster movie for me.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this film growing up.

I have even become a flight attendant because of this film and the
movie Survive ( the Rene Cardeno Jr version).

I could pick this movie to bits. However I will not as it is there for
pure entertainment and entertain it does.

I have always wondered if there was a longer version though. As a child
i remember it being shown over two nights the same with earthquake. If
anyone can help with this and verify if there is a longer version let
us know. If you want some disaster fun this is it. A plane crashes into
the sea and survivor's must fight for their lives. Some may make it and
some may not. Oliva DE Havilland does look out of place in this movie I
think this is because she was a great star and a disaster movie just
did not seem to be a role she would do. the same with Gloria Swanson
who also ended up in a disaster movie. But we all must eat.

Lee Grant steals the show this could be debatable but I believe she
does as a booze drinking socialite.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, so this isn't the greatest film ever made, but not all films have
to be Shakespeare to be entertaining. I mean, have you seen some of the
garbage big stars make today? It's not all for the Oscars, believe me.
This one of those great movies you can actually enjoy for a few hours.
An early popcorn flick - like all the disaster films were.

In this sequel, Jack Lemmon plays the ever-present Heroic Captain who
must save the day as his ship gets a) hijacked, b) crashed into the
ocean and c) lost by the search planes. Sure, the plot's out there - no
way would a plane not break apart under the ocean, etc, etc, but who
cares? Sure, the ending's basically a commerical for the NAVY. It's all
fun - and tasteful fun - not the tacky, cheap,
makes-you-feel-like-you've-killed-brain-cells-by-watching feel of "The
Swarm" or "Airport 75" or "79". 

The best bits are the action scenes - when the hijackers take over,
when the plane crashes into the ocean and the thrilling rescue mission
at the end. I was LITERALLY on the edge of my chair!

My favorite parts were really the relationships on the plane. Sure,
they were underwritten and great actors were ill-used (*ehm*
Christopher Lee, Olivia De Havilad and Joseph Cotton), but there were
hints of realism there. The touching love between the piano player and
Kathleen Quinlan. The lovely reunion between rich folks De Havilad and
Cotton (and she looked so dignified when tumbling around in the sinking
craft!). The sweet 70's romance between Jack Lemmon and Brenda V. (and
she was more James Stewart's secetary then Head Stewardess!). I think I
liked that relationship the most because they did seem to have actual
chemistry - something that was lacking in even the great "Airport". 

OK, so this isn't Oscar material, but it's a great popcorn flick right
up there with "Towering Inferno" and "Poseidon Adventure". The actors
do seem to take themselves seriously (well, except for the bitchy wife
of rich chap Christopher Lee, Lee Grant) and aren't totally phoning in
their performances. Lemmon gives the best performance here and he seems
to relish the role of hero. Good for him to break the mold! Too bad he
couldn't do it more often. 

BOTTOM LINE: A darn good action flick that ranks up there with
"Towering Inferno" and "Poseidon Adventure". Watch this if you want to
be thrilled and watch the time fly by.
<|_=00=_|>
Airport '77 is the second sequel in the Airport franchise.Boeing 747 is
carrying some valuable art of wealthy philanthropist Philip Stevens.A
group of art thieves hijack the plane and soon they crash it to the
Bermuda triangle.The passengers survive but for how long? Jerry
Jameson's disaster movie from 1977 is a mighty entertaining movie.It's
packed with the brightest stars.James Stewart is Philip Stevens.Jack
Lemmon is Captain Don Gallagher.That's two of my favorite actors.The
real lady Olivia de Havilland plays Emily Livingston.Joseph Cotten
plays Nicholas St. Downs III.George Kennedy is Joe Patroni.Christopher
Lee is Martin Wallace.Lee Grant is Karen Wallace.M.Emmett Walsh plays
Dr.Williams.So there are many great stars in a great jam.Airport '77
offers many intense moments under the water.Everybody not suffering
from claustrophobia should see this.
<|_=00=_|>

- 2/5 STARS -

How do you get a 747 widebody to the ocean floor without filling it
completely with water?  Modern jets will float for a half-hour or more,
but
once they start flooding, they don't stop until the cabin is
uninhabitable.
The intricate solution to this problem is just the first in a long series
of
hoops the producers had to jump through after saying, `Let's do a film
about
a jumbo jet that sinks in the Bermuda Triangle with the passengers still
alive inside!'

Airport '77 is the gloomy response to this challenge.  Art thieves hijack
a
specially equipped and highly luxurious private 747 to loot her expensive
cargo.  In the process of flying stealthily below radar, the
copilot/thief
(Meredith) strikes an oil drilling platform and loses control of the
airplane.  After a brief struggle to stay aloft, the jetliner settles
onto
the surface of the water, but not before a massive storage container
tears
loose and punches a fatal hole in the forward cargo compartment.

And therein lies the solution to the first problem.  Like the
customization
of a conversion van from the same era, this private jet has been modified
to
contain a series of individually pressurized cargo holds.  When the
forward
cargo compartment floods, the rest of the plane is left dry.  Within
minutes, however, the weight of the water pulls the plane to the floor of
the ocean, with most of the passengers still alive and plenty of doors
and
windows leaking ominously.

Airport '77 starts with heavy-handed drama and never lets up.  There's
not
much room for humor in a 747 several hundred feet under the water, but
Airport '77 doesn't even attempt to lighten the mood occasionally.
Better
disaster movies pull the audience from one emotional extreme to another,
but
on this plane, the dialogue is suffocating even before the oxygen starts
to
run low.  There isn't anyone in charge of bringing hope to the survivors
(and the audience).

And despite their occasional humanitarian efforts, this group of
super-rich,
mostly white passengers does little to elicit sympathy from the audience.
Only the head flight attendant (Vaccaro) invites compassion.  Her romance
with the pilot (a mustache-laden Lemmon) isn't adequately explored,
particularly when he volunteers to leave the plane in a risky maneuver
that
might easily kill him.  Meanwhile, virtually the entire support staff of
the
plane magically disappears so that the drama can focus on the wealthiest
and
presumably most interesting group aboard.

The tone of this film is gloomy right from the start, and bad
cinematography
doesn't help.  Every room (on the plane or elsewhere) is dark, and every
cast member seems to be covered with a thin layer of reflective slime
even
before the plane sinks!  It's as though good lighting and decent makeup
were
dispensed with just to darken the mood.

The sun-drenched rescue operations offer the possibility of relief from
the
closed quarters of the plane, but instead we receive an abundance of
stock
Naval rescue footage.  Generous thanks are paid to the men and women of
the
armed services who assisted in the production of this movie, and we know
this to be true because the final third of the movie is so
boring.

Airport '77 has the most elaborate special effects of any Airport movie,
and
they are enjoyable to watch.  All of the external effects are clear, and
the
flooding inside the plane is done as well as can be expected.  Aside from
the abundance of dark brown furniture (and carpet, and paint, and
wallpaper)
it's the relentlessly dim lighting that clinches the claustrophobia.
Though
possibly necessitated by the depth of the plane underwater, the resultant
sense of suffocation only disengages the viewer further.  The cheap
special
effects of The Concorde: Airport '79 indicate that the lesson was learned
that good effects won't save a mediocre film.

In short, Airport '77 just isn't fun enough.  It's a clever premise and
the
producers went to great lengths to get the plane underwater in a
satisfactory manner.  But if it's not the weighty dialogue, it's the
unengaging Naval training footage, and so the audience quickly discovers
that there's really not that much to enjoy here after all.  Airport '77
is
fun to watch for the crash and flooding sequences (as well as Darren
McGavin's dependable character acting), but seat-of-your-pants thrills
are
best found elsewhere.
<|_=00=_|>
MGM boasted that they had more stars than there were in the heavens.
But after the Golden Age of MGM ended, it took individual producers to
put together big star filled epics to continue Louis B. Mayer's dream.
Disaster films of the 1970's were filled with stars, and in the case of
the third entry of the "Airport" series, it is loaded. Six of the stars
were Oscar nominees or winners, and there are other Legends among they
are surrounded by other familiar faces of both the past and present.
Unfortunately, what became camp in the second entry thanks to Karen
Black having to learn how to fly a plane with one lesson over the
radio, now becomes over the top and often ridiculous. But I dare you to
turn your eyes away once you hit play on your DVD player.

The plot of this lavish Thriller surrounds a plane filled with VIPs
heading to James Stewart mansion on a island in the South Atlantic, and
valuable cargo aboard, the plane is ripe for art thieves getting onto
the plane and taking over, ultimately getting it into the course of the
Bermuda Triangle. Passengers are drugged and knocked out, and when they
awaken, they find themselves at the bottom of the ocean and no way to
get out. But as long as Lee Grant has a collection of mini bottles, she
will be fine. The rest of them, not so much.

Among the others on the plane are Jack Lemmon, this time the one flying
it, Christopher Lee as grants wealthy long-suffering husband, Olivia de
Havilland as a patron of the Arts who has a penchant for poker, Joseph
Cotten as her old flame, and Brenda Vaccaro as Lemmon's fiancé. Maidie
Norman, the housekeeper for Jane and Blanche Hudson, is de Havilland's
companion, giving an ironic connection to "Baby Jane's" follow-up,
"Hush, Hush Sweet Charlotte". 

Pamela Bellwood looks on lovingly at blind pianist Tom Sullivan who
doesn't sing very well, making that scene rather tedious. When next
seen, they are sharing an emotional farewell, but having only been on
momentarily, the audience doesn't really have a chance to get to know
them enough to care. Just as it seems that it couldn't get any more
silly, George Kennedy shows up, once again repeating his role from the
first two movies. Robert Foxworth and Monte Markham are the bad
guys,and they truly deserve what they get.

Some great action sequences really make this gripping in spots, but
while you do indeed care about the plight of these passengers, the way
it is presented is so ridiculous and melodramatic that you're both
clenching your fists and laughing uncomfortably at some of the absurd
details deep within the story itself.

Certainly in the 1970's, disaster films were at their height, and with
a cast like this, it was bound to succeed at the box office. It was
definitely a crowd-pleaser, but in retrospect, it is often absurd.
Obviously, the producers were running out of ideas and with one film
left in the series, the movie became right for parody, and that became
the Excellence classic farce "Airplane!" which makes these films all
the more unintentionally funny.
