

I first saw this film almost fifteen years ago and thought about almost
nothing else for at least a month.  I have never seen a film before or since
that presents the extremes of love, pain, and loss with such immediacy and
ruthless candor.  Watching this film with openness, identifying with the
characters, made me wince and writhe in sympathetic agony.  I didn't cry;
rather, I was reminded of all the times I have wept in my life, and
why.

Perhaps each person person has a film -- usually a masterpiece -- which
affects him or her so strongly that it is beyond description.  This is
mine.
<|_=00=_|>

It's hard for me to select just one movie as my very favorite, but if I
had
to, "Paris, Texas" would probably be it.

As I recall, I first saw it while I was a student in a small theater in
'84
or '85; a year or two later I recorded it from cable to Beta tape.  After
not having watched it for years, I've played it again a few times over
the
last couple of years.  Many movies I recall having liked in the past are
just big disappointments when I watch them years later.  That's not the
case
with this one!  Then I was single; now I'm married.  That alone makes a
big
difference, but I also find that even some small elements now have more
meaning.  I previously attached no significance to the scene where Travis
was determined to find the same rental car in which he and Walt had
previously driven.  But how often people do sentimentally and fiercely
cling
to, objectively, unimportant things in reaction to having had their
hearts
and spirits broken more than a few times over important things.  I often
recall this scene when observing some instance of this in myself or
others.

I am struck by what opposite opinions people have of this movie.  If you
have few problems relating to other people, or you don't care much about
relating to other humans, and little in your life disappoints you over
long
spells of your life, you will probably find this movie very
boring.
I sort of envy people in this situation, though before I would want to
wish
myself to be like that, I pause at how much my life would be changed and
how
little of my personality would be left, if I did.

I, too, eagerly await the release of this movie on high quality DVD, and
hope that my still barely viewable Beta will last til then.

"Oh, Travis."

<|_=00=_|>

It might seem odd to call this an "American" film, as its
director, Wim Wenders is a German film director, who , unlike his
predecessors, Lang, Murnau, Pabst, Von Sternberg , and Billy Wilder, has
chosen to remain aloof from the Hollywood film industry. But Paris Texas
is
as much an  American film as Tocquevillle's "Democracy in America" is an
American book. Sometimes it takes a foreigner ( In Wim Wenders' case, a
foriegner who loves American music, American movies and American
literature.) to look  into the American soul. In this case,it helps  that
he
is working with a great-and misunderstood- American  writer, Sam Shephard,
and a great-and under appreciated- American actor, Harry Dean Stanton. I
can
not begin to convey who poetic, how haunting, and how beautiful this
film
is, and how artfully it probes the American heart. The scene where Stanton
confronts his wife, and tells what he did and why he did it, must rank
among
the supreme scenes, not just of film, but of human life. It echoed  the
great scenes of our literature, such as Ulysses meeting with Penelope, and
the return of the prodigal son. In short, the only film which goes beyond
it
in the eighties is Raging Bull, and that is largely because of the
volcanic
power of Scorsese, that most self-crucifying of auteurs. in short, I would
go so far as to say that Paris Texas is more than a "ten'...Like Citizen
Kane, like 2001, like Andrei Roublev, like Raging Bull , like the
Searchers,
like Pickpocket, Tokyo Story, Seven Samurai and Ordet,it is an ELEVEN.
Sublime AND beautiful.  
<|_=00=_|>
Paris Texas is a slow, moody, and delicate study about a man who once
ran away from everything and now is coming to terms with himself and
learning to forgive himself, by finally facing he people he turned his
back on. The Wim Wenders directed movie still today rests in a fairly
under recognized status, which doesn't stretch the term "cult classic"
when applied to it. Paris, Texas is about redemption, the road, family,
and the bleakness of the American Southwest. It contains one of the
most memorable and unusual openings ever. We hear Ry Cooder's lonely
single note twangy guitar on the soundtrack with cinematographer Robby
Müller (Barfly, To Live and Die in L.A. , Dead Man) capturing the
majestic vistas, rock formations, and the open desert in his camera.
Actor Harry Dean Stanton walks out of the dry and desolate landscape,
wearing a wornout black sports jacket and dusty red baseball cap. It's
a beautifully staged opening sequence. A perfect start to a perfect
movie. This man is lost and in need of being found. It's his brother
played by actor Dean Stockwell ("Quantum Leap", Blue Velvet) who gets
word of Stanton's whereabouts and goes after him, which begins the
journey of redemption. Nastassja Kinski plays Stanton's young x-wife
and the true love of his life. Kinski, the daughter of legendary German
actor Klaus Kinski, doesn't make her entrance into the film until the
later reels, but her lingering presence is felt throughout. It's almost
the same type of thing that Coppola did by not having Brando appear in
Apocalypse Now until the conclusion. The scenes that Kinski does have
in the end with Stanton are some of the best moments ever captured on
film. They're highly emotional and will cause even the most
hard-hearted to shed a tear. Both Stanton and Kinski are very subtle
and understated in their acting. It's true to their characters. Eight
year old Hunter Carson plays Stanton's biological son, who was raised
by his uncle (Stockwell). Carson certainly deserves mention in any
conversation about great child performances on film. Paris, Texas is a
masterpiece. There's no way around it. It's a movie that slowly reveals
itself putting the audience right in the shoes of Stanton, who also is
trying to remember his past and face it. The story was penned by
playwright and actor Sam Shepard, though he doesn't appear in the film.
Shepard, a very good playwright, has outdone himself with Paris, Texas
surpassing his perhaps more well known, True West. Paris, Texas is a
film that must not only be seen, but experienced. Sure the pacing is
extremely slow, but as an audience member, use that to your advantage
to suck in the picturesque orange southwest desert against the deep
blue skys, and the poignant acting, and haunting soundtrack. There's no
reason not to treat yourself to this uniquely American masterpiece
meditation. It would make a great nightcap for a triple feature with
two other simular themed American films, The Searchers and Taxi Driver.
<|_=00=_|>
I would say that Paris, Texas is not for everyone, but, truly, that can
be said about every movie. But I will say this: fans of methodically
paced, beautifully shot, existentially rooted, and purely experiential
cinema will not be disappointed. 

Paris, Texas is virtually my favorite movie, and a movie that, whether
you like it or not, will leave some impact on you. It is a journey, an
experience, an odyssey. 

Yes, it is long. Yes, it is slow. Defined plot points? Please.

But what this movie does do is place into the mind of it's lead
character. Travis Henderson, an older man, gruff and worn out with age,
wanders out of the Texas desert after missing from his family for four
years. He is mute, and apparently unaware of who he is. His brother
Walt finds him, and tries to rehabilitate him back into sanity. The
film then covers Travis's journey to reconnect with a past which he has
long since forgotten. He reunites with his son, his sister in-law, and
eventually, in a scene which I tear up just thinking about, his wife.

But that is all I will divulge about his wife. That is a scene which
you really have to see to believe. 

While this film really doesn't rely on plot, it does have structure and
tone. And what carries us through this mystical story is the
unbelievably beautiful photography. We see the world as it should be
seen: a starkly beautiful, but uncompromising, place. The use of color
and motifs really makes this film a marvel to look at. 

And then we get to performances. Everyone's great, so I will focus on
our two truly main characters. Harry Dean Stanton plays Travis, a
gentle, kind man, that, despite having personal demons, is a great
fatherly figure (fine, maybe he isn't the best father...but there's no
denying he left an impact on his son's life). And seeing Stanton bring
this character to life in the most subtle and somber way possible is
amazing. And then we have Natassja Kinski, who plays Jane, his wife.
She doesn't show up until the third act, and 95% percent of her
performance takes place in one room. But Kinski's portrayal of
emotion...and her quiet, yet powerful demeanor...and the way she
talks...god, it's unbelievable. Stanton and Kinski have some of the
best chemistry ever, which is even more impressive considering they're
never in the same room (see the movie...you'll understand). In the end,
these two carry the movie on their backs, and do an amazing job doing
it.

You may not cry, but you will think about crying. You will think about
all the sad moments in your life. And it will all be washed out of you
by movie's end. Believe me, I know this from personal experience. This
movie is almost therapeutic in the way. Because the story is healing
our own souls at the same time as it is healing Travis's. 

So. What's more to say about Paris, Texas? It's a beautiful movie, one
that relies on photography and performances to tell it's story, and a
movie that portrays emotions on a master class level. And what do I
mean by 'Anti-Romance'? It's not worth explaining here. See the movie,
you'll understand.
<|_=00=_|>

"Paris, Texas" is by far one of the best films ever made. It's a
well-photographed film; it's almost like a portrait. In the center you have
the characters: Travis, Walt, Hunter, Jane, and Anne; and all around them
you see the desert and the empty space and the places they inhabit. The
major characters are all memorable, especially Harry Dean Stanton as Travis
and Dean Stockwell as Walt.

The film is about reunion. The first third of the film, dealing with the
reunion of brothers Travis and Walt in the Texas desert, is both very
touching and very real. You can sense the frustration on Walt's face when
Travis doesn't want to talk to him about anything, and throughout the road
trip, you begin to get more interested in Travis' ramblings to Walt about
Paris, Texas. 

The second third deals with the reunion of Travis with his son, Hunter, and,
to a lesser extent, since he's only been gone for less than a week, the
reunion of Walt with his wife Anna and Hunter. This is by far my favorite
part of the film, because it shows a young boy (Hunter) trying to readjust
after his father returns after a four-year absence. Hunter (by the way, he's
a great actor) is nice to Travis at first, but refuses to walk home from
school with him because "Everyone drives." The fact that director Wim
Wenders focuses on this little portion of the film shows true family
life--it expands the little "sin" that Hunter has done. This event sets up
perhaps my favorite scene in any film: Hunter and Travis walking home
"together"--on opposite sides of the street--with the boy mimicking the
movements of his real father. In the following scene I'm touched because the
neighborhood reminds me of home--Hunter stops and allows his father to cross
the street to join him. There is also a scene (also with no dialogue) that
deserves mention--the family watching Super 8mm film of a family fishing
trip. Here we see Jane for the first time (a beauty), and we get a portrait
of the happy family while the film plays background music for us. It's a
wonderful scene that's executed beautifully. The film of the fishing trip
allows Hunter to make an observation to Anne about his father--he sees by
the way Travis looked at Jane that Travis still loves her very
much.

The last third of the film comes as a real shock, and I won't spoil it for
anyone because this third of the film is what made me REALLY love the entire
film. The sequence of events in the final third actually came out of left
field, because I was never really expecting that. You should have figured
out, though, that there is a reunion between Travis and his estranged wife,
Jane. Harry Dean Stanton's monologue is perhaps one of the best ever caught
on film. It's really long but you hear every word and every pause. And what
I like about that particular scene is the lighting--notice how the sunlight
comes in through the window in Jane's room, and suddenly near the end you
realize that it's been artificial light after all. There is a similar
lighting effect in "A Clockwork Orange"--during Alex's chat with F.
Alexander and his two co-conspirators over wine and spaghetti.

Overall, "Paris, Texas" is a great film that should be noted both for its
photography and for its realistic look at family life. These are people who
are a real family--opinionated, angry, happy, sad, melodramatic, judgmental,
high-strung, incommunicado, etc. They refuse sometimes to admit their true
feelings and that is exactly what makes a family a family sometimes, the
fact that you can't say what you really want to say at a certain
time.

This is the kind of film directors really want to make--small, realistic,
poignant...and with zero special effects.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is a classic in my opinion.  The story is very strongly
influenced
by its writer's, Sam Shepard, exploration of the human condition.  The
film
is not for everyone.  Wim Wenders paces the storyline accordingly to the
psyche and struggle of the main character, and the concept of searching
for
answers to his natural state of mind by returning to the place of his
conception is a well thought out and intriguing premise for this
film.

I have seen this film more than seven times, and love the slow pace
because
it allows me to be drawn into that world completely and really have the
chance to get to know each character.  Recommended to anyone with an
interest in psychology, cinematography, Sam Shepard's style of
story-telling, and movies that walk to their own beat.  Natascha Kinski
and
Stanton are excellent.

I give it 8 stars (9 if they would release it letterboxed on
DVD)


<|_=00=_|>
I felt so tired of all those comments saying how beautiful the
photography is or, for those who havent enjoyed the film, how the
photography isnt enough to sustain the whole silentness of the first
2/3 of the movie.

It just sounds like a hollow praise for a hollow minded cute, blonde
and gorgeous girl. In fact, it is an offense.

For a director that first was inspired by images and then looked for
stories to fill them and give them reasons to be released as films (he
says this in a book). Wenders achieves his high technical and vision
point concerning his way of thinking, not just film but life in this
masterpiece.

He had before discussed the production of images and how this affects
our way of seeing and perceiving life. But in Paris, Texas the image,
the landscapes really becomes a character, not just to give a good
photography and make those 2 1/2 hours that the movie lasts oh!!, so
beatiful to watch!!, or to make us get in its atmosphere... The
landscapes are so important as the words, or actions, between the
characters are, it really touches people surrounded by it, it
influences some how their personalities. I mean, each photograme tries
to bring this relation.

It is beautiful how Wenders can build his caracters personalities, not
by the way they think or act, but what impresses them, what visually
interests them - like when Travis is watching not the airplane, but its
shadow on the ground while it takes off.

After all that, i can just say that the rest of the whole story is made
by really beautiful, touching and delicate situations of a man's life
trying to reorder the lost pieces from a puzzle.

And, yes, the conversation between Travis and his ex-wife by the last
half hour to the end is one of the most touching moments seen on the
screen.
<|_=00=_|>
Moody, slow, absorbing, you lose yourself in this 'love lost' and in
many ways tragic story. This film was probably an early warning to us
all of how life can easily overwhelm without us realising it. It is
also virtually unique in the successful portrayal of a man who is
deeply lost in his innermost thoughts that the outside world becomes
almost a minutiae. Mr Stanton encapsulates this mood perfectly and this
is probably his best performance ever. The most moving scene (and there
are many) might be when he reviews some old cine film of his life (a
normal happy love story which surely could not have gone wrong so
badly)before he walked away from it all. I can't help but think this is
a real life epistle which could be a marker for how life has overtaken
the human race in the last 20 years.
<|_=00=_|>
At face value, the screen story, about a dysfunctional family, is weak.
The plot is not really credible. The lead character (Travis) is an
older man who in the first ten minutes of the film wonders alone in the
desert like a horse with no name, seemingly suffering from severe
trauma. But Travis' later behavior and the behavior of other characters
in the film are not believable, given this opening gambit.

However, if we discard our need to interpret behavior rationally, then
the film works, either as a dream or, more generically, as a parable of
modern day America, from the viewpoint of a European film director. The
characters and their journey through the film's story are symbolic of
American culture as a whole, with its ever-present loneliness, urban
alienation, emotional separation, and general rootlessness.

The film's visuals and music combine to prop up the thin story, and
give the film its enduring cultural theme. Cinematographer Robby
Muller's images are stunning. His location shots both in the desert and
in the urban jungle, using polarizing filters, are works of true
photographic art. The images, with their florescent greens, reds,
blues, and yellows in dim light are just terrific. More than any
dialogue could, these visuals effectively convey the loneliness,
alienation, and lost love that are so characteristically American. And
Ry Cooder's simple but haunting Tex-Mex guitar sounds amplify this grim
mood.

The film's main flaw is its length. With a runtime of 150 minutes, some
parts of the film could have been edited out, without loss of the
film's message.

"Paris, Texas" is a memorable art house film about the modern American
experience. Like other art house films, the story is not necessarily to
be taken literally. Instead, the story provides narrative support for
the visuals, the music, and other film elements, the combination of
which imparts some broader or deeper social message than could be
conveyed by story alone.
