
For a while back in the seventies the hottest political property in New
York State was one Maurice Nadjari. He was appointed a special
prosecutor and ran up a big string of convictions of various figures on
the New York scene. 

Then his convictions began being tossed out one by one until a once
feared figure became a laughingstock. Turned out he used tactics very
similar to those countenanced by Bob Balaban in this film. 

Nadjari turned out in the end to be worse than any of the people he was
prosecuting. That's the message here, don't idealize some of these
prosecutors on a white horse.

Bob Balaban is part of the Justice Department Strike Force looking into
the murder of a labor leader in Florida. It's been months and his
investigation is yielding bupkis. So he tries some extralegal tactics.

Paul Newman is the son of a reputed mobster, but who's been out of the
rackets for years. But Balaban leaks to gullible reporter Sally Field
that Newman is the target of his investigation. The idea is for Newman
to go undercover and work to get information on his uncle, Luther
Adler, who Balaban suspects.

Newman's reputation is smashed and Balaban's actions lead to the death
of Melinda Dillon who is a friend of Newman's. 

Paul Newman was nominated for Best Actor, but lost to Henry Fonda that
year for On Golden Pond. Sally Field was at the height of her career.
This film came right around the time she got her two Oscars for Norma
Rae and Places in the Heart. 

The leads and cast are just fine. This turned out to be the farewell
picture of Luther Adler, one of the great character actors in the
history of film.

However the two people this film really belongs to are Bob Balaban and
Wilford Brimley. Balaban got his career role in this as Elliott Rosen
of the Organized Crime Strike Force. He is truly one loathsome little
creep. All it's about with him is getting another notch on his belt,
another scalp for the lodgepole.

And then there's Wilford Brimley. He's the big honcho from Washington,
DC sent down to do damage control when it all blows up in their faces.
He gathers all the principals together at the very end of the film,
like Nick Charles would, and dispenses the justice accordingly. He's on
the screen for about twenty unforgettable minutes.

The office of prosecutor in our system is one of responsibility and
should never be entrusted to any lightweights or any overly ambitious
folks.
<|_=00=_|>

There's really no other word for it.  I find the whole of this movie
compelling, from Sally Fields' naivete to Paul Newman's innocent who turns
the tables on his prosecutors, to the various supporting characters who all
have their little niche.  The best of all is Wilford Brimley, who gets to
chew scenery and totally steal the scene he's in.  It's an intelligent
drama, addressing a subject as relevant today as it was in '81, with just
enough humor to leaven the whole thing.
<|_=00=_|>

Mighty good drama depicting corruption in the justice department intending,
on the surface, to solve a crime, but, beneath the waters, to further
political careers. Sally Field played the self centered, self deluded
reporter perfectly against Newman's confused, angry victim. Worth seeing.

<|_=00=_|>

Start with Paul Newman and Sally Field and you don't need much more, but
this film delivers a lot more.  The plot takes some unexpected turns but
develops logically and clearly with just enough suspence to keep viewers
entranced.  When concluded you realize how all elements of the plot are
kept within reasonable bounds and how refreshing that is.  Here's a film
that relies on character development and an intriguing plot with an
important message.  No special effects, gore and bedroom scenes needed to
make this a great movie.
<|_=00=_|>

This one hit too close for comfort for critics and the news organizations
for whom they work.  Paul Newman gives one of his top 15 lifetime
performances (and for him, that's excellent) as Tommy Gallagher, the owner
of a shipping company in Florida.  When the joint murder investigation by
the federal and state authorities goes nowhere, D. A. Elliot Rosen (Bob
Balaban) sets up reporter Sally Field with evidence seemingly linking
Gallagher to the murder.  

What follows is fast-paced, wry, and very well actor.  Don't miss the chance
to see the great Luther Adler in his last performance as Newman's mob-linked
uncle.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Newman plays Michael Gallagher who the feds and local DA think knew
something about the disappearance and likely murder of a union
official. The movie follows the unethical Fed Rosen leaking a hit piece
on Gallagher to the press to put the squeeze on him for info. Field is
the reporter that publishes the story and serves, unknowingly, as
Rosen's club on Gallagher. Gallagher has a very fragile friend, played
by Dillon, who had an abortion, secretly, with Gallagher's help. She
works at a strict Catholic school where this would be her utter doom if
it were revealed. Unfortunately, and in a bit of a plot leap, she could
provide the exonerating alibi for Gallagher during the Diaz
disappearance. Newman gives a good performance but the movie is dry as
a desert. Beyond the boredom, he begins burrowing his way into Field's
life, ostensibly as a personal relationship, but really to discover
which person planted that hit piece on him and is squeezing him. There
is something so utterly sleazy and unseemly about Gallagher's wormy
facade of caring, and using of Fields, like a tool, to get what he
wants. Yes, he was put upon, they are harassing him but to feign sexual
interest gives him quite a slimy persona and, more relevantly, makes us
care less about what happens to him.

The suicide of Dillon, after she provides Gallagher with his alibi to
Fields, at the same time utterly destroying her life, deepens our
resentment of Gallagher. Granted, she did this without his knowledge of
permission, but thematically it was a big mistake. We already have
Gallagher putting the moves on Fields to get the info he covets, now
he, inadvertently, causes another's death. He is from a gangster family
and naturally is the only member who isn't crooked. Yes, please read
some works on the Mafia, highly unlikely. He then attacks Fields in a
scene that never could have been made today, stripping her clothes,
throwing her around in a truly cringe worthy, badly written,
inappropriate scene. The highlight of the movie is the appearance of
Wildred Brimley from the Dept. Of Justice to unravel the Gallagher made
scandal of bribery with the local DA. Brimley steals the movie; if you
can make it this far, you will see the same brilliance out of him we
saw in The Natural. I love that line,"You two ought to get married,"
addressed to Rosen and the DA yelling at each other. Also,"I am going
to have somebody's ass in my briefcase." 

This last twenty minutes of the movie are the highlights of the entire
movie. I must be honest with you, the rest of it bored me to tears. I
couldn't have had less sympathy for a mobbed up guy who uses a woman to
get information pretending to care for her. I also found the
delineation of Dillon to be utterly unreal. Take it from someone raised
in Catholic schools, nobody working for nuns could ever have been that
delicate or fragile. Her character is there to be the martyr that
Gallagher needs to unleash the vengeance on his attackers. The
character is barely adumbrated and poorly written. The scene with
Fields was, believe it or not, criticized way back here as over the top
and grossly offensive. It still is. Look, if your whole family were
mobsters, who had killed people, am I supposed to pity you because
people think you might be crooked? When she does get killed, gee, you
think that if your family weren't a bunch of murdering maniacs, and she
didn't get sucked into your family's sewage, she would still be alive?
See, it is morally nebulous at best. I couldn't have give two craps
about Michael Collin Gallagher.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie looks to have all the elements of a classic but somehow
falls short. Unscrupulous prosecutor dupes reporter Field into creating
(false) impression that businessman Newman was involved in a murder, in
the hope that will somehow help his investigation. The lie has
unexpected and tragic consequences, after which Newman turns the
tables. Field is fine as liberated yet vulnerable thirty-something,
Newman is also good if a little obscure in a difficult role; but
Brimley as Asst US Attorney steals the show when he finally blows the
whistle on everyone. Brimley's short time in this movie really is
classic and Oscar-quality. The overall problem here is a little too
much soapbox and not enough real emotion from nearly everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie provides a clever insight into the principles the press live
by. Reporters sometimes lose their basic humanity because they're not
looking at the human interest, but at covering all the angles. What's
newsworthy is what's in the public domain as fact, not gossip. It's
definitely something to think about in this age when large sections of
the media are intent on muckraking over the affairs of those who are
deemed to be 'high-profile'...

The movie asks us, though, to keep in mind that sometimes there's more
going on than meets the eye, and that certain acts function as a means
to an end. It can be seen as an extension of that great 70's movie
tradition where acclaimed directors make polished films exposing
high-level corruption. "Absence of Malice" is an involving exercise in
paranoid mystery, with Newman in fine form as always, and Sally Field
providing capable support.
<|_=00=_|>
I did not feel too much the reservations some of your commentators had
about the acting of Newman and Fields. I thought they were fine. But of
course the importance of this film lies (as so many others pointed out)
in its expose of the inner workings of our justice and journalistic
systems and their ability to wreak havoc in the lives of ordinary
defenseless citizens. I rather thought this movie a precursor of
television's Law and Order for that reason. For me among the movie's
many touching and beautiful moments the most poignant was the scene in
which the soon-to-be-suicidal young friend of Newman's receives at dawn
on her lawn the freshly delivered newspaper she'd been waiting all
night for and reads with horror the "outing" of her abortion for all to
read and proceeds to gather up all the copies of the newspaper thrown
onto the neighbors' lawns so as to stave off her moment of shame and
disgrace with all the co-religionist people who know her including her
family. It reminded me of the scene in Rattigan's Separate Tables in
which the middle-aged molester of young girls finds his exploits
reported in a neighboring village's newspaper which has been delivered
to his hotel. He then tries to cut out the revealing story before it
can be delivered to its subscriber. But he too fails to suppress the
news and has to suffer the consequences of publicity in his private
life. Absence of Malice is a great and important movie
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not at all surprised to see so many reviewers utterly failed to
'get' this film. Given the charismatic big-name stars and the sunny
Miami setting, they can be forgiven for expecting to see some sort of
conventional romantic cops-and-robbers buddy flick. She's the tough
reporter; he's the murder suspect. They have every reason to hate each
other - yet they're drawn irresistibly together...! Predictable soaper
ensues.

But this is definitely NOT that movie. The irresistible Sally Fields
plays an utterly despicable character: a reporter whose greed for the
big scoop over-rides all other considerations, and whose unforgivable
stupidity leads to several ruined lives. Government investigators - led
by Bob Balaban, in a brilliantly slimy performance - exploit Fields to
demolish Newman's reputation. It's a sordid tale, with no admirable
characters. Newman is the most sympathetic, but he too plays hardball,
forgiving nothing, giving nothing away - and even becoming shamefully
violent (albeit only when pushed beyond all human endurance by Fields'
thoughtlessly destructive actions).

The film is built on several kinds of misdirection. While the story is
ostensibly a battle of wills between Newman, Fields and Balaban,
Pollack uses it to quietly unfold a moral puzzle. How can people like
Fields do so much harm while always thinking they're doing the right
thing? And while Balaban seems to be the villain (and is certainly no
nice guy), the real evil is represented by a bland, conventional
background character whom you'll barely notice the first time through.
Fields' editor is a quiet, buttoned-down nice guy, full of fatherly
platitudes about journalism. But he's the one who's absolutely certain
he's doing good, while actually having no regard for any point of view
but his own. And he's the one who epitomizes what's wrong with modern
journalism: its willingness to report assertions by self-interested
parties as if they were fact.

Don't be fooled: this is a serious, challenging film. It offers no easy
answers, and asks viewers to consider tough moral choices. But it's
also one of my personal favorites: a perfectly constructed ethical
Rubik's Cube, which solves itself with the inevitability and precision
of some fine mechanism. And it's definitely worth seeing just for
Wilford Brimley's delicious scene at the end - reminiscent of the
little dinner parties at the end of the Thin Man movies, or of the
entry of Fortinbras, cleaning up the corpses at the end of Hamlet.
