

So many refer to this as the debut of Jason Voorhees. It wasn't...simply the
debut of him killing people. He left that to his mom in part one! Steve
Miner didn't mess around too much with Sean Cunninham's successful formula
simply adding some quite inventive kills and bloodletting.

No-one could be accused of using method-acting here, truth is its all pretty
embarrassing. The high-school script though probably isn't that much out of
place - they are schoolkids after all.

Jason himself, though still slightly diminished of stature is one creepy
little dude, still without his hockey mask but wearing a burlap sack with
holes cut out for his eyes. What appears to be his demise is of course
anything but...as parts 3 to 10 will attest. The final 15 minutes are quite
tension-filled and better than anything in the original.

A must-see for devotees of the series.
<|_=00=_|>

I say that, of course, in reference to the expected quality of a movie
like
this. In general, horror series like the seemingly endless Friday the 13th
series are composed of one hugely successful original film (generally, by
today's standards, inexplicably so, despite the abysmal standards of
today)
followed by a lot of stomach-turningly awful sequels that try in vain to
recapture the success of the original film. The first sequel in the Friday
the 13th series, however, seems to escape that trend, although it never
manages to be much better than the original, which wasn't that great in
the
first place. But at the very least, even the Austin Powers series went
more
precipitously downhill than Friday the 13th.

The movie takes place several years after the original ended, and since
Mrs.
Voorhees was the real killer in the original (which we all know because
we've all seen Scream) and was beheaded at the end, we now have to have a
real killer. The thing that helps this movie escape the treacherous realms
of the sophomore effort is that it presents the story so well. Jason has
lived in the woods since his mother was killed (a horrifying event which
the
young Jason witnessed), not interacting with a human being in any way in
all
those years. In order to seek revenge for his mother's murder, he has been
savagely stalking and murdering anyone who comes close to his area of the
lake.

Not exactly the most intricate storyline, but at least it's not some
mindless killer running around killing any teenager daring enough to get
involved in any kind of sexual behavior (an extremely popular motive in
cheesy horror movies). In this case, promiscuity is punished because Jason
supposedly drowned because the counselors who were supposed to be watching
him were making out when he was screaming for help.

There is a cheesy fireside scene where one character explains this whole
thing to all of the teens who are out there training to be counselors,
which
obviously ends with one person in disguise jumping out of the bushes
screaming and scaring the hell out of everyone around the fire. The movie
then jumps into auto-pilot for most of the film, becoming your typical
slasher movie, but at least they took the time to explain why all these
killings were happening, right?

This makes me wonder, however, why they would cover Jason's face with a
cheap piece of bedsheet with a little hole torn in it for one of his eyes.
They've seen Halloween! They know the effectiveness of an expressionless
mask, so why not be a little more creative here? The only reason I can
think
of is that Jason lives in the woods and doesn't exactly have access to
things like the costume store where Michael Meyers got his mask, but he
did
have access to axes and machetes and candles and whatnot. Surely in all
those years he could have come up with something at the very least a
little
more comfortable to wear or easier to see through.

At the very end of the film, by the way, we are treated to a close up and
slow motion look at Jason's real face (something that we never get to see
of
Michael Meyers, although we almost do in one of the films), as he leaps
through a window to grab the last girl left alive. And what a face! No
wonder nobody wants to play with him!

As far as the killings themselves, Friday the 13th Part 2 fits in with
most
other 80s slasher films, which are little more than exercises in coming up
with new and interesting ways to kill people, because we already know the
formula from countless slasher films made before. In this case, there are
certainly some creative murders, and the film even confused me with
feelings
of sympathy for Jason near the end, particularly when he is holding his
arms
up trying to get away from the chainsaw.

The poor guy! Someone killed his mom for avenging his death, and he's
lived
in the woods alone his whole life! He's the victim here! Okay, I wouldn't
go
that far, but I definitely felt badly for the poor guy when he fell off
the
chair and then almost got chainsawed. But luckily he's soon back on his
feet
(even after almost being cut completely in half with a weak swing of a
machete) goring people with big scary knives and reminding us of the
dangers
of messing with him. Or, as it were, being anywhere near Camp Crystal
Lake.

This is also, by the way, the last time that any sympathy can be felt for
anyone dumb enough to go up to the lake. The rest of the sequels are
filled
with people who deserve to die anyway for being so dumb. Well, at least
his
mask improves from this point on.
<|_=00=_|>

Friday the 13th part 2 is a great horror film and is the best in the
series.
Has its share of sex drugs and blood easy to follow with a great opening.
Amy Steel gives a good performance as our heroine and the rest of the cast
is fine as well.

This film moves at a nice pace has its jump scares and builds up nicely to
the final chase. I think this film has stood the test of time nicely does
not ever seem too dated in anyway no crazy hillbilly music score (such as
in
the Burning, Bloody Valentine from the same time}.

Simple horror at its best.
<|_=00=_|>
While most sequels cash in on their original movie's fame, the second
part of the Friday the 13th series lives up to its name. Unlike the
first movie, Jason stars in this movie while his "mother" has the
cameo. The gore and the kill scenes surpass the original. The
characters are true teenage stereotypes. Much like the ending in the
original, the ending here is great. A jump out of your seat moment that
lives up to the original. This is way before Jason wears his hockey
mask. Here we are witnessed to a masked killer that uses a pillow case
to hide his scary identity. From here on, the fame of PART 2 made it
possible for the next bunch of films to happen. It is pretty much all
down hill from here. While some of those films lived up to being great
horror movies, most fell short and could not recycle the same effect
that PART 2 had on its audience.
<|_=00=_|>
After the brilliant Friday THE 13TH, Hollywood of course got greedy and
rushed in a sequel with the help of writer Ron Kurz and director Steve
Miner. What they deliver is a good installment and top notch death
scenes not surpassing the first, but still shocking.

Five years after the events of the first film, the survivor of that
horrible day is killed by JASON, the boy believed to be drowned for the
last 25 years. So now he's finishing off what mama started. Making sure
no one goes to Camp Crsytal Lake. But when a new summer camp is opening
up right next to his domain, he decides to kill first and ask questions
way later.

No the hockey mask dosen't come in folks, and no this is not better
than the first one. But this one has a playful mode than one, which at
it's time was serious. The acting by Amy Steel and John Furey is more
of something to root for, because we do care if THEY do die or not. And
JASON performance seem lock on, although KANE HODDER is a saint when he
plays JASON. And the death scenes are toned down a bit, but still
leaves us with that strange feeling in our stomach. Especially the bit
involving a wheelchair, what will just make you say "Now that's just
plain wrong."
<|_=00=_|>
Five years after the horrible massacre at Camp Crystal Lake, all that
remains is the legend of Jason Voorees and the death of his demented
mother who had murdered 7 campers until one get her.

It starts of with Alice (Adrienne King) the survivor of the first one,
having nightmares about the events of 5 years ago at camp crystal lake.
She's living alone in a spooky house and talks to her mother on the
phone about trying to put her life back together, unaware that Jason is
lurking around outside, she jumps in the shower and gets phonecall, a
hang up from Jason, she goes into the kitchen, opens the fridge door
finds a human head and Jason pops up and rams a screwdriver through her
head.

Then we meet Sandra (Marta Kober) and Jeff (Bill Randolf), on a
payphone to they're friend, then Crazy Ralph from the first one appears
warning them like last time "I Told the others they didn't believe me,
you're all doomed, you're all doomed".

Eventually they join the other campers at a camp site near camp crystal
lake, we get the new meat head councilor Paul Holt (John Furey), Terri
(Kirsten Baker) one of the early victims, Ted (Stuart Charno) the funny
one, Jeff and Sandra the carefree lovers, Mark (Tom McBride) wheelchair
guy, Vicky (Lauren Marie Taylor) the nice girl, Scott (Russell Todd)
the charmer and last but not least the main heroine Ginny (Amy Steel)
who's the best last girl out of the entire series in my opinion.

Overall, much better than the first one, the deaths are wicked
especially the one with the 2 people in bed together getting speared,
and even the guy in the wheelchair gets it, in the face with the
machete, Crazy Ralph (Walt Gorney) makes a final appearance as crazy
ralph before he gets garotted with barb wire and the one with the guy
gets caught in the trap and has his throat slit hanging upside down.

The only standout performance is from Ginny (Amy Steel) who was also
impressive in April Fools Day, really goes for it with Jason in the
final showdown between killer and heroine.
<|_=00=_|>
If you've never seen this film, or it's been a while since you've seen
it, then do yourself a favor and check it out. This is the film that
really put the name "Jason Voorhees" on the map. It seems that another
camp has opened on Crystal Lake a few years after the original takes
place. Now Jason is fully grown, and out to get some revenge for his
dead mother! A young Steve Miner was handed the reins for this one and
part 3, and he did a very respectable job. With only about a million
dollars to use, he created a frightening and more than profitable film
which set the table for many more down the road. Since it cost so
little to make the earlier films in this series, it just goes to figure
that ANY public demand for sequels was bound to create one after the
next.

Part 2 is somewhat less gory than others in the series. One
particularly graphic death was trimmed way down to avoid the X-rating
which would have spelled death at the box office. There are some other
graphic deaths to make it worth your time, however. One unlucky cop
gets the back of a hammer through his cranium. Another man is hung from
his feet and his throat slashed. A poor guy in a wheelchair gets a
machete in the face, then rolls down a long flight of stairs. Overall,
there are still enough killings to keep your interest.

The suspense is the strongest aspect of this film. Jason is a smaller
and quicker adversary in this film than in the others. The guy they
cast for him originally auditioned for John Furey's role, so he wasn't
some gigantic beast like Ted White or Richard Brooker. The last fifteen
minutes when Jason pursues Amy Steel around the camp are incredibly
scary. The moment when Jason comes crashing through the window at the
end is perhaps the biggest single scare in the series. And maybe I'm in
the minority here, but I think Jason with the gunny sack over his head
may have been scarier than with the hockey mask. With the sack, you
have absolutely no idea what he looks like under there until we see him
unmasked. And what a sight that is!! This is a very good horror film.
Do yourself a favor and take another look at it.

8 of 10 stars.

The Hound.
<|_=00=_|>

This one has got all the things that make up a fun slasher flick. Pointless
nudity + pointless sex + blood-o-rama +cheap scares. All in all I was more
entertained by this one than the original. I also like how it was the
perfect length for a thriller, it didn't get tiresome. It's hard to make
these types un-predictable, but they've avoided that here to my surprise. My
only complaint is the ending, I didn't get it. Maybe its cleared up in #3?
Anyways, See it for some scares! 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
My friend and I saw this movie years ago when we were teenagers. We
both love scary movies, and have seen a variety over the years.
Whenever the topic of scary, or horror, movies comes up in
conversation, this one is always at the top of our list as the best of
the best. The reason (s) being, the story was original enough to stand
on it's own, even though it was a sequel; It is the first movie of the
series that introduces Jason as the killer; and most importantly, Amy
Steel starring as the movie's sole survivor was PERFECT casting . She
by far, 'makes' this movie, and her acting is exceptional, making her
character, Ginny Field, memorable... In my opinion, she sets the
standard for all horror movie heroines. (She was also great in "April
Fool's Day.") Steve Miner's directing is also worth noting, as there
are several effective scares throughout scenes of the movie. The chase
scene in the last half hour of the movie is as adrenaline packed as a
roller-coaster ride, and is more suspenseful than most big budget
movies made today. This movie is not often given the credit it deserves
by critics, etc. (you know who you are,) since it is a sequel and a
horror movie, but Friday the 13th Part 2, starring Amy Steel, is at the
top of my list for the genre. Thanks for reading.
<|_=00=_|>
The sequel to the woefully remedial "Friday the 13th" improves on the
original film, which is sort of like saying slightly curdled milk is an
improvement on really curdled milk, but I digress.

Part 2 is better if only because Jason is the actual killer, not that
weird androgynous mother lady. He wears a really creepy pillow case or
something over his head instead of his hockey mask, and it's actually a
scarier effect than the more iconic image--he should have stuck with
it. There's a long prologue in which the only survivor from the first
film eventually gets an ice pick in the forehead, but only after she's
been repeatedly scared by the phone, a cat, etc. This opening is
actually pretty nerve-racking, and it sets the tone for the rest of the
movie, in which the kills are more original than the first (I'm a
particular fan of the handicapped kid who gets a machete in the face
and then is sent bouncing down some garden steps in his wheelchair) and
the nudity is more bountiful and gratuitous. I'm not even going to try
to justify my enjoyment of slasher movies---they speak to the basest
instincts in all of us and are really morally repellent, but, hey, I
like what I like.

One of the better episodes in the interminable series.

Grade: C+
