
The film opens with a panoramic aerial shot of Los Angeles, where a
beautiful blonde girl in a penthouse apartment is lying, in a sexy
white satin nightgown, on a luxurious red sofa... Drugs comes into
focus on a table next to her... 

She rouses herself to sniff some white powder, steps out (completely
unbalanced) onto the balcony and stands on the railing, ready to plunge
peacefully down... 

Mel Gibson is remarkable as Martin Riggs... He is talented as both a
cop and a clown... His character carries a great level of tension... He
is both charismatic and enigmatic... Riggs is a homicide detective
suffering harmful levels of stress, after losing his wife in an
automobile accident... He seems unstable... He slaps and pummels a drug
dealer in the manner of the "Three Stooges," and dares his hostage
taker to shoot him...

He is on the brink of despair... He takes out a bullet, loads it in his
.9 millimeter Beretta, puts the gun into his mouth, and appears ready
to pull the trigger...

He is suicidal... He snaps a handcuff on a jumper's wrist, and snaps
the other end onto his own wrist... Then he holds up the key to the
cuffs, and flings it out into space...

He is a sharpshooter... He raises his gun and fires without blinking,
and claims that killing is "the only thing he could ever do well."

He is partnered with a black middle-aged police detective to
investigate the death of the girl that leaped off the balcony... Both
quickly build up a strong friendship that lead them to uncover a very
dangerous heroin ring...

Danny Glover is at his best against an actor who can easily steal
scenes... He plays an old-fashioned detective who is obsessed about his
age, and goes by the book... We simply see him scanning, reading the
odds...

Murtaugh - on his 50th birthday - wears his past like a scar... He is a
conservative family man who has to follow Riggs' hurtful plan to get
his daughter back... 

Gary Busey plays Mr. Joshua, a trained expert killer, cool as ice,
deadly calm... It's essential for him to find out how much the police
know... He tries his best to get Riggs out of the picture... His boss
the General (Mitch Ryan) is a rugged man with eyes like chips of
stone... The ruthless general thinks that it's now the precise time to
turn up the heat... He wants Murtaugh to be tortured... He kidnaps
Murtaugh's little girl, the gorgeous Rianne (Traci Wolfe) to make him
speak...

Richard Donner's 'Lethal Weapon' is one of the finest films to offer
its audience the combination of strong acting, and scenes out of
hell... It is an exciting cop drama cleverly constructed... The final
battle, where the two cops team up against the general and his
henchmen, is especially thrilling... Donner's film also skates around
the sexual implications of male bonding, but the scene in which Gibson
and Glover are captured by the crooks and tortured dramatizes male
vulnerability in a manner that became familiar in the action film...
<|_=00=_|>

Lethal Weapon is a nearly perfectly structured action movie. The acting, the
story, the script, the directing, even the IDEA of the movie all combine to
make up a fascinating and thrill-packed police film. The cross-cutting at
the beginning of the film was particularly effective, in my opinion, as
Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) are introduced.
The startling difference between their separate lives provides for tons of
fun to be had later in the movie. Roger starts his day off as the family man
reluctantly celebrating his 50th birthday party with his numerous children
and his loving wife in the big family house, while Riggs is shown waking up
naked in his trashy trailer and beginning his day with a healthy breakfast
of a cigarette and a beer. 

The fact that both Roger and Riggs hated that they had to work together was
especially effective in creating a touching atmosphere as they grew to be
closer and closer friends. They worked so well together in this movie; it
was a symbiotic relationship. It was almost like they fed off of each other,
and kept each other in line and out of trouble. I also liked the way that
they showed that Riggs was deeply angered when he learned that the bad guys
had taken Murtaugh's daughter. Things like this, when done right, can really
get you to sit up and really get into the movie, and it was definitely done
right here. Riggs was also very amusing in his anxiousness about being a cop
(`Why don't you let me go to sleep?' `No, come on, we gotta get up and catch
bad guys!'), and Gary Busey delivers an excellent performance as the lead
bad guy. This is the type of role that he plays best (see "Under Siege").

Although the violence was painfully present in some parts (the torture
scenes were short but extremely difficult to watch), the film never relied
on violence to pull it along or keep the audience's attention. The story was
sufficient enough so that there was no overindulgence necessary in anything
like that. In this film you see the first of the now traditional Lethal
Weapon scenes in which Riggs and Murtaugh stagger away from a smoking crime
scene, seeming to hold each other up. The final fight scene between Riggs
and Mr. Joshua (Busey) was a little excessive, and there were a few scenes
which were a bit faulty (how did the guy on the building ledge expect to
kill himself when there was such a huge air bag inflated on the ground
directly below him?), but overall this was a spectacular crime thriller. The
movie rushes along at a feverish pace, and particularly Gibson's and
Glover's success working together on screen make this a timeless action film
that is not to be missed.

<|_=00=_|>

I've seen Lethal Weapon over 100 times and it just keeps getting better!
Mel
Gibson plays a crazed cop who teams up with a family cop (Danny Glover). At
first, they can't stand each other, but as the movie rolls along, they end
up with this type of bond. I'm sure that most people or everyone has seen
this wonderful movie. It has plenty of action and violence. I love the
chemistry between Mel Gibson and Danny Glover. And who could forget, Gary
Busey, Mr. Joshua, a VERY fitting role for the wonderful actor. He couldn't
have been replaced for that role. No one could have done a better job than
Busey. Go Gary! I love the end! One of the best fitting scenes in film
history. I also admire Gibson and Busey doing their own stunts, and
studying
martial arts, just to make 4 nights of filming a cult fighting scene for
this excellent movie. This one is definitely a winner! If you haven't seen
this superb film, then I STRONGLY recommend that you do! Great
film!
<|_=00=_|>

LETHAL WEAPON (1987) ***1/2 Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, Gary Busey, Mitchell
Ryan, Tom Atkins, Darlene Love, Traci Wolfe.  One of the best
action/comedy/buddy films of all time with Gibson as suicidal loose cannon
maverick cop Martin Riggs mismatched with partner Roger Murtaugh (Glover in
one great comic role), who is constantly reminded of his age and the danger
he's constantly in: solving a drug-linked homicide of Murtaugh's friend's
daughter.  Busey is memorable as an albino mercenary, Mr. Joshua,
unsusceptible to pain.  Some great stunts and lots of thrills thanks to
helmsman Richard Donner (who also directed the sequels).
<|_=00=_|>

If there's one movie that's an absolute an unquestionable action classic,
it's without a moment of doubt "Lethal weapon". Who would have guessed
back
in 1987 that the same team would make a third sequel eleven years later?
Still, the fact that "Lethal weapon" got sequels doesn't make it a
miraculous movie. The fact that it means the same thing to "a buddy film"
-genre than "Die hard" means to "one man saves the day from terrorists"
genre makes it a special motion picture. It practically started the whole
phenomenon as we know it today and just take a good look at all the dozens
and dozens of buddy flicks that tries to imitate the mixture of vivid
action
and relaxing, splendid humor of "Lethal weapon". I have to admit that part
of me would still like to see Riggs and Murtaugh together for the very
last
time. On the other hand Mel Gibson is already 46 years old and Danny
Glover
just turned 55 and he's definitely starting out to be "too old for this".

<|_=00=_|>
This is not only one of the best cop-buddy movies but it is also by far
one of Mel Gibson's best movies. In my opinion it almost matches
Braveheart which is by all standards a great movie.

First of all the overall acting in this movie is nothing short of
excellent. Especially Mel Gibson portrays the deeply disturbed Martin
Riggs with great finesse and his ability to create nuanced characters
shines through in this movie. You genuinely feel with him and feel the
incredible weight of his wife's death on him. Furthermore one of the
things that makes Mel Gibson one of the really great actors in
Hollywood is his ability to portray rage. Pure, uncontrolled rage and
he certainly lifts the movie a few nudges acting wise. The other lead
actor, Danny Glover, is also great in his role as the aging family
father and he literally embodies the part of Roger Murtaugh and his
line: "I'm too old for this s*h*i*t" has become a legend in the film
world. Gary Busey is one of my top 10 screen bad guys. Not because he
is an especially talented or great actor but he brings an edge to his
character that makes one believe that he is the perfect nemesis for
Riggs. Last but not least we have the underused Mitch Ryan (whom we
have come to know best in the part of Edward Montgomery in Dharma and
Greg) and he also does a great job with the relatively few lines he is
given.

In terms of story and interaction between the characters I can only say
that it is close to perfection. The meeting between the two main
characters is a classic moment and their slowly growing to like each
other is also brilliantly done. The on-screen chemistry between the two
actors is excellent and I'm tempted to say that they have the best
chemistry EVER in film history (perhaps bested only by Anthony Hopkins
and Jodie Foster in Silence of the Lambs). In terms of the story the
relationship between Riggs and Murtaugh has been weighed more heavily
than in the following movies which means that the villains will
naturally be less refined than in the following movies and this
weighing is very acceptable because the relationship between Riggs and
Murtaugh is the carrying element of the movie.

The action in the movie is excellent for an 80s movie. I'll even say
that I think that the action in this movie is better than much of the
action in movies today because somehow it just seems much more
believable in this movie than it does in movies like Die Another Day
for example where the action has been amplified so much that it just
becomes ridiculous and, lets face it, silly. Most of the action
involves Mel Gibson and this works great because he really is one of
the greats when it comes to action. He gives the action credibility
unlike "actors" like Sylvester Stallone or Steven Segal. You genuinely
believe that he could be able to shoot someone with a sniper rifle at a
distance of 1 - 2 kilometers.

All in all a movie where basically everything works and is perhaps
underrated by the voters of IMDb. 

9/10 - watch this movie right now!
<|_=00=_|>

I have watched Lethal Weapon dozens of times and it still entertains me like
it originally did in 1987.

A good cop movie has to have the following ingredients; chemistry between
it's stars, plenty of action, plenty of humour, action, car chases and a
damn good villain.

American cops seemed to be stereotyped in movies. They always seem to be
crazy and without any respect for their superiors. I hope they're not like
that in real life but it's perfect for a movie.

It's great seeing Riggs and Murtaugh become good buddies by the end of the
movie. I like cop films like that. 

The really great thing about Lethal Weapon is the action. Riggs is crazy in
this film-I wouldn't want to meet a cop like him. Riggs and Murtaugh are
opposites but they say opposites attract. Riggs is mad and Murtaugh is sane.
Together they spell bad news for the bad guys.

I would also like to give credit to Gary Busey who never disappoints when it
comes to playing a villain (or indeed any other part).

Great movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Do things like magic really exist? Well, if you've seen Lethal Weapon -
not only the greatest action comedy, but perhaps also the greatest
movie of all time! - you should know that the answer to that question
is YES. If you don't, it's very obvious that you need to see a doctor.
And in case you for some incomprehensible reason haven't seen Lethal
yet, I have only one thing to say: stop reading this comment and go
rent it immediately!!! There's simply no logical excuse for anyone old
enough NOT to see this brilliant movie.

The Lethal Weapon series started out with this film back in 1987,
starring the phenomenal Mel Gibson as psychotic loose cannon Martin
Riggs and Danny Glover (truly wonderful as well) as his total opposite
for a partner - family man and by-the-book police officer Roger
Murtaugh.

Murtaugh lives a happy life with his loving family in a friendly
neighborhood and is planning to retire from the force. But on his 50th
birthday his life takes off in a different direction when the daughter
of an old friend from Vietnam jumps out from a window and dies. This
incident tosses Murtaugh into a dangerous and twisted investigation.
And as if that's not enough: he is also teamed up with a new partner -
a burned-out lunatic named Martin Riggs, who's been leaning on the edge
of suicide ever since his wife was killed in a car crash. Roger is
shocked when he meets this "lethal weapon". These two cops only have
two things in common: they're both Vietnam vets and they both hate
working with partners. 

This is my all time favorite movie, because it gives you everything you
could ever ask from a great flick: action, drama, suspense, and even
love (without getting all sentimental). And if you love Mel Gibson
(God, he used to be so beautiful!!)- like me - this is were he makes
one of his strongest and most remarkable performances. Actually, I can
hardly call it acting - he IS Riggs. The emotions he's going through is
so evident in his eyes and so real and cuts right through your soul:
you can actually feel his pain and his anger. And Mel also contributes
a great deal to the humorous element of the film with his attitude,
witty comments and eagerness of doing his job: "Man, I love this job!
Can we put the sirens on?" Danny Glover is outstanding as Murtaugh and
serves the audience a normal, middle-aged man who is fighting with his
age, a daughter who's turning into a young woman and a partner who
doesn't care whether he lives or dies. Danny's hilarious making those
faces and throwing back at Mel! He plays his part with great
sensitivity and I think he, just like Mel, gives so much life to his
character that no other actor could have done it better. And together,
he and Mel undoubtedly makes the best film team there was, is or ever
will be! (The concept has been copied too many times, though..."

With the fantastic action, humor, performances and screenplay, Lethal
Weapon and its sequels definitely top the list of all time action
movies. Danny and Mel (naturally) won an award for "best duo on screen"
on MTV Movie Awards once, and considering their work with these series,
I believe director Richard Donner and producer Joel Silver makes the
best duo OFF screen.

I'm convinced this is a movie that not only action fans would enjoy
watching, so I recommend it to everyone. This is a movie you can't
afford to miss!
<|_=00=_|>

Lethal Weapon is the first in a series of films that were all good.
Richard
Donner made an action packed buddy picture that everyone can enjoy. Mel
Gibson and Danny Glover were both good in the lead roles and the action
sequences are top notch. Kudos to Gary Busey for making a great bad
guy.
<|_=00=_|>

Richard Donner's Lethal Weapon is a film bombarded by action, plot and
clever characters.  In a sense, this is a little like Raiders of the Lost
Ark with a load of action, with a plot and characters to match.  Here, we
meet 2 actors who, while are celebrities now, we're sort of celebrities back
in the day.  These 2 guys are Mel Gibson and Danny Glover as a loose cannon
(Martin Riggs) and a aging family man (Roger Murtaugh) who team up to stop a
gang of drug dealers.  Plot might not be the best, because we focus on Riggs
and Murtaugh so much, we dont care about much else.  Lots and lots of fun
here.  A+
