

I first saw this film when my mother bought it on VHS in a store... I think
I was about seven.  I loved it from the moment I first watched it, and even
now, at nineteen, it's still one of my favorite movies.

Now, I realize the effects aren't that great and the ADR is horrible--but as
fairytales go, it's among the best.  I found the plot to be better
translated to film than that of The Neverending Story (which is one of my
favorite books--but not one of my favorite movies), and the music is
wonderful.  Watching the movie was very reminiscent to reading The
Chronicles of Narnia, or in fact reading a British translation of Astrid
Lindgren's book.

This is still my favorite of Christian Bale's many roles, and among my
favorite Christopher Lee roles (the man has over 700, so it's hard to pick
faves sometimes ^_^).

A classic for children and families, I must say.  (And coming from a cynical
college student, that's saying something!)
<|_=00=_|>

As a 40 year-old man, childrens fantasy films usually aren't my first (or
even second) choice of movies. I ran across this film on Disney years ago,
and videotaped it. It is a good escape to childhood fantasies (especially
from someone who had a rough childhood and who often wished something like
this would have happened for real!) I loved the music also. If you have
kids
and see this one, grab it. If you had a childhood you longed to escape
from,
see it, too. The production values were excellent, also.

<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie. We were lucky enough to find it years ago as a
rental. This is a wonderful story about a little boy who is bullied by
his peers and hated by his aunt. He is magically transported by a large
head emanating from a bottle, no less, to a "land of faraway" where he
discovers that he is a prince. He gets hold of a magic cape that makes
him invisible along with other magical items like magical bread. He,
and another child fight the dreaded evil lord who is turning the
children into birds that must forever circle the castle. This is a
wonderful movie that is completely overlooked. My kids loved it and so
did I. (We couldn't stop laughing during the giant head part!) There
are so many magical moments in this story. Don't miss it!
<|_=00=_|>

But I haven't been able to find it since I was about ten years old, which
was eight years ago. Still, I remember that I was awed by the invisibility
cloak, have the "Mio, my Mio" tune stuck in my head now in then - the one
that gets played on the pipes sticks there too at times - and frightened
by
the ending battle scene. and children being turned to crows, and the
bread,
and...ok, I'm going to stop before I give away too many things. A great
movie to see if you ever find it.
<|_=00=_|>
I have no idea why previous comment said that this movie is bad, bad,
bad... I believe it has a lot better plot then lots of late American
kids movies. I absolutely love this movie. I have seen it when I was
just a teenager and now I have found it again. I used to relate myself
to it and imagine that the Spirit will someday come for me too... What
an imaginative kid I was!!! Nowadays I have two kids myself and am sure
they will enjoy watching it too. 

I couldn't believe that it was so expensive to purchase since it is out
of print for 5 years, but my husband had spoiled me this Christmas,
after hearing my nostalgic story. :)
<|_=00=_|>

!Attention! Spoilers in this post!

Mio - my Mio, is the story of the desperate dream-wish of a little boy
(Bosse/Mio) who wants to flee from a life where his foster parents (which
he
calls aunt and uncle and who only took him because when they wanted to get
a
child at the orphanage, there was no girl to be had) make him feel how
little he is loved in this world. Therefore he starts dreaming of his
unknown father in a far away country, who - of course - is a king and does
all the things together with him that a truly loving father should do.
Life
isn't safe even in this dream/wish-land and the eternal fight of good
versus
evil must also be fought here. Bosse/Mio can show that he is a special
person and can do good things, like safe the world from a dangerous dark
Knight. Some people accuse this story of a lame plot... maybe the film
should have made it clearer that this in fact is a heartbreaking story, a
small boy dreams himself away to a place where he is loved and valued.

I know the book much better than the movie, but I've seen it of course,
like
many others I like the music, but other than many, I liked (or didn't
mind)
how the story was acted out... it is an unreal place, the dialogue is a
bit
stilted but that's how I feel it's like: heroic, longing dreams of a
little
boy!
<|_=00=_|>
When I watched ''Mio min Mio'' for the first time, I was a kid with 7
years old. It was one of my childhood's favorite movies, and until the
present days I found it magical in a certain way. Reading here in IMDb
I discovered that it was based in a book, but sadly I never read it,
and I also discovered that the famous music played in the movie that
get stuck in your head ,is called "Mio, Min Mio". I didn't remembered
that Christian Bale worked in this movie, so it was a real pleasure to
see him in the screens.( I like him a lot). I was very afraid as a
child about Kato and all that dark atmosphere near his castle, not to
mention the kids who were kidnapped and transformed into a bird; the
last scene where Kato dies was terrifying, and at the same time very
satisfying.

It's a pity that this movie isn't very well know. I guess many people
would love to have watched this movie as a kid.

Ps: Don't forget that this movie was made in a time where Harry Potter
didn't exist. But it is funny, since you can see some references to
HP's books. The invisible cap that Mio uses, Kato, that always
remembers me Voldemort, magic, an orfan who is hated by the people who
takes care of him...well..I guess you got the point! :)
<|_=00=_|>
This largely unknown film is okay, although flawed. Has influences from
several countries, as it isn't a one-nationality movie, which makes it
a mix of cultures and film-making (for good and for bad). Not just
this, it also heavily "drank" inspiration from other fantasy movies in
details.

This is one of those films that make me wanna be taken to a world of
fantasy, especially now when things only get worst every year. If that
could be possible, that would be an excellent escape from reality. I am
pretty sick of reality and probably many of us are.

The cinematography is astonishing and so is the pan flute music
(including a song which was composed by ABBA's former members Benny
Andersson and Björn Ulvaeus - 'Mio my Mio', performed by the Swedish
band Gemini).

As it was said in another review, the film doesn't deliver a lot of
action, but to compensate it offers decent amounts of adventure,
although without being too intense or exciting. The main villain is
creepy and so are his intentions and way of talking. But he doesn't
have that much of a role, so he ends up seeming less scary that he is.

Nicholas Pickard and Christian Bale steal the show as the main actors,
both in double roles, but still Christian Bale is the best of the two.
Nicholas Pickard is not a familiar name to most (myself included).
However, Christian Bale soon would become a famous and highly praised
actor. Christian Bale starred in 'Empire of the Sun' in the same year
as this (1987) and that was when he began to draw attentions from the
public and press thanks to his amazing performance. He grew up to be a
successful adult with a successful career, even if he's not as good as
he was when younger.

In each of the two roles played by these boys, they are good friends.
Actually, their friendship is very sincere and humble. They have mutual
respect and help each other. Whatever happened to friendships like this
these days, when everything is so changed for worst that almost nothing
seems to make sense any longer?
<|_=00=_|>
I encountered this film in a very strange way...by catching the end
credits of it while switching channels. The song, "Mio My Mio" by
Gemini was playing and it immediately caught my ear. It's a wonderful
song and I decided that I wanted to hear it again. I rented the movie
and was pleasantly surprised to find Christian Bale in one of his early
roles. Being a big ABBA fan, I was even more shocked to discover that
the music was written by Benny Andersson and Anders Eljas, two former
ABBA orchestrators. Being a visual effects fan, I was then stunned to
see that famed James Bond EFX Artist Derek Meddings was responsible for
the film's optical effects. I was quite thrilled to learn of this small
film with big talent involved.

Overall, the film is above average. It has some nice fantasy moments,
some good effects (and some not so good). Easily though, the film is
worth viewing for Christian Bale and the musical score. And now I know
that while I used to sing "Mio My Mio," to be truly accurate, I need to
modify that to "Mio Min Mio!"

The only "uncomfortable" factor in this film is Timothy Bottoms. His
performance, credited as "The King," would be more aptly classified as
"The Queen."

Now, if only there was an original soundtrack release in the United
States of this film's magical score!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie first in the early 90's when I was a kid and watched
it again yesterday, 10+ years later. It was more impressive back then,
I must admit. :)

The first part of the story reminded me of Harry Potter and the second
of Lord of the Rings, however it solid on it's own and has enough
unique features, so you wouldn't be bored. 

A great fairytale for kids. Not too complex and doesn't have that much
emotional tension. I only wish the acting was better, and the events
would happen faster, but for an 1987 kids movie it's fine. Otherwise an
enjoyable adventure.
