

If you're looking for a movie loaded with cars, crashes, 1/8th of the Rat
Pack, Adrienne Barbeau's best assets... oh yeah, and Burt Reynolds, look no
further than "The Cannonball Run".

It was a hit back in 1981 and no wonder: Burt was on top of his game and we
were all young and naive back then.  Heck, I have a warm spot for all the
rampant stupidity, myself.

All the better that Roger Moore plays a deft parody of his own James Bond
persona, complete with an Aston Martin.  

If you've seen this film way back when, no doubt you remember it with some
fondness.  Let's face it: it may not have been on par with films like "The
Gumball Rally" or even "Death Race 2000", but in its own way and on its own
terms, it works just fine.

A word of sage advice: if you watch this film, skip "Cannonball Run 2". 
It'll only ruin your good memories of the first.  And if you didn't like the
original, well....

Five stars.  Plus one star extra for adding Jackie Chan for what adds up to
mostly as a cameo as a karate-kicking racer.  And a half star more for
Adrienne Barbeau's fancy work with a jump suit zipper.  Altogether, six and
a half stars.

Wish she would have made it a seven.
<|_=00=_|>
Burt Reynolds made a fortune in this area with these goofy "chase"
movies (this and Smoky and The Bandit plus all the sequels). They
featured a an irreverent '70s attitude toward about anything decent
with an emphasis on a sleazy atmosphere, all covered up with a lot of
humor, and they worked. They worked because they were fast-moving
generally fun movies to watch.....certainly not any great works of art. 

Cannonball Run had an all-star cast of Reynolds, his good buddy Dom
DeLuise, Farah Fawcettt, Jack Elan, Roger Moore, Dean Martin, Sammy
Davis Jr., Adrienne Barbeau, Jamie Farr, Jackie Chan, on and
on....pretty amazing. 

Reynolds, of course, was Mr. Cool/Mr. Macho.....at least in his eyes.
Fawcett and Barbeau meant beauty and boobs whom all men - especially
dimwitted cops which Hollywood loved to feature - drooled over. The
Japanese were made to look stupid (this was pre-PC days) as were
priests (nothing's changed there with filmmakers). The movie is filled
with really profound statements such as, "Why do we take all these
risks? Oh, just for the hell of it." Yes, words to live by.

Yet, as dumb as this movie can be at times, is does provide a lot of
laughs and speaking of that, DeLuise's laugh always made everyone do
the same. Sometimes the best part of these films were the outtakes at
the end with DeLuise cracking up and Reynolds slapping him!
<|_=00=_|>
Long before movies like The Fast and the Furious, 2 Fast 2 Furious,
Biker Boyz and Torque tried to make street racing so damn serious,
there was this awesome, fun street racing comedy. 

Burt Reynolds (way too angry as J.J. Mclure) and Dom DeLuise headline
this ensemble cast, the best to note are Jamie Farr--who nearly steals
the movie as an Arab Sheik, Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr. as an
unscrupulous duo disguised as priests, and Roger Moore parodying his
007 stint. DeLuise is once again the best performer of the bunch,
shining through with his usual charm and wit, especially as Capt.
Chaos. Unfortunately, we also have to endure endless supporting
characters like Bert Convy and Terry Bradshaw. But at least Rick Aviles
and Jackie Chan are the best of those. Jackie even gets the spotlight,
barely breaking a sweat fighting against Peter Fonda's biker gang. 

I'd be damned to neglect the phenomenal Adrienne Barbeau as one of two
Lamborghini babes showing their cleavage. Seeing her scenes reminds us
that there is a God, and she made Farrah Fawcett look like a scarecrow. 

Oh, yeah, that fight scene between the Cannonballers and the gang was
actually pretty neat. Other standout action scenes include a plane
landing in the street in order for Victor (DeLuise) to buy beer. Capt.
Chaos in the home stretch of the race. Plenty of cars speeding on the
pavement, not as stylized as the first Smokey and the Bandit or even
the other aforementioned movies, but they're still loud, obnoxious and
wacky.

The film could be better on the technical side, especially with certain
voice-over dubbing and editing. Hal Needham flatly directed it, with
zero style or substance. His emphasis was more on the comedy, and
that's what matters here. But as usual, the outtakes are a riot.

I consider this movie to be fun and funny, I liked it as a child, and
it's worth repeated watching. DA-DAN-DUNNNNNN!!!!!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>

The Cannonball Run has been vilified by many critics over the years but I
love this movie and have been watching it ever since I was little. This
movie is what happens when a bunch of movie stars who just happen to be
close friends in real life decide to make a movie just for fun. The plot is
simple enough, race from one end of the country to the other for a million
dollars and avoid the law on the way. The cast is jammed with big names and
just about everyone in the movie that has a speaking part is a star of some
stature. This movie is simply great fun and has a lot in common with the
rest of director Hal Needham's films,i.e. Smokey and the Bandit. I can't
really say that this film is full of great acting because the entire cast
horses around through the whole movie. Jackie Chan makes his first
appearance in a American movie with this film and both Hal Needham and
writer Brock Yates have cameos. Don't expect a lot in the way of plot or
acting or effects or anything like that and just enjoy the ride. The
outtakes at the end of this and Cannonball Run II are hilarious and it makes
it more fun for me anyway to know that this movie was just like a big
meeting of old friends. Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr. are great as Blake
and Fenderbaum respectively. Burt Reynolds and Dom Deluise anchor this film
(they're the main characters)and the give and take between these two make
them one of the best comedy teams I have ever seen. Bottom Line: Buy this
flick, drag it out every once in a while, and have fun watching it with
family or friends. A truly fun movie to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Captain Chaos, The Rat Pack, Terry Bradshaw and Mel Tillis! Burt, Roger
Moore, and Mr...um...Foyt! Some say this isn't a masterpiece, there are
no digital effects or Oscar nominated performances. Please! It's just
fun watching some of the greats who have passed on and some others who
were in their prime having a blast doing a movie that makes little
sense and that's just the way I like it. I promise you will laugh and
you won't know why, but you won't care! Great movie for anyone who
wants to have a beer with his friends and watch a funny, pointless,
silly movie. Unfortunately, I also recommend Peter Jackson's King Kong
for the same reasons.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, realistically speaking, it is not "excellent" in the grand scope
of cinema history...It has virtually no plot, for example. But it's
hysterically funny and just makes you feel happy all over. Could it be
Sammy Davis Junior and Dean Martin paired as drunken priests in a red
Ferrari that makes it so great? Is it the doctor of mysterious origin
("Don't you EVER tell me where you found him!" who seldom needs more
than his middle finger for an examination? Perhaps it's Mr Uh, Mr
Uh,...Foyt! No, the greatest reason for watching this film is for the
sheer joy of experiencing Dom Deluise in orange spandex saving the
world...and don't forget! "Hamsters are a big responsibility!"
<|_=00=_|>

"The Cannonball Run" is a wild and crazy ride of a comedy about an illegal
cross-country auto race. This movie was the third time star Burt Reynolds
teamed up with director Hal Needham. Before "Cannonball Run" they made the
first two "Smokey and the Bandit" pictures, and afterwards they made
"Stroker Ace" and "Cannonball Run II". "The Cannonball Run" and the original
"Smokey and the Bandit" are my favorites. Made back when Reynolds was
hitting box office gold, "The Cannonball Run" auto race begins in
Connecticut and features the goofy all-star cast passing each other up until
they get to their final destination, California. In addition to Burt
Reynolds, the movie also stars Dom DeLuise as Reynolds partner, Roger Moore
pretending to be himself, Farrah Fawcett as the woman Reynolds and DeLuise
pick up at the beginning of the race, and two late great entertainers: Dean
Martin and Sammy Davis Jr. as two phony priests driving a red Ferrari. All
are involved in the race, and its a wild ride all the way to the finish.
Adrienne Barbeau, Jackie Chan, Jamie Farr, Mel Tillis, and former Pittsburgh
Steelers quarterback Terry Bradshaw also star. Great fun.

*** (out of four)

<|_=00=_|>

This film is best summarized as a live action version of Wacky Races.  Burt
Reynolds leads on all star cast of freaky drivers competing in a
no-holds-barred race competition called the Cannonball Run.  The standouts
in this film are Roger Moore who seems to enjoy spoofing his own James Bond
character, Jackie Chan as a kung-fu foreign race champ, Jack Elam as the
twisted doctor riding along in Burt's ambulance, and Jamie Farr as a mad
sheik trying to show Islamic superiority by defeating his
opponents.

This is not a movie to be taken seriously, especially with Dean Martin and
Sammy Davis Jr. cruising around dressed up like priests.  There are a lot of
good stunts and chase scenes in this movie, as well as a long brawl towards
the end with all the Cannonballers against a gang of bikers, led by Peter
Fonda!

To quote the Brain Gremlin from Gremlins 2:  "Check it out one time, won't
you!"  You won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to believe it, but when this film was released back in 1981
Burt Reynolds was the world's no.1 box office movie star. In this
totally mindless chase comedy, Reynolds is supported by a cast of high
profile actors in extended guest roles, all of whom play entrants in a
wacky coast-to-coast (illegal) car race. The film has little plot to
speak of, just a series of stunts, crashes and broad comedy moments.
Much of the time it misses its targets, but from time to time there are
genuinely funny vignettes and laugh-out-loud one-liners. No-one could
ever seriously place this film on their list of all-time classics, but
it's not as bad as critics like Maltin have claimed.

Mechanic J.J. McClure (Burt Reynolds) and his schizophrenic buddy
Victor (Dom Deluise - who occasionally loses it and transforms into his
deluded alter-ego Captain Chaos) enter a car race from New Jersey to
California. Fellow entrants include a suave Englishman who thinks he's
James Bond (Roger Moore); two con-men disguised as priests (Dean Martin
and Sammy Davis Jr); a womanising sheik (Jamie Farr); a Subaru-driving
Japanese stunt-man (Jackie Chan); and a couple of busty bimbos in a
Lamborghini (Adrienne Barbeau and Tara Buckman).

Scenes that work (e.g scenes that ARE funny) include J.J and Victor
landing an aeroplane in a busy street to purchase more beer; the
Japanese racers almost crashing because their driver is busy watching
porn movies on the in-built TV; the Lamborghini babes repeatedly
dodging speeding charges by flashing their (considerable) cleavage at
the prosecuting cops; and any of the hilarious out-takes shown over the
closing credits. Jack Elam also has some amusing scenes as a very
unreliable doctor with a penchant for injecting anaesthetics into
people's asses! In other parts, the film is less successful, with
rather a lot of lazy performances and scenes that don't tickle the
funny bone because they are too immature or just too stupid. The
Cannonball Run is loud, broad fun, very easy to watch and even easier
to forget!
<|_=00=_|>
An unusual assortment of pilots converge for a cross country automobile
race where breaking the rules and chaotic car chases are part of the
game , and everybody competing for a grand prize in less than legal
rally. In the car race participates the protagonists, McClure( amiable
Burt Reynolds in similar role to 'Smokey and the Bandit' films) and his
sidekick schizophrenic Victor (Dom Deluise who turn in moments into
Captain Chaos) disguising themselves as paramedics, a duo posing as
priests(the Rat-Pack ,Sammy Davis, Dean Martin) , two Chinese (a racer
Jackie Chan and engineer Michael Hui), two Lamborghini sexpot babes
(Adrienne Barbeau, Tara) and of course Roger Moore in a James Bond
character-alike and several others. Along the way they elude police ,
crash into road-blocks, and meet-up with a number of roles.

This race chase caper is full of witless comedy with tongue in cheek,
noisy action, Kung-Fu fighting, gratuitous star cameos and many other
things. This nutty film with extraordinary star-studded cast achieved a
huge Box-office hit, one of 1981's top grosser, in spite of its brief
amusing moments and ridiculous, embarrassing situations. Most
interesting for plethora of cameos as Peter Fonda, Valerie Perrine,
Jamie Farr, Jack Elam and many others . At the end there are out-takes
such popular and usual subsequently. It's followed by a languid sequel,
less than illustrious its predecessor, with similar actors and artist
equipment , adding more explosive girls as Marilu Henner, Catherine
Bach and Susan Anton, furthermore more Rat Pack as Frank Sinatra and
Shirley McLaine. Booth of them were badly directed by the ex-stunt Hal
Needham. Other films dealing with mindless cross-country wheel spinning
, are the following : ¨Cannoball(1976)¨ by Paul Bartel with Robert
Carradine, Mary Wonorov , Joe Dante ,¨Death race 2000¨ again by Paul
Bartel with David Carradine, Silvester Stallone, Simone Griffith
¨Gumball rally(1976) ¨by Chuck Bail with Michael Sarrazin Gary Busey
and Raul Julia, among them.
