
Based on the best-selling novel by John Irving, here is the big screen
equivalent of a good read. Robin Williams almost plays it down, but
thoroughly shines in the title role as T.S.Garp in this, his first
proper feature film(well you can hardly include 'Popeye' in that
category!).

This is an amazingly rare look at a story that evolves around
happiness, sadness, heartbreak, love, and all the other natural
emotions that this young,up and coming novelist experiences throughout
his far from normal existence that culminates in a dark satire on many
comical situations.

Some great moments to be had including a great performance from John
Lithgow as the transsexual ex-football player who befriends Garp and
his Worldly renowned Women's lib Mother played brilliantly by Glenn
Close in her film debut.

You'll laugh... especially at the way Garp was conceived and to find
out what his initials T.S. actually stand for. You'll rejoice... at the
moment when Garp finds out he is to become a father for the first time.
You'll cry...many times...

This movie has got to be one of the most underrated masterpieces of the
1980's, and in many ways sustains a cult following as being one of
Robin Williams' first major movie projects. 

Don't let this one get away-it doesn't deserve to be missed!
<|_=00=_|>

Many people criticize a film based on how close it relates and
carries
over from its novel or written form.

However, knowing up front that this film is NOT the book and dares
to
actually go in different directions than the book, may allow for a

viewer to be a bit more open about the point of the story and
not
necessarily the story itself.

I adore the novel. When the film came out I was crass about how
much
was omitted or changed or embellished. But then, several years
later,
I watched it again. I was amazed at how many of the unknown
actors
I'd seen before had become huge Hollywood staples (John
Lithgow's
amazing performance, Glenn Close, Robin Williams, Hume &
Jessica,
Mary Beth Hurt, the wonderful Swoosie Kurtz, the godess Amanda Plummer,

and even a cameo from John Irving himself!). 

This film is alive with brilliant talent. And let's not forget
the
music as well. From the opening score of the Beatles, WHEN I'M
64
to the closing sounds of the helicopter, this films sountrack
alone
is worth drawing attention - simple, honest, pure.

There is magic in this film that makes it a timeless, yet period
piece.

If the viewer compares it to the novel, there may be disappointment
or disapproval. However, allowed to stand alone, this film will
surely
endear itself to any viewer's heart.
<|_=00=_|>

"The World According to Garp" must have been a challenging film to make
for
all involved. The film spans nearly forty years and requires the actors to
not only age four decades, but to emote four decades of their respective
character's development. All involved do this astonishingly well,
especially
Robin Williams in his first dramatic part, and Glenn Close, who plays his
mother despite actually being younger than Williams. Even the film itself
grows in character - it starts in our own world, and then rapidly
snowballs
into a world wildly different from our own, but not unbeleivably
different.

Close plays Jenny Fields, a woman who grows from being oddly independent
to
becoming the symbol of ultra-feminism over the next 30 years. She sets a
world-changing series of events into place with the unorthodox conception
of
her son whom she names T.S. Garp after his father, Technical Sergeant
Garp.
The boy (known simply as Garp) is brought up in the fifties and sixties as
the only child of a single mother - unheard of in those days. This unique
childhood gives Garp an unusual view of the world, which inspires him ot
become a writer. As the young Garp struggles to become a writer, his
mother
(inspired by his writings and her own warped world view) also decides to
be
a writer. Her first and only book,"Sexual Suspect", is a radical feminist
manifesto and becomes an instant bestseller in the already unstable and
turbulent 1960s...as if Garp's life wasn't wierd enough.

It gets wierder still as Garp courts and married his college sweetheart,
becomes an author in his own right, and raises a family. Garp's own family
life is quite normal with it's rewards, fights, wonders and tragedies, but
it is played against the backdrop of a world wildly twisted in it's values
by his own mother. Meanwhile, his mother has created a home for women who
are unable to integrate into society - probably as a result of having read
"Sexual Suspect". At the home, Garp makes several new aquaintences. Among
them are the twisted Ellen Jamesians, women who have cut off their tongues
in protest of the rape of a young girl named Ellen James - and Roberta
Muldoon, a transsexual former tight end for the Philadelphia Eagles
struggling with "being a hopeless romantic in a male chauvanist
world".

If there is a message in "The World According to Garp", it might be that
the
world is a strange and wonderful place filled with both horror and
delight.
Garp's world makes you look at your own and realize how wierd it really
is,
and makes you appreciate the delights of your world a little
more.

Glenn Close, Robin Williams, and Mary Beth Hurt (who plays Mrs. T.S. Garp)
are all outstanding in their ability to create likeable characters, and to
mellow and age them convincingly. The other standout role is John Lithgow,
who plays Roberta Muldoon with touching hilarity and beleivability. There
are no bad performances in this film: it is populated with characters that
are as solid and quirky as those in real life. The only flaws in the film
are that the second act has some draggy slow parts, and there is one gag
involving an airplane that tries a little hard for laughs.

In an alternate universe, "The World According to Garp" might be a
biographical documentary. It creates a world that is somehow familiar and
completely distorted at the same time.  
<|_=00=_|>

"The World According To Garp" introduced me to several things dear to me
when I saw it as a child: the Beatles (through the opening credits song),
Robin Williams (okay, he's not dear to me, but I like his dramatic stuff)
and an early understanding of what "bittersweet" meant. To be honest, I have
never read John Irving's book. Although I probably will one day, I enjoy the
movie too much and right now I don't want my perception of it altered.
Beautifully acted, written, and photographed, "Garp" just moves me everytime
I watch it. To this day, I haven't seen Robin Williams or Glenn Close play
better roles than they do here, and John Lithgow is just a hoot as Roberta.
Back to the bittersweet thing, I love the way this film will have you moved
to tears one minute and laughing the next, just like real life. Obviously,
there are a plethora of movies out there that achieve the same effect, this
one just happens to be a personal favorite. Dramatic but never heavyhanded,
funny but never silly, "The World According To Garp" is a simply perfect
movie experience.
<|_=00=_|>

Never before have I viewed a movie with such imagination, heart, and
extensive use of foreshadowing and irony. Watching "Garp" makes one
realize
how both beautiful and morally bankrupt our society is, and that we
'truly'
reap what we sow. From feminism exploitation to marital infidelity to
gender-alteration, we witness the undoing of the principal characters
through acts of selfishness, greed, and sheer loneliness.

This movie, however, will not appeal to the typical moviegoer, but rather
to
one who enjoys volatile, politically incorrect subject matter from a
psychological perspective. "Garp" toys with your mind, soul, and heart
from
beginning to end, and its twisted humor remains as gripping as its
dreadful
tragedies.

Indeed, "Garp" is not for the faint of heart, but ironically, "heart" is
what the movie ultimately delivers.
<|_=00=_|>

This book is one of my favorites, so I had to see eventually how the
movie stacked up. Not bad, but not perfect either. The movie takes so
long to get going that the end seems rushed. If I hadn't read the book,
I would have had a hard time really understanding the feud with the
Ellen Jamesians or Pooh's hatred of Garp.

Still, this is one of Robin Williams's less annoying performances and a
talented cast that at the time not many people had probably heard of.
In the end, the movie is complex, at times funny and others sad, and
maintains the spirit of the novel.

The book is better, IMO, but this is close enough. "The Cider House
Rules" is an even better adaptation--if you like this, you'll love
that.

<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie again on cable the other night after many years, and
forgotten how enjoyable it is.  This remains one of Robins Williams' best
performances, but the show is stolen by Glen Close's debut performance as
his mother, a neurotic feminist nurse who overshadows his writing career
with her own. John Lithgow is in his most unusual role (including Buckaroo
Banzai) as a transexual friend of Close's.  If you are a fan hers and
haven't seen this, run out and rent a copy; it's the best investment at BB
you'll make in a long time.  
<|_=00=_|>
The World According to Garp is an unconventional film, to say the
least. Not so much in the sense of how it looks, or how it is acted.
More than anything the film stands out because it is a human drama that
doesn't take a stance or one particular point of view. T. S. Garp is
simply a man trying to live his life amongst all manner of eccentric
characters and unlikely situations. And like life, things happen.
People grow old. There are moments of joy. There are moments of
tragedy. And people die.

Robin Williams plays the title character known by most as simply
"Garp". His mother, played with dignified enthusiasm by Glenn Close,
has brought him up all by herself. She is a nurse and during WWII, she
used the sperm of a dying tail gunner who she happened to be caring for
in his final moments. To call this woman a feminist would be a
magnificent understatement. Her sexuality is never made that clear to
the viewer but is is inferred by some around her that she is in fact a
lesbian. Her only relationship with a man that we learn of is the
encounter that produced her son, and she spends much of the film
condemning the lusty ways of men and boys. As the film goes on, she
becomes a famous writer and feminist leader. Garp spends much of his
life trying to be a successful writer himself and raising a family, but
he never seems to escape his mother's shadow.

The plot simply follows the life of Garp and his family members. A
great many things happen to these people over the span of many years.
Careers are made, children are born, affairs are had, and the joys of
life are often shattered by terrible tragedies. Williams is decent
enough as Garp. He maybe acts a bit too zany in the light-hearted
scenes, but he nails the more dramatic ones pretty well. That's the
amazing thing about Robin Williams. The guy is an absolute nut most of
the time he's in front of a camera, but when he bears down and plays
something serious, it's stunning to see how great his range can be. He
is an undervalued actor. Glenn Close steals this film though in terms
of acting. She owns every scene she's in much like how her domineering
character towers over that of her son's. The supporting cast is more
than adequate with John Lithgow getting major props for his daring turn
as a transsexual with a heart of gold. The film seems to take its share
of jabs at radical feminism as it depicts a sect of women knows as the
Ellen Jamsians. These women cut out their own tongues to protest the
similar fate of a rape victim. And boy do these ladies HATE men. An act
of violence in one of the final scenes shows how fanatical they can be.
(as if cutting out their tongues wasn't bad enough!) Each person who
views this film will probably see something different in it, and those
are my favorite kinds of films. There are moments of definite humor,
surprise, hope, and tragedy. You will not be bored. The film is based
on a popular novel by John Irving and is worth 9 of 10 stars.

The Hound.
<|_=00=_|>
Empty shortening of John Irving's novel strives for profundity
courageously but ends up being absurd. It's a quirky, goofy and
bittersweet string of sketches, attempting to explain a man's growth
from birth to adulthood and how he deals with the vices of lust and
fanaticism that surround him. Garp is born to a formidable unmarried
mother, Jenny Fields, played by Glenn Close.(The various stages of
Garp's childhood are played by three young actors before Robin Williams
takes over as Garp reaches adulthood.) The story follows him through
childhood at a boys' prep school, where Jenny is the school nurse,
through his high school passions-wrestling,writing,and sex-to marriage
with his high school sweetheart, children, marital problems and a
writing career. Jenny meanwhile has become a famous feminist ,
espousing an unorthodox cause. The plot details an abundance of comic
and tragicomic episodes and outlandish adventures. Williams gives a
cherub-faced performance. This script was not fitting for his wildness
and anarchy and thus his talent was wasted. He's like an injured bird
sputtering out of control. John Lithgow's role as a father like
transsexual, imparting wisdom, also doesn't make sense. This movie was
able to attract some reasonable attention in 1982, due to the
popularity of Robin Williams and his new entry into movies. Williams
had recently shed his Mork and Mindy pursuits and focused more on
stand-up comedy and movies. Audiences were confused by this film,
especially by its arbitrary and inexplicable ending.
<|_=00=_|>

Adapting a novel to the screen is fraught with difficulties, and "The World
According to Garp" meets those difficulties brilliantly.  It is not
slavishly faithful to the book as far as details go, but it omits those
elements which will not translate well and makes whatever changes are
needed
to make the story work on film.  Robin Williams is a fine Garp, Glenn Close
is absolutely perfect as Jenny Garp (her performance was one of the few
times I've seen the exact character I'd pictured in my head when I read the
book up on the screen), and John Lithgow is funny and touching as
transsexual Roberta Muldoon.
