

Ah, Wizards.  Now this is a movie that newsgroups love to
pick
apart.  But look past it's cheapness and it's technical
flaws,
and you'll find an underrated gem of animation.  Although
oddly
structured (our protagonists don't set off on their quest
until
about half an hour into the movie) and weighed down with
exposition, Wizards tells a good story, the art is excellent,
and it has one of the coolest animated battles I've ever

seen... think Ralph Bakshi does Braveheart.

<|_=00=_|>

When one imagines wizards, usually knights, mounts, damsels, and
dragons come to mind almost exclusively. But would one think of the
haunting memories of the holocaust, or any actions Hitler's Nazi Regime
took whenever magic-wielding wizards are mentioned? Not likely.

Bakshi's able to pit the essence of fantasy against the monstrosity of
an ever-growing being we call "technology." The animation is simple
(albeit complex and interesting at times) yet unique, the characters
are conflicted and well-developed, and the twisted, somewhat random
humor adds a twist of reality in a seemingly hopeless world. Definitely
a movie to watch and a movie to criticize in its own rite.

<|_=00=_|>

This film was Bakshi's test-run, of sorts, for his upcoming
version of 'Lord of the Rings'. Supposedly he originally
wanted
to make a fantasy based on the Holocaust, but settled for a
more
traditional fantasy. The story deals with wizards and elves
in
the distant future who dig up long-forgotten Nazi propaganda
films and old war machinery, which are used by evil creatures
to try and conquer the good creatures. The demons and evil
creatures are obviously symbols of Nazis while the elves (with one being the
voice of a young Mark Hamill) representing the
Jews. It's almost disturbing at times watching old WWII
war
movie footage with German soldiers fighting alongside animated
demons against psychedelic-colored backgrounds. The film
is
worth viewing for the still-drawings alone that appear
throughout the film, with excellent artwork by Michael
Ploog.
The animation doesn't strive for realism (why bother, since
Rotoscoping is so heavily used) but captures the dynamic
motion
depicted in comic book art. Very good. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the most brilliant movies ever made. Though the film
alters in tone quite often from dark and moody to light and whimsical,
it's one of my all time favorite movies. It's Ralph Bakshi's first film
aimed at children, but it's actually very intense, violent battle
sequences, some mild adult language, suggestive material, and some dark
themes that are more suited for older audiences. It's a story of Avatar
and Blackwolf, two wizard brothers. Avatar rules the peaceful kingdom
of Montagar with wisdom and magic, while the evil Blackwolf rules the
dark land of Scortch with technology and war.

It's a great combination of science fiction and fantasy set years into
a strange post apocalyptic future where broken tanks, guns, and Nazi
propaganda are regarded as ancient artifacts. Wonderful supporting
characters include Weehawk, a courageous and cynical elf, Elinore, a
young fairy princess whom Avatar is in love with, and Necron 99, a
robotic assassin who is turned into a good robot named Peace. This
movie has a great deal of symbolism and is very thought provoking, it
deals with the power of propaganda and the dangers of the over reliance
on technology.

I was impressed by the surreal and creative animation, and I was
mesmerized by the mystical and otherworldly music score. The film's
climax is brilliant and fits the overall tone of the film. Treat
yourself to a symbolic retro-future style film loaded with psychedelic
animation, memorable characters, and a truly wonderful adventure that
will transport you to a whole new world set ten million years into the
distant future.
<|_=00=_|>
This cartoon was one of those in the seventies when animation was
almost dead. A few folks revived it with movies like Fritz the Cat,
Lord of the Rings, Fire and Ice and Wizards. Although Wizards didn't do
well during the prime time, it rocked as a midnight movie.

But, even with the simple plot, engaging characters and sporadic humor,
one gets the impression that this movie was not well-planned. There is
conventional animation, rotoscoping and overexposed film sometimes
being used on the same screen. It also seems that they ran out of money
and had to resort to stills with a narrator (nice voice)...

You'd think that this would make the movie worse; however, it gives the
movie a charm that a slicker production wouldn't have...
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know what Ralph Bakshi was thinking when he made this
post-apocalyptic animated "fantasy" about an evil wizard who uses Nazi
propaganda films to stir his mutant minions to conquer the earth and
his brother trying to stop him, but I know what I am thinking: if this
is the sort of film Bakshi considers the pinnacle of his career, then I
am a monkey's uncle. Granted, WIZARDS does have some interesting
aspects, such as vibrantly drawn stills (accompanied by a very BORING,
monotonous female voice-over/narrator) and a pretty song during the
closing credits, but the overall package is an unbearable, incoherent
mess that lacks any kind of entertainment for fans of adult animation
or otherwise.

I am not an advocate against adult animated movies; there are some,
like PERFECT BLUE, which are well done. WIZARDS attempts to be an edgy
good VS evil fantasy epic. Unfortunately it fails on many regards. For
one thing, the animation is appalling: it's cheap, nasty, and at times,
almost like a cut-rate Saturday morning cartoon. In a story like this,
such an atmosphere (with goofy-looking characters and some truly
disgusting looking monsters) is inappropriate. Probably the most
interesting sequences are when Bakshi uses "rotoscoped"
techniques--which are actual live-actors painted with neon shadow
colors in post-production. While this makes for a unique look (not to
mention economically safer for Bakshi's sake), it clashes with the
cartoonish backdrops, only ensuring the poor production values. There
is even one bizarre sequence where we see actual footage from a war
movie substituting as a background while the crudely drawn elves
perform giggle-induced belly flops with the corresponding "BOINK!"
sound effects in the background. These clashing styles only put an even
bigger damper on the artwork itself; the mismatched visuals, believe it
or not, actually look worse on DVD than on video or in theaters. (The
digital transfer even suffers from digital defects.) Where WIZARDS
really falls apart, however, is in the characterization and plot
departments. The overly deadpan female voice-over informs us that the
wizard brothers Avatar and Blackwolf are two different opposites:
Avatar is pure and loving of nature, while Blackwolf relishes darkness.
That description goes out the window when we actually meet the brothers
on screen. Avatar, instead of being the gentle, grandfatherly like
wizard the narrator described to us earlier, is a dwarfish, grouchy old
codger, spending much of the time rambling and holding a cigar beneath
his foot. Blackwolf is as gruesome and ugly as we would expect, but all
we learn from him is that he wants to take over the world, and
consequently, isn't much more interesting than his brother. The same
sadly applies to the other characters. There's a very scantily clad
fairy female that coos in a grating, giggly voice--she serves no
purpose other than to provide something for hormonal boys to swoon at.
Only an elf warrior displays something in the way of an interesting
personality; very aggressive and bold, he probably might be the only
one worth rooting for. But there's nothing appealing or compelling
about any of the rest of the cast.

Matters are not helped by the needlessly jumbled overcomplicated plot,
which jumps all over the place with no clear direction and throws in
some needless, unnecessarily baffling plot twists (such as the fairy
character suddenly turning evil and almost written off as a traitor...
only to be redeemed at the end). There are even some offensively
horrendous sequences (the bottom of a creature with a Jewish star
marked on it dangling from a rope in a swastika-adorned throne room,
and two praying dwarf priests who beat each other up), and plenty of
others involving the cast muttering dialogue that only someone on drugs
could construct. When a plot this confusing is gutted by an even more
mind numbing script, it makes the experience of watching WIZARDS even
more frustrating as a viewer.

The aural aspects of the film, aside from the aforementioned end title
song, are just as displeasing. The voice acting (which includes a then
unknown Mark Hamill) is dry and awkward, with the worst offenders being
the fairy's obnoxious giggling and the boring (and I mean boring with a
capital B) narrator. The cheesy synthesizer pop music is, well, just
that: cheesy. (Matters are not made any better by the Dolby Digital 2.0
Stereo or Mono tracks; both sound very hollow and flat.) I did find the
extras on this disc somewhat interesting; there are still galleries,
two (very bad) theatrical trailers, a TV spot, and a 30-minute
interview with Bakshi himself. He comes across as a rambling,
disgruntled fellow who tells a story that makes no more sense than this
movie does; this probably explains the dubious quality of his output.
Indeed, from seeing other films of his such as FIRE AND ICE (probably
his best, though that's not saying much) and his hideous "treatment" of
LORD OF THE RINGS, Bakshi does have some talent, but he spends most of
the time offending rather than getting the point across.

I understand that this film has its loyal following and I do recognize
that Bakshi has his merits as an artist, but WIZARDS has never been on
my list of favorites, and I cannot recommend it. There are plenty of
FAR, far better animated movies than this wretchedly animated, dated,
misguided mess.
<|_=00=_|>
I found this movie as a teen and used to show it to friends the morning
after parties. It's sort of a Saturday morning cartoon gone horribly
awry. I've never seen animation like it before, though I understand
Bakshi has other stuff out there. I like it better than Heavy Metal and
American Pop. I found it while looking for Rock and Rule, which I
didn't find very memorable. This, however, I saw once and had to see
again! Everyone I've shown it to has liked it- it's a sci-fi fantasy
cartoon with a moral message and enough plot and humor to keep things
interesting. Again, great morning after type stuff, though perhaps a
bit intense and/or slow at times.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, this is as bad as it gets. Unless you grew up in a wood-paneled
basement in 1970's suburbia, breathing air with a lingering aftertaste
of cheap cigarettes and a used-up dime bag wedged between the sofa
cushions, this movie will astound you with its mere existence.

Wizards has been described as "thought-provoking", and it is, just not
in the way director Ralph Bakshi intended. It's clear Bakshi thought he
had the skills to deliver what he believed was the all-important social
message of the 60's and 70's, but apparently subtlety wasn't one of
those skills. The commentary is so heavy-handed that the term doesn't
do it justice. It's a shame, because Bakshi's film style is unique and
has a strange kind of stilted power to it, although in general his
artwork is weird, ugly, and unpleasant. Think of Miyazaki, but with no
concept of beauty, and completely insane.

Even that could have been redeemed, had it been used in the service of
something other than ridiculous post-hippie ideology that simply flails
like an angry child at everything the free-love generation wished they
could do away with -- technology, the military, religion, and so on.
Also, Hitler was bad. Bakshi thinks it's important to tell you this.

I mean sure, we could all do without nukes, zealotry, and Hitler, but
this goes way beyond that.

This film really is like the proverbial train wreck you just can't look
away from, complete with bloody corpses. Just add a wizard that smokes
cigars with his toes, a promiscuous fairy, a hideous elf named
"Weehawk" and a robot that is apparently missing his pelvic region (not
just his groin, but the whole area), and you've got Wizards.

At times the movie goes places that are seriously unimaginable. Things
happen that don't make any sense at all, or that are barely tangential
to anything else you see. One example of many should suffice (SPOILER
WARNING): 

Near the beginning, after all the introductory back story that gets us
to the "present" of the film (actually 2 million years or so in earth's
future, the strung-out female voice-over tells us), we are shown a
small room inside a high tower. Inside a stubby wizard named Avatar,
dressed in green and with a full red beard and moustache that covers
all but his nose and eyes, is talking to a crazy, gangly mannequin that
is supposed to be the president of fairyland. He looks nothing like a
fairy.

Nearby sits the ugly elf and the president's vapid, winged daughter,
who does look like a fairy except that she's taller than the others,
and has huge lips and a skimpy sex-pot dress, complete with pokey
nipples (for some reason present throughout the entire film).

Lounging in a huge chair, with a vacant expression and a voice like a
prototype for Foxy Cleopatra from "Austin Powers: Goldmember", she
explains that she's not really entirely fairy yet. She touches her
wings. For some reason, she laughs. About everything.

Suddenly, the crotchless robot wearing a red one-piece jumps through
the window and blasts the president with a laser. The wizard takes out
the robot, at which point the fairy screams like a banshee and proceeds
to jump of the robot's corpse and tear into it with . . . fairy claws,
I guess. Chunks fly everywhere. She keeps screaming. Meanwhile the elf
and the wizard calmly discuss what to do next, as if she's not there.
The fairy screams fade into the background. End scene.

We are suddenly back in the same room. The bodies are gone. The three
"heroes" are still discussing plans, but now the wizard is lying in a
bed and the fairy is sitting on him, hinting with Bakshi-like subtlety
that she really would like to have sex with him. The elf is sharpening
his sword. Oh, and they've decided to reanimate the robot and name him
Peace.

I don't really need to go on. (END SPOILER)

Perhaps one of the most amusing yet bizarre aspects of the experience
is the interview with Mr. Bakshi on the DVD. Unlike Disney, he says, he
doesn't lie to children. Yes, Wizards is intended to be a kid movie. An
"honest" one. Good one, Bakshi.

Now maybe this sounds like something you would enjoy. I didn't, except
in all the ways I wasn't supposed to. In fact, I recommend watching it
once (not with children), just for the experience. It'll make you feel
weird. After all, this is THE quintessential whacked-out children's
propaganda cartoon made by a self-important lech with an art kit, a
camera, and some watercolors (all other films in that category also
belong to Bakshi). It made me believe it might really be possible to
lace a DVD with hallucinogens, designed to release on every viewing.
It's that good/bad/odd.

Perhaps some folks are nostalgic for 70's suburbia and that
wood-paneled basement. Even I am sometimes, and that's fine. But the
huge, boxy VCR in our minds should be playing "Watership Down" or "The
Last Unicorn", and hopefully not this mess of a movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Wizards is a tale of epic proportions.  The animation is a tad rough by
todays standards, but can still be greatly appreciated.  I enjoy the
animation myself because of the 1970's liberation quality that the artwork
has, not to mention that is within the rest of the film.  When Blackwolf
shows the nazi propaganda to his troops, a chill goes down my spine.  The
narrative goes on to show that after millions of years Adolf Hitler still
lives on in those who hate; however, Hitler will always die because hate
always fails in the end.  This is the ultimate hippie film, and the
"live-action" battle scenes (all in shadow) is still ahead of its time.  A
must for collectors.
<|_=00=_|>
I have come across who like this movie and some that don't so much,
sometimes downright hate it even. As for me, I don't love or dislike
Wizards. It is certainly an interesting movie, and is certainly better
than Cool World, but as far as Bakshi's movies go I do much prefer
Heavy Traffic and American Pop. Wizards' flaws have been covered a
number of times in previous reviews, but I do share my agreement with
some that have been brought up. The dialogue I don't think has been a
general strength in Bakshi's movies but I did find it very corny here.
The soundtrack also felt a little cheesy and perhaps too 70s, and the
pacing is awkward, often feeling sluggish. I had mixed feelings on the
story, it was a great idea and while simple was generally interesting
and engaged me once I got over its strangeness. But I did have issues
with the narration; not since Don Bluth's Rock a Doodle have I seen an
animated movie with such an (I feel) unnecessary overuse of narration.
However, the film does look wonderful, the characters do look too
cartoony but I liked their rough-around-the-edges charm and the
backgrounds and colours are stylish and beautiful. The characters while
on the stereotypical side are at least likable and engaging, I did find
myself rooting for Avatar. The voice acting is solid on the whole.
Overall, decent film and underrated but too flawed for me to consider
it a masterpiece. 6/10 Bethany Cox
