

It is in Julius Carry's 'Sho Nuff' character that The Last Dragon finds
its
biggest laughs. Here is a towering, mean, cartoon character come to life.
Better yet is the fact that Carry, spouting lines that would make even the
most jaded comedy fan laugh, plays the material 100% straight, as do the
rest of the cast in their respective parts.

The Last Dragon is an action/kung fu/comedy film that knows it's a farce
but
at the same time has the characters play everything dead straight. This
works because we laugh at the outlandish plot and characters who, behind
the
fourth wall, would probably get along well with inmates at an insane
asylum.

Tiamak stars as Leroy "Bruce Leroy" Green, a quiet, timid martial artist
obsessed with Bruce Lee pictures and obtaining a special level called The
Glow, where his spirit takes over the mind's job, in turn creating an
awesome force to be reckoned with. But Leroy believes not in using his
martial arts for fighting, but for inner peace and strength. And then
there's Sho Nuff, the self-proclaimed Shogun of Harlem, who towers over
nearly everyone at about 6 feet 5 inches, has wild, afro-like hair, and
wears ungodly clothing one might find if MC Hammer invaded a sports
store.

Sho Nuff's favorite past times are wandering into packed movie theatres
and
challenging people to deadly duels because, well, he is just a weird guy,
who has an even weirder posse to back him up and to lick his boots at
every
other step.

Naturally, Sho Nuff has wanted to fight Leroy for some time, and there are
several moments in the film where he attempts to gain a rise out of the
young martial artist but with no luck. Throw into this mix a night club
VJ,
a crooked mafia-type with Cyndi Lauper's cousin for a girlfriend,
and you've got the makings of an `80s classic.

I love this movie. Tiamak is perfect in the lead as Leroy because he
always
looks as if he's about to break into a fit of child-like giggles. Vanity
is
Vanity. Blah. And Leroy's friend, Johnny Yu (Glen Eaton), nearly steals
the
movie as a martial arts student whose theory of fighting has to be heard
for
a laugh. But alas, it's Sho Nuff who steals the entire movie. When he's on
screen, you can't help but laugh, despite the character playing EVERYTHING
straight, and you gaze forth in wonderment - thinking to yourself that
maybe
beneath that hulking, cartoonish exterior, Carry was laughing inside but
never let it show on the outside. Good acting there.

It's silly, over-the-top, jam-packed with `80s nostalgia, and is, above
all,
very entertaining, with an exciting climax and a wonderful showdown
between
Sho Nuff and Leroy...

Do I recommend the movie? Sho Nuff!
<|_=00=_|>
It's so easy to dismiss a movie from another time-line as pure trash.
Why, if I just pick up any car-chase movie from the 70's, or some old
spy movie from the 60's WITHOUT considering the era & what was in it,
I'd be lost.

The 80's introduced a pop culture focused in music, thanks to MTV.
Break-dancing was the norm. Synthesized keyboards backing up great, and
some not so great singers were all over. Also, movies in the 80's
carried over what Bruce Lee & others had brought from the 70's: martial
arts. Lots of movies with the word 'ninja' in it, and of course 'Karate
Kid' made a big impact in 1984.

If you were already into the hip-hop scene, & you liked the American
dance pop music that was playing all over New York, then going to see
'The Last Dragon' would have been a natural extension for your weekend
experience at the movies.

The story is simple- Young kung-fu master Leroy Green (Taimak) must
seek his inner-self by obtaining what is called 'the glow', and is
faced with wrath of a great, cheesy bad guy called Sho'nuff, along with
his gang. Along the way he will learn about his family, himself, and
even find love. There's plenty of side stories that include our hero,
who, by the ways, eats popcorn with chopsticks. He's a modest, gentle
young man who is faced with other challenges you wouldn't expect, like,
for example, how to be 'black', and the fact that he's a virgin. 

There is some hilarious lines, and I remember the entire theater in a
riot with some of these:

Sho'nuff: Now, when I say, "Who's da mastah?" you say, "Sho'nuff!"
Who's the Master?" 

Gang: "Sho'nuff!"

Leroy Green: "The truth will be revealed only to eyes unclouded by
desire." 

Sho'nuff: "It's mumbo jumbo like that & skinny little lizards like you
thinking' they the Last Dragon that gives kung-fu a bad name."

Those who really watch Kung Fu films are in for a treat, as this one
really lays on the Bruce Lee references. The villain, Sho'nuff, is a
just oozing with the typical kung-fu bad guy look & sound. There are
some good fighting scenes, as Taimak is really an expert in martial
arts (there were some karate how to videos he did), but there is one
little kid in this movie who really kicks butt. You have to see him in
action to believe it.

Nope. There are no Oscar winners in here. You won't see an outstanding
story line. No expensive SFX. Just a moderately low budget, flashy
movie filled with that decade's influence- like bright colored clothes,
neon lights, & music. It's the right blend of kung-fu, fantasy, romance
and comedy together with 80's clicks and buzzes that really make this
movie. If you like kung-fu, forget the nay-sayers and watch this, you
won't regret.

9 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>

Lest we forget, this is BERRY GORDY's The Last Dragon. He was the head of
Motown Records. It has the look of a music video for a good reason, it was
produced and directed by music video people. Made to sell soundtracks like
almost every Robert Stigwood movie of the 1970s.

Tiamak play Leroy, often called Bruce LeeRoy in this movie(ouch). It's
amazing that he didnt do more in Hollywood than he did, maybe it was a
personal choice of his, it certainly does not seem to be because of any lack
of talent. He could have been an action hero on the level of a Van Damme in
my opinion (with a little acting talent added in...).

Vanity is beautiful, as usual, as the host of a TV video show, remember
them? She is very easy on the eyes and the role does not require too much in
the way of her acting, so she does very well.

The story line is silly and improbable. All this action and no police ever
show up? The movie makers and Tiamak seem to obviously love Bruce Lee
movies, and for Lee fans this was a nice way of seeing Bruce back on the big
screen after 12 years or so of nothing after his death. The scene where
Vanity presents Leroy with a video compilation of some of Bruce's greatest
moves is a highlight of this movie.

Worth seeing. Be in a light, silly mood and you will get the most out of it.
Be sarcastic and critical and you will have a miserable time. Remember, your
children will laugh at your favorite movies as well.
<|_=00=_|>
If you occasionally get nostalgic for break dancing, too much
hairspray, De Barge, and Cyndi Lauper-style hair extensions, then this
movie will give you an awesome blast from the past! I watched it on a
Saturday morning and it made me feel like a kid again.

As many of the naysayers have already posted here, this ain't no bona
fide martial arts flick. But it does make Tarantino-esque allusions to
kung-fu pop culture- namely, Bruce Lee's films- that will be
appreciated by 'true' kung-fu fans. And the fight scenes were
co-choreographed by Ernie Reyes, Sr., so that gives them some credence.

In my opinion, the "worst" parts of this movie are actually the best
because of their kitsch value: Prince protégé Vanity performs a
ridiculously bad song and dance number; Leroy finds his inner "glow";
Sho'Nuff and his gang interrupt a screening of ENTER THE DRAGON; the
list goes on. I think I'll watch it again next Saturday!
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is like a guilty pleasure- nobody really talks about it, but
every time it comes up in a crowd, within seconds people are using classic
lines like "Who's the master?" and "Hey my man, what it look like?" and
laughing like maniacs.

This was my favorite movie as a teenager and I've probably seen it 100
times.  From the hilarious over-the-top performances to the hybrid
karate/comedy/musical genre, it's a movie that kept me laughing the whole
way through.

If you like classic movies, then don't waste your time- you'd be better
off
watching "The Sound of Music" for the 800th time.  But if you didn't like
this movie, odds are you tried not to.

<|_=00=_|>

Forget the campiness. Who cares about the less-than-Oscar-nomination
acting. I never watched The Last Dragon for these reasons. I watched it
because I loved the feeling and spirit. Oh, and Vanity. This movie
became such a huge influence in my life that I pursued martial arts
lessons so that I could be just like LeRoy Green. Now, nineteen years
later, I am nearly ready for my Masters rank in the martial arts. This
movie was all about basic things in life: good triumphing over evil,
the importance of love, family ties, loyalty and plain, old good fun. I
find it interesting that LeRoy could reach the Final Level ONLY after
he had found someone else to help; i.e. Laura Charles. Rather like life
should be, eh?! Love is truly the ingredient for a rich, fulfilled
life. Of course, some serious kung fu adds some spice to life. Just one
thing: how did LeRoy practice catching a bullet in his teeth? Did his
old master train him by throwing bullets to him? Forget the hoakiness.
Just enjoy this awesome (and rather poignant)film.

<|_=00=_|>

Why have this movie got so long a rating? It is a clear 10/10. Probably the
most funky martial arts movie ever made. An absolute 80s masterpiece. Full
of honour for Bruce Lee and that period as well as containing the spirit of
Van Damme and the 80s - and afro-american funk as well as saterday night
fever dance movies. This movie definitely got the glow!
<|_=00=_|>

Alright, I acknowledge that there are cheezy scenes.  I also realize that
the "bad" singer is a Cindy Lauper clone, and that Vanity was a protege of
Prince.  All that aside, I think the filming was great.  The scenes were
well shot, the music did a terrific job of matching the scenes and setting
the mood, and even the comedy helped to keep the show from being too much of
a fight flick - in other words it was more real than most shows.  The script
was easy to follow (alright, predictable) but it's necessary to reach a
broad audience.  The fight coreography was well done, and Leroy's struggle
to believe what everyone is trying to tell him about himself is the real jem
of the show - who among us doesn't struggle with such problems at
times?
<|_=00=_|>

The Last Dragon had everything a kung fu classic should have. As a chlid
this was one of my favorite films. Tamiak surpisply never did another
movie
but it's still  a lot of fun. Soon I'll own the DVD. Check this movie out
for a good time.   
<|_=00=_|>

If you like stupid and fun movies, this is for you. Fun action, retarded
yet
comical performances by the cast, and a stupid but enjoyable plot.  The
fxs
in the movie are so 80s it is insane,  the costumes fall along those lines
as well.  If you don't like stupid fun movies (example: Evil Dead), then
do
not bother, but if you do like I said before, The Last Dragon is for
you.
