

Long before there was The Matrix, before there was a Bill and Ted, Keanu
Reeves starred in Permanent Record, a movie that inexplicably has gone
unnoticed. Permanent Record is a wonderful, moving, touching film about how
one deals with those tragedies in life that have no explanation, and no
matter how much we ask Why?, we know there will never be an answer to that
question.

If you have never seen this film, my recommendation would be that the first
time you view it, you watch it cold without knowing anything about what is
to take place.  That would mean not reading this review or any of the others
posted here.  After you have watched the film you will understand.  The film
begins as if you are watching any other film about teenagers, high school
and their day to day lives.  The two main characters are Chris (Keanu
Reeves) and David (brilliantly portrayed by Alan Boyce), who are good
friends.  They play in a band together for which David is writing the music.
 David is a straight A student whom seems to have everything going for him. 
He is popular, he has been accepted into a major music college, he has a
very loving, caring, wonderful set of parents (played by Barry Corbin and
Kathy Baker), a younger brother who looks up to and admires him and a
beautiful girl friend.  Yet, we begin to see little things that hint there
is something wrong in David's life.  The first time you watch Permanent
Record, like his family and friends, you may not even notice that things are
not as perfect for David as they seem.  We see the signs, but we ignore them
or overlook them.  

It is not long until one fateful night a tragedy occurs that will forever
alter the way Chris along with his friends and classmates view their lives. 
We are there when it happens, along with Chris, yet like Chris, we don't
actually see the event occur. At first, as Chris does also, we are sure it
must have been an accident.  We soon find out it was not.  Instead David's
family and friends are only left with questions   How could this happen when
David seemed to have everything going for him?  Why did it happen?  Couldn't
they have seen it coming?  Shouldn't they have been able to stop it from
happening?  They are questions for which there will never be any answers,
not for us not for them.  They must come to terms with what happens, without
ever understanding.  In the end that is what Permanent Record is about. 
There are so many things that happen in life which will be beyond our
understanding or reasoning.  We may look back angrily when we think about
it, as Chris and his classmates surely will, as they learn their own lives
are changed forever.

Keanu Reeves gives an emotional depth to his character that I have never
seen him bring to any film since Permanent Record.  He has all the
characteristics of a typical High Scool boy down, yet we are able to see the
pain he is going through, and we feel it as much as he does.  Alan Boyce as
David, plays him with such perfection, that even when he is no longer on the
screen, that we miss him along with Chris, his parents and his classmates. 

The last five minutes of this film are five of the most poignant minutes I
have experienced in any film.  It is a scene that touches at the very heart
of this film.  Though we may never understand many of the tragedies that
occur in life, we remember those we have lost and the things they brought to
us while they were here.  Then, in the end, we must move on.  Sometimes
there just are no answers.             

      
<|_=00=_|>

When I saw this movie in the video store, I thought, "Gee, this ought to
be
good for a few laughs." Well, I was right to some degree, since there is
some humor in the movie, but I didn't count on the compelling story and
even
the fine performances. The movie is about a kid named David, who seems to
have the perfect life. He has a loving family with a little brother who
adores him, he is accepted to a great college, he is a musical director
for
the school's drama production, and his band just got the opportunity to
record some of their songs. But he feels very pressured, and his best
friend, played by Keanu Reeves, tries to get him to lighten up a little.
What nobody knows is that David feels that he can't handle the pressure
anymore. One night, at a party, David goes off to the cliffs by the ocean
alone. Keanu follows, but when he goes to the area where David was just
standing, David has disappeared, with nowhere he could have gone but down.
Keanu's life starts going down the tubes, as he is the only one who knows
that David didn't die in an accident, and that information is eating him
up
inside. When he finally tells David's parents, he thinks that things might
start to go back to normal, but, suddenly, he is taking on the
responsibilities that David has left behind, including writing the music
for
the band. The situation is at it's worst when Keanu is driving drunk and
almost runs over David's little brother. As David's father is screaming at
him for being so reckless, Keanu grabs him, starts hugging him, and,
tearfully, says that he was David's best friend and should have been able
to
stop him. This scene literally brought me to tears, and I never would have
thought that Keanu Reeves would ever be able to make me cry, even though I
am a big fan of his. I think this is Keanu Reeves' best performance since
"River's Edge". His portrayal of this character is basically the same as
his
portrayal of Ted Logan in the "Bill and Ted" movies, but with much more
emotion and depth. The dramatic scenes, like when he throws a book through
the principal's window, are done to perfection. He is completely
believable
as a confused teenager who suddenly finds himself alone without a best
friend. The movie itself is an accurate reproduction of the effects of
suicide on the people who are left behind: David's parents, brother, and
friends. This is not a lighthearted film, but it is absorbing and actually
makes you care about the characters. A definite must see.
<|_=00=_|>

Permanent Record is one of those rare movies that doesn't feel like a movie;
it feels like it could have been lifted straight out of your past.  While
most high school movies center upon the superficialities of High School
life, Permanent Record goes right for the guts of it, knowing that there are
no easy answers, no simple solutions.

As such, it represents not a single stitch of calculated drama, and doesn't
even really have much of a plot, substituting that instead for a series of
seemingly disconnected events that don't lead anywhere definite, but still
manage to give off the distinct impression that none of the characters'
lives will ever be the same as they were when the movie
begins.

This isn't a movie you will watch if you want to be entertained.  But it is
a movie that, if you are prone to such behavior, you will be thinking about
even years after having seen it.  To that end, it is virtually
unsurpassed.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was by far one of the best I've seen in quite some time. Keanu
Reeves gives a very heart-felt performance while handling the things in
the
movie he has to handle. Also, there is some great singing in this movie.
Jennifer Rubin's character sings a song at the end of the movie that I
would
love to be able to find. The singer, whether or not it truly is her, is
terrific. The story line is serious, as is the movie, but anyone who
wishes
to see Keanu master his dramatic, sad role should definitely see this
movie.

<|_=00=_|>

I first saw this film in the early '90's and found it to be one of 
Keanu's hidden acting treasures.  I think the guy got a bit typecast
with the BILL & TED thing.  But as a man who's lost several loved ones
to suicide, I found this film very true to form in its point-of-view of
choice... focusing on the survivor.  Another viewer who described the
film as 'terrible' I think missed the point by looking for an
'explanation' for the suicide.  After 23 years since my own mother's
death to suicide, I can tell you that you never really know 'why'.  I
thought PERMANENT RECORD to be a bit of subtle brilliance in its focus
on the stages of healing survivors go through... those of guilt, anger,
shock, and finally acceptance.  The film was made for a 
modest budget but, I felt, showcased some wonderfully understated and
powerfully touching moments.  Suicide is an emotionally perplexing
issue.  I salute the filmmakers for tackling it with such compassion and
dignity
<|_=00=_|>

Well . . .this was a complete fluke for me.  I was at K-Mart with a friend,
and I saw this for $3.49.  I figured you could hardly rent a movie for that,
and the plot interested me.  Having lost a friend to suicide myself, I found
the movie to be very honest and real in its emotion and messages.  While
some of the acting was pretty B-grade, it wasn't that bad considering the
obviously low budget.  AND I'm shocked to say Keanu Reeves wasn't at all
bad--in fact, he was quite good (and I'm not a fan)!  Overall, I'd
definitely recommend this movie and say it was well worth the money I
paid--in fact, I'd have paid more.  I'm really pleasantly surprised (for
once) and glad I got the movie.
<|_=00=_|>

When I first saw "Permanent Record", I was on a psych unit, trying to
regain
control of my life as a teenager.  It was a movie that they'd shown to us
to
kind of teach us a lesson about how our actions and decisions affect the
people around us.  I really enjoyed this movie and wouldn't mind adding
it
to my collection.
<|_=00=_|>

Ok so it is a 80's flick and it shows, but all in all it is a great movie.
I
am a big fan of Keanu Reeves, I rented every movie the guy did. This movie
is hard to find, but it is worth a search to find. It is a great heart
catcher. And for all the girls who love Keanu will rewind over and over
again to see the heart wrentching scene of him crying. I loved every bit
of
this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

This film was way ahead of its time. In this day and age, teenage suicides
happen often, and appear in the press. This is a movie, set in the 80s,
and
really has a powerful effect on you.
To start with, I was trying to figure out why the main character decided
to
kill himself. It never really says. But the movie concentrates more on
what
David's close friends feel on his suicide. The film focuses heavily on
Keanu
Reeves character, Chris. He features in some of the film's most powerful
scenes, and although he plays his Ted character, goofy and gangly, he
really
acts his socks off. He also features in an almost painful crying scene.

There's a terrific song, which unfortunately isn't available. It's worked
on
throughout the film, but it really comes to light towards the end. It's
called "Wishing On Another Lucky Star", performed by J.D. Souther.

This is a very powerful movie, although it didn't leave much of an effect
on
me. I was expecting it to leave me with something at the end of the movie,
but this kinda movie has been done better in recent years - The Virgin
Suicides for example.
<|_=00=_|>
I wished they'd shown this movie in my HS after a female student
committed suicide, I think it would have helped us move on. Especially
since that is really what this movie is about: the process of healing
after the loss of someone. I found this movie to be touching,
realistic, and enveloping. Allow me to explain. I was touched by the
character development. I found the process of the healing to be very
realistic. And because I could identify with what some of the
characters were going through, I found it enveloping. Some of Keanu
Reeves best work is in this film. Chris' breakdown in the Dad's arms is
one of the best scenes in the whole film. On top of all that, to this
day, when Jennifer Rubins sings at the end, I cry. Every time. Now,
whenever I need a pick-me up, I sing that song.

On a side note, I would probably have liked this movie even if it
hadn't been filmed partly in my hometown.
