

Convoy is the shallowest of Sam Peckinpah's films, but by no means the
worst. It contains some oddball characters and a number of memorable
sequences, and alternately funny and thought-provoking dialogue. It also
features one of the very best Ernest Borgnine performances that I can
remember - not bad for a man who won an Oscar for Marty!

The story traces the fortunes of some truckers, led by "Rubber Duck" (Kris
Kristofferson), as they drive through the states of New Mexico, Texas and
Arizona. They are pursued by the law, and gradually more and more truckers
join on at the back of the line until they have literally hundreds of
lorries, all roaring along the highways in protest of the prejudicial
treatment they receive from the cops.

Kristofferson is supremely enigmatic as the leader of the pack. Ali MacGraw
is a bit of a bore as his female companion. As mentioned before, the real
star is Borgnine, mean and menacing, funny and cruel as the cop who
dedicates his life to victimising truck drivers. For such a shallow film, it
looks and sounds beautiful. Even the car chase through the sand is poetic. I
can't explain what's good about this picture. It sounds dull and pointless,
yet to watch it is a thoroughly enjoyable experience. Convoy is a
contradiction of itself.... plotless, pointless, thinly plotted, and yet
still (somehow) a top notch film!
<|_=00=_|>

Great film! This was one of the few American films that got broadcasted
on TV here in Hungary in the late 80s socialist era. I was about 8
then, and I remember, every kid played with Matchbox trucks and wanted
to be a trucker...

But only now do I understand the essence of it... I think, this movie
is the 70s epic of America - a kind of 'On the road put to film'. It
deeply revolts against the conformism of the late 70s. After the 60s
the rebellion of the "beat generation" slowly expired giving way to the
"disco age". I think, Convoy brings back some of the finest ideas and
emotions of the 60s, depicting numerous social-political-economic
problems of the 70s...

Also, it has an even more important message: it is the revolt of the
average citizen, or the working man against the political elite. They
say, they have our - the people's - well being on our minds. And we
might be dull enough to believe them... We work hard, while they stuff
their own pockets with our money and have nothing on their minds but
doing that and ways of being able to maintain their power. I think,
that is an ever-present problem in each and every country, no matter
rich or poor, democratic or dictatorical. So the true message of Convoy
is: REAL POWER TO THE PEOPLE!

<|_=00=_|>
It was June of 1977, and I was twelve years old. I was visiting my
grandparents in Las Vegas, NM at the time, when I heard that they were
filming a movie in town. Nothing new... Las Vegas has been in it's fair
share of movies having been made. A great back-drop for old westerns.
This was a contemporary movie that was very timely, with the whole CB
radio fad happening and Smoky and The Bandit having just made a killing
at the box office. Not to mention, Kris Kristofferson was at this point
very much a sex symbol from his movie " A Star Is Born" having just
been released.

Director Sam Peckinpah was in town and was picking out extras to sit in
the Old Town Plaza near the gazebo in downtown Las Vegas. I was one of
the them. The day was torrid hot, and Mr. Peckinpah didn't seem to be
in the best of moods. With many curse words being thrown around and a
few temper tantrums to boot (director and cast) we extras endured the
heat and the anger... to get a shot to be in this movie. Of course I
ended up on the cutting room floor minus a crowd scene or two, but it
was such a thrill for a twelve year old girl.

The movie debuted in July of 1978, a year later, and by then, a lot of
the CB radio hype had died down and the movie tanked at the box office.
It was later shown on television it seemed every few months in the
1980's, almost gaining a cult following.

The movie is clearly dated, at times over the top macho, but it has a
good cast, some great scenery and if for pop culture only... it's a lot
of fun.
<|_=00=_|>
The "Smokey and the Bandit" target audience never knew what hit them
when they went to see "Convoy". Used to a diet of direct-to-drive-in
films they had no conception of what could happen when Hollywood threw
big bucks and a competent (if distracted) director at the genre. What
they got was something that movie historians are still trying to
classify. A movie based on a CB radio song that morphed into a poetic
homage to machinery; where trucks are turned into mythological monsters
and filmed cruising through the heat-radiating desert to a score of
classical music.

Why Sam Peckinpah elected to take on this project has really never been
explained, although that decision certainly supports those tales of
substance abuse, and the final cut is bizarre enough to also fit that
explanation. It is an amazing film as it wobbles between self-parody
and self-importance to a degree never seen before and never seen again
until "Apocalypse Now". I'm not sure how much attention and interest
Peckinpah actually showed toward the making of "Convoy". It has the
disjointed feel of multiple directors or of a Director of Photography
filling in many times when Sam was not motivated to make an appearance
on the set.

Kris Kristofferson is fine as trucker "Rubber Duck" although Earnest
Borgnine pretty much steals the whole thing.

But "Convoy's real claim to fame is as the film where Ali MacGraw's
career spectacularly crashed and burned. She did not just fade away but
shattered into a million pieces. MacGraw got into acting in her late
twenties but looked young enough to be believable as a college-age girl
in her first two starring roles; the excellent "Goodbye Columbus" and
the pathetic but hugely popular "Love Story". Her age worked to her
advantage as her two characters (particularly "Goodbye's" Brenda) came
off as poised, stylish, classy and smart. She picked up a huge
following of male viewers who would have bought tickets to anything she
was in and she was generally inoffensive to female viewers. She was
nominated for the Best Actress Oscar, started fashion crazes, and made
the cover of Time magazine. She also picked up the head of Paramount
Studios (Robert Evans) as a husband dedicated to advancing her acting
career. It was a done deal that she would get the lead in "Chinatown",
a role that would fit her rather limited range (poised, classy,
stylish). Her only obstacle was managing the transition to middle age
in a way that her smitten fans could accept.

Unfortunately she dumped Evans for a short marriage (5 years) to Steve
McQueen. Just how badly her image and career were managed after she
left Evans is illustrated by her bad haircut in "Convoy". Just glance
at the promotional poster and you may be able to hear the sounds of a
million bubbles bursting in the minds of her male fans. The idea of
"Brenda" playing a truck stop mama with short curly hair would have
made it too painful to even contemplate seeing this movie. Her fan base
literally melted away with the start of the film's promotion campaign.
They never returned, the illusion had died. Ironically had they
actually seen her horrible performance in "Convoy" they might have felt
better, as the performance is so absurd it achieves a sort of surreal
quality. But a couple years later they discovered replacement Jennifer
Beals and moved on.

Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child.
<|_=00=_|>

Uneven but at times entertaining Peckinpah film. It doesn't feel as nasty
today as it maybe did in the late 1970´s.

Kris Kristofferson is cool in his role but it doesn't hold the film together
enough.

"Convoy" is made in typical Peckinpah style but it doesn't seem to match
that good in this case. The slow-motion fist fight on the bar is not
astonishing.

Even if it is based on a song, the story seem to work, but there should have
been some changes and maybe the scriptwriter should have add something
more.

Rating: 5 of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
A convoy of angry and enraged truckers are rolling down the desert
highways of Arizona New Mexico and Texas led by Martin Penwald (Kris
Kistofferson) using the CB-handle "Rubber Duck". The truckers had
enough of the corrupt highway cops who shake them down and threaten to
impound their rigs. Leaving the truckers without any means of financial
support. As well as the ridicules 55 MPH speed limit on the highways
that cuts into their time and earnings and last but not least the
sky-rocketing gas prices. 

After the Rubber Duck and two of his trucker pals Love Machine & Spider
Mike,Burt Young & Franklyn Ajaye, were entrapped by the nasty and
vindictive local Sheriff Lyle Wallace, Earnest Borgnine,for illegally
using the trucker CB-handle name Cottonmouth. Their shaken down by the
"lawman" for $70.00 each in order to avoid having their trucks
impounded and them being thrown behind bars.

The three later Going to the local truck stop to celebrate the Rubber
Ducks birthday and have a few drinks are again confronted by the
lawman. Sheriff Wallace, still not satisfied with pushing the truckers
around, comes snooping around the area to make a few more bucks off the
abused haulers. Wallace picks on poor Spider Mike accusing him of
loitering and is about to throw him in jail. Spiker Mike pleads to the
unfeeling Wallace that his wife is about to give birth and to please
leave him alone which doesn't move the sheriff at all. But a straight
right to his jaw, by Spider Mike, does make him move right on the butt
of his pants. In a bar brawl with the truckers, who come to the aid of
Spider Mike Love Machine and the Rubber Duck, Wallace and two of his
deputies are knocked out cold and handcuffed as the three truckers
together with the Rubber Duck's new found squeeze the plucky and
outspoken Melissa (Ali MacGraw), a wedding photographer who's car broke
down, then take off and go back on the road again with the entire
Arizona Highway Patrol on their tail. 

Chased by the crazy Sheriff Wallace, who commandeered a car from a
young couple smoking and shearing a joint. the Rubber Duck Love Machine
& Spider Mike get the full support from some very expected and
unexpected persons that during the remainder of the film has them on
the front pages of the news as well as getting the ear of the local
governors senators and even the President of the United States himself. 

There's strength in numbers is the theme of "Convoy" with the Rubber
Duck & friends making a private affair into a public happening. This by
drawing attention to the plight of him and his fellow truckers and how
their short-changed and ill-treated by everyone down the line, police
politicians and big oil, as they try to do their.

The giant convoy of truckers following the Rubber Duck open the eyes of
the nation and puts corrupt low-lives like Sheriff Wallace on the front
pages. All that showed what these hard working and dedicated men, the
truckers, have to put up with every day and night that their on the
road. In the end they get the support and respect from the public, as
well as the politicians, that they so richly deserve. When the clueless
and almost brain-dead politicians see the endless line of the trucker
convoy lead by the Rubber Duck they not only stand up and listen but
they deliver as well. 

One of director Sam Peckinpah's most underrated films that, as far as I
could see, had no one killed in it. Even though the amount of violence
and explosions were equaled to Peckinpah's famous blood-splattering
1969 classic "The Wild Bunch".
<|_=00=_|>
A rebel trucker (Kris Kristofferson) leads protesting his colleagues on
a trek throughout Southwest until Mexico .Other truckers join their
convoy as a show of support against brutality and other complaints .
Sheriff Wallace (Ernest Borgnine)rallies other law enforcement officers
throughout the southwest, they who soon aware that stopping Duck, the
face of the now highly public standoff, is not as easy as shooting him
and the truck due to his highly explosive cargo . Truckers (Burt Young
, Magde Sinclair as Widow woman, among others) on a tri-state protest
over police brutality ,form a mile long "convoy" in support of Duck's
vengeance with the abusive sheriff . Based on the country song , a real
hit , of same title by C.W. McCall.

An enjoyable film , ¨ Peckinpah's Convoy ¨results to be an elegiac
perspective at the world of the truckers . Taut excitement throughout,
beautifully photographed and with spectacular trucks scenes and some
images filmed in slow moving. An uneven and silly screenplay by Bill L
Norton , subsequently turned to mediocre director . Vibrant and
brilliant all star cast with acceptable performances from Burt Young ,
Seymour Cassel , Cassie Yates , among others. Kris Kristofferson turns
in a nice acting as a drifting independent trucker nicknamed ¨Duck¨ who
is searching freedom in a changing world , he and Ali MacGraw strike
real sparks. Ernest Borgnine is particularly fine as the veteran
patrolman .Peckinpah's slow-motion camera , his usual trademark,is put
to particularly nice utilization shooting the balletic movement of
fights , at once more splendidly and awe-inspiring than any gun battle.
Furthermore, it contains a country music emotive score by Chip Davis .
Glimmer and colorful cinematography by Harry Stradling Jr ,son of
another great cameraman Harry Stradling Sr . Splendidly filmed in
Albuquerque,Cerrillos, New Mexico,Cuba, New Mexico,Needles, California
,New Mexico State Fair Grounds ,Central & Louisanna Avenues,
Albuquerque,White Sands National Monument, and Alamogordo, New Mexico.
An agreeable country-trucker-Western with passable interpretations and
exciting trucks footage including some slow-moving images and a much
moving , professionally made by the famous director Sam Peckinpah . Sam
was a real creator and author of masterpieces as ¨Cross of Iron¨,¨The
ballad of Cable Hogue¨, ¨Wild bunch¨ , ¨Major Dundee¨ . ¨Convoy¨ though
inferior film is lovely realized by Sam Peckinpah in his punchy
directorial style .
<|_=00=_|>
The angry, rebellious mood of the post Watergate 1970s, the CB radio
craze, and the romanticized image of Truckers as direct descendants of
the American cowboy were made to order for the rebellious gonzo
filmmakers out there who were looking for something new to hang their
perceptual hats on. They'd made it big with the Hollywood Money Machine
by now, already having explored (and maybe exploited) illegal drugs and
the free floating feeling of youthful rebellion that had been simmering
since the early '50s (EASY RIDER), the country's ongoing cultural and
philosophical clash between young and old (BILLY JACK), and even our
changing perceptions of the concepts of war and patriotism (THE
DEERHUNTER and COMING HOME).

Enter Sam Peckinpah, one of the wildest of the "action" (read that as
"pointless violence just for the hell of it") filmmakers, armed with a
fairly big budget, the incredibly sexy, laid back, anti-establishment
and intelligent box office draw of Kris Kristophersen, and the
considerable comedic talents of Ernie Borgnine. The only thing missing
in this was the psychotic, druggie craziness and inspired insanity of
Dennis Hopper. The results of the mix were predictable and inevitable.

No script to speak of; just the lyrics of a pop song by C. W. McCall
about a bunch of POed, runaway truckers armed with CB radios and a
hatred of the then new 55 MPH national speed limit. Throw in a lot of
high speed chases and crashes involving loaded 18 wheelers, staged by a
director who had a long and distinguished reputation in Hollywood as a
loose cannon. The final product was inspired escapist fantasy that was
almost guaranteed to produce box office receipts from teenagers from
coast to coast.

The plot of the film (if you can call it that) is rather pointless and
murky; it is simply the story of a brawl at a truck stop that escalated
into a pseudo social movement. One character, a trucker whose CB
"handle" is Big Nasty, inadvertently sums up the entire point of CONVOY
when he is asked why he's joined the trucker protest. "I'm just here
because I like kicking ass!" was his reply. And so it is, as simple as
that... the film is all about free form anarchy and flipping The Bird
to the established social and political order, staged by a bunch of
unconventional rebels who were perceived as tough enough and powerful
enough to make their rebellion stick. Despite the fact that the film
has no point and doesn't seem to know where it's going, it was just
what the temper of the times demanded, and without a doubt it's just a
whole lot of FUN! Trucks and CB radios were a major staple of Hollywood
then... along with CONVOY there were other efforts, some of them more
sophisticated and structured, like Burt Reynold's classic of the genre
SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT that used essentially the CONVOY formula.

Not every movie has a higher calling, expressing the producer's vision
of some great truth. Some are trashy and cheesy, but they still garner
a place as cult classics, and as one of those "guilty pleasures" movies
that we drag out from time to time just for pure enjoyment. CONVOY is
one of them... it offers the pure (tho vicarious) thrill of seeing a
squad car that's chasing you get crushed between two semis. It warms
the soul with a vision of the Little Guy successfully fighting back
against the system that uses him up and tosses him into the trash
heap... even tho in Peckinpah's version of that vision we're not really
sure of exactly what it is that the Little Guy is fighting against, or
why he's fighting.

As pure entertainment, I have to give CONVOY a Thumbs Up.
<|_=00=_|>
A film of extreme silliness, degraded rather than elevated by its
pretensions, this film finds the great director Sam Peckinpah at the
end of his career and the nadir of his talent. Star Kris Kristofferson
tries rather too hard to lend a mythic or larger-than-life air to the
proceedings, while Ali MacGraw looks and acts weirdly out of place in
this trucker fantasy. Most of the good scenes involve Kristofferson's
rivalry with bad-guy cop Ernest Borgnine. There is a rousing bar fight
about halfway through the film, the consequences of which lead to the
formation of the titular "convoy" of semi-trucks.

Rarely has the aimlessness and lack of inspiration of the
"counter-culture" been on more effective display than in this film.
While reaching for some kind of epic outsider/modern outlaw style, the
film instead reveals the emptiness of its ideals. Unlike "Easy Rider",
which is a flawed film but at least has some real heart, this film does
not dwell on the void it has revealed, nor does it advance our poetic
understanding of anti-heroes and outlaws. There's very little poetry in
a semi-truck, and the film is too self-serious to indulge in the kind
of outright farce that made the films of the late 70s with Burt
Reynolds at least watchable.

If you want to retain your positive feelings about Sam Peckinpah, best
to skip this one. It's entertaining enough, if you watch it with a six
pack and don't try to pay too much attention.
