

I've seen this movie about 30 times and it always makes me feel good.. I
don't know what it is about this movie but it seems to help me through bad
times.
Theres something in the atmosphere in the film that makes me feel good and
the environment where the movie is made is just beautiful. (yeah, sure..
the
'real' film critics are saying that you can't rate a movie just on behalf
of
the spectacular scenery but FU, I say). I can rate a movie just the way i
want to! Isn't that what IMDB is all about?
I enjoyed this movie and I hope many others will too. Don't stare at the
ratings. If you want to see a fun movie that's not too "serious". Rent
this
movie and let your brain rest for awhile, just enjoy the the scenery, the
acting, the story and the eighties !!
Cheers to all from Finland. 
<|_=00=_|>

Vibes entertains me immensely. While I can somewhat comprehend those
who don't enjoy this movie, I don't share their attitude at all. Cyndi
Lauper's lovelorn portrayal of Silvia is perfect in style and comic
timing. She is utterly believable. She also pronounces Scandinavian and
Incan sounds with flair. Peter Falk displays his usual mastery of
comedy as the pathologically lying Harry, reminiscent of his role in
The In-Laws (1979). He has the best and most absurd lines dealing with
static electricity, a friend's infidelities with his former wives, his
desire to be someone (someone with money), and how women are soft and
might bounce out of a hotel, among many others. I like Jeff Goldblum in
just about every movie he does, including this one, though here as Nick
he seems a bit more distracted than usual. Still, that's a trait of
many of his characters and is perhaps a component of his charm.
Supporting players (Sands, Gress, Lerner, Bieri, &c.) all perform
excellently, and the music is enchanting, particularly during the
scenic settings in Ecuador. Although I've dubbed a fine DVD copy from a
late-night movie channel, I'll buy a commercial release as soon as
one's available. If I always wanted an intricate intellectual acting
masterpiece with minimal music and scenery, I'd watch 12 Angry Men
(1957) another dozen times, but Vibes is just the thing for light, fun
fare.

<|_=00=_|>

This is a lovely story of two psychics (Cyndi Lauper and Jeff Goldblum)
being hired by Harry (Peter Falk) to look for his missing son, but later
realize that he actually wants them to help him find a rumored "room of
gold" in the deep mountains. In the end another team of searchers joins them
to discover the greatest psychic energy in the world - the so-called room of
treasure.

The plot is adventurous, mysterious and hilarious. Lauper's performance is
surprisingly stunning and funny, the scenery and the soundtrack are both
beautiful, the movie is wonderfully shot in Ecuador and full of witty
remarks. Whenever I feel a bit low I'll play the video for "Vibes" and then
I'm full of joy again. I am well-entertained by this nice, interesting work.
Watch it, you won't be disappointed.     
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of my favorite movies from the 80's, I know it's cheesy but
thats what I loved about it and Peter Falk is hilarious. The way the
three main characters play off each other is brilliant and who knew
Cindi Lauper could act???

This movie was never going to win any awards and they all knew that
before they started filming, Jeff Goldblum has always shown up in
oddball movies ranging from Comedy to Drama To Sci-fi to Horror showing
his range in acting.

OK, no matter your opinion on this film the big Question is.... when
will this movie be released on DVD?

Has anyone heard any possible release date?

<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie in the theater when it was first released in 1988. I
was 10 years old and my mom took me and my cousins to see it. It has
been an absolute favorite of mine ever since. I used to have it on a
VHS tape, recorded off of HBO or some other movie channel. That tape
had been viewed sooooo many times it became degraded and was all fuzzy
when I went to play it. I recently, after several years had gone by
since I'd last seen it, began searching for a DVD copy. Much to my
chagrin, I've learned it is not available on DVD (which I really want
for the obvious reasons, plus, then it could be widescreen.) I finally
bought a used copy of the full screen VHS tape. I still love it after
all these years. In fact, my niece(age 10) and my nephew(age 11) just
watched it with me tonight. They liked it as well. They thought it was
very funny (but, not as funny as "Transylvania 6-5000" - which we
watched on DVD last week). My nephew was particularly amused by Cyndi
Lauper's acting - he thought she was great. This movie rocks and even
goes beyond the generation gaps! I still consider it one of my favorite
movies of all time!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Cheerful, underrated comedy about psychics served as a showcase for pop
singer Cyndi Lauper (in her acting debut). She's a comic natural
playing Sylvia Pickel, an unlucky-in-love single gal whose "psychic
guide" leads her into the arms of fellow clairvoyant Jeff Goldblum (in
possibly his smoothest comic performance to date). Both have been duped
by con-man Peter Falk into finding a lost city of gold in Ecuador, and
for the most part "Vibes" is a funny, knockabout journey with witty
vignettes scattered about. The last-act drags its feet, but the script
is full of great exchanges and a wonderful scene on the dance floor
between the two stars. Lots of amusing one-liners, such as my favorite
from Goldblum after Elizabeth Peña disrobes: "Parts of me are already
applauding." *** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>

This is a light hearted film featuring a knock out comedy performance by
Cindi Lauper.  Jeff Goldblum is charming, bemused and droll and Peter Falk
is so funny.  They all wind up in South America seeking "a room of gold",
and dancing a lovely tango.

The scenery is beautiful, the music lush.

I consider this movie a friend.

<|_=00=_|>
I was impressed with Cyndi's portrayal here. She handled herself like a
real star.

Like your comedy to have a little history about ancient civilizations?
Ever wanted to see the Yucatan? Ever wanted to be in an exotic jungle
hotel with Cyndi Lauper or Jeff Goldblum? Ever wanted to see a really
good comedic venture? 

Then "Vibes" is your movie. It has all that, a fun comedy/adventure
plot, witty and clever dialog, good direction, wonderful scenic shots
of South America and convincing portrayals, all rolled into a high
hairdo and deep, soulful brown eyes. 

Nice portrayals by Julian Sands and Peter Falk are also featured here.

Jeff Goldblum and Cyndi Lauper portray psychics hired by a man of
questionable motivations to find his son who disappeared while looking
for an ancient Incan city. At least, that's how it begins. Where it
goes from there will lead you on a grand adventure fraught with magicks
more ancient than mankind itself, and treachery.

This is one of those movies I can (and do) watch all the time.

It's one of my absolute favorites, and rates an 8.7/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>

I have seen this film at least five times and each time I find it
hilarious.

Not only are the jokes funny, the performers superb, but unlike many
comedies the jokes fit tightly with the action and the plot line is solid
and engaging.  It has components of the romantic comedy and the
action-adventure film.  

It has not been a big success and this must be because the jokes are all
about new-age topics- psychic powers, astral travel, mysterious Incan cults,
etc.  Nothing is funny if you are not very familiar with the subject. 

The best mother-in-law joke is not as funny to someone who has never had a
mother-in-law, and not funny at all to someone who doesn't even know what
one is.

The cast, as you can see, includes Falk and Goldblum, two extremely funny
guys who give superb performances.  But Lauper also gives, in her first
screen appearance, an extremely funny performance; she is a gifted
comedienne, and it is a shame her film career never took off.  Sands, Gress
and the other supporting actors are also very good in their roles; each
character is very vivid and three-dimensional in spite of being comic
caricatures.

The script, by veterans Ganz and Mandel (Splash, Parenthood, lots of TV
stuff) is in my opinion their funniest by far.  

So if you have interest in psychic, new-age, metaphysical, channeling and
other such eccentricities, you might also find this one of your favorite
comedies.
<|_=00=_|>

I think Vibes was a very funny film. Jeff Goldblum and Cyndi Lauper were
very cute together and Peter Falk was very delightful to watch. The plot was
crazy but I think it was supposed to be. The special effects were very good
and you couldn't help but like the characters (mostly Cyndi
Lauper)
