

Valley Girl will always hold a special place in my heart:  I would say this
is certainly the best of the 80's teen-sex-comedies, but that is a
back-handed compliment.  This is a good movie, period.  It is very specific
in time and place--nearly twenty years later this is a marvelous
snapshot--yet its story remains timeless.  (This is just Romeo and Juliet,
minus the death, after all!)  Nicolas Cage is wonderful, showing all the
early promise that, it turns out, he has squandered on overblown action
crapola.  Deborah Foreman is the revelation of this movie, and I can't
believe she didn't go on to have a bigger career; someone rediscover her
QUICK.  This is sweeter and gentler than most films of the genre--the
requisite nudity seems thrown in by contractual obligation--and, while not
groundbreaking, it certainly is nice to see this kind of movie that
respects
its characters and doesn't crucify its shallow young girls for having
fun--even Foreman's crew of best friends, misguided by peer pressure, are
never presented as villains.  (Indeed, her friend Stacy, forced to
doubledate w/ Cage's friend Fred, has a good time despite her protests, and
makes out w/ Fred in the backseat.)  This will take you back to the early
80's if you were there, but it holds up quite well today.  Warning to those
unfamiliar with the movie:  do NOT watch one of VH1's seemingly continual
showings of it--go rent it in its unedited glory.  Otherwise, you are
missing some of the movies' most potent, time-specific dialogue.  And one
can't write about Valley Girl and not mention the fabu soundtrack of great
80's tunes--most of them by one-hit wonders, which are not only integral to
the sense of time and place in this movie, but thematically well-chosen.
See it--awesome little flick!  Fer shur!!  
<|_=00=_|>

It was 1983 and I was 13. I watched Valley Girl on HBO one night when my
parents were working. After it ended I wanted to talk with someone about
it
immediately. Turns out my best friend watched it too and it became our
favorite movie. Every weekend after that we watched it until we could
recite
it. We woke her parents up late at night laughing hysterically. We began
to
worship the main character, Julie, played by the beautiful Deborah
Foreman.
I am not saying this is a great classic. Although it is for me
personally.
And I understand that the whole Valley Girl talk becomes annoying but
that
was the 80's. But deep down at the heart of the movie-it is a love
story,
and a familiar but good one. Girl meets boy and there are sparks from
both
sides, an instant connection. Julie's friends don't like him-he doesn't
fit
in, doesn't go to their school, doesn't have money. They like her better
with her ex-boyfriend the football player even though he is a jerk. She
makes the ultimate sacrifice-her own happiness for her friends'
happiness.
And she has these really cool supportive hippie parents. It is one of
Nicholas Cage's first movies and his first starring role. One minute he
is
absolutely hilarious and the next incredibly touching and romantic. His
friend Fred is pretty funny too. If you were a teenager in the 80's you
will
love this movie or at the very least it will bring back memories. It is
no
longer my favorite movie but it is still one of my favorites, probably
in my
top 10. I am eagerly awaiting it's release on DVD if they ever release
it.
You can go to Deborah Foreman's website 
to sign a petition to get it released on DVD and there are 2 soundtracks
from the movie that are must haves if you like 80's music. 

<|_=00=_|>

This gem captures early 80's life brilliantly. As a grad '83 boy

myself, I must say that Valley Girl (along with Fast Times at

Ridgemont High )stands out as the class of the teen sex film

genre. The characters are accurate representatives of the era; the

vapid mall chicks, pseudo punk rebels, preppy jocks are all

represented here.

I have seen this over ten times now. The music in the film was top

notch. Unfortunately, these tunes could were never as popular in

their era as those by arena cockrockers like Journey, Styx or

Loverboy. Before the soundtrack existed, I searched out records

and tapes (it was the 80's after all !) of Josie Cotton, Sparks,

Plimsouls and Modern English.

This movie deserves respect. It isn't just a good 80's teen flick. It is

a great film. Period.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is one of my all time favorite movies and is what made me a
lifelong Nicolas Cage fan.  Back in the mid-80's I taped this movie (when
VCR's were impossible to do this with!!) and would watch it over and over. 
Nicolas Cage is just brilliant here.  And, he looks wonderful and has no
affecting "acting-isms" (see "Peggy Sue Got Married" to know what I mean
about that!!).  I measure all his performances against this one.  He was so
perfectly cast as the cool punk guy with the edgy friends.  The music was
GREAT.  The Plimsouls!  The Psychodelic Furs!  Modern English!  Men At Work!
 Whenever I hear "Melt With You" I am taken back to the finale of this
movie.  

What ever happened to his cute costar, Deborah Foreman?  And his hysterical
friend, Cameron Dye?  Certainly took a different turn than Nicolas! 
Interestingly, the slutty friend (Elizabeth Daily) ended up being the voice
of Tommy from the Rugrats (she is billed as E.G. Daily for that horrid
show)!  Bizarre!

IF you want to take a great trip back to the 80's, watch this movie.  It is
definitely a classic.  Like Totally!  
<|_=00=_|>

But perhaps you have to have grown up in the 80's to truly appreciate this
movie.  If you love the early 80's this is definitely a must see.  Also,
one
of the best soundtracks ever!
<|_=00=_|>

Everyone has a great list of cinematic guilty pleasures, and "Valley Girl"
has been on mine from the first time I saw it.  It was clear from the first
"valley view" of the San Fernando that it was several cuts above your
average teen-aimed movie.  Obviously, Nicolas Cage was pretty impressive,
even if I had no idea of his heritage or his future.  I liked Deborah
Foreman, too, and the supporting cast was well-chosen.  If the plot was
trifling, it was at least clever and certainly not pretentious. And the
music, from the opening by Foremen and her friends to the closing shot of
the limo ride to Modern English's "I Melt With You," is a big plus.
Overall, an very entertaining take on love across the valley of cultural
differences from Martha Coolidge, who is one of our most underrated
directors.
<|_=00=_|>

The first time I saw Valley Girl, I was bedridden and as sick as a dog, out
of junior high school for two weeks with a nasty illness.  I watched it on a
tiny black and white set with the volume turned down to a whisper so my
parents wouldn't hear and make me shut it off.  I was mesmerized.  It was a
revelation.  Martha Coolidge's milking of the Romeo and Juliet premise (with
Nicolas Cage and Deborah Foreman filling in as star-crossed lovers in the
San Fernando Valley) was smart and convincing.  I was amazed by the hot
"Val" chicks.  I was thrilled by the interesting vocabulary words.  I wanted
to be like Cage's tough Randy and fall in love with a beautiful girl like
Foreman's Julie to the sounds of Eddie Grant, Modern English, and The
Plimsouls.   
<|_=00=_|>
In the tradition of "Romeo and Juliet," a punker named Randy (Nicholas
Cage) begins a relationship with shallow teenage girl named Julie
(Deborah Foreman), but peer pressure from her equally shallow friends
forces her to break up and go back to her ex-boyfriend (Michael Bowen).
Randy refuses to take this lying down and tries to get Julie back. Will
he succeed?

Fine performances by Cage, Foreman, Frederick Forrest and Colleen Camp
(as Julie's hippie parents), sensitive directing by Martha Coolidge,
and totally tubular soundtrack by Modern English, The Plimsouls, and
Men at Work (to name a few) makes this fun sleeper one of the best 80's
teen comedies (fer shure). 

My evaluation: *** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>

I really liked this movie, it totally reminds me of my high school days.
The soundtrack is awesome.  I am a huge nic cage fan and this is my
favorite
movie that he is in.  I love the storyline, it is a total love story,
against the odds kind of thing.  I think anyone who graduated in the early
eighties (1980-1984) should see the movie. It totally brought back memories
of high school for me.

<|_=00=_|>
Happy 25th Birthday to Valley Girl! Great soundtrack, plausible story,
wonderful performances...captures the spirit of the 80's; the slang of
the mainstreams and the outcasts. A wonderful rendition of high school
life and "gritty downtown" from a suburban perspective.

The soundtrack contains songs by Modern English, Felony, Josie Cotton,
Sparks, Payola$, Josie Cotton, The Plimsouls, The Psychedelic Furs, Men
At Work, The Flirts and Bananarama.

This movie truly is Romeo and Juliet (minus the double suicide) set in
1980's Los Angeles. Julie's dad, played by Frederic Forrest (Sonny
Bono, anyone?) is hysterical as a hippie idealistic dad who wonders how
he sprung such a materialistic offspring. Yet, he doesn't judge, ya
dig??
