
Continuing my plan to watch every Sly Stallone movie in order, I come
to the second sequel to the Oscar winning ' Rocky', Rocky 3. 

After the success of Rocky 2, Sly tanked at the box office (unfairly in
this reviewers opinion, as both are solid entertainment) with
Nighthawks and Escape To Victory. So Sly returned to Rocky once more 

Plot In A Paragraph: Rocky (Stallone) is champion of the world, has 10
title defences under his belt, has untold fame and fortune and is given
his own statue. When suddenly a new challenger arrives, the vicious
Clubber Lang (Mr.T) who Mickey (Burgess Meredith) is keen for Rocky to
avoid. 

For a series as long running as the Rocky movies, it's only natural for
there to be the occasional need for a breath of fresh air - a fresh
perspective on a tried and tested formula. After the last movie relied
heavily on the first movie, a fresh rethink was called for by
creator/writer, director and star Stallone despite the previous film's
box office success. 

After meddling with scripts and the movies editing on his last two
pictures Stallone is back in full creative control. And it's to the
movies benefit. Stallone is at his best when playing Rocky--it is his
vision and his creation--and despite what Hollywood wants us to think,
he is not a bad director either.

From the supercharged "Eye of the Tiger" opening this film just does
not let up. All of the cast are great, none more so than Stallone
himself. The scene of Mickey's death after Rocky's destruction at the
hands of Clubber Lang is brilliant-But the Masterstroke here lies in
making Apollo a far more central character after Mickey's death. all of
this and I still haven't even mentioned CLUBBER! Mr .T is perfect as
Clubber Lang a great adversary for Rocky and the power and intensity
his character displays in the ring is ferocious. I still say Mike Tyson
stole Clubber Lnag's act!!The second fight between Rocky and Clubber is
just breathtaking, the pace of the fight is electric, some of the
camera work makes you feel like you are literally in the ring with
these two warriors.

This movie is a must for anyone with the slightest interest in being
entertained!!
<|_=00=_|>

Clearly the most entertaining of the Rocky films due to its perfect pacing
and well-choreographed matches. Stallone is at his best when playing
Rocky--it is his vision and his creation--and, despite what Hollywood wants
us to think, he is not a bad director either.

What he masters are "subtleties" (my term): certain facial expressions or
small actions/reactions at perhaps less-than-pivotal moments which reveal
his skill. They need to be really looked for to be seen, which is why only
those who without the ability to look deeper than the surface find him so
mediocre.

I don't want to give them all away, but here's one example of a subtlety
that shows just how human he can make his characters (especially Rocky): in
this film, in the break between the end of Round 2 and the beginning of
Round 3, he is sitting in his corner getting a mouthful from Apollo. An
assistant starts to spray something in his face (probably something to
coagulate the blood, I don't know), but Rocky, who is focused intently on
Apollo's furious coaching, opens his mouth as if he is expecting water to be
sprayed in. He suddenly flinches in disgust as the spray goes in his mouth
and stings his face. It's just a tiny tiny humorous moment that speaks
loudly about attention to detail.

Or how about in Rocky 2, at the beginning of the match when they meet in the
center of the ring and Apollo starts making his bravado-laden threats, we
see Rocky just sort of nod and half-smile at him politely, then next you see
a side-on shot of him turning to walk back to his corner, and the look on
his face says "What a prick." Priceless.

I'm not a fan of boxing, or the first Rocky movie (too slow), or the last
Rocky movie (huh?), but this one is extremely enjoyable for me to watch as a
human being who faces challenges just like anyone else, and who needs that
occasional inspiration to give me a dose of determination to overcome
them.
<|_=00=_|>

Another film worthy of a Frank Stallone sound track, Rocky 3 has been one
of
the biggest box office turn outs in history. Not only did every Italian
American run out to see this film when it was in the theaters but it made
the song "Eye of the Tiger" a national hit.
Rocky 3 was also a debut film for MR. T. An excellent performance as one of
the best villains in movie history.
This one is not only written by Sly....it is also directed by him as well.
Check it out.
<|_=00=_|>
For pure entertainment, this might be the best of the five "Rocky"
movies. I mean, where else can you see Rocky, his entourage, Mr.T. and
Hulk Hogan all creating mayhem in the same movie? Hokey? Oh, man, yes
indeed, but it probably has more ups and downs and memorable scenes
than any in this series. Some examples:

DOWN - "Rocky Balboa" (Sylvester Stallone) fights an exhibition match
with a wild overzealous wrestling giant called "Thunderlips" (Hulk
Hogan) and almost gets killed. 

UP - However, he rallies to beat the over-sized animal.

DOWN - In defending his boxing title, Rocky gets pummeled by a
loudmouth boxer "Clubber Lang" (Mr. T.). 

DOWN - His longtime manager "Mickey" (Burgess Meredith) collapses at
the arena before the fight and then dies. 

UP - Rocky's former rival "Apollo Creed" agrees to train our hero in a
re-match against the obnoxious villain Lang.

DOWN - Down and depressed, Rocky is unable to train and be has lost his
will to fight again. 

UP - He finds his "eye of the tiger" spirit and trains with great
inspiration, becoming even and quicker and faster afoot than Creed!

This goes on and on and on, climaxed by the fight which, of course, has
another 30 of these "ups and downs." By the end, you're more worn out
than Burgess Meredith. Mr. T, by the way, makes a great villain and the
filmmakers added to the suspense using slow-motion action scenes and
effective sound with all the punches, grunts and groans all add to the
circus-like atmosphere. Nobody grunted like Mr. T!

It's corny, it's hokey, etc., but it somehow works and certainly gives
the viewer what it delivers in the ring: non-stop entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
30 minutes shorter than its predecessors-- according to audience
reactions I still disagree with, that's the same curse that held
"Superman IV" in Hollywood Purgatory (or maybe lower).

Thank heavens "Rocky III" is still an enjoyable piece of work!

For Stallone's second shot in the director's chair, he pits his famous
character against Clubber Lang, a testosterone-oozing Mr. T. The
trouble is, has Rocky grown complacent in light of his massive
celebrity?

While it does stick to something of a formula, R3 still comes out
swinging, with more humor and better drama than the first two, but
doesn't reach the cheer-inspiring fever pitch of the second.

A worthwhile entry.
<|_=00=_|>

"No, I don't hate Balboa. I pity the fool."

- Mr. T

Who would have ever thought that, after a sequel to a movie that needed
none, the "Rocky" chronicles could remain so interesting? Yes, a lot of
people make fun of these movies, but I've always thought that the "Rocky"
sequels were a lot better than they could have been -- especially
considering the fact that the first film is arguably one of the greatest
ever made, and definitely not the type of film that should have merited
four
sequels. How many times can we see Rocky re-train and win a battle? It's
always the same. Yet somehow "Rocky III" comes across as a fresh one-two
punch. Extremely easy to watch and fun to get into, this is a retread of
the
first and second film. But, as I said, somehow everything seems
fresh.

Arguably the final "good" film in the series (although I still consider
the
last two passable), this chapter sees the death of Mickey (Burgess
Meredith), a fierce opponent (Mr. T) ready to take on Rocky Balboa
(Sylvester Stallone), an angry Paulie (Burt Young), an eager-to-train
Apollo
Creed (Carl Weathers), and an insane 7-foot boxer (Hulk Hogan).

After defeating Apollo Creed at the end of Part II, Rocky is challenged
and
defeated in the ring by Clubber Lang (Mr. T). Things continue to go wrong
when his boxing trainer dies, and Rocky drifts into a state of self
loathing
and hatred. After the city of Philadelphia presents him with a statue of
himself, he drives over to it with his motorcycle and throws his helmet at
it.

Rocky blames himself for Mickey's death, and nearly turns down Apollo's
offer to train Rocky so that he can enter the ring one more time and give
a
real beating to Clubber Lang. But alas, he decides to enter into the ring
one last time, and so with the help of Apollo and his wife (Talia Shire),
he
trains harder and longer than he ever has before.

That is all there is, in short. In between we get corny dialogue like,
"You've gotta get back the Eye of the Tiger, man!" while the song plays in
the background as we see Rocky and Apollo running on the beach in
short-shorts and lifting weights together and boxing and doing jump ropes.
(These things may be interpreted as homosexual nowadays, by the way.)

Having boxed a bit myself, the "Rocky" series always seems pretty close to
reality. I've never been in a ring like "real" boxers, but I've done the
same training with boxing bags and running and jump ropes and so on. It's
hard work, just like it is in the movie. And this is the perfect film to
give you the inspiration to work out. Strange, right? Don't ever, ever
quote
me on that last paragraph. In fact, just forget the entire
thing.

The film, written and directed by Stallone, is surprisingly sweet and
endearing. We still care for Rocky after three films -- and hey, as old as
the training scenes may get, I still love them. This movie isn't as good
as
the first "Rocky," or maybe even the second, but I still say that this
series has a long way to go before it reaches the murky depths of "Police
Academy."

And take some advice from Stallone: "Boy, sometimes charity really hurts!"
Oh, wait, never mind. Wrong quote. How about this? "Nothing is real if you
don't believe in who you are!" Okay, it's not the next "Citizen Kane." But
you'll be hard-pressed to find a more entertaining second sequel than
this.

3.5/5 stars.

- John Ulmer
<|_=00=_|>

Rocky III brings out a lot of raw emotion, in a heartfelt third sequel. This
film also proves that some people have times where the motivation to want to
do something is impossible to recapture, and that anyone who gets complacent
about where he or she is in life will not achieve his or her full potential.
However with some encouragement from family and friends, anything and
everything is possible. Rocky seems to make me want to bring the best out in
myself, when at times I feel like doing the exact opposite.

Having defeated heavyweight champion Apollo Creed, Rocky now holds the title
and all of the comforts it brings. Gone is the self-doubting, small time
boxer – the new Rocky even takes the time to compete in charity events most
notably against the mountain of muscle, Hulk Hogan. His perfect world is
rocked by a challenge from the obnoxious and taunting Chubber Lang. Rocky
does not take the fight seriously – despite his boxing prowess, he lacks raw
hunger of his opponent and is defeated. The loss is however is incomparable
with the tragedy of the death of his longtime trainer, Mickey. Rocky is
taken aback when Apollo Creed offers to train him and win back the
heavyweight crown in the ‘comeback of the century'. All Apollo wants in
return is a ‘favour', which he will not disclose until after the fight. With
Creed's help Rocky again develops ‘the eye of the tiger' and the scene is
set for another powerful battle in the ring.

The cast of Rocky III was great once again. Taking on the roll of Rocky for
a third time was Sylvester Stallone. I have watched the whole serious and
his acting ability just gets better and better. His scenes along with Carl
Weathers in this movie are really special. I am sure these two would be good
friends in real life and I can see why they are. It was the final time we
get to see the ever-green Burgess Meredith. His role as Rocky's trainer
Mickey ended in this part of the Rocky saga, which for me was a little sad.
He was the perfect person for the role of Mickey, as he made you feel as if
he was a real boxing trainer. There was also another good role from the now
‘Mrs. Balboa', of course I am talking about Talia Shire. She was such a good
choice as Adrian. I am sure a famous actress would have spoiled that part of
Rocky.

Yet the one surprising part of this cast is a new edition, that being the
brutal Mr. T. He made his presence felt onscreen extremely well. I enjoyed
how you felt he was so confident, yet he had the fist to back it up. I never
got that heavily into The A-Team, but what I can remembering seeing of it
was enjoyable. His role in that show was also very heavy, but he was one
person you could look forward too seeing on TV. 

The story of Rocky III was for an enjoyable one. To have our champ up
against it, for me made this an interesting premise. Then to thrown in the
death of trainer, a very angry opponent, who is sure that he can take out
Balboa in two miserly rounds. Then to top it off we have the great rivals,
becoming great friends and teaming up to defeat this very nasty opponent. 
Stallone is a great writer, with the Rocky franchise a joy to watch in my
view.

Up in till now, I have not mentioned the powerful soundtracks that accompany
these great movies. The main theme especially had a powerful impact on me,
to the extent, that I wanted to try and achieve something that normally I
would say is just too hard to do. The trumpets at the start are just great.
Yet the third movie was based around the ‘eye of the tiger'. This was in
relation into Rocky get that hunger back to get back into the ring as a real
fighter. The eye of the tiger is also a great song that was sung by the
group, Survivor. As the movies are made in this series, the music just gets
better and better. 

So Rocky III makes my summation from the first film come true, that Rocky is
truly about motivation. Yet it also shows that if you can rekindle the
passion, then you can achieve more than you could ever wished for. With its
powerful music, great acting and story, I am glad that by 1982 the world had
seen 3 movies with the name ‘Rocky' attached to them!

Rating: 4 Stars or 9/10 

<|_=00=_|>
Rocky 3 is without a doubt the best film in the series. Rocky I and II
are tremendous films that focus more on Rocky and Adrian's love for one
another and their journey from unhappiness to complete fulfillment.
Rocky IV while visually stunning, is verging on SCI-FI it is so
unrealistic( I still can't get over 2000PSI!!) and Rocky V makes the
whole journey seem almost worthless. But the third film in my opinion
has the perfect blend. From the supercharged "Eye of the Tiger" opening
to the classic Rocky v Apollo ending, this film just does not let up.
All of the cast act their socks off here, none more so than Stallone
himself. The scene of Mickey's death after Rocky's destruction at the
hands of Clubber Lang is brilliant- you can feel the genuine emotion
Stallone has for Mickey's character and the chemistry between Meredith
and Stallone is there up to the very last scene they had together. But
the Masterstroke here lies in making Apollo a far more central
character after Mickey's death. Carl Weathers pulls of a huge feat in
this film in that he fills Meredith's shoes so to speak- not an easy
job when you consider just how important Mickey is to the Rocky films.
WOW, all of this and I still haven't even mentioned CLUBBER! Clubber
Lang is a great adversary for Rocky and the power and intensity his
character displays in the ring is ferocious. The second fight between
Rocky and Clubber is just breathtaking, the pace of the fight is
electric, some of the camera work makes you feel like you are literally
in the ring with these two warriors. And more importantly here we see
Balboa at his absolute peak- technically and physically, he actually
looks and fights like a man who is the BEST fighter in the world. Rocky
evolves in this film into a boxer with speed, skill, intelligence and
power. A triumph of a movie that I would recommend to anyone with the
slightest interest in being entertained!
<|_=00=_|>
This Rocky movie is a rather quick flowing film compared to the first
movies and features a bit more comedy while still having drama and
inspirational scenes that were pivotal in the first two movies. The
fights are different here too, as in this film we do not have the 15
round beat downs of the first films, but rather three rounds of pure
hard hitting. In this one we start out with a strange charity match as
Rocky the heavyweight champion of boxing goes against the heavyweight
champion of wrestling, Thunderlipps (Hulk Hogan in his only decent
appearance in a movie, then again it is not really a stretch). This
match is rather entertaining and funny, but soon Rocky must face a new
challenger to his belt, the very tough Clubber Lang played by a very
tough Mr. T. Mickey does not want Rocky to fight this guy as Mickey has
seen that Rocky has lost the fire in his eyes that got him the title
and would most likely lose to this determined if a bit arrogant new
fighter. Well they do end up fighting and Rocky loses and gets hit even
worse by the passing of his mentor. Apollo having witnessed the fight
and not liking Clubber Lang at all offers to help Rocky train and thus
a new friendship is born. The training is nice to watch and I like how
Rocky does different strategies against Clubber in the final fight.
Sure this movie is a bit more over the top than the previous Rocky
movies, it to me is still my favorite.
<|_=00=_|>
This is my favorite in the rocky movies. Sylvester Stallone is awesome.
Mr. t is great. Bringing in hulk hogan to beat the crap out of Rocky
had me cheering.

So rocky finally beats up Apollo creed, a legendary boxer. so rocky is
now famous, doing ads and TV shows like the Muppet show. now, Mr. t, or
clubber Lang, is very angry, saying he wants his shot at the title.
rocky's fame starts going to his head, so he takes the challenge. he
gets easily beaten by clubber, and then loses his motivation. and then
Apollo comes to him and tells him he has what it takes to get it back.
so will he fight Clubber and win the title?

This movie takes the icing with the actors. Sylvester Stallone, Mr. T,
and Hulk hogan are enough to bring audiences. 

This movie is 10 / 10
