
I first saw Starchaser in 3D back in 1985 and for someone who grew up
on the Star Wars trilogy I was hooked for life. A beautiful, heady mix
of science-fiction, fantasy and all out action laced with humour, a
little violence and excellent set-pieces Starchaser is lovingly
assembled from the finest sources and has more love for it's source
than the three prequels helmed by Lucas have shown. The story is
straightforward: thousands of slaves mine crystals for robot overseers
believing this to be the will of their God, Zygon. A young slave named
Orin (superbly voiced by Joe Colligan) finds a glowing sword hilt
buried in the mines that tells him of the forbidden world above and in
an attempt to break free is taken under wing of surly smuggler Dagg
Dibrimi.

Taking it's influence from Star Wars, whispering it's name with
reverent pride, layering it with images and influences as diverse as
Moebius, the cartoons of René Laloux and Ralph Bakshi's Wizards it's
hard not to like this movie. It's well-animated, beautifully shot and
surprisingly well written which is all the more remarkable given that
it's an animated feature.

In almost any combination this would have been a lacklustre,
disappointing affair along the lines of Titan A.E but under the
direction of Steven Hahn it's becomes something much more special. Look
at the credits and you'll see cast and crew steeped in sci-fi:
Stargate: SG1's Carmen Argenziano as Dagg Dibrimi, Han Solo with the
attitude of J.Jonah Jameson; Masters of the Universe star Anthony
DeLongis' providing the silver-tongued menace of Zygon in the vein of
an early Vincent Price are the two voice highlights among a near
perfect cast. More sci-fi stars are found in the background, ranging
from the voice stars of Transformers and DS9 to story-boarder Boyd
Kirkland, who would later go onto direct Batman: The Animated Series'
greatest episode 'The Grey Ghost'. Even after 20 years Belling's music
holds up remarkably well, as much an integral character of the film as
Les Tremayne's marvellously cowardly ship's computer. It kicks in at
all the right places, has good strong recognisable themes for the main
stars and above all doesn't overpower the movie or sound like one of
John William's increasingly derivative scores. And unlike many animated
features it doesn't feel the need to bolster the score with some
contemporary rock or pop tracks, preferring a well-crafted mix of
orchestral and synthesized soundtrack.

Watched 20 years on it's still as enjoyable. It doesn't run on for too
long, still has that pleasing if eccentric aesthetic style prevalent
throughout the film and above all is fun. It has a story to tell, does
it with style and above all manages to make you care for the characters
which is a rare enough thing in a live-action movie, and for an 80's
animated feature something very much to be proud of.

Starchaser hasn't been commercially available for years aside from a
VHS release some 15 or 16 years back but it has a strong and loyal fan
base who'll welcome the fact it's finally been released my MGM on DVD.
As an animated feature it still has a certain charm two decades on even
without the 3D but where it really holds it's own is it's love for Star
Wars. Anybody who felt disappointed by the three prequels and prefers
the honest, simple storytelling style of the original will enjoy
Starchaser.
<|_=00=_|>

One of my favorite STAR WARS rip-offs ever is an italian movie called
STARCRASH, (see my review), but sometimes i can never choose between it
and
this amazing animated movie STARCHASER.

Don´t let the animation aspect of the whole thing put you away, because
this
is a magnificent Space-Opera. Twenty minutes after the beginning of
STARCHASER, i already had forgotten that i was watching an animated
feature.

True, the initial images are very disappointing, i swear i thought this
was
going to be one of those saturday morning cartoon shows for kids. But then
something in this story started to grab me.
First i noticed that the way that the story was being developed, didn´t
exactly followed that cartoon for kids formula. Then a few minutes later
an
unexpected death of one of the characters ocurred and in a very crude way.
From then on, i knew that this was watching something very
different.

Then the battle sequences with the spaceship fighters appeared and i was
totaly blowned away, by the animation, and by the direction. There are
some
fantastic flying action sequences in this movie, and they are planned and
"filmed" in a incredible way. Every time i watch this even know i feel
like
i want to cheer for the characters who are flying the ships.

The animation of the spaceships is amazingly smooth, in fact they were
done
using computer graphics, but we only notice it because of the quality of
the
sequences, because there is trditional drawing covering the wireframes. In
fact, although this is a very old movie, it still is one of the best
integrations between traditional and computer animation i ever
saw.

Then there is another good thing in the animation. Although technically
very
rough, we can see there was an effort to capture very human and elaborated
gestures and motion, and the best thing is that it works very well
indeed.

In the story aspect, obviously we find in STARCHASER a young hero, a rogue
mercenary, a space princess, a cyborg villain, a pair of robots and all
the
Star Wars clichés you can think off.
This might have been a terrible thing, but in this case all the stolen
bits
and pieces are perfectly blended resulting in a very good and interesting
story, and in many ways much more imaginative than the classical formula
followed by George Lucas.
Anyway George got everything from the E.E.DOC.SMITH books from the 30´s,
to
"create" his saga, so it would be unffair now to call STARCHASER a STAR
WARS
rip-off for doing exactly the same.
The characters are great specialy the two robots who have great dialogue,
the action sequences are perfect and are a thrill to watch, specialy the
flying scenes with the spaceships, the story is very,very good and
imaginative altough it steals from everywhere, even from BLADE RUNNER, the
animation is good and the soundtrack is perfect and stays in our mind
forever.
Maybe the only downside in this movie are the backgrounds wich altough
very
detailed, are always a bit blurred. But who cares !

This is a magnificent movie. And one of the best sci-fi of the
80´s.
Don´t be discouraged by the animation aspect, because this is not a kids
movie.
Any person who likes si-fi has to like this for sure.
Brilliant, brilliant and forgotten movie.

If you can find it. Don´t miss it!

<|_=00=_|>
Man I was exactly the same. I seen this movie when i was a kid. I
couldn't remember the name . only images. I wasn't sure myself if it
existed. Anyways when the net started gaining popularity in 96-97 i
tried everything to find this movie, after a few months of searching i
found it. I remembered the name orin, and searched the name, and the
movie popped up. Anyways i found an old school movie store that had
totally old cartoons, like He-Man, Thundercats, etc.. and they had tgis
movie. I was shocked and i rented it, totally brought back some
memories, Great movie, and nostalgic. But tuff as hell to find now that
everything is dvds.
<|_=00=_|>

I've been searching just for confirmation that this film existed for five
years!  For a while, I thought I'd just imagined seeing it, that no one had
ever actually made it.  Like many other people who have commented on this
film, I too remember seeing it when I was maybe nine or ten.  It haunted me
ever since, because I couldn't remember the title or the names of the
characters, only the well-crafted images.  As I haven't seen it since then,
and copies are indeed impossible to find, I will refrain from describing
those images, for my memory may be faulty.  Totally ripped off from Star
Wars, yes, and horribly violent for a children's cartoon, but I loved
it...
<|_=00=_|>
I'll just echo the comments of the other reviewers; this one's a
keeper. I first saw the previews for this film at a drive-in, but could
never track it down until Showtime aired it a few years later.

People could call it a Star Wars knock off, and in some sense it is.
But as far as knock offs go it's one of the best. But that's perhaps a
little too unfair, because despite borrowing some minor themes from
Star Wars it's largely an original film told via good animation.

Despite it being an animated film I wouldn't call it a children's film.
Some sexuality is touched on, one of the characters swears every so
often, and there is a fair amount of violence (though not too graphic)
in the film.

I've heard that this film was originally supposed to be a 3-D
experience (schedualed to ride the coat tails of an attempt to
revitalize the 3-D genre in the early 80's), but it stands well on its
own as a regular film.

There's nothing deep about this movie, but it's a good ride all the
same. It's very hard to find nowadays. Myself I was able to get a rare
VHS copy of it, but the transfer, though good, really doesn't do
justice to this film. One can only hope that it'll see a DVD rerelease.
And by that I mean a good DVD release, not one of those fly by night
companies that transfers old used projector films onto DVD format. I
mean a DVD transfer with all the works; remastered film and soundtrack.
:-)

If you can find Starchaser, then go get it. It's worth the effort.

July 6th, 2005 update; DVD review;

Wow! After many years I finally own a crisp remastered copy of one of
my favorite animated sci-fi films. Presented in widescreen format, the
viewer is no longer denied the other third of the camera's frame, and
can see the full image as it was meant to be seen. It is a vast
improvement over the old KVC Home Video VHS release.

Additionally the film is presented in full Stereo Surround sound.
Having said that the audio does hit a little hard , but it's mostly the
sound effects that peak into the red, and not the dialogue nor music
track.

"Starchaser; The Legend of Orin" should have shown to the major studios
in the 80's what sci-fi animation was capable of had they given it a
chance. The industry's only recently played catchup in the late 90's,
and even then they're a day late and a dollar short.

"Starchaser" isn't the best film ever made, and "pays homage" to other
sci-fi films, but is still a fun experience all the same. I hope all
sci-fi and animation fans enjoy it as much as I.
<|_=00=_|>

I remember seeing this film years ago when i was younger and definitely
have a
memory of renting it out more than once from the video shop. For the past
couple of years i've been searching around second hand video shops (in
vain
none the less)trying to find a copy.
Looking back on it the comparisons between it and star wars are
incredible;
a diamond smuggler with an amazing ship (Han Solo perhaps), a young boy
escaping from a very crap life to fight an evil bad guy with the use of
his
newly found sword (Luke and his light saber?).
However despite this, it really was an enjoyable film and i'll spend
another
4 years looking for it.
<|_=00=_|>
I should start by saying that this movie-length cartoon was a clear
rip-off of the Star Wars Trilogy. The concept is very much the same,
the plot follows a similar chain of events (although there are some
interesting ideas added along the way) and many of the characters are
no more than distorted mirror-images of their Star-Wars counterparts.

For example, the hero, Orin is more a innocent and stupid version of
Luke Skywalker (although he surprisingly more entertaining to watch
than Mark Hamil's wooden acting). He is assisted in his quest to defeat
the evil dark lord Zygon by Dann, the intergalactic smuggler - a
cigar-smoking, foul-mouthed Han-Solo who's romantic interest is a
female droid (don't even begin to question the logic behind this
lustful relationship). Also joining the cast is your average
politically-inclined and astonishingly beautiful princess, an evil dark
lord, desert-based gangster, endless waves of masked foot-soldiers, the
ghost of an old man and an annoying wise-mouthed robotic ship who is
obviously depressed about being no more than a machine (although he
does make one good point - "After all, you're nothing but a machine
made of flesh and blood. How would you like it if I went around calling
you meat-brain?").

As B-gradish as it sounds, this animated feature has an astounding
cinematic feel and many of the stylings of a blockbuster movie. Decent
dialogue, exciting chases, huge battles and some very entertaining
adult-orientated humor. The plot, whilst clearly Star-Wars inspired,
moves with a satisfying sense of grandeur. The music suits the action,
with numbers that John Williams himself could have composed. Some of
the ideas in this film are admirable - kind of making you wish that
George Lucas had included them in his opus - and as the tale develops,
you get the sense of a complicated and interesting universe unfolding.

It's a shame that this film has faded into obscurity, obviously due to
it's similarities to Star Wars. Despite it's clone-syndrome, I felt
that this was a great film to watch, especially as a kid - when
cynicism was a foreign word to me. It inspired my youthful imagination.
That's why I give it a 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Outstanding film, originally meant for 3D that hasn't suffered in the
slightest from being banished to VHS rental tapes. A heady mix of Star
Wars,
manga influence and even a little Moebius take this Ten Commandments style
film in fine style for a braethtaking ride, matched by beautiful set and
character design, superb music and outstanding voices. Lobby for this one
on
DVD!
<|_=00=_|>

When I think about this film all i can think about is how thrilled i was as
a kid when i watched it, so has it lasted the test of time?,
Sadly it does look dated but hell, its an animated feature film and as
animation is one of my passions i cant help but tell you it was bound to
happen. Lets just say think Titan A.E and your half way there a great film
worth a watch if you can find it, as always e-mail me with any comments and
if any one knows if you can get a dvd copy?
<|_=00=_|>

Basing its storyline in antiquity, it shows us the final battle in a war
that has spanned centuries.  The Kakan, Orin, learns of his abilities as he
learns of the plight of humanity and the centuries long effort of Zygon to
dominate all humans in the entire Universe.

While the storyline is another version of mankind against the machine, it
is
not as predictable as you might think.  Orin escapes slavery and journeys
through the known universe to finally come full circle to battle with the
android mastermind on the eve of Zygon's fulfilling his plans for a Galaxy
wide empire.

Since my wife tells me I am all thumbs, I can honestly give it ten thumbs
up.  A wonderful animated movie.  One I have looked for, both online and
off, for almost seven years to buy for my very own, whatever the
cost.
