
Halloween 5, yeah, this was a disappointment, most fans don't really
dig this sequel which is understandable. It is kind of stupid or just
plain stupid; this is the story that most horror movie sequels try to
rip off, the telepathic powers that get really annoying. It seems like
every horror movie sequel has to have it, Friday the 13th and Nightmare
on Elm Street had it, why not include the Halloween franchise as well?
Unfortunately I didn't get into it, I think because it was extremely
unoriginal and not to mention that the story didn't really continue
from the 4th sequel. The ending of Halloween 4 had Jamie turning evil,
I guess they just totally dropped that idea which could have been great
to see, instead we got a silly and typical horror story that was badly
acted, edited, and directed.

Michael Myers makes his way into a small shack by the river owned by a
local hermit. Once there, Michael collapses and remains in a comatose
state for a full year. On October 30th Michael awakens, kills the
hermit, and returns to terrorize Haddonfield, where his young niece,
Jamie Lloyd continues to live after nearly being killed by Michael the
year before. Jamie has been mute since attacking her foster mother at
the end of film 4, but exhibits signs of a telepathic link with her
evil uncle. Dr. Sam Loomis realizes that this link exists, and plans to
use it to put an end to Michael's reign of terror. Michael begins
stalking Rachel and her friend Tina. After both are killed Jamie agrees
to put herself in danger to help Loomis stop Michael for good. With
Jamie's help, Loomis lures Michael back to the old Myers house. Michael
makes many attempts at killing Jamie, finally getting the chance to in
the attic. Jamie tries appealing to Michael's humanity by calling him
"Uncle". Myers pauses, prompting Jamie to ask to see his face. He takes
off his mask, and a lone tear runs down his face. Jamie reaches up to
wipe it away, and Michael is thrown into a rage. The killer pursues
Jamie, who runs into Loomis. The doctor seems to turn on the girl as he
shouts for Michael to come and take her. It turns out that he has used
the girl as bait, thus leading Michael to walk beneath a heavy chain
net. But you have to see what happens next by watching the movie.

While granted that this movie isn't the worst movie in the world, I do
enjoy the Halloween sequels, I think this was a fall in the story line
for the Halloween series. It really could have had a lot of potential,
but since they dropped a few ideas that were presented in the previous
Halloween sequel. Not to mention this is one of the rare times that I
wasn't scared by Michael, he's loosing his touch… no, I can't say that,
please I can't say that… it's the writing! It's the blasted writing! So
if you wanna see the sequels, yeah, do watch it just to see the story
continue, but if you are just looking for a scary movie in general, you
can skip Halloween 5.

5/10
<|_=00=_|>

When the original Halloween was made it was scary because of its gritty
realism and believable characters.  Part 2 was also an edge-of-seater.  But
by the time you reach this, Part 5, the tension has gone from the series and
Michael Myers has descended from a believable shadow-stalking figure into an
unkillable Jason 'Friday the 13th' Voorhees clone.

For what its worth, the plot of this film involves Myers coming after Jamie,
who is now in a childrens' psychiatric hospital after attacking her
stepmother.  The concept of Jamie having a psychic bond with her deranged
uncle is interesting, but it's all completely ruined by the constant unfunny
attempts at humour, the tedious padding and the lack of likeable would-be
victims.  Instead of genuine characters all we have here are Porky-style
sex-mad teenagers with nothing approaching an IQ between them.  There's even
a scene set in a barn similar to the one in some of the Friday the 13th
films.  And Rachel from Part 4 seems to have been reduced to a stereotype
blonde airhead whose only purpose in the film is to run around half-naked
before being slaughtered. And why does Myers' mask look nothing like the one
he wore in the previous films? 

One good point in this film is Donald Pleasence, who is at his best as an
overwhelming Dr Loomis who dominates his every scene and makes the film
worth viewing.  There is also an enigmatic Man in the Black Fedora-type
figure who leads the film into the far superior Part 6. 

<|_=00=_|>
No surprises that Michael Myers didn't actually die at the end of
"Halloween IV: The Return of Michael Myers" in a blaze of gun fire,
causing him to tumble down a cave and throwing in some dynamite to
hopefully finish him off. Well that didn't work, as he barely escapes
and finding himself floating down a river to be rescued by some old
hermit who looks after him for a year to bring him back to health. Now
it's close to Halloween again, Michael awakes to pay him back for his
troubles. Myers gets back to his brutal business and heads back to
Haddonfield with the intention of killing his niece Jamie. After the
horrific ordeal of stabbing her step-mother, she's now at a children's
hospital and left with the inability to speak but somehow shares a
telepathic link with her uncle to know when he would kill. Dr. Loomis
sees this in Jamie and tries everything to get her to use it so he can
finally destroy Michael Myers. 

"Halloween 5: The Revenge of Michael Myers" was one of the sequels that
I wasn't to fond of when first watched it, but after continuous repeat
viewings its slightly growing on me, nonetheless still it's not without
its problems in what is an unsatisfying exercise. While a little more
grittier being very misogynistic and graphic (which the previous sequel
wasn't) with its deaths, it's run-of-the-mill formula fell on the dull,
lumpy side with it being less punctuated with grinding suspense and
moody atmosphere (as some of it takes place in full daylight)
concentrating on visceral unpleasantness and plastered jump scares.
This low-budget production feels like a rushed job, and the misguided,
wishy washy script just doesn't cut it even with a decent concept for
its basis and a few unsettling surprises that caught me off guard.
However there are some odd out of character moments involving Michael
(toying with his victims, driving after them in what I guess beats
slowly walking after them and showing a glimpse of emotion is just to
name a few), useless comic routine police officers with ridiculous
sound effects backing them up and a cloudy inclusion of a man dressed
in black that seems to be following Michael around. The performances
are simply mediocre, however the like of Danielle Harris radiates again
and Ellie Cornell proves how much of a bold talent she is with a
terrifically wholesome turn. Donald Pleasance looks ragged, but he
passionately camps it up (with some morbid streaks) to show the
obsessive strangle hold Myers has over Loomis' personally and mentally.
As now he would do anything to get his man, even risking the life of
Jamie to do so. Outside these three, there's not much else. I didn't
find the teens here as agreeably likable. Dominique Othenin-Girard's
direction is competent, but generically flat with little visual styling
(which was an imprint of "Return") and few intensity filled pockets of
shocks, which you only wished it could hold it throughout. Still
Michael is used unnervingly as a foreshadow within the background of
many shots and it always seems to work as he could be lurking anywhere.
Also the creative novelty of the film's opening credits is a nice
touch. 

It's more of the same, but an watchable pedestrian slasher blanketed
with shocks.
<|_=00=_|>
Halloween 5 takes place one year after its immediate predecessor. We're
told in the opening moments that Michael Myers (somehow) survived the
onslaught of gunfire that was unleashed upon him by Illinois state
troopers at the conclusion of Halloween 4 by crawling out of a sewer
drain, floating down a river, and taking shelter in a homeless man's
secluded makeshift shanty. Inexplicably, Michael co-exists with this
individual for—again—an entire year without incident. Without warning,
Michael decides to "off" his caretaker without warning so as to pursue
his original plan of finally putting an end to the Myers family name
with the murder of his niece, Jamie.

I have a few questions about this.

First, why was it necessary that the movie take place on year later?
Wouldn't it have been more feasible (a relative term given the
circumstances to be sure) to have Michael lay unconscious for several
days before coming to and continuing his reign of terror? Logistically,
having him exist in some sort of comatose state for a full calendar
year without food, water, or any kind of nutrition seems like an
unnecessary stretch; on the flip side, if he were conscious during that
time, why would he wait so long to dispatch of this poor sap who would
naturally serve as little more than "creative kill fodder" for the
imposing slasher? Any way you slice it (pun intended) it just doesn't
make any sense.

Given the ridiculousness of how movies of this type play out, I'll
concede that such a complaint could be viewed as a moot point. I only
dwell on it here because it serves as the perfect example of just the
sort of moronic plot developments that plague the fifth outing of the
now dwindling franchise.

Jamie, having been placed in a juvenile sanitarium for the attempted
murder of her foster mother, now has some kind of magical ESP
connection with her mask-wearing uncle. It's explained that Michael is
actually the one who forced Jamie to brutally stab her mother with a
pair of scissors at the conclusion of the fourth film. In fact, any
time Michael is about to do what he does best, she wigs out, and the
omniscient (and omnipotent) Dr. Loomis swoops in to decipher her
writhing and what it means about Michael's next move. Thrown into the
mix is some sort of mystic cowboy, clad in all black, who dons the same
Druid-ish tattoo as Michael. The guy roams around Haddonfield, keeping
tabs on the now grown up boy wonder, never doing anything of particular
note (well, that's not entirely true—he does implement a breakout of
Michael from the county jail after the perennial sociopath is finally
subdued, but this is confusing, odd, and does nothing to advance the
story within the framework of the movie). All of this, I suppose, is
designed to serve as a lead-in to the sixth film.

If you're scratching your head, rolling your eyes, or doing both at the
same time, you're not alone. As things progressed, I found myself
increasingly frustrated at the missed opportunities of Halloween 5, as
the aftermath of the fourth film's conclusion suggested an interesting
new direction for the series that is never made tangible. Instead we're
forced to endure a stale entry that's full of logical inconsistencies.

All of that said, this entry is still superior to Halloween 3, and
methinks that's worth at least an extra half star.
<|_=00=_|>

1, 2, and 4 were the best.  5 is also good regardless of the comments.  The
little girl is perhaps the best of all screen horror children surpassing
Poltergeist and Linda blair in the Exorcist.  

Donald Pleasence is one of the great actors of all time adding incredible
class to the series.  He is in the league of Peter Cushing and Cristopher
Lee.  A true great in which the series is meaningless without
him.

Halloween 5 spends too much time on teenyboppers with a little too much
stuff borrowed from Friday the 13th with silly teen lust combined with
slasher stuff.  But this film excells when it cuts to the real story of
Meyers chasing the girl and the doctor's relentless pursuit.  Thank goodness
it refrains from too much extreme gore ad special effects which has hurt
horror so much in maby other films.

Meyers here is madder than usual and more hyper.  He also commits some
murders that make him a truly hated figure to me.  Spoiler:  At the end I
wished there would have been another quick sequel and really wanted to know
what would happen especially to the little girl and the doctor.  I know that
there would not be another Halloween for 8 years so I do not really know.  I
have not seen 6 yet but I fear 8 years is too long to remain relevant to the
little girl's story.  

4 and 5 makes you really want to meet the doctor and the little girl as if
they were real people.  Perhaps that is the most haunting thing in the
series.  Now that Pleasance has really died one can only wonder that movies
can in some ways can be far more than movies.    
<|_=00=_|>

More or less a disappointing continuance of the Halloween saga. It has been
a year since Michael Myers somehow survived massive gunfire and falling down
a mine shaft. Upon healing his wounds he once again returns home to seek out
his niece Jamie(Danielle Harris), who now herself is hospitalized and
telepathic...knowing when the slasher is about to attack. Donald Pleasence,
Ellie Cornell and Beau Starr reprise their previous roles. Also notable are
Wendy Kaplan and Tamara Glynn. It is hard to tell if there are more squeals
than thrills. My main complaint is they kill off Rachel(Cornell)way too
quickly. Miss Harris is left with the most serious acting and does very
well. This time it is Don Shanks playing the maniacal white masked menace.
The finale is quite brutal, but is it brutal enough?
<|_=00=_|>
Ho boy, where to begin? At this point in the series, Dr. Loomis has
become abusive, the characters are all hateful, Michael's slipping, and
the scripts are making even less sense.

We begin right where we left off from Halloween 4, a la Halloween I and
II: Michael escapes from the mine shaft, crawls to safety, and gets
nursed back to health by some random bum with a parrot. One year later
and with a lot more energy, his immediate action once he's able to move
is to off the bum and head back to town, hoping to hunt down his niece
who now has a psychic connection with him. A troop of teenagers are
introduced, and the movie promises carnage. Sort of.

This movie is bad. By bad I mean incompetent on pretty much every
level. In horror movies, part of the delight and part of the terror is
the fact that the teenagers die, but one character at least we hope
will live. Not so in this one. Every single character is a hateful,
stereotypical 80s idea of idiocy, and Michael's carnage can't come soon
enough. This storytelling is backed up by probably some of the worst
editing and directing I've ever seen, as characters move sporadically
through jump cuts to... well, they don't really do much of anything,
except ignore the warnings of a traumatized little child with a psychic
connection to a serial killer. That role is given over to Donald
Pleasence's Dr. Loomis, who somehow still has a practice and still is
listened to, despite the fact that at this point he breaks about every
rule of clinical ethics and the fact that he's an obnoxious jerk.

Breaks every rule... that's what this movie does. This movie is so
unable to bring actual horror, suspense, or gory delights to the fore
that it literally just bumbles around hoping for something to
photograph until Michael comes around, and then the storyline and
directing are so incompetent they can't even make Michael seem cool.
The scenes in the barn are pretty much must-see for film students who
want to know exactly what NOT to do. And then, as if it's not enough,
the movie has the audacity to introduce a new character for the sole
purpose of letting Michael out of prison... who he is, what he's there
for, what he knows, even if it's a he... there's no explanation. They
literally wrote a character into the script because they were too lazy
to know how to end this movie. That's like THE single basic screenplay
no-no.

Of course, there's always room for camp, but camp only works when the
film goes in outrageous directions and does things creative and fun.
This movie isn't even creative enough to come up with crazy, out-there
ideas like Halloween 3, it just lazily serves the tropes of its genre
without even the craft and skill required to make a successful
continuity cut! By the time this movie ends, you will feel frustrated,
bored, betrayed, and uninterested. While this movie plays, you will
wish for every character to die just so that you no longer have to
watch their stupid, mindless antics, and you will regret renting (or
buying) the disc. Halloween 5 isn't even worth the plastic it's printed
on, and that's bad considering how cheap it is to put things on DVD.

--PolarisDiB
<|_=00=_|>

Sure, they wasted their one chance to change the direction of the Halloween
series (the right way).  The year long coma is BS, yes, indeed.  Sure, the
psychic connection between Jamie and Michael is a little goofy,
ill-explained, beyond the scope of a Halloween movie, and exists for no real
reason, and yes, other people wearing a mask similar to Michael and
pretending to be Michael is getting old (not to mention predictable.)  The
mask doesn't resemble any of the previous masks really, the Myers house had
an inexplicable make-over . . . I could keep these complaints rolling for
some time (don't even get me started on the man in black), but despite all
my reasons to not like this film . . . I prefer it over
#4.

I found Halloween 5 to be strangely fun, which horror tends to be when you
stop caring for the cast.  While I like Danielle Harris and Donald Pleasance
in the leads, most of the supporting characters I didn't really like at all,
so when Myers starts the party rolling I'm rooting for team Thorn.  And this
time around, Miky proves he has a dark sense of humor.  I especially like
his choice in masks in Halloween 5 . . . 

But is it scary?  No, but there are a few genuine intense moments towards
the end as Michael inevitably runs out of victims and closes in on the
stars.  I liked all the chases involving Danielle Harris and confrontations
between Donald Pleasence and evil personified . . . even if said
confrontations are on the silly side.

Speaking of Harris, despite her character not being able to talk in the
script, she manages to rise far above the material and actually pull it off.
 Or in other words, while her character was written by a hack and sloppily
thrown together, she works wonders with the very little she's given.  It
makes me really wish she got writing worthy of her performance, but like a
professional, she makes the best of it . . . and to think the studio
wouldn't let her reprise her role after this?  A slap to the face after an
insult . . . oy.

I remember reading on the VHS box of Halloween 5 the exclamation, `Michael
finally unmasked!'  And couldn't help but chuckle as I recalled him being
mask-less at least once in every Myers-inclusive Halloween until this film. 
Granted, this is the first time he, himself, takes it off.  Oh well. 

As for the film's ending, I can't forgive because it lead to the atrocity
known as Halloween: The Curse of Michael Myers which felt Halloween 5 was
extremely flawed but still fun . . . so it set out to make a sequel that was
all flaw and no fun . . . or something. 

<|_=00=_|>
This film was incredibly bad on many levels. By the middle of it,
honestly I was bored and at times forgot that this was a horror film.
This is a movie that should have never been made, and is one of the
worst of the series. This film is really for "Halloween" completest
only, and is for the most part unwatchable. The storyline that ended
"Halloween 4" isn't revisited (with no explanation), and goes in a
really strange and awful direction that is continued in the EVEN WORSE
film that follows. The whole "man in black" concept is ridiculous and
silly, and actually isn't even explained until the next film. The
acting is very bad, and Donald Pleasance seems like he is really
slowing down and ill throughout the film. I actually felt sorry for him
watching this. Do yourself a favor, and don't even waste your time
renting this.
<|_=00=_|>
After the original, "Halloween 5: The Revenge of Michael Myers" is my
favorite of the series. This is an unpopular opinion. Part five is
frequently considered the worse of the series. It's certainly not a
good film in any traditional sense. The script feels rushed and
half-formed. The relatively likable Rachel from the previous sequel is
quickly killed to make way for Tina, a deeply unlikable final girl.
Tina abandons Jaime to go see her jerk boyfriend, her most egregious
sin. The previous ending is largely ignored. The movie attempts to
forge some sort of mythology around the Myers character, hinting at the
Curse of Thorn and all that other nonsense we'd get in part six. The
biggest plot hole, for me anyway, is that we see Michael's face and it
isn't burnt to a crisp. Maybe the Shape has a healing factor? The point
is, yes, from any sort of objective perspective, "Halloween 5" isn't
that good a film.

Which has little to do with my enjoyment of it. "Revenge" is, by far,
the most agreeably nutty of any of the sequels. There are so many
bizarre choices here. Either production was quickly rushed or the
director was going for intentional camp. Exhibit A: The comic relief
cops which are introduced with honking, clown shoes music. I love the
hermit and his screeching parrot that takes Michael in for a year. Did
the Shape spend a whole year passed out in a hobo's hobble? Imagine the
fan-fiction that's been written about that. Michael spends an extended
amount of time driving a teenage girl around and letting her kiss all
over him. Considering he murdered her anachronistic greaser boyfriend,
maybe the Shape was horny. The whole Man in Black business is, of
course, utter nonsense. But it's likable utter nonsense. No wacky
element is more endearing then Donald Pleasence completely sloshed
performance as Dr. Loomis. He pushes the character as far as he can
this time, pulling a gun on a cop, using innocent Jamie as bait,
getting all up in her grill. I absolutely love it.

Rewatching the film this time, I realized another reason I enjoy it so
much. Most of the other sequels attempt to recapture Carpenter's magic.
This one, on the other hand, goes for blatant exploitation. It's the
"Halloween" version of a "Friday the 13th" film. The sex is sexier, the
gore is gorier. The teens run off for a raunchy Halloween party, even
though you'd think the holiday would be verboten in Haddonfield at this
point. The one-note supporting characters, the slasher fodder, are far
more broad, playing goofy pranks. Michael Myers has basically been
transformed into Jason at this point, impaling a rutting couple and
using multiple weapons. The most blatant Jason element is when Jaime
reaches Michael's human side, a scene blatantly swiped from "Friday the
13th Part II." It's horribly out of character for Myers, of course. He
has no human side at all! Don't care. "Part 5" delivers the trashy
thrills you expect from the fourth sequel in a horror series.

The movie is questionable, sure, but I honestly think some elements are
very strong. Of all the sequels, this one most captures the autumn
spirit to me. The pumpkin carving opening is fantastic. The direction
is very strong, the nights thick and black. There are even some genuine
thrills. Jaime being stalked by her uncle spirit through the hospital
is great. The car chase scene works very well. The laundry chute
creates claustrophobic tension. Dr. Loomis delivers another monologue,
in which he establishes an inner rage as Michael's motivation. That's
as good an explanation as any, says I. Surely I can't be the only one
who loves this movie? I perfectly understand why some folks dislike it.
By the same accord, I believe its underrated. Not to mention enjoyably
goofy.
