
The Fox and the Hound, one of Disney's forgotten treasures, I honestly
don't know why this movie is more noticed by people. This is one of my
favorite animated movies of all time, it's innocent, it's simple, it's
lovely, and just a wonderful tale about the most unlikely pair becoming
the best of friends. The Fox and the Hound, yeah, it does go a little
overboard on the cuteness factor with baby Tod and baby Copper, but
this is when Disney really did mean well and came up with such a sweet
and wonderful story that is classic.

After a young red fox is orphaned, he is adopted the Widow Tweed, she
names him Tod. Meanwhile, Tweed's neighbor, a hunter named Amos Slade,
brings home a young hound puppy named Copper and introduces him to his
hunting dog Chief. Tod and Copper become playmates, and vow to remain
"friends forever." Slade grows frustrated at Copper for constantly
wandering off to play, and places him on a leash. While playing with
Copper at his home, Tod awakens Chief. Slade and Chief chase him until
they are stopped by Tweed. After an argument, Slade says that he
intends to kill Tod at his first opportunity. Hunting season comes and
Slade takes his dogs into the wilderness for the interim. Meanwhile,
Big Mama explains to Tod that his friendship with Copper cannot
continue, as they are natural enemies, but Tod refuses to believe her.
Months pass, and Tod and Copper reach adulthood. On the night of
Copper's return, Tod sneaks over to meet him. Copper explains that he
is a hunting dog now and things are now going to be different between
them.

The Fox and the Hound is such a great movie, honestly if you don't like
this film, I don't know what's wrong with you, but you need to get
something checked because everything about this film is just wonderful.
The songs, animation and characters are just lovely. Plus there are
some fun jokes, I loved seeing Chief constantly chasing after Tod and
then Slade runs over to Tweed's house to scream about the fox but she
just kicks his butt and tells him to get off her property. This is such
a great movie, I highly recommend you see it if you get the chance.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

This is my favorite Disney movie of all time. It is, in my opinion, one of
their finest. Why do I think so? First, I like its realism. It is not some
fantastic fairy tale, nor is it some good-against-evil-good-eventually-triumphs
story. There are no heroes or villains in this story. This lack of good and
evil made the story and the characters seem more alive than the ones you
usually see.

I also like the message this movie gives. It is simple yet powerful. The two
main characters wanted only the most innocent of things - friendship. Yet
society couldn't allow this friendship to be. This movie tugs at your heart,
and it doesn't stop tugging. And the realism didn't diminish any by the
movie's close. The main characters' problems remained unresolved, yet each
finished the movie in contentment. I feel that this lack of a "everything's
okie-dokie again" finish like you see in traditional animated movies gave
this story a powerful element.

If you're looking for songs your children can sing over and over again,
you've come to the wrong movie. Each song is sung in a flavorful yet
discreet manner. Little orchestration. Yet if you're looking for memorable
characters, you've come to the right movie. Each character is very well
developed, motivated by true emotions and the things that the everyday
person wants - love, food, companionship. Each character is vibrantly drawn,
and this vibrancy is matched by the character's personality. I saw a real
person within the animal. Nobody is created in an idealistic image.

From realistic characters come a realistic story. Nothing felt written or
hacked. Everything felt like it was supposed to happen. There was nothing
outlandish about the entire story. And if you're looking for comedy, you'll
find none. This is pure drama, yet it's drama that kids can easily
understand. This movie had a story that seemed like it could've easily
happened to the average person. This is a rare and endearing quality.

Basically, I loved this movie for what it had, a heart of gold, but also for
what it lacked, a traditional formula. If you're looking for a story with a
difference and a bittersweet flavor, this is the movie for you! It is nice,
quiet, yet provocative and emotional. To sum it up, it is good clean fun
with a touch of heartache, a true drama!
<|_=00=_|>
Looking back as child having watched this film, it never struck me for
anything more than fuzzy/singing/talking animals that pandered to all
my childish wants and needs. After all, that's why you watched Disney
movies as a kid, right? It's just what you did in your childhood.

Now, watching it again, about to embark on adulthood and all that it
entails, it really moved me. How Todd and Copper, a young fox and a
hound were the best of friends. Todd having been taken in by a kindly
old women and nursed backed to health while right next door, Copper,
owned by a mean and bitter old hunter, is being groomed as hunting dog.

Yet, like children, they don't judge. They don't know about the
differences between each other and they don't care. They just want to
play hide and seek. It is when they grow older that they realize that
it was never meant to be. How sometimes societal rules can stamp out
the most innocent of ventures. Much like becoming an adult, reality
sets in. Life is unfair.

It's a truly beautiful movie, for it's simplistic yet universal message
and unlike the vast library of previous Disney inventions, as stated
before, it lacks the happy ending. The proverbial feel good formula
that is the frame work for all Disney movies. It's because of it's
bittersweet delivery and surprising realism, that it's become a
lifeline to my childhood that I will carry with me for as long as I
live.
<|_=00=_|>

This has got to be one of the most underappreciated Disney classics yet.
The
Fox and the Hound is probably the most heartwarming Disney film yet. It
mixes humor, action, and romance as well as any other Disney film, except
for a select few such as Aladdin, Beauty and the Beast, Mulan, or Tarzan.
Nevertheless, I cannot believe this is rated only a 6.6. Several Disney
films that are rated above this movie come nowhere near close to it in
quality (i.e. Snow White, Bambi, Sleeping Beauty, etc...). I cannot
comprehend how it is rated so low...9/10 (Ranks right up there with the
likes of Robin Hood and Pinocchio).   
<|_=00=_|>

This is a film that both delighted me and deeply upset me, because it
seemed
so happy, and yet, so unfair at the same time.  The two best friends, the
"Fox and the Hound", meet again after they are fully grown adults, or,
when
they are old enough to face the fact that their friendship was never meant
to be.  That broke my heart, because it was such a beautiful friendship,
unfairly tarnished by a cruel world.  If only our world was a happy place,
where races and cultures didn't matter, and if only we could recognize
those
characters as our friends, and not our enemies simply because of our
ethnic
differences.  Years later, Spike Lee's "Do the Right Thing" brought up
that
same point with a vengeance.  And, like "The Fox and the Hound", it shows
how much that beautiful friendship between people won't last because of
how
society determines our friends and enemies.  It makes no sense, and it's
unfair.  What's more, Tod, the fox, endures more than any other character
in
the film.  Other characters, and especially the hunter, discriminated
against him without thinking.  And we the audience had to endure seeing
him
go through this misery, all because he was born a fox!  It's insane!
Sadly,
it's true to life.  And that is the main reason it was made for kids, to
point out how wonderful a friendship is, and how ridiculous it is to
tarnish
it because of a racial or ethnic difference!  And although this film runs
on
the standard Disney formula, with the songs, the comic relief, the love
interest, and the villain, this film really touched me, because I wanted
to
see their friendship go on.  And although it did go on in some form, there
is always that feeling of "he doesn't belong" being uttered by many of the
other characters.  Why?  Well, this film asks children and adults alike,
that very question.      
<|_=00=_|>

The Fox and the Hound is such an excellent Disney film, being on one of
the tops of my list. I couldn't of asked for a better Disney film
either. This movie made me cry a lot and I'm a guy. It was like the
only movie I cried to except The Return of the King. The movie is
bittersweet and heartwarming and the movie also gets into your heart
and rushes out. The movie is quite underrated to my belief. Getting a
6.5 rating and 3 stars is just not in my books. Well, I guess the
critics do it call a classic so I don't know. I highly recommend this
movie and if your looking for a film to cry to this is the movie to
get. A very stunning picture

Hedeen's outlook: 10/10 **** A+

<|_=00=_|>

Halfway through production, Don Bluth mutinees, taking most of Disney's best
animators with him. Another bunch resign. One dies. Drawings are stolen.
Production is delayed endlessly. You would think that if ever a Disney
feature were destined for disaster, this was it. Instead, 'Fox and the
Hound' is probably the best Disney animated feature of its generation. You
could clear a space about 10 years either side of it before you ran into
something that gave it serious competition.

We start with an orphaned fox kit - pardon me as my jaw doesn't drop in
amazement. There have been, what - TWO Disney films where both parents
survive? And, well, he is adopted by an elderly widow named Tweed, he
develops a friendship with a hunting dog owned by Widow Tweed's crochety
neighbor, and he starts to grow up, and life suddenly becomes very
difficult, dangerous, and emotionally complicated.

I won't give it away, in case you haven't seen it, but for my money this
movie has close to the saddest, most desolate, tear-jerking scene in any
Disney film I can think of. But don't worry, it bounces back well and truly.
This is a long way from being a morose film. In fact it's an excellent
balance of drama, action, pathos and humour. My only minor complaint is that
there are a couple of comic sidekicks in this movie that are pretty annoying
and contribute just about nothing to the story.

Coming after 'The Rescuers', 'The Fox and the Hound' might have been the
start of a Disney resurrection, but perhaps Bluth's departure really was a
body blow. As it is, 'Fox and the Hound' is a moment of beauty and
brilliance in the otherwise pretty murky first 20 or so years after Walt's
death.

Although it didn't cause much of a stir at the time, it has developed a
deserved base of loyal fans in the twenty-three years since it was
made.

The film tackles themes of conflicting loyalties, friendship, love,
identity, and somehow does it with a minimum of schmaltz and a maximum of
heart. It's one of Disney's best, and you owe it to yourself to see
it.

9 out of 10

Historical Note: Mickey Rooney plays the adult Tod, the fox in 'Fox and the
Hound'. According to Rooney's 1991 autobiography, when he was 5 years old he
wandered into an office at Warner during breaks between shooting in one of
his child-star films, and introduced himself to a bloke who turned out to be
Walt Disney, and who was in the process of drawing a new mouse character,
who he decided on the spot to name after Mickey. It just tops it off nicely,
doesn't it?


<|_=00=_|>

This is without a doubt one of Disney's most under appreciated classics.
Great animation, fantastic voice acting and lovable characters and before
all the PC nonsense that bogs down most newer Disney productions. This is
Disney at its best, much better than the likes of Hunchback, Tarzan,
Pochonatas, Hercules, Aladdin etc. If you haven't seen this one, give it
a
try, you'll be in for a pleasant surprise! 
<|_=00=_|>

One of Disney's finest motion pictures, extremely underrated and forgotten
to a pulp. Kurt Russell, Mickey Rooney and even Corey Feldman all give their
talent to this story of a fox and a hound who become friends, only to turn
on themselves in later years because they are expected to. Not only is the
film engaging, but it also has a metaphorical story going on. I understand
it is supposed to represent humans and racism, but apart from the
preachiness of it all the film is quite good on the level of a whole. A
definite must-see. The ending is bittersweet and at many times during the
film you will actually start to feel for these creatures. On a sidenote, I
used to have a dog just like the one in this movie. It was just like the one
in this film.

**** 1/2 out of *****
<|_=00=_|>
This is a wonderful film that is a true classic and a must own for
anyone who loves dramas.

This movie like the title implies is about two young friends(fox and
hound) that when they meet are too young to realize they're supposed to
be mortal enemies.

the film follows they're story over the course of a year in which the
two grow up and realize the friendship that was once so strong between
them is forbidden, one is a fox, and the other a bloodhound that hunts
foxes.

so the dilemma is inherent from the get-go, and at one point the hunter
who owns the hound says to the widow who owns the fox that her fox has
attacked his chickens and he implies that he'll kill the fox if he ever
sees it again.

this leaves the widow with only one heartbreaking choice, to let the
fox go in an animal preserve(a real tear jerker folks).

the hunter hot with rage decides he is not satisfied and intends to
find Todd(the fox), and kill him.

copper(the hound) and the hunter chase Todd until suddenly a vicious
bear appears out of nowhere and attacks the hunter.

copper attacks the bear trying to protect his master when the bear
turns on him.

then its Todd to the rescue as he lures the bear over a cliff to it's
death, only Todd falls too.

at this point copper having been saved by Todd sees how foolish it was
to end they're friendship and rushes to Todd's aid at the bottom of the
cliff, the hunter close behind.

copper stands over Todd and when the hunter points his gun at Todd he
exclaims "get out of the way boy(copper)" ... copper stands fast.

the hunter angered prepares to fire when copper lets out a mournful
whine... the hunter realizes the error of his ways and lowers his rifle
saying to copper "c'mon boy, lets go home".

the movie ends with the widow mending the hunters broken foot, the
hunter crying like a baby when she touches it.

I'm a rather jaded 17 yeah old guy and i still cry when the widow
leaves a bewildered todd at the animal preserve. 

this is one of my very favorite movies and i'm sure you'll feel the
same.
