
Jason has met his match before, going down two-nil to Tommy Jarvis.
However, this one is different! Her name is Carrie, but for some reason
she uses the name Tina Shepard.

Camp Crystal Lake has been operating peacefully for years, ever since
Tommy Jarvis chained Jason to the bottom of the lake. But, you see, in
horror movies, any peace is bound to be interrupted eventually. Enter
Tina Shephard. Years ago the Shephard family was on vacation at Crystal
Lake, when Tina's father drowned under some bizarre circumstances. At
the age of 17, Tina and her mother return to Crystal Lake with Tina's
psychiatrist, Dr. Crews. Dr. Crews isn't what he seems, he is obviously
more interested in exploiting Tina's psychic abilities rather than
helping her. This isn't very important, because it isn't very long
before Tina accidentally releases Jason from what should have been his
watery-grave...

Yeah, this is your average slasher movie. All the characters are
obvious stereotypes. Except for the sci-fi nerd sporting a mullet. I
can honestly say I've never seen that before. Tina Shephard is
basically a re-work of Carrie from... 'Carrie', but she is the films
saving grace. Jason against a psychic made for a nice showdown. Other
than that, I'm still wondering why people keeping going to Crystal
Lake, only to be surprised when maniac wearing a hockey mask tries to
kill them.

Apparently this was heavily censored. Kane Hodder makes a good Jason,
and there are kills aplenty, but not much gore. Oh well, it had a nice
musical score if that makes up for anything...

Not too bad entry in the series - 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
The popular, money-making slasher series continues with Lar Park
Lincoln (the best leading actress in the Friday films) as Tina
Shepherd, a pretty teen with telekinetic abilities who accidentally
uses her powers to release Jason (Kane Hodder) from his underwater
grave. He lurks around (with exposed spine) and sets his sights on a
group of young people who rent a cabin for a birthday party. To justify
some of the murders, many of the characters, like shrink Terry Kiser
(who plots to exploit Tina) and Susan Jennifer Sullivan (great blonde
bitch) obviously deserve to die.

Gore-wise we have a decapitation, a hand thrust through a chest, a
party horn stuck in an eyeball, an axe to the face (twice), a drowning,
a body thrown out a window and, the best murder, well I won't ruin it
by saying it involves a sleeping bag and a tree, but it's a hoot.

The make-up FX are great, the women look good (and several of them have
nude scenes) and there's a surprise ending you may not expect, but
still not much plot. Kane Hodder went on to become the only actor who
played Jason to receive a little fame for this thankless role. This was
the number one box office draw at movie theaters the week it debuted.
<|_=00=_|>
I've always been fascinated by the Friday THE 13TH films. Sequel after
sequel, unknown cast after unknown cast, limited budget after limited
budget, they still manage to be pretty good horror movies. And
incredibly, this sixth sequel tops the series . In fact, it's one of
the best horror movies of the 1980s.

Again resurrected from his watery grave (didn't he open his eyes at the
very end of the last one? Nah, I guess not), the zombified Jason is
ready to hack and slash his way through another group of innocent
(though quite naughty) teens. But this time ol' maggot head may have
met his match in the form of Tina Shepard, a teen gifted with the
ability to move objects with her mind. She is, it turns out, our only
hope to stop the monster.

The fun concept of Friday THE 13TH PART VII: THE NEW BLOOD paves the
way for legitimate chills and thrills. This fierce, spine-bearing Jason
is a much more frightening being than before as he paces through the
woods, chases skinny dippers and employs weapons of terror I have never
seen before (what was that thing with the spinning blade?). This is a
serious frightfest that in no way tries to carry on the humorous
overtone of its immediate predecessor. Director John Carl Buechler
deserves a lot of credit for respecting continuity and sticking to the
formula while squeezing out another great film from the well-worn
slasher-in-the-woods concept.

The film would work well enough without the heroine of Tina. The pretty
blonde (played by Lar Park-Lincoln) is just icing on the cake, helping
to create (dare I say it?) one of the most memorable horror movie
finales of all-time. The showdown, complete with
telepathically-propelled lamps and electrical wires, also showcases
some very impressive special effects (how many Friday films can you say
that about?). Of course we all know who will prevail in this clash of
good and evil, but we also know it's just a matter of time before Jason
pulls another Lazarus.

Even if you're not a fan of the series or think it's too campy, you'll
be pleasantly surprised. Give Friday THE 13TH PART VII: THE NEW BLOOD a
whirl. Jason would have wanted it that way.
<|_=00=_|>
Often considered to be "Carrie vs. Jason", Friday the 13th Part 7: The
New Blood may very well be considered one of the most popular in the
series. It is however, looked down upon by hardcore fans of the series,
and I can somewhat see why.

A New Blood introduced an extremely cheesy supernatural aspect behind
the main heroine character. This can be looked at through several
different view points; while one person can see this as an opportunity
to develop a character, another person would see this as a cheap way to
kill of Jason. I personally think that this supernatural "Carrie"
element added onto the main character, which is a good idea considering
that sympathetic characters have never been Friday the 13th's positive
points.

Another factor of the movie that is commonly looked down on is the fact
that this movie is virtually lacking in any gore at all. A New Blood
was attacked by the censor boards more than any other film in the
entire series, which was the films biggest downfall. Almost all the
gore in this movie was taken out. Not only does this take away from the
film, but it just makes the viewer feel sad and annoyed that the great
gore effects that where there before have been taken away. No uncut
copy of A New Blood ever has (or will) be released.

Overall, this movie had some interesting ideas when it comes to
character development and storyline, but overall, it is nothing but
Part 6 done over again. It is recommended, but I doubt anybody who can
be considered die hard fans would think much of it.

A pretty mediocre edition into the series.

FOR IN DEPTH HORROR MOVIE REVIEWS, CHECK OUT MY YOUTUBE CHANNEL
HORRORREVIEWS123.
<|_=00=_|>
Friday the 13th Part VII is one of best of the sequels because it's
different to the previous films even though they are good to watch.
Some people have called this film Carrie VS Jason and I can see why,
Tina's powers are similar to Carrie's in the fact that her emotions
control her power.

Kane Hodder stars as Jason for the first time before playing him again
in Friday the 13th Part VIII: Jason Takes Manhatten, Jason goes to
Hell: The Final Friday and Jason X.

The killings are good and gory in parts and Jason's make up with and
without the mask look great and grotesque.

A must for Friday the 13th fans. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Weepy Tina Shepard arrives at Crystal Lake with her mom and her doctor.
Tina is a wreck of a girl - plagued by a powerful telekinetic ability,
Tina killed her drunken and abusive father in a fit of rage many years
ago and has been trying to deal with her guilt ever since.
Unfortunately, her sadistic doctor wants only to exploit Tina's powers
and drives Tina to the breaking point with his cruelty. In yet another
emotional fit, Tina attempts to raise her dead father from the depths
of Crystal Lake, but instead raises the rotting carcass of Jason
Voorhees instead, who emerges with his hockey mask intact and his
bloodlust stronger than ever. Jason immediately heads into the woods
and starts killing, gradually working his way to the house next door to
Tina's, filled with vacuous partying teens. Tina, who is also
precognitive, tries to warn those around her of impending death, but no
one will believe the stressed out girl. Finally, Tina must battle Jason
herself is she hopes to save her new boyfriend and herself from death.

This is Kane Hodder's first outing as Jason Voorhees and its a really
great one. Jason is a hulking killing machine of pure, cold rage and
the deaths the accrue have never been more vicious or grimly
satisfying. The now-famous sleeping bag bludgeon makes its first
appearance in this 6th installment, and its one of my favorites -
really nasty and brutally hilarious. Lar Park Lincoln is great as Tina
- perhaps a bit too weepy, but almost as angry as Jason and erupting in
great displays of rage, both verbal and telekinetic. Lincoln did a lot
of her own stunts in this one too, which is always impressive. 

The make-up effects in this movie are my absolute favorite. Jason is a
wet, rotting cadaver, his spinal cord clearly visible through the
shredded remains of his clothes, his ribcage poking out, his flesh dark
with rot. The unmasking scene is a truly shocking and "wow!" inspiring
awesome moment, as Jason's face is revealed to be little more than an
animated skull - but animated it truly is! Beneath the hideous make-up,
Hodder impressively expresses the evil wrath of Jason with one empty
eye socket and half a mouthful of teeth. The telekinetic effects are a
lot of fun as Tina "throws" every weapon at her disposal at Jason: a
couch, a jar full of nails, a light fixture and finally a can of
gasoline and the flames from the basement furnace. It was great to see
someone give Jason a run for his money instead of just screaming and
running away. 

All in all, one of the better sequels to follow the original Friday the
13th. 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I really don't remember much from this film, so it is evident that this
movie didn't stand out much in the series, which is winding down by
this time. Jason Voorhees is like a case of the bad plague, always
returning and menacing people over and over again. This time around, he
was inadvertently released from his watery prison in Camp Crystal Lake
by a guilt-ridden teenage psychic and begins another rampage on a group
of unsuspecting teens at the camp.

It's more of the screams, stalking, mangling with some campy and
amateurish acting. There is nothing you really haven't seen before in
the previous Friday the 13th entries, save for the psychic girl who
uses her powers to fight against Jason, which I thought was a pretty
clever plot device.

The script is pretty basic but for a movie at 88 minutes, there is
really no room for boring fillers and you might find yourself at least
mildly entertained if you don't mind watching the usual Jason chases
teens stuff.

Grade C
<|_=00=_|>
The New Blood is the second worst installment in the Paramount era
Friday the 13th movies - edged out, ever-so-slightly by Jason Takes
Manhattan.

I'm always perplexed by how many fans embrace this entry. Truthfully,
Kane Hodder's portrayal of Jason Voorhees, and the Jason make up design
are the best things about part 7. 

From the lackluster sound design, insipid script (which seemingly can't
even rip off The Final Chapter well), forgettable characters, turtle
pacing, and practically non-existent gore effects, almost everything
about this entry is pi$$ poor! 

Maybe, if the movie was available uncut (something that will
unfortunately never exist), that would boost my rating and enjoyment
slightly. But as it stands, the sleeping bag kill sequence remains one
of the only highlights in this dismal Friday.

Be sure to check out our Friday the 13th Fan Podcast here:
http://tgif13.podbean.com
<|_=00=_|>
Friday the 13th Part VII: The New Blood is more of the same to be
honest. It adds original ideas to it and throws in a bit more plot
structure, but underneath all of that new material is basically the
same old Friday the 13th material. Not necessarily a bad thing in this
case, because the acting is very good in this instalment. However the
Jason formula does hit rock bottom. The thrills, chills and scares are
the same old same old. Victim hears a noise, hunts about, then Jason
jumps out on them, and they meet their demise. Now, this is the whole
trait of the Jason Voorhees franchise, but it can get a little tedious
and boring when they play this the whole way through the movie. Gore
wise there is a decapitation, a party horn shoved into a head, an axe
to the face, which happens twice, a drowning, a hand thrust through a
chest, a body thrown out a window and the fantastic scene where Jason
whacks somebody in a sleeping bag against a tree. The soundtrack is
more tense and chilling in this sequel which is a benefit to the weaker
points of the movie. The characters are very clichéd; the spoilt bitchy
girl, the ugly girl who wants to be beautiful and popular, etc. These
personalities make you want the characters to die. However Maddy, the
ugly-turned-beauty girl was one of the few characters I enjoyed
watching on screen, and truly felt sorry for. It really seems that
popularity and good looks do, indeed, kill. Anyway, the introduction of
a telekinetic girl to battle Jason was a bit of a twist. It half works
and half doesn't, to be fair. It just doesn't seem to be very
appealing, the fact that this girl, Tina, has her telekinetic powers
yet takes forever to get rid of Jason. It was also her powers which
summoned him up from the lake. So Jason hacks his way through a
cabinful of partying teens, celebrating a birthday. The usual
stalk-and-slash ensues, and the battle between the heroine then
follows. Why is it never a male who has the final battling climax?
Anyway as you can see, apart from the obvious additions to distract you
from the fact that this is more of the same, Friday the 13th Part VII:
The New Blood delivers the usual gruesome goods and gratuitous nudity
which makes the series so appealing, and is therefore worth checking
out.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the better sequals.  One reason is that because it is the
first appearence of Kane Hodder as Jason and is the on actor to were the
costume more than once.  Mostly anyone who knows anythinf about this
series
will tell you that Kane is the best Jason there ever was.  Although the
movie is trying to some like the film "Carrie" it does a pretty good job
of
pulling it off. The film is basically about this teenage girl who thinks
she
killed her dad during a dispute and come to the Crystal Lake with here
mom
and shrienk to work things out because everytime she gets angry her
teleconises goes off the charts which just so happens to wake Jason.
Close
to were she is staying are a group of teenagers who of course get
slaughtered in some pretty grissley scenes.  I must this film is one of
the
better sequals of the series and is also a good slasher for the
genera.
