

This is not a movie to be viewed from a serious perspective.  But even
sci-fi aficionados seem to have been losing their sense of fun over the
years, which may be why this remake has been panned so badly.  The whole
movie is viewed from a young boy's dark imagination, right down to the
ridiculous Mr. Potato head aliens.  Even the camera angles are taken from
child's height.  And within the bizarre dream world of adolescent fears
and
disempowerment springs forth a really fun movie.  Within this context, the
remake of Invaders from mars remains true to the 1950's genre with some
tongue in cheek.  Relax, grab some popcorn, and warp back to the 50's,
when
your imagination didn't have to be fed with a spoon. 
<|_=00=_|>

I actually LOVE this movie!  I think it's one of the best remakes
I've
ever seen.  When I recently found it on DVD, I purchased it on the spot.
To
me, this movie is just plain fun.  I love the way the boy has to tell the
school nurse (The unique Karen Black) about the things he's seen, and she
doesn't quite know what to make of this seemingly clearheaded kid.  Then,
when she sees a bit of evidence for herself, she needs to just take a leap
of faith and sneak the kid out of the school.
I find it so intriguing, because I always try to imagine what a
person
would really do in a situation like this.  Imagine you're a school nurse,
and a kid comes in telling you a spaceship landed behind his house, and
now
something's wrong with his parents, his teacher, his friend and her
father.
Of course, you would probably not take it too seriously.  But, then, if
you
actually saw something that seemed to corroborate his story, how would you
handle it?  What would you do?
Even the nurse questions whether she is doing the right thing,  The
bottom line is she just had to follow her instincts, and something was
telling her that things were not right.  Imagine really being in that
predicament.  And imagine if you chose NOT to believe the kid and chalk it
up to his imagination.  Of course this story wouldn't really happen, but
what if it did?
That's the point of movies - to make you imagine these wild,
unrealistic situations as actually occurring.  We are meant to suspend our
disbelief and put ourselves into the characters of the story.  In my
opinion, this film unfolded exactly as it really could have in real life.
The nurse taking that chance, believing the kid, meeting him after school,
investigating the site of the landing - all the elements that eventually
lead up to her discovering the truth for sure.
The chemistry between Karen Black and her real-life son, Hunter
Carson,
is great.  They were the perfect team.  Laraine Newman and Timothy Bottoms
are alternately funny and amusing, then creepy and frightening.  And
Louise
Fletcher as the teacher is a riot!  She's just classic.  When she says to
Karen Black, "You've got a lot of nerve, sister!," I lose it every
time.
I don't know how someone could not enjoy this movie.  I am not a big
sci-fi fan, but I put this top on my list of all-time great entertainmnet.
No, It isn't Oscar worthy, but I don't need every film I see to be ABOUT
SOMETHING.  Maybe I just want to sit back late at night with some popcorn
and put myself in another place and time.  This one does it for me every
time I watch it.  It's almost like it gets better with each
viewing.
Don't listen to naysayers.  Watch this Midnite Classic at midnght.  I
don't think you should be disappointed, as long as you aren't looking for
it
to make a statement about life.  
<|_=00=_|>
Invaders from Mars (1986) was a remake of the 1950's science fiction
classic. Tobe Hooper slightly reinvents the original and updates the
storyline. The story revolves around a strange alien craft that lands
in a field. A young boy spots the craft but no ones listens to him or
takes him seriously. Soon everyone around him begins to act very cold
and strange. What can be the cause of this? Maybe the strange spaceship
that landed in the abandoned field is causing this? Well it was the
80's.

Tobe Hooper made a very surreal and cool film. The special effects are
excellent and the direction is on par. The acting is somewhat uneven.
But the dialog and photography makes up for it. I enjoyed this movie
when I was in junior high school and I still enjoy it to this very day.
Another great film from Tobe Hooper.

Just don't take it too seriously. The movie is part homage and part
remake of the original film and others like it that were made during
the fifties.

Highly recommended.

Karen Black co-stars as the school nurse who believes the kid.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not a fan of remakes, not at all. I don't see why films that were
good in the first place need to be 'updated'. Perhaps a bad film with a
nice idea would be worthy but most remakes, especially these days are
just cashing in on the success of the original and usually doing a bad
job to boot.

Invaders From Mars is one of the most famous of the Classic 50's sci-fi
films along with Forbidden Planet and War Of The Worlds. It's certainly
the most disturbing of the era with paranoia and fear seen from a
child's perspective along with some memorable imagery!

The big surprise about this remake is that it's actually good. Really
good in fact! Of course it's not perfect but it set out to do a task
and in my eyes succeeded!

I think one of the best things about the film is how it looks. The
locations and sets are fantastic, the set of the alien space ship
interior and tunnels are superb as are the locations such as the sand
pit. This is all the more baffling when you consider that it's made by
Canon, a company famous for uber cheap budgets and cutting corners but
it certainly doesn't have that feel here. 

Being made in the 80's the film has that certain warmth to its feel
that seemed to be present in films of that era. 

There is a remarkably strong Spielberg vibe to the whole film mixed in
with a good does of John Carpenter from around the same era. Tobe
Hooper does a great job with plenty of nice sweeping wide angles
crossed with claustrophobic horror type shots and situations and some
nice recreation of the iconic scenes of the 50's original such as the
fence going over the hill. There are also plenty of snippets of trivia
from the original film hidden here and there throughout the film which
is a great tribute and obviously shows the film was made with love.

Of course it's not perfect, the acting is hammy in parts which sort of
ups the cheese value a little but on the whole it's pretty average and
doesn't stray much into 'cringe' territory.

A special mention and combined criticism must go to the Martian
creatures themselves. Stan Winston's workshop created these beasts and
although superbly made and animated they seems to not know whether to
be scary or goofy, looking formidable with their huge teeth and grunts
one might be scared stiff if they didn't look like a giant testicle
from the side on.

These are minor flaws though in a film that has so obviously been made
with a passion for the subject.

I love both versions of this film and I honestly think that more people
should give it the credit that it is due!
<|_=00=_|>
Tobe Hooper has had a spotty career -- to put it mildly. His "Texas
Chainsaw Massacre" is one of the best horror films ever made. His
follow-up, "Tourist Trap" aka "Eaten Alive" aka "Starlight Slaughter",
is atmospheric in a PRC sort of way but dumb and cumbersome. He also
had a hand in "Poltergeist" (nothing to be ashamed of) and directed the
beautifully art directed "Texas" sequel, a dumb, idiotic mess,
unfortunately. He also signed his name to "Spontaneous Combustion",
"Toolbox Murders" and that rotten thing about a killer washing machine. 

His "Invaders From Mars", however, is just magical sci-fi with a 50's
scent. The atmosphere Hooper conjures, with the help of ace
cinematographer Daniel Pearl (who shot both "Texas" and its remake) and
production designer Leslie Dilley beautifully captures the creepy,
pulpy essence of the original "Imvaders", another art direction
triumph.

The immortal Karen Black is sublime in the lead role and young Hunter
Carson is totally believable as the boy who cries "Wolf!" In fact,
Master Carson should have been crying "Mr. Potato Head!" because the
loopy alien invaders of this surreal invasion flick look just like
bloated Potato Head and his deformed associates (only they're much more
fun).

The film captures the paranoia of 50's sci-fi and even throws in such
great genre stalwarts as James Karen, who plays General Climet Wilson.
The Sylvester Levay score has great sonic "alien" tones and the sound
mix is eerie and effective.

Around the time Hooper made "Invaders" he also made another great film,
"Lifeforce", for the same production company (Cannon).

"Invaders" flopped and disappeared, but it is out there now waiting to
be unearthed and rediscovered.

It is one of Hooper's and 80's sci-fi's finest hours.
<|_=00=_|>
In the 1950s, Science Fiction movies were all the rage. Some were about
aliens, others giant mutant bugs. When you watch a lot of them today,
they're pretty cheesy. However, there are a few standouts that are
still pretty effective. The 1980s saw a small resurgence of these kind
of films. Sometimes homages work out rather well, sometimes not. By the
mid-80s, Tobe Hooper had really made a name for himself. This remake of
the 1953 film, was a collaboration between him and other great talents
including 'The Return of the Living Dead' creator Dan O'Bannon.
Unfortunately, what should have been a slam dunk is instead nothing
special.

Pros: Above average performances. Pretty good score. Some quite good
special effects. Never dull. Excellent cinematography. A few creepy
moments.

Cons: Little we haven't seen in other films. Lacking suspense and
tension. Uneven pacing. Inconsistent tone. Somewhat underwhelming final
act. An ending that's been done before and is more a cop-out.

Final thoughts: 'Invaders from Mars '86' was a favorite of mine as a
kid. I remember it freaking me out back then. Some childhood favorites
hold up years after their release. Well, I'm sorry to say that this
isn't one of them. Has enough going for it to be OK, but you get the
feeling not much effort was put into this.

My rating: 2.5/5
<|_=00=_|>
The movie itself is pretty campy and you can't expect a whole heck of a
lot out of it, just some cheesy 80's sci-fi fun, but what stands out
for me was that I was an extra in this movie and got to experience the
making of the movie first hand! I remember, I was in elementary school
and got the opportunity to be in this movie. The first day that I
participated was at the school scenes. At first I was one of the kids
that was playing outside in the yard and then I was one of the kids
walking in the hallway of the school. I can't recall if I was in the
classroom, I haven't seen the movie since right after it came out and I
just ordered the DVD so I'll have to check it out.

The other day that I was on set in a state park that was in Malibu, CA
where they filmed several different scenes. One of which was a yellow
school bus with kids/drones on it. I was in that bus, just staring
forward with no expression, as per the direction from Tobe Hooper.

It was a fun experience and my first time ever in the movie biz so I'll
always have a special little place in my heart for this movie. Good
times!
<|_=00=_|>
Title: Invaders from Mars (1986) 

Director: Tobe Hooper (the man!) 

Cast: Karen Black, Hunter Carson, James Karen 

Review: Tobe Hoopers resume includes many great films (Texas Chainsaw
Massacre, Lifeforce, Poltergeist)...and many so-so ones (Spontanious
Combustion, The Mangler). Invaders from Mars the re-make of the
original alien invasion flick from the 1950's is one of his good ones.
Not great, just good.

Early on in the film an alien spaceship crashes in David Gardners back
yard, slowly but surely everyone in town starts acting weird...soon
David must be the one responsible for stopping the aliens from
conquering his home town...and maybe the world! This movie is a remake
of the 1950 original, and just by the simplicity of the story you can
tell that. It has that simple, light hearted, almost innocent feel that
the movies had back in those days. But Hooper adds his only brand of
weirdness and surrealism to the film that makes it feel like its some
sort of nightmare you might have had while falling asleep watching
midnight alien invasion films on your TV. Its the type of movie in
which people start acting not quite themselves and you get that "
something is wrong here" vibe going on, not unlike Invasion of the Body
Snatchers.

The aliens look great thanks to Stan Winstons always excellent work.
But I must admit they do seem kind of harmless. They don't seem like
they could be a threat. I mean yeah they got huge gaping mouths with
rows upon rows of teeth...but they feel dumb and stupid. For example
they have these big ass laser guns attached to their noggins...but they
get overtaken by the us army in the blink of an eye? Still, they look
cool. Specially their leader who looks like a huge giant brain that
comes out of a slimy worm-whole type of thing. If you ask me he also
looks pretty harmless....but who cares! They are supposed to be evil!
And they are trying to take over earth! Kill them! The sets are
awesome, the interior of the the ship is great looking, it kind of has
an organic look and feel to it. But it always beats the hell out of me
why aliens from mars would have disco lights inside of their ship. You
kind of get the feeling that at any moment an alien DJ is going to pop
up and spin a couple of cool tunes on his two turn tables and a
microphone. Anyhows, the over all effect looked cool so I ain't
complaining.

Obviously production values ain't the real problem with this flick. Its
sets and creatures are awesome looking.

The acting is what hurts this film a bit. Karen Black and the Kid just
didn't do it for me in certain scenes. The kid sucked as an actor which
explains why we probably haven't seen much of him in any other movie.
His dialog was to robotic. Like he just read it and blurted it out
without any actual thought or preparation as to what he was supposed to
be going through in the scene. Sorry dude, but facts are facts. The
only actors worth mentioning are the evil teacher and James Karen as
General Wilson kicking alien ass all over the place.

Invaders from Mars is the type of film you want to show your little kid
brother or cousin or son if you want to start him into horror. It goes
in my collection right along side other great kid friendly horror films
as The Monster Squad and The Gate. Give it a shot.

Rating: 31/2 out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
Director Tobe Hooper's remake of the 1953 classic takes the always
successful Amblin Entertainment formula made famous through films like
"E.T.: The Extra-terrestrial," "Space Camp," and "Explorers" and adds
his own flair. He takes those familiar ingredients and combines them
with frightening aliens intent on taking over the world one small town
at a time. 

In "Invaders from Mars," a boy (Hunter Carson) begins seeing his
parents and neighbors act like zombies. Is it a coincidence the
weirdness all started after a flying saucer landed in his back yard?

The big genre star in "Invaders from Mars" is veteran genre actor Karen
Black. She's perfectly cast in the role of the panicked and constantly
tormented school nurse who believes our young lead character is telling
the truth. Is she a little overdramatic and campy at times? Of course
she is she's Karen Black in a horror movie!

"Invaders from Mars" is rated PG in that wonderful way many 1970s and
1980s movies were. It contains a lot of content that would've merited
it at least PG-13 today. The movie includes violence but no real gore.
Many sequences will frighten younger viewers because of how the aliens
appear and the intensity they'll feel as the lead characters are chased
down. The young boy in the film has quite a filthy mouth, much like his
counterparts in several other movies featuring children experiencing
fantastic adventures in the 1980s.

"Invaders from Mars" will fit nicely with "The Goonies" and "The
Monster Squad." It has all the elements of the coming-of age films of
the 1980s directed and produced by Steven Spielberg, Robert Zemeckis,
and others. The only difference is it delves a bit deeper into the
horror and sci-fi realms. It's exactly the sort of genre movie you
would expect "Texas Chainsaw Massacre" and "Poltergeist" Director Tobe
Hooper would want to watch as an alienated (pun intended) boy.
<|_=00=_|>
I never understood the cult and loyalty that the original from 1951
seems to inspire.

Don't get me wrong i watched a lot of classic SF-movies, from "The day
the earth stood still", to "lesser" classics like "Earth vs. the flying
saucers", and i like a lot of them very much. Despite the cheesy
special effects, a lot of these movies are rather good. 

But to be honest, i never understood the cult about Invasion from Mars.
The movie is just terrible. The story is utter crap, and badly
executed. Most of the actors are horrible, and totally miscast. The
pacing is laughable, and there is no feeling of real danger or
suspense. The whole movie is just a terrible piece of cinema.

The remake on the other hand is a lot of fun. The actors are not
horrible, and the story is better than in the original and even more
complex. While the character development is not great, one can really
enjoy the development of the evil teacher and the generals favorite
officer.

There are a lot of very good and tense moments, which are supported by
the inspiring score.

I admit there are also a lot of problems. The acting for example is a
very mixed bag, but most of the main cast actors are OK. At least it's
not as horrible as in the original and the storytelling well above
average. The general for example is very well cast, and while he is a
hell of a cliché character, he is very likable, because he really cares
for his men. Hunter Carson is not bad as David, and so is Karen Black
as Linda.

All in all, this movie has an OK story, likable characters, a lot of
really good scenes, an awesome soundtrack, and some nice aliens.

The movie is well shot, entertaining and has a good score. It's well
worth the 10 bucks on DVD.
