

One thing to remember about "Bolero" is that the reason lots of people
went
to see it on its initial release was that the MPAA wanted to rate it "X".
Jon and Bo decided to release it without a rating in order to avoid having
to make cuts to their masterwork.  As a result, there was a lot of fanfare
around the release of "Bolero."  A whole lot of people (okay, let's be
completely honest--"a whole lot of men") flocked to the theaters because
of
this controversy, figuring, "Hey, if the MPAA wanted it to be 'X,' it must
be pretty steamy stuff.  So here's our golden opportunity to see what
those
darn censors tried to protect us from."

Having worked in a theater that exhibited "Bolero" on its first run in
1984,
I can attest to the fact that, during most showings, at least a third of
the
audience walked out before the half-way mark.  A lot of people demanded
their money back on this one.  To be frank, a fair number of them were
disappointed because they expected explicit pornography and instead only
got
soft-core.

Bo is in search of ecstasy--"E-X-T-A-S-Y," as her character says early in
the story.  Later in the movie, during a fantasy sequence, Bo sees a neon
sign that reads, "Extasy."  She says, "See?  I was right - 'X'," then
makes
an "X" in front of her face with her two index fingers.  (The scene is
actually much funnier in context (unintentionally funny, that is), but I
don't want to spoil the movie's only entertaining moment.)

Well, the MPAA was right - it should have been rated X.  While the camera
never gets as up-close and personal as one usually expects in pornography,
it still carefully focuses your attention where it wants you to look--and
I
don't mean "at Bo's eyes".  The camera even resorts to objectification a
few
times, showing people only from the neck to the hips--reducing people to
body parts because the filmmakers want you to focus only on the sex and to
forget about the characters and the plot, which is a basic staple of most
mainstream pornography.

"Bolero" seemed to want to be a fable with the moral, "Sex with someone
you
love is infinitely better than casual sex."  However, it tried to deliver
this moral through soft-core porn that is mostly centered around casual
sex,
which strikes me as a conflict of interests.

"Bolero" wants to be pornography, but it also wants to be a morality play.
It ultimately fails to be a good example of either one.  "Deep Throat" and
"The Opening of Misty Beethoven" had better plots, better scripts and
better
acting, and, to all appearances, their creators communicated their
intentions more successfully.

Like Tanya Roberts' "Sheena," if "Bolero" had been a little worse than it
is, it could have become a camp classic.  Sadly, the majority of "Bolero"
is
just plain not interesting.  When people really love or really hate a
movie,
you at least know that the movie has enough substance to evoke such strong
responses.  The main response that "Bolero" evoked from people was yawns,
which is one of the worst things a filmmaker can achieve.
<|_=00=_|>

I remember watching this movie at the theater when it came out.  I laughed
my butt off and embarrassed my husband.  I think he threatened to move on
several occasions.  But the lady that sat in front of me was laughing just
as hard.  Some other idiotic scene would happen, the lady would look back
at
me, and we would both start laughing.  Don't watch the movie expecting
something erotic and you may actually enjoy it.  I mean, come on guys,
would
you really want to make love to a woman after she rode a horse bare-back
while naked?  But the real kicker was when she finally found "the one" and
the neon sign started flashing the word exstacy and no I didn't misspell
that!  I've heard of bells going off, but neon signs?  If you watch it for
the "camp" factor, you may actually enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>

If you're looking for a well-scripted plot,believable characters,
firm
direction and seamless editing then Bolero is a strange film to
see.
I cannot believe that Bo Derek's character finds it impossible to
lose
her virginity anywhere but in Spain.  The film itself lacks
interesting
plot and characters and most of the time is just plain boring.
However,
I suspect that just about everyone, myself included, who
sees
this film only sees it for one thing - The Body, and it does
not
disappoint.  The lighting and camera work shows off Ms Derek's
shape
to best advantage although the end fantasy scene is spoilt by
flashes
of light.

I've given a rating of 3 for Bolero simply because The Body lifts
it
above 1.  If you want to see Bo derek's body, watch this or
Tarzan
the Ape Man.  If you want to watch anything else, watch something
else.

<|_=00=_|>

"Bo - Leer Oh!"

"What?"

"Bo Derek is easy on the eyes"

"So?"

"Bo Derek is easy on the eyes"

"Yes, but what about the story?"

"There is no story but Bo Derek is easy on the eyes ......
and parts of the sound track are very easy on the ears."

Unfortunately apart from this the film was a disaster which had a very
adverse effect on the careers, and probably also the  personal lives, of
those principally involved.
<|_=00=_|>

While this isn't the disaster that most everyone seems to think that it is,
"Bolero" is still pretty weak.  The storyline is okay, at least it was
enough to keep me mildly entertained, but I have to admit that the film was
certainly dragged down by Bo's inability to act.  The abduction scene
towards the end also stands out as rather pathetic, and I was unable to take
this movie seriously for the remaining few scenes.  In other words, there
are serious flaws that hamper this film, and I certainly don't recommend it,
but there is no way that this is one of the worst films of the
1980's. 
<|_=00=_|>
Lida (the sexy Bo Derek) is fresh out of the all-girls English boarding
school. Lida's last act of rebellion was to streak across the school
courtyard butt-naked. I think this is gonna be good. Finally earning
her inheritance upon graduation, Lida decides than she needs to do a
little globe-trotting to find the right man to make her a woman. With
her chauffeur and best friend in tow she sets out to lose her virginity
and the ways of love. She's out and about and looking for love.
MEEE-OWWWW! The lovely Derek parades her assets for all to see (her
husband, John Derek was the director) and very little will be left to
you imagination. This erotic drama is wonderfully filmed, whether the
English countryside, Spain or Bo's cleavage it all looks good. For what
it was the performances were as good as one could expect out of the
material which includes the lovely Olivia d' Abo in her first role. If
you like "The Blue Lagoon (1980)" or "Paradise (1982)" you probably
like "Bolero".
<|_=00=_|>

Ok, I admit it. BO has a beautiful body. And I will admit this too. Bolero
is so bad that it easily ranks as one of the worst movies ever made. The
most shocking part is Academy Award winner George Kennedy is in it(I guess
he likes Derek in the nude as well). Written and directed by her late
husband John Derek. >
<|_=00=_|>

I really don't think you will like this unless you are a fan of Bo Derek, or
someone else in the movie. Yes, I rented it because of Andrea Occhipinti. I
was really let down though. That is one of the stupidest movie I've seen! I
mean, other than the fact that Bo Derek is a total airhead that can't even
act, and ain't very pretty either, the plot is so weak!

I mean, she is supposed to play a 18 year old I guess, but she looks about
30! But anyway...she goes on a hunt to find someone to lose her virginity
too. (Yea, yea, I'm SURE she would be a virgin with the we she acted in the
beginning!) And she finds Angel (Occhipinti), and they hook up...And she's
obsessed with finding extacy w/him. There are a couple of really *detailed*
sex scenes! I was really suprised with that! If watching flaky Bo Derek in a
bad soft-core porno is your thing, then hey, go for it!

But this is just my opinion!  ~*~3/10~*~

<|_=00=_|>

Bo Derek plays a college graduate who is also a virgin - and she's
unconvincing on both counts. Yes, her belly-dancing scene is a highlight,
but did she have to wear so much make-up all the time? The rest of the
film
is a plotless, worthless affair, but at least it doesn't take itself all
that seriously; and it's this intentionally campy approach that keeps it
at
least semi-bearable.     (**)
<|_=00=_|>

I first saw this film on late night cable tv back in the late 80's.
And
what I saw was a movie in which its images will stay with me for a long
time. Although the actual film is nothing special, the tasteful nude sex
scenes are some of the most beautiful ever filmed. Sure, John Derek didn't
make a great picture and Bo's acting leaves much to be desired. But her
astounding beauty and her love scenes with Andrea Occhipinti are
great.
