
If one was to turn on David Lynch's The Elephant Man midway through,
without knowing what it was, one might be startled at the appearance of
the main character. One might even be tempted to make fun of the
character. But if one was to watch the film from the beginning, one's
sympathy with John Merrick (John Hurt), 'The Elephant Man,' would be
strong enough to deny that the former situation was ever a possibility.
Lynch does not allow his audience to glimpse Merrick sans mask until
his appearance has been built up substantially. When we the audience
are at our zenith of anticipation, we see him-no dramatic music, no
slow motion; a simple cut and he's there. There he is. And it's no big
deal. 

This is the beauty of Lynch's direction. We are led through our morbid
curiosity at the same rate the characters in the film are. We develop
alongside them. More specifically, we develop alongside Frederick
Treeves, played with an astounding sublimity of emotion by Anthony
Hopkins. Next to Treeves we pity Merrick, respect him, pity him again,
and then ask ourselves with him, 'is he just a spectacle to me? Am I a
bad person?'

Lynch certainly doesn't let us bypass this question easily. Are we bad
people for being intrigued or are we good people for pitying? Certainly
there is a mix of intrigue and pity with every character who first
meets John, and we are not excluded. However, as with almost every
character who truly comes to know John and confer with him, we learn to
respect him as a human being and not as a spectacle. Nonetheless, this
issue never finds close in the film, nor do I feel it ever can be
closed in actual life. Hopkin's Treeves is never fully sated in how he
feels about this dilemma, and so, neither can we be.

Technically, The Elephant Man is a beautifully shot film. In crisp
black and white, the film recalls the cinematic technique of American
cinema circa the 1930's. The scenes dissolve into one another; there is
no brisk editing. The lighting is kept low-key during dark scenes,
balanced during daytime scenes-this is standard film-making of the era.
The one digression from this form are the distinctly Lynchian
surrealities-pseudo-dream-sequences of commendably original imagery
that break up the film and serve as distinct mood-setters for the
audience. These are, for the most part, fairly intimidating sidenotes.
We as an audience are caught off-guard because in these tangents we are
not identifying with Treeves, we are put instead into Merrick's shoes.
It is unsettling.

But Lynch has never been a director to flinch at unsettling prospects.
We must watch Merrick beaten, abused, harassed, humiliated, and
tormented. We may feel a surge of happiness when he finally stands up
for himself, but by that point we still have to cope with what we've
already, what he's already, experienced. I suppose that is the greatest
and most devastating aspect of the film-empathy. Every moment is
heartbreaking. Yet no matter how hard it gets, and how much better it
then turns, there is always the threat of another jab. And those jabs
only get more and more painful.

The Elephant Man is a perfect film. It is sorrowful but it apologizes
not at all for it. It is a film about where our empathy stems from, a
film that asks you to feel sorry but rebukes you for your blind pity.
It asks you to respect Merrick, not cry for him. But you can't help
crying. The Elephant Man is a film that treks you through despair and
asks for your hope in the end. It asks you to hate humanity but to love
the humane. It asks you to look at a man who appears sad and know that
inside, he's okay.
<|_=00=_|>


This movie changed my life forever. To see someone so beautiful,
dignified, and unique, hidden behind a body and face that society
considers
ugly, made me realize how the body is a decaying pile of dust, but the
soul
is a breath-taking and uniquely formed indestructible diamond.

I believe that everyone should get a chance to see this film, for
those of an open mind, and a caring soul, there is nothing else like
it.

It also shows the detestable ways some people treat others. I felt
at
first pity for John Merrick, but then my feelings changed to admiration,
as
the film went on. John, in the film starts as a severely deformed mute
figure being badly mistreated, as the story progresses, he becomes the
hero.
A bold and courageous man, standing against the  evils of modern
society.

Joseph (John) Merrick, was a man so one-of-a-kind, that someone
else
like him physically or emotionally will never appear again. His life
should
be taken as an example to everyone.

As in the film, John's mother says "Nothing will Die", Joseph
Merrick
will live on in the hearts and souls of everyone who has witnessed the
story
of his life.

My love goes to Joseph Merrick, where ever he may
be.
<|_=00=_|>

I just watched this movie last night and i must say... it touched me in a
way no other movie has... some of the scenes even brought me to tears,
which
has never happened to me before.... John Hurt and Anthony Hopkins are
simple
incredible, and this movie is just filled with unforgettable scenes....

but like some people have mentioned here before, it is an incredibly hard
movie to watch, especially after you realize what a sweet, kind, smart and
innocent man John Merrick was, it is often painful to watch the way he's
treated by some people, and like Hopkins says after he sees him for the
first time "I pray to god that he's an idiot", sadly, he is everything but
that...

10/10, no question
<|_=00=_|>
There have been many films made dealing with an individual who's outer
appearance is completely at odds with their inner character. Some of
these films are quite good but this is by far and away the very best.
This is probably one of the most perfect films ever made. It succeeds
on every level. Visually it transports one into a dark, grey,
industrial nightmare of a world. It's within this world that we come to
discover true beauty. It lies within one hideously deformed, abused and
unfortunate soul who is being kicked around in this hellish existence.
The screenplay, acting, direction all come together to create this
extraordinary viewing experience. You really feel like you get inside
this man and his tortured existence. The ending is one of the most
effective and completely engrossing I've ever seen. Rarely does a film
find a way to leave us with such a sense of closure and lingering
fascination. The thing that really makes this film truly great is it
changes the way people see themselves, other people and the world. I
can still remember the palpable air of silence and awe over the
audience when leaving the theater both times I saw it on the big
screen. There's a transforming quality about it. You only need to read
the many other user comments to see how people were moved and changed
by this film. If you haven't seen it, it's a must!
<|_=00=_|>

David Lynch is a remarkable director and The Elephant Man is a remarkable
film. Inspired by a true story in the streets of London during the
Victorian
Age, the film is based entirely around the life of John Merrick (John
Hurt),
an individual dubbed by his `owner' Bytes (Freddie Jones) and others as
'The
Elephant Man' because of his hideous deformities. With this film, Lynch
grasps his audience and stretches them to a new parallel of an emotionally
capturing film. And what makes this so daunting and so intriguing is the
fact that 'The Elephant Man' is a true story, no part of it is fictional.
Anthony Hopkins plays Dr. Frederick Treves, the man who somewhat saves
John
from those who persecute him for being a freak, being a `monster.' A story
of human triumph could never be so remarkable as that of The Elephant
Man.
Lynch takes The Elephant Man to a new level of technical aspiration with a
dark, dank setting shot completely in black and white. This film is
amazing
and would undoubtedly be just okay any other way. The black and white adds
to the story in a way that touches the audience much deeper and much more
personal. Not to mention stunning performances and dialogue by all cast,
`David Lynch's portrait of John 'The Elephant Man' Merrick stands as one
of
the best biographies on film.' Literary critic Leslie Fiedler maintains
that
freaks stir `both supernatural terror and natural sympathies' because they
`challenge conventional boundaries between male and female, sexed and
sexless, animal and human, large and small, self and other.' In this very
interesting and moving film, we are challenged to clarify our values in
regard to `very special people.' However, in one powerful scene of tension
and curiosity, John Merrick screams out, `I am not an animal! I am a human
being! I.am.a man!' This particular sequence, I believe, is incredible and
it ties in with the whole focus of the film itself, human dignity and
emotion.
David Lynch is known for some pretty twisted films, and yet, The Elephant
Man is not that twisted at all. Even though his audience views John
Merrick
as not the average person because of his medical condition, the story is
cherished because of how it is put onto the big screen. Compared to his
other films such as Blue Velvet and Eraserhead, The Elephant Man is more
surreal in terms of what Lynch was going for. Lynch does a magnificent job
in portraying his version of The Elephant Man, and many people along with
critics alike agree.
I can easily rate The Elephant Man with four stars because David Lynch
deserves no less. The Elephant Man is a classic, a striking and
devastating
film depicting the account of John Merrick's search for a dignified and
normal life. I would definitely recommend this film to those in search of
a
wonderful story about one man's conquest to a regular life. Dr. Treves'
account with John not only presents him with respect and normalcy, but
also
takes him as far as an uplifting scene where upon John states `my life is
full because I know I am loved.'
With such an inspirational and true story, David Lynch puts on a film that
should be loved by many, if not all.

<|_=00=_|>
Man, this is a powerful and great movie. We are all moved different
degrees by different things, but to witness sincerely nice people being
treated cruelly always bothers me big- time....so this film is tough to
watch in spots. Some scenes are just painful and depressing to view. 

Whatever your sensitivity, the movie is very involving and hauntingly
shown with eerie black-and-white photography. Eerie, and downright
beautiful camera-work in here, so kudos to cinematographer Freddie
Francis, one of the best in the business.

A young Anthony Hopkins is very likable and John Hurt is, well, someone
you won't soon forget as John Merrick, "The Elephant Man."

This is an uplifting movie at times, too, not just a tear-jerker or
horrific in showing man's cruelty to man. Be prepared for an emotional
experience and an amazing story.
<|_=00=_|>

this is a brilliantly done film.  it is quite raw and blunt about its
subject matter, however, so it should not be viewed for "entertainment"
purposes, thought he story is inherently intriguing.  we must just sit and
watch in curiousity and amazement, but in concurrence with extreme sorrow,
as we are shown the brutality that john merrick must face as his reality.  a
smile from another human being, or even a pleasant greeting (which is
something that we all take for granted), is treated by this man as the
highest form of complimentary behavior possible.

one of the best films that i have ever seen.  it wouldnt be called a top 25
of all-time film by the public (though i may place it there), however, based
solely on the fact that it, as i mentioned earlier, is lacking in terms of
typical "entertainment" value.  even though you will certainly be immersed
the entire way through. ah, who knows! im not expressing myself very well.
make it a priority to see this film. enjoy

absolutely amazing and memorable - 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Hi all,

I saw this movie for the 1st time on 5th December 1999. I was about to go
to
sleep as it was about 00-40 in the morning and I flicked over to the movie
and even though I was falling asleep as I flicked over to it, within  five
minutes I was wide awake and totally captivated.

Everyone knows the tale of John Merrick, it is so sad and painful to watch
and see a man with above average intelligence trapped by his physical
deformity and to be physically and mentally abused and tortured for a few
meagre pence.

I thought Sir John Gieulgud(?) and Sir Anthony Hopkins were both excellent
in their respective roles. John Hurt did Merrick proud.

I had a bit more than water in my eye on 4 occasions during this movie and
not ashamed to admit it either. This is the 1st movie to make me cry.

On the Kleenex scale - Titanic is 1 and this is 10!

A movie not to be missed but be prepared to be disgusted and upset by the
story told.

ThePM

<|_=00=_|>

I first saw The Elephant Man at its pre-release showing in 1980, and it
struck an immediate and resonant chord with me.  Few movies are like this,
and it remains (many viewings later) one of my top 10 films of all
time.

The plot is presented well in other reviews here, so I will not repeat it
or
comment further.  Of the film itself I would only add that it is without
doubt the most mature and satisfying of David Lynch's works - in many ways
it is the final, polished jewel carved from the rough and ugly (but
fascinating) diamond of Eraserhead, with the self-conscious artiness and
juvenile qualities of the earlier film distilled into a potent and poignant
statement on the human condition.

Some critics have dismissed The Elephant Man as an exercise in emotional
manipulation, however I believe this completely misses the point.  All
films
are manipulative to some degree, but it is a manipulation in which we as an
audience engage by consent.  The Elephant Man will stand the final test and
it will be appreciated fully by future audiences, in much the same way as
Citizen Kane had to wait for some decades until audiences  were able to
fully comprehend its greatness.
<|_=00=_|>

Between the surreal dystopia of Eraserhead and the artistic immobility of
Dune, and before critics labeled him as the auteur of Weird America with
permanent marker, David Lynch directed this strange but true story set in
London, England during the late 1800's.  Being one of only two films of
his
to be based on fact it is far less of a personal work than those generated
by the director himself.  Despite his sensibilities being contained in a
more formal framework his unique aural and visual style (like the sound of
blowing wind or the peculiar emphasis of the industrial machinery of the
period)clearly comes across, although it's a far cry from the narrative
conundrums that comprise Eraserhead, Lost Highway, or Mulholland
Dr.

The year before this film was released Bernard Pomerance's play opened on
Broadway.  This film is not based upon the former work and the latter
takes
a dramatically divergent path with its namesake subject.  One of the most
substantial is Merrick's role in his adoptive society once his carnival
career is truncated.  Pomerance's tale is a tragic one showing us how
Merrick becomes caught in the machinery of the repressive and hypocritical
society that cultivates him, tempting him with the illusion of normality
with the artificial world they erect around him, but ultimately
imprisoning
him within it.  The film depicts Victorian society as a benevolent
sanctuary
for a man, who while given the props to model himself after the normality
he
aspires to, is never deceived into thinking he can achieve it beyond his
imagination.  Merrick's own realization of this is clear in a scene
(hauntingly scored by composer John Morris)where he asks his caretaker
Treeves if he can cure him.  Treeves' reply is no.  Merrick's response is
of
a man who knew the answer all along but still allows himself the
indulgence
to dream.

Treeves' struggles are similarly reduced.  The closest he comes in the
film
to questioning his motives concerning Merrick is a brief scene where he
asks
his wife (and audience) if his seemingly charitable act of taking Merrick
from his sideshow squalor was possibly something other than altruistic.
Pomerance has Treeves questioning the artificial social fabric that's been
woven around Merrick and his undeniable complicity in it.  The
screenwriters
seem less concerned with tackling these Victorian dilemmas than focusing
on
the beauty in the beast theme.  Considering Lynch's fascination with
organic
phenomena this focus seems much more up his alley.  In his words Lynch has
stated that the eponymous title character is "this beautiful soul trapped
in
this horrible body and that's what the whole film is about."  Yes siree
Bob.

Much less effective in the film is the role of the actress Madge Kendall
who's really nothing more than a walk on by Anne Bancroft.  There is
some(even subtly sexual)awkwardness between Merrick and Kendall at the
beginning of their meeting together but it ultimately winds up with a
scene
that feels patronizing towards Merrick and mawkish.  It doesn't fit with
the
earlier tension and Kendall never becomes anything more than a well acted
cameo.  Much more effective is Merrick's ability to retain the power to
disturb the bourgeois society that flocks to see him once he becomes that
season's fashionable curiosity.  His transformation into a gentrified
version of his erstwhile sawdust and calliope music carnival persona still
has the same effect on others.  In one scene he is serving tea to a
noticeably unnerved aristocratic couple who are guests of his.  Their cups
rattle against their saucers in barely restrained horror as he discusses
his
mother's beauty in the context of his own deformity.  His cherished
portrait
of his mother becomes an eerily recurring visual motif.  She remains a
mysterious presence frozen in time.  The conflation of Merrick and his
mother recalls a line heard early in the film that "life is full of
surprises."

Merrick's background remains equally enigmatic.  The only glimpse we see
of
his past are some creepily abstract images during one of his nightmares.
Even his beginnings are fictionalized as part of the sideshow spiel
recited
by his owner Bytes.  Treeves' first view of the elephant man is in a
private
showing by Bytes.  He is led down a dark corridor to a room where the
terrible freak is kept concealed behind a curtain.  Only the flames of a
gas
lamp illuminate the darkness.  Bytes spins a tale of a terrifying
encounter
between woman and elephant while Treeves stares, mouth agape.  The scene
has
a strange Lynchian spookiness about it.

The costume and production design authentically breathe life into the
Victorian era while Freddie Francis' expressionistic monochrome adds both
verisimilitude and a sense of an alternative world.  These elements
together
with Lynch's use of both nightmarish and chimerical images, an other
worldly
atmosphere, pathos and sentiment, make the film a sort of Charles Dickens
tale wrapped inside The Twilight Zone with the ethereal touch of a
haunting
dream.  The past a la Lynch.      
