

This is the one of the movies that kicked off the buddy cop formula. 
Technically, Nick Nolte's the only cop, but other films have tried to
imitate the style by having a tough, cranky, by-the-book cop (Nolte's
character) paired off with a loose, easygoing, unorthodox cop (like Murphy's
character).  Some of these "imitators" have failed miserably and even those
that succeeded don't match up to "48 Hours."  

I haven't seen the unedited version of this movie in over ten years (it
plays on TV like 4 times every month), and even when I did catch it on TV, I
caught it in bits and pieces.  Now that I've seen it straight-through, in
its uncut form, I can regard this as an overlooked classic.  Watching Nolte
as the gruff, chain-smoking Jack, I thought to myself, "He owns that part." 
Many actors have tried to take on that same role, but nobody plays it better
than Nolte.  And the same goes for Eddie Murphy.  His talent has been taken
for granted over the recent years, since his career has hit a major slump. 
And rightfully so.  He should choose his roles much more wisely.  How do you
from doing such fun, memorable films as "48 Hours," "Coming to America" and
"Trading Places" to doing "Showtime" and "I-Spy."  This movie proves that
Murphy can go leaps and bounds with his comic talent, if the script is
well-written.  The scene in the all-white, country-western bar, where Murphy
shows off his skills as an interrogator, is a classic. 

The film is directed by Walter Hill, who's great at directing action
sequences.  So the movie packs a punch in both the action and comedy
department.  Nolte and Murphy's chemistry is priceless, and the banter
between them is sharp and hilarious.  One of my favorite examples is when
Murphy asks Nolte, "Can you tell me a bedtime story?"  Nolte responds, "F**k
you."  "That's my favorite one."  Of course, Murphy gets most of the credit
for being the comic relief, and he is terrific in one of his best comic
performances, but Nolte belts out just as many funny lines as him, though
he's the official straight man.  He never seems to say anything
intentionally funny, but that's what's funny.  He says things that are
hilarious, but sounds dead serious about them.  And of course, it's also
hilarious to watch him react furiously to Murphy's taunts. 

Those who haven't seen "48 Hours" should really check it out, because it's
an action classic!  Sure, the "Rush Hour" films are good, but Chris Tucker
and Jackie Chan don't have close to the same magic as Nick Nolte and Eddie
Murphy!  THIS is how an action/comedy is made!!

My score:  9 (out of 10)
<|_=00=_|>

   It's the chemistry between Nolte and Murphy that makes this work, plus
the fact that both men really attempt to 'get into the skin' of their
character, something mostly ignored in other examples of this genre. 
Director Hill knows he's got a great team in front of the camera, and all
that remains is for him to incorporate some spectacular action sequences
around them.  This he does competently.  That one-two punch is what gives
the movie its fireworks.

   The banter and situations concerning the characters are also gleefully
un-PC.  It'd be interesting to see what a studio and director would make of
the same premise in these 'enlightened' times.  Murphy's comic stage persona
is less restrained here than it would be in later films, and the results are
often shamefully funny.

   Don't expect Shakespeare, there's far too much cursing and other
unsavoury shenanigans going on for that; do expect a pacy and entertaining
early example of the 'buddy thriller'.


<|_=00=_|>

It seems that after 48 HRS, buddy cop movies had a simple plot. Catch the
bad guys while being as funny and silly as possible. There is alot of bad
buddy cop movies, this is one of the best. Considering one is a cop and the
other is a convict it shouldn't really be considered a buddy cop movie. I
watched this film a couple of days ago because it had been awhile since I
watched it a thousand times on cable television as a kid. I was surprised at
the amount of racial comments made in this film, I guess as a child I didn't
really pay attention to those comments. The movie is still solid, definitely
one of Walter Hill's best films. Eddie Murphy is perfecting his onscreen
personality in his first film. Beverley Hills Cop wasn't far behind. Nick
Nolte feels like a tired detective in this film. Nolte has always seemed
like the perfect tired private eye or detective to me. The rough voice, the
lined and aged face, he just seems right. The movie is exciting and tight,
one of the best action films of the eighties.
<|_=00=_|>

Nick Nolte is well-cast as the average tough, somewhat maverick cop who gets
involved in a case involving an escaped convict and his partner and their
psychopathic rampage through San Francisco. He's forced to enlist the help
of fast-talking incarcerated con man Eddie Murphy, who has dealt with one of
the killers in past. Murphy insists he be let out for 48 hours in order to
secure a stash of money he has that the killer wants. Nolte and Murphy are a
mismatched pair, Murphy being the sly young criminal, Nolte being a tough,
somewhat ignorant cop who tires easily of his partner's fast mouth and
wayward way of giving information, and constant attempts at getting a
gun.

There's one good scene where Murphy walks into a redneck cowboy joint with a
bet about what it takes to be taken seriously as a cop, and trades places
with Nolte as a detective trying to get information on where one of the guys
is. Later on, Nolte and Murphy get into a fight because Murphy won't say
what he knows the escaped killer is after.

Walter Hill creates one of the best cop movies ever, and a perfect movie to
act as Murphy's first real vehicle for his comedy style. However, this is
not comedy like, say, "Trading Places." This movie is more the comedy style
of the first "Lethal Weapon" movie. Alternately serious and
funny.
<|_=00=_|>

48HRS. (1982) *** Nick Nolte, Eddie Murphy, James Remar, David Patrick
Kelly, Sonny Landham, Frank McRae, Brion James.  One of the best `buddy'
action films of all time: Nolte is in rare form as perpetually growling,
angry heavy – drinking San Francisco cop Jack Gates who has his hands full
when a crazed cop-killing escaped con and his partner go on a rampage with
his only resort being motormouthed, street smart Reggie Hammond (Murphy in
his scene-stealing big screen debut that made him an overnight sensation in
addition to lighting the fuse while the star of `Saturday Night Live') who
coincidentally is serving a sentence for being one of the maniac's former
crew members on their last gig together (a cache of money only Reggie knows
where is hidden).  With only 48 hours on leave from the joint the odd couple
are forced to help each other overcoming their own racism, violent means and
genuine opposites attract mojo working in overdrive.  High octane action
directed sleekly by Walter Hill and the unexpurgated energetic glee Murphy
exudes kicks the film into overdrive.  Look for The Busboys (Eddie's fave
band) providing the ironic cover of `The Boys Are Back in  Town' and for
trivia buffs, that's Olivia Brown as the object of Eddie's libido, who would
go on to co-star in tv's `Miami Vice' and indie star Chris Mulkey in a bit
part as a uniformed cop.  
<|_=00=_|>
Walter Hill is one of those directors who seems never to make an
average film. His movies are, generally-speaking, either very good or
very bad. 48 Hours is one of his "very good" offerings. It gives Eddie
Murphy one of cinema's most unforgettable movie debuts, and invents the
conventions of the buddy cop genre that were to become blueprints for
years to come. Every buddy picture after 1982 - including Lethal
Weapon, The Last Boy Scout, Fled, Bad Boys, and a thousand more - owes
something to 48 Hours.

The film opens with psychopathic Albert Ganz (James Remar) escaping
from a chain gang. Determined to track down Ganz, tough cop Jack Cates
(Nick Nolte) springs a fast-talking convict named Reggie Hammond (Eddie
Murphy) from jail for forty-eight hours, during which time the
mismatched duo must find their quarry. Cates doesn't like blacks, and
Hammond doesn't like cops, so before they can even get to the business
of tracking down their man they first have to come to terms with
working alongside each other.

Fast-paced, energetic, foul-mouthed and funny, 48 Hours is simply a
great ride. Nolte underplays brilliantly, wisely allowing Murphy to
handle the loud and showy role while he etches a gruff, rugged
characterisation as a cop on the warpath. The leading characters are
rounded off wonderfully by James Remar, as a genuinely bad "baddie". If
the plot to 48 Hours sounds like a collection of all the clichés and
predictabilities that ruin most films, it's important to remember that
before this film nothing like it had really been done. These plot
devices and conventions are only considered "cliches" nowadays because
48 Hours was so influential, not to mention frequently-imitated, in the
ensuing years. James Horner's music score is perfectly judged too.
Finally, no review of 48 Hours would be complete without some
acknowledgment of the film's most famous scene. I'm talking - of course
- about the bit where Murphy causes a stir in a redneck bar. More often
than not famous movie scenes fail to live up to their lofty reputation,
but in this case that simply isn't so. It really is an electrifying
screen moment.... in a film that really is an electrifying screen
experience!
<|_=00=_|>
A seriously edgy and explosive thriller about an untidy yet tenacious
San Francisco cop, Jack Cates (Nick Nolte), who must take Reggie
Hammond (Eddie Murphy), an ultra-cocky convict with him and search
around the city for a brutish cop-killer, Ganz (James Remar)and his
nearly out-spoken Indian accomplice, Billy Bear (Sonny Landham) and
take them down in less than forty-eight hours. What made me enjoy the
movie is the trust and respect that the Murphy and Nolte characters
begin to show, even there are moments where they want to pound each
other's head in. In addition to Nolte and Murphy (who's in his film
debut), Remar is pretty good here despite having a limited amount of
screen time. The photography of the city by Ric Waite is well,
excellent and the skillful direction by Walter Hill can't go unnoticed.
"48 Hrs." may not look as well-crafted as "The French Connection", but
Hill sure knows how to make something memorable out of nothing.
<|_=00=_|>

Only a privileged few who remember "48 Hrs." acknowledge it as the primary
influence of the buddy-cop films of the 80's ("Lethal Weapon", "Miami
Vice").  Nick Nolte plays Jack Cates, a rusty, cranky, tough-guy cop working
the homicide department in San Francisco.  When a violent chain-gang escape
reunites two hardened criminals (the greasy-looking Ganz and a towering
Indian named Billy Bear) who subsequently murder two police officers and a
prison guard, Cates is assigned to babysit paroled convict Reggie Hammond
(Eddie Murphy), an old member of Ganz's gang.  Reggie has been released for
one weekend (hence the title) to aid Jack in capturing these two
cop-killers.  Unbeknownst to Cates, Ganz & Billy Bear are not simply out on
a killing spree but rather in search of a very important briefcase that
belongs to Reggie.

I can't think of another film debut as explosive as Eddie Murphy in "48
Hrs.", even though Murphy's work on "Saturday Night Live" already tossed him
into the public's consciousness.  It's also worth noting that because
director Walter Hill is known for casting interracial leads in his
non-western films ("Brewster's Millions", "Crossroads", "Supernova"), never
before had we seen a black man act like this in a movie; assured, aggressive
and confident to the point of being cocky.  It would be easy to dismiss
Murphy's character as a black stereotype; well-dressed, horny,
smooth-talking, bantering, but Murphy pulls his character away from
stereotype cobwebs with unfiltered charisma and instinct.  Think of it, most
people who now wail away the chorus to "Roxanne" are invoking Murphy instead
of Sting (and what a hilarious introduction that is).  Also, there is the
unforgettable sequence where Reggie takes over a redneck bar, posing as a
cop!  It's the most magnetic scene in the film, and Murphy delivers ("You
know what I am?  I'm your worst f***in' nightmare!  That's right I'm a
nigger with a badge and I got permission to kick your f***in' ass whenever I
feel like it.")

Obviously, this film wasn't written as a comedy.  Nolte spends much of his
time hurling every kind of racial epithet imaginable at Murphy when he's not
chain-smoking or guzzling from a flask.  Murphy injects his humor into the
story without disrupting the movie's violently grim tone, and Murphy & Nolte
are excellent at creating an oil-and-water duo that keeps them at odds for
most of the film.  There are no stylistic explosions, but there are some
tense gunfights including a chase scene in a train station and a shootout
that employs a convertible and a public bus.  Composer James Horner, who
would come to prominence in the 90's as one of the more reverent film
composers, creates an unusual, percussion-driven score heavy with Caribbean
flavor.  It's works well, adding an element of heat while Jack & Reggie
cruise San Francisco with the top down.  The film has thankfully dated
pretty well, and sometimes even holds the faint resemblance of a 1970's cop
film (I'm sure interracial blaxploitation movies like "Across 110th Street"
served their influence).  Of all of Walter Hill's work, "Crossroads" remains
closest to my heart, but this is certainly his most mature effort.  Expect
to laugh, but expect to be shaken too.
<|_=00=_|>
This gritty city buddy picture about an incorruptible, hard-as-nails,
San Francisco plainclothes detective and a convict on a weekend pass
who team up to track down a couple of ruthless, cold-blooded killers
with a half-million dollars at stake qualifies as an above-average
opus. Nick Nolte was well on his way to super-stardom when he shared
the screen with "Saturday Night Live" sensation Eddie Murphy in his
feature film debut. "Hard Times" writer & director Walter Hill and
scenarist Roger Spottiswoode deserve credit for conjuring up--with
co-scribes Larry Gross of "Streets of Fire" and Steven E. de Souza of
"Die Hard"--a tough-guy action thriller that was short of originality
but long on the charisma that its two stars generated. Reportedly,
producer Lawrence Gordon had an idea that barely resembled the outcome.
In the Gordon premise, a criminal abducts the Louisiana governor's
daughter, attaches an explosive device to her head, and demands ransom
in 48 hours. The brutal cop assigned to the case recruits the
kidnapper's prison cell mate to assist him on the investigation.
Actually, they could have made the Gordon plot as a straight-to-video
spin-off. 

After a hardened criminal, Albert Ganz (James Remar of "The Warriors"),
escapes from a California chain-gang, Ganz with his crazy-as-a-loon
Indian partner Billy Bear (Sonny Landham of "Predator"), they head for
San Francisco to get the cash that their cohorts, Luther (Daniel
Patrick Kelly of "The Warriors") and Reggie Hammond (Eddie Murphy) have
secretly stashed in a convertible WV sports car in a garage. Rough-hewn
Jack Cates (Nick Nolte of "North Dallas Forty") decides to take a
chance on a loud-mouthed convict who knows Ganz. Reggie has served
almost three years on his sentence in San Quentin with six months left
when Cates comes a-calling. Reggie convinces Cates to spring him and
Cates forges a signature to get Reggie out of stir. The two have a hard
time getting along initially but by the dust has settled, they are
literally as thick-as-thieves. The shoot-outs are as thuggish as the
characters squeezing the trigger as our heroes hunt down the
hair-trigger villains. Neither Ganz nor Billy Bear show any qualms
about blasting cops and taking hostages. Literally, there is never a
dull moment. "48 HRS" may not have been the first cops and robbers
shoot'em up in the 80s to feature a foul-mouthed, screaming police
superior--Frank McRae fits the bill to a tee--but it was probably near
the top. 

Some say "48 HRS" spawned the police buddy picture genre, but they are
presumptious. The earliest buddy picture about cops was "In the Heat of
the Night" (1967) with Sidney Poitier and Rod Steiger. "48 HRS" might
have inspired the pairings of other stars in an urban actioneer, and
the Jack Cates character served as a prototype for Mel Gibson's
suicidal "Lethal Weapon" hero Martin Riggs. You cannot help but wonder
if Spottiswoode and Hill weren't inspired by Akira Kurosawa's 1949
crime thriller "Stray Dog" because Cates loses his .44 Smith & Wesson
revolver early on during the action. Cates is trying to help Detective
Algren (Jonathan Banks of "Beverly Hills Cop") and Detective Vanzant
(James Keane of "Apocalypse Now") make an arrest at the Walden Hotel.
Ganz surprises the cops when he slips out of his room by another door
and comes up behind them in the hallway. A gunfight erupts. Vanzant
takes a couple of slugs in the chest, and Ganz threatens to finish off
Algren. Ganz grabs Cates' handgun just as Toshirô Mifune lost his
pistol in "Stray Dog." Nolte and Murphy make a perfectly matched but
mismatched heroic pair who spend most of their time in each other's
faces. They develop a grudging respect for each other after a savage
slugfest on the sidewalk. Miraculously, Reggie's Giorgio Armani suit
isn't torn to shreds during their knock-down, drag-out brawl. These
guys run into more trouble from the law as they close in on Ganz and
Billy. At least twice they find themselves interfered with by men in
blue. Eventually, they corner the villains in Chinatown and blast it
out with them. The ending with Ganz holding Reggie at gunpoint as a
human shield against the sullen Cates is straight out of "Dirty Harry."
The relentless action, the wisecracking--mostly improvised--dialogue,
and memorable performances by Nolte and Murphy boost this routine
thriller. Murphy's scene in a redneck bar as he masquerades as a cop
makes this police movie worth watching. Indeed, Murphy garnered an
Golden Globe nomination for his debut performance. Hill anted up a
sequel "Another 48 HRS" about eight years later with Nolte and Murphy
reprising their roles.
<|_=00=_|>
The incredible box office success of "48 Hours" was attributable to its
brilliant combination of action, pace and comedy and the pairing of a
couple of guys whose relationship was a continuous source of
entertainment. This formula proved to be so successful that it blazed
the trail for the whole genre of "buddy cop movies" that followed. "48
Hours" was also significant, however, for being Eddie Murphy's first
film and the one that made him into an instant star.

Detective Sergeant Jack Cates (Nick Nolte) is a tough San Francisco cop
who's out for revenge after two of his colleagues are killed by escaped
convicts Albert Ganz (James Remar) and Billy Bear (Sonny Landham) in a
shootout at a local apartment building. Jack's investigations soon
reveal that another member of their gang is still in prison serving a
three-year sentence for robbery and so he arranges for Reggie Hammond
(Eddie Murphy) to be released on a 48 hour pass so that he can help to
track down the two killers.

Reggie proves to be useful in assisting Jack's pursuit of Ganz and Bear
who'd killed a couple of guards when they broke out of prison and are
now intent on finding the $500,000 that they stole before being sent to
jail. Reggie discloses that the money was stashed away in the trunk of
his car which had been parked in a garage for the 30 months that he'd
been in prison. Predictably though, Jack and Reggie's mission to
recover the money and bring Ganz and Bear to justice within the 48
hours available, proves to be both challenging and extremely dangerous.

The relationship between Jack and Reggie is so highly-charged as it
develops from open hostility to mutual respect (and eventually
friendship) that it becomes absolutely fascinating to watch. It's also
incredibly funny because they're so different and their interactions
are so abrasive. The dialogue is sharp, witty and often coarse and when
they trade insults (in pre-politically correct language) their
brilliantly-written quick-fire exchanges are delivered with tremendous
panache.

Nick Nolte is excellent as the gruff, hard-drinking detective who
chain-smokes, always looks dishevelled and has a totally dysfunctional
relationship with his badly-treated girlfriend Elaine (Annette
O'Toole). Eddie Murphy is sensational as Reggie, who's a fast-talking,
wisecracking, smartly-dressed ladies man with a lot of attitude and
reasons of his own for being prepared to help Jack. Murphy's first
appearance in the movie is very memorable because of the excruciating
way in which he sings "Roxanne" and the now-legendary scene in which he
takes control of a redneck bar while posing as a police officer is
still terrific and laugh-out-loud funny.

In retrospect, it's clear that, as well as being a fantastically
successful movie that's hugely entertaining, "48 Hours" also proved to
be far more influential than anyone could possibly have imagined at the
time of its original release.
