
This 1987 film is a wonderful combination of sci-fi, comedy, romance
and thriller elements. It is briskly paced despite being almost two
hours in length, and features superb performances from the leads;
Dennis Quaid is excellent as usual, as is Meg Ryan in her best role.
Yet the plaudits must go to Martin Short in a truly great performance
he has never matched. He just needs the right role. The supporting cast
are great as well; the delightful villainy of Vernon Wells who is
unrecognisable as usual! Also Robert Picardo camping it up superbly as
The Cowboy, one of his most memorable creations, plus the great pairing
of Fiona Lewis and Kevin McCarthy, who memorably says to his dog before
feeding it: 'Never beg, never beg!' The cinematography and special
effects/makeup are all great as well, and Jerry Goldsmith's score is
brilliant, perfectly complementing the tone of the film, alternately
exciting/sprightly/romantic. Joe Dante binds it all together with
magnificent verve, plus Dick Miller makes his trademark appearance! A
great, timeless classic. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie offers perfect entertainment.

The main characters and the performances by the actors are very good
and comical. The movie is filled with some crazy 'not-so-everyday'
characters and the villains are deliciously stereotyped and highly
entertaining and there are some simply hilarious moments throughout the
movie.

The movie can be described as an adventure science-fiction comedy.
Surely the movie will not be remembered as one of the best of all time
but I will always remember this movie as a very entertaining one and of
which I have some very fond childhood memories.

The nice 'unknown' musical score by Jerry Goldsmith is very good, I
actually watched this movie in honor of his death the day he had died,
on 21 July 2004.

As long as you don't expect a masterpiece and merely want to be
entertained, this movie is perfectly recommendable. Also very watchable
for the entire family.

7/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>

What a funny thrill ride this movie is!  A man (Dennis Quaid) volunteers to
be shrunk down to the size of a cell and injected into a rabbit. But
terrorists are after this scientific breakthrough and by various hijinks he
winds up being injected into the butt of a nervous grocery clerk, played by
Martin Short.  And that's just the beginning.

Innerspace shows Dennis Quaid at his most winning, and Short at his
funniest.  And of course, there's a very young Meg Ryan as their love
interest.  The jokes resonate with both kids and adults, and unlike most
action-adventure films, the plot here is never short of ideas.  And the
effects are pretty neat too: as we see Quaid's character wander within the
human body, we feel as much amazement and wonder as he does.  LOTS of movies
attempt to put you in outer space and worlds far away, but I can't think of
one that has made the creative attempt of exploring our inner
space.

I first saw "Innerspace" when I was 11.  I didn't know who any of the lead
actors were.  I'd never seen Saturday Night Live.  And I thought it was a
great movie.  Twelve years and hundreds of movies later, I still think it's
wonderful.
<|_=00=_|>
Tuck Pendleton (Dennis Quaid) is a hotshot Navy pilot on an unusual and
top secret mission; he is to be shrunk down and injected into the body
of a rabbit, but when things go wrong he ends up inside Jack Putter
(Martin Short) instead. Jack must now work with Tuck in order to stay
alive; and it's a great ride.

All the cast are good in this film, but Martin Short is brilliant; it's
wall to wall action, adventure and laughs, and with a little romance
thrown in, it's a winner. The special effects are outstanding for the
time and Joe Dante's direction is excellent.

Innerspace is fun for the whole family 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Why INNERSPACE was not the hit it should have been will remain a mystery for
years to come. And old concept (FANTASTIC VOYAGE) is given an update with
spectacular (for the time, but still good) special effects and an excellent
cast. Martin Short is a real delight as a neurotic supermarket clerk who at
first thinks he's possessed, only to discover that the only thing in his
body is a miniaturized Navy test pilot, Dennis Quaid, who was accidently
injected into him instead of a lab rabbit. Meg Ryan is cute as ever, and
Robert Picardo co-stars in one of his best roles, The Cowboy. The late
screenwriter Jeffrey Boam keeps the story simple but allows for some good
suspense and laughs, and director Joe Dante keeps the pacing just right. The
battle between Quaid and an enemy inside Short's stomach is the highlight of
the film. I remember how much I wanted to be Quaid's Tuck Pendleton (and
have his little pod) when I first saw the movie. The ending seems obvious
for a sequel, but due to the film's surprising box office failure, it was
not to be. Still, this is a really fun movie for the whole family, and I
hope a Special Edition DVD is not far away.
<|_=00=_|>


INNERSPACE (1987) *** Dennis Quaid, Martin Short, Meg Ryan, Kevin
McCarthy.
Fast-paced and frenzily funny action/comedy/sci-fi film with Quaid as a
washed up military pilot who volunteers to be miniaturized in a
scientific
experiment a la "Fantastic Voyage" inside a bunny but is mistakenly
injected
into hyper hypochondriacal Short (in arguably his finest comic role) who
provides the physical comedy with Ryan as Quaid's long-suffering
journalist
girlfriend.  Nice performances and some truly eye-popping Oscar-winning
visuals.  Directed by Joe Dante

<|_=00=_|>
This is an updated "Fantastic Voyage" and interestingly done, I
thought. Joe Dante directed a number of fun movies to watch.

It's not the innocent Steven Spielberg "E.T."-like movie I expected
because of the language and several sex jokes. In other words, this is
not a kids' movie.

Dennis Quaid stars and plays his usual cocky self. (He's mellowed in
recent years.) Meg Ryan is her usual cute-but-of-little-substance self
and Martin Short is just plain funny - the best guy in the movie.

The film offers a good combination of humor and science-fiction
suspense. It's a fun movie I would rate higher if it weren't so silly
in spots.
<|_=00=_|>

I just saw this movie today, and I must say, it was rather interesting.  The
scenery looked like something out of a Walt Disney World attraction, and the
special effects were good, making this a very fascinating
movie.

"Innerspace" is about a pilot, Tuck (Dennis Quaid) who is accidentally
injected in grocery store assistant manager Jack (Martin Short) when the
needle was originally intended for a rabbit.  Jack had only 1 day to get
Tuck out before his air supply ran out, making for an interesting
plot.

Martin Short was hysterical in this strange comedy that kind of looks like
"All of Me."  He physically thrashes around, and the comedy suits him
perfectly.  Dennis Quaid is good in the role of Tuck, who is arrogant, and
begins to appreciate things after this little "incident."

Of course, no movie would be complete without key scenes that add to the
movie.  And of course, no movie review would be complete without mention of
these favorite scenes.  The scene where Tuck and Jack get drunk off of
Southern Comfort together was a riot, because I was wondering how much JAck
actually drank.  I like how he hiccupped and stumbled around, while Tuck
asked, "Jack, are you drunk?"  My other favorite scene was when Jack first
hears voices and yells "I"M POSSESSED!"  The fact that the first scene that
introduces him in the doctor's office sets the stage, so we know he's a
hypocondriac.

This movie was very funny and very cute at the end (won't give it away). 
Although it plays like a Disney attraction,it probably would be cool.  I
highly recommend this movie to Martin Short, Dennis Quaid, or Meg Ryan fans.
 Watch out for the vaccinations, and definitely don't ignore that little
voice inside you, it could be a space pod.  Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
Joe Dante may be the zaniest director out there, along with Tim Burton.
"Matinee" is my favorite of his movies, but "Innerspace" is certainly
also up there. For the for couple of minutes, I couldn't figure out
what was going on, but suddenly, the plot became clear. Lt. Tuck
Pendleton (Dennis Quaid) is shrunk down to the size of a dust speck to
be injected into an animal - a la "Fantastic Voyage". But then, a
terrorist group seizes the lab and one of the scientists carries the
hypodermic out. With his last bit of strength, he injects Tuck into
local dweeb Jack Putter (Martin Short) - without informing Jack of
this. From there, some very embarrassing predicaments arise for the two
men, not the least of which is how to explain the situation to explain
to Tuck's hubby Lydia Maxwell (Meg Ryan).

Throughout, "Innerspace" has Dante's quirky mark all over it. Dante of
course gives a role to Dick Miller: in this case, Miller plays a cab
driver. Dante regulars Kevin McCarthy and Robert Picardo also star, the
former as villain Victor Scrimshaw, the latter as Scrimshaw's associate
Cowboy. With some crazy lines, this movie is pure fun for everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
When Joe Dante wanted to do a remake of Fantastic Voyage, I liked the
way he decided to make his version into a comedy. I was surprised to
discover that this film wasn't too successful, because I believe
Innerspace is good solid entertainment, albeit daft.

The story begins when Lt Tuck Pendleton (Dennis Quaid), an excellent
pilot but an irresponsible hard drinker volunteers for a highly unusual
experiment. He will be placed inside a submersible pod, and with the
use of two microchips, be miniaturised and injected into a laboratory
rabbit (called Bugs, what is it about Joe Dante and Looney Tunes
characters anyway?).

But just after Tuck has been shrunk, a group of Silicon Valley
industrial spies break into the lab, and steal one of the microchips
necessary to reverse the miniaturisation process. In desperation, one
of the scientists (Ozzie) runs with the syringe Tuck is in, and injects
him into the body of Jack Putter (Martin Short).

Jack is a stressed out hypochondriac who is terrified of life, and
learning that a shrunken human being is inside his body doesn't make
him any less neurotic. With Tuck and Jack now having to depend on each
other for survival, they team up with Tuck's ex girlfriend Lydia
Maxwell (Meg Ryan) to recover the stolen chip before Tuck's air supply
runs out.

I must confess to being a sucker for these loser comes out on top
stories, and this film is no exception. Jack is a man who has nothing
going for him in life, but with Tuck urging him on, Jack manages to
find inner confidence he never knew he had and takes control of his
life.

Both Tuck and Jack's characters go through changes in this film. Seeing
the world through Jack's eyes, Tuck begins to reflect upon the mistakes
he has made in his life. His irresponsible behaviour and heavy drinking
was responsible for Lydia breaking up with him, and he wouldn't be in
the situation he's in now if he hadn't recklessly gone through with
this hare brained experiment.

Dennis Quaid makes a likable character as Tuck, because although he is
a wise guy, his pep talks to Jack are quite inspiring and how you can
learn to take control of your own destiny.

Martin Short is also a likable hero as Jack, although he does have a
tendency to go over the top. Although he is supposed to be neurotic,
his antics can grate on you a little on occasion. Some of his antics
can be funny too, such as the crazy dance he does in Tuck's apartment,
and yelling "I'm possessed" when he first hears Tuck's voice inside his
head.

The different scrapes they get into are quite exciting, such as Jack's
hanging on for dear life at the back of a refrigerated truck (although
it is a little overlong). Tuck's battle with one of the spies inside
Jack's body is very well done, and the method of killing him is quite
innovative too.

One of the funniest scenes is when Tuck alters Jack's face to look like
The Cowboy (Robert Picardo), someone who has come to buy the microchip
off Scrimshaw (Kevin McCarthy), the man responsible for stealing the
chip in the first place. The special FX for these scenes are pretty
amazing, and the look on everyone's faces during these transformations
are priceless.

The FX used for inside Jack's body are incredible, and are totally
realistic. One of the best scenes is when Tuck is nearly pulled into
Jack's heart, and is very nail biting. Another good scene is when Tuck
ends up in Lydia's body through a kiss with Jack, and sees his unborn
child in her womb. That is a very awe inspiring scene, and is worthy of
the same fascination that made Fantastic Voyage great.

I believe this is a criminally underrated film. Admittedly, its a hard
film to swallow, with things like altering Jack's face to look like
someone else. How exactly could you do that? But this is a Joe Dante
film, so you have to suspend disbelief a little. Meg Ryan isn't given
enough to do, and its a pity her character couldn't have been given
enough development.

There are also a lot of things happening in this film, and not
everything is tied up like it should have been. The way Innerspace
ends, there could have been a sequel, but so far it hasn't been
followed up. With Dennis Quaid's and Meg Ryan's divorce that doesn't
seem very likely now.

Still, Quaid has got a brilliant rapport with Short, and some (if not
all) of the important matters are resolved. Its an entertaining film,
and you find yourself being pulled along for the ride whether you like
it or not. After Gremlins, Innerspace is my favourite Joe Dante film.
