
This Sylvester Stallone movie may be his best because, unlike most of
his more famous roles over the years, this is very believable. He isn't
Rambo or Rocky...just a tough New York City cop.

Stallone and partner Billy Dee Williams team up in an attempt to stop a
terrifying international terrorist (Rutger Hauer) before he kills more
people. All three of those actors are riveting in this rough, gritty
film.

I thought so much of this movie that I bought it twice. The first DVD
that came out was fullscreen, no stereo and grainy. Later, they issued
a better widescreen print and it was worth upgrading. The movie is a
top-notch thriller start-to-finish and Hauer makes an outstanding
villain.

It might be a cliché but this film always "kept m on the edge of my
seat. "
<|_=00=_|>

It was 1981 and the world had just gone through a decade of terrorism.
Casting Rutger Hauer and Persis Khambatta (she was the bald woman in the
original Star Trek movie) as heartlessly cold terrorists was great casting!
Billy Dee Williams and Stallone as street cops suddenly transferred to a
terrorist unit do a good job. Stallone had not become a parody of himself
yet and his diction is better here than it had ever been up to
then.
The movie's pace is unrelenting. This is a movie that I almost always have
to stop and watch, easily getting swiped up into the story again and again,
when I see it on television.
Excellent twist ending and monorail scene. Recommended
highly.
<|_=00=_|>

Remember a day when Rutger Hauer starred in good movies that actually
saw wide theatrical release? No. Hmmmm. Hauer is one of my favorite
actors and stars in two of my top ten favorite movies (Blade Runner and
The Osterman Weekend), so it's hard not to already be slightly biased
about the movie. I remember first hearing about Nighthawks on the
Headliners and Legends biography of Stallone and how it was not as well
received as his Rocky and First Blood movies. For shame, because
Nighthawks does manage to be a top notch thriller most of the time. I
could go into the plot, but I believe in telling people what I liked
and disliked instead of parroting the plot details like almost every
other review. (See, a movie to me is more fun when I only know a little
about the story, instead of the first hour or so, because someone felt
that they had to readers digest the entire film.)

Anyway, now that I've ranted, I have to admit that I enjoyed it for the
most part, with the exception of the initial pacing. It continues to
drag in places towards the middle, and takes a little over an hour to
set up the crucial players backgrounds. The only real problem is that
every time the film stops to focus on DeSilva (Stallone) and Fox
(Williams), it spends twice as much time focusing on Wulfgar. Wulfgar
is certainly a well crafted maniac, but when the movie is over we know
almost nothing about Fox and only a little about Dee DeSilva. Still,
the movie does succeed in making you care about our two main
characters, by thrusting them into danger and having them do what is
morally right (i.e. Towards the beginning of the film the two are in a
drug raid, and refuse to take bribes from the perps who had apparently
already paid off the cops from the first raid on their operation.

They're good cops, and it's their good guy image that endears them). I
guess it would have been nice also to see a little more of Stallones
relation to what's her name. (sorry, I haven't seen this in a about a
month now.) I was interested in the prospect of a hero who was torn
between the relation with his ex (who he was trying to re-ignite the
flame with), and his duty. But, alas, she was just a narrative device
who the writers have decided is only important in the last 15 minutes
or so.

With all these cons, why did I still like it? Sudden scenes of high
impact, good cast and acting all around, a villain who wasn't just a
cardboard cutout, and Stallone's bitchin' beard, and a wholly
convincing scenario.

The bottom line: This film is more akin to The French Connection than
it is to Rocky. Methodical and often stylish, NightHawks deserves to at
least be rented and watched with an open mind.

8 Stars out of 10

<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the best action movies out there, even to this day.  It's a
must see especially for Stallone fans. If he chose more of this type of
movie, he would be much more respected in Hollywood. Rutger Hauer is
awesome
as Wulfgar, the international terrorist.  All performances are notable,
Billy Dee Williams/Sylvester Stallone pairing works well.  Stallone really
is a great actor, given the right material, and this one certainly
provides
it.  It's a shame he sold out with the "Rocky" sequels.
<|_=00=_|>
Wulfgar (Rutger Hauer) is an international terrorist not to be taken
lightly He is wanted by half the countries in Europe He is currently
financed by no one... He becomes trapped as 'Persona Non Grata'

Wulfgar manages to succeed where others have failed His pattern is the
instilling of fear He makes female contacts to establish safe housing
for his armory He always covers a woman who is clean... He loses one,
he finds another... He has a liking for fancy food, expensive clothes
and the most varied nightlife

Wulfgar doesn't think like a criminal He wants to be a hero Since the
London incidents, he wants to prove himself as invincible as he ever
was So he decides to change his look, and strikes without warning...
Wulfgar's associate is Shakka Holland (Persis Khambatta), a pretty cool
woman, with no maternal instincts, who murders without apparent
provocation

DaSilva (Sylvester Stallone) wants to treat Wulfgar like 'some mugger'
on the streets He makes a mistake when he finds himself unexpectedly
facing the malevolent killer... He refuses to act in the same
ruthlessness Wulfgar does, and to use deadly force in defense of the
lives of innocent hostages He hesitates to shoot and kill DaSilva
rejected to pay attention to the impact of the terrorist's actions on
his thinking and beliefs This mistake enables the best policeman to
meet the dangerous terrorist on equal terms

'Nighthawks' turns out to be surprisingly interesting Rutger Hauer
easily holds our attention throughout the film He is a disciplined
terrorist indifferent to his victims, cold and calculating His mission
to harm the enemy transcends any concern about his victims For
Wulfgar, the end justifies the means... 

Stallone and Billy Dee Williams make good partners Stallone doesn't
play his usual character, the ruthless policeman who combats violence
with greater violence He seems to be more human desperately trying to
do the right thing at the right time
<|_=00=_|>
Long before terrorism was on the minds of most Americans, NIGHTHAWKS
tackled the thorny topic. Sylvester Stallone and Billy Dee Williams are
decoy cops -- that is, they venture into rough neighborhoods to bait
muggers and other forms of scum -- assigned to track down the cold and
calculating Rutger Hauer. It seems the devious mastermind has landed in
the media capital of the world, New York City, to try and regain his
place among the terrorist elite.

Although it's a fairly decent action/suspense effort, NIGHTHAWKS is
difficult to recommend unconditionally. The performances are certainly
solid; in fact, it's hard to remember Stallone, here sporting a thin
beard, being so effective outside of boxing trunks. The action is crisp
and exhilarating, with one pursuit through subterranean New York
deserving of a place in the Chase Hall of Fame. The story is original
and much of the plot intriguing. And Hauer, in his American film debut,
is a suitably hateful villain, with his motives all to familiar to
contemporary audiences.

Yet NIGHTHAWKS is not quite as good as the sum of its parts. Even
though the film starts out with a bang -- literally -- there's somehow
too much build-up and not enough execution. The movie has not aged
particularly well, and despite its 1981 release date has the feel of a
'70s period piece. And as good as Hauer is, his character is a little
too incredible to believe as he pulls off massive acts of terror with
little or no sponsorship; what should take a team of experts is
accomplished by one man wanted by countless law enforcement agencies.

In the end, NIGHTHAWKS is a movie you're bound to like -- either a
little bit or a lot. Considering the high ratio of garbage that has and
will continue to spew out of Hollywood, I guess that's not such a bad
thing.
<|_=00=_|>

Finally, Sly Stallone stars in a film that he really deserves to appear in!
He and Billy Dee Williams make a great team as two no-nonsense New York cops
who chase Rutger Hauer, who has a great role as a remorseless terrorist
(then again, no terrorist has a heart of gold!) Though he's totally
unrecognizable with a long beard, Stallone does an exceptionally good
performance because unlike his other cop roles, such as Ray Tango from
"Tango and Cash", Sly doesn't portray a cocky character, which makes it very
realistic. However, our hero doesn't show his muscles in this flick, but, it
proves that you don't have to be brawny to be a tough guy.

Hauer is also perfect, playing what he does best, an oily villian. He might
look very suave at first in this film, but when he shows his true colors,
you better watch out. Last but not least is Billy Dee Williams, who does a
cool Roger Murtaughesque cop who relies on his partner Sly to do the
job.

If you're in the mood for suspense and good chase scenes, "Nighthawks" is
your gameplan. Look out for the great conclusion. It might cause you a great
deal of shock!
<|_=00=_|>
I was happy to see Premiere magazine remember this flick when they
ranked the 100 Best Thrillers of All Time, and after reading today that
its director has passed on, I can only hope more people will give it a
first or second look. Time has of course given it extra relevance, but
there are three reasons for checking this one out: 

1. As hinted above, in the post-9/11 world, its theme of terrorists
plotting an attack in New York City seems eerily prophetic.

2. Sylvester Stallone gives an uncharacteristically muted performance
that comes off as extremely effective.

3. That ending? They got me. They totally got me.

Director Bruce Malmuth's work here was competent enough to make one
wonder just a little if he didn't deserve better projects than he got
after this.
<|_=00=_|>

A great movie is Nighthawks starring Sylvester Stallone! But he's not
the only star in this film because Billy Dee Williams, Rutger Hauer,
and Lindsay Wagner joins him in this thrilling action film! Also look
for Persis Khambatta, Nigel Davenport, and Thomas Rosales Jr.! This is
a very good movie! Stallone performs excellently here! Its one of the
best performances that I have seen him do! Williams was good and Hauer
also was very good! The action is awesome in this movie! I just love
how the movie is made. The music by Keith Emerson was very good and
great direction by Bruce Malmuth as well! In My opinion this movie is a
classic! If you like these actors I have mentioned and love action
films then buy this movie today! I strongly recommend it!

<|_=00=_|>
Conservative street cop DaSilva reluctantly agrees to terminate an
international terrorist who has demanded media attention. But DaSilva's
"at-home" tactics are very much put to the challenge. Nighthawks is one
of Stallone's very first action films although it's a crime thriller
mostly and it works thanks to his really good performance, Rutger Hauer
as Wulfgar in one of his best performances besides Blade Runner of
course and Billy Dee Williams from Star Wars and Batman the 1989
classic. What i loved about this film except the acting is some of the
very well done shots for example the eye contact between Dasilva and
Wulfgar was easily one of the best scenes in the film or when Wulfgar
injured his friend and Dasilva started screaming inside the station
very powerful sequence. As for the ending although it's a bit over the
top it reminds me an old 70's horror film or action film when you saw
the guy who shoots the other person and the camera starts shaking and i
found that very creative and very well shot it's a movie that is worth
your time a lot.
