

When I was a lot younger and 'traditional hand-drawn animation,' to
quote Mr. Eisner, wasn't dead, I was a fan of Ralph Bakshi. Sort of the
anti-Disney, Bakshi did counter-culture movies like Fritz the Cat
(which Robert Crumb hated so much he subsequently killed off the
character), Wizards (a midnight movie staple for years), and the
unfortunately named Coonskin, which was nearly incomprehensible. Bakshi
was a sort of cultural renegade, offering up in animation what no one
else could – basically, he made animated films for adults – and
following his own warped vision of how things should be. Probably his
highest profile work was his 1978 version of Lord of the Rings, a movie
I still enjoy to this day. Problem is, aside from Rings, none of
Bakshi's films ever made any money, and an attempt to go commercial
with 1981's American Pop fizzled (granted, it was an uneven film).
Bakshi returned to the genre that he'd done the best with – swords and
sorcery – for 1983's Fire and Ice. 70s megastar artist Frank Frazetta
designed most of the characters and did a fair amount of pre-production
art (some of which, in true Bakshi fashion, shows up in montages in the
film). It was a teaming up of the greatest fantasy artist if the day
and the only animator who could have brought his stuff to life with any
accuracy. The film was scripted by Roy Thomas, famous for working on
Marvel Comics' Conan series, and Gerry Conway, another comics writer.
That's a lot of genre talent for a small animated film.

Fire and Ice is no classic. It probably marks the pinnacle of
rotoscoping and is a beautifully rendered film. There's a scant excuse
for a plot and the characters are wafer thin, but the joy of the film
is in the design and animation. This one really is eye candy, and I
don't know if any of those involved with its creation ever aimed higher
than making an animated Frazetta painting. Certainly they achieved that
in spades.

Fire and Ice is achingly simple in its set up. Evil Ice Lord Nekron (a
Bakshi staple name, used previously in Wizards) uses his magic powers
to crush his enemies with a rapidly moving glacier. He also has a bunch
of orcs (call them what they are) at his command who wipe out anyone
who dodges the ice. Next up on his deep freeze: Fire Keep, run by King
Jerol, who controls the lava, etc. The story centers mostly around a
young man named Larn, the stereotypical hottie boy with long hair who
runs around in a loincloth. After his village is iced, Larn encounters
Jerol's ample daughter, Teegra, a Frazetta gal if ever there were one;
body by Pamela Anderson, wardrobe by Frederick's of Hollywood. Aside
from the pretty pictures, this would have been a forgettable flick if
not for the presence of Dark Wolf, a mysterious warrior who's part
Batman, part Superman, and all bad-ass. Dark Wolf's fun to watch, and
he elevates the movie into the realm of the watchable.

The dialogue is pretty bad and the story is cliché-ridden, but Fire and
Ice is still fun in a dopey kind of way. Some of the elements could
have made a decent fantasy pulp novel, and a lot of the designs are
pretty neat. Bakshi made better films than this (Wizards, Rings) but he
made worse, too (most of the rest of his stuff). I wouldn't recommend
this for anyone other than Bakshi fans or animation die-hards, or
someone who really likes the fantasy genre. But it's light, brainless
fun, and in my mind deserves not to be forgotten to the dustbin of
obscurity.

June 8, 2004

<|_=00=_|>

I own Ralph Bakshis forgotten masterpiece Fire & Ice on an old OOP rental
videotape.

 Well for one thing, this is better than any other Conan-esque film you'll
ever see. Sure, it's cheesy, but who cares? It stood the test of time, and
the only way it started to look cheesy is in comparisons to modern fantasy
epics like LOTR:FOTR (though I love that film.)

 The plot goes like this: After a battle between Fire & Ice, a kings
daughter is kidnapped by Jarols (Ice) subhuman creatures, while a sole
survivor of a victimized village rescues her.

 Yeah it doesn't sound as a original as Nurse Betty, but that's not the
point. It is really to bring to life an interesting idea of a world of two
enemies: Fire & Ice. And it succeeds.

 As for the action scenes: superb. They are well handled, have terrific
suspence, and have plenty of loud noises. Just check out the climatic
battle, now THAT'S an ending!

 The acting and dialogue: competent. Really. They aren't gonna be nominated
for an Oscar, but they are OK and don't get on your nerves.

 The animation is quite good. Shot on 3D and rotoscoped (I THINK), it looks
pretty good. A lot of the backgrounds look really detailed and well drawn,
and although the character designs feel a little 1-dimentional, they are OK.

 Overall, this is a fine neglected little gem and will entertain you more
than any of the superfical "entertainment". 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

I first saw this film way back, probably when I was 7 or 8 years old
and it impressed me then as it does now. I'm a fan of animation in
general be it anime, American animation or otherwise. The beautiful
animation of this film holds up well even today in our age of computer
animated everything. In fact, every new animated film that comes out
uses the same tried and true crappy looking mix of CGI and animation
and to be honest, I'm tired of it. I miss those days of hand painted,
hand drawn animation. This is a fine example of bygone days where
animation got along just fine without the use of bad looking CGI and
computer overlayed animation. This is an excellent film and anyone at
all interested in fantasy, D&D or just animation in general should most
definitely find yourself a copy of this film.

-Daguon

<|_=00=_|>

Outstanding... it is a masterpiece of its time. The details and the beauty
of human figures are so smoothly pictured here. It is truly one of the best
animated movies ever made. The gesture and motion is perfect and look at
those brush strokes background
whenever the casts run. So beautifully made.

It is a mature movie and intended to be appreciated maturely...
<|_=00=_|>

When I saw this animation for first time (I was 15 maybe) I was really
impressed! It has completely different style compared to the japan
animation and i kinda like it more. Tho whole impression of the movie
is more sinister and dark...The colors are not that ...colorous. The
Characters don't talk much, there are no long and boring conversations
of this and that (like in Ghost in the Shell).With its dark pictures,
views of strange beasts and sense of magic, it looks like one of those
ancient Scandinavian stories, full of violence and horrendous creators,
enchanted forests and deep caves, dwelled by dragons, throlls,
orks...and one mysterious hero to stop evil...

<|_=00=_|>

Why this movie has all but disappeared into obscurity is an absolute crime.
"Conan" is perhaps the only Sword and Sorcery movie better. The brutal
violence, cool character designs, and good pacing, make this one of the best
fantasies around. It is certainly the greatest animated movie aimed at a
more adult audience that I have ever seen. This is not similar to Bakshi's
usual frenetic style. It's quite a departure for Bakshi, and in my opinion
his best work. I hope that this film gets the recognition it deserves.

<|_=00=_|>

Forget "Wizards", this is the best Ralph Bakshi ever has given! Using
Frank
Frazetta's characters and art, he created this beautiful and stunning epic
that has more life and interest than any other movie he has done. Wheras
"Wizards" just is confusing and way too cartoonish to be taken seriously,
"Fire and Ice" never shows any humor or cartoonish elements. It is simply
a
straight foward and to-the-point action cartoon. It also is a bit deeper
and
interesting than most of the other "sword and sorcery" movies in the 80s.
Definately recommended!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Fire and Ice is Ralph Bakshi's animated vision of Frank Frazetta's
fantasy world (who even assisted in the making of this feature). The
story is your basic tale of good verse evil; a ruthless sorcerer and
his mother are intent on taking over the world, using their power to
spawn ice glaciers to achieve this goal. Their last resistance is Fire
Keep, a city built around a volcano. Really, the story and characters
are kept simple while the showcase of this movie is the animation and
action. Bakshi uses a process known as rotoscoping in this film (not
his first time though). Rotoscoping is when actors are shot in live
action and then later drawn over and added into the backgrounds.
Nowadays, you might call it a form of motion capture. Anyway, the
effect is actually pretty cool, bringing a certain realism to the
characters that is absent from traditional animation. Keeping this in
mind, we now come to the action in this movie, of which there is
plenty. The movie only takes breaks to set up the next scene of combat
for our two warrior heroes. It's often rather brutal, involving swords,
spears, axes, and arrows. Aside from taking on gangs of Subhumans (the
evil foot soldiers), there are also a few mythical-type creatures to
deal with. Fire and Ice is the third Bakshi production I've seen and at
that, the best. While I think it could've been better, it's still a
fairly fun and entertaining fantasy picture, and I believe that's all
it's meant to be. The Limited Edition DVD from Blue Underground does
the movie justice with a decent transfer (the video shows some age but
the audio is fine) and a few featurettes. There's also a sufficient
commentary with Lance Laspina and Bakshi, who comes off as a bit of a
jerk. Finally, the set includes Laspina's documentary, Frazetta:
Painting with Fire.

By the way, for those in the know, John would love Princess Teegra, a
voluptuous, scantly-clad lady right out of one of Frazetta's pictures!
<|_=00=_|>

Picked up the movie at the flea market for 4 bucks, sure did get my moneys
worth!.  Could care-less about the hot babes but the animation just blew me
away after a steady diet of Simpsons (Sorry Mr. Groening).  The best part,
facial expressions.  Recommend multiple viewings with some cool tunes, good
friends and a couple of cold ones!  
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this film not long after it came out, and loved it.  If there is
one
film that I would recommend to see if you love Fantasy/Fiction or
Animation,
then this is it.  I was very pleased that they have now released it on
DVD,
if you would like to know where to get it from please feel free to
contact
me.  Definately one to see and unforgettable
