
Steven Spielberg claimed his greatest inspiration in becoming a
director was Sir David Lean. In motivating him in making a film, a Lean
epic would lift his spirits and inspire ideas. Evidence of his marks of
appreciations are in famous Indiana Jones shots, an eye for
breathtaking vistas - Empire Of The Sun being most evident (which was
originally a David Lean project). The legendary British director, who's
larger than life approach to film exhilarated audiences around the
globe with immortal classics as 'The Bridge On The River Kwai',
'Lawrence Of Arabia' and 'Doctor Zhivago', made an unexpected return in
1984, 22 years following the last epic with one of the most mythically
dream like productions ever to grace the silver screen. He took us on a
journey to picturesque India with his trademark scope in crisp
cinematography which filled our lungs with the most breathtaking
scenery. The new generation must rediscover the works of this great
human being who bestowed upon us some of the most memorable, fantastic,
larger than life epic experiences that have inspired countless
directors in their work. 'A Passage To India' is no exception. It is a
heart-wrenching, nightmarishly beautiful film, at the same time so
dream like, it transports you to another world that penetrates through
the spirit of self discovery.

Reminiscent of a famous Australian film "Picnic At Hanging Rock"
containing similar themes, a masterpiece directed by the poetic film
maker Peter Weir, this powerful entry is one of the most memorable
films of the 1980's.

The film follows the intersection of two unlikely people, English lady
Ms. Adela Quested (Judy Davis) and an Indian man Dr. Aziz (Victor
Banerjee) during India's British rule in the roaring twenties. It is
Adela's first time out of England as she is on her way to visit India
to meet her fiancé who's a judge in colonial British territory.
Accompanying her is her friend and future mother in law Mrs. Moore
(Peggy Ashcroft) who shares common interests with Adela in wanting to
see real India - in experiencing the countryside and meeting real
Indians. To their astonishment however, they soon realize that the
occupying English populace aren't as enthusiastic about the idea of
making close contact with these everyday Indians, believing India is
best experienced at a distance. But to Adela's hesitation to her
surroundings, she insists on organizing an expedition for sight-seeing.
Her new found friend and school teacher Richard Fielding (James Fox)
assembles a group of well-read, knowledgeable Indians to guide them
throughout the expedition, composing Professor Godbole (Alec Guiness)
and Dr. Aziz (who by chance acquainted himself with Mrs. Moore the
previous night). It isn't long before Adela and Aziz begin to explore
interests in one another, but in an untouched natural overwhelming
utopia that is India, what happens to Adela in a mystical cave far from
home ends as a controversy that threatens to tear Indian/British
relations into chaos.

The film explores the themes of repression, illusion, racism,
tolerance, forgiveness, self-discovery and justice all piled up into an
unforgettable symbolically and visually breathtaking masterpiece.

What we have here is one of the most emotionally engaging character
studies in film history. The film's setting is genius in portraying
self discovery in an unfamiliar place far from home. Like in 'Picnic At
Hanging Rock', there is strong emphasis on repression and loss of place
and time, creating a most delusional reality. Most importantly, it
points out the political oppression to perfection, clearly showing
English attitudes toward the very people they invaded. Human nature is
the film's primary focus. Adele Quested and Dr. Aziz both learn
important lessons the hard way, but never-the-less become stronger
human beings.

This almost mythical film absolutely drew me into this world David Lean
so brilliantly brought to the screen. One of the films greatest
highlights was the moving, magical, subtle and haunting score composed
by legendary Maurice Jarre. It influenced the film's atmosphere so
vividly, it fascinates every time I hear it. The cinematography came as
no surprise to me and this is David Lean at his indisputable best. I
was left grasping for air following the film's poignant conclusion. You
feel almost like you're there every time. He is the master at creating
an unforgettable atmosphere on an epic scale. This film was literally
like a Passage To India.

The cast was expertly selected. Judy Davis is perhaps one the greatest
actresses that ever walked into a film set. Her commanding physical
presence extracts such unforgettable performances, it leaves people in
awe of her talent. Her portrayal of Adela is extremely realistic and
you feel her emotions with such power. James Fox turns in a very
convincing performance as the man who stands for justice, for those who
can't gain it. Alec Guiness is arguably out of place as an Indian
scholar, but I believe he brought a nice touch to the film - he is one
of the greatest actors in the world. Besides, his role wasn't big
enough to criticize. Peggy Ashcroft gave in a marvelous performance of
a woman who sees the injustices only too well and can't stand the fact
that little is being done to compromise.

Everything about this film suggests it is the makings of a true artist.
And everything about this film suggests that David Lean was a
perfectionist who never lost his touch. It is easily one of the most
beautiful, haunting, mystical and awe inspiring films ever made. I
recommend it to anybody who loves film and better yet, to whoever
hasn't seen a David Lean film before. This is the perfect place to
start.
<|_=00=_|>

Never mind whether or not it's as good as "The Bridge on the River Kwai",
"Lawrence of Arabia", "Doctor Zhivago", et al.; the point is, it's a great
film that was clearly made by the same David Lean that made the earlier
masterpieces.

The stuff that usually gets dismissed with a wave of the hand - the art
direction, the music (Maurice Jarre reserved his best scores for David Lean,
although there's less music here than there usually is), the photography,
the editing, the indefinable assuredness of narrative flow - everything that
makes up the heart and soul of cinema, in fact - is as marvellous as ever.
It's amazing enough when you consider that this was Lean's first film in
fourteen years. More astonishing is that it was the first film on which he's
credited as editor in forty-two years. Forty-two years earlier, he was
working for Michael Powell (the only other British director as good as
Lean), who considered him the best editor in the world; and while Lean's
wielding the scissors again after all that time may have made very little
difference to his overall style, I still think there's something special -
even more special than usual - about the way "A Passage to India" flows.
Maybe it's that Lean adapted the screenplay, then shot it, then cut it
himself, but he has such an strong feel for the pulse of the story, such an
unerring feel for what follows from what, that even the several jump cuts -
jump cuts are usually the most ugly, the most offensively flashy, and the
most intrusive of all cinematic devices - are beautiful, natural, even
classical. In a way you don't notice that they're there.

I've never heard it said that two-time collaborators Powell and Lean have
much in common - and they don't. But of all David Lean's creations this one
comes closest to being like a Powell and Pressburger picture. There's an
element of mysticism (threatening as well as comforting) darting in and out
of the story with such fleetness and subtlety that it's hard to tell when
it's there and when it's not; and, of course, the incident at the caves
(explained exactly as much as it needs to be, and no more) could as easily
have come from one of Pressburger's scripts as from Forster's novel. If
you've seen "Black Narcissus", admittedly a very different kind of film, you
don't need me to draw attention to the points of similarity.

Lean's imagery may be less openly bizarre than Powell's but the effect can
be much the same. "A Passage to India", although it lacks the beauty of the
films of the three Lean films shot by Freddie Young, contains Lean's most
disturbingly powerful shots, yet they're of such things as these: monkeys
(echoed later on in the film by a startling shot of a man dressed like a
monkey - actually, that IS the kind of thing I can see Powell doing),
someone clutching her hand to her chest, the moon, the first raindrops of a
storm hitting a dirty window pane, even water - simple cutaway shots of
nothing but moonlit water.

I haven't read the book, but I do know that if you HAVE to have read the
book to see what's wrong with the film, why, then, there's nothing wrong
with it. I don't know how much of the book has been lost in the translation
but I do know that if too much has been lost to make a rich and powerful
film, then whatever has been lost has been more than adequately
replaced.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes, what you don't see can be of equal importance to what you do
see in a film. David Lean's film is no exception ... but more on that
later.

A film of epic quality, it follows two travelers on their journey from
England to India during the Raj colonial period of the 1920s. For Adela
Quested, it's her first time out of England to anywhere. For Mrs.
Moore, it's a chance to visit her son, Ronny, who is expected to marry
Adela during the visit. But, their visit is not without incident.

What both Adela and Mrs. Moore discover is an India ruled by British
bureaucrats (Ronny being one of them, a city magistrate) who exude
personal and cultural superiority over Indians. This was a shock to
them since they both expected to find Indians and Britons meeting
socially and on friendly terms. The only exception to that rule appears
to be Fielding, principal of a college.

Through Fielding, Adela is introduced socially to Professor Godbole (a
Hindu holy man) and Dr. Aziz (a Muslim physician). Mrs. Moore met Aziz
in a previous scene but had not yet met Godbole until that moment. One
note on that (a film flaw). During the mosque scene where Mrs. Moore
meets Dr. Aziz, Aziz never once mentions his name to her ... yet later,
Adela knows his name as mentioned to her by Mrs. Moore. Perhaps his
name was mentioned in a brief scene that ended up on the cutting-room
floor. But, that omission is trivial and in no way detracts from the
enjoyment of the film.

During this social introduction, Aziz invites Mrs. Moore and Adela on a
journey to the Marabar caves, a tourist destination. On the trip, and
tired from all the activity, Mrs. Moore stays at the encampment near
the lower caves and encourages Aziz and Adela to explore the higher
caves alone.

Then, something happened ... and I won't tell you what (grin). Suffice
it to say that Aziz finds himself in police custody. A court trial
ensues that pits culture against culture, race against race, and
clearly demonstrates the differences in attitudes between resident
British citizens and Indians. But the trial's climax isn't the most
moving part of the film. Lean has risen the film's denouement to a
higher level ... one that leaves you smiling and crying at the same
time. But what Lean does NOT mention in the film is equally
interesting.

In today's world, India is beset by inter-sect angst between Hindus,
Muslims, Sikhs, and persons of other faiths. In theory, this inter-sect
rivalry has been around since before India became a British colony.
But, this rivalry was not mentioned once in the film. It is perhaps a
testament to the novelist (E.M. Forster) and Lean to realize a potent
underlying force in the story ... that British colonial rule held these
rivalries in abeyance ... uniting Indians of all faiths into a common
bond that eventually forced colonialism to end in India.

The film is a masterpiece on every level and remains one of my
favorites of all time.

P.S. Closing comment to those (like me) who own region-free DVD players
that render both PAL and NTSC DVDs. For some reason unknown to me, it's
over $10 cheaper to buy the DVD from Amazon.co.uk than it is from
Amazon.com ... even after overseas shipping is added in. That's where I
ordered mine (from the UK).
<|_=00=_|>
Films based on novels (as in this case) must rely on screenplays which
condense the material, and supply either voice-overs, or visuals to
explain what is going on in a character's head. Usually, a voice-over
is a cop-out. David Lean has provided a brilliant substitute for a
voice-over in the scene where Adela wanders on her bicycle into the
bush to discover a Hindu temple. A central mystery in the book as well
as in the film is the ambiguity of the cause for the court case.
Forster said that judgment was up to the reader. Lean was a reader, and
in my view, he made his decision, and provided us with a clue in that
scene (which is not in the book). Here is that scene: Adela leaves the
safe British compound on an exploratory trip with a bicycle. She leaves
the highway, and cycles down a path through the weeds. The sign- post,
which had appeared quite natural when she looked at it, now looks like
a Christian Cross when she leaves the road and goes down the path. The
music changes from a major key to the minor, suggesting mystery, or
menace. She is leaving her familiar culture and riding into the
unknown. She sees a fallen sculpture. A voluptuous sculpture. She
doesn't turn back. As she rides farther, the weeds grow higher. She is
being engulfed by India. She dismounts as she approaches a copse, and
walks into the shadows. She sees a ruined Hindu temple covered with
erotic sculptures. Amourous couples are coupling. She stares at these
apparitions, so abandoned, and so alien to her proper Victorian
up-bringing. She is attracted by the spectacle, but she is frightened
by her attraction. Suddenly she hears a noise, and looks up to see a
troop of monkeys. They chatter menacingly at her and begin to scamper
down the temple, over the erotic sculpture, and in panic she flees.
Could the monkeys symbolize that emotional, sensual, animal nature that
lives in everyone but is supposed to be suppressed in Englishwomen (and
American ones, for that matter!)? Are they saying, "This is our land,
the land of emotion; you do not belong here"? India attracts her. It
awakens hidden desires. It menaces her. She flees to the familiar,
visibly shaken. Back at the bungalow, with her fiancé, she says "I want
to take back what I said at the polo," which was that she wanted to
delay the wedding. She was so frightened by the feelings rising in her
as she tasted a bit of Indian culture that she wanted to put a stop to
passion by marrying! And all of that was said in the film without
words. It provides us with a rationale for believing she later suffered
an hallucination, which is at the core of the plot.
<|_=00=_|>
David Lean wasn't an especially likable guy, despite his over-sized
ears. When Guiness arrived on the set, Lean told him he'd been hoping
for another actor for the part of Godbole. He was so sadistic to Sessue
Hayakawa on "The Bridge on the River Quai," blaming Hayakaway's flawed
English for all the delays that Hayakawa's breakdown scene was real. He
was impatient with crews too, snapping at them because he was losing
the light, as if it were the photographer who was turning them down.

But, whew, what a resume! From "Great Expectations" to this, his last
film, and although some are slower than others there is not a clunker
among them. (It's hard to believe that more than twenty years have
passed since his last work.) His interests were in the story of people
involved in cultural clashes and tended to be set against vast
landscapes. He was in some ways like John Ford writ large. We get to
know the people marching along the skylines.

"Passage to India" isn't his best film but it's a good thoughtful one,
with his usual attention to details of weather, furniture, and
wildlife. The imagery, as always, is striking. Near the beginning, two
English ladies are having drinks on a train and the delicate
conversation is suddenly interrupted by a slow, elephantine kathoom,
kathoom, kathoom. The ladies look up, a bit surprised. A cut reveals
the girders of a steel bridge across a river sliding past the train
window. Ba-Boom. Loud and distinct but far away, like an echo of cannon
fire from future revolutions. It's hard to imagine another director
willing to take a chance with the splendid simplicity of a shot like
that.

I'll just mention one more scene in passing, as an illustration of the
point. Peggy Ashcroft, as Mrs. Moore, probably best known as the
sympathetic and abused farmer's wife in "The Thirty Nine Steps", has
met Alec Guiness, as Godbole, the Hindu teacher, only once, and then
briefly. But after she leaves, Godbole casually refers to her as "an
old soul," in the Hindu sense of one who has led many previous lives.
And that's it. They don't meet again. Until an hour of two of screen
time later, when Ashcroft leaves India, unaccompanied. As the train
pulls slowly out of the station, she stares at the silhouette of a
figure that appears on the platform and performs an elaborate ritual
salute to Ashcroft. A quick closeup shows us that the figure is
Godbole. The scene comes as a complete surprise. It is like watching
the interplay between the ghosts of two separate cultures.

I don't know if I should have used that trope because it reminds me of
a Samoan friend who found himself hitch-hiking alone at night on an
Arizona highway. He was terrified of ghosts. Not Samoan ghosts, because
they were back in Samoa. And not American ghosts because he could speak
their language. It was the prospect of Indian ghosts that frightened
him because he had no idea of what to say! Sorry. 

Basically, I guess, in this story we find it almost impossible to doubt
the innocence of Dr. Aziz. He's as eager to please as a child. But we
have good reason to doubt Judy Davis as Adela Qwested. She isn't
exactly sexually liberated, a good stiff clean English woman. When she
visits a deserted temple with Kama Sutra sorts of erotic bas reliefs,
her presence seems to get the resident monkeys perturbed and they
screech at her until she leaves in a near panic. The film also
indicates in subtle ways her attraction to Dr. Aziz. (She appears to
sweat a lot when she's alone with him.) Of course he has no idea of
what's going on.

The rape accusation dissolves in court, along with the dust caking the
courtroom skylight as the monsoon rains begin. The English go back to
England. Dr. Aziz remains bitter because his reputation is totally
shot, until the end when he transcends his anger. As Godbole has been
saying, "None of it matters in the long run anyway." Of course he's
thinking of the really LONG long run.

The British colonials try to railroad a person of color into jail, and
they fail. The theme is a familiar one to most American viewers, I
would imagine, except that in American movies they don't always fail.
The ending is sad but sweet and a little uplifting too, as the events
at the Marabar Caves and the subsequent trial recede into the past.
Time wounds all heels, they say, but there aren't any heels in this
movie, except a few British racist snobs, who aren't really evil, just
products of their age, as are we all. The raucous celebration of the
Indians after the trial, what with the fireworks and all, are a little
disturbing in light of the wars yet to come between the Hindus of India
and the Moslems of Pakistan. It goes without saying that those who knew
nothing of the affair -- the Indians who believe Aziz to be innocent
and the British who believe him guilty -- are both guilty themselves.

I kind of miss David Lean, as long as I never had to work for him. See
this movie and relax and enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>

David Lean ended his illustrious career on a high note with this haunting
love song to the exotic & sensual world of India.

The action takes place during the last days of England's
rule
over colonial England. Much of the emphasis in the movie is
placed on the culture clash between the two countrys.

Judy Davis stars in one of her earliest films as a woman
who
travels to India on what she imagines will be a romantic
adventure to meet up with and marry a waiting fiance.

The great Dame Peggy Ashcroft portrays the fiance's mother
who
accompanies Davis on her "Passage To India".

Alec Guiness is along for the ride in a culture-bending
role
as a Hindu spiritual man. Guiness's role is in turn played for laughs
then
for dramatic punch when needed.

The major conflict in the movies arrives from an ill fated tourist jaunt
to
the Marabar Caves some miles away.

What does or does not happen there becomes a legal and moral crisis that
involves all the film's key players as well as the entire
city.

The movie is played with sensitivity as well as allowing for the usual
David
Lean broad strokes of color and light.

It's one of my favorite movies and definitely appealing to more than the
"Merchant & Ivory" crowd.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1885 Lord Macaulay in very planned way introduced English as an
official language of India, a plan equally dangerous like thousand
years of third Reich in Europe. Macaulay himself explained during a
speech in Kolkata in 1885 that "I have travelled across the length and
breadth of India and I have not seen one person who is a beggar, who is
a thief. He added "with such a high moral, spiritual cultural heritage
and ancient Aryan education system (Language Sanskrit) I do not think
we would ever conquer this country, unless we break the very backbone
of education system of this nation.

However Macaulay's language experiment resulted very strange. It not
only fractured the complex Indian society but divided the schools of
thought into fraction. In movie Dr.Aziz symbolically represents the
agonised face of so called modern educated Indians. 

The director of this movie is very talented person who exactly know
this problem. Now what exactly happening in the movie is a British
young woman fascinated with ideas of elephants, snakes, tropical
forests and mysteries is travelling across India. Moreover she is young
and deep inside she is contemplating the true meaning of love. While in
India she meets Dr. Aziz who on other hand is a product of Macaulay's
language experiment. Dr Aziz is an educated person who has nothing to
with Indian national movement (background is of decade of 20's) or in
other words he is a simple nice Muslim man who do his job, earn
comparatively better than other poor Indians and has a good social
status in the local community. However he remains depressed with the
surrounding atmosphere which is full of dirt, poor people etc.
Symbolically he is a face of new crop who thinks and if given a chance,
act like elite English. Unfortunately since he is just an average
person and not an intellectual, he can not see that a British who is a
foreigner in his country do not see any difference between him and
other poor. He works hard and do not miss any opportunity to proof that
their is a difference and it exist.

Movie reaches to the height of climax when Dr. Aziz gets an opportunity
to take Ms Quested to an excursion to Malabar caves. And then comes the
most beautiful, suspenseful and artistic scene of the movie. For few
moment in that silent lazy afternoon, Ms Quested learn during an
exceptional personal interaction (An interaction which was not supposed
to be happened between an Indian and a English) about Dr. Aziz's love
for his wife who died few years back. Already hypnotised and surprised
with the Indian culture she gets locked with a strange feeling when she
learn that Dr, Aziz never saw his wife before getting married. Back to
her life she never imagined if being in love/marriage with someone whom
you have never seen was possible. After all due to her basic human
tendency, she for a fraction of moment imagined Dr. Aziz as a perfect
man. Her extreme imagination takes her to indefinite trauma and
suddenly everything looks ugly, horrible, dark and hopeless. Now gushed
with guilt feeling she can not justify her imaginations in a real
world.

In case of Dr. Aziz he is again in a gloomy world because Ms Quested
without giving any notice is now out of his reach. An innocent human to
human interaction becomes a case of racial dominance & national
extremism.

Fanatic Indians have coloured it with Indian national moment whereas
British are convinced that Indians doesn't matter educated or
uneducated are on same line. Ironically Dr. Aziz who is surprised,
frustrated due to silence of Miss Quested is no longer an old simple
man. He too now believes that English are corrupting his country. Ms.
Nobody knows the internal truth.
<|_=00=_|>
A Passage Through India tells a story about the radicalization of a
native Indian who happens to be a Moslem. This was in the days before
the idea of a separate Pakistan took hold in the independence movement.

Victor Bannerjee plays Dr. Aziz Ahmed and as you see by his title he's
a professional man. But he's still looked down upon by most of the
British who are ruling India. He's befriended by Peggy Ashcroft who is
visiting India with her daughter-in-law to be, Judy Davis. Peggy's son
is a magistrate. Bannerjee is also friends with James Fox who is an
administrator at a local college.

He's warned against fraternizing with the British by his friends and
family, but Bannerjee goes on a picnic with Ashcroft and Davis and
Davis has a horrifying experience in the historic caves at Marabar.
It's only her claustrophobia acting up, but Bannerjee winds up accused
of rape. And his trial becomes a cause celebre for the Congress Party.
Note that Bannerjee has two defense attorneys, a Moslem and a Hindu.

E.M. Forster who wrote A Passage to India brought two elements of his
background to the writing of this novel. He served as a private
secretary to a local maharajah so he knew the customs of India as well
as the political scene. Most in the United Kingdom wanted to see India
free after World War I. A few very powerful folks like Winston
Churchill and some influential press lords, most prominently Lord
Beaverbrook did not. There opposition kept India a British colony until
after another World War.

Secondly Forster was a closeted gay man. His homosexuality was not
publicly revealed, he wasn't 'outted' until after he died in 1970. One
of his relationships was with a Moslem Indian who died at a young age.
He's the model for Dr. Aziz. The India Forster writes about is not
Rudyard Kipling's India. A place where the native population is made to
feel like outsiders. Forster identified with them in a way Kipling
could never conceive.

Peggy Ashcroft won a Best Supporting Actress Award for her role as the
kindly Mrs. Moore. I've got a sneaking suspicion that Forster modeled
her character on his own mother who lived with him until she died in
1945. Judy Davis got a nomination for Best Actress and A Passage to
India was nominated in a whole bunch of technical categories.

A Passage to India is a disturbing look at a bygone era in a place
where you can see a lot of the problems we face today being nurtured.
<|_=00=_|>
Adela Quested (Judy Davis) is a young English girl who arrives in
1920's India to marry the local magistrate, Ronny Moore (Nigel Havers).
Falling in with Ronny's mother (Peggy Ashcroft), she decides to partake
in exploring the "real India". Meeting with a gentle doctor (Victor
Bannerjee) who is just as curious about the English as Adela is about
India, and an intelligent though dotty Hindu mystic, Godbole (Alec
Guinness), the group decides to partake in an expedition to the Marabar
Caves. After an ambiguous incident, however, Adela comes to accuse the
Doctor, Aziz, of attempt rape, and the resultant tension nearly leads
to an explosion of violence between the Indians and British. Only Mr.
Fielding (James Fox), the good-hearted local college professor, seems
willing to put aside his prejudices and think things through logically
- but ultimately, what happens is on the shoulders of Adela.

Having read E.M. Forster's novel and heard the very mixed reviews which
exist around this film, I wasn't sure what to expect, so I watched this
film with an open mind. Boy, was I rewarded! I was absolutely swept
away by it; this film is honestly in the same league as David Lean's
other masterpieces, "Bridge on the River Kwai" and "Lawrence of
Arabia", and I would definitely rate it ahead of "Doctor Zhivago".

The film tackles a difficult subject that is pertinent to this day, if
perhaps not as immediate as when the book was written: racism and
colonialism. Forster's argument is that the English and Indians can't
get together without something negative happening, and the film shows
this perfectly. At first, both sides are eager and willing to bridge
the gaps between them; but as the film progresses, the prejudices and
mutual loathing between Indians and Whites rise to the surface, with
explosive results (though if you're looking for an action-packed film,
you need look elsewhere). The only flaw in Lean's rendering of the
story is that he overlooks the internecine conflicts between Indian
Muslims and Hindus which did take up a good portion of the book, but
given that this is a film and not a novel, it's a forgivable omission.

The film, as is expected in any Lean movie, is filled with memorable
images: the parade of Sikh lancers in the opening; beautiful shots of
the Ganges River at night; the expedition up to the caves with the
beautifully painted elephant; the sexually-oriented statues (and
monkeys) that Adela encounters while on a bike ride; the rioting crowds
of Indians (including, disturbingly, several men painted as lemurs) who
confront Adela when she arrives at the court; the monsoon which
accompanies the moment of Aziz's triumph. In visual terms alone, this
is one of the greatest films ever made - but as mentioned above, it
does have an excellent story to back it up. Maurice Jarre's sweeping
main theme seems somewhat out of place for the setting; but his
incidental music is certainly among his best work.

On the whole, the acting is excellent. Judy Davis gives a difficult
though ultimately solid performance as Adela. Lean interpreted her as a
young woman first becoming aware of her sexuality - which is different
from Forster - and Davis does all she can to bring this to life,
showing a confused and tormented young woman who has to chose between
doing the right thing or letting the "machinery" of the trial go on.
James Fox is a revelation as Fielding, the fair-minded professor who
does not understand the racial differences inherent in colonial India
and wants genuine justice; Victor Bannerjee is excellent as Aziz, going
from naive and friendly young Doctor to a bitter Anglophobe; and,
arguably the best of all, Peggy Ashcroft, who brings a warm humanity to
Mrs. Moore, the Englishwoman who is somehow above all of the conflicts
presented therein. Alec Guinness is convincing enough as an Indian, and
in any case his part is so small it hardly makes an interest. The
smaller roles are filled out by equally fine actors: Nigel Havers as
Adela's fiancée Ronny; Clive Swift, Michael Culver, and Richard Wilson
as bigoted English officials; and Indian actors Art Malik, Saeed
Jaffrey, and Roshan Seth as various Indians who become embroiled in the
case.

"A Passage to India" is a fitting farewell for the one of the greatest
film makers ever. While not as fondly remember as Lean's other films,
his final effort is an intelligent, challenging, and simply astounding
epic that deserves recognition for the classic it is.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
My interest in caves led me to watch this film. A small, but pivotal,
part of the film's plot centers on what happens at the Marabar Caves.
While the cave segment was a disappointment to me, I was pleasantly
surprised by the film as a whole. It was not the grandiose, pretentious
cinematic epic I had feared.

"A Passage To India" tells the story of a young British woman and her
elderly traveling companion who journey from England to India, at a
time when the British still ruled that country. The film's theme
centers on British attitudes toward the people of India. Those
attitudes can be summarized as: condescending, snobbish, and racist. It
was the English vision of cultural superiority over the Indian people
that E.M Forster wrote about in his 1924 novel, upon which the
screenplay is based. That cultural vision represents a bygone, imperial
era that today seems quaint.

The cinematography here is excellent, though perhaps not quite as
sweeping or majestic as in some of Director Lean's previous films. What
comes through in the visuals is India's spectacular scenery. The film's
acting is competent. And I liked the film's original score.

My main complaint is the film's length. It's a two-hour story stretched
to fill almost three hours. I would have cut out most, or all, of the
crowd and mob scenes because they are not needed, and because they
infuse the film with a "cast of thousands" aura that moves the film
implicitly in the direction of epic status. Even as is, the film is
sufficiently low-key and personal to be enjoyable.
