

Predator is the classic action film.  What makes it so unique is that the
story starts off as a simple but exhilarating rescue mission; but then it
suddenly switches gears and becomes a fight for survival for everyone
involved.  The genius of that!  The cast is wonderful; Arnold as Dutch was
very convincing and commanding, yet humbled and low-key in his performance. 
The only way you would know that he's the star is that his face is on the
cover, he's the leader of the group, and he survives at the end.  He was
'one of the crew' instead of a one-man wrecking machine like in so many of
his other films; that was very nice to see.  Carl Weathers turns in a good
performance as Dillon, as does Bill Duke as Mac, Jesse Ventura as Blain and
Sonny Landham as Billy.  The whole cast worked very well together. 

The one thing that still astonishes me to this day, 16 years later, is
indeed the Predator.  The special effects in this film was very much ahead
of its time, the camouflage was pure genius.  I still can't believe my eyes
when I see the camouflage effects; it blows me away that even now in 2003 it
could sit alongside the FX seen in TODAY'S films with no shame.  I'm waiting
for Fox to put out a special edition DVD with behind the scenes footage
explaining how the Predator was done; from the effects with its sight and
the beautiful camouflage, to the suit.  I caught a little snippet of a
behind the scenes feature on AMC or Bravo, and ever since I've been
anticipating its inclusion on a new DVD (WHAT'S TAKING SO LONG?!??!) 

Predator is evidence of how action films should be done.  A great story and
relentless action, all progressing the story along. A timeless classic, one
of the best films of all time.

**** out of **** stars

P.S.  The 'forest massacre' scene is one of the funniest scenes in movie
history!!
<|_=00=_|>
Predator is definitely one of the best alien thrillers ever made. It is
one of my personal favorite movies. When I first saw just a brief part
of Predator when I was about five, I was freaked out and scared to even
watch the movie for many ages, but eventually, once getting older, came
to like it. The Predator, played by Kevin Peter Hall, is a very
realistic and believable creature for the 1980s, when this movie was
created. I like how humanlike its form is, and how un-humanlike it is
at the same time. The creature's four mandibles were a great idea for
its distinct facial characteristics and the creature's roar is awesome,
one of the best ever produced. This movie stars Arnold Schwarzenegger,
Carl Weathers, Bill Duke, Jesse Ventura, Richard Chaves, Elipidi
Carillo, Shane Black, and Sonny Landham and they are all believable in
their roles and even add to the humor that this movie has. This is
obviously the best of the Predator movies and still one of the most
highly liked thrillers today. And let's all show respect for Kevin
Peter Hall, who died a year after he had made Predator 2.
<|_=00=_|>
With the release of Alien Vs Predator i decided to watch the original
Predator movie today. I've seen Predator many many times since i first
watched it back in 1989 and i love it each and every time. I think
Predator 2 has a slight edge over this but Predator has a slight edge
over Aliens BUT i think they are all extremely excellent films.

Just in case you don't know, it's about a big alien whose race lives to
hunt worthy prey and Arnold Schwarzenegger's team of commandos are that
such prey. The commandos are sent into a South American jungle to find
some missing airmen who are being held by guerrilla's. They do what
they got to do which attracts the attention of the predator who is
hunting in the area. So the predator goes and hunts the commandos with
the aid of his kick ass weapons and cloaking device. The commandos also
have a female prisoner.

I think the whole sub-plot about the so called missing airmen isn't too
important to the viewer but makes it possible for the commandos to be
there. The entire concept of Predator is really clever and it certainly
made me sit on the edge of my seat while watching it the first time. It
is kind of spooky in a terrifying way as we don't see the predator
properly for ages but see through his eyes which adds to the tension.

The effects are great, the acting is OK and the story is cool too. I
really like the music and especially the spooky twisted jungle sounds
that we hear when we see through the eyes of the predator. This is a
sci-fi action movie that isn't just full of cheap explosions. It really
does have great atmosphere. Everyone who likes sci-fi and/or action
movies should like this. If you don't then your taste in movies suck!
This in my humble opinion is probably the second best sci-fi movie of
all time.

Alien Vs Predator has little of what made this so excellent so if you
haven't seen Predator and thought AVP sucked don't think that this
will. Predator is absolutely fantastic viewing. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

McTiernan's Predator released in 1987 and has stood the test of time as a
Sci-Fi classic.  A fitting and elaborate cast (Arnold, Carl Weathers, etc.)
help viewers come to grips with the environment of the movie.  Silvestri's
soundtrack kicks in with excellent timing as do the sound effects which
remain crisp and heart-stopping.  The cinematography is good and the action
scenes are smooth, realistic and fun to watch.

The characters are commandos targeting renegade forces in Central America to
rescue a diplomatic hostage.  Watching them transcend from macho-man
confidence to panicky prey-like paranoia creates a perfect atmosphere for
the film, which plays off your imagination until the climax where Dutch,
played by Arnold, relies on wit and instinctual strengths to combat the
terror at any cost.  The effects are impressive and are excitingly original,
especially with the creation of such a sophisticated beast as the
Predator.

Perhaps what makes the film have a such a raw, earthly quality is its
relation to settings of man vs. nature in the modern world.  Facing
something infinitely more powerful than man is what the story comes down to;
perhaps even man can conquer the unknown if he remains true to his natural
powers than his ammunition.  

Survival suspense of the purest kind.  Predator deserves higher ratings. 
10/10.

  
<|_=00=_|>
Consider that so many of the roles that Arnold Schwarzenegger takes on
are so similar, including Predator, and yet this film is so much better
than most of the others. I enjoy watching his movies just because he's
such a watch-able guy, even in his bad movies (which are many), but I
think the thing that really makes Predator stand out is its simplicity.
The movie starts, the guys get dropped in the jungle, lots of blood and
carnage flies across the screen, and the movie simply ends. No romance,
no complex back story, no soldier struggling with problems in his past
or even trauma caused by the horrible things he experiences during the
movie. This is one of the things that made First Blood so good. It may
turn out to be a movie about a lot of muscle-bound meatheads in the
woods, but it doesn't insult the audience or try to apply complexity to
a story that can't support it.

Interestingly, the movie features two eventual governors. Jesse Ventura
even wrote a book which was released while he was the governor of
Minnesota and he used his favorite line in this movie as the title. And
the book's actually pretty interesting; there are some funny stories in
it about things that went on while they were filming this movie.
Arnold, on the other hand, is actually (and thankfully) given a
relatively small amount of stupid one-liners, which are an idiotic
byproduct of hard action movies that I've never really understood the
necessity for. They don't reveal anything about the characters who say
them, they don't add to the story or further the plot, and with rare
exceptions, they're not funny. But I guess comic relief has to come
from somewhere, and since complexity is not a requisite for movies like
this, I can't really expect a lot of thought being put into the comedic
content either.

I watched Predator having never seen it from beginning to end and
having just re-watched the original Alien. I am currently in the
process of re-watching both series', for obvious reasons. One thing
that I notice about both of them is the way they take their time in
introducing the enemies which, in both films, are aliens. Predator
doesn't waste much time dwelling on the origin of the alien, we pretty
much assume it came from a space ship that flashed across the screen at
the opening of the movie. Alien, on the other hand, went into
remarkable detail about where its alien came from. What Predator does
do, very effectively, I think, is that it has the guys fighting some
very human enemies, which allows the movie to later take its sweet time
in having them realize that the new enemy is not human at all. This is
also, incidentally, weakly rehashed in the sequel, using the secrecy of
this mission and team as an excuse to have more guys who don't know
what's going on.

The death scenes are actually pretty tasteful, given the genre. They
are just gory enough to illustrate the violence of the enemy without
being gratuitous. Just enough is shown to show how vicious the alien
is, and there are some strange things done to and with the bodies that
make you wonder about the alien's intentions or needs. The first deaths
suggest vengeance if not some sort of ritual, but later ones suggest
that the alien may be feeding off of his (or her) victims. Oddly
enough, it is not until the awful Predator 2 that we learn that it
kills for sport.

Yes, the movie occasionally gets embarrassingly macho, but the skill
with which it is put together far overshadows any tough-guy goofiness.
Consider, for example, the ease with which the movie switches from
showing the guys hunting the alien to their realization that they are
the ones being hunted. In some cases, this transition takes place
during a single shot and with virtually no movement in the shot at all
except a change in someone's expression. It is truly a fight between a
group of predators, which we understand because they are human like us,
and a single predator whose powers and weaknesses are unknown. It's not
Oscar material, needless to say, but it's a great action movie in part
because it already knows that.
<|_=00=_|>

First of all, if you haven't seen this action, suspense and violence
extravaganza, you most certainly are not a true action movie afficionado.
The immediate grabbing feature of this movie is its score, very
imaginatively composed and created by Alan Silvestri whose other credits
include the Back to the Future series and other gems like Who Framed Roger
Rabbit. The tempo and build up which the score lends to the film engage its
viewers with feelings of fear and nerve wracking suspense for what lurks
within the thick of the forest.  Take note of Sonny Landham's
comment;"there's something out there,and it ain't no man.

The action is fast, furious and merciless. The commandos are killed off one
by one, leaving Arnie, Carl Weathers and the surviving members extremely
terrified and on the verge of breaking down.  Note the heated arguments
that
some of the commandos get into with each other.  There is very animated and
fiery action in the beginning (assault on the terrorist camp) but as we are
introduced to the true terror of the jungle (or should I say, outer space),
the action takes a turn for the more insane eg.Arnie running away armed
only
with a knife and trembling in fear, almost drowning in a waterfall and
thereafter, continually pursued by the Predator).   All this followed by a
half hour long jungle battle mano a mano with spears, rocks and fists and
hall deafening yells by both warriors.  Very, very fierce and macho stuff I
assure you all.

I shall not go into the other intricacies of the film and will leave it to
the curiosity of potential/virgin viewers to find out for themselves.
"Predator" is essentially one of the few action movies that truly lives up
to its name and delivers the thrills and spills in no small amount and at
breakneck speed.  True connoisseurs of hard action.....YOU WILL NOT BE
DISAPPOINTED!!!!!
9.5/10             
<|_=00=_|>
This film will always have special place for me, as aside from being
one of the best horror/sci-fi films of the eighties; it's also a huge
childhood favourite of mine. Despite the fact that I've seen it dozens
of times as a kid, I have only seen it once during adulthood; and that
single viewing was more than enough to remind me what it is that I love
about this film! Predator works as a macho action film, gory horror and
intriguing sci-fi, and despite it's short running time of just 100
minutes, it somehow manages to find room for all three. The fact that
it stars action icon Arnold Schwarzenegger ensures that the film will
always be favourably remembered. He's not a good actor, but Arnie
always manages to bring that extra something to his movies. The plot is
deliciously simple and follows a group of commandos that go off into
the jungle on a secret mission. However, things go awry when it turns
out that they aren't the only ones with weapons there. Finding the
skinned bodies of the last group of men that entered the jungle is
about to become the least of their worries...

The jungle makes for a great setting for an action sci-fi flick such as
this. These sorts of films tend to be set in space, so seeing the
action down here on earth is different; and the fact that it's set in
the jungle, with it's dense foliage, ensures that Die Hard-director
John McTiernan is able to bump up the suspense, as just like in the
Vietnam war; the soldiers are dealing with an unknown enemy. The
atmosphere really is excellent, and the special effects help to create
a futuristic tone, while the suspense builds and makes sure that the
audience are on the edge of their seats at all times. Predator was
released hot on the heels of the success of James Cameron's amazing
'Aliens' - but don't be thinking this film is merely a rip off
following a trend, Predator has more than enough up it's sleeve to
ensure that isn't the case. The action is great, and director McTiernan
clearly knows what he's doing. It's fast and furious, and the amount of
weapons on display ensures that the film is sure to delight fans of
macho action films. The fact that the lead actor is a monster of a man
doesn't exactly hurt the film either! 

Now, Arnold Schwarzenegger may well be a terrible actor; but it doesn't
matter because it's his screen presence, not his acting ability, that
makes his performances what they are. At times he's cringe-worthy, but
it's hard to deny his prowess when it comes to the action sequences,
and that is all a film of this nature needs. Arnie isn't the only big
man in the film either, as an assortment of muscle men, including
ex-wrestler Jesse Ventura, and Carl Weathers; Rocky's Apollo Creed,
among other B-movie actors, join him. The man himself also finds
himself a very worthy ally, in the form of the movie's central alien.
The Predator may not be as beautiful as the creature from 'Alien', but
it's just as inventive. Here we have an extra terrestrial that isn't
merely trying to breed, or to 'phone home' - but one that is actually
there to hunt humans for sport! Aside from being ingenious, the idea
also borders on frightening. The gore here is gratuitous, but never
goes over the top and on the whole, Predator is a film that never
really got the credit it deserves. It's mindless fun - but its damn
good mindless fun!
<|_=00=_|>
One of the classic sci-fi movies and one of the most entertaining
action movies ever made. Certainly one of the best Arnold movies, along
with Terminator 1 and 2. Mix a simple but effective story, one cool
alien, well directed action scenes, Arnold kicking ass and you get an
top notch action movie. Sure, there are some exaggerated macho
performances, but John knows how to do it with style.

So if you're a young (but not too young) movie viewer who haven't yet
seen Predator, be sure to do so to get a sample of action 80's style
with Arnold at his peak.

Rating: 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Watching `Predator', which is one of Arnold Schwarzenegger's best action
movies, it becomes obvious why Arnold's recent return to action (`End of
Days', `The Sixth Day) have all tanked at the box office.  For some reason,
Arnold's chosen to play men with a dark past in his recent films, men with a
complex background . . . men with laughably bad backstories.  His great
characters - such as Dutch Schaeffer in `Predator' - have no background. 
It's not necessary.  The second Arnold steps onscreen, you know it's time
for blood and bullets, plain and simple.  Not every moviegoers' cup of tea,
to be sure, but it works.  Unlike `End of Days' or `The Sixth Day', classic
Schwarzenegger action films like `Predator' never insult the audience by
attempting to explain the often threadbare plot.  Predator is kind of a
Zen-philosophy action film - the violence and cheesy one-liners just happen.

`Predator' is a fairly simple story; it's essentially a sci-fi version of
`The Most Dangerous Game.'  A group of American soldiers, led by Dutch
(Schwarzenegger) and his rival Dillon (Carl Weathers), lead a full-blown
assault on a group of South American revolutionaries.  Carnage ensues. 
After wiping out said revolutionaries, an alien creature armed to the teeth
with high-powered weaponry - the Predator - assaults the American soldiers. 
More carnage ensues.

Hey, it's not exactly Shakespeare, but thoughtful, well-written action
movies aren't exactly common.  `Predator' works as an action movie - and as
a darn good one - because it's kept simple (thus minimizing the plot holes
and the head-scratching moments), it maintains a high level of excitement,
action, and tension, and it's cool.  Schwarzenegger is larger than life as
Dutch, pure swaggering testosterone at its best.  Jesse `The Body' rules as
Blaine, Carl Weathers is icily cool as Dillon. . . and so on and so on. 
Enough sarcastic, macho one-liners and brutal firepower fill the movie to
make it a male adolescent snapshot of tough-guy heaven.  The Predator looks
wicked as well - Stan Winston outdid himself, as the Predator does look and
move like a vicious being from another world, and not just some stunt guy in
a rubber suit.  The direction by John McTiernan adds the final piece to the
puzzle; the cinematography of the jungle is appropriately hot, steamy, and
claustrophobic, and the quick pacing of the film moves rapid fire between
all-out action and the tension of hunting one's prey . . . or being hunted. 
Everything adds up to a simple, streamlined, first-rate action
movie.

Again, not the most intelligent film ever made, but `Predator' is still
quite good - it's probably Schwarzenegger's best pure action movie.  (Not
his best movie overall, though; that honor belongs to the excellent
`Kindergarten Cop'.)  `Predator' is a lean, mean, intense action flick from
start to finish.  

Grade: B

<|_=00=_|>
"Predator" is a genuine Classic. Action, Horror, Sci-Fi it's all there.
Lets see for starters we have Arnold Schwarzenegger, on top form riding
to the peak of his action status, leading a team of tough Commandos.
Made up of a great cast including Carl Weathers, Jesse Ventura and Bill
Duke. They're on a mission to rescue Hostages from Gorilla forces but
are double crossed by the C.I.A, stop there and you already have a
great action movie.

But oh no, this film also has an Intergalactic Alien Big Game hunter
equipped with plasma cannons, Stealth Invisibility and Thermal Vision.
It would be so easy to imagine this film going nowhere if it where to
have fallen into the wrong hands. You could really imagine a plot of an
Alien hunting Commandos in the jungle coming off a bit lame but no, Fox
thankfully had faith and McTierman had a vision. Fox's faith may have
been down to there two previous unexpected big hits "Aliens" and
"Commando" which you could possibly say this film is a hybrid of.

Film also benefits from being made in that 80s early 90s era where your
action film could take its self seriously yet still not too seriously.
One minute we see a fairly realistic use of of weapons and tactics the
next Arnie throws a truck down a hill equipped with C4 and Jesse
Ventura pulls out his M-134 Mini Gun and shreds some Gorillas.

The Predator it's self is a classic design, thanks to the genius Stan
Winston, and in my opinion never looked better than in this movie. It
looked slightly fake in Pred 2(Not a bad film too) and don't get me
started on the travesty that is AvP. It could have been a different
story if they had stuck to the big rubber turtle they had shot scenes
with thank god Arnold himself suggested Winston.

I won't spoil the plot for anyone who's not yet seen it I just urge you
to see this movie.
