

As a loyal fan of the Back to the Future phenomenon, I long awaited a
chance
to publish my take on the series.  It may be a bit surprising to some that
I
would choose to write my comments in the section specific to the last
movie
which has been considered to be the worst film of the trilogy.

For many years, in consideration of this one trilogy which served to
inspire
and excite me as to possibilities of the motion picture industry, I would
look with a disappointment on BTTF Part Three, believing it to be an
unwelcome, unexciting film which ended the legacy.

However, recently it came upon me to purchase the trilogy on VHS and
re-experience it, as I had once did, though now from a more balanced
perspective.  I watched the first two Back to the Future movies avoided
the
third in the fear of being once again disappointed.  Utter disappointment
is
no longer the feeling I can use to describe my take of the
movie.

Back to the Future 3 is a well-written, well-directed, well-balanced
piece.
With an incredible musical score, brilliant acting and excellent
composition, the movie reminded me that Back to the Future was never about
action.  It was truly about the characters we came to know and love in the
first movie.  It was a return to the basics, the friendship between Marty
and Doc and how each was thrown through time to change not only the future
of Hill Valley, but also their own lives and their future
choices.

Robert Zemeckis' (the writer) decision to send the two friends back to
1885,
in their final adventure, was brilliant.  Imagery like the "famous Hill
Valley courthouse under construction" and the "steam engine train wheeling
up to the rear of the futuristic Delorean" was unforgettable.  For
example,
the dancing at the Courthouse welcoming festivities contrasted with the
action-laden scene (in BTTF2) between Griff and Marty at the same place
just
a century and a half later.

All in all, Back to the Future Part Three was a perfect ending to a
perfect
trilogy.  To anyone who despises this film, I recommend another full
watching.  There are so many details which are kudos out to fans of the
previous two movies.  The movie successfully slowed the pace of the other
two movies (in preparation for conclusion) without losing the loyalty of
true fans.  It captured the essence of what brought these fans to Back to
the Future in the first place.

If you haven't seen it, rent and enjoy :)  If you have seen it and wasn't
particularly pleased, I beg another viewing.

L8r!
<|_=00=_|>

Doc Brown and Marty McFly are back for another time travel adventure, and
once again their exploits are great to watch. The film is well-written and
directed, and all of the actors  involved delivered spectacular performances
once again. There could not have been a sharper contrast between the last
Back To The Future and this one (we go from the neon colored future of
flying cars and 3D movies to the old dirty west with its overflowing
spittoons and gunfighting), yet the story holds together strongly and keeps
the attention of the audience from start to finish.

The old west was portrayed beautifully, although maybe a bit crudely and
stereotypically, and the way that the town of Hill Valley was transformed
for all three films is one of the biggest highlights of the series as a
whole. In Back To The Future III, the challenges that face Doc and Marty are
ingenius, and a solution to their problems is extremely difficult to think
of, which makes it that much more fun to watch the film.

Back To The Future III is an excellent way to have ended the trilogy, which
as a whole is among the best trilogies ever made. What other group of movies
follows the same characters through their adventures which take place in
three different centuries? Clearly, Back To The Future III deserves a lot of
respect, as do the previous two films. They are all a huge amount of fun to
watch, and the films can be enjoyed by people of all ages, which is a
quality that few films possess.If you haven't seen these films, go out and
get them, and if you have seen them, you may want to go out and watch them
again.
<|_=00=_|>

Having set a new standard in time travel films with Back To The Future and
Back To The Future Part II, it was with eager anticipation that I looked
forward to seeing if Robert Zemeckis could bring his trilogy to a satisfying
conclusion.  To conclude any trilogy in a successful manner some of the key
ingredients you need are:  1. do something in your wrap up you haven't done
before 2. keep the main characters true to what they have been previously 3.
tie up all the loose threads and 4. give us a satisfying
ending.

For this third outing in the series, Zemeckis takes us where we have yet to
tread, that being 1885 Hill Valley.  With Marty trapped once again in the
year 1955, he enlists the 1955 Doc Brown to help him return home.  As we
know by now, things are never that simple when it comes to Marty and Doc. 
Marty has no magic ruby slippers to click together three times and say,
"There's no place like home."  It seems Doc ended up in the Old West, but
hid the DeLorean in a cave for Marty to find some 70 years later so he may
return home back to 1985 and destroy the time machine.  After discovering
that Doc met with some misfortune shortly after arriving in 1885 Hill
Valley, Marty decides to travel back in time to rescue him. 

While BTTFIII does not have the break neck frantic pace of Part II, it is a
good film on its own.  For the first time, Zemeckis slows things down a bit,
making this third film straightforward, yet just as delightful in a lot of
ways as the other films.  The first thing he does is throw us a little
change up.  Zemeckis and Gale decide to center the complications of this
third film around Doc Brown by having him fall unexpectedly in love with a
school teacher by the name of Clara(Mary Steenburgen).  In essence, Doc
loses his head over a woman and loses his scientific reasoning in the
process.  It is left up to Marty to become the voice of reason when Doc
begins to let his emotions rule his reactions.  Yet, Marty seems as a amused
as we are by the whole thing.  This is one romance that could easily have
been the downfall of this film, but thanks to the performances of
Steenburgen and Christopher Lloyd, together they develop a chemistry that
makes it all work and work to perfection.  So by having the majority of the
film take place in the old west, then introducing something to the plot we
didn't expect, Zemeckis takes care of the first point I mentioned above. 

There's also the matter of Buford "Mad Dog" Tannen. The meanest, grimiest,
filthiest, most ruthless outlaw to ever inhabit Hill Valley.  If you liked
Thomas F. Wilson's portrayals of Biff, you'll be amazed at his rambunctious
portrayal of Mad Dog.  He even somehow manages to top his villainous
portrayals in the first two films which is not an easy task.  So yes, all
the characters from the first two films are here in some form or another,
and though Doc Brown may be in love, he is still the Doc.  This solidly
takes care of my second point about keeping the characters true to what they
have been before.

Zemeckis and Gale have been absolute geniuses in writing these films.  In
each film they have taken little pieces from the previous films and make
them essential to what's happening.  For instance, if you've seen the second
part there is a short scene that is extremely relevant to what goes on in
the finale.  When originally viewing it in Part II, I'm sure you never gave
it a second thought.  When the pay off comes in this film, you can't help
but chuckle and say, oh I see.  As for my third point about tying up loose
ends, they do that and tie up some things we didn't even know were loose
ends.

In Part II, it was necessary for several of the actors to play different
roles.  This one is no different.  Besides being Marty Mcfly, Fox also
portrays his ancestor Shamus Mcfly, who is Irish, and again Fox shows his
versatility as Lea Thompson does as his wife Maggie.  Of course James Tolkan
is back as Strickland and theres a couple of good jokes about his character
that will surprise you...well at least one of them will surprise you the
other will just leave you laughing.  As if all this wasn't good enough,
Zemeckis also gives us several old western character actors, Dub Taylor, Pat
Buttram, and Harry Carey Jr. Another great touch thrown in just for the fun
of it.

In reviewing the fist two parts of the trilogy, I failed to mention Alan
Silvestri's terrific score.  All three films owe a great deal of their
success to it, and the fact that he was able to keep the same theme, yet do
variations on it that perfectly fitted each film deserves as much credit as
all the others responsible for making this film received.

So what about point 4, a satisfying ending?  Of course, you'll have to see
the film to find out for yourself.  I can only say that when Part 3 was over
I felt a certain amount of sadness that the trilogy had ended.  Even now
when I watch the three films, I wish there had been a fourth, and a fifth. 
This was not because the ending of the third film left me unsatisfied in
anyway, quite the contrary in fact.  It was because I would miss not only
the films themselves, but most of all the rich detail and characterizations
brought to life for us by a wonderful cast, director, writers and the rest
of the crew responsible for enabling us to enjoy one of the most memorable
series of films ever.
And when you live in my memory forever, you get my grade.  For Back To The
Future Part III it's an A+. As for the trilogy, there is no grade high
enough, no rating high enough, for me to give it the award it so richly
deserves.

 


<|_=00=_|>

Picking up where #2 left off, Marty is stuck in 1955 again and has to
explain to
the 1955 Doc why he's back and uses a letter Doc sends him from 1885 to
explain what happened. After fixing up the time machine (hidden in a from
1885
cave), they find out that  Doc is murdered in the past by Buford "Mad Dog"
Tannen (played by Thomas F. Wilson) "over a matter of $80 dollars." So
Marty
decides to go back and rescue Doc before the murder can occur, but he is
bedeviled by a rip in the fuel line - meaning they have to find another
way
to get
the time machine to hit 88 miles per hour - and Doc falling in love with
school
teacher Clara Clayton (Mary Steenburgen). Along the way, he gets advice
both
from Doc and his 1885 ancestor Seamus McFly (also played by Michael J.
Fox)
that he should really learn to control his temper.

Fox and Lloyd are fun to watch as always, and I give my hat off to the
studio for
hiring Mary Steenburgen as Doc's love interest and not some super model
type;
it's more fitting of who Doc is. Wilson's Biff Tannen officially became a
traditional
"villain" in #2 with him murdering George McFly, and now Wilson plays an
even
bigger villain in Buford Tannen, whom he makes both funny and menacing.

Ironically, Wilson is said to be a very nice man in real life. Leah
Thompson
makes the most of a thankless dual role as both Lorraine McFly and Marty's
great, great grandmother Maggie McFly, and James Tolkan plays his
Principal
character's soft spoken law man ancestor (killed in a deleted scene by
Buford
Tannen; "Remember son... discipline.")

It should be noted that originally there were no sequels planned with the
first
movie; that bit with Doc taking Marty and Jennifer to the future to help
their kids
was just another gag. But the film was such a hit that the studio couldn't
NOT do
sequels, so this one and part 2 were filmed back to back, which is
becoming
more of a craze these days.

Although on the surface it's a lighthearted comedy about time travel, it's
also
about what it means to be a man. The first film defined being a man
through
violently standing up to your tormentors, while this film and #2 go with
the
theme
that being a man also means you have to reign yourself in when people
start
annoying you. Marty' willingness to fight back was his strength in the
first
film but
here it is his flaw, as people in both 2015, 1955 and 1885 continually get
his
goat. The message of self-control is bluntly stated when Doc says to Marty
"You
can' t keep going off the handle every time someone calls you a name,
that's
why you get into that accident in the future!" (referring of course to the
car
accident mentioned in part 2). It is not until Marty realizes his error
when
he's
about to meet Buford in the gun fight that he achieves this ideal and,
much
to
Seamus's glee, says of Buford and the opinions surrounding him "He's an
asshole! I don't care what Tannen says, and I don't care what anyone else
says
either!" Because of this, he is able to avoid said accident.

Also loaded with gags, references to other great westerns ("My name is
Clint
Eastwood.") and Doc's response to being asked if his hijacking the train
is
a
hold up: "It's a science experiment!" 
<|_=00=_|>
Even in the best franchises which proved that sequels can be just as
good, if not better than the originals, the third parts are often
fairly controversial. Look no further than to the third entries in "The
Godfather" and "The Terminator" movies. "Back To The Future III" is no
exception to that rule as it clearly is the weakest part in the
trilogy, but it's still one hell of a great ride.

Writer/producer Bob Gale and writer/director Robert Zemeckis are two
very clever men. They know the difficulties of sequels well. As
Zemeckis explains somewhere on the "BTTF"-DVD set, the hardest part is
to give the audience something new without moving too far away from the
original's spirit. "Back To The Future II" achieved that goal
gloriously (although Zemeckis who is very critical about his own work
is always downsizing the greatness of it). Maybe the two Bobs went a
bit too far away from what audiences loved about the original in part
3.

Although the movie is set mainly in the Wild West, it's still seen
through the eyes of two people from the 80's. There are shootouts,
horse chases and train robberies, but "Back To The Future III" is never
a real Western. What makes this movie seem different from its
predecessors is that fittingly it doesn't have a lot to do with teen
culture anymore (save for a Michael Jackson-reference). Marty himself
seems to have grown up quite a bit and you'll be surprised to see him
behaving more focused on his mission than Doc in the latter half of the
movie. This change of places by the characters was a deliberate
decision by the writers and it does push the story and the relationship
of Marty and Doc forward, but something about it just doesn't feel
right.

It's intriguing to learn about the origins of Hill Valley and the
ancestors of the McFly-clan. However, the earnest Seamus McFly and his
family - that for some reason includes a woman looking like Marty's
mother - seem strangely out of place in a BTTF-movie. They're just not
quirky enough. 

What makes the story seem even more estranged is the introduction of a
new character, Clara Clayton, with whom Doc falls madly in love. Now,
although we should all be happy for Doc having found his own private
happiness, somehow we don't want him to behave like that. It's not Doc
as we know and love him - and that's exactly the problem Robert
Zemeckis was talking about. Marty and Doc used to be a team. Was anyone
happy for John when Yoko got between him and The Beatles?

I still think "Back To The Future III" is an amazing accomplishment, a
fine finale to one of the best trilogies ever made. You can't give
enough praise to Zemeckis and Gale for not just making these movies for
financial reasons but for actually trying to make them as good as
possible. Personally, I love this movie to bits and I don't think it
could have been realized any better. The only explanation I got for why
this brilliant sequel got a lukewarm rating of 6.7 from IMDb users, is
the dilemma Zemeckis himself was aware of, but couldn't fully avoid.

Fans who are still longing for a fourth part should keep that in mind
and would be best advised to let it go. Zemeckis and Gale have said
repeatedly that they don't plan on ever continuing the story. And why
should they? Everything has been said, everything has been done. The
movies are perfect the way they are. Let's be thankful there are still
filmmakers that stick to their artistic conviction.
<|_=00=_|>

I agree that most of the time sequels to great movies are no good. Get to
the third installment and it's become a joke. One of the lone exceptions
to
this rule is Back to the Future Part III. It's just a perfect movie.
Entertaining, intelligent, and funny it is a hoot for fans of the first
movie. Back to the Future is one franchise where all three movies are
worthy
of your attention.
<|_=00=_|>

I think this movie makes a great end for the Back To The Future trilogy. I
didn't think that I would like it much because it was about the old west,
but I loved it! Michael J. Fox shows off his talents again, by playing
Marty
McFly, and his old relative in the west. The only part I didn't like was
the
ending. I'd really like to find out what happens to all the characters
years
later. But overall, an awesome film!
<|_=00=_|>

Part III, the wild west entry, is probably the most fun. The original has
just such a fantastic premise that creates a sense of urgency about seeing
it out till the end, but there is something uncomfortable about your mother
having a crush on you that leaves a bad taste in the mouth during Part I.
The premise of Part III is this: in 1955, Doc learns that he will eventually
travel back to 1885 to live out his days as a blacksmith, but then
Copernicus, Doc's 1955 dog, stumbles upon a gravestone that tells Doc and
Marty that Doc will be shot to death by Buford Tannen over a matter of 80
dollars. Naturally, Marty says he will travel back to 1885 and get Doc and
bring him back to the future with him (though it couldn't be 1955, because
there's already one Doc there).

There are time-jumping laws that are not obeyed by the scriptwriters here,
and much worse than in the second film, but this one's so well concentrated
and so much the better movie that they hardly matter. It has a climax
involving a train that rivals the clocktower climax of the first one. A
fantastic scene.

Thomas F Wilson, the perennial bad guy of these movies, who started off as
Biff Tannen in the original, played Griff Tannen in the second one, throws
himself into a Yosemite Sam part as Buford 'Mad Dog' Tannen in the third.
Mary Steenbergen, in one of her few leading roles, is a nice addition to the
cast. She fits right into the wild west world, as the dainty schoolteacher
who plays "his beloved Clara" to the Doc.

Like the others, its larger-than-life tone, with the over-blown time-travel
dialogue and melodramatic highs and lows, render it into a kind of
live-action cartoon. Kids will enjoy Part III the most, but it is so
good-natured that adults should have fun with it too. Out of the three, this
is the one that you'll be able to put on any time and feel good. Great,
harmless fun.
<|_=00=_|>
Marty and doc are back, but in another time. They go to the West in
1885 in order to save Doc's life and from then on the Western adventure
takes place. It's a pity that so many people disliked the third movie
because, in my humble opinion, it's a great finale to this fantastic
trilogy. It is very well written with rich characters and clever
dialogues. This third part does differ in the sense that it's set in
the West and has less of the futuristic gadgets and gizmos (obviously,
since it's not set in the distant future but you'll still see a few
including a time-travelling freight train) but it still retains the
same energy, a different kind of action and it pays a nice homage to
Western classics. Fox and Lloyd continue their roles of the teen hero
and the crazy doctor (and it never gets old) but this time there's a
new female lead. Mary Steenburgen delivers a hilariously wonderful
performance as the ditsy Clara. She and Lloyd are funny and sweet
together. Clara is the perfect lady for Doc and Steenburgen fits the
part like a glove. This time, Lea Thompson appears as an Irish settler.
Zemeckis has brilliantly picked up from where the second one ended. The
film ends on a delightful note and I would have liked to see more 'Back
to The Future' movies. But, I'm still very pleased with the way it is.
There have been only very few trilogies that have impressed me overall.
My list includes names like Ray's 'Apu Trilogy' and Coppola's
'Godfather' trilogy and of course Zemeckis's 'Back To The Future'
movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I just finished the Back to the Future trilogy and all I have to
say is that I was pleasantly surprised and relieved that I finally had
the opportunity to see these films. Without a doubt, the first was my
favorite, the second was my second favorite, and the third worked, but
it didn't work as well as the other two movies. Part three worked the
same formulas from the first and second, but some of the situations
just seemed a tad too unrealistic.

Marty and The Doc are now in the Wild Wild West way back in 1885, and
as you know the tools are not quite advanced as they are in 1985, so
they have to figure out the best they can on how to get back to the
future. But Doc falls in love with a woman he saves from going over a
cliff, Clara, and Marty has been challenged by Mad Dog, or Biff in a
different generation, to a duel. This is a major problem since Marty
found a tombstone in the future with a possibility of having either his
or Doc's name on it.

Well, I'm really glad that I had the opportunity to see these Back to
the Future films, because they were good movies. I have to say that I
was wrong, I tried to stay away from these films, I'll admit, because
it just seemed so hokey and not my type of movie, but I think that's a
major problem we all need to work on and not be so judgmental before we
typecast a movie that we think we won't like because we might end up
with little treasures.

7/10
