

Like most who saw this film, I would guess, I was exposed to it in
college, and I have to admit much of it went past me at the time. I
liked the stark and unusual visuals, and I liked most of the story, but
I'd be lying if I said I understood everything that was going on. Not
that 'Rumble Fish' is particularly deep, just that in college I wasn't.
Viewing the movie with a more mature mind now, I appreciated it much
more than I did when I was nineteen.

Based on the S.E. Hinton novel (Coppola also translated 'The
Outsiders', which remains remarkable even today for its amazing cast),
'Rumble Fish' follows the story of one Rusty James (Matt Dillon, in
full bad-boy mode) stuck in the middle of nowhere (Tulsa, actually),
dissatisfied with his life but not really bright enough to know why.
His older brother, the Motorcycle Boy (Mickey Rourke, long before he
became a punchline), wheels back into town from a long sojourn, and
what there is of a plot begins.

Much of this movie is atmosphere, which normally irritates me but for
some reason works incredibly well here. The black and white film is
actually part of the story, which is in itself unusual, but it
complements the storytelling and actually adds depth to the film.
Though we see eighties-era cars, some of the movie has an almost
fifties-feel to it, and like Rusty James, the viewer is never sure
when, or where, he is. The bleak setting of Tulsa only reinforces the
sense of both isolation and containment, which is the central theme of
the film. 

Dillon is very strong here. His seething anger can never really find a
way to express itself adequately, and Dillon spends the whole film out
of sorts in his own skin, giving a remarkable performance. Diane Lane,
whom I suspect was hired for her stunningly good looks, has a smaller
role but is very effective as the put-upon Patty. Most of the rest of
the young cast – unknowns or relatives or friends of the director at
that point in time (Nicolas Cage, Chris Penn, Lawrence Fishburne, Tom
Waits, even a very-young Sophia Coppola) are all very, very good. Waits
and Fishburne have tiny roles but large presences on screen, and they
stick in the viewer's mind even when they aren't there. Dennis Hopper
is unusually relaxed and natural as Rusty James' dad (called only
Father); sometimes Hopper can get gimmicky or artificial with his
acting, but here he is subtle and wholly effective as a drunken shell
of a man. 

But the standout performance is really Mickey Rourke, reminding us that
before he pissed his career away on crappy low-budget films with the
likes of Don Johnson, he was actually a decent actor. Rourke imbues the
Motorcycle Boy with a wholly different restlessness than Dillon's
Rusty, and makes him both compelling and sympathetic. Honestly it helps
that Rourke has some of the best lines in the film, most notably one of
my favorite quotes from any film: 'You want to lead people, you have to
have some place to take 'em.' Motorcycle Boy is also something of a
transitional hero, knowing he is damned to live, and die, in this
hellish world but making sure the path to redemption (and escape) is
secured for his follower (he even says of Rusty, 'His only vice is
loyalty.')

'Rumble Fish' is mostly an artsy character piece, the type of film that
normally does not appeal to me, but Coppola displays such skill with
the material and is so willing to subvert the very conventions of his
film so that they further serve the characters and their development
that the movie works, and works very well. Though the color tricks
betray themselves rather badly on DVD (we were never meant to see this
movie this clearly), the film still carries an enormous punch on the
small screen as it did on the large. A bleak film that nonetheless
carries within a message of hope, that one can escape the cages of
one's surroundings if one tries hard enough.

<|_=00=_|>

I realize that's not saying it's the best ever made, but it certainly marked
me so much as to regard it as my all-time fave.

 The movie reminisces of Elia Kazan's Dean movies, and "The Wild One"
starring Marlon Brando. Just as those movies (and much better done, IMHO),
Rumble Fish is about violence as a consequence of uncomprehension;
loneliness; and family relations in a sordid, black and white environment.
Not even this choice is random, as its B&W filming (and somewhat deficient
sound quality) is yet another commentary on life as seen through the eyes of
its characters - and author.

 Every scene in this movie brings a realization, though some of the
dialogues are indeed a bit naive when seen after its time. And here I could
engage in a debate on "naiveté" vs. "savvy", and whether an innocent view of
life really means less message depth (or whether a jaded outlook really
guarantees understanding), but I digress. The point is, I'm a 27-year old
man and I still cry every time I see this movie.

 The first time I saw Rumble Fish, I thought I identified with the
Motorcycle boy and his alienation from the world he was put in. After a few
more times, I realized more and more that I "was" Rusty-James - That, to an
extent, EVERY man is a little Rusty-James; trying to live up to a hero
image, and helplessly watching as your ideal slips past your reach and lets
himself be killed, without you ever understanding anything until it's too
late... or is it?

 Where Mel Gibson and Bruce Willis speak to the hero we WANT to be, Matt
Dillon speaks to the MEN who want to be that hero, and leads the way out.

 *sigh*

 The astounding soundtrack, exquisite photography and perfect takes don't
hurt any, either.

 Buy it, rent it, whatever. See the goddamn movie. It is worth a try (and a
much, much better score than 6.7).
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Francis Ford Coppola's Rumble Fish in a film class, and it was
interesting to see how certain scenes were made (seeing transitions and
shots in slow motion, stopping to point out things), among the plot.
From S.E. Hinton's novel, he assembles a breakthrough cast (a lot of
teens) who show they can get into the characters quite effectively. And
for those who love the technical side of a film- how it was made and
what went into the shots and the meanings of shots- will have a feast
that will turn them off or have them asking for more (or the rumored
8-hour cut, perhaps).

The story deals with characters who are struggling through life, stuck
in a town where the environment seems nostalgically black and white,
and only glimpses of color arise. We are given the story of two
brothers- the one who takes a chunk of the story is Rusty James (an
excellent, young Matt Dillon), a tough, sometimes ignorant teen who has
all the strengths and weaknesses of the high-school 'rebel', taking
after his AWOL older brother. The other is Motorcycle Boy (Mickey
Rourke, perfect in his quiet and touching presence), who left his town
and his reputation behind to go to California. He returns to find Rusty
James getting in over his head, and all his best efforts to keep him
cool are mired by old wounds (some wounds involving their parents,
others by the effect the atmosphere left on him). There's also keen
supporting work by fresh faces- Nicolas Cage, Chris Penn, and Laurence
Fishburne as friends and sometimes followers of Rusty; Diane Lane
(wonderful even in her youth) as a sweet/sour love interest; and Dennis
Hopper as the father of Rusty James, who appears just enough to get the
psychological points across to the viewer.

Coppola tends to use his symbols rather thickly, and it's arguable if
he may show things too much, or maybe if he shows them just enough
(i.e. skies darkening, clocks). Yet it doesn't stop him from creating
indelible images- practically all the shots in the film could be put on
a wall and look as great as any other by a professional photographer.
With Stephen Barum and Dean Tavoularis (photographer and designer,
respectively) scene after scene experiments with techniques (the fish
is just a taste of this), and it's rather authentic in its
respectfulness of the material. For example, in the gang fight, the
style with which Coppola introduces characters controls the mis en
scene, the editing and the use of shadows, all of this in this one
sequence displays the tremendous directorial vision Coppola can have on
a film. 

It's not really a joyful film, and the downward spiral motif of the
story may make some depressed with what they're seeing. But, if you
want to see a very well-crafted film, the kind that gets better on
repeat viewings (as with the Godfather films and Apocalypse Now), check
it out- at least a viewer will get the sense of concise, complex film
acting by young stars.
<|_=00=_|>
I was surprised about how many people wrote good reviews about this
movie.I thought I was the only only one who appreciated the artistic
value of Rumble Fish.It's my favorite movie and it finally got the
special edition DVD it deserves.Most people don't get the deeper
meaning of the film because nowadays people don't wanna think too hard
watching a movie.It's a piece of art just as much as it is
entertainment.You can get lost in the film for the visual and musical
boundaries it pushes.I've watched it a thousand times and I never lost
my appreciation for it's beauty.It's groundbreaking and a masterpiece
in film making.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Rumble Fish in a small a cinema in Dublin when it came out in
1983. It became a cult hit around town and was shown every Monday
afternoon for for £1 for months. I bunked off work often to see it as
did many people, I got to know. It's hard to say what made it quite so
special, god knows I've tried over the years in those party/pub moments
when the conversation is flagging and someone asks, 'what is your
favourite film?' Obviously they want to know why when you come up with
something they've never heard of, hate or are indifferent to. I read
Susie Hinton's books afterwards and also sought out the Outsdiders
(also from a Hinton novel) which was made at the same time and was a
good film with some of the wistful intensity of teenage life so strong
in Rumble Fish but was like the straight, conventional brother by
comparison. I think Susie Hinton went straight to Coppola's heart and
she worked with him on the two films, even appearing in cameo in both.
It is amazing to me that her books were marketed as teenage fiction,
they are to my mind mature American fiction and transpose beautifully
to the screen. The plot is a simple one and necessarily so yet the
implications are universal. The style, camera-work, casting and
soundtrack work together so well. I don't think that even in the
Godfather Coppopla ever got it so right. The dreamy quality of the
film, the distorted imagery and the fantastic soundtrack reflect the
physical and mental damage suffered by the James family, Rusty's brain
damage from one too many rumbles, Dad's alcoholism and the Motorcycle
Boys colour blindness, depression and death wish. It's like an elegy
for the old west and the constraints of small town life, John Ford
meets David Lynch. It also marked the beginning of the end for Zoetrope
studios and we'll never know what great movies we lost when that
motorcycle gang left town.
<|_=00=_|>

Francis Ford Coppola's most personal film is also one of his best - in its
own way just as good as APOCALYPSE NOW and THE GODFATHER films. Those who
wonder why Mickey Rourke is so revered by cult film fans need look no
further than his almost-hypnotic performance as The Motorcycle Boy. But
Matt
Dillon is just as good as his younger brother, and when you also have the
likes of Nic Cage, Diane Lane, Dennis Hopper, Laurence Fishburne, and
Chris
Penn in the supporting cast, you know it's a once-in-a-lifetime movie. The
look of the film - a sparse black-and-white urban landscape - is perfect,
as
is Stewart Copeland's atmospheric music. But aside from the visual and
aural
pyrotechnics, what really singles this out as a bona fide classic is its
spot-on portrayal of disaffected youth. When Hopper describes to Dillon
how
Rourke has simply been "miscast in the play", I still feel shivers running
down my spine...  
<|_=00=_|>
They say art films died out in the '80s, and they also say Francis Ford
Coppola sold out after "Apocalypse Now," but this is truthfully his
last visionary film. It may not be a flawless masterpiece on the same
level as the aforementioned movie or "The Godfather," or even "The
Conversation" (one of his absolute best), but it's still very good -
beautiful to look at, poetic, and visually stimulating.

It was the second film he released in 1983 adapted from an S.E. Hinton
book. His first ("The Outsiders") was cleaner than this. "Rumble Fish"
has a lot of violence, a lot of swearing, and a decent amount of
sex/nudity. It is the flip side to "The Outsiders"; and in my opinion,
the more mature work of the two (although both are very good).

Matt Dillon gives his best performance as Rusty James, a 1950s street
punk whose alcoholic father has all but walked out on him, and whose
older brother (an enigmatic figure known only as The Motorcycle Boy)
has left and moved to California some time ago.

We are led to infer that The Motorcycle Boy was a sort of rebel hero -
a type of Robin Hood, as Rusty James says - and the entire town loves
him. As a result, Rusty James "can't live up to his brother's
reputation...and his brother can't live it down," to quote the film's
tagline.

But The Motorcycle Boy returns one day in the form of Mickey Rourke. He
rescues his kid brother from a violent underground fight with a group
of thugs and takes him back to the safety of their home.

The Motorcycle Boy has come back in order to make amends, one supposes;
or at least because he feels as if he has an obligation to see his
father and brother again.

Meanwhile, Rusty James - in a desperate intent to match his brother's
reputation - continues his downward spiral of street fights and
violence, resulting in more than a few bloody brawls.

"Rumble Fish" is displayed in grainy black-and-white, and the
soundtrack itself is surreal, often featuring fragments of distorted
audio matched with hazy visuals. At first it doesn't seem to make
sense, but then it is revealed that The Motorcycle Boy has a hearing
problem that comes and goes at random (typically when he is under
stress) - and is colorblind, which explains the b&w photography.

This is a great decision by Coppola because it gives the film an
authentic feeling; at first, we feel as if we are following Rusty
James' plight, but then once we pull back it becomes obvious we are
watching through the eyes of The Motorcycle Boy himself. Coppola's
experimentation with color in a few shots is something we're only now
seeing take form again in movies like "Sin City" (which also featured
Rourke). "Schindler's List" had a few moments of color and b&w, too,
but it wasn't as frequent.

The performances are excellent. An all-star cast includes not only
Dillon and Rourke but also Diane Lane (who was also in "The Outsiders"
with Dillon), Dennis Hopper, Diana Scywid, Vincent Spano and Nicolas
Cage.

Dillon's performance is key to the film because essentially this is his
story, but it's being narrated to a certain effect by The Motorcycle
Boy (at least insofar that it's his problems taking form in the
narrative) - and Rourke gives a terrific performance. His moody, quiet
embodiment of The Motorycle Boy leaves a lasting impression; his
character comes across as a somber, reflective and ultimately regretful
man who made bad decisions in his past and now wants to protect his
brother from the same thing. It is implied that he may even have become
a mail hustler on the streets of CA; his persistence to not tell any
details of his adventure, and the fact that he sees a photo of himself
posing in front of a bike ("taken by a guy in California," he tells his
brother) in a magazine, and then asks Rusty James not to tell anyone,
could be perceived as such. Or maybe not. It all depends on how far you
want to look into it.

"Rumble Fish" may not be Francis Ford Coppola's best film, but it is
one of his most sadly underrated movies and is probably worth
mentioning in a list of the best films of the 1980s. In a decade where
American art-house seemed to be a lost thought, "Rumble Fish" stands
out as one of the few.
<|_=00=_|>

I have to admit having a soft spot for this film as
I have for Apocalypse Now, though perhaps Coppola could never quite carry
out a truly inventive directing style. His films mostly seemed somehow
constrained to an unchallenging format, and avoided the complexity,
surrealism or depth so often used to great ends by film directors.
Coppola's
films will always seem to this author to be part of that distinct class of
"Hollywood Films", though some are arguably "really good" Hollywood films.

As often the case with good films, Rumble Fish
featured a fantastic collaboration of other great artists. This talent
comes
together to create something memorable on film which communicates, as few
films have, a certain mood or feeling that is perhaps peculiar to the
American midwest, especially during the 1980's. Something about the
antipathy of growing up in such a vast, apathetic, culturally blank,
comfortably mediocre place and attempting to go beyond it or find something
in it, like punching your way out of a cardboard box only to find that
things seem just as dark and empty on the outside. It should be made clear
that this author also comes from that midwest and identifies with this
theme, so there is some bias in this review, but this may apply to other
"midwestern refugees" as well.

Fans of S.E. Hinton, on who's book the film was
based and who co-wrote the screenplay, will appreciate the film, as well as
fans of Tom Waits, Stuart Copeland (of the Police and little known project
Klark Kent- which closely resembles the soundtrack), Mickey Rourke, or any
of the (then) young, up and coming actors like Matt Dillon, Nicolas Cage
and
Diane Lane.

Rourke is at one of the peaks of his young career
here, a cool rebel without a cause type, vaguely reminiscent of young Peter
Fonda or James Dean- a striking character. The film has memorable scenes
and
lines, one of which is Dillon's character saying to the fatalistic older
brother- "Motorcycle Boy" played by Rourke, something like- "People would
really follow you anywhere, why don't we do something?", to which Rourke
responds- "Yeah, they'd probably follow me right down to the
river...and jump in."

Similar scenes and numerous references to time
passing away seemed to summarize the hopeless stagnation of growing up
nowhere and proceeding to go nowhere. Groping in the dark for everything or
anything meaningful in the context of a forgotten, lifeless irontown where
even the young seem more like ghosts trying desperately to become tangible
in some sense, and the middle aged are already on some other
world.

Other films that come to mind- James Dean films;
"Reckless", another Hollywood film released a year later, with Aidan Quinn
(as "Rourke"- coincidence?), and Daryl Hannah, was semi-successful in
making
the occasional reference to a similar blighted steeltown theme, though
overall it was spotty; "Dogs in Space" with Michael Hutchence of INXS was a
punk classic, and had some of that "nowhere with style" appeal with an
Australian twist; two other 1980's films the author never saw- "Down by
Law"
and "Rivers Edge" probably fit somewhere in here as well.


<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

I love two scenes in this classic. Where Motorcycle Boy decides it is
time to go, he simply does not fit here anymore. As his last act on
earth, he commits suicide by freeing the fighting fish which are
existential metaphors for himself and the rest of the fighting men
imprisoned in that reality. Have no illusions, he knew William Smith
was itching to kill him and had been praying for an opportunity
throughout the movie. It is such a beautiful scene, he takes them to
the river though it costs him his life. They both are free; the whole
movie Motorcycle boy had been trying to find a place but like the
moving cloud temporal imagery, time had simply passed him by. The
boyhood gang lord role looks to him like utter foolish insanity. He now
has nothing but disgust and disdain for his former place, much to Rusty
James' exasperation. Motorcycle boy is such an enigma to Rusty; he
speaks in metaphors and similes that fly right over the top of Rusty's
head. As the movie progresses, he gets more and more frustrated trying
to fathom what on earth is wrong with his big brother. When he brags to
dad that he is going to be just like him, Hopper gives him a worried,
sad look and warns him,"You should pray not." 

The other beautiful scene came before this scene when, before he
commits suicide, Motorcycle Boy and Rusty go for one last ride
together. Returning, for a few precious minutes, to the boyhood
happiness they once shared. It is such a simple and moving scene seeing
them enjoying their happiness together for the last time. The movie is
about how society always has a limited set of roles for people to fill.
If Motorcycle Boy lived during a war he would have been a great, heroic
warrior. Or, if he lived during feudal times, he would find his role,
the warrior, enshrined and truly have been at home. Here, he simply
does not fit. When you watch the film many times, you will see that he
intended to commit suicide, he just returned to say good bye. He
revisits his life, the neighborhood, his girl, his dad and Rusty James.
Rourke plays him with such power; he knows so much more than he says.
When he does speak it is usually allegorical or metaphoric. He is
surveying his world for the last time; he desperately is searching for
an anchor but he finds none. 

The evil cop simply bides his time. He circles over him like the
jealous vulture he always was; he says it is because the kids think he
is something he isn't. Crap, he was always jealous that he was the most
powerful warrior there and could have squashed him, like the bug he
was, if he cared enough to, he doesn't. Rusty is last seen riding away
on Motorcycle Boy's bike, we sense he is going to the ocean and will
too have an awakening dream. The temporal imagery is the only American
movie I have seen that portrays time, as it really is, as utterly
subjective and phenomenal. The recitation of mortality; you have this
many summers left is sober and quite unique in any movie. It is slow
and boring; you must study the imagery and listen to the words the
Motorcycle Boy says, often almost in a whisper. I love the movie; it
towers over the awful THE OUTSIDERS. A very deep powerful movie
<|_=00=_|>
After hearing such rave reviews, I really was excited to see Francis
Ford Coppola's indie classic 'Rumble Fish'. The film was shot in black
and white and it had an expansive cast of talented actors including
Matt Dillon, Mickey Rourke, Dennis Hopper, Diane Lane, Laurence
Fishburne, Tom Waits and Nicolas Cage. I enjoyed Francis Ford Coppola's
other films like Apocalypse Now and of course The Godfather Parts I, II
& III. From what I heard it was filmed kind of like this year's smash
hit 'Sin City' ('Rumble Fish' was black & white but with dashes of
color) only on a smaller scale. I rented this indie sensation when I
was on vacation because they had it in the hotel video store. I
couldn't find it in the Blockbusters in Arizona (where I live) and my
portable DVD player was acting up so I couldn't view the DVDs I brought
a long with me for the trip. It may have been just fate that I got the
opportunity to view Coppola's 'Rumble Fish', definitely one of the
most, if not the most inventive motion pictures I ever gazed my eyes
upon.

The film is set in a 1950s - 1970s setting. With it's black & white
color and just the way the film is presented it gives the audience a
feel of the old 1930s James Cagney crime noir flicks. It follows a
young and dumb hoodlum named Rusty James (Matt Dillon), whose the
leader of one of the two gangs in town. After a huge rumble played out
like a West Side Story scene from hell, Rusty is left hurt real bad
when the opposing gang leader stabbed him in the gut with a
switchblade. Coming to Rusty James' rescue is his older brother, The
Motorcycle Boy (Mickey Rourke) who hasn't shown his face in town for a
year after disappearing to California. The Motorcycle Boy helps his
younger brother out, and eventually starts to hang around the
neighborhood more. From there, the plot follows the two re-united
brothers as they hang around the streets and cause trouble, while the
Motorcycle Boy tries to teach his less then intelligent brother the
meaning of life. Dennis Hopper stars as Rusty James and the Motorcyle
Boy's dad, Diane Lane stars as Rusty James' sweet friend, Tom Waits
stars as the grill master in the town's diner, and Chris Penn, Laurence
Fishburne and a young Nicolas Cage are featured as some of Rusty James'
gang buddies.

First of all, I adored the way 'Rumble Fish' was shot. With his
extraordinary talent, director Francis Ford Coppola really creates a
thing of beauty and opulence with 'Rumble Fish'. The only real downside
of this picture is that the plot drags entirely too much, and that's
pretty bad for a film running only 90 minutes. The writing is mostly
good, but 'Rumble Fish' seems to be missing a real plot. The film
substitutes hypnotic cinematography and cool scenery for an
easy-to-follow plot, which in my opinion is a big mistake. Although
this kind of bugs me, 'Rumble Fish' is a good film for the most part.
The acting is superb with a engrossing and passionate performance by a
very young Matt Dillon and a powerful and carefully layered performance
by Mickey Rourke who in my opinion should have gotten an Oscar nod for
Best Supporting Actor. Diane Lane is very good in one of her first
roles, Dennis Hopper plays the alcoholic clueless dad perfectly and Tom
Waits is a pleasure to watch. Nicolas Cage and Laurence Fishburne are
also rock solid. If you want to see a film that's really out there and
full of likable qualities, I'd recommend picking up 'Rumble Fish' your
next stop to the video store. Chances are you'll find something or
somethings to love about it. Grade: B
