
As is the case with movie anthologies, "Twilight Zone - The Movie" is
hit and miss. If there was a movie destined to have four short stories
that were all home runs it was this one. But the film falls short
partially due to the expectations of the fans of the TV show and
partially due to the fans expectations of the results of the four
directors. What was most interesting back in 1983 was which ones hit
and which ones missed.

The prologue gets things going in the right direction with Albert
Brooks and Dan Aykroyd as two guys traveling down a dark and seemingly
lonely road. What transpires in pure Twilight Zone. Then we move into
the first story which is directed by (as was the opening prologue) John
Landis. Landis, who got the whole project off the ground, foolishly
decided to go with an original story instead of updating a classic
episode. His story is that of a bigot who constantly and bitterly
complains about the minorities who are getting job promotions and
moving into his neighborhood. Of course the bigot then gets a real
taste of what it feels like to be frowned upon as a minority. Basically
that is the whole story in a nutshell. Landis provides no real twists
to his story to give us that Twilight Zone flavor after the first few
minutes. Once we see where the story is headed it never changes
directions. For film buffs Landis adds a nice touch with a subtle
reference to his classic "Animal House" in the Vietnam section of the
story. Of course it should be noted that this was the story being shot
when Vic Morrow and two children were tragically killed which would
explain its abrupt ending. The two children are never seen which would
suggest perhaps Landis had more to tell but we'll never know. Of the
four this is the weakest story.

Story two is not much better then the first which is particularly
surprising since Steven Spielberg is at the helm for this one. It's a
remake of "Kick the Can" which was not one of my favorite episodes from
the series and Spielberg adds nothing to his version. It's the tale of
residents of an old folks home who encounter a new resident who
promises them something no one of this Earth could possibly give them.
While the story and individual moments are very sweet it goes
absolutely nowhere. Having just come off "E.T." perhaps Spielberg was
in that same gushy mood at that time.

Story three picks things up drastically and heads us in the right
direction. Directed by Joe Dante who, at that time, was best known for
"The Howling" with films such as "Gremlins" still in his future, this
is the story of a little boy who hears people's thoughts and has a way
of "wishing people away" if he gets angry enough at them. Kathleen
Quinlan plays an unsuspecting traveler who goes to the boy's home and
realizes almost immediately things are not normal. The star of this
story is the art direction and sets as we are transformed into almost
cartoon like worlds that are both funny and frightening.

The last and best story is the tale of a frightened airline passenger
(well played by John Lithgow) who threatens the safety of everyone when
he seems to be the only person that sees a creature on the wing of the
airplane. George Miller, best known for the "Mad Max" movies, was smart
enough to pick a popular episode from the series and he delivers with a
bang. When you leave the theater this is the story you remember most.

On the whole the film is worth watching especially after the first 45
minutes. Landis and Spielberg perhaps were a little too high on their
horses and thought whatever they did would work. Apparently they under
estimated the legions of Zone fans. I'd love to see someone try another
Twilight Zone movie someday and try re-working some of the other most
famous episodes. I should also mention the terrific musical score by
Jerry Goldsmith. Its one of his least mentioned but I think it's one of
his best.
<|_=00=_|>

When I first watched this film at the age of 
seven, I must have been freaked out for weeks. 
Never had a movie had that kind of effect on 
my psyche, especially "Nightmare at 20,000 
Feet." While some will label this as a bad film 
due to the fact it didn't faithfully reproduce the 
original stories very well. I say 'Who Cares!' 
Sometimes, fear and entertainment is all 
that one needs in regard to a cool movie such 
as this one. While it is certainly not a film that 
will rank highly in the greatest films of all time 
category, at least it proved this concept in story 
telling is pertinent today, even in today's cynical 
culture.
<|_=00=_|>

It is very hard to think of another film anywhere that had such a great
potential as TWILIGHT ZONE: THE MOVIE had, only to have a senseless and
totally preventable tragedy--the deaths of actor Vic Morrow and two
illegally hired Asian child actors--mar the impact.  Aside from that, and
some heavy-handed moralizing that even the original show's creator Rod
Serling would have had problems with, this is a fairly good tribute to what
was perhaps the best TV series in history.

The prologue (with Dan Aykroyd and Albert Brooks) and Segment 1 are both
originals, written and directed by John Landis.  The segment deals with a
very embittered white man (Morrow) who, after being dealt the denial of a
promotion at work in favor of a Jew, unleashes his bigotry at a bar.  But
when he steps outside, he soon gets a dose of his own bitter medicine:
persecution by the Nazis in Vichy France circa 1943; stalked by the KKK in
Alabama in 1956; attacked by US soldiers in Vietnam circa 1969.  Landis'
penchant for hamfisted dialogue and erratic direction dilute what could
have
been an effective piece; and the tragedy that occurred on his watch taints
not only this segment but much of the rest of the movie.

Segment 2, a remake of the 1961 episode "Kick The Can", directed by Steven
Spielberg, stars Scatman Crothers as an elderly magician who brings a sense
of youth to the residents of a senior citizens home, though over the
objections of a veritable old fuddy-duddy (Bill Quinn).  Spielberg has
often
been attacked, mostly unnecessarily, for his tendency toward sloppy
sentimentality, but here a lot of the attacks may be justified, despite the
best of intentions.  He is still my favorite director, but this is one of
his weakest.

Segment 3 remakes "It's A Good Life."  Under the inventive hands of
director
Joe Dante (THE HOWLING), this film stars Jeremy Licht as a boy with the
power to enslave and terrorize his family when he comes to feel that they
hate him.  Kathleen Quinlan stars as the teacher who unintentionally gets
caught up in the melee, only to wind up volunteering to teach Licht how to
better use his powers before they become too big for him to control (a la
CARRIE).  Dante's use of inventive special effects (courtesy of Rob Bottin)
and black comedy enliven this segment, despite some weird overacting from
the rest of the segment's cast (including William Schallert and Kevin
McCarthy).

Segment 4 is a reworking of the famous episode "Nightmare At 20,000 Feet."
With George Miller (MAD MAX) at the director's helm, the segment stars John
Lithgow as an incredibly anxious passenger with a morbid fear of flight who
constantly sees a monstrous gremlin tearing apart at the wings of his plane
during a severe storm.  His anxiety explodes into terror and madness, and
the other passengers think he is certifiable.  But when the plane lands,
and
the damage is inspected...

The final score on this is that Landis and Spielberg, who also produced,
come up with the weaker segments, and Dante and, especially, Miller come up
with the best ones.  Miller's segment is a truly kinetic piece of suspense
and terror, though I did find the little girl (Christina Nigra) an
extremely
obnoxious and unnecessary presence.  Lithgow, who takes over for William
Shatner (who had the role in the TV episode), gives a bravura performance,
arguably paving the way for his role in "2010" as an astronaut deftly
afraid
of heights.

Jerry Goldsmith's usual efficient score and some good special effects work
help to make TWILIGHT ZONE: THE MOVIE not only an above-average tribute to
a
great TV show, but also a good anthology film that combines fantasy,
suspense, and mystery.  It is a shame that the film is tainted by a
pointless tragedy.  But if one can ignore that, there are rewards to be had
by seeing this.
<|_=00=_|>
An affectionate homage to the old TV series. Three old episodes were
updated and a new one was written. It's also narrated by Burgess
Meredith who starred in quite a few of the original TV series episodes.

It starts off with a quick little prologue with Albert Brooks and Dan
Aykroyd. It's quick, funny and provides a nice little jolt.

The first segment was newly written for the movie. It involves a bitter
and racist man (Vic Morrow) getting a taste of his own medicine. This
episode is clouded by the three deaths it caused--Morrow was
decapitated by a helicopter blade and two Vitenamese children were
crushed. John Landis (who directed this) was found not guilty in the
deaths. As it stands this isn't very good. It's simplistic and
heavy-handed--like a bad Zone episode.

The second one is directed by Steven Spielberg. It involves an old man
(Scatman Crothers) gently bringing to life the old people at a
retirement home. I'll be the first to admit that this is way too
syrupy--but I have a fondness for it. The acting is good, it has a
great music score and, I admit, it leaves me a little misty-eyed.

The third is directed by Joe Dante. It's a remake about a little boy
who can make all of his wishes come true. It's well-directed with some
truly incredible special effects and a good performance by Kathleen
Quinlan. But it's seriously damaged by a silly happy ending (the
original didn't have that). Billy Mumy (the star of the original) has a
bit part and Dante regular Dick Miller shows up as Walter Paisley.

The fourth is the best. It's directed by George Miller and is a remake
of the William Shatner episode where he spots a gremlin tearing apart
the plane he's flying on. The gremlin in the original looked pretty
ridiculous--like a teddy bear. Here John Lithgow plays the passenger
and the gremlin is more than a little scary-looking. This segment moves
and has a few great jolts. Also Carol Serling (Rod Serling's wife I
believe) has a bit part.

All in all an enjoyable film. I liked it when I saw it in a theatre in
1983 and it still holds up today. I give it an 8.
<|_=00=_|>

"Twilight Zone: The Movie" is a mostly entertaining anthology film based on
Rod Serling's classic TV series of the 1960s. Four bizarre tales are told
through the minds of four different filmmakers: John Landis, Steven
Spielberg, Joe Dante, and George Miller (Landis and Spielberg also
produced). "Twilight Zone: The Movie" starts with a brief prologue starring
Dan Aykroyd and Albert Brooks. Then comes segment #1, directed by Landis.
This is the part of the movie that made headlines around the world when a
freak accident killed actor Vic Morrow and two children while shooting a
helicopter scene (which is not seen in the film). This story is about an
angry man (played by Morrow) who is not happy with America because of all
the different races that are living in the country. Then something strange
happens. When the man steps outside of a bar, he finds himself on a street
in Nazi Germany; a few minutes later he's confronted by the Klu Klux Klan;
then he discovers he's in the middle of the Vietnam War; and so on. As for
how this segment goes, it's only so-so. However segment #2, directed by
Spielberg, is the weakest story of the bunch. Scatman Crothers stars as an
elderly man who comes to live at a retirement home. After making friends
with some of the elderly people living there, he talks them into playing a
spirited game of kick the can. This is no ordinary game. Let's just say that
its a game with a fountain of youth twist to it. I found this segment real
boring. Up to this point, "Twilight Zone: The Movie" is disappointing. But
then the film picks up with the strong last two segments. Segment #3,
directed by Dante, stars Kathleen Quinlan as a woman who meets a little boy
after accidentally knocking him off of his bike with her car. She decides to
give the boy a ride home. But this is no ordinary home. It's a house where
every TV set has a cartoon on, and the boy's family act like a bunch of
crazy people (like their cartoons themselves). Quinlan begins to realize
that this kid is not normal. This segment works because it's creepy (the
look of the house on the inside is fascinating) and funny (every member of
the kid's family is a complete nut). Ah, but the best segment comes last.
Segment #4, directed by Miller, is a truly scary tale starring John Lithgow
(from TV's "3rd Rock From the Sun") as a terrified passenger of an airplane
flying through a severe thunderstorm. Things get worse when Lithgow see's
something on the wing of the plane. What is it? A man? Or is it a monster?
This segment literally had me on the edge of my seat. It's an excellent
finale to "Twilight Zone: The Movie". So my advice is skip the first two
segments, but watch the last two.

Here's my separate ratings for each segment (out of four
stars):

Segment #1: **1/2;
Segment #2: *1/2;
Segment #3: ***1/2;
Segment #4: ****

This adds up for an estimated combined rating of *** stars.

<|_=00=_|>
After the opening prologue with DAN AKYROYD and ALBERT BROOKS, as bored
drivers on a lonely country highway who like to play pranks, TWILIGHT
ZONE: THE MOVIE offers four stories, supposedly in the vein of stories
that Rod Serling wrote for the famous TV series. Not until the final
segment, NIGHTMARE AT 20,000 FEET does it offer the kind of fright
stuff worthy of being in this anthology.

And it's a minor gem of its kind with JOHN LITHGOW giving an amazingly
deft performance as a man totally afraid of flying who should have
taken tranquilizers before he peered out the window. What he saw on the
wing of the plane would have frightened anyone out of their wits--and,
of course, no one believes him.

It's this final episode that makes the film itself worth watching. None
of the other segments have enough punch to keep the viewer awake, let
alone entertained. VIC MORROW's unfortunate accident came about during
filming of a Vietnam sequence which does not appear in this version of
the film--but he does give a convincing portrait of a bigot who gets
his comeuppance. Very ironic.

Summing up: All of these stories were told with more style and suspense
on the old TV shows. Strictly second-rate.
<|_=00=_|>
Feature film expansion of legendary TV series is uneven overall, but it
does have its moments, and it does thankfully follow the rule of saving
the best for last. Four prominent directors are brought together to
create, in glorious colour, some classic episodes of the series, with
an impressive roster of stars and character players. At least along the
way it manages to create some enjoyable jolts. Burgess Meredith, star
of 'Time Enough at Last', one of the best known and most beloved of all
episodes, is the narrator for this trip into some bizarre places.

Unfortunately the movie will always have an enormous stigma attached to
it due to the untimely and horrific death of actor Vic Morrow and two
child extras during the shooting of Segment 1. That may very well leave
a bad taste in the mouth of many people watching. It's up to the
individual viewer as to how much this affects their enjoyment of the
film.

The prologue and the first segment are actually originals written by
director John Landis. Dan Aykroyd and Albert Brooks are fun as a
passenger and driver who come up some with some amusing ways to
entertain each other until Aykroyd decides it's time for Brooks to get
a good scare. This gets us off to a good start because Landis does
understand that with the TV show the payoff was a most important
element.

Segment 1 sees Morrow playing an unrepentant bigot who gets a major
dose of his own intolerance when he's mistaken for a Jew by Nazis, a
black by KKK members, and a Vietnamese man by American troops in 'Nam.
This is a very dark episode that doesn't end too satisfactorily, but
Morrow is excellent, the look of Paris during WWII is nicely realized,
the pacing is effective, and there's a great in joke referring back to
Landis's "Animal House".

Segment 2, Steven Spielberg's remake of "Kick the Can", sees
wonderfully genial Scatman Crothers injecting some magic into the lives
of senior citizens in an old folks' home. Like Segment 1, it's
unfortunately not subtle about its message, and is so syrupy sweet that
it really doesn't fit in with the other segments here. The actors are
very likable, fortunately; Crothers manages to make it worth sitting
through.

Segment 3 tells the tale of "It's a Boy's Life", in which a creepy kid
(Jeremy Licht) makes the acquaintance of travelling schoolteacher
Kathleen Quinlan. This kid can bend reality to suit his whims, lives in
a house with bizarre designs, likes his hamburgers with peanut butter
topping, and lives for cartoons. And his "family" lives in mortal
terror of him. The work of Joe Dante, this serves as a counterpoint to
Spielberg's tale the way that it depicts childish fantasies run amok.
Great cartoon style monster work by Rob Bottin helps in the enjoyment
of this segment; this is where the film starts getting really good.
Bill Mumy, the kid in the original episode, plays a diner patron.

Segment 4, directed by George Miller of the "Mad Max" series, is far
and away the best, an over the top remake of "Nightmare at 20,000
Feet", in which terrified airplane passenger John Lithgow believes he
sees a creature busy destroying the planes' engines as it flies through
a storm. Lots of good atmosphere and intensity here, with a top notch
unhinged performance by Lithgow and a great creature, designed by Craig
Reardon & Michael McCracken and performed by actor Larry Cedar.

With a lot of familiar faces in the small roles (ex. Charles Hallahan,
Doug McGrath, Bill Quinn, Selma Diamond, the almighty Dick Miller (once
again playing 'Walter Paisley'), Kevin McCarthy, William Schallert,
Cherie Currie, Nancy Cartwright, John Dennis Johnston, Eduard Franz,
and Donna Dixon), and wonderful music by Jerry Goldsmith, this
certainly remains an entertaining film to watch for its duration, if
not a great one. Hopefully it will inspire people to check out the TV
series and see why it's so admired.

Seven out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Five episodes realized as tribute to Rod Serling's Twilight zone, made
by four known directors . It's is divided into 4 parts , three of them
real remakes from classic television series, though starts in a
prologue stars Albert Brooks and Dan Aykroyd . The best directed by
John Landis is the first, where a bigot (played by Vic Morrow who died
during filming by a helicopter crash accident) who becomes pursued of
evil Nazis, Ku Klux Klan and American soldiers in Vietnam. The second
segment directed by Steven Spielberg is a silly story about old people
living in a retirement house who turn into little boys, thanks a
strange visitor (Scatman Crothers). The third directed by Joe Dante
concerns about a young woman (Kathleen Quinlan) encounters a kid with
rare powers and some people (Kevin McCarthy, William Schallert,among
them) closed at a strange house. And fourth episode titled 'Nightmare
at 20.000 Feet' deals with a terrified passenger(John Lightow) who
watch a creepy monster making rare issues on the wing of the plane. 

The picture contains good special effects in traditional style without
excessive computer generator as usual nowadays. The master Jerry
Goldsmith composes a magic musical score particularly reflected on the
second episode titled 'Kick the can' . Colorful and imaginative
cinematography especially in the third segment titled 'It's a good
life'. Rating : Acceptable and passable, the picture will appeal to
fantastic genre buffs.

The classic long-running television series is formed by 156 episodes
and its narrator , of course, Rod Serling. Later on, in 2002 are
realized 44 new episodes with Forest Whitaker as host.
<|_=00=_|>
I got tired of all the comments about remaking old episodes and decided
to share how good this movie is. The Twilight Zone movie is very fun to
watch. As you've probably read it's split up into several different
plots/episodes but there's no credits it just rolls right into the next
situation with a little narration. It is well directed with names like
John Landis and Steve Spielburg you can understand why. The movie
starts off with a couple friends (one of whom is Dan Akryod )driving
down a cross county road at night guessing tunes off the radio and
talking stories. The dialogue between them is pretty classic not to
mention Creedence Clearwater Revivals MidNight Special playing in the
background just sets the mood great. Everything just seems so normal
and the spontaneity makes you feel like you're there. Akryods friend
says do you wanna see something scary? he says alright. So he turns off
the headlights and its pitch black, you can't see the road at all -
Akroyd says hey turn the lights back on this isn't funny. His friend
laughs and turns em back on saying its a straight road and they were
really safe. Again this really gets you comfortable with Akroyds
character as the passive one of the two. Where it gets driven home is a
few minutes later when Akroyd asks his friend if he'd like to see
something REALLY scary? He convinces him to he has to pull the car over
to show him so they do. His friend says alright what is it? Akroyd
holds up his finger hinting just a sec, and turns as if to put on a
mask or do some magic trick. When he turns around he has a hideous face
and you realize it isn't a mask at all ! He grabs his friend and chokes
him to death. The camera pans up off the car still running on the side
of the road and the classic twilight zone tune plays to the title. And
all this happens before the title ! Needless to say anyone who likes
interesting and new perspectives should check this movie out. There's
not a lot of blood, it isn't a gorry film, it's an intelligent film
with at least something for everyone to see at least once. By the way
the gremlin segment is absolutely one of my favorite sequences in any
movie ever. Again,don't miss this one just because someone told you it
has episode remakes in it, please watch it ! -christopher haggerty
<|_=00=_|>

I'm a huge fan of the series, and I remember being obsessed with TZ The
Movie when it was released. I was 12, after all!!

Recently watched the film again for the first time in at least 15 years. I
was blown away by the final segment, it's truly a classic which really
scared the stuffing outta me. That evil little girl who takes Polaroids of
everything freaked me out to no end. For me, it's the only segment in which
the quality of the writing matches the direction and visuals from beginning
to end.

I saw the original episode upon which Joe Dante's (3rd) segment is based
when I was spending the night at my friend's house in 4th grade. It, too,
really frightened me. I remember thinking to myself how hopeless the
situation was-- if you even TRIED to not think bad thoughts about Anthony,
you would end up thinking them, and he could still get you!! And didn't he
"wish someone away to the cornfield"?? Man, that's some serious freakiness.

I thought the design of that segment in the movie was incredible, I'll never
forget the mom holding the fishbowl, or the ferocious rabbit creature, or
what happens to Ethel ("Run, Ethel....!") But the ending is truly atrocious
and almost ruins what has come before.

What can I say about the other two segments? Better scripts were needed in
order to make them work. And in the case of "Kick the Can", sticking more
closely to the original episode would have given it more impact. (Not to
mention firing Steven Spielberg.)And it's sad seeing Vic Morrow in his final
role-- I'll always think of him as the sadistic coach in THE BAD NEWS BEARS,
which is one of my all-time favorites.

All in all, a very uneven movie which improves steadily as it goes along.
6/10.
