
Spoilers Ahead:

What do the scenes on earth mean? Why are they there? Well, Kirk is
wearing a girdle and a really bad hairpiece so we have to suffer
through the requisite Adlerian male compensation scene; you know I may
be as old as God but I can climb mountains with my bare hands. This is
supposed to let us know he still packs the gear. Boring. Then we are
treated to the sing a long from hell; this is here to dispel all the
plethora of rumors that the crew hated his guts and will not be seen
with him. Now you know why he wanted to direct so badly don't you. Then
we are treated to THE PRINCE OF TIDES; THE SPACE YEARS guest starring
Sybok as the most annoying, bad acting therapist from hell. The
interminable journey to meet the deity who has probably nodded off at
this point. It is his ship, he doesn't know how anything works. The
dialog puts the B in badly written. Unfunny humor on the level of the
three stooges; action scenes that are boring and badly photographed.
Hey, it gets worse. 

The dance of the seven veils by the geriatric, corpulent Uhura who last
had a hot body when Richard Nixon was in the white house. No, that
would not have distracted them; they would have vomited. We only see
her legs, thanks for that much, I have seen too much already. Why is it
dark as night in Lionwoman's lair? Why can't we see anything going on?
Is this guy the worst director in the history of talking pictures? The
byplay between Spock and Sybok is not funny; it is stupid and
unrealistic. See, when you fight people and mutual deaths occur, they
do not stop and have a chat with you. Can you tell these people know as
much about real battle as they do about fornicating, to quote Patton?
The film shows to all aspiring filmmakers the craft of directing and
why it is such a powerful role: Shatner does nothing right, bad acting,
photography, editing, and pacing. Make no mistake, if this had a
competent director it would not be half this bad with a capable person
overseeing the horrible script. 

The meeting God scene is beyond bad; 2001 called they want their
imagery back. A powerful alien that cannot even kill one of the crew? I
know, I was disappointed also. Yes, oh he looked scary, I was shaking.
The token Klingon who has to be publicly castrated on the alter of
Kirk's manliness. His whole existence is predicated on defeating the
great and powerful Jim Kirk. You get the picture, somebody has a bit of
an ego problem; the whole universe is rotating about James Tiberius
Kirk. Get some therapy. WORSE THAN SLOW STRANGULATION. 

"Fools who imagine the rascalities of imbeciles on earth effect the
motion of the planets." Nietzsche
<|_=00=_|>
I've never figured out why ST V gets so much criticism. It's really not
that bad, if you're a true trekkie. First off, sure the effects are a
little low-fi...but so were the TOS episodes. I don't know about you,
but I care more about story than effects. The main reason that I like
this film because it's very episodic in nature. If you are a fan of the
original Star Trek series, sit down and watch this movie as if you were
watching one of the original episodes and it will be much more
enjoyable. For one, it starts out like an episode with a prologue
before the opening credits start. Secondly, the theme music for the
movie is similar to that of the original series. Third, there are some
lines from the film that sound like they would be right out of one of
the older episodes. Lastly, this movie is loosely based on the
storyline of an original episode. Ironically, the episode that it's
based on is one of the TOS worst episodes: The Way the Eden. If you've
seen The Way to Eden, the actual plot of the episode is not bad, it's
just the hippie stuff that makes it so awful. This film kildly leaves
out the awful hippie music of the original episode and focuses solely
on the plot instead. I often wonder if Shatner wrote this film to make
up for how bad The Way to Eden was. So, to sum up, watch this movie as
you would watch an old episode and you'll enjoy it much more.
<|_=00=_|>
Star Trek V ranks at or near the bottom of the Trek films for most fans
and casual viewers. And upon viewing this on its special edition DVD,
my opinion has not changed. This is a film that tries hard but
ultimately fails due to poor plotting, sub-par special effects and poor
character development. The movie opens with probably the best scene in
the film, where you meet Sybok and learn a little about his quest. The
visuals alone in the opening shots are very impressive. Then, slowly,
scene by scene, the movie falls apart. Yes, there are a few peaks in
there, which I will discuss later, but overall, the idea of a "God Like
Being" in the center of our galaxy, it just so illogical.

The movie has a lot of embarrassing and just plan bad moments. The
first of which is the meeting of three characters who represent the
"Planet of Galactic Peace." However, their intro is rushed and these
characters are not given any depth at all. Why introduce us to these
"important" characters if they care not going to be used in any
meaningful (maybe one of them at the end) plot point at all? The
direction by William Shatner also seems very uneven. Take the scene
with Scotty and Uhura on the bridge. There is a very awkward moment of
silence after their main dialogue is over. And the mugging Shatner does
when McCoy makes very awkward comments to Spock's story about Sybok is
just out of place. And add to that a semi-naked Uhura and Scotty
hitting his head for a "Three Stooges" laugh and you begin to sink in
your chair. The Klingon plot seems tacked on just to add depth to the
story. And by the time we see where the movie is going, we just feel
very disappointed and underwhelmed.

That said, I can't help but enjoy the wealth of good character moments
in the film. I for one liked the campfire scene and the attempts of
deep philosophy about old age and death. I also liked exploring the
"pain" of McCoy and Spock and Kirk's insistence that he "needs his
pain." While most of the humor was forced and bad, the best had to be
the "I could use a shower" scene, which is one of the biggest laughs in
all of the Trek films. There were many moments of good direction by
Shatner, especially in McCoy's "pain scene." I do sympathize with
Shatner a little, when listening to the commentary track, about how
this was cut and that was cut but I still think on a whole, this movie
was doomed to fail.

The DVD's picture is sharp and the sound is excellent. The extras are
quite good but I would have liked more insight as to what went wrong
with the film besides tight schedule and budget. Shatner's commentary
with his daughter is good but has too many quiet moments. Check out the
hidden and brief "comic reel."

At this point in time, I do rank Star Trek V above Nemesis, mainly due
to that movie's bad continuity issues but just barely. Still, it is
Star Trek and if you like the characters, just sit back, don't expect
much and enjoy the show.
<|_=00=_|>
ABSOLUTELY NO SPOILERS -- There is no shortage of people complaining
about this film, but ST5 is a charmer for one simple reason - it is
best-ever rendering of the Kirk, Spock and McCoy partnership the series
ever produced. 

Trekkie's generally see the movie as the stepchild of the series, and
even the Trek establishment writes it off as non-canonical. Many
complain that the movie distorts the characters, or exploits them for
humor. To them I'd say the movie offers some of the deepest moments in
the relationships between Kirk, Spock and McCoy that the series ever
had. THIS SHOULD BE STRESSED, in this chapter the three likely have
more scenes together than they ever had anywhere else. Not every moment
works, but together they grapple with betrayal, joy, doubt, loss. They
do it with friendship, camaraderie, heroism and joy that justly makes
them one of the most memorable pop-culture phenomena ever. (I do pity
the rest of the original cast, most of whom have at least one
unenviable scene.)

It's great to return to this film and see these guys doing what they do
best - long after they retired from the roles. Shatner and Paramount
may have bungled a few things here, but I forgive them, because the
three leads hit all the right notes. Give it a fair shot and see for
yourself.
<|_=00=_|>

I like underdogs. So, 12 years after having first seen Star Trek V, and
thinking it was bizarrely bad, I gave it a second watch, hoping I would find
some redeeming quality which I missed the first time around.

I didn't.

The writing is half-baked, and although at first the quality of the acting
is stable enough to keep the movie on its feet (albeit shakily), the further
we get into the plot the sillier it gets. The last quarter of the film is
just plain ridiculous. What was even worse, from the original cast's POV, is
that this was the first ST movie to be released AFTER the franchise returned
to television with Next Generation, and the average episode of Next
Generation would put this to shame* - including the special effects! What an
embarrassment.

The Final Frontier isn't thoroughly wretched - I gave it 4 out of 10 - but
it's so far below the standard of its predecessors (yes, including the first
one) that the only reason I can think of to watch it is because you'll
appreciate the other movies more.

* unless it's an episode with Troi's mother in it.
<|_=00=_|>
Welcome to the Plan 9 From Outer Space of Star Trek movies. Come on,
trekkers, admit it. This movie is so bad, so staggeringly inept in
every department, it's become something of a classic.

The Shat gives the worst performance ever committed to celluloid.
"BOONES! Hi, Bones" Brilliant! This isn't just Ham - it's several large
pig farms in Kentucky! 

The "Special" Effects. Should be done under the trade descriptions act
for using such a term. The Enterprise is a moving piece of cardboard in
this film. Really! Even the Star Trek TV show had better.

Bones, Spock and The Shat sing! Yeah, Spock sings Row Row Row Your
Boat. After struggling over the meaning of the words!!!! "Capt. Life is
Not A Dream" Poor Leonard Nimoy, he must really want to strangle
Shatner for this. Could The Shat not have given us his rendition of Mr.
Tambourine Man, or harmonised with Nimoy on Ballad of Bilbo Baggins?
Sorely disappointed.

A Sean Connery look-a-like plays Spock's half-brother. Only cos they
couldn't get Sean Connery! Uhura does a fan dance! That would have been
sexy in 1966. In 1989 it's like watching your drunk granny embarrass
herself at a Christmas Party. Much amusement from watching Spock
neck-pinch a horse...

Cat Woman/Tina Turner Jumps on Shatner's back! Shat twirls her around a
few times like a WWF Wrestler, and chucks her off. Yayy The Shat! He
shows his respect for alien life forms by leaving her face down in a
pool of water. Nice one! Seems Connery 2.0 was a bit of a Vulcan rebel.
Which explains why Spock hasn't previously mentioned him in 79 t.v
episodes and 4 movies. McCoy apparently mercy-killed his Dad, BUT
AFTERWARDS THEY FOUND A CURE. Tell me this isn't hysterically funny.

The 11 deck Enterprise suddenly grows another 400 decks for an escape
sequence in an elevator shaft. The Enterprise breaches the galactic
barrier, which has mysteriously moved from the edge to the centre of
the galaxy (see Where No Man Has Gone Before). Still, that's only about
50,000 light years... Shatner meets God! Or what purports to be God,
but I assume is really some kind of alien being. God looks a bit like
Charlton Heston in The 10 Commandments. Sean Connery MK II calls on God
to share his pain, and promptly dies. Or something. God punishes the
Shat for questioning his identity. So Spock kills God with a photon
torpedo. I'd love to know what Jehovah's Witnesses made of this scene.

The Shat, having killed God, promptly goes back to his sing-song with
Spock and Bones. Altogether now, Row Row Row Your Boat.....
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot understand how is it possible for people who call themselves
Star Trek fans, not to like this film. Even more I can't understand how
is it possible for the previous movie to have better ratings. 

The voyage home could have been any other light movie for people who
don't like to think what they've just seen... Not for Star Trek fans.
The final frontier movie was about all the stuff that made TOS so
special. I know it's not Free Willy but if it was I would rate it with
a 7 not a 9. As I did with Star Trek IV which was just an enjoyable
movie.

Star Trek was always about the story. A story that would give you a
glimpse to a possible future and make you think about philosophical
matters such as life, friendship, god, racism and others. 

If this is why you watch Star Trek I believe you will enjoy this film.
<|_=00=_|>
*** Minor spoilers ahead ***

When I saw this movie for the first time, I thought that the plot was
hokey, the special effects were ugly, and that the movie had a somewhat
abrupt ending. And turning Kirk into a free climbing enthusiast fit
neither Kirk's character as depicted in the original series nor
Shatner's rotund physique. A lot of people called this the worst Star
Trek movie of them all and I was ready to believe them at the time.

Having watched this again a few hours ago, I have to say this is a lot
more enjoyable than I remembered, even if my original criticisms about
the movie are still valid. But the film does contain a few scenes that
are visually imaginative (such as the assault on Paradise City, Spock's
jet boots, or the sequence around McCoy's inner pain), does feature
some great acting (whatever happened to Larry Luckinbill after this?),
and that it does capture that spirit of genuine excitement about going
to new places and facing the unknown that used to be such an important
motive in Star Trek and that is so painfully lacking from some of the
later movies.

As for the slapstick humor, which was not so well received originally
(to say the least), I can only observe that between 1989 and now some
of the Next Generation installments like "Star Trek: Nemesis" have
shown what really embarrassing humor in Star Trek movies looks like, so
the moments of comic relief in "The Final Frontier" seem positively
uproarious in comparison. Most of the jokes are character-based here,
and even if some of the characters come off as a little stupid (Chekov
and Sulu getting lost, Scotty bumping his head on a beam, etc.) the
humor is never as unfunny as the Data jokes from the NG movies. This
movie must have lost its claim to "worst Star Trek movie ever" a long
time ago, but apparently no one took notice.

But most importantly, this movie is not really so much about Sybok's
quest for Sha-Ka-Ree, as it is about the Kirk-Spock-McCoy relationship
and the way it is challenged by the presence of an outsider (Sybok).
And that is what really makes this movie compelling, if not exactly
great. Never in the original series nor in the other movies has their
relationship been studied as closely and with as much heart.

So it is probably a good idea not to pay too much attention to the
contrived action elements of the movie like the Klingon ship and
instead watch this more like a romance. All things considered, this
movie, while it may not be a classic, is one of the worthier additions
to the Star Trek universe.
<|_=00=_|>
I find it almost touching how Star Trek fans try desperately to like
this film in spite of its unbelievable number of flaws.

To begin with, none of the familiar characters are really in character
so to speak. Scotty is depicted as a bumbling tinkerer instead of the
competent engineer he was in the original series. Uhura...Gods, I can't
even think about what they did to her character. All of her dialog was
painful to listen to. McCoy seemed like a neurotic stepfather to Kirk
instead of his trusted friend. Spock...well, let's just say that
Leonard Nimoy was terribly wasted. He was given bad dialog ("I do not
believe you have grasped the gravity of your situation Captain."
Gravity, get it? Get it?) and made almost into a buffoon. Kirk...oh
man, don't get me started. William Shatner is a hammy actor to begin
with, so to allow him to direct really is to invite disaster which is
what we got.

The plot is beyond ridiculous. Giving Spock a brother is a pretty
desperate story line and unnecessarily soap operaish. But hey, let's go
with it. The search for God. Again, a weak plot basis. You don't think
so? OK, let's go with that too. So assuming that the two aforementioned
plot elements are sound, what's wrong with the script? Well, for one
thing, it recycles way too much. The Enterprise, for example, is yet
again, not working properly. Are we to assume that Starfleet would send
a grossly malfunctioning ship with a skeleton crew into a potentially
dangerous situation just because they want James Kirk to handle the
situation? If that's the case, then why not put him on a better ship as
an adviser? Adding to that...the crew is grossly incompetent. Scotty
has the ship in pieces (and apparently is cloddish enough to bump his
head knocking himself into unconsciousness WHILE there are hostiles on
board!), no one seem to notice the Klingon ship decloaking at a crucial
moment (despite the fact that the sensors are clearly showing the ship
in weapons range) and the crew all seem way too familiar with each
other. In other words, there is no sense of discipline. If this is the
flagship of Starfleet, then it's a wonder that the Klingons hadn't
already overthrown the Federation.

As to the personal struggles with pain, it was crap. Lawrence
Luckenbill is a competent actor, but even he couldn't save this turkey.
In short no one could. Of all the people involved, I imagine Leonard
Nimoy is the most embarrassed by it. I hope he is, anyway.

Thank god the original cast didn't bow out on this cloddish opus.
<|_=00=_|>

What is it with studios like Paramount that have a proven hit film
series on their hands, and figure it can screw around with the budget
and formula? Paramount spent less on this film than they did on TMP,
which doesn't sound bad until you realize that there's a 10 gap between
when the films were made. The $40 TMP cost to make would be equivalent
to about $75 million in 1989. This film is the reason that Shatner has
never been given a fair chance to direct other films, as well. Every
time he turned around, the studio was slashing the budget and making
demands regarding the storyline. The fact that this was the one
storyline that Roddenberry and Shatner could agree upon for the most
part made the freshman directorial task tough enough, but after all the
machinations were done, all anyone ended up with was an uneven story
and a load of badly executed special effects not worthy of the original
series, much less a major motion picture. The most glaring examples: -
All of the Phaser effects were severely ashed out and fake-looking. -
The shot of the Enterprise going into the great barrier was so
obviously a still-frame shot being zoomed away from. At least the
popsicle stick that held the Enterprise cut out up was successfully
matted out. - God "chasing" Kirk up the mountain... Egads, they may as
well have just cut in shots of Godzilla climbing the volcano at the end
of "Godzilla 1985," and used thumbtacks to scratch the emulsion off of
the film to make electric bolts come out of his eyes at the imperiled
Captain Kirk.... Yes, friends, I have a real problem with the look of
that last scene, especially.

Thank goodness Star Trek VI was such a redeemer of a film...

