

John Huston's Victory has probably seen so much critical scorn it's mind
boggling.  Is this movie Oscar material?  Certainly not, but it's a great
film in many ways.

First of all, Bill Conti offers up a first rate uplifting musical score.
It's outstanding work and you hear a bit of resemblence to the score he
wrote for a 1982 film that received a little bit of notoriety -- The Right
Stuff.

Next, the cinematography is simply gorgeous.  Soccer is not an easy sport
to
film and I think this film was done wonderfully.  I thought the choice of
film stock, a certain amount of grain to make it almost like you're
watching
a documentary was a nice touch.  Some of the action shots and slow-mos are
absolutely wonderful to behold.

Finally, we have a nice plot with a couple of surprises, a great cast, and
an auteur director.  Certainly, Huston was in failing health and not at
the
top of his game by this time but his work on this film was still
memorable.
For me I will always remember the wonderful line with "The Forger" asking
Hatch "You don't want to get shot as a spy do you?"  And the quick reply,
"No, I don't want to get shot as anything."  Simple one liner,
uncomplicated, yet funny.

Victory is a great inspirational film, a sure hit for soccer fans (of
course
he wasn't offside - he was behind the ball when it was struck!) and a nice
film for war buffs.  Just ignore Maltin et al and spend the time watching
it, widescreen DVD recommended, you won't be sorry.
<|_=00=_|>
This a great movie for any football fan. A great set of stars from the
70's, Pele and Stallone as a funny goalkeeper. This is one of my
favorite soccer movies. The storyline is not the best, but it is
catchy. Now the way the stadium was set up, the noise, it feel really
real. I would love to see a similar movie remade. Maybe a victory 2
with todays's stars. Some people do not like the idea of sly as a
football player, I disagree, I think he playing the
"football-ignorant"american is good. Now I also think that the way the
soccer players acted was very realistic. In special Pele was good. I
know many friends in many countries outside the USA who just love this
film.
<|_=00=_|>
The script of this unusual war/escape movie was nothing special, and
neither was the acting. Not surprising about the latter since half the
performers weren't actually experienced actors. However I loved every
minute of it, and thought it was great fun and terrific entertainment.
Of course there are those who won't quite see it that way and will
dismiss it out of hand. And they'd be perfectly sane to do so.
Everything about "Victory" (aka "Escape to Victory" in the UK) says
it's one to leave well alone.

Even if you disregard the lack of aesthetic qualities, and tut-tut over
the reality of it all, it's worth watching if only to see again a few
of the great past-masters of what the Brits like to call "the beautiful
game" (i.e. soccer). And Sylvester Stallone as a goalkeeper is
something to behold. 

As far as escape stories go this is about as original as they get, but
even here it's possible to see plundering from other story lines, i.e
"The Great Escape", "The Password is Courage", "Albert RN", to name but
three, and as at least one reviewer has pointed out, the music is
extremely reminiscent of the first one.

One of my favourites snippets is that of the Nazi sports commentator,
portrayed by Anton Diffring, that stalwart of war movies, broadcasting
his gramophone record of enthusiastic crowd applause, when in "reality"
the whole stadium was as quiet as the grave.

I think this is one of those rare occasions, if taken in the right
vein, when a bad movie can be a crowd pleaser. Forget the war pundits,
the realists and the purists. Just enjoy the movie for what it is.
Tremendous fun!
<|_=00=_|>
Any football fans out there? If you haven't seen Escape To Victory
either at Christmas, when it is usually on at a ridiculous time of the
morning, or hired/bought it on DVD then you are really missing out.

There is a fair amount of disbelief suspending that needs to take place
before you settle down. But, if you can numb your brain to the idea of
Micheal Caine playing professional football or indeed, Sylvester
Stallone doing the same in goal, you're in for a treat. 

As a football fan, it was a real thrill to see the great Bobby Moore
kicking a ball in anger and, against the Germans too (remember what I
said about suspending disbelief). 

OK, it isn't the greatest film ever made. But it isn't supposed to be.
It's a bit of bubblegum that is just supposed to kill a couple of
hours. A feat the movie accomplishes handsomely. 

I defy any football fan not to cheer when the goals go in or to curse
when the Germans do well. Similarly, try and stifle your guffaws when
you see Mr Caine trying to look like he knows what he's supposed to be
doing. Is it just me or does he become more cockney when he tries to
convey excitement in any of his roles?? Probably one of England's more
one dimensional acting talents. 

If you don't enjoy it, you're missing the point of it. Nobody will ever
forget horror of war, it's ingrained. That isn't what this film is
about although it does have a stab at giving the viewer a clue about
the life of a POW in WWII. 

No, the film is about entertainment. And, on that level, it's one of
the good ones.
<|_=00=_|>

Despite being universally derided by everyone I know, I still believe that
Escape To Victory is possibly the greatest feelgood movie ever made.  For
anyone who has a passion for football this is an absolute must see, if
just
for a chance to see legends such as Bobby Moore and Pele playing in the
same
team.

However, while the football is marvellous, the drama is on a similar
level.
Everyone always goes on about this film being cheesy, but I really believe
it has some great dramatic moments: Caine telling Stallone "I won't be
responsible for your death", the tragedy of the Eastern European
prisoners,
and of course the performance of Max von Sydow.

He really does make the film what it is with a hugely dignified portrayal
of
a man who has no interest in the war going on around him.  When he tells
Caine "if all the nations of the world could solve their problems on the
football field, wouldn't that be something?", it may be a hugely naive
(and
slightly corny) sentiment, but you honestly believe that he means
it.

There are some minus points, however;  it's clear that Stallone has never
played as a goalkeeper before (I should know because it's my position),
some
of the lines delivered by the footballers do sound enormously false (a
problem similar to that with the musicians in The Blues Brothers, another
classic), and many of the British and German officers are incredibly
caricatured.  Also, as a war movie it's about as far removed from the
terrible reality of war as it's possible to get.

However, to state that Escape to Victory is unrealistic is to miss the
point
entirely.  It's pure escapism.  As such, it can lay claim to being one of
the few specifically male-oriented feelgood movies around.

In conclusion, it surely deserves to be regarded as something of a modern
classic.
<|_=00=_|>

I was looking through the action collection at the video store and trying to
find something that might interest my husband and myself, a daunting task. 
When I picked up Victory, I thought 'why not?' as it has Max Von Sydow who
we both enjoy.  The fact that it had Michael Caine was an added bonus. 
Besides I wanted to know what kind of film could have those two AND
Sylvester Stallone.  Somehow I couldn't picture Stallone playing football
with the Europeans, at least not doing it well.  I was right.  Stallone
couldn't play, but it didn't matter because that was part of the shtick for
the character.  

I'll admit that there were a couple of places where the plot was rather
predictable and places where I simply thought it was completely
unbelievable.  However, all in all I would recommend this movie.  It's fun
and, at times, touching.  
<|_=00=_|>
If the part where the football match takes place was omitted, "Victory"
would be a "5 stars out of 10" film. The reason is that although it
features two very good actors (Michael Caine - Max von Sydow), there is
not much to stand out: A rather incredulous WW2 plot, an average acting
(what could you expect from professional footballers or from
Stallone?), and a simply decent direction, produce an average result.
Thankfully, there is more than that, as I will explain in more detail
later.

"Victory" is about some inmates in a WW2 prison camp, who have a
passion for soccer. Captain J. Colby (Caine), a former footballer, is
the leading figure in the camp matches that take place. One day, he is
spotted by football-fan Major Steiner (Max von Sydow) who proposes him
the idea of organizing a match between allied POWs vs. Germans. Colby
agrees, as he believes this will be a great morale-booster and a chance
for better prison conditions for those involved; however, more senior
inmates are skeptical, as they believe this will be a propaganda stunt
for the Germans. In the end, they also concur but only after they have
convinced the team's goalie Capt. Hatch (Stallone) to arrange the
team's escape during the match. The difficulty is that both Colby and
his team are more interested in this game than in their freedom, so
they are hesitant on what they should finally do...

As I said, the movie is just watchable during its first part. And yet,
when we start to watch the Allied - Germans match, things get much
better: We watch terrific football from stars such as Pele, Ardiles,
and Bobby Moore, with scenes such as Pele's goal being memorable to all
sports fans. Of course, if you are not into soccer, then perhaps you
won't get that excited (although the spectacle can be exciting for
non-fans, too). But if you like the King of Sports, then you will
certainly enjoy this film. 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Many people have passed negative comments about this film.If you study it
closely, though, you will notice many positive and original
scenes.

The football is not exaggerated like many other sporting
Movies.

I first saw it when it was released in 1981/82 and thought it was very
good.
As a War film it is only average, but as a Football spectacle it is very
interesting.
The fact that the makers used real life footballers, including the great
man
himself "Pele" is original.
We are actually seeing first class football players do their stuff in a
controlled Movie enviroment... Heck some of them even try to
act!

I think Michael Caine and Sly would have enjoyed making this
Movie.

The message from the Movie is that Football is a game which is understood
by
everyone and will always be played under any circumstances. It is the
Universal game and always will be!
<|_=00=_|>

This is the antithesis to the "chick-flick" and up there with the great
"male bonding" cameraderie movies such as "great Escape" and "The Man Who
Would Be King", and let's not exclude "The Longest Yard".  Best scene by far
in the movie is Pele's jaw-dropping upside-down kick, followed by Max Von
Sydow's sportsmanlike and awestruck applause, followed by glares of hatred
from his German brethren. I can guarantee you that that scene is worth the
price of the admission(video rental) alone.  As far as the non-soccer star
cast goes, Michael Caine more than compensates for Sylvester Stallone, and
the rest do a credible job, with highest marks to Von Sydow as a 'good guy'
on the other side. 
<|_=00=_|>

When Major Karl Von Steiner sees POW's playing football he suggests a
friendly match between the guards and a select 11 of the prisoners.  However
as word of the match spreads, the German high command seize on it as a
chance to publicly show the strength of the Germans to the world, while the
escape committee within the POW camp start planning for a major escape to
humiliate the Germans on their big day.

Well worth seeing simply because of the range of `famous' footballers in the
cast and the fact that it is one of a select few films that is based around
football.  That is not to mean it is any good – because of course it simply
isn't.  The film is a strange mix of POW movie and sports movie.  The POW
side of it is full of cliché and rip offs of better films, the music itself
sounds like a watered down version of The Great Escape.  The football action
itself is saved for the final third.  I think the film would have worked
better if it had focused more on training (al la Dirty Dozen) rather than
opening up the stuff around Hatch's escape.  As it stands the game is
actually quite enjoyable, of course it doesn't really play out like a real
football match, but it's very hard to get that in a film.

For all those who say that coming back from 4-1 down at halftime is
unrealistic and laughable, I say HA!  A few seasons ago I watched Man United
win 5-3 over Spurs despite losing 3-0 at halftime.  Even in the past 3 weeks
I have seen both Wolves and West Brom come back from a 3-0 halftime loss to
win 4-3 against Leicester and West Ham respectively.  Of course the long
midfield runs etc are a little unrealistic but the game itself is the more
enjoyable aspect of the film.

The cast are not that great.  Caine does almost nothing and seems to have
just been interested in playing football alongside Pele and Moore (who
wouldn't!).  Pele, Moore and the other footballers all do OK and seem happy
to play (but have major problems with delivering their lines without
sounding a little wooden).  However, Stallone is probably the best of the
cast.  For the most part his performance is pretty weak and he is forced to
be a strong chin in an escape plot, however he also does well with some
comic stuff and seems to enjoy being a footballer!

Overall the film is a very strange hybrid, none of which really works very
well.  It is best viewed as a bit of fantasy football where the `Brits' beat
the Germans at football (and everything else) mainly worth watching because
they can't do it in real life!  The sub-par rip offs of other films keep
reminding us that this is not as good as it's peers, but it is worth seeing
if you are a football fan – even if it's a pretty poor product as a
film.
