

It IS a wavelength thing.  Terry Gilliam's films are ALL Terry Gilliam
films.  They all have that certain something, some kind of feeling about
them that makes them instantly recognizable.  The same can be said of the
Coen brothers.  Unfortunately, movies that are that personal and unique do
not work for everybody.  For the people that just can't get into Gilliam
films, I hope there's another filmmaker that inspires childlike wonderment
in you.  Because it's a great feeling.
Time Bandits is magic.  I've seen it many times (over 10) and each time, I
find something new about it.  It's a fine example of a movie that works
for
children and adults alike.  When I saw it for the first time at age 8, I
enjoyed the fantasy,  adventure, and basic good vs. evil story.  As I got
older I started appreciating the social commentary on consumerism, the
Python-esque humor, and just how imaginative and skillfully done the movie
is.  After watching it again yesterday, I'm having trouble deciding which
is
the better movie; Brazil or Time Bandits.
<|_=00=_|>

Finding Terry Gilliam's "Time Bandits" in the bargain bin at the local movie
store was too good a deal for me to pass up, and I'm so glad I didn't!  This
movie is probably one of the greatest modern-day fantasies I've seen, due
primarily to the amazing vision of Gilliam.  I was disappointed with it on
my first viewing years ago, expecting a rehash of Monty Python material, but
yesterday watching it I just couldn't stop grinning.  This movie knows its
sources, and sends them up right.

For starters, I love how Gilliam handled the boy 'hero' in "Bandits".  He's
not anyone spectacular, aside from an active imagination (over and above his
banal parents), and he really doesn't contribute much to the story-it simply
passes him by.  Most of the other characters don't like him that much even.
(the "stinking Kevin" line just makes me howl!) He's also not that cute,
which is a rarity with child actors and which sinks most films with them. 
Plus, the danger of the story doesn't stop at him, as shown by the rather
sobering finale.  No 'It's all a dream' type cop-out here.  Having studied
the form of the fantasy as explained by Tolkien myself, Gilliam obviously
understands how it works.

Of course, because it works, "Time Bandits" is just plain fun.  The plot's
out of nowhere-just kind of trips along through time and space and stranger
things.  Napoleon as a height-obsessed drunkard?  Robin Hood as the aloof,
unlikely leader of a band of violent, too-merry men?  Agamemnon as the ideal
father figure?  It's all here, plus the technocratic, pyromaniac "Evil" vs.
the Supreme Being.  Ah, you always knew He was an staid Englishman in a
pinstripe suit, didn't you?  ("Dead?  No excuse for laying off
work.")

Perhaps it's not Gilliam's masterpiece, as "Brazil" could be argued for
that...though one could also argue "Time Bandits" gives a bleaker
perspective through the contrast of the fun and whimsy.  If our reality is
depressing now, and Kevin's was, is the fulfillment of our fantasies any
better?  Perhaps Randall said it best himself - "Heroes, bah!  What do they
know about an honest day's work?"  :-)
<|_=00=_|>

     I was lucky enough to see this piece of celluloid magic on the big
screen when it first came out. I'm glad I did, too, because the shoe-box
multiplexes that were being slapped together couldn't do this movie justice.
Terry Gilliam hits just the right note when he introduces Kevin, a ten-year
old with big appetite for western mythology(you get the impression that in
another year, he'll be reading Joseph Campbell and Rider Haggard)and an even
bigger imagination. Having parents of the most sterile, materialistic
bent(plastic couch covers--ecch)just ensure his receptiveness to the
adventures that follow his falling through the time-door in the back of his
closet with Randall and his fellow dwarves as they plunder and loot their
way through time and history. Gilliam pokes fun at some of history's
figures, like Napoleon("That's what I like to see--little things hitting
each other!"), Robin Hood("was it really necessary to hit him?""Yes
boss.""Ah, I see."),and others. Gilliams' lesson that having lots of stuff
will not ensure happiness and that usually, the journey itself is reward
enough is artfully told without flogging the audience with it. Something
else that stuck with me, but I didn't realize until long afterwards, were
the things that Kevin discovered, after a fashion, in his adventures but
didn't have in his life back in the 'burbs: a real father figure, played by
Sean Connery as Agamemnon, and true love, as presented by Peter Vaughan and
Katherine Helmond as Mr. and Mrs. Ogre. Plus the special effects are
economically impressive without being too cheesy(my god--the fortress of
ultimate darkness WAS made of lego blocks!). In the end, though, it was
something that I find far, far too rarely in movies now and before, and it
occured to me after I had seen, of all things, "Crouching Tiger, Hidden
Dragon". What Ang Lee's film had in common with Gilliam is simply this: they
both had the feel of a great big story that you came in the middle of, and 
you didn't want ever to end, but it didn't matter, because the structure was
such that you had enough to digest for now. And I can count on less than two
hands the movies where I was left with THAT wonderful feeling. 

<|_=00=_|>

How's this for a zany plot? A bunch of mischievious dwarves steal a map
from the Supreme Being which shows them how to find holes that lead to
various historical periods. One such hole brings them out in a small boy's
bedroom. The boy joins them, and together they visit diverse lands such as
Napoleonic France; Sherwood Forest during the days of Robin Hood; the
Titanic; the Middle East during the reign of Agamemnon; etc. Oh yes, and
all
the time they are being pursued by the Devil (referred to here as "Evil"),
who would dearly love to steal the map for himself.

Time Bandits is an outlandish, often hilarious, always engaging fantasy
story with a magical cast. It wins over the audience by offering them a
refreshingly unique story, and littering it with memorable episodes which
vary in tone from hilarious to frightening, from historical to
mythological.
Lots of energetic performances add to the fun, with Ian Holm doing a
superb
Napoleon, Sean Connery an imposing Agamemnon, and Ralph Richardson a
delightfully eccentric Supreme Being. The film's peculiar ending used to
upset me as a youngster, but now I appreciate its ingenuity and it evokes
in
me memories of a famous Philip Larkin poem which begins with the infamous
line: "They f*** you up your mum and dad, they may not mean to but they
do.......".

Time Bandits is a triumph of imagination. It isn't quite flawless, due to
a
bland performance by Craig Warnock as the boy and a somewhat dismal
episode
featuring an angry ogre, but flaws aside it is certainly one of those
films
with which it is always a pleasure to while away a couple of hours.

<|_=00=_|>

A terrific little fantasy that, not surprisingly, has flavors of Monty
Python.  My children and I first saw it in the early '80s on a night ferry
from Harwich to Zeebrugge.  I've seen it a few times since, and marvel at
the creativity that went into the film.  God's "employees" trying to use a
map of the universe to track down treasure is the theme; running around
through time trying to find the treasure is the game.  The cameos by
Cleese,
Connery and the rest are some amusing highlights, but the Time Bandits
themselves really make the story.  The climactic scenes with the Evil
Genius
made me think more than a little of the Sorcerer's Apprentice.

I think it is a well done bit of fantasy for older children and adults; it
helps to know a bit of history going into it.  I wouldn't let my six-year
old granddaughter see it -- at least not yet -- but she and her sister
probably will love the adventure in a few years.
<|_=00=_|>

This is THE definitive work on the nature of good and evil. It asks the
age
old question: Who is the Supreme Being, and what is it exactly that he
wants
from us? Terry Gilliam gives us a morality tale wrapped inside a an epic
poem seen in the guise of an abstract painting.

As a film, all the seperate elements are perfect, and blended together
seemlessly by the hand of the maestro Gilliam. It is not only a brilliant
comedy, but an enthralling story as well. This is a film that sparks
discussion and debate that goes on well into the night.

It is the rarest of all cinematic creatures-- a movie that is a genuine
pleasure to watch and one that makes you think.
<|_=00=_|>

For my money, Terry Gilliam is one of the more innovative, creative, and
fantastical directors of the last two decades.  His films easily bear his
stamp of absurdist humour, witty dialogue, sheer fantasy, dream-like
sequences, and always a generous dose of black comedy.  Time Bandits is
certainly no exception, but rather a stepping stone for greater works such
as The Fisher King and the wonderful Brazil.  The film tells the story of a
group of dwarf-like "crooks" who leave their jobs with God(the Supreme
Being) for a life of crime via a map they have "stolen" from their job
place.  This map holds all the secrets to time holes in the fabric of
creation.  Thus the bearers of the map can go forward and back in time as
they please.  They use the map to steal, at which they have little skill,
and become rich, at which they miserably fail.  Gilliam transports them and
us through time to meet such interesting notables as Robin Hood, Napoleon,
Agammenon, and the Evil Genius(devil-like entity).  The film is grand in its
scope and still wanting, for it is tackling a story of epic proportions. 
Still, Gilliam delivers a pretty good film both visually stunning in certain
sequences and brimming with philosophical questions such as the necessity of
evil and the election of choice in life.  The film is also very funny in
many parts, due in large part to a great cast.  The protagonists are all
quite good.  John Cleese plays as likable a Robin Hood to be seen with his
almost overly polite manner.  The best performances go to Ian Holm, playing
a drunken Napoleon obsessed with his size, David Warner, playing the
malevolent Evil Genius with relish, and lastly to Sir Ralph Richardson,
playing the Supreme Being like a bureaucrat concerned with balancing payroll
and the like.  Gilliam explores the bureaucratic mentality with even more
scope in his Brazil.  All in all, Time Bandits is a fun and entertaining
picture.   
<|_=00=_|>
Time Bandits is a deeply satirical morality tale superficially packaged
as a kid's adventure film. On the surface it seems simple enough; a
young boy, Kevin, is spirited away by a gang of time travelling comedy
dwarfs for a series of adventures in different historical settings. But
there's a lot more to it than that. Kevin's parents are a grotesque
caricature of self-absorbed suburban materialism; incessantly arguing
about kitchen appliances while watching brainless TV gameshows at full
volume. It is Gilliam's attention to detail which really makes this
film for me. Kevin's parents don't eat anything which hasn't come out
of a microwave or blender and are too precious even to remove the
plastic wrapping from their hideous three-piece suite. Kevin,
meanwhile, is a romantic who, until the fateful night the Time Bandits
arrive in his bedroom, can only live out his fantasies in history
books.

But history turns out not to be all it's cracked up to be. Napoleon is
crippled by an inferiority complex stemming from his small stature;
Robin Hood is a patronising liar and his 'merry men' are a bunch of
violent filthy animals. Only in mythical Greece does Kevin come close
to realising his dreams.

The film retains a dark edge throughout. As Gilliam explains in his DVD
commentary, by casting small people as the bandits, led by the
delightfully arrogant David Rappaport, he hoodwinks the audience into
swallowing their extreme cupidity. The innocent Kevin (played by a
child actor deliberately selected for his shyness) finds himself swept
into company even more mindlessly greedy than that of his parents'. At
this stage we are introduced to David Warner's deliciously over-acted
'evil genius'; a Satan obsessed with modern technology (but,
ironically, surrounded by decay and incompetence), who plots to entrap
the time travellers. The film gathers momentum towards the inevitable
showdown between good and evil but Gilliam leaves this disturbingly
inconclusive. God, played by Ralph Richardson as an intimidating
schoolmaster, assures us that he is in control but that misery and
suffering are all that we can expect ("something to do with free will")
and Kevin's troubles have only begun. Ultimately this is a very British
film which speaks to lonely idealists everywhere.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is the funniest movie I have ever seen.  When it was on cable,
we
watched it about 20 times and I have worn out two
tapes of it.  There are so many levels of enjoyment.  The sets are great,
the effects are wondrous, the storyline is wacky, the combination of
veteran
actors and new faces is perfection.
The dialog is a riot and you will find quotes from this movie everywhere,
which thrills me to death!  I love all the actors that played the dwarfs,
especially David Rappaport who played Randall and also loved his TV show
"The Wizard" that was treated
so shabbily.  We often find ourselves saying, "Remember
when
Evil said this, and when Og said that?"  Or laughly wonder what condition
Pansy's boyfriend, Vincent, had that needed fruit?  The Napoleon scene
alone
is enough to cause you to break a rib from laughter.
I guarantee that if you have a funnybone at all, you will love this movie!
Run, don't walk to the nearest video rental store!
<|_=00=_|>

Pure loving, scary, wonderful fantasy that Disney, Bluthe and all the rest
have been trying to do their whole existence, and George and pals go out
and
do it the first time. Who cares what people whom surely need counseling
think, and give it anything less than a 10? A true gift from the most
talented Beatle and two of Python's best.-----BQ 
