
From the offset, I knew this was going to be a terrific movie, the
pace, the cinematography, personalities indigenous to the Dallas area,
the diversification of characters, not to mention the director Oliver
Stone and of course Eric Bogasian...The film starts out on a Friday
(suggestively occult in the first place) and begins with a radio
station in Dallas that is hosting their number one talk show, The Barry
Champlain Show (Based on the Talk Radio Host Alan Berg)...Barry (Eric
Bogasian) is the abrasive radio talk show host and his job is such
whereby it is compulsory to pontificate all of the sensationalistic
nuances of the radio audience feeding into his show...He attempts to
commiserate with a bunch of societal deviates turned lonely,
vulnerable, obscene phone callers who have the masochistic craving to
be publicly vilified, Barry Champlain is effective in coping with this
precarious ilk, by socially debasing them rather than simply
subjugating them to mere admonishment...New technologies serve a
stigmatic purpose for the Dallas radio audience, and paramount concepts
take a backseat to perversion, talk about "Baseball Scores, Orgasms and
People's Pets!!"

The whole thing is a cacophony of drug-induced diatribes and a
potpourri for psychopathic paranoia!! This high profile cannon fodder
is something that Barry Champlain thrives on!!! The convoluted pathos,
the deranged proclivities deeriving from inaneities and puveyors of
pornography and the overall pop culture afflictions serve as volatile
ammunition for Barry Champlain's stilted battleground!!

The setting for this movie is perfect in that there is a two thousand
foot drop in terms of ideology.. In the the center of Dallas there is
an overbearing sense of cosmopolitan awareness, whereby 20 miles away
resides a significant chapter of the Ku Klux Klan!!...The play is based
in Denver,that is where the actual story takes place, other small
theater plays depict the cities of Louisville, Atlanta and Cleveland.
Dallas is the city where the film takes place, I thought it was an
excellent choice!!...This movie illustrates how people have a horrid
and erroneous and deadly misconceptualization of the Jewish people in
America, whereby they control the banks, their agenda is different than
everybody else's and their intellectual literature leads to
perversion!! These preconceived notions compound Barry Champlain's
overall dilemma!!! Barry Champlain's personal undoing is whereby he is
irascible and non-responsive to his alcoholism, and his abrasive and
politically controversial nature is his ultimate undoing, this is what
makes the film so believable!!

The characters in the movie were well portrayed, Dan, the tailor made
for middle management hatchet man (played by Alec Baldwin) who was
constantly monitoring Barry Champlain's every move!!..Laura, his
girlfriend, also his producer, will constantly feel Barry is someone
who is always misunderstood!! Ellen, his ex-wife, is a recipient of
Barry's anguish and selfishness, but cannot quite relinquish her
feelings for Barry regardless of the path of personal destruction he
winds up resorting to!! The Dallas radio audience is a melting pot of
socially misplaced retro-bates who are dementedly amused by their own
real shortcomings!!!...In part, everybody's hang-ups including Barry
Champlain's own hang-ups are what do Barry Champlain in!! His audience
ogles depravity, solicits amelioration and ultimately becomes Barry
Champlain's pet project for prescribed sinners!! Social culture
conflicts become Barry Champlain's downfall!! 

This movie is superb!! In my opinion Oliver Stone's best picture,
including Platoon and Natural Born Killers..That statement in of itself
tells you how magnificent a film Talk Radio is...The story consulting
and acting and co-producing of Eric Bogosian is simply compelling!! The
camera angles, the dialogue, the haunting character portrayals, all top
notch..The cinematography of the Dallas skyline at the end of the movie
is terrific!! Dallas has the dubious distinction of being deemed a mega
metropolis...So now, just like Los Angeles and New York, there are
crack baby cases too numerous to count, low cost housing neighborhoods
from Hell and budgets cuts that will mean there will be a significant
number of people who will be dead by this time next year!!!!...Dallas
asserts it's status as a major metropolitan area in the precarious
manner by which human debauchery prevails!! The city has it's lynching
radio listeners who have given a pejorative spin to the marvel of
nationwide air wave communication!! These are the culprits in the
movie!! The ghoulish tabloid derelicts who want to meet the big bad
wolf, and their decadent curiosity has morally obliterated "The last
neighborhood in America"
<|_=00=_|>
When you think 'Oliver Stone' the movies that come to mind would be his
biggest and most controversial ones like Platoon, JFK, Born On The
Fourth Of July, or Natural Born Killers. Talk Radio usually doesn't.
It's a pretty small movie, actually. More than half the movie takes
place with Barry Champlain at his radio station talking into his mike.
But believe me, this is one of Oliver Stone's greatest movies and
should NOT be missed.

Above all things it's a character study. Barry Champlain is a rude,
self-destructive, risk-taking talk radio show host who says one too
many things and starts to get in trouble with his boss, his lover(s),
his fans, and even some Nazis. He doesn't like his audience and callers
and a lot of them don't like him (eithor that or do like him, but have
no idea why). But, at the end he says on his show: "I guess we're stuck
with each other."

See Talk Radio, even if you don't like Oliver Stone movies. You might
be surprised. I sure was.

My Rating: 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
In one of the more under-seen films of the late 1980's, at a time when
Oliver Stone was riding high with Platoon and Wall Street (and before
his opus Born on the Fourth of July), he co-scripted and directed this
look at the world of radio, specifically one radio host in the middle
of Texas. This man is Barry Champlain, in a once-in-a-career turn from
Eric Bogosian, who wrote the original play and also co-wrote the
script. Barry is like a mix of Howard Stern and one of those pundits
you hear on the radio stations many of us might turn off. He's got
ideas on his mind, opinions, and he's not only un-afraid to speak them,
but also to stand up against the phone callers. The callers, indeed,
are the driving force in the film, as Barry has to combat against the
mindless, the obscene, the racist, and the purely absent-minded. As
this goes on, he also has to contend with his boss (Alec Baldwin) and a
hit or miss deal to go nationwide, outside the confines of the Southern
way station he's in.

While after seeing the film I felt curious as to see how it would've
been done on stage (I'd imagine it was a one-man show, as Bogosian has
had several on the side), the direction of the film is phenomenal.
Stone has been known, almost typecast, as a director who loves quick
cuts, the limitless effects of montage, and effects with the styles of
camera-work and other little tricks, that give his films in the 90's a
distinctive, almost auteur look. But in the 80's he had this energy and
feverish quality to the look of the film, and wasn't as frenzied as the
other films. In order to add the proper intensity that is within the
studio and head-space of Barry Champlain, he and DP Robert Richardson
make the space seem claustrophobic at times, gritty, un-sure, and
definitely on edge. The scenes in the middle of the film, when Barry
isn't in the studio, are fairly standard, but the style along with the
substance in the radio scenes is among the best I've seen from the
Stone/Richardson combination.

And one cannot miscalculate the performance of Bogosian, who can be
obnoxious, offensive, angered, passive, and everything that we love and
hate in radio show hosts. There is also a funny, near distracting
supporting role for Michael Wincott as Kent/Michael/Joe, who prank
calls him one night, and the next gets invited to the studio. These
scenes are a little uncomfortable for a viewer, but it does get very
much into the subculture head-space of the 80's that Barry is as
intrigued as he is critical of. The stoner may not 'get it', but as he
says to him "it's your show". Indeed, it's hard to cover everything
that goes on within the talk, and there is a lot of it. But it's never
boring, and like Champlain himself, it's not easy to ignore. And when
Bogosian goes into his climactic tirade on air, with the background
panning around in a continuous 360 spin, it becomes intoxicating, and a
reason why freedom of speech is so powerful.

Stone has been synonymous as a filmmaker of hot-button issues, who
takes on subjects that were or still are controversial, and gives them
a life-force that isn't always great, but is all his own. Here his
skills and ambitions don't get in the way of Bogosian's- it's boosted,
if anything, making an extremely skilled vision of what is essentially
a near one-man show, which in and of itself is already well-written.
<|_=00=_|>
***SPOILERS*** For some strange reason Oliver Stone's "Talk Radio"
based on the Stephen Singular book "Talked to Death" and the films star
Eric Bogosian's play, about the 1984 murder of Denver talk show host
Alan Berg, has never gotten the recognition that it so rightfully
deserved. The 1988 movie was prophetic enough to recognize the
underground movement that was developing in the farm and hinterland of
America. A movement that spawned, some seven years later, the likes of
an angry and disgruntled Gulf War veteran Timothy McVeigh who's hatred
for the US governments actions in Wacco Texas lead to his and
friend,Terry Nichols, detonation of the US Federal Building in Oklahoma
City on April 19, 1995 that took the lives of 168 people, the worst act
of terrorism on US soil up to that time. 

The movie is, as far as I know, the first time that any major branch of
the entertainment media mentioned and elaborated on the rural militia
novel "The Turner Diaries" by the late William L. Pierce, that has
since become a chilling underground classic. "The Turner Diaries"
forecast a domestic and utterly disastrous terrorist attack, like the
Oklahoma City bombing, on a US Government Federal facility which was
the FBI Building in Washington D.C. 

Dallas radio station KGAB talk show host Barry Champlain, Eric
Bogosian, is the top rated show in the Dallas listening area and is now
about to go national. Barry get's his high rating by his razor sharp
wit and abusive behavior when he's on the air. Taking on all comers and
ducking no issues, no matter how unpopular or taboo they are, has
gotten Barry to be the most listened to as well as hated man on radio.
Barry being a showman at heart and not thinking that his talk can lead
to violence keeps up his abrasiveness to his call-in listeners as his
rating go up to the celling. But there are those in the listening
audience, mostly ultra right wing types, that don't take too kindly to
his in your face attitude. One of them decides to take matters into his
on hand at Barry's expense. 

Powerhouse performance by Eric Bogosian as the tragic Barry Champlain
who crossed the line from entertainment to hard reality in his actions
on the radio. Thinking that he's not that important to be sought out
and murdered for his on the air opinions which is enemies dislike he
found out only too late that there are those out there who are crazy
enough to do to him on the outside. Also in the movie "Talk Radio" is a
very young Alic Baldwin as Barry's boss Dan who tries to have him
soften his tone but in the end goes along with his talk show style
since he's killing the competition not realizing that in the end it's
him that he'll end up getting killed. 

Both Ellen Green and Leslie Hope are the two women in Barry's life his
ex-wife Ellen and now lover and talk show producer Laura whom Barry
uses to his advantage and almost ends up losing both of them at the
same time. The 1988 film "Talk Radio" is so far ahead of it's time that
even if you watch it now in 2005 you still think that it's too
disturbing to be shown to an over sensitive and delicate American
public.
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen it a few times and get completely glued to it every time.
It is very suspenseful and intense. To describe it sounds boring but it
is amazing. It is the kind of movie where you need can't miss a thing,
but if you soak it in it sticks with you long after it ends. Now
thinking about it I don't even know what Stone was trying to make us
see. Just the story of Alan Green? I don't think so. It was a look at
ignorance, stupidity, self-absorption, and a guy just loosing his grip.
Maybe he had more grip than the listeners though. I didn't like Barry
but still seemed worried about him for some reason. I was perplexed at
why I couldn't get him out of my mind when the movie ended. I wish I
could see inside Olive Stone's mind for this one.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never been a great fan of Oliver Stone, often because I have
found his films to be forced, preachy and generally flawed. The two
Stone films I truly like are JFK and Talk Radio, yet Talk Radio takes
the cake for being Stone's finest achievement. Stone is a director
whereby you are either a fan or you are not, it is safe to say that
before watching Talk Radio I was not fond of the guy and considered one
of the most overrated directors in the film industry, though after
watching Talk Radio some of my perceptions have changed. Talk Radio is
an unsettling and amusing attack on what is now known as "reality TV".

Talk Radio follows a self-indulgent, dysfunctional, determined,
hysterical, outrageous and perplexing radio host, named Barry Champlain
who hosts a controversial late-night radio show in Dallas. Quickly
becoming well known for his bold and quirky air-presence he becomes a
late night sensation, whereby depraved junkies, delinquents, racists,
sociopaths, sickos, perverts and morons call in to be ridiculed on air.
The film shows the rise and fall of the man's career, carefully making
an accurate portrayal on freedom of speech. Originally adapted from a
stage-play, the film attaches itself to the theatre theme that it was
originally built around, wonderfully conveying the film's fierce
nature.

With the ferocious energy and non-stereotypical air, Talk Radio brings
all the hilarity behind "crass media". It remains even more poignant
today than it was in the late '80s. The film goes into depth studying
the likes of arrogance, self-obsession, offensive behaviour,
controversy, hypocrisy and ignorance. The film shows through a
controlled manner how it is good to have a personal opinion and freedom
of speech, yet it is something that should be used wisely rather than
shamefully blunt. Stone tries to show how freedom of speech is a
crucial importance in life, but is something that we should be wary and
cautious about. The film asks the question of "is our main protagonist
just the same as the sad people who call up the show?" 

Stone fabulously creates the film's key set-piece (the radio station)
with an ambition and cold atmosphere. He then succeeds in capturing the
isolation, fear, ambiguity and the dangerous emotions that are built up
at the radio station. Eric Bogosian is perfectly cast as the isolated,
self-absorbed and complex genius, Barry Champlain. He fits the role
perfectly letting off his lines with such enthusiasm, urgency,
perplexity, brusqueness and ultimately the bold hilarity of his
offensive nature. The performance brims with spark, which was evidently
robbed of an Oscar nomination. His voice suits the character, being
that a primary element of a radio host and his power of acting along
with tragedy and comedy works brilliantly.

There is a strong use of editing in Stone's films and Talk Radio boasts
some of his cleanest, most rhythmic editing. He uses beautifully
controlled camera techniques, which differ from being calm to suddenly
becoming turbulent. There is a vibrant energy behind the film, with its
raw and wonderfully delightful script working as a centre-piece for the
greatness of the film. The striking and virtuous cinematography stands
out in the moments inside and outside the studio, most impressively
capturing the city at night. Not forgetting the hauntingly
heartbreaking and yet darkly funny climatic "spiral to decline" is
ultimately remarkable cinema.

Talk Radio is an essential modern masterpiece, I am certain you will be
surprised by just how great it really is. I highly recommend Talk Radio
for anyone interested in media or film. Talk Radio is a fine example of
top-notch, intellectual and insightful entertainment, which still packs
a well-earned wakeup call. Finally, if it was not for Eric Bogosian the
film would not be the fun, delightful and enduring masterpiece it is
today.
<|_=00=_|>
"Talk Radio" is my favorite Oliver Stone movie, though he has made many
great ones including "Salvador", "JFK", "Natural Born Killers" and
"Platoon". But I like the intimacy of "Talk Radio", a cinematic
expansion of Eric Bogosian's searing stage play that was based on a
real life account of a Dallas talk show host. Working with ace
cinematographer Robert Richardson, Stone turns what could have been a
very set-bound exercise into a visually arresting ideological battle
that presents a radio station as an arena of war. Bogosian is
devastating as tortured on-air spouter of abuse Barry Champlain and
conveys the conflicted, destructive nature of his character with
conviction and a generous dose of self-loathing. Alec Baldwin, as his
Alpha male boss, strikes the perfect note as a man driven nuts by a guy
whose monstrousness he helped nurture. Ellen Greene is fantastic as
Barry's sweet ex-wife who ends up becoming another target of his
vicious personal vitriol. Stone and Bogosian fill every frame with
interest and every line of dialog with sweet poison and cutting
ambiguity. John C. McGinley, as Barry's long-suffering
screener/technical producer Stu, turns in a hilarious, sharp
performance, as does the great Michael Wincott. The film is a flawless,
underrated masterpiece of superb writing, awesome acting and brutal,
uncompromising direction. The Stewart Copeland score is brilliant, too.
<|_=00=_|>

*SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*

Barry Champlain, (Eric Bogosian), hosts a late night radio talk show. He
talks about how he "despises each and every one of you." He berates
anyone
who calls him. Even fans get put through the wringer.  He is very good at
pushing people's buttons. He's so good that a big corporation wants to
pick
up his show for national syndication. He may be a little too good as he
is
also inflaming most of his deranged fans to the point of death
threats.

"Talk Radio" is a great movie. The tagline for the movie is "The last
neighborhood in America". That claim may have been superseded by message
boards on the internet. Of course, the principle is still the same:
Anonymous people yell at each other over some random topic. Nothing ever
gets solved. The "talk" is the entertainment. How effectively you can
upset
your opponent is how you win the game. Champlain is the
master.

Bogosian is the movie. We watch him launch tirade after tirade against
his
listening audience. It's hilarious. His stress management consists of him
having a cathartic experience every night. He still ends up hating
everybody. And himself.

See this movie.

<|_=00=_|>
I found this fascinating when it came out. How I would feel about it
now might be different, knowing Oliver Stone's beliefs and how he likes
to put them on film. Back then, I didn't care. I just looked at this as
a character study of a nasty and very disturbed radio talk show host
who had nutty callers and was nuts himself.

I have to warn viewers - and this has nothing to do with politics -
after the riveting first 30 minutes, this lead character "Barry
Champlain" (Eric Bogosian) wears thin big-time. He is so obnoxious that
he makes this movie uncomfortable to watch in a number of areas. This
is not fun to witness, folks, but Bogosian does a super job in the lead
role.

Personally, this story is so full of anger, hatred and sordidness that
I wouldn't watch it again. However, if you know all this in advance and
appreciate fine acting and different kind of story, it's worth checking
out. Just don't expect to be uplifted!
<|_=00=_|>
I tend to be inclined towards movies about people who choose to cross
the barriers of censorship, and express what they really want to
express. Eric Bogosian's character of Barry is like Howard Stern, but
much more intelligent. The character itself is very fascinating. As an
Oliver Stone film, I guess I was expecting more. The film sags a bit
during the third act. Plus, it's pretty obvious that "Talk Radio" is
based on a play, with its long dialogue scenes. But overall, the film
works. Bogosian is great in the lead, and the fact that he also wrote
the play from which the movie was based on probably helped him. If you
want to check out one of Stone's greater films, I better suggest you
check out "JFK" or "Salvador." This is not his best work, but a good
movie nonetheless.
