
I've seen every Friday the 13th movie, many more than once. I'm a
horror completist, what can I say, and Friday the 13th happens to be
one of the more campy and fun horror franchises out there. The first
three were fine - all had great ideas, great kills, and great
atmosphere. Unfortunately, there was at least one thing off in each of
those movies. The original's climactic ending hasn't aged well and some
shots linger for way too long, Part II has the most generic male cast
in horror history, and Part III felt clunky and poorly paced. Part IV
isn't perfect either, but it's a step above its predecessors for a
number of reasons.

1. The acting - No one watches horror for the acting, I understand
that, but when a horror movie has a likable cast and characters you can
relate to and root for, it makes the experience all the more enjoyable.
Crispin Glover is great as a nerdy, horny white boy and his dancing
skills are unmatched. The lead girl and the rest of the supporting cast
are all convincing as well, and the boy Tommy Jarvis actually isn't
annoying for a child actor. In fact, he's pretty darn good.

2. The nudity - No one watches horror for the- okay, some people watch
horror for the nudity, and boy is there nudity in this one. For the
"final" chapter the crew went all out, throwing two gorgeous sisters
and numerous blondes into the mix and having all of them show their
tits and ass. Yeah, both, and although its gratuitous and adds nothing
to the plot, it's a nice break from the bloodbaths and I'd take a
little eye candy over forced dialogue in a horror movie any day of the
week.

3. The pacing - The movie begins with Jason's "dead" body being sent to
the morgue, and it isn't long before the body count ensues. The
hospital scene is excellent for a few reasons. One, it has two
characters that have less than five minutes of screen time but more
personality than anyone from the first two F13s, and two, their deaths
are awesome. It's a briskly paced movie and surprisingly keeps a good
amount of its cast alive for a majority of the film, yet there are
enough disposable characters to keep the body count going. It's a great
balance.

Everything else comes down to good writing and good directing. I like
the addition of a family, I like the group of teenage Jason fodder this
time around, and there really aren't many dull moments. The inclusion
of a seasoned backpacker was a nice touch, and Jason finally getting
the sh*t kicked out of him was no doubt satisfying. Although the whole
Tommy arc didn't work out in the next installment, he was a nice
addition in this one and actually contributed a lot to the story.

At the end of the day, this is just another Friday the 13th movie.
There are great moments, there are some not-so-great moments, there's a
high body count, and there's Jason. It just feels less like a generic
B-slasher and more like the franchise finally coming into its own. If
you like '80s slashers and want to see some good looking people get
terrorized by Jason Voorhees then there's no reason not to check this
one out. But check out the others too because, why not?
<|_=00=_|>
Savini's death make-up and Jason effects are at their peak. worth
watching for tommy's freak out at the end. Crispen Glover is in it, and
performs the ultimate BAD 1980's dance scene, worse than anything in
footloose. The body count reaches a great height and the nudity and sex
is as gratuitous as ever. I personally feel that this is the best of
the original 4 Friday movies, coming in a close race with the third
Jason. I've seen all the movies more times than i can count and this
one holds up surprisingly strong among all eleven films. For those of
you who are Friday fans, if you haven't seen this one, you are missing
out on a key moment in Jason's history, so go pick this one up today.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm a firm believer that horror movies should be judged as horror movies,
and not compared when reviewed to films such as The Godfather, and as far
as
horror films go, this one could easily be the Godfather of em all.
Following
closely in the tradition of the previous three Fridays, The Final Chapter
places Jason smack dab in the middle of two isolated cabins deep in the
woods, one occupied by a group of fun loving teenagers and the other by a
peaceful lakeside family. Well of course the violence and gross fun is
plenty, but what really sets this film apart from a lot of horror flicks
and
almost all of the Friday the 13th films is it's tone, quality and over all
entertainment level. Director Joseph Zito has a sharp eye for detail and
Splatter Master Tom Savini sure does send Jason out with a bang. Of course
this ended up NOT being The Final Chapter, unfortunately it should have
been. After this entry the series really started to go down hill. If your
in
the mood for a good old fashion 80's slasher flick, this one's for
you.
<|_=00=_|>
Joseph Zito, the director hauled in to oversee this fourth installment,
previously directed the wretched "The Prowler", the wooly but
entertaining "Invasion USA", and would go on to direct the
shot-in-South Africa "Red Scorpion" (with Dolph Lungren). Since "The
Prowler" was such a stinker, it's hard to see how Zito got the job.
Maybe he was a master romancer and could talk actresses out of clothes
because this episode in the "Friday" franchise has more nubile nudity
and panty shots than any previous entry. It is also the goriest since
the original with Savini returning as the effects adviser.

Jason is resurrected from gory pieces and returns to his old ways after
a stint on a slab. He has a grudge for a particular family and must
tangle with resourceful horror fan and pint-sized weirdo Tommy (Corey
Feldman).

Just as the nudity and short shorts levels are elevated, so is the
suspense. Using "The Prowler" as a guide on not what to do in a
slasher, Zito creates some genuine unease and keeps things moving at a
fast and bloody clip. The Euro version of this film, which is the one I
have, is gorier than the US version and sexier, too.

The next installment proved to be one of the worst; so if you're going
to subject yourself to one "Friday" sequel, choose this.
<|_=00=_|>

I'd say this review was going to be a spoiler, but...well, to be honest,
it's a slasher movie.  You know how it's going to go.

Friday the 13th: the Final Chapter features a small family made up of a
relatively young mother, the movie's "innocent" girl, and a young video game
player and mask-making prodigy (a young Corey Feldman) that lives out into
the woods.  A bunch of teenagers rent the house next door for a night of
debauchery.  Jason Voorhees, being a slasher, wasn't adequately killed last
time, so he gets to come back now.  The non-character teenagers in the
house, like most people in this film, exist only to increase the body count
and have no discernable character traits except for degree of sexual
experience, which is enough to get them all killed by the end of the film,
playing straight by the rules.

This episode of Friday the 13th follows the slasher cliches to the letter,
but the only times suspense is even attempted are during a few "false scare"
scenes early in the movie and in the final chase sequence.  The actual
killings just aren't all that scary--Jason murders again and again.  It's a
badly shot, poorly lit, trashy fast-food slasher with wretched acting.  You
can pretty much not only call every death, but from time to time predict the
exact manner of the death.

As far as gore and T&A go, Friday 4 delivers, but in that "fast-food" style.
 As a result, it doesn't even hold a lot of fun for slasher fans.  It reeks
of lack of effort, and really wasn't entertaining as teen-killer fare goes. 
Avoid it--you'll find a slasher that does it with more style pretty
easily.
<|_=00=_|>
After moving into a new house on Crystal Lake, a family finds the teens
next door have attracted maniacal killer Jason Voorhees to the area and
must band together to save each before falling victim to the masked
killer.

This one turned out to be among the better entries in the series and is
probably the series' best. This one has a lot right, starting with a
great smattering of suspense in some creepy, chilling stalking and
set-up scenes from the big body count that gets wiped out here, as
there's the opening ambush in the morgue, the attack on the hitchhiker
and the chilling stalking at the lake with the skinny-dippers there
with the freezing winds, rolling fog and truly isolated feels makes it
a great scene along with the brutal deaths here. Likewise, the massacre
through the house are much more fun here as he manages to wind through
the group with absolutely ruthless efficiency going through the
upstairs bedrooms, down into the kitchen and finally through the shower
wiping everyone out here as there's plenty of great action and suspense
throughout this here which all sets up the absolutely greatest part
here with what is perhaps the greatest final chase in a series known
for having good ones. This here is quite simply one of the best of the
entire series as there's a ton to absolutely love here in this chase,
with tons of sprawling action here as the lengthy piece runs through
several houses and up throughout varying floors on each location along
with the constant barricades he has to smash through, chilling suspense
in the fact that a child is frequently in the middle of the action that
has to be protected along with herself, psychological tactics here with
the attempt to mess with his head that comes off quite logically and
even some jumps here with the constant bodies thrown through windows
and Jason crashing through doors to get at them, culminating in one of
the most notorious gore gags in the genre as a brilliant ending to such
an excellent series of events. As well, there's a huge amount of blood
and gore on display in pretty fun, graphic manners with some of the
most brutal kills here as there's such intensity here that gives this
an additional measure of fun here with the fact that Jason here is one
of the most imposing figures in the genre as he is throughout here.
These here all give this plenty of eerie chills and creepiness here as
this one really makes for an exciting series of scenes which gives this
such a spectacular pace here that it never becomes too dull or boring
as something's always happening in this one. Added together alongside
some truly hilarious moments both intentional and not and a huge
heaping of nudity, this one gets a lot of stuff right as a slasher.
There's still a few flaws here, mainly in the continued stupidity by
the characters to want to invite themselves to a place that harbored a
mass murder rampage the last few days before, considering each of these
films takes place the following day, and there's no reason why that
should be. As well, many of the supposedly funny character traits are
just plain irritating, making that section of the film a little tough
to get through when it's supposed to be funny but clearly isn't. These
aren't anywhere near enough to knock this down from among the better
slasher entries.

Rated R: Continued Full Nudity, Extreme Graphic Violence, Graphic
Language, a few sex scenes and drug use.
<|_=00=_|>
The first four Friday the 13th movies are the best, by far. The next 7
films were half-baked money makers. And if you ask me, Paramount should
have left it at this film.

Part 4 combines action, horror, thriller, suspense, and even mystery.
And the opening sequence is a combined amount of clips from the
previous 3 films. The opening sequence explains the series quickly, so
Part 4 is a great Friday the 13th film to start with.

The film will have less appeal to fans of the similar series,
Halloween. The Final Chpater may combine elements from the previous 3
films, but seems to steal ideas and share ideas with Halloween. Friday
the 13th was inspired by Halloween, but at times it seems as too much.

Overall, the film is the last Friday the 13th film you should watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Friday The 13th:The Final Chapter is an excellent,Unforgettable and
suspenseful sequel that combines terrific direction,a wonderful cast,a
fantastic score and amazing special effects. All of those elements make
Friday The 13:The Final Chapter a memorable Horror movie and one of the
best in the series.

Taking place after the events in Part III,the final chapter finds Jason
Voorhees(Ted White)escaping from a hospital this time stalking the
Jarvis family and a group of teenagers unprepared for the wrath of
Jason.

Friday The 13th:The Final Chapter is a brilliant Horror movie and is
easily one of the best films in the Friday The 13th franchise and one
of the finest Slasher movies ever made because it pretty much has
everything you would have in a Friday The 13th movie and Slasher
film:characters who are dead meat from the start,blood and gore and of
course Jason Voorhees. It's also the film that introduced protagonist
Tommy Jarvis who would be an important character in the Friday The 13th
franchise against Jason. Final Chapter is an absolute roller coaster
ride from beginning to end that is thrilling and suspenseful and also
came out at the peak of the Slasher genre during the late 1970s to the
early 1980s and The Final Chapter(or Part IV)came out at the right
time. The the suspense and tension in the film is fantastic with a slow
build-up that takes it's time and when the suspense stops the movie
explodes with intensity. Also,the movie is great because it combines
two genres that were successful during the early part of the 1980s:the
Slasher genre and the Teenage Sex Comedy mixing together blood and gore
of a Slasher movie and the Humor of the Teen sex Comedy bringing
together the best of both worlds with some laughs and terror. The
characters are some of most fun and memorable in the entire series
whether it's the Jarvis family or the teenagers every main character is
interesting. Despite having some laughs The Final Chapter is probably
the darkest,nastiest and most nihilistic film of the series thanks to
the atmosphere which is bleak and grim with rain,fog and dark lighting
that is used to great effect where you feel like no one is safe. The
movie also has a tough and vicious mean streak with the blood,gore and
kills which are not well-done and horrific but cringe worthy and
painful that when you watch Final Chapter you will feel like turning
away. As for Jason Voorhees the character is at his very best
here,sneaking up on his victims like the silent killer that he is
taking his time and waiting to strike at his prey and at times Jason
does it in a very surprising way. The Final Chapter is also Jason at
his angriest and most vicious I mean in here he pulls no punches and
takes no prisoners with the people he kills in this movie and it seems
like the more he kills and chases someone the more angry he gets. I
think that the only other film in the series in my opinion that can
match the brutality and anger in terms of the Jason character and kills
would be Jason Lives although the tone of that movie is much lighter
compared to this film. This would also be the last time Jason would be
hiding in the shadows and darkness because in the later films he's the
star and out in full light. The ending of Friday The 13th:The Final
Chapter is a terrific ending and one of the best finales in the series
with twists and plenty of surprises you won't see coming and one of the
finest chase scenes in the franchise that is exciting and frightening.
A fantastic ending. 

The cast is good. Ted White is excellent as Jason,with White being
menacing,angry and intense. Kimberly Beck is wonderful as Trish
Jarvis,the heroine of the film. Corey Feldman is terrific as Tommy
Jarvis,Trish's little brother. Crispin Glover and Laurence Monsoon are
hilarious and memorable as Jimmy and Ted,two teenage buddies. Erich
Anderson is great as Rob,a man Trish meets. Joan Freeman does a good
job as Mrs. Jarvis,Trish and Tommy's Mother. Judie
Aronson(Samantha),Barbara Howard(Sara),Camlla More(Tina),Carey
More(Terri),Peter Barton(Doug),Clyde Harris(Paul),Bruce
Mahler(Axel),Lisa Freeman(Nurse Debbie Morgan)and Bonnie
Hellman(Hitchhiker)give good performances as well.

The direction by Joseph Zito is outstanding,with Zito bringing and
creepy and intense atmosphere to the film and occasionally moving the
camera giving the movie a nice pace. Great direction,Zito.

The score by Harry Manfredini is another impressive score and adds to
the tone of the movie. Wonderful score,Manfredini.

The Special and Practical Make-Up Effects by Tom Savini is amazing,gory
and some of the best work Savini has ever done. Terrific
effects,Savini.

In final word,if you love the Friday The 13th series,Slasher movies or
Horror films in general,I highly suggest you see Friday The 13th:The
Final Chapter,an excellent,unforgettable and suspenseful sequel that is
one of the best in the franchise. Highly Recommended. 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
After being mortally wounded and taken to the morgue, murderer Jason
Voorhees spontaneously revives and embarks on a killing spree as he
makes his way back to his home at Camp Crystal Lake. The cinematography
is stark and bare, with only the soundtrack adding some effect. This is
one of the bleakest films I have seen in a long time. All characters
are surviving in a grim world. From an artistic standpoint, there were
some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were
needed. They do however drive the story, which seemed to be their
purpose, so I can accept them. The film is dark, brooding, intense and
most of all violent. I give it 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I know there are fans out there that feel the fourth installment in the
Friday the 13th series is the best. I don't happen to agree. While the
first three movies weren't necessarily groundbreaking in their
innovation, there were moments in each that we had not seen before – at
least in a Friday the 13th movie. By the time Paramount rolled out
Friday the 13th: The Final Chapter in 1984, the 80s slasher-boom was in
full swing. It was all but impossible to do anything new. Chapter 4 is
one big cliché of the slasher genre and a rehash of everything that
came before. This one follows the standard formula to a T - A group of
idiotic kids go to the woods and for the first 2/3 of the film, we
watch them behave like complete morons. Suddenly, and with very little
build-up or suspense, Jason shows up and kills everyone in sight. In
the end, the one person who seems most incapable of doing so "kills"
Jason. The End. I think I wrote something just like this for the other
Friday the 13th movies I've written about.

So far, all I've done is blast Friday the 13th: The Final Chapter. To
be fair, it's actually not that bad as far as these films go. Most of
the credit for this should go to Tom Savini. His special effects are
top notch and worth the price of admission. One of my favorite kill
scenes in the movie occurs early on with the hospital attendant in the
morgue. That head snap is nicely done.
