
Trapped in a hellish copyright limbo for over a decade, Thom
Eberhardt's "Night Of The Comet" is a film whose reputation is due for
a serious rehabilitation. Generally--and wrongly--categorized with
typical 80s teen horror films, "Comet" is in fact a smart, skillful
parody of the low-budget sci-fi horror classics of the 50s, 60s and
70s--and a wry commentary on teen culture in the 1980s as well. For
those familiar with the original films, the parody "clues" are all over
the place--not least of which is that the early part of the film takes
place in the back of LA's classically offbeat El Rey movie theatre,
which is showing low-budget B horror movies. Most of the "scary" scenes
are preceded (subtly or otherwise) by the famous "red light" warning
used commonly in the 60s and 70s. And the apocalyptic plot, settings
and dialog, especially among the scientists, are straight out of the
50s. 

Catherine Mary Stewart is by far the centerpiece of the movie as
Reggie, the only teenage girl in Los Angeles who's both a lowly-paid
theatre usher and an expert with assault weapons. She is most
definitely *not* a Valley Girl. A pre-"Voyager" Robert Beltran is
Hector "date night in the barrio" Gomez, the classic b-movie hero, and
far more engaging here than his stoic, dry-as-bones role for the McTrek
franchise. Kelli Maroney brings the totally 80s camp value as Valley
Girl Samantha, who realizes with horror that her pool of potential
Izod-clad boyfriends has just shrunk dramatically. Geoffrey Lewis sheds
his mostly Western image here as the deliciously megalomaniacal leader
of the researchers, whose taste for superscience soon gives way to a
craving for hot buttered gray matter. 

Eberhardt is a canny director who doesn't miss a trick--the scares are
rare, but when they come, they'll get you. The gore is minimal, but the
atmosphere of malevolence gets progressively thicker until the climax.
The tightrope between comedy and fright is skillfully toed--undead
droog stockboys, anyone? The effects may not be the digitized visual
pablum people take for granted these days, but in a way they're more
engaging for their rawness. Anyone who thinks this was a low-budget
movie has never tried to completely empty out downtown Los Angeles at 7
am for a film shoot. Thom Eberhardt should be hailed for his
brilliantly sharp, funny script and his deft execution as director. 

Veteran sci-fi/indie/horror actress Mary Woronov is "Night Of The
Comet"'s direct physical and spiritual link to the golden days of the
genre. She's passing the baton here to a new generation of camp
sci-fi/horror fans. That nobody has thus far picked up that baton is a
tragedy. 

To address a distressingly common misperception: the comet in question
is *not* Halley's comet. Both in-film plot elements and the film's
tagline suggest this comet only appeared once before, when it wiped out
the dinosaurs. Halley's comet, on the other hand, has had more
comebacks than Cher.

"Night Of The Comet" works pretty well the way a lot of people view
it--as a simple 80s cheesy sci-fi comedy. But as with "Rocky Horror,"
if you've seen the original material it's spoofing, the results are a
hundred times more rewarding. A future DVD release is a must.
<|_=00=_|>
There's a lot worth forgetting about the 80's but one of the few things
that decade of big hair and keyboard-drowned-music had was some of the
best horror and sci-fi comedies of any time. There have been funny
scary movies before and scary funny movies since, but some of the best
examples of those perfectly balanced action, horror, and science
fiction comedies were made in the 80's. I'm thinking of other good ones
like Fright Night, American Werewolf in London, Big Trouble in Little
China and on maybe a level or two below films like Return of The Living
Dead and Toxic Avenger. Some people use the term spoof when referring
to a lot of these movies but that's the wrong word in my opinion. Naked
Gun and Airplane were spoofs, movies like Night of the Comet and Fright
Night were genuine horror films that had a nice mixture of scares,
drama, and tongue-in-cheek laughs. All of these elements of different
genres are what made these movies unique.

While classic might be a little too strong of a word to describe Night
of the Comet, I agree with most other folks here that it is a great
low-budget 80's movie (maybe not low-budget, but definitely not
big-budget). There was a vast amount of post-apocalyptic, low-budget
horror films in the 80's but this is one that stands apart due to
writer-director Thom Eberhardt's sharp, don't-take-it-all-too-seriously
slant. Just the idea alone of two valley girls being among the small
group of survivors of a world ending disaster is pretty cool. It took a
familiar science fiction idea and made it somewhat original. But more
importantly it was perfect for the times. Take Dawn of the Dead, mix in
Valley Girl and Fast Times at Ridgemont High and you've got an
excellent foundation for scares, action, drama and of course laughs.

The acting all around is very good for this type of flick and while it
certainly isn't perfect, the entertaining and fun spirit of the movie
make up for any flaws. It also can't be said enough that the presence
of Catherine Mary Stewart definitely helps to elevate the movie. She
was one of the most beautiful and under-appreciated actresses of the
80's and despite being in a few bigger movies and shows (The Last
Starfighter, Nighthawks, Mischief, Weekend at Bernie's, Days of Our
Lives, etc...), she just never really became the household name she
seemed destined to be. Although no doubt she has plenty of fans like
me. Unlike many lead actresses of the day in this genre, she was
actually a very capable actress. Both she and Kelli Maroney give
knock-out performances as two teenage girls just trying to cope with
brain-eating zombies and the end of the world.

If curiosity about this movie has led you here, then I would pay little
attention to the few negative reviews and trust the fact that the large
majority of comments here are positive about this film. Maybe Night of
the Comet isn't a forgotten "classic" by the normal standards, but it
was certainly a cut above the typical low-budget
horror/post-apocalyptic movies of the 80's and deserves to be seen by
many. What it doesn't deserve is its current state of obscurity, its
too-low rating on IMDb, and to not be available on DVD. That's the real
shame of it all.
<|_=00=_|>

If you've seen any film such as The Day After, The Stand, Armageddon,
Independence Day, or even the recent extravaganza The Day After Tomorrow,
the end of the world would seem to be pretty serious business for us to have
to deal with sometime down the road. Film directors one and all want us to
believe it's all doom and gloom what with asteroids zooming around
haphazardly in space, aliens needing to ravage us and the planet, global
warming screwing up the weather or some deadly virus escaping some
government lab infecting mankind with a super flu. Thom Eberhardt doesn't
quite find it such a dreary proposition, and in fact finds quite a bit of
humor in the situation by way of telling the story of two of the survivors,
teenagers Reggie Belmont (Catherine Mary Stuart) and her sister Sam (Kelli
Maroney).

Somewhere out there in the final frontier where no man has gone before, is a
comet zipping around with nothing better to do but to pay all of us here on
earth a quick friendly visit. No, it doesn't exactly have earth's name on
it, but it does want to take a cue from Top Gun and do a major fly by just
so it can get up close and personal. Of course since we're a partying kind
of planet, we decide to have one big planet wide comet festival just to
welcome it into our solar system. There are comet tee shirts, comet hats,
people have comet barbecues, and everything is just one big comet
celebration. One of these comet parties is being held by Doris Belmont,
wicked step monster to Reggie and Sam. Reggie and Sam's father is off doing
army duty, and it's left up to Doris to keep the two girls safe and out of
trouble, or as in Doris's case be a first class bitch while screwing the
next door neighbor on the side. After an argument with Doris, Reggie ends up
in a projection room at a local theater, and Sam ends up….well more about
that in a moment. Eventually the comet does pass overhead, and being the
grateful kind of comet that knows how to treat its host, it leaves us all a
present by turning the vast majority of the human population into orange
pixie dust.

Of course, if you happen to be one of the very lucky few, like Reggie and
Sam, you may have survived. It turns out if you were in a dwelling of some
sort completely encased by steel, then you also woke up the next morning to
see the dawn's early light. Reggie, having spent the night in the theater
projection room which just happens to be steel lined, does survive. Sam, who
found herself somehow spending the night in a trash dumpster survives also.
However, if you were only partially protected by a steel enclosure, then you
only get to survive temporarily which also means you get to play zombie for
a while before you disintegrate into a pile of dust bunnies. Then there are
those scientists who were aware of the danger but instead of warning us all
to momentarily hop into our Kenmore refrigerators, they built themselves a
huge enclosure to protect themselves with. So not only are they extremely
selfish scientists, they are also straight out of the Fred MacMurray School
of Absent Minded Professors because although I'm sure they wear their seat
belts and lock their car doors, they somehow forget to close the vents on
their Comet Proof Bomb Shelter. What that means is they need to track down
Sam, Reggie and other survivors who may pop up here and there in order to
find a cure before they have to begin their own auditions for George
Romero.

If it all sounds kind of goofy and wacky it certainly is all of that. Early
in the film, you may have a bit of trouble buying into the proceedings but
you'll eventually be seduced by the perkiness and charm of Stuart and
Mulroney, and the witty dialog that inhabits Eberhardt's script. For
instance, when Reggie returns with an arsenal to fight off zombies, Reggie
complains that, `Dad would have gotten us Uzis'. And what are two teenage
girls to do when faced with the apocalypse? They play D.J. on the only radio
station still broadcasting, they vie for the affection of the only guy
available, and they lift their spirits by going shopping at the mall to the
music of Girls Just Want to Have Fun. As for special effects, they aren't
much to speak of but we don't care because it's the script carrying the film
anyway. It's obvious that Eberhardt was working from a somewhat miniscule
budget, and although there are a few scary moments when Zombies pop out of
nowhere, it's the whole premise of two Valley Girls trying to survive in a
desolate Los Angels while being chase around by monsters and evil scientists
that will win you over. It's obvious from the narration in the opening
moments that this is a B movie, but Eberhardt keeps things on track by never
taking himself seriously or asking us to which is a major requirement in a
film of this nature.

Night of the Comet is not currently available on VHS or DVD. You may catch
it on Cable at some point if you don't own it. Your only other alternative
is to purchase it on Ebay at your own risk. I was lucky enough to have taped
it some years ago, and am glad of having done so.

It takes an offbeat sense of humor to make a film like Night of the Comets
and have it succeed as well as it does. It takes a quirky sense of humor for
someone watching it to appreciate the film for what it is: a cheesy
plot-hole ridden B movie, with a lot of odd but good natured humor and with
two lead actresses that are good enough to take us along for the ride. I
bought it, hook, line, sinker, cheap special effects and everything else
that went with it. And if I can buy into all this I have no choice but to
give you my grade which for Night of the Comet is a B. Now excuse me for a
second while I go check out the vents on my comet shelter.
<|_=00=_|>

Yes, it's a B-movie.  Yes, it's a zombie-ish movie.  Yes, it's about the end
of the world.  But it's the mid-eighties, so everything is totally awesome,
for sure!

This is one of my favorite horror flicks.  There's something about two
teenage valley girls from L.A. being the only survivors (well, there are a
few others) of an unexpected mass-extinction flyby of a comet, that makes
you love this film.  It's fun, has a few jumps, and tons of one-liners. 
It's one of those films that if you watch it more than once, you'll be
quoting lines from it.  It's all just good fun.  

Sadly, I think I've seen this film more than any other film in my life. 
This used to be my guilty pleasure: I watched this almost every other day
for a year when I was a kid and I used to know every line.  I just recently
watched it after a decade-long absence and I still love it every bit as
much.
<|_=00=_|>
I think night of the comet is a classic zombie film that doesn't take
the genre or itself too seriously. Its the ultimate fantasy film asking
the question most people have asked themselves, namely "what would it
be like to be the last people alive on earth".

Reggie and Samantha are two bickering teenage sisters only united in
the passionate hatred of their stepmother Doris, who has an equal
hatred for the girls. The Comet is big news and everyone is getting
ready for the big event, except for Reggie and Samantha who have other
things on their mind... The next day comes, and mixed with all the
revellers party hats is a mysterious sand. No one seems to be
around....

The premise of the film is good and whilst the acting is not the best
it is still perfect for this kind of film. The characters DO have
development and aren't just cardboard sketches. The zombies aren't the
biggest part of the film but when they make their appearance they do
please.

This film is always missed off from the classical zombie flic list
usually due to its 'hollywood teenager' aimed audience. Most zombie
fans ignore it on the basis that it doesn't seem to be a zombie film
whilst the non-zombie fans miss out because they don't like the science
fiction element. I'd love to see this film transfered and cleaned up
for DVD release especially now that more and more films of this genre
are making their appearance on DVD.

Don't expect a brilliant script or brilliant actors. I'd say this one
is similar to the film 'dead heat' in terms of its zombie load (expect
to jump once at least) and 'my best friend is a vampire' for its
fantasy element.
<|_=00=_|>
I am horribly fascinated with EotW films. This particular endeavor may
very well have been the cause. I was 12 when I first viewed it. It
impressed upon my mind the possibility that all could be lost....and
then....it could actually get worse. But what distinguishes it as one
of the worthy few among films of it's kind is simple. They had a
believable reason for the calamity. Moreover, they explained how and
why the heroes were spared. Instead of obsessing over the hidden
mechanism by which people were elected to survive or die, the viewer
could relax and enjoy the rest of the story. Although it's fashion
sense is long lost, I believe that lovers of this genre will appreciate
it's adventurous spirit.
<|_=00=_|>

I originally saw this movie in the theater, and I LOVED it!  I had often
fantasized about the end of the world where only myself a few others had
survived.  

Well, I'm 16 years older now, and not quite as misanthropic, but I still got
a kick out of watching this again the other night.  Sure, the soundtrack was
atrocious, and some of the acting was sub-par, but the sheer aplomb that
"Samantha" has carries the film, I thought.

Plus, it was fun to see Robert Beltran (ST: Voyager's second in command), so
much younger!

Quite a few laughs, and a pretty good plot twist or two to keep you guessing
makes this an easy movie to enjoy.

My rating: 7

<|_=00=_|>
Cheesy, but enjoyable satire is like the poor man's version of 28 Days
Later (2002) with a big chunk of '80's vibe for flavor!

Comet eliminates the worlds population, leaving surviving sisters to
fend against a group of demented scientists.

While many peg Night of the Comet as a zombie picture, and granted two
or three zombies do show up along the way, this film really has much
more in common with the old B sci-fi movies of the 1950s. In fact, one
could make a good case that the film is meant to be a comical parody of
those old schlock films, after all it does have a nice comic book feel!
From any view, this is an entertaining film even with its silly
moments. It manages to stir up a few chills along with the laughs.

The films cast is only decent, but their performances do hold their
own. The special FX, mostly the zombies, are pretty decent. The music
score is composed mainly of electronic tunes that perfect that great
'80's feel!

For those seeking a bit of fun humor with their horror, Night of the
Comet isn't a bad choice.

*** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
"Night of the Comet" is a truly fun and engaging little genre effort of
the 80's, but surely some of its hardcore fans are slightly
overestimating the value and significance of this film. I've
encountered reviews stating that "Night of the Comet" is a
quintessential gem of 80's horror and that it's easily one of the most
intelligent tributes/parodies to older B-movies ever made. Okay, the
script is quite clever and writer/director Thom Eberhardt definitely
knows a lot about all the post-apocalyptic classics of the 50's and
60's, but I honestly doubt it ever was his intention to direct the
ULTIMATE homage. "Night of the Comet" is more like a miniature-tribute!
All the obligatory story lines and sub plots to create an
end-of-the-world epic are present, but Eberhardt's only disposed of a
limited budget and thus the elaboration is only small-scaled and rather
cheesy. There are mutated zombies, crazed scientists and hostile groups
of survivors on the rampage, but all just in small doses. The movie
opens during a bright summer evening, when the entire world is
preparing to see a mesmerizing and once-in-a-lifetime ecological
phenomenon, namely the passing of a comet. Two high-school teenagers
who missed out on the event (sisters, moreover, what are the odds?)
wake up the next morning and slowly realize that the comet's radiation
killed every human being in L.A, only leaving behind small piles of red
dust. They entrench themselves in an abandoned radio station, meet up
with another sole (and male) survivor, battle the occasional mutated
zombie and – of course – go shopping without credit cards. Things get
slightly more dangerous when a bunch of dying scientists, who predicted
the extinction of the human race, try to abduct the survivors to steal
their still uncontaminated blood. The tone of "Night of the Comet" is
continuously light-headed, still director Ebarhardt manages to maintain
a more or less sinister atmosphere which never allow you to forget that
the whole of mankind just got wiped out. The girls, although mostly
concerned about fashion trends and pop music, understand the
seriousness of the situation and deal with it the best way they
possibly can. There are still a handful of creepy sequences (the
confrontation in the mall) and well-developed Sci-Fi ideas (the
diabolical scientists), but the emphasis largely lies on the two girls
and their typically 80's pop-culture life-styles. I've never heard this
many campy pop-songs in one movie, not even in a musical, and the
special & make-up effects are kept to a minimum. The acting
performances of Catherine Mary Stewart and Kelli Maroney are more
adequate than you'd expect, as it certainly isn't easy for young
actresses to portray teenage character that are stereotypical,
ignorant, fashionable and yet likable at the same time. "Night of the
Comet" certainly isn't brilliant, probably even a bit overrated by its
fans, but still worth a peek in case you have a weakness for 80's
cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of my guilty pleasures. A camp, 80s sci-fi caper that's
dated but still enjoyable. The opening is wonderful and contrasts with
the subdued but somewhat haunting ending. Back in 1984 this would have
been even better because it would not have been regarded as camp. Today
it seems we can all sneer our postmodern noses at such works but make
assertions that its kitsch quality is now rather endearing. Catherine
Mary Stewart steals the film with her Ripleyesque action moves and
feminine charm, while Zoe Kelli Simon provides a number of dumb blonde
comedic moments. The film lags somewhat after the brilliant opening but
never loses its heart. The only downside is the fact it seems like a TV
film/80s MTV video with its fuzzy camera-work. Watch it with popcorn at
home, preferably late at night.
