

I was shocked to read the reviews of this. My husband is a very serious
movie buff -- a TV newsman, now retired after 40+ years in the
business. I'm a writer (we never retire, we just get older). And both
of us love this movie. In fact, when we started switching over to DVD,
it was among the first movies we bought.

For me, the essence of a great movie is THE SCRIPT! I love words. I
love wit. I love intelligent dialogue. And this movie has tons of wit,
great dialogue, memorable lines (give or take a lie or two) and
excellent chemistry between Willis and Garner. I liked Willis as Tom
Mix, although I am not otherwise much of a Bruce Willis fan (except
that I loved "Moonlighting" ... ) I thought he gave a much more subtle
and textured performance than he has done in most of his movies. And of
course, I've liked Garner since I was a girl watching Maverick on TV.

Black Edwards' movies are not everyone's cup of tea, I guess. I love
most of them, and minimally, enjoy the rest. His movies are always
intelligent: the wit biting, the dialogue sharp with some extraordinary
monologues. For the Blake Edwards fans out there, is there a better
monologue than William Holden's speech, which in many ways, was his own
obituary -- in S.O.B. (another of Black Edwards' great films that
hardly anyone seems to appreciate).

Okay. I'm finished. I think "Sunset" is a very fine movie. If what you
are looking for are car chases, piles of corpses, slapstick, sex, and
special effects, this is NOT your movie. If your love of movies
includes a love of words, good acting, and sharp humor, this is a
good'un.

<|_=00=_|>

"Sunset" is the blackest of black comedies.  I was surprised to learn from
watching it on TV last night what a really fun movie it is, given the
uniformly bad reviews it received.  Pay no attention to the critics, this is
good stuff.  Bruce Willis, as Tom Mix, and James Garner, as Wyatt Earp, have
never been better at their laid-back charm-boy schtick.  The plot, while
complex and often violent, is not to be taken seriously -- or better still,
not to be thought about at all.  In this connection, just remember what the
movie itself tells you, "It's all true, give or take a lie or two."  In
addition to Willis's and Garner's stellar performances, Kathleen Quinlan, as
Mix's long suffering girl friend, is a hoot.  The mood of time and place --
1929 Hollywood -- is perfectly captured:  interesting costumes, great
looking vintage cars, the last gasp of the Jazz Age just before the
Depression.  Highly recommended, 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has been kicking around on cable TV lately and I've put off
watching it because I expected it to be another very stretched version
of a buddy cop movie. The story seems made for it. Experienced old
real-life marshal Wyatt Earp teaches callus young phony cowboy Tom Mix
how to solve a crime. "Dragnet" on a 1920s back lot. But it wasn't that
way at all.

It's true enough that Earp (Garner) hung around Hollywood at the time,
or maybe a bit earlier. We don't really get to know much about his
past. But although Mix (Willis) drove expensive cars and wore flashy
suits and big hats, he wasn't a phony. He'd been a real cowboy too, was
a great rider, fought in the Spanish-American war, and could take care
of himself. Instead of the expected clash between the master and the
tyro, we get two guys who pretty much hit it off with one another right
away, and show mutual respect.

It's an interesting friendship.

But then the movie turns darker. A murder takes place. There are fist
fights (mostly comic) and several shootouts (done seriously). Willis is
kind of cocky. Garner displays the laconic off-hand dignity he showed
in "Murphy's Romance," or whatever it was. He's an icon here, with that
black outfit and mustache. He's never been a flashy actor, but
invariably a competent one. Off-screen he's come up with some dandy
spontaneous comments about how the social world of Hollywood and the
rest of the country is structured. He's got my vote. Willis isn't bad
either.

The rest of the cast does yeoman work but no one has roles that are as
interesting as those of the two leads. And the murder story fails to
grip the viewer, at least this viewer. I didn't really find myself
caring who did it, although it was clear from the beginning who the
villains were. There was an exception, though, the British actress
playing Garner's former lover. She's simply outstanding in a supporting
part, and provides a great example of how to be beautiful without being
"beautiful." 

I wish the film didn't seem kind of -- I suppose lost is the word. It
meanders between comedy, drama, and warmth, without seeming to know
just what it wants to do. This isn't a total failure on Edwards' part.
It holds together as a story but the characters bounce off one another.
Henry Mancini, who wrote many scores for Edwards' films, shows his
versatility here.

The score is quiet and unobtrusive (except for one or two brass bands
that seem to follow Tom Mix around) and is punctuated by contemporary
recordings, including one by Duke Ellington. The photography is first
rate. It must be getting hard to find locations that look like Southern
California looked in the 1920s before the irruption of humans and their
artifacts. 

It's worth watching. But I don't know where that title came from.
"Sunset." What is the sun setting on? Not Earp. He's old but not
doddering, and he can shoot and make love even at the "risk of
permanent damage." It's not setting on Hollywood, which would continue
to book for another two generations or so. I suppose we'll settle for
its being one of those generic titles that could mean anything.
"Another Dawn." "Guns of Darkness." "On the Edge." "Sunset." "The
Muppets Conquer the Mustang Ranch."
<|_=00=_|>

After reading the other user comments I felt a need to write about this
wonderful film. Sunset is a fictionized account of the meeting of two
famous
cowboys, Marshal Wyatt Eurp and Western film star Tom Mix. This is the
second time that James Garner played Wyatt Eurp as he played the part in
John Sturges' under-rated film, "Hour Of the Gun" which told the story of
what happened after the famous Gunfight at The O.K. Corral. Though in that
film Garner played him very downbeat, and here he is his usual likeable
cowboy.

Eurp and Mix (played by Bruce Willis in his second staring film)getting
involved in an complicated mystery involving a Studio head played by
Malcom
McDowell (playing a sort of evil Charlie Chaplin). It's not only the
wonderful chemistry between th two stars that makes the film enjoyable,
but
it's all the situations that they go thru.

Also a high point in the film is the score by master composer Henry
Mancini.
Mancini has score most of Director Blake Edwards films, since they first
teamed up on the TV show Peter Gunn. Here Mancini shows why he was such a
great composer, adaptable to any film genre, his western theme is as good
as
anything done by Elmer Bernstein and Dimitri Tiomkin, two of the highly
regarded composers of western movies.

While parts of the film are a little uneven, and Director Edward should
have
not casted his daughter Jennifer Edwards in such a crucial role. She was
totally miscast as McDowell's sister. She worked much better in Edwards
"S.O.B". and "That's Life" and even more in a film not directed by her
dad,
called "The Perfect Match".

The main reason to watch this film is that it's fun and it's fun watching
two legends getting together, I mean both Garner and Willis as well as the
real men they portray, Erup and Mix, and remember like the film says,
"it's
all true give or take a lie or two.


<|_=00=_|>
'Sunset' is one of Blake Edwards's best; far better than the later Pink
Panther films, which documented Peter Sellers's descent into
self-parody. It is also, despite some complaints, reasonably accurate,
for what it is - an entertainment with some roots in history, for
color. Marshal Wyatt Earp did spend some of his last years in
Hollywood, and was friends with several silver screen cowboys,
including Tom Mix. Mix, in fact, was on of the pall bearers at Earps's
funeral.

And Charlie Chaplin, the obvious model for the villain of the film, was
a sonuvabitch. He was often gratuitously cruel to people around him,
became physically violent with the women in his life on more than one
occasion, and eventually had to flee the country for a variety of
reasons including his propensity for (slightly) underage girls. He was
certainly not a complete psychopath, like the character in the movie,
but there is a basis for the fable...just as there is for most of the
other points in the film.

People who cannot bear to see 'Chaplin' in any but the most flattering
of lights should avoid Sunset....but they should also avoid passing
judgment on it. The film succeeds amply at what it sets out to do; tell
a thrilling and often funny story about a make believe land called
Hollywood in a time when Legends walked the earth.
<|_=00=_|>

A light Western with a great cast.  Perhaps a little corny at times but
with
the plot twists and humor of the movie I found myself enjoying the entire
movie.  The fact that Tom Mix had a great respect for Wyatt Earp in real
life was brought out.  The humor mixed in with a serious plot helped out
the
entire storyline.  If for no other reason it was great to see Bruce Willis
in one of his first movies.
<|_=00=_|>

Blake Edwards' "Sunset"  has the misfortune of following a series of films
that are among his all time best: "10", "S.O.B.", "Trail of the Pink
Panther" (a surprisingly cohesive film considering the circumstances; see
my
review for more details), "Victor/Victoria", "The Man Who Loved Women" (an
underrated film), "Micki and Maude", "A Fine Mess" and the remarkable
"That's Life!" By comparison, "Sunset" is a weak film.

But it is a good Blake Edwards film and good Edwards ("Blind Date", "Curse
of the Pink Panther") is much better than horrible Edwards ("Switch",
"Bring
Your Smile Along", "Justin Case"). "Sunset" is Edwards' attempt at a risky
genre, film noir, which if handled wrong, gives us films such as
"Palmetto".
When handled right, the results can be very entertaining.

"Sunset" is indeed very entertaining. It has laughs, but they're not
important here. The atmosphere is what's important here and Edwards
drenches
us in it. And his casting of James Garner and Bruce Willis is inspired and
right. They work wonderfully together  and it is a testament to Garner and
Willis as actors that they are so utterly believable as Wyatt Earp and Tom
Mix, respectively. The bigger surprise here is Willis, who has a fresh
faced
charm that he doesn't show all that much anymore. I had forgotten what a
solid actor he really is beneath that cliched "ACTION STAR"
persona.

What prevents "Sunset" from approaching greatness is that Edwards is
weighed
down by the plot. He wants to create a complex mystery and he achieves
that.
But after getting to know such rich and likable characters, I really wish
he
had just forgotten about the plot and focus on them. All of his very best
films are about character. Look at the list in the beginning. Each and
every
one of those films has characters we care about and he wisely forgets about
resolving the plot. He observes and that's how he gets our attention (and
laughs where appropriate). I only wished he had remembered. Luckily, his
next film "Skin Deep" remembered that.

I still recommend "Sunset", if only for the charm of Willis and Garner and
that wonderful atmosphere. This isn't a great film, but you just can't
resist smiling at the end.

*** out of 4 stars


<|_=00=_|>

Whoever it was that called this film dry and dull deserves to be shot!
Bruce
Willis shines in this witty and hilarious "old western" that never got the
recognition it deserved. Willis plays a tv cowboy who gets paired up with
James Garner(Wyat Earp) who, unbelievable as it may seem, is even better
than Willis! This unlikely duo causes riot after riot and just when it
seems
like u are totally lost in the film, they wrap it up with dignity and
class.
This film may not be "Die Hard", but in my opinion deserves just as much
recognition!
<|_=00=_|>
This is huge fun and shows the critics (as usual) know nothing! I
caught Sunset by accident on channel 5US (UK Sky) tonight and loved it
so much I ordered the DVD online from play.com (just 4.99 UKP) right
after - this is a real keeper.

Willis and Garner are superb as you'd expect, and it was nice to see
Malcolm McDowell and fellow Brit Patricia Hodge doing (literally!)
sterling work. A fine cameo from the late Andreas Katsulas of Babylon 5
fame as the felonious chauffeur Arthur - this guy is sadly missed.

My only improvement to this would be to have it in good old 1920's
black and white. Hey - I'll turn the colour off when the DVD arrives
:O) Love it to bits.

Stuart
<|_=00=_|>

I'm not exactly sure how many people actually like this film, but I for one
think it's not half bad. While it is true that Bruce Willis isn't a very
convincing Tom Mix, and the the film isn't overly exciting, James Garner
does a great job as Wyatt Earp, and is reason enough alone to watch this.
This movie sometimes gets mixed feelings, some hate it, some feel it's
fair,
and some like it. Give this a shot, especially if there isn't anything else
on, you might like it.
