

Mind you, it's not supposed to be, but it is.  As a wee tot, I watched
this
movie in the theatre (Being a huge wrestling and Hulk Hogan fan).  All I
remember from the night is we were the only ones in the theater, and that
I
didn't really like it very much.  I blacked the rest out, and for good
reason.

A poor film on par with the greats like "Gymkata" and "The Pumaman," "No
Holds Barred" is a movie set in the high stakes world of pro wrestling.
Well maybe the stakes aren't all that high...and quite frankly I feel
dirty
just calling these people "professionals" at anything.  And really, except
for the first scene, there's no wrestling to speak of.  So I guess movie
is
about the marginally low stakes world of amateurish
beating-the-c***-out-of-people.
Sounds good, right?

Hulk Hogan plays Rip, the champion of the WWF (Never let it be said that
Hulk Hogan was typecast, this and movies like Thunder in Paradise showed
how
he challenged himself with deep roles that really pushed the limits of his
talents).  Essentially he's playing himself, but with a wardrobe that's
more
black and blue than the Hulkster's red and yellow.  He also has this hand
gesture he does.  It's kinda like the ozzy devil sign people make at rock
concerts, except you stick your thumb in the air, and you curl your index
finger in.  My friend claimed that it was supposed to look like an "R."
Try
and see for yourself.  If that looks like an "R," well, then, Mars needs
women.  But anyway.

Kurt Fuller, with his overacting detector obviously on the fritz, plays a
TV
exec with his slightly homoerotic heart set on getting Rip, who's
evidentally bigger than Elvis, on his network.  He won't have any of it
(And
exits the office with a triumphant hand gesture to no one but the camera),
and so the movie follows Fuller trying to boost ratings and get back at
Rip.
He does so when he creates his brilliantly titled "Battle of the Tough
Guys."  Marketing genius, this guy.

From the numerous hand gestures, to the rather idiotic fight scenes (All
played as if wrestling is very real and deadly serious) to the overacting,
to the far too frequent shots of Hulk in nothing but undies, this movie
has
everything you'd ever want in a dumb movie.  It's frivolous, not too
taxing
on the mind, violent, and includes the phrase "What's that smell?"
"DOOKIE!"
"Dookie?"

A classic for all time.
<|_=00=_|>

it was late one halloween night I had fallen asleep with my TV on and I
woke
up like 2 in the morning, opened my eyes and this movie was playing. I was
a
little groggy, but was then awake and couldnt get back to sleep and
figured
might as well watch this.
the thing that surprised me, is, this movie is standard fair as far as
fish
out of water fighting against incredible odds to win something movies go,
but I just LOVED the look of this movie. it was filmed very beaituflly,
with
some very surreal scenes. such as that rough bar hulk went to and got
intoa
fight, the look of the bar with the lights shining thru the walls and the
colorful look of it really caught my eye.
from then on, the strange thing was, while I wasnt incredibly taken with
the
plot, I thought the film itself, as far as the scenes was
really....well........sharp and cool.
<|_=00=_|>

Hulk Hogan does it again a great movie with great acting, directing, and
lighting.  Hulk Kills people in this movie he electrocutes one guy.  Hulk
will be in the acting scene for another 50 years i'm sure.  Hulk is a
hungry young actor in 10 years he will blossom into a rose of an actor.
No
Holds Barred will take us into the next Millennium.
<|_=00=_|>

Hulk Hogan must have gotten other movie offers from other studios - so upon
seeing his choice for his first starring role, you have to wonder why on
earth he picked this one! Could the other offers been even worse than this?
Seeing that the "trivia" section for this movie states that he found the
original draft unsatisfying and rewrote it without credit, you also have to
wonder how it was originally.

Whatever the case, the end results are really bad... but so bad that they
are often hilarious to watch. Now, the movie was done somewhat
tongue-in-cheek, but the acting is so over the top... the plot is so
simple-minded and unbelievable... that you can't accept the majority of the
hilarity as intentional. 

If you can stop laughing long enough to study the movie, you'll see just how
badly made it is. The editing is terrible - it's obvious a good number of
scenes (containing a good amount of explanation) are missing, and other
scenes are clearly chopped down to a fraction of their original length. This
may explain why there's barely a feeling Hogan is the star of the movie -
there are long stretches when he's nowhere in sight, and he actually doesn't
get to do as much as you might think. (It doesn't help that in some long
shots, he appears to be replaced by a double.) And while Hogan seems to have
aimed the movie towards his youthful fans, the violence level (including
attempted rape, savage beatings, and death) makes the movie a questionable
choice for this age group.
<|_=00=_|>

Back in 89 Hulk finally got his first starring role and you can tell he
had
a lot of fun with it.  He plays Rip, the WWF champion with a heart of
gold.
But when Rip doesn't switch networks, the greedy promoter Brell gets down
and dirty, and eventually finds the massive Zeus to lure Hogan into their
trap.

Overall, a fun movie to watch, especially if your a big Hulkster fan like
myself.
<|_=00=_|>

What's the only difference between this film and pro-wrestling? The movie is
more predictable. Also, Hulk Hogan is not as good an actor on the big screen
than he is at, say, WrestleMania. But if you're looking for mindless
pro-wrestling dramatics, by all means, remember the name: NO HOLDS BARRED!

<|_=00=_|>
A success, a brilliant success. The only movie to inspire a Green Day
album. This Hulk Hogan classic tells the story of Jesus Christ's fight
against the Romans in this modern day battle. Instead of the battle
field taking place in the days of old and our hero getting crucified,
the battle is in a bar and our Hulk gets Zuesified. Jesus (aka Rip)
lashes out the same way 2000 years later...with raw muscle power and
brute force. Could Jesus be locked in a car by a bladder deficient limo
driver...NO...either could the Hulkster. Hulkamania lives on, and rises
again every Easter.

Simply stated, worship the Hulkster, or chances are you will suffer
eternal damnation. This movie is a quality family flick that should be
watched religiously every Sunday. The Creator may have rested on the
7th day, but on the 8th he made No Holds Barred.
<|_=00=_|>
Hulk Hogan stars as a champion wrestler (A real acting stretch...)
named Rip, who is forced to defend his honor, his title and his
girlfriend from a greedy corporation that wanted him to sign for their
network (Because wrestling sells!) however when Rip declines, the
network gets a circuit fighting championship called (and i'm totally
serious) "Battle of the tough guys" who's champion Zeus (Played by Tiny
Lister Jr) maybe the deadliest man alive. Rip refuses to fight, until
his brother is attacked and put in a hospital. No Holds Barred is
pretty much what I expected from Vince McMahon production starring the
least versatile actor in the action genre (Hogan) it is basically lots
of unintentional humor, tons of awkward sequences, a couple okay action
sequences and tons of stupidity. In other words it's not unlike
wrestling itself, so I give it a fair rating mainly because anyone
renting this knows what they're getting. The movie is cheap but well
made enough for what it is and really wrestling fans will probably
enjoy this. I myself found this to be ultimately hilarious. They're are
moments of such absurdity that you only chuckle to yourself. (Such as
the way Hogan jumps 20 feet in the air after being stuck in a limo, how
he forces a guy to crap himself and of course the way Hogan recites
from his cuecard. (I.E:"I'm not going to be around when this check
clears!") No Holds Barred is a lot of fun, true, though it's mainly
because of how ridiculous it is. Fans of camp should really enjoy this
clever clinker.

* * out of 4-(Fair)
<|_=00=_|>
No matter how low your expectations are going into this absurd late 80s
Hulk Hogan vehicle, it's quite likely to limbo right under them.

Hogan is the "star", but he actually gets very little screen time,
disappearing for large chunks of the film while the focus is on the
villain of the piece played with a "Hey, it's a paycheck" glee by Kurt
Fuller. When he is on screen, Hogan struggles playing a character that
is more or less the same one he'd played for nearly a decade in the
WWF.

None of this would've mattered much had the film at least given us some
entertaining wrestling moments and perhaps a few good montages set to
cheesy rock music, but it can't even seem to do that right.

'No Holds Barred' is awful even by the standards of low budget late-80s
wrestling movies, of which it may be the only one.
<|_=00=_|>
Although I'm a huge World Wrestling Federation, Hulk Hogan, wrestling
in general & these kind of movie fan (Stallone, Arnold, Van Damme), as
an adult I find this movie unacceptable. It really is a pretty bad
flick, no acting at all, used to love it when i was 6-7 and maybe I
could recommend it to a 6y old, but times are different now and I'm not
sure even they would like it. Hulk Hogan is bad, as always, Tiny Lister
the same, but Joan Severence eclipsed them all, her 'acting' is
something really special. Director Wright is a TV- director and it
shows all the way. It is a movie made for a special purpose (wrestling
feud), def. fulfilled it's original task and should stay in the late
80's.
