
And in the 1979th year of Our Lord, God took in a screening of Monty
Python's "Life Of Brian," and thought it was funny. 

He did NOT think the film was blasphemous or offensive in any way. Yea,
God did admire it's incredibly clever pokes at religion and at
religious fanatics, for God Himself knew the virtue of being able to
laugh at one's self. He also knew before He even walked into the
theater that the title character, Brian, was NOT Jesus Christ, but
merely a man who was born at the same time as Christ---right next door,
in fact---and became mistaken for a messiah. God settled into His seat,
with popcorn in one hand and diet soda in another, and had a rollicking
good time.

He recommended "Life Of Brian" to His Son, Jesus, who went to see it
the following week. He, too, thought it was a hilarious film, and
immediately sang the praises of the Monty Python troupe---John Cleese,
Graham Chapman, Eric Idle, Terry Jones, Terry Gilliam & Michael
Palin---for creating such a wonderful spoof. And He recommended the
film to His friends. Have an open mind, He told them, and have fun. 

But God and His Son were quite puzzled why so many people in the Bible
Belt community were so upset by "Life Of Brian"---especially the ones
who hadn't even bothered to SEE the frigging film for fear of being
damned for all time. And They both shook their heads in dismay. It's
only a movie, They thought, and a very funny, harmless one at that. Get
a life!

But God gave Monty Python's "Life Of Brian" the power to overcome such
ridiculous adversity, and today, well over two decades later, the film
is rightfully regarded as a comedy classic, and one of the Python's
finest works. It's *still* not a film for everybody, but does it have
to be? If you're in tune with the Python's style of zany comedy, you'll
enjoy "Life Of Brian."

And praise be to Saint George Harrison, late of The Beatles, for
lending the Pythons a hand in making this wonderful movie. :-)
<|_=00=_|>
In Life of Brian, Python created what John Cleese called simply "our
masterpiece". As a piece of writing, it is the most impressive of the
three feature length Python movies. The scenes remain episodic, but
there is a much more coherent narrative than in the earlier Holy Grail
– I loved HG too, but for different reasons. The characters (well about
one or two of the characters) have acquired some subtle shading, which
is rare in comedy and, alas, rare in British comedy in particular. The
plight of Chapman's Brian is one that I really cared about (although
his death is also extremely funny, upbeat and one of the truly iconic
moments in British cinema).

The story must be fairly well known. Brian is born at the same time as
Jesus with whom he leads a kind of parallel life, thus allowing the
team to lampoon and satirise everything from religious zealotry and mob
hysteria to 1950s biblical/sword & sandals epic cinema. It does this by
marrying historic situations with more modern attitudes; thus we have
revolutionary Stan who wants to be Loretta and have the right to have
babies, the old man who can't understand why he's being stoned for
saying simply "that piece of halibut was good enough for Jehovah!" the
gruff centurion correcting Brian's Latin grammar while he's trying to
daub anti-Roman slogans on a wall and the gentle centurion asking each
of a line of the condemned "crucifixion? Good" while ticking them off
on his clipboard. Interspersed with this is slapstick, pantomime women
(I'm not sure there are any real women in Python, which is probably its
greatest failing) and a small amount of the trademark Python surrealism
(the spaceship, the "prophet" talking about the sons misplacing the
things owned by their fathers who had placed them down only just a
moment ago… etc). In short, something for everyone – except, perhaps,
committed Christians.

A lot of attention has been paid to whether LoB is blasphemous. The
Pythons claim not and I'm not sufficiently religious to care very much.
On the surface, I disagree. There are also occasional sideswipes at
ancient Jewish custom – although, to be fair, only stoning which, if
you'll pardon the pun, might be considered a fair target. Jesus is not
criticised, but the film's central message seems to be; be in the right
place at the right time and even a man called Brian can become God.
Almost the last line is from Eric Idle saying; "you come from nothing
and go back to nothing" which doesn't suggest that the man on the mount
at the beginning is a divinity, no matter whether he's talking sense or
not.

Most importantly though, LoB is refreshingly satirical. There always
was an element of this in Python (mediaeval Christian philosophy
lampooned in the Holy Grail for example "this new learning amazes me
Sir Bedevere, explain again how sheeps' bladders may be employed to
prevent earthquakes… so, if she weighs the same as a duck, she must be
made of wood, and therefore - a witch". I guess LoB attracted attention
because the satire had never been so bold or obvious before. This is
also what makes LoB such an incredibly funny film to watch; but put it
this way – despite what Rowan Atkinson may have once said – I'd be very
surprised if the Python's weren't expecting the Spanish Inquisition.

That shouldn't put you off, though. Unless your faith is too weak to
survive Python's gentle humanism, watch this movie – you'll probably
love it.
<|_=00=_|>

One of my fave films of all time, this film has so many laugh-out-loud
jokes
and ridiculous thought processes that it would probably be unfair to pick
out just a few.
Tough - I'm going to: John Cleese as the legionnary Latin teacher rebuking
Brian not for daring to use graffiti on the Roman fort but for using the
wrong tense, Michael Palin trying to find his place in life as an
ex-leper,
Terry Jones as Brian's mother trying to protect him from myrrh - let's
face
it, we've all wondered what myrrh is !
The bit that always makes me laugh without fail is something that isn't
always noticed - when Michael Palin is having a go at the guards; "Do you
find it risible when I say the name of my friend Biggus Diccus ?" if you
look carefully you'll see that Palin is trying really hard not to
laugh.

Puerile, silly but also very very clever. This film doesn't criticise
religion or Jesus in any way ( what was wrong with the people who tried to
ban it ? ) - it's just asking what it could have been like in a society
that
was expecting the Messiah to show up at any moment, and covering it in a
massive coating of comedy.

This film is an absolute classic - 10 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

It's impossible for me to be objective about this film.  I know every
scene
and line by heart.  Not because I'm one of those ghastly Python nerds,
whose
anal obsessiveness sucks the whole spirit out of everything they did, and
actually misses the joke, which is on them; they are the perfect subjects
for a Python lampoon.  No.  I only know LIFE OF BRIAN so intimately
because
I've seen it so often, it's still one of the funniest comedies I've ever
seen, and persists in being hilarious despite familiarity, which, as in so
much Python did, is the reverse of what comedy is 'supposed' to be made of
(i.e. surprise).

Also, nostalgia value.  MONTY PYTHON were my first heroes, before I even
reached double figures.  I gobbled up every programme, film and record in
a
space of a couple of short years, so they are bound up with a period of my
life when I was very happy and hopeful, so I go all misty-eyed when I see
it.  Bizarrely, we were first encouraged to watch BRIAN by our Latin
teacher, who felt it was very insightful about Roman society.

But no-one watches PYTHON anymore, except that dorkish clique.  My
brother,
only a couple of years my junior, is as mystified now by my reaction to it
as my parents were then.  But surely BRIAN is a comic masterpiece in
itself,
accessible to anyone who found the very male, elitist, academic bias of
the
programme somewhat alienating?

How can I implore you to watch this?  It's got a straight narrative, with
some of the greatest set-pieces and dialogue of any film ever.  It's not a
great FILM comedy - Terry Jones is no Gilliam - but the style suits the
humour perfectly, allowing it to breathe, and sometimes pulling off an
extraordinarily evocative shot, such as when Brian and his mother are
walking from Jesus' sermon, and squabbling about petty things like big
noses, and the camera pulls back to a vast Judean wasteland, with a
massive
Roman statue being wheeled, and a set of crucifixes being planted: a
marvellous encapsulation of a period in history.

This is the film's true triumph - it's a magnificent deconstruction of
historical distortion.  By paralleling the life of Christ with that of an
ordinary little man, Python reclaim history from symbol and myth.  It
brings
the body back into history.  Its resolute rejection of divinity leads to a
bleak, ironic conclusion (listen to 'Always Look On The Bright Side Of
Life'
carefully, and in context: it's NOT comforting) - the story of Jesus
without
redemption is ghastly.

The intelligence behind the juvenile gags is astonishing - the film is a
learned commentary on power, totalitarianism, repression, language,
gender,
the writing of history, the politics of subversion, the complicity of the
repressed.  Myth is thrown to the wind - the film succeeds where Reg and
his
revolutionaries fail, by revealing a whole series of repressive apparatum
(sic?).  No-one is spared - the film is unashamedly destructive, but the
film's satire is not arid or narrow; there are many rich parallels with
our
own time, as the extraordinary reaction from the religious on the film's
release showed.

But BRIAN is not just an attack on religion, but on all who would seek to
write selective histories for their own interests, suppressing others'
voices.  The silliest jokes are also the most profound - in one scene, the
kidnappers enter Pilate's palace through a tiled floor.  They emerge
through
a modesty-concealing leaf painted on this floor.  This is snickering
schoolboy humour, and very very funny, but is also a comment on the
phallocentricity of imperialism.  Jokes like these are why BRIAN will
always
remain vital - it turns you into a ludicrous, ill-informed amateur
historian.

The acting is an astonishing feat of multiple performances, but Graham
Chapman, always my favorite Python, holds the chaos together, ironically
as
the Kafkaesque hero who races towards the abyss, an anti-Jesus to love and
identify with.  If I've made the film sound like hard work, than I'm an
idiot.  The seriousness is only there if you want it.  Like Alice in
Wonderland, or Buster Keaton, PYTHON seem to be full of metaphors that
encapsulate the pains of life, but are also damnably entertaining.  It's
strange that men as supposedly 'surreal' and 'out there' as the Pythons
should speak such good sense.  Only BRINGING UP BABY, THE PALM BEACH
STORY,
and MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL, are funnier than this.  Treasure
it.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is by far the best of the Python outings. It ranks as one of
my favorite films of all time, which unlike 'The Holy Grail', hasn't
dated with time but improves with repeated viewing.

The Pythons supposed take on Christianity, which caused outrage when it
was first released (mostly by people who hadn't seen it), is actually a
take on cults, both religious and political, and the people who follow
them.

Brian, our hapless hero, is confused, horny, and constantly mistaken
for the Messiah; who just happened to be born in the manger next to
him. Brian just wants to be left alone, and to pursue his love for
Judith, a member of the People's Front of Judea. Judith just wants the
Romans to go home; but only after they've left the sanitation, the
medicine, education, irrigation, roads, public order, etc., etc. ... oh
and don't forget the wine! 

Will Brian's love for Judith go unrequited? Will only the cheese makers
be blessed, or does this refer to all manufacturers of dairy products?
And just what have the Romans ever done for us? 

It's subtle; it's anarchic; and it's possibly still banned in Norway.
This is classic seamless comedy at its best. 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Personally, I believe this to be one of the most intelligent comedies
ever made. It might not appear that way at first because the film does
have its share of simple slapstick and "naughty" moments, but
generally, the topics the Pythons tackle here are very serious - albeit
dealt with in a way that makes this a true contender for the funniest
film of all time. 

A firework of hilarious sketches, timeless quotes and clever comments
on the human condition, this film was deemed too dangerous for the
masses and therefore, until recently, banned in several countries
(normally, this only used to happen to the so called "Video Nasties").

This film never once makes fun of Jesus (Christ) - but it DOES take the
mickey out of blind, fanatic followers of any political movement or
religion.

An outstanding achievement and endlessly re-watchable. 

My vote: 10 out of 10

Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/

Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/

Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/
<|_=00=_|>
This is, in my opinion, the best religious movie ever made. Monty
Python's Flying Circus knows how to do everything hilariously. Focusing
on Brian Cohen (Graham Chapman), who gets mistaken for the messiah in
Judea in 33 AD, the movie pokes fun at everything: Romans, Jews,
imperialism, even extraterrestrials. With sardonic lines almost every
minute, they play religious fundamentalism for what it is: silly. I
don't even know which scene was my favorite; every part was so funny.
You'll never forget the song at the end. This is comedy in its greatest
form, and it makes sense that it would come from the guys who brought
us the "parrot sketch". Absolutely a hoot.
<|_=00=_|>

True, my tastes are eclectic. This movie is so incredibly clever and
thought
provoking that it's not surprising that it raised so many hackles. Plus,
it's as fast paced and funny as a Marx Brothers movie without the musical
breaks. You can watch it 20 times and you'll still sing at the
end.
Undoubtedly one of the top 10!!
<|_=00=_|>

Monty Python's follow-up to their cult smash Holy Grail was Life of Brian, a
film that takes on (if not always with the utmost seriousness, then usually
with a mix of silliness and slight intellectualism) the believers in
religions, the zealous nature that belief brings out in people.  I first saw
the film in the theater upon its re-release last month, and I found it very
funny, though not with the kind of belly laughs that I had on my first
reaction to Holy Grail.  It's not without it's scenes that stick out as some
of Python's finest (the Stoning, Pilate's scenes, the Spaceship sequence),
even as sometimes it goes a little too broad for comfort (part of the
colisseum).

Yet, the great strengths that lie in Life of Brian are that 1) the writers
and performers (Chapman, Cleese, Gilliam, Jones, Idle, Palin) bring their
irreverent strengths to a fine point with the script and multiple roles. 
Even when a scene doesn't get the laughs it could've or should've, it turns
out to be a scene brimming with a cleverness that could only exist in the
"Python-esque" universe.  2) the director (Jones) and designer/animator
(Gilliam) lay the groundwork for this realistic atmosphere of 33 A.D. and
bring out what is the best in the acting, Pythons or otherwise (famous
British comedian Spike Milligan has a role of note).  Held over from the
sets of Franco Zeferelli's Christ film, the Pythons use all these locations
and settings and little details to spring out their wild, brilliant gags. 
The look of the film enriches the comedic elements, and the result is
(arguably, of course) the troupe's best film.  Not for all tastes by the way
(Monty Python in general for me took some while to warm up to, but paid off
once it worked).  Grade: A
<|_=00=_|>

When a film is still funny 25 years after it's made, and doesn't feel
particularly aged, even a quarter of a century later, then you know that
you've struck gold. The famous Monty Python crew once again take a
well-known subject and make a lot of fun of it. This time, the subject is
religion, or, more specifically, Christianity. Everyone who knows at least a
little about Christianity, which is pretty much anyone from the western
world, will probably be able to laugh at something in this movie. Unless, of
course, you are very Christian yourself, in that case you will probably feel
that the film is blasphemous(I don't personally think so, since it makes fun
of the followers and the general stupidity of people and organizations back
in 30-something A.D., rather than Jesus and his teachings). The plot is
about as incoherent as the usual Monty Python team film, though it should be
noted that, like Monty Python and the Holy Grail, it is an actual film, and
not a series of sketches, like, for example, the Meaning of Life. It's about
as paced as they usually are, most of the scenes contain a lot of jokes, and
then they move on to the next scene, after about five minutes of jokes and
sight gags. This is, unfortunately, the problem with their films; if you
don't like the jokes, the film might seem extremely slow to you; of course,
one could argue that Monty Python mainly make movies for the jokes sake, but
they could do better on the pacing, for the sake of viewers who don't like
all those repeated jokes. That's not to say that I don't like them, I laugh
at them most of the time, heck, I laughed so hard that I almost got stomach
ache from it at one particular instant. But, I guess that a lot of people
won't like them for this way of making movies. Oh well. You can't please
everyone. The humor is great, it's standard Python wacky, crazy humor, so
every Python fan should enjoy it. People who don't like Monty Python should
give this a chance too, if they have at least a little humor, and they
aren't Christian extremists. Christian "believers" can probably laugh at it
too, like I said, it's not the religion itself, it's more the brainwashed
followers that the film makes fun of. All in all, a great film for fans of
the Python crew, and people who have a sense of humor about religion(a dark
sense of humor, that is). I recommend it to fans of Monty Python, people who
enjoy dark humor and people who can laugh a little at the less intelligent
parts of Christianity. I fall into all three categories, and I loved it.
8/10
