
I know that there are a lot of haters when it comes to Indiana Jones
and the Temple of Doom, it has it's flaws and is by no means the
strongest movie of the Indiana Jones series, but I just have so many
good memories about this film and still to this day when I watch it, it
gives me chills and excitement. The characters are memorable, the
script is great, and Indiana is still pulling in the action packed
excitement continuing from Raiders of the Lost Ark. The direction,
editing, even the special effects are great. You have to love Short
Round and Willy, the two new side kicks to Indiana's new adventure. Now
I agree, Willy can get a little annoying here and there, but she was
just so hilarious in that scene with the bugs and having to save
Indiana and Short Round. Plus, Short Round has some of the most
memorable lines of the entire series "Okey, dokey, Dr. Jones, hold on
to your potato!", cheesy, but so funny. Harrison Ford still has Indiana
down to a tee, this was the role that was meant for him.

In this prequel, we start off in China on a trade off gone wrong with
Lao Che, he ends up meeting a beautiful and very high maintence
American girl, Willie. They escape together with Indiana's little side
kick, Short Round and accidentally without knowing, they've escaped
onto Lao Che's air plane. They wind up in India, where they find out
about these rocks that can restore the village they're in, also the
children have been kidnapped by Mola Ram and Indiana must free the kids
and restore the rocks so the village can be safe again.

Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom is a fun sequel, I don't know why
people complain so much about it. I can understand if people say it's
the weakest of the series, but on it's own, this is a fantastic movie.
It's one of my biggest recommendations to my friends as well as other
film viewers. It just has everything you could want: action, romance,
alligators, and heart sacrifices, lol, OK, that sounded gross, just
trust me this that this is such a fun movie. It's one of my favorite
films, I know that sounds bad, but I just love this film. It's a lot of
fun and Indiana and Short Round are just the best buddies to watch
argue on screen. This is an awesome sequel, definitely a must see.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

Everyone complains about Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom. One of my
friends and I used to argue for months on end about which Indian Jones
film
was the superior. Almost anyone we ask say that Temple of Doom is their
least favorite, and the worst in the Jones trilogy. I believe the only
reason people say this, is because it's the middle film, sandwiched
between
an all time classic, and a Hollywood blockbuster. To me, there is NO
question that Raiders of the Lost Ark is the far superior Indiana Jones
film. To anyone who says Last Crusade is the best I can do nothing but
disagree (let me point out that all THREE films are nothing short of
phenomenal). Temple of Doom had so much to live up to after the first
film,
and instead of trying to re-create Raiders (something I feel Crusade
did),
Lucas and Spielberg decided to take the franchise in a new direction. In
my
opinion, this was a great idea. Crusade and Raiders are too similar: both
of
them take place in desert terrain, both have Indy going after a very
famous,
biblical artifact, and both have Indy fighting off the Nazi's from
attaining
this object for global domination. Without Temple of Doom, Last Crusade
would be an obvious copy of Raiders of the Lost Ark. A different style of
Indy film is needed to expand the trilogy, making Indiana Jones a truly
global character, and Temple of Doom did just that.

The film itself is a non-stop action, adventure ride. Harrison Ford is
once
again AMAZING as the dashing professor/archaeologist thrill seeker. Short
Round is a loveable character who adds a humorous touch, and reveals the
more compassionate side of Indy's character. The ceremony scenes are
truly
breathtaking and tense. During these scenes the film contains some very
graphic images, but are used justifiably to convey the real dark, feel of
this film (i.e. the removing of the man's heart while he's still alive,
and
lowering him into a fiery pit). The mine cart chase scenes are the most
amazing, fast moving action sequence in any of the Indy films, and you
feel
like you're on a roller coaster each time you watch it. All these events
lead to the film's spectacular and memorable climax.

I know with three films as amazing as the Indiana Jones trilogy, it's
hard
to pick a best and worst film, in fact it's nearly impossible. I'm just
going to say that each film is great on it's own, and really shouldn't be
compared to the other two.

<|_=00=_|>

Temple of Doom may not be as good as Raiders, but it doesn't deserve all
this negative flak.  The story is a little darker but that doesn't take
anything away from the film.  It makes the situation that much more dire.
John Williams' score infuses the sacrifice sequence with a sense of
building
dread.  The chanting, the heavy drums all building into a wild climax of
heart burning and lava filled mayhem.  The mine car chase is wild fun and
Indy's bridge manuver is one hell of a climax.  Still don't know why
everyone's so down on this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

It's funny to call "Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom" a followup to
"Raiders of the Lost Ark". This film is a prequel to the 1981 smash hit, a
movie where the events that take place actually took place before the
events
in "Raiders". Notice at the beginning of "Raiders" that the year is 1936.
In
"Temple of Doom", the year is 1935. See what I mean? "Indiana Jones and
the
Temple of Doom" is another rollercoaster ride of a movie brought to life
by
Steven Spielberg and George Lucas. Harrison Ford is back as archaeologist
Indiana Jones who this time searches for a sacred stone that was stolen
from
an Indian village. Along for the ride is American singer/entertainer
Willie
Scott (Kate Capshaw, aka Mrs. Steven Spielberg) and little Chinese
sidekick
Short Round (Ke Huy Quan). On their way to finding the stone they stumble
across a palace that leads to the gateway of the Temple of Doom run by an
evil Thugee cult. The action and special effects are first-rate as you
would
expect, though the story is a tad weaker than it was in "Raiders". Plus,
Capshaw's performance leaves something to be desired. She goes so far
over-the-top in some scenes that you'd wish Karen Allen would show up as
Marion. Nevertheless, Capshaw isn't all that bad. She does make an
impression during the times when she's not screaming. But Ke Huy Quan (now
known as Jonathan Ke Quan) comes off better as Indy's young sidekick. The
following year he starred in the Spielberg produced Richard Donner
directed
"The Goonies", but then didn't appear in much after that. "Indiana Jones
and
the Temple of Doom" is great fun only if you can get by Kate Capshaw's
simpering wimpering character or the over-the-top violence. I found it to
be
exciting from beginning to end.

***1/2 (out of four)

POINT OF INTEREST: this was the film that lead to the creation of the
PG-13
rating in 1984 (along with Spielberg's other 1984 movie "Gremlins"). Both
"Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom" and "Gremlins" feature violence
that
most people felt was too strong for a PG rating, though the MPAA felt that
it wasn't strong enough to merit an R rating (other Spielberg movies that
got PG ratings that were quite intense were "Jaws", "Poltergeist", and the
original "Raiders of the Lost Ark"). So after "Indiana Jones and the
Temple
of Doom" and "Gremlins" opened in theaters at the beginning of the summer
movie season of 1984 and became two of that year's biggest hits, the MPAA
realized a new rating had to be created. The PG-13 rating was born. In
August 1984, the first movies were released with the new PG-13 rating
("Red
Dawn" and "The Woman in Red"). It's not a new rating anymore. The PG-13
rating has held up very well these last 18 years and it'll still go strong
in the years to come. But I'll always remember "Indiana Jones and the
Temple
of Doom" as the leading factor to the creation of the PG-13 rating.

<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

My header was heard from the mouths of dozens of other sunburned faces
exiting the Westgate theater in 1984. It was over ninety degrees out;
we all stood out, in the blazing sun, for over three hours with the
memory of Raiders Of The Lost Ark in our minds. There was such palpable
excitement in line. We all shared our favorite scenes from the
original. The movie starts so well, my friend Eric whispers to me,"Hey,
this is going to be good." What happened? Well, from the moment that
the three of them fall from, like three thousand feet, slide down the
side of the Himalayas on a rubber raft, off the side of a thousand foot
cliff. Eric says," WTF? I said, We're in trouble," yes, we were in very
big trouble. For everyone, like everyone in the theater, wondering why
Short Round is in the freaking movie: he is put there by the studio
after they saw the dailies and Paramount knew the Asian community was
going to go ballistic at the painfully racist depiction of the Indian
people. Look, I am a conservative and I found it offensive; what does
that tell you? Indian cuisine, which I love, actually does not consist
of snake surprise, eyeball soup or chilled monkey brains. Take it from
some one who wrecked his stomach eating Chicken Vindaloo; they have
some of the best food known to man. I should know I kept our local
Kashmir's Indian restaurant in business filling up my car with take
out. 

Now, when we think of all the kiddies who filled the theater, a huge
chunk of the demographic for Indy movies; who was the genius who
thought,"Hey, how about the Cue ball Indian villain rips peoples'
freaking hearts out of their chests? The kids will love it; the parents
will bring them back over and over? In the theater I was in parents
were covering their little darlings peepers with their hands. You had
really P off'd parents walking out of the theater with their kids. What
is this Alien? The acting, given the language barrier, is just
dreadful. Even the guy with the quadfocals stinks it up big time and
voodoo doll boy. Do you want to know how this was received in 1984? It
went from an exclusive engagement at the Star Wars cinema to the drive
ins in about two weeks. Stevie was up to his Adam's apple in really p'd
off Indians who did not exactly like their portrayal. The movie is
awful; there is zero chemistry between Ford and Capshaw, Stevie's
alleged squeeze, by the way, which explains her bad acting yet
prominent placing with the wrecking ball she swings on the movie. 

Want to really appreciate Karen Allen, check out Capshaw's performance,
please? She is beautiful but her acting sucks. She wrecks the movie; I
can still hear the shrieking thirty four years later. The revolt of the
Kiddies: is this what you expected? Indy shouting some Hindu religion
against Big, Bad Acting Baldy; are there a lot of Hindus watching? Let
me check, no, not here in Oregon? We do not understand the Hindu
religion, did I miss a hand out at the box office? Why is he quoting
Shiva when we have no idea WTF he is babbling about? For all we knew,
he was summoning Ronald Mcdonald; look, the movie will never complete
my trilogy for a reason. I will not own this film. It has been
rehabilitated since it landed with a booming THUD in 1984. The movie
was ripped to pieces by critics. Due to the new comic book movie
generation, it may have found its new audience.

Save your money, your time do not buy this movie. It is just as bad as
it ever was and yes, coming from the most non PC person on earth: it is
racist against the Indian people. Besides that it is boring, stupid,
gross, ugly and relentlessly offensive. One Lousy Movie
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is proof that directors often don't understand their own
franchises. Although Lucas has offered regrets for this bomb, it's the
Spielbergian touches that make it so irritating. Claims that audiences
were turned off because it was darker than the original are just goofy.
This material was risible because it was infinitely more juvenile than
what people expected.

First they abandon real-world historical/biblical artifacts to make
room for the crappiest MacGuffin to make people ever run around a movie
(magic stones!?). We get antics in place of thrills; a bug and critter
dinner menu (!?) a sequence with Capshaw frightened of everything. We
get Kate Capshaw, shrieking and being girly until viewers pray for a
character to put her out of our misery. We get Spielberg foisting
crowds of children onto us when the first movie was blissfully free of
children. Here, a kid is the shrieking protagonist (Short Round), kids
are the victims (hordes of kidnapped & enslaved kiddies) and a kid is
the villain (Prince something-or-other). And as the final disgrace,
Spielberg can't bring himself to kill the kid villain and just has him
demure & apologize the exact moment moral balance is restored. Terrible
scripting. We get kids on screen for 95 percent of its running time,
and a Spielbergian kiddie exodus provides the limp, hokey finale.

To wash it all down we get a forgettable, conventional death for a
seriously uninteresting villain. A forgettable arena for the climax,
etc. This movie is only good for inducing groans. It's a lousy movie
that delivers none of the quality of the previous or next entries; best
for pitching into your own fiery hellpit.
<|_=00=_|>
Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom is the second of the Indy films
from director Steven Spielberg, though chronologically it is actually
the first. This prequel to Raiders of the Lost Ark tries to out-do its
predecessor for breakneck spills and gross-out moments, but the sparkle
isn't quite there. It's an entertaining film for sure, but not as good
as the original, partially because the plotting this time round is a
little awkward and partially because Kate Capshaw as the main female
character is an almighty irritation.

The film opens in a Shanghai restaurant, where Indiana Jones (Harrison
Ford) causes a riot in pursuit of a diamond. Fleeing the scene with
American singer Willie Scott (Kate Capshaw) and teenaged pick-pocket
Short Round (Ke Huy Quan), he escapes to the airport. However, Indy and
his companions unwittingly board an airplane owned by one of Indy's
enemies, from which they have to make an audacious mid-air escape when
the real pilots bail out mid-flight! Soon, the intrepid trio find
themselves in India, where they come across a village in the grip of
starvation. The village children have been kidnapped by local cultists
to work in a mine, digging for the sacred Sankara Stones, and Indy is
persuaded by the distraught villagers to rescue their youngsters. His
quest takes him to the opulent Pankot Palace and, beneath it and beyond
a maze of tunnels, the Temple of Doom.

Ford is great as Jones, bringing genuine charisma to a role that he was
born to play (can you imagine how things would have turned out if Tom
Selleck had got the part, as originally planned?) There are some great
moments along the way too, including the intentionally subversive
opening sequence in Shanghai, a particularly funny and exciting runaway
mine-train sequence, and an unforgettable banquet at Pankot Palace in
which the food served up is enough to churn any stomach. But Indiana
Jones and the Temple of Doom still can't live up to the standard set by
Raiders of the Lost Ark. As mentioned, Capshaw is a real pain on the
senses as the always-squealing heroine, and the plot seems to
over-stretch in an effort to link to the next development or set piece.
The hunt-for-the-missing-children plot device allows Spielberg to dip
into the kind of cloying sentimentality that occasionally mars his
films too. This is certainly an entertaining and professionally
assembled film, but in no way a rival or an equal to the excellence of
its predecessor.
<|_=00=_|>

All this endless quarreling about which episode of the sensational Indiana
Jones trilogy is the greatest one seems so futile and pointless to me.
Personally I love the whole classic series and it's been a highly important
part of my childhood. There are only few films that has effect me as much
when I was young. It's easy to notice that each Indy-film is downright
brilliant yet refreshingly different from the other and could easily be the
best of the three so why not just enjoy all without using energy to locate
flaws and make comparisons. Terrific "Raiders of the lost ark" was of course
the first and the original and therefore freshest one - the true and the
genuine Indy-movie.

"Indiana Jones and the last crusade" had Sean Connery playing Indy's daddy
and if you ask me "Indiana Jones and the temple of doom" is the biggest
adventure of them all. I'm not saying that it's necessarily the best part
because I don't want to put these movies in any order. I just happen to
think that it's the biggest adventure film = it's more exotic, danger-filled
and action-packed than the first or the last one. I've never thought
"Indiana Jones and the temple of doom" as an over-violent movie, not even
when I was a kid. So they rip a guy's heart out. That's cruel but this is
only an old-fashioned fairy tale, a fantasy - not a gory horror picture. To
pack it all up in one sentence: Among the biggest movie adventures
ever.
<|_=00=_|>
For a long time, this was the only one of the three Indiana Jones films
I did not like. Then, when it was part of the DVD package that came out
over five years ago, I had to buy it if I wanted the other two, so I
gave it a third look. Wow, all of sudden I liked it. 

For the first time, the woman (Kate Capshaw) and the young boy (Ke Huy
Quan) weren't as annoying as I had remembered them. The stupid kid
really had rubbed me the wrong way, but this time only Kate was
annoying....and she was fine once she calmed down and got rid of the
hysterics.

The action in this film is mostly at the beginning and at the end. It
is so Rambo-ish (bad guys never hit the target but good guys always do)
it is ludicrous. It also has dumb dialog in a number of spots, paying
homage to voodooism, spells and other nonsense.

Yet, despite these criticisms, it's entertaining start-to-finish and
has some fantastic visuals. The photography in here is beautiful: the
best of the three Jones adventures. I particularly liked the opening
dance number which reminded me of a Busby Berkeley extravaganza. This
whole film looks spectacular on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
Set before the events of 'Raiders', Dr. Jones is in Shanghai doing
business with Chinese crime boss Lau Che. Losing the upper hand in a
night club he barely escapes with his life (and baggage in the form of
Willie Scott and sidekick kid Short Round) to the airport. But little
does he know the plane he gets on is owned by Lau Che and the pilots
sneak out in mid-air while they are sleeping.

After jumping to safety in an inflatable dinghy Indy, Willie and Short
Round drift by an Indian village that has been stricken with bad luck
since the theft of their magical Shankara stones. Encouraged by the
villagers to go to Pankot palace and retrieve the stones, Indy has no
idea that what he will find involves an evil cult hellbent on taking
over the world with their lunatic new religion.

Temple of Doom is, without a shadow of a doubt, the best Indiana Jones
film. I know a lot of nerds are going to disagree with me but I do
think it superior to Raiders of the Lost Ark because I prefer the
darker, nastier tone and the fact that it just doesn't let up from the
word 'go'! Two hours of Temple of Doom's running time pass in a breeze
of sheer adventure as Spielberg takes us from one memorable set-piece
to another. The opening musical number, the fight in the Obi-Wan Club,
the chase through Shanghai, the plane crash/dingy ride, the journey to
Pankot Palace, the dinner scene, the human sacrifice, the freeing of
the slaves, the mine-cart ride, the water rush, the rope bridge, the
cliff-hanging...wow! How much more can you pack into a film? It's
physically impossible!

Originally criticised on it's release for being too dark, Temple of
Doom still ends up being a classic. I guess the audiences of 1984 were
expecting Raiders of the Lost Ark 2 and were taken aback when they got
something else. If you watch it with the others you can feel how
different the film is with no scenes taking place in America, no
University and no Sallah or Marcus Brody.

John Williams' brilliant music is also at it's best. He even received
an Academy Award nomination despite already being nominated for his
work on Raiders of the Lost Ark, which is quite rare. The film did win
an Oscar for its visual effects (beating the equally impressive effects
of Ghostbusters) which, when viewed today, at least might seem a little
bit dated, but still hold up quite well.

Or course, there's nothing really important about the film. I mean it
won't beat Schindler's List or Munich in terms of drama but if you want
escapism and soaring, thrill-a-minute adventure his name is Indiana
Jones and the place is the Temple of Doom.
