

Okay, I know Tom Hanks has done some greater than great work.  Forest Gump,
Saving Private Ryan, and The Green Mile are truly American classics.  For
some reason (maybe I AM a weirdo) this is my favorite movie of his.  It has
a simple plot, a light tone, shades of horror, and some GREAT one-liners
that have stayed in my memory since I was nine years old. This is one of
those movies that never gets old.  I especially like Corey Feldman as Ricky
Butler.  He played the best burn-out I have ever seen and he truly is an
underrated actor.  Rick Duccoman is great as the obnoxious neighbor, Art and
his laid back manner continues to bring a smile to my face.  Bruce Dern is
flat-out awesome as the war-crazed vet who has all the right gizmos for the
job, but always fails miserably.  Almost every line out of his mouth is
memorable and his response when he steps in a pile of dog crap is a classic
quote.

Obviously this is a satire on Suburban life and nosey neighbors, but I could
care less about all that.  This is a classic that ranks (in my mind) with
the likes of "The Goonies" and "Smokey and the Bandit".

If, for some reason, you missed this one, PLEASE see it.  You have no clue
what you're missing.


<|_=00=_|>

Commonly tossed aside as a predictable, poorly plotted film with few
laughs,
"The 'Burbs" has more to offer than most critics are willing to admit.

This film is not so much about the plot(which is admittedly thin and which
the critics are too concerned with) as it is about the characters who
become
entangled within it. Included in this terrific cast are Tom Hanks, who
plays
the skeptical neighbor of the new family on the block (a bunch of oddballs
who never leave the house); Rick Ducommun, who plays the gluttonous friend
of Hanks, who is convinced that the new neighbors are brain sucking
murderers; Bruce Dern, the ex-soldier who hasn't quite left his miilitary
roots behind him; and last, but not least, Corey Feldman, who plays the
dopey teenage neighbor who basically watches the events of the movie
unfold
from the comfort of his front porch.  These characters are so well-acted
and
so downright wacky that you just have to believe there is a neighborhood
somewhere with people like this.  The chemistry between everyone of the
characters is simply impressive, and much of the humor of the film can be
found in the often ludicrous way the director portrays their interactions.

I urge anyone who has seen this film before to watch it again, this time
paying little attention to the story and focusing on the superbly acted
characters.  
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes a bizarre comedy just hits the right notes with me and,
despite none of my friends liking it, I love it. This is a premier
example of such: one of my favorites in that category. The fact others
don't share that opinion doesn't bother me, but I am glad to see
reviewers on this site who appreciated this black, very underrated gem.

I always get a big kick out of this film, no matter how many times I
see it.I credit a little-known actor for making this so entertaining to
me: Rick Ducommun. I think he steals the show from well-known stars Tom
Hanks, Bruce Dern, Carrie Fisher and Corey Feldman. 

Actually, I think this film is panned a lot because they didn't expect
Hanks to be in something this goofy. Too bad, but I bet he had a lot
fun making it, along with the rest of the cast.

Ducommun and Dern are the hilarious wackos who try to help
straight-laced Hanks find out about the really-strange neighbors he has
next door. Are these people some demented killers or just the figment
of these nosy neighbors' imagination? Fisher is Hanks'
always-complaining wife and Feldman is the teen across the street who
watches all the lunacy from his porch, getting his getting nightly
entertainment from these crazy adults.

Director Joe Dante, of "Gremlins" fame, does a good job entertaining us
in here, too, and providing some fun camera-work. Dante also used music
to great advantage, mostly for humor.

This is one of those "not for all tastes" films, so chances are you
won't like it and think it's stupid. For a number of reasons, I love
it.
<|_=00=_|>
'The 'Burbs' is a great movie and I would recommend it to anyone. Tom
Hanks does a great job at playing the role of an ordinary guy with
ordinary problems. Every time I watch this movie, I can really feel
like I am actually there. We all have weird neighbors and can relate to
what Hanks is going through. It has also been a fantasy for many of us
to try and find out exactly what our neighbors are up to, but we never
have the guts to do it. Movies are made so that we can escape reality
for a couple of hours and feel like we are doing things that we would
most likely never get to do. This movie does it better than any other
movie I have seen. 

Most of the other people that I have talked to have agreed with me that
'The 'Burbs' is one of the most underrated comedies ever made. I don't
believe that it was unsuccessful, but it definitely doesn't get the
credit it deserves. If you want to see a movie that you can relate to,
then watch this.
<|_=00=_|>
Originality can go a long way in movieland, as THE 'BURBS so perfectly
illustrates. Tom Hanks is Ray Peterson, an average schmuck not sure
what to do with his at-home vacation. He soon finds his excitement when
he and his paranoid neighbors convince themselves the weirdos on the
block are responsible for the strange disappearance of the
neighborhood's beloved old man. So they do what any of us would do...
break into their home to find proof of the dastardly deed.

So many critics charged that Hanks tarnished his reputation with this
effort. But for the umpteenth time, the critics were just being overly
critical. THE 'BURBS is a hilarious, well-written and wonderfully
creative piece of work. It's the kind of movie Joe Dante (GREMLINS,
Matinée) does best. He takes a situation we can all basically relate
to, turns it upside down and shakes the hell out of it like a snow
globe.

An unnecessarily heavy-handed ending is all that stands between THE
'BURBS and a 10-star rating. All of a sudden a fun little ride is
derailed by an angry outburst and contrived syringe battle. If Dante
had it to do over again, he surely would have come up with something
more suitable (and humorous).

Of course THE 'BURBS is not for all tastes, but if you like the
pre-PHILADELPHIA Hanks and are in the mood for something completely
different, you won't want to mi
<|_=00=_|>
What a film to escape into! This movie captures my childhood and is
still watchable today. 

The director/writer has paid close attention to human interaction for
this movie. I love Tom Hanks's one-liners or slight facial movements,
both speak volumes in a scene.

Unjustified credit for this classic comedy. I would recommend this film
to anyone. Some regard this as a silly film, but i don't think that
comment degrades it in anyway. I like silly films, something where
actors egos don't get in the way of the story. We're all here for a
laugh for 1-2 hours so entertain us, we say. And this film delivers
gags, and visual comedy time after time.

I love the scene showing the guys as if they're kids in a street. 

I love this movie and have recently purchase the Soundtrack off ebay.

I can watch this movie over and over again. Mrs Rumsfield is still as
sexy when you watch it now. 

Classic quote Mrs Peterson - "He will not come out until he resembles
that man that i married." Art Weingartner - "We don't have that kinda
time !"
<|_=00=_|>

The world of black comedies has seen few truly classic entries in the
past few years. It's a very specific sub genre of comedy that is
extremely hard to do well as films like Very Bad Things frequently
signify. Too many of Hollywood's more recent offerings feature truly
tasteless gags that poke fun at subjects that should simply be left
well enough alone. Well I have to say that Hollywood could learn a
thing or two from its own past in this department. I recently
rediscovered a childhood favourite of mine, The Burbs, and I have to
admit that age has not in the least bit dulled the film's razor sharp
wit and acid tongued dialogue

Tom Hanks plays Ray Peterson, an overstressed suburbanite who's decided
to spend his vacation lounging around the house in a vain effort to
relax. Of course he finds his efforts hindered by the constant presence
of his somewhat excitable neighbors Art Weingartner (Rick Ducommun) and
Mark Rumsfield (Bruce Dern) who suspect the new family in the
neighbourhood, the Klopeks, of being mass murderers. Together these
three decide to look into the suspicious nature of their new neighbors
and just what exactly it is they get up to at night, the time when the
otherwise reclusive Klopeks seem to be at their most active. 

The premise is basically the set up for another of Joe Dante's (who
directed both Gremlins and its remake in all but name, Small Soldiers)
bedlam filled romps through suburbs in which he casts a sideways glance
at all things American dream.

Quite frankly, my nostalgia for this movie makes it hard to find fault
with it. Hanks is as funny as ever, playing it relatively straight
compared to his other performances of the period and bringing a lovely
shade of deep seated unease to an otherwise grounded character. Bruce
Dern fills his role wonderfully, as the military obsessed Rumsfield, a
character surprisingly reminiscent of survivalist Burt Gummer from the
Tremors movies in both his nature and ability to steal scenes. The only
weak link in the leading trio is Ducommun, which is a shame as it is
really Art that drives the story more than any other character in the
movie. Sure, Art has to be slightly obnoxious and a little irritating
but Ducommun overplays these aspects so much that I began to find it
painful to watch him as the end of the movie approached. It's hardly a
surprise when Hanks tries to kill him. I can't help but feel that
perhaps the late John Candy would have fit the role slightly better,
bringing some more human and likable qualities to the character. 

At times however, The Burbs can feel a little uneasy in its pacing and
sense of humour. Scenes like the screaming at the bone, although funny,
seem out of place in what is otherwise a movie with a very dry sense of
humour. Meanwhile the Klopeks are unveiled as characters perhaps a
little too late in the story for the audience to truly develop any kind
of opinions about them.

Despite some small problems however, The Burbs remains an extremely
funny movie with some terrific dialogue and almost universally good
performances from its cast. I defy anyone not to laugh at Rumsfield's
fall from the roof of his house or every man Ray's furious rant at the
movie's close. For fans of black comedies, The Burbs is a perfect
antidote to the current glut of obnoxious Hollywood gross out comedies
and the Farrelly Brothers increasingly desperate to offend pieces.

<|_=00=_|>

The first time I saw THE 'BURBS, it was a special unannounced sneak preview
following another film. Having heard nothing about this film and not even
knowing of its existence until the film started, I was immediately worried I
was about to see a horror film. Hey, I was only ten at the time, when I was
still scared of horror movies. But what I ended up seeing was one of the
most hilarious movies ever made, a movie that had the entire theater
laughing all the way through. We later bought the video, and more recently
the DVD, and over the years since it's release I've watched it countless
times (the exact number probably somewhere in the 50s or so) and have never
grown tired of it.

While managing to be both suspenseful and funny at the same time, the film
also does a great job after capturing the day-to-day life of a small
suburban street, with a variety of characters so simple and life-like, it
seems like they could actually live on your own street. The grumpy old guy
down the street, the teenager who likes to throw parties while his parents
are gown, the guy next door who comes over all the time and mooches food,
and the average Everyday Joe who experiences it all at his own pace. The
cast is an excellent combination, with everybody working great together,
particularly Bruce Dern as the Vietnam vet who always has the right tool for
the job and Tom Hanks as the average guy who's curious about his strange new
neighbors, but not enough to really want to bother finding out more about
them. If you've never seen it, I suggest giving it a look. It really is
quite funny and has many quotable lines.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was hilarious! I laughed several times. All the
people that have seen it said that they loved it, too! Tom Hanks, Corey
Feldman, Courtney Gains, Bruce Dern, Carrie Fisher, Brother Theodore,
Henry Gibson and Rick Ducommun did a great job! I am glad that they
were in this movie! It was a very good movie with a surprising twist at
the end. There is a lot of irony in it, and that adds to the suspense!
The whole idea of these "eccentric" and "psycho" neighbors living next
door to the protagonist, Ray Peterson, is very amusing! There is so
much comedy and excitement in this film, and that is what makes you
like it so much! You love the relationship between Ray Peterson, Mark
Rumsfiled, and Art Weingartner. Each of them make witty comments about
these strange Klopeks'. The Burbs' is one of my favorite movies! It's
so 80's! You have to see it!
<|_=00=_|>

This is a great example of what Tom Hanks was doing in his former career
of
a comedic actor, before he returned to serious acting.

The story follows three incredibly nosey suburbanites, spying on their new
neighbours the Klopek's as they expect them to be murderers.

Winning performances all round, but especially from Hanks. He is well
supported by the likes of Carrie Fisher, as his wife, and ex-army man
Bruce
Dern, with Henry Gibson giving his usual solid performance.

A greatly funny movie which leaves you wondering why Hanks ever turned his
back on comedy.
