

So let me get this straight. This teenager wants to expose this secret
government laboratory... by building an atomic bomb with material he steals
from the facility and taking it to a science fair. And he wants to expose
this facility because... they didn't tell anyone they were a secret
plutonium facility and thereby make themselves a target for espionage and
theft?

So, as I said, his solution to the "warmongering" military authorities
building atomic bombs is to build one himself. (And they're warmongering
because they want to build atomic bombs because hostile countries with a
doctrine of overthrowing countries to spread their political beliefs would
do the same to the US if they could because they also have atomic bombs,
right?) Then when the government officials learn that this kid has stolen
weapons grade material and has built a bomb with it, they have to gall to
take over his mom's house while she cries "What gives you the
right?!"

Then, and get this, then, when he learns the government has found out he has
stolen weapons grade material and built a bomb with it, and he threatens to
set it off for no other logical reason anyone can think of other than not
wanting to get thrown in jail for something HE did, everyone acts surprised
when the government acts ready to kill him to stop him and everyone thinks
that's just a terrible thing. No, wait, they want to kill him not just to
stop him, but also to keep the facility a secret.... after a whole bunch of
people already know what's going on.

And when the bomb almost goes off because this genius kid was too stupid to
know what he was doing, he gets to walk away as a local hero because he
built a bomb with weapons grade material that he stole from the facility and
almost wiped out his friends, family, everyone in the town and surrounding
areas including the mean government officials who were ready to kill him
because he threatened to set off an atomic bomb with material he stole from
the facility.

Riiiiigggghhhhhhtttt.........

<|_=00=_|>
We are asked to respect a high school kid(Paul Stephens who builds a
nuclear bomb, and admire how he lightheartedly carts said device in a
science fair, endangering the lives of literally tens of thousands
people. If this "comedy" had been a wacky, Marx Brothers/Airport type
farce, that wouldn't have bothered me in the slightest. But is "comedy"
(which doesn't contain a single laugh)insists that we admire the
arrogant little creep. I kept wishing that Jack Bauer would come in and
shove a knife in Paul's kneecap.

Marshal Brickman never directed a feature film after this, and I can't
wonder why.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't even wanna talk about it, I just wanna cut it down and leave it
for dead. Or with other words, don't watch it unless you wanna make fun
of it later! It's a half lame movie for little kids who haven't had a
physics class yet and who's parents are willing to explain that
something like that is never possible in real life. Here are some
examples why (to get you started)

- The material being so highly concentrated I would imagine when he
opens the hatch to get the jar out he'd immediately lose consciousness
and die within minutes. No yellow rubber gloves are gonna protect him
from the radiation.

- It looks like he's going for an implosion design with his bomb (like
the Nagasaki bomb). That's really "smart". Especially since the gun
design (Hiroshima bomb) is far easier to build, but maybe he is aware
that the implosion design will have a far greater efficiency so he can
incinerate far more people with it, if that's what he wants? (That's
where another thought occurs: Why is he complaining about the morality
of the lab when he builds a bomb of his own?) 

- Then there is more unprotected working with the material. Even if the
material was only slightly radioactive for some reason, his nice fluffy
hair would have fallen out halfway through building his device. At the
least we would have seen lots of vomiting! 

To sum it up, tired of writing this as I am, it's just all horrible
anyway! I can't understand why a movie with that name couldn't have
been a bit more interesting, realistic and possibly talk about the real
Manhattan Project instead!
<|_=00=_|>
I remember watching this movie in the 80s, and thinking it was a good
film. There was, however, one major problem that I had with the film -
the fact that the main protagonist seems to be a dummy when it comes to
anything other than science. Forgetting about the fact that Paul, one
of the main characters, essentially exposed a bunch of people to high-
grade plutonium (no mention about any medical crisis for all the people
around Paul after the happy ending), the kicker comes when he's finally
confronted in a hotel in New York by John Lithgow and a bevy of
military men who would like nothing more than to lock him away for a
long time. Paul's nonchalance comes out in the exchange, "They can't do
anything to me." "Why not?" "Because I'm underage." 

HUH? You're smart enough to build a freaking nuclear bomb by yourself,
including smart enough to know where to get some explosive material
needed to blow the bomb up. You're also smart enough to have fooled a
high-security system with a bunch of frisbees and a helpful girlfriend
in order to get the plutonium (and smart enough to temporarily cover
your tracks by inserting shampoo into the jar so it's not immediately
noticed as missing). But what in the world makes you think that they'll
let you go because "I'm underage?" 

I suppose the script writer needed to show a little naiveté - after
all, if Paul knew the full gravity of what he was doing, he might not
have done something as reckless as he did. Instead, he might just have
gone ahead with an expose without needing to win first prize at a
science contest.
<|_=00=_|>
I was subjected to this utter nonsense at a friend's house. I won't go
into why. At first I thought it "wasn't bad." But as the "plot"
continued, I thought someone must have spiked the punch and I was high
on LSD. This is one of the silliest movies ever made. There are so many
stupid ideas one has to wonder if it was designed to make fun of movies
as a whole. The "brilliant" kid wants to build a bomb to expose the lab
for making plutonium? Hey, pick up the phone and make a call. He thinks
that he can't get into any trouble because "I'm only a kid." Who told
him that? For a bright boy, he doesn't seem like it. He breaks into the
lab and steals plutonium... that ought to be worth 20 to life right
there. He's Edward Teller in disguise and builds an A bomb with his
Mattel Do it yourself kit. Yeah... sure. Best of all, he handles the
plutonium with his mom's dish washing rubber gloves?!!! He'd be dead in
no time. He takes his bomb to the big fair to show off? To show off
what? That he's a complete nincompoop? Even the other nerds know better
than that. If I hadn't been waiting for another friend in order to
leave, I would have exited this complete nonsense as soon as he started
playing cutesy with the plutonium strapped to the back of his toy car.
This was really, really bad. 1 star for Lithgow desperately seeking a
plot. 1 Star for Nixon trying ever so hard not to break out in
uproarious laughter while Collet tries to explain why he wants to make
a bomb.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is entertaining enough, in fact it is quite exciting.
However, in a real-life scenario, the end result would not and could
not have had such a clichéd "Hollywood ending", so in that respect it
sort of resembles a "fractured fairytale". The storyline is credible
enough with a bit of imagination stretching, the acting is tolerable,
only the irony is laid on a bit too thick. I found the attitude of the
principal character to be much too cynical, unrealistic and extremely
condescending, even for the likes of some precocious, science-savvy
prodigy. Getting back to the entertainment value, the plot progresses
expectedly only it thickens toward the direction of the surrealistic,
though the basic concept is actually pretty frightening. However, the
movie is watchable with its impressive cast; a young Cynthia Nixon,
John Lithgow, Chris Collet et al. I have mixed feelings about this
film, I did enjoy watching it, but when I began to rationalize it began
to appear quite nonsensical. So, if you intend on watching it, simply
keep your powers of logic and common sense subdued and it will remain
an enjoyable experience.
<|_=00=_|>

If the beauty of film is that it encourages us to briefly suspend our
disbelief and enjoy experiencing a different world, The Manhattan Project
simply demands too much suspension of disbelief to make this possible.

Almost every plot point in The Manhattan Project is an absolute
impossibility in real life, even though the dramatic power of this film
ostensibly derives from the notion that something remotely like this could
really happen. From nuclear radiation triggering detectors without hurting
people, to a single rent-a-cop defending an entire nuclear weapons lab, to
one teenager doing in a month what took Oppenheimer and company years, to
the U.S. military letting national security breaches walk away into the
sunset, there is just no way to focus on the story when faced with so many
intellectual insults. 

On the bright side, the science in the movie is presented well and seems
fairly accurate, so it does seem like the filmmakers at least tried to make
something special out of an insufficient screenplay. The Manhattan Project
is not a terrible movie, but it does suffer from too many inexcusable lapses
to be called good. Just like the most realistic character in the movie, this
film is a bomb.

<|_=00=_|>
I beg to disagree with some of the reviewers who believe that this film
is some sort of deep commentary on the Cold War mentality of the 60's
and 70's, coupled with sharp insight into the madness of the nuclear
arms race.

This is a simple-minded "WarGames" wannabe, with totally unsympathetic
characters (including the stereotypical idiot adults who can barely tie
their shoelaces) engaging in wildly improbable/impossible activities.

This is an excellent example of why snot-nosed, self-righteous kids are
not allowed to vote.

Minor Spoiler: "Hey, my self-gratification and desire to win the
science fair surely trumps any concern for public safety or property
rights. Plus, I get to feel like some sort of public-policy activist
while I'm doing it!" 

Yet, all of this might be forgivable, if the movie was any good. But
it's not. Save your time and money.
<|_=00=_|>
A boy genius builds an atomic bomb with plutonium he steals from his
mother's would-be boyfriend. A barely plausible premise but what the
heck it's a movie. I can only imagine the producers and actors all
anticipating the acclaim that they hope to achieve with this ripoff of
'War Games'. 'War Games' featuring Matthew Broderick and Ally Sheedy
was clever, hip, interesting, funny at times and believable: everything
that this movie is not. The first scare is John Lithgow as a love
interest with Jill Eikenberry. He is not likely to set feminine hearts
aflutter and Jill looks great except that her hair looks like it lost a
battle with a wombat. As to the cliché's (forgive me if I leave out a
few dozen, as there are so many): 1) The kid opens everything with a
handy nail file from his nail clipper that he always happens to have in
his pocket. He even opens pin-tumbler locks which I assure you are not
amenable to nail files. 2) He breaks into the lab to steal the
plutonium, swaps it with a bottle of shampoo, then packs everything
back into his gym bag, EXCEPT the plutonium which he tapes to the back
of a remote control car. You see if he just put the plutonium in his
gym bag with all the other stuff (including the huge remote controller
for the car) there would be no reason to fire up the enormous Argon-Ion
LASER BEAM which he uses to cut a hole in the building to smuggle out
the plutonium. And of course the cutsey part where the dodering old
fool of a security guard would have no reason to stumble around in dark
with flashlight looking for god knows whatever while the kid zooms the
car around. Duh! 3) Lithgow brings the kid a puzzle where you are
supposed to get four balls in each corner, the kid sets it down and
spins it. Eureka problems solved! Only you can see that coming a mile
away. And the grand prize cliché is at the end, when they all must clip
the six detonator wires SIMULTANIOUSLY! GASP! to prevent the impending
nuclear explosion. Except that they only have (I bet you know already)
FIVE wire cutters! But guess what? The kid whips out his handy-dandy
nail clipper to save the day! TA-DA! Whoooo Maybe I'm being harsh and
taking advantage of twenty years of hindsight, after all lasers now fit
on key chains instead of taking up entire rooms, but seriously the
technical direction in this movie is awful. Despite all that it is
entertaining and if you have the opportunity watch it. And while you
watch take a good look at all the actors that you will never see again
after contributing to this bomb.
<|_=00=_|>

THE MANHATTAN PROJECT is a seriously underrated film.  It's categorized and
advertised as a "comedy," but in fact it's more accurately categorized as a
dramatic thriller with light elements.  The problem is that anyone expecting
to see a comedy will be disappointed because the film is not as funny as a
"comedy" needs to be.  That, I believe, is why it was not as popular at the
box office as it deserved to be.  However, the film is an extremely smart
dramatic thriller, and anyone screening it with that expectation -- and
knowing its main characters are extremely bright high school kids -- will
not be disappointed.  THE MANHATTAN PROJECT is not a perfect film, but it is
an excellent one.
