
A lot of posts focus on the 'coming of age' aspect of this movie, but
the very overlooked part is the role it played in helping to alleviate
many of the stereotypes a very Asian phobic America was after WWII,
Korea and Vietnam.

They make a point of showing Miyagi in a US Army Uniform--and a War
Hero-- and makes references to detention camps Miyagi's family was sent
to (a horribly dark period in American history)...where Miyagi's wife
was being sent (pregnant) and where she and his unborn child (son)
ultimately die during childbirth. There are also a few scenes in which
ethnic slurs are used by rednecks toward Miyagi.

Taking this into light, and taking the fact that Daniel has no father
that we know of in this movie, the name Daniel-san (sounds like
Daniel-SON) helps demonstrate a father son bond that is overlooked.
Much of the conversation between Daniel and Miyagi is about Miyagi's
great father in Okinawa, because Miyagi has acquired all this knowledge
and wants to share it. Daniel substitutes for the son Miyagi never had
and Miyagi substitutes for the father Daniel doesn't have.
<|_=00=_|>
My love of "The Karate Kid" is limited to the fact that this movie, if
it had been in the hands of a more fluorescent director, could have
turned out a lot differently from the movie we all know and love from
1984.

Directed by John G. Avildsen (who also did 1976's "Rocky" - another
underdog story) and written by Robert Mark Kamen (who would later
co-author 2001's "Kiss of the Dragon" with Luc Besson, which starred
Jet Li - another example of martial arts in American cinema done
right), "The Karate Kid" is by far the best (and frankly, most
realistic) incorporation of martial arts into a mainstream American
film.

This movie came out the year before I was born, and only through
word-of-mouth over the time I was growing up, did I know that "The
Karate Kid" even existed. I got to view the film my freshman year in
high school as part of a class, but the instructor watered down the
experience so much that the movie lost its potency.

Now a few years later, I finally watch the movie without any intrusion
from the outside world and I find a truly marvelous picture that's far
better than its many stylized contemporaries, i.e. "The Matrix"
trilogy, which is the best example of that trend.

Ralph Macchio stars as Daniel LaRusso, a new kid to a picturesque
southern California community that looks a lot like something you'd see
in a magazine advertisement. Daniel makes the mistake of hitting on Ali
(Elisabeth Shue), who unknown to him, is the ex-girlfriend of Johnny
Lawrence (William Zabka), and Daniel takes a pretty brutal beating from
the martial arts-trained Johnny, that leaves him scarred but with his
pride and dignity still in tact.

The number of violent clashes with Johnny and his brutal Cobra Kai
martial arts friends continue, until Daniel is saved by Mr. Miyagi (Pat
Morita), the karate-trained handyman of his apartment building. Daniel
insists on Mr. Miyagi teaching him karate, so that he can compete in an
upcoming martial arts tournament; this requires Daniel to undergo some
pretty unconventional training - "wax on, wax off; paint fence - side
to side" etc. And in return, Daniel learns that there's a lot more to
karate than just fighting and the "Old One" shows him that way.

"The Karate Kid" is a true gem of a film that's shamefully underrated.
I'm glad that on February 1st of this year, this movie is finally
getting the DVD treatment it deserves.

Macchio is convincing as Daniel, bringing a number of wide-ranging
emotions to his role that at first may seem quite perfunctory as
opposed to being dramatic. The real star of the show (at least in the
minds of a number of critics, and the Academy), is Morita as Mr.
Miyagi. He brings grace (almost rivaling Bruce Lee) to a role that
could have been quite stereotypical, but is still very moving and
dramatic.

Of course, what's a movie about karate without the fights? I should
note that the action in this movie is very convincing, but is not
stylized in any fashion, shape or form. It is very down-to-earth and
realistic, and that may of course be a bit of a turn-off to some
hardcore fanboys that may watch this movie thinking it'll be something
like "The Matrix" (1999) or "Enter the Dragon" (1973).

The fighting here is in its own style and mode of action. A number of
the fights are quite brutal, especially in the ones where John Kreese's
(Martin Kove) Cobra Kai students are featured, as he frequently trains
them the brutal way of "no mercy," which Mr. Miyagi is quick to realize
is not the way of karate.

"The Karate Kid" gets a perfect 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a classic coming of age story. A story about a boy who has to
face his fears, girls, and moving to a new environment. Daniel, who is
a big up stater, clashes with the rich people of the Cali high life and
learns that not all people are who they seem. The Kobra Cai, as they
are called in the film, bully Daniel and Daniel just seems like he has
no choice but to take revenge. So he learns the next best
thing--KARATE. Even though he has no idea what hes doing. He goes with
the flow. Mr. Mayagi teaches him respect, discipline, and anyone can
over come their fears. This is one of the best films of the 80's. It
even has classic names of the 80's, like Johnny, Daniel, Tommy, and my
favorite, Bobby. So if you don't have anything better to do, then check
out Karate Kid. You might even learn a thing or two about a thing or
two.
<|_=00=_|>

"The Karate Kid" is the tale of Daniel Laruso (Ralph Macchio), a young
man
who, on the heels of his mother's finding a new job, is uprooted from
Newark, New Jersey, to the sunny shores of California.  Daniel's mother
has
visions of a new start, a new life with the sky as the limit.  Daniel,
however, quickly finds that, for him, the West Coast holds nothing but
hard
times.

With the comforts of his rough, middle-class neighborhood thousands of
miles
away, Daniel tries to make friends and blend with the well-to-do,
upper-class kids in his new home.  At first, Daniel seems to do alright
but,
before long, he crosses paths with Johnny (William Zabka), the tough,
rich
leader of a group of karate students who attends Daniel's new school.  To
make matters worse, Johnny is the ex-boyfriend of Ali (Elisabeth Shue), a
girl Daniel is pursuing.

Enter Miyagi (Noriyuki "Pat" Morita), an aging handy-man who works at
Daniel's apartment building.  Struggling for friends and failing to fit
in,
Daniel finds support in Miyagi.  After enduring several beatings at the
hands of Johnny and his gang, Daniel comes to learn that Miyagi, in fact,
knows karate.  Following a vain attempt to speak with Johnny's karate
teacher (Martin Kove) about being left alone, Daniel is suddenly entered
into the All-Valley Karate Tournament, where he will attempt to win the
respect that Johnny and his gang have taken.

As he trains for the karate tournament with Miyagi, Daniel learns
invaluable
lessons about life and love.  And brought to the foreground of this
karate
story is Daniel's pursuit of Ali, who truly is the single person who gave
the new kid a chance.

On many levels, "The Karate Kid" is an uplifting movie.  It illustrates
how
a lonely, out-of-place kid triumphs against the odds, and the movie
doesn't
need computer-animation or special effects to get its story across.  But,
for me and anyone who loves '80s movies, the "The Karate Kid" has to be
appreciated for its nostalgia trip back to "better times."  For that
reason
alone, this movie is a classic.

I've enjoyed few movies, if any, more than "The Karate Kid."  I highly
recommend this flick to anyone who loves a touching, uplifting story, or
to
anyone who simply can't get out of the '80s!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I being a child of the 80's have a soft spot for this movie. Yes it is
predictable,but what makes it a great movie is the performances by the
2 main characters. Ralph Macchio is great as a teenager that is bullied
at his new school. But the movie belongs to Pat Morita as Mr. Myagi. He
plays an old apartment maintenance man that befriends Macchio. He
becomes his karate teacher, but they develop a great friendship that
makes the movie all the more enjoyable. The great thing is that the
movie shows that the old man comes to need the kid as much as the kid
needs him, it is a touching relationship. All the rest is standard
Rocky film stuff, but what Rocky and this film have in common is that
the characters are people we care for, so all the climactic scene stuff
works.
<|_=00=_|>

While John Hughs' films may be the standard 
for teen flicks in the 1980s, Hughs' films were 
just a few of the great and unique teen films 
to be released in that decade. Coupled with 
Back to the Future, Fast Times at Ridgemont 
High, Ferris Bueller's Day Off and Bill and 
Ted's Excellent Adventure, the 80s was a 
rather unique time for teen movies. The 
Karate Kid just happened to be another one 
of those films. With the immortal Pat Morita 
leading the way, this film was not only touching, 
but put a whole new spin on the `zero-to-hero' 
story line which we have all seen too often. 
Ralph Macchio may have had no career 
after these film, but at least he proved to be 
comparable as Daniel (san). Sure, the 
ending and outcome proved to be a little 
predictable, but the film was still a winner.
<|_=00=_|>
Metaphorically speaking, the late Pat Morita is the real life
Daniel-san. Mr. Morita was humbled by the following incidents in his
life: interned during WWI, suffered from a weak spine, short in stature
and a stereotypical Japanese, nicknamed "Hip Nip" and casted for mainly
comically roles in American TV and cinema. As if through divine
intervention, the role of Mr. Miyagi was created, a natural and
defining role for Pat Morita. Like the main character Daniel-san, who
earned dignity and respect through karate, so too did Pat Morita earn
dignity and respect as an actor for his role as Mr. Miyagi. The Miyagi
character is a humble, soft-spoken, respected, Asian sensei (teacher.)
He is humble not because he is weak and avoids being some bully's
victim, but because he knows he holds the fate of all who bullies him
in his hands. So it was that Pat Morita finally achieved through the
character of Mr. Miyagi in the Karate Kid series what Daniel-san always
gains at the end of each movie: dignity, respect, and honor to
compensate for all the times of abuse, suffering, and humiliation.
<|_=00=_|>
The Karate Kid is a wonderful film that tells the classic story of good
vs. evil. Daniel LaRusso (Ralph Macchio) is obviously the good, along
with Mr. Miyagi (Pat Morita). The bad is the dojo of the Cobra Kai, led
by the dangerous Johnny Lawrence (William Zabka). The feud between
Lawrence and LaRusso is well-scripted and executed, as is the feud
between Miyagi and Cobra Kai Sensei, Kreese. 

This is the definitely the best film out of the four Karate Kid movies.
I grew up as a really big fan of these fans and I'm glad they finally
released the DVD set. I've searched the internet looking for good
articles about the films and there's a very funny article by humorist
Rob Bloom about Johnny Lawrence and Daniel LaRusso on Rob Bloom's
website. 

These movies are very entertaining (even #4) and definitely are
required viewing for anybody who believes that the underdog can win in
the end.
<|_=00=_|>

Having a man teach you a valuable art such as that of Karate, is
invaluable
especially if you are young, inexperienced and in a battle with people who
you have no hope against. However viewers of the 'Karate Kid' get to learn
a
valuable lesson for life out of this story, that fighting is a waste of
time, and with time and patience anything can be achieved. In addition
viewers get to hear the cute pronunciation of `Daniel-san' by the great
teacher!

Fatherless teenager Daniel is a new arrival in Los Angeles when he becomes
the object of bullying by the Cobras, a menacing group of Karate students.
Daniel asks his handyman Miyagi, whom is a martial arts master, to teach
him
how to fight. Miyagi teaches Daniel that karate is mastery over the self -
mind and body - and that violence is always the last answer to a problem.
Under Miyagi's guidance, Daniel learns the physical skills while gaining
faith and the self-confidence to compete against the odds as he faces the
fight of his life in the exciting finale.

I remember watching this film along time ago, but boy was it a thrill.
Sure
it didn't have 'big stars' or big action in it. One thing it did have was
'heart'. The character of Daniel was one person that typifies this. At no
stage does this teenage loner from New Jersey ever give up, when at times
that might have been the best thing for him to do. I feel that this story
and character for that matter, is how we need to approach our own lives,
because if you keep putting in the hard yards and stand-up for what you
believe in, things will soon turn around.

The stars of this movie are not bad. Firstly main star Ralph Macchio was
excellent as Daniel. I felt he brought the struggling teenage character to
the screen perfectly. He is a very naïve and inexperienced young man, yet
with time and patience he makes what was a terrible situation seem nothing
big at all. I enjoyed Macchio in other movies including 'The three wishes
of
Billy Greer', a movie which again suited this tough actor, about a young
man
who is dying from premature aging, in addition to movies such as 'The last
POW? The Bobby Garwood Story'. I cannot praise Macchio any
higher.

Other stars are just as worthy. Pat Morita was wonderful as the wise and
what I feel was the humorous `Miyagi'. His role was just as good as his
counterpart Macchio, yet it was also very different. Miyagi is one person
that does not like the spotlight, yet when his young friend is placed in a
very precarious position in his new home town, he steps in and shows what
a
great Karate man he really is. Then you have the other side of this story,
which of course has to have a girl in it, with Daniel striking up a
relationship with the popular Ali Mills. Actress Elizabeth Shue, who has
also had a somewhat 'celebrated' career, played Ali. She has starred in
films such as the controversial 'Leaving Los Vegas', 'Back to the future
II'
and 'III' and the 1988 hit 'Cocktail'. Though there are times that you
expect Daniel to never make it with Ali, in the end he does have a
faithful
person outside of Miyagi.

The bad guys are not bad in this film either, with that part of the cast
including Martin Kove as the arrogant Karate Teacher John Kreese, who will
stop at nothing to see the end of the fairytale of LaRusso and Miyagi. His
main student and the person who wants Daniel's blood the most is Johnny
Lawrence played by William Zabka, and although he has not go on to big and
better roles, his bad guy role was enjoyable in the Karate Kid. I did read
in one review on IMDb where a person claimed that the bad guys were not
given enough of their own treatment. However I disagree, considering the
bullying and beatings that Daniel receives, I feel that Daniel and Miyagi
teach the 'Cobras' a lesson. Sure we don't get to see Kreese get what he
deserves, but if you have not seen the second Karate Kid, then you will
get
to see what awaits this cruel and relentless individual.

The Karate lessons and fighting sequences in this film are incredible. I
guess like Daniel, most of the fans of this film would assume that Daniel
is
not learning anything, yet being Miyagi's personal slave. However we get
to
see how intelligent this old Okinawa man is, through all of his work for
Daniel he teaches him some very basic and vital Karate moves. I love the
attitude that this movie brings to everyone, that fighting is the last
option for any situation, whether it is verbal or physical. I think this
is
so true, as fighting gets people nowhere. It just makes life bad for both
parties, again this movie shows this to be so true.

In conclusion, the Karate Kid is a truly great film, but perhaps I am
showing what era that I grew up in? I cannot say that I totally agree with
Karate, as it is a very Chinese practice, but if it is based around what
Miyagi teaches, that is for self-defence, and then it might be ok. I am
sure
many moviegoers will never forget the finale to this movie, because I am
sure I never will. The sequels which follow slowly start to lose there
appeal with this story, but not to matter, if you are looking for a story
which shows you that giving up is not really an option, then see what is
so
special about this story of a courageous Karate student and his clever
teacher!

CMRS gives 'The Karate Kid': 5 (Brilliant Film)

<|_=00=_|>

This movie will perhaps be remembered as the best martial arts movie ever
made. Movies of this genre are usually more concerned with action scenes
that the stories tend to be poor and appeal to the audience on a short run.
With the exception of Kurosawa's films, the Karate Kid is perhaps one of
the
best and most popular martial arts movies ever. Ralph Macchio, who is also
good in "the Outsiders," does a fine portrayal of the novice, frustrated
Daniel Larusso (he was 23 years old when he made this film??). Equally
superb is the wise and "cool-as-a-cucumber" Mr. Miyagi, played by Pat
Morita. Once again, John G. Avildsen has directed a film that glorifies the
fiesty nature of underdogs. This is  the "Rocky" movie of the
80's.
