
The Great Outdoors is one of the most under rated comedies that I have
ever seen! It's actually one of my hidden favorites, because this is
the type of comedy that I love, slap stick. Dan and John make such a
great comedic duo in The Great Outdoors, you can't help but laugh
hysterically at every scene or be touched by a sentimental moment. I
miss stories like this, that are not only heart warming but have a
great mix of comedy as well.

Chet is a family man who wants to bond with his songs on a camping
trip, so he, his wife, and their boys go out to the great outdoors. But
an uninvited guest tags along, their rich and snobby cousins Roman and
Kate and their two Shinning creepy twin girls. Since Roman likes to
live it up, he practically jumps all over Chet's plans and just takes
over the vacation! 

There are some great scenes like a bat gets loose in the cabin and Chet
and Roman decide to take it on themselves. The bat gets onto Chet's
face and Roman hits the bat and Chet's face with a tennis racket!
Chet's reaction is just priceless! And they go to a restaurant where
Chet has the opportunity to eat a 16 ounce steak and if he eats the
whole thing, the family eats for free, and they do it like as if he was
Rocky in his first major boxing match, it was just great to watch. The
Great outdoors is one of those great under rated comedies that I'm sure
you'll fall in love with.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
The eighties was a decade of film brilliance. Not Academy Awards maybe,
or deeply intriguing movies but instead R-Rated, ridiculous, fun,
pompous, films that were just not thought provoking but instead FUN!!
What was R-Rated back then would be barely a PG today which also
reflects the kind of society we have turned into. Enter "The Great
OutDoors" with fellow Canadian comedians who knew comedy unlike no one
has since. 

Dan Akroyd and John Candy are just great. They aren't brilliant actors
(although Dan has shown some promise in great movies such as The Arrow
and My Girl) but instead they can get together to deliver laughs and
they do. The Great Outdoors is the quintessential eighties film about a
family on vacation. It's about the desire to succeed and BUY STUFF (an
eighties must.) It's about who is the better man, and man vs nature and
all that kind of stuff. More importantly it delivers the perfect blend
of physical comedy AND one liners that actually made me laugh out loud.
Akroyd and Candy play like a stand up comedy act and it works so well
that you forget everyone else. They really don't add or take away from
the story, you just forget anyone else is there...it doesn't really
matter much. You're in this to see Chet and Roman battle it out mostly
behind each other's backs. The cinematography is great in this movie as
well. They used an actual lake although it was in California, not
Wisconsin and it really helps the setting. You feel as though you're
roughing it out right beside them. The best part is the climax with the
bear, what a great scene. As predictable as you might think it
is...it's just awesome. Candy is hilarious and sadly missed in future
endeavours. Akroyd pulls off the pompous, greedy and loud mouthed
lawyer type to a T and manages to not take himself too seriously. As
with all eighties films they manage to toss in the someone is in
trouble, everyone has to pull together and save them story ending but
it works and this movie is without a doubt a classic, whether comedy or
just film in general, it will always be remembered fondly. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I remember seeing this movie back in the late 80's, when I was young,
and I have fond memories of it being a great and fun movie. And sure
enough, having sat down again here in 2012 and watch it again, the
movie was every bit as funny and entertaining and I remembered it to
be.

But of course, why wouldn't it? You have two of the greatest comedians
in American cinema in it; Dan Aykroyd (playing Roman) and John Candy
(playing Chet), and they were really a great comedian couple,
complementing each other well and having great on-screen chemistry.

The story in "The Great Outdoors" is about the Ripley family coming to
a very idyllic and beautiful cabin site, where Chet's father used to
take Chet when he was a child, and now Chet want his children to have
their own memories of this paradise. But within only moments of getting
there, Chet's brother Roman and his family show up unannounced to
surprise the Ripley's and spend a week of vacation together.

The movie is filled with great and memorable moments that will have you
laughing hard, because Aykroyd and Candy really do some great comedy in
this movie and put on great performances. Sure it is very 1980's in
spirit, but still today the movie is fun and entertaining to watch. And
I personally never will tire of John Candy and his greatly missed
comedy act, he was truly one of a kind.

If you enjoy 80's comedies and the movies of Dan Aykroyd and/or John
Candy, then I am sure you are already well familiar with "The Great
Outdoors", but if you aren't, then get your hands on this movie,
because it is well worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the best commedies ever made. I love the humor, comraderie,
hatred, envy. everything. This is one movie that you could watch a
thousand
time and never get sick of it. John Candy is a true genius and I wish he
were still around to make us all laugh. Great movie and if you have a
problem with that dont' sing it bring it!
<|_=00=_|>
"The Great Outdoors" is what anyone would expect of a John Candy movie:
completely goofy, but funny nonetheless. He plays Chet Ripley, taking
his family on vacation in the wilderness. Unfortunately, Chet's
unpleasant brother-in-law Roman Craig (Dan Aykroyd) is also there, and
he just has to make everything miserable for Chet. In some ways, this
movie seems to be rehashing "Summer Rental", but with a different tone.
My favorite parts were the raccoons, the bear, and The Old '96er (I
don't recommend that scene for squeamish people). All in all, it just
goes to show what the world lost when John Candy died. He was really
great.

P.S.: Annette Bening, in her debut, plays Roman's wife Kate.
<|_=00=_|>

I watch this movie, and then i feel terrible that a great comedian is
gone..
You can have your kinnison, farley, etc. But Candy, is probaly one of the
over looked, and slumped into thecheap renters.. but you know why they
used
him as the lead in so many.. Because he is/was a kindly looking man, and
was
from what i have read of him.. And this is probaly the pinnacle of the
greatness of Candy. And the whole bear scene steals the whole show. I just
wish all the canadian actors/comedians didn't have to go south.. come on
Canadian cinema drop the docu-drama and work with our funny bones.. We are
wasting our real natural resource here.. Again best Candy flick of all,
IMHO. 
<|_=00=_|>

A great comedy to settle down with after a long day.  Aykroyd and Candy make
a great pair in this off-beat comedy about life in the woods, and how one
simple vacation turns into a dreaded day-to-day horror. 

Basic Plot: John Candy and his family go up to Canada for a family vacation
away from the city for several days.  Seemingly fine, until they get to
their cabin, the whole vacation starts to fall apart from the moment they
arrive.  Not only is there fish everywhere in their vacation home, but just
when mom and dad think they're alone, their brother and sister in-law walk
in on them, with their two daughters.
From a water-skiing adventure gone wrong- to eating a whole family's worth
of food (pun definitely intended.), the movie seems to continually take a
turn for the worst.  The subplot is Candy's oldest son, who starts to fall
in love with a local, to give it that romance along with all the humor
that's going on between the adults.

A fun movie to watch from 10- whenever.

I give it a 7.5 out of 10 (10 being the highest).  Not one of the best
movies ever but certainly funny and it has some great writing
too.

A little piece of trivia:

At the end of "She's Having a Baby" right before the credits, you see the
wife asking Kevin Bacon what they should name the baby...
People from all sorts of films and T.V. shows voice their opinions,
including some of the cast members from 'The Great Outdoors'.

And that's the end of this review.


<|_=00=_|>
As a child of the eighties, its hard not to view this film thru the
lens of nostalgia. John Candy is hilarious as the simple but decent
family guy who wishes to take his family on a vacation to the great
outdoors. His plans are rudely disrupted by his boorish brother in law,
who crashes the family event and manages to disrupt all of Candy's
plans. While there's nothing particularly stunning or insightful here,
its fun and reminds me of days gone by. Although seen thru the eye of
comedians, many of us can remember "disastrous" family vacations like
this, with relatives that we sometimes couldn't stand and plans gone
awry, but still forming some of our most fond memories. It is also
somewhat bittersweet for me, as most of the beautiful and rustic
locales in the film have disappeared during the intervening years, a
loss I hadn't even noticed or thought about until I watched the film
again. The film is very family friendly and, if you haven't seen it,
definitely worth a viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember seeing this film and liking it as a kid. It was always the
'bald bear' film to me containing as it does a roguish grizzly who
plays a central role in the proceedings. Otherwise the format of the
film is very simplistic and features a couple of families who decide to
go on a vacation together and end up warring.

The script was written by John Hughes and there's a slight sense that
he's on autopilot here, with little meat to the storyline. For the most
part THE GREAT OUTDOORS gets by on the goodwill generated from the
central pairing of Dan Aykroyd and John Candy. Candy is a warm, lovable
presence as ever, and Aykroyd gets some nicely acerbic moments. The
supporting cast, which includes Annette Bening, is a bit more of a
disappointment.

A lot of the jokes are merely average but they do pass the time quickly
enough. Some of the moments, like the steak eating contest, are
hilarious, and the climax is very good too. But in other respects THE
GREAT OUTDOORS feels a bit like a poor cousin of the popular 'Vacation'
film series featuring Chevy Chase.
<|_=00=_|>
'The Great Outdoors' is A Fun Comedy, that delivers good laughs &
performances. It's a film, that's best watched on a lazy Sunday
afternoon. 

'The Great Outdoors' Synopsis: A Chicago man's hope for a peaceful
family vacation in the woods is shattered when the annoying in-laws
drop in.

'The Great Outdoors' isn't a hilarious film, but the comedic portions
do make you laugh. The chemistry between its two strong protagonists is
a delight, while a sub-plot involving a younger couple, is boring &
could've been avoided. 

The Screenplay Written by the Late/Great John Hughes is spot-on,
although it does dip sometimes. Howard Deutch's Direction is passable.
Cinematography captures the wilderness well. Editing is rightly done.

Performance-Wise: The Late/Great John Candy is the life of the show.
He's outstanding! Dan Aykroyd is also in super form, competing with
Candy on every level. Stephanie Faracy is first-rate. Annette Bening is
impressive, as ever. The Late/Great Robert Prosky is cute. 

On the whole, 'The Great Outdoors' is a good laugh!
