
TRON. Now here's a film that seems to generate a wide spectrum of
reviews.

As for my take on this landmark motion picture, I have to admit that I
will always be able to reflect on it in its original context.

In 1982, TRON (along with Blade Runner) was nothing short of
breathtaking. And, although it was originally panned by critics, those
who have taken the time to look closer, have noticed that there is more
to this film than there first seems to be.

One of TRON's greatest strengths lies in its extensive use of
parallelism. There is the world of the user (almost a god or demigod
motif), contrasted with the world of the programs (very much a metaphor
for our world). And, just to enhance this metaphor, Dillinger's
helicopter is shown with neon-red lines, and the final fade to black is
preceded with a time-lapse of the city – suggesting data running along
traces.

The obvious parallels are with the use of the same actor for each
character's counterparts in the digital world. Flynn and Clu, Alan and
Tron, Laura and Yori, Gibbs and Dumont, Dillinger and Sark.

However, we see a number of other characters show up here and there, in
more subtle form: For example, there's Sark's second in command on the
bridge of the carrier. He shows up earlier in the film as Peter – the
suit who was watching Dillinger's office. Then there's RAM's human
counterpart asking Alan if he can have some of his popcorn. 

I find it surprising that many are critical of the 'unbelievable'
aspect of this film. However, never is the audience expected to believe
that this is the way the computer world really works or that a person
could ever be zapped into a computer. In fact, to allude to the type of
story that the audience is being presented with, TRON does a near-quote
of Alice In Wonderland, with 'Stranger and stranger.' Perhaps Kevin
Flynn fell down the rabbit hole…. And – for those who think TRON is a
Disney film – watch the production notes and you'll discover that this
is not a Disney film (although they did fund it).

Of most obvious interest is the fact that TRON pushed the computer
graphics technology of the time to its limits and beyond. And – despite
many who have said that its graphics are primitive, they're confusing
resolution with texture-mapping. The truth is, the number of colours
displayed and the resolution shown in the computer-generated components
in TRON is higher than most desktop displays – even today. To output to
film with the level of sharpness and smooth gradients seen in TRON,
you'd need at least 24 or 32-bit colour, with a horizontal resolution
of approximately 3000 to 4000 pixels. On top of that, it was the first
film to use transparency in 3D CGI (the solar-sailor simulation). To my
knowledge, texture-mapping didn't exist in 1982. Fortunately, the lack
of texture mapping works well with the stylized look of the film's
'world inside the machine.'

As a film, TRON is definitely both unique and entertaining. And, for
those who are visual in nature, it's full of splendid eye-candy. The
design work is top-rate, and is best appreciated when viewed on film. I
recall watching this movie when it first came out in 1982, and have to
say that it was nothing short of total immersion. Unfortunately, most
of the modern transfers of this film have been pretty rough (with the
exception of the out-of-print Laserdisc box-set).

The plot for TRON is actually quite simple. Despite this simplicity, it
is cleverly used for the purpose of -- hopefully – making the audience
think about our world, and how it may relate to some 'higher world.' If
we are programs, then who are our users? Is there a level up from us,
and do they know all the answers? There is certainly a metaphysical
angle to TRON, which the audience can ether pay attention to, or
disregard in favour of the simple thrill of watching Light Cycles
square off against each other on the Game Grid.

Many elements are combined in this film: the gladiatorial film, the
exodus, the revolution, the sentient AI, the battle of good vs. evil,
and – of course – the almost prophetic depiction of the computer
industry. Encom and Ed Dillinger are very much parallels to real themes
that took place in the computer industry in the years that followed the
release of TRON. These themes are very much repeated in more recent
trilogy of films. I think the actual name for the Light Cycle game that
Flynn mentions will give you a clue as to which trilogy I'm referring
to.

Finally, there's Kevin Flynn. Some may be surprised that I left this
one to the end. However, I thought I'd leave the best for last. Fact
is, Jeff Bridges did a brilliant job with this character. Over the
years, I have actually known computer-industry hot-shots who are
remarkably similar to Flynn. He made the character believable. And,
this carries over to the film itself. No matter how much of a leap
you're expected to make when approached with a script or screenplay, be
compelling. Jeff Bridges and David Warner do exactly this. 

TRON is a movie that really entertains. I like to think of it as a big
small movie. One that was definitely ambitious and is presented in
'glossy' and vivid wide-screen, yet has a sort of nice-light-snack kind
of feel to it. It's a movie with a great deal of replay value, and one
with compelling characters. 

In short, TRON – like its video game counterpart – is fun.

And for that, and a host of other reasons, it will remain on my list of
favourite films.

End of line.
<|_=00=_|>
I hope some smart person from Disney is reading this: if ever there was
a movie crying out to be re-released into movie-theaters, it's "Tron,"
the dazzling sci-fi film from Walt Disney Productions. If it were
released into theaters today, "Tron" would be a smash hit, 'cause the
movie-audiences of today would understand it a heckuva lot better than
the movie-audiences of 1982.

"Tron" tells the story of a young computer programmer named Flynn (Jeff
Bridges) who gets sucked INTO a computer, and must fight for his life
playing life-or-death video games, run by the evil Master Control
Program. With the aid of a good warrior program named Tron (Bruce
Boxleitner), and Tron's significant-other Yori (Cindy Morgan), Flynn
must put a stop to the MCP and set things right in the computer world
once again before returning to his own world.

With breathtakingly beautiful computer-animation (and the very first
film to use computer-animation extensively), and presenting an
original, dazzling world where energy lives and breathes inside a
computer, "Tron" was way ahead of it's time. This may explain why the
film was greeted with incomprehension from critics and audience members
alike back in 1982.

The problem was, back in 1982, there was no such thing as the Internet,
and, apart from business types, most people didn't really know
diddlysquat about computers yet. As a result, the computer jargon heard
throughout "Tron" went sailing over most audience members' heads, and
for many, the story was difficult to follow. Critics complained that
"Tron" was all special effects and no story. And, for the final insult,
"Tron" wasn't even NOMINATED for Best Visual Effects at Oscar time,
presumably because the Academy in 1982 didn't recognize
computer-animation as "genuine" visual effects, i.e. "it's animation,
not visual effects," they thought to themselves. "The Abyss" changed
all that in 1989, but that was a big seven years after "Tron."
Obviously, everyone in 1982 had missed the film's point.

But the passing of time has been very kind to "Tron." Today, the film
has a major cult following, and is recognized by many as the landmark
sci-fi film that it truly is. Looking at "Tron" today, the movie has
aged very well indeed, like a fine wine. Now that time--and people's
knowledge of computers--has finally caught up with "Tron," now would be
the PERFECT time for the world in general to take another look at this
amazing film.

Message to Disney: put "Tron" back in theaters! Clean it up with a new
remastered print & remastered sound, and let the world rediscover this
sci-fi classic. It WILL be a smash hit! In 1982, people just didn't
understand "Tron." Today, they will. Trust me. :-)
<|_=00=_|>

Excuse me, but : wow ! I feel sorry for those who are disillusioned,
but Tron (1982) is nothing to me but pure magic ! A poetical
"cyberadventure" where the cyber world is a methaphorical
representation of the "real" one. And to think that those images were
produced, and more unbelievable, imagined, in the early eighties ! OK,
by today's standards, it might not look so impressive to some viewers,
but still... And the imagination behind that movie, those graphics :
wonderful ! I wish to be yet surprised by unexpected ideas such as
Tron. And I am not necessarily thinking about a sequel : just surprise
me ! Tron (1982) : a classic of the 7th art !

Eric Quebec, Canada

P.S.: Excuse my English, I am French-Canadian.

<|_=00=_|>

I was terribly excited about Tron when it came out theatrically; I was all
of 8 years old, but was already a computer geek.  15 years later, I ended up
purchasing the $100 Archive Edition laserdisc box set as my very first LD. 
Tron definitely made an impact on me.

Tron has survived the years- more so than many other contemporary SF films,
and more than I think most critics would have guessed.  Instead of looking
out-dated and corny, as the years have passed, Tron has aged gracefully. 
Sure, the monochrome-screen terminals might look a bit old, and the arcade
is a distant, fond memory, but the SFX are still beautiful, and the
storyline, in this era of the Internet, seems shockingly
modern.

One of the reasons Tron's SFX have aged so well is because they did not try
to simulate anything already existing.  We have no basis to determine if the
architecture of the MCP's world is out-dated or not-hip; everything is
styled so uniquely that it's never going to look wrong.  Much like the
design of Maria in Metropolis, the look of Tron is never going to be
laughable or quaint.

The storyline is lacking a little bit; you can see the ideas the script
writers wanted to insert, but there are too many ideas for only 2 hours of
film.  There are quite a few points in the film that are mentioned and then
ignored (Grid bugs, anyone?), and occasionally the film digresses from the
plot for no other reason than to digress- the digressions being unimportant
to the story at hand.  But, despite the problems, the philosophy of
user/program interaction, and the handling of technophobia are both handled
admirably.

I recommend every video game, computer, and SF fan to watch Tron at least
once.  I echo the call for it to be the widescreen version, but I am
disappointed with the DVD's extra features- or lack thereof.  The LD is much
more full featured, and better for fans, despite the side breaks every 30
minutes.

<|_=00=_|>
I still remember having seen parts of this movie when I was a very
little kid and I thought it was incredibly cool, I hadn't seen anything
like it. Now I have bought the 20th anniversary DVD and this was the
first time I watched the movie in its entirety (and with a developed
brain). And I still like it. Not in the same way as when I was young,
because now I understand the story (I didn't understand English back
then and I couldn't read the subtitles) so it's different from what I
imagined back then, and now I have seen a truckload of modern movies
with CGI effects.

However, even though the effects in this movie are somewhat 'dated',
they are still unique. While listening to the audio commentary (which
is a must if you wonder how they managed to make a movie like this in
1982), I heard someone stating my thoughts exactly: the unique thing
about this movie is that while modern movies use CGI in an attempt to
simulate the real world, in Tron one tried to simulate a computer world
with real world images. Because they did succeed in this, the movie
will never become 'dated', while movies trying to use limited CGI
effects will become dated as soon as CGI evolves. The limitations of
computer graphics at that time forced the makers of the movie to be
very creative. E.g. all camera motions in the CG scenes (including the
swinging motions in the chase scenes) had to be calculated by hand,
there simply was no software for it! Nowadays computer graphics are
nearing perfection, and that's why a movie like this will never be made
again.

If you haven't seen this movie yet, to fully appreciate how
groundbreaking it is, you must be willing to imagine that you're back
in a time where the most complex computer animation to be seen were the
moving blocks in video arcades or the 5 seconds of wire-frame models in
Star Wars. You might expect that the resolution of the images will be
very low and the pictures will be blocky, but this is totally untrue.
The images were created at film resolution, often using methods which
don't even involve the rasterization of images, so they look perfectly
smooth. Some might say too smooth, due to the lack of texture mapping
(which hardly existed at that time), but IMHO this is what gives the
depicted 'digital world' its unique appearance.

The story is not of great complexity, but it's original and
entertaining enough. Of course it's a Disney movie, so there aren't
many 'sharp edges' to it (a scene with a mildly erotic undertone was
even removed), but don't expect 'Bambi' sweetness either. Grown-ups
will probably be more amazed by the kind of effects they managed to
pull off in 1982, while children will be enchanted by the strange world
shown in this movie. If you want to entertain young kids during a hour
and a half, this movie will be perfect. They will like every bit (pun
intended) of it!
<|_=00=_|>

"Tron" is not for everyone. 

This first sentence should make you think that "Tron" is a cult movie. Well,
maybe it is. My parents abhor it. My sister detests it. But my friends, who
were born in the early 70s (very early, actually) and me see it as an
amazing piece of work.

Is it stunning? Yes, even though more than half of the film is colorized
b&w. Is it computer animated? Yes, although I am betting your home PC might
be able to render the images you will see there without any problem. Maybe
not in real time, but almost. Is it special? You bet. Even though CGI had
been tried before, Tron took it to the next logical step: creating whole CGI
rendered scenes (e.g. tanks, cycles, Recognizers).

The film is confusing at times, and 18 years later you can safely say the
script wasn't actually the best. On the light of the Internet, though, it
all makes a lot more sense, and it plainly demonstrates that the writers
really loved computers. In fact, they were so ahead of their times that I am
betting too many people who saw it the first time didn't understand it. That
was its failure: only computer geeks could get the whole picture (no pun
intended).

Still, I guess Toy Story I and II are the direct development of Tron. And
that cannot be bad in any way.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1982, the concept of artificial intelligence was advanced enough
that a gamer could easily defeat a computer opponent if he memorised
the sequence of moves that the AI followed. A computer capable of
handing the intense mathematical calculations CGI entailed often took
up an entire room. Video games were strictly two-dimensional, and often
consisted of video displays that a legally blind man could make out the
individual pixels in. Yet they were considerably more fun than most of
the annoyances we have to bear with today. The reason for this is as
simple as it is obvious. In 1982, programmers realized that graphics
are not what make a game fun because graphics could not be made as
"real" as they are now.

Tron fell flat at the box office because the concepts it dealt with
were not in the public consciousness. Home computers from many
manufacturers were duelling for market share, and the idea that the
market could one day all be controlled by one monolithic corporation
was far from anyone's mind. This little fact is what keeps Tron
relevant nearly twenty-five years later. However, as the information
age grew into focus, the number of films that openly steal from Tron
are numerous. They try to capture the same level of excitement and
intrigue, but they fall down because of an inability to make the
audience care about the characters.

Tron begins with simple interactions between the world of the programs
and the world of the humans, some of which are programmers, or users as
they are called here. The sequence in which one user, Flynn, is sucked
into the world of the programs, well, let's just say that the Wachowski
brothers obviously watched it very carefully before they penned the
screenplay for The Matrix. Only in this case, it is done with much more
credibility and impact.

Many have talked about the curse that plagues film adaptations of video
games. Tron was the first of many films to have a video game adapted
from it, the reasons for which should be clear when one watches the
game sequences. During the middle act of the film, Flynn is made to
compete in a couple of video games, the first of which, while quite
clearly based upon Pong, was adapted more or less element-for-element
into a crude tennis game. The latter is more notorious, however. The
concept of bicycles that create walls behind them as they move, into
which one tries to run an opponent, is one of the simple concepts that
kept old 4-bit video game machines like the Atari 2600 profitable for
so long.

It has been said that it is difficult to understand what is going on,
which is hogwash. Once you learn some of the basics of computing, or
rather the concepts that Microsoft would like to keep hidden from the
user such as input-output addresses and the like, and learn to pay
attention to dialogue, it is incredibly easy to follow this story. It
is, in fact, one of the best renderings of computer concepts on the big
screen to date, which is a sad indictment upon Hollywood when you
consider how far technology in both areas has come since 1982.

I gave Tron a ten out of ten. It entertained me immeasurably when I was
a child growing up on the cusp of VHS technology. As an adult who is
having endless fun with the recordable DVD technology, it entertains me
even more. Few things grow more relevant with time, in both happy and
sad ways, but Tron is amongst them. If every science-fiction film in
which computers and artificial intelligence figured heavily were up to
this standard, film critics would have a lot less to do.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Did I read that right? The effects have not aged? The effects sucked
when it was released; they evoked loud giggling in the theater I saw it
in which was half empty by the way. They used these cheesy effects on
1984's The Last Starfighter which also bombed. After that they
abandoned them altogether. Please, the cars and tanks look like plastic
toys on a badly created grid. The plot, if you can call it that, is
that Bridges gets his panties in a bunch because Dillon stole his game,
what until you see it, and he wants to get into the system and prove it
is his. He gets sucked, the right verb, into the silicon world where,
apparently, silicon looks just like Gray spandex jumpsuits that light
up in attractive blue and red. This blowing your skirt up? No, it did
not thirty years ago either. Throw in terrible acting, which Disney has
a patent on, getting lousy performances out of good actors; Warner is
the only one who gives a good performance. Even Jeff Bridges, a good
actor, delivers a wooden, insouciant, boring reading. Tron shows why
Babylon 5 was canceled. Cindy Morgan should have worn a tighter
jumpsuit; maybe we would not have noticed she could not act one scene. 

There is an uprising, I know, try not to laugh, where apparently
silicon chips have a religious devotion to carbon based monkey boys
over their own kind. I know, non sequitur, please Disney stick to
kiddie movies. Getting that sinking feeling about their Star Wars? I
would if I were you, go watch The Black Hole, their last attempt at
science fiction. Look, just the sight of these actors wearing
fluorescent spandex tights with funny hats and throwing Frisbees around
was enough for laughter in the theater. The effects are painful; no,
they could not age well because they were awful in 1982. Like all
Disney movies, it is full of cringe worthy moments. My friend Eric got
the whole room to laugh; Clu bends over his dying friend and the friend
purses his lips, for no apparent reason, Eric yelled,"Kiss Me!! The
entire theater died laughing. Disney is incapable of making a good
serious film. This film features several more unintentionally hilarious
moments. The acting matters, because given the utter absurdity of the
premise, the bad acting is the death blow. The film was received as
almost a comedy given: bad effects, acting, writing and the stupidest
premise ever conceived. 

If you like seeing actors in glowing spandex jumpsuits babbling on
about the sanctity of the users while flinging their glowing Frisbees
at the plastic objects; this is your movie. For everyone else, who has
read a book, I recommend drinking to lower your intelligence to the
level of the brain dead idiots who made this piece of crap. After a few
drinks, it will seem cutting edge and stunning; it just takes the right
amount of alcohol. It was awful thirty three years ago and guess what
it still is awful. The effects look worse if that is possible.
<|_=00=_|>
When this came out, about 25 years ago, the special-effects were
eye-popping. I was stunned and saw this twice at the theater, something
I rarely did. Nowadays, it looks primitive. It's like when video games
first came out, compared to what they are now.

However, a few years ago when the DVD came out with the widescreen and
5.1surround sound, it made it somewhat-respectable again in parts and
made it still fun to watch.

The story was never that great. There was too much technical talk and
the characters were the kind you really couldn't get involved over. 

It's nothing super, but if you've never seen it, I still recommend it.
I don't recall any other movie quite like it.
<|_=00=_|>

For the average viewer, 'Tron' is a puzzling film.  The language is loaded
with jargon, the world experienced by Clu and Tron (inside the computer)
appears strange, forbidding and two-dimensional. It is a world that seems to
work though, but how does the human Clu instantly know how to adjust to its
peculiarities?

Viewers have come to expect that techno-babble jargon in SciFi flicks is
completely meaningless.  That isn't entirely the case for 'Tron', much of it
is firmly based in computing.  Even more importantly, this strange world Clu
and Tron inhabit is equally firmly based on the way computer operating
systems work, and that is the reason why Clu (in real live a computer
hacker) knows how to handle it.

Using this world as the basis for a movie was pretty audacious, especially
in 1982. Thankfully, the writers did not compromise on their idea, and
consequently the film not only worked but it stood the test of
time.

'Tron' works, because computers work.
