

Vamp is a curious lost little lamb from the 1980's, all lit in bizarre green
and purple tones  and featuring all manner of Grace Jones wiggling around
like a monster. It's a fun ride,  cleverly done and not entirely unoriginal,
with terrific acting talent and a loopy sense of  humor pitched somewhere
between After Hours and a sideways college comedy. Another  aspect I
appreciated was how each vampire had a personality, and they weren't always
one  hundred percent proud to be vampires. They're very aware that in a lot
of ways they're  perfectly lame. Fairly cool stuff, especially in the
confrontation between a character who  "turns" and the protagonist.

 On the other hand, the last half lacks the zip and zap of the first and
some characters  seemed a little undernourished. The geek who owns the car
seemed a little extraneous  towards the end, and the albino gang, while sort
of awesome, didn't really belong.

 But either way. If you're interested in an offbeat 80's vampire movie or
just seeing Grace Jones scare the s**t out of you with her face, by all
means rent Vamp. You will become a  much wiser person as a result and your
parents will no longer hate you.

<|_=00=_|>
When I started using IMDb, one of the first movies I wanted to check
out was this one. I knew in the back of my mind that its rating would
be low, and that not too many people would have seen it. It seems that
both of my assumptions were correct. In any case, this movie is a
personal favorite of mine. It's one of those films that make you feel
at home (as odd as that may sound), because it's a movie my dad
introduced me to when I was young, and that we've continued to watch,
quite often, in all subsequent years. If you watch it as if it's a
horror movie, then you're going to hate it, as I did the first time I
saw it (when I was 8 or 9-years-old, I think). But, if you watch it
without any preconceptions, you'll walk away with a big, dumb grin
stretched across your face. One of the most quotable movies I've seen,
and one of the funniest (for its sheer quirkiness). My dad and I are
constantly throwing lines of this movie into conversation, most notably
"Kid, I used to own thiiis cluuub. You know who used to work here?
Louis Prima, Buddy Greco, Phil Harris: class!" along with "Do they do
that in Vegas? Whoa! That's classy, now that's classy!". Is it Oscar
worthy? Not even a little bit. Is it a perfect film? 'Course not, but
it does what it's supposed to do: entertain. And very well, at that.
For that reason alone, I'd say it's a great film.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
In Kansas, the friends Keith (Chris Makepeace) and AJ (Robert Rusler)
are trying to join the best fraternity in the university. Their pledge
is conditioned to the presence of a stripper to entertain the veteran's
members of the fraternity. They need transportation to go to the city
to hire a stripper, so they invite the boring Duncan (Gedde Watanabe)
to go with them in his car. They arrive in a bar called "After Dark
Club" and soon they realize that the place is a nest of vampires,
leaded by the evil Katrina (Grace Jones). 

"Vamp" is a delightful, funny and very underrated vampire cult-movie. I
do not know how many times I have watched this movie, but I loved it
and it is one of my favorite vampire movies ever. It is funny to see in
2005, a common pre-AIDS gesture of affection between boy-friends and
girl-friends: when Keith cuts his finger, Allison (Dedee Pfeiffer)
sucks his blood. I found the IMDb User Rating extremely unfair and I
really do not agree with such low rating. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Vamp: A Noite dos Vampiros" ("Vamp: The Night of the
Vampires")

Note: On 11 November 2013, I saw this movie again.
<|_=00=_|>
Vamp (1986) was another one of those teenage sex/horror film that was
widely popular during the eighties. This is one of the better ones. Not
a great movie mind you but it's entertaining and it does the job. Vamp
stars Chris Makepeace, Robert Rusler (whats an 80's movie without him?)
Gedee Wantanabe, Dee Dee Phiffer , Billy Drago and Grace Jones. 

A group of late teens decide to go to the big city and look for some
kicks. They find a seedy strip club, inside are a bunch of wigged out
patrons, sleazy strippers and a Reinfried like bartender. Robert is
fascinated with one of the strippers whilst Chris falls fro one of the
waitresses. Grace Jones co-stars as the main attraction. Billy Drago
makes a guest spot as a crazy vampire who likes to slum it up in a
kiddie corner. It doesn't take Chris too long to find out that the club
has a dark secret and he tries to find a way out without drawing the
attention of the owners. Can Chris and his buddies make it to safety or
will they become part of the staff?

An entertaining film that was heavily borrowed in the nineties cult
favorite From Dusk 'til Dawn. The similarities are too obvious. Q.T.
must have had this movie in mind (along with about six others) when he
wrote the script. I would have to recommend this movie for horror fans
and lovers of eighties movies. Fun stuff with a lot of tongue in cheek
humor!
<|_=00=_|>

along with Fright Night and The Lost Boys this is my favourite 80s horror
movie. The Chinese guy steals the whole show, and Billy Drago as "Snow" is
funny too. The neon lighting and 50s music, and sleazy girls and lame 80s
music set it all up for a great ride.
<|_=00=_|>
To get into a highly regarded fraternity, Keith and AJ agree to come up
with the goods. That is finding a stripper to perform at a party. They
need wheels and they turn to the dweeb Duncan for a favour. The three
head off, and they come across a rather sordidly dark neighbourhood,
which the After Dark club catches their attention. After this the night
turns into a very surreal nightmare, as the place happens to be run by
vampires. The trouble begins when AJ gets a personal encounter with the
fetching dancer Katrina to hopefully perform at their party. 

What starts off like your ordinary teen comedy, turns into a
spontaneously imaginative and tantalizing vampire feature. The
horror/comedy element more often comes off, despite some awkward
moments and bad timing. The wry humour is blackly broad and weird,
while the ominous thrills are jarringly explicit. Director / writer
Richard Wenk gives the oddball concept unpredictable twists with a wide
range of sub-plots that work in a lot of tact on climaxes, and the
highly witty and clever script is a saucy treat with its banter. The
script had a rapid touch about it, but the pacing of the story and
direction can get scratchy. Wenk stylishly floods the seedy locations
with neon pink and green lighting for ample effect, and Elliot Davis'
singular angle photography gaudily displays a sinisterly lingering and
nocturnal atmosphere. The make-up FX by Greg Cannom is pretty top-rate
with many wicked and grisly images. The direction can feel loose, but
it's visually enticing and at times suspenseful. It does look cheap,
but this only enhances the mischievously neurotic air and helping out
that tenor is Jonathan Elias' spiralling, steamy music score. The cast
are on a real high. Chris Makepeace and Robert Rusler are ably good as
the two central characters. Gedde Watanabe admirably pulls the strings
in his obnoxiously weedy comic part. Grace Jones gets top billing,
despite saying nothing and having little screen time. However she's
naturally imposing and her dominance comes from her luridly effective
physical actions and appearance. Especially those eyes! A bubbly and
sincere Dedee Pfeiffer steals the film for me, and you got a memorably
eerie Billy Drago as an albino thug of a street gang. Sandy Baron was
also good fun. The comparisons with "After Hours (1985)" are justified,
as both follow a path of triggered events during one bad night in an
unrecognisable part of town for the unlucky foe/s. Also I wouldn't be
surprised if "From Dusk Till Dawn (1996)" was influenced by 'Vamp'.

A neat, showy and off-kilter little horror/comedy romp of the 80's.
<|_=00=_|>

Despite the presence of the ludicrous Grace Jones, this is an amusing and
cleverly made vampire comedy. It will strike some at first as just another
dumb college caper flick, but it's weird visuals and genuinely funny
moments
puts it into a different and altogether superior category. Most of the
film
is set at night, in and around a sinister strip-club, and the pink and
green
neon lighting is quite unlike anything you've ever seen in a movie before.
Furthermore the brilliantly constructed final shot as the credits roll is
a
very satisfying conclusion. Story-wise it is quite stupid, but there's
more
than enough frights and one-liners to keep it moving along.

<|_=00=_|>
If you like campy 80s flicks, don't even bother reading this review.
Just go watch the movie. Now.

What more can be said? "Vamp" is totally 80s to the max. Let's begin
with the actors... We've got Chris Makepeace ("Meatballs", "My
Bodyguard") sporting tight jeans and a oh-so-fashionable blue football
jacket. We've got Robert Rusler ("Weird Science", "The Facts of Life")
sporting a lovely pastel shirt and wool blazer with the sleeves rolled
up to the elbows. Then we've got Gedde Watanabe (Long Duk Dong in "16
Candles") reprising his classic nerdy role, only this time without the
horribly contrived Asian accent so you can safely laugh at him without
feeling racist. And of course we've got Grace Jones, 80s icon
extraordinaire ("Conan the Destroyer", "A View to a Kill") sporting a
wire bikini that makes Princess Leia's brass swimsuit look like a nun's
habit.

But for my money, the actor who steals the show is the late, great
Sandy Baron as Vic the seedy nightclub owner. You've definitely seen
his mug all over TV in minor roles that always stole the show (on
Seinfeld he was the cranky retiree who gave Jerry the "astronaut pen").
He definitely steals the show in "Vamp" as the lovably sinister old
timer who just wants to get to Vegas, even if it means selling his soul
to a clan of bloodthirsty vampires. Sandy even has a few dramatic
monologues which add depth to this otherwise silly romp. When he
proselytizes about his "service" of ridding society of the dregs, the
wanderers and the losers, and he punctuates it with a toothy
Cheshire-cat grin, it sends a chill right up your spine.

Plot-wise, it's your basic creatures-of-the-night-run-amok-in-a-bar
story. You know, the one Tarantino recycled in "From Dusk Til Dawn" 10
years later. Yes, "Vamp" was the original and don't you forget it.

There's some great comedy in this movie, and for that reason it's hard
to approach it as a horror film. The whole thing is tongue-in-cheek
which takes away the terror and replaces it with laughs. It's a crying
shame that director/writer Richard Wenk didn't do more films because he
had a great approach to filmmaking: a cross between John Hughes ("16
Candles") and the Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker team ("Airplane!").

IMPORTANT NOTE: If you buy the DVD, which you must, be sure to get the
2001 Starz/Anchor Bay release, NOT the 2011 Image Entertainment
release. Why? Because the 2001 release includes the hilarious Richard
Wenk short film "Dracula Bites the Big Apple". His first film short,
this is what got him the "Vamp" gig, and you don't want to miss it. Why
they didn't include it in the 2011 release (dvd OR blu-ray) is beyond
me.

So there you have it. See this film for the 80s nostalgia, see it for
Sandy Baron, just see it. Other campy 80s gems I recommend are "The
Alien from L.A." (1986) which was Sports Illustrated swimsuit model
Kathy Ireland's big break, "Elvira: Mistress of the Dark" (1988) which
is so bad it's ...well... BAD. And although you've probably seen it you
gotta see it again: "Beetlejuice" (1988).
<|_=00=_|>
''Vamp'' is an horror comedy of the 80's. With one of the ugliest
vampires that I already have seen in my life (yeah, they won the
vampires of 'Angel'series.), being the master of the vampires, Katrina,
the ugliest and most exotic vampire already showed in television! Three
young men go to a bar looking for strippers to entertain their
sorority's parties. The problem is, that the bar they choose is full of
vampires,including the strippers of the place and the guards. Katrina,
the 'master'of the place, kills A.J., transforming him a vampire. Now
they have big problems to go out of the place, since one of the rules,
of never showing a visitor the vampires, is broken.
<|_=00=_|>
Keith (Chris Makepeace) and his college roommate AJ (Robert Rusler) are
sent on an fraternity initiation that involves hiring a stripper for a
party. They convince the most unpopular kid in college Duncan (Gedde
Watanabe) to lend them a car, Duncan's only condition is that they take
him with them and pretend to be his friends. They head into Los Angeles
to find a strip club. Looking through a local paper they decide on the
After Dark Club. Once past the cockroach eating doorman Vic (Sandy
Baron) Keith and Duncan grab ringside seats and watch the show while AJ
tries to find a suitable stripper for the party. Katrina (Grace Jones)
takes to the stage and performs a dance which leaves everyone in the
club spellbound. AJ goes backstage to try and get her to perform at the
party. Back in the club Keith is being hassled by an attractive
waitress, Alison (Dedee Pfeiffer) who says she recognizes him, at one
point Duncan comes out with a great line he says "you don't have any
friends who want to remember me do you? Nah, I didn't think so." Later
on in the night he also asks a different waitress "what time do you get
off?" she replies "2.30" Duncan then says "can I watch!?" When AJ
doesn't reappear from backstage Keith becomes suspicious and starts
asking questions. As the night draws on Keith realizes this is no
ordinary strip club and as his night continues to go from bad to worse
will he live to see the morning and save his friends? Written and
directed by Richard Wenk I liked this and thought it was good fun. The
way Wenk films the night scenes is highly stylized, he uses a pink and
green neon lighting effect. For instance there is a scene when Keith is
walking in an abandoned sewer system, as he walks down a tunnel one
side of it is bathed completely in pink and the other side in green,
almost all of the exterior night shots are lit this way, it looks quite
cool if a little unusual. The special make up effects by Greg Cannom
are for the most part impressive, we get a ripped out heart, bitten
necks, slit wrists, death by high heeled shoe, a melting face and
decaying vampires. Surprisingly, considering it's set in a strip club
there isn't a lot of nudity, hardly any in fact. The acting was fine
even if Chris Makepeace makes for a slightly dull leading man on
occasions, Dedee Pfeiffer makes for a very sexy heroine, and best of
all Grace Jones didn't say a single word throughout the entire film
which is just the way it should be. The script is a little slow to get
going, it takes over half an hour for the horror elements to kick in,
but when it does it's great fun. Although Duncan as the comedy relief
didn't always work and became annoying on occasions, and why when their
running around in Los Angeles is there no one else anywhere? Not one
single person, or car. Overall I liked it, you could certainly do a lot
worse. Recommended for some fun.
