

One of my all-time favourites. A nice idea in the spirit of "The Car" or
"Christine" with great action (mostly of well-show car chases in Tucson,
Arizona). The characters were well constructed and (on the whole) well
implemented by the actors, with Nick Cassavetes stealing the show as
nutter,
Packard Walsh.

It also launched the careers of Charlie Sheen and Sherilyn Fenn (Fenn's
fans
will be happy to see "more" of her in this one).

The rock soundtrack is superb and a real collectors' item
nowadays.

The original video cover was nice in that it was a holographic cover.
Subsequent sell-thrus resorted to a standard litho-printed
cover.

For a night in with a pizza and a few mates round, this is a great
film.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie survives only because the plot idea is kinda' cool. The rest of
it is tremendously cheesy, but the excellent car and a compulsive 80's
sound
track make this a movie worthy of a night in and a bucket of popcorn. Put
up
your feet, put your brain to bed, sit back and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
It makes me laugh when I read bad reviews of this movie. No one claimed
it was a classic, no claimed it would win awards or prizes for depth of
storyline etc.

What it does have is earnest performances, fantastic fx, amazing score
and very pretty photography.

Yes, laugh at the shadow of the camera (in the days before monitors)
during the race scenes, at least they bothered to use real cars on real
roads at high speed, unlike pathetic cgi cars (fast & the furious, 2
fast 2 furious, gone in 60 seconds) with crap physics.

This movie is totally innovative, nothing like it before or since and
there are a lot of techniques used in this movie that I haven't seen
bettered since. The bit where Jake's scrambler breaks into 4 meteorites
still looks great, the tasteful re-animation of the Wraith mobile after
crashes (nowadays that would probably be done using reverse
photography).

The action scenes in Mad Max & Mad Max 2 are sped up and look
ridiculous. (Watch the bit in Mad Max 2 just before he crashes his
Interceptor...you'll see.)

The acting is pantomimish (baddies=very bad, goodies=very good) but
that is the style of this movie. We know that these actors are capable
of more in-depth characterisations, but this is a shallow b-movie.
That's all it's supposed to be. Anyone who watches this movie and
expects anything other than popcorn fodder is an absolute idiot.
Moaning about technical problems and poor acting only makes you look
like an idiot. And let's face it, even today's biggest blockbusters are
chock full of mistakes and glitches.

You don't watch a Carry On movie and then say "Oh, that was quite
unrealistic, and the acting is bad." That's the point. It's silly
farce. You're not supposed to take it seriously!

I'm also aware that Charlie Sheen hates this movie and he must have
good reason.

Strangely enough, I'm surprised that this movie was not seized upon by
the pompous comic book brigade! I guess, if it was a little more Gothic
and The Wraith was brooding and had a troubled back story it would have
been more accepted. I'm glad it didn't and wasn't.

If it was made now, it would have stinking CGI fx and too much back
story.

It's a bubblegum movie. You don't like it, don't watch it. As a b-movie
for it's time, it is a technically superior easy watch which still
towers over many newer movies of the same genre. 

The Crow? Pompous nonsense!

Hellboy? Crap!

The Wraith? Know's it's place and doesn't try to overstep it's mark!

And for people moaning about rubbish acting, check out Matthew Barry's
performance when Billy Hankins realises Jake is his brother. It's an
amazing, emotionally charged moment. I dare you to disagree and if you
do you must be tripping. 

Stop henpecking this movie.....it's ace, I tell you...ACE!
<|_=00=_|>

Well, this movie is one of those half-forgotten gems of this cool decade.
As
a child I use to rent this movie over and over again but then I forgot
it's
name when I grew older. Recently, when I started to look for old cult 80s,
I
stumbled upon this little nice saga. The story is ridiculous but quite
entertaining (I love revenge ;)) and there are many strange plot-holes
through the whole movie. So why bother renting or buying this old s*** you
may ask? Well if you are a child of the 80s and saw it back then, it can
bring back some nice memories. If you are from that time but have not seen
it, you MUST see it. Everyone else, just see it and enjoy a movie with one
of the greatest cars ever on screen.
For those who have seen it I just must make some statements of some of the
major flaws in the film.
How come that the police just let the thugs steal all the nerds cars in a
small town like this? (very strange)
And why don't the stupid morons see that they're next to die on the list
when their buddies fall off one buy one. No fear at all...=)
Well... all and all a funny flash-back. You know from like ten minutes
into
the movie how the end will be, but you'll KEEP on looking...
<|_=00=_|>
Let's be serious... this movie isn't meant to win an Oscar. It's just
supposed to be fun and in my opinion succeeds on every level. The
script is hokey, yet there are some really tender moments, like when
Billy Hankins realizes who the Wraith really is. The acting is OK but
this isn't Shakespeare. This movie is a great escape. Plus the revenge
angle is definitely cool. The ending is actually a little reminiscent
of "High Plains Drifter", where there is that one unspoken moment where
fantasy and reality blur. This is actually one of my favorite films of
the 80's. Sure it is massively dated, but, interesting none the less.
Just a side note.... one of the waitresses at the drive in is a young
Brook Burke of Wild On and Rockstar INXS fame!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Very few films past or present stray from the predictable form of a
fluid linear narrative. Exposition, conflict, resolution, and possibly
an occasional flashback or revisiting of an earlier moment---these are
all staples of visual story telling. 

Charlie Sheen's late 80's action masterpiece THE WRAITH, however,
successfully ventures down a road much less traveled by filmmakers, a
road which guides viewers through an assemblage of scenes which seem
somehow related, but give no indication of how or why.

Ingeniuosly, the many questions of THE WRAITH, much like the guiding
directions in other impressionist images, provide a grander picture of
a straight forward story of love, loss, and revenge. Who is the angelic
avenger that, one by one, picks off the gang of road-rash-ruffians in a
futuristic car? Who, inexplicably halfway through the picture, receives
his untimely demise from the ruffians in the trunk of car? Can it be
the same character so craftily played by Sheen, a charming young man
who both befriends the young short-order chef and knocks boots with the
buxomly Sherilyn Flynn? 

Thankfully the audience is given a clue to THE WRAITH's avante-garde
modus in the air brushed leather jacket of Nick Cassavettes: the
skull-among-flames symbolizes many things, maybe most important of
which is the picture's dramatic refutation of sensible organization.
The line between the beautiful, bone-white skull and the jacket's hot,
licking flames, is blurred in the same fashion as the line of narrative
arch which threads through THE WRAITH.

80's Action connoisseurs will appreciate the steely-eyed performance
Sheen gives, as well as the supplemental contributions of Chuck Howard
and Randy "Uncle Eddy" Quaid. From the first moment Flynn appears on
the screen, there can be no doubt that Sheen will take her to the
mat---or in this case, an Arizona hot spring---and there can be no
doubt that Cassevettes and co. will receive their devilish comeuppance.
During the course of such a spectacle, the audience must then
ultimately ask itself, will we be able to handle the power contained in
rest of this film? And if so, more importantly, will we be able to ever
again stomach the banality of traditional film?
<|_=00=_|>
My brothers and I used to watch this movie all the time, probably when
it was on HBO back in the day. It was a nice piece of nostalgia. Since
I had viewed it so much as a kid, it was like going back and watching a
movie you almost know by heart but at the same time weren't really sure
what was going to happen next.

The soundtrack was great, with the likes of Ozzy, Billy Idol, Robert
Palmer and others. Looking at all that 80's "fashion" was fun too. The
DVD box didn't say the year but I had determined it to be about '86 or
'87.

I couldn't help but draw a comparison to this storyline and that of
"The Crow". "The Crow" is definitely a darker piece of fun but the same
"guy done wrong takes revenge and finds his girl" wasn't hard to miss.

All in all, if you're looking for something fun, with a great
soundtrack, cool cars and fast car races, check it out!
<|_=00=_|>
Back in 1986, The Wraith just about qualified as a moderately
entertaining alternative should the video rental shop be all out of
copies of Aliens or Top Gun; however, when watched twenty three years
later from a nostalgic point of view, this silly supernatural revenge
flick actually proves to be a whole heap of fun. Charlie Sheen's
lifeless performance; the sheer naffness of the race scenes; an
ever-present pop/rock soundtrack; Nick Cassavetes' ridiculously nasty
boo-hiss bad guy; a collection of annoying comic-book punks with
idiotic names and silly mannerisms: The Wraith is perfect for anyone
looking for some mindless popcorn action and a bit of a laugh at the
expense of the decade that taste forgot.

Sheen plays a restless spirit who returns from the afterlife in a turbo
charged ghost car to seek revenge on the reprehensible road pirates
responsible for his death, rescue roller waitress Keri (the scorching
Sherilyn Fenn) from the clutches of psychotic killer Packard Walsh
(Cassavetes), and say goodbye to his younger brother Billy (Matthew
Barry).

Although the film's star isn't really given that much to do (for much
of the time, Sheen's character is hidden behind he wheel of his
otherworldly car or in a silly cyberpunk suit and black full-face
helmet), the excellent supporting cast more than make up for his
absence: Randy Quaid is great as a desert cop trying to make sense of
the carnage; Clint Howard gives another memorable performance as a
mechanic with crazy hair; and Fenn is effortlessly sexy, and gets her
top off once or twice during proceedings.

With more cheese than one of the burgers served up by Keri at the Big K
bar, The Wraith is a great time-waster and recommended to all fans of
80s cult cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
If you care to travel back to 1986, you'll see a young and not-yet
popular Charlie Sheen star as a ghost with a vengeance. This, of
course, means that you'll have to endure a few eighties quirks, which
gave the decade its unique character.

"The Wraith" is a creative story about a bunch of drag-racing town
bullies who are into taking what they wish, mostly by force. The town
police (although shown as macho) appear feckless in apprehending the
thugs. The town's populus remain largely actionless due to their fear.
The kingpin of these hooligans is Packard Walsh (Nick Cassavetes - son
of famous actor John Cassavetes). Charlie Sheen plays Jake, the
reincarnation of a slain victim (Jamie) of the town thugs. He appears
out of nowhere and soon begins conversations with Packard Walsh's
girlfriend, an action considered lethal. Soon a mysterious driver with
an exotic, futuristic-looking car (the real-life Dodge-Chrysler
Interceptor M4S) appears on the scene and begins drag-racing Packard's
gang into the grave.

This film gives us some great eighties in it's soundtrack which
includes Robert Palmer and Billy Idol. It also gives a look at the
popular "punk" look of the eighties in the character of Skank. I
recently discovered that the Wraith's car was a real-life automobile.
And only one original model was actually loaned from Chrysler. The
other shots were of "shell" models, without engines, etc. During the
filming of the good drag-race shots on the mountainsides outside of
Tuscon, one of the crew members was killed and another critically
wounded.

I had some dislike for the film in the completely idiotic and helpless
nature of Packard's thugs. In fact, I had a bit of trouble in believing
the entire town's pacifisim towards Packard. There is one strange scene
involving a sexual encounter between Packard and some local girl, where
she thanks the sheriff for showing up. This just didn't add any
credibility. But then again the whole movie is a bit incredible,
especially the Wraith's car and its ability to keep that Windex shine
after blowing up. And I never did figure out what the deal was with
that one part that glowed at the end of every crash. More 80's sfx...?
I chuckled for an instant though when I saw the Wraith enter Packard's
warehouse in that "spacesuit" with what appeared to be a "space
shotgun". What was the deal with that? I was beginning to think Jake's
body was beamed aboard an alien ship before he died and now he was
returning with their technology.

A good story for the eighties, but not one to take too seriously. Be
sure to admire Sherilyn Fenn's teeny character, Keri. Oh, I also read
you can buy an M4S Interceptor replica for about $70,000. Ouch! 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
The Wraith is the perfect movie to watch on a Saturday night. The film
is much more than the amazing cars and the great 80s soundtrack. 

The Wraith is a film that centers on the arrival of a new guy in
town-Jake Keesey (played by Charlie Sheen). His arrival will disrupt
the activities of Packard Walsh's gang of car thieves. Almost at the
same time as Jake's arrival, a new car roars into the lives of Packard
and his gang. This strange black car causes everyone in the gang to
feel as if they need to race it. Yet what no one knows is that the new
strange car is out to destroy Packard's gang. And there is something
else. The Wraith. A mysterious spirit that is somehow connected to the
new car. Packard soon realizes that there is something strange going
on, something that is perhaps connected to him..to something that he
and his gang did..perhaps even connected to that new guy in town, Jake.

I think The Wraith is a fantastic movie,although in my opinion, the
film could have been more creative with the car racing sequences and
maybe could have explained a bit more about Jake and his past, but
otherwise I have no other criticisms. The gang of bad guys was mean but
at the same time they offered comedic relief and fun. Characters such
as Skank (played by David Sherrill)will always be memorable whenever I
watch this film. I also have to comment on the fantastic soundtrack,
great wardrobe, and great opening sequence. 

The Wraith is a fun thrill ride through the 1980s.
