
This was a nice surprise. I figured it would be stupid and not all that
funny. Wrong. It WAS funny. Yes, it's a harmless "no-brainer" type of
movie but it was fun and had likable lead characters, people you could
easily root for to make good. In this, it was a pair of security
guards: "Frank Dooley" (John Candy) and "Norman Kane" (Eugene Levy). 

Every comedy has its stupid moments, this included, but the good
outweighs the stupid. What also makes this above-average is that it is
not just a comedy. There is action and suspense in here and the
combination works. Believe me, this film is not all laughs.

I watch this and makes me sad that Candy is no longer with us. He was a
great entertainer.
<|_=00=_|>

Armed and Dangerous is one of John Candy's best films! Eugene Levy, Meg
Ryan, Brion James, Robert Loggia, James Tolkan, Kenneth McMillan, and Tom
Lister Jr. were all good. I loved the performance Lister and Candy did
together! I don 't like to make fun of anybody but it was so funny every
time Candy would make fun of him and I loved Lister doing his Zeus
Trademark
in the film! If are a fan of John Candy and the above cast mention and
love
hilarious action packed comedies with good music then I strongly recommend
that you watch this classic movie soon!
<|_=00=_|>

Although I'll probably take some heat from saying this, but I love this
film.  I grew up watching it and it gets funnier every time I see it.  If
you're a die hard Candy fan, you have got to see this movie.  Although
this
isn't Candy's best film, it definitely shouldn't be overlooked.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the movies that I dont see why people hate it. It was too me
a funny movie. Maybe it's the fact im a fan of the talent involved with this
movie. John Candy is good like usual. Eugene Levy is good as usual. Meg ryan
looks good.. :D what? Was this supposed to be the godfather? no. its just
fun, and funny movie. It's too me a good movie. But since I am trying(and
failing) to add more meat to these reviews i post here's the plot outline i
stole from imdb. heheh

Frank Dooley is an ex-cop, thrown out of the force after being framed by
corrupt colleagues. Herman Kane is an out of work attorney who quit because
he lost his nerve. Both men turn to a private security firm to find
employment, but everything goes quickly wrong when the first warehouse they
guard gets robbed! Dooley and Kane suspect foul-play, and there's something
fishy about the security firm's union too. Our two heroes decide to
investigate, and uncover intrigue and conspiracy, with only their ingenuity
and resourcefulness keeping them alive

Thanks to Simon N for that plot summary. It's a decent plot, I still cant
see whats so bad about this movie. Oh no. theres one scene that might
offened people but im not going to get into how stupid i think getting
offened by a movie is: but that scene is when candy and levy go into this
sex store and stuff happened. I wont ruin it because that's probably the
funniest part of this funny movie. 7/10 or 70%
<|_=00=_|>

This film is an all-time movie classic.  Candy shines in this clumsy romp
with the laughs flowing thick and fast.  The all-star cast shows the
obvious
appeal of the script and doesn't fail to deliver in a film that appeals
to a
wide age-range.  The plot takes a back seat as the best enjoyment comes
from
watching the cast deliver and the effervescent John Candy performing at
his
comedy best.  This film has a feel-good factor and the quality of the
performance has brought me laughs again and again.
<|_=00=_|>
While most reviews describe this movie as 'just an average comedy',
even at this, Armed and Dangerous is a laugh and a half. It's charming,
fast-paced, and furthermore, I adored Candy and Levy's interactions
on-screen. One minute, they're ragging on each other, the next, they're
the best of friends.

The movie also has, though almost impossible to find a copy of, an
excellent soundtrack, including "Armed and Dangerous" by Atlantic
Starr, and, of course, half a dozen or so other popular 80s hits. With
that, the movie is also on DVD, and while it doesn't have much in the
way of extras, it does include anamorphic widescreen with Dolby Stereo
2.0 Surround Sound.

Possibly the only complaint one could make we might all agree on was
that it was just too short. At just under an hour and a half, as
endearing as each minute is, the film does leave much to be desired.

All in all, Armed and Dangerous is a mid-80s classic well-worth
watching. It's the perfect blend of action and comedy, and SCTV fans
will find that it's no flop for either Candy or Levy; even as the
script is considered by some to be lacking, both hide it well.
<|_=00=_|>
Frank (John Candy) is a good policeman but he is framed for theft when
he catches other officers pilfering electronics. He is kicked off the
force in short order. Meanwhile, Norman (Eugene Levy) is an inept
lawyer who messes up big time when he assigned to defend a Charles
Manson type offender. The judge in the case orders Norman to find
alternative work. With few options, Frank and Norman both enroll in a
security guard officers training school, where they become fast friends
and partners. This is, in part, because so many of their classmates are
complete idiots, like the man who wonders if he should put his own name
on the application line that says "name"! Frank and Norman's first
assignment is to stand watch inside a factory but they soon realize
that their company, Guard Dog Security, may have some criminals on the
staff, ones that are stealing from the companies they are supposed to
be guarding. Can Frank and Norman, with the help of the firm-owner's
daughter, Maggie (Meg Ryan), expose the bad elements in the company,
without getting fired or killed? This is a very funny film with
abundant laughs. Yes, it may be considered a more "low-brow" vehicle,
but it is still very mirthful and will cause any viewer to laugh
themselves silly. Just watching the less-than-intelligent guards on the
staff of the security firm makes for a fun, fun evening. Candy, Levy,
and Ryan are terrific but, then, so are the relative unknowns who round
out the rest of the cast. Sets, costumes, and production values are
great, too. If you want to see a classic Candy film, this is a great
choice, for it displays his marvelous and abundant talent, no doubt.
But, anyone truly wishing to transport themselves to a world of
laughter will find this one a very good choice.
<|_=00=_|>


I saw this movie for the first time last month,
and im still laughing about it!! This movie has
some of the funniest parts ever in it. This movie
isnt as funny as Planes, Trains, and Automobiles,
but it's pretty darn close!! If you liked Planes,
Trains, and Automobiles, you should definately check
this one out.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie about a framed police officer and an inept lawyer -
turned - security guards. Once licensed and assigned to their new jobs,
they uncover a labor union (teamster/Mafia) plot to embezzle a load of
money from the employees Pension and Welfare Fund. 

John Candy is almost serious in this role as he ferrets out the bad
guys, defends the honor of Meg Ryan's character (Maggie Cavanaugh) and
helps to reverse her father's wayward ethics. 

Oddly enough, Eugene Levy is the funny guy to Candy's "straight man"
act. It is an odd formula, but it was quite effective. This is one of
Candy's better movies, and the most serious role in which I've seen
him, thus far. (LOVED Candy's small role as Augie Morosco in "Once Upon
A Crime," 1992) 

---

(On the firing range, after a demonstration) "As you can see, it's
really quite simple. Just remember, when you pull the trigger, the
bullets come out going very, very fast. So make sure to keep the weapon
pointed away from you. Now that's about it, you are now ARMED guards,
God help us all." Maggie Cavanaugh.

---

I am a true John Candy fan, and own most of his movies. But while many
of his fans have all but dogged this production, I found it quite
entertaining and a breath of fresh air. 

Also starring Tom 'Tiny' Lister Jr. as "Bruno" (President Lindberg in
"Fifth Element" and many, many more), Robert Loggia as "Michael
Carlino," a Jimmy Hoffaesque character, and Kenneth McMillan as
"Captain Clarence O'Connell," Maggie Cavanaugh's father. 

Meg Ryan's performance was sweet and honest. She has done better, but
this was in 1986 and her experience was not yet as worldly as it is
now. Even without taking that into consideration, hers was one of the
brightest of the supporting roles. 

In the end, Candy's character's reputation is redeemed and his life as
a law enforcement officer is restored and plays out to a very
satisfying 1980's ending.

While there are better comedies out there, and also while most of
Candy's other movies are better, this is one of my favorites of his
line.

It gets a 6.8/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
In a way, maybe it does weaken "Armed and Dangerous" just a little to
have so much high action, but how can you not like a John Candy/Eugene
Levy movie? In this case, they play security guards who discover all
sorts of corruption. But mostly, it's an excuse to be silly. Low humor,
sure, but still likable (especially the clothing-switching scene; I bet
that they liked filming that!).

Anyway, it's one of many movies that shows what we lost when John Candy
died. In other words, it's armed and dangerously funny. Also starring
Robert Loggia (happy birthday, Robert!), Kenneth McMillan and Meg Ryan.

A 50 caliber...
