
Prior to seeing this movie, all I had heard suggested that I was better
off not watching it unless it was to ridicule. I looked at my uncle
dancing round his living room to some of its music and asked myself if
anybody expected me to take that seriously. It's got a place in movie
history even for the title song alone, though, so I decided I couldn't
live with myself unless I gave it a chance. It was definitely worth it.

The style is reminiscent of a whole host of other '80's teen flicks,
but only a handful are better. Most of the cast do great things with
their roles. Kevin Bacon actually manages to make the clichéd concept
seem kinda cool, here showcasing an easy charm that was to become the
hallmark of much of his later work. Crucially, the music is actually
pretty good too! (Even if I am torn between wanting to cringe and dance
when I hear the theme!)

On reflection it's no cheesier than something like "All the Right
Moves" (which has a great cast doing their best but suffers from a
plodding story) In fact, it's miles better! At least the music in
"Footloose" gave the makers a viable way to pep things up whenever the
story begins to flag. This film is much, MUCH better than I had been
led to believe, so give it a chance if you ain't seen it yet but
thought you knew the score. Chances are, you don't...
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

The mixing of the sacred with the profane in this movie would have kept
Durkheim up at nights. I can tell you this, it has two good songs the
title and Let's Hear It For The Boy, like Flashdance they had to import
Cougar's Hurt So Good to conceal how bad the rest of the score is.
Dienne Wiest, could she be more saintly? Did she come from heaven in a
beam of pure light? Young people, when you are Wren, I know, it is
misspelled for a reason, the whole world really does not stop when you
drive up playing that awful Quiet Riot crap. See, even small towns have
their own indigenous deviants, some of which probably make Wren look
like a Sunday school teacher. I love that, the whole school comes to a
stop when he drives up. There is a word for that it is: Narcissism.
They would not have given a big poop. Did you enjoy seeing action star
Christopher Penn humiliated like that? No wonder he passed away. I bet
he preferred the scene in Best of the Best 2 where he gets his neck
snapped. The movie is painful; Lori Singer single handedly destroyed
the Man With One Red Shoe. Her beauty is equaled only by her abysmal
acting. 

I am sorry, votaries, but when I saw this in a theater people were
giggling all through Wren's Bible lecture on How God is in to Disco.
Please, OK, have mercy, we are eating out here stick to your bad
haircut and go bust a seem on your jeans dorky boy. Yes, Wren the
expert on theology and how it applies to bad dancing. Trust me, he can
read any Psalm he likes if God saw their dancing He would have taken
that out of the old testament. Even granting the silly premise, the
movie is bad beyond belief. Did somebody say Herbert Ross, the genius
who made Undercover Blues? Yes, he is like Stanley Kubrick. The movie
is so contrived, silly and unintentionally drop dead funny. I agree
with the above reviewer, it is better than Flashdance but so is a pile
of dog poop. We get Lord Worfin playing the world's most unbelievable
preacher with his saintly wife kindly castrating him for his own good.
The whole Electra complex with Ariel and Elmer Gantry: BORING. I can
understand her death wish; hey, if I were in this movie I would step in
front of a train too. 

Gee, show of hands, how many people thought Fire and Brimstone boy
wouldn't give in and there would be no dance? Wren leaves town and they
all jump off the bridge? The ending is known in advance by anyone who
can get ten neurons firing. The scene with Wren testing the limits of
his pant's seems in the warehouse is drop dead funny. I and my buddies
were not the only people laughing. It made a lot of money but people
were giggling all through this turkey. See, if you know the ending
within five minutes of the beginning it bores the hell out of us.
Herbert Ross made that piece of excrement Seems Like Old Times, and his
only big hit The Sunshine Boys is one half of a good movie; the second
half is dismal. Only Lithgow can act, he gets terrible performances out
of the rest of the cast. Wiest is a 9 on the sphincter scale. 

Yes, you will want to cut loose: we all did right out of the freaking
theater on this dorkorama cheese ball special. It is full of scenes
that are funny that are supposed to be serious and vice versa. A True
Lobotomy Special: try hitting yourself in the head many times before
viewing. It gets better and better the more brain cells you lose. HOKEY
POKEY
<|_=00=_|>
OK, maybe I'm giving in to nostalgia here but I rented "Footloose"
recently and thought it was great. Yes, it's definitely a teen flick,
similar to "Dirty Dancing", and aging a little now.

But the music is great and the plot and themes do as much for me as
"Grease" ever did. As teen movies go, it is somewhat original and
interesting.

Who should see this film:

-- Teens with nothing better to do on a rainy day

-- People reliving the 1980s, you won't be disappointed to

see this one again

I'll give Footloose a 9 out of 10 because it cheered me up on a day I
needed it.
<|_=00=_|>

"Footloose" is a fun and very lighthearted motion picture that promises a
good time and delivers.

The film has a simple, if unlikely, plotline.  Streetsmart but gentle
teenager Ren MacCormack(Kevin Bacon) arrives from the big city with his
mother in the backwater town of Bomont.  Enrolling at the local high
school,
he is appalled to discover the town's adults have imposed a law on "public
dancing" and rock music, as enforced and practiced by the local
preacher(John Lithgow).  Ren quickly sets about changing things, falling
in
love with the preacher's daughter Ariel (Lori Singer) in the
process.

The story is a little unlikely yet it is perfectly suitable for the
teenaged
audience at which it is pitched.  The script takes some time to explore
its
simple theme - dancing and rock music, and what they symbolise for young
people.  Three scenes help to lay this out.  The first sees Ren dancing by
himself in a barn; the town meeting where Ren presents his case to the
townspeople and explains to them the meaning of the dance; and the final
prom sequence in which the teens of Bomont revel in their newfound
liberation.

As the leading man, Kevin Bacon carries off his role very well.  Ren isn't
really a macho hero revelling in coolness, he's a down-to-earth young man
trying to the right thing by his peers.  His romance with Lori Singer's
character Ariel is formulaic but perfectly inoffensive.

The film could have perhaps done with a little more nastiness to fully
contrast against Ren's earnest intentions.  Even Ariel's brutish
boyfriend(Jim Young) fails to inject much tension in this respect and the
final fistfight between him and Ren comes across as being a bit
lame.

John Lithgow's characterisation is very good but it is a little too
subtle.
As the town Reverend and preacher of all things pure and holy, his extreme
views come across not so much as puritanical, just merely uptight.  The
change that eventually occurs in his attitudes is hinted at very early on.
The result is that he is nowhere near is frightening or intimidating a
character as he could have been.  At the same time his troubled
relationships with his rebellious daughter and quiet wife(Dianne Wiest)
are
very well written and acted.  In these scenes he excels and his
character's
development seems very natural.

On the technical side, the film is well-shot and the gloriously Eighties
soundtrack complements the proceedings very well, bringing the necessary
exhuberance and bounce to the whole movie.

Whilst "Footloose" is certainly no masterpiece, it succeeds in being a
lighthearted knockabout caper, and as such is a very enjoyable movie.

<|_=00=_|>
Teenager Ren (Kevin Bacon) moves to a small mid Western town with his
mom after his parents divorce. It seems the Reverend Moore (John
Lithgow), of the town's only church, has totally banned rock and roll
music from the entire town. He has a daughter named Ariel (Lori Singer)
who is basically a hell-raiser--yet loves her father. Rem decides to
stop the ban and bring the town back to life.

OK--we're not dealing with reality here at ALL! A town banning rock
music entirely is ridiculous and the town only has ONE church? And the
game of chicken using tractors was just silly. And don't get me started
on how Bacon, Singer, Chris Penn and Sarah Jessica Parker look WAY too
old to be high school students--Singer was THIRTY when she did this!
And how the heck did all the kids from the town learn how to dance so
quickly? But, as a no brain musical, this does work.

The opening sequence alone is great (it shows various feet dancing to
the title tune). Also the acting helps a lot. Bacon is just great--he
doesn't take the movie too seriously and gives out a very good
performance. He also has a big dance number (to a song called "Never")
which is him and THREE different stuntman doing the more unrealistic
moves. Singer is too old for her role but she tries. Penn is pretty
good as Bacon's best friend--his learning how to dance sequence is a
highlight. Parker did this before she was known and she's not bad.
Lithgow and Wiest are just great as the Reverend and his wife--Wiest
has a great scene where she calmly tells him off and Lithgow (wisely)
does not play the Reverend as a one-note character. You see him trying
to understand his daughter and slowly realizing that music isn't bad.

So--this is no "Singin in the Rain" but for a 1980s teen musical it's
lots of fun. Great songs too. Just turn off your brain and enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
Aw, come on IMDb'ers, why the low rating? Where's your sense of
loyalty? I can't hear that Kenny Loggins title song and see those pairs
of dancing feet during the opening credits without sitting down to
watch this whole movie. And even if it's largely to make fun of it, I
still love it for old times' sake.

Kevin Bacon is the tough city kid stuck in some podunk Midwest town
where dancing has been outlawed. John Lithgow is the preacher who
serves as Bacon's arch nemesis; Lori Singer is the preacher's daughter
who has a hankering for the new dangerous kid. Dianne Wiest is the
reasonable mom who acts as referee between dad and daughter. The whole
thing is sillier than an episode of "Laugh-In," but many of the actors
(particularly Lithgow, Wiest and Bacon) are good enough to actually
sell the material. And come on, admit it, you know you like the music.

Grade: B+
<|_=00=_|>
Footloose is the reason why the 80's became such a hit there were so
many great movies back then and this one is no exception i do like
Kevin Bacon and he was really good in this movie and the dance scenes
were really good performed and directed there's also some fight scenes
and pretty much the final fight in the movie was the best i mean boot
in the face. Rotten Tomatoes gave the movie i think a 59% or something
and i try to understand how do they hate movies that they turned out to
be Classics on todays standards? Critics even hated The Shining and
Predator and even IMDb gave it a 6.5 i mean common? it's nowhere near
that bad it's a great great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
After the abandonment of his father, Ren McCormack (Kevin Bacon) and
his mother move from Chicago to live with his Aunt Lulu (Lynne Marta)
and Uncle Wes (Arthur Rosenberg) in the small town of Bomont. While
there, Ren experiences culture shock in learning that dancing and
secular music were against the law due to the death of teenagers
involved in an automobile accident after a dance five years prior to
his arrival. Desperate to fit in with the town's society, yet unwilling
to assimilate to its customs, Ren is compelled to generate a revolution
by standing up to the town administrators and proposing a senior prom.
With the help of his friends Willard (Chris Penn), Rusty (Sarah Jessica
Parker), and Ariel (Lori Singer), the dance is passed and the town is
resolved to a positive change. 

Within the film "Footloose", the themes of courage, bravery, and hope
can be found. Ren had to find bravery and courage within himself in
order to take a stand against the town council in proposing the hosting
of a senior prom. Willard, Rusty, and Ariel had to generate courage and
hope in knowing that their support to Ren's cause would show approved
and that the oppressive laws would be abolished. 

Many found this film to be entertaining with its lovable characters,
musical score, and happy ending. Kevin Bacon plays Ren McCormick and
portrays him with a spunky, big city attitude. Willard is played by
Chris Penn and is the goofy, redneck friend of Ren. Rusty, played by
Sarah Jessica Parker, is the longtime sweetheart of Willard and is
always worrisome. Ariel, played by Lori Singer, is the rebellious
daughter of the minister and teenage love of Ren. I enjoyed this
character combination because their personalities cause me to reminisce
about my best friends during my high school years. The film also
featured the hit singles of Bonnie Tyler's "Holding Out For A Hero" and
Kenny Loggins'"Footloose," which electrified the dance numbers within
the movie. Lastly, happy endings are classical ways of ending good
stories, especially this one. With the abolishment of the strict
dancing laws and the hosting of a dance, Ren fought for what he
believed and achieved his ending goal.
<|_=00=_|>
Yeah you heard me... Footloose is based on a TRUE STORY. Unlikely as it
seems, it really happened in the small town of Elmore City, Oklahoma in
1980. My dad, Leonard Coffee (a.k.a. Ren McCormack a.k.a. Kevin
Bacon...all breakfast items? what a coincidence...lol) was a junior at
Elmore City High School. This was a minuscule town, with a population
of around 750, and there were about 50 or so Baptist churches...so
naturally the town's rules and regulations were a bit extreme. There
was an archaic town ordinance that banned dancing in public, and it
hadn't been abolished. Elmore had never had a junior/senior prom! So my
dad fought the system with the help of his best friend, Rex Kennedy
(the junior class president), and they were allowed to have a prom for
the first time, and Elmore has had prom every year since. I don't know
who sold the story, but unfortunately we got no money lol! There were a
few things in the movie that didn't actually happen (Ariel Moore,
Reverend Moore, the book burning, oh and playing chicken on the
tractors!), but it is mostly accurate. The kids did have to go to
surrounding communities like Pauls Valley and Lindsay to dance and
party, and my dad drove the exact same car that Ren drives in the
movie! So there you have it, the REAL story of Footloose. If you
haven't seen it...watch it!
<|_=00=_|>

I used to LOVE this movie, and I remember I got the soundtrack for Easter
when I was like, 11 or something. It really is a crummy movie, but oddly
engaging... mainly because it is so incredibly surreal and laughable in
how
it takes itself so seriously.

*Possible Spoilers*

I remember even as a kid, I thought "Holy cow, for a town that didn't
allow
dancing and music for years, these kids sure can dance well."  What are
even
funnier are the people who are in it - Lithgow did this film two years
after
Garp. Did he think that this was going to be a meaty role? But then again,
he did willingly star in Third Rock from the Sun. And Dianne Wiest - Woody
Allen staple and Oscar winner, who has about 4 lines in the movie. Her job
is to pretty much look pensive and pious. I don't think I even need to
bring
up Mr. Kevin Bacon and his goofy dance through the grain mill.

While this film is not as inherently horrible as say, Xanadu, it's also
not
nearly as hilarious because it takes itself waaaaaaay too seriously. Of
course, it has its moments, especially the part where the dance is
beginning
and no one is dancing. Why? Let's pretend it's not because Kevin Bacon
isn't
there in his stupid outfit to scream "Let's Daaaaaaaance!!!!!!!!",
(rather,
is outside getting his ass beat down by the head redneck until he somehow
manages to pull out of it and kick said redneck's ass. How the hell did
THAT
happen?) But in reality because the song playing is the Loverboy guy and
Ann
Wilson's "Almost Paradise." I think that as kids if we were sexually
oppressed and sheltered and that song came on we wouldn't have danced to
that crap song either.  Yes, this was the 80's, and mid-80's to boot so
the
clothes, dancing and dialogue are hilariously dated.  These kids must have
somehow obtained pirate copies of Radio Free Solid Gold Dancers or
something, especially the skinny white kid doing "The Robot".

This movie is up there with 80's `classics' like `Flashdance' where we
find
that while most of us loved the movie as kids, we see it through adult
eyes
twenty years later and realize what our parents probably thought:  `What a
crap movie.'  The difference being, our nostalgia sometimes compels us to
avoid averting our eyes, like a train wreck.

--Shelly

