

Through the eyes of an alien, we view our world.  Such is the beauty of John
Carpenter's 'Starman'.  His gentle alien comes in the form of a human clone
(Jeff Bridges), and as we watch him interact with the rest of our race, we
see both the good and the bad in all of us.  It is this particular role that
I find to be Jeff Bridge's most superb acting (or close to it, given his
amazing work in 'The Fisher King').  To me he always did seem an alien in an
unfamiliar human body, rather than the actor "Jeff Bridges".  While there is
certainly some over-simplification in the movie, and it can get a little
sappy, I find the 'sap' in this case to be both touching and beautiful.  How
wonderful, how sad, how miraculous, to watch ourselves through the innocent
and wise eyes of this alien being.  A brilliant look at human beings, a
sweet love story, and an excellent exploration of our spirit.
<|_=00=_|>

This beautiful and funny science fiction film comes very close to being my
all-time favorite movie.  This film is about love.  An alien lands on Earth
to investigate the life-forms, and encounters Karen Allen.  A cross-country
chase ensues as our alien has to meet up with his starship in Arizona. 

But for me, the main point of this film is not the chase, the cloning by the
alien, the humor throughout the film, or the eventual outcome which led into
the subsequent TV series.  The focal point comes in the diner where our
alien asks Karen Allen to "Define Love."  If everyone would take this
definition to heart, this world would be a much better
place!

This is what movie making should strive to achieve.  This film has virtually
everything...  romance, humor, action, suspense, a gorgeous soundtrack,
beautiful cinematography, an intelligent screenplay with a most important
message, and talented actors and actresses.  I gave it a SOLID 10! 


<|_=00=_|>
Jeff Bridges is one of my favorite actors and it's a shame that he has
not yet won an Oscar. He has been acting for thirty-five years and only
been nominated four times. Starman (1984) gave him his third nomination
and while he had tough competition that year, F. Murray Abraham and Tom
Hulce in Amadeus, his performance is brilliant and every bit as good.
The way that Bridges takes the character and the little glitches in his
movement and speech are fascinating. It is a complete transformation
and it's flawless. I was reminded of how Dustin Hoffman played his
character in Rain Man with all his little stutters and twitching, but
Hoffman studied the disease and had something to work with. Bridges
pulls this performance off from scratch and hits a bullseye. Karen
Allen and Charles Martin Smith are both good as well and the score is
wonderful. The story may be a bit derivative and there are some story
lulls, but who cares. This is a must-see movie simply for Bridges
performance.

*** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
John Carpenter directed "Starman" in 1984, hot off the mega-success of
the landmark horror movie "Halloween" in 1978 and the cult science
fiction/adventure flick "Escape from New York" in 1981. "Starman" was a
significant departure and change-of-pace from all of Carpenter's
earlier works.

While essentially a science fiction story involving all the essentials
- aliens, the United States Army, government cover-ups, a countrywide
chase adventure and what's this, an intergalactic love story? -
Carpenter is able to make sense of the material in such a way that it
is both respectful to the sci-fi genre, the sci-fi fans, and to the
audience members who may not give a crap about this sort of stuff and
only want their corn popped.

The biggest surprise about "Starman" is the script by Bruce A. Evans
and Raynold Gideon. They're able to strip a laughable story of all that
makes it laughable and create something new, something that is
intelligent, heart-warming, action-packed, and romantic. Carpenter
takes his cues from the material and makes everything in this wondrous
sci-fi/action piece his own. And who can forget that awesome
synthesizer score by Jack Nitzsche (strange since Carpenter usually
composes his own film scores)?

Evans and Gideon's script, taking its cues from "The Day the Earth
Stood Still" (1951) and "E.T. the Extraterrestrial" (1982), concerns an
alien who has come to Earth after answering an invitation he found on
the Voyager II space probe. However, his ship is attacked by fighter
jets and he manages to make it to the Wisconsin cabin of young widow
Jenny Hayden (Karen Allen), still grieving the death of her husband.
After sampling DNA taken from a lock of hair of her late husband, the
alien grows into a human clone of him, where he is now played by the
actor Jeff Bridges.

After overcoming the obvious speech barrier when he learns to speak in
English, Starman then requests that Jenny Hayden drive him from
Wisconsin to Arizona, where he will meet the mother ship that will take
him back to his home planet. Unfortunately, they only have a few days
before he'll die from what we can only guess is exposure to our
atmosphere. Matters are further complicated when the military becomes
involved, desperate to catch Starman at all costs, much to the horror
of laboratory rat Mark Shermin (Charles Martin Smith). Along the way,
Jenny grows from being fearful of this visitor from another planet, to
respecting him and finally loving him, while he gets to learn about
human beings and BEING human.

It's not enough to say that both Jeff Bridges and Karen Allen are this
film's magical centerpiece. They certainly make for one of the most
dynamic, unusual and interesting screen couples in cinematic history,
certainly one of the best screen couples in the history of science
fiction cinema. The real stand-out of course is Bridges. This is a role
that he rightfully received an Academy Award nomination for Best Actor
for. We see no trace of the actor "Jeff Bridges" in there, all we see
is "Starman," defined largely by his awkward mannerisms and patterns of
speech, and it is a skillful, humorous, and touching performance that
is the pure anti-thesis to Carpenter's earlier "The Thing" (1982).

John Carpenter, unfortunately, has not received a whole lot of
recognition for this picture. Although it remains his only film to go
to the Oscars, I only hope that this touching, once-in-a-lifetime
science fiction/adventure-romance gets the recognition it so rightfully
deserves.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I'm amazed more people didn't point out the similarities in plot to
E.T. when this adult version of basically the same tale came out. Maybe
it was because Jeff Bridges performance is absolutely mesmerising, that
you're much more interested in the characters than the plot, so you
don't notice.

Basically, a perfect little movie. Beautifully and simply set up, the
characters develop naturally in such a way that keeps you hooked right
through to the end of the film. The strength of the central
relationship distracts you from little infelicities, such as the fact
that "Jennyhayden" seems remarkably incurious about her alien visitor -
even after she gets to know him, it's not until he's about to leave
that she asks him what his world is like! The film nicely points out
the irony of our having extended welcoming greetings to the Universe,
while our own mutual distrust causes us to shoot down every unexpected
flying visitor. Having established that, however, Richard Jaekel's
character seems to be pursuing the violent solution for its own sake
without really exploring any motivation. When Charles Martin Smith
points out that our behaviour does appear a little rude, Jaekel doesn't
even have an answer for him - he's just going to try to kill the alien
because that's his role in the movie I guess! 

"Do you know what I find most beautiful about you? You are at your best
when things are at their worst."

Well, it has been 19 years - I guess that the "boy baby" has grown up.
Time for the sequel, methinks!!
<|_=00=_|>

Reading all the comments on this film, I had to add my own. Unusual
thing about the comments is that none were heavily negative. Good film
in my opinion too. But only one viewer comment mentioned something that
jumped out as I watched, and that is the heavy, but very heavy
religious overtones in the film. A creature from the heavens comes to
earth, assumes human form, has nothing but good intentions toward those
who would capture him, has the power of life and death in his hands
(the resurrection of the deer and Karen Allen), has to ascend to the
heavens in 3 days, gives a boy baby to Jenny (who can't have a child)
in a cattle car (manger) who will "be a teacher and know all that I
know". They even point out a star in the heavens that is the home of
Starman. The allegory is strong and delightful to watch. Of course the
ending is a perfect set-up for a sequel when Starman leaves the one
remaining "power ball" in Jenny's hand saying that the boy would know
what to do with it. With one exception, no movie I have ever seen with
a Roman numeral after it was worth a bag of beans, and that was
Godfather II. Starman does not need a sequel. You can write one, in
your own mind, in your own way.

And then there is Dutch apple pie...........

<|_=00=_|>

The achingly gorgeous Karen Allen and the sublime Jeff Bridges star in
this
story of love and innocence.

A magical movie, with a poignant, otherworldly score sees John Carpenter
direct a movie outside his usual genre.  Well, all the planets came into
alignment for this one, as it is a heart warming emotionally involving
ride
from start to finish.

This would be one of my 10 "Desert Island" movies.

<|_=00=_|>

Hey what a beautiful movie! Even as an alien, Jeff Bridges was brilliant.
Karen Allen, as usual, gave her all and lit up the screen. The chemistry
between the two was a delight.

This is not your typical over the top FX SciFi. It is an action drama with
an underlying love story that would interest, even those who don't like
this
genre. But then I suppose if John Carpenter were to make a movie about the
number 2758.369, it would be a interesting!

What more can I say - Great stuff!
<|_=00=_|>

A great little film, much better than I was expecting. Jeff Bridges gives
one of his best and strangest performances as the "Starman" with robotic
like movements and very funny mimicking of human behaviour.
Karenallen is wide eyed and feisty.  Only sour point is the over
saccharine
score by Jack Nitzsche, it hasn't aged well and is now a little painful to
listen to. Otherwise this is a wonderful and charming film.
(8/10)
<|_=00=_|>

	In a joint venture by the governments of the world, a space probe is
launched into the farthest reaches of the Galaxy bearing a message from the
United Nations, as well as `Greetings' in fifty-four languages; it's purpose
is to attempt to contact any extraterrestrial life and proffer an invitation
to visit us here on Earth.  In `Starman,' directed by John Carpenter, Jeff
Bridges stars as the alien who responds, only to be met with a less than
cordial greeting once he arrives.  Encountering hosts with a militaristic,
if-you-can't-identify-it-shoot-it-down attitude, Starman is forced to take
refuge and elude the very ones he has traveled so far to see.  The burning
question of course is, why?  And, unfortunately, nobody seems to
know.
	For his striking portrayal of Starman, Bridges deservedly received a Best
Actor nomination from the Academy, and it proves to be the highlight of the
film.  From the outset, even as he is transformed into the vessel he must
occupy during his stay with us ( a terrific sequence), his presence on the
screen is captivating.  He truly creates a unique character, distinct in
form and substance, from the physical gestures that define him, to the
subtle emotional depth he so aptly demonstrates and uses so well to convey
to us who this being really is.  It is through him that we are drawn in to
this story of the travails with which he is beset during his sojourn upon
our world, and with him we can only try to understand the motivation of
powerful men who seem to live their lives in fear of the unknown or
diverse.
	As Jenny Hayden, the young woman who through circumstances beyond her
control becomes involved with Starman, Karen Allen adds just the right touch
of sympathy to underscore the emotional situation in which Jenny finds
herself ensconced.  And there's just enough chemistry between her and
Bridges to make this special relationship between their characters work
effectively.  Ultimately, how they relate to one another, and the tenderness
with which they pursue their objective, becomes the real thrust and focal
point of the story.  Carpenter, in fact, would have been well advised to
have stayed more within the parameters of that relationship and explored the
workings thereof, rather than divesting the story into other, less fruitful
areas and surrounding the main characters with a plethora of stringent
stereotypes.    While an entertaining film, `Starman' is surprisingly
lacking in originality and imagination, both in story and direction; not to
say this isn't a worthwhile endeavor, because it is, and it's definitely
worth seeing.  But it just seems that Carpenter could have mined the
emotional depths a little more, developed the connection between Starman and
Jenny more fully.  Had he taken that path, this could have been a truly
exceptional movie.  As it is, it's a good film, better than the average
sci-fi offering (especially for it's time, 1984), but given that Bridges
brought so much to this with his creation of such a memorable character, the
movie as a whole could have been so much more.
	The supporting cast includes Charles Martin Smith (Mark), Richard Jaeckel
(Fox), Robert Phalen (Major Bell), Dirk Blocker (Cop #1) and M.C. Gainey
(Cop #2).  Although it is not what you would call a `great' or `classic'
movie, `Starman' does succeed in making us take pause to reconsider some of
our possibly preconceived notions of the way things are or should be; in the
end, it's a call for understanding and love between all people everywhere,
and a proposition put forth for universal peace.  And with a theme like
that, combined with the terrific performance by Bridges, you could do a lot
worse for an evenings entertainment.  I rate this one 7/10.           

