

Feast your eyes one of the last films that both Corey's will appear in that
are of any merit for the rest of their brief careers. And this can be
considered something of merit, despite the nature of the film, since they
were only teen stars. 

License to Drive is a movie about taking chances, though you can probably
figure out from beginning to end how the movie is going to go. No less, it's
good 80s fun. Les Anderson (Haim) has turned 16 and is desperate to get his
driver's license. Over-confident, it is no surprise that he flunks the exam.
But he figures no one would notice. So, he lies to his folks and friends
about the whole thing, expecting everything will be smooth sailing until he
can retake the exam. 

But Les is wrong once again when his parents learned that he lied, serving
up a harsh two week grounded term. But Les doens't know when to quit while
he's ahead, and decides he's not going to let this little matter
inconvenience him. After all, he has a Friday night date with his dream girl
Mercedes Lane (Heather Graham). Hence the line, "an innocent girl, a
harmless drive, what could possibly go wrong?" Everything. It all has to do
with Les borrowing his grandfather's antique (and very off limits)
Caddillac, a drunk date, and two friends looking for their newly licensed
friend to show them a wild night. Sure it's predictable, but it's just a
simple 80s comedy. 
<|_=00=_|>
When most people think of the seminal 80's teenage actors and films,
the first thing that comes to mind are the 'brat pack' films. Sure,
those were excellent films and very talented actors, but with all the
focus on those actors sometimes the gems get overlooked. License to
Drive is surely on of those gems.

License To Drive, one of only a few films that stars both Corey Haim
and Corey Feldman, is a perfect 80's teen comedy. Shot at the height of
both of the Coreys careers, while they were both still in high school,
the film captures their youthful spirit perfectly. License to Drive is
hilarious and outrageous while still remaining simple and easy to
follow.

Haim plays Les Anderson who like every high school kid has nothing but
girls and cars on his mind. But this isn't just any girl. Les has his
eye on the most beautiful girl in school. The bombshell is played by a
very young and beautiful, Heather Graham. When Les is lucky enough to
score a date with the bombshell, the only obstacle he must overcome is
his pending drivers license test so that he can take his fathers car to
pick her up in.

Like most high school students, Les slept through drivers education
class and when the time comes, he fails his drivers test. But the fun
has just begun. Les isn't going to let this stop him. He takes the car
anyways. Uh oh... this never turns out right. The night takes a turn
for the worse when Les's best friend (Corey Feldman) shows up with 'a
plan.' Another bad sign. Well the night just gets wilder and wilder and
ends up with Heather Graham drunk as a skunk locked in the trunk of a
car, police roadblocks, crazed militants running the streets and some
really mean and angry drag racers to boot.

License To Drive really has it all. It's a perfect 80's teenage comedy.
The DVD has loads of extra goodies including interviews with the stars
and tons of deleted footage.

Fasten your seat belts, you're in for one totally awesome ride!!!
<|_=00=_|>
One of the better 80's teen flicks in which Haim and Feldman manage to
pull off surprisingly good performances. If you are going 2watch any of
their movies make it this one as their output in the nineties as not up
to scratch. Nice to see a young Heather Graham in one of her first
decent roles as the out of reach babe Haim falls for. The film is also
complimented by the great soundtrack featuring eighties greats, Billy
Ocean, Belinda Carlisle and many others. Look out for a great cameo
from Uncle Phil from the Fresh Prince of Bel Air who plays Les' driving
instructor. The Scene with the drunk driver is especially funny. This
film is made even more hilarious by the fact that Corey Haim drove
round LA without a real driving license for many years when he was in
his wild child years. They Rock.
<|_=00=_|>
License To Drive was one of those 80's flicks that I had always wanted
to see, and yet, never could find a copy. Till now! It was playing on
TV recently and I have not only watched it, but am waiting to see if I
am fortunate to find the DVD so I can buy it.

Quite simply, if you are a fan of the 80's and/or love your nostalgia
then this film is for you! Typical 80's groove, lingo, starring leads
(introducing a young and very attractive Heather Graham in her screen
debut as the delicious Mercedes Lane) and, something that definitely
deserves a mention is the soundtrack! Great tunes that suit the mood
perfectly. Billy Ocean's "Get Outta My Dreams, Get Into My Car" was a
highlight and with the title "License to Drive" was the ultimate song.
There are others by Belinda Carlise and the Breakfast Club that will
have you not only reminiscing, but toe tapping and humming as well.

Also, look out for James Avery as Les' DMV Instructor. What a champion!
Anyway everyone, Get Outta Your Seats... Get it into your DVD player...

Have fun, Cheers!
<|_=00=_|>
Looking back into the mist of time (when i was a child of the eighties)
This is the film that encapsulates that time for me. Funny, blokes with
rolled up sleeve jackets and with terrible acting by Haim what's not to
like? Getting serious for a moment, it is actually a very good film.
Tightly written, well directed and with good supporting acting it would
get a nine if only Haim could stop a) Blinking b) Keep his mouth shut,
he looks like a fish. If anyone wants to know what all the fuss was
about in the late eighties with two lads called Corey, then this is the
film to watch. In fact it should be given to directors as a how to
manual, on how to make a light breezing ENTERTAINING film, which the
movies sadly lack these days. A film every home should own. LEGENDARY.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the best films to ever feature the two Coreys.  Yep, this is
back when they were still cool.  The movie has all sorts of funny
situations
and (intentionally) funny dialogue that actually works.  I really love the
scene involving the drunk.  That may be a bit gross, but I still laguh.
Really folks, it's the Summer, run to the video store and pick it up.  Get
your 80s fix.
<|_=00=_|>
The sixteen year-old Les Anderson (Corey Haim) has a crush on his
schoolmate Mercedes Lane (Heather Graham), but he is shy and she has a
boyfriend, Paolo (M.A. Nickles), who has a fancy car. Les and his twin
sister Natalie Anderson (Nina Siemaszko) are preparing to the driving
test and while Natalie studies the questions, he does not pay attention
to them. Les fails the test but is not brave enough to tell neither to
his father Mr. Anderson (Richard Masur) nor to his pregnant mother Mrs.
Anderson (Carol Kane) and his best friends Dean (Corey Feldman) and the
clumsy Charles (Michael Manasseri). When Mercedes has an argument with
Paolo, she invites Les to date her to make Paolo jealous. Meanwhile
Les' parents discover that he has flunked his driver's test and they
ground him. However, when Mercedes calls him asking if they are not
going to date, Les sneaks away from his house and drives his
grandfather's Cadillac that is parked in the garage to date Mercedes in
the beginning of a nightmarish night of adventures.

"License to Drive" is a comedy from the 80's still very funny after
almost thirty years. This is one of the best roles of Corey Haim in the
top of his career immediately after the cult "Lost Boys" and "Lucas"
and the debut of Heather Graham. The plot would be considered
"politically incorrect" in the present days but fortunately it was not
a problem in 1988. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Sem Licença para Dirigir" ("Without License to Drive")
<|_=00=_|>
..because seriously, they are nothing but trash, filth, sex, and farts
nowadays ! 

I adore such a movie. It's a decent comedy, non-stop action, and
centering on beating fear by facing its worst nightmares. It succeeds
in every each way it goes, with fascinating sense of creativity.

How can any comedy be smarter ? See for instance the character of the
father apart; the way he celebrates his son's faultier as a driver and
why, his scenes with the about-to-give-birth wife, and his threatening
speech near the end. Just unforgettable. The thing about this movie is
that it knows its characters and their lives, then could mix that with
a lovely touch of craziness where everything you don't expect happens.
So, it wins at being truthful and lively. This is one way to be a
classic. Not by the heaviest amount of toilet humor !

Despite being not highly charismatic Corey Haim was wonderful as the
perturbed aghast and eager teen. Heather Graham was fabulous in pink,
being every teen's dream back then (and look closer to her name;
Mercedes Lane !). Loved her performance as always-happy unconscious
drunk. The minor parts were done no less than excellent, even the
drunken old driver. Then the best credit must go to that incredible
climax; now the teen gets his full chance to drive outrageously by the
approval of his parents, winning the recognition he dreamed of,
achieving rescuing his mom and her baby on the nick of time, yet that
itself was done in one outrageous piece of cinema. Again, this script
is smart, smashing smart !

It evoked many similar themes and atmospheres from the same era : the
suburban teen who wants to challenge his fear, a ride of a lifetime in
the city; John Hughes's Ferris Bueller's Day Off (1986), a hellish
night of accumulative misunderstanding and funny circumstance;
Adventures in Babysitting (1987). My conclusion : Is the 1980s cute or
what ?

Remember the moment in which the lead lives a cassette tape crises,
where the thin brown strip explodes. Ahh, this is something only the
audience born before the 1990s knows well, suffered from and laughs
about. With CDs and else more advanced devises now, plus teen comedies
that have become all about obscenity, you must think; does more
development mean more degeneration ? or when things grow less
complicated, other things grow more ugly ?

Anyway, this is a teen comedy and decent classic. Now the 4 words don't
meet together in one sentence at all !
<|_=00=_|>
I freaking love this movie!Its hilarious!The bit with the drunk just
kills me every time.This is an absolute classic,one of the best 80s
movies.Haim is SO funny in this(RIP)!and so is Feldman.I laugh so hard
every single time I watch it, it just never gets old!Carol Kane does a
great job as the pregnant mother and Richard Masur is brilliant.This is
a timeless film, I showed it to my friends and they loved it!I may turn
them into Corey fans!Heather Graham does a good job in this too, she
was quite funny and I like the dress she wears at the party.If you have
not seen this movie yet, then rent it,order it,it is well worth it!Id
recommend it to Corey fans and comedy lovers.8/10
<|_=00=_|>
well what can i say don't read other comments this is 80s at its
best...

great cast great story... plus a great few cars.

plus there's a great scene at the start with Heather Grahem and Freddy
Cruger ( another great movie) 

also check out Philip banks from the fresh prince......

"last name first...first name last"

one of the best 80s films around not yet on pal DVD but wont be
long........ check out my reviews i don't lie

snoady78
