

'The Fury' is a very interesting mixture of science fiction, horror, action,
and espionage thriller. One of Brian De Palma's most underrated movies, it
isn't without some flaws, but overall I enjoyed it much more than some of
his most recent disappointing efforts like 'Snake Eyes' and 'Mission To
Mars'. They might be much better known than 'The Fury' but they are not
better movies. The plot is a bit convoluted at times, and maybe a little TOO
ambitious, but there are several classic sequences that make this a must see
for any De Palma fan. The whole thing comes across like a cross between
'Carrie' (De Palma's previous movie), and Cronenberg's 'Scanners', a movie
it predated by three years, interestingly enough. Amy Irving, who also
appeared in 'Carrie', is beautiful and believable as Gillian, a troubled
teen attempting to understand and control her frightening paranormal powers.
Veteran Kirk Douglas ('Spartacus', 'Saturn 3') and cult director/actor John
Cassavetes ('Rosemary's Baby', 'The Killers') are both solid as
friends-turned-enemies who once worked for the same nameless Government
agency. Douglas' psychic son Robin (Andrew Stevens) is kidnapped by
Cassavetes and his cronies and experimented on until he reaches the brink of
madness. Douglas desperately searches for him by any means necessary, a
quest which inevitably means he encounters the traumatized Gillian, who has
an increasing psychic link with Robin. Irving and Douglas are both excellent
in this movie, Cassavetes plays a fantastic villain, and the supporting cast
includes Carrie Snodgress ('Diary Of A Mad Housewife'), Charles Durning ('O
Brother, Where Art Thou?'), Fiona Lewis ('Drum'), and cameos from Daryl
Hannah ('Bladerunner'), De Palma semi-regular William Finley ('The Phantom
Of The Paradise') and a noticeably younger and thinner Dennis Franz (NYPD
Blue'). While I couldn't argue that 'The Fury' is De Palma's best work it
has aged very well indeed and is recommended viewing. This is one movie that
deserves to be re-evaluated!
<|_=00=_|>
Peter Sandza (Kirk Douglas) a government agent is betrayed by a fellow
friend/agent Ben Childress (John Cassavetes), who kidnapped his son for
his psychokinetic powers. Where we learn that a secret US agency is
holding him and that he's being used in dangerous mind experiments. So
Peter gets help from a girl with similar abilities to locate his son's
whereabouts.

I wasn't expecting too much from it after borrowing it off a friend
that recommended it to me. After seeing it, it's probably De Palma's
most underrated film in my books. It might not have dated that well and
the premise of the film might be considered ludicrous now, but it
doesn't stop it from being an exciting adventure.

This is a flashy and mostly fast-paced thriller by director Brian De
Palma. It does have a couple of slow moments and maybe it was a tad too
long, but it's well compensated by superbly tense situations and
blistering action sequences, especially in the first opening hour
involving Douglas's character when his son is kidnapped and when his
hiding out from government agents. There are also some scenes that are
not recommended for the squeamish. As some scenes are filled with a lot
of blood and more blood. It's rather graphic violence. Not to forgot
the whooping and hearting-pounding conclusion. The make-up and special
effects throughout the film are truly stunning. 

The plot basis is on psychokinetic powers and at times it's rather
absurd and incoherent. With some incredibly cheesy moments within the
dialogue. Though, the direction is what covers the story's
inconsistencies, with great and simply memorable set-ups and some
well-shot scenes. The music score is fairly effective in building up
the tension and thrills, but also it has an impact in the quieter
moments.

There are great performances from the experienced Kirk Douglas (who's
incredibly fit for his age and has some physical roles) and Cassavetes,
who really boost and add some class to the film. There is such a great
chemistry between them and Cassavetes is simply riveting as a conniving
agent. Amy Irving was good in her role as Gillian Bellaver, the girl
who is having trouble coming to grips with her strong psychokinetic
powers. Though, the same can't be said about the rest. As Andrew
Steven's as Robin Sandza is incredibly hammy and Carrie Snodgress as
Hester is fairly irritating. 

I wouldn't class it as one of De Palma's best, but still it's far away
from his worst. Overall, it's a fascinating set-up that has its fair
share of flaws, but that doesn't disrupt entertainment factor.
<|_=00=_|>
Story involves two teenagers--Gillian (Amy Irving) and Robin (Andrew
Stevens). They both have the power to make people bleed and see past
events. Robin is kidnapped by a secret government agency and Gillian is
going to the Paragon Institute to learn more about her "power". There's
a LOT more going on but it's too confusing to get into.

When I saw this on video back in the 1980s I loved it. Seeing it now I
hate it. The story is very confusing with way too many characters and
plot holes galore. The dialogue is terrible (I kept playing back scenes
on the DVD because I couldn't believe what I had just heard) and this
moves VERY slowly (it runs two solid hours).

The acting doesn't help. Irving is too weepy and whiny (but she IS
great in the final scene). Stevens has never been a good actor. Douglas
walks through his role and John Cassavates (playing the bad guy) gives
a one-note performance. The only good acting comes from Carrie
Snodgrass, Charles Durning, Carol Eve Rossen and (especially) Fiona
Lewis.

It has some good things--the direction from Brian DePalma is excellent
(especially Irving's slow motion run from the Institute) and there's a
good score by John Williams. Also it does have a few incredibly bloody
deaths. These were considered extreme back in 1978 but they aren't
anymore (and look incredibly fake). There's also a great final scene
and I got a good laugh over the incredibly dated video games Snodgrass
and Irving play at one point. Also Daryl Hannah's first film.

So it DOES have some good things but the slow pace, confusing story and
lousy dialogue sinks it. I can only give it a 5.
<|_=00=_|>
After the success of Carrie (1976), Brian De Palma followed up with
another outstanding film about youths with incredible telepathic
powers.

Government agent's telepathic son is kidnapped and along with a
similarly-gifted teenage girl he seeks to save him.

Based upon the novel by John Farris, The Fury is a film that could have
easily became a mundane action film if not for the splendid direction
of De Palma and an outstanding cast. De Palma once again shows his
excellent directorial style and his technique for grand suspense. The
Fury has some great action sequences, a tremendous climax, and one
outrageous conclusion! Makeup FX artist Rick Baker lends his talents to
create some good blood-letting, especially for that knock-out closing
image. John Williams also deserves special mention for his wonderfully
powerful music score.

Star Kirk Douglas is great as the government agent searching for his
son. John Cassavetes is good as the films cold villain. Amy Irving and
Andrew Stevens are both sympathetic as youths attempting to live with
their amazing mental powers. Supporting cast Snodgress, Durning, and
Lewis are also good.

All around The Fury is a pretty under appreciated thriller that firmly
ranks among the best of De Palma's films.

*** 1/2 out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
Suspense, thrills and grisly killings by imitative director Brian De
Palma . This scary triller is plenty of mystery , intrigue ,
suspenseful and creepy scenes . It is a potentially brilliant and
ingenious chiller that concerns about a government agent , Peter Sandza
, (Kirk Douglas , he was aged around sixty-one years of age , Kirk was
cast as the lead because director had felt that his previous picture
had suffered at the box-office without a name draw-card) determined to
come to his son's (first major cinema movie role of actor Andrew
Stevens) rescue , when a sinister official (John Cassavetes) kidnaps
him to harbor his extremely powerful psychic abilities . As he is
forced to take on a super-powerful government agency called MORG (it
stands for the Multiphasic Operations Research Group) which has
kidnapped his son with psychokinetic skills . The intrepid father is
helped by a good friend called Hester (Carrie Snodgress) . And then
things really get worse . Meanwhile , a young girl (Amy Irving who
married Spielberg , she attended a biofeedback clinic to learn about
different levels of consciousness, as she had a better sense to play)
who personally experiencing psychic changes is taken in a strange
Institute of supernatural forces . Peter uses desperate attempts to
save hid gifted son from being used or destryed . At the end takes
place the ultimate revenge story . 

This stylish chiller contains long-drawn-out tension , flash violent
scenes and shock effects with the accent on gas-provoking , but on most
occasion without finesse . Adding special characteristics techniques as
ominous camera movements and wide screen . This flick was made and
released about two years after its source novel of the same name by
John Farris was first published in 1976 ; Farris also wrote the
screenplay for the film . It is is a contemporary thrilling tale that
utilizes the average man against the unknown approach that made
Hitchcock 's suspense films so effective . All this said , the
mechanics of suspense are worked quite well and may frighten the easily
scared quite badly , but De Palma has made a habit of dwelling on their
more sordid shoots . Director 'Brian de Palma''s second movie featuring
Telekinesis, his first had been Carrie (1976) , as actress Amy Irving
appears in both films . In fact , this picture has often been described
as a cross between The Omen (1976) and a peculiar follow-up to Carrie
(1976) . Very good cast plenty of familiar faces such as John
Cassavetes , Charles Durning , Rutanya Alda , Fiona Lewis , Carrie
Snodgres and William Finley who played for De Palma , Phantom of
paradise . Being the first film for both Daryl Hannah, Laura Innes and
look fast James Belushi as an extra , as you can see him in a pair of
dark trunks a few steps behind Irving . The film displays a great and
haunting musical score by John Williams , previous his fruitful
collaboration to Steven Spielberg ; he composed in the style of a
Bernard Herrmann score from an Alfred Hitchcock movie . Furthermore ,
appropriate and colorful cinematography by excellent cameraman Richard
H Kline .

The picture was brilliantly directed by Brian De Palma , adding special
characteristics techniques and special camera movements . The movie was
realized during his period when Brian made outwardly odes to Hitchcock
, such as ¨Obsession¨ , ¨Sisters¨, ¨Dresssed to Kill¨ and ¨Blow out¨ .
Rating : Above average , as it gets some riveting basic ideas and
fascinating images. Essential and indispensable watching for Brian De
Palma buffs and Kirk Douglas fans .
<|_=00=_|>
Does anyone remember the famous Star Trek episode, one of the earliest
ones where an encounter with an anomaly in space leaves Enterprise
crewman, Gary Lockwood with powers and abilities far beyond those of
mortal men? If you'll remember he was abandoned on deserted asteroid.
The Fury deals with a young man on the way to being another Gary
Lockwood.

Young Andrew Stevens has those abilities already, they just need to be
focused and developed. Stevens is being raised by his widowed father
Kirk Douglas who's a government agent. A raid while they're on vacation
in the Mediterranean by some Arab terrorist types allows a ruthless
bureaucrat played by John Cassavetes to separate father from son.
Stevens believes Dad has died, but Kirk doesn't swallow that so easy.

Kirk's on the hunt for his son and the quest takes him to Chicago where
people like Stevens with paranormal abilities are being studied and
tested so the USA can have them as a weapon. Carrie Snodgrass and
Charles Durning are working there as well. And so is Fiona Lewis who's
been given personal charge of Stevens and develops the kid's libido as
well as his telekinesis.

Brian DePalma directed this film and it's a good one with outstanding
performances by all the cast. Look for a good performance from Amy
Irving as another young person with such abilities who literally makes
Cassavetes fall apart at the end. And there's a memorable bit from a
younger and thinner Dennis Franz before the gain of weight and loss of
hair that we all know as Detective Andrew Sipowicz. Franz plays a
Chicago police officer who's something of a doofus. 

Fans of Brian DePalma in particular and horror films in general will
very much like The Fury.
<|_=00=_|>

Before "Scanners" there was this wonderful little gore fest from Brian De
Palma, who all-ready had done such great Hitchcock-like thrillers as
"Sisters" and "Obsession" and of course "Carrie", which in many ways is
related to this one, another tale of telekinesis with deadly results. It is
also worth noting that David Cronenberg's above-mentioned "Scanners" seem to
owe a great deal to this movie.

"The Fury" balances brilliantly between weird and unexpected comedy (like
the whole scene where Douglas carjacks two off-duty cops, one played by
Dennis Franz!) and imaginative horror that will turn off anyone who hates
blood. Great acting from everyone; worth noting the star-making performances
of Amy Irving and Andrew Stevens, Douglas who has a field-day, Cassavetes
who looks great as the sinister bad-guy and Carrie Snodgress who will touch
your heart with her performance as the caring nurse Hester.

The last scene is quite a kick, truly one of the most memorable finales ever
shown on screen, and it could very well leave you cheering well into the end
credits!
<|_=00=_|>
THE FURY 

Aspect ratio: 1.85:1

Sound format: Mono

An ex-government agent (Kirk Douglas) enlists the help of a gifted
psychic (Amy Irving) in the search for his equally gifted son (Andrew
Stevens), who has been kidnapped by a sinister cartel for nefarious
purposes.

Dismissed at the time of its release as a mishmash of themes and
genres, Brian De Palma's dazzling thriller encompasses Middle Eastern
terrorism, government conspiracies, psychic horror, and a series of
Grand Guignol set-pieces, orchestrated with pulp grandeur by a director
flexing his creative muscles. Highlighted by John Williams' magnificent
score (a genuinely eerie composition, one of the best of his career),
the film builds slowly and surely to an explosive climax which closes
proceedings on a note of absolute screaming hysteria (celebrated and
vilified in equal measure by fans and critics alike!). The supporting
cast includes John Cassavetes, Charles Durning and Carrie Snodgress,
all of whom add gravitas to the material. Look fast for Daryl Hannah in
an early pre-stardom role.
<|_=00=_|>

The boss of an institute for psychic researches of the American government
discovers that his own son and a girl are being sought by terrorists who
want to use their mind's powers.Narrative conducted in an agile and
suffocating way by the veteran De Palma, responsible for equally violent and
full of action classic such as "The Untouchables". In this thriller marked
by a great dramatic charge, the excellent supporting cast's work ( beginning
with Carrie Snodgress,who has the most shocking, unpleasant and courageous
scene , and with Charles Durning, who shows talent in a serious part,
different from the characters that made his fame:he became well-known for
doing partner's roles in some Burt Reynolds' movies, but here he offers a
discreet, silent interpretation) sustains the interest for this confused but
well developed and touching story. As already demonstrated in his previous
works, the violence in De Palma's films is never gratuitous, however it is
always true and raw.
<|_=00=_|>
The author of the excellent 'All Heads Turn As The Hunt Goes By', John
Farris, wrote his version of 'Carrie' after that novel's success as
book and film; it was called 'The Fury'. It also explored the subject
of telekinesis (moving objects with the mind), but he stretched it over
a broader, international canvas and threw a terrorism subplot, a
fractured love story, an Argento-inspired school for cute, gifted
girls, telekinetic rivalry, and John Cassavetes as an evil puppetmaster
of troubled psychic warriors into the brew. Assisted immeasurably by
John William's devastating, baroque score, Brian De Palma's film of
Farris's screenplay is another example of stunning visual storytelling.
Losing the direct Hitchcockian references, De Palma applies a harder,
leaner style to the storytelling and creates a powerful work that is
less fun than his later films, but no less compelling. As always, there
are a number of stand-out sequences, and the stand-out sequence in this
is Amy Irving's escape from the institute where she is being groomed
for "evil" by the charming but twisted Cassavetes. Irving's flight into
the street, shot in slow motion, is cinema at its purest, most
transporting and erotic (Irving is wearing a nightie). William's
scoring of this sequence is stunning. A carousel accident, orchestrated
by "evil" psychic Andrew Stevens (in a chilling performance), has great
entertainment value, and the liberal use of blood and bulging
prosthetic facial veins goes a long way towards elevating this film to
cult status. The finale, which features an exploding head (a
pre-"Scanners" exploding head, mind you) is simply bloody great.
