

This movie hits, it hits very hard. No one is let off easy in this film
about an old man (played to perfection by Jack Lemmon) who has his wife do
everything for him. BUt his wife has a heart attack and is put in the
hospital. His son (Ted Danson) has to return home to take care of his
father. What comes from there is an adventure that will warm you heart as
fast as it will break it. Jack Lemmon is very believeable as the father that
you will believe that he actually is 85 years old and Ten Danson has never
been better in a film. This film devlves into hard topics such as divorce,
marraige and family relationships and none of these subjects are delt with
lightly and is sure to bring a tear to the eye of everyone whether you can
realte to these characters or not.   
<|_=00=_|>

Genuine tear-jerker that has the elderly Olympia Dukakis falling ill and
leaving husband Jack Lemmon in limbo. Dukakis has done all the work in the
relationship and Lemmon is helpless, plain and simple. Son Ted Danson
comes
to the rescue though and Dukakis starts to recover slowly. However trouble
looms as Lemmon will be diagnosed with cancer and go into an emotional
tail-spin that could kill him. A sappy screenplay works to near perfection
here and steady direction helps the film's cause as well. Watch for a
young
Ethan Hawke as Lemmon's grandson. Heart-wrenching and heart-warming at the
same time. 4 stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>

I think this is Jack Lemmon's greatest performance and the supporting cast
are incredible, including Ted Danson who always appears to me to be slightly
frenetic in a grim kind of way. Here he is truly believable and his scenes
with his own son tug at your heart they are so real. No Hollywood quickfix
here for the relationship, the boy is simply closer to his grandfather than
he is to his own father and nothing will change that fact.

What I liked most about the film  was that the theme in less worthy hands
could have been made sloppily sentimental, but here it is totally restrained
both in script and direction and it makes for a really meaningful movie. 
The characters remain real all the way through and the script does not
transform them into wondrous saints by movie's end.

It is the wonderful understatement in it all that captivated me and made me
weep at the end.  Jack is truly unforgettable and Olympia magnificent in her
dryness and cynicism. I have seen it 3 times and each time relished another
scene a little more.  This time around it was Jack dragging his wife around
to meet the neighbours he was not even aware of before and her long
suffering face at this new and reinvented Jack makes you laugh out loud. 
Bravo to all.  An 8 1/2 out of 10. And that scene where they dance, oh me oh
my......who needs naked bodies writhing on a bed, this has sensuousness,
love and intimacy in it, the real kind.  Oh for more of those scenes in
movies!  
<|_=00=_|>

I was riveted, absorbed, thinking of my family, but not depressed.  I wish
my dad had lived into old age and hadn't died so early.  I thought the
movie
was magical in exploring how personal dreams and thoughts can keep us
alive
even when our regular lives are unsatisfying, like Dad's (Jack Lemmon's)
fantasy life on the farm.  I found myself understanding that I had done
that
too

A fantastic movie.  Every person who is a member of a family will get
something from this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Life is sometimes a hard thing. People must learn what is the most
important thing in life. This film shows us how we must to face a
critical situation. Perhaps when time is gone we try to recall that
time too late. The family is the most important thing we have.

The Film : I think it's very crude and real. there are many old ones in
abandonment situation and this film illustrates the necessary love for
the greater ones of the family. Although TV is treated in format, the
argument either is developed and distributed in the time with a
crescendo of emotions very well displayed.

Jack Lemmon makes a magnificent work in Jake Tremont roll with such so
pathetic depth that it seems real

Ted Danson is discovered like a good actor, not only for series of
television, but also for cinema too. He plays more than credible son
dedicated to his father treating to compensate the lack of affection
felt in both directions in the past times
<|_=00=_|>

I am a Ted Danson fan. However until today, I have never seen the Movie" Dad
". I sat in my chair and could not get up to do anything. I could have put
the movie on still, but I just could not tear myself away from it.  It is
warm, moving, realistic and Ted Danson and Jack Lemmon had me convinced that
they were actually living their roles. It has been years since I cried at a
movie, but this one, my tears flowed like a stream. I cannot say enough
about it. This is the very first time, I ever went through any trouble to
give my opinion  about a movie or an actor. I felt I had to tell you how it
affected me.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is very 80's like. It instantly brought me back to the good old
80's. This is really not a comedy, but a very serious family drama. Almost
every movie came out from Hollywood is for profit only, this movie is very
touching, and purely family oriented. I don't know how much it has made so
far, but I doubt that it is a popular movie for the general
public.

Having said that, I think that this movie has touched a very deep part of
our lives. All of us have to face the fact that our parents are growing old,
and one day they will leave us forever. It is quite emotional. How many of
the people living in the USA now have the courage, time and money to
actually live with their older parents till the day they apart.

This movie brought three generations all together, and showed us a well-done
drama. It does not have a happy ending. However, it gives us a very
realistic feeling that we all have or had to face. 

So watch this movie when it is raining outside. I am sure that you can have
a good cry.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie when I was an undergraduate student. Man, this has to be
one
of the most touching movie that I have ever seen! Even after all these
years, I could still vividly remember the scenes and the music. Especially
the music theme is turly well-done (simple tune, but very emotional and
powerful!) this movie is one of my all time fave!
<|_=00=_|>
I admit. I initially only wanted to watch Dad to see a younger Ethan
Hawke. Fifteen minutes into the film, I was bawling my eyes out. This
is unusual for me, as I'm not exactly the weepy type and I only usually
cry in tearjerkers featuring Old Yeller, Fluke and Free Willy (somehow,
animals emote more convincingly).

I thought Dad would be a boring, heartwarming drama, but I pleasantly
discovered that it had its share of laughs. This movie is excellently
cast and well written. It jars the senses long after you've seen it
because it forces you to face things you'd rather not deal with, ever,
but will inevitably have to: losing someone you love.

The film opens with a young Jack Lemmon at sunrise, starting work at
his ranch with his beautiful, supportive wife and kids. Then, a
sequence to establish his present character: an old frail man being
taken care of by his overbearing wife (convincingly played by Olympia
Dukakis), from dressing him up, putting toothpaste on his toothbrush,
to buttering his toast. He accompanies his wife, who drives them both
to the grocery, where she gets a heart attack. He helplessly looks on.

While she is temporarily hospitalized, the children worry about their
father. The son (Ted Danson) is a successful corporate type, who
quickly flies in to see to it that everything's okay. He is met by his
brother-in-law (Kevin Spacey), and his sister (Kathy Baker).

The absentee son is shocked to see how much his father has
deteriorated, and so spends more time with him out of guilt. He doesn't
intend to stay long as he has business to attend to, and so he makes
sure that his father can be independent and take care of himself.

Pretty soon, Dukakis is back and is surprised to see her husband up and
about. All is well till it's his turn to suddenly get hospitalized. The
doctor suspects cancer. Soon, he's in a coma, and the son does
everything he can to care for his father. Somewhere in the middle of
this, his own son (Ethan Hawke), comes in. He is estranged from his
father but is apparently very close to his grandfather.

After what seems like ages, and now in the hands of a more
compassionate, competent doctor, the old man wakes up. He celebrates
his new lease on life by being more carefree, lively and spontaneous.
He has been diagnosed to be a bit schizophrenic, with the film's
opening sequence revealing the dream life he's been living in his head
to cope with his problems. His family is astonished, but humors him,
except for his wife, who openly shows her displeasure at his apparent
craziness.

But later on, it is his new zest for life that infects everyone and
brings the family together. It helps the old couple open their world to
new things and new people at that stage in their life. In the end,
cancer does overcome his body, but not his spirit and of those around
him.

I like how the movie finishes on a positive yet realistic note, without
milking the situation with an embarrassing display of melodrama.

It's a scary thing to watch someone you've always known as strong
slowly wither before you. It must have been excruciating for the son to
watch his own father not be able to do the things that he used to do,
not even dress himself up. This was also painfully illustrated in one
scene where the son, angry at the poor treatment his father endured
from the first doctor, carries his dad out of the hospital. The
father's body appeared so weak and frail in his son's arms. This role
reversal a la Pieta comes as quite a shocker, as it disturbs the
equilibrium an awful lot.

As the eldest child, I've had the good fortune to enjoy my parents at
their prime. I grew up content in the belief that I always had my
strong, funny, patient father and my always organized and in-control
mother to take care of anything, big or small. And then I aged in
years, but still terribly spoiled and immature, while my folks seem to
have silently been plateauing.

While my folks have not been as terribly sick as in the movie, the
threat of it happening is always there. Dad has been a wake-up call for
me to reevaluate what matters most in life and to reallocate my time to
doing the things that are truly of value.

Everyone can relate to this film because everyone has parents, or
someone they depend on or are close to. There is no big villain to hate
or escape from in this film; no unrealistic and complicated plot
twists, telenovela-style. Nothing, that is, except the bigger danger of
apathy, the silent killer in each of our relationships. Therein lies
the true conflict, and the earlier we choose to recognize it and act on
it, the better our relationships can be.

Now who would've known such knowledge could stem from a desire to see
Ethan Hawke?
<|_=00=_|>
I'll just say that I recently saw this movie for the first time, and
loved it. it's a little dated, but still good and the story overall is
timeless as it relates to the love between fathers and their sons. I
highly recommend checking it out. But be warned though it's a bit of a
tear jerker, and also feels a little drawn out in certain areas. I give
it a nine out of ten.

I particularly liked the ending where Ted Denson and his son make up
and try and avoid the distance in relationship that Denson kind of had
with his father played by Jack Lemmon. The cast all gives an amazing
performance and I'm surprised this movie didn't make bigger waves when
it initially came out its fantastic.
