

If you grew up in the 80's, you can see why this movie still is a great
classic! Great acting from Tom Hanks and Daryl Hannah and a story line
that
can be taken funny as well as seriously. If you didn't see this movie in
the
80's you probably won't appreciate it that much. I would rank it with
other
greats such as Teen Wolf, Heathers, etc.
"Behold, the mermaid!"..lol..
<|_=00=_|>

Clever man meets mermaid comedy with Hanks fitting
the bill as a lonely New York bachelor who falls in
love with winsome mermaid Hannah. Candy is also
delightful as Hanks' irresponsible brother. The
script is very funny and director Howard has a
wonderful eye for the sentimental and satiric. 
<|_=00=_|>
I will admit there have been some romantic comedies I have not liked,
and others I have. One thing for certain though, I adore Splash! It is
a beautiful, charming and sweet romantic comedy that has quickly become
a favourite of mine. For instance the whole film is beautifully shot,
with lovely cinematography and stunning underwater sequences. Plus New
York looks absolutely gorgeous here.

The music is also delightful. The song in the end credits was so
beautiful, I nearly cried. Maybe it was also to do with how it is sung;
the vocals were sublime, and never spoiled the mood of the song. The
script is funny and touching, more the latter than the former, but who
cares? There are still some funny parts of the movie. The direction
from Ron Howard was secure and focused throughout.

There were so many charming scenes in Splash! The ending certainly was
exactly that, and a bit of a tear jerker as well. Another charming
scene that springs to mind was the ice skating scene. Not only how it
was filmed, but also the music featured. A perfect choice of music for
that particular scene, the Skaters Waltz. I also thought that the
movie's length was perfect, and the pacing was just fine.

And I can't write this review without mentioning the performances.
Every single person did a superb job. Tom Hanks is charismatic and
likable enough and was perfectly cast as Allan Bauer, a successful
businessman who falls in love with a beautiful mermaid named Maddison.
Speaking of Maddison, didn't Daryl Hannah look gorgeous here? She is a
generally ignored actress, and she was positively charming. Eugene Levy
plays a sort of bad guy, and he is funny as well as detestable.
However, the film's humour comes from the late John Candy who is
hilarious as Allan's brother.

All in all, I adore this movie. Out of all the romantic comedies I have
seen, this has to be the most charming and possibly irresistible. I
have been vocal before about not trying to take IMDb ratings to heart,
but 6.2 is too low for this movie. It does deserve a higher rating than
that. While not the best movie ever made, it is certainly one of my all
time favourite movies for a number of reasons. 10/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
I happen to enjoy romantic comedies and through the years have seen
some great ones(Dirty Dancing, Toosie, Pretty Woman to name a few.) But
Splash is probably my all time favorite. I saw it in the there shortly
after it came out, fell in love with it and through the years have
watched it more times then I can remember.

First off, the plot itself is delightful-man falls in love with a
mermaid. Then there's the combination of Hanks and Hanna on screen.
They happen to be utterly and completely adorable on screen and one of
my all time favorite pairings.

The movie itself is an enthralling fairytale. Daryl shines as the
ethereal Madison and her scenes with Hanks are as sweet as cotton
candy. The characters are all unforgettable and the underwater scenes
will put you into a trance, their gloriously stunning. The movie
combines romance, wit and charm with an enchanting story and
captivating visuals and characters. It's the kind of movie that one
knows as their watching it, will someday be a classic. 

Splash never gets tiresome no matter how much you see it. The movie is
a classic and, though, some people maybe skeptical of a 10 of 10 rating
I think it deserves nothing less. If anyone reading this has NOT seen
it-your missing one of the best and sweetest romantic comedies ever
made.
<|_=00=_|>

Over-achieving little film that was directed by Ron Howard and stars Tom
Hanks as a young man who finds the woman of his dreams (Daryl Hannah). The
only problem: she is really a mermaid. A smart screenplay and some real
drama in the film save this project which could have been a disaster, but
ends up being a nice piece of entertainment. Eugene Levi and John Candy are
appropriately hilarious in supporting turns. 4 stars out of
5.
<|_=00=_|>
SPLASH (1984) **** Tom Hanks, Daryl Hannah, John Candy, Eugene Levy,
Shecky Greene. Excellent fantasy comedy directed by Ron Howard about
produce salesman Hanks who, unbeknownst to him, falls in love with a
mermaid (innocently played nicely by Hannah) in Manhattan and asking
the immortal question: Is love blind? Superb support ably handled by
Candy as Hanks' would-be swinging bachelor brother and Levy as a
mad-as-a-hatter obsessed marine biologist intent on exposing Madison
(named after the avenue). Best bits: Hanks' opening soliloquy about him
not finding love in a bar and Hannah's gift of love: a water fountain.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was absolutely wonderful. It was so very cute and
fairly funny at times! Very different from most movies with the whole
mermaid thing. See men dig fish! Remember that! You know what I really
enjoyed about it? The fact that you had this nutty guy going around
trying to prove she was a mermaid, yet looking completely stupid and
insane while doing so.. Oh man he was so funny. I remember growing up
watching this movie.I loved it then and still do. It's a classic, a
must see. If you haven't seen it already, I suggest you rent it! Enjoy
it! Tell me how it goes, but I bet you will love it just as much as I
do! ;)
<|_=00=_|>
I used to watch this movie as a kid and occasionally when I was in my
teens but I watched it again now (im 24) and I must say its an
excellent movie, which also has a very good story line, and one you can
relate to if you have been in a relationship where your asking yourself
many questions about the person your with and things that do which
don't make sense! Not that we are dating mermaids, but it is a movie
that has Alan (Tom Hanks) in a very real situation of been in love with
someone who he is trying to figure out who she is but she wont give the
answers or really open up. Its a movie of great comedy also!! John
Candy and Eugene Levy are hilarious!!!! As is Tom Hanks! Some of the
one liners and scenes in this movie will have you in stitches!!! This
for me is a movie that could have been released today and still do very
very well. A great movie which I can watch over and over!
<|_=00=_|>

Splash is a really well-made Hollywood fantasy comedy, with early Tom
Hanks
already developing into the charismatic everyman and Darryl Hannah and
John
Candy at their best.  But under the comedy and sweetness I have always
thought there was a disturbing undertone of extreme pessimism--just what
kind of ugly and cruel society do we live in, in which the mermaid
Madison's
only prospect is that she will be tortured, from which Hanks' character
ultimately has to flee, never to see his beloved brother again? (The same
dark undertone is even more pronounced, I think, in Ron Howard's next big
hit Cocoon, where the old folks willingly escape an earth and families
that
don't seem to offer them anything anymore.)
<|_=00=_|>
Allen Bauer is a responsible guy,the very opposite of his brother
Freddie Bauer, who only thinks about women and to spend money. Allen
feels lonely sometimes, but he never really fell in love with any women
he already have dated or stayed. One day, Allen decides to go to Cape
Cod to enjoy the sea, a place where he feels mysteriously good, but he
falls into the sea by accident and since he doesn't know how to swim,
is saved by a mysterious and beautiful woman,who runs away soon after
Allen recovers his conscience. The beautiful woman stayed with Allen's
documents, and decides to search him in New York after some days. Once
they met, they fall in love and Allen finally do whatever it takes to
stay near a woman. The only thing he doesn't know yet, is that the
beautiful and mysterious woman named Madison,is part of his childhood
and also has a nature different from the human.

Ps: Daryl Hannah is really beautiful in this movie! Tom Hanks as well!
ps2:This is the first time I see Eugene Levy in the role of the bad
guy.

aka "Splash-Uma sereia em minha vida" - Brazil
