

Even though we now live in the 21st century, there are still many
people who cannot bring themselves to accept anything that is out of
the "norm". There still exist segments of our societies, that
perpetuate the practices of intolerance.....especially when it comes to
romance. For such individuals, this movie "TIM", is no doubt unbearable
to even look at.

However, for those of us who are not stuck in the ways of the closed
minded past, "TIM" is an example of a movie that is ahead of it's time.
It is the touching story of two people, who find happiness and love,
through an unorthodox relationship.

This film explores a romantic relationship between two people, that on
paper, would seem almost unbelievable. Yet magnificently, this story is
portrayed so well on screen, that it seems as realistic and natural as
any other common relationship.

Yes Mel Gibson is in this film, but as a heterosexual male, my favorite
character is played by leading lady Piper Laurie...........Who just so
happens to be H - O - T, Hot Hot Hot !!!!!

In the words of young people today, " She's a real M.I.L.F. !!!!! " My
goodness,......that flaming red hair and that navy blue bathing suit
she wears at the end.....(Oh be still my beating heart !!!!) Piper
Laurie is absolutely gorgeous in this film. If you can appreciate the
beauty of an older woman, then this DVD is worth buying just to see her
!!

What makes this movie so sweet though, is that there is nothing in this
story that is perverted about their romance. You truly fall in love
with Piper Laurie, as an honest woman who genuinely cares. Although she
is an accomplished and successful woman, she is as emotionally innocent
as Mel Gibson's character. Their romance develops naturally, and
without sex as an ulterior motive.

This film, in it's own quiet little way, shows us that just because a
relationship might seem bizarre to you, does not mean that there's
anything wrong with it. The love of a lifetime, can spring forth
between the most unlikely people.

<|_=00=_|>

Caught this film on cable, late night, a few years back.  No idea what to
expect, just wasn't ready to go to bed.  By the time it ended, it was in
my
Top 10 of all time.  Certainly the lowest budgeted film (accounting for
inflation, anyway) on that list.

Gibson was terrific, capturing a handicapped young man perfectly.  But,
hey,
the entire cast was great, especially Awyn Kurts as Tim's father.  And,
after appreciating Piper Laurie for years and years, that night I fell in
love with her.

I've never seen such a "tight" little film.  I doubt that there were more
than 12 seconds of even semi-wasted frames.  Michael Pate did an amazing
job.
<|_=00=_|>

"Tim" is possibly the most unknown and under-rated of all the films Mel
Gibson has done.  It is certainly one of the best and proved, quite early in
his career, that he knows his craft very well and is well able to carry off
a challenging role to perfection.  The title character, Tim, is seeking to
know the adult world around him without an adults' understanding of the
subtilties of life.  Mel Gibson plays the part to perfection, neither
feeling sorry for himself nor being so crass as to portray this child/man as
"cute and silly".  He is simple, "Not the full quid", as Tim puts it.  But
he feels all of an adults needs and finds the person to explain life to him
in a way he can understand.  Piper Laurie, as Mary, becomes the most
important person in Tim's life; and she plays the role with a kindness and
compassion usually not seen in today's actors.  This film is a must for
anyone concerned with raising and educating a child with the challenge of a
mental handicap.  One could hope that Mel will do more movies of this type,
with the love and understanding and true actor's ability he shows in this,
his second movie. 
<|_=00=_|>
MovieAddict2005 painted a very cruel picture of a very sensitive
picture.. Mel Gibson's feeling for the not-too-bright, but likable
character Tim was a great tribute to the all-round acting talent of a
man too easily typecast as an action actor. Piper Laurie was as ever a
joy to watch in the difficult part of "the older woman" and endured
ageism , (possibly exhibited a little by MovieAddict2005) with dignity,
as did Gibson's character against narrow-minded people who are more
"retarded" than he is..

The growing love between them - which came from nowhere, as it should
-was as beautiful and real as acting can get.

If the overall production was modest, that's OK. Hollywood is not
necessarily the best presenter of simple yet complex human conflict and
pain.Australian movies, as shown by such as "Mariel's Wedding" (yes, I
know about the spelling) have moved on since the uncomfortable silences
of the wooden TV series "Spy Force" and the sheer embarrassment of the
"cult" "The Outback" 

The Yahoo Movies (sorry!) review described "Tim" as "superb". Rightly
Though I dislike numeric ratings, I was asked for one - I gave 7/10. If
this sounds low, I'd give the marvellous "The Elephant Man" only 9,
even though it has the most moving moment in movie history - the
close-up of Anthony Hopkins' face when he realises Merrick could read.
You could feel the tears in his eyes as they came to your own. "Tim"'s
close-ups could not hope to match this, but they were quietly stunning

No film has ever got 10 - perfection doesn't exist. I would score even
Citizen Kane, the greatest of all, 9.5. But "Tim" gets 9/10 for
sincerity
<|_=00=_|>

Tim is the first movie I ever seen with Mel Gibson. He portrays the
character of a retarded young man to perfection. I was so impressed
with the concept of the story that I bought the book and read it twice.
The innocent child-like love between the characters of Tim and Mary
Horton (Piper Laurie)is very refreshing. You will laugh, as well as
cry, while you see the characters come to life and grow before your
eyes. These two lonely people are placed in a situation where they
genuinely really need each other. There is another movie that is based
upon the story: "Mary & Tim", which stars Candice Bergen of the sitcom
"Murphy Brown". You might want to give that one a look see as well.

<|_=00=_|>
This is an excellent, modest story of love between a young, simple man
(Mel Gibson) and Mary, a successful, older woman (Piper Laurie).

Director Michael Pate deftly explores the way love deepens without
contrivance or adherence to pre-set plot points. Tim is a member of a
close-knit family who are all moving away from him -- his sister via
marriage, his father via death.

As these changes occur in Tim's life (he is mildly mentally retarded),
he is drawn inexplicably but naturally into an unconventional
relationship that brings strength and awareness to his life.

Gibson and Laurie are both brilliant in their respective roles, as is
the late, great Australian actor Alwyn Kurts, who plays Tim's father
and bestows on the character great depth and dimension.

A wonderful, moving film.
<|_=00=_|>

Well, a VERY rare catch of Mel G.´s films but i finally saw it.

What can i say: Nice, cute movie if you like them. It´s nothing like a Mel
Gibson fan from the present Mel would expect, because it´s no Action in it,
but pretty good acting from young Mel! So, kudos.

If you´re looking for Mad Max: You´re at the wrong place.
If you´re looking for Martin Riggs: nowhere like him.
If you´re looking for ANY Character he ever played: Hmmm.....no!!
But if you look for a cute family movie that shows how immature "mature
adults" can be and how cruel society could react to the sweetest things like
friendship and love: Then you´re lucky, because that´s what this movie
is.

Don´t check it out for Action-Mel, check it out to see a great performance
from a soon-to-be-a-box-office-magnet in a very moving role.

<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the better films I have seen starring Mel Gibson. A low
budget, Australian film, made in the late seventies, it is a real
change from his usual offerings. The basic plot outline (promise I
won't spoil! :)) is that Gibson plays the title role of Tim, a 24
year-old man who is slightly mentally retarded. Piper Laurie excels as
'Mary Horton' a successful forty-something widow who takes a romantic
interest in Tim, but is unsure if a relationship will work.

The thing that struck me about this movie was it's basic principle. It
is not uncommon for rich, forty-something men to be seen with
attractive, supposedly less-intelligent women. 'Tim' turns this on its
head having a rich, older woman hooking up with an attractive, less
intelligent younger man. Society frowns on the latter form
relationship, I'm not sure why, and it adds an interesting angle to the
story.

The only complaint about the film is the ending. They had such a
fantastic idea but the movie just...ends. Loose ends are left and to be
honest it seemed tacked on or just plain rushed.

It is a good, heartwarming film with a few weepy bits and one-or-two
good ideas not explored well enough but still entertaining nonetheless.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Tim on television around the time it was released. I liked it
then and like it now. Many have written their idea about the characters
and Tim himself but I see the film as a real peon to love. If you look
at the story it's all about love. Family love, love of brother and
sister, love of husband and wife, the unique love of father and son and
finally love between a man and a woman. And all this love is
intermingled, like a tight clock with many springs. I was fascinated by
how the watch works. The next time you watch this I hope you notice the
many levels and subtleties of love that are offered. If you are a
romantic, as I am, you'll love the movie Tim. P.S. I don't watch it too
often because I don't want to wear out the wonders. It's that good.
<|_=00=_|>
I found it a moving story of love and innocence on the one hand and
ignorance, prejudice and bigotry on the other. All the actors from
Piper Laurie and Mel Gibson to the Australian actors who played the
deeply loving parents and the bigot sister and husband were simply
great. I have rarely seen Mel Gibson acting better after this movie.
Compliments for the director. The most wonderful but also saddest thing
about this movie was that Gibson grew from an almost tabula rasa mind
to a person with more grasp of what the world is about. Thanks to the
loving guidance of Laurie he learned to read and appreciate art and
music. But it also lead him to understand more of the complexity and
sometimes ugliness of people. I would love to see it again. Even though
I have seen it twice . Of course looking at a young and beautiful Mel
Gibson does not hurt.
