
Maybe some people just don't get it. This was made by the team of
Zucker-Abraham-Zucker, responsible for "Airplane", "The Kentucky Fried
Movie", and the "Naked Gun" series, so who cares if it doesn't
accurately reflect society? It's not meant to be a satire, folks, it's
a very broad parody! 

I recently watched this again, and I caught something I had never
caught before. In the dinner scene at the "Hotel Gay Schluffen", Nick
Rivers (played by Val Kilmer, and this may be the best thing he's ever
done), American rock star, is told that he needs a jacket to eat in the
dining room, but the restaurant will provide one. In the next scene we
can see him in the background having a jacket tailor-made! The reason
it's hard to catch is that there's exposition going on in the
foreground (a ZAZ trademark). It's funny, but the amazing thing is that
I've seen this movie many times over a period of something like 20
years, and I'd never noticed that before.

I believe that this is one of the marks of a great spoof, that you can
watch it many times and still pick up jokes you've never noticed
before. Like ZAZ's other masterworks, this one is packed with hilarious
one-liners and sight gags. Watch for the scene in the Swedish bookshop
that's filmed backwards, the way the verses to the East German National
Anthem keep getting longer and longer when translated into English, and
the scene where an unfortunate agent is crushed inside a car (and what
happens with him afterwards!). And this doesn't even scratch the
surface. If "Top Secret!" isn't ZAZ's funniest movie it's only because
it has such strong competition. The men were comedic geniuses when they
were together.

Val Kilmer was hilarious as Nick Rivers, and the movie has a strong
supporting cast, including Lucy Gutteridge as Nick's love interest
Hillary (I wonder how Ms. Clinton would feel if she knew her name means
"She whose bosoms defy gravity"?), Christopher Villiers as Nigel, her
ex-boyfriend (they spent some time stranded on a deserted island
together), and Jeremy Kemp as the evil General Streck. Also look out
for Peter Cushing, Omar Sharif, and Ian McNiece (hilarious as a spy
whose cover is selling souvenirs, novelties, and party tricks). And
watch out for the French resistance (who knows what they're doing in
East Germany?), each one of whose names is a pun on a French word or
phrase (Chocolate Mousse, Deja Vu, etc.)

The plot? Does it matter? Something about the East Germans planning to
take over the world while everybody's paying attention to an
international cultural show they're putting on (Nick is the American
representative), and the spies who are trying to stop it. But that's
not the point, the point is the comedy, and I could go on and on about
the many hilarious jokes but I'm not going to; let me just say without
ruining anything that the funniest scenes in the movie involve a cow.

It's usually overlooked, curiously enough, when talking about the great
comedies, but there's no doubt about it, "Top Secret!" IS one of the
great comedies of our time.
<|_=00=_|>

Top Secret is one of the funniest, most off-the-wall movies ever filmed. 
Featuring a young Val Kilmer, I think Top Secret is the best of all spoof
films (Spaceballs is a close second).  This thing spoofs everything, Beach
Boy's songs, spy pictures, war movies, westerns, and even Elvis is not safe.
 It's ridiculous, outrageous, hilarious, and all in the name of good fun. 
The spit gag has to be my favorite bit.  You've seen it in countless movies:
the hero is being verbally accosted by the villain and he spits in his face.
 This time, however, the hero is on the other side of the room.  Other
memorable jokes include the skeet songs, the anal intruder, the "cow"
scenes, and the backwards bit with Peter Cushing.  There are countless
little things like that which make Top Secret a definite cult classic and a
certifiable must-see.

"Wish they all could be double barrel, wish they all could be double barrel
guuuuuuuns."
<|_=00=_|>

An American rock and roll idol goes behind the iron curtain (while there was
one!) for a culture fest but instead becomes involved in the resistance
movement.

Forget about the film itself, the very idea of an Elvis Presley movie being
mixed with a French resistance film and produced by the Airplane! crew is
enough for laugh number one. Not only is this a bizarre world but seems to
be playing games with time and history, the communist East Germany being
portrayed as a kind of war time Nazi set-up!

Kilmer does well with an impossible role to the point where you wonder if he
didn't miss his vocation. He can sing and dance better than many real
singers and he proved in The Doors that he is really a major musical  force.
Strangely it is rumoured that he didn't realise this was a
satire!

The stupidity of many Elvis movies and those Saturday morning children's
reels (scientist and beautiful daughter) are taken to the cleaners and you
have fantastic sight gags. The "falling guard" gag is one of the best sight
gags in the history of movies - I challenge anyone not to laugh at
it.

I enjoy a stupid movie every now and then and admit I enjoyed this one.
Clearly the authors know little about German history or  European culture
and the little they do know seems cribbed from watching bad B movies on the
subject, but what the hell. This is too stupid for anyone to get seriously
uptight about. "How silly can you get?" sings Kilmer at one point in the
film: Maybe a little, but not that much!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is unbelievable funny and makes no sense.

Why are there Nazis in East-Germany capturing Scientists and why do
they want to let a Rock'n'Roll singer play his music!? For me one of
the funniest part is the "german language cassette" Rivers' is
listening to in the train (!) to Germany. This words make absolutely no
sense! :) The whole train sequence is funny. The train station and the
guy with the tree also rock!

Val Kilmer did a great performance, acting, dancing and singing!

The title sequence "skeet surfing" is also a great parody for the
American way of life!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie truly is another great work from David Zucker and Jim
Abrahams team. In some scenes you will laugh so hard that you have to
pause the movie, laugh for five minutes then play it again. Also, Val
Kilmer does a great acting for his first movie!

This movie may not be the best comedy ever made but it still is among
the top of its genre and a great movie to watch even and specially if
you're not in a good mood.

If you found "Airplane!" funny then watching this one is highly
recommended. It has the same stupid and totally funny jokes and same
sense of humor. It also is the best parody of WW2 spy movies. Rent or
buy the DVD and enjoy it!
<|_=00=_|>

are usually the ones with plots of their own.  This one is such a spoof and
it is very funny.  You don't have to see any movies to find this funny
either.  You just have to have seen parts of an Elvis movie over the years
or saw a scene or two from an old espionage flick.  You don't have to watch
an entire movie to get the jokes.  Val Kilmer is very funny here as is all
the cast.  The jokes are great even with some of them being a bit dated. 
The resistance group is great, the escape, everything in here is really
funny.  After "Airplane" this one ranks right up there with the best spoof
movies made.  
<|_=00=_|>

In his first leading role, Val Kilmer plays Nick Rivers, an Elvis like pop
star sent to Germany on a good will tour as a fill in for Leonard
Bernstein.
Once there he gets caught up in all sorts of misadventures that lead to
him
being a part of the French under ground resistance. Lucy Gutteridge is his
German lover.

An often overlooked - maybe even misunderstood - film from the
Zucker/Abrams/Zucker team (who gave us "Airplane!") the film takes pot
shots
at "The Man Who Knew Too Much", pintos, rock 'n roll, Nazis, and other
various spy movies with more gags than you can shake a stick at. A
hilarious
romp of madness.

Val himself is pretty funny here, managing to both wink and not wink at
the
camera as he is placed in a number of absurd situations. Also interesting
of
note is that this one features Michael Gough, who would later play Alfred
in
the Batman series, and Val himself would later play Batman.

<|_=00=_|>

The Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker team, master of the rapid-fire humor and insane
spoofs, strike again! This time with "Top Secret!", which is a very
underrated movie that, in my humble opinion, is just as good as "Airplane!"
(which of course is considered their best work). 

I don't understand it - what makes this film inferior to "Airplane!"? There
are just as many jokes, the jokes are just as good, the timing is as always
perfect. Am I missing something? Is it just that "Airplane!" was bold in
breaking barriers for spoof movies, setting a precedent that "Top Secret!"
was just there to follow?

That's not to diminish the quality of "Airplane!", which is one of my
favorites. But what's wrong with "Top Secret!"? Why only a 6.6 rating? It
must be from those purists who don't understand movies like this, and don't
like this movie because the plot is not as well-developed as the plot of
"Airplane!" Don't get me wrong - ordinarily a more developed plot only makes
a movie funnier, but in the case of a spoof like this, the plot isn't
important (it has often been said that the plot is just a "clothesline" for
the jokes in such movies). Those purists completely miss the point of this
movie.

Watch this movie unless you're one of those blasted aforementioned purists.
If that is the case, go watch "The Philadelphia Story" for the thousandth
time.
<|_=00=_|>
Following the popular success of "Airplane!" and its less acclaimed
sequel, the ZAZ trio was back to what I believe to be the funniest
comedy ever: "Top Secret!" a hilarious parody of the WWII spy films and
the 50-60's rock-themed movies. Speaking of rock'n'roll, one of the
most defining songs of the film performed by Val Kilmer aka Nick Rivers
is titled "How Silly Can you Get?" which sounds like a self-reflexive
motto.

"Top Secret!" probably features the highest laughs-out-loud-per-minute
ratio from any movie, as there is not one single moment where the
action isn't punctuated by a gag, and that this very gag doesn't work.
Everything in "Top Secret!" is both hilarious on an anarchic and
cathartic level in the way it plunges you into a never-ending positive
mindset. You may say that this is the very principle of a comedy,
what's more a spoof movie, but it seems like "Top Secret!" has been
specially concocted for pure and genuine amusement, and while the much
more respected "Airplane!" has its slower moments, especially during
the flash-back parts, "Top Secret!" was hilarious from A like Abrahams
to Z like Zucker brothers.

There are two kinds of gags in "Top Secret!", the direct and the
indirect one. The direct is immediate, mostly visual and slapstick,
like a "find him and kill him" stamp or a sunbathing girl leaving
boob-holes in the sand. The best gags are extended and feature a lot of
dancing like the ball scene, the outrageous ballet sequence or a
feet-view panic scene. Anyway, whether it's an offensive national
anthem, a singing horse, a little German, an over-hilarious moment when
Nick is about to be executed and an old lady slowly approaches to pick
up the phone, any attempt to list the audio-visual gags of the film is
as ludicrous as trying to define which is the funniest. The indirect
gag is the elaborated one, already funny by itself but leading to a
much more delightful punch-line.

The first one involves a weird shot illustrating the road taken by Nick
Rivers and his manager, the map looks more and more familiar until
Pac-Man makes his appearance, the very gag that sets the tone of the
film. When Omar Sharif as Agent Cedric meets a colleague disguised as a
party tricks vendor, the whole interaction is funny enough but the
icing on the cake comes with the "You dropped your phony dog pooh", an
item which obviously is not sold. The gag works even more because we
expect it, like when Nick is introduced to the French Resistance, what
would you expect from a man named "Déjà Vu" apart from "Have we not met
before?" It could have concluded here yet the French sounding names
punch-line was with the black guy named 'Chocolate Mousse", which says
a lot about an era where anything was acceptable in the name of pure
comedy.

I don't mean to be too analytical, but my regard for "Top Secret!" is
due to one of the two funniest and creative gags from any film,
starting with the Swedish bookstore sequence, a cinematic achievement
that would have made Buster Keaton and Charlie Chaplin proud. During
that part, there is a gradual suspicion that we're not watching a
normal scene, even for a spoof movie, there is something weird in the
walking and the talking that gets funnier as it is more noticeable, the
scene becomes hilarious when we get the point and yet it goes on and
on, a book getting in the right place immediately, dust from ear to
mouth, and finally Nick and Hillary 'sliding up' a pole. The sequence
goes from funny to not funny anymore until it becomes funny again with
the throw away gag of the puppy going backwards leaving the Swedish
bookstore owner in a priceless doubted expression.

The other and maybe more memorable one, as it made it in the poster
involves a clever cow disguise that looks like a real cow from our
point of view, it's simple but someone should have thought about that.
Now, it became a comedic landmark used in many comedies when a guy
disguise as an animal, inopportunely choosing the female one, and
invites a male on heat to come on him, but back then it was new that
even pushed the outrageousness by involving a little veal thirsty for
milk, the villain's reaction (in the disguise) is a laugh-riot. That's
the secret of "Top Secret!", a comedy that doesn't take itself
seriously except for its genuine desire to make us laugh. The rest of
the gags are as good as it gets, and features many fourth-wall
breaking, like when Nick and Hillary feels that the romance "makes it's
like a bad movie" and then they look at us, and many film references
are made, notably one hilarious climax in a sub-aquatic Western bar,
and a clever farewell a la "Wizard of Oz".

"Top Secret!" is made in such a way, that we either enjoy a gag or wait
for one to come, so there's no time break. The only little pauses are
provided by these moments when we can enjoy Val Kilmer's musical
performances but the humor is never away. But my enjoyment of the film
is proportional to my sadness to see it so often overlooked by the
peers and movie viewers, playing on anagrams, I want to say that "TOP
SECRET!" is a comedy "TO RESPECT!". Indeed, when I checked the list of
AFI's Top 100 Laughs, I was surprised not to see "Top Secret!" listed
while "Fargo" and "Jerry Maguire" and less 'lol'ling comedies were, I'm
even surprised that the film is hardly mentioned among the greatest
parodies or that it didn't have any nominations for the Golden Globes.

Seriously, I can't see, regarding "Top Secret!", how funnier can a
movie get.
<|_=00=_|>
In East Germany, the American rock and roll singer Nick Rivers (Val
Kilmer) meets Hillary Flammond (Lucy Gutteridge) in a fancy restaurant.
Hillary is a member from the resistance and her hope is to rescue her
father, the scientist Dr. Paul Flammond (Michael Gough), who is
imprisoned by the Germans to develop a powerful weapon. Nick is
arrested and sent to prison for helping Hillary and he meets Dr.
Flammond in his laboratory. Hillary helps him to escape during a show
and when he tells that he has met Dr. Flammond in the prison to
Hillary, they decide to seek out the resistance leader. When they meet
him, they discover that Nigel (Christopher Villiers) was Hillary's
first lover. Further, they learn that there is a traitor in the
resistance. Who might be the traitor?

"Top Secret" is a very funny comedy by Jim Abrahams and David Zucker.
The plot is a parody to World Was II movies with the French resistance
and it is impossible not laughing along the adventures of Nick Rivers
in the East Germany. Val Kilmer steals the movie wit ha magnificent
performance and singing most of the songs. In the end, time is cruel to
everyone. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Top Secret – Super Confidencial" ("Top Secret – Super
Confidential")

Note: On 24 Sep 2017, I saw this film again.
