

I've now seen Ken Russell's adaptation of Bram Stoker's story about half a
dozen times, each at different points in my life.  This is one of those few
movies that seems to age very well and get better with each viewing.  Never
a big fan of Russell, his over the top visual style seems right at home in
this sometimes campy, sometimes scary, always entertaining horror film.
But
what makes this film stand far above others in its genre is the fact that
it
is in actuality a wicked black comedy.  Every time I see it i pick up on
something new that is in the background of a scene or some piece of
dialogue
I previously overlooked and I burst out laughing.  The film features
probably the single best line of any movie ever made, delivered with
dead-pan foppishness by a not-yet famous Hugh Grant.  "I believe we
probably
have another reptile on the premises."  Watch it and you'll understand why
it's so funny.  It's all about context.  While some may find many flaws in
this production, I recommend just going with the flow and trusting Russel
and his cast, who all also seem to be in on the joke.  Amanda Donohoe as
the
evil serpentine priestess and Stratford Johns as Hugh Grant's butler are
particularly on target with every line delivered.  I'm going out on a limb
and giving this a 10/10.  In actuality it probably deserves and 8/10 at
best.  But it is one of my personal faves and seems to age like a fine
wine.
<|_=00=_|>

I've heard the complaints before, from men of all walks of life: "SHE wants
to watch some syrupy romantic slush starring Hugh Grant, I want to watch
something with hot, naked, snake-worshipping chicks!"

Well, complain no more! Here's a flick that's got both in one! That's
right,
England-cum-America's favorite foppish, eye-lid-fluttering sex symbol does
battle with naked half-snake-half-human devil worshippers, giant white
worms, and the forces of evil!

Well, actually Hugh only kills one snake-human hybrid, and it's an old
lady.
And he keeps pretty far away from the action-packed finale face-off,
letting
his odd shut-in pal Angus do all the fighting. But you DO get to see the
star of "Notting Hill" slice an old lady in half with a broad sword, and
that alone is worth the price of admission!

I enjoyed this movie, what with it's quaint, folksy atmosphere, it's
kilt-wearin' heroes, and it's sexy villainess who seduces a hapless boy
scout (!) into entering her hot tub of evil. There's even
public-access-esque dream sequences where a Sid & Marty Krofft-type snake
puppet molests Jesus Christ while nuns are tortured- and who doesn't want
to
see that?

A very strange movie, to say the least.

<|_=00=_|>
Why is this film consistently downgraded as "dire" etc...? It is one of
the funniest I have ever seen. It is sexy, camp, and laughs at its own
pretensions. Hugh is a delicious parody of himself Ice. the character
he was born to play. Amanda Donahoe is the sexiest snake priestess
ever. It contains the psychedelic trademarks of the Russell mindset:
exquisitely blasphemous, gaudy, kinky and tripped out. I love
introducing people to this film - if I can read their personality right
that is. I've got it wrong once or twice and some just find it
confusing and weird...others see these characteristics as creative
virtues. I give it a 10 - nobody could (or has yet to my knowledge*)
done this sort of genre-play better. (*corrections invited - I would
love to find something else in this pigeonhole as good.)
<|_=00=_|>

I'm not going to strain my brain trying to work out just what Ken Russell
was trying to achieve with 'The Lair Of The White Worm', but he ended up
with a semi-classic slice of campy, sleazy trash that is full of nudge,
nudge, wink, wink smutty humor. There's absolutely no way anyone could take
this one seriously! I haven't read Bram Stoker's novel so I don't know how
much the movie has to do with it, but Russell takes EVERY opportunity for to
show a phallic symbol or a puerile gag, and that, added to the tongue in
cheek performances from the cast (especially Peter Capaldi, Hugh Grant and
the delicious Amanda Donohoe), makes this one of the silliest and most
entertaining movies you'll ever see. Donohoe is just brilliant, the monster
is cheesy, the blatant gags will make you roll your eyes and groan, and
there are a few extraordinary Russell touches in the very brief,
quasi-psychedelic "visions" experienced by a few of the characters. 'The
Lair Of The White Worm' is certainly not for everybody, but there's nothing
else quite like it, not even in Russell's very strange ouevre, and if you
"get it" it's a complete hoot!
<|_=00=_|>
Of all the Ken Russell films this is my favourite. I found it extremely
sensuous and the snake imagery a 'classic'. This is also one of the
best Hugh Grant movies out considering he has become hopelessly
typecast these days. Russell uses three different versions of the
legend of the "Dampton" worm and this includes that written by Bram
Stoker. The other two based on stories within Britain. And surprisingly
enough the tale is closer to them than Stoker. Amanda Donohoe was
simply stunning as Sylvia and she delivered her lines with charm and
wit, and her costuming was slithering skintight scrumptiously slinky. I
even bought a snakes and ladders set just like the one "Rosebud" that
she threw into the flames. The worm was brilliant and deserved an Oscar
for his role as he arose from the depth of the cave. I also love the
song played in the beginning too. My only irk is that Catherines voice
appears to be dubbed by someone else. One of the high points for me was
when Sylvia sprayed venom over the cross. My reason for voting this
movie so high is because it delivers on so many levels and it is a
'classic' in my book.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a kitschy, sexy and funny movie. Ken Russel(the director of
Whore and Track 29)is at his best. Taboos are endless. Scottish rock,
demon worship, S&M and the defiling of Christian icons. Amanda Donohoe
is luscious as the blood-sucking, dildo wielding Priestess of the Worm.

Catherine Oxenberg is a perfect blonde damsel in distress and Hugh Grant
is at his sexy, bored playboy of the manor born. The production value is
not the greatest but there are moments when the not-so-special effects
lend an aire of underground theater to the proceedings. I highly
recommend this film.  
<|_=00=_|>
The Lair of the White Worm (1988) was a bizarre horror film that was
based upon one of the last stories written by Bram Stroker whilst he
was suffering from Bright's disease. This helped the strange prose and
it was augmented by the strange mind of weird film maker Ken Russell.
The movie is also about a strange mythology and occultism that is as
old as time itself.

The movie was a surrealistic trip and if you enjoy Ken Russell's other
films then you're going to enjoy this one big time. Filled with wild
imagery and fascinating set pieces will almost certainly keep you busy.
Amanda Donahoe is quite compelling as the Worm's keeper with an
infectious bite. Sammi Davis (no not the singer wise guys) Catherine
Oxenberg and Hugh Grant co-star in this odd horror film. I'll never
look at snakes and ladders the same way ever again.

Highly recommended for Ken Russel fans.
<|_=00=_|>
Do you know what I think. Do you really care. Well whether you do or
don't here goes.

I believe that one day Ken Russell woke up and said " I'm sick and
tired of being accused by critics of making over the top exploitation
movies masquerading as art with naked women, men showing their TODGERS
and mad nuns being raped. This time I'm going to make an a movie of
class. I'm going to get the brightest and the best of new British
talent and use a story by a well known author. Well by the end of that
week cuddly Ken had all the elements in place. A story horror by Bram
stoker, author of Dracula. A great cast made up of the beautiful
Catherine Oxenberg, A wonderful young character actress called Sami
Davis, an up and coming Scottish actor called Peter Capaldi, a classy
actress called Amanda Donohoe.. Oh and some bloke called Hugh or
something. Add a few more out of work BBC Thespians to the mix and you
have a classy supernatural film that will thrill the critics and maybe
win some awards.

Then Ken thought F**K IT.

I'm going to make a crass exploitive films with Nuns being raped, naked
women, giant snakes, Boy scouts being bitten on their TODGERS, Stone
Dildos, Jesus on a cross, Bagpipes ( well one of the cast is a Scott).
Then I'm going to re-dub my lead actress. Make sure the actors look
like they've forgotten their lines and have a really bad song sung by
badly dubbed singers during a party scene.

Ken you are Amazing. Lair of the White worm is Amazing. Its so bad, you
can't help but watch it over and over. All the cast went on to bigger
and better things. Well except that Hugh bloke? Not sure what happened
to him. But I'm still sure all the actors and crew will never forget
there work on Lair of the White Worm. Its the only movie where Ken
Russell can plead GUILTY with a big grin on his face to all the rubbish
critics have written about his work. P.S I HOPE THEY GOT THE JOKE? .
I DID!
<|_=00=_|>
Being one of the few who has read Bram Stoker's original-novel, I can
say without reservation that Ken Russell's vision of the story is
far-superior. Why? You would have to read the novel, but I can vouch
that it is unfilmable, and would put any audience to-sleep. It's not
bad, and it has some excellent-ideas, but that's really what sums
Stoker up-best--he had good concepts and a background-story, but a
boring execution. Stoker went to great-lengths to show us how much he
hated the aristocracy, just as in Dracula, but it gets tedious and
too-talky. Also, the Irishman was dying of some brain-disease, so the
story is pretty fragmented. He died shortly after completing it in
1912. But the general-ideas are great, and the story predates
Lovecraft's similar-obsessions with cosmic-horror. A faithful-version
on film would not be very exciting. Russell, being Russell, intuited
the sexual-subtext of the story, and takes it to realms of
comic-transcendence.

Russell saw the exquisite-potential in the story, and even spiced-it-up
further with his wonderful blend of sexual-obsession and high-camp. He
also lends the story a very-serious mysticism. It's ripping! Amada
Donohoe stands-out as Lady Sylvia Marsh, an acolyte of a once-dead
"sect" of vampiric serpent-worshippers, and she shines here. It is
probably her best-performance in a movie. There are so-many
great-moments in this film, and many are very witty and funny, with
plenty-of sex-jokes (this is a Ken Russell film, after-all). Russell
wisely let the film be campy and tongue-in-cheek, since he wanted the
audience to laugh with the story rather than at it! Characters
practically wink at the camera after delivering their witty-lines, and
Hugh Grant is pretty funny, he gets it. This has to be the first time
most American audiences saw Grant in a starring-role, and it left a
big-impression on me.

The theme I enjoyed-most was the idea of pagan-religions being dormant
for Centuries, and then reasserting-themselves in our modern-world (in
many-forms, like folklore, songs, and even in physical-manifestations),
it's an exciting-concept with all the sexual-implications Russell loves
trotting-out. There's also atmosphere-galore, and some very
pointed-jabs at Orthodox-Christianity that the cynical will enjoy. What
I really loved, though, was how campy the whole-affair is, since much
of this is for laughs. The film also has an interesting new take on a
kind-of serpent-vampirism. Sex was the basis in most
Victorian-literature, so Russell has a field-day with it, and why not?
He lays-bare Stoker's sexual-obsessions, and has them out-in-the-open,
not really a major-shift from the original-novel! The title
says-it-all, doesn't it? 

Lesbianism, paganism, mystery, religion, archaeology, humor, murder,
monsters--how can you lose? This was part of a three-picture deal that
director Ken Russell had with Vestron pictures, and included the
excellent "Gothic" (1986) and D.H. Lawrence's "The Rainbow" (1989). The
1980s was possibly his purest period where he had a very free-hand in
his productions. It should be noted that Russell is a great adapter of
D. H. Lawrence, and has done some justice to Aldous Huxley with "The
Devils" (his only political-film that surely ranks as horror), so
literature is no problem for this most-controversial director. His
infatuation with Britain's folklore is so apparent in this and his
other films! In-fact, there is a scene where a genuine folk-song about
the "Dampton Worm" is sung, since the legend is a real one from an old
Anglo-Saxon kingdom.

Pioneer actually got this one right for-once. The film is widescreen,
and has a very-good transfer. The sound is stereo, and it is fairly
active. Now, if they can get the rest of the catalog right...
<|_=00=_|>

This movie definitely belongs in the, "it's so bad it's good" category.
However, the more times I see it, I'm thinking it's more like, "It's so
bad,
it's GREAT"! A good movie is in some ways is like a great plate of Italian
food. It needs a firm base, some zesty sauce, and just the right amount of
cheese.

I first heard about this movie when I was in high school. Everyone around
me
was catching it on cable except me. Everyone seemed to have the same
opinion
of the movie, "man, it's so weird". When I finally got to see the movie,
we
were over at a party at a practical strangers house in a town far from our
own at 3 in the morning; an uncomfortable situation. But, when this movie
came on, for some reason it made everything alright. I saw it years later
in
a bargain bin VHS rack and I had to get it. It was by far the best $5 I've
ever spent. This is one of those movies that is great to watch late at
night
with a good buzz on. I'm sure it annoys the hell out of my wife, but this
movie makes me laugh like a little kid.

Filmwise, the movie is terribly made (or, if you're a Ken Russel fan,
wonderfully made). There's holes in the script, the acting is bad, the
props
even worse; but there are so many insanely bad puns in this movie that it
gets more entertaining each time you see it.

I know I haven't said too much about the movie, but perhaps that's for the
best. To sum it all up, it's a great flick if you're in the mood for a
real
cheesy B grade movie.
