

The vigilante has long held a fascination for audiences, inasmuch as it
evokes a sense of swift, sure justice; good triumphs over evil and the bad
guy gets his deserts.  It is, in fact, one of the things that has made the
character of Dirty Harry Callahan (as played by Clint Eastwood) so popular. 
He carries a badge and works within the law, but at heart, Harry is a
vigilante, meting out justice `his' way, which often puts him in conflict
with his own superiors, as well as the criminals he's pursuing.  But it's
what draws the audience; anyone who's ever been bogged down in bureaucratic
nonsense of one kind or another, delights in seeing someone cut through the
red tape and get on with it-- even if it's only on the screen.  And that
satisfaction derived from seeing justice done-- and quickly-- is one of the
elements that makes `Sudden Impact,' directed by and starring Eastwood, so
successful.  In this one, the fourth of the series, while working a
homicide, Harry encounters a bona fide vigilante at work-- an individual
whose brand of justice parallels his own, with one exception:  Whoever it
is, he's definitely not carrying a badge.

In his own inimitable way, Inspector Callahan has once again ended up on the
bad side of the department and is ordered to take some vacation time.  So he
does; as only `Dirty Harry' can.  In a small town north of San Francisco,
Harry finds himself smack dab in the middle of a homicide case, which he
quickly links to a recent murder in San Francisco because of the unique M.O.
employed by the perpetrator.  Unaccountably, Harry encounters resistance
from the local Police Chief, Jannings (Pat Hingle), who advises him to take
his big city tactics and methods elsewhere.  Not one to be deterred,
however, Harry continues his investigation, which ultimately involves a
beautiful and talented young artist, Jennifer Spencer (Sondra Locke). 
Gradually, Harry discovers a link between the victims; the burning question,
though, is where does Jennifer Spencer fit into the picture?

Eastwood is in top form here, both in front of and behind the camera, and it
is arguably the second best of the five-film series, right behind the
original `Dirty Harry.'  It had been seven years since the last `Harry'
offering (`The Enforcer,' 1976), but Eastwood steps right back into the
character with facility and renewed vigor.  And this one definitely benefits
from having him in the director's chair, as he is able to recapture the
essence of, not only his own character, but that `spirit' that made these
films so successful, and he does it by knowing the territory and
establishing a continuity that all but erases that seven year gap between #s
3 and 4.  As with all the films he directs, Eastwood sets a deliberate pace
that works perfectly for this material and creates just enough tension to
keep it interesting and involving from beginning to end. 

The screenplay, by Joseph Stinson, is well written and formulated to that
distinctive `Dirty Harry' style; the dialogue is snappy and the story itself
(conceived by Charles B. Pierce and Earl E. Smith) is the most engaging
since the original `Dirty Harry,' as it successfully endeavors to play upon
the very personal aspects of the drama, rather than entirely upon the
action.  The characters are well drawn and convincing, and, of course, this
is the film that gave us one of Harry's best catch-phrases:  `Go, ahead--
make my day...'

As Harry, Clint Eastwood perfectly embodies all of the elements that make
this character so popular:  He lives by a personal moral code, a true
individual made of the kind of stuff we envision as that of the pioneers who
settled this country and made America what it is today.  Harry personifies
that sense of freedom and justice we all strive for and hold so dear,
possibly more so today than ever before.  No matter who we are or where we
come from, there's undeniably a part of us that wants to be Harry, or at
least have him around.  `Dirty Harry' is an icon of the cinema, and it's
impossible to envision anyone but Eastwood portraying him; for better or
worse, Eastwood `is' Dirty Harry, without question, just as Sean Connery is
James Bond and Basil Rathbone, Sherlock Holmes.

Sondra Locke is entirely effective here in the role of Jennifer Spencer, a
young woman wronged and out for vengeance, or as she sees it, `justice.' 
She manages to bring a hard-edged determination laced with vulnerability to
her character, with a convincing, introspective approach that is far beyond
what is typical of the `action' genre.  Even amid the violence, Locke keeps
her focus on Jennifer and the traumatic events that have brought her to this
stage of her life.  Her portrayal makes a perfect complement to Eastwood's
Harry, and becomes, in philosophy and deed, something of his
counterpart.

In supporting roles, two performances stand out:  Paul Drake, as Mick,
creates the best `psycho' since Andy Robinson's dynamic portrayal of the
serial killer in the original `Dirty Harry.'  With actually very limited
screen time, Drake establishes a genuinely disconcerting presence that is
believable and convincing, which adds much to the purely visceral response
of the audience.  This is the guy you can't wait to see Harry take care of
in the end.  Also effective is Audrie J. Neenan, who makes her character,
Ray Parkins, the epitome of the proverbial `low life,' who can be found in
any bar in any city.  It's a performance that evokes a gut-level response,
and it adds greatly to the credibility of the film, in that it helps provide
that necessary sense of realism.

The supporting cast includes Albert Popwell (Horace), Mark Kevloun (Bennett)
and Nancy Parsons (Mrs. Kruger).  With a perfect blend of drama and action,
`Sudden Impact' dispenses justice that is a fulfilling respite from reality;
the perfect justice of a not-so-perfect world, that makes for a satisfying
cinematic experience.  9/10.                   
<|_=00=_|>

 Sudden Impact is the most unusual of the five Dirty Harry movies, but that
doesn't make it the best. However, after the rather flat and comic-book
heroics of the third film, The Enforcer, it's good to see some changes to
the formula. Sudden Impact is quite a dark, moody piece of cinema with big
emphasis on character. Yes, there's action, but the action in this one is
only one piece of the jigsaw whereas in some of the other Dirty Harry
outings the action was everything.

 Harry Callahan (Eastwood) is in hot water with his superiors for carrying
out an illegal search on a suspicious car. The young thugs he arrested are
released because of the lack of evidence, and they set out to take revenge
on Harry. However, Harry is a tough nut to crack - and pretty soon he is
striking back in his own destructive style. Harry's boss decides to get
Harry out of town for a while to avoid further bloodshed, so he assigns him
to a quiet murder investigation in an isolated coastal town. Harry pieces
together the mystery and discovers that the killer is a female artist
(Locke) who is bumping off a bunch of drop-outs who gang-raped her and her
sister years previously. Should he arrest her for the killings, or should he
turn a blind eye and let her do away with these repellent
scum-bags?

 The film is probably the second best in the series (the original is always
going to be considered the best). Peculiarly, it is the only Dirty Harry
movie upon which Eastwood also doubled up as director. It isn't a whole
success, with some needless scenes (what's the point of the sequence
detailing the hold-up of a coffee shop?) and a couple of overly hammy
performances by the main villains (especially the trailer trash redhead). On
the whole, though, this is a very interesting and unusual addition to the
series which gets by on the strength of being totally different to all the
other four episodes.
<|_=00=_|>

Sudden Impact is the 4th of the Dirty Harry films and one of the best traits
of these films is that they don't really degrade in quality from one film to
the next. Thus, Sudden Impact provides another thrill ride through the life
of Dirty Harry Callahan. This time Harry attempts to solve a series of
murders while on vacation. Harry's always on the job it seems. Clint
Eastwood plays Harry as he plays all his men of action, slow, deliberate,
and without fear. As the first of the Dirty Harry films to be made in the
80's, Sudden Impact lacks a bit of the 70's feel that characterizes the
first three films. This doesn't mean that it's quality is any less. Bottom
Line: Brimming with intensity and action, Sudden Impact is another worthy
addition to the Dirty Harry series. 
<|_=00=_|>

The Dirty Harry series are great films. Forget reality and political
correctness, just enjoy the films.
Like the rest of the series the formula is perfect in Sudden Impact, a
great
actor delivering action, humour, thrills and excitement.
<|_=00=_|>

With Harry Callahan getting up in years, 
the inevitable `old man with a chip on his 
shoulder' story had to come into play eventually. 
Callahan, looking fragile sometimes and 
out of place, his demeanor still was 
unwavering. Thankfully, this film took some 
time off to develop a different type of story, 
one that might reinvent the Dirty Harry and 
the whole genre. While the film fell short in 
doing so, it was still an excellent addition to 
the series, even if it was getting a little out of 
place during a time of silly fashion trends 
and New Wave music. 
<|_=00=_|>
The fourth in the "Dirty Harry" series, this film features one of the
most despicable, ugliest, unlikable, profane, disgusting females I have
ever seen on film: "Ray Perkins," played by Audrie Neenan. She is the
modern nasty low-life version of the 1945 "Detour" character, "Ann
Savage."

Her foul mouth and gutter attitude turned me off so much I never
watched this film again until I acquired a profanity filter which shut
her up....and least some of her! Then I could enjoy the rest of the
movie.

Everywhere "Harry Callahan" (Clint Eastwood) goes, violence immediately
follows.....within minutes! It happens so often it's almost laughable
but it makes for a fast-moving, entertaining film with a satisfying
ending as all the scumbag villains are eliminated one-by-one.

This is a very sophomoric film that appeals to our base
instincts.....and connects, sad to say. Most of us like to see these
dirtballs get it in the end, and who does it better than Dirty Harry?
<|_=00=_|>
A rape victim is going around, bumping off her attackers one by one,
having been denied justice originally. A rather unconventional
detective, Callahan is put on the case.. but whose side will he take?

This is one of the most brutal films I've seen in quite some time.
Virtually every scene seems to be a set-up for some punks to make the
mistake of annoying our hero, who then proceeds to beat the living
daylights out of them, or simply blows their heads off. I am 100%
convinced that if any serving officer did what the Eastwood character
gets away with in this film, he would not only be stripped of his
badge, but also be looking at a considerable stretch in prison. Another
striking aspect of the picture is the violence used against the fairer
sex. The female cast members get punched in the face, kicked when on
they're on the ground.. And that doesn't even include the constant
flashbacks we get of Sondra Locke's sexual assault ordeal (We get one
every time she carries out one of her revenge attacks on her
aggressors). The misogyny displayed on screen is incredible and is
unlikely to endear itself to anyone concerned about domestic violence.

So why am I recommending it? Well for a start, the film is well
directed, with some very exciting gunfights and car chases which will
keep you on the edge of your seat. But the main reason for watching is
Clint himself, the evergreen icon giving us another classy performance
as a veteran cop who might not share the ethics of the modern police
force, but tends to do the job 10x better than his colleagues who do it
all 'by the book'. If only we had someone like that here in Britain,
perhaps this country wouldn't be the crime hotspot it is these days..
6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Yes, it is better than THE DEAD POOL, but that is not saying much.
Ugly, that is the first word that comes to mind. What an ugly, gory,
gross out, piece of crap. Let's grant the shaky morality of returning
murder for rape. I will not go there. It is certainly debatable. The
film glories in head and genital bullet shots. Yes, I love seeing
bullets into heads; it makes my day. First, when you shoot someone in
the head it is not that nice; see brains and blood fly all over in a
lovely gore explosion. Think of an exploding watermelon. The film
desensitizes the costs of violence; it is all neat and clean. Neelan's
performance is without equal in the most gross, disgusting character
even depicted on screen. Look, I am sullied after wading though the
sewage that is modern film; this, even though made in 1983, is flat out
disgusting. 

It is full of cringe worthy moments, yes the make my day scene is one
of them. First, if his reflexes were any slower they could have painted
a mural waiting for the old geezer to pull his piece. In real life he
would have been riddled with bullet holes before grandpa even got the
piece out. How about the romance between him and the 25 years younger
Locke, yuuuuuch! Please, at least it was off camera. He arrives in a
small town and there is a robbery right in front of him what a
coincidence. The whole shooting up the mafia enforcers, yes now there
was a realistic scene. Look how far down from DIRTY HARRY we have come?
Even THE ENFORCER was a masterpiece compared to this. Sondra Locke was
one of the most beautiful actresses of the 1980's but she could never
act. Psycho boy gets old very fast. 

When Sondra said her lines, in my theater in 1983, people were
laughing. Again, watching her tool about shooting men and one women in
the genitals and the head just is not my idea of a good time. Instead
of the great Harry Guardino, we get some faceless, bad acting stand in.
This really was close to the nadir for the Dirty Harry franchise.
Sondra took out the monkey movies with her abysmal singing which makes
her acting seem like Bette Davis. She is on screen here way to long and
her acting wrecks the movie. The supporting cast is just awful. Pat
Hingle is the only actor among them. The film is unrelentingly non stop
violence, gross out dialogue and really ugly imagery. If you enjoy some
bad acting tart driving around shooting men in the genitals and head,
this is the film for you. Again, the morality is quite dubious. We
revoked the death penalty for rape about 50 years ago. BRING A BARF BAG
AND A PAIR OF SUNGLASSES.
<|_=00=_|>
Inspector "Dirty" Harry Callahan once again angers his superiors with
his maverick approach to police work. Refusing to take a vacation he is
given a simple case which takes him outside of San Francisco. However,
he soon discovers a link between a recent murder in the city and a
murder outside of the city, which leads him to the trail of a revenge
killer.

As an entry in the Dirty Harry franchise the film starts with some very
promising moments, including the legendary "Go ahead, make my day" line
that Eastwood delivers wonderfully through clenched teeth before single
handedly foiling a robbery. Very badass and it just what fans can
expect from him. However, the film soon shifts gears and focuses on the
mysterious revenge killer. The problem is that this killer isn't all
that mysterious as she is characterized as much as Harry is. This
really detracts from the presence of the main character who ruled all
of his previous film appearances with, pardon the pun, Magnum Force.

On the bright side this new storyline does draw several parallels to
Harry's own unorthodox methods and gives his character dramatic depth
that was not there before, but fans that were looking for another
badass Harry outing will more than likely be somewhat disappointed.
However, a tense climax ends the film on an exciting note so if you
don't mind something a little different, it is a good movie for fans.
--- 7/10

Rated R for violence and a rape scene
<|_=00=_|>
In the first three "Dirty Harry" movies, Detective Inspector Harry
Callahan (Clint Eastwood) was seen as the maverick cop whose contempt
for his superiors, the justice system and the rulebook regularly got
him into trouble and in "Sudden Impact" nothing has really changed. He
continues to survive in his job because his unorthodox methods get
results but periodically, the costs of his actions in terms of
expenses, physical destruction and bad publicity become so great that
he temporarily has to be taken out of the firing line for the benefit
of everyone involved.

One of these situations arises again after the San Francisco cop shoots
dead a whole group of criminals who were robbing a diner and then
shortly after, confronts a local crime boss at his grand-daughter's
wedding, in such a way that the old man suffers a fatal heart attack.
Callahan, typically, is furious about being forced to take an
unscheduled vacation but is left with no other choice.

Unfortunately, when he's on vacation, Callahan gets attacked by a group
of the crime boss' men and kills three of them before eliminating
another group of thugs who try to kill him because he'd arrested one of
their number who'd recently appeared in court but had been freed on a
technicality. In the circumstances, Callahan gets assigned to a murder
case which takes him to San Paulo, a nearby small town where he becomes
friendly with a woman called Jennifer Spencer (Sondra Locke) and also
finds that the local police chief, Lester Jennings (Pat Hingle), is
openly hostile to the presence of a big city cop and has no intention
of providing any assistance or co-operation.

More killings (which are all carried out in the same way) follow and
Callahan discovers that ten years earlier, the victims were all
involved in the brutal gang-rape of Jennifer Spencer and her younger
sister who'd remained in a catatonic state ever since. Callahan's
methods for bringing murderers to justice are normally very simple and
straight forward but, in this case, he decides that a rather different
course of action is more appropriate.

"Sudden Impact" delivers its entertaining combination of action and
humour at a brisk pace and features a punchy script which is full of
witty one-liners and of course, the legendary catchphrase, "Go ahead.
Make my day". The quality of the acting is very effective throughout
with Clint Eastwood on great form. This was the only movie in the
"Dirty Harry" series that Eastwood also directed and his work in
relation to the action sequences and those where he makes good use of
light and shadows to create the desired atmosphere are top class.

Every crime thriller needs an interesting villain and Jennifer Spencer
certainly fits the bill because she's a tragic victim, a brutal serial
killer and also an artist whose works express her anguish very
powerfully. This traumatised woman with a blank expression had, for ten
years, harboured her hatred of the rapists and her absolute despair for
her sister's predicament and although she might have derived some
short-term satisfaction from carrying out her killing spree, it
definitely wouldn't have brought her any closer to a cure for her ills.

Audiences know exactly what they're going to get with a "Dirty Harry"
film and on the evidence of the huge box office receipts for "Sudden
Impact", no-one was disappointed this time around.
