
Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 is one of the most misunderstood movies of
all time. I saw Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 when it was released in
theaters back in 1986. I loved this horror flick then. But everyone
else hated it. Critics trashed it. Even many horror fans, of the first
Texas Chainsaw Massacre or slashers in general, hated it and dismissed
it. Now after a decade or so after its release, TCM 2 is now a bona
fide cult movie.

There are so many things to point out why TCM 2 is a stand-out. The
first and most important thing to point out is that back in the 1980s,
horror films were reduced to simple slashers. TCM 2 is totally
different than the plethora of slashers that many horror fans expected
to see, which is one reason why many horror fans didn't get it. The
body count is extremely low in TCM 2 compared to the Friday the 13th or
Elm Street flicks. But that doesn't mean it's not violent. No, it's
VERY violent. But the violence in TCM 2 is more engrossing, shocking
and even at times funny, and in turn less acceptable than the unreal
violence found in many slasher films. Because of the amount of violence
and violent imagery, films critics trashed TCM 2, pointing out how the
first film didn't rely on gore and violence to scare the audience.

I love Texas Chainsaw Massacre as much as I love TCM 2. I understand
what the critics were saying. Unfortunately, they didn't get the point
of the violence in TCM 2. While TCM is a sweat inducing TERRIFYING
horror film in the first order, TCM 2 is a "GRAND GUIGNOL HORROR"
horror film in the first order. In TCM 2, Hooper creates a vast canvas
of baroque imagery, where we watch the insane and gory story unfold
before our incredulous eyes. I'm amazed that critics missed the whole
difference between TCM and TCM 2. It's odd that critics will rave about
Peter Greenaway's "THE COOK, THE THIEF, HIS WIFE & HER LOVER" which is
a twisted drama in the the Grand Guignol style, but didn't see TCM 2 in
the same way. It's probably due to the fact that TCM 2 is a sequel to a
quasi-legendary horror film and everyone expected the sequel to be the
same as the first movie.

I give credit to everyone involved with TCM 2. They actually TRIED to
do something different: different from the equally great TCM, different
from the increasingly boring horror films of the 80s. And in my eye,
they've succeeded. There are so many memorable scenes in TCM 2, some of
which are the most amazing horror moments ever put on screen (when
Leatherface tries to put the scalped face on Stretch, the scene when
Stretch finds her friend sans face, etc). And there are so many
quotable lines too. TCM 2 is also a very funny film ("Rain, rain, rain,
rain..." Choptop says as he checks out records at the radio station).

TCM 2 is not perfect. The ending is abrupt. And the chainsaw fight at
the end is too short. Dennis Hopper is a bit hard to take as a "hero."
But he does play the "twisted hero" right. It's just difficult to see
him fighting big and burly Leatherface. BTW, the very last image of TCM
2 is Strecth dancing with a chainsaw in her hands at the top of that
amusement park structure. In the original film (and the original video
release), we can see cars and trucks driving by on a highway in the
distance. On the DVD, they cropped this shot and we don't see the
traffic anymore. Personally, I thought it added a LOT to the whole
surreal aspect of the film. Like the world was continuing on with its
relentless pace, no matter what had just happened that night. I wished
they didn't crop this shot on the DVD. Oh well...

It's a shame few people "got" TCM 2 back then. After reading the
reviews at IMDb and at Amazon, it's great to see that some are finally
"getting it." For anyone who's game, watch TCM 2. You'll be squealing
in horror and laughing at the insanity of it all in equal amounts.
<|_=00=_|>
The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 is a terrible film. I knew going in it
would be nothing like the original and was completely fine with that,
but this movie goes out of its way to be as ridiculous as possible. The
genuine scares from the original have been replaced by awkward comedic
bits, from the cannibal family's bickering to Leatherface making silly
faces (yeah, they had the audacity to turn Leatherface into a
punchline). 

It's just embarrassing, and this is largely due to an inconsistent
script. The first act sets an ominous tone from its premise of hearing
a murder live on the radio and the radio host being terrorized by the
same murderers. Then the second act is silly, borderline cartoonish
with Leatherface acting like a hormonal teenager; and the third act
tries to pay homage to the original by recreating the dinner scene
almost exactly as it was in the first (but not nearly as effective)
combined with an admittedly cool chainsaw duel between Lefty (Dennis
Hopper) and Leatherface, then closing with a somewhat thrilling final
struggle for the heroine to make her escape. Then it closes with
another "homage" to the original and then credits roll and a cheesy
'80s pop song ensues. If not for the second act, it had potential to be
an engrossing story and potentially disturbing (the gore is still
top-notch) but the drastic shifts in tone make it virtually impossible
to become immersed into this overtly fake, cartoonish world.

Thankfully, Tobe Hooper's directing makes even the dullest moments of
The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 aesthetically pleasing. The location and
set design is perfect - the underground lair with brightly colored
lights juxtaposed with rotting corpses and leftover entrails is oddly
unsettling, and the scenery during the final moments of the movie is
hauntingly beautiful. Hooper knows how to make these scenes look as
gritty and urgent as possible. Dennis Hopper's Texas ranger was also a
welcome addition. He was related to Franklin of the first movie and is
out for revenge on these hillbillies so he buys the biggest chainsaw he
can, then storms their lair screaming his lungs out like a lunatic.

What ultimately killed this movie for me (aside from the script) is the
lead actress. She is just awful. You can't take anything she says
seriously because of how poorly she delivers her lines, and her screams
are so forced and annoying I was practically rooting for Leatherface to
chop her head off. Her relationship with Leatherface is also forced and
awkward, but maybe that was the screenwriters' attempt at comedy. There
are a couple laughs in this movie, and by that I mean two; three max.
Something about the bombastic chainsaw duel is undeniably exhilarating,
despite it not being fleshed out to its full potential.

There is some fun to be had in this movie, but you have to suffer
through a lot of stupidity to get there. I have no idea how sequels
continued coming out after this, and I can even empathize why they
would want to make a "sequel reboot" with Texas Chainsaw 3D, but that
was even more abominable than The Texas Chainsaw Massacre's true sequel
- this - and this is pretty darn bad. This movie is for Leatherface
completists only.
<|_=00=_|>
The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 is criminally underrated. I've noticed a
lot of comments trashing this movie. It's a HORROR movie! It's also a
SEQUEL to a horror movie! Where were your expectations people? What did
you think you were going to be watching? I remember watching The Texas
Chainsaw Massacre 2 as a kid, and it scared the s**t out of me. That
opening bridge scene is incredible. It's one of the scariest sequences
I've ever seen. Tom Savini's effects are top notch, the humor is well
placed, and the acting is perfect for the genre. Bill Moseley (Chop
Top) is something else. He's the reason I love this movie so much. He
portrays one of the most memorable characters in recent horror history
and I can't get enough of him. I do agree that Bill Johnson is not
nearly as menacing as Gunnar Hansen in the role of Leatherface. But
what's wrong with Tobe Hooper's direction? It's his story, let him tell
it the way he wants to. I think Tobe Hooper succeeds in continuing the
tale of one of the great horror icons. TCM 2 has loads of gore, campy
acting, and instills a healthy dose of fear into it's viewer. What more
could you ask of a sequel? And remember, the saw is family.
<|_=00=_|>
Disclaimer: Do NOT try to remove your hemorrhoids with a chainsaw. It
will NOT save you a trip to the hospital.

(spoilers) OK, let me tell you why the Texas Chainsaw sequels don't
work. The original film is slightly exempt from this, but when you have
someone who is screaming and wiggling so much that you wish she would
just get killed so she'll shut the hell up, you have lost your ability
to scare. Doesn't matter how good the sets or costumes or actors are,
if the audience is holding their ears, you have a problem.

The first sequel in the Texas Chainsaw series is meant to be nothing
other than a bigger version of the original, this time fictionalized,
and beefed up with the star power of Dennis Hopper. Not that the
original was non-fiction. As you know, it was really based, very
loosely, as it were, on the inhuman antics of Ed Gein in the 1950s, the
same demented nutcase that inspired Psycho and The Silence of the
Lambs. Sounds like a fun guy.

Unfortunately, as is all too often the case with horror movies, this
one comes off more as a sick comedy than a scary movie. Granted, there
are horror movies that purposely come out like that, such as most of
the Nightmare on Elm Street movies, but the original Texas Chainsaw
Massacre was a movie that caught people off guard because of its
simplicity, its unknown cast, and its rough, documentary feel. In Texas
Chainsaw 2, every single little bit of that is lost.

The set, once we eventually get underground, looks like they rented the
Indiana Jones set, festooned it with randomly placed naked light bulbs,
furniture made out of human bones, and meat hooks, and had Leatherface
run around swinging a chainsaw. The atmosphere of the movie has
completely lost the claustrophobic feel of the original by vastly
expanding the size of the set, much of which looks like a Christmas
tree crossed with an esophagus, and there is just too much hooting and
hollering for it to be scary. The only thing more irritating than the
killers is their victim, 'Stretch.'

The movie starts off with a couple of high school caricatures zooming
down a desert highway, screaming at each other at the tops of their
lungs about the sheer magnitude of the party that they are on their way
to. They decide to swing into oncoming traffic to play chicken with
someone driving a pickup truck, instantly making me eager to see them
get killed. Doesn't matter that Leatherface is in that truck, anyone
who plays chicken with a random driver because they're driving around
drunk deserves to get killed. And if it takes place in a movie, they
deserve to get killed with a chainsaw.

So not only do we have to endure the hooting and hollering of these two
jerks, but they call a radio station and we are asked to believe that
this station's phones get completely tied up if someone calling in
refuses to hang up. Sure, this is rural Texas and 1986, but are we to
believe that even out there and back then, there were radio stations
with a single phone line and without the ability to cut off the
callers? At one point the clueless tech guy is frantically pushing
buttons and pulling levers, trying to figure out how to clear the line.
Given something so stupid, however, you know it was there for a reason,
so that they could record the phone call as the kids get chainsawed on
the other end. 

Speaking of which, the same kid that swerved into oncoming traffic at
full speed finds himself stopped on a bridge as that same pickup truck
sits blocking both lanes, and he frantically screams 'Are you crazy?!?'
out the windshield while his idiot friend in the passenger seat offers
such heroic tips as 'Just keep driving!' and 'Get outta here!' Good
thinking'! Speaking of driving, not only can they not outrun a pickup
truck traveling in reverse while supposedly holding the pedal to the
floor in their Mercedes, but in the shots that show Leatherface
standing and swinging his chainsaw, they are literally traveling all of
5mph.

Dennis Hopper plays the uncle of the kids who were killed in the
original movie, sort of a rogue detective out of his jurisdiction and
showing up at the scene of the two kids' murder. The police refuse to
jump to conclusions, but Lefty (Hopper) is sure that it's the same
people who killed his nieces and nephews. Hopper makes a GREAT redneck.
I generally am truly disappointed when actors take on fake accents, but
Hopper does this one so well that you would swear he's lived in the
south his entire life, it's just too bad that he's saddled with this
idiot character.

At one point, Stretch, the radio station DJ, shows up at his apartment,
which, needless to say, is flooded with drunken rednecks wandering the
halls with their arms around each other, and tells him that she has an
audiotape of the murder because the kids called in just before they
were attacked, and he sends her away! What the hell is that? Later he
has a change of heart, but only wants to hear it if she'll play it on
the air. The logic of the characters' actions in this movie is not
starting off on the right foot. Then later, as Stretch hangs in a pit
about to fall into the demons' lair, you might say, he tries to save
her with a brittle, dried out arm bone. Clever.

There is a lengthy horror scene inside the radio station, which looks
like it doesn't know if it's supposed to be a radio station or a horror
movie set, so better just be a little bit of both. It's got its vast
storage of records stored safely behind an open door, with a heavy
steel door guarding the cleaning supplies. A burglar's dream, you might
say. We get a scene where Leatherface is assigned to kill Stretch, but
when he finally gets through that steel door, he starts chainsawing a
tub of soda cans sitting in ice, which have no reason for being there
or for being chainsawed, until finally Stretch screams, 'Are you mad at
me??' and my eyes glaze over for the remainder of the film.

There's an effective scene where Leatherface puts Stretch's friend's
freshly removed face over hers, supposedly to help her escape, but for
the most part the underground portion of the film is a tired rehash of
the original. Sure, it's bigger, there are more Christmas lights and
more chainsaws, but essentially it's exactly the same thing, just
without the surprise. They even replay exactly the same dinner scene
from the end of the last movie, the most unpleasant scene in the entire
movie. 

Lefty decides that he is so intent on delivering swift poetic justice
that, rather than stock up on as many guns as he can carry, he buys
three huge chainsaws and straps them to his body, and then runs
screaming into the house, yelling and cutting down wooden supports as
the family tortures Stretch. In Commando Arnold bulldozes into a
weapons store and loads up on boatloads of guns and knives and
explosives. In The Terminator he does the same thing, with the added
bonus of killing off the proprietor before leaving. Lefty could have
paid homage to both of those films, establishing Lefty as a good guy
since he actually paid for his. But why saws and not guns? 

The grandparents, as is to be expected, are a hideous, hideous
spectacle. Grandpa's 137 years old and still likes to hammer young
girls on the head, and grandma spends her time in a wheelchair upstairs
with a chainsaw on her lap. We are treated to a finale atop a huge rock
outcropping that is so fake that it almost turns the movie into a
comedy all by itself. There is at least one or two shots where the
underlying chicken wire is nakedly visible.

We get some sort of variation on the ending of the original, since the
conclusion is almost a mirror image, in that the girl becomes the
chainsaw wielding maniac rather than looking at him out the back window
of a passing motorist, but I'm not sure what line of discussion led to
the conclusion that this would be a cool way to end the film. Is this
supposed to be the setup for a sequel? The family's dead, but now
there's this girl who has caught chainsaw fever and will now carry on
the legacy?
<|_=00=_|>
Potential SPOILERS ahead.

When I'd first heard of this movie, it was described to me by my
cousins as the scariest and creepiest movie they'd ever seen. So it
always had a place in my mind as a movie to avoid. However, when I
finally did catch it, I have to say I disagree.

This movie was incredibly stupid. Every scare is telegraphed, nothing
is a surprise. Leatherface dances around more with the chainsaw then
cutting anyone. It's really idiotic. The performances aren't much
better than your local churches haunted house on Halloween.

First, we're supposed to believe a radio station can't hang up on a
caller unless the caller does first? I think the FCC would have
something to say about that. It'd be impossible to censor any obscene
calls that way. Also, what exactly does the tape reveal that Chop Top
and Leatherface need to show up and silence the girl about? Some
screams and a chainsaw noise. Yeah, that really points out their
identities and existence. A damn autopsy would reveal the cause of
death was power tool. Beyond that there's NOTHING linking them. Texas
is a damn big state. And as the prologue indicates, after the first
girl was found alive, the authorities found NOTHING to prove the events
had happened. Plus, they could have just torched the place when they
left the girl if they really wanted to be sure.

I watched it a second time last night, and I have to say it's gotten
dumber. Stupid movie, and not in an entertaining way.
<|_=00=_|>

The answer to who the movie really centers on, is not as simple as
could be sounded. This nice little sequel (thats right! a GOOD sequel),
the attention could easily be said to circle around Williamss' Stretch,
but Dennis Hopper gets the only billing. One "normal" day in Texas, two
naughty little highschool brats decide to have fun, by calling in a
radio station(hosted by an enthusiastic Williams) and play chicken with
other texans, they think. Later, these angered Texans turn out to be,
uh huh! Ya, we all know who, as they attack the little brats one dark
night following the earlier prank. Williams "Stretch" catches all of
this gore galore on tape, and exposes it on her show as a favor for
Hopper. Hopper has underacted character who's revenge for the massacre
and torture of his nephew and niece (Sally and Franklin from the first)
is somewhat unconvincible to an extent, but he has better moments.
Williams, on the other hand, is very into her character and obviously
takes it to the next level, with some hammy moments resaulting. Still,
after she exposes the missing Saw-yer family-she is next! Pretty scary
stuff. Nice little set-up puts her in an awfully creepy confrontation
with Moseleys' Chop-Top". Then the real terror begins. This one could
easily be said to have been just a little more expanded than the first,
and I certainly say so. I do, however, put the first one on a higher
stand, nothing will ever beat the original nightmare, which still
scares to this day. Though Massacre 2 has its real moments of both
horror and comedy, it drags in the last real, and won't give up! Tobe
Hooper must have worked em all with this one, but its all the same a
great fun movie. To say it is bad, would be too harsh, I definitely
give this one a thumbs up, and ya know what? I'm not the only one!

<|_=00=_|>
Sequels have been around since who knows when. They are a permanent
part of our culture, which is both a positive and a negative thing when
you look at it. By definition a sequel is a continuation of a story,
but often times the magic just isn't there the second time around. You
have to find a way to keep things fresh, while keeping fans happy by
not straying too far from what came before. The original 'The Texas
Chainsaw Massacre' is one of the most frightening and powerful horror
films of all time and would be a tough act to follow. Tobe Hooper,
director and co-writer, of said film would take a stab at following it
up with the first of a few sequels 12 years later. What he came up with
is one of the most bizarre horror films ever and one that thankfully is
not a xerox copy of it's predecessor.

Pros: Great cast and everyone seems to be having the time of their
lives. Tongue is planted firmly in cheek. Tom Savini's effects are
top-notch. Plenty of blood and gore. Moves at a decent pace. Fabulous
design on the families hideout. Good score. You'll love to hate the
Sawyer family again, which includes a truly twisted new addition.

Cons: The change in tone is fine, but this sequel is really lacking in
the scare and suspense department. Plot wears thin. Some scenes drag on
a bit too long. Ends rather abruptly.

Final thoughts: Can't compare with the original, but this belated
sequel is still a joy to watch for fans. It's not one of those sequels
that seems to have been made solely for the money. Like the first film
it was a labor of love and it's nice to know that some filmmakers
really do care about pleasing their audience. The saw is here to stay!

My rating: 3.5/5
<|_=00=_|>
TCM 2 was definitely not as serious as the original film, but it had a
lot of charm to it. It begins in Texas (of course) with two young men
driving along the road. They call a local radio station which is when
we meet our leading lady Stretch (Caroline Williams) the DJ. While on
the phone with the guys, Leatherface murders both of them Stretch
manages to hear the chainsaw in the background. The police try to make
their deaths seem like a simple auto accident, but when a former Texas
Ranger Lefty (Dennis Hopper) sees the accident scene, he knows it was
more than an accident. And when Stretch gives him the audio tape of the
murder, he realizes that Leatherface has struck again. Once the
infamous Sawyer family catches on that people know of their crimes,
they trap Stretch in their sick twisted maze of dead corpses and
rotting flesh.

Chainsaw 2 was made at a time when it was competing with the
Krueger/Myers/Vorhees sequels. So it had to live up to the modern day
slasher film, that means more blood. It's a lot more gory than the
controversial first TCM. In this one, you literally see a guy get
skinned alive, his face is almost peeled off for Leatherface to use as
a mask. Oh and the family is explored more in this sequel. Jim Siedow
reprises the role of "The Cook" Drayton Sawyer. He now sells chili to
the fine people of Texas. He proclaims at a local cook off that it's
his special secret recipe. Take a guess what he uses to make the
chili....

Yeah so as you can see, TCM 2 is a little more morbid and comical in a
black comedy sort of way. The maze that Stretch gets trapped in near
the end is an old amusement park that the Sawyers are living in. Very
creepy set they built for it as well. The acting is pretty good for
this one as well. We also discover Dennis Hopper's character is related
to Franklin, the man in the wheelchair from the first TCM. Nice little
connection. All in all, a decent sequel to a 70's classic. It's not as
memorable as the first or even as good, but a fine slasher film
nonetheless.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
U got one choice boy, sex or the saw! I remember that line in the film
the most and it was my favorite quote. Anyway let's get down to another
review of horror madness from the dead, lol.

The original 1974 cult (never go to Texas) classic Texas Chainsaw
Massacre was a large hit and still remains in our souls of being one of
the most bone chilling, shocking horror films of all time. It is my
third favorite horror film and I treasure it for it's memories of
disgust but intelligent scares. That was Tobe Hooper's good and only
really scary film.

Now the his sequel "The Buzz is Back!" isn't a bad sequel at all though
it really falls on the lines of the original as Tobe decided to go to a
more comedic root instead of sticking to the horror ones. The horror
roots were put back into the third and fourth though they are way
beyond crappy.

Moving on I'll point out the good and bad plotters for TCM 2.

The good: The acting is still good especially Bill Moselsy who played
the insane, cannibalistic f***ed up Chop Top who loves his dead
corpses. The only returning character (s) is Dawerer (I think that's
his name) and he still did a good job. Dennis Hopper also did really
well and the back up actors were average.

The kills aren't great though there bloody enough. 1 point there.

The music also had a weird feel to it and the humor was contained well
and there were enough scenes to make me enjoy this film a lot.

The bad: The only problem I had with this film was that even if the
humor was average and contained well, it sucked that Tobe Hooper took
it to a different level and the scares are no where to be found. That's
the only major problem other wise.....

6.5/10 (It's another good slasher film if your bored and it has the
right amount of enjoyment leaking out of it) I would watch this awesome
sequel than wasting my time on TCM 3, TCM Next Gen and TCm the
Beginning. My opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
The first "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre" movie was excellent, so we
started watching this one expecting something great! the movie was
awful. i didn't understand if it was supposed to be funny or scary,
either way it did a bad job at both. it looked like a 10 dollar budget
scary movie that was unsuccessful, i think it was meant to look like
that, don't really get why. i recommend watching it so you appreciate
all other movies much more. *SPOILERS**SPOILERS* let me give you some
examples of how much the movie sucks: 1. there's a scene where
leather-face tries to murder a woman and then ends up falling in love
with her when she says are you good. 2. the place where the cannibal
family keep all the meat is a never ending dungeon that is as big as a
country. 3. someones face gets hit for a few minutes with a hammer and
he manages to survive from that, gets his face removed and don't look
like he experiences any kind of pain until he suddenly drops and dies.
*SPOILERS**SPOILERS*
