

Growing up together as social outcasts with only each other for
company, twins Elliot and Beverly Mantle become very close. This
closeness becomes more like them both sharing one self in two bodies as
they study in the same area and eventually become experts in the field
of gynaecology. They share everything and few can tell them apart; an
arrangement that works well until Beverly falls for a patient (Claire
Niveau) and finds that there are things he doesn't want to share with
Elliot. As Bev confronts the idea of them being separate for the first
time ever, he starts to fall apart mentally and, when Elliot tries to
reach out and help him he too is drawn into confusion over identity and
an inability to find where one of them stops and the other starts.

Being a Cronenberg film I knew to expect body horror and, shall I say,
an 'unusual' theme and in many ways the film delivered in spades but in
a much more cerebral fashion. The plot is not easy to explain but it is
a totally convincing breakdown of both Elliot and Beverly as they lose
contact with the lines between them (if the lines ever really existed).
Of course it is rather extreme but it is relentlessly interesting in
terms of the script and the characters. The gynaecological part of the
film allows Cronenberg to explore his more usual body horror stuff but
this all came second to the much more interesting material that exists
in the script. Cronenberg appears to be as fascinated as me by the
characters and he directs with a cold eye, letting the creepy
atmosphere come from not only the story but every shot, every set and
every performance; not only this but this is one of his more accessible
films without losing much of what makes Cronenberg Cronenberg.

Of course a massive part of the film working is two perfect
performances from Jeremy Irons, who I have not seen better in any other
films. Using special effects as well as the old 'over the shoulder'
technique, Irons is able to convincingly be on screen in two characters
at the same time, but it is not the shot framing that makes it
convincingly two characters, it is Irons' performance that does that.
His Beverly is so feeble and has a convincing breakdown; while his
Elliot appears much more together but suffers in a different way from
the same struggle. Obviously being identical, it is due to Irons that
the two characters come across so very different but yet seem just like
the same person. In every little scene he manages to stay in character
no matter what – it's hard for me to describe, you need to really see
it for yourself. Bujold is good in support early on but, as the twins'
story gets more complex, her characters feels a bit intrusive and
uninteresting, but generally she is good. However, to talk about anyone
beyond this is to suggest there is room for them in the film – there
isn't. Instead the film is pretty much dominated by two people – and
they are both Jeremy Irons, producing two great performances that were
vital for the film to work.

Overall this may be a little too weird for some viewers but many more
will find it to be one of their favourite Cronenberg films on the basis
that it has the qualities that makes him him but is also a lot more
accessible as well. The body horror is there in the background but it
is the psychological scarring and confusion that is of much more
interest; the script is great even if the plot goes to the usual
Cronenberg excesses but it is two perfect performances by Irons that
makes it all come together in a compelling and interesting film.

<|_=00=_|>
While I like "The Brood" quite a bit, Dead Ringers gets my vote as
Cronenberg's best work. 

Follow along as the twin brothers spiral out of control when they
unsuccessfully try to break free from each other. One's more confident,
the other more timid. But they depend on each other, and at middle age
neither has the psychological strength to be their own person; they
still don't have a sense of self. Among many favorite moments, I love
the scene where Elliott, the more confident twin, tries to kiss Claire.
It's his way of trying to synchronize himself with his brother Beverly,
whom Claire has a true connection with. "I'm sorry but I can't", she
intones. Elliott turns to the mirror, disturbed. "Am I really that
different from my brother?". He absolutely does not know who he is. 

Although it's not without some humor, Dead Ringers is very bleak. It
has an emotional intensity that most movies can't touch. It is sad AND
beautiful.

The movie itself *looks* great. Good script, and AWESOME performances
from both Irons and Bujold. As another reviewer suggested, watch it
twice if you don't like it the first time- it might grow on you. 

This is my all-time favorite movie.
<|_=00=_|>

To date, Cronenberg's deepest film.

Jeremy Irons summons a performance of profound complexity, to pull off
a double-act so credible that your feelings are divided, twin egg-like,
between two characters. The polar-opposite attraction/repulsion of each
brother's personality shines through in his every scene - to flesh out
two characters so distant yet so deeply intimate, and do it so
convincingly, requires more than acting, and this is by far his finest
moment.

I can't say any more about this film other than that seeing it is a
life-enhancing experience. Anyone who has ever taken potent substances
with a close friend, as a kind of emotional rite, will be moved beyond
words by the twins' climactic scene.

Never mind the detractors who say it's cold and clinical and abusive -
they just don't understand it. There is love, warmth and beauty in
abundance in this film - a horror film? A psychological thriller? A
love story? Don't try and give it a name and place, it's just an
essential part of understanding us: as adults; as children; as weird,
fathomless organisms.

<|_=00=_|>

Identical twin brothers Beverly and Elly Mantle are successful
gynaecologists in Toronto.  Their relationship is intense and very close -
perhaps too close.  The Mantles experiment with sex, drugs and personal
identity, to the detriment of their practice, and ultimately of their
psychological health.

This is a David Cronenberg film, so we are in the familiar realm of
horror, mind games and perverted science.  The director/producer/writer
appears in the credits above the title and even ahead of his stars, Irons
and Bujold. Essentially, the 'dead ringers' of the title are the brothers,
who regard their mental and emotional oneness as being something more.  They
see themselves as siamese twins, bound by their flesh, and fated to share
every experience, even unto death.

Irons does wonders to play two complex characters in one movie.  A new
technique called 'motion control' allows the actor to appear as two people
in the same frame, but there is also plenty of the old 'body double' method,
filming over a shoulder, then reversing the angle.

As teenage boys, the Mantle twins are clearly very bright, and display
a precocious interest in surgery and women's reproductive apparatus.  They
are also creepy geeks.  By the late 1980's they are handsome
forty-somethings, and hailed as brilliant gynaecologists by everyone in the
medical profession.

The screen actress Claire Niveau becomes Elliot's patient, and the
brothers are soon sharing her.  They frequently swap places without her
knowledge.  She has a unique uterus, and as Beverly (or is it Elliot?)
explores this feature with his fingers, it is difficult to tell whether he
is examining her or masturbating her.  Before long, both brothers are doing
both to Claire.

Elliot is a few minutes older than Beverly, microscopically taller and
a nuance darker in colouring, but by nature he and 'baby brother' are
utterly different.  While Beverly is shy and diffident, Elliot is a callous,
manipulative smoothie.  When Claire, still unaware that she is sleeping with
two men, expresses an interest in mild masochism, Beverly recoils but Elly
enthusiastically obliges.  He uses surgical tubes and clamps to tie Claire
down for sex, and as he releases her after orgasm, we sense that for him the
experience has been 'surgical' - almost a dispassionate
experiment.

If Beverly is Jeckyll and Elliot is Hyde, we are always conscious that
both personalities inhabit one awareness.  "You haven't had any experience
until I've had it too," Elliot tells Beverly, and the twins certainly seem
to share everything, treating each other's patients (without telling the
patients, of course) and working in tandem on research papers.  The twins
have a twin obsession in common - work and sex.  Beverly sums it up with,
"We do women - that's our speciality."

Identity is at the core of this film, and the dualities and ambiguities
of personality recur with brain-teasing frequency.  The twins are interested
in female genitalia, both professionally and recreationally.  Claire
attracts them because of her dualities - she is a big personality who adopts
other personas for her work: a strong woman who is turned on by being
submissive: a gynaecological 'star' who happens to be infertile: and the
French Canadian 'twin' to the English Canadian brothers.
Elliot sleeps with two call-girls who are twin sisters, and identifies them
by getting each to call him either 'Bev' or 'Elly'.  The film has layer upon
layer of these dualities.  Genevieve Bujold is a French Canadian actress
playing a French Canadian actress.  We see her being made up for a movie,
but when we see her left side, the make-up is of cuts and bruises.  The
Mantles prescribe drugs to each other, and each to himself, criss-crossing
the doctor/patient demarcation lines.  They take pills to cure their
addiction to pills.  Cary is having a relationship with Elliot, but when she
gets both brothers at once, she is deeply aroused.  The film, like the
brothers, oscillates between oneness and separation.  "I want to see you two
together," says Claire, confused by their duality.  So do
we.


<|_=00=_|>
Elliot and Beverly Mantle (Jeremy Irons) are identical twins that are
top-of-the-class and incredibly well known gynaecologists. They also
treat themselves by swapping their identities around, so they can share
each other's work commitments and pleasures, like woman. But all of
this comes back to destroy them emotionally and physically.

An intriguing and rather inventive premise director / co-writer David
Cronenberg has come up with here. The worlds Cronenberg creates in his
film's are rather fascinating in looking at the human body and
technology. This film is no exception. So you can't really call this
mainstream, as it's not for everyone's tastes. That's why his films
seem to have great impact in the realistic visuals and material
context. It's flowing with originality, good psychological elements,
erotica and it holds such an artistic feel with its stunning visuals
and elegance to show.

This thought-provoking drama is rather stimulating and quite downbeat.
Though, it's mostly a talkative film; the dialogue is dense on many
levels that it's truly captivating. It's more the material context that
tries to shock and explore in a subtle way rather than the horrific
visuals and shocks that we come to expect from most of Cronenberg's
films. It doesn't contain much graphic moments, only about one or two.
The sub-plots are drawn up quite well with dabbling in sexual desires
and pleasure, technology (instruments and tools of the trade), the
twins physical bond, addiction and a rather modernistic world. It's
filled with sharp and intense sequences that are entrenched with an
effective music score, as it overwhelmingly draws you in. This
unsettling aurora builds into paranoia in the last half of the film and
it ends rather disturbingly. The stylish production valves are
incredibly glossy and professional. With beautifully crafted and slick
cinematography. The gloomy colours that fill the screen hold great
contrast in the moody and detail backdrop. From their fashionable home
to their cold work office.

Jeremy Iron gives a tremendously charismatic performance playing both
Elliot and Beverly Mantle. Elliot is Beverly's backbone as he's
confident and arrogant. Beverly is the opposite as he's more innocent
and rather sweet. Beverly wants to break the bond that they share, but
Elliot can't let that happen. At first they weren't that likable, but
the further the film goes along we see their downfall and there spiral
into madness. That's when you start to feel for them and it gets rather
emotionally charged. They also live and depend on each other, feeling
what the other one feels and that's mostly pain and gloom here. This
happens when they start to depend on painkillers and Beverly believing
his girlfriend is cheating on him. This portrait shows how fragile they
really are and how we really depend and feel when love ones are in pain
and sorrow. As we are effected in the same way too. Genevieve Bujold is
splendid as Claire Niveau the movie star and Beverly's love interest.

Maybe the film was a bit overlong, but this is a shockingly grim and
efficient film that plays on many levels of the mind.
<|_=00=_|>
After a very successful career exploring the physical horrors in a
series of excellent films (that culminates in the awesome remake of
"The Fly"), Canadian director David Cronenberg made another step up in
the development of his personal style of film-making, by moving to the
field of psychology with a suspense/thriller that while less visceral
and graphic than his previous films, it's no less horrific and
captivating: "Dead Ringers". While at first sight this film seems like
a departure, it's simply the logic evolution of a style that reaches
maturity without forgetting its origins. Just as "The Fly" can be seen
as the grandiose closure of an era, "Dead Ringers" is the glorious
beginning of a new stage.

Beverly and Elliot Mantle (both played by Jeremy Irons) are identical
twins that from birth have been so close. So close that they have
studied the same profession, work together as gynecologists and
literally share everything (including lovers) between them. This
symbiotic relationship begins to shatter when a new patient, actress
Claire Niveau (Geneviève Bujold), enters in their life. The problem?
Beverly, who has always been the shy, introverted one of the two, has
fallen in love with her, and doesn't see to be too happy with the idea
of sharing with his brother anymore. As the tag-line reads, "Separation
Can Be A Terrifying Thing".

Loosely based on Bari Wood and Jack Geasland's book "Twins" (which was
also loosely based on a strange, real-life case), the plot at first
sounds like something out of a typical made for TV drama; however,
"Dead Ringers" is still a Cronenberg film and so it is still full of
the themes that the famed director loves. Taking the themes of identity
and the duality of identity as a start point, Cronenberg tells the
story of a perfect organism made out of two persons. The Mantle
brothers are physically two men, but psychologically they work as one,
and the "invasion" that Claire means in their life is like a viral
infection that begins to corrode the brothers from the inside.

With a perfectly developed script, Cronenberg details the effects of
this "infection" with surgical precision, and while the film is not as
violently graphic as his previous efforts, it is by no means less
disturbing. This progression to a more psychological exploration of
horror (see first in "Videodrome" and "The Dead Zone") is marked by a
subtler cinematography, that with a cold, sterile setting gives life to
the horrors unleashed by the breakdown of the brothers. In simple
words, "Dead Ringers" is a movie that mixes perfectly horror, drama and
romance in ways that few films dare to attempt. This is the masterpiece
that would lead the way to Cronenberg's more psychological projects
like "M. Butterlfy", "Crash" or "Spider".

While Cronenberg's direction is outstanding, the film wouldn't be the
same without the talent of Jeremy Irons as the two main characters. In
the difficult role of giving life to two different yet similar men,
Irons succeeds with amazing results delivering what probably is his
best performance in his career. As Beverly he is shy, introverted and
almost charming; while as Elliot he becomes this manipulative
smooth-talker who feels his balance threatened by the inclusion of
Claire in their lives. While certainly is Irons who receives most of
the praise, the films is also benefited by Geneviève Bujold's acting as
Claire. Her performance is very natural and fresh, showing truly a
believable chemistry with Irons as her character enters the private
world of the Mantle brothers.

Personally, I think "Dead Ringers" is a flawless job by an artist
reaching maturity; however, I can understand why some would have
troubles with it. The main problem is definitely that horror fans
expecting something like "The Brood" or "The Fly" won't find a lot of
that graphic horror here, but at the same time, people expecting a
normal romance-drama film will find really disturbing scenes. It's
really hard to approach "Dead Ringers" that way, so my best advice
would be to go with an open mind to discover one of the most amazing
films of the 80s.

"Dead Ringers" has become a new favorite of mine, due to it's
interesting complex plot and the subtle classy direction by Cronenberg.
It's an unusual film by him, but no less amazing, as it has his
trademark all over the place. Probably one of the most beautiful horror
films ever made, "Dead Ringers" is a timeless masterpiece. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I must admit that I have a bit of a fascination with identical twins,
and I don't think I'm alone on this. We often wonder to ourselves about
how life must be for those that are, being able to con others by one
twin being able to pose as the other or one twin taking the blame for
the other's misdeeds.

I first encountered a pair of identical twins when I was still in
preschool and the concept has stuck with me ever since. So have the
questions and the articulate pondering of how they can socialize in an
environment as active as something, say, a public high school. How
would they function? Normally, I would guess, but that's not enough for
some, and director David Cronenberg also explores the concept of twins
and has made a delicate and obsessive film that dives deep into its
subject matter and doesn't relent in his hunt.

Cronenberg is a director with an impeccable track record of nasty,
gore-laden and brilliant horror and sci-fi movies that many times serve
a greater purpose other than grossing out the audience. To paraphrase
his IMDb biography, his works are often metaphors for larger social
questions that are left up to the viewer to answer. Hence, this in no
way makes his work easy to grasp or understand; it may take repeated
viewings, but the pieces will eventually fall into place.

Let's reflect: "Videodrome" (1983) explored the notion of
reality-morphing television and technology and its fusion with human
flesh - as witnessed by a man whose obsession with a strange television
signal warps his perceptions of reality and he literally becomes a
media assassin, as well as a human VCR with a vagina-like slit in his
stomach to which a video cassette could be inserted; "The Fly" (1986)
displayed the agonizing process of slow death and the effect it has on
those involved - showcased by a woman having to watch her lover, a
brilliant scientist whose DNA is mixed with that of a common housefly,
waste away into something more terrifying; Cronenberg's third work of
genius at this time, 1988's "Dead Ringers," dissected duality, that two
separate minds can possibly equal one whole body or personality.
Cronenberg explored each of these with graphic special effects and
detailed and imaginative storytelling, both of which earned him the
love and following of many fans and essayists.

Here, in "Dead Ringers," Cronenberg explores this issue of duality, and
the possibility that two individual personalities, twin gynecologists
Elliot and Beverly Mantle (Jeremy Irons, in a hefty and confusing
performance), are actually halves of a whole. Elliot is the smooth
ladies man - confident, bright, highly sexual. Beverly is the more
secretive one - confused, lonely, desperate.

Based on supposedly true events and a book called "Twins" by Bari Wood
and Jack Geasland, both men share each other's secrets, lives,
patients, and sexual conquests of women. Sex comes up a lot in
Cronenberg's film, and he uses it as a joke between the two twins:
"You'd still be a virgin if it weren't for me," quips the extrovert
Elliot to the introvert Beverly. Elliot and Beverly live together, but
live as each other and can't live without each other; they would rather
die than be separate.

Things become complicated for them both when Beverly begins romancing a
desperate actress named Claire Niveau (Genevieve Bujold), and for once
he begins to come out of his shell when he finds that he's falling
madly in love with her. She eventually discovers that Elliot and
Beverly are twins. Beverly attempts to win her back when she calls it
quits to their relationship and eventually does, but where does this
leave Elliot, the smoother of the Mantle Brothers?

It's not enough that Beverly is also hounded by a rather ghastly dream
and he eventually begins down a tragic spiral of drug addiction, as
does Elliot, who says that they share the same body and mind. The two
brothers then begin attempts to "separate," which will have tragic
consequences for both of them.

Cronenberg has a knack for getting commanding performances from his
players and "Dead Ringers" is no exception. Irons puts on a confusing
and masterful performance as both Mantle twins, as the film really
makes you believe you're watching two men (when it's actually one man
interacting with himself). Cronenberg utilizes extraordinary
split-screen technology, body doubles, and editing to make you think
Irons has a twin that nobody's ever seen before. (P.S: One should also
be on the lookout for a real-life pair of twins: a young, pre-"Law &
Order" Jill Hennessy and her sister Jacqueline in brief cameo roles as
two female escorts.)

Hardcore Cronenberg fans will definitely find "Dead Ringers" rewarding,
if not lacking. You know what I'm talking about: gore, oh, delicious,
explicit carnage and gore. Well, if one is a gorehound, you'll be
disappointed but a more observant hound will find their desserts in the
psychological gore that makes up for much of what's normally missing in
this picture. The graphic gynecological surgical instruments, one
particular dream sequence, and the ending "surgery" will definitely
make those thirsty for blood + guts crave for more.

"Dead Ringers" shows David Cronenberg at his artistic best; I've waited
a long time to see this movie and I myself was not disappointed in the
slightest. If "The Fly" is considered his greatest film, then "Dead
Ringers" shows him at his most mature as a director. This picture
allowed Cronenberg to begin real work in mainstream cinema and also
allowed for him to get the respect of other great directors (I've heard
that Martin Scorsese has a lot of admiration for him).

David Cronenberg's theatrical masterpiece - "Dead Ringers."

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
A very fine film that challenges and rewards just about equally and
somehow has a downbeat ending that manages to be uplifting. I suppose
we have been through a lot by the end and although there is an horrific
sadness there is an awful inevitability and we like the twin brothers
can finally see no other way out. Bujold plays a starlet who comes
between two identical twins (Irons in his two best screen
performances!) and whilst the tale begins playfully enough we are given
enough signals to suggest all will not be well, although we like all
three leads do hope so. We see ourselves in the three and if at first
we are confounded to discover we are confused by who is who, just when
we have got the two under some control, like Bujold indeed, it all goes
wrong and the brothers switch personalities before our very eyes. This
is all disturbing enough without the gynaecological instruments of
torture and the playing with pain and pleasure leading us to some
darkened room.
<|_=00=_|>

(Small spoilers throughout the entire review)

David Cronenberg's Dead Ringers is a thriller that makes the blood
chill, but in a completely different way than his previous 'The Fly'.
Dead Ringers is an emotionally and psychologically devastating film
focusing on the exclusiveness of twins and their (supposable)
telepathic interaction skills. Master actor Jeremy Irons stars in a
double-role as Beverley and Elliot Mantle. At age nine, they're
intelligent kids (the part where they ask the bitchy neighbor girl to
have experimental sex with the both of them is great) and they grow to
be brilliant med school students. In a further life-stadium, they're
brilliant gynecologists with an own clinic. Even though nobody can tell
the difference between them physically, the two brothers have a very
different personality. Elliot is the dominant, self-confident one while
Beverley is the shy one who wouldn't even meet girls if it weren't for
Elliot passing his ex-girlfriends to him. But then Beverley falls
deeply in love with an actress who came to the clinic with gynecologic
problems. After the painful mix-ups between the two brothers (Dead
Ringers makes no problem out of exploiting the
'twin-brothers-share-the-same-girlfriends' topic) they form a steady
couple, but when the actress hands over some of her showbiz's habits
like drugs and kinky sex to Beverley, this seems to unleash mental
madness that eventually has its impact on both brothers.

Dead Ringers is slow, stone cold and driven by depression and despair.
In his typical and brilliant style, David Cronenberg tells the story
without any form of emotion or sympathy for the brothers. His
directorial approach is detached and it sometimes feels like he's
shooting an ordinary scientific documentary. That certainly isn't a bad
comment, though. In an unexplainable way, the cold and objective
viewpoint is what makes this film so terrifying. Along with the
outstanding performance by Irons, that is. He really succeeds in making
both of his characters go through a lethal downward spiral of insanity.
Dead Ringers is one of those films almost impossible to judge. Half of
the time what you see are brilliant and half of the time you're too
confused by it, but, in general, it's far too compelling and you refuse
to give up understanding what the characters go through. This is
psychological terror in its purest form!

<|_=00=_|>
Known as a director of "weird" films (unfortunadely unusual means bad
for many), Cronenberg is actually a serious studious of the human mind,
not unlike Ingmar Bergman, and here he does it better than in any other
of his films i have seen (Spider, The Fly and Videodrome- the last one
about the influence of TV in society and the least introspective of
them). Like in the pictures mentioned above, the very strange premise
is a excuse to a deep analysis of the human psychology: what is
identity? where is the line between love and obsession? how dependent
of another person someone can be? where does one ends and the other
begins? It can be seen the influence of Bergman, most notably Persona
and The Hour of the Wolf, and arguably Hitchcock's Vertigo, and, as the
masters, Cronenberg does not provide easy answers, or any answer at
all. But no matter how great the director is, the film would not be
successful without the talent of Jeremy Irons. An actor capable of very
good performances even in bad films, like The Man in the Iron Mask, he
delivers here one of the greatest performances of all time, playing two
extremely complex characters without being over-the-top or inexpressive
in any moment, confusing us of which is Bev and which is Elly when he
is supposed to, and making clear who is he playing in the right moment.
Dead Ringers is not an ordinary film, so is not for ordinary
moviegoers: it is very complex, not commercial at all, can be very hard
to look at it in some moments, and don't expect to feel good after
watching it. But if that does not drives you away, i strongly
recommend.
