

I have seen this movie a lot since it came out and everytime I still don't
get bored with it, Jeff Daniels as Dr. Ross Jennings is great, lots of cool
stuff in this movie and especially if you like those spiders. John Goodman
was awesome as Delbert McClintock the local exterminator, this movie will
keep you at the edge of your seat. Arachnophobia is a must see for horror
and spider fans, its a nice piece of movie making.
<|_=00=_|>

"Arachnophobia" is a very entertaining horror movie produced by Steven
Spielberg. It's takes the fear of spiders to the next level. The film opens
with an expedition in South America where a very deadly tarantula puts the
bite on an American photographer, killing him in the process. Just before
the body gets transferred back to the U.S., the spider sneaks into the
coffin. Once in the states, the tarantula quickly mates with a domestic
house spider and that creates the ultimate nightmare. Before you know it, a
new strain of spiders have been born, that these little creepy crawlers are
just as lethal! Jeff Daniels is excellent as the new doctor in town who
hates spiders. He begins to realize something strange is happening. A couple
of deaths occur, and the doc feels that these unexpected demises might be
spider related. And man it's a scary ride to the finish. "Arachnophobia"
literally gave me the creeps. And it's also funny. Many of the film's comedy
is provided by John Goodman as the town exterminator. He's literally a hoot.
The thing about this movie that surprised me is that I was pulled into the
story right from the beginning and it kept my attention all the way to the
end. "Arachnophobia" was directed by Frank Marshall, Spielberg's long time
collaborater, in his directorial debut. Marshall did a very good job his
first time out helming a film which looked like a promising career move at
first. He made his second film, "Alive" a few years later (I've not seen
this one yet). Then he made "Congo", which was one of the worst movies of
1995, and hasn't directed another movie since (at least not to my
knowledge). But "Arachnophobia" was an above average debut for Marshall.
He's got good potential as a director. This isn't a brilliant movie, but a
good one. And it's lots of fun. One word of warning: if you have a fear of
spiders, don't watch this. You'll probably hate it. Don't say I didn't warn
you.

*** (out of four)

<|_=00=_|>
Spiders are not a favorite of many people, something about eight legs
does not appeal to the masses. The movie Arachnophobia plays on the
fears of an audience, while mixing in enough humor to engage the viewer
with a standard horror story. Jeff Daniels plays a big city doctor who
moves out into the country to take over the practice of the soon-to-be
retiring doctor who has served for about 140 years or so. The Daniels'
character is also scared of spiders, so when killer spiders enter the
town, we have the standard ingredients to the standard horror movie.
The spiders look convincing enough to scare almost anybody, and the
exterminator, played by John Goodman, offers enough jokes to lead to an
entertaining movie. There is nothing Earth-shattering about the film,
but for popcorn season, this movie will not disappoint.
<|_=00=_|>

Arachnophobia is a great spider film that stars Jeff Daniels,Harley Jane
Kozak,John Goodman, Julian Sands, and Peter Jason. The film isn`t really
scary but its the creepyness that gets to you! Arachnophobia has good
acting
and it has a great beginning! Good music too! I recommend Arachnophobia
to
all creature and horror film fans alike!
<|_=00=_|>

I've seen a lot of movies in my life...too many movies some might say.  I
have never been so scared in a movie than I was with "Arachnophobia".

I'm terrified of spiders.  I think everything about them is just evil.  And
don't give me that "They eat bugs" bull, I don't care, spiders are still
evil.  My wife kills the spiders in our home.  I know that's pathetic, but
she earned that duty.

See, I would've never seen "Arachnophobia" had it not been for my wife, then
fiance.  

While it was in theaters, my buddies all wanted to see it, but in fear of
wetting myself in front of them, I told them that I had other
plans.

Fast forward four years, my fiance & I were at our local Blockwood video
store, looking for the perfect scary movie, and she finds "Arachnophobia",
knowing darn well that I'm terrified of spiders.

She asks if we can get it, and I agree, trying not to look like a pansy in
front of the girl I want to spend my life with.  By the  end of the movie, I
was as white as a sheet and gripping her hand so tight, she couldn't feel
anything in her hand.  I seriously spent most of the movie with my eyes
closed.

For that reason, she kills the spiders in our home.  She felt so bad about
scaring me like that.

I know that there are quite a bit of you that think this movie is too
humorous to be scary.  That's biggest load I've ever heard. 

If you hate spiders, DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE!  
<|_=00=_|>
Dr. Ross Jennings is a renowned doctor from the big city who relocates
to a small town in the country. Not only does he not fit in with the
local residents, but he also has an uncontrollable fear of spiders
which are prevalent in the surrounding area. To make matters worse, a
new, lethal breed of spider has made its way from South America to
their hometown, and produced a far more deadly breed that's slowly
taking over their once peaceful little community. Exciting, creepy
thriller with first-rate special effects, hair-raising chills, and an
excellent cast. Not for the squeamish or anyone with the titular fear,
especially at the film's nail-biting finale. ***
<|_=00=_|>
Are you afraid of spiders? We believe everyone is afraid of the furry
eight legged spiders.

If you are afraid, then force yourself to watch this incredible movie!
South American killer spider hitches a lift to the US in a coffin and
starts to breed and kill. This is one of the scariest spider films of
all times.

A great cast with Jeff Daniels, Harley Jane Kozak, John Goodman, Julian
Sands and more.

We'd recommend this movie to anyone who has not seen it. Check it out
and you won't be disappointed especially if you have Arachnophobia.....
<|_=00=_|>

   I did not start watching "Arachnophobia" expecting to like it.  I was
surprised to find that it was really quite enjoyable and kept your
attention.  It sounds like just another stupid take off of "The Birds
(1963)" and something not really worth your time.

   I think what made this movie work was that it had lots of humor and the
spiders did not seem too unbelievable.  It had lots of shadows from the
spiders on the walls and behind the curtains which has an eerie effect on
the audience.

   I would recommend renting this movie.  Watch it with an open mind and try
not to think, "This is stupid."
<|_=00=_|>
Director Frank Marshall brings us this movie about a South American
deadly spider wreaking havoc in a small American town. The plot from
Don Jakoby and Al Williams has its share of scares, but I have to say,
not much more.

John Goodman is quite funny as local exterminator Delbert McClintock,
but others, including Jeff Daniels as Dr. Ross Jennings and Julian
Sands as Dr. James Atherton, are just there for the ride.

This Steven Spielberg project, on which he shared executive production
duties with director Frank Marshall, was one of his dreams come true.
"Arachnaphobia" needed a darker approach, even a darker humour.

Saturday, February 23, 1991 - Knox District Centre
<|_=00=_|>
Arachnophobia deserves a much higher rating and a lot more attention
and fame than it got. Jeff Daniels is fantastic in it and John Goodman
steals the show as an exterminator who is in way over his head. Julian
Sands is also great.

It's about super deadly killer spiders who kill a researcher in South
America then hitch a ride in his casket back to the United States where
they begin a killing spree.

This movie is very funny and also has a lot of great scares in it. If
spiders make you feel icky and or shiver then this is the movie for
you. The use of real non-CGI spiders and good practical effects make
the spiders much more menacing.
