

This movie is like an odd, but wonderful dream.  It takes place in a fantasy
world, created by the talented duo, Frank Oz and Jim Henson.  Everything in
this film is so meticulously done, that it still lives on to this day. 
Computer effects be damned.  This film has texture, and it is pleasing to
watch.  
This movie, as you will see, was made for kids.  But really, it is a
masterpiece in film-making.  True, good, story-telling.  Sure, kids will
love it, but the film isn't really aimed at them like most kid movies are. 
It is complicated, eerie, beautiful, and intelligent... most of all,
mystical.
I reccomend this to anyone seriously interested in film, especially
fantasy... not to be missed!
<|_=00=_|>
This sprawling, part-homage-part-totally original fantasy brings us
Jen, the last of a group of near extinct creatures who is the only one
who can save all existence by bringing a crystal shard back into the
balance of the dark crystal, in order to save the world from the evil
Skekses. This is quite an enthralling film, and like with the other
full-on Muppet films this works on different levels for kids and for
adults. Kids may be both scared and enthralled by the scope and
details, not to mention the graphic nature of the darker elements
portrayed (as a kid I cringed a bit when the 'vital essence' scenes
came up). And for adults there's a lot of great craftsmanship that goes
into the story, which is with all of the effects and over-the-top
creations very well told by directors Henson and Oz. Without the
massive usage of CGI or the more controlled visuals from the past
fifteen or so years, the mix of the production design (maybe some of
the best ever in any fantasy film) and the inventiveness put into the
set-pieces and character-creations, is a knockout even by today's
standards. It's almost a shame looking back on how a film like this
that employs so many people and such time is now spent clicking away on
a computer to get it all done. As it is, the Dark Crystal is one of
those few examples in post-modern cinema that it does seem something
like a sci-fi novel come to life.
<|_=00=_|>

The Dark Crystal holds well against the test of time.  It has been only
recently that movies that take place in a completely different fantasy
world
("The Lord of the Rings: Fellowship of the Ring") have become more
feasible.
Still, the Dark Crystal stands as an excellent tale of good versus
evil.

Jim Henson and crew spent much to much time creating this movie, and the
depth of their effort shows.  However, some adults might find the story
simplistic, and it is in the same manner that Labyrinth is.  However, like
Labyrinth, Dark Crystal succeeds in taking you to another place and
immersing you in another world.

If you are a viewer interested in fantasy worlds, Dark Crystal will please
you well.  If you haven't seen it in years, get the DVD.  It has a
wonderful
"making of" section, deleted funeral scenes, and isolated musical
score.
<|_=00=_|>

Though I love the Muppets and other works of Jim Henson, I still say for
years since my birth in 1982, The Dark Crystal has always grown on me.
From
interesting characters to surreal environments, this movie will capture
the
eyes of the imaginative and Sci-Fi/Fantasy fans. Though it may move slow
at
times, but it does not bother me. It gets me more into the world of the
Dark
Crystal, named Thyra.

It was also good for it's symbolism as well. The Dark Crystal like many
classic children's shows and movies of its time did not talk down to kids
nor underestimate their intelligence for that matter. In fact, the morals
and symbolism appeals to non-discriminating adults as well.

P.S. I think the Skeksis are awesome! Especially the General, Chamberlain
and the Mad Scientist Skeksis!
<|_=00=_|>
It took an infinity of imagination to make The Dark Crystal, a film so
overflowing with invention that you literally have to watch it about
100 times just to take it all in. Everyone involved, from the director
to the best boy gave the film such loving affection and made it the
best it could possibly be. Kid's movies (if you want to call it that)
these days simply are not what they used to be and probably never will
be again. This is yet another thing that makes The Dark Crystal so damn
precious.

The film is set in another world, in another time in an age of wonder.
It has been 999 years and 1 year since the powerful, life-giving
crystal cracked and stopping shining. Since then the land has become
barren and the Urskeks (a race of God-like beings) have split into two
separate races, the peaceful Uru 'Mystics' and the evil Skeksis-a
horrific cross between bird and reptile. The three suns that shine upon
the land are about to line up in a great conjunction that only happens
once every 1000 years. If the crystal is not repaired before then the
cruel Skeksis will rule the land forever.

Jen is a Gelfling (a sort of fairy creature), believed to be the last
of his race. A prophecy tells of a single Gelfling defeating the
Skeksis and restoring peace to the land. Raised by the Uru, Jen begins
a journey to repair the crystal when the Skeksis Emperor dies (in a
truly disturbing scene). On his way he meets Aughra, a sort of witch
creature and Kira, another Gelfling and her race of Podling people
(sort of like Fraggles). Though there is no specific love scene between
them, there is a very nice romance developing through-out the story.

Filmed in gorgeous locations across England and Scotland (with the use
of a lot of matte paintings of course) the film really, really does
take you to another world. There's not a single human in sight (a
perfect world or what) and, with exception to the awful Skeksis, almost
every creature is cute and fluffy (such as Kira's Fizzgig). The
production design, in particular the genius contributions by Brian
Froud, is so immense and impressive that you wish you could jump
through the screen and actually be there in order to appreciate it
more.

Trevor Jones' breathtaking, beautiful score is among his best work
(tying with Merlin in 1998) and is surely some of the best film music
you are ever likely to hear. Ever! There was a limited edition of the
score put on CD a few years ago but only 5000 were ever printed. It's
sure to be quite expensive now but it's so goddamn worth it! Henson, Oz
and Froud teamed up again a few years later to make Labyrinth which
seems to be more fondly remembered as it's not as sinister as The Dark
Crystal and has human actors in it to make it more accessible to those
with narrower minds. I prefer this one though (no fruity songs, no
David Bowie!) as it has a certain edge to it that Labyrinth lacks.

An epic. A masterpiece. An unforgettable classic. The Dark Crystal is
magical, mystical timeless classic. I can't recommend it enough. If
only we still had movies like this. I'll take risk-taking The Dark
Crystal over PC drek like The Shaggy Dog any day.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm so sick and tired of people bad-mouthing this movie.This is the best of
one of Jim Henson's creations (besides Jim Henson's Hour The Storyteller and
Mythology)!It isn't so preachy or cheesy like a lot of the works before or
after Henson's demise!

This would be a good movie for little kids.You can really tell the good from
the bad in this movie.The Skeksis are really evil and frightening
villains,unlike a lot of villains in most family-fantasy films,where they are
often more moronic than vile.

The characters have personalities,not so talkative and there's no human to
be seen!All 100% animatronics,no actors in the suits!!!

Now how amazing is that?
<|_=00=_|>
"Another world. Another time. In the Age of Wonder." So begins the
classic fantasy story that is The Dark Crystal, Henson's best and, to
date, only all-creature film. My father bought this movie for me the
day I was born, so I quite literally grew up watching it. It's a story
that never gets old. The characters are unforgettable, with a wonderful
musical score that sticks in the head. Jen, the main character, finds
that he is ordained to fulfill a prophecy finally revealed to him by
his master, the wisest of the Mystics. A single crystal shard was lost
long ago, and must be recovered before the three suns align in the sky.
But Jen must first find the shard, and then figure out what to do with
it once he has it, all the while trying to stay one step ahead of the
cruel Skeksis. And time is running out. The thing that I think makes
this movie so memorable is the fact that it is so unlike other fantasy
films. It exists in a world all its own, with new creatures and
characters you don't find in other films. If looking for a companion to
the film, I recommend the book of the same name. It goes into more
detail about the world of Thra, and I feel it greatly enhances the
immersion into the film. I recommend this film to any fantasy fan who
has not seen it, and if you have seen it, I find it worth seeing again.
<|_=00=_|>

This must be, along with KRULL, one of the most forgotten fantasy movies
ever !
I´ve been searching for a VHS copy of DARK CRYSTAL, for years now
!
Nobody seems to have ever released this on tape !

WHY, is this movie so hard to find ?!!
I´m fortunate enough to have a copy of it, but it isn´t a very good copy at
all, because it was taped about 10 years ago, from a movie channel, and it´s
got tons and tons of satelite interferences and "rain" in the
image.
At  least i get to own the movie. 
I guess...

The first time i´ve seen anything about DARK CRYSTAL, was back in 1982 when
i was 12 years old.
I wento to see Spielberg´s - ET, and before it,  the presentation movie
trailer for DARK CRYSTAL came on the screen.
I remember that i was much more impressed by it, than by ET. By the end, all
i wanted to know was when DARK CRYSTAL would be on the
theater.
I was so impressed by it, that those 2 minutes from the presentation stayed
in my mind ever since, and all that i remember from the day i went to see
ET, was that i watched 2 minutes of something that i never thought it
existed or would be possible.
Remember it was 1982, and in those days, children´s programs on tv didn´t
included the amount of fantasy stuff that it is showned today, so watching
that was somehow a revelation for me.

Anyway 6 year later i got to finaly see it, on a forgotten childrens
matinee, and i loved every minute of it, altough i felt even then that it
had some dull parts in it. Somehow there is something diferent  with the
pace this story is told. Even now i feel this, each time i watch DARK
CRYSTAL.

But this is just a minor thing. Maybe i´m being just picky.
Because DARK CRYSTAL is a masterpiece, it might have its flaws, but that
doesn´t prevent it from being one of the greatest fantasy movies ever. Even
though is so forgotten by everyone. Even i forget i have
it.
In a way, this is an Historical movie, because to my knowledge this was the
first time that the atmosphere from the now common fantasy novels was
portraited in a movie. And what a begining !!!
Jim Henson got it right, right at the first try !

Every time i watch this i only wished he had lived enough time to adapt
TOLKIEN´s - LORD OF THE RINGS to the movies. He would make a fantastic job
for sure.

With DARK CRYSTAL ,Jim Henson achieved a perfect balance between a kids
movie and a fantasy movie for adult viewers. This only added credibility to
the world he created for this story. Just for this alone he should be
praised. 
He showed the way, a fantasy movie should be made, but nobody in Hollywood
seem to have learned anything from it.

I have read that DARK CRYSTAL, was a comercial flop, because it was released
during the ET days, and not many people went to see it. Wich is a sad thing,
because a masterpiece like this deserved to have filled the
theaters.
Maybe adults thought it was just for kids and the kids wanted to see ET, so
it flopped.
I read that even american reviews attacked DARK CRYSTAL. Maybe it was the
usual in america, when a movie can´t be put in a category, nobody makes many
efforts to publicize it. And i bet this was a nightmare to some people who
had to publicize it. How would they present it ?

So if, you can find it, you have to see this movie !
I f you like fantasy, you´ll go nuts with it. Only the landscapes are enough
to make anyone drool. The story is very,very good and much more adult
oriented than it might seem at first, the pecial effects are pefect for it,
the soundtrack is excelent, and the characters are very lifelike and
believable. I only don´t like very much of the hero, it feels to much like a
pupet. Compared to the others is a bit strange.

It´s time DARK CRYSTAL gets the atention it desrerves, this is a brilliant
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
When this movie first came out (1982) I was 13 years old, and remember
seeing it in the theatre with friends. I loved it then and love it now.
It remains one of the best fantasy films of all time, but only because
of the sheer effort given to it by the Henson company; only he could
have made this all work. His genius is timeless. If only he were still
alive now to make more films like this (and better!)

Our world is a dimmer place without Jim Henson.
<|_=00=_|>

Wow whenever I see a fantasy movie I feel visually stunned. Whenever I
see one I have to feel happy and scared at the same time. Granted
Fantasy films haven't received great merit, but there are few that do.
Lord of The Rings, Harry Potter,.... these all contain elements
conjured up brilliantly. In the 80s it became relevant that Fantasy
films became a craze with Labyrinth, NeverEnding Story, Legend, etc.
And all of these were great.

Whenever I associate Jim Henson I associate him with innovation to the
genre he did direct two great Fantasy films in the decade. I say they
were both great. Labyrinth wasn't as visually stunning as Dark Crystal
had been.

The first I gazed on this movie I was awed the next time I saw it I
said "Dang". This movie continued to be good in motion picture
artistry.

Jim Henson was successful in conjuring up good movie magic with
characters that were designed greatly. I liked this movie because at
the end I screamed, "This is Fantasy!!!!!" 

Made me feel like I was in another mystical world. 

I give it a 10!

