

Best exchange of the movie, between Daniel Stern's 'Reverend'
character, and John Heard's 'Cooper', after Stern has just rescued
Heard from a homeless couple who were transforming into cannibals:

Stern: "You Cooper?"

Heard: "Yeah ... who are you?"

Stern: "I run the soup kitchen ..."

Heard: "On Kenman?"

Stern: "Right ..."

Heard: "THANK GOD THEY DELIVER!"

You have to see it to appreciate it. The fact that this dialogue was
ad-libbed says a lot about the gonzo film-making that produced C.H.U.D.

Story writer Shep Abbott came up with the word, "CHUD" during a party
with actors Stern and Heard. The trio then brainstormed a movie idea
around the word, Abbott wrote up an extreeemely rough draft (he'd never
written a screenplay before), and it ended up on the slush pile of
producer Andrew Bonime.

Bonime tried to get Abbott to polish the script, but was never
satisfied with the rewrites (partially due to Abbott's inexperience),
and took the screenplay away from Abbott, giving it to writer Parnell
Hall.

Bonime had picked up the project partially because Abbott could get
Daniel Stern and John Heard to star. (Heard and Stern have worked
together in a number of movies over the years, including 'Home Alone I
& II' and 'The Milagro Beanfield War'.)

The two actors agreed to work for scale plus a percentage of the
profits, but insisted that Christoper Curry be hired to play the part
of Police Detective Bosch, and that Douglas Cheek be hired as director.
This didn't sit well with Bonime, but he agreed and the movie was
produced.

Stern and Heard were not happy with what had been done to their
friend's original script, and did their own page re-writes and ad-libs,
which director Cheek left in the final cut. Bonime insisted that a
shower scene with actress Kim Griest be written in, which Stern, Heard,
and Cheek still complain about, 17 years later, on the DVD's audio
commentary.

However, the unedited version of the shower scene (with Griest's body
double) appears as an easter egg on the DVD. (From the main menu, click
on Extras. At the top of the Extras menu is 'Trailer'. Click the Up
button on your remote, and the eyes of the C.H.U.D. in the background
will be highlighted. Click Enter, and the 'Unabridged Scene' will
play.)

Despite, or perhaps because of, the civil war on the set, C.H.U.D. is a
pretty decent horror relic from the 80's. Watch the movie first, then
listen to Stern, Heard, Curry, Cheek, and Abbott do a hilarious
commentary track. Stern boos and hisses when Parnell Hall's name comes
on the screen. You'll find out that most of the cast are wives,
sisters, or good friends with Stern and Heard. You'll learn how they
wanted the monsters to look, and much more. And they really have fond,
funny memories of the film, despite all the turmoil.

As a counterpoint to their comments, producer Andrew Bonime set up a
website, telling his own side of the story.

Don't miss sitcom stars John Goodman and Jay Thomas in bit parts as
extremely unlucky cops, during the movie's last half hour. This scene
was placed at the end of the movie during its theatrical release, but
has been moved to its correct sequence for the DVD.

I rate the movie, 'C.H.U.D.' a 6; with the commentary track running,
it's easily an 8 or 9. Best cut-ups since the MST3K 'bots.

<|_=00=_|>

I have been a big fan of this movie for many years (I love the 80's genre
films).  Just this weekend I bought the DVD and watched it.  To my
surprise,
I found this version of the film to be about 7 minutes longer than my VHS
copy (an original former rental).  There are 4 noticable new scenes, the
original ending is placed in the middle of the film and the ending is now
different (no hint of a sequel).  The extra scenes explain Captain Bosch's
erratic behavior in the final 15 minutes of the film and gives the overall
movie an better flow.  If you are a fan of this film, I strongly suggest
you
pick up the DVD, as this new version is even more enjoyable.  Also, it has
commentary by the director, screenwriter and the three top billed
actors.

Highly recommended for DVD collectors out there!
<|_=00=_|>

I can't make a case for 'C.H.U.D.' being one of THE great lost horror movies
of the 1980s, but it's surprising just how watchable it is almost twenty
years later! The acronym in the title stands for Cannibalistic Humanoid
Underground Dwellers (as well as something else, revealed in the movie), and
that just about tells you everything you need to know. John Heard, a
talented actor who never became the star he was tipped to be (just rent
'Cutter's Way' for proof of his potential), plays a photographer who had
taken some photos of homeless people who now seem to have disappeared off
the face of the Earth. Kin Griest ('Brazil') plays Heard's supportive
girlfriend, Daniel Stern ('Diner') an oddball who runs a soup kitchen who
has noticed the absence of many of his regulars, and Christopher Curry
('Starship Troopers') a cop investigating a series of mysterious murders.
Their investigations all lead in the same direction.... the sewer. The
supporting cast also includes small roles from John Goodman ('The Big
Lebowski') and quite a few other comic actors, though 'C.H.U.D.' unlike its
sequel is not SUPPOSED to be a comedy. No doubt you will get a few
unintentional laughs out of it, as it is pretty cheesy, but it's still
entertaining enough in a b-grade way. I haven't seen the DVD of this one
yet, which I believe has some amusing commentaries by the cast, but as a
stand alone movie it's enjoyable trash and worth a rental.
<|_=00=_|>
"C.H.U.D." is one of those semi-name oddities that always stood out on
video store shelves when I was a youth (lamenting the 'parental lock'
on all horror movies I so badly wanted to rent), what with the darkened
figures congregating around a manhole, eyes glowing white. Years later,
I have finally gotten a chance to see the film, and my response is
pretty mixed: it lies somewhere between the Land of Campy and the
Dominion of Creepy, with some elements of the Retro Rest Area thrown in
for good measure. "C.H.U.D." takes a formula familiar to anybody who's
seen a '50s 'Big Bug' flick: Evil Guys In Suits are dumping toxic waste
where it doesn't belong (in this case, the sewers below Manhattan),
thus inspiring some unexpected and unpleasant side effects in the
homeless people living under the city--they transform into C.H.U.D.s
(Cannibalistic Humanoid Underground Dwellers), reptilian-looking
monsters with a taste for human flesh. While the premise is extremely
cheesy, director Douglas Cheek teeters the line between camp and horror
rather well--not all-out serious nor a straight romp, it strikes a fair
balance (the creepily minimalist, synth-driven score helps, too). The
cast of semi-name actors (John Heard, Kim Greist, and a wonderfully
wiggy Daniel Stern) treat the material at face value, but never wink at
the camera, thus engendering a bizarre charm to the events that
transpire. Unfortunately, even for a film that plays as fast and loose
as "C.H.U.D." does, it leaves a few too many unresolved plot points for
my liking. But if you want something a fair distance from the
mainstream radar, greased with the grimy spirit of the 1980s, look no
further than "C.H.U.D."
<|_=00=_|>

C.H.U.D. is one of those movies that should be bad because its about
subterrainian ground-dwellers that are cannibalistic living in a poor area
of New York City.  There are no big stars in the film, yet John Heard and
Daniel Stern are not nobodies either.  The budget for the film was obviously
limited, yet, despite these possible criticisms, I was pleasantly surprised
after seeing this film.  This is a wonderful film filled with tension, good
acting, a thoughtful script, witty dialogue, and some creatures that
certainly looked pretty scary to me.  The basic premise of the film is that
homeless folks that live underground have come in contact with radioactive
materials which transform them into horrible-looking mutants that go on a
rampage and kill men and women for dinner.  The creatures look quite
impressive.  This film also throws some social commentary into the mix as
well concerning the ever burgeoning homeless problem as well as the storage
of harmful wastes.  The acting all around was pretty good with Christopher
Curry standing out as a policeman and George Martin as a city official
seemingly in charge.  Good Stuff Here!
<|_=00=_|>
The coolest abbreviation in horror cinema stands for Cannibalistic
Humanoid Underground Dwellers (as well as something else) and refers to
hideous monsters with fluorescent eyes that live in the sewers of Soho.
Their existence is the result of years of dumping radioactive toxic
waste down there and now these monsters are responsible for an
incredible amount of missing-persons cases. Everyone in Soho is
affected by the city council's cover-up. Soup kitchen owner A.J reports
a lot of his homeless friends missing, independent photographer Cooper
is begged for help by people who live underground and police captain
Bosh has even lost his wife. For some incomprehensible reason, I always
loved this trashy 80's film and can't possibly bring myself to spread
negative comments on it, no matter how stupid the plot is or no matter
how cheesy the make-up effects actually are. For what it's worth,
"C.H.U.D" is a hugely entertaining monster film with a couple of
atmospheric set pieces and several comical dialogues. Elements that
increase the fun-level are a pointless, yet bloody shower sequence and
a C.H.U.D who stretches his neck muscles seemly without a specific
goal. This poverty row horror production is surprisingly blessed with a
great cast! Daniel Stern, John Heard and Christopher Curry all prove
they're gifted actors who never got the breakthrough they deserved.
Good fun, highly recommended but – whatever you do – keep away from the
retarded sequel.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm not one who goes for slasher flicks... I never understood the
popularity
of Friday the 13th or Nightmare on Elm Street. But then, this isn't the
typical 80's slasher flick... it's a fun and scary monster movie that
actually draws emotion from its viewers that make you root for the heroes,
despise the villains, and cheer when the CHUDs get the ***t kicked out of
them.

Sure, it's got a low budget... but the story is good (probably with a grain
of truth, too!) and the sewer sets look good. Daniel Stern is great as the
cook/manager of a soup kitchen who is wondering where his assorted homeless
buddies have dissapeared to. Christopher Curry is also very good as a
police
officer searching for his missing wife. The scenes with Curry and Stern are
funny and it's neat to watch a friendship develop between them as they deal
with the rampaging CHUDs.

Watch for John Goodman as a cop who gets slaughtered in a diner... this was
one of his earliest screen roles. Stay away from CHUD 2 unless you REALLY
like bad, campy horror. CHUD is freaking Shakespeare compared to CHUD 2.

In short: CHUD is a fun monster movie. Watch it by yourself or with
friends... either way it's a good way to spend an hour and a half. Not
overly gory like a bad slasher flick, not packed to the gills with nude
women. Just a good cast and some funny, scary, and exciting
cinema.

It's interesting to note that the original cut of the film that I saw on
HBO
differs from the regular TV version. The original mentions a slaughter in a
diner where there's blood on all the walls but no bodies. At the end, a
couple of bums see the CHUDs approaching "another" diner (the John Goodman
cameo) and quickly scamper off. The last thing you see is a few CHUDs
breaking into the diner to wreck havoc. The TV version has the diner
slaughter in the proper timeline... you see it before, during, and after
(when the cops find the bloody diner with no bodies). Strange that it would
be edited that way, but so be it. 7 out of 10 - but not recommended for the
uptight or "serious" moviegoer. If you can't appreciate Tremors, Lake
Placid, or even Godzilla, then don't see this movie.

<|_=00=_|>
A movie more well known today for its infamous acronym of a title than
anything else, "C.H.U.D." (short for Cannibalistic Humanoid Underground
Dwellers...as well as something else) is a shoddily made, dingy affair
from 1984 that still manages to somehow entertain. In it, the city of
New York has come under attack by these monstrous denizens of the sewer
lines and subway system (or is that a redundancy?), the result of the
ill-considered dumping of radioactive waste by those bastids at the
NRC, and a beleaguered cop (Christopher Curry), a hippy-type soup
kitchen owner (Daniel Stern) and a hunky fashion photographer (John
Heard) try to get to the, uh, bottom of the escalating nastiness.
Befitting its grimy underground milieu and many seedy characters, the
film has a dark, dirty feel but is still fun to watch; "C.H.U.D."'s no
dud, but it sure piles on the crud! The film would surely have
benefited from a larger budget--its glowing-orbed monsters look pretty
ridiculous when seen clearly--but still features decent-enough acting,
an effectively somber synth score by Cooper Hughes, an explosive shower
scene, John Goodman and Jay Thomas (of all people!) as a pair of goofy
cops, and some mildly effective gross-outs. As far as monster movies
go, it is nothing special, but still fun enough, and deserving of much
more than the "Bomb" rating that the drips at Maltinville have given
it. And really, how can you dislike any film that manages to quote from
both the Grateful Dead's "Uncle John's Band" AND Talking Heads' "Life
During Wartime"? The picture is well presented on this Anchor Bay DVD,
and includes some interesting extras as well. As revealed in the book
"DVD Delirium," not to be missed is the hidden "Easter egg" extra,
located by clicking on the C.H.U.D.'s eyes in the main menu. Fans of
the film's female star, Kim Greist, should certainly appreciate this
one! And oh...I love the appropriate name of the actor who plays the
film's coroner: Henry Yuk!
<|_=00=_|>
One of the opening images in "C.H.U.D" is a full-on shot of a truck
banner reading "Slow Moving Vehicle." That's the most valid image in
the whole movie.

Under Manhattan, mysterious creatures terrorize the homeless who live
in the sewers, and begin striking those who walk the streets as well.
When one disappearance involves a precinct captain's wife, the captain
starts investigating the situation by asking around a neighborhood soup
kitchen.

The captain, Bosch, is played by Christopher Curry, a here-and-gone
Martin Mull lookalike whose casual handling of his wife's disappearance
would come off as absurd if we hadn't previously gotten a load of what
she looks like. While Curry is the main actor, two better-known names
have key supporting roles, Daniel Stern as the grimy soup kitchen
director (only the destitute would accept a meal from him) and John
Heard as a photographer.

Heard's character has little to do with the story, and the way he's
brought in is lazy and forced. He has some photos of streetpeople, and
one homeless woman calls him for bail. He takes a photo of a gored leg
that shows something sinister is going on, though all I saw was bad
make-up. Through most of the film, we see him blow off deadlines and
interact unaffectionately with his live-in girlfriend, played by Kim
Griest. Heard here is smug and charmless, yet we are supposed to be
impressed by him because he's played by the great John Heard.

The torpor and aimlessness of "C.H.U.D." amaze me. Sewer creatures
rising up in the big city is not a bad concept, but not only does the
film fail to do anything with it, we get a lot of inert moments where
people trade cliché-ridden dialogue like: "Keep a lid on it." "Nothing,
huh? Sounds interesting." "Watch your step, Bosch, remember you don't
belong here." "I don't believe you! What are you trying to hide?"

There's a stonewalling government official played by George Martin who
bulges his eyes and sneers at every question and gives us an obvious
central villain since the budget is too cheap to show us much of the
monsters. The creatures are meant to horrify but merely look like inept
Halloween window displays, while the unbearable synthesized score
sounds like a seven-year-old toying with a department-store display
organ. Then you get goofy sequences like the one where Griest is in a
shower, gets drenched in blood, and is next seen dry and unfazed. Must
have set the showers controls on "Bobby Ewing."

The whole movie is like that, jumping from effect to effect, hitting us
with little shock moments here and there, not tying anything in. This
is not scary, just annoying.

It's true I didn't see the director's cut, which is a bit longer and
shows one C.H.U.D. attack in the middle rather than at the end of the
film, where it makes less sense. But whatever the editing, the product
on screen is deadly dull, and surprisingly unfunny given its enduring
cult reputation. "C.H.U.D" gets mentioned as an askew satire, but just
isn't in the same class as "Tremors" or "Return of the Living Dead,"
let alone an Evil Dead film. To recite another cliché: You have been
warned.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is a perfect blend of bad writing and a cheesy plot.  Somehow,
the acting was decent and they managed to scrounge up Daniel Stern and John
Heard (both of which who were in respectable movies before this).  There was
also a cameo role from John Goodman. It was a great movie.  It is like a bad
dream come true, and you can't really admit to liking this, but admit it,
you do!  You cannot go wrong with people living in the subway and monsters
eating people left and right because of a toxic sewage problem under New
York. 
