
I've seen this movie when I was young, and I remembered it as one of
the first films I have truly liked that was not an action movie or a
comedy. So, in my later years I decided to watch it again and see if it
was just nostalgia or was there really something in that movie. To my
surprise, the movie held to my every expectations. It's a great movie.
Emotional in the right amount, some jokes, nice songs (not great
though, and that actually explains why I did not remember it was a
musical) and all in all a great use to my time. I was surprised because
the last movies from my childhood that I have revisited did not even
pass my minimal demands of a decent movie and yet this movie, which I
first saw in the second grade, made me cry today just like it made me
cry then. Maybe that's because my dog died recently and maybe not, but
the important thing is that it made me feel, and that's why filmmakers
make films (that and the money, of course). Yes, there are continuity
glitches. Yes, the script has holes, but it doesn't matter. The movie
itself is fun and smart. So don't be fooled by cynical people who
always look for the bad things in life, because nothing is perfect, and
this movie gets a 10 not because it is perfect. It gets 10 simply
because it made me feel.
<|_=00=_|>

All dogs go to Heaven is one of the best movies I've ever seen. I first
saw
it when I was like 3. Now I'm 12 and I rented it, it makes me think of
things and it brings back so many memories, those were "the days". I love
the music, I love when Charlie is arriving in Heaven, I love the song "Let
me be surprised". I love how Charlie looks and his voice, Bert Reynolds
could only play Charlie's voice this great. I love this movie, the 1st one
is the best one because it's so original and great. It really does bring
back memories that no one can describe, not even me. If only I could go
back
to those days. I love the characters. If this is the way the memories come
back when I'm 12 imagine how I'll feel when I'm like 19, I hope I'll be
able
to watch this when I'm older. When I first seen this I never knew that I
would really look back on it and feel this way , I hope it will be
available
to watch. I'm so happy that this movie was made and the amazing idea came
to
mind and heart. On a scale from 1-10 I'd give it a perfect 10. It's an
amazing movie. It's so hard to explain the feeling, when I get older and
if
I have kids, I hope they can experience this feeling.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this film when I was little. Today at 17 it is one of my all
time favorite animated films. Beautiful animation and appealing
characters are just two of the things to like about this film. Although
many people might not enjoy some of the songs, most of them are
well-done and go along with the story. It focuses on Charlie, a roguish
handsome German Shepard who may seem unlikable to some at first... but
eventually will win you over.

Not a kiddie film by any means. Often very dark and frightening at
times. A treat for Don Bluth fans and animation buffs. But do keep a
tissue in handy. ADGTH never fails to make me cry and will do the same
for those who are movie sensitive. Arguably one of the greatest
non-Disney animated films of all time. Along with Watership Down and My
Neighbor Totoro.

BOTTOM LINE: A heavenly masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
All Dogs Go To Heaven is a movie that I have always liked. When I was a
kid, I used to watch this every other day. It is underrated if you look
at its IMDb rating and the comments of many people in general. This
isn't a bad movie like many say, it is a very good movie. This is good
and your kids will probably like it. Even though it's rated G, some
parents may find this to be a bit violent. It is actually a pretty dark
story, where the dogs are similar to mobsters who are involved in
gambling, extortion, and even cold blooded murder. The movie follows a
dog named Charlie who had escaped from the pound, is killed by his old
friend, goes to heaven, but ends up coming back to earth. Many younger
kids watching this movie may feel as though they are watching a big
kids movie. 

There are some scenes that may scare little kids, but I'm sure they'll
do fine. Every time I watch this movie, it reminds me of when I was a
little kid. I'm sure everyone has a movie that reminds them of when
they were younger, this is the movie that makes me feel that way. The
performances from Burt Reynolds and Dom DeLuise are great, and this is
the last movie that a little girl named Judith Barsi was in.
Unfortunately, she was killed at a young age, which is a shame because
she had so much potential and didn't deserve what happened. Now that I
know her story, I can't watch this movie the same way anymore because
her voice sounds so sad. 

The animation in this movie is great, the voice work is great, and the
story is good, but a little bit different from many other kids movies.
This was popular at the time of its release, but was over shadowed by
Disney's mega popular The Little Mermaid. This is a movie that isn't
conceived as well by adults, but if you're a kid, or if you grew up
with this movie as a kid, then I'm sure you will enjoy watching it.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember watching this movie with my friends when we were 4 years
old, but the weird thing is that I never watched it after that. The
other day I was babysitting and my cousin never saw All Dogs Go To
Heaven so we rented both movies and watched them together today and he
really loved these movies. So many memories came back watching this
movie once again and I have to admit I even cried a little. I'm 22
years old and the ending still gets to me. All Dogs Go To Heaven is one
of the most touching animated films and I'm shocked honestly by this
rating of 5.8, I thought this movie would bring back good memories for
others as well. I admit the animation was a bit typical but the story
is just so charming and fun.

Charlie is a gambling dog who gets killed by another gambling dog,
Carface. But when Charlie wants revenge he comes back to Earth with a
watch that can't stop ticking or that's the end of his life again. When
he and his best friend, Itchy, look for Carface and spy on him they
find out how Carface gets all his money, he has a little orphan girl
who talks to animals and finds out who is going to win the races.
Charlie takes the girl, Ann-Marie, and makes fake promises in order to
get the money. But he ends up learning that maybe he should put
Ann-Marie first before himself when Carface goes back to him with a
vengeance.

All Dogs Go To Heaven is the perfect family film, it's not Disney, but
this is an excellent family film to watch. Not to mention that it's
just so cute and touching. I know it's ridicules and some people call
me crazy, but this movie for me when I was a kid made me believe that
dogs have souls. How could they not? They're just so loving, and I
think I'm going to cry again. But anyways, I would just recommend this
movie for anyone, it's a fun movie to watch.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
When I was a little girl (and my dad owned a video store), this was
among my favorite movies. I hadn't heard much about it since then, nor
did I really remember anything about it, it having been forgotten in
the wake of Don Bluth's other, probably better films. I managed to
track it down a few weeks ago, however, and was pleasantly surprised
again. Set in New Orleans in the 1930s, the animation is delightful and
the songs are memorable. There are a few goofs in continuity if you
look hard enough, but they generally don't detract from the storyline,
which leaves you smiling (and maybe even a little misty-eyed, if you
are a lover of animals). The characters are believable (maybe even a
little too grown-up for younger watchers), as well. Two paws up, and
for those of you who haven't seen it in a while, definitely worth a
re-watch.
<|_=00=_|>

"All Dogs Go to Heaven" is a brillaint and cute animated film from the
great director Don Bluth who directed the brillaint film "The Secret of
Nimh". "All dogs Go to Heaven" is the one of cutest Metro-Goldwyn Mayer
animated films. Don Bluth did a great job directing and I enjoyed the
voices
of Dom DeLueis and Burt Reynolds. This is a classic family film that is a
Metro-Goldwyn Mayer Classic. I give this great film a 10 out of
10!!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
An unforgettable masterpiece from the creator of The Secret of Nimh and
The Land Before Time, this was a very touching bittersweet cartoon. I
remember this very well from my childhood, it was funny and sad and
very beautiful. Well it starts out a bit dark, a dog who escaped the
pound, and gets killed by an old friend, ends up in Heaven, and comes
back. But it becomes sweet when he befriends an orphaned girl who can
talk to animals. Some scenes were a bit scary contrary to other
cartoons, like the dream sequence of Charlie, but everything else was
okay,and the songs were fair. A memorable role of Burt Reynolds and Dom
DeLuise, I just love that guy, ahehehe. And Judith Barsi of Jaws The
Revenge, may God rest her soul, poor girl, she didn't deserve to die,
but she is in Heaven now, all good people go to Heaven. Overall this is
a very good animated movie, a Don Bluth classic enough to put anime and
Disney to shame. Recommended for the whole family. And know this, if
you have the original video of this, you'll find after the movie, Dom
DeLuise has a very important and special message, gotta love that guy,
ahehehe.
<|_=00=_|>
I can remember this movie from when i was a small child, i loved it
then and I still do now. I managed to get it on DVD for my 18th
Birthday and was over joyed because I had found it so difficult to find
it previously and it had only be rented when i was younger. My
favourite character is Charlie because he learns to be a good dog. The
movie is filled with fun songs and music. The animation is brilliant
and the character voices are perfect. This movie has always been a
tearjerker for me but i think that if i hadn't seen the movie when i
was small then i would not find it as brilliant and fascinating as I do
although I still believe that I would still like it because I am Really
into animated movies.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first watched this, we borrowed it from our local library about
a year ago and watched it about 3 times. We've just watched it again
and I liked it MORE than I did the last time I'd watched it!! :) :()

The film is mainly about two dogs called Charlie and Itchy (voiced by
Dom DeLuise and I love Dom DeLuise!) . Charlie is half a gangster and
half a goodie, which I like. Itchy is his sidekick. Charlie is killed
by his friend (NOT) and sent to heaven. When Charlie comes back to
life, it is the start of an amazing adventure.

The five main reasons why I'm absolutely CRAZY about this film: One: I
love the characters (except Carface). My favourite three are Charlie,
Itchy and a little girl called Anne-Marie who comes slightly later.
Two: I love the period of history in which this film is set. It is set
during the prohibition in the United States. Three: The Don Bluth
animation (as usual) is superb. The backgrounds are good too. Four:
There is a strange excitement in this film that keeps me on the edge of
my seat. Five: The songs in this are lovely. My favourite song starts
with "I need Brazil, the throb, the thrill"...

So, watch this lovely film when you can, you won't be disappointed! :)
;) :()
