
Lauren Hutton is a vampire simply named "The Countess" who must bite a
virgin three times per year (ending on Halloween) in order to retain
her youth and beauty. However, living in California in the mid-1980s,
it's becoming impossible to find a virgin.

This is a horror comedy that's not exactly atmospheric, thrilling or
suspenseful (it's also completely free of gore), and not exactly
hilarious. Rather, it's just a very lighthearted, mostly enjoyable film
that happens to be about vampires, although it's primarily interesting
for a one of the earliest, pre-fame appearances of Jim Carrey, and for
nostalgia, as Once Bitten is firmly mired in mid-1980s pop culture.

The biggest flaw is that the mythology behind the film is not very well
explained or followed. The Countess finds Mark Kendall (Carrey) fairly
easily, but we're not shown her and her clan looking very hard until
just before Halloween--they had all year. We're never told if the clan
has to follow the same rules. It doesn't seem so in the end, but why
not? It's never very clear why The Countess can't just go after, say,
an eleven year old. When things are getting down to the wire near the
climax of the film, there are other virgins around, but The Countess
just ignores them as potential drinking fountains of youth. It seems
like maybe she has to bite the same person, rather than three
potentially different people, three times, but that's never directly
stated. How long does it have to be between bites? Why couldn't she
just bite the one person twice, then bite someone else three times
within a few hours? 

Although I don't usually like to try to apply real world logic to
films, in this case, I couldn't help it. Once Bitten isn't meant solely
as a comedy, and there is a long sequence during the climax that should
be as suspenseful as it is humorous. But the suspense was gone, because
all I could think of where the questions above instead. To make it
worse, the timeline of the film gets a bit muddled, and we lose any
sense of when Halloween night is actually occurring. At one point,
during a Halloween dance, that seems like that should be Halloween
night, but then it seems like Halloween should be over already at a
later point. At that later point, it seems like the dance must have
been on a different, earlier day. That this crucial fact for suspense
in the film isn't clear is a problem. Once Bitten suffers from sloppy
scriptwriting and sloppy direction from Howard Storm, whose resume
shows that he's much more comfortable with half-hour television
sitcoms.

But if one can overlook some of those flaws, Once Bitten is worth at
least one viewing. Carrey's performance is good. He easily shows why he
became a star in later films. His transformation over the course of the
film is great, and a scene with Carrey in full vampire make-up and
clothing makes one long to see a serious vampire film with him as a
star. I also liked the ice cream truck and took it as a nod to Phantasm
(1979). There are enough comic moments that most viewers will at least
be occasionally smiling, if not laughing out loud. A scene where Mark's
friends are trying to check him for evidence of vampirism is a
standout, as is much of the material where Mark and his friends
interact. Carrey's scenes with his parents are even better, but there
are too few of them. Both Hutton and Karen Kopins (as Mark's
girlfriend, Robin) are sensuous. The Countess' vampire clan is severely
underused, but they are okay when they do appear. And even the
obligatory mid-80s music video/dance scene is mostly tolerable.

I also enjoyed the subtext that sex is a means of protection from evil,
rather than something dangerous to be avoided. Robin's attitude about
Mark's relationships was also a nice change of pace.

This is definitely a film that needs to be approached with lowered
expectations, but in the right mood, you just might enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>

Jim Carrey is hilarious and this is just the beginning of the stars
career.
It's plot is nothing special and the acting is alright but Jim makes this
movie.  You will need to see this movie if you are a fan of Jim's.  This
is
a great film and definitely classic for 80's film.  Check this film out
soon.
It is a winner.
<|_=00=_|>

starring: Lauren Hutton, Jim Carrey, Karen Kopins, Thomas Ballatore, and
Skip Lackey.

plot: The sexy vampire, Countess (Lauren Hutton) needs to drink the blood
of
a virgin three times before Halloween. Mark (Jim Carrey) is bored in his
relationship with his girlfriend Robin (Karen Kopins) because she doesn't
want to have sex. So Mark takes his two buddies Jamie (Thomas Ballatore)
and
Russ (Skip Lackey) to Hollywood to find some chicks to have a one night
stand with. Mark meets Countess and she gets him drunk, he thinks he's
having a one night stand but she drinks his blood once. When Mark, Jamie,
and Russ go back to town Countess follows them. She finds Mark and drinks
his blood a second time, then she starts following him to get a third.
Soon,
Robin, Jamie, and Russ find out that he is slowly turning into a vampire.
Then, Mark is captured on the night before Halloween. Will Robin, Jamie,
and
Russ save Mark in time?

This comedy/horror about a sexy vampire searching for a virgin is fun to
watch! This movie is hilarious and well written, and has lots of fun cheesy
80's music.

<|_=00=_|>
Strangely enough, I read a review of one IMDb user who asserted that
Once Bitten is one of Jim Carrey's best performances since going
mainstream. I'm curious as to what this user means by that statement,
because Once Bitten was YEARS before Carrey went mainstream. Is this
person saying that Carrey's performance here is better than his
performances years later, when he did, in fact, get into mainstream
films? 

If so, I beg to differ. And if not, I still beg to differ.

The first thing that struck me about Once Bitten is that it is a teen
sex comedy, which is not something that I ever associated with Jim
Carrey (not the least reason for which is because most of his better
know movies are not only above such childish comedy but were made long
after his teenage years were over). Even in Once Bitten he was about 23
years old, but the movie focuses on his inability to communicate very
effectively with women, much less pull off any successful sexual
encounters. Enter a vampire, surprisingly sexy for her 400 years, who
must feed on three virgins or cease to exist. All desperate high school
guy in the 80s should have been so lucky.

The premise is ridiculous, comparable to those bad movies that feature
things like strippers that turn into aliens, or other monsters that
feed on humans by taking on the form of sexy naked women in order to
seduce men. Where the movie goes right is in the two main characters,
Lauren Hutton as the vampiress trying to feed on Mark Kendall, to whom
Jim Carrey brings a surprisingly effective level of insecurity and
awkward appeal. Carrey obviously remembers similar developmental
difficulties in his own youth.

Mark's two friends, the obligatory sex-starved geeks who bounce crude
humor off of each other, are negligible, put into the movie for no
other reason than for some vampire snacks and to have someone for Mark
to complain to about his nervousness about sex, while they confidently
give him all kinds of advice, momentarily forgetting that they share in
at least his same level of cluelessness on the subject.

While earlier, and dumber, sex comedies like Porky's made no attempt to
be more than they are, dumb sex comedies, Once Bitten successfully
tries to present a sort of lesson about the dangers of promiscuity,
while at the same time failing ultimately because it tries to be too
much than its material allows. Rather than seeking the old jugular,
this vampiress prefers to drink from a more southerly location,
providing a pretty ham-handed allegory of sexually transmitted
diseases. Carrey has been prowling dingy bars in search of an easy
first time (in response to his lack of success with an un-promiscuous
girlfriend), and ends up placing in grave danger the very parts that he
is trying to get some much needed attention.

There is a sad story behind the writing of the screenplay. David Hines,
a college student desperately avoiding real life, took endless art
classes to postpone graduation, and ultimately dropped out when it
seemed that his screenplay for Once Bitten, at the time titled
Nightlife, seemed to be taking off. The movie was put into production,
produced, released, and then six months later sat on the shelves at Sam
Goody, where Hines worked as a lowly entry level employee, constantly
teased by his coworkers over the spectacular failure of his movie. I
really can't say that I found it to be THAT bad, but again, this could
be just because I'm a huge fan of Jim Carrey. Maybe the movie was just
overshadowed by Fright Night (also not great but better than Once
Bitten), released the same year, and The Lost Boys (vastly superior to
both), released two years later. Either way, Once Bitten is hardly an
underrated gem.

The film itself is pretty dismal, but it remains interesting even if
for no other reason than because you can so clearly see the budding
elements of what would later become Jim Carrey trademarks. Not just his
over-the-top comedy performances, but also even slight hints at his
more dramatic roles, like when he goes to the Halloween party and is
exasperated that he keeps having to explain that he's not dressed as a
vampire, he's not even wearing a costume. It's a cheesy teen sex
comedy, but Carrey makes it interesting, at least some parts. It's just
too bad that he had to develop more of a career before people cared.
<|_=00=_|>
In Los Angeles, the virgin college student Mark Kendall (Jim Carrey) is
unsuccessfully trying to get into his girlfriend Robin Pierce (Karen
Kopins) paints. He decides to go to a bar in Hollywood with his also
virgin friends Russ (Skip Lackey) and Jamie (Thomas Ballatore) to flirt
and score. Meanwhile, the 400 year-old vampire Countess (Lauren Hutton)
and her driver and butler Sebastian (Cleavon Little) are seeking out a
virgin lad to keep her beauty and youth appearance. The Countess needs
to feed three times on a virgin before the Halloween that is close
otherwise she will look older. When the Countess stumbles with Mark in
the bar, she brings Mark home and seduces him. Mark changes his
behavior and soon he realizes that he is turning into a vampire. Is
there any chance to save Mark? 

"Once Bitten" is one of my favorite movies ever and I do not know how
many times I have watched it. The plot is very funny and Lauren Hutton
is impressively beautiful and sexy. This movie for me is another gem
from the 80's, maybe one of the best decades of the American Cinema
history. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Procura-se Rapaz Virgem" ("Seeking a Virgin Lad")
<|_=00=_|>

This is a pretty bad 80's teen sex comedy with a vampire slant.  It ‘s main
attraction is an early appearance by Jim Carrey before he became a big star.
Unfortunately the filmmakers seem unwilling to take advantage of  his comic
talents, forcing him to play it straight most of the time… What makes this
even worse are the rich opportunities  for him  to exploit his particular
brand of silliness in a movie with this  premise… I mean, Jim Carrey turning
into a vampire… that has potential., but for the most part, that potential
is untapped. 

However there are a few places where Carrey is allowed to showcase his comic
abilities, and his talent is apparent… Particularly in a VERY ridiculous
dance scene that has to rank right up there as one of the silliest (or
stupidest) dance scenes I have ever encountered. This sequence is so crazy
that I would almost recommend the movie based purely on the dance
scene.

The rest of the movie is mostly bland and not so enjoyable… Lauren Hutton is
a looker, but her part is pretty weak here. Carrey's two nerdy friends are
supposed to provide most of the comic relief, but they aren't very funny.
The story moves along very predictably and there is little or no urgency.
It's not the kind of movie that makes you want to turn off the TV,  but it's
pretty forgettable.

Still…. It does have the dance scene, and there is a certain 80's nostalgia
factor. It's worth watching if you catch it on TV and you have some time to
kill.

<|_=00=_|>

This is one of Jim Carrey's first films and definitely his first starring
role. This movie was super underrated as I found it VERY funny! Especially
his 2 friends in the movie, what nerds! The plot is simple-Lauren Hutton
plays a  youthful beautiful vampire who will turn in into a haggard old
lady
if she doesnt get the blood of a virgin 3 times before Halloween. And of
course guess who the virgin is?? Mark Kendall( Jim Carrey). The part in the
shower where they yell "Fags in the Shower" was hilarious. I laughed so
hard
I cried. Definitely a very good movie for people who like comedy.

<|_=00=_|>
A vampire Countess (Lauren Hutton) needs to drink the blood of a virgin
in order to keep her eternal beauty. It seems that all is hopeless,
until she bumps into Mark Kendall (Jim Carrey).

While "Fright Night" is often considered a modern classic by horror
fans, this film -- which came out around the same time -- is probably
not as well known. And why not? The humor is decent and a young Jim
Carrey (with exquisite dance scene) makes this historically important
in some small way.

I should say something about the film's treatment of homosexuality.
However, I am unsure of what to write. The film seems to have some
anti-gay bias (especially with the shower scene), but maybe that is a
misunderstanding. Indeed, it might just be presenting what might have
been a realistic response from teenage boys in the 1980s...
<|_=00=_|>

A Hilarious 80's teen sex comedy!  

Jim Carrey hasn't been as funny in a film since.  He manages to get plenty
of laughs with his performance without going over the top the way he tends
to do today.  My favorite part is where Robin and the Countess have a
dance-off over Mark at the Halloween dance to the very appropriate and silly
song "Hands Off, He belongs to me"!  And though slightly homophobic by
today's standards were the comments by Carrey's sidekicks, "We're Rump
Rangers", and the "Fags in the Shower" exclamations however, it all seemed
in good fun.  

Karen Kopins was really good as Mark's long-suffering girlfriend and held
her own well against Carrey.  She should've had a better career.  I really
miss the 80's teen movie genre, and the lighthearted take these films had on
a generation.  

A must see on Halloween if you're looking to lighten the load from the usual
slasher films that always get shown.         
<|_=00=_|>
As far as this movie goes, sure it may be a little stupid... but it's
pretty funny!

As it turns out, I never knew until now that Jim Carey was in this one.

For those of you not familiar with this movie, let me give you a
rundown.

Mark Kendall (Mr. Carrey) is pretty much all in all good, but at Mark's
age, you would assume that he must've done it by now... wrong!

As it turns out, as much as he and his girlfriend, Robin (Karen Kopins)
want to do it, they just figure it'd be good to wait when the right
time comes.

Unfortunately, Mark also has a couple of idiot friends, Russ and Jamie,
who take him to a bar near Hollywood, and it just so happens that a
4,000 year old vampire countess who needs male virgin blood before
October 31st 3 times to live. This movie in my opinion is one of the
most entertaining mostly because of the 3 way dance scene between Mark,
Robin and the countess... it's pretty much a classic scene in my mind.

For all of you that haven't seen this, I advise you to dash out there
and get it now!
