

Blake Edwards directed three panther-films after the death of legendary
Peter Sellers (1925-1980) - the original Clouseau and a master comedian.
"Curse of the Pink Panther" (1983) is the middle one of 'em. I have no idea
why he had the nerve to make a laughing matter out of the fact that Sellers
is gone and respect his immortal memory little enough to continue the saga.
Was he in the need of some more money (I doubt) or was he just missing a
good hobby? If his intention was to make the audience happy, he
failed.

I think "Trail of the Pink Panther" (1982) wasn't all that bad yet. It was
fine entertainment but mostly because of the funny leftover scenes with
Sellers in 'em. The last two panther-flicks sucked pretty hard because they
had absolutely nothing to got to do with Sellers anymore. I remember I
actually liked "Curse of the Pink Panther" when I was a kid. That doesn't
tell much of anything, kids like lots of crappy movies. Of course I was old
enough to miss Clouseau but it didn't bother me that much.

From today's point of view I miss Clouseau even more and like the movie
even
less. Still, surprisingly "Curse of the Pink Panther" isn't all that bad
because I can still watch it without throwing up and I'm sure that's
something everyone can't manage to do. There's couple of good scenes here
and there and I can still enjoy it because of the old team: David Niven,
Robert Wagner, Herbert Lom, Joanna Lumley, Capucine, Burt Kwoak...they're
all here to fill the enormous hole Sellers left behind.

What troubles me most is this Ted Wass guy. His failed attempt is to be
some
kind of a modern Buster Keaton. Is he actually trying to be funny? Who is
he
anyway? His clumsiness works a few times now and then but he's millions of
light years away from the stylish act of Sellers. The cameo of Roger Moore
was probably the only really nice surprise this movie had to offer. My
rating: 3 out of 10. Ten years later Edwards felt he had to direct "Son of
the Pink Panther", awful conclusion to the essentially great series of
movies.
<|_=00=_|>

After Peter Sellers passed away, the producers of the "Pink Panther"
franchise tried to carry on without their star.  As evidenced in "Inspector
Clouseau," having another actor play the bumbling French detective was not
the answer.  They tried to fill the void left by Sellers with old footage,
in "Trail of the Pink Panther."  Then they tried to introduce a new
character, a counterpart to Clouseau.  Thus was created "Curse of the Pink
Panther."  Ted Wass plays the newcomer, an amazingly inept New York cop
named Clifton Sleigh, who is chosen to investigate Clouseau's disappearance.
 His act is loaded with slapstick, in attempt to copy Clouseau's style. 
However, it's not the same.  Also appearing in "Curse" is a load of actors
from all the previous "Pink Panther" movies, including Herbert Lom as Chief
Inspector Dreyfus, Burt Kwouk as Kato, and David Niven as Sir Charles
Lytton.  Watch it if you must, but you'll be reminded of how Peter Sellers
will be missed.
<|_=00=_|>
Following the death of Peter Sellers, the Pink Panther series seemed to
have little future but director Blake Edwards still managed to grind
out two further entries. The Trail Of The Pink Panther was mediocre but
it had funny moments; The Curse Of The Pink Panther is a stretch too
far. This - number seven in the popular series - is a feeble comedy in
which the plot is poorly contrived, the actors look totally
indifferent, and the comic moments are tired rehashes of scenes from
the earlier films. It's no exaggeration to say this is the worst of the
series.

Dreyfuss (Herbert Lom) is assigned to use a super-computer to track
down the world's greatest detective. Once found, this awesome detective
will be entrusted with the task of finding the missing Inspector
Clouseau. However, Dreyfuss has no intention of helping in the hunt for
Clouseau (you may remember from earlier films that Clouseau drove
Dreyfuss to the brink of insanity). Thus, Dreyfuss deliberately misuses
the computer and finds the worst detective in the world - the inept New
York officer Clifton Sleigh (Ted Wass). Sleigh travels to France and
follows a trail of clues hither and thither, accidentally surviving
numerous attempts on his life and getting into all manner of wacky
situations as he closes in on the truth. Along the way he crosses
swords with various characters from earlier Pink Panther films, before
it is finally revealed to the audience (though not to Clifton Sleigh)
what actually became of the hapless Inspector Clouseau.

There are a few compensations amid the general air of indifference. A
certain famous film star, billed as Turk Thrust II, makes a guest
appearance as Clouseau near the end, and has a funny cameo role
mimicking the mannerisms that Sellers had brought to the character.
Henry Mancini's music is as catchy as ever, and there are infrequent
sight gags which are fairly amusing (e.g. the scene where Wass sits on
a giant rubber duck, only for the beak to poke out suggestively from
between his legs). On the whole, alas, The Curse Of The Pink Panther is
a very poor film. With a running time close to 2 hours, the film needs
more than a couple of amusing gags and a good cameo appearance. Long
before the end (heck, long before the middle!) it becomes a tedious
affair, and as the plot unfolds one increasingly wishes that the final
credits would hurry up and put an end to the misery. After this,
Edwards gave up on the series until, in 1993, he belatedly added one
final flick entitled The Son Of The Pink Panther.
<|_=00=_|>

Ignore the negative press when viewing this. O.K., the movie cant hit the
heights of either  A shot in the dark or The Pink Panther Strikes Again, but
it is a nice little film in it's own right. Firstly Ted Wass is good in the
role of Clifton Sleigh, perhaps it is the fact that the character is too
bumbling in the wrong direction that it doesn't work out. The stars of the
show are again Herbert Lom and Joanna Lumley, and the sexy Leslie Ash in a
Bond girl like role. The man who steals the show is surprisingly Roger Moore
as the newly Plastic surgery clad Clouseau who is made up to look like,
rather appropriately, Roger Moore. An hilarious twist which is something
Clouseau would have gone in for. It is a pity Moore wasn't given the role
of Clouseau out right because he is effective in the part and quite funny.
An enjoyable little film.

<|_=00=_|>
This following to popular series is a new attempt to maintain the
slapstick franchise in spite of Peter Sellers death by substituting in
American actor Ted Wass . He's investigating bungling Clouseau
disappearance and is on the trail of the jewel known as the Pink
Panther and during his first scenes Ted appears in drag . Clouseau's
previous chief (Herbert Lom) threatens to destroy the new detective .
At the same time Ted Wass like Clouseau is making life intolerable for
Inspector Dreyfuss . He then goes to Clouseau museum where he meets
Kato (Burt Kwouk) , to the French Riveira and Valencia (Spain) where
encounters mobsters (Robert Loggia) who wish to kill him . Later on ,
aboard a yacht (along with the habitual David Niven , Capucine , Robert
Wagner) he goes to Mallorca . There he attempts to track down the
Clouseau trail but he meets a suspect Countess Chandra (Joanna Lumley). 

This is arguably one of the most average of the series about the
botcher Inspector and being the eight ¨Pink Panther¨ movie in the known
film franchise . In this slapdash as well as disconcerting comedy ,
Wass attempts to investigate whether or no Clouseau is living somewhere
. This fun release has some hilarious moments here and there . The film
continues where Trail of the Pink Panther (1982) leaves off . Though
uncredited, late Peter Sellers can still be heard in various scenes
through archival sound . Starring Ted Wass as Sleigh is sympathetic
imitating to Sellers , outdoing his botcher and diverting character .
Actors considered for the role of Clifton Sleigh included John Ritter,
John Cleese, Dudley Moore and Rowan Atkinson ; in the end , the part
went to Ted Wass . The actors seem to enjoy immensely themselves but
they are supposedly spending some amusing holidays in Riveira ,
Mallorca, Valencia . Players appearing in this movie who had appeared
in the original Pink Panther (1963), the first film in the series ,
were Capucine, David Niven, and Robert Wagner . In the film appears the
usual series as Herbert Lom (chief Inspector Dreyfuss), Andre Maranne
(Sergeant Francois Duval), Grahame Stark (as a bored waiter) and the
ordinary professor (Harvey Korman) . The movie was simultaneously
filmed along with ¨Trail to the Pink Panther¨ where equally the
protagonist (Joanna Lumley) is looking for Inspector Clouseau . Writer,
producer , director Blake Edwards gets some inspired bits penned by
himself ; however he attempts to alive his classic personage with no
much success . Rating : Mediocre but entertaining .
<|_=00=_|>

As I watched this movie, I asked myself if Blake Edwards could watch it
and
laugh out loud during the whole thing, or if he got as bored and tired
with
it as I did.

The classic Sellers Panther movies contain many laugh-out-loud sequences.
For me, there is only one in this movie, a nice little scene that happens
outside the Chicago airport.  But by the way, if Sleigh is a NY cop, and
he's going to France, why the heck does he have to go through
Chicago???

Moore's cameo is nice.  Almost makes you wonder if the idea was ever there
to carry on the series with him.

If you have to see it to flesh out the whole series, go ahead, but don't
expect much...
<|_=00=_|>

Considering that "Curse of the Pink Panther" is a relatively recent film,
it
looks surprisingly dated. No wonder, since it's filled with stale jokes
and
visual gags that have already been executed in previous "Pink Panther"
entries. Harmless and good-natured but completely unimaginative and mostly
unfunny, this comedy may help you kill two hours, but it may also irritate
you because of its exploiting the images of many of the series' stars just
to gain some "dignity" as a film. Moore's cameo appearance at the end is
indeed funny, but personally I've always known than Moore has a great
comic
flair.
<|_=00=_|>
For those who consider the Pink Panther films only watchable for Peter
Sellers' performance as Inspector Clouseau, the series could be
considered over with "Revenge of the Pink Panther." For those who love
the Pink Panther brand of humor and want to see the full extension of
the story line, "Curse of the Pink Panther" is worth a look.

True, without Peter Sellers this movie doesn't feel quite authentic,
but it makes an interesting epilogue to the series, picking up where
the wafer-thin plot of "Trail of the Pink Panther" left off.

Glad that Clouseau is gone but wanting to appear like he's doing his
best to find the missing Inspector, Chief Dreyfus (Herbert Lom)
searches for the worst possible detective to put on his old foe's
tracks. He settles for Sgt. Clifton Sleigh (a young Ted Wass), a
bumbling NYPD officer who can't understand why everyone thinks he's
somehow related to Jacques Clouseau.

While plenty of the worn-out routines from previous movies are repeated
here, there are certainly some new bits, and Wass' likable character
breathes some freshness, if only a little bit, into the film. Still,
while Peter Sellers is missed, his character is missed even more. The
studio could have counted its losses and found a new Clouseau and a new
director to bring new blood to the franchise. Instead, the events of
the previous films, including the little inconsistencies between
movies, are brought to a head as Clouseau's disappearance and the Pink
Panther diamond's theft come together in one mangled conspiracy theory.
This, sadly, taints the simplicity of the individual films.

Certain elements of the classics are here, including an exotic babe
(Leslie Ash) and David Niven in his final film role. Appropriate, since
this was originally supposed to be his franchise.

It turns out in the end that Clouseau has had plastic surgery in order
to look like Roger Moore, played by Roger Moore. The scene where Moore
and Wass meet is priceless, providing a chance for "Clouseau" and
"Sleigh" to see who the bigger buffoon is in a hilarious game of
comical oneupmanship.

Not as funny as any of the Peter Sellers films by a long shot, but a
novelty among the series and a worthwhile comedy for fans of this
comedy-mystery series.
<|_=00=_|>

This is definitely the worst Pink Panther film of all, but it's worth
seeing
(read-wait until the end of the film) because of a fantastic cameo of
(great
in this role) Roger Moore who shows that he fits very well in the part of
Clouseau. I think Peter Sellers would be satisfied with Moore's
outing.
P.S. Note that it's the last David Niven film.
<|_=00=_|>
inspector Cleaseau is off somewhere searching for the Pink Panther
diamond so in the meantime, Chief Inspector Dreyfuss programs a
computer to find his replacement,, but instead of picking the best
qualified detective he programs the computer to pick the worst
detective,, so from NYC comes a bumbling idiot you would think is
closeau's American cousin,, i'm sure Dreyfuss is going ape now that he
has met the police officer,,, Roger Moore has a cameo in the end of the
movie that's pretty cool,, This was David Niven's last film,, I really
liked him throughout his work on some of the Pink Panther movies,,
alothough obviously not the strongest panther movie,, certainly not the
weakest.
