
"Barfly" was a fairly successful film when it was released and garnered
generally favorable reviews. Roger Ebert gave it four out of four, and
along with "Angel Heart," it helped solidify 1987 as the Year of Mickey
Rourke.

However, almost twenty years later it isn't talked so much about
anymore, and I feel it deserves to be. Rourke gives one of his finest
performances as Henry, a loner who walks hunched over like the
Hunchback of Notre Dame. Henry works at a bar as a runner - delivering
orders and such. But he's always getting into drunken brawls with the
bartender, usually losing.

One day Henry's life takes a turn when he meets a downtrodden woman
(Faye Dunaway) and they embark on a relationship.

"Barfly" is a great film. Rourke was vocal later on in his career about
his dislike of director Barbet Schroeder, but Schroeder's direction is
part of what makes this film so good.

However, the absolute best aspect of the movie is Rourke's performance.
Embodying the late writer Charles Bukowski (whose work this was based
upon, and who had a brief cameo in the film), Rourke is unrecognizable
- like Billy Bob Thornton in "Sling Blade," his entire demeanor and
physicality seems to change.

I highly recommend "Barfly" - it's funny, dark, witty, touching and
downright enjoyable. One of the best films of the '80s.
<|_=00=_|>

Barfly is the delightfully gritty tale of a warrior poet (Rourke) disguised
as a drunken idiot who lives in a roach motel and, you guessed it- a drunk
who can never pay his bar tab.  Mickey Rourke shines in the lead role and
in
my opinion deserved an Oscar for his brilliant performance.  Faye Dunaway
also gives a great performance as The Mick's love interest.  Rourke creates
a cult icon that will keep you in stitches and riveted for the duration of
the film.  You'll talk about this movie long after viewing it. "A drink for
all my friends!"  Rent Barfly ASAP you won't be disappointed!!
<|_=00=_|>
What can we say about Barfly? A great picture. That's what we can say.
A friend of mine recommended Barfly to me. I watched the start and it
said "Some people never go crazy, what truly horrible lives they must
live!" After that I was hooked, I knew this guy Bukowski wrote from the
gut. I bought as many Bukowski books as possible. Pulp, Hollywood, and
Women (my favourite!). I like his novels and short stories more than
the poetry. But some of the poems are intense! The movie is also
excellent. The two leads are great-Faye Dunaway is in high acting form
here. So is Mickey Roarke who seems to have gotten under Bukowski's
skin for the role......a side note he did the movie sober! This movie
is directed by Barbet Schroeder who also did Reversal of Fortune. He
also made the 4 hour Charles Bukowski Tapes (which I own) and it is
good, but way too long! Bukowski drinks and reads poems. Back to the
film-good supporting actors in this one. The beautiful Alice Krige
(from Haunted Summer) is in this as well as David Lynch regular Jack
Nance. Lynch was actually on set one day. Bukowski has a funny cameo a
barfly in the bar where Mickey meets Faye. I heard that Dennis Hopper
wanted to direct this and have Sean Penn star. Schroeder fought hard
for it though. Hopper states Schroeder couldn't direct traffic! I guess
he proved him wrong. Schroeder went into a production office with a
power saw and threatened to cut off his pinky finger if they didn't put
more funding into the film. Obviously a labour of love. So check it out
if you can, the writing is top notch stuff.......Highly recommended.
Thanx.
<|_=00=_|>

Barfly is a rarity in American cinema: a character study that doesn't
worry
about telling a story with a beginning, middle, and explosive end. Mickey
Rourke is excellent as Henry Chinaski, a writer and habitue of skid row
who
isn't so much slumming as soaking in it. The real surprise here is Faye
Dunaway as his love interest: it's easily her best performance since
Chinatown and proves she still has it. Also of note is Frank Stallone as
Eddie, the barman who keeps getting into one sided fist fights with Henry.
A
triumph and one of the best American films of the eighties.
<|_=00=_|>

Perhaps Mickey Rourkes' final great performance, BARFLY sees him as 
prolific writer/poet Henry Chinaski who rejects conformity in every day
society and believes it to be frustratingly fake. As a result, he is a
drunk, and prefers to hang out with 'all his friends' in a regular bar by
getting into fights whilst the crowd pays the winner (no guesses as to what
he spends his money on) until he meets a 'strange girl' at a bar- Wanda
(Faye Dunway). The two instantly click- both are intelligent indivuals who
reject over regularity in every day passive conversation (Dunaway- 'I hate
people, don't you? Rourke- 'I don't mind them, but I seem to feel better
when they're not around'). The two form an instant freindship/relationship
because of one major primary function that can keep them together- drink. A
researcher who picks up talented writers like Henry enters the frame and
falls for him due to his prolific writing and offers him a place in 'the
good life' with her- but Henry rejects this when she tells him he will 'grow
into it' (Rourke- growing is for plants- I hate roots).

BARFLY manages to do something profound that so many films fail to do- in
showing us that conformity isn't suited to intelligent, open minded creative
individuals like Henry. Rourke excels himself in this role, it's as good a
performance but a completely different one from his role in ANGEL HEART
(starring in 3 great films, including RUMBLE FISH, really doesn't do him
justice- he was the best of his generation in the 80's). He plays Henry not
unlike how Jeff Bridges plays Jeffrey 'The Dude' Lebowski in THE BIG
LEBOWSKI (I'd be very surprised if the 
Coens didn't take inspiration from this film, and fans of that particular
film should also check this out) as some one who you would consider to be an
every day loser but is probably a darn sight more smarter than you believe
them to be (as well as having a self serving purpose for the life they have
chosen to live). Faye Dunaway, as usual, is uniformly excellent as Henrys
lover/drinking partner, managing to convey an aura of sassiness and casual
sophistication, and who has also chosen to take this particular path in life
for a reason- the same as Henry's. The chemistry between these two leads is
astounding, and the script is pitch perfect with dozens of memorable lines
(Dunway- 'Whatever happens, don't expect me to fall in love with you',
Rourke- 'That's ok, nobody has ever fallen in love with me anyway'). To me
at least, Rourke's performance as Henry is the single most likeable
character created in any film, and it stays with you long after the film is
over. Touching, funny and profound- a minor masterpiece, a 'nice' film, I
RECOMMEND IT!
<|_=00=_|>
Despite Bukowski's condemnation of Mickey Rourke's portrayal of
him/Chinaski in the film (claiming Rourke was too cocky with the role,
and didn't stick to the character of Chinaski as Bukowski intended)
states Bukowski in the documentary "Bukowski: Born Into This", I still
view it as one of the highlights of Rourke's career.

Whether the depiction of a character is exact in the fashion of perfect
mimicry is often irrelevant to me in relation to biopics. As a matter
of a fact, I often find it the downfall of some biopics, where the
physicality may be captured, but the meat and potatoes of the
character's are often left by the wayside. Not so in the instance of
"Barfly." Rourke nailed Bukowski/Chinaski's crazy, alcoholic, free
spiritedness brilliantly, I felt. There was a humor, a tenderness, a
coldness, a twisted romanticism, and a bleakness, all wrapped into a
greasy, overweight (Rourke pulled a "De Niro", gaining weight and not
bathing months before the film's shooting) package you could almost
smell from the theater seats.

Faye Dunaway as the aging, sad, beautiful barfly Wanda, gives a
performance that yet again reminds us why she is a cinematic legend in
her own time! She plays the subtleties and intricacies of Wanda with
such aplomb, offering even this - the most pathetic of her roles - a
dignity and a sad beauty that not many actresses can pull off.

The casting of this film deserves a round of applause! I've tended bar
and worked in the sorts of joints where these all too real people can
be found, and I felt as if I was right there again, pouring shots of
bourbon, polishing glasses, and making certain that the brawls boiling
in the bar get taken to the streets. Frank Stallone's swaggering,
bully-of-a-bar tender, macho-man Eddie is hilarious! Gloria LeRoy as
"Grandma Moses" the ancient prostitute infamous for her ability to
"swallow paste" is priceless. I could go on and on, but I won't!
Bukowski's male character counterpart is a macho, beer swilling, bare
knuckle fighting, farting kind of man who some may not appreciate,
considering that outside of the seedier bars in North America, these
types of fellas are a dying breed. With males being force-fed the
over-sensitive, turn the other cheek, annoyingly "metro sexual" kinds
of roles models and ideals these days, it must be a strange look back
over the evolutionary shoulder for some men to see the realities of
people like Bukowski! Don't get me wrong - I'm not applauding all of
the Chinaski character's behaviors, but I think that some guys could
learn a thing or two about themselves from the worst example of the
diametric opposite of what they've been told they should be. Sometimes
a fight has to be - sometimes it's just plain pathetic, and both
examples can be found in Barfly.

Bukowski has always dared to put to page whatever entered his head, and
did so with a twisted lovely flourish.

Barbet Schroeder, the man behind such brilliant and critically
acclaimed films such as "More" (1969), his work with director as
Jean-Luc Godard, his contribution to French "Nouvelle Vague" or New
Wave cinema, and his more mainstream flicks such as "Single White
Female", places him in a category above many directors working in North
America today.

With Barfly, Schroeder captures the gritty realities of lives given
over to the excesses of substances and circumstances in a true-to-life
way, as he did with his first film "More", a flick about heroin
addiction done at a time when the subject was still considered very
taboo. The musical score for Barfly supports this film perfectly, too,
with the Hammond organ whirling out Booker T. Jones' "Hip Hug Her" as
we P.O.V. our way through the film's first scene, past the bar sign, to
the bar's door, and into the world of Henry Chinaski. This is all
counter-pointed wonderfully by the use of Mozart and Beethoven under
Rourke's voice-overs of Chinaski's writing.

To sum it all up - as much as I dig and respect Bukowski, I have to say
that even though he wasn't a fan of the flick (long after its release I
may add, and he was on set as an adviser and unaccredited cast member -
why didn't he say something at the time?), I look at this movie as a
wee gem and as a masterpiece daring enough to capture life's underbelly
with an acuteness and accuracy many wouldn't dare to put to screen.

~T.Paul

www.t-paul.com
<|_=00=_|>

Tender and surprisingly straight to the heart romantic-comedy that
features Mickey Rourke (in one of his best roles) as Henry, a partially
hump-backed middle-aged man is proud to be a part-time poet and full-time
drunk who finds himself in a short-time, drawn to a fellow alcoholic,
Wanda
(Faye Dunaway) and a civilized publisher, Tully (Alice
Krige).

Director Barbet Schroeder patiencely takes the movie, which is based on
the work and maybe, life of not-so-sober poet Charles Bukowski, and
transforms it into a meaningful movie.  Even the bar where Henry normally
hangs out at, "The Golden Horn", has the same dreary, smoke-filled
atmosphere that you'd find at any tavern, bar, or pub.  A fitting tribute
to
anyone who goes to any bar.

That part of the movie that works wonders is the camera work of Robby
Muller ("To Live and Die in L.A.", "Ghost Dog: Way of the Samurai"), that
captures the typical scene in a bar.  You don't have to look too close to
see the conversations and arguements.

"Barfly" is a different movie and it's worth watching on a rainy day or
on
the weekend.    
<|_=00=_|>

Faye Dunaway's best work since Network! She really nailed this role.
Mickey
Rourke was superb, so sleazy you could almost smell him through the
screen.
His character's way of speaking and walking were such affectations that I
would normally consider overacting, but here they were just right.

<|_=00=_|>

I've seen this movie several times... I really enjoy it, even though it
centers around the lives of two wretched drunks (played by Rourke and
Dunaway) who, if you met them in real life, would probably frighten you to
death.

Though both of them are wretched souls indeed, there is nevertheless enough
compassion, wisdom, and charm emanating from both of them to make them
actually likeable screen characters. And you can't help but do a mental
"double take" on many of the lines of dialogue: Rourke's character, with a
sort of "beat" hipness, really makes you think about your own life and your
own values. 

The only flaw I could find was that, considering the incredible amount of
drinking that is depicted, I felt it would have been more realistic to show
Henry and Wanda having more horrible hangovers, maybe even with frequent
vomiting attacks. But then again, maybe these are two people who really know
how to hold their liquor. See it, and decide for yourself!

P.S.: NOT recommended that you watch this film if you are on the wagon and
trying to stay on it!!
<|_=00=_|>

This has to be one my favorite movies. I found it very entertaining and
fun,
which is odd, considering the subject matter. The movie chronicles the
misadventures of two talented, yet hopeless drunks. The dialog is snappy
and
the direction is wonderful. Mickey Rourke gives the film world a glimpse of
just how great he could have been. Moreover, Dunaway shows why she will
always be considered one of the top female leads of all time. **** out of
****
