
"Octopussy" is really peculiar in the series. Because, for example, we
see Bond dressed like a clown or keeping a plaster; there's an exotic
and romantic atmosphere -which reminds us of some adventure books (like
Emilio Salgari's "Sandokan" and "The count of Monte-Cristo"...) Here
007 has to travel between India and Germany for stopping a catastrophic
plan of Soviet General Orlov and Afghan prince Khamal Khan.

With a little more parody than in the previous film "For your eyes
only", "Octopussy" continues in the line of more down to earth Bond
adventures.

Roger Moore's performance is good as usual, the cast is also remarkable
-Louis Jourdan is one of the French actors who built a good Hollywood
career, starring in films like Hitchcock's "The Paradine case" and
Vincente Minnelli's "Gigi". He's Kamal Khan, a very charming and
sophisticated villain -he's the criminal equivalent of Bond. Jourdan
brings a special touch of glamour -you see he's an actor of the golden
years of Hollywood!

Maud Adams is the only actress who played twice a Bond girl -she was
Andrea in "The man with the golden gun".

Steven Berkoff is an established English actor, mainly for theater, but
he played also in Stanley Kubrick's "Barry Lyndon".

Kabir Bedi is an Indian actor very popular in the second half of the
Seventies -he was "Sandokan" in a famous TV film made by RAI, Italian
public TV.

John Glen directs the film with a lot of fun and assures a great show.
The film doesn't disappoint.

"Octopussy" is the last great Roger Moore movie as Bond, and maybe the
last BIG Bond of the series as well -because it's original, lavish,
acrobatic, romantic and pompous. 

8,5/10
<|_=00=_|>
'Octopussy' begins at an East German circus, where 'a man in a clown
suit' is chased through a dark wood by two circus knife-throwing
experts The clown eventually gets a dagger in his back, but survives
long enough to drop a fake Fabergé Easter Egg at the feet of the
British ambassador 

The clown is actually 009 in disguise, who is investigating a smuggling
ring that uses carnivals and circuses for cover But the plot is much
more grave than that 

There is a rebellious Russian general called Orlov, assuming a
fortuitous atomic explosion on an American Air Force Base in West
Germany

Orlov's connection is an exiled Afghan prince (Kamal Khan), who is
willing to help the Soviet general smuggle his deadly A-bomb into West
Germany in exchange for Kremlin most remarkable jewels

James Bond enters the case, in London, to investigate the death of 009
He attends a sale at Sotheby's where a priceless super green egg (used
by Czar Nicholas in 1897) is auctioned There he first sees Kamal Khan
and his lady friend, Magda

Aware that Khan will get the Imperial Egg to fulfill some unknown but
obviously vital purpose, 007 actually bids against the exiled Afghan
prince, raising its market value over the top Although Khan eventually
outbids him, Bond is clever enough to switch the real Fabergé egg with
a perfect replica

Convinced that Khan is somehow mixed up in 009's murder, Bond is soon
sent to India to find out why 009 was murdered

Bond remains the sophisticated man with a price on his head He pays a
surprise visit to an island exclusively populated by attractive women
He seems to like 'eggs, preferably Fabergé and dice, preferable
loaded.' He maneuvers the world's smallest jet, and swings through the
high trees to someone else's tunes He orders a ferocious beast to sit,
and creates a spontaneous mass action by flinging 'hard currency' in
the air... In a crucial moment, he appears to have a 'very good memory
for faces and figures, survives a series of throwing knives, and gets
caught on a train tracks He follows a plane on horseback for a
terrific mid-air fight sequence

Maud Adams' Octopussy serves little purpose in the story taking a
backseat to Kamal Khan's disloyalty Nevertheless she is a statuesque
resourceful woman living with her stupendous sexy acrobats on a
floating palace, developing a talent for illegal activities 

Christina Wayborn's Magda actually steals the show from Maud Adams
Magda is by far the prettiest of Kamal's friends exposing a 'little
Octopussy' tattoo on her lower backHer dramatic exit from 007's
bedroom certainly must rank up as one of the best memorable escape in
any Bond movie

Louis Jourdan brings poetic elegance to a treacherous character He is
quite sure that Bond is 'indeed, a very rare breed soon to be made
extinct.'

Kabir Bedi plays the villain Gobinda, with strong hands that can
pulverize so easily a pair of dice 

Steven Berkoff plays Orlov, the wonderful Russian villain who surely is
leaving the way clear for a full-scale Russian invasion of Europe 

With John Barry beautiful score; the snake charmer playing the 'James
Bond' theme; the disturbed fakir resigning his bed of nails; Bond
climbing at a steep angle of an engaging décolletage; John Glen's
'Octopussy' is exotic, lush, very enjoyable and highly entertaining
<|_=00=_|>
Out of all the Bondfilms with Roger Moore as 007, Octopussy is the one
with the most Cold War aspects, and yes, what a great atmosphere I
experienced when I saw the scenes in East-Germany, truly magnificent.
If you are talking about those Cold War aspects you should not forget
to mention Steven Berkoff his performance of an insane Soviet general
with a hunger for power. Wonderful. The other villains are memorable as
well: Louis Jourdan with style and sophistication; Kabir Bedi as one of
those invincible henchmen and David Meyer & Tony Meyer are deadly twin
brothers with an advanced skill in the trowing of daggers. As for the
girls this one features two Swedish ladies: Maud Adams and Kristina
Wayborn. Both of them are very strong and they have both some lovely
scenes. Vijay Amritraj is Bond his ally in India: worth watching. This
is also the first of four films to feature Robert Brown as Bond his
superior M. John Barry is once again present with a truly wonderful
soundtrack. The film is really amusing and has a great atmosphere.
Despite the claim of many critics, Roger Moore is still in good shape.
The only scene that disappointed me was the one where 007 is disguised
in a circus clown, that will be painful for Bondfans, but the rest of
the film is great. Do not skip this one.
<|_=00=_|>

This is by far the best of the Roger Moore Bond films in my opinion.  I may
be prejudiced since "Octopussy" was the first Bond film I saw theatrically,
but I absolutely loved it back then and it still holds up today.  The plot
is a fine blend of the serious stories of the early Connery films and the
humorous touches of the Moore era.  Add to that a smooth villain in Louis
Jourdan, delicious over-the-top counterpoint from Steven Berkoff, a
formidable henchman in Kabir Bedi, two exotic Bond girls in Maud Adams and
Kristina Wayborn, beautiful location photography in the rich "travelogue"
style (did India ever look as good as it does here?) and a great John Barry
score and you can't go wrong with it at all.  The tense buildup in the bomb
countdown which has Bond donning clown makeup at one point is probably one
of the most exciting in any Bond film.

Roger Moore hit his peak playing Bond in this film and the proof is how he
seems so much better than Sean Connery does in the inferior "Never Say Never
Again" that came out that same year.  It's a pity that Moore didn't go out
with this one, since "A View To A Kill" was so poor by
comparison.

By all means rent this, watch it and have fun!
<|_=00=_|>
This is Roger Moore's 6th Bond film and you can see that he has aged a
bit since For your eyes only. The plot is rather nonsense, hard to
follow and, like a lot of Bond films, not to be taken seriously. But
for this film, the eight stars are for the sheer energy and work the
crew have put into this film to make it funny, exciting and with heaps
of stunts and action work. Roger Moore still has his great class from
when he started in 1973 ten years before this film. Octopussy is based
in India,with heaps of lovely big wide city shots with a scene showing
India's jungle as well. The acting is fine, you don't need to worry
about that and there are a few funny one-liners and jokes to keep the
story from being to serious. All in all, take the film with a pinch of
salt, its a bit of fun.... and a great popcorn film!
<|_=00=_|>

As a Bond fan for more than 20 years, I must admit I love all Bond films.
But OCTOPUSSY is the best of all them all; it's also my favorite movie.
Roger Moore is in top form, John Glen's direction is excellent, the plot is
complex and rich, and John Barry's music is wonderful. Moreover, Louis
Jourdan is a beautiful baddie, Maud Adams is one of the most interesting
leading ladies, and Steven Berkoff is amazingly frightening. The
cinematography is very impressive, as is the production design by Peter
Lamont.

What more can I say? OCTOPUSSY is skillfully made and astonishingly
thrilling from its breathtaking precredits sequence to the very end. Nobody
does it better!!
<|_=00=_|>
Many criticized this film at the time of its release with comments
like" Moore's tongue in cheek humor has turned Bond's style into
brainless films , full of silly jokes, with no plot or character
development. Just look at that annoying jungle sequence with Moore
parodying Tarzan." OK I concede this scene was a dreadful idea. But its
minor flaws aside, Octopussy is, in my opinion, one the greatest Bond
movies to date. 

What makes this movie extremely compelling is its adventurous
storyline, which successfully combines the classic 70's spy thriller
convoluted plot with amazing, yet surrealistic, action sequences, more
likely to be part of a comic book (but a good one, indeed) such as the
jet escape at the beginning, which is definitely the BEST pre-credit
scene in the whole series. Bond moves from England to India, and then
to Germany, while he tries to find out the truth in a mysterious
conspiracy involving a stolen Faberge egg and... Well, it actually
doesn't make sense ...but the individual sequences are great: 009's
death, the purchase of the egg at Sotheby's, Bond and Khamal first
encounter at the casino, the night assault on Octopussy's palace... and
that lovable seduction scene, with these memorable lines: "We are two
of the kind, there are vast rewards for a man of your talents willing
to take risks / I am not for hire / Naturally you do it for queen and
country, with the praise on your head. I have no country and no praise
on my head... she leaves the room , Bond follows her and kisses her,
replying, you were right, we are two of the kind" Ins't it delightful?

But the pleasures Octopussy delivers don't end here. Louis Jourdan
plays a glamorous, icy, double-dealing villain, perfectly balancing
ruthlessness and elegance. He gets this great line" Mr. Bond, you have
the nasty habit of surviving", almost comparable to Goldfinger's "Do
you expect me to talk? No, Mr. Bond, I expect you to die" And
stunningly beautiful Maud Adams gets the leading role she deserved,
since she's probably the most seductive and cool of all Bond girls.

And the ending gag is wonderful as well, successfully capturing the
film's essence. It isn't just Bond kissing the girl again, but reminds
us of the fantasy world we have lived in for two hours. I still
remember what a good time I had when I saw this movie for the first
time. You cannot miss this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Octopussy is directed by John Glen and adapted to screenplay by George
Macdonald Fraser, Richard Maibaum and Michael G. Wilson. It stars Roger
Moore, Maud Adams, Louis Jordan, Kabir Bedi, Steven Berkoff, Vijay
Amritraj and Robert Brown. Music is scored by John Barry and
cinematography by Alan Hume.

Bond 13 and 007 is assigned to find the link between the murder of 009
and the Fabergé egg found in the slain agent's possession. His
investigation leads him to uncover a fiendish plot by a rogue Soviet
General to detonate a nuclear device that will leave Western Europe
vulnerable to a Soviet attack.

Undeniably the film that should have been Roger Moore's last as James
Bond, Octopussy contains both the best and worst of the James Bond
franchise. On the plus side is a very good core story that encompasses
intelligent political overtones that were prevalent of the time period.
A nuclear crisis is in the air and the East and the West, who have
until now been casting suspicious eyes over each other, must co-operate
to avert disaster. This closing down of the Cold War is nicely etched
into the plot structure by the makers. The cast assembled is mostly
impressive, with Adams and Jordan doing great characterisations, the
photography by Hume makes India look like a paradise, Glen orchestrates
some excellent action set-pieces, including one of the best pre-credits
scenes of the series, and Barry's score is a swirl of romanticism and
invention. The title song, All Time High sung by Rita Coolidge, is
magnificent and this writer's personal favourite of all the Bond theme
songs. While there's a new man enviably following the much missed
Bernard Lee by playing M (Robert Brown) and Q (Desmond Llewelyn) gets a
bigger role to play in the story.

Sadly, even though Moore is continuing the good acting of Bond he
achieved in For Your Eyes Only, he is looking his age and not
physically suited to the action. He is also saddled with having to do
moronic things like swinging on a vine whilst doing the Tarzan jungle
yell. It's pretty painful to watch and you have to wonder who on earth
thought it was a good idea? There's moments when a silly bit of humour
undermines the good plotting, while Berkoff and Amritraj are in turn
over the top villainy and scarcely believable as a field agent. The
film looks cheap, a rarity for a Bond film, and the smartness of the
story often gets buried beneath the weight of convolutions. Most
galling is that we should have had a classic Bond movie, a gargantuan
feast of sets and tough secret agent shenanigans, for this was the year
when Bond as we know it was facing off against the Kevin McClory rival
Bond movie, Never Say Never Again, and that had Sean Connery in it;
though he was also like Moore in his early 50s and too old for the
suit.

The two films never met head to head at the box office, because
McClory's was delayed. Both films made monster cash, with Octopussy
grossing $184 million and Never Say Never Again copping $160 million,
Bond, and the two actors playing the role were enough to ensure the
cash tills rang loud and proud. But both films were solid rather than
special, the profit margins were high but the quality wasn't. Octopussy
has a bit of something for all types of Bond fans, but they just can't
make a successful whole. From the Eon side of things there surely had
to be a new direction, some decision making assertiveness instead of
fluctuating between earthy Bond and ridiculous button pushing Bond, it
needed some vim and vigour brought back into the fray. Moore planned to
retire, and rightly so, was we about to see the dawn of a new Bond era?
7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I have a spot for this film. The photography on location in India &
Eastern Europe is top notch. The women in this film are to me the most
beautiful ones of the Bond series. Not only is Maud Adams just
wonderful, but Kristina Wayborn looks great too. The action sequences
in this one are among the best of the series & the humor is great.
Louis Jourdan is a great bad guy & the film based upon 2 of Ian
Flemings short stories put together by George MacDonald Fraser works
well. This film has a pace to it, & you just can enjoy the ride when
you watch it. The opening sequence has nothing to do with the rest of
the film.

I often still imagine Kristina Wayborn as my girl instead of a Bond
girl. The brunette in the opening sequence is a looker too. What I love
about the opening is that it sets the tone for the rest of the movie.
While the stunts look awesome, this film is played for a lot of laughs
along with the action. It succeeds on both counts, & truly is the
"Property of a Lady" with so many good looking Bond Women.

Rita Coolidge had her all time best song with the theme song for this
film which seems to have been written for her voice. It's an all time
high from Louis Jourdan (Kamal) to Bond in a gator tuxedo!
<|_=00=_|>
Was there ever a James Bond like this one? Oh, there were better Bond
stories, no doubt, but I do doubt there were any more entertaining than
this one.

In "Octopussy," we get more of an Indiana Jones-type adventure story
than the usual spy farce. In fact, there is so much adventure in here
it gets tiring, to be frank. It's almost too much....but it is a lot of
fun along the way.

The best part of the film isn't the wild adventure, either: it's the
humor. This has more laughs in it - stupid and clever - than any Bond
film I can recall.

Roger Moore, Maud Adams, Louis Jordan, Kristina Wayborn, Steven Berkoff
and Kabir Bedi must have had a lot of fun - and been worn out - making
this film. By the way, itt's always interesting to see the intriguing
Adams.

This and "Goldfinger" are my two favorites of the Bond series, and I'm
glad to see so many others here share that opinion.
