
Mad Max (1979) is a low budget Aussie film that became a huge success
in the U.S. because of it's sequel Mad Max 2 a.k.a. The Road Warrior.
Not only did this movie spawned a franchise but it created a new genre
of film (the post apocalyptic wasteland/road film) many rip-offs and
pro wrestlers inspired by the movie and it's sequels.

Mel Gibson (in his greatest role in my opinion) stars as "Mad" Max, a
cop who has seen too much while trying to enforce the law in a dying
society. After clashing with the Night Rider, he incurs the wrath of
his bikie buddies Toecutter and co. Toecutter has to be one of the most
scuzziest and at the same time coolest bad guys. I like the way he
tries to justify him and his crew's actions. Ditto for his right-hand
man Bubba. Beautiful cinematography, fast paced action and awesome
stunts make this movie a winner.

I have seen both versions of the movie (the U.S. dubbed version and the
original Aussie soundtrack). For full enjoyment stick to the original
version because they sound like real people, not like cartoon
characters or cheesy b-movie villains. A true winner.

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
After not seeing it for about seven years, I just saw it on DVD for the
first time. I remembered it as an exciting near-chaos-future adventure
with highway cops in muscle cars and one insane biker gang. It's great
how it keeps on standing the test of time. High speed and raw power are
of every age, past and future. The way the highway action is shot in
this movie simply stays exhilarating, putting it in the top ranking of
best high-speed-chase movies ever. Seeing the camera follow the highway
marker at high speed, along with the sound of a bike- or V8-engine
delivers a Mad and chaotic but really cool result. The pace of the
movie remains considerably high, without many slow moments.

Some aspects of the movie have (understandably) dated. Obviously the
70's clothing and hair styles. Sometimes the acting is a little over
the top, and some characters could come directly from a comic book. And
of course the story is not that deep or difficult. It's partly
action-thriller, partly science fiction adventure. All weaknesses are
covered and compensated by lots of a-moral fun though.

At the heart of this one of a kind look movie, there is a hero
character named Max. This speed-demon-cop is at the top of his game on
the highway, ruthlessly dealing with maniacs ravaging his jurisdiction.
But he is also a happy family man with his wife and son. This duality
makes the character human, timeless and very memorable. In some scenes
you can clearly see Mel Gibson was only just getting into acting. For a
rookie he was doing a good job nonetheless.

Others strengths lie within the scary nature of the biker gang. An
extravagant rag-tag band of maniacs, led by the iconic villain The
ToeCutter. To this day, their actions remain tough and very disturbing.
It will have you staring at the screen dead serious, making Max' battle
against them even more gratifying.

There is much to say about this movie, but first and foremost it is a
must see. A cult classic still as enjoyable as it was nearly 30 years
ago.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is primarily a classic, in my opinion, because it was the prequel
which led to THE ROAD WARRIOR, which really is a classic.  MAD MAX was made
on a low budget, yes, and some nice things were done with very little money.
 (Although choppy editing is inexcusable no matter how low the budget, and
there's lots of nonsensical editing in this flick.) THe opening sequences of
the film, in which the various police chase Nightrider, is fairly effective
and sets one up for ever increasing excitement.  However, the movie heads
pretty much downhill from there in terms of excitement.

The events that make Max "Mad" happen so late in the film, and then his
revenge is so abruptly carried out that it is about as anti-climactic as
anything can be.  Toecutter, whom we've grown to despise, should face a
clever, hard-fought death at the hands of Max, instead of the abrupt end
that comes to him almost without Max's help.

Mel Gibson is okay in the movie, but has little to do.  THe actor playing
Goose is the most fun, certainly.  I only recommend the movie to those who
feel they MUST have the backstory to The Road Warrior, but frankly, the
future envisioned in MAD MAX is very different from the truly
post-apocalyptic world of the ROAD WARRIOR.


<|_=00=_|>

It was the very rawness and budgetary constraints of this little flick
that
made it what it was. A new kind of action hero in a new kind of world!
Gibson's laughably underpaid (though unavoidably so) contribution cannot
be
underestimated. He imbued Max with more than the script actually merited.
An attitude perhaps that struck a chord with many office-desk (wannabe)
vigilantes. After all, Max takes control of his own life - is not cowed
by
authority. Max is everyman, the one inside us that few get the chance to
let
loose. He is part Jesus, part Che, part James Dean, all Australian yobbo!
But this guy gets the job done - drop Max into Iraq next month and see
how
far Saddam Hussein gets trying to stock up on sarin!

Raw energy is what MAD MAX was all about! Distilled, tempered and
inflamed
by the time THE ROAD WARRIOR came around but at this juncture. a man on a
mission and with the best tricked-up car since....well, THE CAR ! For
those
of you incidentally, totally  mortified that his glorious black-hearted
Interceptor was rendered dead-meat in MAD MAX 2, be comforted by the fact
that it DOES in fact reside still in a museum in London (Why there and
not
Sydney I know not...perhaps for the same reason Australia still is not
host
to the cricket-ashes urn!) What chance of either's return when Greece
can't
even get the Elgin Marbles back?

Much has been made (and remembered) of the high-power car chases in this
film, held by many in absolute reverence. In fact after the main cops vs
The
Nightrider work-out in the first few minutes of the flick, its pretty
much
all downhill in the action stakes - nothing subsequently in MAD MAX (1)
comes near this brief sequence. This situation (with a way bigger budget)
was inarguably reversed by the time THE ROAD WARRIOR came along. The
stunts
in THAT film have never been surpassed and remember this was without CGI
fx.

MAD MAX has that indefinable 'something" the sequels didn't...perhaps
just a
raw innovation couldn't be duplicated - rather like ur first kiss. It
might
not have been the best, but it sure IS fondly remembered.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember my parents being such fans of Mad Max when I was a kid, but
the movie looked so boring in my eyes. I never really wanted to get
into it, I mean, I was a kid after all. But a few years ago in my film
appreciation class, we were watching clips from Mad Max 2 when studying
Australian films and I was intrigued with it. I finally remembered a
few weeks ago how I wanted to see the three movies, so I just watched
Mad Max and I have to say that I understand it's cult following. Mad
Max promises and delivers, it's a low budget action film, but has a
terrific story and excellent stunts. Mel Gibson, before he was Mel
Gibson in Hollywood, you could see why he made it so big, his presence
on screen is truly hypnotic and he makes a great hero. This story is so
scary in the fact that I don't think that we are far from this future.

Max Rockatansky lives in a time where his country has been taken over
by violent, vicious motorcycle gang members who just go around
torturing and killing people. Max and a few friends are the last
members of the "semi" police force that is trying to get things back
under control and bring some peace to their town. But when the gang
messes with Max's friend by nearly burning him alive, Max is ticked and
goes after them. But when the gang messes with Max's wife and child and
kills them, oh, they've gone too far and now it's personal.

Mad Max's plot is basic and can be considered typical, but it's a fun
action movie that truly delivers. The action sequences were really
exciting, especially Max's revenge sequence, he was so amazing and I
don't remember the last time I rooted so hard for the good guy to win.
Mel Gibson was really cool and I had a good time watching Mad Max. I'm
looking forward to the sequels. I would recommend this movie for a
watch, it's a fun cult classic that I'm sure any action fan would
enjoy.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Dr. George Miller's low budget Mad Max franchise impacted on Australian
culture and altered the perception of Australia and Australians
overseas in a way that no other Australian film had done. The films
explores themes such as 'man and the environment', 'fear provoking
post-apocalyptic future, family', 'masculinity in crisis', 'good versus
evil (Max as an iconic hero), Australian ethos and car culture; themes
often featured within Australian films yet presented in a stark and
dramatic way. The cinematographic impact is powerful; the human and
emotional appeal is timeless.

Australia's barren deserts presented the ideal setting for a
post-apocalyptic environment. The film set is more identifiable as
Australia as it was filmed around the city of Melbourne. Long deserted
roads feature significantly in the film and the cinematographic device
of taking long distant shots of Max demonstrates how small he is in the
scale of the environment that he is living. It is a relentless,
unforgiving environment which demands defeat or survival and marks the
characters which play upon its stage.

Just as the physical setting is stark and desolate, the time setting
and its associated events create an atmosphere of fear and foreboding
which plays on the minds and emotions of contemporary viewers. In this
fear provoking post apocalyptic future the few survivors of the nuclear
holocaust are in warfare with one another, the rebel bikers and the
police.

Good versus evil is a dominant discourse in many film genres and one
which embraces the Australian ethos. Max possesses some highly valued
"Australian" traits; in particular, those of the underdog, the battler,
the hero. External forces beyond his control stop him from "winning"
completely. Contrary to the Hollywood hero, the Australian hero is a
pawn in the game of others, which explains why Max can never quite
"win" in absolute terms. There is little public glorification of
success in Australia; heroes are remembered for their style rather than
for their achievements. (Venkatasawmy, 1996) Mad Max represented a
tradition hero, a hero to whom many diverse cultures are able to
relate, as a story of a lone hero is a story that goes back through
centuries of storytelling, and as a consequence the film achieved
colossal success within Australian and around the world. The Australian
cultures and lifestyles shown throughout these films give Australians
an understanding of their country in the landscape, the language, and
the way we treat people, life and life in exceptional circumstances.

Reference Venkatasawmy, R. (1996), Australian Film in the Reading Room:
The Hybridity of Film-making in Australian National Cinema: Formulating
a Cinematic Post-Diaspora. Retrieved March 14, 2005, from
http://wwwmcc.murdoch.edu.au/ReadingRoom/rama/CHAPT4.htm
<|_=00=_|>
In spite of the fact that the 1981 film The Road Warrior—the second
influential cinematic work of writer/director George Miller's Dystopian
vision of the near future trilogy—leads to receive the anti-hero Max,
released two years earlier, is where it all started… For it was here
that Miller first brought to the screen his hellish vision, where civil
society is under siege by crime and disorder, with the strength and
charisma of a new young, tough, good looking actor by the name of Mel
Gibson… 

Gibson was just 23 years old when he took the role of Max Rockatansky—a
young hotshot cop so emotionally wounded—and was such an unknown star
that when the film was hitting the screens in the States, the preview
trailers didn't even mentioned him but instead focused on the movie's
coolest and most original car action ever filmed… In retrospect, of
course, Gibson's portrayal of a relentless vigilante is an essential
element of the picture… 

In the Australian outback, Rockatansky is a motorcycle cop trying to
keep order in a quickly disintegrating society… Vicious lawless bikers
and road-raging psychopaths race up and down the forbidden territories,
raping and pillaging the peaceful towns, and one such bunch ends up at
the door of Max's wife (Joanne Samuel), and their 2-year old son… When
they are both lying dead in middle of the road, Max is all driven over
the edge, and so starts a high-speed pursuit involving wild rides,
chilling fights, and memorable fast-motion suspenseful scenes rarely
equaled in cinema…
<|_=00=_|>
Set somewhere in the future we are privy to a world where the roads are
ruled by maniac gangs with souped up cars, and bikers that literally
could come from hell. Trying to stop these marauding loons are the
overstretched police force who themselves ride in exceptionally fast
cars. At the front of this story is Max Rockatansky, a good honest cop
trying to hold his own against the chaotic world that is forming around
him. After his best friend is burned and left for dead he decides
enough is enough and thinks about retiring from the service, but whilst
on a vacation with his wife and child things go decidedly bad and Max
becomes an avenging force of fury with devastating affect.

When evaluating this film I feel it really needs to be put into
perspective just how brilliant a job director George Miller did with
next to no cash to work with, in fact Miller edited the film in his own
bedroom just to emphasise the low-fi nature of the beast. The costumes
are excellent, the cast are terrific, with Mel Gibson as Max
particularly impressive, and here we have villains to truly fit the
word villainous, but it's the stunts and chase sequences that makes
this film a rich rewarding experience. The opening ten minutes alone
are pure adrenalin pumping genius, but the film as a whole delivers a
crash bang wallop punch that has often been imitated since its release,
but rarely bettered, and although the heart of the film is a simple
revenge story, it grabs your attention and delivers right to the
corking finale, 8/10.

Footnote: Region 2 Users should note that the bargain bucket Mad Max
Trilogy flip pack set still contains the foolishly dubbed version of
this film, incredibly stupid move from the American distributors.
<|_=00=_|>
"Mad Max" is one of those films that is on everyone's top film lists.
Not only did it introduce us to Australian cinema, but also a young
21-year old newbie named Mel Gibson. "Mad Max" was dark, it was
brooding, it was destructive, and it never gave us that glimmer of hope
for humanity, but now - nearly 20 years later - does it still remain
the classic that it started? Sure, it was impressive to watch the crash
scenes, it was powerful to see the world through Mr. Miller's disturbed
eyes, but is it re-watchable? Does it have the appeal to see new things
throughout if watched and watched again? For me, the answer seemed to
float near "no". While I loved what "Mad Max" represented, what it was
- a full body of color and action - it wasn't something to be watched
again and again. Gibson does a great job as Max, a man torn between the
evils of the road and his personal philosophies. He begins as an
ominous optimist, able to stop crime as it occurs on the streets, but
then as his sense of normality is turned upside down, his ability to
react and adapt is seen. The final moments, he has transformed from the
man we were first introduced to into something quite terrifying. One
could also compliment Mr. Miller's directorial outing, at times it felt
a bit episodic with tough edits placed, but for the majority he told a
deathly story with great ease and excitement. So, again, there is no
arguing that "Mad Max" is an important film, one that I am glad to have
finally seen, but once was enough. It seems to be lacking that re-watch
excitement.

But why has that conclusion been made? What makes "Mad Max" mediocre
instead of powerful? It is hard to pinpoint the exact scene, but the
sense of "alright, I've seen it - now what" was definitely present by
the end. Yet, there were points that I just loved. Gibson was perfect.
He was incredible as Max, and the world that Mr. Miller created was
intense. The opening scene, the car crashes as our bearded villain just
yelled "Toecutter" was fantastic. "Mad Max" has one of those openings
that just pulls you in, that makes you excited to watch a film of this
intensity, but then where do you go? Miller seemed to indicate that
more car crashes, more violence, more cliché family drama would
indicate a stronger film. At times he was right, his ability to create
different scenes set across the same backdrop demonstrated his
originality, but then there were times where it just felt recycled. One
scene that stands out, is where our gang of bikers track down a couple
that happens to be at the wrong place at the wrong time, they chase
them down and demoralize them as Max and his partner find them - then,
almost repetitively, it happens with Max and his girl later in the
film. In this post-apocalyptic world, there seems to be no problem
finding someone. Space seems to not be a problem. This was another
unexplained moment - where the coincidence of discovering Max or
finding the biker gang should have been more difficult. These
repetitive, essentially simplistic scenes seemed to detract from the
power of what Max represented. One also needs to ask about the story,
the unknown of what time or place we are following Max - would this
have strengthened the story knowing what world we lived in? The
understanding that this was a low-budget film was rooted in my mind,
the techniques provided were impressive, but should that have been
neglected for mediocre storytelling? Perhaps I misread this film,
perhaps I missed the joy of why this is hailed as such a cult success.

Another weakness against "Mad Max" has to be the relationship between
his wife/girlfriend and child. Again, the lacking story helped confuse
this viewer as to what dynamic they had, but when we have scenes in
which the child is completely forgotten about - it just decimates the
reasons behind Max's anger and utter breakdown. There were several
scenes in which I yelled at the screen, "What about the child", then
finally they would remember - he seemed to fade in and out of existence
too often for one film. Then, when disaster strikes, we are forced to
believe that suddenly Gibson would release his inner rage? It just
didn't work. The same can be said for his wife/girlfriend. A stronger
definition of character, and even more lines spoken would have helped
me see the relationship. She seemed angry at first, the product of a
failed marriage forced by this post-apocalyptic world to stay together,
then we were introduced to love, then suddenly, she moved to idiocrity.
Who would believe that running down a road, when there are open fields
around, is the better option? It was these small inconsistencies that
forced "Mad Max" from greatness to just another average action film.
Two-plus hour sweeping epics aren't always needed, but stronger
characters do help in creating the world that we, as viewers, are to
inhabit for 90-ish minutes.

"Mad Max" is an important film, there is no question in my mind about
that. The door that this film opened for future cinema in America
couldn't have been done by a better group of filmmakers, but it isn't a
promising classic. I could not watch this film again. The sequels I am
ready for, but this ride is over - and the park is closing. I realize
that I am in the minority, but "Mad Max" is a low-budget film that uses
repetitive film-making as its staple - originality is present, but you
must search to find it.
<|_=00=_|>

Not many low budget flicks age very well but Mad Max certainly has.

I watched it again recently, as I only had vague memories of watching it
years ago, but I found it to hold up well.
Only by reading the other user comments did I discover that it had been
dubbed! What a load of crap. Why would a movie in English be dubbed in
English! If you cant understand Aussie accents, you dont deserve the
pleasure of seeing this movie. I cant imagine this movie having the same
effect without the Australian accents.

What George Miller did with this fairly simple script is remakable. The
camera angles and speeds with which this film moves along at times were
thrilling, Not to mention the great stunts and even the barbaric humour
(the
ripped off arm!).

The car which Mel Gibson eventually gets revenge in (an Aussie Ford coupe)
looked as menacing as a car could! built for the movie for A$35 Grand, a
replica was used for the final crash 'n burn scenes of Mad Max 2. The
original car was salvaged and is still around somewhere, appearing at car
shows in the late 80's.
