
Quite a few bad things have been written about A Bridge Too Far.
Richard Attenborough's elephantine recreation of the battle for several
strategically valuable Dutch bridges in the winter of 1944 is a
star-studded, lengthy and exhausting film (and many critics at the time
seemed to be of the opinion that it collapsed beneath its own weight).
Almost thirty years on, the film is now viewed somewhat more
favourably. It may feel 30 minutes too long, and the need for so many
stars in so many tiny parts is questionable, but A Bridge Too Far
successfully shows a fierce episode of the Second World War in all its
chaotic glory. Incredibly, there's no use of the computer generated
effects during the big battle scenes that it is relied upon in modern
films like Gladiator and Troy. The scenes in this film were shot pretty
much as you see them - so the 35,000 parachutists storming Holland, the
river crossing led by Robert Redford under intense enemy fire, and
other such staggering combat sequences were filmed with thousands of
extras and a good deal of meticulous planning and preparation.

The film is based upon Operation Market Garden, an Allied plot hatched
towards the end of 1944 with the intention of ending the war in Europe.
The concept behind the plan was to drop 35,000 soldiers into Holland
approximately 60 miles beyond the German lines, to seize six vital
bridges, and to reinforce the paratroopers by sending in thousands of
ground troops. However, various mishaps jeopardised the mission and
eventually the Allies were cut off and had to withdraw, suffering
severe losses.

As stellar casts go, A Bridge Too Far still takes some rivalling. Among
the many famous actors involved, these are just a few: Sean Connery,
Robert Redford, Laurence Olivier, Dirk Bogarde, James Caan, Ryan
O'Neal, Gene Hackman, Michael Caine, Anthony Hopkins and Elliott Gould.
It seems pointless for some of the actors to be cast in these roles -
true enough, Connery, Bogarde and Hopkins get decent roles and a fair
bit of screen time, but was it really worth paying Redford $2,000,000
for his ten minute heroics? Could a decent actor have not handled the
role for a fraction of that amount? Is Gene Hackman really the correct
choice for Polish officer Major General Stanislaw Sosabowski? Should a
light comic actor like Elliott Gould be doing his cigar-chomping "fun"
turn in a movie as serious as this?

Luckily, the film is a big success on other levels. The cinematography
is extraordinary; the music is suitably stirring; the potentially
confusing story is handled with clarity and true-to-the-facts
sensitivity; and amid the chaos a number of very memorable scenes
emerge. A Bridge Too Far is a very good war film - maybe the biggest
war film ever conceived (The Longest Day and Saving Private Ryan
included) - and I feel that, although it has a few casting flaws, it is
in almost every other department a great, great achievement.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm not a fan of hyperbole but this may be one of the greatest war
movies ever made. It works on a number of levels. While being
historically accurate it shows individual and group heroism without
glorifying war. The players, German and Allied, are presented as human
beings caught up in something bigger than themselves. No attempt is
made at "jingoism" or gratuitous flag waving. It seemed to me to be
refreshing free of moralistic or political statements. It simply let
what happened speak for itself. For a history buff like myself it spoke
volumes.

The movie is flawless. As mentioned above, it is surprisingly accurate.
As one would expect from the cast, acting is first rate. Not a single
scene is wasted.

This is a "must see" movie for anyone who appreciates movie making.

<|_=00=_|>

I'm a big fan of war movies and I already have a nice collection on
DVD. One of them is A Bridge Too Far and I can only say that it is one
of my favorites in this genre (if you can make a comparison between
movies like A Bridge Too Far, Saving Private Ryan, All Quiet on the
Western Front, Apocalypse Now... of course). What I really don't
understand is why this movie never was a big success in the cinema's.
Perhaps the people had enough of war movies ... and Star Wars was very
hip and new at that time of course, but personally I love this movie. 

What makes this movie so good is the realism. In most of the war movies
of that period, everybody speaks English. No matter if it is a German,
an American,... In this movie everybody speaks the language he is
supposed to speak. There even is a difference between the English of
the Americans and the British. But of course the use of different
languages isn't the only thing that attracted me. Another good example
is the fact that they didn't try to make all the Germans look like
brainless killers, monsters without any human feelings. The movie
showes them the way they really were: good and hard fighters who cared
about their comrades just as much as any allied soldier, but who didn't
just kill for fun. (Just for your information: I'm talking about the
soldiers in the Wehrmacht here and not about the SS, even though not
all SS-troops where that bad either. There are good and bad people in
every army.)

The effort which was put in this movie is shown in every detail. The
uniforms, the weapons, the landscapes, the cities..., everything really
gives you the feeling the director wanted to give an accurate vision on
what happened during operation Market Garden. Images from the movie
were even incorporated in a documentary on this subject. That probably
shows better than anything else how good this movie really is. 

You probably ask yourself if there really isn't anything negative about
this movie. Of course there is, but it never really bothered me.
Therefore I reward this movie with a 9/10. Perhaps a little too high
according to the average IMDb user, but for me it's sure worth it.

<|_=00=_|>

"Private Ryan" may have served up more blood and guts, but it had a fanciful
plot and it didn't really tell audiences anything about D-Day.  By contrast,
"A Bridge Too Far" is like something the History Channel would produce; it's
full of maps and narration and endless tactical discussions that, amazingly
enough, really held my attention - and really enlightened me about the
battle of Market Garden.

It helps that the ensemble cast is great - perhaps the best ever assembled -
and the characterization, though a bit thin (as in most war movies), is
certainly good enough considering how heavily the plot dominates.  The
film's one major weakness is that it telegraphs the battle's result from too
early on; all the smart characters think that the operation will be a
disaster, and lo and behold, it's a disaster.

I love this movie anyway, maybe because of the production style, which is
more realistic than the cornball war films of previous decades but not quite
so over-the-top as "Private Ryan."  The battles are both thrilling and
terrifying, a nicely struck balance.  When the end credits roll, I always
feel tired - like the characters - which is a testament to how involving
(and effective) the movie is.  


<|_=00=_|>

"Quite frankly," observes 'Boy' Browning, "this kind of thing's never
been attempted before."  But it has.  In 1962, "The Longest Day" gave the
epic star-studded treatment to the D-Day landings, and here we are, 15 years
on, doing the same for the Arnhem debacle.  It has to be said, the film
looks great.  From the gently-tinkling light fittings in the Dutch
resistors' home to the beauty of the tank tracks in perspective, this is a
gorgeously-photographed movie.

In 1944, the German armies were being pushed back across the Low
Countries.  The Allies' great strategic problem was the Rhine, the wide
river which formed Germany's western border.  A daring plan was conceived
which would overcome the Rhine obstacle and open the road to Berlin.
'Market Garden', as the plan was codenamed, involved parachuting spearhead
units onto the great bridges over the Rhine and securing them for the
critical few hours it would take for an armoured column to drive up and
relieve them.

It is easy now to point to the flaws in 'Market Garden', but at the
time it looked like a daring and viable alternative to slogging it out
against the Siegfried Line.  No-one had anticipated that the Dutch people
would pour out onto the streets in throngs, thinking that they had been
liberated, and thus bog down the armour.  The intelligence indications of
heavily-equipped German units in the zone were ignored because they were
inconvenient.  Critically, the plan allowed for only one solitary road to be
available to the Irish Guards for the all-important northward thrust.  The
film illustrates very effectively the way in which a plan can develop its
own momentum, regardless of the shortcomings which riddle
it.

The sequence of the boarding and dropping of the paratroops is a
thrilling spectacle, shot on a colossal scale.  The German ambush which
delays the rolling of the armoured column is another terrific action
sequence.  Attenborough keeps tight control of a big, complex story, and
interlards the large-scale stuff with 'human scale' passages, like James
Caan's rescue of his buddy (incidentally, the tracking shot which follows
his jeep through the forest is quite remarkable).

The fighting at Nijmegen is brilliantly-filmed.  Note how the street on
the British side grows increasingly littered with war debris as the battle
rages.  Robert Redford's assault across the river is a symphony in olive
drab, leading to a wonderful moment of exhilaration.

Whether the viewer finds the singing of "Abide With Me" moving or
grossly sentimental will depend on personal taste, but the subdued ending is
very satisfying.  'Market Garden' may have helped shorten the war and may
have achieved most of its immediate objectives, but it has to be seen as a
tragic mistake.

The film is slick, professional and very pleasing on the eye.  One
can't help wondering, however, if this kind of 'tank opera' was worth the
effort, given that "The Longest Day" had done it all so splendidly a
generation earlier. 

<|_=00=_|>

This video portrays with great precision in an almost acted documentary way
the failed attempt in September 1944 to end WWII early based on the plan
conceived by Field Marshall Bernard Law Montgomery of El-Alemain (with
Eisenhower's approval).The Allies by this time had advanced deep into
Belgium almost to The Dutch border but the advance suddenly slowed due to
their out-running lines of supply and their inability to take a servicable
port intact nearer their front line.Supplies were still being transported
from the won Normandy beachheads a distance of over 500miles.

The Plan involved dropping British, American and Polish paratroopers at
strategic bridges in the Netherlands such as The Son, The Grave, Nijmegen,
to be taken by the American 82nd and 101st Airborne and the prize, Arnhem to
be taken and held by British paratroops.Once all these bridges were captured
and held, The British 1st Army would drive up the road linking them, thus
giving the Allies a springboard to the Rhine and Germany.It was code-named
"Operation Market Garden", Market being the airborne drop and Garden the
drive up the road.That was the theory. The planners overlooked,by ignoring
seemingly on purpose aerial reconnaisance photos which indicated that
Dieter's SS Panzers were resting and re-equipping in the Arnhem area. The
Allies' communications equipment had not been tested thoroughly enough e.g.
"walkie-talkies" worked in open country but what about in built-up areas?Did
they have the right sort of crystals fitted?The daily air drops to re-supply
lightly armed paratroops could not work if the paras were not in their
coded/designated drop zones. Amazingly after the strategic withdrawal from
Arnhem, Montgomery is purported to have said it was "90% successful"!

This film, directed by Richard Attenborough, was made in 1977 with a galaxy
of well known stars i.e.:Dirk Bogarde as General Boy Browning,Lawrence
Olivier, Liv Uhlman,Ryan O'Neal, James Caan, Robert Redford, Gene
Hackman,Anthony Hopkins, Sean Connery and Michael Caine.They all play
historical figures but for me the most effective was Edward Fox playing
General Sir Brian Horrocks.The latter presented a UK TV series on WWII in
the 1960's and Fox's mannerisms and speech patterns were unerringly
similar.Please bear in mind that since the recent film "The Saving of
Private Ryan", special effects in war films have gone up a quantum leap,
e.g. the havoc that bullets/bombs/morters etc can wreak on the human body.So
you are looking at 1977 special effects.Nevertheless the equipment including
the DC3's and filming of the actual paratroopers drop into The Netherlands
was most impressive.Sometimes the dialogue is a little stilted to modern
tastes but this is or should be speech patterns from 1944.It was General Boy
Browning who stated "...but sir, I think we may be going a bridge too far"
when he met with the Allied top brass to oversee the plan which he had to
execute.This is certainly one of the seminal WWII war films and the only one
which concentrates on this failed strategy to liberate the Low Countries.

If you can forget the famous actors and get into their characters and have a
sense of modern history, this long film will stimulate you.


<|_=00=_|>

The movie is a cut above most cinematic portrayals of historical
events, likely due to it's being based on historian Cornelius Ryan's
excellent book, and it's not as overproduced or staged as the film
version of another of his books, The Longest Day. The producer admits
to crediting one assault to the Americans, when in the event the
British were first to attack, but overall the movie relates a good
sense of history and geography, and respects the timeline of the actual
events. It shows the national and class tensions affecting the Allied
leadership, and gives a sense of the character of the participants. The
writing gives the plethora of good actors something to work with
despite no single leading role (and it's fun to watch so many actors in
a single film.) Relevant information is included in the character's
dialogue rather than through narration. The editing adds to the flow of
events, balancing the suspense borne by the individuals involved with
interest and action for the viewer. Add in the Intelligent direction by
Richard Attenborough, and it makes this one of my favorite World War
Two films.

<|_=00=_|>
A Bridge Too Far was the last of a long line of the "General's"
war-films that came out of Hollywood since WWII. Afterwards, the
production for these films wavered, probably because of the fact that A
Bridge Too Far did not fare so well in the box office.

One of the main reasons A Bridge Too Far did not succeed as it might
have was because of the American audience. The film was a) targeted
towards a British audience and b) made very soon after the end of
America's involvement in Vietnam. The combination of time and subject
killed the film. But anyone can tell you that every time this film is
shown on a TV broadcast, the ratings are quite high.

The film itself, contrary to what many would claim, IS NOT another
glorification of American heroism. While there is a certain American
involvement which is rightly due, the film is very much centered on the
Brits at Arnhem. Afterall, they were the ones that got massacred,
right? Adding to that, the initial setup of the operation (which the
film took surprisingly long to cover, and probably killed off the
interest of the average movie-goer/critic) was almost solely concerned
with the British planning, with one or two references to the American
G.I. (I guess they had to put in those mini-episodes of American
servicemen to attract the American viewing public).

But enough about the bad side of the film, now onto the amazing part:

This is the first film I have seen from that generation to create a
realistic picture of what the setting was like (down to the very
streets and houses of Holland, which, for comparison, The Battle of the
Bulge managed to get ALL wrong --- as a sidenote: if you have seen the
aforementioned film, have you noticed how during the climatic battle,
tanks drove across a DESERT? The battle took place in January during
the WORST winter storm of Europe in Belgium... and how they managed to
convince the public that if a tank is painted with an iron cross, even
though it's an American M48 main battle tank built in the late 50's,
that it must be a German Tiger tank... sorry for the rambling). I am
most impressed by the Arnhem bridge itself (sadly, they dedicated much
too short a sequence of cheering soldiers to the bridge at Grave, which
is probably one of the greatest Allied success EVER for a bridge
assault, up there with Remagen and Pegasus), which is shot on location
with probably the most accurate feel of just how desperate the
situation was (and none of Private Ryan's heroism/John
Wayne-invincibility either). 

Characters are excellently portrayed, although how they really acted
historically might be somewhat different. Camera-work was phenomenal,
given the difficulty of shooting on scene (they couldn't close down the
Arnhem Bridge for extended periods of time, one must realize). The most
dramatic sequence was probably the launch of the planes and the
subsequent breakout by XXX Corps, which to this day remains my
favourite battle sequence in any movie (yes, even when compared with
the Omaha scene from Saving Private Ryan).

Like the movie, my review has become unnecessarily long. But to
conclude, this film deserves a good watch, or maybe even a couple of
viewings, for any serious history/war-film lover or those who just want
to learn more about those who have sacraficed so much for us. 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Richard Attenborough's monumental war drama is about one of the most
stirring battles of World War II, based on the best-seller by Cornelius
Ryan... The film presents the most impressive all-star cast ever
assembled for a single production...

World War II's "Operation Market Garden" would have put the Allies in
control of the major road leading into the industrial Ruhr, the heart
of the German war machine... The war would have ended in a matter of
weeks... Instead, what Market Garden left in its wake, through a
combination of costly miscalculations, bad weather, battlefield
politics and tactical errors, were more than 17,000 British, American,
Dutch and Polish casualties, nearly twice as many dead as in
Normandy...

On Sunday, September 17th, 1944, the largest assemblage of gliders,
bombers, transports and fighters ever involved in a single mission flew
over eastern Holland, and dropped 35,000 assault troops along the 64
mile road corridor between Belgium and Arnhem, the Dutch city on the
Rhine River...

This airborne army - the Market phase of the operation - was assigned
the task of taking and holding the six major bridges along the
corridor... 

Smashing through the crumbling German resistance along the way, the
British Corps tanks and infantry - the Garden phase - were to link up
with the paratroops and, with their help, drive the retreating armies
of the Third Reich back into their own homeland...

The Germans, however, correctly guessed the British plan and formed a
ring of armor around the approaches to the bridge at Arnhem... The
result was near slaughter for all the allied forces and an enormous
number of German dead...

Col. John Frost (Anthony Hopkins) and the survivors of his 2nd
Battalion battered their way through heavy German fire to the northern
end of Arnhem bridge, where they took up a strong position in houses
over-looking the entire bridge...

For four long days and nights, Frost and his 'valiant few' held this
tenuous position against superior German tanks and infantry... The
Dutch civilian helped by piling the bodies of the dead - friend and
enemy alike - in forbidding barricades across each major street to
prevent Germans from reaching Frost and his men at the bridge...

Major General Roy Urquhart (Sean Connery), Brigadier James Gavin (Ryan
O'Neal), Lieut.Col Joe Vandeleur (Michael Caine) and the rest of the
Allied commanders met with much the same resistance and disaster...

At the Nijmegen highway bridge it became obvious that the British tanks
would be stopped until the bridge's northern end could be taken by an
assault crossing of the Waal River... This brave action, executed in a
full clear day under murderous German fire by Major Julian Cook (Robert
Redford) and his battalion, has been described by witnesses as one of
the most heroic deeds of arms in World War II...

Delayed by ground fog in England, both replacements and badly-needed
supplies were late in arriving... Communication was so bad; most of the
food and ammunition fell into the hands of the Germans...

The Polish Parachute Brigade, under Major General Sosabowski (Gene
Hackman) command, held up three days by the fog, finally made their
drop into a deadly thick shower of German rifle and machine gun fire...
Many died before they touched ground, and the rest met with further
disaster...

Casualties were enormous and the hundreds of British wounded were
placed in the Beautiful home - of Dutch heroine Kate Ter Horst (Liv
Ullman) - offered as a surgery and the small hotels provided some bed
space for the worst casualties... 

Laurence Olivier (Dr. Spaander) wins a cease-fire from the German
Lieut. General Wilhelm Bittrich (Maximilian Schell), in order to bury
the dead and surrender the wounded...

Meanwhile, Col. Frost and the last few at Arthem bridge were taken
prisoners by the Germans... Only a few escaped... Vandeleur's advance
was stopped cold... Urquhart hopelessly surrounded planned a retreat
down the river... The Germans, lighting the river with rockets, began
firing on the fleet and only some made it to the other side...

The following morning, Padre Pere, a British Chaplain who stayed behind
with his wounded men, noticed the mysteriously frightening silence that
prevailed throughout the whole Oosterbeck area... All of the surviving
patients realized that they were now German prisoners... The battle of
Arnhem was over...

This is an enormous story of an horrifying human disaster... A plan
formulated by Field-Marshal Montgomery and sanctioned by General
Eisenhower... The film shakes you... The pity of it touches you...

Richard Attenborough has consolidated his position in the British
cinema by directing notable films based on true characters and events:
"Young Winston," "A Bridge Too Far" and then had a phenomenal success
with "Gandhi," winner of 8 Academy Awards...
<|_=00=_|>

Last week, September 13 to 19, 2004, Operation Market Garden happened
exactly 60 years ago. It was maybe the last remembrance of Operation
Market Garden with a sizable number of veterans present from as far
afield as Australia, the USA, Britain, and Poland. It was VERY
impressive to see them marching or driving over the John Frost Bridge
in the centre of Arnhem, where the battle had its climax. The veterans
I talked to told me they really enjoyed the warmth with which they were
received, by both the young and old Dutch people. Many were moved
emotionally.. and many visit the remembrance annually, as far as their
health permits (they are all in their 80s of course).

Other memorable events were the air droppings on the Ginkelse Heide
(heath), and the ceremony at the military cemetery at Oosterbeek,
attended by the Queen of Holland and the Prince of Wales.

For those who are interested, here are some good websites with info on
the battle:

http://www.marketgarden.com

http://members.lycos.nl/marketgarden44

http://www.bbc.co.uk/history/war/wwtwo/battle_arnhem_01.shtml

http://www.rememberseptember44.com

Hope someone found this useful. Hans, from Holland.

