

I found The Amateur to be thoroughly entertaining for the very reason
some
viewers may not like it. This is not a slick, gadget laden action flick.
The
hero is a very human, run of the mill intelligence analyst (not a super
spy)
whose determined to avenge the death of his love interest by terrorists.
Truth be told, I think this is much closer to reality than most movies of
this genre. If this film were released on video I believe it could easily
become a cult classic. I would certainly buy it on DVD or video if it were
available. Oh and by the way, even though it's not James Bond it does have
some pretty interesting action sequences.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has been and will remain a favorite for many years to come.
I loved how the plot leads you to the correct conclusion with all the
subtle hints dropped throughout the movie, and was pleased by the
"justice was served" ending. As he seeks the answers to why the CIA
doesn't follow up on the killing, it is interesting to note that even
though they gave him training and supplied him with the weaponry, he
was a target, just the same.

As for the final outcome and the ending, it was interesting to find out
just exactly who knew what about the whole affair. All in all, it was a
really entertaining movie that I do and will recommend everyone seeing,
being sure it will stir up the brain's capabilities to understand the
subtle nuances in life.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, this is a movie, JUST a movie. I truly feel it was not
meant to be a comment or criticism of the CIA or America. Please...
reviews should be about the movie, not someone's political agenda
OUTside of the movie.

Heller's girlfriend is taken hostage & killed at the beginning of the
movie by terrorists from an eastern block country (sorry, can't
remember which). After meeting with her father, a Holocaust survivor,
he is the one that tells him that vengeance may not bring her back from
the dead, but it may bring HIM back. Heller (John Savage) works for the
CIA doing ciphers. He asks them to go over there & assassinate the
terrorists. When they refuse, he uses his knowledge & clearance to
actually blackmail the CIA into letting him go over there himself. They
are appalled, but they agree, thinking that they can find the blackmail
documents before he gets through training & gets over there. From there
the movie goes into the main plot of how he attempts to make this all
work.

The direction and pacing is fine... it's only slow if you are a 90's
junkie that needs explosions and t&a every 15 mins. It's a story, a
good one. The supporting roles are very well filled out by the likes of
Marte Keller, Arthur Hill, Ed Lauter, and Jan Rubes. John Savage gives
a very sensitive and believably vulnerable performance. As for him
being wood-like (per another reviewer) the scene where he receives his
girlfriend's last mailed "taped" letter to him is heart-wrenching.
These are the kind of details that set up the credibility that this man
would be so determined to revenge his girlfriend's death. Important
stuff. This is a good movie, just enjoy it & stop saying to yourself,
well, but what about _____? just go with the flow & you'll be very
entertained.

Another movie I recommend that is a good thriller that came out 2 years
later is Enigma w/Martin Sheen.
<|_=00=_|>
The story is that of mystery and action. Its beginning minutes include
an ordinary man seeing the broadcast of an American woman being held
hostage in a foreign country. The woman is executed in broad daylight.
This woman is his mate. How would you feel? What would you do? The
movie focuses on the reaction of such an event by a normal guy. First
there is confusion followed by deep conflict in determining the
resolve. Much like it would be in today's world, an ordinary man with a
small flame can kindle it into an emotionally fiery rage to react. The
challenges in this venture are not glorified or unbelievable feats and
therefore the viewer can achieve a state of reality and belief. Having
several personal intimate experiences with our Government to include
within its employ, and having lived and worked in foreign countries as
well, I find it real easy to dismiss the few negative feedback remarks
on this film as being authored in ignorance or being naive. I do love
my country but is everyone an Angel within its employ? no way.... Would
the Government refuse to negotiate publicly with terrorist yet
negotiate amongst themselves? absolutely.... If you have a military
background, specialized training or even just been an outdoors person
you may also identify with a lot of the physical activity in this film.
The story is even more interesting now over two decades later after its
making, having a beginning that parallels the recent American
executions video-taped and published by Al-Qaeda early this 21st
century. This movie is by far one of John Savage's greatest
performances. Savage delivers a stellar performance in this picture.
This is a great film and one of best of the less known adventure films
in existence today. If you get the chance to sit and watch this movie
from start to finish, you will be entertained- try to see this one.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the movie that introduced me to international intrigue. For
this, I owe it many things. It paved the way for me to appreciate
several important historical points that have served me well in the
ensuing years of my education.

What attracted me to this movie was the aspect of a complete amateur
being caught up in the world of terrorism. His utter frustration is
handled and eventual involvement is treated, without a lot of glitzy,
unnecessary gadgets or gratuitous or cartoonish (and unbelievable)
violence.

No, nothing of that is experienced in this movie. And thank goodness
for that. The grittiness is real. There are no cardboard characters
like Matt Damon and Tom Cruise battling European forces of evil. You
feel for JOHN SAVAGE and his life. You care for him and his pain...you
feel his frustrations and his victories.

Yes, this is intrigue at its most real depiction (within the framework
of a commercial movie.) Human life is important, cherished and
defended. You will come from this experience with the idea of what a
more realistic exposition of events can be.

I recommend anyone who still loves intrigue done without a lot of CGI
junk thrown in.
<|_=00=_|>
This spy/action/thriller concerns about a CIA computer analyst named
Heller(John Savage) , when his girlfriend encounters traveling across
Europe, she's suddenly kidnapped in an Embassy by a terrorist group , a
Baader Mainhoff-alike, and is shot by the leader named Brewer (Nicholas
Campbell). Then Heller seeks vengeance, and contacts to girlfriend's
father(Jan Rubes). Later obligates his CIA superiors(Arthur Hill,George
Coe), under threat blackmail(to publish it a journalist played by John
Marley) , for becoming CIA camp agent trained by a veteran(Ed Lauter)
and to send him to the Communist Bloc countries . In Czechoslovakia he
unites forces to Cia agent(Marthe Keller) and is pursued by a
contra-espionage chief(Christopher Plummer) in Praga. Meanwhile Heller
investigates and aware a cobweb of lies underneath the company.

This exciting film gets tension, suspense, action ,mystery and a bit of
violence, however sometimes in a little confused and embarrassing .
Mediocre screenplay with some gaps by Robert Littell and based on his
novel. The movie belongs to ¨Cold war genre¨ , whose maxim height were
the John Le Carre novels and his various cinematic adaptations such as
¨The spy who came in freeze, The Kremlin letter and Russia
House¨.Suspenseful musical score and colorful cinematography filmed in
streets of Vienna(lookalike Praga) and interior scenarios shot in
Canadian studios. The movie was a flop though is today better
considered, in fact Leonard Matlin rated it as 'Bomb'. The motion
picture is professionally directed by Charles Jarrot. He has an
eclectic career as TV as cinema with a plethora of success(Anne of the
thousands days, Mary of Scots) and failures at the box
office(Condorman, Last flight of Noah's Ark, Amateur). Rating :
Passable and acceptable.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie explores revenge, why, the morality, the effects, so it is
somewhat deeper than your usual simple blood revenge flic.

The movie starts out portraying the CIA as a bunch of boy scouts. I
said to myself "Get real". However, as the layers of the onion peel
off, a much darker picture emerges. I won't spoil the surprises.

The movie has a very relaxed pace by modern standards.

Nicholas Campbell plays a terrorist. You only get to see him for brief
glimpses. His astounding good looks are distracting. It is hard to whip
up fear or hate for someone so startlingly handsome.

The movie keeps you guessing who is behind the relentless legions out
to kill our naive hero. His endless narrow escapes from a variety of
enemies severely stretch credulity. After all, before this began, he
had never even held a gun.

I really enjoyed the setting, Prague, including the beautiful warm cozy
interiors. Exotic settings are a third of my enjoyment from the genre.

Much of the dialog is not in English. There are no subtitles. This is
an artistic device, since the hero has only shaky knowledge of
languages other than English. It makes you see things from his point of
view.

The scene where the hero dispatches the female terrorist is shocking,
even by today's gruesome standards, with much the effect the piano wire
assassination had way back in From Russia With Love.
<|_=00=_|>
This isn't anti-American nonsense, despite the protest of one viewer.
Why would it be outrageous to assume that this is indeed how the CIA
operates at times? Siding secretly with certain members staging
terrorist threats in order to advance a policy agenda? Maybe it doesn't
occur exactly as displayed in the sometimes confusing and poorly paced
'The Amateur', but if recent films like 'Syriana', which are based on
the documented experiences of agency insiders, then it is not entirely
impossible. In fact, such movies should've done a better job of
shattering the ultra-patriotic myths that, at least within the vocal
majority, define the perceptions of America.

This is the story of a CIA agent who's wife was a hostage in a
terrorist invasion in Munich. She was killed and he's not sure exactly
how to move on until a friend, a Holocaust survivor, had told his own
story of how he tracked down the doctor in the death camps who gassed
his family and strangled him. The idiot agent, however, decides to ask
for official permission to personally avenge the terrorists that
murdered his wife. A ciphering expert, he blackmails the agency with
evidence of their own foreign foul play which in turn, can be leaked to
the public. But, the terrorists are not exactly who they seem to be,
and his travels in Czechoslovakia, tracking them down, soon turn deadly
when he is chased around by other agents looking to kill him.

The problem with a lot of political espionage films is that they tend
to involve too many characters who are introduced into an already
complex plot of treason and dispute. Their placement in the story is
often explained long after their introduction, as are their names, and
further make things difficult for the viewer to sort out in his head as
the events pass. Moreover, a good deal of the beginning of this film,
setting the ground work for what the agent wants to do, is played out
with such slow pacing, none of the action really seems to come about
until the later half of the second act.

I suspect this one was based on a true story, judging by the words
summing up the post-film fate of the characters.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Amateur" comes under the heading of spy movie. John Savage works
for the CIA in cryptology. He's not a field man or spy. His girl friend
is assassinated in cold blood as a hostage overseas. He asks the CIA
director, Arthur Hill, for the terrorists involved to be killed, but
gets rebuffed. He then embarks on a scheme to get revenge himself, with
the help of his girl friend's father, Jan Rubes, a Holocaust survivor.
This involves threatening Hill with the release of sensitive CIA
documents. Hill plays for time by agreeing and providing field training
to Savage, but in the mean time he's thoroughly searching for the
documents that Savage has hidden away. Ed Lauter plays Savage's trainer
and control in the field. He helps insert him into Czechoslovakia. When
Hill finds the documents, he's late because Savage is already inside
Czechoslovakia. Lauter attempts to kill him, and this puzzles the head
of the Czechs, Christopher Plummer, who knows there has been a border
violation and who is hunting for Savage. Savage gets help from a
tangential CIA contact, Marthe Keller, but the real CIA agents are
looking to kill Savage.

So now we have both the CIA agents and Plummer looking for Savage
independently, and Plummer trying to figure out why they're after him.
And we have Savage hunting down the terrorists. There's lots of plot in
this story, all told in nice settings. The picture has some good set
pieces. They help a lot.

As other reviewers have noted, the pace is sometimes slow or even
plodding. This occurs more in the first half than the second half, but
parts of the second half are not immune. And there are definitely plot
holes or unrealistic liberties being taken in the story. It is no
masterpiece. The director kept the acting fairly low-key. The script at
times was wordy and responsible for the pace, but the director also
didn't go out of his way to milk the scenes as well as he might of.
Still, this picture is not a bomb. The IMDb rating of between 5 and 6
is about right, in my opinion.

I'd mention that when Plummer first comes on screen, he looks just like
Max von Sydow! I think this was intentional, an inside joke. Sydow
appeared in several excellent spy movies. Like Sydow, Plummer is a
great actor too.
<|_=00=_|>
John Savage plays 'The Amateur' of the title a CIA code scrambler who
convinces his superiors to send him to the eastern bloc in order to
avenge the murder of his Girlfriend by terrorists, Savage Uncovers a
web of deception whilst in the Eastern Bloc, Marthe Keller costars in
her typical role as a seductively mysterious German, Christopher
Plummer is an intellectual lecturer who is also involved. Genre
favorite and the incredibly underrated Ed Lauter also appears. the
cipher would of been a much better title than 'The Amateur' other than
that it is an entertaining film packed with lots of action and twists
and turns.
