

I have been waiting for the right time to review this film. I did not feel
until today that I was truly ready to say all I had to say about director
Rob Reiner's unforgettable staple of 1980s pop culture. When I first saw
The
Princess Bride, I was only 7 years old, and hardly cognizant of film as
anything but a pastime. While I remember the movie as being enjoyable, I
did
not have anywhere near as strong a liking or appreciation for it as I do
now. I certainly did not remember the film as a theater-going experience,
and recently, I got the chance to view it, on the big screen, with at
least
fifty others in attendance at a midnight screening.

Personally, I am one of those people who, by nature, absorbs memorable
quotes, and by that token, the entirety of The Princess Bride is fair
game.
As I sat there watching, I could always hear somebody, if not more than
one
person, at least whispering along with the movie under his or her breath.
Meanwhile, I noticed that there was a wide disparity of age groups. There
were pre-teens, teens, people in their twenties, thirties, and some that
looked well past forty. If the showing had not been at midnight, I do not
doubt that there would have been pre-pre-teens as well.

With a screenplay written by William Goldman (based on his book), The
Princess Bride is a classic, familiar story of a princess, her true love,
and the forces that come between them. As is evidenced by those in
attendance, this is a story for all ages. The manner in which this
fairytale
part of the story is executed by Goldman and Reiner is memorable enough to
make this a great film. As any fan of the movie will tell you, however, it
is the film's whimsical, irreverent, pervasive tongue-in-cheek antics that
make it an unqualified masterpiece.

If you hang around people who love this film, do not be surprised if they
react to unbelievable situations with the exclamation, "Inconceivable!"
Likewise, if you tell them to just wait a minute, don't be thrown aback
when
they suddenly sport a Spanish accent in saying, "I hate waiting." And if
you
suddenly, from out of nowhere, hear, "Hello.my name is Inigo Montoya.you
killed my father.prepare to die," don't worry. It's not your fault, and
you're not going to die.

While The Princess Bride has the sort of satirical edge more geared
towards
adults, the film is equally effective as a pure fairytale, and for this
reason, there is a little something for everyone. In addition, the film
enacts a self-referential tribute to the power and beauty of fairytale
stories, even in the current age in which many consider them archaic and
obsolete.

A sick grandson (Fred Savage), who is spending his time mindlessly playing
video games (of the nostalgic Atari 8-bit type), gets a visit from his
grandfather (portrayed through a wonderful performance from Peter Falk).
To
the grandson's dismay, his elder has brought a book to read to him. When
he
expresses disapproval at his grandfather's old-fashioned ways, the
grandfather's response is, "When I was your age, television was called
books." Even this quote stands out as resonant and memorable.

The grandson starts out expressing skepticism and boredom, but of course,
as
the reading of the story progresses, this gradually gives way to
captivation
and praise. Buttercup (Robin Wright, in her breakthrough role) is a
fair-haired, stunningly gorgeous maiden who has been engaged to the smug,
cowardly Humperdinck (Chris Sarandon), the prince who rules over the land
of
Florin. She of course does not love him, and she has been without joy
since
her true love, a farm boy named Wesley (Cary Elwes), was reportedly
murdered
on the seas.

Of course, without Wesley, there is no story of true love, and we know
that
he must miraculously return to her someday. This happens through an
extraordinary, and increasingly hilarious, set of circumstances. A group
of
three bandits kidnap Buttercup with the intent of killing her to
precipitate
a war between Florin and its enemy, Guilder. These three are (in order of
increasing stature) the intellectually pompous Vizzini (Wallace Shawn),
the
Spanish swordsman Inigo (Mandy Patinkin), and the big-hearted slow-witted
giant Fezzik (the late Andre the Giant, in one of the most no-brainer
casting decisions in all of film history).

During the kidnapping, however, a mysterious man in black closes in on the
trail of the three abductors, and it is this man who takes on each of the
three one by one in battles of skill, strength, smarts, and of course,
deliciously witty repartee. There is something unusually extraordinary
about
these battles, however.

With the exception of Vezzini, the abductors are not villains as we might
initially perceive them to be. The marvelously choreographed swordplay
between the man in black and Inigo, and the hilarious absurdity of the
handfight with Fezzik, are not at all about winning or losing. They embody
a
sense of honor, sportsmanship, and nobility that is rarely exemplified in
competition (both fictional and real).

Inigo, Fezzik, and the man in black do not display their skills
pretentiously or flauntingly. Instead, they take a strong sense of inner
pride in the subtle mastery of their arts. As a result, when we see them
engage in competition, there is not a sense of enmity, but a wonderful air
of camaraderie.

Also included in the mix are a sadistic count (Christopher Guest) with an
odd physical characteristic and a penchant for pain, an albino (Mel Smith)
with a stuffy throat, the deadly wrath of an R.O.U.S., and a clergyman
(Peter Cook) who makes Elmer Fudd seem eloquently spoken. Most memorable,
perhaps, is the appearance of Billy Crystal and Carol Kane as the
miracle-man Max and his wife. It has been reported that in the middle of
filming this scene, Reiner was forced to leave the set, because Crystal's
improvisations were causing him to laugh to the point of being
sick.

Regarding the film's casting, every single choice, without exception, is
absolute perfection. Cary Elwes not only easily looks the part of a
daring,
ingenious hero, but as an actor, he has an incredible gift for a subtle
mixture of drama and comedy, one that easily coincides with the film's
sensibilities. Robin Wright easily essays the role of the headstrong
princess, endlessly devoted to her love (with a convincing British accent,
despite her American origins).

For the scene of swordplay, Elwes and Patinkin had to study fencing for
months, which is impressive, but on-screen, I had no trouble believing
that
they were characters who had studied for at least several years. Despite
his
limited acting ability, wrestler Andre the Giant is perfect for the role
of
Fezzik, and something would be lost with any other actor in his place. And
of course, Wallace Shawn is endlessly amusing to watch as the diminutive,
perpetually exasperated Vezzini.

We also don't have to hear Christopher Guest and Chris Sarandon speak any
lines to know they are portraying villains. The arrogance, callousness,
and
sliminess are readily apparent in their facial and bodily
expressions.

When all is said and done, we have witnessed a wide variety of hilarity,
captivating acts of love and heroism, and of course, one of the most
satisfying acts of retribution ever put on film (one that immortalizes the
film's most famous quote and chooses just the right time and placement for
the film's sole swear word).

For someone who watches this film for the first time, and quickly catches
on
to the film's capricious mix of reverence and satire, the film is a marvel
to watch simply for the knowledge that you do not know what will come
next.
Will there be a touching moment? A reflective one? An act of bravado? Or
will our expectations be subverted in an act of comical subterfuge? The
answer: any of them will do, as the film has a delectable variety of all
of
them.

From start to finish, The Princess Bride is a transcendent, magical
experience that constantly elicits uproarious laughter and simultaneously
immerses the audience in a rich, magnificent, and almost nostalgic world
of
folklore that, after the end credits roll, seems timeless and undying. In
the years since its release in 1987, it has grown into a cult film of
legendary status, and judging by the wide variety of ages I witnessed at
the
screening (as well as the endless barrage of quoting), it seems perfectly
reasonable to assume that the film will endure for many years to
come.

<|_=00=_|>

There's enough reviews here to show how enjoyable and entertaining this
movie is, but I had to put my own word in...

I simply love this movie. I watched it with my parents when I was very
young, and have been watching it constantly ever since. It's a movie that
I
just can't seem to grow tired of. For one, I absolutely love the medieval
fantasy genre, both in books and movies. From a small child I've loved
knights, castles, dragons. the whole sort. This movie, quite simply, puts
the viewer into an imaginative world where everything seems real. Second,
the characters are so enjoyable to watch, you really begin to feel for
them
- all of them. Even humperdink, whose name does him justice, gets pity at
the end. Lastly, the grandfather's list of the qualities of the book at
the
very beginning are all true... this story has everything. That is why it
is
such a classic, when everything comes down to it. From the moving love
story
between Wesly and Buttercup, to the dynamic and brilliantly scripted duel
between the Man in Black and Indigo, to even the hilarious bickering from
Vezinni to his lovable giant, Fezzik... This movie finds a place to
include
EVERYTHING one can imagine.  The story moves along at a great pace, and
you
feel as though the whole land has been covered when the book is closed.
Furthermore, the whole conception of using the "telling a story" approach
doesn't taken away from the realism of the story, but raises it even more
by
showing how mesmerized the boy is, listening to the tale - just as we are,
in front of the screen.

Maybe it was how I was captivated to the screen, watching it as a child...
Maybe it was how I'd pop the movie in and turn a boring Sunday afternoon
an
exciting adventure as I grew up... Or maybe it's how I can sit down with
friends and all enjoy the movie together, laughing at its funny parts, and
cheering at it's exciting moments. The movie has a place in my heart, and
that will never go away. A "10" on the scale, and even these words, can't
begin to tell how much I love this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of those rare films that gets better each time you watch it.
With something for everyone, The Princess Bride combines romance, action,
adventure and parody to create the perfect movie.

Cary Elwes and Robin Wright are beautiful to watch and the story of their
love is a wonderful backdrop to the adventure and intrigue played out in
this story. Mandy Patinkin is wonderful as Inigo and gets to deliver some of
the best lines in the film. Chris Sarandon is perfect in his role as the bad
guy prince.

The plot is rich, with adult innuendos the kids will miss all together and
levels of wit to entertain the whole family. The dialogue is full of very
funny catch phrases-  many of which are still part of my repertoire more
than a decade after I first saw the movie.   If you like dry humor and fast
wit, The Princess Bride will make your day.

I have owned this video since 1988 and still watch it regularly - it has
become my 'sick day' movie because it is such a joy.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm not exactly sure what exactly it is that makes The Princess Bride such a
spectacular film. Or, at the very least, I just can't pinpoint a single
characteristic about it that really rises above all others as the main
reason that no one should miss it. Indeed, it has a title that should prove
to be remarkably uninteresting to the typical action adventure fan (okay,
MALE action adventure fan), but even the most die-hard Die Hard fan would
love this film. It is extremely important not to judge this film just
because it has such a flowery and dangerously (at the risk of sounding
shallow) girly name, because it is full of wonderful adventure and even some
good killing and violence. Does this belong in this kind of romantic comedy?
Absolutely! The cover box of the film looks like that of a cheesy romance
novel, but the film is truly great from start to finish. And, indeed, the
film is very aware of the superficial impression that it leaves, and it even
presents it directly through Fred Savage's initial response to his
grandfather reading him the story. But as the film goes on, we begin to have
the same reaction that Fred has. We can't get enough. 

Cary Elwes delivers by far the most outstanding performance of his career as
Westley, the love-struck servant to Buttercup, a beautiful blonde woman
living in a misty romantic fantasy world. Sadly, Elwes' later career has
been punctuated by roles that do not serve him well, especially after such a
stunning performance in this role. Liar Liar and Twister come immediately to
mind. Robin Wright also gives one of the best performances of her career in
her film debut here as Princess Buttercup, but the real quality of the
performances that makes the movie so great is the fact that they were able
to pack the film full of comic relief (it was nearly nonstop from start to
finish) without taking anything away from the tension or the overall
respectability of the film. It is interesting to consider the polar opposite
effect of the comic relief on the vast majority of the James Bond films.
Wallace Shawn is absolutely hilarious as Vizzini, the bonehead villain who
is completely convinced that he has the whole world figured out, Andre the
Giant delivers a lumbering but highly impressive performance as Vizzini's
enormous, idiot sidekick, and by far my favorite of all, Mandy Patinkin
creates one of the most entertaining and likeable characters created in a
film in the entire decade of the 1980s (`My name is Inigo Montoya. You
killed my father. Prepare to die!').  

This is great stuff. Told as a story read from a book, just like The
Neverending Story, The Princess Bride provides a magical mix of romance and
fantasy and action and comedy to provide an enormously entertaining film for
moviegoers of all ages. The Princess Bride is an absolutely wonderful film
that is truly not to be missed.
<|_=00=_|>

"As you wish..." "Inconceivable!" "My name is Inigo Montoya..."

I love this film so much.

From its opening scenes of the young boy being read a story by his kindly
Grandfather to the romance, action, adventure and fun of the fairy tale.
The
Princess bride tells the tale of the beautiful Buttercup (Robin Wright)
and
her true love Westley (Elwes)who become separated through the course of an
unfortunate event involving some pirates. Westley's destiny is to rescue
Buttercup from the clutches of an evil Prince so that they might be
together
again. Yet he's not bargained on some of the wonderful characters that he
will meet (and befriend) along the way...

This film is so deliciously acted, made and written that it is a treat to
watch.I've lost count of how many times I've seen it now. But every time I
still gain the same enormous amount of pleasure from watching it. A movie
that is a delight for the young and just as much fun for everyone else.

The actors are all superb in their roles ('perfect casting' does not come
close to describing it!) A young Cary Elwes is suitably dashing as our
cocky
hero (check out the sword fighting!)and Robin Wright is good as the
beautiful Buttercup. Mandy Patinkin is great as the vengeful Inigo Montoya
who utters that famous "you killed my father. prepare to die" line.
Everyone
else gives there all, including Christoper Guest, Chris Sarandon (as the
main villian), Wallace Shawn, the late Andre The Giant,Mel Smith, and
Billy
Crystal.

Even though it is about 18 years old, the humour and sly jokes are still
as
sharp today as they were back in 1987.You know you are watching a great
movie when you here Elwes' "To the pain..." speech near the end. You've
probably seen The Princess Bride. If so...go and watch it again. Right
now,
and remind yourself how good it is! And if you haven't- what are you
waiting
for? Go and check it out now! It's worth it! Hands up who can quote this
entire film off by heart! ;)

Watch out for:

The R.O.U.S's
Elwes' and Patinkin's Sword/word fight
The Miracle Max scene
When our heroes storm the castle (Go Inigo! Go Inigo!)
Elwes' "To the pain..." speech. (Superb. Shows what a great (and
unfortunately underused) actor he is)

<|_=00=_|>

The Princess Bride is a wonderful family film about a maiden named
Buttercup
and her "farmboy" Wesley. When Wesley goes away to seek his fortune, he is
reported to be killed by the Dread Pirate Roberts. Hearing this really
gets
Buttercup down, and it only gets worse when Prince Humperdink chooses her
to
be his bride.( Hence the title) To make a long story short and not give
away
the ending, Buttercup's kidnapped for suspicious reasons and rescued by
someone familiar. She's in love and nothing can stop true love! A couple
of
deaths, a would be wedding, revenge fulfilled, and a couple reunited end
this gala of a film. But this doesn't even sum it up, I promise! I love
this
film because it does not take itself too seriously and flows well across
the
screen. The main characters and their supporting cast are quirky and
memorable. You will be repeating classic lines like, "My name is Inigo
Montoya, you killed my father, prepare to die!" over and over again.
Through
the adventures of Wesley and Buttercup you feel drawn to the characters
and
fall in love with their ability to amuse you. Do you want to be
entertained
with a light hearted fantasy/comedy? Then head on over to your local video
store and pick up a copy. Ready to enjoy? "As you wish."
<|_=00=_|>

This film is an intelligent, sardonic send up of several genres that pokes
fun (affectionately) at fairy tales, swashbucklers, love stories and basic
conventions of film.  One of my favorite scenes is where Inigo Montoya first
confronts his quarry after years of searching.  His adversary does the
unexpected-and what most villains in real life WOULD do under the same
circumstances, with hilarious results in the scene.  Basil Rathbone probably
whirled in his grave!

Not by any means Citizen Kane (we already have one of those, anyway) but a
champ in its weight class, with a perfect score, a fine script and good
performances.  Far more true to the flavor of the original fairy tales that
it spoofs than even the best of Disney's takes.  I loved it the first time I
saw it and love it more now.  Well worth watching.  Recommended. 

<|_=00=_|>

Cary Elwes, Mandy Patinkin, and Robin Wright Penn star in this classic
fairy
tale entitled The Princess Bride. It is based on a novel by William
Goldman,
who also wrote the screenplay. Director Rob Reiner brings life to this
story
and effectively evokes the enchanting spirit of the witty 1973 novel.

The movie opens with a sick boy (Fred Savage) who receives a visit from
his
grandfather (Peter Falk) who intends to read to him from his favorite
book.
The boy is not exactly pleased to be distracted from his world of video
games. However, his mood quickly changes as he and the viewer are
transported to a place out of time. We are taken to Florin, a kingdom in
an
imaginary land, complete with dashing heroes, cowardly princes, rhyming
giants, rodents of unusual size, fancy swordfights, and yes . . . even
some
kissing.

This fairy tale begins on a farm in the countryside. There lives a
beautiful, young woman named Buttercup (Robin Wright Penn) who learns that
"as you wish" really means "I love you" when she falls for her farmhand
Westley (Cary Elwes). While trying to seek his fortune, Westley disappears
at sea and becomes an apparent victim of the Dread Pirate Roberts. A few
years later, Buttercup, who is now engaged to Prince Humperdinck (Chris
Sarandon), is kidnapped by a trio of misfits, which includes
brains--Vizzini
(Wallace Shawn); brawn--Fezzik (André the Giant); and sword--Inigo Montoya
(Mandy Patinkin). As they sail away toward the Cliffs of Insanity, they
notice the pursuit of a man in black. Now begins the adventure . . . .

The central idea of The Princess Bride is that true love can conquer all.
Throughout the movie, there are many hardships and trials that true love
must endure. The movie keeps the viewer guessing until the very end
whether
or not there will be the classic fairy tale ending.

This movie is appealing to me because of the classic fairy tale style
combined with the witty humor, well choreographed action sequences, and
intense instances of suspense. The characters are well developed and all
the
actors give an amazing performance which adds to the overall appeal of the
movie. The Princess Bride is easily one of my all time favorite
movies.

<|_=00=_|>

I love this movie!  It's sweet, but with satirical humor. The dialogue is
great and the adventure scenes are fun.  Rob Reiner shows an excellent
touch
once again with comedy and a childlike point of view.  It manages to be
whimsical romantic while laughing at the conventions of the fairy tale
genre.
I would recommend it to just about anyone. I've seen it several times, and
I'm always happy to see it again whenever I have a friend who hasn't seen
it
yet. I haven't watched it with any kids, but I think it has lots for them
too.
There are wonderful quotes throughout.  I think Mandy Patinkin absolutely
steals the scenes he is in as the Spaniard Inigo Montoya, bent on avenging
his father's death.
I gave it 8 out of 10 mainly because it feels very light, but I may go
back
and change to 9 thinking of how happy this movie makes me and it's
rewatchability.
<|_=00=_|>
The Princess Bride is one of those rare, but very perfect films that
everyone once in their life time has seen. Just because it is such a
loved film, how could you not love it? It has action, romance, revenge,
sword fights, true love, humor, friendship, etc. I was only 2 when this
film was released, but I still remember how much I was in love with
this film at 4. I would rewind the tape and watch it over and over
again, the funny thing was my parents wouldn't mind watching it with
me, it appeals to children as well as adults. I think the reason why
this was such a fantastic film was due to the fact that it was the
perfect mixture of a fairy tale with humor, action, and romance. Rob
Reiner really knew what he was doing when he made this movie; and it
all starts with a grandfather simply reading his favorite childhood
story to his sick grandson.

Buttercup and Wesley are two farm people who eventually fall deeply in
love, but in order to get money to get married, Wesley goes off to find
a job and start a life for them. But when Buttercup hears of Wesley's
death by pirates, she is taken away by Prince Humperdinck who is about
to make her his bride. She is then kidnapped by three rebels who wish
to start a war with the prince, Vizzini, Fezzik, and Indigo Montoya(who
is on a revenge streak to kill the six fingered man who killed his
father). But she is saved by an unknown pirate who later reveals
himself as Wesley who escaped death, but Buttercup is taken once again
right as she and Wesley are reunited by Prince Humperdinck. The prince
orders to torture Wesley and kill him to keep him away from Buttercup,
but Wesley ends up being saved by Fezzik and Indigo who will help him
save Buttercup.

The Princess Bride is a classic film that will never be forgotten. It
has classic lines like: Hello, my name is Inigo Montoya, you killed my
father prepare to die. And of course INCONCEIVABLE repeated constantly
by Vizzini. The acting is perfect and the sets are just amazing. Of
course who could forget Billy Cristal and Carol Cane's great
performance of the miracle worker and his wife? They were just
priceless. Please watch this movie, it's one of those movies that's
just impossible not to like, why not to like it would be inconceivable.

10/10
