

and they roll and they chew and they eat and eat and eat.
Darn those space people for solving the critter problem. 

This was one of those TV late night movies that is totally awesome because
of its creativity.  Oh course while I watched it, I had no dreams of
Gremlins and never connected the two.

In reality, I guess Critters are Gremlins without the Gizmos, but then again
Gremlins without Gizmos are just plain mean.

and Critters are just mean....

They kill with no reason, they eat like there is no tomorrow, and even the
Church cannot save the poor town's cattle.

As far as a classic, this is not, but it and Tremors are up there with the
most immaginative and creative horror movies of the past few
decades.

<|_=00=_|>

Critters tries to be nothing more than good entertainment and simple fun
and
succeeds admirably at both. Decent acting, believable characters, and an
engaging story prove once again you don't have to spend tons of money to
make a good picture.
<|_=00=_|>
Eight flesh eating aliens has escaped from a maximum security prison in
space! These aliens are traveling to Earth to eat anything living. The
Brown Family (Dee Wallace Stone, Billy Green Bush, Scott Grimes, Nadine
van de Velde) are being stalked and trapped in their own farm house.
The only ones that could help The Brown Family is a shape- shifting
trigger happy bounty hunters that could help destroy the aliens.

Directed by Stephen Herek (Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure, Life or
Something Like It, Mr. Holland's Opus) made an genuinely well made
low-budget sci-fi/thriller with comedic overtones. This film was a
small box office success. The film went on to be a Cult Favorite. Also
starring in this film is M. Emmet Walsh as a Sheriff, Terrence Mann as
the lead Bounty Hunter and Don "Keith" Opper as Charlie. Which Opper
did some additional writing for this film. Lin Shaye from "Kingpin" and
"There's Something About Mary" fame has a bit part. Watch for Billy
Zane has a bit part as well.

DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.85:1) transfer (Also in Pan &
Scan) and an good digitally remastered:Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround. DVD
also includes an alternate ending as a hidden feature. "Critters" is
amusing knock-off to "Gremlins" but done extremely well, despite it's
low budget. Written by the director and Domonic Muir. From a Story by
Muir. Robert Shaye (The Then-Founder of "New Line Cinema") executive
produced the film. This is worth seeing. Followed by Three Sequels.
(*** ½/*****).
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is one of the rare low-budget horror flicks that are actually
good.  The basic plot is that little furry monsters (kind of like hairy
kirbys with teeth) land from outer space and begin to eat the town they
land
by.  Pretty basic storyline, but this is a monster movie you know.  The
Critters (or Krites, to be precise), are, while obviously puppets, very
cool
and well done.  The human actors on the other hand...well, they are
terrible.  The dad, his shoulder and leg practically gnawed of by
critters,
remains alert and vigilant, even though he's covered in blood.  The boy is
average, at best.  The bounty hunters are alright.  The best actor is
Charlie, the drunk.  He pulls off a very good performance.

Ok, so this movie won't make any headlines, or be famous.  But if you are
looking for a late night horror movie, with a dash or two of humor,
Critters
is a good choice!
<|_=00=_|>

At the start of 'Critters', somewhere in space, 10 'Crites' are being
brought to custody, but 8 of them escape, so that 2 hunters have to get them
back. Now, this sequence could have easily lasted 10 minutes in any other
movie, but 'Critters' doesn't waste time: it takes about one minute. There
is no explanation what these Crites are exactly, who the hunters are, or why
the're all going to earth. They just do.
That way, all the fun happens on the earth. The Crites come to earth nearby
a farm in the middle of nowhere (where else really), where they attack the
family living there. The usual scenes of the kettle eaten, the silly police
chief and the village idiot/drunk who warned everybody this was going to
happen are all thrown in, but the movie never loses pace and is pretty funny
all around, and not that gruesome either. A nice 80's horror flick, worth
watching. 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Ah, where would the world be without corny '80s movies? "Critters" is
certainly one of the best examples, portraying a bunch of nasty little
space creatures attacking a Midwestern family (it's always gotta be the
Midwest, doesn't it?). As this is pure goofiness, they don't waste any
time trying to explain anything logically; they get right down to the
wackiness, full scale.

Anyway, it's one of those movies that you watch with best buds, or
while sitting around in your underwear (or both). Don't explain a
religious experience, just luxuriate in the silliness. And to think
that it was directed by Stephen Herek, who also directed "Mr. Holland's
Opus" (as far as I know, those were the only two good movies that he
ever did). Starring Dee Wallace-Stone (that's right, ET's mom!), M.
Emmet Walsh (of "Midnight Cowboy" fame), Billy Zane (the "Titanic"
villain) and Lin Shaye (the "Something About Mary" neighbor). Really
cool.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film for the first time as a kid on a coach on the way home
from a holiday in France. I guess whoever was in charge figured all the
kids would be asleep by the time they put this on, but I managed to
stay awake and watch the lot, and Critters became a firm favourite of
mine for the next few years. Despite seeing this film and the first two
sequels several times as a kid, I could pretty much remember nothing
about it when it came to watching it this time; and despite the fact
that Critters is not quite the film I remember it being, this is still
a fun little eighties crapfest with plenty to recommend it for! The
plot focuses on a war in outer space that spills over onto a farm in a
small mid-western town. The town unwittingly greet a meteorite, that
later gives way to a host of nasty, furry little creatures with big
teeth! Hot on their tails are a pair of intergalactic bounty hunters
sent to track down the furballs - but the 'critters' get their first,
and manage to cause quite a lot of damage before the bounty hunters
eventually arrive...

Critters is clearly reminiscent of the 1984 hit Gremlins, as evidenced
by the basics of the plot as well as the focus on humour. The critters
themselves are hilarious little creations - thick black hair and a
mouth full of teeth, but in their own way they're also fairly
frightening! Gremlins isn't the only influence on this film - the whole
idea of something bad coming from space being followed by something to
stop it obviously came from The Terminator, and there are a number of
other ideas taken from elsewhere - but the film doesn't feel like a
bunch of stolen ideas, and that is to it's credit. The secluded
farmyard setting is also to its credit, and again, while it's not the
most original location for a film like this to take place, it works
well so that isn't a problem. The cast, which includes the likes of M.
Emmet Walsh, Dee Wallace and Billy Zane, all do their jobs well, and
the action is always exciting enough to ensure that the film remains
interesting. I won't say that this is a classic of the genre - but its
good fun and I certainly recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>

While the `B' movie horror flick typically 
bore and enrage me, this proved to be 
one of those rare exceptions. I must 
have watched this movie six times, and 
every time, I was freaked out by the little 
critters who couldn't appease their 
undying need for sustenance. This was 
quite a cool film to watch, especially 
when the creatures are finally killed off 
(which you will have experience for yourself). 
This is my idea of good mindless fun, 
which is exactly what I expected from this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Somewhere in space, a prison asteroid was going to have a vicious gang
of furry basketball-shaped razor-toothed creatures called "Krites"
until they suddenly escape to Earth so they can eat whatever comes in
their way. The Brown family ( Billy Green Bush, Scott Grimes, Dee
Wallace Stone, Nadine Van Der Valde) will have one hell of a night
fighting off these hungry hairballs that not even Sheriff Harv ( M.
Emmet Walsh) and lovable drunk Charlie ( Don Opper) can stop them until
a pair of intergalactic shape-shifting bounty hunters named Ug (
Terrence Mann) and Lee comes to the rescue to kill these things.

Funny and entertaining horror/Sci-fi comedy with charm and wit plus a
good sense of humor. The film was kind of a cash-in on the success of
"Gremlins" but it's not really like "Gremlins" but more in the
tradition of those 50's Sci-fi flicks and E.C. comics, Billy Zane does
a nice early appearance before he became a major star and Don Opper
becomes quite the lovable drunk that anyone can relate too.

This movie does have some good special effects for it's time including
those bounty hunter transformations, if your looking for a fun
lighthearted Sci-fi/horror combo with humor then this is it.

Also recommended: "Critters 2: The Main Course", "The Deadly Spawn" (
a.k.a. Return of the Aliens The Deadly Spawn), "Bad Taste", " Killer
Klowns from Outer Space", " The Thing ( 1982)", "Night of the Creeps",
"Slither", " Doom", "Mars Attacks!", " Dreamcatcher", " War of the
Worlds ( 1953 and 2005)", "The Terminator 1 & 2", " The Fifth Element",
" Starship Troopers", " Evil Dead II", " The Blob ( 1958 and 1988)", "
Species", " Alien Series", "Predator 1 & 2", "AVP: Alien vs. Predator",
"Men in Black", "They Live", "Contamination", "Pitch Black",
"Insemenoid", "Lifeforce", "Pod People", "The Faculty", "X-Files: Fight
the Future" and "NightBeast" .
<|_=00=_|>
Ever since I watched this movie when I was 4, I always knew it would be
my favorite of All Time.

This Movie is a perfect look of how we can take a plot that may sound
sort of pathetic, and make it a hit. This movie has great special
effects for its time, as well as great looks. The Critters are Nasty
looking and can give you quite a scare. They'll make you think twice
about walking into a basement.

It has been told and said that CRITTERS is a copy of the "CLASSIC"
movie Gremlins. Personally, I think thats just an excuse because this
movie rocks and put some pressure on the Gremlin people.

You cant look at this movie as a modern aged and modern special effects
man. This was 86, and not the biggest time of great effects. Even so,
if you haven't seen this movie, get down to the movie store and rent
it!
