
From A Whisper To A Scream (aka The Offspring) looks to me to be one of
the films MGM has recently released from their back catalogue. The film
is a pretty solid horror anthology comprised of a wraparound story
starring Vincent Price as an historian who tells of the morbid
supernatural goings-on in the town of Oldfield to a reporter who comes
to dig up dirt on the man's recently executed niece. We get four
segments and each has its own gruesome twist in the vein of EC horror
comics. That said, the film is played straight for horror shocks and
does not go for black humor like other horror anthologies have been
known to do.

The first story is a sick charmer starring Clu Gulager (unrecognizable
under heavy makeup) as Stanley Burnside, a creepy old poindexter who is
driven to murder after a lifetime of caring for his needy sister. This
is probably the best segment of the film as Gulager really plays up the
cringe-worthy curmudgeon to perfection. Needless to say, everyone who
does bad in this film gets their just desserts in an outcome that is
basically a hell of their own creation, keeping with the well-known
tradition of horror anthologies.

The second and third segments are each pretty good in their own right
and are kin to the type of hard-boiled shorts that appeared in HBO's
Tales From The Crypt. The second segment introduces us to Jesse
Hardwick, a small-time swindler who is taken in by a long-lived voodoo
man after he is shot by someone he wronged and collapses in a field.
This is a decent revenge story with some nice grue in the finale. The
third story is about a glass eater who is part of a carnival. When he
tries to skip out on his fellow carnies for a girl, their leader, a
sorceress, makes damn sure he and his girlfriend learns who's the boss.
This one's got some pretty nice (if not technically masterful) splatter
fx.

The fourth story is a Civil War-era take on Children of the Corn or the
Star Trek episode "And The Children Shall Lead." A small squad of
corrupt Yankees are captured and subjected to bad things by a town full
of orphaned children who worship a mysterious thing called "the
Magistrate." This one's got plenty of nice grisly moments and features
veteran horror actor Cameron Mitchell as the sergeant of the
unfortunate Yanks.

All in all, From A Whisper To A Scream is top-notch, if easily
predictable, tome of tales that packs lots of atmosphere and frights
into its runtime. The filmmakers have hand-picked a very capable cast
that delivers. This film reminds me of the sort of thing I would've
loved as a kid and it still impressed me a lot today. I would highly
recommend this to anyone who digs Creepshow, Night Gallery, or Tales
From The Crypt. I give it a 7.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
The magnificent Vincent Price can be seen in several great Horror
omnibuses from the 60s ("Tales of Terror", "Twice Told Tales"), and
while the Horror-deity's screen-time is sadly limited in "The
Offspring", this 80s feature is yet another highly recommendable
omnibus starring Price. The popularity of Horror omnibuses/anthologies
(more or less) began with the British 1945 classic "Dead of Night" and
had its heyday in the 60s with films such as the aforementioned Vincent
Price classics or the great Mario Bava's masterpiece "I Tre Volti Della
Paura" ("Black Sabbath"/"The Three Faces of Fear", 1963, my choice for
the greatest Horror omnibus out there), and 70s. The British Company
Amicus even specialized in only doing Horror omnibuses, which resulted
in such wonderful flicks as "The House That Dripped Blood" (1970) or
"Torture Garden" (1967). A thing most of these anthologies have in
common is that the separate tales they tell usually differ in quality,
with one or two (depending on how many tales per film are told) usually
standing out from the others. This cannot really be said about "From a
Whisper to a Scream" as each of the tales is quite creepy and
atmospheric and about equally memorable, and the question which is the
best lies in the personal taste of the viewer.

The film, which is entirely set in the small town of Oldfield,
Tennessee, starts with the execution of a female serial killer (cult
siren Martine Beswick). When reporter Beth Chandler (Susan Tyrell), who
witnessed the execution, pays a visit to the convict's sinister uncle
Julian White (Vincent Price), he tells her that the town of Oldfield
has always been evil, which he exemplifies by telling her four macabre
stories.

All four stories are macabre, morbid and delightfully creepy. The first
one (starring Clu Gulager) is a weird, quite explicit and very creepy
tale deals with delicate psycho-sexual topics. The second chapter, a
haunting tale about a lowlife crook who stumbles upon the secret of
eternal life, is more elaborate and maybe even creepier than the first
one. The third tale is about a traveling circus and voodoo, and as
everyone who knows anything about Horror knows, circus folks are
amongst the creepiest creatures one will ever stumble upon. Rosalind
Cash is fantastic as a diabolical voodoo witch. Another creepiest
species present in Horror cinema have always been... creepy children,
and the fourth and final tale is another proof that kids can be more
terrifying than anything. Set in the final days of the Civil War, the
fourth story tells the tale of a bunch of brutal and ruthless soldiers,
who happen to find an equal in a town full of orphans....

My main complaint about "From a Whisper to a Scream" is the fact that
icon Vincent Price, who happens to be my favorite actor of all time,
has too little screen-time. He merely serves as a narrator and sadly
doesn't appear in any of the stories. Otherwise, the film actually
surpassed my expectations. While it isn't the best Horror anthology
ever made, the tension and creepiness doesn't stop and each tale
macabre and highly entertaining. The film is gory, and its sense of
humor is very morbid. Apart from Price, notable cast members include
former Bond-girl, cave-babe and 'Sister Hyde' Martine Beswick, as well
as Lawrence Tierney.

This was only the second film by director Jeff Burr ("Texas Chainsaw
Massacre III"), and for that one must say he did an amazing job. "The
Offspring" is a surprisingly good and highly entertaining 80s Horror
omnibus, the only disappointment being that Vincent Price has too
little screen time. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
When I say that I somehow overlooked THE OFFSPRING (aka FROM A WHISPER
TO A SCREAM) when it came out during the late 80's, I'm basically
summing up this movie's history. It's unrighteously overlooked and
forgotten. It's a very satisfying horror-anthology that is slightly
more dark and gory than its counterparts released during that period
(CAT'S EYE, CREEPSHOW 2,...). The wraparound story has reporter Bess
Chandler travelling to the town of Oldfield. She's there to interview
the uncle of executed serial killer Katherine White. The uncle, played
by horror-icon Vincent Price, lives in this house full of books which
contain the history of Oldfield. Through four stories Julian White
reveals to Bess the evil that dwells in Oldfield.

The first story had me fearing the worst, because the acting was rather
poor. Just when I was about to think this was gonna be a lame story
about a guy going nuts and killing some women, there was the act of
necrophilia (not shown, though) and the completely unexpected twist in
the end. Since this was the least successful story of the four, I was
in for a treat. Because every story got better and better. Just for the
fun of it I made up a title for every episode (because they actually
don't have any in the movie).

"Brother Dearest": Clu Gulager (best known to horror-fans for his role
in THE RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD) plays Stanley Burnside, a timid man
who lives with his ill sister. He falls in love with his boss, but it
turns out she's not interested. It seems that Stanley doesn't handle
rejection well, as the walls of his sanity begin crumbling down.

"Swamp Renewal": This part seemed to be made by a total different
director, but it was not. The tone and camera-work was different. It
revolves around Jesse Hardwicke, first rate trailer trash, who gets
chased into the swamps by two gangsters. Mortally wounded he loses
consciousness. An old man takes him under his care. This is more a
voodoo-like tale with an anti-greed message. The music was memorable
and so was the shock-ending.

"Of Glass And Pins": A very creepy carnival story with the goriest
death-scene of them all. Steven Arden is known as the Glass Eater, an
act of the carnival's freakshow. Amaryllis, one of the spectators, is
desperately in love with him. But all the freaks of this carnival are
under the spell of Snake Woman, and she will not tolerate any of her
freaks leaving the circus, not even for love's sake.

"Children Of The Civil War": This is basically the gory freaked out
version of CHILDREN OF THE CORN, disguised as a period piece. I really
liked the way the story unfolded. The creepy kids gave decent
performances and the atmosphere was terrific.

The wraparound story itself wasn't anything special, though. But still
this is a decent anthology horror movie (despite its rather small
budget) with good, solid short stories, all including a nice twist in
the end. There's enough blood and (mild) gore to keep every horror-fan
amused. When we look at writer/director Jeff Burr's resume, THE
OFFSPRING might easily be one of his best genre efforts. It's worth
seeking this one out.
<|_=00=_|>

  Of the many horror films I used to alleviate childhood boredom, this one
was indelibly etched into my brain and probably will be forever. A cinematic
achievement of unparalleled depravity, this Vincent Price vehicle (filmed in
the Autumn of his life) contains incest, rape, child molestation,
necrophilia, voodoo, glass-eating, slavery, mutilations, dismemberment,
vengeance and allusions to cannibalism. By genre standards, the scripting,
filming and performances were, for the most part, excellent and the work
contains enough scatology to hold the interest of even the most reluctant
horror/exploitation filmgoer. View this work if you would like to see an
exaggerated depiction of humanity at it most malignant neatly condensed into
four vignettes.
<|_=00=_|>

No, this has absolutely nothing to do with the band, even though they share
the same name and even the same exact logo.  I found this to be something
special.  Even though I had never heard of it and I just saw it at the
video
store and saw that Terry Kiser was in it.

What we get here is little anthology of nasty tales told from a librarian,
about the sinister history of a small Tennessee town.  Now, I found the
first story (with Clu Galagher) to be just a bit too sick, it's still
pretty
entertaining and his character plays a loser to such perfection that it's
actually funny to watch him.  I won't say much in the way of that one, but
I
will say that involves incest, necrophilia, and some really awful singing
of
some even worse lyrics.

The second one, I believe was my favorite.  Terry Kiser plays a white trash
moron by the name of Jesse Hardwicke who is on the run from some nasty
creditors.  When he is shot by one of the previously mentioned creditors,
he
manages to crawl his way to a boat where he passes out and drifts through
the swamps.  He's discovered by a hermit-type who brings him back to health
and also gives him the gift of eternal life.  Jesse, being an ungrateful
IDIOT, has ideas to take the old man's voodoo skills and use it as a way to
cash in.  When the old man refuses to give in, he tries to kill the old
man.
Big mistake.  That's all I'm going to say about that one.  But let me say
this, this little tale has the most shocking, disturbing, and disgusting
ending of any of the rest.  In fact, it tops more endings than any other
horror flick I can think of for that matter, on that level.  Just see it.

The third story, I really wasn't too crazy about.  It has to do with a
circus guy who eats glass.  It didn't do much for me.

The last in the act is pretty chilling.  Set back in the civil war, a few
yankees stumble upon a house inhabited by young children whose parents were
all killed during the war.  What happens here is pretty sick and so
shocking
that I won't say what happens.

As far as anthologies go, this is one of the best I've seen.  It edges out
"Creepshow", "Creepshow 2", "Cat's Eye", and "Deadtime Stories".  I'm
really
hoping that it gets a dvd release.
<|_=00=_|>
Opening with the execution of a serial murderess—a scene which proves
to be rather uncomfortable viewing thanks to its humourless approach
and Jeff Burr's unflinching direction—From A Whisper To A Scream is
quick to establish its credentials as a nastier than average horror
omnibus: this is not a collection of scary stories tempered by dark
humour, but rather a genuine attempt to shock and horrify. And more
often than not, it succeeds!

Vincent Price plays Julian White, the father of the executed woman, who
recounts several macabre tales in an attempt to convince a journalist
that his home town of Oldfield is a place of unparallelled evil.

The first story stars Clu Gulager as Stanley Burnside, a seemingly meek
man who turns to murder after being spurned by an attractive co-worker.
And then to make matters worse, he consummates his love with the poor
woman's corpse, which results in the birth of a (laughably unrealistic)
demonic child nine months later. Gulager gives a great performance, but
the story lacks a suitably memorable ending.

Tale two is a much more successful effort, and sees trailer-trash
lowlife Jesse Hardwick (Terry Kiser) mortally wounded by a pair of gun
toting gangsters before escaping into the swamps, where he is
miraculously nursed back to health by reclusive old-timer Felder Evans
(Harry Caesar). When Jesse realises that Felder possesses the answer to
prolonging life, he resorts to violence to discover the old man's
secret, with terrible consequences. Well paced, with solid direction,
excellent use of music, and a truly chilling ending, this is perhaps
the best of the four stories.

Next up is a nifty tale of voodoo magic and forbidden love that sees
carnival freak Steven (Ron Brooks) paying the ultimate price when he
decides to leave the circus to be with his girlfriend, Amaryllis (Didi
Lanier). A wonderfully splattery finalé makes this episode unmissable
fun for gore-hounds.

The final story also features more than a touch of graphic violence,
and stars Cameron Mitchell as a despicable Confederate soldier who
meets a very nasty end when he stumbles across a town ruled by a gang
of cannibalistic children. A thoroughly depraved piece of nastiness,
with a brilliant central performance from Mitchell, this chapter
features some of horror cinema's most fearsome kids (The Children of
the Corn are nothing compared to these little monsters!).

Like many horror anthologies, From A Whisper To a Scream is a rather
uneven affair overall, offering four episodes of varying quality, all
connected by the rather unexceptional wraparound story. However, what
makes this movie stand out from the crowd are its sterling cast, the
solid direction from Burr (who gave us the unfairly maligned TCM sequel
Leatherface), and a willingness to explore themes that many might
consider taboo: this extremely warped collection of tales deals with
such unsavoury topics as necrophilia, incest, child murder, and
cannibalism, all of which go to make it perfect viewing for sickos like
me!!!

7.5 out of 10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb.
<|_=00=_|>
Some horror fanatics might know "From a Whisper to a Scream" by its
other title, "The Offspring." Director Jeff Burr and the screenwriters
take the portmanteau formula and inject their own brand of bloodletting
and revolting deeds of dementia into it. Their approach takes the art
form to a whole other level of graphicness and disgust that couldn't be
explored in previous decades.

Beneath the small-town exterior of Oldfield, Tennessee lies a history
of shocking violence and terrifying phenomena, as recounted by local
historian Julian White (Vincent Price). In the '80s, an office worker
(Clu Gulager) nurses a deadly crush. In the '50s, a witch doctor (Harry
Caesar) holds the secret to unending life. In the '30s, fighting breaks
out in a traveling carnival over forbidden love. Finally, in the 1860s,
Union soldiers discover a group of orphaned children with a deadly
agenda.

When you see Vincent Price's name attached to "From a Whisper to a
Scream," your mind will drift to the classic films he made in the 1960s
and 1970s, which were tame by today's horror standards. I assure you
that's not the case here. The four tales presented come stuffed full of
the gore and gruesomeness we all expect from 1980s genre movies. 

"From a Whisper to a Scream" is rated R for violence and gore, adult
situations, nudity, profanity, alcohol, drugs, smoking, and frightening
and intense sequences. Necrophilia is insinuated which spawns a
deformed monster baby in one of the most disturbing segments of the
film. No nudity is shown in relation to sex. It was still unnecessary
and added nothing to the story or plot. 

"From a Whisper to a Scream" fits perfectly somewhere between other
portmanteau films made in the 1980s like "Tales from the Darkside" and
"Creepshow" and 1960s classics such as "Tales from the Crypt" and "The
Vault of Horror." Vincent Price serving as the teller of the sordid
stories lends an air of nostalgia which leads the viewer to expect a
bit more quality to what might be mistakenly thought of as just another
attempt at an anthology collection. However, you'll find yourself glad
you made the trip to Oldfield as the ending credits roll.
<|_=00=_|>
Following his niece's execution, a librarian recalls several horror
stories of the town's past to a skeptical reporter.

The Good Stor(ies): Story 1-Madly in love with his boss, a grocery
store clerk attempts to court her only to find his advances spurned to
the point that he kills her. Attempting to hide the crime, he
eventually finds that not only has he gotten away with it but his
passion burns beyond the grave. This here wasn't all that bad of an
effort. As it revels nicely in the utter dementia of his obsession and
what he wants to do to her from the beginning, this one sets the
revenge to come later on quite nicely as this generates some solid
moments throughout here. The final revelation is a bit predictable and
there's a few too many plot-points to go through but it has enough fun
that there's plenty to like here.

Story 2-When his past catches up to him, a wounded fugitive in the
Louisiana bayou comes across a voodoo healer who restores his health.
Overcome by greed, he demands to know its secrets which begins to
spiral out of his control and gets more than he bargained for. This was
undoubtedly the highlight of the series with a lot to like about it.
The simple story and the predictable setup give this a truly
appropriate anthology feel that gets worked over nicely by the setting
here. The bayou atmosphere and use of voodoo provide more to like by
giving it a dirty, grimy feel in the sweat-filled shack that they spend
the majority of the time at, and along with plenty of fun
voodoo-related tortures that give this some wholly chilling moments.

Story 4-Attempting to find refuge, a platoon of soldiers in the Civil
War stumble upon a deserted town in the countryside inhabited only by
orphaned children. Taken captive by the hostile group, they are forced
to partake in a series of grisly games that grow excessively more
dangerous. This was a fun if overall slightly flawed effort. While it
has plenty of stellar atmosphere in the old- school village with the
Civil War time-period and the gory kills in the segment are quite
graphic, overall the segment feels too familiar and cliché which does
render the surprise rather obvious. The fast pace works here, so it
does end this on a high note.

The Bad Stor(ies): Story 3-Working as a freak in a carnival, a
glass-eater falls in love with a regular visitor which upsets the
tyrannical queen who runs the show. When he defies her to be with his
beloved, he finds the powers of her vengeance far more cruel to bear to
keep them apart. This was quite a bland and overall uneventful entry.
This one doesn't have much at all going on which tends to make this
uneventful due to the romance throughout here, and it doesn't feature
much of anything until the ending. This is the saving grace as the
gruesome and gory happenings are a real showstopper, but overall not
much else happens in this one.

Rated R: Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Full Nudity and
violence-against-children.
<|_=00=_|>
A DVD release of a classic 80's anthology flick, "The Offspring" is
finally available! It is going under its original title "From A Whisper
to a Scream", which fits into the VHS horror anthology genre along with
Creepshow 2 during the glorious year of 1987. The film's introductory
sequence of a woman's execution is both dreamlike and creepy, headed in
a perfect cameo by the hard-faced Rod Steiger. Then we're escorted into
the next series of stories hosted by the great Vincent Price, who is
seemingly portraying the uncle of the woman who was executed. Price
begins to remark on the long history of violence that takes place in
the town of Oldfield, Tenn, and narrates the following tales while an
inquiring reporter listens in. The first story is probably the best if
not the most shocking. I think any horror fan would agree that this is
the one that put Clu Gulager on the map of unique 80's genre actors. He
plays an under-confident geek who's fantasy girl wants nothing to do
with him. So he goes off the deep end, and the end result of his
twisted madness ranks is as one of the great moments in horror
anthology history........not to spoil it too much. Two more delicious
tales follow about a unscrupulous thief who messes with the wrong
voodoo priest, and glass-eating circus performer who's gift is horribly
compromised when he falls for the wrong girl. Each story ends with a
bloody, gruesome, and mean-spirited surprise, and the cast plays it out
so seriously that the audience knows its not for laughs. Its dreadfully
moody atmosphere distinguishes this from other 80's anthology hits such
as "Creepshow 1 and 2", Tales From the Crypt.....etc. This has
excellent performances from Terry Kiser, Rosalind Cash, and Cameron
Mitchell. The DVD release, with the exception of the title, is overall
pleasing. MGM didn't waste too much time with re-mastering the material
which is normal for these obscure favorites, but its the dark grainy
texture of this movie that makes it surreal and genuine. It includes
the original theatrical trailer which I remember to be creepily
effective in its time. If you're lucky enough to own the original VHS
version of this flick, then hold on to it tight, but if you've never
seen it, and you like 80's horror, the DVD is great find.
<|_=00=_|>
A fun multi-story horror narrated by Vincent Price (as a librarian!) to
cult icon Susan Tyrrell (as an 80s reporter) featuring four shorts
about a cursed town. Small parts by horror icons abound, necrophilia, a
killer mutant baby thingamajacque, circus freaks, dismemberment, and a
group of kids that make the Children of the Corn look like the Little
Rascals. How could you not love this?! This feels like a precursor to
the Tales from the Crypt series, but it goes for horror more so than
humor. The last segment is the creepiest, but all of them are good in
their own right. Anyone who digs on anthology horror should find plenty
to like in "The Offspring"/"From a Whisper to a Scream."
