

Although others might disagree, I strongly believe that there are far too
many beautiful moments in this film that do demand mention and critique
:

· Close you eyes and LISTEN to the last few seconds of the credit's score.
That is one *enraged* horn.

· There are lots of chubby and scruffy-haired men  in The Army in this
movie.

· In the 1st back-shot, there is obviously no gun on the first hijacker
that
approaches the caravan. In the next two shots, there obviously is a gun
strapped behind him.

· Dudikoff does a lot of bunny hops and touchdown-dives in his first
battle
sequence for no apparent reason.

· Black Army Dude : Gets shot in the back with an arrow AND gets stabbed
in
the stomach with a sword. Later, when Black Star Ninja orders his men
after
Joe, can be seen getting up and walking off the set. (*)

· The First Truck that Dudikoff helps out in the first shot leaves with
its
back flap open. Later, it's tied down.

· Ninja's carefully sliding down palm tree's like Ghostbusters's

· (*) ALSO : The second arrow that the Palm Tree Ninja fires at the 2nd
Army
dude is in the scene before he fires it.

· Not even his commanding officers seem to know Joe's name or
rank.

· Everybody makes a big deal about Joe being the `American Ninja' but no
one
mentions that Senior Ortega only hires Phillipino Ninjas. What's up with
that ?

· `He Posses great SKILLS.'

· Happy, light-hearted music during the 'Romancing The Stone' moment when
Joe
cuts the Cornell's  daughter's miniskirt.

· Ninja look over bush. Ninja look under bush.

· Joe hangs out with The Cornell's Daughter and the movie turns into an
Irish Spring commercial few a few terrifying moments. Joe looks sincerely
nervous, confused, and sexually frustrated during this awkward
moment.

· `Have you ever heard of Nijistu, Sir ?...Well, according to witness
testimony and evidence, this massacre was the work of Ninjas.'

· `Ninjas ?'

· `Yes, Sir.'

· Senior Ortega : The Frenchman ? Dude, come on ! Make up your mind
!

· Joe does a great lazy-ass, pansy, salute and then 90-degree exit, stage
left.

· `Date of Birth : Unknown... But at age 16 was sent to reform school for
almost killing a man.' Now, wait a second. If you don't know when you were
born, how can you tell when you are 16 ?

· `Construction crew found him in an island off the Pacific 6 years ago,
knocked unconscious by an explosion where they were blasting a road threw
the jungle.'  Remember this quote. That means that all of the flashbacks
to
when Joe was a VERY pre-pubescent child, was only `6 years ago.' Ninja
time-warp paradox.

· As is mentioned before, Senior Ortega, in a very Austin Powers moment,
likes to describe his plans allowed in front of the Mr. Mijagi
Guy.

· Color-cornated  ninja running through the swing set of death
traps.

· The chubby Army troop that Jackson leads in March is pretending to, but
really isn't, mumbling any type of military drill march.

· `We left all the glory boys in Vietnam.'

· `Ain't this a bitch ? I've been instructing martial arts in the Army for
many years now.....'

· When Jackson presses Joe about his kung-fu origins, Joe answers that,
`It's a long story.' He then proceeds to describe that `long story' in 4
sentences : 13 seconds flat.

· `I knew I touched something again.'

· Joe gives Jackson a manly head-nuggie in a very Top Gun oily-bicep
moment.

· Charlie asks Joe how he plans to get off the base without the MP's
noticing and Joe is like, `Well, check out that huge ramp that someone
conveniently  left right next to that wall.' Whomever was Dudikoff's stunt
double that day earned their pay the hard way. Watch that landing in slow
motion and try not to cringe. Our friend, the horn, is also back with a
vengeance.

· Senior Ortega feels not only comfortable explaining  his plans aloud to
the Mr. Mijiagi Guy, but also in giving assignation commands in front of
his
waiter.

· Just as Joe's commanding officers don't know his name or rank, Joe never
has to identify himself when showing up for duty.

· When hosting Saturday Night Live, John Goodman had this great `Ninja
Community Collage' skit where he tried unsuccessfully to train his class
of
ninja to attack their enemy all at once, instead of one at a time. They
even
sampled clips from `American Ninja 3'. Only after viewing this movie a few
times over can you appreciate the brilliant humor of that
skit.

· Ninja in a box !

· In the Indian Jones / Lethal Weapon / Cape Fear moment, Joe hides under
the truck. From his vantage point, you can see that as they pull into the
warehouse that the driveway is empty. In the next shot there are 4 ninja
(3
left : 1 right) standing in the driveway.

· Bonus points if you catch the Black Star Ninja's bald spot
!

· The Ambushed guard is very obedient when Joe stuffs him into a
barrel.

· Just as the are random ramps around the base, there are also random
ladders next to the barbed wire fences of the stockade.

· When caught in an arm lock, Joe just kind of blows off the Black Star
Ninja.

· ½ hour later, Jackson signals Joe in the motor pool with his truck's
headlights.even though Joe is only a few feet off-stage to our
left.

· `You gotta trust somebody, sometime !'

· Jackson drop kicks one dude's rifle then throws down a great , `Peace
!....never mind.' sign.

· The Segarant's exploding car. Like a Pinto in heat.

· `Without this shipment, this county will fall to the Communists
!'

· Bonus points if you can spot the Cornell's bald spot.

· Close your eyes and listen to Joe kick people in the
nuts.

· The Mr. Mijagi Guy pops up again and we have a flashback back to `when I
was 6' which, according to the previous information, was `6 years ago.'
Which means that Joe is now 12 years old and in the Army because `at age
16
he was sent to reform school for almost killing a man.' Ninja time warp
paradox.

· `Beware the Black Star Ninja. He just saw Jedi last night for the 15th
time and is biting it's plot, big time.'

· As mentioned before, we are in store for a great massacre royal. Every
extra gives performances above and beyond the call of duty, but honorable
mention does go out to :

· 2nd person that Jackson shoots on balcony who drops his weapon and
climbs
FORWARD, over balcony.

· Dude who suddenly appears on the hood of Jackson's jeep than just as
suddenly pushes himself off.

· Guy in the corner of the roof who throws his hands up in the air and
waves
them just like he just don't care.

· Ninja flamethrower ! Ninja wrist machine gun ! Ninja laser
!

· Joe jumps onto a real helicopter with a front rail. Later, a toy model
helicopter with no front rail is blown up by Jackson.

· Like I said, this is a priceless movie filled with many a beautiful
moment, only a few that I have shared with you here. Anyone who is serious
about being a director/ editor should study this film intently for 72
hours
and then write their own thesis. Myself, I pledge to you, the good people
of
the imdb.com board, that when I become Quinten Tarinatino famous (or at
least Kevin Smith successful) to hunt down and employ Michael Dudikoff in
a
cameo role in EVERY SINGLE one of my big-budget films. It's the least that
we owe him for his contribution to our art form.

· Strength and honor -

· Bolger.

<|_=00=_|>
If you are watching this movie expecting anything more then action then
you're a bit touched in the head. Action indeed, but a special form of
action! IT'S 80'S ACTION! All that's missing from this show is "I love
it when a plan comes together", as offered by the immortal Hannibal
Smith from "The A-Team" as played by the venerable George Peppard.

Make no mistakes. This movie is le grande fromage, but it is fun. Even
the super evil ninja with the cute little star tattooed below his right
eye is downright adorable. Who doesn't like cute ninja's? Even those
with lasers? Highly recommended (if you have enough booze and detach
yourself from any form of realism). Fun.
<|_=00=_|>

Amercian Ninja is a gulity pleasure if anything. The film has some decent
fight scenes and some good B movie acting. Mike Dudkoff and Steve James
are
some smooth pimps in the movie bringing it to the man as only they can.
If
you like 80's karate movies then check this out.
<|_=00=_|>
A new army recruit proves to have Ninja skills which he then uses to
fight hi-jackers and ninjas. Nobody seems to be impressed that the
soldier saved the equipment and saved the colonel's daughter, just
upset he got people killed. However this is because high officials in
the army are in on the scam. Also the black-star ninja looks to do in
our hero. American Ninja is one of those movies they just don't make
anymore. The action sequences are well staged (Although edited poorly)
and there are enough cheesy moments to make American Ninja just
lovable. For example the part where the black star ninja pushes over a
palm tree which then falls near Dudikoff's love interest. Also the
climax has so much goofy action and ponderous zen philosophy (I dare
anyone not to smile when Dudikoff says "Then he must die!") that the
movie is even more fun now than it was in 1985.

* *1/2 out of 4-(Pretty good)
<|_=00=_|>

Most people today have forgotten, or just don't know, that AMERICAN NINJA
did quite well (for an independent film, at least) when released to
theaters, grossing 35 times its 1 million dollar budget. The sequels (that
were released to theaters) didn't do as well, the chief reason probably
being of Dudikoff's performance. For his first starring role, Dudikoff is
pretty underwhelming in the lead. He has a blank expression in his eyes a
lot of the time, and other times he seems plain nervous, as if he doesn't
seem to know what to do. And it's clear that he was far from an expert in
martial arts, seeing that the choreography has him doing pretty simple moves
much of the time, and that for the most part he does only one or two moves
before the editing cuts to another angle.

Most of the action (with or without Dudikoff) isn't terribly spectacular,
and many viewers will probably get a little impatient between action scenes,
since the movie isn't wall-to-wall action. Still, the movie never gets to be
seriously boring; there are a few decent action scenes, and the goofiness of
ninjas bouncing the story around does give the movie an entertaining
cheesiness. Plus, there is the presence of Steve James, who (despite his
limited time) really gives a likable and entertaining performance, and gets
to show his genuine martial arts skills. He got to show more of all this in
the sequel, which unsuprisingly is a significant improvement over this
entry.
<|_=00=_|>

Yes this is unrealistic and far fetched and whatever word you wanna call
it,
but its fun.  Dudikoff is a speechless loner in the army.  In the first
five
minutes a convoy is hijacked and big Mike defends everyone all by himself,
one of many good, if unbelievable, sequences in the movie.  Several times
Dudikoff is asked to dispatch small armies of ninjas and even though its
too
Superman-ish, they're nicely choreographed, so you just sit back and shake
your head smiling.  There's also good chemistry from Dudikoff and James,
his
buddy through the whole thing.  And this probably sets a record for most
crushed testicles in a movie, as there are several moments when theyre
grinded with heels, knees, or palms.  I still laugh 14 years later when
James gives the "saw" to a bad dude (or was he saying "sir?").  According
to
Joe Bob Briggs, this set a record for most deaths in a movie with over a
hundred.  Even without counting that wouldnt surprise me, though some movie
expert claims that Chuck Norris' "Invasion USA" holds the record for most
dead, which came out the same year.  What a double-bill that would be.
This
gets my vote for best martial arts film of the 80s.
<|_=00=_|>

For those who know Michael Dudikoff, he most-likely became a household name
thanks to this movie. Who knows where he would be today had Chuck Norris not
passed on the film. (Probably busy as a child psychologist since that's what
he originally wanted to be). This is a film I virtually grew up with as a
kid, thanks to it being on cable seemingly every other day. Anyway, Dudikoff
finally got his shot at headlining a movie with this cheapo chop socky flick
about an Army G.I. in the Philippines going up against a secret Ninja army
and an international weapons dealer. Dudikoff is at his most wooden in the
this part, but as someone who's a fan and has see nearly all his movies, I
can see the progression of him as an actor over the years, and he has
certainly improved since this movie. Steven James co-stars in the first of
three collaborations with Dudikoff, and the two work well together, but
they're basically the best part of the movie. There's the usual B-movie
acting, ranging from stiff to lame over-the-top performances, but pretty
co-star Judie Aronson fares well. Of interest only to chop socky
fans.
<|_=00=_|>

I think this should be required viewing for any male child 13 years
or
younger. I have no idea how many times I saw this movie growing up, but
it
is easily over 15 times. Maybe twice that.
It has everything a boy who plays with action figures could want,
NINJA's, G.I.Joe's (for god sakes his name was even Joe), lasers, flips,
sai's, cat's claws, wrist lasers, machine guns, sword fights while in
knee
deep water (fights in water are always WAY cool), buff dudes with
muscles,
motercycles, a chick, characters with a disrespect for authority, a
butterfly knife being flipped back and forth as Joe cooly leans against a
truck, guys getting kicked in the nuts, did I mention flips? Anyway it
goes
on and on.
All the cheesy effects make it all the more fun to view. I just
watched
the DVD after not having seen it for a few years and I just caught
another
good effect. When Joe and Patricia jump off the roof, there is an
obviously
inflated balloon on the roof that they land on.
I remember my brothers and I putting sweat wrist bands on our hands
as
a child and pretending they were the cat's claws thingies that the black
star ninja and Joe had.  We had some awesome battles.  I was probably a
ninja for at least 3 Halloweens when I was a child as well.  I was an
"army
guy" for another few Halloweens.  I was the coolest. Anyway American
Ninja
rocks.
By the way I don't know the name of the movie (I'm sure I could
find
it out here on imdb easy enough if I cared to look) but a few years back
I
was flipping throught the channels and I came across a movie where the
Michael Dudikoff and Mark Hamill were fighting.  Luke Skywalker fighting
the
American Ninja!??! I kids dream come true.
So go see this movie.  Or even better, show your young son, nephew,
or
whoever this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

When asked at school "What do you want to be when you grow up?" most kids
answer fireman or astronaut.  To hell with that, I wanted to be the American
Ninja.  As far back as I can remember I wanted to be the American Ninja. 
So, I finally picked it up on DVD the other day and let me say this is one
of the corniest action movies out there, but I still love it.  It's one of
my fondest childhood dreams.  As unrealistic as it may seem, Michael
Dudikoff stills kicks ass, as does the late, great Steve James.  Dudikoff
single handedly takes out an entire private army of ninjas.  It's better
than Commando.  It's definitely not for the serious action audience.  But
here's the real kicker, the villain who is hijacking military equipment to
sell to the highest bidder is only making 4 million dollars.  That's really
not that much money for all of the trouble he's going through.  Did he only
go to one bidder or what?  Oh well, it's all about fun, right?  My friend
came up with the suggestion that we should get all of the eighties martial
arts stars and have a huge battle royal.  To which I replied: "Well,
Dudikoff and Steve James would team up with Ralph Macchio to win the thing."
 Check out jedibolger's comments for a hearty laugh.
<|_=00=_|>
The title of my review aside, I adore this film.

When American Ninja was released on VHS back in 1986 Ninja fever was
rampant. Even in the sleepy little village where I lived in England,
every single boy of my age dreamed of being a ninja. The school
playground was rampant with us wannabe assassins in duffel coats!

In the aforementioned little village we only had one video shop, I
spent weeks and weeks in a state of despair on Saturday afternoons, as
we would go there only to see the dreaded "Film on loan" tab attached
to the box. 

Eventually we finally turned up one afternoon and it was there...With
no "Film on loan" tab on it! my life was finally complete and we took
it home. My parents were never really into the whole "film ratings
exist for a reason" thing. Incidentally, neither were the parents of
pretty much all my friends, ahhh...The 80's, these young un's today
don't know what they missed. 

Saturday evening finally came and American Ninja was inserted into the
top-loader...As I sat eating my Vesta curry, My life literally changed
in the following 90 minutes, I learned more than any teacher could ever
show me at school, Joe was literally a god! This guy could do
anything...Beat anyone! Most of my friends had already seen it and we
were all finally on the same Ninja wavelength! We practiced Joe's
moves, disappeared in a "cloud of smoke" (England gets a lot of fog in
Autumn/ Winter) behind the school canteen, jumped over the tyres in the
playground as part of our "ninja training school".

Watching it back a couple of weeks ago (now I am 38) It is total crap,
but total crap of the highest order. I thought ninja's were actually,
you know, supposed to be elite assassins. Here they seem to get away
with being pretty mediocre to be fair, they miss the easiest targets,
and are usually knocked out by a punch or kick that does not seem to
really connect (or even come close in some cases). Joe comes across
like he has something stuck up his backside most of the film (maybe
constipation?)and the whole thing is just laughable.

But laughable in the best possible way.

Thank you Golan Globus and Cannon films, thank you Michael Dudikoff and
Steve James, thank you the guy who did the music.

I am indebted to you all for this slice of my childhood that I can also
enjoy now I am a grown-up, albeit in a different but still entirely
satisfying way!
