
I've got to be honest here: I first saw this movie in my teens and
loved it, so I might be a bit biased here, ignoring it's flaws. Just
saw it again, over 10 years later, and I gotta say, while it didn't
have the 'wow' effect it gave me before, It still holds up as a decent
movie. This movie is fast paced and just crammed with awesome ideas
that sometimes work, and sometimes could have been used more
effectively.

What do we have? 

- An insane serial killer - This guy just oozes evil, amazing bad guy. 

- A very cute psychic - man did I have a crush on her!

- Plenty of mysterious happenings and scares (though not very scary for
seasoned moviegoers)

- Cool action sequences. That ceiling fan scene is so awesome. 

- Satanic superpowers. How is that not super cool? 

- The pacing is great, with lots of interesting scenes. 

- Nice touches of humor now and then.

So What could be better?

- The ending is a bit unsatisfying. 

- Things could be bigger and more epic. 

- While decent, Lou Diamond Philips could be replaced with many other
actors, and there are more charismatic ones out there. 

- Seeing it again, it wasn't that scary, but I remember that it was the
first time. Could be scarier though, I guess.

- If you analyze things too much, there are lots of small plot holes.

This movie is like an older, more low budget version of 'End of Days'
with Arnold Schwarzenegger (which I liked as well). If what I told you
sounds interesting, this movie is a great way to spice up a boring
Sunday evening!
<|_=00=_|>
You can only see a movie for the first time once and so I have to admit
that THE FIRST POWER worked on me the first time I saw it in theaters.
It moved with such lightning speed that I didn't have time to ponder
its snowballing silliness. The director, Robert Resnikoff, knows how to
construct an action film--the cinematography is first rate and the
editing superb-- he just doesn't know when to stop. There are car
chases, horse and buggy chases, foot chases and innumerable shoot-outs,
and at one point the killer even brandishes a ceiling fan as a rather
laughable weapon and all the action movie huggery-muggery sits rather
uneasily on top of the supernatural elements.Lou Diamond Philips,
though a tad young-looking to be such a seasoned detective, gives a
competent performance. Jeff Kober is obviously having fun playing the
killer and it shows; he has a toothy menace that's suitably creepy.
Probably the best thing going for THE FIRST POWER is a truly unnerving
and effective soundtrack from Stewart Copeland. The director pulls off
some nasty mind-trips on the character played by Philips, one where he
wakes to find his apartment seemingly covered in blood and another in a
confessional booth when he goes to get some answers from a local
priest.
<|_=00=_|>
Patrick Channing,born out of an incestuous relationship, and living
through an emotionally scarring childhood, gives in to Satanic forces
and becomes a murderer known as The Pentagram Killer.

He becomes the main target of Detective Russell Logan, whom engages in
a battle of wits with Channing in life and after death.

It appears that Channing can't be stopped, because sentencing him to
death gave him the titular power...

If the summary sounds familiar, that's because it was remade in 1997 as
the Denzel Washington film 'Fallen'. And while that film is the better
known and has the bonus of a more 'talented' cast, this one is by far
the most fun.

Finally after years of being sandwiched between Kiefer Sutherland,
Diamond Phillips gets his own action vehicle, and he's loving every
minute of it.

His Logan is your atypical yuppie late eighties cop. Wearing trousers
up to his chin, holding a gun in a very silly way while running down
dark alleyways with Melanie Griffiths less famous sister.

And the film gets straight to the point with an outstanding film
stealing performance from Kober as the antagonist. Kober must have
known that this would have been a breakout performance for him, so he
gives it his all, absolutely owning every scene that he's in.

Phillips is good, but he's just playing the straight second fiddle cop
to the maguffin of the film, namely the killer. So whilst we are
following the narrative from Logans point of view, what your really
waiting for is what he will discover next, and whose body will be taken
over next.

It's a good looking film, especially when you consider the budget, and
the fact that it could have easily have been stuck in a fashion/music
time capsule (there is the trousers though).

some of the stunt work is pretty jaw dropping, even today, particularly
the car chase, the way once the killer is reborn he knows martial arts,
and the films standout scene, the jump from the building, which is
alone worth watching the film for.

So all in all, it's a forgotten slice of early nineties cheese, but
thanks to the recent release of the Blu Ray, it may finally get the
recognition it deserves.
<|_=00=_|>
Before I go into an explanation of this movie, I will discuss the
belief system behind this movie. Basically it comes from the ancient
Persian religion of Xorastrianism. Some people still follow this
religion (such as the late Freddy Mercury) and it is focused around two
gods, a good god and an evil god. These two gods are of equal power and
are at constant war with each other. Some people believe that
Christianity evolved out of this religion, but it did not. More likely
this religion evolved out of Judaism. The reason I say this is because
Satan is nowhere near as powerful as God, and even though he has a
immense amount of influence in this world, he cannot do anything
without God's say so. Job 1&2 show us how Satan has to get God's
permission to inflict suffering onto Job, and even then God tells Satan
how much he is allowed to do. Has God go the right to do that? Well if
we read the book of Job through we learn that through his suffering,
Job is strengthened in his faith, and the blessings he receives at the
end far outweighs anything that could have happened to him. Some say
God is not powerful and is not in control because of the suffering that
occurs in this world, but the truth is that a lot (but not all) of the
world's suffering is because of us, humanity.

Anyway, the theology behind the First Power is that God and Satan are
of equal powers and give gifts to people to do their will. Satan's
power in the world is growing but the church does not want to get
involved. He has given a man, Channing, the power of possession. He is
killing people in the city of Los Angeles in the form of a Pentegram,
but a Psychic, Tess Seaton, can see it. A cop, Russell, is pursing
Channing and captures him with the help of Tess, on the condition that
he does not receive the death penalty. Russell ignores this and
Channing is executed. Because of his power, Channing returns in spirit
form and can possess people. If the body is killed then he can possess
somebody else. He is practically immortal, and now he is after Russell
and Tess.

This movie is good as an action movie, but there are a lot of flaws in
its logic. It claims that Channing is seeking the power of resurrection
to gain immortality, but because he can possess people he does not need
to be resurrected. He can gain fleshly pleasures where ever he goes
anyway. It claims that Jesus has all three powers, but Jesus may have
been able to tell the future and he rose from the dead, but he never
possessed anybody. It also assumes that Jesus was a man blessed with
powers by God, when Jesus was in fact God himself.

The psychology of the film is interesting because Channing constantly
plays with Russell and Tess. He is very powerful as is and gets into
his victim's minds and twists what they see. He can alter what they see
so even though he is possessing a body, he can alter what his victims
see so they don't know who he is possessing at the time. What is really
impressive about Channing is that way he constantly mocks and plays
with his victims. He is not insane, he is just corrupt with power and
he knows that he cannot be killed. And the people he possesses are
practically dead anyway.

Even though there are some flaws in the movie, I do like it. The ending
leaves you wondering whether he is dead or not, as we know that he was
killed before and he came back. Russell and Tess are forced to the edge
of sanity and begin to wonder what is happening. Russell begins to
question his faith again, while Tess finds herself unnerved and thrust
into Russell's arms. At first they fight, but when Channing's power is
fully realised, they realise that they need each other. Especially when
Tess fortels Russel's death. This is a decent movie, it is a shame that
it only appears on at midnight.
<|_=00=_|>
Entertaining movie, which has a sort of dream-like quality, a good
share of scary moments and is quite well thought out. A serial
"Pentagram" killer is sentenced to death. It doesn't end here, though,
as he's resurrected by the Devil himself and comes back for vengeance.
Lou Diamond Phillips is convincing and red-headed Tracy Griffith is a
babe. The arch-villain will give you the creeps. Personally, I quite
enjoyed this and have it in my personal video collection. Good choice
for all occult fans! Rating: 7 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>

I'm going to agree with Ava de Lara (no relation): Jeff Kober as  the serial
killer Patrick Channing is the best thing about this movie. He completely
understands how this material is to be played (tongue in bloody cheek), and
he has great energy. The movie is just not as good when he's not onscreen.
(My favorite scene is the one in the confessional.) Overall, the movie's
"rules" for the killer are not well established. I never completely believe
Lou Diamond Phillips as a cop. He does crack a few good lines though. Tracy
Griffith is OK, but she gets increasingly shrill as the movie goes on. It
shows up on TBS a lot, and I recommend you watch it for Jeff Kober's
performance. This is the first of his "serial killer returning from the
grave to exact demonic revenge" characters, which he's also done as a guest
shot on POLTERGEIST: THE LEGACY and CHARMED.
<|_=00=_|>

This is no oscar-winner but is an entertaining movie, if you overlook
several cheesy moments (like a cross/knife wielding nun?)  I think this
could have been an even better movie with a little more work on the script,
because it is well-directed and all the actors are excellent.  And this
movie gets bonus points for co-starring Tracy Griffith, one of the most
gorgeous actresses in Hollywood!  But hey thats just my opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
Regular Horror/Thriller that has some decent scenes for the Horror
fans. First, it deals with the devil and possession after death. Lou
Diamond Phillips is a man tormented by his past and his belief in God
is in predicament. He thinks his father didn't deserve to die. In fact,
that event causes a series of situations like his mother turning crazy.
Could he find the serial killer he is after to? Could he solve the
mystery of the First Power?

Watch it and find it. Not a good Horror flick but sure it's
entertaining. My only beef is that it doesn't have a creepy atmosphere
or a dark setting; the plot asks for it! Also, there's a point where
it's necessary to have some Horror related scenes but the movie focuses
more on drama and thriller.

Lou Diamond Philips' performance is the best thing about the movie.
Mrs. Griffith also delivers a nice performance and helps a lot that
she's very beautiful and charming.

Delivers some chilling scenes but relies on the dramatic side more. Be
warned you could be bored if you are looking for a straight Horror
movie. Still it has a creepy vibe and very well done plot. 

Give it a chance.
<|_=00=_|>
"The First Power" is a certainly decent entry that really could've been
much worse.

**SPOILERS**

Following a rash of supposedly Satanic slayings, police officer Russell
Logan, (Lou Diamond Phillips) is given information about Patrick
Channing, (Jeff Kober) a killer suspected of the crimes. Managing to
catch the killer with help of his partner Oliver Franklin, (Mykelti
Williamson) they get him executed. Shortly afterward, psychic Tess
Seaton, (Tracy Griffith) comes forward that he wasn't supposed to be
executed, but now that he has, they're all in great danger. When he
manages to kill several other police officers shortly after, he becomes
even more attached to the case. When Tess and Russell begin to work
together, they find that he has acquired The First Power, a special
ability that will allow him to resurrect his spirit for any purpose he
wants. Determined to end his reign of terror once and for all, they
race to atop him before he is able to gain immortality from his powers.

The Good News: This wasn't as bad as it really could've been. This is
mostly due to it's big pacing. The first half isn't concerned with
searching for the killer, who is now thankfully apprehended in the
first twenty minutes. That puts the escape shortly after, and the rest
of the film is simply devoted to chasing the killer down. The chases
aren't that bad either, with a car chase through a crowded parade route
being particularly impressive. That it goes from there to a foot chase
inside a giant high-rise isn't bad, and it concludes with one of the
greatest stunts in the genre that has to be seen to be believed. Other
chases, especially those through the sewer system being propelled by a
torrent of raging water and a particularly tense hotel passage way
standing out from the others. These are perfectly inserted into the
film at the best interval from the previous one to keep the action
going and the pace going forward, as it seems like the film never
really stops at all once the killer gets out. That's the proper way to
keep the audience guessing, since it's unknown what will come next, a
foot chase, a car chase or a shootout, and that also keeps them in the
film due to it never seeming to slow down at all. The chases are kept
perfectly spaced out, leaving enough time for the plot points in
between to feel naturally brought up and for the film to feel like it
just whizzes by because of the amount of time taken up because of them.
It does have some somewhat interesting kills, including several slit
throats, a victim set on fire, a stabbing in the chest, being impaled
on a pile of pipes after being thrown onto them and a dunking in a bat
of acid. The most impressive, though, is when one of them is trampled
by a horse, who repeatedly steps on them and begins pounding away. It's
a really impressive and creative one, and that it leads into a
marvelous chase isn't something to dismiss. The constant dream-scares
are slightly annoying, yet they provide some genuinely thrilling
moments and get the best scares in the film. Whether that's good or bad
is debatable, but they look good regardless. Certainly not as bad as it
easily could've been.

The Bad News: There isn't much wrong with this one. Most of it's flaws
stem from it's complete inability to make sense of anything. There's a
real lack of explanation here given for anything here, and it makes the
story look really bad. The most obvious one is a flub about what power
the killer actually has. This is given when the differences are stated
about the three powers that God or Satan can bestow on their disciples.
The "first power" being resurrection, the "second" is seeing the
future, and the "third power" is the ability to take over another
person's body. That, though, is exactly what the killer has. Time and
again, this shows us that the killer is possessing victims rather than
simply bringing himself back from the dead. This also brings up the
fact that it's never given how the killer is connected with any Satanic
powers at all. There's nothing given about the connection other than a
few demonic carvings. That's not a strong connection, and it's all we
get. The reason why they escaped from the prison isn't given either. It
just happens and nothing is stated how it happened. This lack of
explanations is the film's only real flaw, and it's the one that knocks
it down the most.

The Final Verdict: While this makes no sense at all and contains tons
of plot inconsistencies, it's at least packed with enough action and
stunts to keep it watchable. Check your mind at the door and enjoy,
otherwise skip it as there's nothing here that hasn't been seen before
in much better made films.

Rated R: Graphic Language, Graphic Violence and Brief Nudity
<|_=00=_|>
The First Power is a solid and suspenseful mix of horror and action
starring Lou Diamond Phillips. LDP plays Russell Logan, a tough LA
detective on the trail of a serial killer that carves pentagrams in the
chests of his victims.Logan gets his man with the aid of a smoking hot
redhead named Tess played by Tracy Griffith. Tess warns Logan not to
pursue the death penalty on Channing. The Pentagram Killer, played
excellently by Jeff Kober gets marched to the gas chamber anyways.What
Logan did not know is Satan's most favored serial killer has been
granted supernatural powers of resurrection and possession. Channing
then goes on a killing spree throughout LA while taunting Logan in the
process. Totally evil and virtually unstoppable. Channing , Satan's
helper is an awesome villain who seems to take great pleasure in his
work. Great dark and ominous score as well as suspense and action . I
remember really digging The First Power upon its release and it still
holds up . Great supernatural thriller.
