

Like everyone that has reviewed this film before me, I am going to sing it's
praises, however, unlike those before me, I'm not quite sure why.  This film
did everything it was supposed to do as a horror film.  It scared me in a
few areas, it was quite gory in others and it was easily one of the ten most
quirky and bizarre films I have ever seen.  I can't tell you why anything
transpires the way it does in here, I can't even tell you why people do the
things they do, but I don't really think that is the point of the film. 
Like David Lynch's Mulholland Drive, this is more of mind altering
experience or a dream that just doesn't make any sense.  Perhaps this is a
film that is esoteric by design and if that is the case then perhaps I
should just watch it over and over again until I do have some sort of
puerile grasp of it. 

Dictionary.com's definition of a phantasm is "in Platonic philosophy,
objective reality as observed by the five senses."  Another definiton it
gives is simply, "a notion".  And if you watch this film from beginning to
end you will see why this makes all the sense in the world, yet it is still
an abstruse concept that is meant to be exactly what it
is.

The film begins with a funeral of one of Jody (Bill Thornbury) and Reggie's
(Reggie Bannister) best friends.  Jody's little brother, Mikey ( A Michael
Baldwin) is a precocious kid who can't seem to stay in one place and follows
his big brother everywhere he goes.  Hence he is at the funeral but is
surreptitiously hiding out in the bushes.  As the funeral ends, he sees the
caretaker lift a casket all by himself and put it into his truck.  This is
the nascency of the bizaare rituals that encompass the film. 

Michael decides to investigate the strange looking mansion where the
cemetery rests.  Once he breaks into the house, he is chased by some strange
Jawa looking creatures and by a sphere that seems to come out of nowhere and
drains your head of blood.  He does escape and finally gets his big brother
to believe him when he says that things aren't quite right up at the
Morningside Cemetery.  Now, up until this point, the film is quite linear. 
You have your classic set-up, a spooky looking mansion where the dead are
taken and your typical stupid characters that do the traditional scary movie
things, like going to investigate a haunted house all by yourself,
gratuitous breast shots, some eerie music and dark nights.  But that is
where the title "typical horror film" ends and it crosses over into Rod
Serling territory.  From here on out, it just goes weird, but in a goosebump
inducing way that keeps you frozen in your seat.

Don Coscarelli can take all of the praise and/or blame for this eccentric
film.  He wrote, produced, directed, was the DP, the editor and as another
reviewer so aptly pointed out, he probably swept the floors at night and
fetched coffee for those on the set.  This is his incarnation.  I also
happen to agree with other viewers that say that this film has one of the
most haunting yet mellifluous scores which is on par with Carpenter's
Halloween theme.  Both are intricate pieces to the presence of the film. 
Words like haunting, eerie, creepy and forbidding all come to mind when you
hear the score.  It is also uncanny to see some of the similarities to A
Nightmare On Elm Street and Phantasm.  Nightmare was a little more clear
with what it was trying to say but both films have an overtly murky and
dream like exploration into realms that many of us have yet to
understand.

The underlying theme in this film is the unsolved questions that plague many
of us when we wonder what happens when you die.  Most of us believe that you
go to Heaven or Hell.  But those are just theories.  And if theories are
unproven then what is stop you from believing that this movie could really
be the answer to those questions?  As the tag line for the film so
poignantly points out, "If this one doesn't scare you, you're already dead."
 What if all of this was true?  What if you could be stolen and made into
something that you did not ask to become?  Who is the Tall Man and what is
he doing here in our world?  One of the most harrowing yet well done plot
pieces is when Mikey goes to the girl's house and finds an old picture of
the Tall Man sitting on a horse carriage, looking like it is circa 1776. 
This leaves the viewer ripe with questions.

Phantasm will leave you with more questions than answers but I will say this
about the film.  In a day and age where you get prosaic, banal and myopic
efforts like ( take your pick of most of the horror that has "graced" our
screens since the Scream and Blair Witch craze) and you compare them to
films like Halloween, Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Phantasm, you quickly
realize that the 70's and early 80's was the genesis of the horror film.  I
realize horror probably dates back to Nosferatu and it became respected with
Psycho, but to look at the films that were born in the 70's and 80's, it's a
veritable, indefeasible list of some of the most revered and imitated horror
films of all time.  Now that I have seen Phantasm I can easily see the mark
it has left on other films.

9 out of 10----As I said, I still can't tell you what this film is all about
nor can I tell you what it all means or how it all ends, all I can say is
that it made me feel something strange with it's disingenuous stroke of the
brush.  This is a film that absolutely demands a second and third
viewing....which is what I am about to do right now.  BOY!!!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>

Phantasm is possibly my favourite film of all time.Why? It's not about the
budget or the hype of a film, but mainly about how this film makes me
feel.
Phantasm director Coscarelli crafted a little gem of a horror movie that
has
bought me more enjoyment than any major Hollywood film I can remember. I
first saw Phantasm as a kid in the 80's and it has stuck with me ever
since.
It was great to rediscover this film on a beautifully mastered DVD.

For me, Phantasm combines a nightmarish quality that few horror movies
achieve with a nostalgic trip back in time to the late 70's. The central
theme is that of young Mike being abandoned by his brother Jody, and
overcoming his fears. The cryptic nature of the Tall Man's presence adds
to
the tension, and Myrow's eerie soundtrack is the perfect finishing
touch.

Like a nightmare, there is no explanation or attempt to pander to desires
for a logical conclusion.  The little touches such as Jody and Reggie's
jam
session add to the homely feel of this movie - it's like a well worn pair
of
jeans. It's crystal clear that no studio executives were in the editing
room
at the last minute, trying to turn Coscarelli's vision into another
mediocre
horror film . For the director, this film was clearly a labor of love.
Coscarelli is still an outsider from the Hollywood system. I am grateful
that he hasn't been sucked into turning out mediocre movies for major
studios but has stayed somewhat true to the original spirit of
Phantasm.

Many of the comments here on IMDB criticize the film for weak FX and poor
acting. When viewed in the context of a genre film made by young industry
outsiders for $300,000 in 1979, I think the technical values are
exceptional. Critics who claim otherwise have no idea of the work involved
in the process of creating a movie, especially before the advent of
video.

I've seen Hollywood blockbusters made for many millions of dollars with
great technical values, and yet I can't think of one that I can enjoy time
and time again like this film. If you consider yourself a fan of horror
movies, you owe it to yourself to own this classic on DVD.

10/10

<|_=00=_|>
Two orphaned boys, Mike (Michael Baldwin) and Jody (Bill Thornbury)
notice some strange things happening at Morningside Mortuary. Bodies
are disappearing from coffins; a lady in lavender has sex with men in
the graveyard and then stabs them to death; little midgets in brown
cloaks (making sounds like lions) are roaming about and there's a
flying silver orb with spikes that embeds itself in people's heads! And
then there's the Tall Man (Angus Scrimm) overseeing it all...Soon Mike,
Jody and their friend Reggie (Reggie Bannister) are fighting for their
lives...

The story is pretty thin (and REALLY out of whack at the end), the
acting dismal, there's no characterizations or depth and some of the
special effects are horrible but...this is STILL a classic horror film.
It takes a while to get going (nothing much happens in the first half
hour), but when it does there's scarcely a letup. Action leaps into
high gear, there's some fairly graphic gore (including the now infamous
flying sphere killing), there are plenty of scenes guaranteed to make
you jump and the music score is very spooky...right up there with
"Halloween". Also some of the special effects are impressive
(considering there was no budget). Also Bill Thornbury is a VERY
attractive man and there's gratuitous male and female nudity. What's
even more surprising is Don Coscarelli wrote, produced, directed AND
edited this at the age of 24! He's never matched it since and all the
sequels really suck...but this stands alone as a classic. A must-see
for all horror fans. Also Scrimm is EXCELLENT (and damn scary) as the
Tall Man.

Trivia: This was awarded an X rating FOUR TIMES because of the sphere
killing...Coscarelli went all the way to the head of the ratings board
who overturned it and gave it an R--a rare occurrence that the ratings
board kept in a gore scene!
<|_=00=_|>
"Phantasm" is about a young teenager, Mike, who just recently lost his
parents. He is worried about losing his older brother, so he follows
him everywhere, including a funeral. While hiding in the bushes during
the funeral, Mike sees "The Tall Man" (played by the creepy Angus
Scrimm), the man who runs the funeral home, pick up a casket by
himself. Mike begins spying on the man afterwards, fascinated with
uncovering the strange events surrounding the funeral home. While
investigating, Mike discovers a strange world within the walls of the
mortuary, including flying metal spheres with sharp arrows that drain
the blood from your head, and many other horrors. Turns out, the Tall
Man is from another dimension, and is taking the bodies of the dead and
reincarnating them in his world for slaves. Mike teams up with his
older brother and the local ice cream man, Reggie, to stop the Tall
Man's gruesome work.

I remember my mother telling me about how much "Phantasm" scared her
when she was a teenager, and she rented it one day and I watched it
along with her (I was about nine or ten at the time), and it was
genuinely one of the most bizarre movies I've ever viewed. Written (as
well as directed) by Don Coscarelli, "Phantasm" has become something of
a horror classic over the years, and deservedly so. Coscarelli's
writing here is so unique that it hurts. Everything in this film is
surreal and dreamlike, and the entire plot line is so out there that I
can't think of another film that can quite compete in terms of
strangeness. But, despite it's strangeness, this movie works, in it's
own, weird little way. The script is solid and the characters are
believable (there are some real-life situations thrown in as well, so
there is some sort of viewer-character connections that can be made),
even though about ninety-nine percent of this film is something of pure
fantasy. But it's quite a scary fantasy, and that's for sure.

There are many elements in this film that have become somewhat
legendary, among them being the murderous silver spheres and The Tall
Man's "Boyyyyy!" line. The thing is, among all of the randomness that
is "Phantasm", this is quite a terrifying movie. A dense feeling of
helplessness and foreboding is hiding in every scene, and the
cinematography and locations add to this quite a bit. The imagery is
bizarre and often very spooky, and the settings are perfect (especially
that creepy old funeral home). The viewers themselves are easily caught
up in the engrossing story, and the atmosphere is very scary. Michael
Baldwin plays our lead hero well, with Reggie Bannister as the ice
cream man, and Bill Thornbury as Mike's older brother, Jody. And Angus
Scrimm plays his signature role as The Tall Man, and his presence alone
makes this film scarier than most of it's genre. And then there's the
score to the film, which is equally as effective and just as chilling.
The film concludes leaving many questions open-ended and unanswered,
but honestly - can you really expect genuine, fulfilling answers when
the movie itself is so strange? I think it's good that this film does
leave some loose ends, because it goes along with the movie's overall
feel.

Bottom line - I don't think this movie is for everyone, and it might be
just a little bit too weird for some. Honestly, one of the strangest,
most out-there films I have ever seen, but in my opinion, that's a good
thing. The story is strange but well crafted, and the bizarre imagery
and atmosphere make this a painfully unique, scary experience. I can
see why "Phantasm" has become such a classic of the genre. For me, this
film remains a nice little piece of spooky and original nostalgia, and
I'm glad my mom decided to scare the daylights out of me with it at
such a young age, because I grew to love this movie later on. 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Phantasm is one of those movies where you have to look beyond the
constraints of a non-existent-budget sci-fi/horror flick to see
underlying talent. The film suffers from some hammed up acting,
classical 1970s character naivety, make-shift and jimmy-rigged special
effects that don't quite work, a score that might as well be a series
of MIDI files, and a plot that's all but coherent; however, Phantasm
maintains a certain original charm and resourcefulness that larger
budget films frequently lack.

The above paragraph really isn't a complaint (despite how it may
sound). On the contrary, I'm impressed with what director Don
Coscarelli managed to accomplish with the hand dealt to him. Phantasm
could have been an utterly forgettable film on all levels, but instead
he managed to leave a number of positive impressions.

For one, the frame composition and some key scene transitions transcend
budgetary implications (in particular, the Tall Man in the cemetery and
the Tall Man slow-motion shot by Reggie's ice cream truck come to
mind). 

Fred Myrow also comes to the forefront with intriguing and memorable
synthetic score. My only complaint on the music is the synthesizer it
was performed on sounds like an old 80386 game. Still, the notes played
transcends the quality of the instrument it's played on. 

Phantasm's trademark bladed sphere effect, however, did genuinely
bother me when they stuck into their victim's skulls. The fact that the
soon-to-be-dead have no physical reaction after being slapped in the
forehead with a fastball goes beyond my ability to suspend disbelief,
and to my dismay the effect has never been amended in later sequels. A
simple flinch is all that's needed to sell the effect! Something tells
me that the effect, as it stands, is part of the Phantasm trademark,
part of the Phantasm charm (for the cult followers anyway), and won't
ever get a more realistic edge. 

Minor silly plot elements aside (Jawa grave robbers, anyone?), my only
major gripe deals with the sheer open endedness of the Phantasm
universe (vastly exploited in later sequels.) Phantasm is not unlike a
comic book, where nothing that happens seems significant since a
character can so easily wake up to another reality. Anarchy governs the
Phantasm series, no rules apply so reality, fantasy, and parallel
universes co-exist in such a fashion that nothing seems to matter
anymore. It's like playing a game with Coscarelli in which we must
abide by the rules he sets down, and he sets the rules down as he goes
when situations apply to him. Why bother playing? Why care?

Still, the film has its charms, and there's something fun in the
sinister eye-brow raising and growling Tall Man played effectively by
Angus Scrimm. I'd caught bits of Phantasm 3 in the past, and came into
this film expecting to hate the Tall Man and this entire franchise, yet
I found myself grinning at each of his lines. 

I say if someone can look below a cheap and cheesy surface, Phantasm is
full of a pleasant surprises.

<|_=00=_|>
There are two things that stand out in this film. The Tall Man (played 
by Angus Scrimm) and the chrome sphere with hook-like blades that stick 
out of it. Those are the two main elements when it comes to this horror 
series directed by Don Coscarelli.

The Tall Man comes from another dimension where he takes some of the 
earth's dead back to his home planet, reincarnates them and turns them 
into slaves for his world. He even occasionally murders some earth 
people in order to speed things up. Why wait for them to get old and 
die natural deaths. That would take too much time, right? And what 
better earth profession he can hide his identity behind than that of a 
funeral parlor director. 

Everything goes smoothly for the Tall Man until Mike Pearson (Michael 
Baldwin) witnesses him carting a body away that's supposed to be buried 
in the ground. At first his brother Jody (Bill Thornbury) doesn't 
believe him, but when Mike shows him a cut-off finger surrounded by 
'yellow blood' in a little wooden box he had saved as proof, Jody 
starts to believe him. 

Excellent scene of the chrome sphere zooming down the funeral parlor 
hallway and 'accidentally' digging into the skull one of the Tall Man's 
henchmen. A little screw appears out of it and starts to bore a hole 
through his skull, ejecting the excess blood out a hole in the back of 
the sphere. I wish there was more of the sphere although we'll get to 
see a lot more of it again in PHANTASM II (1988).

I also like the portal gateway scene where if you go through the two 
chrome poles, you'll get to see the Tall Man's alternative universe 
where the slaves are busy carrying caskets down a stone pathway. We 
even get to see Ice Cream Man, Reggie Bannister almost get sucked 
through it as well.

I won't give away the ending but let's just say the Tall Man is 
temporarily disposed of until the next sequel comes out, although the 
dream element that's supposed to encompass the whole sequence of events 
in the film, is a big negative against it. In fact, it brings it down a 
notch, unfortunately.

Even so, I consider PHANTASM to be one of the best horror films of the 
1970s. It managed to keep Avco/Embassy in business so they could bring 
us later horror stuff like ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK (1980); THE FOG (1980) 
and DEAD AND BURIED (1981)

The MGM DVD also has a lot more extras on it than you would expect from 
other DVDs released by the same company, including 8mm 
behind-the-scenes footage of the making of PHANTASM; a 1979 interview 
down in Miami with director Coscarelli and Angus Scrimm; an appearance 
at a 1989 Fangoria convention by Scrimm, and movie & TV trailers for 
the film. 

It's a labor of love by the truest fans of this film. 

7 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
In 1980, Magnetic Video released the full length 90-minutes long
version on video, with a difused glow throughout the entire film. In
the latter part of the 1980s, the film was issued again on video, but
one sequence (which takes place in near complete darkness in The Tall
Man's glowing white room) was accidentally edited out by the people
supervising the film to video transfer. This version of the film ran
87/ 88 minutes in length. When Phantasm was issued on DVD in the late
1990s the scene was restored, but the colour balance and the soft
diffusion was corrected, which I think robbed the film of some of its
atmospheric effect. My review is based on Magnetic Video's 1980
release. 

This haunting, dreamlike hallucination of a movie was written,
directed, photographed, produced and edited by Don Coscarelli, it
doesn't make much sense but it's still a great bit of fun to watch with
the lights turned out. This kid named Mike convinces his older brother
Jody that there is something weird going on at the local cemetery. So
he and Jody break into the old mausoleum and find out that it's
actually some kind of factory where people are killed by a flying metal
ball, crushed down to a height of about 3'2", dressed up like little
monks and packaged up into round metal garbage cans and shipped off for
use as slave labour in some other dimension. A dimension ruled and
resided over by the six and a half foot tall mortician (known
throughout the entire ordeal as just simply "The Tall Man") working at
this cemetery. When The Tall Man kills another friend of theirs, they
decide to put and end to him, or at least try to.

This movie has many different layered meanings, over the years some
people have said that it's a reference to corporate America coming in
(in the form of The Tall Man) and killing off everyone (by turning
everything into a 'business') and some have said that this movie is
also about a kid's loss of innocence and fears about everyone around
him leaving (or in this case dying) Whatever the hell this movie is
about, it's still great fun, followed by a couple of really
disappointing (and belated) sequels.
<|_=00=_|>
After the death of Tommy (Bill Cone), who was stabbed by a woman at the
cemetery, Jody (Bill Thornbury) and his friend Reggie (Reggie
Bannister) attend the funeral at the Morningside funeral home. Jody is
followed by his teenage brother Mike (Michael Baldwin), who has just
lost his parents and is afraid of losing his big brother that intends
to travel.

Mike snoops around the cemetery and sees the mortician known as The
Tall Man (Angus Scrimm) carrying Tommy's coffin alone without any help.
Mike breaks in the mortuary to investigate the mystery and discovers
weird dwarf creatures with yellow blood and dangerous flying spheres
that protect the location. When he is chased by The Tall Man, he cuts
his finger and brings it home to show Jody to convince his big brother
that there is a dark secret in the mortuary. Jody, Reggie and Mike
discover that The Tall Man is from outer space and is transforming dead
bodies in dwarfs to work as slave in his world. Now they decide that
The Tall Man must be destroyed. Will they succeed in their intent?

"Phantasm" is one of the most weird and original cult movies that I
have ever seen. The surrealistic and dreamlike story entwines horror
with sci-fi with many twists and bizarre characters and situations. 

I saw "Phantasm" for the first time on VHS in the early 80's and I have
just seen it again on DVD and surprisingly the film has not aged, only
the clothing, the hair style and the special effects. But for fans like
me, it is still attractive and entertaining. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Fantasma" ("Phantasm")
<|_=00=_|>
A teenage boy (Michael Baldwin) stumbles upon a plot by a very tall
mortuary worker (Angus Scrimm) to steal dead bodies and turn them into
midget slaves for an alien world. With the help of his older brother
(Bill Thornberry), the boy hopes to cut the tall man down to size.

Many years later, Don Coscarelli is now seen as a master of horror and
Angus Scrimm somewhat of a horror icon (though to a lesser degree than,
say, Robert Englund). While the plot I have outlined above may sound
silly, the actual execution of this idea makes it clear why this film
has really lodged itself in horror history and spawned numerous sequels
(all starring Scrimm).

This film captures the feeling of the late 1970s and early 1980s horror
with the young boy stumbling upon a plot of large, sinister
proportions. Horror geared towards the youth of a generation who have
parents who may not believe them (or in this case, an older brother). I
really like this theme, much like "The Goonies", "The Monster Squad"
and "Lost Boys" -- a kid's film without being childish.

"Phantasm" has become known for the silver balls, and believe me --
when Angus Scrimm puts one of his balls in your face, you won't be
happy about it. A bloody mess is all you will get! I really enjoyed the
effect of this (remember, this is 1979 when effects still took some
creativity). Some of the tricks they pull off are impressive
considering computer technology of the day, and also considering
Coscarelli himself was writing and directing at the unthinkably young
age of 23.

Now, some things I did not understand. For example, why are the midgets
bleeding macaroni and cheese instead of blood? And more importantly,
why does the tall man have to transform into a woman to stab people in
the cemetery? If he is super strong and has those silver balls, he
really does not have to be very sneaky about the whole ordeal, does he?
But these are issues that can always be addressed in sequels.

Some of the acting is cheesy -- people deliver their lines in a way
that sounds forced, and Jody (the older brother) looks like he belongs
behind the wheel of the General Lee. And Michael spends half the film
looking like a girl. (I have met the entire cast, and I can assure you
that Baldwin grew out of this phase.)

But, seriously, check this film out. Created roughly in the same time
period as "Halloween", you are left with a similar feeling. Only this
one is more light-hearted and "feel good" and less "the embodiment of
evil". I suppose it depends on your personal taste or your mood for the
day. Myself, I like a little bit of the unusual thrown in to a movie
just to keep me guessing. And, edging out "Halloween", this may be the
longest-running horror franchise, running from 1979 through 2016 (37
years!). 

Over the years, "Phantasm" has been released in a variety of ways, but
I think the definitive release finally exists thanks to Well Go USA. I
asked Coscarelli why he went with Well Go (known for their martial arts
movies) rather than Arrow Video or Scream Factory, and his answer was
quite simple -- they had the most enthusiasm. And they have put
together a nice package, too. The remastered Blu-ray looks sharp. WGN
host and super-phan Nick Digilio screened it in Chicago in August 2016
and audiences were shocked to see individual raindrops. The new scan is
better than the original print. The disc also contains a vintage
interview with Coscarelli and Scrimm circa 1979, and an episode of
"Graveyard Carz" where Coscarelli and Baldwin drive around in a
Barracuda tribute car.
<|_=00=_|>
"Phantasm: an apparition of a ghostly appearing figure" Simply put
Phantasm is a visual nightmare transformed into a person's sketchy
reality. The emphasis on sleeping and dreams is exactly the message it
is getting at. With a perfect score and a quintessentially
frighteningly written Horror villain 'The Tall Man' the only downfalls
of Phantasm are its lack of quality acting, script, pacing and cheap
1970's horror clichés. In fact the acting and characters become so
irritating it is the only element of Phantasm that takes it away from
being considered a true Horror classic by most Horror buffs (or maybe
it's George Lucas' unauthorized use of Jawa's?).

When one scans the Horror elite those films have pretty atrocious
acting problems too, so why should Phantasm fail so much? It shouldn't
really because Phantasm is just as good as the classics. One of the
reason why Phantasm is such a unique film is the well established
characters unlike most Horror films; whilst the acting is somewhat
absent from the strongly written character it's still enough to redeem
the awkwardly delivered lines, odd facial expressions and comical
snappy reactions. The films score is also perfect and mesmerizing that
fits well by Fred Myrow, it was in fact one of the most powerful
elements of the movie that really had me engaged. The stunning visuals
and the concept and imagery of The Tall Man (wonderfully portrayed by
Angus Scrimm) are authentically creepy, like something one would
encounter in a nightmare. (in fact, I had a dream where I was in Hell
and I encountered a priest that had been shrunk and dissected by a
demon and this was before I saw Phantasm) I know I would be pretty
hysterical if The Tall Man was stalking me.

It's these points of the film that for me makes Phantasm an atmospheric
and creepy horror gem, in fact it brings me back to when I was a five
year old child in a video store in the 90's, traumatized by the VHS
covers for Hellraiser and The Blob only to eagerly await the day I was
old enough to view them. Another reason why Phantasm's atmosphere works
so well is the use of white and brightness instead darkness Phantasm's
surreal mortuary is a nightmarish treat of white marble walls lined
with drawers of the dead, gaping large hallways and The Tall Man's
shoes trudging along the tiles that make you feel he's going to jump
out of the television screen. From the flying silver balls to the void
to another dimension, Phantasm's concept of a ghoulishly eerie tale
about a soul keeper is wonderfully mastered and pulled off.

No matter how jammed with 1970's horror clichés the use of the
shoestring budget and surrealism incorporated into Phantasm makes it a
pure Horror gem. It seems all the love goes to over rated films only
because they're so talked about and not actually analysed. This movie
has creeped me out more than any other Horror classic ever could now
and I'm far from the age I was when I used to be scared those films.
Phantasm is highly recommended to surrealist, horror and cult fanatics.
