

 Inchon exists in at least three versions, all of them very rare: a 90
minute British video version called "Operation Inchon"; a 105 minute
version; and the full 140 minutes version released theatrically in 1981.
This is a review of the 140 minute version.

 The past twenty years or so have turned Inchon into one of the film
industry's great jokes. Its huge budget, and the meagre box office returns
it made, have also destined it to forever be remembered as the biggest flop
of all-time. If ever a film deserved to be labelled as "infamous", then
Inchon is it.

 Laurence Olivier top-bills as Gen. Douglas MacArthur. Highly decorated for
his WWII heroics, MacArthur is called upon to repel an army of communist
forces from North Korea who have invaded their South Korean neighbours in
1950. Against the will of his colleagues, MacArthur masterminds an ambitious
landing at the awkwardly-situated port of Inchon. Interwoven into this
invasion story are several sub-plots, including the story of Barbara
Hallsworth (Jacqueline Bisset), an American lady who leads a group of
orphans to safety, and her husband Maj. Frank Hallsworth (Ben Gazzara), who
is ordered to seize and hold a strategically important lighthouse in Inchon
harbour.

 It is extraordinary that a budget of over $45 million was allocated to such
a badly scripted film. The dialogue is utterly laughable, almost in the
style of an exceptionally bad, cheesy TV mini-series. Left helpless in the
firing line by the terrible script, the actors (many of them greatly
talented) give undisciplined performances. Olivier's turn as MacArthur, for
example, is surreal in its awfulness. The battle scenes are done on a big
scale but fail to convey authenticity or realism. And, worst of all, there's
a peculiar religious subtext as MacArthur repeatedly rants on about the
God-given justness he senses in the cause of America and her allies. The
film has curiosity value (it's perversely interesting to see so many stars
in such deep trouble) but beyond that it offers nothing worth your
time.
<|_=00=_|>

It's inescapable that "Inchon" is a bad movie.  I mean, look at its
pedigree: 

*Funded by Moonies (Reverend Sun Myung Moon dipped deep in his pockets for
this one), 

*A morbidly stupid script (originally authored by the screenwriter for "The
Happy Hooker"?  Please....), 

*A director working under haphazard circumstances (Young did great with the
James Bond films but language barriers ruined countless shots and drove the
cost of the film sky high),

*A cast that is capable of greatness but not in this instance (Bisset,
Gazzara, Roundtree, Janssen, Mifune, Olivier!!!!),

*And a budget that most frequently disappears from the screen (how can $48
million not show on the screen?  This is the movie that answers that
question).

I saw this many moons ago (get it? Ha ha....) at my local theater on a
double bill with "The Last American Virgin" (yes, you read right) and I
think "Virgin" suffered from the association.

And Laurence Olivier has been in great things ("Wuthering Heights",
"Rebecca", "Henry V", "Richard III", "Spartacus", "Sleuth") but has also
been in his share of very bad things ("The Betsy", "The Boys from Brazil",
"Dracula"/1979, "The Jazz Singer", "The Jigsaw Man", "Wild Geese II").  But
as a putty-faced, mascara-smeared, gravel-voiced variation of General
Douglas McArthur (more like his Loren Hardeman character from "The Betsy"),
Olivier washes away all he'd accomplished with his Shakespeare work and
takes on the guise of a wax dummy (with almost as much
expressiveness).

And the movie itself?  Forget everything you thought you knew about the
Korean War and all its planning, maneuvers and troop placements.  It's just
about soldiers running back and forth, explosions, ships sailing far out of
camera range and Douglas McArthur reciting the Lord's Prayer.  Oh, and
Bissett bouncing around.  That's entertainment (sort of)!

On top of all of this, there was always the fear in its first-run status
that Moonies would be posted at every theater in America to recruit
Moonies-to-be.  I escaped that but not the movie itself.

In the end, I can see why this one isn't on video or TV or even bootlegged
on Ebay.  "Inchon" may have been an important battle but the only thing the
movie is important for is showing that it can waste more money that
"Heaven's Gate".  Congratulations!

No stars for "Inchon" - it shall NOT return.
<|_=00=_|>

For the most part no one has watched this film in the twenty plus years
since it was released to theaters. Considering that almost no one saw it
when it was released I think the producers certainly know what they are
doing.

While the film, which tells of the turning point in the Korean War, isn't
good, or even fair, its not the worst war film ever made.Granted its close,
but its not in the top ten or even top 25. 

As bad as it is it should be watched by anyone in film school as examples of
what not to do for money. First and foremost is Olivier's performance as Mac
Arthur which IS simply so bad that that every award he ever received should
have had to have been given back. Its one of the screens worst moments, and
a warning of what happens when wax figures are left too long in the sun.
Olivier's make up makes him look like the left over at fire sale in a wax
museum.

The film is indifferently directed while the writing is bad TV soap opera.
Its cleared no one cared about this film other than its producer who threw
scads of money but to no avail.

An example of how and why not to make a movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I am one of the few people on this Earth who actually saw "Inchon"
during its brief theatrical run in 1982, and did not see it again until
a cable recording came my way very recently. It was fascinating to
revisit this train wreck of a movie that took what should have been a
fascinating event in history, and instead with a bloated budget of $40
million and the interference of the Moonies, turned it into something
that ultimately isn't the worst thing ever produced for the screen, but
at the same time is something that could have been made cheaply for TV
at a fraction of the cost.

The thing "Inchon" most resembles is the godawful 1979 ABC miniseries
"Pearl" which took the events of another famous event in history, and
gave us a soapy, silly melodrama about a bunch of boring fictional
characters. In "Inchon", the goings on of Ben Gazzara, Jacqueline
Bisset (who looks stunning), Richard Roundtree and the wasted David
Janssen could just as easily have been at home in some made for TV
potboiler that utilized stock footage for the big moments. It's because
"Inchon" had an A-level budget, and an inordinance of expensive set
design and extras etc. that in the end made its flaws magnified in ways
that a cheap TV miniseries like "Pearl" could keep obscured.

The acting...sheesh, Olivier does get the look of MacArthur right but
Terence Young was clearly asleep when giving him instruction on how to
deliver his lines, and the script he was given didn't help matters
either. As for the rest, they're okay in a TV movie kind of way, but
that's largely damning with faint praise. Jerry Goldsmith's score is
great, as is the cinemtaography.

I will say one thing though to a couple reviewers though who think the
greatest sin of this movie is its anti-communism. That is really about
the ONLY thing you can give this movie a plus for, because the North
Koreans of Kim Il Sung were a brutal thug regime and their invasion of
the South was not a case of as one reviewer falsely implied one where
atrocities were equally committed by both sides. The prologue to the
movie that summarizes how Kim Il Sung flew to Moscow to receive
permission from Stalin to go ahead with the invasion is dead accurate
in its description of the real history and it sadly offers the initial
hope that we're going to get a movie more in the mold of "The Longest
Day" or "Tora! Tora! Tora!". Instead we got a movie that was as noted
in the mold of "Pearl" and almost exclusively utilizing the bad
fictional subplots that nearly wrecked "Midway." So yes, "Inchon" is
bad, but not necessarily for the reasons that some people would like to
have us think. It was ultimately more the fault of the scriptwriters,
the actors and the director that "Inchon" turned out to be as bad as it
was, than the heavy-hand of the Moonie cult (though their PR for the
movie certainly dragged it down further).
<|_=00=_|>

I never got to see this movie in a theatrical release; I got to see the
first part of it cut up for cable TV -- on a cable channel not known for
movies. I wanted, honestly, to see a reverential treatment of the UN side
of
the Korean War, a war whose importance is now greatly underrecognized,
and
especially of one of the key battles in history. The war was, after all,
the
first in which the commies did not succeed in turning over a domino, so
to
speak.

The movie got off to a bad start with one of the actors (Ben Gazzara)
launching into a long narrative monologue about the father of General
MacArthur while on an airline flight. First of all, General Douglas
MacArthur is the key figure of the movie, and his father was already long
dead and irrelevant to the plot. Second, the long-winded monologue is not
ordinary conversation of the type that one would expect between airline
passengers! With the possible exception of university professors who
can't
be fired and dictators who can't be criticized, nobody gets away with
such
long-winded, irrelevant, narrative monologues in normal
life.

Absurdities pile upon absurdities, and irrelevancies pile upon
irrelevancies. Soldiers synchronize watches whose second hands aren't
moving, and one gets a closeup of such an action. If you are going to
show a
close-up of any action, then make it real. Maudlin events at an orphanage
take up much footage. Well, the Korean War was a carnage for civilians of
all types, wasn't it? Soldiers taking Inchon fail to show fear -- and I
can't imagine anyone going behind enemy lines not being scared out of his
wits unless a psycho. Taking the lighthouse at Inchon, soldiers notice
that
the lighting and lens assembly was made in France (anyone who knows
anything
about lighthouses == and I live in a state that has lots of them -- knows
that the lighthouse mechanisms and lenses from about a century ago all
came
from France).

The best movie about the Korean War remains MASH, and it centers upon
support units. The brilliant invasion of central Korea at Inchon deserves
far better treatment than this quicksand.

<|_=00=_|>
I recall the one weekend that this movie was in theatrical release. I
was on a first date and there were absolutely no date-worthy movies
playing. A bunch of well-dressed students (whom I later guessed to be
Moonies)were lined up to see this one. Upon investigation I saw the
producers were raffling off a Rolls Royce to all who bought a ticket.
"Ooohh," she said. "Wouldn't it be fun if we won a car by going to see
a movie?" OK, so I relented.

In retrospect even if we had won the car it wouldn't have been worth
it. It wasn't even laughably bad. It was just pathetic, watching Sir
Laurence's career spiraling down the money pit. Just a few short months
after watching him flounder in "The Jazz Singer," here he was with an
inch of pancake makeup spouting religious homilies.

It was a time when MacArthur was out of favor and the Cold War was in
full swing, so the Reverend Moon was determined to use the latter to
rectify the former. I am certainly not an expert on the military
history of the Korean War so make no claims as to its historical
accuracy. But with the over the top moralizing here I sat there knowing
I was being manipulated, brainwashed, whatever.

And, on cue, the proselytizing for the Unification Church began as soon
as the final credits rolled.

Uck, what a sickening experience. I never went out with her again.

Fortunately Sir Laurence rebounded shortly after with Clash Of The
Titans and a few other not-quite-so-bad performances on made-for-TV
movies so we aren't stuck with this as the last impression of this
great actor.
<|_=00=_|>

I never thought I'd ever hear that line in my entire life. Laurence
Olivier
is a highly esteemed well-established actor with many film accreditations
under his belt from a career in the film industry that has spanned well
over
six decades. Why he chose to sign on to this monstrosity of a film is just
beyond belief.

"INCHON" had the misfortune of being released in 1981, the first year the
infamous Golden Raspberry Award (a.k.a. Razzie) came into existence and it
grandly swept nearly every category including Worst Picture and Worst
Actor.

Upon it's theatrical release, "INCHON" was heavily panned by the critics
and
played in theaters to which no one bothered showing up. It was pulled
almost
a few weeks after its initial release. The production and creativity
involved with this highly-expensive film project involved nearly 5 whole
years in the making, a crew of 250 technicians, 3000 actors (mostly
extras),
18 tanks, 12 armored personnel carriers, 24 jeeps, a plethora of
explosives
and special effects and a bloated budget of nearly 48 million dollars. Did
I
also forget to mention that this film was financed by the Reverend Sun
Myung
Moon?

Yes, in published interviews with Reverend Moon, he has openly stated that
'God' himself TOLD him to make this movie. With that controversy aside,
"INCHON" itself is a repulsive scrap of film. The premise for "INCHON" is
loosely based on the incidents involving the United Nations forces landing
at Inchon, port city of Seoul, during the Korean War on September 15,
1950.
It is a wretched retelling of General Douglas MacArthur's amphibious
victory
in the early stages of the Korean War.

Laurence Olivier portrays MacArthur, supported by an international star
cast
which would include Ben Gazarra, Richard Roundtree, David Janssen and
Jacqueline Bisset who looks absolutely ridiculous in the role as the wife
of
an Army Major. Unfortunately, the biggest problem here is that the
director,
Terence Young, finds it impossible to overcome the poor script which
generally leaves only the wartime melodrama and pyrotechnics for interest.

There is absolutely nothing positive about "INCHON" to talk about. The
unedited version runs for nearly two and a half hours. It is a painful
experience to watch this off-base and factually incorrect travesty.
Furthermore, I find it extremely embarrassing to watch Laurence Olivier
making a fool out of himself by appearing in this noisy and absurd garbage
when he should have been finding time to redeem his reputation after
starring in the Razzie-winning "THE JAZZ SINGER".

Shame on everyone involved in this movie. It is extremely impossible to
find
a copy of "INCHON" at your local video store and no cable channel would
dare
run it, which is just as well. Trust me, you don't want to see this
movie.

My Rating - 0 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
I will say that Inchon did have some nicely filmed battle sequences,
but one of the greatest surprise military maneuvers of all time got a
short shrift with the rest of the film. A nice documentary type film
like The Longest Day would have been ideal. The back story certainly
wasn't needed.

And that horrible makeup job that Laurence Olivier was given must have
been done by Tammy Faye Bakker's people. He looks like a refugee from
Madame Tussaud's. He sounds nothing like Douglas MacArthur. Olivier had
the further misfortune to have his role come so soon after Gregory Peck
portrayed MacArthur in MacArthur.

The story is that Olivier at some point in the early Seventies feeling
he had nothing to prove any more to be at the pinnacle of his
profession. So he began taking parts strictly for the cash. As this
film was produced by the Reverend Sun Yung Moon no one ever said the
Moonies lacked cash. Olivier uses the same American type accent he did
in Cat On A Hot Tin Roof and in another of his for the money only
projects The Betsy.

The rest of the cast Ben Gazzara, Jacqueline Bisset, David Janssen,
Toshiro Mifune etc. act with the smug confidence that they're Moonie
checks just cleared the bank. 

The landing at Inchon, done at the dawn hours within a narrow framework
of time determined by the tides and on the western side of the Korean
peninsula was militarily drawing to an inside straight. No doubt
Douglas MacArthur deserves all kinds of kudos for what he did, even his
sternest detractors have said it was brilliant. Said it did not get a
film worthy of the achievement.

Inchon may have done one thing though. Laurence Olivier if not the only
actor to win both an Oscar and a Razzie in his life certainly became
the first to do it.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm absolutely shocked by Inchon's terrible rating and the reviews
portraying it as the worst thing in the history of mankind. OK, so it's
not a masterpiece, but Jesus!... there are Adam Sandler movies that
didn't get this kind of flak!

I'm not gonna talk about the budget, who paid for what and all that
stuff. Let's stick to the movie. The major problem is Robin Moore's
awful screenplay. The war subject is treated superficially and the love
story is dull and not believable. Ben Gazarra is an American officer
stationed in South Korea. He's married to Jacqueline Bisset but their
marriage sinks and he hooks up with a local girl. When the Korean war
starts, he feels obligated to take his wife out of the country. They
meet, talk for about five minutes and get back together. It's
ridiculous, not to mention the fact that Bisset and Gazarra had zero
chemistry.

As far as the rest of the cast goes, Olivier does a great job as
Macarthur. I never really cared for his American accent but he was such
a consummate actor, such a master of his craft that even when he was
not at the top of his game (he was ill at the time) it's still a
pleasure to watch him perform. It's also a delight to see the wonderful
Toshirô Mifune, even if they gave him a tiny role that doesn't do him
justice. The Korean girls - actresses Karen Kahn (Lim) and Lydia Ley
(Mila) - are pretty good. David Janssen e Richard Roundtree have small,
rather pointless roles.

Battle scenes are above average. Jerry Goldsmith's musical score is
good. The editing sucks; apparently more than half an hour of finished
film ended up on the cutting room floor. Sound is also weird; machine
gun shots sometimes remind us of cartoon gunshots.

Overall it's a flawed production but very far from being the horrible
disaster people made it out to be. To my knowledge it hasn't been
released on VHS or DVD, and that's very wrong. The worst thing I could
say about Inchon is that rather than a Hollywood expensive A-list
movie, it looks like a Lifetime movie of the week. Or a B movie. That's
it.

If you have a chance to watch it, by all means do.
<|_=00=_|>
Many years ago, before the existence of YouTube (where you can watch
this movie if you really want to see it), I arranged for an Internet
buddy of mine to watch my bootleg copy of it, since he really wanted to
see it. After he saw it, his comment pretty much sums up my view of the
movie: "Painfully dull and mediocre." Yes, you may have heard that the
critical consensus at the time of the movie's release was that the
movie was incredibly inept a la PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE, but that's not
the case. It's just boring for the most part, and unintentional laughs
are hard to find. But there's more fault to be found than just that.
It's frankly embarrassing at times to view Laurence Olivier, who was at
this point far from his prime as well as being miscast. As a matter of
fact, the rest of the cast doesn't do much better in giving compelling
performances. And while an insane amount of money was spent on
production, much of the movie has a made for television look and feel
to it. 

I have a feeling that my comments won't stop people who really want to
watch this movie (which as of this date has still not been issued on
VHS or DVD) after hearing so many bad things about it over the years.
To a degree I can understand this. But all the same, after you watch
it, don't say that you weren't warned.
