
Back in early 20th century, Lumière brothers didn't have a clue of what
they were playing with. I'm freaking sure that if somebody could have
magically told them that thanks to their work, a movie like 'Alien'
would have been made in the future, they both would have died of a
sudden, shocked by the consequences of their labor, like an honest
scientist would if he was shown an evil use of his research. In that
sense, but in the best way imaginable, 'Alien' is the atomic bomb.

In my opinion, 'Alien' is the only perfect movie in the history of
cinema. Of course, this could be debatable, but of all the films I've
watched since I was born, this is the only one in which I haven't been
able to find the slightest flaw. It gets a golden ten out of ten.
Bright, solid and massive.

I could go on with a panegyric, but I'll try to be short and accurate:

The direction is just perfect. Every shot is marvellous, every movement
of the camera is breathtaking. There is absolutely nothing you could
add or subtract. Touch it, and you spoil it. Seriously.

The acting is splendid. The performances build a credible world
centuries away. I don't know about you, but this take on the future was
unveliabably acceptable. Sigourney Weaver is more than a revelation,
John Hurt is a master, and the rest are nothing short of marvellous.

The script is a work of art, the story is mesmerizing,
well-constructed, well-developed, and free of absurd twists. Its
simplicity and efectiveness are yet, 25 years after, to be matched.

The atmosphere is pure genius. Gothic, claustrophobic and sometimes
baroque. The use of light and dark is beyond description, the use of
sound is as creepy as it gets.

The FX are the best possible for 1979. In the time of the release, some
scenes were stomach churning.

The score. Jerry Goldsmith's work matches the images so perfectly it
seems to bleed from them. It is and will be the best soundtrack for a
sci-fi flick in space ever.

The tagline. "In space, no one can hear you scream". THIS is a tagline.

And, of course... the alien. The only alive creature that can steal
Weaver the movie. Its design is the most innovative I've seen. It has
spawned dozens of disgraceful imitations. This is the real deal. Not
only the look, but the complete design of a life form, including
biological features. Acid instead of blood. Jaws inside jaws. What more
could you possibly want? This is how a movie is done.

A very good sign of a movie that has gone down in history is the amount
of collectively well remembered scenes. Well, 'Alien' has so many that
I won't go into it. This movie contains so many iconic scenes that has
become an icon itself.

So, what else? I urge all young directors to watch this movie a zillion
times, as I've already done, and take notes all along. But not in order
to rip off from it, as many others have done, but to learn, learn,
learn, learn and learn how a movie should be done. 'Casablanca'? You
must be joking.

Oh, I almost forget! There's a lovable cat in it.

RATING: 10
<|_=00=_|>

Director Ridley Scott's well-honed talents of pacing and editing create a
tense atmosphere that superbly conveys dread and fear of an unknown, unseen
evil entity.  In 1979, the technology didn't exist to generate a computer
image of a Being from another world, and thank God, because this film would
have sucked just like all these post-Alien creature features do.  Everyone
who loves this movie knows what I'm talking about.  Ridley Scott had to be
extremely careful not to show a full shot of the Alien, except in very brief
scenes, and not to reveal exactly how it moves, because then we would see
that it is just some tall, skinny guy in a rubber suit.  Nowadays, some
computer guy would whip up a really scary-looking, but nevertheless
FAKE-looking (yes, computer guys, we can tell) Alien, and the director would
not have to even think about trying to breathe life into H.R. Giger's
hallucinations to make a successful picture.

The dark, cold beauty of this film will never be equaled.
<|_=00=_|>
In "Alien" we follow a seven man crew en-route to earth on board the
huge space freighter "Nostromo". The crew is in cryosleep, but the on
board computer interrupts the journey when a foreign radio signal is
picked up. It originates from an uninhabited planet and the crew lands
to investigate. There they make contact with an alien life-form...

What makes Alien so great is the constant feel of uneasiness. Right
from the beginning you have a feeling that something is wrong. The crew
is not particularly friendly towards each other, and you truly feel all
the in-group tension. The ship itself is a huge worn out
industrial-style maze of halls and corridors, and it feels more like a
prison than a place to live. It is as if not only the alien but also
the ship itself is against the humans. The Alien itself is the scariest
monster in history because it is a ruthless, soul-less parasite
completely devoid of any human or civilized traits. The design of the
monster is a stroke of genius. Sure it has a humanoid form, but it has
no facial traits or anything else which could give away emotions or
intentions. Its actions reveals no weaknesses nor civilized
intelligence. The Alien is more or less the opposite of everything
human and civilized, plus the creature is more well-adapted to the
inhumane interior of the ship than the humans who build it. To sum up,
you then have a setting where the humans are caught in a web of
in-group tensions, an inhospitable ship and the perfect killer which
thrives in the ships intestines. You almost get the feel that the
humans are the ones who are alienated to each other and to their own
ship.

Ridley Scott tells the story with a perfectly synchronized blend of
visuals and sounds. 

The actors do a superb job, portraying their characters in a subtle but
very realistic way. The seven man crew is not a bunch of Hollywood
heroes. They are ordinary people with strengths and weaknesses, likes
and dislikes. In this way they all seem so fragile when confronted with
the enemy. 

As mentioned the ship is very claustrophobic and Ridley Scott adds to
the eeriness by using camera movement, lights and shadows in an
effective way. The living quarters are bright and should be comfortable
to the crew, but there is something sterile about it all. The rest of
the ship is basically a huge basement. 

The music by Jerry Goldsmith underlines the eeriness so well, and the
movie wouldn't have worked without his score. Combined with the sounds
of the ship it all adds to the uneasiness. 

This is not a story about heroic people who boldly teams up against
evil. It's a story about ordinary people facing true fear, which is the
fear without a face. The fear we can't understand and can't negotiate
with, because its only goal is to survive on the expense of us. It's a
story where some people bravely fight back whilst others are destroyed
by the terror. It's a story where people a killed in a completely
random way. There is no higher-order justice behind who gets to live
and who dies. All seven characters are just part of a race where the
fittest - not necessarily the most righteous - will prevail, and all
seven characters start the race on an equal footing. None of them are
true heroes, and none of them are true villains. 

All the above makes Alien so great as a horror movie. The terror isn't
just the Alien itself, it's the entire atmosphere which gets so
effectively under your skin, that you just can't shrug it off after the
end credits like you can with so many other Hollywood horror movies.
The title "Alien" doesn't just refer to the monster, it is the theme of
the movie and it is the feeling you have during and after the movie.
9/10
<|_=00=_|>

The further we go in special effects, the more movies show us and ignore the
unseen, the more people will return to dark horrors like this
one.

It's hard to look at this film without considering the sequels and knowing
the alien itself, however when made the alien was mostly unseen and a
mystery. It's difficult to forget what you've seen, but it's important to
approach this film first if possible rather than joining the series
late.

It's amazing that this is over 20 years old - apart from the actors looking
so young, the film doesn't feel dated at all. The sci-fi visions here are
still bleak and futuristic as they were then - this is not the Star Trek
vision of the future. The foreboding exists long before John Hurt spills his
secret, Scott's direction is excellent throughout. Once the alien is "born"
the tension is cranked up and the characters dispatched one by one (a
formula we know oh-so well now!)

However here the characters are not merely alien-food but have some
dimension to them. Weaver is excellent, while the support cast is full of
great support actors (Stanton, Kotto, Hurt, Skerritt, Holm), but of course
the real star is the one we see least of.

We barely see the alien in full detail, most of the time it is set in
shadows, moving with deadly intent.The alien here is not simply a killing
machine as seen in later films but is cruel with it. Witness the alien trap
a female crew member and slowly rub up her leg, moving with slow seductive
movements before moving with terrifying speed to kill another crew member
sneaking up behind it. The slow movements betray the alien's pure
cruelty.

The film is a study in terror. It may not be as action packed as the other
films in the series but it brings the claustrophobia of being hunted to a
new level.


<|_=00=_|>
ALIEN received mixed reviews when it debuted in 1979--largely from
science fiction critics, who accused it of being little more than a
sort of Friday the 13th in Outer Space, a blood-and-gore horror flick
given a futuristic twist via special effects. But while these
accusations have more than a little truth, it has been an incredibly
influential film--and even today, in the wake of CGI effects, it still
holds up extremely, extremely well.

The story is well known: the crew of an interstellar craft responds to
what seems a distress signal, only to encounter a remarkably lethal
alien life form that boards their ship and sets about picking them off
one by one. Some of the special effects are weak (the alien spacecraft
and the android "revival" are fairly notorious). There is little in the
way of character development, the film has a fairly slow pace, and the
story itself is predictable; you can usually guess who is going to die
next.

BUT. The art designs are incredible: the entire look of the film, from
the commercial nature of the spacecraft to the iconographic alien
itself (brilliantly envisioned by Giger) is right on the money.
Director Ridley Scott encouraged his cast to ad lib from the script,
and the result is a shocking sense of realism--and the somewhat slow
pace of the film and the predictability of the story gives it a sense
of relentless and ever-mounting paranoia that is greatly enhanced by
the tight sets and camera set-ups. With its odd mixture of womb-like
organics and cold mechanics, ALIEN is a film calculated to send even
the most slightly claustrophobic viewer into a fit of hysteria.

The entire cast, led by Tom Skerrit and Sigorney Weaver, is very, very
good--and the film abounds with memorable images and scenes ranging
from John Hurt's encounter with the alien egg to Skerrit's search of
the ship air ducts to Weaver's terrifying race against time as the ship
counts down to self-destruct. Seldom has any film been so consistent in
design, cast, direction, and out-and-out fear factor, and although
certain aspects of ALIEN are open to legitimate criticism the end
result is powerful enough to bring it in at a full five stars. A word
of warning, however: you'll need to send the kids to bed for this one.
And you'll probably be up half the night afterward yourself!
Recommended.

Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer
<|_=00=_|>

'Alien' while technically science fiction is also one of the greatest
horror/suspense movies ever made. Ridley Scott is now one of the most well
known and successful directors in Hollywood, but I don't think anything he's
made in the last ten years is a patch on this perfect film, which is a near
masterpiece in my opinion. In fact, on reflection there are only three Scott
movies I genuinely like, those being his first three. The last of these
'Blade Runner' was released twenty years ago now, so to me Scott is long
past his use by date. Whatever, 'Alien' itself is a brilliant piece of work,
and is almost flawless. Scott's direction is superb and everything else
about it is outstanding - a strong script from Dan O'Bannon et al, an
evocative score from Jerry Goldsmith, brilliant design and special effects,
including the amazing contributions from H.R.Giger, all add up to an amazing
movie experience. I also really liked how the cast were character actors and
not "stars" so there was plenty of suspense generated as to who will live
and who will die. This is something very few subsequent movies have done,
'Pitch Black' being one of the exceptions. Sigourney Weaver may be an icon
as Ripley now, but when the movie was first released she was virtually
unknown, having had a small cameo in Woody Allen's 'Annie Hall' and not much
else. The rest of the cast are equally as good. I especially enjoyed Yaphet
Kotto ('Blue Collar') and the legendary Harry Dean Stanton ('Wise Blood') as
the wise cracking "below deck" crew. Many people seem to prefer James
Cameron's sequel 'Aliens' over this, but as I much prefer horror and
suspense movies to action ones I think this is definitely the better movie,
and still the strongest and most effective in the series. 'Alien' is a
horror classic and an absolutely unforgettable movie that I can't recommend
highly enough. If you haven't seen it before watch it immediately!
<|_=00=_|>
"In space, no one can hear you scream." This remains my favourite
tagline ever for a movie. When 'Alien' was released in 1979, it caused
almost as much talk as 'Star Wars' did when released two years earlier.
The science fiction genre was being revolutionized at this time and
'Alien' had a horror characteristic to it which was psychological,
visually striking and compelling with the type of strength in silence
not seen since '2001: A Space Odyssey' in 1968. Definitely a big
influence in blockbuster film making, 'Alien' has spawned three sequels
so far and is a great horror/science-fiction classic not to be missed.
It is director Ridley Scott's best effort on the big screen for making
fear the best character in the film.
<|_=00=_|>

The beginning of one of the greatest series of all time. This film will
 always remain a classic. It's scary, influential and insanely entertaining.
 Not just that but Ridley Scott actually has a great sense of style and mood
 and he plays with that a lot, to make us shiver. There's also an
 interesting mystery surrounding the Alien which we know practically nothing
 about. Sigourney Weaver is just as powerful as usual and really brings
 strength to the film; they make one. Last but not least, the musical score.
 Wow! It's fantastic. I think the Alien series is known for that aspect as
 well. Let's hope they'll continue the series and dang we need it all on DVD
!
<|_=00=_|>
Three words perfectly describe ALIEN: Long, dark and ominous.

You know you're in for a good time when even the opening title gives
you a shiver. The music plays perfectly as the word 'ALIEN' slowly
appears, line by line. Then there are the establishing shots of the
ship; poorly maintained, claustrophobic.

And then there's basically forty minutes of people in a ship pondering
and eating and getting along (or not). The film has one little thing
that allows it to draw you along so slowly - a promise. A promise made
by the advertisements and hype that this was going to kick your ass.
You just had to wait.

But when it happens, it happens. Though the film doesn't speed up per
se, there's a lot more happening in front of the screen to make it at
least look like stuff's going on. The first half crawls almost
depressingly, but the second half catches your eye and refuses to let
go.

I suggest everyone sees this film. Even if you skip through the
beginning, you need to see this. It defined sci-fi and horror all in
one.

It's perfect.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the finest science fiction films ever made. Everything
is so carefully and expertly constructed to the point that repeated
viewings are just as good as the first. Also, the atmosphere, along
with the amazing sets, is real shocker and few movies have managed to
create the same kind eerie feeling.

The story starts with the crew of the cargo vessel "Nostromo" waking up
before schedule. They soon realize their on-board computer has detected
life on a nearby planet and they go to investigate. One of them
unwillingly brings back an...ALIEN (!) which soon becomes a very
unwanted passenger. The introduction of the title creature in the
famous chest-burster scene is a real jolter. Especially if you watch it
after dinner.

The music, too, must be mentioned and it moves the story along with
unrelenting terror. However, the lack of music, in certain scenes,
works just as well and this combination makes for one of the best
musical montages to be put on film.

This is a classic film that spawned a series, which is good overall,
and a bunch of copycats, many of which are just sad. "Alien" came first
and it is easily one the best. 10/10

Rated R: violence/gore and profanity
