
I'll just be honest here --- when I originally saw Always at the cinema
in 1989, it was just a few months after my big brother passed away
prematurely at the age of forty, and I'm not at all afraid to say that
I cried like a baby. Like so many Americans, I have watched far too
many films that i have taken to heart, but you know, Always is probably
one of the final American films to ever really explore and display such
deep human issues as unconditional love, mortality, and what a hero
really is -- and isn't. It may be mushy, romantic, and a bit flawed,
but I am proud that Spielberg made this bitter-sweet film -- I just saw
it again and, if anything, it comes across as even more humane and
honest in today's America of aggression, greed, and "relative" truth.
If you've ever really, honestly, been so in love and committed to
someone that you were willing to unconditionally put their needs before
you own, or if you've ever lost anyone who meant the world to you,
check it out. It changed my life when I first saw it because it made
consider death in a new light... and it is about to totally change my
life again as I have decided to live every moment for the rest of it as
honest and decent and true to myself as possible --something that few
of us today are willing to admit is lacking in our lives.
<|_=00=_|>

I lost my husband suddenly about 2 years ago.  I first watched this movie
about 10 years ago and I enjoyed it.  Then, I watched it last night
again.
This time, it was much more personal to me, and I still enjoyed it,only
in a
different way. The relationship between Holly Hunter and Richard Dreyfuss
was portrayed wonderfully. The selfishness he felt when seeing her and
Ted
together for the first time was so very honest and painful. The pain she
feels at moving on with her life, the love and concern John Goodman shows
her, the uncertainty of her future and the way she will handle it kept me
on
the edge of my seat. The emotions were so real and many of them were the
same ones I have felt over the past 2 years.  The scene where Dorinda
dances
alone yet with Pete simply sent me to the tissues. When she is putting
out
that last fire, and is contemplating the rest of her life alone hit home
as
well. I cried for almost the entire movie this time. The actors portrayed
their characters as real as can be, and I truly felt their pain and
confusion.  I read the book years ago and I feel that this is one of the
few
times the movie is as good as the book. This time after watching it, I
actually was able to find a little peace in my life situation.  If you
have
ever suffered a major loss in your life, I wholeheartedly recommend this
movie- even if you haven't, the acting, the script and the movie as a
whole
gets a 9.0 in my book.  Keep a box of kleenex nearby.
<|_=00=_|>
Spielberg deserves a fresh look. I open with that because as I read the
decidedly mixed thoughts on this and other films of his, I notice the
same thought over and over again. People who review Spielberg usually
want to pigeonhole him into a type: the ET-warm-and-fuzzy-alien
children's storyteller versus the
special-effects-heavy-but-rather-empty-plot dreamer. All the while
there is the generic whine of 'why doesn't he ever try to do something
else (SCHINDLER'S LIST notwithstanding)?' Then when he does, as
evidenced here, there are wails of dissatisfaction that he tried to do
something over his head. Oy.

It's so silly to label and categorize a filmmaker so much. ALWAYS is,
first and foremost, a love story. A remake of an earlier film to be
sure, but even this 1989 treatment looks and feels nostalgic with its
amber-tinted cinematography, the sentimental presentation of the
devoted fighter pilots, even Holly Hunter's birthday gift of 'girl
clothes' tips a hat to 1940's elegance. And you can't get more
nostalgic than the appearance of the ageless, magical Audrey Hepburn
(sharp as a tack in her last film as a bright-eyed, no-nonsense angel).
All of Hepburn's scenes with Richard Dreyfuss are wonderful (especially
the first one when she tries- slightly befuddled- to explain his state
of existence), as is the leitmotiv of "Smoke Gets In Your Eyes-" used
in two dance sequences with Dreyfuss and Hunter: one at a charming
birthday party (watching all the burly firemen clean up is a riot), the
other in a bewitching soliloquy of mourning. And once again, John
Goodman rises to the occasion as the best friend anyone could ever
have. Just saw it on TCM, rounding out a July 2005 tribute to Ms.
Hepburn. You should check it out.
<|_=00=_|>

It has been a while since I have seen this 'Always.' The years, I should
say, have done this film justice.

A noted cinephile, I know when to eat my words, and this is one is for the
books. Sincere. Honest. Touching. Obviously sparked with a late-eighties,
Spielbergian hyper-real, cinematic extensions and flair, these elements do
not bog the film downs as, say, with '1941' or 'The Color Purple.' And why
should we expect modern filmmakers to be like those of the forties or
fifties? Modern filmmakers are just that -- modern. 

Holly Hunter is a walking dream and she has talent in droves. I have long
had a crush on her and her funny mouth. She is simply enchanting and steals
the show. Goodman, for once, is kept under control. Dreyfuss, with the
thankless role of revisiting his past and commenting on the future, is the
weakest link but only just. Sumptuously photographed by deftly edited, this
story of unrequited love is as universal as mothers and babies. If it
doesn't bring tears to your eyes, shame on you. The best advice to view this
film is to forget it is a Spielberg film. Enjoy it for the love story that
it is and sink into its voluptuous and charged charm.

We should all hope we become angels in the mist, able to return to Earth to
right all the wrongs of the world.

This may be one Spielberg's most romantic films, next to A.I., which is a
supremely magnificent film and, also, equally dismissed when it first
arrived on the scene.

I urge all to give this film a second chance.


<|_=00=_|>

Roger Ebert made the colossal blunder of calling this unceremoniously
trashed 1989 romantic drama "Spielberg's weakest since '1941'".  Spielberg
hadn't made HOOK yet.  And make no mistake about it, this was
unceremoniously trashed (just as A.I. is being unceremoniously
trashed).

ALWAYS is in essence a reworking (rather than an outright remake) of the
1943 Victor Fleming classic A GUY NAMED JOE.  Richard Dreyfuss, Spielberg's
favorite Everyman, is the fire-fighting pilot who is great at putting out
fires but has this horrible penchant for taking unnecessary chances in the
air.  Even his best friend (John Goodman) thinks he's overdoing it; and now,
his one true love (Holly Hunter) has come down hard on him, basically saying
"Enough is enough."  Dreyfuss, scared of all this, agrees to change his ways
and settle down.  But on his last firefighting mission, after having saved
Goodman when the engine of Goodman's plane catches fire, Dreyfuss' plane
blows up, killing him instantly.

In heaven (or a burned-out forest, take your pick), Dreyfuss is met by his
guardian angel Hap (Audrey Hepburn, a final fitting performance), who tells
him that, yes, he is to go back and to give much inspiration to a future
aerial firefighter...but that's only part of it.  The problem is, of course,
what Hepburn didn't tell him the first time around.

Dreyfuss gives inspiration and (often witty and hilarious) guidance to this
rookie flyer (Brad Johnson).  After a few false starts, including the
hideously funny "dump-all-over-Al (Goodman)" sequence, Johnson begins to
learn the ropes.  But then, Johnson begins to fall in love with Hunter.  And
it is there that we realize that Dreyfuss can still feel pain, even though
he's dead.  Hepburn understands his pain, and says that he still has to
settle with Hunter.  Until he does that, not only won't Hunter be free of
her pain, but Dreyfuss won't be free of his.  The moment of truth comes in
the climax, a terrifying flight by Hunter through the flames of a mountain
firestorm in which Dreyfuss has to safely guide her out.  The coda is one of
the more heartfelt and touching sequences in history.

So many complained that this feels like a 1940s film with 1980s/1990s new
age mysticism.  In a certain way, it does.  But ALWAYS worked for me because
of its incredible emotional sensitivity.  Dreyfuss, Hunter, and Goodman are
really great in this film, as is Hepburn in her final role.  John Williams'
great score is the icing on the cake, and the use of "Smoke Gets In Your
Eyes" as the film's love theme is also appropriate.

ALWAYS is nowhere near being the bad film Roger Ebert and others made it out
to be.  Next to A.I., I think it is the most misunderstood film Spielberg
has ever made.  It's a real touching film, worth seeing again and
again.
<|_=00=_|>

At first glance, Always looks like a variation of Ghost, until one realizes
it is a remake of a much older movie. But it has something Ghost certainly
did not have -- Audrey Hepburn.

In what would be her final big-screen appearance, Audrey is radiant as the
angel Hap, who appears all too briefly in the film. From the moment her
famous voice is heard, time seems to stop. True, Audrey doesn't have a lot
to say -- although her Doctor Who-like non-explanation about time is funny
-- the few moments she is on screen are minutes to treasure. If Judi Dench
and Ingrid Bergman were able to get Oscars for glorified cameos, it's a
shame Hepburn didn't rate a nomination.  

Of course, much of what's special about Audrey's role in this film comes
from hindsight -- the fact she only had a couple more years to live, and the
fact she had only appeared a few times on film in the previous 20 years. But
we can be thankful to Steven Spielberg for not only getting Audrey to make
the appearance, but also for giving her a classy film in which to make her
swan song.
<|_=00=_|>
Having just seen a re-cap of AFI's 100 most romantic films, I decided
to go through my own video library to see how many I owned. Of course,
starting alphabetically, I pulled out "Always". It wasn't on AFI's
list. But it is on mine. I threw it in the VCR, having seen it at least
3-4 times before, and it was like watching it for the first time again.

To sum it up, I wept, from the opening to the closing scene. Rarely am
I so touched by a film that it affects me so strongly as to push aside
all rational thought and open up the flood gates. But I should expect
no less from the man (Spielberg) who single-handedly keeps the tissue
industry in the black. He knows how to tug those heart-strings. He's
doesn't just play off one emotion; he goes for them all! Drama, action,
humor, loss and love. And what he does in "Always", just like "Empire
of the Sun", "The Color Purple", "E.T.", "Schindler's List", and
"Saving Private Ryan"; is never let the rider off the coaster.

Unfortunately, at the release of "Always", he had not fully gained the
respect of the industry enough to prevent this film from being pushed
aside. For me, however, it's still right there up on top!

Kudos Spielberg , for reminding us that even your less-seen films were
done w/ brilliance, integrity, humor and a more than just a few tears.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a quality film, and it is one of the reasons why I think John
Goodman is a really a good actor who often goes unnoticed. This movie
would
have been decent with any cast, but I think the combination of John
Goodman,
Holly Hunter, and Richard Dreyfuss really brought the story to
life.
Additionally Spielberg does a good job of incorporating the
supernatural
presence of Pete Sandich's ghost without relying on dramatic special
effects. This movie is somewhat similar in theme to Ghost (which came out
one year after Always), but Ghost focuses more on the supernatural
aspects
and goes to great lengths to show the ghost walking through doors and
other
objects. To a certain extent these special effects take center stage in
ghost, whereas in Always you never see Richard Dreyfuss walk through
anything. All of the cool supernatural stuff happens offscreen leaving
the
plot and the characters as the main focal point.
That being said I think that the action scenes with the planes flying
over the forest fires are really thrilling. It's beautiful, and intense.
(I
think it makes the dogfights in Top Gun look like a Carousel
ride)
Go rent this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
An unexpected film from the director who made his name with box office
hits like ET, The Jaws (to say nothing of Indiana Johnes series).
Always comes from this period between all these kids' stories and a new
wave of escapist fantasies about dinosaurs. When a kid I loathed this
film because I did not understand it at all and was a big action
–special effects movies fan. Time changes a lot. I learned to
appreciate this magnificent picture and it is one of its biggest
secrets at the same time. I love this movie but can not clearly explain
why, there are lots of films which appear to me to be much more
interesting, lots of film which appear to me to be much more
intellectual but still I can not help loving this simple low budget
love/friendship story. I just want to tell you about some scenes from
Always which are my personal favorites:1.The fire pilot club scene when
Pete "remembered Dorinda's birthday wrong", He says:"Why do not we try
signaling to the band, it works in the movies" and then everyone
present wants to dance with Dorinda while Pete is watching the whole
affair from upstairs. It is so…..so perfect. 2.Hepburn – Dreyfull
dialogue in the field with her telling him about Spiritus "something
they get when they need it most".3. Dorinda and Ted dining with Dorinda
dancing to Platters tune. Words fail to describe it.4 The final scene
in the aircraft, and these Pete's last words:"You are going to have
wonderful life". JohnWilliams' score is awesome, especially the closing
titles theme-a sound of a lonely piano echoing…. Away with the
pretences this film weights 8 on my great movies scales because it
moves me, inspires me and I keep 9 and 10 only for all time classic
like Bergman's Virgin Spring or Griffith's Intolerance.
<|_=00=_|>
One of his lesser films, Always is a nice, touching story that seems to
never have found its proper audience. 

Wonderfully shot, well acted, the 1989 film is a departure from
Spielberg's usual fantasy and historical pictures but has echoes of
both. The firebomber sequences hint at some of the battle scenes from
Saving Private Ryan years down the road. 

Well worth checking out if you haven't seen it. Hepburn's final screen
appearance is gentle and touching. Spielberg is restrained in this
film. Perhaps he considers it a small film, but it is a forgotten gem
in many ways.
