
The 80s were overrun by all those HALLOWEEN/Friday THE 13TH
slasher-style horror movies, so this is something of a relief.

Ten unbelievably annoying teenagers (would you want to hang out with
these jerks?!) decide to throw a Halloween party at a local former
funeral parlor called "Hull House". During a "past life séance" a demon
is accidentally released, and each person becomes possessed and kills
off the others.

This all sounds very EVIL DEAD/DEMONS-ish, but Tenney lends some
directorial style to the proceedings, there are some good one-liners,
the music is excellent, the Steve Johnson prosthetic make-up FX are
scary and Linnea Quigley is quite fun as a boy-crazy bimbo who pokes
out eyeballs with her fingers and does an amazing new thing with a tube
of lipstick!

Great fun on a no-brainer level! After checking out the breakdown of
the voting and the other posted reviews, I don't understand how this
only received 4 out of 10 (?!)

I give it, 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Night of the Demons is by far one of my favorite horror films to date.
You really cannot go wrong with this picture. It's directed by the
master Kevin (Witchboard) Tenney and based on a Joe Augustyn script.

The film is based on a rowdy group of high school teens who decide to
throw a party in an old abandoned funeral parlor. Both Angela (Amelia
Kinkade) and and Suzanne (Linnea Quigley) are the ones responsible for
throwing this party together. They invite a small group of personal
friends together and host this party on none other than Halloween
Night. The party starts off as a real smash. However, throughout the
course of the night, Angela and Suzanne transform into demonic
characters and infect the rest of the guests.

There are some real classics deaths in this one. Jill (Sleepaway Camp
III) Terashita and her beau Philip Tanzini meet their untimely death,
while they are "working it out," in a casket of all places. Stooge, who
happens to be one of the highlights of the party, crushes them both in
the coffin. This death here, is one of my all time favorites. Also,
check out the lipstick scene with Linnea Quigley. 

This movie has it all, the house, the booze, naked chicks, violence and
demons. If you are into real bad movies, like myself, then go ahead and
check out this masterpiece.

I am also pleased to report that Anchor Bay has received the rights to
be able to release this fine movie finally on a DVD release. Boy, I
cannot wait. The street date is slated for an August 24th 2004 release
date.

If you haven't seen nor hear of this movie then I advise you to go
ahead and check it out. If you have seen this then hopefully you'll
pick it up on DVD once its released. 10/10 for a classic!
<|_=00=_|>
Night of the Demons is a great movie and an excellent example of how
good low-budget can be. Sure, much of it is fairly predictable, but
somehow it's still much more enjoyable than the crap we see these days
being passed off as "Horror". I give the gore a solid 9, and the
Demons' one-liners are actually funny. I'm still creeped out by "Stop
looking at me!" The soundtrack is well done, I was surprised to hear
"Stigmata Martyr" from Bauhaus! There is also some very nice T&A on
display, as well as some hella good make-up effects. The second film in
the series is pretty good too, but avoid the inferior third one. Night
of the Demons may be dated, dark, and low-rent, but it still has a lot
of potential. It's definitely worth a rental at least. Give it a chance
tonight, just stay away from any old makeup! (you'll understand when
you see it!)
<|_=00=_|>
This movie took me by surprise. The opening credit sequence features
nicely done animation. After that, we're plunged into a semi-cheesy
production, betraying its low budget. The characters, typical American
teens, are introduced slowly, with more personal detail than is usually
found in movies like this. By the time the shlitz hits the fan, we know
each one of the characters, and either like or hate them according to
their distinct personalities. It's a slow uphill set-up, kind of like
the ride up a slope of a really tall roller coaster. Thankfully, once
the action kicks in, it's full blown old school HORROR! Steve Johnson's
make-up effects are awesome. Equal in quality to much bigger budgeted
films. And the scares are jolting. Kevin Tenney delivers his best movie
ever, with heart-stopping surprises and creepy suspenseful set-ups. The
tongue-in-cheek, sometimes cheesy, humor marks this film as pure 80s
horror, as opposed to the sullen tone of earlier genre fare like "Night
of the Living Dead" or "Hills Have Eyes." But for true horror fans,
this one is worth checking out. Play it as the first entry on a double
bill with the 1999 remake of "House on the Haunted Hill." The set-up
and character dynamics are so similar that you really have to wonder
what film they were actually remaking?
<|_=00=_|>

  This is a great horror film for people who don't want all that
vomit-retching gore and sensationalism. This movie has equal amounts of
horror, suspense, humor, and even a little light nudity, but nothing big.
Linnea Quigley isn't over the top as she was in "Return of the Living Dead"
where she danced naked on a crypt, but she is still essentially the same
slutty character. Cathy Podewell is a virginal and chaste character before
going on to "Dallas," and we are also introduced to Amelia [soon Mimi]
Kinkade,the sexy and sinister would-be dark matron of the house. As she and
Linnea are possessed and take over the house, they reanimate the bodies of
their dead friends to scare the limits out of the survivors. I've heard a
lot of people compare this movie to "The Evil Dead," but if anything, this
movie is a rival to that one the same way Freddie rivaled Jason.This movie
series though is far superior to that one ! 
<|_=00=_|>
I remember seeing this film in the theater and liking it. I happened to
stumble upon it on fear net last month and watched it again and found
it better with age. First of all for those of you who describe this as
80s cheese if you objectively compare it with the horror flicks of the
past 2 decades it compares quite well if stacked up against films in
its unique horror sub genre which I would term action/horror as opposed
to psychological horror such as "The Shining" or "the exorcist".

Furthermore for its budget this film really delivers the goods (or in
this instance bad). The film actually has some character development
and gives enough of a history of the infamous hull house to get the
atmosphere right before the characters set foot in the front door. The
film also has several hilarious one liners and gives the appropriate
mood that a creepy horror flick should have. If you compare NOD to
contemporary big budget horror films such as "I am legend" (The Vincent
Price version was much better) this film really stands out. Modern
horror flicks have become almost completely dominated by CGI. Most have
no plot or character devel at all and are completely predictable. The
special effects dominate these movies from start to finish and the
characters are 24k plastic. If this is 80s horror cheese I'll take it
over 95% of current entries in the genre.

On a closing note seeing NOD again made me remember the beautiful Jill
Terashita and wonder why I have not seen her in more films horror or
otherwise. Jill on the odd chance that you read this- I think you are
gorgeous and should have been in more films. Lastly, if you like action
horror flicks you will probably like this one a lot.
<|_=00=_|>
I originally saw this movie in a movie theater on Times Square in the
late eighties. Who would have thought this film would spawn two sequels
and have this cult following.Night of the Demons was like most other
films that came out at the time.A group of horny teenagers find
themselves trapped in some isolated local and then are killed off one
at a time in various gruesome ways.Come to think of it the formula
still is used and still seems to work as evidenced by Saw II that I
recently saw.

I saw Mimi Kinkade at a Fangoria convention about six years ago and she
was so gentle hearted!I guess that makes her a pretty good actress if
she could make a career out of playing this demon possessed woman in
all these horror flicks.Anyway, I just this film again on VHS cassette
and this movie still holds up.A little slow at the beginning as I
remembered when I first saw it but then it quickly picks up pace. One
of the eighties horror classics and worth a look!
<|_=00=_|>
After much pondering, I finally popped this flick in recently and I
have to say, I was surprised at how good it was. "Night of the Demons"
is a classic 80's fright flick, complete with good scares, decent gore,
and freaky chicks dancing to bad music.

A group of punks go to an old, run down house to party it up and they
soon find out that the place is haunted by an evil presence. One by one
they are possessed and turn to the dark side, mauling and killing each
other off. It's pretty rad.

The special effects are good in this one. When the punks turn into
demons, they are pretty damn hideous.

Recommended for the 80's horror fan.

7 out of 10, kids.
<|_=00=_|>
any movie that has a line of dialogue that goes something like
this...."Judy's getting ready for her date, Butthole!" has to be good!
I found this on DVD unrated, unedited and was pleasantly surprised, a
lot of hard work was put into making this movie. I actually enjoyed
this more that a lot of 80s movies I have seen. Great addition to my
movie collection.

The buildup was great, sets up the scares for the rest of the movie.
Loved the GORE and the T&A. I never thought eyeballs being gouged out
would look like popping boils, the color of the eye splatter was gross!
I keep thinking that "Rog" looked like Tiger Woods but more black,
anyone agree?
<|_=00=_|>
Many people don't appreciate dated or lower budget horror, but in my
opinion you cannot be a true horror fan without at least a respect for
the B-movie. This movie is enjoyable in only that way that 80's campy
horror can be enjoyable. It doesn't take itself too seriously and you
really shouldn't either. Often overshadowed by the slasher movies of
the 80's, this one is a classic. Amelia Kinkade plays Angela. Watch for
her creepy dance sequence. It's pretty memorable and what happens right
after elevates Amelia's character, Angela from B Movie character to a
horror powerhouse like Freddy and Jason. But unfortunately the 2
sequels that followed are inferior and wound up botching her character.
Linnea Quigley does something very interesting with a tube of lipstick.
And the gore effects are pretty cool.

This movie is by no means a thought provoking kind of horror movie,
where you are supposed to question the existence of humanity or
anything like that. This is a horror movie with lots of drinking, sex,
and drugs, and many many moments of "oh my god did she just?! Did they
just do?!" Honestly as a shock value horror flick very few movies
surpass this one. I'm probably a bit nostalgic for it, but only
slightly I think a lot of the shock moments in this movie will get more
people than most of the ones in "Saw" or "Hostel". The director had a
really good feel on what would appeal to an 80's teen (and 90's teen in
the near future.) Hull House is by far the best environment for a movie
like this. The music is the greatest horror movie music ever! Far
surpassing that of "Nightmare on Elm Street's". It throws a lot into
the atmosphere of the movie.

Overall rating: 7 out of 10.
