
People have preconceptions of what makes a good move and more often
than not they get tangled up in their own web of closed mindedness. It
is no one thing that makes a movie great but a combination of all to
create a feeling, and that is one thing that Conan has always done for
me. 

This was the first film that introduced me to "the goosebump effect" or
rather seeing scenes of such emotional and thematic power that they
give you chills. After watching this film over and over again it still
doesn't disappoint. The scene immediately following the raid on Conan's
village is a true masterpiece of visual storytelling. without a single
line of dialogue everything that is to come in the next two hours is
set up with the Murder of Conan's parents before his eyes. The look of
disbelief on his face as his mother's lifeless body falls before him.
Staring at his hand and then toward Thulsa Doom. the Villain saluting
his freshly stolen steel. It is a perfectly executed scene that were
this film not so unjustly written off as a hack and slash "sword and
sorcery" picture would be rightfully remembered as one of the great
scenes in film history. 

The best way to describe Conan would be to call it a philosophical
epic. There are real ideas and philosophies at play in the narrative.
Conan's father's teachings of steel...the opening scene forging the
sword becoming a metaphor for Conan's life. He is a character created
by hardship and grief, and like the opening quote says "That which does
not kill us makes us stronger" Conan becomes more powerful with the
more hardships he overcomes. The film is very well put together. Many
scenes and images from the movie are as visually layered and well
thought out as any Ridley Scott picture. The prelude to the opening
battle in the snow is stunning with great visual flair, a single scout
stands atop a boulder breathing heavy, anticipating battle as vibrant
rays of sunlight pour through the trees. 

There is a ritualistic quality to many of the scenes in the film such
as the finding of the atlantean sword, or the lead up to Conan's duel
with the snake which is carried through right to the end where after
Conan drops his sword the followers of doom extinguish their flames in
the fountain. Everyone in the film manages to give a good performance
but the big mistake that most people make in judging them is that they
do not understand that acting is not simply saying lines of dialogue,
it is behavior. Arnold Schwarzenegger and the rest of the cast give
outstanding performances without saying all that much. The scene at the
funeral pyre where Conan runs his hand through the hair of his fallen
love...the subtle look of grief withheld combined with the eloquent
score is enough to get the idea across, no dialogue is needed. Basil
Poledouris' score for the film has to be one of, if not, the greatest
score ever composed and it plays an integral part in creating the rich
emotional landscape of John Milius' epic film. Conan the barbarian is a
film I saw when I was very young, and through the years as I have
gotten a little older and wiser the film has gotten richer and more
rewarding with each subsequent viewing.

This is a film of great resonance and subtlety. Most audiences today
cannot appreciate a film that requires a bit of deep thinking, but this
is one of the rare films that is even more rewarding if you look
beneath the surface.
<|_=00=_|>

In an age of Xena-esque fantasy adventure films (al la the tepid
Scorpion
King) It is startling to go back and see just how good this movie still
is.
"Conan" is not for the faint of heart, and not just for gore - there are
far
more bloody movies out there - but for the uncompromising warrior-ethos
John
Milius infused into his vision.  There is nothing PC about this fantasy
world.  When he is asked "what is best in life?" Conan paraphrases
Genghis
Khan: "Crush your enemies, see them driven before you, and hear the
lamentations of their women!" We are not led to believe he is
kidding.
It is true that Arnold is no great actor, but it is also true he has
always stuck with parts he can handle, and he does a fine job as Conan,
but
the real star here is the director.  John Milius is one of the greats,
totally unappreciated in his time, and his sweeping scope and epic,
gritty
battle sequences add a dimension lacking from almost every other S&S
film.
There is a grim aura of doom pervading the movie that fits the original
Howard stories to a T, and I think Robert E Howard would have really
liked
this movie.  James Earl Jones gives a killer performance as the evil
Thulsa
Doom, rivalling Darth Vader himself.
A last point in this film's favor is the score.  Basil Poledouris
turned
out his best score ever for this film: Brooding, powerful and operatic,
it
lends the film a grandeur Hercules could only dream of.  I must have seen
this film 40 times and I still never get tired of it.
<|_=00=_|>
A cracking sword and sorcery yarn that has divided movie goer opinions
since it's release. Some believing it's a beefy and shallow action
movie, glossed up with big sets and fancy costumes. Others believing it
is a truly eye popping visual feast of a film with hidden depth. The
film was panned on its original release but since then has been
something of a critical favourite. While the film is too murky and
turgid at times, it is still engaging, despite needing to lighten up a
touch, because this is based on a comic book after all. The film is
fantastical but at the same time the film doesn't go quite as
fantastical as the comic books did. This seems to be more based in
reality but it still features a snake-man, giant snakes and witches.

The film follows Conan from childhood when his parents are killed and
follows him through his early years as a slave to adulthood when he
becomes a fighter and a thief. What drives Conan is pure bloodthirsty
revenge on the man who killed his parents(James Earl Jones) and he is
constantly spurred on by the belief he is doing his god's (Krom the god
of steel) will. Conan constantly interprets important moments as
messages from Krom.This film is so visual. The dialogue is minimal and
yet meaningful. This gives the film a great atmosphere and really
brings to mind two other fantasy action movies I really love, Crying
Freeman and Highlander. They are all very similar in style. They all
have the same strengths, in that they are both great looking, have a
lead character driven by a spirit guide, controlled by his beliefs and
a sense of destiny and all three have similar romantic subplot, all
told with visuals, and little dialogue. They are all also blessed with
unique and rousing scores. It's all very mythical and philosophical in
each, with love at first site important. It is the love of the women
that drive the men to their goals. In Freeman Dacascos wants to break
away from his controlled regime, and take back his life when his love
gives him the will to do so. In Highlander McLeod wants to lead a
mortal life, to love and grow old with someone, to be human. Conan
wants a life after he takes his revenge. The greatness of their
romantic story and the purely visual way it is told is that during the
movie he says only 5 words to her,and they all come in their first
meeting. The film should not get away with something like that, yet it
works well. The twist in Conan is that his lover sacrifices herself for
him and in effect once he has achieved his goal the film is left with
the feeling Conan has no further purpose in life. 

The cast are good. Arnold was made into a star here. He is physically
the best shape he's ever been in a movie. He is smaller than his
bodybuilding days yet as big as he's ever been on screen and at the
same time fleet of foot and nimble. Lest we not forget by the time he
hit mega stardom he was in his 40's, but Arnold is truly in his prime
here. It is a performance though of glaring inconsistency which is the
likes of which I have never seen. It is at once his best and his worst
performance. For all that Schwarzenegger does with a depth and humanity
not seen in his films since, he overplays and looks amateurish in
others, because of course he was an amateur here. What really does work
is the chemistry between Sandahl Bergman and Schwarzy. She gets the
best out of him and their scenes together are generally his best.
Bergman received a Golden Globe for this and had Arnie consistently
been as good as his higher points here, who knows? You get the feeling
the philosophical side might occasionally have gone over his head. At
times he would bawl out "Kraaoomm!!!" without knowing why he was
delivering the line. Bergman is good. She is enigmatic and quite sexy
in a "why is she sexy?" kind of a way. Bergman kicks ass and her dance
background shows as she moves with grace. The showstoppers though are
the supporting cast with the legend Mako, excellent as the wizard and
narrator. Max Von Sydow is superb as king Osric and he gets some of the
best dialogue but it is the chilling James Earl Jones who is
particularly excellent as Thulsa Doom.

What makes this film great is the fact that it feels older than it is.
It feels like a b-movie fantasy film from the golden ages of the 50's
and 60's, with some of the charming elements of the legendarily cheap
Italian fantasy films. The film even at times feels like it is dubbed.
While all it lacks is a stand out Ray Harryhausen moment. The nearest
we get is the giant snake. I would have loved to have seen more
creatures and beasts in this movie with some HarryHausen effects but it
come a tad too late really. Also Basil Poledouris' score is fantastic
and old fashioned a big reason the film feels like it is from the
golden age of this sword and sorcery quest movies. The score is the
real standout part of the movie. It's very old fashioned, medieval and
a bit baroque and works marvellously well with some rousing themes.

The film is directed with visual flourish by John Milius, whose
tragically lame career since makes you wonder what happened. In that
sense it has another similarity with Highlander as the even more
talented Russell Mulcahy was never matched the quality or success of
Highlander since. This is a top notch film that fantasy enthusiasts
will love. ****
<|_=00=_|>
I have a soft spot in my heart for this movie, being that this is one
of the first movies I can remember seeing. As I grew up I never stopped
enjoying this movie and could come away with something new every time I
watched it (now around 50+ times). The movie is multi-layered. On one
level there is the action (which is very graphic). There is also
philosophical layer (why am i here ?? that which doesn't kill you....).
Mix that in with some wonderful cinematography (filmed in Spain) and
very appropriately accompanied by dark, serious, foreboding music (by
Basil Poledouris - who also did the music for Hunt for Red October) and
you get the ultimate action movie (that is more than just an action
movie - its the thinking man's action movie). 

Conan is based on the work of Robert E. Howard. Howard once described
writing the Conan stories (which were published in Weird Tales) as this
: At sunset, he could feel the presence of Conan coming into his room,
looming over him and compelling or forcing him to write the stories.
The movie captures the spirit of Conan, as portrayed in the stories. He
is one who has lived a harsh existence, yet endures. He has been
everything from a barbarian, to a swashbuckler, to a soldier, to a
thief, to a general and eventually to even king. He is considered a
barbarian by all the people he meets, include those considered to be
"civilized". Conan plays by his own rules and morals. Even though he
kills, he does so in much the same way a tiger eats its prey. At the
same time, he displays more humanity, mercy and honor than most of the
civilized world. This movie is perfect in the above respects. John
Milius (the director and co-writer) does an excellent job along with
Oliver Stone (co-writer) in getting the feel of the stories into the
movie world. Schwarzenegger is cast perfectly in the role of Conan. I
don't think anyone else would have been able to pull it off as well as
he could have and still kept the role in the way it was meant to be.
Conan does not say much, but when he does you better listen because it
is important. Along with Schwarzenegger, the rest of the cast does a
brilliant job to support the story. James Earl Jones is wickedly evil
and Mako is perfect as the reluctant sorcerer. 

There are so many wonderful scenes that stick out in my mind. So many
in fact that you should go out and see the movie for yourself (make
sure you get the special edition DVD since it has extra footage and a
great making of with all the cast including Schwarzenegger). By far my
two favorite scenes/sequences of the movie are : 1) Prior to the battle
in the desert, Conan says a little prayer to his god, Crom. This prayer
embodies everything that Conan stands for. WHAT A PRAYER !!!. 2) The
sequence thats starts from Conan's return to the Tower of Power to
confront Thulsa Doom all the way to the end. It is wrought with meaning
and some great cinematography. This movie is an absolute must see.
10/10

-Celluloid Rehab
<|_=00=_|>

I think this is the best sword and magic / fantasy movie ever made.
Unlike the second Conan movie (the destroyer, which was a huge
disappointment) this is dark, dirty, violent (with the harsh way) and
most of all faithful to the original Conan by Howard. By that i mean
that conan wasn't a joker and babyoiled coverboy like in the sequel.
Only part of the movie that i weren't content about was the childhood
of conan, the part where he grows up spinning some goddamn wheel of
fortune, Howard specifically points in many novels that Conan was grown
free in the Cimmeria. Despite the this awkward transition to skip the
childhood of Conan this still is the best fantasy movie ever made.

<|_=00=_|>

This is really an amazing movie! It is so passionate and intense. It all
feels so genuine as well.

During my childhood this was my all-time favorite! From an adult (25)
perspective, his movie is as damn amazing as I remember. Thee story and
dialog are really damn good. There are so many classic scenes. I got my
girlfriend to watch it. She was convinced it was going to be a stupid Arnold
muscle movie (it seems almost everyone thinks this) but she loved
it.

It's such a change to see such an un-ironic passionate movie. I can't see a
movie like this being made today. The nudity and violence were great and
added realism without ever being flatly gratuitous.

Don't see Destroyer though, that was absolutely awful.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of my top-ten favorite movies of all time.  It's quite easy
to
dismiss this film based on its genre (barbarian slash-em-up) and the
limited
acting ability of the star (Schwarzenegger), but Conan is nothing short
of a
masterpiece.

Ok, the story is fairly standard, and the principal actors
(Schwarzenegger,
Sandahl Bergman & Gerry Lopez) are competent but not outstanding.  There
are
a few brief but memorable performances from James Earl Jones and Max von
Sydow that help lend weight to the film, but the real stars are
Poledouris'
score and the cinematography.  I have never seen a more beautifully-shot
film in my life.  The costumes, props and art direction are all
top-notch.
They could take all of the dialog out of the movie, and just have the
music
and pictures and it would still be worth watching.

To fully appreciate Conan, though, you have to watch it and then watch
another barbarian-type film from any era (Beastmaster, Krull, etc.) and
the
difference will be stunning.
<|_=00=_|>
Conan the Barbarian is one of those films that just shouldn't work on
paper, but somehow ends up not only working, but becoming a classic.
Everything is right here thanks to Milius unashamed
bigger-than-life-direction. He takes him serious and dares to go far
enough with the grandness, something few directors would dare do today
for fear of being labeled pretentious.

Combine this with probably the best film score EVER written, and you
have movie magic. Basil Poledouris score is such a classic that every
other composer has ripped it off a thousand times, and rightly so. It's
the granddaddy of Wagnerian tour-de-force scoring.
<|_=00=_|>

It took a long time for Robert E Howard's wonderful creation to make it to
the big screen,and the result is something of a mixture.Some of Conan is
very impressive,with the atmosphere of Howard's writing perfectly captured
on screen,but some of the film is badly misjudged,with daft moments,botched
action,and an uneven performance from schwarzenneger.He looks the part but
in some scenes comes across as a muscle bound buffoon.Something the literary
hero definitely wasn't.The story is ok,apart from having Conan spend half
his life chained to the wheel of pain!But it's a dissapointing
script,considering greats Milius and Oliver Stone wrote it.There are some
excellent sequences in the film though,that are beautifully photographed.The
opening attack on conans village is impressive,and Conans encounter with a
weird witch is pretty good.But best of all is the orgy sequence,where the
action,sets,and music blend together perfectly.It's like a Frank Frazetta
painting come to life!The climactic battle of the mounds is ok,but it's all
over far to quickly.The film does look good with some gorgeous
photography,and set design.Best of all though,is the music by Basil
Poledouris.This is an absolutely stunning score,that really captures the
savage world of Conan.I'll stick my neck out and say that it's the best film
soundtrack ever composed!General Cromwell,over and out.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a great movie.  One of Arnold's classics and one of the best,
unique
movies to come out of the early 80s.  The movie doesn't even come close to
the grandeur of the books written by Robert E. Howard after the turn of the
century though.  If only there was a director out there who could read a
book all the way through and see the unbelievable stories in the original
Conan books, they could make a fortune.  Of course it would be hard to find
the muscle bound, intelligent barbarian the books portrayed
though.
