
I don't care who you are, this movie is a fun and magical experience
for all ages. The actors are superb in their roles and their songs and
characters will win your heart.

This movie may have been filmed almost 20 years ago but it still
carries the message today that it did then. That Christmas should be
enjoyed by everyone, regardless of creed, colour or persuasion. I defy
anyone, who actually HAS a heart, not to like this movie. I first saw
it when I was 3 years old and to this day, I have watched it every year
thereafter on Christmas eve.

To me, this film holds the very feeling of Christmas. All you need do
is watch it. And no matter where you are, no matter what time of year
it is, from start to finish...

it's Christmas.
<|_=00=_|>
Me thinks folks protest too much! Sit back, relax and enjoy this cute
little movie. The plot is good. The actors do a very nice job of
"being" their characters. Villains are vile and heroes are worthy.
There is a continual ebb and flow with who is winning, good or evil.
Good wins over evil. The scenery is is beautiful and fanciful. The
effects are nifty and somewhat corny. What more could one ask for a
short period of fantasy flight from the cares of the world? Don't worry
about fitting it into today's "problems with society section." Avoid
seeing discussions of drug problems, violence in the world, sex in the
city. Don't consider deep, hidden meanings. Just have some popcorn,
turn down the lights, get into your comfy chair and enjoy yourself.
This is a movie made for the cold winter nights.
<|_=00=_|>

I have long lasting memories of this film from when I was very small.  It
was on the television every Christmas, and my sister and I loved.  At one
point we actually taped it and watched it again and again and again.  In
fact, most of my generation loved it.  OK, so it is badly done, and the
plot
is predictable and a bit thin, but remember it is designed for kids and
was
made in the early 80's.  A grown adult watching it for the first time
would
hate it and think it is just a pile of rubbish, that is how I feel about
Barbie & the Nutcracker Prince, but kids seeing that when it first came
out
loved it!!
<|_=00=_|>

While this movie admittedly has its detractors I personally am NOT one of
them.  It's utterly charming.  Among it's strengths-it's perfectly cast, all
the way from Dudley Moore on down to the extras.  The sets are breathtaking,
and the music is engaging (including Sheena Easton's beautiful  "Christmas
All Over the World").  
With all this movie has going for it it does have its drawbacks.  The first
half definitely works better than the latter.  It seems almost as if they
were trying to make 2 movies for the price of 1, and that
does
detract from the overall effect.  It gets a bit confusing once it hits the
half-way point but it is still worth seeing all the way
through.
It's the sort of movie that can still hold up after repeated
viewings.
You can watch it with your kids, or make a guilty pleasure out of watching
it by yourself.  Either way do yourself a favor and watch it.

<|_=00=_|>

I have seen this movie every Christmas since I was a child, and I believe
it brings explanations of how the fable of Santa Claus, and all of the
childhood beliefs came to be. It may be a watered down version of Willy
Wonka, but it had great effects for the 1980's, and it brings out the child
and Christmas spirit in everyone. It is a grade above Ernest Saves
Christmas
( I love watching it as well on a comical basis) especially when it comes
to
the story line and characters. Dudley Moore was wonderful as Patch the elf,
and delivered a great performance without being a drunk or married to two
women. It's movie of morals, and the spirit of Christmas.
<|_=00=_|>

Personally, I love this film! I've gone out of my way to buy myself acopy
from America (as its not being produced anymore)

I think its a lovely film for kids and adults of all ages. I watch it
every
year on christmas eve. The story is simple and easy to follow, no
complicated names/locations, just a good film!

Get yourself a copy. I know eBay regularly stock it!

One to watch 10/10

Matt
<|_=00=_|>

I can not remember what age I was when I first seen this movie. But I do
remember that it used to be played on Irish TV every year on Christmas
eve.My best memory from childhood was sitting by the coal fire to let my
hair dry and watching this movie.

My favorite part was always when Joe shouts Yo and the raindeer take
flight!
It still makes me shiver.

I am now 24 and only wish I could get it on DVD here in the UK so I could
play it on a regional 2 player. I have a baby on the way and I would love
someday for my children to enjoy the wonder of Santa Claus the movie as I
did all those years ago.

This film gave me a lot of happy Christmas'
Dx
<|_=00=_|>

Santa Claus the movie is without a doubt the greatest Christmas movie ever
made. This is not to say that its story is one of the greatest ever
written,
but the film is a stunning piece of seasonal and magical nostalgia for
anyone who is enchanted by the its seasonal charm.

David Newman has taken a great deal of criticism for his writing styles.
Well, whatever the merits of Newman, he proves with Santa Claus that he CAN
write an exciting and entertaining epic for the big screen. His script does
have flaws and plot holes, but this could be due to editing of post
production. Newman comes up with a lovely entertaining script that doesn't
sag once throughout. This is expertly handled by Jeanot Swarzc's luxurious
direction. Swarzc lets the actors indulge in what is a Hollywood pantomime.
Add to this the movie is backed by one of the most impressive sets for any
movie, a wonderful Lapland/Northpole, covered in endless snow, a terrific
looking Santa's workshop, some of the greatest costumes ever created for
Santa and his friends by the master Bob Ringwood, and finally a wonderful
Christmas Time New York. In typical Alexander Salkind style, this all gells
together marvellously to bring to us what childhood dreams are made
of.

The movie is Dudley Moores as the hero elf Patch. Moore gets to kid about
to
his hearts consent, and get payed [$4MILLION] for the pleasure.
His enthusiasm rubs off on the other cast members, in particular John
Lithgow as the evil BZ. A few years earlier BZ could easily have been
played
by Peter Sellers, today perhaps Rowan Atkinson. For what it is worth
Lithgow
is hillarious in the role, he is very covincing as a real life scrooge.
Plus
David Huddleston as Santa. An inspired a choice as Christopher Reeve was as
Superman, Huddleston is the ULTIMATE personification of Santa. He is how we
remeber him. He even sounds like him. In truth he makes us BELIEVE
him.

With all this plus Magic candy, Wonderfull scenery, Top notch acting. Plus
the best Flying scenes in motion picture history of Santas reindeers, and
patching cars, wich prove to be better than the Salkinds earlier Superman
effects, and also Henry Mancini's best ever musical score, a heart warming
piece abetted by some good songs from the likes of Leslie Bricuse sung by
Sheena Easton,. Santa Cluas IS underated. Have a heart when you watch this
movie. Put on Your seatbelt and join Santa in dreamworld.

Thanks to Alexander and Ilya Salkind, Piere Spengler, Jeannot Swarzc and
Dudley Moore.
<|_=00=_|>

Under-rated little family film that works due to a couple of over-the-top
performances more than anything else. We get a glimpse into the history of
the titled character (played by David Huddleston) and his wife (Judy
Cornwell) as they make the North Pole their home. Years and years pass and
we get to the present-day, but trouble looms as the toys manufactured by elf
Dudley Moore (in a wonderful performance) start to fall apart on all the
children of the world. Moore feels shame and decides that it would be better
to leave. Thus he falls in with evil toy manufacturer John Lithgow (in
another fine role) and this is when the fun really starts. Burgess Meredith
also has a short, endearing cameo. A production that is tame enough for
young children, but is also interesting enough to keep the adults happy as
well. Good overall. 4 stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a fun movie for the whole family.  It is truly the legend of Santa
Claus come to life.  One of the must see movies for my whole family every
Holiday season.  Dudley Moore, John Lithgow and David Huddleston are
perfect
in their respective roles.
