

I first read Robin Cook's book "Sphinx" while in the Army, stationed in
Mainz, Germany in the late '80s. I mentioned the book to a friend
recently
and he said "Oh, they made a move from the book". I found the movie on
the
net and plugged it into the VCR with some trepidation. NEVER are movies
as
good as the book. Well, this movie proved me wrong. The movie follows the
book quite closely, but the lavish sets and great acting make for a very
enjoyable viewing.
<|_=00=_|>

This is probably the slowest movie I have ever seen, and that's saying a
lot
since I watch BBC TV on satellite.  The story is confusing, the acting is
poor, and the casting is unbelievable.  Lesley-Anne Down is the movie's
only
redeeming quality, and she spoils it by having to speak that innane
dialogue!  I've watched worse, but I've never sat through a slower movie!

<|_=00=_|>
This film has nothing whatever to do with the Sphinx, and the title is
just a come-on. The story concerns an imagined true and concealed tomb
in the Valley of the Kings, of King Seti I, second pharaoh of the 19th
Dynasty, New Kingdom period. It is not a bad yarn, and a great deal of
the film is shot on location. Even the scenes in the Winter Palace
Hotel lobby in Luxor were really shot there, and not in a studio. The
second unit stuff is endless, and they must have been let loose on
Egypt for weeks. Frank Langella is very good indeed as a sophisticated
Egyptian. He should take it up as a sideline. The film is essentially
ruined by one of the world's most irritating actresses, Lesley Anne
Down, who plays the lead. She spends the whole film wondering how she
looks, are her blue eyes refracting light at the correct angle, do all
the fellas lust after her, etc. Having started life as a model at the
age of ten, what hope could there be for her? She epitomises everything
that is most revolting about female vanity and dim-witted inanity. And
to think that this film was directed by Franklin Shaffner, who won an
Oscar for 'Patton'! He allows this terrible actress to whimper and
simper through the film, hysterical one moment, flirting the next, in a
kind of hurricane of idiocy as she reels from one man to another,
either screaming or making bedroom eyes, it matters not. She is
supposed to be a young Egyptologist. But she has never been to Egypt
before! She takes a taxi to Giza and catching her first glimpse of the
pyramids, gushes in ecstasy: 'But they're so BIG!!!!' Barf! OK, so that
was the script, but she takes to the banality too readily, giving the
impression that it is her natural element, which I don't doubt for a
minute. Elements of the story are sound. There is, indeed, a serious
problem about a black market in antiquities there. True! Well done! The
novel by Robin Cook, which I have not seen, may be OK for all I know.
It was fun to see the name of Cyril Swern as sound recordist on the
film, as I knew him pretty well long ago. Stanley Kubrick's
step-daughter Katharina is described as 'draughtswoman'. I wonder what
that means? Maybe she did some set work. Anyway, the antiquities in the
film are pretty good, actually. And we get to see lots of the Cairo
Museum and numerous scenic locations. They actually go inside King
Tutankhamun's Tomb! I don't imagine that would be allowed today for a
movie. A lot of inappropriate scenes take place in mosques. That would
not go down well today, but in 1981 such things were not on the agenda.
The music for the film is absolutely appalling, worse than Lesley Anne
Down in fact! But there were sound track elements which were
surprisingly authentic, one being the cacophony of traffic noise of
Cairo, which is accurately rendered in the background, and would make
anyone who knows Cairo chuckle nervously. Also, the loudspeaker calls
to prayer are there the whole time, another touch of authenticity. Why
didn't they get this right? It could have been good.
<|_=00=_|>
Call me a drippy romantic but Frank Langella, dancing eyes and all, is
great in this movie. He captures the ideal of a darkly romantic mystery
man with intelligence and humor. My only complaint is Lesley-Anne
Down's shrieks--for an avowed Egyptolgist you'd think she'd be used to
dark, dusty & dirty places. The plot, which causes Down to question her
pride, self-esteem and morality when tempted with revealing
centuries-old secrets, is straight forward and uncomplicated. The
scenery of the desert, Cairo, and the pyramids is lush and lovely and
the "comic relief," even though it comes with an "I just knew that
would happen," twist is fun and charming. If you'd just like to watch a
picturesque, romantic adventure with no socially redeeming features
getting in the way, watch this.
<|_=00=_|>

When this movie was released, it spawned one of the all-time great capsule
movie reviews:  Sphinx Stinks.  It does, but in a mesmerizing sort of way.
The casting is silly, starting at the top:  Frank Langella and Sir John
Gielgud as Egyptians?  Not enough makeup in Cairo for that, at least not
while this film was being made. But it's rather amusing to see them try. The
performances run the gamut from mummy-like (sorry, the obvious observation)
to over-the-top, with very few stops in between. The Lesley-Anne Down
character seems as though she couldn't find Egypt on a map, much less
expound upon its archaeological treasures.  That's due at least in part to
some really bad writing, one of the curses that will be visited upon every
viewer of this movie.  It's my opinion that movies involving a curse or that
draw their basis from a subject that is somewhat esoteric, such as
Egyptology, are ripe for silly, overwritten dialogue.  It doesn't
disappoint, and the convergence proves a double-whammy. The plot has one
driving source of dramatic tension:  Can this get dumber and less
believable?  The answer is, usually, YES.  The location shots are beautiful,
and the set design is generally very good, the only consistent reminders
that this wasn't some low-budget production. That and the fact that there
are so many well-known faces doing service in such an unintentional laugher.
Cheap, no; cheesy, yes.   
<|_=00=_|>

Sphinx isn't the greatest movie about Egypt, but it is somewhat
entertaining. I'd probably buy it if it came out on DVD, but it wouldn't
be
my first choice. It's worth it to watch Leslie Ann Down, she's not the
smartest Egyptologist, but she's still very easy on the
eyes.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was great.Langella was believable as an Egyptian and
Lesley-Anne Down had an uncanny ability to either retain her hairdo
under ANY circumstances or change it by slipping on a carpet runner.Sir
John Gielgud does not play an Egyptian in the film as suggested
earlier.He is a Brit living there for a long time running an
antique/souvenir shop.The movie was much better than the book,where
Erica Barron only briefly met Achmet Khazam.This film is one of my all
time faves and was actually made to cash in on the King Tut exhibit
touring the world.The film has an expensive look to it and cost about
17 million dollars to make.It has newbie Egyptologist Erica
Barron(Lesley-Anne Down)from Boston traveling to Egypt and getting into
deep trouble like most Americans.Cinematography is excellent and while
the plot might be thin in places,the film works.Just two years earlier
leading man here Frank Langella portrayed Dracula in the 1979 film of
the same name with a dicscoesque quality to him.Chiefly you will learn
that mummy's arms and hands make excellent torches.I'll give it nine
out of ten points for continuity problems.
<|_=00=_|>
Lesley Anne Down plays Egyptologist Erica Baron who gets more than she
bargained for when she becomes involved with the plundering of Egyptian
artifacts on the black market, thrown in to this mix is murder,
betrayal, love, and a mummy's curse! 'Sphinx' is one of those enjoyable
films which is pure hokum which makes for a passable rainy day film.

Frank Langella plays Down's mysterious love interest. John Gielgud who
is credited as 'Sir' has a small role as an antique dealer, it's
interesting to see John Rhys Davies in this production before he
appeared in the similarly themes 'Raiders' the Egyptian locations look
great as photographed by Ernest Day it's great to see this film in it's
original aspect ratio, as i've seen this on television in dreadful 'pan
and scan''Sphinx' would make a great 'drinking game' for instance take
a drink every time Lesley Anne Down screams!
<|_=00=_|>
This under-appreciated movie deserves to be better known. The filming
is beautiful and Frank Langella's performance is mesmerizing -
reminding me of his soulful and darkly troubled Dracula. It starts off
slowly, but the story quickly begins rolling as the mysteries pile up,
and Erica is drawn into investigating them. I am a big fan of Ancient
Egypt, Egyptology and Archeology. This is in no way a documentary, but
it perfectly captures and evokes the mystery and beauty of Ancient
Egypt and the excitement of hidden treasures - it's certainly more than
entertaining enough and has some interesting twists. Definitely worth
watching if you get the chance!
<|_=00=_|>
A great piece of skulduggery and high adventure, set against the
authentic and fascinatingly exotic backgrounds of Cairo and Luxor,
Sphinx also boasts some equally fabulous interior settings (filmed in
Budapest) that make a perfect match. In fact, here's a movie that would
seem to have all the vital escapist elements for a smash success,
including its basis on a bestseller by an "in" novelist, its
interesting cast, its award-winning director (even if he is a little
too inclined to over-use close-ups that undermine the conviction of
some of the performances), great camera-work, terrific music score,
plus $14 million worth of dazzling production values. Yet Sphinx failed
to top even the $1 million mark in worldwide rentals. Why did the
critics hate it? Why did moviegoers give this flick the flick? Perhaps
the heroine, although superbly played by Lesley-Ann Down, was seen as
too eager, too liberated for either male or female picturegoer
identification? Or perhaps the mass audiences just won't accept a girl
– any girl – as an action lead in the cinema? On TV, no problem. People
leave their critical faculties dormant if the show is ostensibly free.
(Perhaps that's why TV's Wonder Woman chalked up such high ratings?)
Maybe the movie's plot was regarded as too facile and contrived? Maybe
what the critics said about the characters being both too enigmatic and
too one-dimensional hit home (even though audiences don't usually care
a damn what critics say – and it didn't stop people from buying and
reading the novel)? Perhaps the background was too authentic, the
recreation of the real Egypt too meticulous? Or maybe it was simply
that by 1981, Egyptian curse pictures had had their day, so that even a
superior story like this Sphinx could make no box office headway?
