

Richard Gere is perfectly cast in the role of decadent but vulnerable male
gigolo cum prostitute who is framed for a murder he didn't commit. His
emotional entanglement with a married woman (Lauren Hutton) is believable,
but the film is above all a dissection of the emptiness of the kind of
stylish materialism which was to become such a hallmark of cosmopolitan
lifestyle in the 80's. Like many such morality tales, though, the
superficial attractiveness of the 'style' as a way of life is liable to
lead
some to embrace rather than reject it as a way of bringing excitement into
their lives. In any event, a stylish piece of cinema. 
<|_=00=_|>

American Gigolo is surely one of the most underrated movies of all times.
It's a very good movie, in my opinion second best of Paul Schrader's films,
right after "Mishima - Life in four chapters", and I never understood why it
got all the bad reviews. First of all it's one of the most stylish films
I've ever seen, with fascinating scenes from start to finish, vibrant colors
and beautiful sets and exterior shots. Paul Schrader, apart from being a
great scriptwriter is also the master of photography, maybe the best in
modern Hollywood. American Gigolo is a phenomenal character study too,
struggle of a lonely man against the society he doesn't belong to, and in
which he was artificially implanted by becoming something he's not. Michelle
(Lauren Hutton) succeeds in bringing out the true Julian Kay, and their
relationship on screen is very close and direct, although it maybe doesn't
seem so, probably because both of the actors appear cold and distant, but
that's just the result of the world they're living in. Both their lives are
fake, and the only time they are real is with one another. The love scene
between Julian and Michelle is one of the best in history of the cinema, it
tells so much without showing much. Paul Schrader is one of my favorite
directors, but that's only a small fraction of why I'm giving this movie

10 out of 10

<|_=00=_|>

I was under the impression that "American Gigolo" was one of those "cult"
movies I never understood why so many people liked in the first place. But I
was utterly surprised by the user rating of this movie and the fact that 
there are only a couple of comments. But the biggest surprise is I actually
liked the movie, I found it extremely interesting and thought it had a great
80's feel to it. Richard Gere, who never really impressed me with anything,
is in the role of his lifetime, playing his playboy role to
perfection.

Director Paul Schrader made a smart movie that doesn't have to show
everything in order for the viewer to know what happens and I liked
it.
The ending is very suitable and I especially love the last scene and Gere's
last sentence which really touched me.

I didn't really understand the plot, but with Gere, a great score that
manages to keep a single song interesting throughout the entire movie and
great directing "American Gigolo" stands high above average and is one of
the best movies of the eighties. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Enjoyable and different character study works better as a romance than as a
thriller.  Julian (Richard Gere) is a male prostitute who falls in love with
one of his clients (Lauren Hutton, who is well-cast), the wife of a famous
politician.  About the same time, Julian realizes that he is being framed
for a kiky S&M murder, and is wanted by the police.  Hutton is the only one
who can give him an alibi, but can't without putting her husband to
shame.

Although the thriller element doesn't really work, the film still excels
because of Richard Gere's wonderful performance.  He creates a character
that is intense and somewhat sleazy, yet amazingly vulnerable and naive.
His performance (and the chemistry he shares with Hutton) holds the film
together and makes it work.  Gere created one of the most interesting
chracters of the last two decades.  
<|_=00=_|>
A male prostitute, Richard Gere as Julian Kaye, works out of a swank
Malibu dating service tending to the needs of older, wealthy women,
while also taking jobs with an entirely different clientele that are
arranged through Leon (Bill Duke) the proprietor of a gritty downtown
LA gay bar. The contrasting services are strikingly presented in this
pre AIDS hysteria film, with a completely different twist to the theme
of safe sex, as here he gets implicated in a murder while working a job
in ritzy Palm Springs arranged by Leon. The most obvious suspect, he
goes searching for an alibi, gets rebuffed by his rich acquaintances as
well as by Ms Malibu, who never liked the idea of him doing tricks for
Leon in the first place. Forced to go to Leon for an alibi, the film
reaches its dramatic climax in Leon's high rise apartment, in a scene
that is both suspenseful and disturbing. Apparently too downbeat for
the studio to end it here, a sugarcoated redemptive ending was wedged
in to try to lift the film out of the interesting gutter of
prostitution, murder, and desperation it was doing an okay job of
portraying.
<|_=00=_|>
Fresh off his eye-opening 1979 effort Hardcore, writer/director Paul
Schrader struck again in 1980 with American Gigolo. This is the story
of a high-end male prostitute (Gere) named Julian Kaye. Julian caters
to the every need of several well-to-do older women whose husbands
either are unable or reluctant to satisfy them. Julian is good at what
he does, and he knows it. But that's his problem. His subtle arrogance
is beginning to rub others in his line of work the wrong way. After he
is framed for the murder of a kinky wife, Julian finds that none of his
associates will help him clear his name. Adding to his misfortune is
the fact that in order to clear his name, he will have to reveal much
of what he does, as well as the identities of some of his powerful
clients to the police. Either way he's screwed. He either goes to jail
for the murder, or he never enjoys his profitable career again. The
only person who seems interested in helping him is a state senator's
wife (Hutton) who has fallen for him.

The film is really not bad. Maybe better than it deserves to be. Much
of the credit goes to Richard Gere. Say what you want about the man's
odd behavior off screen, but as an actor he is always top drawer. He
plays Julian as a smug, intelligent, and sexually ambiguous young man.
The performance keeps you guessing as much as the screenplay. Lauren
Hutton is very beautiful and plays her part with classic sensuality.
This woman never did that much after this, but she gives a fine
performance here. Hector Elizondo is on hand as a sleazy detective, and
look out for Bill Duke in an early role as a homosexual hustler at odds
with Gere.

As for the direction, Schrader does what he can, but he is much better
as a writer than a director. There is nothing overly creative about how
much of this film is shot. George C. Scott tried to convince Schrader
to stick to writing while on the set of Hardcore. American Gigolo is a
much better film, so maybe Schrader took those comments to heart and
made himself better. Still, the man is just not quite the director
you'd hope. Some of the scenes are just a little too stale, with only
the actors to breath life into them. One downfall might also be the
conclusion. The film just kind of ends without a lot resolved, and a
tough choice made by a major character just isn't given the proper
motivation you'd think it would need. That said, American Gigolo is not
a bad film at all. It was better than I expected, and it is a nice time
capsule from 1980 Los Angeles. Give it a try. 7 of 10 stars.

The Hound.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of Richard Gere's first lead roles in Hollywood, and he
doesn't
disappoint.  The film gives a little insight, a preview even, of the
seamier
side of the 1980's.  Beginning with the shots of Julian Kaye's (Gere)
Mercedes convertible,  glimpses of Rodeo Drives and Malibu (all with
Blondie
screaming "Call Me"!), the film manages to be more than just a whodunit.
Perhaps the charm of the film for me is that we're never quite sure what
to
think of Kaye and his married lover (Lauren Hutton), but their quest for
happiness with each other is believable.  And though the detective
plot-line
of the movie is a little contrived, Detective Sunday and Leon provide good
opposite poles of this Sodom and Gommarah-like portrayal of life in L.A.
In
fact, Julian's verbal sparring with Detective Sunday provide a light
contrast with the realistic portrayal of a gigolo on the
run.
<|_=00=_|>
"American Gigolo" really is slick and stylish. As slick and stylish as
any film could be, so you really wonder whether this is Schrader's film
or Jerry Bruckheimer's? If you look solely at the screenplay, it almost
fits into the typical Schrader exploration of any given 'seedy
underworld'. You could even argue that Julian and Michelle are in a way
similar to Travis and Betty. Looking at the final product, however, I
see a slick Hollywood mystery-thriller that's actually far more
interesting for its romantic sub-plot than for any of the suspense
parts. 

Don't get me wrong, in places "American Gigolo" is a quality character
study, and the romance is as well-written as you could ever expect from
a major, mainstream Hollywood production, but the suspense thriller
portion is just so banal, expected, and predictable that it really
takes away from an otherwise very good film. Perhaps most worthy of
praise here is Richard Gere who gives one of his best performances
here, and I certainly cannot even begin to imagine John Travolta in the
lead role.

It sounds like I'm criticizing how stylish this film is, I'm really
not. It's pulled off pretty darn well in comparison to how many films
of this sort have ended up, and you have to admit Gere's wardrobe is
impressive. The film is well-shot and well-acted and for the most part
quite well-written (although this is far, far from Paul Schrader's best
work as a screenwriter). My comments on the film's slickness are really
just a natural reaction to this film coming right after "Hardcore".
Indeed, it seems like this film is a signpost for the early 80's (the
dud of a score proves it) where in Hollywood even homicide cases with a
Gigolo as the main suspect are glamorous rather than gritty. 

A lot of people hate this film, but it has also gained a large cult
following and a respectable following from film critics and
aficionados, even landing a spot on the 'They Shoot Pictures, Don't
They?' top 1000 list, and I can't really understand why anyone would
have such extreme feelings about a film that is just watchable and
entertaining. I don't think Schrader did his best work here, but it's
not his worst either and the film as a whole is so unimposing and
forgettable that I find it hard to believe it has so many fans and so
many detractors. 

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Richard Gere is excellent as a high class escort in this storming and
stylish drama.Richard Gere plays Julian,a man who is paid alot of money for
giving older and married woman pleasure.

Life seems like it can't be better until he is framed for a murder he didn't
commit.Everyone turns their back on Julian apart from a married lover of his
called Michelle.Michelle is his only hope,things keep going more downhill
and eventually collapse.

Anyone who thinks or mistakes American Gigolo for a psychological thriller
before they see it will be dissapointed.It is a mix of a thriller,a drama
and a murder mystery.
It is slightly predictable but everything eventually picks up and it is
electrical.Richard Gere is excellent and coo, as the character Julian.The
film is dated by now but is a classic.Stylish,disturbing and cool.I rate
4/5.
<|_=00=_|>

It's hard to precisely depict the impact of the smoky undertow of 1980s LA
mores on the emotional and cultural landscape of the city, but Richard
Gere's subversive topsy-turvy solo show comes close. Weird, well-shot and
intriguing. The queasy feeling it leaves is hard to remove even days later.
A/A-
