

A funny thing happened to me on the way to
the video store...I ran across a sci-fi
film that didn't rely on space battles,
incredible special effects, or magnificent
sets and costumes.  Instead, it relies on
a touching and compelling human story of
survival, hate and conflict - and of
bitter enemies becoming unlikely allies
and, eventually, close friends.

"Enemy Mine" is one of the ten best
"forgotten" sci-fi classics - those rare
little gems that got overlooked on their
initial release, but live on in video
release.

Practically abandoned at the box office,
"Enemy Mine" found new life on video among
fans of the kind of science fiction we
only read about as kids - stories that
expanded our horizons and made use look at
the world in a whole new way, not just
wowing us with their dazzling effects.

It is the story of hotshot starfighter
pilot Willis Davidge (Dennis Quaid) who,
after a dogfight with the reptilian, alien
Drac, is stranded on a hostile planet with
one of the enemy.  At first blinded by
their hatred of each other, the pair soon
learn that they can only survive by
working together.  By doing so, they
develop a strange friendship that helps
break the wall of distrust between
enemies.

If you get the chance to check out "Enemy
Mine", give it a chance.  It's not likely
to go down in history as the best sci-fi
movie ever made, but it does have heart.
<|_=00=_|>
I hate being nostalgic about movies, but I do remember a time when
imagination was evident in every part of a production, when film
posters were dynamic, visceral and iconic, when films looked like they
were shot on film and not an HD camera with a sunset tint, when scores
were done by orchestras instead of synthesizers and death metal guitars
and, most important of all, when the lack of CGI technology forced the
filmmakers into achieving visual effects through more practical means.
The 1980s were filled with such movies and, looking back, I am glad
that I grew up in that decade. Children now are exposed to altogether
soulless movies.

Set in the late 21st Century, Enemy Mine has humans reaching out into
the depths of space after achieving world peace. But a rival species,
the alien race of the Drax, don't take to kindly to humans poking about
the galaxy and an interstellar war kicks off. A human pilot (Dennis
Quaid) and a lone Drac (Louis Gossett Jnr.) crash land on a remote
desert planet and learn, the hard way, to stick together if they want
to survive. Despite their ultimate conflict they discover that they are
not all that different from each other and neither yet both are to
blame for the war.

Enemy Mine suffered from severe problems during production. Apparently
the original director, Richard Longcraine (Wimbledon, Richard III),
shot the entire film on location in Iceland before being replaced by
Wolfgang Petersen who re-shot the whole film all over again but changed
the story somewhat in the process. So, in reality, there are two
completely different versions of Enemy Mine. One which was released
into cinemas that has become a classic in its own right and another
that only exists in the vaults of Twentieth Century Fox. I would love
to see this alternate cut.

The fantastic photography and production design look very, very good
for a film from 1985. Some of the effect shots and matte paintings are
simply gorgeous and the cutting between desert locations and desert
sets is almost seamless. This isn't like an episode of the original
Star Trek series in which the cast simply take a half hour drive to a
bit of desert outside of LA, the desert locations with the matte
painting backgrounds look utterly authentic.

If you like the look and feel of films like The Dark Crystal and
Labyrinth then you'll appreciate the fantasy of Enemy Mine. I know I am
going to sound like an old coot but they just don't make films like
this anymore. Everything these days seems to be geared towards the
average ASBO teenage boy. In ten years time I honestly think that films
will be no more than a test card that offends and stimulates no one.

I will consider myself lucky that films like this were once made and
that they were a part of my formative years.
<|_=00=_|>

Maybe I'm dating myself here, but this movie is more than just a movie for
me -- it's a childhood memory. My dad (Who raised me on a steady diet of
scifi) and I probably watched this movie eight times together before I
turned nine, and so part of my love for it stems from the memory of those
times together.

But "Enemy Mine" has a lot more going for it than just fond memories.
Sure,
the effects are pretty bad by *today's* standards (it was the 80's, 95% of
Americans didn't even *have* personal computers yet, and by the standards
of
the day those effects were pretty darn impressive!)  But the story of two
people who were trained to be enemies slowly becoming not just friends,
but
brothers, rings true despite the passage of time. (As Jerry [Lou Gossett,
Jr.] says, "Truth is truth.") Lou Gossett, Jr. and Dennis Quaid are
delightful, as always. And the scenes of Davidge (Quaid) interacting with
Jerry's "son" are priceless.

People tend to knock 80's movies, especially 80's scifi movies, as being
frivolous, self-centered and silly (like the decade they came from). But
"Enemy Mine" definitely doesn't deserve this fate.  It is a well-acted,
well-meaning movie with a message we could all benefit from listening
to.

Skybright's Score: 7.5 out of 10 
<|_=00=_|>

Simply a masterpiece, and due primarily to the masterful FX on Lou Gossett
and his inspired, magnificent performance. Most sci-fi fans have never
heard
of this one, but I've found very few who have seen it who weren't
impressed.

This film is a perfect example of how totally bankrupt the film awards
(every one of them) really are. Gossett should have walked away with Best
Actor on this one, hands down, yet I doubt this film garnered even a single
nomination.


<|_=00=_|>

This is a sci-fi film with a heart as big as all outdoors. It also
(refreshingly) sticks very closely to it's source material (a short novel
with the same title by Barry Longyear.)
The plot synopsis gives the broad outline of the film, but what I really
love about this film is how it deals with the issues of the insanity of
war,
and prejudice. It is this that raises it above most other sci-fi films,
good
as they may be. If you like intelligent sci-fi, watch this (or try reading
it!!)
<|_=00=_|>

I loved it! It came on AMC and there was nothing else I cared to watch, so
I
left it on, thinking to go to bed shortly. I ended up watching the whole
thing. It kept me rivited from beginning to end. Dennis Quaid is one of my
favorite actors and I didn't know Lou Gossett was the lizard, but I
guessed
it from his voice. When I checked the credits at the end, I was right! He
was soooo good. I can't describe it, you have to watch it. I shed a few
tears toward the end. Won't tell you if they were happy or sad tears tho!
You'll have to see for yourself!
<|_=00=_|>

I was fortunate to come across this wonderful movie in the late 1980s and
have since viewed it a few times. It has always been on my list of
favorites. Although I now feel it may have dragged a bit, the combination
of
special effects, fine performances and the poignant message it sends, makes
this film worth seeing. For parents, this is a movie that instead of
focusing on blood and guts and the misguided lesson that blowing up people
is something to cheer about, teaches that learning to love your enemy is
the
finest reward.  
<|_=00=_|>

Aaah, the power of ... no, not cheese ... science fiction and Mickey
Mouse!

Science fiction has always been an excellent tool for social comment that
has made it a lot easier for people to absorb a lesson about tolerance
without being hampered by possible prejudice from a society / social
network
that we are actually embedded in.

In other words ... replace "alien creature perceived as being evil" with
anybody different from you (creed, color, sexual orientation, you name
it...), and you pretty much get the tale of tolerance this movie tells about
life (on earth  or other planets):

- Don't buy anything at face value that "your planet's" authorities tell
you.

- Yeah ... that other person is different from you ... so
what?

- Don't underestimate Mickey Mouse as a powerful spiritual
teacher!

Dennis Quaid is one fine actor ... if you want to get an idea of his
tremendous range, just watch "Innerspace", "Frequency" and "Far From
Heaven", which are completely different movies.

Furthermore, Louis Gosset Jr. is just plain awesome in this one, possibly
giving THE performance of his career.

BTW: this is one of the movie's director's (Wolfgang Petersen) first major
hits in the U.S. He also did the very impressive (make that: frightening /
claustrophobic) movie "Das Boot", the very successful Harrison Ford
vehicle
"Airforce One", and the somewhat "macho-heavy" flick "The Perfect Storm"
(though I have to admit that the "high sea" visuals / special effects were
pretty awesome).

The bottom line for me about THIS movie is: it doesn't matter whether your
"holy book" is The Bible, The Koran, The Talmud, or some other sacred
scripture from this planet or beyond - the underlying message from every
truly "holy" book is essentially the same: it's a message of caring about
and loving those you don't necessarily understand when you start out, but
come to appreciate over time when you get to know them
better.


<|_=00=_|>

Relatively recent sci-fi blockbusters like The Matrix and Independence Day
can't compare to a quality film like Enemy Mine.  The movie is an exciting
story of two marooned enemy space soldiers.  They are indoctrinated with
hate for each other's species, yet forced to live together to survive.
Sound familiar?

The two soldiers learn to overcome their brainwashing about each other and
learn to respect and love each other like brothers.  What can be wrong with
that?  True moral story-telling ala the tv series "Star Trek".

The story keeps your interest with good special effects and space adventure
on another world.  The acting is very, very good.  As many others have
already noted, an overlooked and underrated film. Only the most jaded or
immature could not find this an enjoyable movie.  Highly recommend seeing
it!


<|_=00=_|>

I first saw this movie back around 1988 when I was very young and I still
remember that. It was on television and I was amazed at the scenery,
creatures, and story!!!! I loved this movie so much that I saw it again and
again. I later forgot about it untill about 3 years ago when I saw it for
sale and bought it. The movie still amazed me and was still awsome!!!! I
figured and learned some more things out since I am older and that made the
movie even better! I like how to survive they had to learn to be friends
and
get along with each other which I thought was very nice. It's honestly a
very simple, direct message in the movie, for us to survive and do well in
life we must try to get along with one another and help each other out. We
are always fighting wars and hurting one another, we truly have to stop
that. I also figured out what the "mine" was all about ha ha. The dracs
were
being used as slaves at the end you find out in a mine. When I was young I
had absolute no idea what the title meant. But all in all it was an awsome
movie and will still go on as being one of my favourite movies. Yes the
80's
had some of the best movies this world has ever known!
