

I think it definitely is. The writing is of such a quality that
beginner students of the English language should model their
conversations after its dialogue. For example, the exchange between
Paul Kersey(Bronson) and Ms. Kathryn Davis(Deborah Raffin) (more about
this character later) is extremely clear and to the point: Ms. Davis
says, "I hope you like chicken. It's the only thing I know how to
make," to which Kersey deftly responds, "Chicken's good. I like
chicken." If that's not English Grammar 101, I don't know what is.

Another thing about this Ms. Davis character: Kersey sleeps with her on
the second date after she practically throws herself at him and tells
him she wants to see him "one last time"(this being only the fourth
time they've ever met) before she moves to her sister's house in
Binghamton,NY to get away from the creeps; then he really doesn't even
bat an eye while her corpse is burning in the street only minutes
later. Kersey never even says her first name through the entirety of
the film. Not once. Never a "Get over here, Katy," or a "That's a nice
dress you wearing, Kathryn" or a "Be careful, Katie, or the creeps'll
get ya!"

And while this 'love' is developing between the two, Fraker(Gavan
O'Herlihy) keeps his ever-watchful eyes on them. It's almost as if
Kersey is using her as bait to get to Fraker, much as he uses the
camera or the car. Sure enough, when Fraker bites, Kersey bites back
hard...in the most incredible sequence of events ever caught on film!
The final fifteen or so minutes are possibly rivaled only by the final
thirty minutes of Delta Force in their brilliance. And that's giving
Delta Force a lot of credit. In what other film can you see Ed Lauter
take out Alex Winter in order to get Charles Bronson's back, a troubled
gang leader seemingly calling a hotline to summon neo-nazi bikers to
come to his aid, and nimble Broadway dancers wearing mesh halter-tops
posing as street punks, all laid down to a soundtrack written by none
other than Jimmy Page. If that's not the highest of high comedy, then
nothing is funny.

Truthfully speaking, there are a thousand ways to state the
unintentional comedy of Death Wish 3, but the only way to truly
understand it is to watch it and judge for yourself.

<|_=00=_|>

There are few movies out there that can honestly be called classics,
Deathwish 3 is one. I must have watched this movie dozens of times, yet
each
time it is just as ridiculously funny. From the outset the movie
explodes
with laughs. Kersey's trip to jail, where he is threatened by some thug,
who
apparently high on goof balls, decides to attack the most giant guy in
the
jail for no reason and is bloodily beaten down. At this point he turns
back
to Kersey and curses him like it is his fault! Make no sense? Don't let
that
stop you, there is more where that came from. Next the police inspector
beating Kersey up, then abruptly out of nowhere saying, `you see, I'm a
big
fan of yours'! . There are so many other hilarious plot inconsistencies.
Mr.Kaprov saying `Mr.Kersey, it's 90 degrees outside!' as he is wearing
a
full shirt and thick sweater! Or Kersey's friend Charlie, who somehow
managed to smuggle back two massive machine guns from Korea. Did he take
that in his carryon luggage on the trip back? Add to all this lame
romance
that Kersey and the public defender have and you have the making of a
masterpiece. For whatever reason, the desperate woman wants a date with
Kersey. The romance that ensues is epic, until unfortunately, like all
women
that Kersey dates, she is horribly killed.  The final piece of the
puzzle is
some of the best one liners in any movie. Some include, `it's your wife,
she
is sick or... something' Fraker, `bulletproof just like yours asshole'
Fraker, `they call him the giggler, he laughs when he runs' Bennet,
"I'll
kill a little old lady for you. Catch it on the 6 o'clock news!" Fraker.
I
could go on and on. You owe it to yourself to rent this extraordinary
film.
Truly one of the greatest ever made!
<|_=00=_|>
This is how subtle Death Wish 3 is: there's a bit where the stupid
chief stamps on a cockroach. That kind of says it all really. Why
bother with laws, why bother with a constitution and why bother with a
police force – they only get in the way. What you really need to keep
the streets safe is a big gun…and lots of bullets…and maybe a machine
gun… and perhaps a rocket launcher too. Because, hey, if those liberal
pinkos have their way there will only be anarchy.

Paul Kersey's day starts off really badly. Not only do synthesisers,
weeping saxophones, twangy guitars and a smarmy piano accompany his
trip to New York, but by the time he gets there his best mate has been
killed. How unlucky can you get? Well, to make matters worse, one of
the people that kills his best mate is Bill S. Preston, Esq. Oh, and
when he gets there, just as his friend is dying in his arms, he gets
arrested for his murder. Damn. But then, after getting beaten up by the
police, ramming a fat porker's bulbous head through prison bars and
enraging the head of a local gang, he gets unofficial approval from the
stupid chief to go on a one man killing rampage…which is nice.

Death Wish 3 is a guilty pleasure. After all, it's dumb, it's fascistic
and it's badly filmed, but a number of people greater than the
population of San Marino get brutally killed, so it rules. I mean, how
can you not dig a film where people are set on fire, thrown off
buildings and shot at point blank range with a rocket launcher? Anyone
with a penis should enjoy this. So if you don't like it, you're
probably either a woman or Dale Winton.

Where do I start when it comes to the best death in Death Wish 3? The
rocket launcher killing is a classic, but the firebombing is probably
even better – the punks firebomb the flat of an elderly couple and they
come running out, in flames, and then get mowed down with Uzis. But
then there's death by broom and all the machine gun slayings. However,
I also dig the bit when a bunch of bikers, in leather daddy gear, get
blasted to pieces by a bunch of disgruntled neighbourhood residents. An
armed society is a polite society.

But this praise for other characters takes away from the
Bronsoninator's contribution. Never before has one man killed so many
people. He mows down punks with his mate's Browning and then he blows
them away with his unfeasibly huge Magnum – normally I'd suggest that
Bronson was making up for certain shortcomings, but there's no way the
man wasn't hung. And it's his Magnum technique that impresses most. He
can dodge a hail of bullets simply by slowly crouching down on one
knee. Genius! And then there are the people he kills. One man, who's
trying to rape a black woman, is the spitting image of Freddie Mercury.
Another, who he throws off a roof, is Frost out of Aliens. And he even
kills The Giggler! "They killed The Giggler, man! They killed The
Giggler!" But perhaps the best Bronson killing is the one where he
coolly kills a couple of punks who are trying to nick his car. At the
time he's having dinner with a Jewish couple, but he politely excuses
himself, shoots the punks and finishes his grub. What a gentleman.

But it's not all fun and games. Bronson's lady gets killed. But the
woman should have known better. Any woman that gets close to the
Bronsoninator is immediately doomed. It's the James Bond rule. I mean,
we can't have our bloodthirsty heroes suddenly become happy and
content, can we? So she has to die. And at least she goes out in style.
She gets a headbutt for her troubles and then succumbs in a car crash.
Of course, just in case she might survive, the car spontaneously blows
up. You've got to make sure.

Not that any of this seems to bother Bronson. He merely goes along with
his bloodthirsty rampage, squinting at the targets he's going to blow
into bloody pieces. And what of his targets? Well, the gang he takes on
is isn't especially formidable. In fact, they're rather camp. They wear
bandanas, headbands, string vests, fingerless gloves, sleeveless
shirts, leather jackets, chain belts, lots of studs and one even wears
a cute little cut off vest so that he can show off his rock hard abs.
Actually, now that I think about it, they dress and prance like a bunch
of failed Fame auditionees. Perhaps that's why they're so mad. They
just want to be in a chorus line but they can't get a gig. Maybe that's
why they kidnap, rape and kill the Mexican lady. They want to get their
own back on any tang they can get their hands on. The way they emerge
from their hiding place – the bushes, of course – certainly suggests
this. They leap out like coked-up ballerinas. But they all get brutally
killed, so their Broadway ambitions go unfulfilled.

But hey, who cares about the punks? Not I. Indeed, Death Wish 3 has
made me see the light. All we need to keep the streets safe are viscous
vigilantes, dispensing their wonderful brand of arbitrary justice. Only
then will we be free from the tyranny of punks, hoods and lowlifes. I
never knew that a Jewish food critic could be so delightfully fascist.
<|_=00=_|>


Oh my word!! I have never seen a film so lacking in any kind of moral
judgement or consideration for anything other than the death of the scum!
Michael Winner here makes a valid observation of human desires in
displaying
a gung-ho troth world of deep and damaged execution. Not only does he spoon
feed us with utter hell on earth seen through the face of the moustached
Bronson, but he also shows us the spoon he's feeding us with and says "look
at what your watching now look at your self and ask the question: Are you
enjoying this?" And even though you'll tell yourself NO IT CAN'T BE!!!!
You'll know that deep down inside you'll know...it's a
masterpiece
<|_=00=_|>
One of the most magnificent movies ever made. The acting of Charles
Buchinski (later known as Bronson) is simply outstanding. This is the
crown on the career of director Winner, who himself was often quoted
saying this was his masterpiece. The plot has been copied many times,
but it's never been topped. Wildey J. Moore, the gun manufacturer, many
times claimed his brand's growth since the mid 80s can be fully
credited to DW3, and rightly so. This is not just a movie, this is art
that many generations will admire and appreciate. Although this movie
has never been fully appreciated in the USA, it has found a huge
following in Europe and Asia, where the movie is regularly shown at
film schools and it is still a popular hit in student cinemas all
across Europe. All in all, a true classic.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is truly a classic 80s movie! A must have in any '80s' movie
collection! Guns, Bad Guys, CREEPS, Gangs, CHARLES BRONSON and more
CREEPS!!!! 

In my opinion, this is the best Death Wish movie. Tons of non-stop
action! 

And keeping with the classic 80's "bad guy vs good guy" movie - this
movie is about anything but the norm and all about guns and CREEPS! We
see Bronson mowing down thugs and CREEPS with a 30 caliber Korean War
heavy machine gun! A HEAVY MACHINE GUN FOR CRYING OUT LOUD! When
Charlie runs out of ammo for the Heavy Machine gun, he runs back to his
crib and takes up arms with his long range high caliber pistol! This
pistol can stop a freakin ELEPHANT and Charlie is putting holes the
size of hub caps into bad guys with it! And if that is not enough,
Charlie is also packing an anti tank grenade launcher, which by the
way, is only good if he can get the CREEPS clumped together.

The acting in this movie is "ha ha" great and a lot of off the wall
actors (mainly playing CREEPS) appear throughout the movie! The film is
loaded with memorable one liners and scenes! Heck, my favorite
scene/line is where the CREEP leader confronts Broson in Jail and
calmly explains to him: "Tell you what I am going to do ...I'm gonna
kill a little old lady ...just for you! ...catch it on the six o'clock
news".

Is this film violent? Heck yes! But, you'll laugh and cringe all the
way through!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm having a lot of trouble trying to figure out how to rate this
movie. As an actual film, it can't honestly score more than one star
out of five. As pure cheese however, you'd have to give this movie a
straight up five out of five.

This is probably one of the worst movies I have ever seen. The catch
is, it's so bad that it's actually good. Make sense? The movie is
infinitely rewatchable and you can always find something new to laugh
at every time you pop this sucker in the player. There is very little
to tell you about this movie other than if you haven't seen it, you
need to. It's unbelievably violent and Ol' Chuck mows down at least a
hundred gang members throughout the film's ninety minutes.

I can write an entire dissertation on this film but I've already seen
it done on the Web on quite a few sites so I'm not going to bother.
Just to remind you, the movie is so bad and unintentionally funny
(watching the film again, it'd make sense if the filmmakers were going
for laughs) that if you haven't seen it, you need to.

I'll leave you to ponder this one scene and decide for yourselves
whether or not this movie is for you or not: Gang bikers come down the
street. Angry civilians wait with a chain stretched across the road.
Bikers come and are clotheslined off of their bikes when the chain is
yanked upwards. While the bikers are on the floor, the civilians come
out and shoot all of them, point blank while they lay writhing on the
floor. Men, women and oh yes, children come out and join in the
festivities, dancing around the dead bodies of the bikers.

Sigh. Instant classic.

RATING: * out of *****. 

SHLOCK-O-CHEESE RATING: ***** out of *****.
<|_=00=_|>
Most critics seem to have dismissed this film, like so many other
Charles Bronson vehicles, as just another patchwork of mindless
violence. And while there is a fair amount of mayhem, DEATH WISH 3 is
not that awful of an effort, particularly for fans of the series and
its star.

This time out, aging Charlie's Paul Kersey is let loose by a police
chief desperate to clean up a rough part of New York City. The
trigger-happy vigilante moves into the heart of gang territory, where
he once again becomes a one-man army in an urban war of good versus
evil. Bronson, at least the "older" version, is truly at his best.

I'm not saying DEATH WISH 3 is a classic. Indeed to the discriminating
eye it has a plethora of imperfections. The characters are generally
made of cardboard. The violence is over the top. A man well into his
60s outruns and outspooks dozens of young punks. But in the tradition
of the original DEATH WISH and later films such as FALLING DOWN with
Michael Douglas, it has a definite crowd-pleasing charm. Who doesn't
want to see gangbangers get their due? There are also some great cheesy
moments and one-liners so common in 1980s films. When a tenant of his
apartment building sees Kersey setting up a booby trap, for instance,
the vigilante lightheartedly says he's "thinning the herd." A line only
Bronson can truly make work.

So you see, the key to enjoying DEATH WISH 3 is to accept it for what
it is. It ain't Spielberg and it ain't art. So throw the popcorn in the
microwave and have fun with it.
<|_=00=_|>

Wow! What a movie! I can't get over how much I enjoy it!
I watch this movie time and time again and enjoy it more and
more.
This is by far and way the best of the Death Wish series.

The directing is superb, (particularly the scene with Charles and Ed
Lauter
patrolling the streets shooting punks to a funky 70's soundtrack.)Winner
builds up just the right amount of tension, action, humour and emotion at
exactly the right moments.
There is a high standard of acting on display here. Apart from Charles's
flawless performance, there is a career best from Ed Lauter here as the
vigilante cop.
The plot is superbly written, the only drawback is, it was too short! (I
hope they bring out a DVD version with extra scenes soon)
Best Bit:- Hard to choose, there are so many classic scenes. Lookin for
trouble ma'an? (You'll know what I mean when you see the
film)
Best Line:- Tell you what I'm gonna do. I'll kill a little old lady, just
for you. Catch it on the 6 o'clock news!

<|_=00=_|>

Charles Bronson is back in his most famous role.  In my opinion, this is by
far the best film of the series and my favorite movie ever.  This movie
doesn't take itself seriously, because the filmmakers knew that all the
social commentary that was necessary was put across in the first film.
Golan and Globus made this film for Bronson fans, not for the critics, and
it works.  DW3 has been unfairly criticized as "trash" and "a weary entry in
a worn out series."  These statements would be true if the film was made to
be taken seriously or to spread a statement, but it wasn't.  If you take it
as what it is, DW3 is just a fun, action packed romp, with Charlie doing to
street punks what we all wish we could do.  The action is non stop, the
atmosphere is great, and the movie is just out and out the best Bronson
flick ever made.  You can tell that the penny pinching Cannon group spent a
lot of money on this one.  It is believed that Bronson thought this film was
too violent, and that was the reason why Winner didn't direct any of the
following entries.  I can understand his concern, but as is always the case
of sequels, you have to push the envelope even further to pass a previous
entry.  In any case, this movie was no more violent than any other movie
made during this time.  What makes DW3 the best of the series and my
favorite film ever (not the best, just my favorite), is the action,
Charlie's presence, memorable villains, and it's ability to get the viewers
to jump on the bandwagon.  The first film may be the most technically well
made, but this one is the most fun.  For once, Charlie actually has some
clever lines (although he doesn't say much)and a halfway interesting story,
photography, action, and direction to back him up.  Charlie has never been
more intense or super cool than in this one.  Yes, it's exploitive, maybe it
does promote stereotypes, and maybe it is the same story as before, but
Bronson's films always have and always will stand for defending the common
man and giving his audience what they want to see.  Many argue that the DW
series manipulates its' audience, my reply is that the movies don't
manipulate us, the fans are the ones in charge.  We demand that Bronson blow
away deserving scum, and in turn Winner and Co. deliver the goods.  And for
those of you who still want to put it down, remember a few things.  DW3 was
the #1 movie in America when it came out and was among the viewing favorites
of millions of people on video and television because they realize that not
all films have to be epics, they just have to be fun. **********/10 You
can't get any better.
John Batchelor 
