

Wrath is based on one of the best episodes of The Original Series of Star
Trek.  The episode, Space Seed, introduced Kahn Noonian Singh, a genetically
engineered super-warrior from the 20th century who survived in cryogenic
freeze until the crew of the Enterprise found his derelict space ship and
revived him.  Alas, his instinct to conquer survived as well, and only after
an epic struggle is Kirk able to deposit Kahn and his band of supermen in
permanent exile on a garden planet.

Fifteen years later, a cataclysm has left that planet barren, and Kahn
bitter about his plight, when along comes the Enterprise, not knowing they
have returned to Kahn's home planet.  Kahn escapes and the game is
on.

This is undoubtedly the best of the Star Trek movies, and in fact, the best
of everything that was best about Star Trek TOS.  There is heroism, epic
conflict, a fully satisfying story, and deliciously over the top acting by
Shatner, Nimoy and, the main course, Ricardo Montalban, reprising his
original role, with all the menace and drama of, say, Sir Anthony Hopkins'
Oscar winning turn as Hannibal Lechter.

The writing is great, and why not, it was by Harve Bennett, by way of
Melville, and Roddenberry's unforgettable characters, as indelibly etched on
our psyches as any fairy tale of our youth, were never brighter, more
heroic, more magnificent.  In the genre, there is simply nothing better, and
there never will be.  It took decades to hone and refine these characters,
for us to come to love them, and for them to reach the point in their
palpably real lives to reflect with self-doubt and angst on lives that we
accept as being as real as our own.  This isn't a movie, it's a documentary,
and a time capsule, and a worthy monument to the best cast in the best
Sci-Fi Western ever made.
<|_=00=_|>

This sequel to the Star Trek TV series and first Star Trek movies is the
ultimate film for any Scifi fan and a rivetting drama for movie fans in
general. More action packed and interesting than the original Star Trek
movie, it brings the TV show cast onto the big screen by meeting a villain
from the TV show (Khan), obsessively portrayed by Ricardo Montalban. Equally
obsessive is William Shatner in his finest role playing Admiral Kirk, an
ageing man reluctant to return to command of the USS Enterprise, but a man
who finds his first, best destiny is at the helm of his ship. The battle
scenes are the most engaging of any movie, and the action only lets up long
enough for the audience to catch their breath and to advance the storyline.
Witty characters, clever plot devices and ingenious writing and, by late
1990s standards, subdued use of special effects make this movie meet and
often exceed the quality of the original show. Even 16 years later, the
movie's technoligy does not seem "dated" because of the subdued use of
Computer "tricks"! And NO cast of characters(sorry "Next Generation" fans!)
ever had the chemistry or style the original Star trek cast after 16 years
together, a comaraderie showcased  in this movie.  I saw this movie while I
was in High School during the movie's original run and it gets better every
single time I see it! The best!!
<|_=00=_|>

Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan is a classic action film.  It has heroic
characters, a nasty villain and a sweeping adventure that is both engaging
and entertaining.  This is top-notch filmmaking, which just happens to be
told via Gene Roddenberry's sci-fi world of Star Trek.

Acting: Shatner and the Enterprise crew are all in top form.  It just so
happens that this is the best material they have ever been given to perform
and they execute it with class and style (a quality later incarnations of
Star Trek lack).  Also, Ricardo Montablan is the ultimate Star Trek villain
as Khan Noonian Singh.

The special FX are also well-done.  In this age of CGI it is refreshing to
see the ingenuity and creativity of old-style model effects being used so
effectively.  And just to make this statement even more clear: ST II has THE
BEST space battle sequences in film history.  That's right, the best. It's
not about the scope of a battle that makes it fun to watch, it's all about
the pacing!  This film exhibits the best cat and mouse battle in my mind and
its well worth your time.

Go see this movie.  
<|_=00=_|>

Well, the best of the Star Trek films. True, a lot of people have recently
declared Star Trek Frist Contact the best. There are others who love
whales
and political correctness declare Star Trek The Voyage Home the best of
the
Trek films. Out of all the Star Trek films; only two deal with the human
element of Star Trek as well as the original TV series did and that's Star
Trek 2 and 3. This is the one Star Trek film that I would recommend to
people who don't like or watch Star Trek. It's probably one of the best
Science Fiction movies of all time.

People will complain that it's too violent and dark. But that's a part of
life. Anytime you deal with the darkest human emotions of hate and
revenge;
you will have starships being fired at and people dying. To say that in
the
future humans will be 100% peaceful is silly and naive. Themes of life and
death are explored very well in this movie without getting preachy about
it.
Shatner and Nimoy are allowed to expand their characters and bring more
life
to them. Shatner turns in his best Trek performance since "The City on the
Edge of Forever".

The special effects are good, but don't overshadow the story like they did
in the first movie. Instead they service the story, as special effects
should. The score is great; probably the best of all the Star Trek movies.
The uniforms have been toned down and no longer look like pajama's from
the
first movie. I suppose if you really want to sum up this movie, it should
be
that this movie brings out the best from the TOS and makes a wonderful
movie
experience. Also it shows the potential that is in Star Trek that none of
the other movies have been able to reach.
<|_=00=_|>

I've always held a special place in my heart and mind for this second
installment in the "Star Trek" movie series.  Mostly, because this is a
movie that appeals to both places.

Not only is this movie loaded with the original characters from the series,
it also touches on such subjects as revenge, family, duty, age and, of
course, sacrifice.  That was the best thing about the series - that it
touched on topics that were (pardon the expression) universal, no matter the
species.

Everyone is uniformly fine right down the line, especially Montalban's Khan
(returned from the "Space Seed" episode of the original series); all hatred,
vengeance and single-minded of desire to see his enemy laid out before him. 
Namely, Kirk.

Alley is rather fetching as Saavik and it's a shame she wasn't carried over
to the next film.  I can't help but, seeing her on TV anymore, to expect her
to raise an eyebrow in contemplation.  Buttrick makes a complex character
out of David, the son Kirk never knew he had.  Hurt feelings and resentment
meld somewhat explosively with a new-found father/son relationship.

And what can one say about Spock, Bones, Sulu, Chekov, Uhura and Scotty? 
They are characters all of us grew up with and, pivotal to the plot at hand
or not, it's always good to see them.  

For anyone who hasn't seen the movie, I won't discuss it in great detail. 
The story is simple enough (scientists find way to rejuvenate life on dead
planets; Khan finds escape from prison planet, vows revenge on Kirk), but
there is one plot point that will, if you are unfamiliar with it, blow you
away.  Suffice it to say, never has friendship been elocuted so well in this
or any movie before or since.

Ten stars and a special Kobuyashi Maru simulation for "Star Trek: The Wrath
of Khan".  Watch it: it'll make you feel young again.
<|_=00=_|>

The Wrath of Khan was a complete jump in quality, production and standard
from first movie, The Motion Picture.  Ricardo Montauban,  a classic actor
best known for his romantic films in his early years, 1950's.  One of the
 best villains you will ever see in a science fiction movie.

The music was good, however not as good as the predecessor movie's music,
but still good.  The directing is also very good, great use of focusing
techniques, close up's, action sequences well done, the usual high standard
that comes from a proficient director like Nicholas Meyer.

The lighting, exterior and interior shots, were well done.

Its a pity that they haven't made a remastered tape, as the movie picture
quality has degraded through the years.

William Shatner's acting was extremely real, moving, believable. Among with
the other main cast, and unlike the previous movie, this movie brought
together that atmosphere that existed in the Original Star trek series.

The dramatic plot that happens towards the end of the movie is indeed, one
of the best scenes you will ever see in motion picture history.  Proving
that Star Trek still has emotion.  I can not be more clearer than this
unless by giving away the story.  Watch it yourself, and you'll be moved by
the greatest acting, heart touching scene ever made.

The special effects composed along with George Lucas were excellent, and in
the year 2000, I feel they would come very close to our standard today.  The
better warp entering sequences, battle sequences, and the formation of the
new Genesis planet are very good effects.  The chase in the nebula, final
explosion of the Genesis device are effects for you to watch for.

If your like me, you will love the script for its Shakespeare context which
Khan uses effectively throughout the film. I highly recommend you to see
this movie if you haven't already, it's one of the best.

Rating: 9.5/10
<|_=00=_|>

I'm not a Star Trek fan. I have watched the show a few times, and I don't
dislike it; but it's not the sort of thing that I would find myself watching
week after week. Basically what I'm saying is: I'm not a Trekkie. I did,
however, find lots to enjoy about this movie. The plot revolves around
Captain Kirk, who has now been promoted to Admiral Kirk and is going through
a mid-life crisis. However, his crisis couldn't have come at a worse time;
as it has come on the eve of the testing for a new creation, known as
'Genesis', and not only that but a man named Khan has just been found on a
planet that Kirk exiled him on, and he doesn't just want to give Kirk a
friendly hug.

The acting in the film isn't great, actually, it's about the standard that
you would expect from a TV show (which is no coincidence, I'm sure). I'm not
sure if all the cast of the shows is present, because I didn't watch it
often, but most of the main ones seem to be here; Spock, Kirk, Scottie, Sulu
etc. Also joining them is Kirstie Alley, in the role of a young Vulcan
commander and Ricardo Montalban who camps it up and dons a silly costume for
the title role of Kirk's opposite number; Khan. His performance was the
standout of the film for me; he's deliciously over the top, but despite that
he comes across as believable as his mannerisms fit the character profile
that he is portraying. Unfortunately, non of the show's best known baddies,
the Klingons make an appearance. In fact, aside from the Vulcans, there are
no aliens in the movie.

One thing that surprised me about the film is the meatiness of the
characters. As it's a film of a TV show, I wasn't expecting any development
or for the characters to step out of their character arks, but they are
surprisingly well done. Some characters also go through a change during the
movie (some more than others), which is nice to see. The pace is also a good
thing about the movie, as it doesn't let up and manages to stay interesting
all the way through. One thing that worried me before watching the movie is
that I would get bored as I don't know the show, but that didn't become a
problem at any point.

I am proof that you don't have to be a Trekkie to enjoy this movie. There's
more than enough for the casual movie fan to enjoy about it, it's an
entertaining romp and overall I give this Star Trek film a 'G' for 'good'
rating.
<|_=00=_|>

There have been many Star Trek films but The Wrath of Khan is still the
best. Second to none for thrills, action and adventure. With the best
musical score by James Horner to keep us on the edge of our seats. If
you haven't seen this at least 10 times go and put it on now!! The new
special edition with previously unreleased footage brings the whole
thing together in an even better way (no spoilers, sorry!). The regular
cast are at their best but Ricardo Montalban steals the show as Khan.
Done in true Star Trek tradition, unlike the disappointing
special-effects-fest of the first Motion Picture, this film will go on
to be one of the all time greats of sci-fi.

<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

OK, Trekkies I will only review this one and leave the rest of your
dreadful inventory unscathed. My philosophy professor called me the
buzz-saw. I only had to go after TNG Insurrection because its ethical
retardation was so profound. This is actually entertaining, believe it
or not. Montalban was always a great actor. I also applaud Meyer for
quoting Melville here is how you say Ahab Picard, use hatred, hello? He
is a psycho. Picard quotes him in FIRST CONTACT like he was a knitting
grandma in a rocking chair. Montalban quotes him with exactly the rage
and hate that Melville wrote him with in Moby Dick. The film moves very
quickly, it makes up for its very low budget by cannibalizing footage
from Star Trek; The Motionless Model. The studio was almost burned to
the ground by angry Trekkies after that horrible, over hyped piece of
poo poo came out in 1979. They rushed this out, as fast as possible,
you can see the many shots of the Enterprise that were lifted right out
of Robert Wise's turkey.

It is surprisingly intense for a Star Trek movie with those brain
controlling slug things in the ear. Not terribly likely but hey
anything after the frozen model of 1979. Winfield was always an
underrated actor and he gives a great performance here. There are weak
spots in the acting basically every time, then beautiful, Kirstie Alley
speaks. Also, Merrit Butrick is just awful. He sounds like he is
reading from a teleprompter. The hairpiece and the girdle are fully
functional for Kirk; he is at his best in this film. Just one scene was
cringe worthy, when he screams Khan like he is having an aneurysm. The
movie is one of the most action packed of the entire set of both crews.
It is refreshingly free of the usual humanistic boredom that the TNG
films subject us to. There is a slight believability gap of Kirk
allowing any ship that close to his ship. In the original series, that
never would have happened. 

The death scene of Spock is the most moving of all the scenes in any
Star Trek movie. That is probably why JJ thought he needed to rip it
off in STAR CRAP: INTO MORAL DARKNESS. The nobility of Spock is worth
watching the movie for, yes his Vulcan axiom of the needs of the many
outweigh the needs of the few or the one is exactly the moral opposite
of STAR TREK: INSURRECTION. That is why this film endures while that
one disappears. Narcissism is not a pretty picture. If you are going to
buy the Star Trek films, which I would not, start with this one. It is
like Everest compared to the other films of the series. Especially
avoid Star Trek 4: We Need To Pick Up Whales, unless you have been
drinking heavily, then it is one of the funniest movies you will ever
see. 

The intensity, script, acting carry this film over the crummy low
budget effects. Please, Regulus looks like a big cheese-ball. You can
tell which scenes were taken from the comatose picture by, if they look
good, they are not indigenous to the film. I did admire Meyer for
always trying to educate those Trekkies. Here it is Herman Melville
later in Star Trek 6: The Undiscovered Rest Home it is Shakespeare. I
think it is noble; look, he is trying to help them.
<|_=00=_|>

Wrath of Khan owes a certain debt of thanks to Clark Gable's wartime
thriller.  Although it's easy to criticize, WOK is full of suspense and
tension.  The design of the costumes and sets is excellent, except for the
cream and brown combinations.  But what the hey, it was made during the
heady days of the early 1980s.  It is certainly more accessible to a
mainstream audience than the first film was...but I liked that one too
anyway.

I'm no trekkie...I'm not obsessed by the tech specs of warp drive, and
transporters or beams and such...I just like Sci-Fi movies that are well
done and entertaining.  This is not the best movie ever made as another
poster stated...but it is exciting and engrossing.

Buy the DVD.
