
Kindergarten Cop is a great film. It contains some of Schwarzenegger's
best work showcasing his innate likability and comic timing in a piece
which allows them to accentuate his more often seen action star
persona. The lightening of this persona works in the film allowing us
to follow Arnie's Kimble into what could easily be a weak and twee
concept. Fortunately Arnie doesn't lose his balls in the transition and
Reitman directs the action very well as well as showing the same skill
in comedy as he did with previous hits such as Ghost Busters. Ricky
Tyson makes a brilliant villain not in his being an equal to
Schwarzenegger but in his portraying a drug dealer with a grudge as a
three dimensional character who will stop at nothing to get his son
back. Schwarzeneeger also gets to get have some romance and although he
at times looks ready to kill his very beautiful love interest (Penelope
Ann Miller) he manages to be a very charming lead who the audience are
helpless but to root for. The screenplay by Salem, Harris and Weingrod
is both touching and funny with memorable lines such as the deadpan
interrogation scene "Who is your daddy and what does he do?". The kids
also are great featuring a diverse group who almost steal the show with
lines such as "Boy's have a penis, girl's have a vagina". The film also
contains some classic Arnie one liners such his "I'm the party pooper"
kiss off before shooting down some low lives. Such lines refer to
Arnie's tough guy persona and shows that he is not afraid to poke fun
at himself. The difference in Kindgarten Cop is that he is playing a
vulnerable human character and the audience does not want him to be
hurt not just because he is the hero but because they like him. The
score too is exceptional being appropriately sweet and upbeat as well
at sometimes hitting darker more sinister tones. They truly don't make
them like this anymore, just see awful modern examples such as Vin
Diesel's The Pacifer for proof or rather don't see them, watch
Kindergarten Cop again and see a great action star and comedy director
team up to make a most enjoyable work.
<|_=00=_|>

Arnold Schwarzenegger and Ivan Reitman make a great team!  This is such a
great film, and it has everything in it, action, suspense, comedy,
romance...everything!  At first glance this film looks like a movie made for
kids, but I assure you, it is not.  This film was made for
adults.

The comedy in this film is spectacular!  I've seen this film many times, and
every time I see it a can't help but crack up at certain scenes.  The comedy
is just great!

Surprisingly there is a fair amount of action in the film as well, and those
scenes are done very well.  Like I said, at first glance you would think
this is a movie made for kids, but there are definitely some adult themes in
this film.  This film is rated PG-13 for a reason.

The cast in this film is very good.  Arnold Schwarzenegger pulls off another
great performance!  Penelope Ann Miller, Pamela Reed, Linda Hunt, Richard
Tyson, Joseph Cousins, Christian Cousins, and all the children in the film
do great jobs with their roles.  I would imagine that a film like this would
be a nightmare to direct, with all those little kids running around.  So,
I've got to give some extra props to Ivan Reitman for a job well
done.

I would definitely recommend this film to anyone and everyone.  I didn't
think there was anything to dislike about the film.  So, when you do see the
film, I truly hope you enjoy it.  Thanks for reading,

-Chris
<|_=00=_|>
I reckon Arnie would make the best teacher. For starters, he could
teach PE, and Austrian, and politics, and awesome, among other things.
Schoolyard bullying and vandalism would be a thing of the past, and if
any of the students were having domestic troubles at home, Arnie would
find out and then BAM! Problem solved, just like in 'Kindergarten Cop'.

Arnie plays John Kimble, a cop who has spent years chasing a criminal
by the name of Cullen Crisp. When he finally gets Crisp, he now has to
find all the money Crisp that stole. It seems as though Crisp's e-wife
took it and fled to a small town with their son, and changed their
names in the process. To find them, Arnie must pose as a kindergarten
teacher, and hilarity ensues.

'Kindergarten Cop' may not be as heavy on the action as some of Arnie's
other movies from the time (80s / early 90s), but on the other hand, it
is very funny. It delivers some classic lines from not only Arnie, but
also his disciples of awesome (students, whatever you wish to call
them). 'Kindergarten Cop' proves that Arnie is family-friendly, as well
as awesome. Bravo!

8/10 - Check it out. You should like it, and if you don't, I'm sure
Arnie will forgive you.
<|_=00=_|>
Arnie plays a bad ass cop who disguises himself as a kindergarten
teacher in order to track down the ex-wife of a drug sleazeball to
finally lock him up.

Arnie in a comedy. Well, it worked in Twins so why not do it again?
Actually this time around he fares very well, balancing quite nicely
his tough guy side (which we all love) and also his comedic side. His
interaction with the children are hilarious and somewhat touching at
times. Supporting cast do a nice job, particularly Reed as Arnie's
partner and Hunt as his kindergarten supervisor.

Many critics found the level of violence to be a little excessive
considering it's listed as mainly a comedy, but I don't agree. Sure,
there's some violence near the end, but it's relatively toned down. I'd
say this is good family fun.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's an odd combination of humor, kids' cuteness, violence and
suspense. The beginning, and the last third of the film provide the
violence. In between is a nice story of a tough-guy cop becoming a
loved and respected kindergarten teacher.

The cuteness comes with the kids, who are nice and funny and with
Penelope Miller's character. Miller sports wholesome looks and, except
for the end when things get tense, a clean mouth.

The star of the film, Arnold Schwarzenegger, shows a good flair for
comedy as the tough guy-softie. This might be Arnold's most likable
role. It was interesting to see Carroll Baker again, an actress I
hadn't seen since the 1960s. I'd like to have seen her smile, but she
frowned throughout her minor role in here.

Storywise, this is typical Hollywood in that it depicts family life in
a poor way. I know there are many single mothers out there today but in
this movie - which is 17 years old - ALL of the kids in the class come
from single homes except one, and that kid is being beaten up by this
father! Excuse me - not one normal family out of 25?? Come on! Somebody
should inform Hollywood there ARE happily married people in the United
States....or at least outside the sick confines of Tinseltown.

Anyway, the positives outweigh the negatives in the film and the unique
mix of humor and suspense make this interesting for the full 111
minutes.
<|_=00=_|>
Before I comment, I would just like to say this is my first time on
IMDb reviewing a film. I am a big Arnold Schwarzenegger fan and I
thought this was one of his finest. I am such a big fan, I can spell
his last name without thinking about it and I have a bobble head of
Terminator 3 on my computer. Anyways, this movie was great. It was
funny in a heartwarming children's comedy sort of way for most of it.
It has some of the best Arnold Schwarznegger quotes ever such as,
"DOMINIC!" "STOP WHINING!" and "IT'S NOT A TUMOR!" There are also some
pretty quotable quotes by other actors. There was decent action scenes
for a comedy. The supporting actors did a swell job especially the
antagonist and Kimble's partner. I enjoyed the film and would think it
should be in the top 250 films list, but everyone has their own opinion
and I respect that... sort of. Overall swell movie. I would watch it
with your family, but be warned that there are some sexual references
and profane or lewd speech so don't watch it with little kids. I would
stick with 10 and up.
<|_=00=_|>
To the person who posted before me, I'd like to tell you to get a grip!
Those big words don't mean anything to everyday people, they want the
truth, not some quaffed up proposals from someone who takes things way
too seriously. I suppose you're entitled to your opinion, but don't
give up your day job to be a critic! Here's the lowdown: this movie is
just that, a movie. It has a lot of funny characters, and it's really
funny in some scenes. It's fantasy, and it gives the viewer a chance to
escape. Arnold might never have gotten an Oscar for this, but this is
not that kind of movie to begin with! It's about a cop who tries to
find a Criminals ex wife as a witness and ends up being a Kindergarten
teacher, who brings a lot of goodness to the community whilst saving
the damsel in distress. It's fun to watch, and goes well with anyone
who's building an Arnie collection. rent it, buy it, you'll enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
Love to see this film over and over again. I find this was a turning
point for Mr. Schwarzengger as an actor...the challenge of being on
"the wave" inter-acting with children. The scenic area of the Pacific
Northwest also was a plus to the film. Caroll Baker as "Mother Tyson"
is a great villainess. Wish I had viewed some of her work. The white
streak in her hair, was a great flash back to "Cruella De Ville".
Richard Tyson as "Crisp" also plays a smarmy character. Love the
contrast of short Linda Hunt's Principal to tall Kimble. Yet Linda
proved she could project herself as more formidable than Arnold
Schwarzenegger. I also loved the comic timing Broadway's Pamela Reed
brought to the film. Her character's pragmatism to Kimble's take it all
on, made for another good contrast. Overall the film is good for the
whole family or a solitary rainy afternoon escape.
<|_=00=_|>

John Kimble (Arnold Schwarzenegger) and his partner Phoebe O'Hara (Pamela
Reed) are in pursuit of notorious drug dealer Cullen Crisp (Richard Tyson)
and his scabrous mother Eleanor (Carroll Baker). John learns Cullen is
searching for his ex-wife and his little boy, and Kimble plans to nail them
when they find the former wife, who is believed to have $3 million of
Cullen's drug profits. John and Phoebe follow the trail to Astoria, Oregon,
where they believe Cullen's son is attending kindergarten. Although the
child and his mother have changed names, John hopes they can pick up some
clues. By coincidence, Phoebe used to be a schoolteacher and the school
board permits her teach the kindergarten class, but Phoebe gets food
poisoning and John is forced to teach the 6 year olds himself. Along with
lighthearted gags with the kids and the pursuit of the drug dealers, John
has time for a little romance when he falls in love with one of the teachers
(Penelope Ann Miller), who ends up surprising him with more than love.
Kindergarten Cop is one of my favorite Arnold films, I also love the fact
they get Richard Tyson the bad guy.
<|_=00=_|>
Kindergarten Cop was a surprisingly good film. I was not expecting it
to work, and it worked so much better than I expected it to.
Kindergarten Cop is a little overlong and the villains are perhaps a
little too pantomime. However, the film does look lovely, and the score
and soundtrack gives it its heart-warming sentiment.

The script also worked. It was funny, it was poignant and it was
well-meaning, while there is also a heart-warming story, good direction
and pacing and the action while sometimes intense is well-handled.

I was very surprised by the acting. Kindergarten Cop is not Arnold
Schwarznegger's best film, but it does show that he can do comedy, and
here he does do it well. He is suitably low-key and avoids being wooden
as well. Penelope Ann Miller gives good support as well, and the
chemistry between the two is convincing without taking over the film
too much. The characters could have easily been stereotypical and
unlikeable, but they aren't, instead they have a certain warmth to
them, and this is including the kids.

Overall, not a comedy classic, but it works far better than it should
have done. 8/10 Bethany Cox
