

Stop and think about this movie for a minute, and you realize that we are
unbelievably fortunate that it even exists.

Think about all the different cartoon characters who have cameos here. 
Think about how their respective owners had to put aside decades of
competing against each other for gags that would last a few seconds of
screen time.  Realise that, before this movie, the idea of combining fully
rendered animated characters with live action footage was considered
impossible.  And how the hell do you market a movie that includes both
murder plots and fuzzy little cartoons?

This movie is a miracle.

I absolutely loved it as a kid, and although parts of it flew over my head I
really did not care.  I did know that this is what animation can do when all
the "rules" are totally ignored.  And why shouldn't they
be?

Now, as an adult, I appreciate "Roger Rabbit" for its gutsyness.  There is
absolutely *nothing* like this anywhere.  It gets a solid
Ten.
<|_=00=_|>
I was a little surprised that "Who Framed Roger Rabbit" wasn't on the
top 250. Almost everyone loves this film. It was a major breakthrough
for movies. The cartoon world meets reality.

Bob Haskins is to die for in this film, he plays such a great American
detective and he didn't have much to work with. After all when he was
talking to Roger, he wasn't really talking to anybody since it was a
cartoon character. I love the way he develops his role so much, how he
goes from this stick-to-the-book and all cartoons are bad to this
lovable goofy guy due to Roger's insatiable love for life and cartoons.
It's silly because it's a cartoon, but Roger and Bob clicked so well
and are unforgettable.

Christopher Lloyd... shudder! This guy gave me so many nightmares as a
kid from his character as the judge. The ending where he reveals his
true form, he is just terrifying and effective. Jessica Rabbit is so
cool and sexy for a cartoon. She's just too much fun for this movie and
is wonderful as a cartoon. "I'm not bad, I'm just drawn that way". My
favorite scene is without a doubt when Eddie(played by Bob) is looking
for Jessica and meets the crazy look-a-like in Toon Town. Just great
and hilarious. 

Come on, fans! This is a terrific movie and deserves to be on the top
250 films of all time! It's a break through for cinema history and
movies in general. It's a great one! I'd highly recommend this for the
family and friends or just a Saturday with nothing to do.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

To make a great classic film i think it has to work on several different
levels and this one not only plays on many different levels It scores
tremendously.

It is a great childrens movie. With zany classic characters such as Roger,
the Weasles, and Benny the Cab. They are original crazy and fun. Also it is
a mystery. It plays perfectly as one of those Old 50's detective stories. It
is a milestone in film making. The scenes of the "toons" and humans sharing
a world is great. I think the best scene as special effects go, is the one
where Eddie and Roger are handcuffed together in his office. It looks so
real!!!!! This movie is fun and creative and will go down in movie history.
I don't know what else to say it is simply the best.

Also do your self a favor and steer clear of the bad rip off Cool
World.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm a fan of both cartoons and film noir movies, and so Who Framed Roger
Rabbit was a great experience to me. Set in the 1940's, in a shadowy
atmosphere reminiscent of Bogart classics such as The Maltese Falcon, the
movie blends in cartoon characters and live actors almost seamlessly. For
me, one of the most interesting aspects of the movie was seeing Disney and
Warner Bros cartoon characters in the same scenes - for the first time in
film history, I believe. Who could forget the piano duel of Donald and
Daffy? The live actors were a bit theatrical and over-dramatic at times,
but
not to an extent that would have made the film unbearable or bad. The
cartoon characters saved a lot, too.

Fast-paced, entertaining film that can be viewed by anyone. I liked it very
much.
<|_=00=_|>
When this original movie was conceived and released in 1988, it was
seen as a movie for the kids, but it soon found its way into the hearts
of moviegoers everywhere. This was a landmark movie, cementing skills
from all areas of Hollywood, from the budding special effects industry,
to the acting skills of Bob Hoskins, to the SUPERB directing skills of
Robert Zemeckis, to create one of the most impressive movies in
Hollywood.

While this movie was not the first of it's kind, it was definitely the
first to have cartoons and real actors interact so seamlessly, and it
is impressive that it was made over 15 years ago. Another impressive
part of this movie is the soundtrack, using the classic 20's jazz song
"Why Don't You Do Right?" to bring back the old jazz club scene, to
make for a truly authentic feel from a cartoon character, as well as
the detective music used all originally composed. All around, this movie
is one that I Grew up with, and children and adults will be enjoying
for decades to come, because Who Framed Roger Rabbit will be a classic
in the movie world for a long long time.
<|_=00=_|>

Watching this for the umpteenth time, I am struck by how much this movie
resembles Brazil (1985). What, you will say, that was a grim and serious
story set in a horrible dystopia. Ah, yes, but one of its main satirical
weapons was its over-the-top humour.

Well, Roger Rabbit inverts the formula. We seem to have a zany cartoon
comedy. but underlying this is a story about racism and genocide. The
cartoon characters, who coexist with humans, are shown as a tolerated
subordinated race, good for "singing and dancing and running and jumping".
They are called "Toons", which resembles another epithet that used to be a
nasty name for black people. And the "solution" is exactly that - a solution
of benzene and acetone that will exterminate the Toons by dissolving
them.

Both movies are set in something that resembles the 1940's, which gives lots
of opportunity for spoofing films noir of the sort that Bogart et al. used
to make.

How could something so serious be funny? The best comedy is just a hare's
breadth (sorry, couldn't resist) removed from tragedy, which is why Hogan's
Heroes is so funny while Disney comedies fall flat from gooey sentiment.
Kids love Roger Rabbit, and that should be the ultimate test of whether it's
comic or not.

It still amazes me how many grown-ups fail to perceive the underlying
message of tolerance and understanding.  Perhaps they don't want
to...
<|_=00=_|>

I say this film is a family film because that is what it is.  Anyone in the
family will like it.  It pitches it's animated rabbit to the kids, and for
the teens and adults, they can look for humor in other things.  The plot is
a complicated one (like most detective mysteries) that brings a drunken
detective back to the detective game of cartoons.  Sometimes funny,
sometimes
compassionate, always entertaining.  With director Zemeckis bringing one of
the best animated films in a film that is half live action/half animated.
It is a landmark in visual effects and nothing like this will ever come
around again.  A+
<|_=00=_|>
Oh, this is the first movie I've seen to have live characters and
cartoons come together, maybe not for the first time, I've seen Jerry
dance with Gene Kelly once, but that's another movie! Anyways this was
my childhood favorite and perhaps an all time, and will always be a
favorite to me. Every time I watch there is a magic moment, that the
cartoons we all loved as kids are still the best today, even though we
are into computer animation, Batman, X-Men, or anime, we can never say
we hate those old Looney Toons or Disney shows. And the antics and
jokes and gags and gimmicks they did will always remain the funniest,
even though we dig jokes from Saturday Night Live or sex jokes these
days. This is also the first time I've seen Disney and Warner cartoons
for the first time! And not to mention Betty Boop and Droopy! Overall,
this is the best animated and live movie the whole family can enjoy,
and fans of the old cartoons will love. Recommended to all fans of
cartoons of the golden years of Disney and Warner. Thank you Disney,
thank you Warner. And if liked this, I recommend you play the video
game Kingdom Hearts, this time it's Final Fantasy/Squaresoft and Disney
together! >>>> 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Who Framed Roger Rabbit is one of the zaniest and smartest movies to come
out in a long time..Directed by Robert Zemeckis who later did Forrest Gump
and Castaway among others, it stars Bob Hoskins as a washed up private eye
in the 50s who gets dragged into a murder investigation in Toonland to help
unravel a mystery and prove the innocence of a toon Roger Rabbit.

One of the real treats of the movie is Kathleen Turner who does the voice of
Jessica Rabbit..She is a perfect choice with that sexy sultry
voice.
The movie is great fun for the whole family..there is a little innuendo but
like Jessica says.."I'm not bad..I'm just drawn that way"

A real treat! Holds the record for most credits at the end of a movie
(937!)
On a scale of one to ten... 9
<|_=00=_|>

"Who Framed Roger Rabbit?" appears to be a film for the kiddies on first
glance, but this is a somewhat complicated murder mystery that never gets
old or dull.  The animated title character has been framed and now he is
out
to clear his name with the help of a human detective (Bob Hoskins).  Robert
Zemeckis cemented his ability to make a film with this winner.  The special
effects, which are remarkable, never detract from the story and in the end
they add a great dimension to this fine motion picture.  Overlooked in
1988,
but the best film from that weak year.  5 stars out of
5.
