
I was a little bit disappointed to see that this movie is a 4.8 on
IMDb. After all it's not that bad. It's a funny story with a romantic
plot. No, of course it isn't Oscar material, and it's not the ultimate
comedy. But it's just a feel good movie that you'll enjoy if you're
into cheesiness.

Honestly, if you're telling me that you couldn't laugh at Captain Felix
and his dog, Rambo, you must not have a funny bone. Especially for that
funny scene where he and Mr. Richards end up in that car chase with
Jonathan and Emmy, I mean come on, you had to laugh at that. There are
also more than a few funny scenes that I thought more people would get
a kick out of. Apparently, I was wrong, but please do give this movie a
chance. I grew up with it and still love it 'till this day. Not to
mention every time I hear that song "Nothing's gonna stop us" I think
of the mall. :D

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

"Mannequin" is a silly movie to be sure. But I found it to be very funny at
times. I was just a teenager when I first saw this movie back when it came
out in 1987. My mom took me and a friend to see this, and we all laughed and
had a good time. It's no classic, but so what. All that matters is that it's
a fun movie, and that's exactly what this is. Andrew McCarthy stars as a man
who's had bad luck with working jobs. His main interest is to be a sculptor.
At one of his jobs he made mannequins, and for some odd reason he seems to
fall in love with the last mannequin he made. Later he gets employed at a
department store that has taken that mannequin in. And before you know it,
the mannequin comes to life in the form of an Egyptian princess. But she
only comes to life when the two are alone together. When someone else comes
into the scene, she freezes up and turns into a mannequin again. This may
sound like a stupid premise, but I don't care. "Mannequin" is a movie that's
very entertaining. It's not a laugh riot, but I did laugh quite a bit
throughout. Andrew McCarthy and Kim Cattrall (as the mannequin) look as if
they're having a blast, and if I was the McCarthy character, I would have a
blast too. The supporting cast includes Estelle Getty (from TV's "The Golden
Girls") as Mrs. Timkin, the friendly owner of the store; James Spader (in an
early film role) as the smarmy manager of the store; G.W. Bailey (from the
"Police Academy" films) as the bumbling midnight security guard of the store
(who spends most of his time talking to his dog); Meshach Taylor (from TV's
"Designing Women") as McCarthy's assistant (who acts strange most of the
time); and Carole Davis as McCarthy's former girlfriend (who works at a
rival department store nearby). All join in on the lunacy of "Mannequin".
This is a nice, little picture.

*** (out of four)

<|_=00=_|>
The low IMDb rating for MANNEQUIN is imbecilic. This is a thoroughly
delightful mixture of madcap comedy and romance, played to the hilt by
a sparkling cast of players who all have a gift for comedy.

ANDREW McCARTHY is at his best as a young man drifting from job to job
who ends up employed by ESTELLE GETTY at her almost defunct department
store. It isn't until he gets real inspiration for window displays from
a mannequin who becomes a real person whenever others aren't around,
that the picture soars into romantic fantasy. KIM CATTRALL is the
gorgeous dummy who comes to life and wins the heart of the hero who is
at first reluctant to believe his own eyes.

The sets and costumes are fantastic, the supporting cast is excellent
and the script stays in high gear until the last twenty minutes when
things get a little too hectic, even for a comedy/fantasy. But it's all
in good fun, a cheerful flick easily enjoyable if you like fantasies of
this kind and all of it is well photographed in pleasing color with
splendid sets.

ANDREW McCARTHY, KIM CATTRALL, JAMES SPADER (especially funny as a
smarmy business man), and G.W. BAILEY (as the night detective) all
demonstrate a flair for comedy in roles they obviously enjoyed playing.

Well worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is proof that not every movie needs to have academy award
winning performances, a gripping plot and special effects to be
enjoyable. Mannequin is certainly not a spectacular piece of cinematic
achievement, but its simplicity and light-heartedness is what makes it
great! I've loved this movie ever since I was a kid and I always, and
still do, find it a fun and enjoyable watch, especially on a lazy
Saturday afternoon.

Jonathan Switcher is a down-on-his-luck artist. He can't hold down a
regular job because his creativity keeps on sabotaging his
productivity. One day he saves a little old lady who gratefully offers
him employment at the department store that she owns. Jonathan goes to
work arranging the store's window displays, and happens across a
mannequin that he built during one of his short lived careers. Low and
behold, the mannequin he created comes to life when the two of them are
alone and a fun and silly romantic comedy ensues. 

The entire plot is quite silly and full of holes, but the movie is pure
fun. Andrew McCarthy is cute and endearing as always and Kim Cattrall
is fun and witty as the bubbly mannequin. This film is rife with great
one-liners and hysterical situations and of course a great 80's style
musical montage. Actual one of the most unfortunate things about this
film is that the music is great and a soundtrack album was never
released! For shame!

Of course Mannequin isn't thought-provoking, nor is it clever or
cinematic ally impressive. It's just a cute silly little film that will
make you laugh as long as you don't take it too seriously.
<|_=00=_|>

It's about a guy who is down on his luck has an incredible woman come
into his life and make his life better. The only problem is that she is
a mannequin who only comes to life when no one else is around.

Kim Cattrall is amazing. She is beautiful, sexy, fun, loving, and full
of life. She makes the fantasy character ideal and personally I think
that she deserves an award for this film. Andrew McCarthy is also very
charismatic and likable in this film.

This movie is light, silly, funny, romantic, and very entertaining.
It's a feel good movie definitely worth watching.

10/10

<|_=00=_|>

I doubt that this is one of the best films ever made, but it is without a
doubt one of the better films of the eighties.
The acting from McCarthy and Cattrall is superb and the soundtrack is also
credible.
There are some bad points, but they only show if you analyse too
cynically.
Some call ti the seminal eighties movie, and rightfully so with many decade
references and costume get ups, (think Hollywood Montross, and the scene
where Emmy and Jonathon dance there way through the store)
All in all a good movie, worthy of 4.5 out of 5 stars
<|_=00=_|>
In Edfu, in the ancient Egypt, the young Ema "Emmy" Hesire (Kim
Cattrall) is a woman ahead of time. When her mother tries to force her
to marry a manure dealer, she wishes to go to the future and vanishes. 

In the present days, in Pennsylvania, Jonathan Switcher (Andrew
McCarthy) is an idealistic young artist that builds a mannequin.
However, he is inefficient and can not keep his jobs and his ambitious
girlfriend Roxie (Carole Davis) leaves him. But Jonathan sees his
mannequin in the window of the Prince and Company Department Store. 

On the next morning, he saves the life of Ms. Claire Timkin (Estelle
Getty), who owns the Prince & Co., and she asks the corrupt manager
Richards (James Spader) to give the position in the stock to Jonathan.
The Prince & Co. is near bankruptcy and the Illustra Company intends to
but it, using Richards to sabotage the Department Store. 

Emmy comes back to life for Jonathan and they arrange wonderful
windows. Jonathan is promoted to window dresser, working with the gay
Hollywood Montrose (Meshach Taylor) that becomes his friend. Soon
Jonathan becomes a successful designer, leveraging the Prince & Co and
is promoted to VP. But Illustra's General Manager, Roxie and Richards
want to force Jonathan to work for Illustra and kidnap Emmy.

"Mannequin" is one of my favorite films and I can not precisely tell
how many times I have watched it. Andrew McCarthy was successful in the
80's and Kim Cattrall is one of the sexiest Hollywood actresses ever.
The excellent James Spader is caricatural in the role of Richards and
Meshach Taylor is hilarious in the role of a gay window dresser. The
result is one of the funniest and most delightful comedies of the 80's.
The soundtrack is also wonderful. Unfortunately the IMDb User rating
does not mirror the truth about this wonderful and romantic fantasy. My
vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Manequim" ("Mannequin")
<|_=00=_|>

I liked this movie. Andrew McCarthy is a classic 80's actor, paired with
another 80's co-star James Spader in a cute comedy about a mannequin who
comes to life. The music is cool, and it is a cute love story. Meshach
Taylor is hilarious as Hollywood, the other window dresser. Watch if you
are
in the mood for an 80's flick. 
<|_=00=_|>

This is a fun loving romantic comedy that hits the spot every time I watch
it.

I love this film. It may not be Oscar winning material but it is high
entertainment full of jokes, unusual situations and one of the best "high
speed chases" I have seen.

Andrew McCarthy is so adorable as the out of work artist who finds his
inspiration from the mannequin he designs and makes.

Kim Catrall puts in a good performance of the time travelling Egyptian
princess who is never quite content with her situation until she reaches
"present day America" in the form of a department store
mannequin.

I definitely recommend this movie. It will cheer you up or just fill in an
evening's movie entertainment. Whatever you do with it enjoy it cause deep
down it's a love story that everyone will  be really satisfied
with.
<|_=00=_|>
This is definitely for the love sick or the romantically challenged.
Jonathan Switzer(Andrew McCarthy) is a very talented artist who seems
to have a tough time keeping a job. However, his luck is just made when
the mannequin he builds in his earlier job, comes to live whenever he's
alone. The mannequin named Emmy(Kim Cattrall) who's desire for Jonathan
is insatiable. Jonathan's friend Hollywood(Meshach Taylor, "Designing
Women") wonders about him while he should worry about his own problems.
I liked the small video Jonathan and Emmy made together wearing
different outfits while "Do you Dream about Me?" was being played. I
liked the flash scene. Then there's the scene between Felix(G.W.
Bailey) and Switzer got into the brawl when he thinks Switzer is doing
a "dummy". When Switzer rescue Emmy from the shredder, the curse was
broken. And everyone got to see her including the bad guys. Hollywood
needed a serious realty check, however Felix needs it way more. Because
Hollywood says "I'm seeing, but I'm still don't believing" GET OVER IT
Hollywood, SHE'S FOR REAL! Anyways, this is a great movie, I enjoyed it
very well. Rating 3 out of 5 stars.
