
Personally this is one of my all time favorite movies since I was very
young. That being said I had not seen this movie in over a decade
before seeing it on the shelf at the grocery store where I purchased
it.

I had just watched the two Conan movies a few nights prior and I sat
down with my lady to watch an old favorite.

To me this movie was infinitely more enjoyable than the Conan movies.
And even as an adult some 20 years later with a much wider and esoteric
taste in movies, music and games; I found this movie a blast and I'm
not going to say it's a 10 and nor am I going to play the role of lap
top critic.

I'm just going to say this: In a world of horrible blockbusters like GI
Joe and Transformers I feel Red Sonja was money and time well spent.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a great fan of the Conan series and of course my favourite is the
first of the series "Conan the Barbarian". I bought Red Sonja on DVD
for only $9.95 and I was surprised to find as entertaining as the first
two Conan films. Arnold Schwarzenegger executed his character
outstanding throughout the fight scenes and as Kalidor even though the
film was focused on Red Sonja. Brigitte Nielsen was beautiful and
played Red Sonja perfectly to heighten the suspense and action through
the fight scenes. The Film quality was good into creating a fantasy
environment. The Action scenes in this film was the main part that me
through this film even though its PG there's enough blood for the
warmongers to enjoy. To conclude whoever loves Barbaric films such as
the Conan films or Kull the Conqueror this is the film for you. 

Conan The Barbarian (1982) 8/10 Conan The Destroyer (1984) 6/10 Red
Sonja (1985) 6/10
<|_=00=_|>

This movie gets better with age.  If you've got a sense of humor and
don't
need Industrial Light and Magic special effects, the combination of
actors
(all playing off the winsome Brigette Nielson) makes this a fun movie to
see
again...or for the first time.

It's probably also the movie that got Arnold in hot water during the
"recall."
<|_=00=_|>
This is a wonderfully moral sword and sorcery epic. Arnold
Schwarzenegger portrays a heroic man of high character unlike the
amoral Conan. His portrayal of Kalidor is understated and that makes it
WORK.

Brigitte Nielsen while a raw talent, still manages to put this film
over.

She is what one expects a Red Sonja to be: a simple, brave, barbarian
woman with a sense of loyalty and oath upholding that is so alien to
our modern world.

Sandahl Bergman as the nefarious Queen Gedren is marvelous. She has a
plum role playing a villainous megalomaniac and she enjoys every minute
of it.

Paul Smith and his sidekick Ernie Reyes Jr. almost steal the show,
quite charming. Again there is a humanity in Smith's character, this
loyalty and taking seriously of an oath that rings true for the
imagined world of this sword and sorcery entry.

Tutte Lemkow's portrayal of a wizard is one of the minor roles that is
very well done.

Of all the sword and sandal movies I have seen over the years I have a
special place for this 1985 film.

It is a feel good movie, romantic, exciting, beautiful scenery and
costumes and an excellent ARNOLD film.
<|_=00=_|>

Not really my bag as far as movie types go (not really into the
fantastical)
but I'm glad I saw this film.  There seemed to be very little use of
stuntpersons or body doubles in the majority of fight scenes.  Bridgette
Nielsen clearly worked it off to put on a good showing.
How Schwarzanegger got top billing I'm not sure, but his limited part was,
of course, excellently portrayed.
Film quality was fair, considering the fantasy-esque backdrop and the fact
that it was shot in the early 80s.  I'll go out wide on a limb and give it
a
couple of stars.

My take:  6.5

<|_=00=_|>
Quote of the movie: "so it is true, only women may touch it" 

What was good:

The Soundtrack was really good thanks to genus, Ennio Morricone. 

Red Sonja looked really good in that little cloth piece she wore
throughout the movie. 

There is more red hair in this film than a shedding Irish Setter. 

What was bad: The little kid playing the ruler of a land terribly over
acts. I am not sure if this is because he is a bad kid actor or if it
was suppose to be.

There was a scene where Arnold rides around hitting people from his
horse, but in a wide-angle shot, there is nobody dead on the ground.

The special effects for 1985 are fairly lame, including the mechanical
spider in the castle lair is so bad-dd.

The costumes were designed as if there was a sale at a early 1980's
salvation army. Costume of the movie goes to the oriental old man,
"grandmaster", with the white sheet and black straps is quite a sight.
With poles that come out of his back, I don't know how he can enter a
doorway. 

It takes 18 minutes for Arnold to actually read a line. 

A fun movie to drink a little and laugh at the action or lack of
action. This movie could of been done a lot worse.
<|_=00=_|>
This is Saturday afternoon fodder, and it is great fun. Brigitte
Nielsen plays Red Sonja a little as though she is reading her lines off
hidden cue cards, in fact the entire cast appears to have received the
script on the day they began shooting, but this is still great comic
book stuff all the same. It lacks the fancy CGI that we have come to
expect, and is, in my opinion, actually the better for this lack. The
set pieces all work well, and even the very tentative love story is not
a major distraction. Settle back to enjoy skimpy skirts and lots of
sword play, years before Xena the Warrior Princess hit the small
screen.
<|_=00=_|>

Let's just settle this before I start - this is a bad bad movie! You will be
hard pressed to find such awful acting anywhere as Miss Nielsen, 'veteran'
director Richard Fleischer stumbles blindly through a non-existant plot, and
you will feel absolutely no sympathy for either the good guys or the bad -
in other words you just won't care!

I would love to have hated this film - as a self-proclaimed 'movie-buff'
this is the kind of film I should not even go near. But I'm loathed to
admit...I enjoyed it! The two stars, amongst their awful acting, are
actually quite engaging in a comedic way (intentional or not!). I began to
relish the dialogue scenes just to see if a line could have been delivered
with any more wood! The intentional comedy comes from a young prince (Ernie
Reyes Jr) and his bodyguard (Paul Smith). Although I wished the prince to
find the end of a sword as quickly as possible from his first scene, the
interplay between these two characters was amusing, with some one-liners
that could not have been more out of place in this film! The villainous
queen (played by Sandahl Bergman) is unfortunately bland and forgettable.
But one real treat for me was another completely out-of-place commodity - a
great rousing score from maestro Ennio Morricone!

This was Schwarzenegger's return to his CONAN genre after hitting it big
with THE TERMINATOR. It isn't too surprising that this was the last 'swords
and sorcery' movie he did - but I promise you won't hate it! You'll want
to!....but you won't!
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I know I'm going to either get a lot of hate for this and a lot of
confused emails, but Red Sonja to me is an ultimate guilty pleasure. My
sister and I used to watch this movie all the time when we were kids,
we both wanted to so badly fight with Red Sonja and be apart of the
group. So oddly, after years of not watching this since I was a kid, my
sister and I found the DVD for 5 dollars and decided to watch it. Oh,
the things that are so wrong with this film that makes it so right
again. Looking to be a spin off of Conan, we were introduced to Red
Sonja played by Flava-Flav's ultimate true love, Bridgitte Nielson. The
6 foot tall drink of glass shows us that this was her acting class as
she rehearses her lines as if she had just read them the night before
and screams "Gedren, where are you?!" while moving her mouth in the
strangest way. She teams up with world's other tall drink of  beef(?)
Arnold Schwarzenegger as they battle it out on who can act the worst?
Well, who knows who will win with this silly story.

A large temple full of white-robed priestesses are getting ready to
destroy a large, glowing green orb called the Talisman. This dangerous
artifact's destructive power increases from exposure to light and the
priestesses intend to destroy it before it gets out of control.
However, the evil Queen Gedren and Ikol attack with their army. The
warrior-priestesses resist, but are ultimately subdued by Gedren's
forces. Gedren gets her hands on the Talisman, but not before proving
the myth that only women can touch it and survive. Gedren orders the
remaining priestesses to be imprisoned in the vault which held the
Talisman. One of those priestesses, Varna, manages to escape. She
doesn't get far before she's mortally wounded by an arrow in the back.
As luck would have it, she literally falls into the arms of the mighty
Lord Kalidor. She begs him to help find her sister, Red Sonja. Sonja
has been training with a Chinese sword master when Kalidor informs
Sonja about her sister. Sonja arrives just in time for Varna to tell
her about what happened at the temple. Before dying, Sonja's sister
urges her to find the Talisman and destroy it, or else the world will
be destroyed. 

Everything about this movie is bad, but that's what I love about it.
You know how sometimes you just need a bad movie that you can make fun
of and have a good time with? Supposedly, Arnold Schwarzenegger jokes
that he uses this movie as punishment for his kids when they act up. Is
it that bad? It is bad, but it's a ton of fun. I loved the action,
Arnold fighting Bridgitte for her love as no man may have her unless
he's trying to kill her, lol. I loved the last fight scene between Red
Sonja and Queen Gedren, Gedren loves pulling a ton of jump cuts on her
as well as one of Gedren's wizards who is using vodoo to cut Sonja to
weaken her, then when she discovers the wizard, instead of him cutting
her again, he just stands there, lol. Also the little Prince Tarn with
Falkon was classic and they worked so well together. I think the scene
that made me laugh the most was when Red Sonja, Prince Tarn and Falkon
are stuck in the cave with the machine dragon and Arnold is just riding
around with it making it look more like a roller coaster ride rather
than a fight for his life, lol! My opinion, if a movie entertains you
even if it is bad, why fight it? This is a good bad movie and I know I
will always enjoy it. My recommendation being if you have an open mind
and decide to just let go and enjoy the ride Red Sonja takes you on,
take it or leave it.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

you know, i gave this movie an eight.  yeah.  really.  i shouldn't have,
but
i did, and it's because it's a feel good movie, and better then that "santa
clause: the motion picture," thing, even though santa and sonja are both
kinda red.  sort of.  like, whenever you're watching it, you have this
stark
realization that life isn't so bad, that the vapors vapping your inner
peace
are really just the nasty shrimp you ate for dinner.  i don't recommend
shrimp for dinner or any time else.  but shrimps are red, like sonja, and
"red sonja," unlike shrimp, is worth it if only for some of the sword play
and the fallen limbs, heads, rocks, etc.  plus there's a bunch of scars and
costumes, and costumes that are scars.  oh, and arnold lifts a bunch of
stuff too.  
