

It's a fun action-comedy and that's that!  You can make all the arguments
you want.  This is definitely not for the discerning viewer.  Maybe I'm just
easily satisfied by the buddy cop genre.  Plus, I love Arnold
Schwarzenegger's movies, in general.  His action scenes are always fun to
watch, and he always seems to come up with great one-liners.  In this case,
he spouts out a few dryly humorous lines as his stonefaced Russian
character.  Jim Belushi provides most of the laughs, though, as his
unorthodox partner.  They both do a good job, though Arnold's Russian accent
seems quite strained.  Then again, as the film heats up, you really don't
pay attention to details like that.  Also look out for the beautiful Gena
Gershon in an early performance.  Those in the mood for "Henry V" should
definitely steer clear.  Those in the mood for mindless buddy cop fluff
that'll keep you excited and keep you laughing should check this movie out. 

My score:  7 (out of 10)
<|_=00=_|>

Red Heat is a surprisingly good movie. Arnold Schwarzenegger and James
Belushi have good chemistry in this Russian cop/cop buddy film. In this film
at least it makes sense for Arnie to have an accent. There is some good
lines and the back and forth between these two is pretty funny sometimes.
When Jim Belushi plays a cop he puts on this irreverant "I don't like the
rules but I get things done" style. It is this style combined with Arnold's
"complete objective at all costs" style that makes this film work. The
footage that was shot in Red Square is breathtaking, and overall the movie
manages to take a basic plot and make it entertaining. On a side note, the
holdout gun used by the villian (Ed O'Ross) in the movie is pretty damn cool
if you're into that kind of thing. Bottom Line: This is worth getting, or
you can rent it every once and awhile if you can only take Arnold for so
long.
<|_=00=_|>
I really liked this movie. I have a thing for late 80's action flicks
like Beverly Hills Cop or 48 hrs. I thought this was pretty good movie.
One of the members on here said Belushi's character was the worst part
of the movie. I thought Belushi was pretty good and comedic. I love the
dialogue in the movie between Danko and Ridzik at the coffee shop.
Overall I would definitely recommend this movie. I also find the
content to be appealing. Russian Mob and drug smuggling. I also thought
the bad guy Viktor was a really cool part played by Ed O'Ross who also
plays Dutch Schultz right hand man in Hoodlum which is not nearly as
good as Red Heat.
<|_=00=_|>
A highly entertaining film that stars Anrold Schwarzanagger as tough
and dutiful Russian cop Ivan Danko and James Belushi as the
undisciplined passionate American cop Art Ridzik. Ed O'Ross is great as
the evil drug running Viktor Rosta who escapes to America after Danko
busts him in Russia. Danko follows Rosta to America where Commander Lou
Donnelly(The late Peter Boyle) assigns Ridzik and his partner Sergeant
Gallagher(Richard Bright) to help Danko out with his investigation.
When Gallagher is killed by Rosta and his gang, Ridzik flies into a
rage and decides to do things Danko's way-Shoot first and think later.
With stalwart supporting performances from O'Ross, Boyle, and a younger
Laurence Fishburne, and fine directing from Walter Hill, Red Heat is
definitely recommended for all Arnie or Belushi fans. A previous
comment stated that there were no good 1-liners in this film. That
statement is incorrect. It's just that Arnold played the straight man,
setting up Jim Belushi for the great lines. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Walter Hill is a director known for his tough guy action movies (The
Warriors, Extreme Prejudice, Southern Comfort) and in the early 80s he
scored big with 48 Hours, a story of mis-matched partners working
together to catch the bad guys. He repeated that formula again in 1988
with Red Heat, though it had become a regular cliché by this point.

Ivan Danko is a no-nonsense Soviet cop sent to Chicago to extradite a
notorious Russian criminal back to Communist soil. While in America he
is teamed-up with easy-going Detective Art Ridzik as they jump over new
hurdles and suffer multiple setbacks. As an action comedy it offers a
fare amount (but just not enough) of laughs and thrills. Big Arn is
amusing a the brick-faced Danko and Belushi (in his first of three
appearances in Arnie movies) is likable enough. Peter Boyle and a young
Laurence Fishburne help appear in smaller roles as Ridzik's cynical
superiors, but are not given much else to do. Gina Gershon (yum yum)
shows up as a damsel in distress, but extends the plot without
deepening it. Even James Horner's score is kind of middle-ground,
neither good nor terrible.

There's no real problem or fault with Red Heat except that is just
doesn't offer an exhilarating amount of what it sets up. It's so
straight-forward and lacking in mystery and intrigue when it could so
easily have written in. A bit of a missed-opportunity, but certainly
worth watching and owning for action and Arnie fans.
<|_=00=_|>

Walter Hill knows how to direct action movies, and he does'nt let up with
this solid thriller.  Arnie and Jim Belushi take on a Russian drug
dealer(Ed
O'Ross) who is now working with some "gangtas" in Chicago.  The shootout's
are good and the ending bus chase is cool and theres some good dialogue.
The only problem is Arnie's character is too much like the Terminator and
there are no one-liners like in his other films.  But besides that, this
is
a solid action movie and I recommend it highly.  4/5 
<|_=00=_|>
**SPOILERS** Filmed in Moscow USSR, the first US movie even filmed in
what's now the former Soviet Union, and Chicago USA "Red Heat" is a lot
more then the usual buddy/cops movies of those days. Where there were
two cops totally incompatible with each other having, or being forced,
to work together. The movie is more like a clash of political
philosophies, Capitalism Vrs Communism, then anything else.

We get to see Moscow police captain Ivan Danko, Governor Arnold
Schwarzennegger, flex his bulging muscles when he goes into a
bath-house looking for a gang of Georgain drug dealers. In no time at
all Danko turns he entire place into a wild and crazy free for all
taking out a number of muscle men, in and out of he bath-house. Danko
gets the information that he was looking for on where the gang leader
Victor Rosta, Ed O'Ross,is to be found; in the Durzhba Café in the
little Georgia section of Moscow.

Later Danko and his partner Yuri Ogarkov,Oleg Vidov, confronts the
Georgian drug dealers and their boss Rosta where there a a wild
shootout where Yuri is killed and Rosta and a number of is gang
escapes. It's later when the Moscow PD gets the news that Rosta was
arrested, for a minor traffic violation, in of all places Chicago that
Danko is sent to the United States to expedite him back to the Soviet
Union. Danko is told by his superiors not to mentions a word to the US
and Chicago law enforcement officials to what Rosta is wanted for. The
Soviet leaders don't want it to get out that they, like the US, have a
serious and home grown drug problem.

Danko looking stiff an a bit uncomfortable at the Chicago O'Hare
Airport is assigned Chicago Det. Art Ridzik, James Belushi,to show him
around the city until he finally gets all the papers in order to take
Rosta back to the USSR. Everything goes according to plan until Rosta
is rescued, with Danko almost losing his life in the shooting, by this
notorious black Chicago drug gang called the Shaveheads whom Rosta was
working with. The movie then really starts to pick up with Danko now
not only in trouble with the Chicago PD, for his very un-Maranda-like
police tactics, but also with his Soviet police superiors for letting
Rosta get away.

Top rate police action thriller with Danko and Ridzik turning the city
of Chicago upside down in trying to find the fugitive Rosta who's
involved in a major drug deal, with the Shaveheads, that's about to go
down at a city bus depot. Danko shows that he's as mentally smart as
he's physically powerful by him figuring out what Rosta & Co are up to
by renting Rosta's former hotel room #302, knowing that he left
evidence of his drug dealings there. Danko wisely putting down on the
hotel register a wrong number #303 to trick Rosa and his boys who later
blast into room #303 thinking that Danko was there and ending up
getting wasted by him in the resulting shootout.

Rosta turns out to be as ruthless and deceptive as he ever was back in
the Soviet Union. Double-crossing his allies the Shaveheads by taking
the money he was to give them for the drugs that they were to supply
him with. Rosta even having his American wife, that he paid $10,000.00
to marry him so he can be a US citizen, part-time aerobics instructor
and full-time hooker Cat Manzetti, Gina Gershon, murdered together with
one of his Georgian Confederates after he felt that they were no longer
of any use to him.

Danko now completely out of control with Det. Ridzik now fully
supporting him, Ridzik by now saw that Danko's way of doing things was
far better then that of the Chicago PD, has it out with Rosta in a mad
and dangerous bus chase and demolition derby game. This wild and insane
action almost causes as much damage to the city of Chicago as the great
fire of 1871 did with Rosta finally being put down and out in a "High
Noon" western style shootout. 

Just as good, if not better, as most of Arnold's more popular films
it's in "Red Heat" that he finally puts it all together not just in the
actions sequences but in his comical interacting with his American
police partner James Belushi playing Det. Ridzik. With all the shooting
and destruction over and Danko about to fly back home to Moscow he,
it's traditional among departing friends he tells him, hand over his
very expensive-looking watch to Ridzik who gladly give him his thinking
that he got the best of the bargain. It turns out that Danko had a
cheap $20.00 East-German made watch when Ridzik in exchange gave him
and expensive $1,000.00 US/Swiss made one! The anti-capitalistic Soviet
Ivan Danko learned how to be a capitalist a lot faster and better then
the pro-capitalistic American Art Ridzik did.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is a very good and stylish action, but such movies are not
appreciated in comparison with the recent action movies which is pretty
strange. For example, even the rating of awful Transporter 3 is higher
than Red Heat. You probably know that critics hate Schwarzenegger,
Stallone and Van Damme, also they hate action genre probably, so
according to them, Schwarzenegger is an untalented muscle mass who can
impress only children and his movies are shame. Schwarzenegger is not a
Jack Lemmon or Sean Penn or Brad Pitt, but he has a pulling power and
is great acting necessary for action movies? I ask this already asked
question. By the way, I think that his performance in The Terminator 2
was outstanding. And as an action star, he is much better than new
action stars. He made very bad movies yes, but everyone does that,
doesn't? One of the criticisms of the critics is that he kills people,
so the movie supports individual justice (killing criminals instead of
imprisoning etc.) Well, most of action movies are like that, but they
do not object, when it comes Tarantino movies or David Cronenberg
movies like A History of Violence. Red Heat does not include a lot of
action scenes, or action scenes are not 'big', but it is very stylish
thanks to Walter Hill, one of my all time favorite directors and fun.
There is a key scene, when I was a child, I used to become Arnold
Schwarzenegger and do what he does in the scene. He was one of my
childhood heroes. Those days and his films are pleasant memories for
me. Returning to Red Heat, it is from Schwarzenegger's golden period.
Today, they cannot make action movies like Red Heat.
<|_=00=_|>
Man-mountain Ah-nuld Schwarzenegger plays a Russian cop (Captain Danko)
sent to Chicago to track down and deal with a nefarious drug dealer
(played by Ed O'Ross who is all sweaty, unshaven bad guy). It's
personal, it's gonna get ballistic and it's all made more entertaining
by the fact that he's paired up with James Belushi back when James
Belushi was still pretty funny.

Ahhhhh, it's easy to slip on those glasses with the slightly rose tint
and praise this as a modern action classic the way they used to make
'em. And the fact is . . . . . . it IS.

The set-up is simplicity itself, there aren't really any twists and
turns to tax your brain, Walter Hill directs the action assuredly and
all the fun is to be had from watching Ah-nuld and Belushi wreak havoc
as they try to bring the bad guys to task.

Throw in a supporting cast that includes Peter Boyle as the standard
put-upon boss, Larry Fishburne (before he was Lawrence), Gina Gershon
and the magnificent Brion James (R.I.P) in a small but memorable scene
and you have guaranteed good times for those wanting a
testosterone-fuelled action movie with some amusing lines thrown in
every so often.

Not the funniest comedy or the best action movie, not even the best
movie featuring either of the leads, but undemanding fun from the late
80s with rampant carnage that will inevitably lead to a considerable
amount of paperwork (ref: Hot Fuzz, oh yes).

See this if you like: Hot Fuzz, Lethal Weapon 3, Commando.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was excellent for it's kind.  Two good guys were thrown
together in a dangerous situation of good vs. evil.  The film's title Red
Heat refers to a war between cops and druglord's in the former USSR and
also
Chicago.  Arnold of course played the tough guy character and Jim plays
the
comedy relief.  My favorite movie of it's kind besides Bad Boys. I highly
recommend it if you're a fan of this type of film.
