
I caught this movie on VHS in the early 90s, having Missed it in the
80s I don't know how? I just re-watched it tonight, and I must say YES
its a typical 80s slasher movie but it has great Humor and great
suspense and A really creepy Killer.The music just adds to the suspense
and mood. And you have to love 4 out of 5 Doctors, the house band at
the girls party! Just check out that dudes hair!If you like your Horror
served straight up ...and you are tired of what Hollywood has been
releasing as suspense/horror these days, go rent HOUSE ON SORORITY ROW,
pop some popcorn, turn out the lights, and put on some candles, just
don't watch it alone,especially on a College campus!
<|_=00=_|>
The House on Sorority Row is one of the better tales of vengeance in
the slasher genre.

Sorority girls pull a prank on their house mother, only for her to end
up dead and the girls left in a world of trouble. They believe they
have covered up the crime, but when night falls someone begins to seek
murderous revenge against the sorority sisters. Questions abound, but
will anyone be left alive to answer them?

Between director Mark Rosman and a decent cast, this low-budget horror
tale rises above many of it's kind. Rosman makes the most of the
filming locations while nicely adding stylistic touches to the film
with good camera work and some nice imagery. He creates some truly
effective moments of psychological horror, as well as physical (with
some occasional bloody moments). Ultimately the film manages to build
to some good suspense and a claustrophobic finale! Also of note is the
lavishly wonderful music score, which provides some beautiful and
haunting themes for the film.

A worthy (and under exposed) horror outing for genre fans! Check it
out.

*** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>

"The House On The Sorority Row" came in the right moment; the early 80's.

The "Friday the 13th" franchise commanded the slasher explosion by 1983.

Tons of slasher movies were released but only few are still in the memory of
horror fans. 
"House On The Sorority Row" may be one of those films that are still
remembered and recurred for some slasher fun. 

The plot is somewhat inspired by Friday the 13th. 
The movie starts with Ms. Slater giving birth to a boy... Sadly, she has to
abort due to some difficulties.
Twenty years later (or more)Ms. Slater -now the owner and director of a
sorority house for girls-is killed by the sorority girls.
The girls killed her accidentally as they were planning a prank on
her.
These girls try to hide Ms. Slater's dead body outside the house.
Unfortunately to them, the body disappears and suddenly these girls and
their boyfriends start to disappear. One by one, these teens are brutally
murdered inside and near the Sorority house. 
Katie Rose (one of the girls that had to do with the murder) finds 2 dead
people and believes that Ms. Slater didn't die and now is doing the
murders.
Katie goes with the Doctor that 20 years witnessed Ms. Slater's abortion. To
Katie's surprise, the Doctor confessed that the child didn't die and
probably is living inside the house.

Katie and her boyfriend especulate that Ms. Slater's son watched her mother
being killed and now is taking revenge.
Katie realizes that her friends are still on the house and their lives are
in risk.
Could it be that Ms. Slater came from the grave and is taking
revenge?
Is it possible that Ms. Slater's son is alive?
Katie and her boyfriend return to the house to solve the mystery and stop
the killing spree.
Witness one of the most shocking and terrorific endings in slasher cinema.

"House On The Sorority Row" delivers a great slasher experience as it's
gory, suspenful, and very well directed. The acing and fun factor are
interesting as you can imagine the outcome of the movie but you're never
sure about it. The best thing about the movie is the creepy atmosphere. You
can say the girls are terrorized while being inside the dark, big house.

This movie was the producer's first and last experiece in the industry. I
think these people had a good potential in the genre.
This movie is buried in the slasher cementery, just behind the precursor
franchises of the genre. 

4/10 Overall.
On the slasher rating: 7/10

<|_=00=_|>

another comment said it best a hidden little gem, The House On Sorority Row
is a classic horror film, movies like scream and most of all I Know What You
Did Last Summer ripped this off, a bunch of Sorority girls pull a prank on
the old women who runs the sorority they by accident kill her, and dump her
body in a pool that is filthy so they think for the time being the body will
be safe there since nobody will swim in the pool, well the body turn up
missing and the sorority girls are getting killed one by one. the acting was
not that bad at all, and the directing was solid, this is a fav of mine, if
you can find it rent it, if not if you have a dvd player buy it, if you're a
fan of 80's horror you will love this classic horror film i know i do, i
give The House On Sorority Row 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
"The House On Sorority Row" is above your average slasher flick. It's
up there with "Halloween's" followers like "Friday the 13th," "Prom
Night," "My Bloody Valentine" and "Sleepaway Camp." Unlike most
slice-and-dice movies, "The House On Sorority Row" actually has a plot,
some good acting from the cast, a mysterious killer, and it's not that
bloody.

The plot revolves around the 7 girls of Theta-Pi sorority: Katey,
Vicki, Liz, Diane, Stevie, Jeanie and Morgan. At the end of their
college days, the Thetas decide to have one last fling before they go.
However, their evil house mother, Mrs. Slater, is willing to do
anything to stop the festivities. But that doesn't mean that the Thetas
don't have a plan of their own. They decide to pull a very cruel prank
on Mrs. Slater, which is guaranteed to work perfectly. But the prank
goes too far, and it results in Mrs. Slater's death. Afraid that the
police will suspect them, the girls hide Mrs. Slater's body in the
pool. They will have their party and will get rid of the corpse in the
morning. Unfortunately, somebody knows what they did, and that person
decides that they're going to make the girls of Theta-Pi pay for what
they did.

"The House On Sorority Row" is very similar to "Prom Night" and "I Know
What You Did Last Summer." However, "Prom Night" and its successor were
there before the 1997 box-office smash.

The cast is well-chosen with Kate MacNeil as Katey, Eileen Davidson as
Vicki, and the rest of the sorority girls are not bad.

"The House On Sorority Row" does have its flaws, but they are only
minor. One of the girls has almost zero lines of dialogue, the film
drags just a little bit, and it's so obvious that Lois Kelso Hunt's(who
played Mrs. Slater) voice is entirely dubbed, since director Mark
Rosman says that her voice was not scary enough for the role. But I did
not pay attention to these issues, and I really enjoyed the movie.

The result: Sometimes, what a slasher fan needs is a little bit more
than just a hack-em-up film. Some genre fanatics might look for a
slasher-thriller. "The House On Sorority Row" is that movie. It offers
suspense, a little bit of gore, some of the inevitable female nudity,
good characters and a creepy villain. Not to be missed.

***
<|_=00=_|>
'Halloween' certainly inspired many other movies, but some of those
films even inspired some themselves. Without 'Friday the 13th' we
wouldn't likely have 'My Bloody Valentine' and without 'Black
Christmas' we might not have 'Silent Night, Deadly Night.' Roger Corman
produced many great cult films in the 1980s, some of which imitated
other films that were great hits. The 1982 Slasher flick 'The Slumber
Party Massacre' was his contribution to the sub-genre and would make
way for a few similar films, such as this little known one. Like
'Slumber,' 'The House on Sorority Row' involves a bunch of young women
partying it up and being slaughtered. Sounds like good times, which for
the most part it is.

Pros: Fine job done by the cast, and surprisingly the characters are
not really interchangeable. A score that's often eerie. Moves at a good
pace. Doesn't take itself too seriously. Plenty of creepy sequences.
Writer/director Rosman gives the film more style than it deserves. He
also creates some suspense.

Cons: Nothing new here. Too many characters, not enough time to really
get to know each of them. Pretty dated, especially because of the band
playing at the party. It's not much of a mystery who the killer is.
Disappointing end.

Final thoughts: This is pretty much a case of "been there, done that,"
but the film isn't a total washout. You can tell the people in front of
and behind the camera were having a good time and trying to make the
best film they could. I wouldn't go out of my way to get a hold of a
copy, but if you love 80s Slasher flicks like I do then give it a
chance.

My rating: 3/5
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of your typical 80's slasher horror flicks similar to "Prom
Night", "Friday 13th" and all that goes with it.  A group of teens dicide to
have a party at the owners expence and find out how mean she is when she
does not like their behavior.  The teens try and get even with the lady by
accidently shooting her in a swimming pool and she later comes back to life
and kills the girls one by one.  This movie is fun to watch but it lacks
more explanation as to who the killer really is.  After all the girls are
dead and only one is left, we find out that her friend the doctor had
something to do with "bringing the old lady back to life".  Then in the end
we find out that it may be her "long lost son" that could have been the
killer.  Or was it the doctor himself?  That was the only part of the film
that I couldn't get.  Other than that..... I liked it.
<|_=00=_|>

O.k., lot of alot of elements here! (scream, i know what you did last
summer) but in early 80's fashion. This is a pretty good little horror
film
that i actually enjoyed. Starts out in June  of 61' when a woman is giving
a
painful birth on a dark and rainy night. Speeds up to present day (82). A
group of seven college graduates plan to throw a farewell part in a old
looking house on sorority row. The house mother gets a little upset (the
woman in the beginning giving birth). The plan of the party is shot down.
But the girls plan a prank that they think will be a funny sweet revenge,
that backfires into a total no laughing nightmare. The house mother is
shot
dead, so the girls hide her lifeless body in the swimming pool. And
proceed
on with the party. Then the body turns up missing, and the body count
starts.  Victims are being stalked and killed. Only thing is The house
mothers dead body is found in the attic. ummmm. I wonder if this has
anything to do with the beginning!!!! 
<|_=00=_|>

House on Sorority Row is not just some of the some ol', same ol' as we've
seen before with sorority slasher movies.  

The movie is based on a group of seven sorority sisters who are all just
about to graduate college and they come up with the idea of throwing an
illicit party at the sorority house.  If the girls just could have gotten
the blessing from their sorority mother, who is Mrs. Slater, this party
would have worked out.  Instead, Mrs. Slater won't allow any such party
under her roof.  Mrs. Slater wants the house to be vacant during that
weekend- and you'll find out why later.  

The girls decide to rebel against Mrs. Slater's wishes, particularly Vikki,
who is played by Eileen Davidson.  By doing so they all participate in a
prank targeting Mrs. Slater.  However, this prank takes a turn for the
worst.  Soon thereafter, these college babes come up missing.  It then turns
into a tale of whodunit. Solid direction, which is done with such finesse by
Mark Rosman.

I liked the idea of the killer in this one, who uses a sharp cane for the
weapon of choice.  Some memorable death scenes are a decapitated head found
in a toilet bowl and various stabbings with that cane that I had just
mentioned.  

There are plenty of genre flicks that deal with this same topic.  Those that
I am referring to are: PROM NIGHT, SLUMBER PARTY MASSACRE, SORORITY HOUSE
MASSACRE and THE INITIATION.  The House On Sorority Row isn't anything
groudbreaking, but it does still satisfy us bloodhounds out there.  The
script is original, the suspense scenes are built up with the proper tension
and there is a satisfactory amount of blood; however there could of been
more.  In addition, I thought that the cast did a better then decent job on
the acting duties.  

The budget DVD is worth getting.  The uncut version is now available for the
first time in the U.S., which does include the extra cinema shots of Vikki
getting stabbed to death.  Previously, this was unattainable in the U.S. 

I give it 7/10        
<|_=00=_|>
Better than average slasher flick about a group of sorority babes who
accidentally kill someone during a prank and try to cover it up. Later
they're murdered one by one by until the inevitable 'final girl vs the
killer' showdown all these things seem to have. It's a good movie of
its type with some humor and gore (although probably not enough to
appeal to gore hounds). Starts out with some Miss Marple-type music
that, back in the day, had me double-checking the VHS label to make
sure I had the right movie. The cast is pretty good, with early roles
for Eileen Davidson and Harley Jane Kozak, and a nice leading role for
Kate McNeil. My favorite scenes are Eileen Davidson showing off her
breasts and the Sea Pig scene. Given her age you would assume Lois
Kelso Hunt (playing the sorority's house mother) was a seasoned pro,
but her acting is so bad that she's outshined by everyone in the cast.
Even the Sea Pig. There's also a corny band that screams 1980s. It's a
fun movie, if you like '80s slashers (which, I assume you do or else
why would you be watching this). Might lose a little punch if you've
seen a lot of similar movies that came after. Oh, and avoid the 2009
sort-of remake at all costs. It's garbage.
