


There are a handful of movies out there that have become so
ingrained in our collective dialogue as an American society, it's
practically a crime to have not seen them. If you haven't experienced the
joy of Casablanca, you probably haven't seen from where "Here's looking at
you, kid" originally came. Ever heard someone make jokes about quarter
pounders with cheese in France? That's Pulp Fiction, ladies and gentlemen.
Ever have anyone make you an "offer you can't refure?" Well, that person's
seen The Godfather. Ever had a former one-night stand try to inflict
long-running physical and psychological pain on you and your family?
Err...probably not, but if you haven't seen 1987's Fatal Attraction,
you're
missing out on one of the biggest pop-culture phenomenons of recent
decades.

Because of Swimfan and other subpar (but, in Swimfan's case,
guiltily entertaining) efforts of tribute and homage, the plot of Fatal
Attraction (and maybe even its ending) is obvious before the movie even
starts. Adrian Lyne's (last year's magnificent Unfaithful) film is about
Dan
Gallagher (Michael Douglas), a New York lawyer with an attractive wife
(Anne
Archer) and little girl who takes a walk on the wild side one weekend and
has a passionate liason with an originally casual acquaintance, Alex
Forrest
(Glenn Close). Dan wants it all to be over right afterwards, but Alex
doesn't let him cut it off that quickly. Dan begins being harrassed by
Alex
in mounting forms of revenge that eventually reach his family - and become
deadly (cheesy writing, huh?). Alex's continual acts of vengeance aren't
easy to fight back against, though, for Dan must try to keep his secret
from
his wife and deal with the moral and legal implications that become
increasingly complicated.

If it sounds like a 'typical' movie of that sort, it is. Why?
Because it was the prototype for all the rest of them to come. One can't
really dock the movie for being the typical "affair goes dead wrong"
movie,
because it was the first one of its kind that truly perfected the formula.
It'd be like saying Shakespeare's The Taming of the Shrew is WAAAAY too
much
like 10 Things I Hate About You. The thing is, Fatal Attraction really
defied the expectations that I had set for it. The movie starts out kind
of
like Lyne began last year's Unfaithful - happy family together, and the
parents getting ready to go out to a soiree. At that evening's party, Dan,
while away from his wife, runs into Alex for the first time, and the
sparks
begin to fly. Now, the movie's title kind of gives away the fact that the
woman is going to go completely nuts on him later, but James Dearden's
screenplay, and Glenn Close's careful rendering of her character makes
Alex
a decent person to begin with. I was immediately impressed that Alex isn't
some creepy, eccentric vixen that looks like bad news to begin
with.

The inevitable begins, and Dan's wife and child must go away for
the weekend. Alex turns up at a meeting at Dan's law firm, and shortly
thereafter the affair begins. Right before they engage in some of the most
protracted and unintentionally funny sex in film history, Lyne gives us an
exquisite little scene in a restaurant between Dan and Alex. This is one
of
the crucial scenes in the film, for it sets the tone for the rest of the
movie. Unlike Unfaithful, the two don't spend an increasingly longer
amount
of time with each other and then hastily have sex. Their dialogue right
before their first tryst is direct. Like consenting adults, they simply
agree that they're going to do it. No dancing around his apartment to sexy
jazz music, no braille cookbook seduction. They simply sign a verbal
agreement and then go at it on the kitchen sink, complete with running
water
and Douglas's odd obsession with having Close's breast in his mouth. The
rest of their weekend consists of sex, more sex, and even more sex, with
the
obligatory 'funny scene where they almost get caught doing it in public.'
The movie really takes off on it's nail-biting, visceral course when Dan
decides he must leave.

The woman goes nuts, and that's an understatement. Calls and
unexpected visits occur. Alex calls the house, but just stays silent when
Dan's wife answers. Family pets are murdered. The tension mounts
unbearably.
The whole section of the film leading up to its exciting conclusion really
makes an amazing impact. I had a huge list of expectations for what
certain
things would happen, but most of them didn't. This may be the prototypical
erotic revenge thriller, but it certainly jumps over some of its own
limitations. Anne Archer, Dan's wife, is an interestingly written
character,
for she is unsuspecting of it all until, well, until Dan must break down
and
confess. There is no bra discovered that isn't hers, no story that doesn't
check out with someone else, no 'why have you been so distant since that
one
weekend when I left you completely alone?' All of the tension in the movie
lies with what Alex will do next to remind Dan that he can't just let her
go. The movie throws out another convention by actually letting Alex meet
Dan and his wife in an incredibly uncomfortable scene where Alex slyly
obtains their phone number after it has been changed. Fatal Attraction,
along with its incredible building suspense, becomes less and less of the
cookie-cutter genre film that it's been categorized as. This is in part
thanks to amazing work by Close. As the movie's 'villain,' she radiates a
dangerous sexuality and inital vulnerability that makes a great
combination.
Once she goes apes**t on Dan, she's simply a blast to watch. In that
'please
let me never cross paths with a woman like her' sense, of
course.

I love Fatal Attraction for much of the same reason that I loved
Unfaithful. Hidden carefully beneath the movie's "thriller" facade is
actually an excellent morality fable. This is hinted at when Alex is
introduced as a likeable, sympathetic character, but fully fleshed-out
once
Dan must go back to his family. Sure, the woman's a freak, but Dan was the
one that had the affair with her, so he's somewhat responsible. He told
her
that things would have to end, but no affair can just be extinguished like
that. When he nicely tells her that it can't continue, I actually kind of
felt bad for Alex. Sex has an emotional attachment to it that Dan tried to
put behind him, but Alex couldn't. There is a crucial plot twist
introduced
into the film nearly halfway through that I won't reveal here, but it adds
most importantly to the whole idea of Dan's moral quandry. At times, I was
torn. For a while, Alex is simply a fling that's hanging on and one
actually
feels sympathy for her somewhat. Sure, it's all dispelled by the end of
the
film, but for a while the movie really turns the preconceived notions of
its
characters upside-down. Dan is trying to get back to his family, but isn't
he somewhat of a creep for screwing around in the first place? That's the
rocky terrain of infidelity, and Lyne's film explores it with an
underlying
expertise that can be seen through all the knife-weilding and
bunny-boiling.

The movie has a handful of truly exciting, somewhat violent
scenes
that add an extra punch to its escalating progress. At one point, Dan
breaks
into Alex's apartment and has a violent encounter with her as he tells her
to quit messing with his family. Alex enacts schemes of such raw cruelty,
it's easy to understand why Dan is scared to death of her. Nothing
compares
to the movie's violent, bloody finale that has become a movie thriller
landmark (one word, guys: catfight). It's truly one of the most well-done
and exciting action scenes in film, and it's a bravura closer to a movie
that deserves nothing less. Sure, it may not do anything creative to tie
up
the ends of the movie, but I'm glad Lyne used such an explosive scene. On
the Special Edition DVD, an alternate ending can be viewed, and I was
disappointed - it may be more creative and mean more in the context of the
film (and may be technically better), but I'll stick with punches, guns,
and
knives for my revenge flick finales any day. Fatal Attraction is and
always
will be one of the most exciting, nail-bitingly intense, and entertaining
movies of all time. It got six Academy Award nominations in 1987,
including
nods to Glenn Close and Anne Archer AND Best Picture. That's a testament
to
how much of a phenomenon it was then, but the fact that it stands up so
well
even today says so much more. GRADE: A-

<|_=00=_|>
You don't hear much about this film anymore, but in its day, this was
the most-talked about movie of the year. It was a 'favorite topic of
conversation about the office water cooler' for a number of weeks. At
the time, it was a shocker. Nowaways.....who knows? As we become more
and more desensitized to violence, sex and profanity, it takes a lot
more to shock us.

Still, this movie had memorable moments that have stayed with us who
first saw it at the theater 20 years ago. Most of those memorable
scenes, if not all of them, involve Glenn Close's character, "Alex
Forrest." Man, this is a woman who would not be denied what she wanted:
in this case, married man Michael Douglas.

No sense going into all the details. Everyone knows them by now,
anyway. Looking back, I think the film was a good lesson for men (or
women) thinking about cheating on their spouses and assuming nothing
bad will happen as a result. Men may commit more crimes, but that old
adage about a "woman scorned" certainly is demonstrated here in spades!
Douglas' character, "Dan Gallagher," certainly can attest to that, but
he is anything but a sympathetic character. Both actors do a superb job
in here, but kudos also to the rest of the Gallagher family, played by
Anne Archer (wife "Beth") and Ellen Hamilton Latzen (daughter "Ellen.")

Also, the cinematography shouldn't be overlooked. The widescreen DVD
certainly brought out how nicely this film was shot and directed. This
two-hour film keeps your attention all the way. The only thing I would
change is the language, toning it down a bit. Otherwise, it's a classic
thriller and one of the most famous films in the '80s.
<|_=00=_|>
I've re-watched it on DVD and it's still an amazing, unforgettable
nightmare film, spawning countless imitators and a multitude of
discussion. Glenn Close will forever be identified as the unhinged
colleague of married with child Michael Douglas who have a brief fling
that Douglas lives to regret. Close should have won the Academy Award
for her electrifying portrayal of an attractive, seemingly ground woman
who eventually lashes out in acid-spewing, bunny-boiling,
knife-wielding hysteria. Douglas is equally effective, beautifully
conveying increasing angst and guilt (later he looks sick when he finds
his wife chatting with Close). The subject was done before in at least
"Possessed" (1947) and "Play Misty For Me" (1971), but not quite as
effective and engrossing as this well-directed thriller. I definitely
prefer the panic-stricken theatrical ending to the overly low-key and
unexciting original cut. See it with a significant other!
<|_=00=_|>

I had never seen Fatal Attraction until yesterday, but I had already heard
about the famous pet rabbit and the closing scenes.  No matter  this is one
heck of a thriller that combines terrific acting from Michael Douglas and
Glenn Close with a thought-provoking story. Douglas' married Dan Gallagher
and Close's Alex Forrest have a steamy affair while his wife is away. 
Except that Alex decides that it's not over.  Her Alex is a maniacal nutcase
who isn't above anything to keep Dan for herself, including terrorizing his
family and kidnapping his daughter.  Anne Archer plays Dan's wife; it's a
role that many actresses can play in their sleep. She does a fine job, but
it's similar to her roles in Patriot Games and Clear and Present
Danger.

There is a larger issue here, though, and one that was discussed when the
film was released: Aside from the moral problems of adultery, doesn't Alex
have a point ?  Isn't she entitled to something besides simply being used
for a night or two ? 
The tension in this film is constant, although a lot of it seems too easily
foreshadowed.  Overall, though, a terrific thriller and a justifiably huge
hit.

<|_=00=_|>

This is an excellent movie about a pschyo(Close)who falls in love with
Douglas and once he begins to realize he's doing the wrong thing she just
won't leave him or his family alone. It is an excellent suspense thriller
that moves like a rollercoaster and and keeps your attention from the
beginning credits to the end credits, because the suspense never lets up
once Douglas says to Close that he has to leave. This was one of Douglas'
first in the "falling in love with pschyos movies" and it's the best. Some
say Basic Instinct(which was basically all sex and very little suspense)was
better, but this one has only one short sex scene and then it is suspenseful
for the last hour and a half. It is definitely the best in his string of
these kind of movies. Watch and judge for yourself. Ann Archer plays an
excellent role as the determined and suspicious wife of Douglas(who pairs up
perfect with pschyo Close). After the ending all you can say is WOW. ***1/2
out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
One of the most talked about films of all time, Fatal Attraction, where
married men learned a very valuable lesson: keep the pants zipped. I
don't think there was a more talked about film in the 80's than Fatal
Attraction, it made so many people think. It was a very intelligent
thriller with great characters and a terrifying story. How many women
get rejected by a man and haven't fantasized about just ruining their
lives as revenge? Alex Forrest was the woman who didn't just fantasize,
but lived it. How many men have a woman who won't let go of them no
matter what they do? Even vice versa, but this was the movie that
scared men right back into their wife's arms.

Dan Gallagher is a successful, happily-married attorney living in
Manhattan when he meets Alex Forrest. While his wife, Beth, and
daughter are out of town for the weekend, he has a passionate affair
with Alex. Though he thought it was understood to be a simple fling,
she begins clinging to him. Dan explains that he must go home and Alex
cuts her wrists in a suicide attempt. He thinks the affair is
forgotten, but she shows up at various places to see him. She continues
to call until he tells his secretary that he will no longer take her
calls. She then phones his home at all hours, and then confronts him
saying that she is pregnant and plans to keep the baby. Although he
wants nothing to do with her, she argues that he must take
responsibility. She will do anything at this point to make him be with
her, even if it means destroying his family.

Glenn Close who had only played the nice girl roles blew everyone's
mind when she played Alex Forrest. What passion she put into the role
and part of you couldn't really hate her. She brings up a great point
to Dan "Because I won't allow you to treat me like some slut you can
just bang a couple of times and throw in the garbage?". Your heart does
break for her but at the same time you want to scream at her to let go
of Dan and not hurt his family. Michael Douglas as Dan plays the role
extremely well. He gives Dan a sense of realism, he's not a major jerk
who just looks for random women, he makes a mistake and owns up to it.
He's still very smart, but very frightened and rightfully so when he
learns what Alex can do to him. You believe that he loves his family,
he made a bad choice and don't we all? The consequences were a bit
extreme this time. Ann Archer as Beth was not only beautiful, classy,
but incredibly intelligent. She makes Beth so real and I loved her line
that I found out was improvised when Dan tells her that he cheated
"What is the matter with you?!", how many women or men have screamed
that when getting hurt? Ellen Hamilton Latzen as Ellen, their daughter,
is one of the best child actors you could imagine. She doesn't make her
character annoying and when she sees her parents crying, she breaks
down and you just want to hold her so badly. What talent at such a
young age. Fatal Attraction was made so well and the reason why I think
it holds up is because it is a very intelligent movie with great
characters. You could relate in one way or another. Just a side note, I
do wish they stuck with the original ending since it would have made
more sense with Alex's character, I won't give it away, but it also
would have been ironic with her and Dan's love for "Madame Butterfly".
But people wanted to see Alex get what she had coming after her being
named a "bunny boiler". But trust me when I say this is one of the best
movies to come out of the 80's and I still love watching it.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
The back story goes that Glenn Close couldn't do sexy to save her life.
She, of course, being the great actress she is, set herself out to
prove her detractors wrong, and has gone down in history for having
single-handedly made "love in an elevator" a household name and
something horny lovers would look forward to, especially in a
semi-deserted building after hours. Never dressed in anything other
than black or white (in a nod to Lana Turner's own femme fatale
wardrobe in THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE), and with long, curly hair
enhancing her cold, Connecticut looks, she lights up the screen in her
hotly sensual, sympathetic introduction, and just as the black she
wears later on as she turns into the psycho she really is, makes the
audience completely hate her -- so of course, killing her off was in
order to please the crowd who despite having the logics of plot thrown
out the window demanded her death in a steamy bathtub at the hands of
Anne Archer. That's the power of acting, people. She is the film down
to its illogical but emotionally satisfying ending, and anything else
is just a false 80s "family values" hogwash. When you think FATAL
ATTRACTION, you think Glenn Close, dressed in white, sexual fury
personified, holding that huge cleaver in hand.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a magnificent thriller - Douglas was great, Close was
marvelous, but Ann Archer was the greatest. Great concept, excellent
filming, perfectly executed acting. What more could one desire?
Definite edge-of-the-seat pace - NOT a waste of time to see. I own the
video, and I do not own many videos; this was the perfect
see-it-over-and-over film. Even now, at age 50+, there are scenes that
are the best I have ever witnessed in a movie. Douglas portrayed many
men who finds his lover pregnant, though perhaps a bit more
understanding in his initial attempt to support the woman. Close
portrayed the unexpressed emotions of many women who have been in this
situation, anger personified and vengeance motivated. The fact that her
mental makeup was destroyed prior to her affair makes no difference in
the expression of emotions, until, of course, she takes her emotions
out on the family. Men, take notice! This could happen to you if you
choose to have an affair. :)
<|_=00=_|>

Although I found myself checking the elapsed time during this movie to get
some idea of when it would end, the final scenes made me squirm with
sympathetic fright for the characters. 

Roger Ebert says the filmmakers ruined a perfectly good psychological
thriller by attaching a "Friday the 13th" ending. The IMDb Trivia page says
the movie originally had a different ending in which Glenn Close's character
commits suicide and Michael Douglas' character is arrested for her murder.
Ebert and most serious film lovers would likely have preferred that ending.
But making profitable movies sometimes means making them unpalatable for
highbrow students of film.

Nevertheless, the "flawed" film resonated with women. I have vague memories
of female friends and acquaintances in the late '80s seeing "Fatal
Attraction" as an example of what SHOULD happen to any man who cheats on his
wife. The movie found a place in our culture for a while, and the title was
a euphemism for similar happenings in real life.

One wonders how much this movie had to do with the near universal creation
of "stalker laws" in the 1990s.


<|_=00=_|>

I swear, I have seen Fatal Attraction at least 15 times, and each time I
watch it, I am on the edge of my seat. Glen Close does an AMAZING job as
Alex, a psychopath, who becomes obsessed with a married man (Douglas.) The
first time I saw this movie, I was shocked... Every second something
happened that made me become more and more trapped into this movie. Theres
the slitting of the wrists, the baby, the Volvo... and who could forget
the
bunny?? (poor bunny fu fu.) Anyway, for any one who loves thrillers,
one-night stands, or thrillers... this is the KING of all others...

