
Clint Eastwood plays Michael Gant, a burnt out veteran sent into the
Soviet Union on a desperate mission to steal the greatest warplane ever
built.

Minimal training, mental problems, murderous allies, constant danger.
His only qualification - he speaks Russian, he knows how to fly and he
fits the flight suit. 

What I like most about Firefox is how it really puts you in Clint
Eastwood's shoes. His character Gant is no super spy - he's a war
veteran suffering severe mental problems as a result of his POW
experiences. At every twist and turn of the plot the movie captures his
tension and fear. His inexperience and mistakes endanger him
repeatedly. His only protection - a thin, unravelling web of deception
and a fickle KGB desire to observe a little before pouncing.

A must see for fans of atmospheric espionage films and Clint Eastwood.
<|_=00=_|>
Firefox isn't your usual Eastwood film, he's almost branching out into
Star Wars territory here with this Sci-Fi heavy Cold War Spy thriller.
The effects like every 80's film have dated badly but for a movie made
in 1982 they are rather good. Eastwood directs himself in what is a
pretty average performance by his own high standards. The majority of
the cast is made up by British character actors. Warren Clarke is
really good but Freddie Jones and Nigel Hawthorne are pretty hammy.
Also Raiders of the Lost Ark fans can spot Ronald Lacey playing
Semelovsky a Jewish scientist. The first half of the film is a spy
thriller and can be pretty nail biting at times as Clint gets his
papers checked at regular intervals. Also he's suffering from the same
post Vietnam War disorder that John Rambo had in First Blood and that
really adds to the tension. The second half is more like Star Wars and
is really great stuff. So better ice up at a cold one and enjoy Firefox
for what it is, Cold War entertainment at it's best.
<|_=00=_|>
Every big star makes a few films like this one. Firefox is a film that
many will declare is for "Eastwood fans only". That is probably an
accurate statement. 

Looking at Firefox, you can see a film that suffers from awkward
pacing, poor effects by today's standards, and some rather hammy
performances by some of the supporting cast. Still, I find myself in
the precarious position of having to recommend this film to all of you. 

Firefox is not by any means a classic. It is however a nice snap-shot
of a society so paranoid that its very existence almost suffocated its
citizens. I am of course talking about the most murderous regime in
modern history. The USSR. If anyone doubts this, please keep in mind
that Stalin alone is credited with nearly 3X as many murders during his
watch as Hitler. 

The first hour or so of this film has Clint Eastwood sneaking around
and being led around the Soviet Union by a network of underground
spies. They are trying to get him out to a top-secret air base so he
can steal a prototype of the most advanced fighter jet ever built
before the Soviets can mass-produce it. Most viewers seem to find this
first hour pretty boring, and maybe they are right. Other than Clint
walking through parks, hastily jumping on trains, and hitching rides in
delivery trucks, not much happens. I don't think the first hour is a
total waste, though. In it, we get an incredible feel for just how
oppressive the USSR was back then. At almost every turn there are slimy
KGB agents in cheap leather jackets jumping out and demanding "papers"
from anybody unlucky enough to be out in public at that time. I lost
count of how many times people were forced to show their "papers" in
that first hour. The paranoia of the Soviet government is well on
display in these scenes.

Once Clint gets to the plane, the movie takes off: literally. Clint is
then forced to fly the plane out of Soviet air space and find a
re-fueling spot in the Arctic Ocean where a US sub will be waiting for
him. Even though this plane is impossible to detect on radar, it's
still a difficult task to avoid all the other Soviet aircraft and
ships. Clint also gets into a dogfight with another Firefox which is
sent up after him. Since the effects involving these planes look dated,
you have to suspend your disbelief and just sit back and enjoy it all
as best you can. 

I liked most of the acting in this film. Freddie Jones was
over-the-top, though. Clint was about as timid as I've ever seen him,
but he was supposed to be. His character suffers from constant
flashbacks of his Vietnam days where he had been shot down and held
prisoner for a while. You have to wonder why such an unbalanced man
would be chosen for such an important mission, but they at least try to
explain that early on. It seems that the Air Force believes Clint's
condition only occurs when he's on the ground, but we find that not to
be the case once he's in the dogfight with a more experienced Soviet
Col. 

Warren Clarke (who you might remember as the big dumb lug in Alex's
gang in A Clockwork Orange) is outstanding as the primary underground
spy who helps Clint get where he needs to go. I also loved that dirty
old Soviet "First Secretary" who threatens Clint once he steals the
plane. Those hapless individuals who played the Jewish scientists at
the air base were very good in their roles, also.

If you love Eastwood and haven't seen this film, please do. If you
don't really care about him but want to take a closer look at the old
USSR, this will work for you, too.

I'll give it 8 of 10 stars. 

Clint, you should have killed that Soviet Col. when you had the chance
in the locker room!!!!

So sayeth the Hound.
<|_=00=_|>
During the height of the Cold War, the Soviet military develops a super
high-tech fighter aircraft - it flies fast, has deadly weapons, and has
technology that allows the pilot to control guided missiles with his
mind. Basically any army with this baby in its arsenal will have air
superiority. Clint is assigned to steal it from the heart of Soviet
territory for the USA.

The plot is fairly generic and in this day and age most Cold War
thrillers have seem to have lost much of their edge, but this is
nonetheless an entertaining film from Eastwood. It is not one of his
best and not one that he will be remembered for, but no one can deny
the slickness of the plane of the title. The final section of the film,
which admittedly does take a while to get to, has Clint flying around
and raising hell is a fun ride and on par with the final chase in
"Where Eagles Dare" in terms of entertainment. However, the buildup has
enough suspense to make the whole movie worth a watch. 7/10

Rated PG: violence
<|_=00=_|>

Did that title grab your attention?

Well, this film did it for me.

"Firefox" is without a doubt one of the best non-Dirty Harry movies I have
ever seen Clint Eastwood star in.  And I've seen quite a
few.

As Mitchell Gant, Clint helps the US smuggle a super-secret Russian fighter
craft out of its hangar deep in the heart of Russia and fly it over to our
side.  Of course, it's not as easy as it sounds, what with Gant having
recurring flashbacks to a harrowing experience in Vietnam (PLOT POINT - why
did they have an obviously traumatized vet like Clint head up a sensitive
assignment like this?  Oh well....).

In fact, there are two stars to this one.  Clint, of course, and that sleek,
black dream machine of a MIG that he commandeers.  The scene where the
camera and Clint circle the plane is almost like a car commercial (all
that's missing is Ricardo Montalban talking about its 'rich Corinthian
leather' interior).  

Other than the loving detail between the two leads, however, everyone else
is either an empty-headed caricature or an overplayed buffoon.  Either way,
it's just filling time until Clint and his ride meet the next harrowing
obstacle they must overcome.  And there's quite a few.

Does Clint finish the job in the end?  Is all made safe for the Cold War-era
world as we know it?  Did Clint direct and produce as well as star in this
one?  Yep, so I think you know the answer already.  But it's not the
destination as much as the trip getting there, if you know what I
mean.

Nine stars and a side of borscht for "Firefox"; the best movie ever made in
which Clint speaks Russian.
<|_=00=_|>
The only reason I bought this movie is it related to the USSR. It's
quite explicit on the image my country had out there. I can only guess
why Soviet propaganda ignored it's existence giving enough attention
same time to Rambo, Rocki IV and Red Dawn. Most of the above mentioned
movies makes you rather laugh on the "accuracy" of Russian characters
and soldiers in particular. Firefox is outstanding in this respect. All
uniforms, guns and insignias are just OK if not to say perfect! Living
not far from one of the metro stations (Kolomenskaya) adds certain
thrill while watching it. Otherwise nothing special. Checking the E-bay
for this DVD you get quite a low price which speaks for itself.
<|_=00=_|>
I took my username from this movie, so I guess I like it...

I like it more than I should, though. The Craig Thomas novel it's based
on is tense and exciting, a cat-and-mouse game between Gant and the
Soviet authorities both on the ground and in the air, but despite much
of the dialogue being taken almost verbatim from the book the movie is
sluggish and decidedly lacking in thrills. The first half of the film
drags terribly, and Clint is a granite-faced cypher who displays none
of the fear and tension felt by his character's literary counterpart.

The Firefox itself is an interesting design (to which the planes from
Stealth bear more than a few similarities despite the 20+ years between
the two films), but apart from a handful of shots the special effects
looked dreadfully fake even back in the Eighties, never mind now. (The
best special effects are ones that very few people will ever notice -
*all* of the Soviet helicopters seen in the film are models.) 

So why do I like it so much? Probably because it's one of very few true
technothrillers to reach the screen. There are no romantic interludes
or comic-relief sidekicks or any other distractions of the type so
often forced in by studios - it's all about the mission. Get in, steal
the plane, get out. The grim, monolithic, paranoid nature of the Soviet
state also comes across well, giving the film a distinctive atmosphere.
Gant enters a grey, joyless world where everybody is watching everyone
else, the first flashes of colour coming - intentionally, I'm sure -
when he finally steals the Firefox and soars away into the dawn sky.

One amusing note is that the film's most famous line - Baranovich's
exhortation, in echoing flashback, that Gant must "Think in Russian!"
was added after shooting - along with the previously unmentioned
'rearward missile' - because test audiences didn't understand what the
Rearward Defence Pod was, despite it having been used earlier in the
film and even described by one of the Russians!
<|_=00=_|>
Dear viewers let me tell you about the Jet Fighter Firefox as well as
Mig-31. For the firs time Scientists have invent anti-radar jet
aircraft body & thought guided weapons system. Before the Mig-31
generally a Jet pilot needed to locked on the target & then through its
weapon usually missiles. But the Mig-31 is 5/6 seconds advanced. Its
pilot does not need to aim the target before the firing, which he can
guide the missile (after firing) by the thought impulse without any
sort of physical activity. It has also the speed of 6 Mac (6 times than
sound), which is near about 4500 miles/hour. Because its Turmansky
Turbo Jet can create 50000 pounds pressure/second in the air. This film
showed the secret project took place at Bilyarosk, which is 600 miles
east of Moscow. The pilot acted by Clint Eastwood reached Bilyarosk,
taking off the Mig-31, make the civilian plane's pilot simply stunned &
also made diversion (at first the Soviets thought he was going to
south) by turning north at the Mountain area of Orosk, Ural. It only I
would say weakly detected by the infrared (hit searcher) radar. But the
former USSR's proud of its naval flit missile cruiser Riga simply
failed to destroy it. Because the Mig-31 has the capability of firing
decoy heat source from the back of its tail unit. That decoy was the
writer & director has made the trick to win the US pilot against that
second prototype Mig-31. I must gratitude to the MBC 2. Thanks to the
writer & director to make a such an excellent film that a smart person
enters the one time the world's most forbidden iron part & steals their
best jet aircraft.
<|_=00=_|>
This thrilling and intriguing movie is set during Cold War , the URSS
has developed a high-tech jet called MiG-31 that can be partially
controlled by a neuralink . The Soviets have made a sophisticated
aircraft , the latest aeronautic marvel that flies at 6 times the speed
of sound, is invulnerable to radar, and worst of all it has a lethal
technological weapons system that the pilot can control through
cerebral waves and thought . As soon as the pilot detects a threat -
either visually or a scope - his brain impulses will direct a missile
to that threat , without so much as pushing a button . The American
fighter pilot assigned by Secret Service (Freddie Jones) is the Vietnam
veteran named Mitchell Gant (Clint Eastwood), a burned-out USAF ace
pilot, is smuggled into the USSR to infiltrate the Russian airbase at
Bilyarsk, where the supersonic fighting plane Firefox/MiG-31 is being
terminated , he must rob it and avoid the mass production that would
give the Russians a huge advance . Officer Mitchell Gant goes behind
Russian lines and faces a dangerous assignment . In Russia is helped by
various secret agents (Warren Clarke, Nigel Hawthorne , Ronald Lacey)
against KGB (Hugh Frazer , David Gant) and Soviet officials ( Kenneth
Colley ,Oliver Cotton , Klaus Lowitsch ) .

Eastwood directs , produces and plays this exciting film about a pilot
sent into the Soviet Union on a mission to steal a prototype jet
fighter . This overlong picture takes a while to take off , but when it
does , it's cool film . It contains suspense , thrills , intrigue ,
action-packed and is pretty entertaining . Spectacular aerial pursuits
and dogfighting in ¨Star Wars¨ style created by FX expert John Dykstra
who made special visual effects in several films such as ¨Galactica ,
Star Trek ,Batman , Spiderman , X men and Hanckock ¨. Ample support
cast full of prestigious British actors who make good performances as
as Freddie Young , Kenneth Colley , Stefan Schnabel , David Huffman ,
Nigel Hawthorne , Warren Clarke and Ronal Lacey , among them . Colorful
and appropriate cinematography by Bruce Surtees ,son of great cameraman
Robert Surtess and Eastwood's usual . Thrilling and suspenseful score
by the maestro Maurice Jarre . Rating : Acceptable and passable but
slow-moving and over lengthy .
<|_=00=_|>

"Firefox", while definitely dated, is a good Cold War spy thriller that
falls far short of being great.  Clint Eastwood plays Mitchell Gant, a
burned-out Vietnam fighter pilot who's enlisted to steal a high-tech,
heavily-armed, stealth Soviet fighter plane right out of its Siberian
hangar.  The first half of the film is a John le Carre type thriller – Clint
sneaking into Moscow, assuming a Soviet pilot's identity, and making his way
to the experimental Firefox fighter craft.  The second half, when he climbs
into the cockpit of the Firefox, is where the real fun
begins.

While entertaining, the film isn't particularly great – apart from Clint's
gritty performance as Mitchell Gant, none of the other actors manage to
stand out in any way.  The jet fighter sequences also haven't stood the test
of time – they looked great in the Eighties, but now they just look dated
and unrealistic.  Certain scenes in the film are little more than padding,
buying breathing room between action scenes and doing little else.  There's
enough tension and action scattered throughout the film to make `Firefox'
fun, but there's much better Cold War movies than this (`The Russia House'
and `The Hunt for Red October' easily come to mind), and there's certainly
much better Clint Eastwood movies than this.  B-/C+ 

