

Fantasy movies such as this are non-existent these days. Gimme back the
days of The Dark Crystal, Jim Henson and the Gremlins. For a family
movie this is also very straight-faced too. There is not much humor in
it, but that only adds to the overall weird tone.

The story is of a wizard apprentice called Galen (a very young Peter
MacNicol) who goes on a quest to slaughter a Dragon terrorizing the
people of Urland (Ireland maybe?). There are long moments of quiet and
a strange atmosphere brewing around the whole movie. It looks and feels
quite unique.

No doubt this is owed a lot to the fabulous widescreen compositions,
visual effects that range from not bad to surprisingly good and
stunning scenery and locations. Indeed the mood of this film is
something I've never come across in a fantasy film. Plus for a film
that is rated a simple PG, there was quite a lot of graphic gore,
violence and even slight nudity. Surprising, but it adds to the
boldness of the production. You would never get a family movie like
this these days. I will take Dragonslayer over Harry Potter anytime.

Filmed in Panavision, the 2.35:1 anamorphic picture looks really great
in most scenes but in others there is a small problem with the black
levels. The soundtrack has been remastered in Dolby 5.1 and it is
surely loud and forceful. Unfortunately there are ZERO extras. Which is
a shame, because for a film like this, I really want more.

<|_=00=_|>
With the name Disney attached to a sword and sorcery/fantasy romp, many
genre purists might be filled with immediate consternation as they
visualise in horror the possible 'cute' connotations.

Fortuitously, the understandable apprehension that this may well induce
actually proves to be entirely unfounded however, as this movie is
about as far from Pete's Dragon or any other Disney fare as is humanly
imaginable!

What we do have here, is an excellent movie with top notch production
values, awesome special effects, a fine cast, and a very dark story.

The dragon itself is without doubt the best ever committed to celluloid
(a much better design than the CGI one in Dragonheart) and proves to be
hugely menacing and destructive as it incinerates everything in it's
path.

The actors to, all put in excellent performances and it's particularly
great to see such a fine piece of casting in the form of the late great
Sir Ralph Richardson as the wizard Ulrich. In fact for such a role
there has surely never been a more appropriate choice of actor other
than of course, Peter Jackson casting Sir Ian McKellen to play Gandalf
in the Lord of the Rings trilogy.

For fans of sword & sorcery and fantasy movies in general, this really
is an absolute must see!
<|_=00=_|>

Dragonslayer came out when "Dungeons & Dragons" was getting to be a big
thing where I live, so there was a lot of interest. It was even adapted
into a book by Wayland Drew (in a rare instance when a movie preceded a
book).

Two things I like mainly. First, of course: Vermithrax. I rather hope
that Dragonslayer is never remade, for there's no way the digital
animation done these days could do this magnificent creature justice.
New isn't always better. 

It's also nice to see a film which doesn't stereotype Pagans and
magicians as evil. In fact, the film treads the whole good-evil line
rather lightly; Ulrich displays a certain respect for Vermithrax, even
while planning the dragon's demise. 

I find it easy to be swept up in the lovely mystery of Dragonslayer: a
mystical film from 1981 (a more mystical age).

<|_=00=_|>
I saw this when it came out, in the theater, in 1981. It was a sort of
surprise hit that summer. This is a movie with plot. It's about a young
man and woman meeting challenges, death, redemption, the death of magic
and the birth of Christianity, and the hypocrisy of gov't. And it's all
disguised as a PG movie about a dragon which is terrorizing a hamlet of
decent people in the Dark Ages.

HIGHLY recommended. PG, but does have one foot gnawing which today
would probably give it an R or X rating given the gutlessness of
parents everywhere :). This is an early movie by Industrial Light and
Magic, or ILM as it's known nowadays, and I believe was funded by
Disney. Despite that it's got a gritty edge. Check it out, for youths
and adults
<|_=00=_|>

Dragonslayer is a great fantasy film. The special effects hold up fairly
well even today. The dragon is just a model and it looks fantastic. I was
only 9 years old when I saw this film and it has stuck with me ever since.
There are great performances and the direction is tight. The set design is
also done well. Dragonslayer has a great atmosphere and you won't forget the
image of the dragon rising from the water behind our hero anytime
soon.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie benefits from an interesting plot, a wonderful female
character played by Caitlin Clarke, and good plot twists. I'm not a big
fan of the male lead; his looks are a little average and uninteresting
to me. The only other drawback are the ugly hats characters wear in
this film. However, what makes this movie unique are its visuals, which
through creativity and hard work, outshines many fantasy movies of the
90's and early 2000's.

This film proves that it doesn't need 21st century technology to make a
beautiful and visually complex piece. As I watched the dragon, it was
easy to tell that it was not real; it had flaws in its appearance and
its movements were not perfect. But that did not detract at all from
the film, because what made the dragon impressive was the artistic
elements of its design; its many layers of thin, translucent membrane,
its finely chiseled and formed teeth, and the almost charcoal-like,
tough scales on its hide. In many modern fantasy movies, the creatures
and dragons are uninspired, dull, and drab, despite the computer
engineering behind them. In the 80's, directors had to be creative to
produce their desired effect, and this creativity went a long way in
producing visuals that both wowed audiences with their appearance and
the thought of the work that went into making them.

<|_=00=_|>

An intelligent Fantasy movie. The 80's produced many good fantasy movies but
this one stands above the rest. The special effects (by ILM, same folks who
did Star Wars) are superb. This is the best Dragon you have ever seen on
screen. The cast is a mixed lot. Some are obviously trained stage actors
while some are very fresh (i.e. new to acting). Fairly good performances
from all nonetheless. The plot is top notch. This is not simple minded hack
and slash. So if you want some mindless action flick, go elsewhere
(preferably over a cliff). The plot moves slowly and you have to pay close
attention to details or else you won't get it. In fact the the first time
you watch it you may think you see some errors. They are not. Keep watching
and all will fall in place. This is a movie which rewards the patient. And
it rewards them exceedingly well. Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>

I'm not sure there's more than one compelling reason to see this
film, but what a reason! As an SF/fantasy buff, I've seen my share
of dragons on film, but there has never been one like Vermithrax
Perjorative. The old beast simply looks, moves, sounds, acts,
almost smells as one would imagine a dragon would. The
filmmakers paid painstaking attention to detail in creating VP.
Other film dragons look like animated clay figures, or lizards with
wings glued on, or CGI effects (impressive, but still obviously
computer-generated). This one looks like the cinematographer
actually caught a dragon on film. The rest of the film is entertaining
enough - not exactly Wellesian drama, but captivating 
nonetheless. Sir Ralph is marvelous, even in his twilight. And the
fact that the dragon doesn't show until the end serves to heighten
the suspense, ala Jaws or Alien. But, oh that dragon!! Well worth
the price of admission. Can't wait to see it on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>

I was also one of those who saw this in the theaters more than once when it
came out and I urged all of my friends to see it and some of them did take
my advice. Story is about a village that sacrifices young maidens to a
dragon that has been marauding the countryside. A group from the village
travel to see a sorcerer named Ulrich (Sir Ralph Richardson) and ask him to
slay the dragon which he accepts but is killed by the King's sheriff.
Ulrich's young apprentice Galen (Peter MacNicol) decides to step in and
agree to the task with the help from a magical amulet. The village is headed
by King Casiodorus Rex (Peter Eyre) who has a lottery where the name of a
young girl is picked for the sacrifice for the dragon but the King doesn't
put his own daughters name in the drawing.

*****SPOILER ALERT*****

Galen is taken to the dragons lair and he causes a rock slide and he
believes that this has killed the dragon but as it turns out it didn't and
it comes back to wreak havoc so the King quickly starts up another lottery.
Meanwhile, Galen has fallen in love with Valerian (Caitlin Clarke) and her
father has made a mighty sword that hopefully can slay the dragon. Galen and
his weapon head into the dragons lair to try and kill it but he quickly
finds out that this dragon is going to be harder to slay than
expected.

This film is directed by Matthew Robbins who never really had a great career
as a director but he did have some success as a writer but he can be happy
with this film because it's still considered the best dragon flick to date.
Disney and Paramount got together to make this and the special effects by
Industrial Light and Magic are just terrific and still stand up today even
though effects have changed with CGI. The DVD transfer suffers somewhat and
the studio's should definitely digitally remaster this film and re-release
it on a special edition DVD. What makes the effects stand out is that they
brilliantly made sure the dragon moved like a dragon would and it crawls
like a bat or a lizard and it adds greatly to the reason why this is the
best of it's kind. Robbins also does the right thing by not allowing the
audience to get a good look at the dragon except in glimpses and it builds
the chills and excitement until we finally do see the dragon. The film looks
great from the wonderful location shots in Scotland to the dirty hovels that
people lived in during those times. Richardson is a joy in a role that is to
small but he makes the most of it with a lot of Latin muttering and lines
like "Do you have anything to eat"? One of the highlights in the film (For
me, anyway) is Clarke as the love interest and I was always charmed by her
tough but attractive performance. She still pops up every once in a while in
small roles but this was her largest role in her career and last I've heard
she teaches at a college in Pennsylvania. Probably not a great film as it
does lag in spots but don't let this sway you because this is a fun film and
one hell of a dragon!
<|_=00=_|>

Sir Ralph Richardson is the fulcrum of this delightful tale of a
Medieval time that never was. Peter MacNicol's spontaneous boyishness
makes the Sorcerer's Apprentice come alive in another garb. Of course,
Alex North's remarkable, controversial score defines and deepens this
fairy tale into a noire journey through the dark heart of human
superstition driven by simultaneous fear of the unknown and lust for
power. The magic here is as much the discovery of love and sensuality
as it is a journey into the dragon's layer. Dark hearts are where you
find them.

