

I can't believe the reviews I have read about Top Gun being technically
inaccurate, not enough character development, an overall simple and childish
plot... gimme a freegin' break! This film was made to look cool, sound cool,
and define cool. Yeah, okay, the MiG-28s are really F-5 Tigers; I've read
the 'goofs' section before. And Tom Cruise's height. And about 'Maverick
going supersonic - I'll be there in 30 seconds,' and the laws of physics
preventing him from covering 200 or so miles from the carrier in that time.
Whatever! So what! If Top Gun had tried to be accurate and true-to-life in
every respect, it would have been some oh-so-serious flick like Courage
Under Fire. Here's some examples of what I mean:

1 - what's the best way to evade cannon fire? Do a snazzy barrel roll.
Problem solved!

2 - the MiG pilots have tinted visors. The good guys don't. Go
figure.

2.5 - Russian planes are actually grey or green. The MiG 28s are black. The
Tomcats are... yeah, you guessed it... white! Good vs.
Evil.

3 - Modern air-to-air combat is usually fought at distances of tens of miles
between aircraft. Top Gun uses much cooler spitting-distance WWI era
tactics.

4 - "It's too close for missiles. I'm switching to guns!" Enough
said.

5 - the generic guy carrying coffee who gets knocked over by the fuming
air-control officer. We never see him get up. Classic.

6 - even the edited TV version is a few steps above normal-cool. "... you'll
be flying a cargo plane [edit]... out of Hong Kong!"

7 - the way Iceman says, "Mayday, Mav's in trouble. He's in a flat spin, and
heading out to sea."

8 - the graceful way Top Gun maintained a PG rating, without using the
F-word once.

Top Gun came out in 1986. That's 1986. Seventeen years ago. It rocked
then... it rocks now. Just watch it and have some fun.
<|_=00=_|>

Absolute cheese on a stick, but Top Gun proves that that's not always a
bad
thing. This movie's got everything - an arrogant prodigy who'd be out on
his
arse if he wasn't so good, a sensible, uglier best friend, a love interest
(although she's a bit of a mess), an arch nemesis and his dumb sidekick, a
few cool high fives and catchphrases, an emotional death scene, a euphoric
victory scene and of course, some unforgettable action scenes. What more
could any red-blooded child of the eighties ask for!? And anyone born
around
1980 will remember how everyone was doing that double high five and saying
'talk to me, goose' to the kid next to them in class. Certainly one of my
all time favourites.
<|_=00=_|>

If there's ever proof of the cachet of Naval Aviation, this is it. Those
poor Air Force guys got a trio of "Iron Eagle" flicks that went from bad
to
horrible, whereas the Navy flyboys got this great 1980's classic. Sure,
it's
cheesy and corny, but it makes the cheese and corn taste pretty damn good.
A
cynic might argue that it's just a two hour long Navy recruiting ad (one
that worked for me, two years later I found my ass in Pensacola sweating
through AOCS, short for Aviation Officer Candidate School, the program
immortalized in "An Officer and a Gentleman") but by making a pro-Navy
movie, the filmmakers also got invaluable technical assistance from top
Navy
aviators, and it shows.

For starters, although this movie takes numerous liberties in order to
entertain, the basic setup, in which fighter pilots from the fleet get
sent
to NAS Miramar, aka, "Top Gun" for intensive training, is 100% accurate.
The
Navy, back during Vietnam, was getting sick of losing too many pilots in
air-to-air combat. The problem, they discovered, was their fighter jocks
had
been trained for purely long-range missile interceptions, meaning they'd
lost their dogfighting skills. And, in Vietnam, several American planes
were
accidentally shot down by their own side by missiles, so, as a safety
factor, enemy planes had to be visually identified, meaning American
pilots
were back to engaging the enemy at short range, hence the need for
dogfighting. The "Top Gun" school was started as a result, and the rest is
history.

Now, back to the movie. Tom Cruise is Maverick, a hotshot pilot but also
somewhat unstable. If "Risky Business" launched his career as a movie
star,
then "Top Gun" cemented it. Guys wanted to be like him, and women of
course
lusted after him. The plot is pure formula, but executed with consummate
professionalism. The team who put this movie together knew exactly how to
push all the right buttons. But the crème de la crème is surely the
flying.
I don't think that any movie, before or since, has ever rendered air
combat
in a more convincing and dramatic fashion. For nearly 100 years fighter
pilots have been the modern equivalent of olden knights, men who brought a
sense of glamour and romance to the deadly art of war, and this movie
gives
them a fitting tribute.

8/10

<|_=00=_|>

The fact that people are still writing about this film 15yrs after it was
first released (and I'm not just talking about me!) really says a lot. I
was
dubious about writing a comment, seeing as it really has been ages since
it
was released and thinking that most people who wanted to see it probably
already have. After recently watching it for the umpteenth time on TV, I
felt compelled to write a quickie ;) I have to say, it's the first time I
looked up Top Gun on the imdb and I was actually quite surprised that it
only received a 6.4 rating. If you haven't seen the movie yet, don't judge
it by the ratings, read a few user comments first and just rent it out, I
guarantee you'll have a good time, especially with its amazing soundtrack!
The best 80's songs ever written, I still get chills down my back
listening
to them ;) It's a simple plot but there's something about it that makes it
a
seriously enjoyable film and one you can watch time and time again. Go
have
fun! Enjoy!    
<|_=00=_|>
Top gun, loved and loathed by many alike. The film that launched Tom
Cruise's career. I'm a student and watching Top Gun for me is an
amazing uplifting experience. A 'feel good' movie that could lift the
worse of moods.

The film executes cheese to perfection, yes there are some silly lines
but there are some real good ones too! The aerial action sequences are
truly amazing, and for 1986 nothing short of magnificent.

The reason why Top Gun appeals to me...Imagine yourself on a Saturday
night, not painting the town red staying in for the night. You have
your few cans of Budweiser, your nachos what more could you ask for.

From the amazing flight sequences, Mavericks motorbike, trashy romance
and to the cool 80's soundtrack. Top Gun should be taken for what it
is. An entertaining Film.
<|_=00=_|>
Top Gun is a high quality, visually stunning film that does all it can
to take your breath away. It is the excellently choreographed dog
fights that remain in the mind longer than anything as they are high
octane, dazzling bursts of excitement which bring the film to life.
However, fighter jet sequences do not make a film and it is the plot
where Top Gun has some occasional problems.

Parts of the story are overly cheesy and clichéd. The proud to be
American theme is dire, repetitive and anyone who dislikes over
patriotism in films will despise this. The story line involving Tom
Cruise and Tom Skerrit approaches boredom and is the pinnacle of Top
Gun's cheese. 'Cheese' is OK, as long as it is not serious and that is
where that specific story line falls flat. The fun cheesy parts are
some of the films best moments. The volleyball scene is truly a classic
and the four actors involved are genuinely enjoying themselves. The
relationship between Tom Cruise and Anthony Edwards is also very moving
at times and the dynamic they have makes for great viewing.

The acting is what saves Top Gun from being Tinsel town garbage. Tom
Cruise launched his career with this film. His cocky smile makes him
perfect for this role and Cruise does fantastically at portraying a
determined, passionate character. It is the emotional scenes where
Cruise really sets himself apart from his peers. Cruise provides the
few scenes where the audience are made to feel any emotion and he
carries out his responsibility creditably. Anthony Edwards as Goose is
also effective as the man who takes second spot to Cruise's Maverick.
He is instantly popular with the audience with his wit, humour and
charm. Val Kilmer and Rick Rossovich are great as the rivals. They play
off each other really well and do a fantastic job to personify
arrogance. Michael Ironside does what he does best and once again,
manages to go through a whole film without smiling.

The story between Cruise and Kelly McGillis is very romantic and
sensual. The heat between them is conveyed very well on screen and it
is this that sets Top Gun above films such as Iron Eagle and Chuck
Norris films.

Berlin's 'Take My Breath Away' is a song that still gets a good deal of
airplay and suits this film to perfection; it's cheesy and its 80s. The
music is very effective at setting the mood and complements the feel of
the film.

Top Gun is a film that achieves its objectives, to entertain. If you're
looking for intelligent writing or mass thought provocation, this film
isn't for you. Top Gun is best suited to those who desire to switch off
their brain and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

There is a school of thought that says all movies should be compared on an
absolute scale.  It would say that movies must have a high level of
credibility or familiarity in order to be "good" movies.  People who fall
into this category simply should not watch Top Gun.  They won't enjoy it.
Other people take the opposite, but no more valid approach of looking a
each
movie individually, disregarding all else but the movie.  For these people,
no outside reality or credibility is important, because for them, a movie
exists to entertain in whatever way it chooses to.  These people would
enjoy
Top Gun very much.  It is extremely doubtful that the producers ever even
considered making Top Gun as a portrait of a fighter pilot's life, and this
is why it is entertaining.  It is a rare type of movie, one that no one
dares to make today, one that not only transcends reality, but wears it as
a
mask into the world of fantasy.  Everything from the wild dogfights to the
fake love to the over the top glamorized (or should I say canonized)
characters lets you know that this is a good old American hero drama.  That
is why it is a horrible and fraudulent portrait of reality, and that is why
I love it.
<|_=00=_|>
Top Gun it can be argued is the perfect Reagan Era film and is is
definitely the film that cemented Tom Cruise's stardom. It's probably
now the film that most people will identify him with.

Cruise plays Pete Mitchell aka Maverick who gets recommended for the
Navy's elite Top Gun fighter pilot school. The best of the best train
here at what they euphemistically call Fightertown, USA. The problem
Tom has is he's the best and he knows it. That doesn't near and endear
him to his fellow pilots.

You can add Top Gun to a list of films that goes all the way back to
Task Force where the story of the development of the aircraft carrier
was told, to The Bridges at Toko-Ri which was a film that told about
the first jet air war in Korea. What Gary Cooper flew in Task Force and
what William Holden piloted in The Bridges at Toko-Ri are as ancient to
Cruise's generation as what Eddie Rickenbacker flew in the first World
War was to Holden and Cooper.

One thing that has not left is that war in the air still is the glamor
service because it allows a record of individual achievement. And with
flying combat at the speeds they do, one has to make less than split
second decisions. The men are better now than they were in the previous
wars simply because they have to be.

Cruise is ably assisted by such folks as Tim Rossovich, Barry Tubb,
Clarence Gilyard, Whip Hubley, and Adrian Pasdar as fellow pilots at
the Top Gun school. Val Kilmer turns in a nice performance as Cruise's
number one rival to be number one in the class.

Best in the film besides Tom is Anthony Edwards as his co-pilot and
best friend. His death scene with Cruise is particularly poignant as is
Edwards's wife Meg Ryan's scene with Tom as he breaks the news.

Romance for Cruise is provided by Kelly McGillis who certainly had her
choice of hunks to fall for, but this film doe seem to make a point
that women like confidence in their men even if it can be overbearing
at times to those around. McGillis is a civilian instructor so the
romance does not bring Tom or her under military fraternization
infractions.

Top Gun is a film every bit as good as the ones I mentioned before. Tom
Cruise was never more appealing on the screen. And this review is
dedicated to the fighter pilots of the United States Navy, some of the
best and brightest of the younger generation who are defending freedom
for old codgers like me.
<|_=00=_|>

Top Gun is undoubtedly one of my favourite films, and one of those that
has
the ability to keep enthralling you even while watching for the tenth
time.
Director Tony Scott was chosen after the producers saw his work in
advertising, and true to their judgement he has produced a visual
masterpiece. It looks simply gorgeous, and the live action sequences have
never been bettered.
If there is one flaw in the film it is that it is somewhat shallow, with
all
of the people behind the film (and Tom Cruise) rather better at making
visual spectaculars than an engaging story. However the story does work
well
in drawing you into the world of Maverick and his fellow naval aviators,
Cruise forms an excellent rapport with Anthony Edwards as Goose, and the
dialogue is snappy and eminently quotable. Everyone has at some stage used
Maverick's line - "I couls tell you, but then I'd have to kill you", and
the
cover of the Righteous Brothers is unforgettable. The film is backed by
one
of the best soundtracks of the decade, and a very strong supporting
cast.
In my opinion, the film succeeds in everything it sets out to achieve. A
cracking script, a gripping story, and simply stunning aerial photography.
You have to see this film.
<|_=00=_|>
To start, I watched thousands of movies, literally (The Godfather,
Goodfellas, etc..). And from my perspective, Top Gun is an average
popcorn flick. The plot is as cheesy as any movie. After you watch the
movie for a while, the story will fade but something else will stick
with you. That thing is what forced me to give this movie a 9/10. What
is that thing? Well, the feel of the movie, the mode. The 80s fresh
air. And the beautiful soundtrack. These things overcome all the flaws
in this all-flawed movie. This is the weirdest review I have ever
wrote, but it's true. You will like and detest this movie at the same
time. The question is: what feeling will you choose? To conclude, this
is a really terrible movie but one of my favorites. Give it a chance
(on a big screen) and you won't be disappointed or will you?
