

I don't know what it is about this film, but I can never seem to tire of
it.
The acting is
nothing special, the camera work is dated, and the plot is confusing at
times. But this
doesn't effect the enjoyment I receive every time I put this DVD on and
watch it again. In
fact, the story grows more intriguing with every viewing. If you are a
Chuck
Norris fan,
this is an especially fantastic find, since he is at rare form from start
to
finish. The plot
has Norris race around the western US trying to stop an assassin gunning
for
members
of his former CIA Vietnam unit. This may be one of the first films to
feature truly
"extreme" stunts, including snowmobiling, jumping thru a windshield of a
moving car,
along with other motorcycle, race car, and skiing related action. Luckily,
now you can
find the DVD in discount stores easily, and I believe it's worth picking
up.
<|_=00=_|>
**There are Spoilers** One of Chuck Norris' earlier works that has him
play Maj. John T. Booker the leader of the secret CIA
assassin/guerrilla unit named "The Black Tigers" who were used by this
unscrupulous and power-hungry US diplomat Canrad Morgan, James
Franciscus, as a bargaining chip in the 1973 Paris Peace Talks to end
the Vietnam War.

Trying to smooth or grease both sides, the US and North Vietnamese, US
diplomat Conrad Morgan made a deal with his Communist counterpart Quang
Yang to have the Black Tigers sent into Communist-held South Vietnam on
a suicide mission with them, the Black Tigers, thinking that their
being sent to rescue a bunch of American POW's or MIA's. The Black
Tigers led by Booker get pinned down by VC small arms fire and
realizing that their mission is about to end, with all of them dead or
captured, they make their way back to the designated spot in the jungle
where their supposed to be pick up by US Army helicopters; only to find
out they've been abandoned by their own higher up, like Conrad Morgan. 

It's now five years later and Booker now a collage History Professor
,and part-time test car driver, meet's in his class Margaret, Anne
Archer, who seems to know lot about his activities in Vietnam and the
men that he commanded there The Black Tigers. Margaret also seems to
know that "The Tigers" are being killed off to keep what they were
doing in "Nam", being part of the covert Operation Phoenix, from
getting out to the Amerian public. 

A bit too long and somewhat lame action movie with Chuck Norris doing
his best in trying to act seriously but not being that convincing.
Booker teams up with Margaret in finding the remaining Black Tiger
members before they end up getting killed off by a secret CIA hit-team
lead, or controlled, by Conrad Morgan. It turns out that Booker can't
prevent the killing of his fellow Black Tigers and even Margaret ends
up getting blown out of the sky by a bomb placed in her passenger plane
taking off from Squaw Valley. 

Booker getting to the bottom of what's behind the killings which turns
out to be that Morgan is about to be confirmed Secretary of State.
Morgan in order to get confirmed want's all his dirty little secrets
kept under wraps. Like the selling out the American MIA's, and their
failed rescuers the Black Tigers, to the Communist in order to get them
to sign a peace treaty in Paris back in January 1973.

Covering all the bases Morgan has the retired top US diplomat at the
1973 Paris Peace talks Edger Harolds, Dana Andrews,locked away in the
Bethesda Navel Hospital psychiatric ward to discredit him. Horolds had
written a letter to Booker and his friend and contact at the CIA Murray
Saunders,Llyod Haynes, confirming Morgan's betrayal.

With everything cleared for his conformation as the third most powerful
man in the United States government Morgan looks like he'll be rewarded
and get away with the deaths of hundreds, if not thousands, of American
soldiers but Booker has other ideas. In the end Morgan doesn't make it
to Washingtn D.C to get sworn in as secretary of state. He's given a
long ride off a short pier out at Chesapeake Bay where he's never to be
seen or heard from again; courtesy of his new and unexpected limo
driver John T. Booker.
<|_=00=_|>
Ted Post(Hang 'Em High)directed this early Chuck Norris vehicle
regarding a contract out to kill members of a covert group sent into
Vietnam on a bogus mission to secure POW's said to have been imprisoned
in a camp. Norris stars as John T Booker, leader of the Black Tigers,
leading five of the men out of Vietnam. He goes on to become a
professor and part-time race car test driver, soon learning from an old
pal in the CIA(Lloyd Haynes)that he and his men have a hit out on them.
Booker will join forces with a mysterious reporter, Margaret(Anne
Archer, simply lovely)who knows more than she's willing to divulge, in
an attempt to find the remainder of his men(..those still alive) across
the country, running into constant trouble along the way. James
Franciscus has a memorable role as a handsome, ambitious, ruthless
political negotiator, Conrad Morgan, eyeing the Secretary of State
position, whose goal is to silence all who had a part in the "Phoenix
Operation" and Booker will do everything in his power to see this
bastard fail. Dana Andrews also has a small, but pivotal role as
Morgan's right-hand man, Edgar Harolds, who was once in a higher
position of political power, now an alcoholic, lonely man with only one
ace under his sleeve to keep the wolves at bay. Soon-Tek Oh, as Major
Mhin Van Thieu, was part of the Black Tigers, actually part of Morgan's
camp, a hired assassin whose putting bullets into Booker's men.

Good Guys Wear Black, as any Norris fan can tell you, features one of
Chuck's most memorable iconic sequences where he goes through the
windshield of a moving car to kick an enemy attempting to flee. Norris
also gets a chance to subdue those who attempt to thwart his mission of
justice, by dropping his foes with martial arts kicks and other
maneuvers..this is a great period for us Norris fans as he was a bit
thinner, more agile and athletic, and could really move fast, giving
his adversaries little chance to counter his arsenal of blows. Post,
working from a rather convoluted espionage script, keeps the story
going, with Norris in fine form. While he never was known for his
acting prowess, Norris' other skills, such as screen presence,
charisma, and fighting style, bolster GGWB rather well. I think this
film features one of the better stories of Norris' career(..and Archer
is certainly one of his better leading ladies), while not allowing him
to kick and punch people throughout.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is one of my first favorites. Here you have Chuck Norris, a
real karate champion, plays John Booker, a war vet who is trying to
find out why his comrades are being bumped off. Whoever's doing it is
in big trouble. You don't mess with BOOKER! NO NOT EVER!! Many made a
big mistake and it cost their own lives in the process. First, one
person gets shot during skiing and Booker did the flying side kick to
the Booker's assailant's wife. The major assailant put a bomb on the
plane that killed his girlfriend after takeoff. And he used that ski
pole to attack Booker which was no use to stop him. Then my favorite
scene of all is where the same guy whose wife was taken out, gets into
the Toyota Celica, and tried to run over Booker. In which he returns
delivers the awesome flying dropkick to the windshield killing him. I
later found out that the stunt was done by his brother Aaron. Doesn't
really matter I enjoyed it all the away. Chuck Norris is the reason I
got into the martial arts, and I would like to thank him all the way.
He is my idol! 3.5 out of 5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
The film begins in Paris , 1973 during peace talks to end the Vietnam
War.Later on, Riverside , California, five years later , a
mild-mannered teacher named Booker (Chuck Norris) keeps his previous
life as leader of a Vietnam commando (Soon-Tek Oh, Pierce, Aaaron
Norris, among others) named ¨The Black Tigers¨ unit under wraps until
he discovers that he's number one in a hit list. John Booker attempts
to resolve why his former squad are being mysteriously killed, one time
the Vietnam war is over.There's a conflict-ridden love interest as
well, Norris falls in love with a lovely journalist (a youngster Anne
Archer) who must to save her.

This exciting picture is plenty of action-packed, tension,suspense and
cheesy sub-plot to boot with wild stunts .The movie displays a plethora
of martial arts fights ,Norris cleans up the nasty fighters by means of
punches ,kicks,bound and leaps with struggles certainly slick .It's
violent, frenetic and hectic and not particularly literary but worthy
entry in Kung-Fu genre , although runs out energy surprisingly early.
Average Norris-thriller ,exciting and tense at times with fine work
from Dana Andrews, Lloyd Haynes and James Franciscus as a brilliant and
ambitious politician. And of course, Karate expert Chuck Norris who
saves the day with lots of visceral violence , he's a nice wrestler who
possesses incredible strength . The film belongs Norris's early period
,during the 80s as : ¨Code of silence,Delta Force,Silent
rage,Octagon,Forced vengeance, Delta Force I,II, An eye for an eye¨
among others with successful box office at cinemas and video-rentals.
In the 90s and 2000s with exception of ¨Walker Texas Ranger¨,the Norris
star has gone down. Action addicts will give this one a passing grade
,all others need not apply. If you're a previous Norris fans,you'll
like it but contains enough action and violence for enthusiastic of the
Karate genre. The motion picture is regularly directed by Ted Post.
It's followed by the sequel titled ¨A force of one¨ with Norris-Booker
as team commander of some undercover narcotic agents who are being
eliminated one-by-one.
<|_=00=_|>

The story of Good Guys Wear Black(1979) interestingly enough resembles the
plot lines of Steven Seagal's early films of Above the Law(1988), Hard to
Kill(1990), and Marked for Death(1991).  The direction by Ted Post is very
good.  Good Guys Wear Black(1979) and the Dirty Harry picture, Magnum
Force(1973) are the two best films for this average director.  Chuck Norris
stars in what is one of his better films before he would give up the cinema
for television.  Anne Archer is good in an early film role before she was a
respectable actress.  James Franciscus is terrific as the cold blooded and
ruthless Politican Conrad Morgan.  Has what is probably the best stunt of
Chuck Norris's career with the scene where he leaps through the front window
of a car and into an assassin for a martial arts kick.
<|_=00=_|>
Rugged commando John T. Booker (the almighty Chuck Norris in solid
rough'n'tumble form) and his elite squad the Black Tigers are left
behind enemy lines by their backstabbing superiors during a mission in
Vietnam. Five years later someone starts picking off the surviving
members of the squad. It's up to Booker to find out who's behind the
killings and take the person down. Director Ted Post, working from a
complex and cynical script by Bruce Cohn and Mark Medoff, relates the
complicated and chillingly plausible plot at a steady pace, maintains a
tough and paranoid no-nonsense tone throughout, astutely nails the
bleak and shadowy zeitgeist of post-Watergate 70's America, and stages
the rousing action scenes with aplomb. Moreover, the story makes a
grim, yet relevant and provocative central point about government
expediency and corruption. The fine cast helps matters a whole lot: the
charming and fetching Anne Archer delivers an appealingly spunky
portrayal of snoopy investigative lawyer Margaret, James Franciscus
makes for a suitably slimy villain as ruthless and treacherous politico
Conrad Morgan, Lloyd Haynes does well as Booker's shrewd buddy Murray
Saunders, Dana Andrews likewise excels as the bitter and washed-up
Edgar Harolds, and Jim Backus has a funny bit as a cheery doorman.
Norris cuts loose with his patented lethal karate moves on several
exciting occasions; the definite show-stopping highlight occurs when
the Chucker does a fierce flying kick through a car windshield. Robert
Steadman's slick cinematography gives the picture a nice glossy look
and boasts a few breathtaking aerial shots. Craig Safan's funky, jazzy,
pulsating score hits the get-down groovy spot. A worthy item.
<|_=00=_|>
this is one of Chuck Norris's earlier films.this movie i (belive it or
not)more story driven,rather than focusing on martial arts action.
Chuck Plays John T.Booker, an ex commando who suddenly finds that
members of his former unit are being assassinated.Booker tries to warn
those that are still alive and find out why they are being targeted. He
believes he is also on the list,so his time is limited to find both the
killer and the reason for the murders.Chuck actually uses his acting
chops more than his fists and feet in this outing.he actually does an
okay job in that dept.there are still some fight scenes in the
movie,which actually look more realistic than in today's martial arts
flicks.there are no flashy camera tricks here.back in the 70's people
liked their action more authentic.i liked that about his film.if you
are looking for an all out action movie,this 1 is not for
you.however,if you like a little story in the mix,check it out. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
It might not have been Norris' breakout film, but he was on its way and
a good stepping stone for things to come. Well he had appeared in a few
films before hand, but not so much as a leading role and this was an
attempt to create a new Bruce Lee for the American market. It's quite a
routine vehicle for Norris, which while captivating it never truly
capitalizes on the martial art skills that he bestows. Sure he gets
time to hand out a beating or two, but in the end there's just not
enough to go around. Most of the time Norris as ex-commando John T.
Booker is racing around the clock trying to figure out a political
conspiracy involving the extermination of his special-op team the
"Black Tigers", and then maybe  that's when angry or tested he decides
to beat the pulp out of someone. Sadly when that happens the sock 'em
activity doesn't last all that long by building up a punishing rhythm
to only be over in a matter of seconds. Might be impressive to watch
when in action (although the camera at times gets a little too close
not allowing the space), but you feel short-changed hoping for more or
at least some competition. The material could've seen any actor take
the lead role, as it seems to ask more from as an establish actor, but
then we probably wouldn't have seen the trademark stunt of Norris'
stirring jump-kick through car windshield. This one sequence alone
(along with a three on one car park showdown) shows what he could bring
to the table.

So far I guess it sounds like I didn't get much from it, but that's not
particularly true. What surprised more than anything was that his
earlier features had somewhat heavily written plots, despite the forced
dialogues. "Good Guys Wear Black" had quite a pessimistically knotty
narrative; where it builds upon the mystery and strangely it's devious
plotting of political corruption and lingering suspicion of things are
not quite what they seem was compellingly fleshed out. Also the ending
has nice touch of irony to it. Norris continuing to hand out justice
Norris justice.

Ted Post (who helm Eastwood in "Hang 'Em High" and "Magnum Force") has
a competent steadiness to his serviceable direction, but does lack the
flair and excitement in the favour of grinding out the tough dramatics
and lean action caught behind raw, but scenic locations. This is
obvious, and it does seem to hold Norris back. He tries his best, but
while his delivery might not always be the greatest (acting that is) he
does have likability and certain charisma (not just the golden-blonde
hair and moustache) that eventually shines through. The rest of
performances do fair up a lot better. Anne Archer is bitingly good
across Norris and James Franciscus likewise with his smarmy portrayal.
Lloyd Haynes and Dana Andrews chime in with solid offerings. Jim Backus
has a neat cameo too. Craig Safan's distinguishable jazz score crackles
along.

Simply middle ground, as Norris would go onto better things.
<|_=00=_|>

Good Guys Wear Black (1978) was one of Chuck Norris's first starring
roles.
Norris plays John T. Booker, a C.I.A. who is sent on a mission to rescue
American P.O.W.s in Vietnam, but during the mission, he and his men are
attacked and find that no Americans were at the Vietnamese camp. After
Booker and the remaining soldiers just barely escape, they find out that
their team, The Black Tigers, were set up. After a long walk home, the
C.I.A.s are turning up dead and John T. Booker is the last one alive, and
no
one can help him but a lawyer named Margret. This film was made in 1977,
but
wasn't released until a year or two later. The action is decent,
espiecially
two scenes, one that takes place at a ski resort, and another at an
airport
where Chuck Norris fights this Japanese assassin. Overall, a decent 1970's
action movie with bad acting and a really bad 70's sounding
soundtrack.
