

I noticed that many of the comments on this film were negative.  Those
people need to loosen up and get "just the facts."  Maybe I see more of the
humor because I am a law enforcement officer, but this film is a scream.  It
takes everything that the original series did, and does it with tongue
firmly planted in cheek.  Dan Ackroyd's deadpan Jack Webb impersonation is a
riot, as are the remarks he makes to Hanks' Pep Streebeck.  A typical
example would be after Joe ignores Sylvia Wiss' advances, and Pep calls him
on it.  Joe looks him dead in the eye and says, "Streebeck, there are two
things that separate us from the animals.  One, we use cutlery.  Two, we can
control our sexual urges.  I don't know about you, but don't drag ME into
your private HELL!"  That line is so Jack Webb-DRAGNET that I'm surprised it
never showed up in the 1960's version.  Like the Austin Powers films,
DRAGNET spoofs a cultural icon in such a way as to evoke the original. 
Ignore the silly plot, and just enjoy the ride.**PS**I have actually used
the line I quoted above in the line of duty!
<|_=00=_|>

Tom Hanks reminds us of just how good a comic actor he
is,
and Dan Ackroyd just "becomes" his character!  I found
the
movie to be part dead-on parody, part slapstick, part cop
movie (with a twist).  Christopher Plummer and Dabney Coleman
have a ball with their supporting roles, and Alexandra
Paul
adds just a dash of sex appeal.  I was smiling from start
to finish, and could watch it over and over.
<|_=00=_|>
Although Tom Hanks and Christopher Plummer and Dan Ackroyd have
certainly done better work than Dragnet, I can't think of a movie where
any of them would have had better fun making it. Dragnet is one of the
guilty pleasures I have, a film that will never be rated as one of the
greatest of all time, but a film that I split a gut laughing at even
though I know all the jokes coming.

Dragnet is a satirical version of the famous documentary style police
show from the Fifties and the later color version from the sixties. Dan
Ackroyd's dead-on impersonation of the no-nonsense monotone Jack Webb
that a generation of Americans grew up remembering is excellent. Like
Webb he plays it completely straight or maybe I should say straight
man.

Because he's got a new partner fresh from undercover narcotics in Tom
Hanks. Ackroyd's not quite used to the girl chasing, motorcycle loving
partner that he's been assigned to. He's been brought up in the strict
traditions of his Uncle Joe and he has a photograph of Jack Webb on his
desk. He's even got Harry Morgan as his captain and we well remember
that Harry Morgan was Jack Webb's partner in the sixties version of
Dragnet.

Anyway the two of them are assigned to investigate an assortment of
crimes that a motorcycle gang called the PAGANS are responsible for. I
can't explain any more because the plot gets positively surreal from
here. All I can say is the laughs never stop.

Look for some good supporting performances in addition to those
mentioned from Elizabeth Ashley as the new police commissioner,
Alexandra Paul as 'the virgin Connie Swale', Jack O'Halloran as a Pagan
member, Kathleen Freeman as a foulmouthed landlady, and Dabney Coleman
as a Hugh Hefner type publisher.

But most of all this film belongs to Christopher Plummer in every scene
he's in. He plays the whole thing with a twinkle in his eye when he's
being the most sanctimonious as the Reverend Jonathan Whirley. I can't
think of a film where Plummer is funnier in or one where it looks like
he's having such a good time.

The good time is positively infectious. The most hidebound stuffed
shirt will love this film as I did.
<|_=00=_|>

dragnet is by no means a great film. but it is a funny, goofy light hearted
film that both actors play well. i thought it was unusual to see
christopher
plummer in such a movie but he was good as the founder of "mama". this wont
go down as the best film of either tom hanks or dan akroyd.dan has the jack
webb impersonation down well though.
it still is entertaining and if you want a decent laugh it's worth
renting.

<|_=00=_|>

I'm a big fan of the TV series, both the '50's and '60's versions, but I
couldn't help watching this one on TNT. The impersonation of Joe Friday is
so hilarious it hurts, and his Partner Pep Streebeck was excellent. Harry
Morgan from the '60's version was in this, promoted to captain. Next time
the film came on, I taped it, and laughed again. Even though it's making
fun
of the old series, it's fun to watch, and the acting is great. Top-notch
comedy.
<|_=00=_|>

Most people remember Dragnet with Jack Webb as the buttoned-up police
sergeant Joe Friday.  Dan Akyroyd plays the nephew of that character here. 
He is so much like Webb that he even appears to be channeling him
spiritually.  Tom Hanks has a great time with the new character of Pep
Streebeck, the antithesis of Friday.  The rest of the cast is fun, never
quite taking the whole business seriously.  Dabney Coleman, Christopher
Plummer and even Harry Morgan reprising his Bill Gannon role (now the
captain of detectives).  The marginally fleshed out plot involves
P.A.G.A.N.s attacking Coleman's smut magazines and advocating for "good sex
and bad drugs" as the key to a great society.  

The jokes in this movie fly fast and furious and are aimed at all kinds, not
just the lowest common denominator.  Lots of fun, randomness abounds.  The
best way to enjoy this movie is to relax and not take it too seriously,
because it is half spoof-half cop action comedy.  This is a fun ride.
9/10
<|_=00=_|>
It's Saturday, November 6. 9:21 a.m. I've just watched "Dragnet."

A lot of old television shows have been made into movies. Most of them,
frankly, have been disappointments. I have to say that the movie
version of "Dragnet" is one of the better ones. Based on the cast, it
should be. I'm not sure you could do any better than casting Dan
Aykroyd and Tom Hanks in the lead roles, respectively, of Sgt. Joe
Friday (supposedly the great-nephew of the Joe Friday from the series)
and Tom Hanks as his new partner Pep Streebek. Both played their roles
perfectly. Aykroyd was a great satirical take on Jack Webb's character,
and Hanks was the perfect balance. The supporting cast - with names
like Christopher Plummer and Dabney Coleman and Harry Morgan (reprising
his character of Gannon from a 1969 "Dragnet" movie, who's now the
police captain) - also made this worth watching.

The story has Friday and Streebek investigating some type of pagan cult
that's been causing havoc on the streets of the city. Their undercover
encounter with the cult at one of its gatherings was hilarious.
Overall, mind you, this isn't an outrageously funny movie. It's more
humorous than anything, with appeal mostly to those who've seen the
original series. If you've never seen the original series a lot of the
subtle humour (which revolves around Aykroyd's parody of Webb's
character) will be lost. However, for those who do know the original
series, it's a fun nostalgia trip with a good cast.
<|_=00=_|>
A big budget effort to revive the long-dormant TV series with a
snarkier, more wise-cracking slant. Dan Aykroyd is in his element as
the super stiff, by-the-books Joe Friday (nephew of the original
protagonist), while Tom Hanks often feels like he tries too hard as the
detective's wacky, off-kilter new partner. The two play their roles
well, but oddly don't have much of a rapport and feel like they're more
wrapped up in the eccentricities of the characters than what's going on
around them. I can't really blame them - the plot doesn't seem
appropriate, or even all that interesting. Why stick to the guidelines
of a basic detective story when you can dive into the overcomplicated
saga of an evil pagan minister with deep political ties and a weakness
for sacrificial virgins, I guess? It's a terrible match for the cast,
who seem as puzzled by it as I was, and sets the film up for failure
before it's even found its legs. Amusing at times, for the most part
it's helplessly contradictory, clumsy and often downright grating.
<|_=00=_|>
I managed to catch Dragnet on one boring late night on HBO and how glad
I am to have done that! Without going into the small details, this is a
must see.

The chemistry between Dan Aykroyd and Tom Hanks is just awesome. Both
Dan and Tom manages to play their respective characters with sheer
conviction. The plot is simple and the dialog hilarious: just the sort
you need for straight unadulterated fun.

Best of all, the move has some of the most brilliant comic moments from
1980's.

I'm not giving anything away, you'll need to watch to find out ;-)
<|_=00=_|>
If you're looking for something intellectual or challenging, turn over.
However, if you want to watch Dan Ackroyd and Tom Hanks in a classic
spoof police movie with some memorable scenes and a lot of laughs, this
is your film. Check out the goat leggings, the "baitmates" and
P.A.G.A.N. as a concept. The uptight Friday /liberal Streebeck
combination of Ackroyd and Hanks is a great odd couple. The cast is fab
- Christopher Plummer as the head of the Moral Advance Movement of
America, Alexandra Paul as the virgin Connie Swale (yes, the virgin -
some change to Baywatch) and the lovely Elizabeth Ashley as the police
commissioner (great 80s authority female dressing) with Harry Morgan as
the long suffering captain (see Lethal Weapon for reference point).
Also you have to love Friday's maternal grandmother, Mrs Grace
Monday... In the tradition of National Lampoon and Mel Brooks - you
need to see it at least once.
