

This movie is a lighthearted romp!  It is filled with laughs, some brilliant
physical humor (who knew John Landis was a comic-action actor?), sudden
surprises and a phenomenal cast.

And, as a little teaser to make you rent the theatrical version, Michelle
Pfeiffer's only known nude scene!  TSK, TSK, where she hid those
gems!

Jeff Goldblum gives a deadpan performance that is perfect.  It fits this
movie, it fits his style, and at times it is just hilarious.  Probably his
best role ever.

The amazingly diverse cast includes Dan Aykroyd, David Bowie, Jim Henson,
Paul Bartel, Carl Perkins, Bruce McGill (as Elvis!), Irene Papas, Vera
Miles, Richard Farnsworth, Kathryn Harrold, Jake Steinfeld (Body By Jake)
and even Clu Gulager!  WOW!

But there's added richness for the film buff.  Landis cast no fewer than 15
Hollywood directors in this film, plus himself!
You can spot Lawrence Kasdan, Jonathan Demme, Paul Mazurski, Amy Heckerling,
David Cronenberg, Roger Vadim, Jonathan Lynn, Jack Arnold, Don Siegel,
Andrew Marton, Richard Franklin, Colin Higgins, Jonathan Kaufer and Carl
Gottlieb.

Director Daniel Petrie even plays the director of a film-within-the-film,
with the assistant director of this film, David Sosna, playing the assistant
director of that film.  There are cinematographers, writers and make-up
artists, too, including Rick Baker, the first make-up artist ever to win an
Oscar for his craft.

Too few people know about this sleeper.  It's fast paced, funny and
beautifully filmed.  Rent it.  You'll love it.
<|_=00=_|>

Somehow everything clicked in this film for me, and I just love it.  I've
mainly seen it quite a few times on TV, but also have rented it and prefer
the uncensored version. (After all, Michelle Pfeiffer nude scenes are
pretty
rare!)  I've read that this was a vehicle for numerous friends of the
producers to appear in quick "cameos" (a la Hitchcock, not playing
themselves and mostly just background), and I'm still trying to find where
Steven Spielberg appears.  But overall, it is just the perfect blend of
mystery, adventure, comedy & tragedy, and satisfying ending, and all are
right on. OK, it's no major classic, just some lightweight fun, but after
almost 20 years (I'm writing this in 2004) I recall few other films that
for
me match this one for "Oh, that was a cool flick; I think I'll watch it
again."  If you missed this I highly recommend it, without reservation.

<|_=00=_|>
Ed Orkin is an ordinary guy with insomnia, has a very boring job and
finds out his wife is having an affair. Can his jaded life get any
better? Well one night, it does take a sharp turn when he rescues a
lovely, but mysterious blonde named Diana from some ruthlessly zany
thugs at the airport. From this point onwards Ed and Diana are caught
up in a cheerfully dashing and murderous chase throughout the night in
Los Angeles. Where everyone seems to want a piece of those six
emeralds, which Diana has smuggled into the country.

The first time I saw this flick I stumbled across it accidentally when
I was on holidays. Instead of going out for the night in the rain I
decided to stay in and watch some telly. Well, from the opening scene I
was totally captivated by its maniac humour, trigger-happy cameos,
kooky situations and that this road movie took place mostly at night. I
don't why, but I just dig that last point about the flick. Years later
I had forgot what the title was called, but I still could remember
certain scenes and it entered on my ever-growing film list to track
down. After a while I kind of forgot about it, but like my first
viewing I came across it unknowingly on cable and it came flooding back
again. That time I got the title! And I tracked down the DVD only a
couple of weeks ago. From my second viewing of it I thought it was John
Landis' best film, so when I got the DVD, I was hoping that it would be
as good as I remembered it to be. So was it? Oh yeah, it was! I'll
definitely go to say that this is my favourite Landis flick, yeah even
more than "Animal House", yep more so than "Trading Places", a tad
better than "An American Werewolf in London" and way ahead of "The
Blues Brothers". I know that's a pretty big statement, but I thoroughly
had a wowser with Landis' woozy attempt at film noir.

There's no denying that it's pretty much a self-indulgent flick with
Landis getting a whole bunch of friends to join in the act, or is it
just one big joke? But I didn't care as I just rolled with the punches
and tried to pick up on all the familiar faces. Gee, there are a lot of
them popping up, especially directors. The story of a bored guy meets
strange gal and get into some weird mess where they're both risk their
lives on a plan to get rich has been done time after time, well bits
and pieces out of the story obviously have. Though, it just has a knack
with its quirkiness, murderous impulse and unpredictable pattern. I can
see why some people say it's disjointed, overly padded and that it
doesn't know what it wants to be. Sure some things lack depth and
meaning, but those out-of-the-blue situations make it more eventful and
the pacing can somewhat become plodded, but I always found something
noticeable in every frame to keep my full attention. Hmm, maybe it's
just me? One moment would be when "Abbott and Costello Meet
Frankenstein" is playing on a TV and what's happening there seems to
fit in to what's going on in the particular scene. The dialog just
seems to clash with the action. But then again maybe I'm reading things
that aren't there? 

This is not all a light-hearted comedy even if it has some slapstick
shenanigans mixed with some offbeat and eccentric charm. The thriller
element gives it a serious boot and the violence doesn't hold back with
some outrageous murders. That especially goes for the tense and
forceful climax, where nothing goes to plan. The story's idea is
cleverly conducted with its many unexpected turns, scheming and plenty
of fruitful characters adding to the zaniness. When it gets going, it
gets going. Now what did get going was the simply smooth and steamy
soundtrack. It ran with an oozing blues score and legendary musician
B.B King was involved and he provided the main theme song. The melodies
and score had a strangely hypnotic appeal weaved into them. The glowing
performances are all great, though it's Michelle Pfeiffer that heads
the top. She was just gracefully attractive with her glittering
appearance and believably convincing as the mysterious Diana. Jeff
Goldblum as Ed was his usual glum and awkward self with his dry
sarcasm. But he has a watchable screen presence even though he seems to
be sleepwalking. Even saying that, both of the leads are fleshed out
rather well and they fit their parts perfectly. The sensational
supporting cast provide a lot of odd and wonderful characters too. With
the likes of Irene Papas, Paul Mazursky, Roger Vadim, Richard
Farnsworth, John Landis, David Bowie, Kathryn Harrold, Clue Gulager,
Dan Aykroyd, Vera Miles and Carl Perkins. Then you got the blink and
you'll miss them cameos, which are rather diverting from Amy
Heckerling, Jim Henson, Don Siegel, Rick Baker and David Cronenberg. I
told ya it was long, but that's just the tip. All of these familiar
faces had a witty script to work along with too. Well, what can I say;
stimulating madness that dabs some touches of film-noir, comedy and
thriller to proceedings.

An excitingly dangerous and unusual night road flick that has a variety
of ingredients chucked into this very much 80s product.
<|_=00=_|>

'Into the Night' stands as one of my favourite films of the '80's. In fact
it stands as one of my most favourite films ever. Why? To be quite honest,
I'm not sure why. It wasn't the best concept or script, the performances
are
okay -(with the exception of Goldblum who is outstanding)- and even John
Landis' direction was at times on cruise control.

But what it did in 1985, was to reflect so much of what was going on. The
ruthless drive for efficiency that makes Okin's aerospace company so
demanding, the 'me' approach to relationships that results in Ed's wife's
adulterous behaviour, the worship of fortune that dominates Diana's life
and
drives her so relentlessly - until Ed brings her something a little more
worthwhile.

It had the right look, the right feel and the right cast to make you smile
and go along with the goodtimes and the in-jokes between peers of the
movie
establishment. Here was a collection of successful players in Hollywood
showing just how slick movie-making could be.

The screenings must have had the feel of a home movie with most of the
cast
sitting in the theatre enjoying their various cameos. Bowie, Cronenberg,
Kasden and of course Landis himself, all doing it for their
own.

I loved it when I first saw it and I'll be buying the DVD in Sept '03 when
it finally appears. Is 'Into the Night' a great film? Probably not, but it
makes me feel great everytime I take that ride to LAX in the little white
Fiat...You had to be there.
<|_=00=_|>
A man's depression and insomnia drive him "Into the Night" and a lot of
trouble in this enjoyable 1985 film. Goldblum is Ed Okin, an LA
aerospace engineer whose sleep problems are causing him difficulty on
his demanding job. His friend (Dan Ackroyd) suggests that the next time
he has insomnia, he head for Las Vegas where no one sleeps. After he
sees his wife cheating on him, that's just what he does. Then Diana
(Michelle Pfeiffer) jumps into his car and his night turns into a
dangerous adventure. Pfeiffer has smuggled perfect emeralds into the
country for a promised fee, except that everybody is now after her and
willing to kill to get them.

There are some great, quirky moments in this film, and one of my
favorites occurs when Ed and Diana walk into the apartment of her
brother (Bruce McGill) which is wall to wall Elvis. Then her brother
walks in - he's an Elvis impersonator. Priceless. Diana and Ed take his
car which has the words THE KING LIVES painted across it. One faction
looking for the emeralds come off like the Middle Eastern version of
the Stooges, particularly in a beach house scene where, trying to get
out of a door, one of them keeps hitting himself in the face with it.

The unique thing is that director John Landis has cast many of his
fellow directors: Lawrence Kasdan, Jonathan Demme, Paul Mazurski, Amy
Heckerling, David Cronenberg, Roger Vadim, Jonathan Lynn, Jack Arnold,
Don Siegel, Andrew Marton, Richard Franklin, Colin Higgins, Jonathan
Kaufer and Carl Gottlieb - that's a partial list. They're all good,
too.

The always terrific Jeff Goldblum gives us a shell-shocked Ed who seems
to take each moment as it comes with what is either calm or numbness -
it's unclear which, but it works in the role. Pfeiffer is a young
beauty in this - she has a very brief, distant nude scene - and is
certainly the type of gal a man would go out of his way to help. She's
very appealing. Old-timer Clu Gulager also makes an appearance toward
the end, and David Bowie has a menacing role as one of the people after
the emeralds. There are some fun shots of Los Angeles like Hollywood
Boulevard in front of Frederick's of Hollywood that are a real kick.

"Into the Night" is offbeat and fun with enough violence to make it
somewhat edgy. A real find.
<|_=00=_|>
In Los Angeles, the insomniac aerospace engineer Ed Okin (Jeff
Goldblum) has a boring job and a cold relationship with his wife. One
afternoon, Ed leaves his job earlier to rest and discovers that his
wife Ellen (Stacey Pickren) is cheating him with her colleague Stan
(Carmen Argenziano). During the night, Ed can not sleep and he decides
to drive to the airport to kill time. When he parks in the garage of
the airport, he sees a beautiful lady, Diana (Michelle Pfeiffer),
chased by four Iranians. He helps her and drives away to her place.
Sooner he discovers that Diana has smuggled six stones from Iran and
now she is chased by the gang of Shaheen Parvici (Irene Papas) and by
the dangerous British killer Colin Morris (David Bowie) that works for
the French Monsieur Melville (Roger Vadim). Ed Okin has an
unforgettable night with Diana.

"Into the Night" is one of my favorite movies of the 80's. I have just
watched this film at least for the sixth time and Michelle Feiffer is
stunningly gorgeous. The engaging story is funny and one attraction is
to identify the cameo of directors and other personalities, such as
David Cronenberg, John Landis, Don Siegel, Jonathan Demme, and Lawrence
Kasdan working with names like Vera Miles, Irene Papas, David Bowie and
Dan Aykroyd among others. The awesome music of B.B. King gives a touch
of class to this wonderful film. My vote is nine.

Title (Brazil): "Um Romance Muito Perigoso" ("A Very Dangerous
Romance")
<|_=00=_|>

Jeff Goldblum and Michelle Pfeiffer before they really hit the

big time.  A great caper style movie - part comedy, part

thriller, part urban angst.  Goldblum leaves his unfaithful wife

one night and gets caught up in a bizarre series of events when

a pursued Pfeiffer lands on his car asking for help.  Needless

to say he gets implicated in all kinds of things (a bit like

After Hours and Something Wild).  Very funny, charming at times

and ultimately engaging - you want the night to last forever as

you become more involved in the story and the characters.
Landis at his very best (what happened to him?!).
Loads of cameo
<|_=00=_|>

Plenty to enjoy here in this escapist movie. Goldblum & Pfeiffer are fun in
the main roles. Suspend belief and take the exciting journey that Goldblum
has with Pfeiffer. Look out for the running joke with many famous directors
in cameo roles. Look out for David Bowie and Carl Perkins in a knife fight
(is this a metaphor for traditional rock v glam rock?). Although an escape
action drama it has plenty of amusing scenes eg. the hoods eating peanuts
and breaking candy with their guns.

And the title track and soundtrack by the worlds best blues guitarist -BB
King.

<|_=00=_|>
Poor Ed Okin, he is an insomniac! Ed lays in bed hoping for sleep, but
it never comes. When a co-worker suggests the best cure for his problem
is to take a trip to Las Vegas where the action is non-stop, then head
back home the next morning. Ed, also finds out, in the worst way, his
wife is cheating on him. When he decides to take his friend's advice,
he goes to the airport, but he is the innocent witness of a murder in
the parking lot.

Ed who is trying to start his car, gets an unwelcome guest in the form
of Diana, a beautiful young woman who was with the murder victim and
wants to get away. Diana and Ed embark in an adventure of a lifetime
that will take them in and out of situations that Ed didn't even
imagine he would be involved in his life.

John Landis' film could well be an homage to many people in the
industry. During the length of the film we get to meet directors,
writers, and cinematographers that put their own stamp on the different
roles in the film. Some, like Paul Mazursky and Roger Vadim have key
parts, and others like David Cronenberg, Don Siegel, Jonathan Demme,
and the rest, are some of the famous faces within the context of the
film.

The best attitude to take with the film is just to go for a ride
through Los Angeles at night with excellent company.

Jeff Goldblum is perfect for Ed Okin. He underplays his part to give a
somewhat goofy hero at the center of the action. Michelle Pfeifer, in a
more intense fashion, is good as Diana, the woman who takes Ed on the
adventure of his lifetime. Bruce McGill is hysterical as an Elvis
imitator. Richard Farnsworth and Vera Miles appear as a wealthy couple
named "Caper", should we say any more? David Bowie, Dan Aykroyd, Irene
Pappas, and the rest of the cast contribute to make this a pleasure
trip to watch.

John Landis shows us his city in all its night splendor.
<|_=00=_|>
Goldblum plays an insomniac who one night goes to the airport on a
whim, thinking' about going to Vegas. He runs into feisty Pfeiffer
who's running for her life and what follows is his most memorable night
ever.

While director Landis isn't always 100% successful at balancing the
humor with explicit violence, Into the Night has enough memorable
moments to fully compensate and make it a fun filled and suspenseful
ride. Goldblum and Pfeiffer play extremely well off each other and
supporting actors are plenty and all very good; David Bowie especially
memorable in a small cameo and those assassins are quite literally
hilarious.

It's rather nasty at times and some scenes kinda' leave you with a bad
taste in your mouth, but overall it's a well written yarn that always
keeps you on the edge of your seat.
