

This movie is NOT about vampires; there isn't a single vampire in it.
Instead, it is about a man (played by Cage) who loses his mind and begins
to
think he is a vampire after an unsatisfying series of one-night stands
that
make him feel empty.  It's a metaphor about relationships, and this is one
fantastic black comedy.  Check it out and thank me later.
<|_=00=_|>

After reading so many comments who put this film down, I just had to write
something to its defence.
True: the film is confusing in many ways; you get confused what is real and
what is not for example.
But some of the hilarious scenes in this movie is more than worth
it.
In one of his most remarkable, over-the-top performances, Nicolas Cage
transforms from an up-tight snob to a complete lunatic.
This is one of the most original and unconventional movies I have ever
seen.
Those of you who want predictable Hollywood movies should steer away; for
the rest of you this can be an enjoyable experience!

<|_=00=_|>
Vampire's Kiss is a comedy. In no way is it supposed to be akin to
legitimate vampire movies. It parodies horror films and satirizes life
in the big city, much like other popular films, such as American
Psycho, do. In my opinion, Vampire's Kiss is much better than American
Psycho because instead of trying to be creepy and ultimately failing,
Vampire's Kiss is hilarious. I gave it a ten. I'm certain that I'll be
seeing it over and over again.

ME, 2006: Looking back at this comment about the film and writing anew
from a later date, I can certainly recognize why this movie isn't for
everyone. If you are a fan of absurd, inane, dark, wry humor, and you
enjoy watching movies for subtlety and detail THIS IS IT. Watch out for
the mimes, and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of those movies you have to watch to the end to truly
appreciate. It's
a mess -- but it goes places you can't imagine despite the workmanlike
screenwriting and the slow pace  of the beginning. It's worth it. Charlie
Kaufman
could have written it, it's so bizarre and beyond the norm for the silly
Hollywood
movie it's disguised as. I don't want to analyze it as some metaphor for
a
relationship with a blood-sucking bitch as others have or argue what's
real
and
what's not. I watched it expecting some anemic late 80's comedy and with
that
expectation, I found myself bolting upright in my chair in surprise at
what
it
delivered. One of Nic Cage's best early performances, ranks with Raising
Arizona and Valley Girl, except he's never sympathetic -- ever. In that
sense, I
understand what people mean when they say it's a monster
movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Okay, so Nicolas Cage eats a real cockroach. So the majority of  the people
who've seen this film don't understand the plotline. So black comedy is new
to a late eighties audience. These points are minimal considering the great
lengths to which the filmmakers go to to reveal the downfall of a hideous
relationship between two  people. A relationship gone so wrong that the male
has to commit himself to therapy and conversely...murder.

 Imagine a relationship wherein the woman was so soul sucking, so evil in
her ways that you now feel as if she has sucked you dry - literally and
figuratively - you are left as nothing but (in this case) a shell of a man -
a walking corpse, yearning for the life's blood that she has stolen from you
through your very own veins!

Cage gives the performance of his career and should have received an Oscar
as the twisted, quintessential jilted lover who now desperately tries to
recapture the joy of his most passionate and influential relationship by
revisiting the empty, vampiretic bar hopping lifestyle where he found her -
working his way through subsequent women, then just as unsatisfactorily
moving his way through rape, suicidal tendencies and ultimately, murder.

 It's tone is unforgiving alternating comedy and tragedy, confusing us as to
whether he is really a vampire or just thinks he is.  By flipping from his
therapeutic sessions to his bitter and pathetic reality we see just how
badly his male ego has taken rejection.

 Here is a film where the simple plotline of a man being bitten by a vampire
and believing he has become one becomes one where we see a man
disintegrating before us, sliding into madness because he is forced to face
his empty life.

 His obsessive attention to detail, penchant for house bugs, absence of
reflection in the mirror and avoidance of sunlight all match the
prerequisites for vampirism, but his clumsy attempts at finding another
woman and to fill the void that is left by a woman put so far onto a
pedestal he cannot reach are overshadowed.

 This is not a film for the feint of heart but for anyone who has ever been
screwed over by a woman they have loved (or imagined they did) this is a
welcome little cult revelation that makes them laugh and brood at the same
time.

<|_=00=_|>

There is something to be said for excess. Nick Cage as Peter Lowe is the
great god of over-acting - which makes this film truly remarkably funny.
Peter goes from controlled yuppie to mad vampire right before your eyes.
This is one of my favorite films because it is so over the top.  Again, it
is little things like calling the psychiartist when he has cheap vampire
teeth in his mouth or skipping down the street chanting " I'm a vampire"
that make this film uniquely freaky.  
<|_=00=_|>
VERY BIG SPOILERS!!! YOU'VE BEEN WARNED!!! I explain the entire film
here, so if you don't want to have it explained, read no further!!

I did receive an e-mail from the screenwriter of this film, thanking me
for understanding his movie after I posted this comment on Amazon years
ago. I really think it's an underrated film that people misunderstand
and everyone can relate to on some level.

Vampire's Kiss" is an overlooked and misunderstood dark comedy, and an
allegory for the isolating fear of intimacy that can mimic being
"undead." It features an amazing physical comic performance by Nicholas
Cage as Peter Loew, which deserves recognition. I've read reviews
wherein people feel that the character of Peter Loew has descended into
madness as a result of being a jilted lover. But his madness is more
about his crushing loneliness in a world where everyone around him
seems to be happily and easily paired off. In spite of his solitude, he
is emotionally unable to connect to anyone. 

One night, he brings a woman back to his place, but while in the throes
of passion, a bat flies into his apartment through an open window. The
mystery and excitement of fighting off the bat becomes more erotic and
interesting to him than the willing beauty in arms. 

Terrified of the closeness he craves, he sabotages any opportunities he
has for actual relationships in favor of elusive fantasies and
hallucinations. His fear of commitment manifests itself as a vampire
lover in the form of Rachel (Jennifer Beales), a woman he has had one
conversation with in a bar, but has never made it with, except in his
own fantasy world. There, she is a dominatrix of a vampire, sucking the
life out of him, making him a prisoner of her demands, hungers, and
lusts, distracting and preventing him from any real intimacy, promising
him that soon, he will "be with her."

The vampire is the only one to whom he can say "I love you," and she
doesn't even exist--not really. She represents the promise of something
more exciting right around the next corner. Peter simply cannot commit
to anything else when love and immortality are so close, but so far...

Vampires seem human, but they aren't human; they FEED ON humans.
They're dead, cold, and isolated from the warmth of human
existence--which is exactly how Peter feels, and why he believes he's
becoming one. Plus, he is suicidal, and he seems to have found a way to
receive deliverance in the form of his secretary Alva, who he begins to
torment in earnest once he discovers she carries a gun, hoping she'll
(justifiably) use it on him.

It's over the top and a little hard to understand, but I found this
movie so engaging, and Cage's performance so funny and astonishing, in
spite of the dark subject matter, that I have watched it over and over
again. I have used this movie as a compatibility test for potential
mates (which is sort of Peter-ish, I guess), and if they like it, I
know it's a good match. If it had been performed another way, by
another actor, I don't know if I would like it at all. But Cage brings
brutality, vulnerability, tragedy, and all-out desperation together to
create a complex character the like of which I have never seen before
or since. 

Sure, there are violent scenes; but are they real, or are they his
imagination? We'll never know. So much of "Vampire's Kiss" happens in
Loew's mind that all we know for sure is that he's desperately alone.
So alone, he's willing to drive someone else over the edge to help ease
his pain. He's so cowardly and childish that he uses terror as a way to
achieve relief from his horrible solitude--death is less frightening to
him than actually getting close to a real person. Therein lies the
horror, and the sadness, of "Vampire's Kiss." And in Cage, lies the
performance which makes this story watchable, and actually very funny.
<|_=00=_|>

A few of my friends use this film to test compatibility of potential
mates.
I knew I had to ditch my girlfriend when she didn't laugh.  Not once, not
ONE TIME!
I am stunned that people are voting this film down.  I'm extremely picky
and
rarely go to movies because I find most to be 'cheapy' but this is an
INSPIRED piece of work by everyone from Nicolas Cage (his BEST
performance -
even better than "Leaving Las Vegas") to the director, ALL the actors and
to
the especially insane writer Joseph Minion of "After Hours" fame and one
or
two unproduced scripts I found funny if not disturbingly
so.
THIS IS A MUST SEE!!
"Peter, right?"  Yes!  Peter!  Right!  "How are you?"  How AM
I?*
"You know...A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, U,
V, W, X, Y, Z!  That's all you have to DO!"
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot believe how many people have ragged on this film! Then again,
it is a work of art, and by definition will be appreciated by some and
hated by some. The thing is, everyone keeps ranting on about how
"confusing" it was and how it "jumped around too much" but I believe
firmly that was very much intended. Cage's character was experiencing
those exact feelings. He was on the brink of madness where absolutely
nothing made sense, and in a typical "Hollywood" movie you'd sit back
and be able to decipher the character's madness. You'd be able to "see"
where he cracked and why and where he was going with it. In this one,
you experience what the character experiences. You have no idea what
the heck is going on, and I DIG that! I think this is truly a fantastic
film. I've seen it countless times and it never fails to entertain. 

A must see if you're into the dark comedy genre. There are so many
little moves and bits of dialog that get overlooked the first couple of
times - so if you enjoy it - see it again so you can pick up on the
little things. I highly recommend the DVD with the commentary as it
points these type of things out. 

I'm not crazy about Cage, but this movie remains in my Top 5 of all
time. I wish everyone could enjoy it as much as me. 

"Then I'll be happy. Holy sh*t, then I'll be happy" - Peter Leow
<|_=00=_|>
One of the funniest movies I have ever seen, but I still wonder to this
day if it was meant to be this way or not. The central idea of the
story revolves around Peter Loew, a mid-level executive in a book
publishing company, who believes himself to be bit by a vampire (the
way Jennifer Beals looked in this film, most men probably would give
their right and left jugulars to be in his place, but I digress...) In
any case, it is rather unclear until the end if these nocturnal
visitations by the lady vampire are real or not, but watching Nicholas
Cage play the deranged Peter Loew was a masterpiece of comic acting. It
is questionable if the director intended the movie to be this way, as
it does come across as a serious horror film in many ways, but my wife
and I are pretty sure that he saw he had a turkey of a horror script
and so told Cage to "run with it" and take it as far over the top as
possible. And does he! Highly recommended for those that like black
comedy and psychological story lines -- but if you are looking for real
horror fare, just skip it. Best scenes: when he eats a roach, eats a
bird (not seen on screen), and bites a woman to death with his plastic
vampire teeth. Enjoy!
