

What the heck are people thinking!  There are way too many Costner bashers
on
the internet.  This was a revolutionary motion picture at its time, never
has a story about the American indians ever been told with such emotion
and
grace.   What a sham.  For the record Costner is not that bad of an
actor.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

It's hard for me to believe this movie is not in the top 250 on IMBD all
time list. Without question my favorite movie. We live in a strange world
when Pulp Fiction ranks #18, and Dances with Wolves just misses the top
250.
Maybe people thought the movie was too long. I thought it was too short if
anything. I wish they would have gone on forever. What an incredible
story.
The way Costner continued to get closer and closer to the Indians way
masterfuly done.
<|_=00=_|>

People who say this movie is long and boring have obviously never sat
through, oh, "Lawrence of Arabia," "Patton," "Doctor Zhivago," "The
Godfather," "Ran," "Seven Samurai," or probably even "Braveheart." Thank
God
that not every filmmaker believes that a car must explode every 10 seconds
in order for his movie to be a success. Kevin Costner is one of those
directors who prefers the long format. David Lean, Francis Coppola and Mel
Gibson, to name a very few, also worked in that format, and produced
lasting
works of art that also packed theaters. There are plenty of options for
people who don't like movies that take the time to build character, drama
and suspense, movies like "Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle," "Freddy Vs.
Jason," and "Weekend at Bernie's." I don't think any of those movies has
ever been called "boring," but they sure are crap cinema.

Onward. "Dances With Wolves" thrilled audiences way back in 1990 and made
so
darn much money precisely because people had forgotten the pleasures of
the
long narrative, the Western genre, and movies that weren't special effects
schlock-fests. It remains an inspiring and moving experience, especially
on
DVD, which preserves the movie's theatrical sound and picture
quality.

Costner's direction is first-rate. He's able to blend intimate drama with
big, sprawling action that covers a huge canvas. I'm amazed at how
smoothly
the film segues from movement to movement -- action, alienation, suspense,
social commentary, romance. Heck, Spielberg could take a lesson or two
from
this movie.

He also gets great performances out of his cast. I don't think of these
people as actors, but as the characters they play. That's a compliment not
just to the actors themselves, but their director. And, yes, Costner is
terrific as John Dunbar.

Sure, it's easy to call "Dances" politically correct w/ reference to the
Indians. But it also treats them as people and, better yet, as fictional
characters whose lives are made part of a fascinating narrative. I just
consider all the complaints about the politics of this movie as total
hogwash.

Finally, the movie is beautifully shot, has an unforgettable score, and is
very well-written. I've never thought of "Dances" as a Western, but a
modern
action picture/character study that avoids all the boring cliches of the
Western genre. Here is a movie that stands for something, means something,
and deserves at least as much respect as some of the overrated dreck we've
gotten saddled with lately.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard for me to believe that fourteen years have passed since I
first saw this movie. I was only ten at the time, and this was the
first movie I ever saw that was both an eye-filling and a mind-filling
spectacle. 

It was also one of only two theater-going experiences that I ever had
with my late grandmother, and I always think of her when I watch this
movie. It always takes me back to an earlier time in my life no matter
how many times I see it.

This is one movie that could only have been made in the post-Vietnam
era, when Americans began to question the moral integrity of their
country. How else to explain, in the opening sequence depicting the
Civil War, the utter cynicism of the soldier who speaks with Costner's
Dunbar character? Or Dunbar's later observation that "there was no dark
political objective" to the Sioux battling the Pawnee? 

The scene in which Dunbar receives his orders from the mentally ill
major also seems to speak of Vietnam, the point being I think that
while an entire generation of young men was being cut down in the Civil
War the West was being managed by those who were not fit for duty in
the larger conflict. Maury Chaykin, in that one scene, gives one of the
most memorable and haunting performances I've seen in any film.

This movie's depiction of Native Americans is not nearly as politically
correct as it may seem to those who watch it only once or only at a
superficial level. In the very first scene depicting Indians, in fact,
a Pawnee brave shoots one of the white characters full of arrows and
then scalps him. The unrepentant villainy of Wes Studi's character, in
particular, recalls the moral simplicity of countless earlier Westerns.

Even the most sympathetic Indian character in the movie, Kicking Bird,
is not kind to Dunbar merely to be friendly but because he believes he
can get useful information out of the white soldier about the other
whites who are encroaching on Sioux territory. The interaction between
Dunbar and the Sioux is powerfully effective precisely because the
Sioux remain true to themselves. They are not cartoonishly hostile like
the Indians depicted in old Westerns, but they are not soft or naïve
either. 

While this movie draws its inspiration from American epics as diverse
as The Birth of a Nation (1915) and The Searchers (1956), its
originality lies not only in its respect for Native Americans but also
in its intensely personal treatment of the main character. Few other
three-hour epics (Lawrence of Arabia and Braveheart come to mind ) have
developed their protagonists as fully and dynamically as this movie
develops Costner's Dunbar character.

Even after fourteen years, the Dunbar character's arc, going from a
suicidal soldier in the opening sequence to an adopted Sioux who in the
final scenes puts the needs of his people ahead of his own, is still
one of the most remarkable I've seen in any movie. Costner's
performance won no awards that I know of, but it provides the movie's
indispensably tight focus. He's completely convincing every step of the
way, if a bit too clumsy and self-effacing at times, hitting his head
in the dark and fainting after a confrontation in a heavy-handed
attempt to demystify the West.

Another quality this movie shares with The Searchers is that it
associates the physical challenges of the frontier with the testing of
the soul. The Dunbar character cleans out the watering hole at the fort
because he refuses to lose his humanity like the men before him who
abandoned the fort. Later he cannot decide whether he feel more or less
at home in the presence of the Sioux, because he is struggling to
remain true to himself even as he remains unsure of who he is.

This movie probably disappoints viewers who are looking for sheer
entertainment. It's a quiet, thoughtful story, and although there is
action in it the focus is on how the action transforms the characters
(particularly Dunbar) rather than on the action itself. You won't see
any computer-generated comic-book characters in this movie, but you
will see real people having real conversations, and you'll see Costner
and costar Mary McDonnell engaging in such intimate and convincing love
scenes that you'll forget they're acting!

If I could rate the musical score for this movie by itself I'd give it
a perfect 10, because it's one of the best I've ever heard, able to
stand on its own but fitting the movie like a glove. It is sentimental
without being schmaltzy, noble without being pretentious. Best of all,
it captures the hesitant emotions of the story, the sense of curiosity
overcoming fear and becoming trust.

Only this movie's extreme length works against its total success,
particularly in the special edition that runs nearly four hours. The
three-hour theatrical version is still long, but it's difficult to say
what should have been left out of it.

Some people still resent the fact that Costner won the Best Director
Oscar over Scorcese's Goodfellas. There's no question that Scorcese is
the better director, but I believe the direction of Dances With Wolves
is better than that of Goodfellas. If you disagree with me try this
test: imagine that Scorcese did this movie, and Costner directed
Goodfellas. It's a question of which directing job is better, not which
director is better.

Unlike most epics, this movie ends exactly as it should. The final
images, such as the journal floating down the river, the white man and
the Native American speaking English to each other, and the brave
shouting his farewell from the top of a cliff, are so beautiful and
dreamlike that they manage to be both joyful and sad. This is a movie
that looks into the very fabric of this country's past, and asks us to
do the same.

Rating: 10 (Good job, everybody.)
<|_=00=_|>

`Dances With Wolves'

When I first saw the movie Dances With Wolves several years ago the story
affected me in a heavy way, so much so that I decided that it would be a
long time before I watched it again.  The story is not entertainment.  It
is
a lesson.  Last week I watched the movie again with a new understanding.
Many of the published reviews seem to dislike the movie for various
reasons.
They are the ones that missed the point of the story.

The story is, of course, fiction based on a novel by Michael Blake.
Fortunately, Michael Blake also wrote the screenplay for the movie
insuring
fidelity with his vision.  To the credit of Kevin Costner, who was one of
the producers and the director, he allowed the story to be what Michael
Blake had originally created.  Costner showed great sensitivity in not
only
capturing the personalities of all the major characters, but making the
land
itself (in this case South Dakota) one of the major players.

The land was not just a backdrop or playing field.  It was the main
character and very much alive.  The cinematography was some of the best
I've
ever seen and in the tradition of the great movie director, John Ford.
Ford
had an ability to present the land in all its beauty, which also just
happened to have a story occurring on it.

In Dances With Wolves, the land of South Dakota might initially appear to
be
a bleak place, but as Lieutenant Dunbar (Costner) spends more time at his
isolated fort, he somehow slowly merges his soul with the surrounding
territory.  The life on the land eventually stumbles onto his location,
including a wolf and a tribe of Sioux.  The Sioux and Dunbar mistrust each
other initially but through curiosity learn how to communicate with each
other, however painfully slow. The wolf too was curious about the soldier,
but kept his distance for a while.  Finally, the wolf trusts Dunbar enough
to play with him on the prairie.  The Sioux see them playing.  Here was a
white man not killing the animals.  He had earned a new name:
Dances-With-Wolves.

The main difference between this movie and a John Ford movie was the way
Costner humanized the Sioux characters.  In a John Ford movie, most
Indians
were the enemy.  The only 'good' Indians were the cavalry scouts, but we
never really met these scouts as people.  John Ford hired Navaho people to
play the parts of Indians in his cavalry trilogy, Fort Apache, She Wore a
Yellow Ribbon and Rio Grande, which were filmed in Monument Valley on the
Navaho Reservation. Years later, Ford attempted to humanize the Native
Americans in a movie called Cheyenne Autumn, but by then Ford was an old
man
and had lost most of his creative genius.  It is a hard movie for me to
watch.

Costner's movie takes great pains to allow us to know the Sioux
characters.
The story is about them as seen through the eyes of a perceptive white
man,
who had been given a new life by the gods when his attempt at suicide
ended
with his recognition as a war hero.

What I see when I watch the movie: I see ten thousand years of evolution
and
experience of a human tribe on the North American continent with the most
recent characters at the leading edge of the current (1860) time. The
character's lives are so well presented that I sense the history of their
past  In other words, I understand why they do what they do.  What
depresses
me about the movie is that I know the ending but the characters don't.  I
know that their natural way of life is coming to an end.  The characters
don't know.  To me, the movie is a story of the 4 billion, six hundred
million years of natural evolution which is about to meet technology.
Technology will be as devastating to this tribe and the land as if an
asteroid had hit the earth.

The beauty of the Sioux life is so precisely shown in this movie.  Their
everyday routine of just living off the land is seen the same way as a
buffalo eating the grass.  The Sioux adapted to the land the way it was.
You see the grass move in waves like the ocean does when the invisible
winds
touch the surfaces.   You see the effects of the same winds that blow
across
the face and hair of Stands-With-a-Fist.  You hear the same winds.  The
same
winds take the smoke from the lodges away from the village. The land and
air
and life merge in a poetic movement.

The horses seem more natural and free in their herd next to the village.
They are part of the tribe.  You can see the magnificence of the Sioux
riders as they become one with the horse as they hunt the buffalo.  I
suppose, in a way, the horse was a step in technology for the Sioux since
they didn't have the horse until the Spanish Conquistadors brought them.
But when they adapted their life to the horse, they became a great people.
I look at it as a step in evolution, not a step in technology.

We find that the holy man, Kicking-Bird, played by Graham Green, was a
hen-pecked husband, something we can all identify with no matter what race
or ethnic group.  His wife saw more than he did, especially the budding
love
between Lieutenant Dunbar and Stands-With-a-Fist, who was played by the
heavy-duty stage actress Mary McDonnell.  She is important to our story
because we understand the Sioux from her translations.  As an actress, she
was so convincing in her struggle to remember long forgotten English words
from her childhood, from the time before she came to live with the Sioux.
Kicking-Bird on the other hand represented the soul of the Sioux People.
He
was patient and was the type of person you would want as a
friend.

We have Rodney Grant playing the part of Wind-in-His-Hair, the warrior who
was quick to anger but was smart enough to listen to his elders and not
kill
the white soldier.  Rodney Grant represented the beauty and pride of the
Sioux People.  He speaks the last relevant words in the story by
proclaiming
that he is the friend of Dances-With-Wolves.  Before Dunbar became
Dances-With-Wolves, Wind-in-His-Hair would have been happy to kill
him.

`Red Crow' Westerman played the part of the chief, Ten-Bears.  We've seen
him play the part of a shaman in other movies.  He represented the wisdom
and of the Sioux People and was also their prophet.

What movie about Native Americans could be told without Wes Studi?  In
this
movie he plays the enemy Pawnee so convincingly that you really hate him.
Not only is he the enemy to the white man but the Sioux also.  Wes Studi
can
be very intense in his savagery, but in the eyes of the Pawnee, he was
only
protecting his tribal interests.

So we see the Sioux and, to a lessor degree, the Pawnee in their
soon-to-end
natural states.  We immediately feel at home with the Sioux.  The Pawnee
aren't quite as lovable, especially when we see Wes Studi scalping the
muleskinner.  The first disturbing scene is when the Pawnee attack the
Sioux
village and we see that to save themselves, the Sioux need the technology
(the rifles) of the white soldier.  The Pawnee were so fierce looking
(again
convincingly by Wes Studi) that we fear for the Sioux tribe but see that
the
rifles are out of place in this natural world.  It is another
technological
step in the same magnitude as the horse.  But for all their beauty and
greatness, we know they cannot win the final battles with the white
civilization because they are so grossly outnumbered.

There is the core of the problem.  The over-population of the modern
civilization overruns their own land so they come to the land of the Sioux
and destroy without asking.  You could see it in the face of every tribal
member as they walked past dead and skinned buffalo which were left to rot
in the sun after the buffalo hunters had skinned them for their hides.
They
were absolutely stunned and sick at the sight.  Whoever did this had no
soul.  I extend the message of this movie to today and see population
running amuck, stripping the land of resources and changing the
atmosphere.
It is too painful to contemplate.

To emphasize the loss and waste of the beautiful prairie life, near the
end
of the movie we see the soldiers shooting at the wolf for fun.  The wolf
is
confused and doesn't understand that bullets are hitting near him.
Eventually a bullet strikes the wolf and we hear him cry out.  For me that
was the most painful scene of all because I know that's what people do.  I
see people kill a beast for the trophy.  They take it home and hang it on
the wall.  The soul of that animal has been cast aside by a human, which
has
no soul.

The beauty is not in the trophy.  The beauty is in the life.  The ending
for
the wolf represents the ending for the Sioux and all the other tribes that
lost the natural way of life.  Therefore I am just as disturbed for the
Sioux as I am about the wolf.  I am disturbed for the future of the
Earth.


<|_=00=_|>

This is the type of a film that's never boring no matter how often you watch
it. It deserved every single award it got. It's touching, it's timeless and
it's downright beautiful. I'm not a huge friend of extended versions because
there's usually a perfectly good reason to take something out of the film
and none whatsoever to put it back again, if pleasing hardcore fans isn't a
good reason - that's totally a matter of opinion. However, "Dances with
wolves" is certainly an exception.

The nearly four hour version is the only one to be. Sure it sounds like it's
too much but when you watch the movie it doesn't look a minute overlong and
cutting even a second out of it would seem like a horrible crime. The
original theater version was 52 minutes shorter which sound too cruel to be
true. I mean really, what's there to cut? If you haven't seen "Dances with
wolves" yet you have missed one of the greatest motion picture experiences
of the 90's and you should do something about it instantly.
<|_=00=_|>

I like to watch lots of films, pretty much any film in fact, therefore I can
tell you i have seen a fair few duds. I have also seen some spectacularly
brilliant films. Dances With Wolves is one of them. For me to have the
patience to watch a film more than a couple of times then the film needs to
make me want to watch it over and over. Let me tell you I have seen this
film more than a few times. I think you know when a film is special to you
when you watch it and you keep thinking to yourself "oh this scene coming up
is great", if you can say that continually whilst watching a film then you
know you are watching a great film.

As for the film itself, cinematography has never been bettered, Costners
acting is OK but it his presence rather than his acting that has brought
gravitas to his movies, you certainly cant argue with his directing, which
along with Orson Wells, Tarantino and a few select others must rank
alongside as one of the best directorial debuts. The supporting cast is
excellent especially Graeme Greene who is the wonderful Kicking Bird and of
course Rodney A Grant.

I shamefully dont know too much about the history of the Indian population
in America, so I dont know whether the events or portrayals in the film are
accurate, however artistic license is surely allowed when making what is
first and foremost a piece of entertainment. Being British I have seen many
an American film with British stereotypes, not once have I been offended or
appalled, as I see them as interpretations, God knows British filmmakers are
just as guilty of such generalisations when it comes to "foreign"
characters.

Marvel at the wonderful film-making in this film not political inaccuracies
after all this is a story, and a damn fine one at that, remember King Kong
didnt really climb up the Empire State Building and you dont here gorillas
complaining about being misrepresented. This is a point of view expressed in
a great film.

Personally films dont get much better than this.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is a sweeping epic that you'll never forget whether you liked
it or not. It tells the tale of love, loyalty, friendship, and
self-realization in a magnificent setting among a great people, and
during a time of strife. This film put Kevin Costner on the map as a
Hollywood star. He could use a hit like this one right about now.

The first thing a viewer is struck by is the amazing landscape of
western South Dakota. If any of you have never been out that way, do
your self a favor and check it out. It will blow you away. The musical
score is also very beautiful. The Indians look so authentic that they
almost blend into the scenery even as we get to know them as
individuals. It's hard to imagine that Plains Indian culture could have
been depicted more realistically.

The story deals with Lt. John Dunbar (Costner), a disillusioned Civil
War vet who asks to be transferred to a western post so he can see the
west "before it's gone". He is then sent to a deserted fort where he
finds himself in the precarious position of being the only white man in
a land of Indians who seem intent on stealing his horse. He decides to
try to get to know the local Sioux tribe and eventually becomes one of
them. In finding a place in their society, he finds himself, so to
speak.

Dances With Wolves is a very good film. I think it belongs in the top
250 to be sure. It is a little slow at times, but so what? A lot of
great films are. Other than Dunbar, there are really no positive white
characters. This is understandable considering the subject matter, but
the barbarism of some of the soldiers seemed a little over the top.
Other than that, no real gripes.

For me, the most memorable scene was when Dunbar and Kicking Bird were
discussing the number of whites who would be coming into the territory.

Dunbar: You've often wondered about how many white people will be
coming. There will be a 

lot, my friend.

Kicking Bird: (in English) How many?

Dunbar: Like the stars. It makes me afraid for all of the Sioux.

Unfortunately, this fear has come true. All one has to do is drive out
to White Clay, Neb. and see them sitting there. Along the street. Drunk
by mid morning. The descendants of people like Kicking Bird and Wind in
His Hair. These men would have been out hunting buffalo or battling
with their enemies 150 years ago. Now, there is nothing for them to do.
They have two choices: Stay on the reservation and live out a life in
poverty while keeping their traditions alive, or try to make it in the
cities and cast off their traditional ways. A tough choice to be sure.
Watch the movie Thunderheart to get an idea of what these reservations
are like. It's not a pretty picture.

The destruction of Indian Culture was not the goal of the United
States. It is merely a CONSEQUENCE of the idea of Manifest Destiny. The
Sioux are a magnificent people. What has happened to them could be
summed up in one word: tragic. 

10 of 10 stars

So sayeth the Hound.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is certainly one of the finest films out of Hollywood in recent
years. It accuratly shows how "The White People" ran roughshod over the
native americans and eventually took everything they had (their land,
buffalo, etc.). The end of the film is heartbreaking where it says on
screen
that the Indians and the Horse culture were "passed into history." I
suggest
every history teacher show this film in their classes so future
generations
can see what a proud race of people the native americans are, and what we
did to them.
<|_=00=_|>
Dances with Wolves is a great movie, make no mistake about that, Kevin 
Costner had lighting in a bottle. Costner has not come close to movie 
success since wolves. The cast is excellent, Kicking Bird, Stands with 
Fist, Wind in his Hair and my quiet favorite smiles a lot, smiles a Lot 
had trouble with growing up and becoming a brave, until it is forced 
on him, his mood after he has killed the first time is priceless.

Some people say Dances with Wolves was an anti white movie, that is 
total bull, it tells the true story the way few movies have of the 
cruelty of the white people. People don't want to admit this movie is a 
true telling of the way white people treat other races and nature. It 
is a hard movie to digest.It is a hard movie to admit the truth. The 
other thought is a lot of movie fans want car chases and explosions. If 
a movie is thoughtful, it is labeled boring. Dances is one of the top 
15 movies of all time. 9 out of 10 stars.

Dances with wolves I am wind in his hair Do you see that I am your 
friend? Can you see that you will always be my friend?
