
Cynthia (Jennifer Rubin) wakes up after being in a coma for thirteen
years. She is the sole survivor of a religious sect who burned
themselves up. But the leader of the sect (Richard Lynch) wants her
back and will stop at nothing to get her from beyond the grave. There
might be more to Cynthia's bad dreams but will those around her die
before she finds out.

'Bad Dreams' is a better than average 80's flick with a good plot and a
nifty twist. Populated by some horror vets (Rubins and Bruce Abbott)
and put together well by director Andrew (The Craft) Fleming. 'Bad
Dreams' deserves more attention than it gets and the new DVD release is
just the ticket.
<|_=00=_|>

For some odd reason I was the hugest fan of this film when it first came
out. I made my father take me to see it over and over again. And to this say
I still watch it every once in a while.I guess the main appeal of it when I
was younger is that the villain  somewhat resembled Freddy Krueger and the
lead actress Jenifer Rubin was from A Nightmare on Elm st. 3. The film
doesn't offer much in the way of truly effective horror. But it makes up for
it in creativity. It veers from the typical horror route going into a
slightly more intellectual one and trying to induce psychological scares.
Sometime they work and sometimes they won't. But at any rate the film is
quite enjoyable with one hell of a twist ending.  Maybe it's the nostalgia I
feel towards it or maybe it's still because it has such a kick ass
poster.
<|_=00=_|>

The First time I remember seeing this movie was back in the late 80s, when
it was being played on HBO late one night. I remember at the time I
thought
the movie was pretty cool. I didnt see the movie again until about a year
ago , when I picked up a used copy of it. Since then I have watched the
movie a couple times, and I think its pretty awesome. its got some scary
sences, and its definately got that old style 80s horror feel to it, which
I
miss. Its also crazy how similar this movie is to the 1987 masterpeice,A
Nightmare on Elm Street 3- Dream Worriors. This movie's main star is
Jennifer Ruben, who played Taryn in Nightmare 3...and just like in
Nightmare
3, Bad Dreams is about a group of troubled kids who are in a mental
institution, being haunted in there dreams by a burned boogeyman. It was
cool to see Jennifer Ruben in another horror movie. This, and Nightmare 3,
are the only two movies I can remember her in. Check out "Bad Dreams" if
you
want to see another cool late 80s horror movie.
<|_=00=_|>
In the mid-70s,the members of the love cult Unity Fields sought the
ultimate joining by dousing themselves with gasoline and committing
mass suicide.A young girl blown clear of the fiery explosion was the
only survivor.Thirteen years later,Cynthia(Jennifer Rubin)awakens from
a coma inside a psychiatric hospital with only buried memories of that
horrific day.But when her fellow patients start committing suicide one
by one,her past slowly begins to come back to terrifying life..."Bad
Dreams" is a pretty average horror flick.It's well-paced and visually
interesting.The acting by Richard Lynch,Jennifer Rubin and Bruce
Abbott,three actors ignored by the mainstream,is solid and there is
plenty of blood and gore including knife through hand and some nasty
self-mutilation.7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Originality isn't really Bad Dreams' biggest trump but it sure is an
ideal film in case you're looking for a few scares and/or chilling
entertainment. The plot involves a spiritual sect with a textbook
leader type that performed a mass suicide ritual in the 70's. One girl
survived and she awakes from her coma 13 years later. Immediately
after, she's haunted by hallucinations and nightmares in which the
leader returns comes to tell her she has to fulfill her promise to the
group and commit suicide after all. When she refuses, the leader leads
other victims into death and he easily finds them among the psychiatric
patients of the hospital. As stated earlier, the plot of Bad Dreams
isn't very unique and borrows elements from over a dozen other (horror)
movies. Mostly from 'Nightmare on Elm Street 3: Dream Warriors' (the
image of the horribly burned leader even resembles the Freddy Kruger
pizza-face!) and the group session looks inspired by 'One flew over the
Cuckoo's Nest'. But who cares? Very few movies are completely original
and at least this film offers spectacular amusement. Andrew Fleming's
Bad Dreams upholds a good tempo, it has a great soundtrack (including a
demented version of 'My Way' and a Guns 'n Roses classic during the end
credits) and there's enough blood and gore to satisfy the most
demanding horror buff. We see how people are getting burned, stabbed or
thrown from high buildings. Two poor bastards even get hacked up in a
ventilation system! Is that bloody enough for you? And yes, at some
points, Fleming even succeeds in creating tension and eeriness.
Especially the sequence where Cynthia has her first hallucination in
the broken elevator is memorable. Last but not least Bad Dreams has a
terrific B-movie cast filled with familiar faces. Jennifer Rubin plays
the lead and she suffered from the same issues before in Nightmare on
Elm Street. Bruce Abbott stars as a dedicated shrink and you'll
unquestionably recognize him from the one and only Re-Animator. There
also are neat supportive roles for Dean Cameron (Summer School), Harris
Yulin (Scarface, 24) and even the lovely singer E.G. Daily makes an
appearance! I say you better ignore the unusually large amount of
negative reviews and give this one a look.
<|_=00=_|>
Cynthia (Jennifer Rubin) is been in coma for over 13 years. She's the
only survivor from the "Unity Field". It's a cult group that committed
suicide, when they set on fire by the leader Harris (Richard Lynch).
Once she wakes up from her coma, she's been seeing visions and having
strange nightmare. Which it seems that Harris is trying to speak to her
from the dead. Dr. Berrisford (Harris Yulin) thinks its best for
Cynthia if she placed in a group session with Dr. Alex Karmen (Bruce
Abbott). When Cynthia slowly starts remembering with the incident, now
the patients are dying one by one. Now Cynthia is trying to stop the
madness with the help of her psychologist. It seems that the evil
spirit of Harris wants her dead. Which Alex knows that Cynthia isn't
crazy and tries to end her bad memories.

Directed by Andrew Fleming (The Craft, Dick, The In-Laws "2003") made
an intriguing hallucinogenic horror film that has some effective horror
moments and good performances by the cast. The premise seems a bit
familiar to "A Nightmare on Elm Street 3:Dream Warriors" at times.
Especially when Rubin had a supporting role in the "Nightmare"
franchise. Dean Cameron (Best known from "Men at Work" and "Summer
School") and E.G. Daily (Who's known as the voice of Tommy Pickles in
the TV "Rugrats") are also in the movie. "Bad Dreams" is quite
impressive for two-thirds of the way but the last act feels rushed and
out of touch with the rest of the picture. Fleming, who directed his
first film handles like a pro on his first feature. The main problem,
the screenplay by the director and Steven E. de Souza (Commando, Die
Hard, 48 Hrs) could have been much stronger at times, especially
towards the last act. But still, it's well made and horror fans will
enjoy it. It's worth a look, despite some flaws. From a story by the
director, Michael Dick, P.J. Pettiette and Yuri Zeltser. Gale Anne Hurd
also produced it. She's best known for producing movies like "Aliens",
"The Hulk" and "The Terminator". (*** ½/*****).
<|_=00=_|>

Warning: possible spoilers! ::As with many films released in Hollywood over
the years, this one is a victim of having a title that has no significance
to the actual plot. "Bad Dreams" is just a flashy title to lure viewers,
making them think it's another Elm Street ripoff. Forget about Elm Street.
Watch this one with an open mind. The only similarities it has to Elm
Street
three are these: A burned up psycho, a mental hospital (in which the
patients are much more believable than the ones of NOES 3) and Jennifer
Rubin. That's where the similarities end. The heroine of the film is not,
in
fact, having dreams, but hallucinations. You never once see her go to sleep
and dream of this guy, he just shows up (usually conveniently after she's
taken her meds. Hmmmm!) It is an excellent and smart psychological
thriller,
and completely underrated. And Dean Cameron, as always, is excellent,
lovable, and funny in the role of Ralph, a horny teenager suffering from
borderline personality disorder.

<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the few masterpieces, when it comes to horror
movies,
of course does the movie borrow elements from, Nightmare on Elm street 3,
but this one is far better, music, photography, acting and
effects
are class A. This must be Richard Lynch´s best role ever (Oscar
worthy)
Andrew Flemings direction is great, watch out for the scene
where
Harris Yulin (Deek Peasly from How the west was won-1979) gets crushed by a
car, thats as much cinematic a scene can get.
Lean back and enjoy.

10 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
Bad Dreams is a fun late 80's horror film that feels a lot like The
third part of A Nightmare on Elm St. Like that movie, Bad Dreams takes
place in a hospital setting. The story goes that a girl named Cynthia
was the sole survivor of a mass suicide in a cult community named
"Unity Fields". She ends up in a coma for thirteen years, but when she
awakes, several of her fellow patients at the psychiatric hospital
start dying. It appears like they are committing suicide, but could it
be murder? 

The film is a lot like A Nightmare on Elm St 3, which also stared
Jennifer Rubin. There is a burned man seemingly going after the
patients, the doctors believe the people are killing themselves are
refuse to think otherwise. Although it is similar, Bad Dreams is a
decent horror flick with some gruesome moments.

The hospital setting in a horror film is always fun to me. You would
think it's safe, but it almost never is. The acting is pretty good in
this as well. There is also a nice little twist to the story as well.
The DVD is hard to find, I own the VHS. So if you come across this, I
say buy it.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
A influential cult leader, reminiscent of Jim Jones, Harris(Richard
Lynch)seduces his communal group of worshipers to take part in a
suicidal fire pact which explodes the house they live in..but, one
survives, Cynthia(Jennifer Rubin)who awakens twenty years later to the
care of Dr. Berrisford(Harris Yulin). Spending her days in a mental
hospital without any family to speak of, Cynthis attempts to revive
memories of her past before the house fire which took the lives of
those she cared about. Her memories will assist the police in closing a
case long spent open as Detective Wasserman(Sy Richardson), working the
scene at that time, remains convinced that Cynthia's not the victim she
seems to be. His feelings are assisted when members of Cynthia's
therapy group, each known for suicidal tendencies, each begin killing
themselves, with her nearby, believing she's a possible catalyst as to
their sudden decisions to end it all under grisly circumstances. Before
each member of her therapy group dies, Cynthia is either visited by
Harris(..either as he was in the 60's or with charred burnt flesh)or
sees him following them. Her assigned psychiatric physician, Dr. Alex
Karmen(Bruce Abbott), doesn't believe in Cynthia's bogeyman manifesting
from her nightmares to kill members of her therapy group and is
convinced there's another type of motivation causing the strange
suicides which have began to emerge. Karmen pursue the truth with odd
resistance from his own superior, Berrisford, as Cynthia slowly falls
prey to her hallucinations(..or are they?) of Harris who beckons to
join his unity where those she once knew await her on the other side.
If she doesn't end her own life Harris will continue to take
souls..it's up to her.

Slippery thriller, almost completely set in the mental hospital, where
the viewer is to guess whether what Cynthia sees(..nightmare man,
Harris, who pops up often to spook her)is real or a product of fantasy
fueled by something malicious. Rubin's beauty is used rather well as
she's often running around in a gown, conflicted and confused about her
present mental state. Great villainous heavy Richard Lynch has a
tailor-made star vehicle, often showcased in terrifying burn make-up,
as the supposed supernatural killer causing the patients under Karmen's
care to off themselves. Berrisford's philosophy and unorthodox methods
of treatment for the patients under Karmen's care is of the utmost
importance to the plot, but it's subtly infused within the story. While
the similarities to "Nightmare on Elm Street" are striking(..Part 3 in
particular which also starred Rubin in her first film and was set in a
mental hospital), "Bad Dreams" ultimate twist at the end pries it apart
from the Freddy Krueger franchise. Still, I imagine many will shrug
their shoulders at this film as merely a rip from the franchise being
that it concerns a nightmare man, with a burnt face no less,
terrorizing Rubin. The title doesn't help the film's cause either. The
film has a strong cast with Abbott(..fresh off the heels of
"Re-Animator"), Yulin, as usual portraying the quietly malevolent and
untrustworthy type of character who reeks of malicious intent, and Dean
Cameron(Summer School)as a jokester with a nasty streak that explodes
into violent rage at the very end when alone with Cynthia. Those
familiar with Susan Barnes sweetheart in LA Law will find her very
profane and confrontational patient Connie quite a polar opposite(..or
polarizing, to be more specific). The gore is limited but there are
inspired sequences of violence such as what one patient does to himself
with surgical scalpels, the aftermath of a couple who decide to hurl
themselves into the hospital turbines(..lots of blood spray spurting
from ventilation shafts leave quite a lasting impression), and a
suicidal leap onto the steps from an upper floor window. But, Lynch's
burn make-up delivers the ultra-creepy goods. I think despite seeming
unoriginal and rather familiar(derivative), "Bad Dreams" remains quite
entertaining as the plot plays out and all the pieces fall into place.
And, if anything, you have Lynch's tour-de-force performance to enjoy.
Great little kill-fantasy played out in Karmen's mind after Berrisford
fires him.
