

Back in the glory days of 1980, Michael Bay was just a fifteen year old lad
with a love of movies who would soon begin his enrolment at Wesleyan
University. Bryan Singer too was a mere child, probably admiring films like
The Long Riders with his buddy Ethan Hawke. It would take a further six
years for John Mc Tiernan to carve his name in the Hollywood ladder and John
Woo was still finding his directorial roots in Southern China. The man to
watch when it came to extremely stylised action was one Walter Hill, the
creator of such awesome gun-totting avalanches as Extreme Prejudice, The
Warriors and Johnny Handsome. Long since categorised as ‘the' director for
choosing style over content, Hill started out his career as a screenwriter.
He penned The Getaway for Sam Peckinpah, who was obviously his idol, and in
almost all of his movies he adds visual flourishes that are unsubtly
reminiscent of Peckinpah's accomplishments. (Check out Extreme Prejudice
where Hill almost out Peckinpahs Peckinpah!)  Like all of cinema's greatest
achievers, Hill had an unbridled love for the western. Over the length of
his career, he would return to the genre again and again, giving us
offerings that ranged from the large-scale excess of Geronimo: an American
legend, to the smaller, but just as historically accurate Wild
Bill.

By far the best of his Western work, The Long Riders tells the tale of the
James/Younger legacy, a slice of history that has been adapted for the
silver screen on countless occasions. Perhaps the film's strongest and most
alluring attribute is the fact that the cast contains real life acting
siblings in the shape of the Carradines, the Keaches, the Guests and the
Quaids as the band of outlaws. It's also one of the finest and most
attractively crafted movies of its kind, equally as beautiful as Heaven's
Gate and as tirelessly entertaining as Tombstone.   

I doubt that fans of the genre will need any introduction to the exploits of
Jesse James, so I won't bother to list a plot synopsis. But reportedly, this
is one of the more accurate descriptions of the adventures of the infamous
anti-establishment crusader. Frankly, if outings like Frank and Jesse and
the dismal American Outlaws are anything to go by, it's also one of the best
of the colossal bunch. 

The thespian brothers hold up their ends with finesse, and without taking
anything away from the Keaches who don't fail to entertain from start to
finish, one can only wonder how the film could have turned out if Jeff and
Beau Bridges would have been available to accept the leads. David Carradine
gives a scene stealing performance, making the most of his ‘relationship'
with an incredibly sexy Pamela Reed as Belle Shirley. Props are certainly
due to Randy Quaid for not over cooking his threats against the singer in
the bar scene at the beginning, he comfortably makes those few short lines
the best of the whole damn movie. It's a shame that James Keach could never
make his star shine brighter on the Hollywood A-list. Even so, he still has
one or two great performances to look back on with enough pride to show that
he was once a force to be reckoned with on the tinsel-town ladder.

Being as this is a Walter Hill joint, all the flashy trademarks are rooted
firmly in place, including the use of his ever-dependable cast alumni such
as James Remar. Surprisingly enough, for a director that's famed for his
love of stylised violence, there are very few gunfights throughout the
runtime, which somehow makes them even more powerful when they do finally
occur. The Northfield Minnesota ambush is perhaps one of the greatest
shoot-outs of western history, utilising a great use of sound to make each
bullet hit home with a stark sense of realism that's almost nightmare
inducing. Co-ordinator Craig Baxley should take a bow for his constant but
never over-excessive use of jaw dropping stunts. Bodies literally fly
through the air with an exquisite force that manages to bring home the
impact of a gunshot with adeptness. Long Riders also boats more than its
share of accurately realised set locations. But unlike Michael Cimino, Hill
never over indulges or looses the plot to period preciseness, so the sheen
is never overpowering or unwelcome. 

Although Long Riders may not hold the masterpiece status of such
often-touted westerns as The Wild Bunch, Unforgiven or even Dances with
Wolves, it's still a five star movie. It's superbly acted, impressively
casted, flawlessly directed and it boasts some of the greatest music that
you're likely to find this side of an opera. Many people often consider
Tombstone to be ‘the all time great popcorn western.' Well, I can only
presume that's because they haven't actually seen this long forgotten
classic slice of storytelling. If you're a fan of the Wild West and you've
let this slip you by, then you need to be asking yourself why…      


<|_=00=_|>
As Sam Peckinpah's 'The Getaway,' Walter Hill's 'The Long Riders'
almost elevates cinema violence into an art form… 

Visually, 'The Long Riders' contains much that is stunning, even
mesmerizing: the green Missouri scenic landscapes; the train robbery
sequence; the stagecoach heist; the crossing of a wild river; but there
is no question that it is the scene of the gang's disastrous foray into
Northfield, Minnesota - that highlight this film… These specific
episodes give 'The Long Riders' its rhythm, power, spectacle, and
excitement… 

With his slow motion 'terror shootout,' Hill seems to impress his
viewers by showing them an inventive montage of high-level gory
violence… But Hill's most wonderful sequences are those that were the
most reserved: the wonderful moment when Frank is cutting the hardest
wood with a forest ax and his brother Jesse, walking with his fiancée,
attempting to settle down and raise a family… 

Hill may have a reputation for being a tough guy, but his best screen
moments (in "Hard Times", "The Warriors", "Streets of Fire") are the
ones in which he allows his romantic tendencies to slip through, when
he gives his characters the dignity that means so much to them… Hill
tries to debunk the American myth that Western gunfighters were
"heroes," and to show these embittered guys for the 'rough men that
they really were.'

Hill's real intention is to present us with a gang of four families of
brothers, and get us to accept them on their own terms, in their own
brutal world… The men of 'The Long Riders' are at their most dastardly
at the beginning of the film when Ed Miller (Dennis Quaid)
indiscriminately shoots an innocent clerk, but for the rest of the film
- one by one - Hill reveals their better, more 'human' sides… We
further get to appreciate them as we compare them to the awful men
around them; next to the Pinkertons killing a simple-minded 15 year old
boy, they come out best, the 'good guys.'

To Hill, good and bad aren't on opposite sides of the coin; they share
the edge…
<|_=00=_|>

Walter Hill is surely one of the most underrated American directors of all
time. His output since the popular success of '48 Hours' has been variable
to say the least, but his run of 'The Driver', 'The Warriors', 'The Long
Riders' and 'Southern Comfort' is difficult to beat. Each of those four
movies is an overlooked classic, especially 'The Long Riders', which is a
strong contender for the most underrated western of all time. The idea of
casting real life brothers David, Keith and Robert Carradine and Stacy and
James Keach (as well as Randy and Dennis Quaid and Christopher and Nicholas
Guest) was an inspired one and really helps make this something special.
Stacy Keach (as Frank James) and David Carradine (as Cole Younger) give the
two stand out performances. Both of them are superb. David Carradine is
finally getting some attention since working with Tarantino on 'Kill Bill'.
His career has spanned forty years, and over 120 movies, working with
everyone from Martin Scorsese to Ingmar Bergman to Hal Ashby to Robert
Altman to (yes) Fred Olen Ray. He has made many (too many) lousy movies but
also several very good ones. This could well be his very best role. Stacy
Keach is another actor who has made some dubious career choices over the
years (eg 'Mountain Of The Cannibal God', 'Class Of 1999') but when he's
good he's not only really good, he's GREAT. Just watch him here and in 'Fat
City' and 'The Ninth Configuration' and tell me I'm lying. Keach's brother
James plays Jessie James and almost steals the movie. I also enjoyed both
the Quaid brothers, and the memorable cameo by James Remar, one of the stars
of Hill's cult classic 'The Warriors'. The real surprise for me here was
Pamela Reed who plays Belle Starr. She's very sexy and tough and acts well,
and she and David Carradine display some genuine chemistry. Their scenes
together were my favourite moments in the movie. Why Reed never became a big
star is difficult to fathom. I highly recommend 'The Long Riders'. It's a
great movie and every Western fan should see it.
<|_=00=_|>
I know, calling it "the true story" is a bit much for any film, but I
have my reasons. There have been dozens of films about Jesse James,
before this one and since, but as a history buff I choose this one as
my favorite. Most movies on the subject either make Jesse a
misunderstood hero or the villainous target of some (usually fictional)
lawman. This movie was called "revisionist" by some critics when it was
released, but the great thing about it is that it just tells the story.
It uses a series of lovely little vignettes, each one of them
historically verifiable. There are failings, to my mind the slow-motion
shootout being the biggest, but on the whole it captures the feel of
the period, the dress, the idioms ("I would toss the shotgun away!"),
pretty much everything. It doesn't make them good guys, far from it,
but it does take pains to show why their neighbors loved them and hated
the pinkertons.

Not the best western ever, by a long shot, but almost certainly the
best movie on the subject.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie for the first time last night, and I've been
completely blown away!!!! When you think about the fact that it was
made back in 1980, it was WAY before it's time. The special effects are
amazing and so real. The fight scenes are incredible and you don't want
to take your eyes off the screen for fear you'll miss something great!
And what a brilliant idea to cast all true-life brothers to play these
roles. I've grown up watching these actors, and I think that their
acting in this movie is the best performance each one has ever had. I'm
extremely impressed and can now say that "The Long Riders" is one of my
all time favorite movies. I will recommend this movie to anyone and
everyone!
<|_=00=_|>
Much attention is given to the unique casting of this movie, but what
drew me to it was the music. I've been a bluegrass and mountain music
fan and performer for decades, and was told before the film was
released to listen for the music. Not only is it very period accurate
in terms of how it's played and on what instruments, but even the
dancing has not been "hollywood-ized". There is actually some real
"flat footing" going on to "Jack of Diamonds" which is a rural Southern
dance that not many people in Hollywood would recognize - sort of an
antecedent to porch dancing, or (dare I say it) "clogging". This is one
of those movies like "Jeremiah Johnson" and "Oh, Brother" where it's
worth the price of admission just to hear some very accurately
portrayed period music. Music played a very vital role in the lives of
men and women of the West and South in this time period, and there were
no radios, so it was all done live, either in churches or (more
secularly) for the purpose of dancing, and the movie reflects that.
Hollywood gets 'Old West' and "Southern" music wrong so often this
movie stands out by contrast.
<|_=00=_|>
Admittedly, the Western is not my favourite movie genre, which is
partly why I like this film so much, as to my mind it is unique in
several regards. For a start, none of the usual Western icons are
present, which I find refreshing. There is no leading man either, no
"hero", none of the usual "good guys" fighting the "bad guys" scenario.
Another outstanding feature is the unique soundtrack(slide guitar, and
traditional tunes), which makes a pleasant change to the usually
obligatory orchestral soundtrack for Westerns. This movie is short and
sweet and never drags or goes off on a romantic subplot. The slow
motion option for the shoot-out scenes was a wise choice and it adds a
lot of impact. Even a "minor" detail like the grey dusters worn by all
members of the gang serves to enhance the overall aesthetic appeal of
the film. The Northfield ambush and escape sequence near the end of the
film is compelling and I find myself re-watching that scene repeatedly
whenever I watch the movie. And, lastly, I just happen to like the
actors David and Keith Carradine, and James and Stacy Keach.
<|_=00=_|>

Using real-life acting brothers for the various sets of sibling characters
in this movie might be seen as a cheesy PR stunt or an inspired move. I
prefer the inspirational viewpoint. The Carradine's are superb as the
Younger Brothers and the Keech's portray the James boys with considerable
restrained menace, depth and stage presence.
 Jesse James' as played by James Keech is  part humble farmer, part cold
psychotic killer. Considering what the gang got up to in 19th century
post-civil war Missouri, one tends to think this is just what the man
himself was probably like. While Brother Frank appears to have the charisma
and logic, Jesse has the steel within him and the cold detachment required
for the outlaw life. 
However both are upstaged by David Carradine as Coleman Younger, the long
haired, flamboyant, world weary star of the film. Carradine is quite superb
throughout; laconic, quick witted, cool and surprisingly likable. Director
Walter Hill certainly manages to bring out the contrasting and distinct
characters of the gang members and wraps them up in unusual locations (for a
western). This produces some wonderfully atmospheric moments and scenes of
sheer cinematic poetry. All that is visually arresting about a good "cowboy
" film is present here but in a stylish and individual
way.
 The script has some dark comedy, some deep pathos and never sounds so well
crafted that a bunch of country outlaws wouldn't say any of it. Some of the
supporting cast stand out in their own right; Cole's fiesty whore, Belle,
The James' brother mom and a young Dennis Quaid as wild but rejected former
gang member, Ed Miller. All give good performances in what is a great piece
of ensemble acting topped by moody photography, great stunt work and a view
of these famous outlaws that doesn't paint them as quite the Robin Hood
heroes of popular myth, nor totally amoral hooligans. A worthy film from an
era not noted for many good Westerns.  
<|_=00=_|>
In the Missouri, after the civil war, the James & Younger gang steals
banks and trains, and are chased by the Pinkertons. This movie is a
very different western, showing the outlaws as human beings, having
families, raising children. Walter Hill uses the Carredine, Quaid and
Keach brothers in real life to perform the former bandits and it is a
great attraction in this film. The music, arranged and composed by Ry
Cooder, fits perfectly to the story. However, the characters are not
well developed, maybe because of the quantity of lead actors versus the
running time, and the story loses the explanation of the motives for
the behavior of the bandits, being cruel while robbing and very close
to their families, being good sons, husbands and friends. Anyway, the
performance of the cast is excellent and the movie does not disappoint.
My vote is seven.

Title ('Brazil'): 'Cavalgada dos Proscritos' (Ride of the Proscribes')
<|_=00=_|>
This film was historically correct in how it showed the attitudes of
the times. I saw this film finally after reading a book attempting to
explain why American history, including the Wild West years, has been
so violent. I was amazed how accurately the film showed those reasons
in the Wild West. Mostly men, few women, lived in that part of the
country then. The West was spacious and spectacular but also boring,
leaving men with little to do but get drunk and play a mouth harp.
Also, many of the tough guys hailed from the post-Confederate South. In
the film, after taking the long, boring train ride north to a town in
Minnesota (to the tune of a mouth harp,) they encountered well-dressed,
prosperous Scandinavian-Americans in the streets. These people were
barely intelligible as they mocked the long riders. When our
anti-heroes arrived at the bank, they discovered what the townsfolk
were saying. What they said to the lone teller revealed they were from
the South. I was mesmerized by this part of the film and hope others
were, too.
