

This movie was bitterly panned upon its release, and I see a number of
IMDB's reviewers agree with the original critics.  I don't get it, except
that this movie does such a good idea of taking you inside Stephen Bauer's
character and what he is doing is so creepy that people react viscerally to
him instead of the movie.  The movie is engrossing, brilliantly photographed
and well-paced.  The camera angles and the chemistry between Bauer and
Williams are reminiscent of what Hitchcock tried to do in Vertigo, but much
less forced and contrived.  All these characters behave in character.  I
really consider this one of the best romantic thrillers of all time.  Yes,
it is erotic.  Why is that a bad thing?  10/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Prolific producer Jerry Bruckheimer also made this one, it certainly looks
and sounds like Bruckheimer, his style is stamped all over it. The erotic
thrillerplot, the outragously great design and cinematography. Remember
Flashdance or Cat People? Well, you got the idea! Well acted, actress
Barbara Williams shines as seducted interior decorator , engaging love story
with a great soundtrack and some very steamy sex scenes, it looked to me as
if one of the scenes was actually hardcore! Must have been an unrated
version! The story revolves around a pro burglar stealing the steamy diary
of a bored nice sububan wife and then seduce her. This is not a masterpiece,
just a nice erotic  high-concept thriller well worth seeking out.
7/10
<|_=00=_|>

What's not to love?  Hot leading man, amazing San Francisco locale and a
Faltermyer/Moroder soundtrack including the incomparable Melissa
Manchester.
The cast is great.  Steven Bauer and Barbara Williams have great
chemistry
together.  And the appearance of David Caruso early in his career is a bit
of a surprise, too.  A fun fantasy escape!  
<|_=00=_|>

The film tells a story of a burglar who falls in love with one of his
victims whilst doing her house one night. After stealing her portrait and
personal memoires, he proceeds to "learn" more and more about the victim
until he decides to come into personal contact. Passing himself off as a
Company Director, he slowly seduces the victim and this is facilitated by
her failing marriage. Inevitably, events catch up with the thief as his
partner in crime goes to desperate measures to eliminate this
side-distraction.
I enjoyed this movie for a number of reasons but most of all, I thought it
had a fantastic eighties soundtrack throughout. The story itself is not
wonderfully exciting, but the fantasy of a burglar falling for one of his
victims and using his psychological advantage to seduce her is quite
interesting. A sense of compassion is felt for the central character as he
strives to live a fantasy of his own making that slowly starts to
disintegrate due to his own dark life. John Caruso puts in a disturbing and
powerful performance as the drugged-crazed partner who takes matters into
his own hands. 
<|_=00=_|>

Supporting actors David Caruso (magnificently evil) and George Wendt are
far
better known to most of us than Stephen Bauer and Michelle Williams and
John
Getz.  But, the starring triangle are truly superb in a movie where
nothing
is quite what you think it is, and the results of giving into prideful
impulses come to light in unusual ways.  A twist ending also adds to the
proceedings in one of the best romantic thrillers I have ever
seen.
<|_=00=_|>
...you just might "get" this film. In my heart, Douglas Day
Stewart is a
genius. That he is capable of such sensitivity, instinct and passion just
gives me chills, as said emotions are so pitifully rare in mainstream
filmmaking (let's not even discuss the hollow garbage that has risen to
the
surface in the past decade). The infatuation, the sickness that plagues
Scott Muller in this film is so clearly, so intensely conveyed through
Stewart's meticulous direction (it's his frickin' script) and the
thoroughly
phenomenal performance of Steven Bauer. I'll grant certain persons there
being plenty of "flash," (otherwise known as brilliant photography and an
energetic soundtrack) but...welcome to the 80's. That "flash" epitomized
the
decade and I've seen no slicker example, no smarter implementation of it
than in this little picture here. The film is tremendous, ridiculously
moving, simply magical. Invariably, the final scene leaves me in tears--of
frustration for the characters, of enchantment for the beauty that is
Thief
of Hearts. I love that it is Bruckheimer/Simpson's lowest grossing film.
It
only stands to prove what idiots make up the bulk of American
audiences.
<|_=00=_|>
I first saw Thief of Hearts on cable while I was babysitting in high
school...maybe 16 years old. As a Catholic school girl, I was obsessed
with all things sexual, so I was an instant fan of the movie. I saw it
several more times while it was still a popular cable choice, then lost
track of it. However, I never forgot it: the sexual tension, the
premise...not even the title! As an adult, I talked my fiancé into
renting it, issuing the standard disclaimer: "I loved this in high
school, but I was into Wham!, Duran Duran and Prince, too, so proceed
with caution," etc. To my surprise, it was almost as good as I
remembered it having been, and the sexual situations weren't nearly as
contrived as I feared they might be. Some of the acting was a little
wooden, but the premise is brilliant...I'm still trying to turn that
around in my head...and, for some reason, I still don't keep a diary!
<|_=00=_|>

Though I do like this film, I found the concept immensely disturbing.
Being
a private person (you don't see my NAME on this, do you?), I found the
idea
that anyone could so completely invade a life absolutely terrifying. In
spite of a few holes, the film works, chiefly because the characters
enmesh
the audience in their feelings. Steven Bauer is incredibly underrated as
an
actor and, while I have seen stronger performances from him, he's very
good
as the enamoured thief in search of a way out and Barbara Williams is
credible as the neglected wife enchanted by the mystery man. Let's not
leave
out John Getz, another unexplainably underrated performer, as the
self-absorbed husband. If you can ignore the flashy 80s style, the film is
a
fascinating study of obsession. Warning: it definitely deserves its R
rating
for unnecessary full nudity.
<|_=00=_|>
This film starts out with a drive over the Golden Gate Bridge and into
the City of San Francisco with fantastic music in the background and
through out the entire picture. John Getz (Ray Davis), " A Day without
a Mexican" plays the role as a husband who writes children's books and
has reached the top of his field. Ray is married to Barbara
Williams,(Mickey Davis),"Forever Evil" who is getting rather
unsatisfied with her marriage as her husband is always at his
typewriter and never in bed where she wants him. Steven Bauer,(Scott
Muller) "The Lost City", actually runs into Mickey Davis and things
progress to the boiling point between the both of them. David
Caruso,(Buddy Calamara),"Blue City", plays the role of a slime ball,
who is a very evil character and looks quite young in 1984. Great tale
with plenty of twists and turns and I simply Love The Ending. Enjoy
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this film after visiting San Francisco and the movie captures it's
vitality completely. For me Frisco is the best city on earth and I was
captured from the start. OK so the plot was unique at the time, but I
thought the characters were well cast and believable. Barbara Williams stole
it with her beauty, innocence and naivety. For me the passionate love scenes
backed up with the Harold Faltermeyer soundtrack was top drawer. I waited 5
weeks for the soundtrack (Germany) and it was well worth the wait. I still
play it today.For all these reasons I still tell people this is my favourite
film so far.
