
Kiefer Sutherland, Charlie Sheen, Emilo Estevez and Lou Diamond
Phillips star in this light weight western, re-telling of the Billy The
Kid story. This movie plays fast and loose with history and is in not
particularly accurate about most details but as an enjoyable western
adventure it succeeds. The movies style harks back to the old days of
the western adventure such as Rio Bravo etc and while nowhere near it
in terms of class it is a worthwhile watch. Jack Palance makes a
fantastic bad guy and Terranc Stamp puts in a good performance as the
gangs father figure. Performances of the brat pack are pretty good and
I really enjoyed Estevez's portrayal of the kid. If you like westerns
and enjoyed modern versions such as Tombstone you'll enjoy this movie.

7/10 - Not exactly Unforgiven or Rio Bravo but still a worthwhile watch
for any western fan.
<|_=00=_|>

With a brilliant collection of characters, this 
movie proved to be one of the more entertaining 
modern day westerns. Charlie Sheen, Keifer 
Sutherland, Emilio Estevez, Lou Diamond 
Phillips and the other guys all shined in this 
movie, making it memorable in a landscape 
of a lost art form. Sure, some movies have tried 
to equal this film's motif (American Outlaws, 
Texas Rangers, Ride With the Devil, etc.) but 
all have failed in the process. Coupled with 
some good shoot-out scenes, this proved to 
be a rather entertaining movie.
<|_=00=_|>

With a cast of six great actors (especially the three mentioned up above)
you know you can't go wrong. Estevez was powerful and a dead ringer for
Billy the Kid. He was fast, furious and he takes you on a wild ride from the
moment he hits the screen (very beginning). His character didn't really sit
still for a second and his sharp wit and devilish humor are masked well
underneath his thirst for revenge and blood. I also believe that he had a
need for power and this was entwined well with the other facets of the
character. Phillps was truly incredible as the spiritual leader of the team,
who had a serious bone to pick. I really saw true talent being performed in
the scenes where he painted his face black and guides the others in a
spiritual journey.  He also especially eminates this talent at the end where
he talks about the attack on his family. However, I think the finest
performance of the pack goes to Casey Siemaszko's Charlie Bowdre. Almost an
innocent, laid back character in the beginning, you see each of his layers
peal away until you see an amazing sequence of emotions. Ranging from a good
humored farm hand, to a lonely vigilante, to a newly wed to a soldier of
justice and then finally in the end giving everything he has to obtain some
justice. Amazing. It's a shame he's not more recognized in the eyes of
Hollywood today. 8.5 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Its easy to pass off Young Guns as an eager to please piece of
throwaway rock video style entertainment aimed at the younger
demographic but that would be unfair.The thing is,it knows what it
wants to be and it does it very well.The young cast all perform with
great fun and energy thus enriching the film immeasurably.They are well
supported by Jack Palance and Terrence Stamp who bring weight to
proceedings, particularly Palance who seems to revel in his hammy
role.Emilio Estevez's interpretation of Billy The Kid is a great watch
too,his realisation of the character may be a million miles from the
reality but when there's this much fun being had on screen,who cares!?
The music in the film is a little jarring in places,electric guitars
screaming Van Halen style over a western horse chase feel very much out
of place but its never distracting enough to take you out of the fun.
So in summary Young Guns is a western that wants to entertain you and I
say it succeeds well.It was never intended to be a Sergio Leone classic
western,just a fun ride with characters you can root for.On that
level,it is a triumph.
<|_=00=_|>

This film stars many of the fine young actors that are coming of age today.
They were good in this film. This film is primarily about youth and how it
can be lost so quickly, so easily. All of these guys became men too young
and lost their chance for youth. And they paid for it. This is also about
good and evil. Emelio Estevez is excellent as the more or less evil Billy
the Kid. He and the others (Keifer Sutherland, Charlie Sheen, Lou Diamond
Phillips are given a chance to become "good" after straying from the right
path. When their benefactor is murdered, they seek revenge and they get it
"their way", and in the process, become wanted men. The acting is the
strength here, not the story. These young guns grew up to become great
actors, every one of them. This is an excellent example of their best early
work.
<|_=00=_|>
The year is 1870 and the place is Lincoln County in New Mexico
territory. A young William H. Bonney is rescued from a possible hanging
by John Tunstall, who befriends the youth and makes him part of the
family of young guns known as Regulators. This puts Billy in the midst
of a territorial dispute between Tunstall and the Santa Fe Ring, led by
Lawrence G. Murphy, villainously portrayed by Jack Palance. Another
western legend, Pat Garrett, is played by Patrick Wayne, the son, of
course, of John Wayne.

After the killing of Tunstall by Murphy's henchmen, the Regulators and
Billy hit on all cylinders in extracting revenge for the slaughter of
their benefactor. The Regulators are branded as outlaws, and the "legal
forces" of Murphy attempt to pare them down to nothing. This leads to a
final shootout on the streets of Lincoln, and very few of the original
Regulators escape, which leads to the sequel of "Young Guns,"
appropriately called "Young Guns II." The cast of young and upcoming
Hollywood stars include Emilio Estevez as Billy, Kiefer Sutherland,
Charlie Sheen, Lou Diamond Phillips, Casey Siemaszko, and Dermot
Mulroney.

One final note: the DVD includes as part of its special features
section a Trivia Track, which flashes western facts and information
about the stars or the characters being portrayed on screen without
detracting from the viewing of the film. This is worth seeing and
owning.
<|_=00=_|>
At the end of the movie, Billy and his gang are holed up in the house
of their lawyer which is completely surrounded by hundreds of lawmen,
bounty hunters, and the U.S Army. Even Doc says "Billy we're good, but
this is getting ridiculous.".

After the house is set on fire, Chavez escapes and somehow sneaks right
past the men outside. Billy and his gang exit the house guns a blazin'
right in front of a Gatling gun the Army has brought which mysteriously
is not used. Chavez rides back with 3 horses, rides right through the
men outside, jumps the horses over a barricade, and Billy and Doc
somehow manage to mount the horses and ride right through the men down
the street with not one shot fired.

Then to top it all off, the lawyer emerges from the house and the Army
pumps about 100 bullets into him with the same Gatling gun that for
some reason they didn't use on Billy and his gang. It gets better,
Billy then rides back, stops in the middle of the street, pops a cap
into Murphy, and then rides off with no shots fired at him. Of course
the gang then just rides off into the sunset, why would the US Army
bother to pursue?

This was a ridiculous, unbelievable ending and completely ruined the
entire movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I was somewhat surprised to see the Lincoln County War portrayed as
accurately as it was, even though there were a number of historical
inaccuracies. Since I'm doing extensive research on the Lincoln County
War for a novel about same, I expected to gag often at historical
lapses, but the screenplay by John Fusco stays reasonably close to the
historical record. Of course the historical record has produced many
conflicting interpretations as I soon discovered.

The choice to make Billy a psychopathic killer, whether by Emilio
Estevez's interpretation or the director's is not well supported by
historical facts, but Emilio's insane giggle after each killing
strongly suggests it.

In the context of the times, within a lawless county that at the time
was as large as Connecticutt, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Vermont
combined, men often settled things with a gun and violence, and Billy
was definitely a product of those times.

One glaring mistake, and one made often in Billy the Kid movies was
John Tunstall's real age, which was 24, not 55 as Terrence Stamp (I'm
being charitable) appears to be in the film. While Billy was loyal to
the man that gave him honest work, I don't think he'd be perceived as a
father figure. Nonetheless, the scene at Tunstall's home where he asks
Billy to read for him did portray the fact he was quite literate as his
letters to Gov. Wallace prove.

The scene where Billy kills Henry Hill in the outhouse is pure
fabrication. There was a Tom Hill that rode with Jessie Evans, but he
was killed later by an Cherokee Indian when Tom and Jessie tried to rob
a sheep drover, John Wagner. Legend did have Billy responsible, but
most accounts tagged the notorious Jessie Evans for that mishap.

The Five Day Battle, one of the most famous in the west, was done
reasonable well. Col Dudley did get involved in the fray, and brought a
six pounder howitzer and a Gatling Gun with him. His intent, while he
denied it was to "even the odds", which meant to give the Murphy-Dolan
gang a 2 to 1 advantage. However, the gun was NOT used to kill McSween,
but to intimidate McSween's men housed in two other buildings in
Lincoln.

McSween was killed trying to escape the conflagration, but had waited
too long after Billy led a diversion to draw their fire. Many of the
soldiers were shown also firing at the McSween home, but little
evidence supports that possibility. However, Dudley's positioning of
his men alongside Dolan's made it impossible for McSweens's men to
return fire for fear of hitting a soldier that would have resulted in
Dudley firing his cannon and Gatling Gun.

Also, on this point, the soldiers of Fort Stanton would have been hard
pressed not to get involved with all the guns going off. These were
battle tested veterans, many of whom knew Murphy and Dolan as they both
were mustered out at Fort Stanton, and Murphy had a store at the fort
years earlier and no doubt got drunk with some of them.

The character of L. G. Murphy was perfectly cast with Jack Palance. You
never had any doubt this was a bad dude. However, at the time of the
battle, Murphy suffered from Cancer of the bowels, and was
singlehandedly drinking up his saloon's profits. Dolan was by then the
man in charge, and an even nastier man than his ex-boss.

The one point of departure that had me completely aghast was the
needless peyote scene. Unless, true to the times, we had to have a
"drug scene", where were they going with this? Others have commented on
the music, and I must say, when playing the DVD in its intro mode, the
replaying of that dreadful song is enough to make one hit the mute
button. One of the extras that I appreciated is a documentary of Billy
the Kid, which does correct some of the deviations in the movie.

One place they did get things right was in the characterization of
Buckshot Roberts by the late Brian Keith, one of my favorites. Buckshot
got his name from a load of same that shattered his shoulder making it
impossible for him to raise his rifle above his waist and Keith
mimicked that perfectly.

There were other inaccuracies to be sure, but I have covered the most
glaring. And of course most of you are not watching this as western
history, I trust. Faults aside, this is still one of the most realistic
and accurate portraits of the 1870's in New Mexico.
<|_=00=_|>
This retelling of the Billy the Kid saga here and in the succeeding
film, Young Guns II, is yet another fictionalized account of the doings
in Lincoln County, New Mexico 1878-1879. One fine day we may get an
accurate picture of the events. 

Here though several young actors some of whom were labeled the Brat
Pack and who were coming up roughly around the same time in the Middle
Eighties got an opportunity to play some real life western characters.
The names of the characters these guys play are real even though the
story is highly fictionalized to the extent that not all of them died
during the period both films show.

One reason I do like Young Guns is that it does show what is probably
the most realistic portrayal of Billy the Kid. Forget Robert Taylor,
Johnny Mack Brown, Paul Newman, when you see Emilio Estevez on the
screen you are seeing the real Billy, basically a punk who was skilled
enough to back up his brag.

Estevez rides with Kiefer Sutherland, Lou Diamond Phillips, Dermot
Mulroney, Casey Siemaszko, and brother Charlie Sheen. They are the
'regulators' who ride for John Tunstall the British rancher played here
by Terrence Stamp.

It was the relationship between Tunstall and his young regulators that
villain L.G. Murphy (Jack Palance) touches on. It's certainly led to
speculation that these guys were some kind of a gay harem for Stamp. I
certainly am not going to comment one way or the other because we just
don't know. What's more cause for the animosity is that old country
resentment of the English rulers.

What Young Guns essentially does is take the plot of the John Wayne
classic Chisum and tell it from the Tunstall/Regulators point of view.
Chisum himself is eliminated from the story, though he appears in Young
Guns, II played briefly by James Coburn. So if you've seen that, you
know what happens.

The young guys are great and Stamp and Palance provide a good pair of
antagonists. Brian Keith is around for a memorable performance as
Buckshot Roberts, a well known bounty hunter of the period.

Young Guns is a well done western with good editing at a pace that
never drags. It's a modern classic not to be missed.
<|_=00=_|>
Young Guns is one of the only Hollywood westerns made during the 1980s,
where it sits solitarily alongside the likes of Pale Rider and
Silverado. By this time, the general public perception was that
westerns had nothing new to offer. However, in this bloodthirsty and
fast-paced retelling of the Billy The Kid legend, script-writer John
Fusco and director Christopher Cain manage to find a few new angles. By
populating their film with hot young talent, then cranking up the
violence-levels like some modern retread of The Wild Bunch and
underscoring the film with a pulsating rock soundtrack, the makers have
found a reasonably effective way of breathing fresh life into a tired
old story.

Idealistic rancher John Tunstall (Terence Stamp) harbours a plan to
recruit the wild and reckless youths of the Wild West to work on his
Nebraska ranch. By showing them the care and patience they've never
known, he soon gets these seemingly undesirable youths to become
conscientious and hard-working ranch-hands, and even provides them with
enough basic education to read and write. The plan falls apart when a
rival rancher, Lawrence G. Murphy (Jack Palance), hires a gang of
desperadoes to kill Tunstall. Following his death, Tunstall's young
workers are determined to avenge their mentor. Initially they set about
gaining their revenge legally, working as dedicated deputies out to
nail those responsible for his murder. But their approach to the job
proves so violent and trigger-happy that they themselves are quickly
branded as outlaws. Under the leadership of the most hot-headed of
their number William Bonney (Emilio Estevez), the youths leave a trail
of corpses across the west as they track down their enemies. Soon
Bonney earns the nickname Billy The Kid, and he and his gang of "young
guns" become the most feared gunslingers around, hunted by the law and
the lawless alike.

Young Guns helped to launch quite a few careers. Estevez had already
done some decent films prior to this one (Repo Man, The Breakfast Club
and Stakeout spring to mind), but this was the first time that he was
given the opportunity to grab a role by its throat. Among the many
others making a name for themselves are the likes of Kiefer Sutherland,
Lou Diamond Phillips, Charlie Sheen, Dermot Mulrooney and Casey
Siemaszko. Meanwhile, seasoned old pros like Stamp and Palance provide
the kind of expert support that they've done throughout their careers.
While the pounding rock score and Brat-pack casting might provoke
head-aches among western purists, it makes the film lively and
energetic. The shootouts become increasingly stylized as the film draws
to its blood-spraying conclusion. This stylization might be off-putting
for some, but for others it adds to the film's sense of confident,
over-the-top enjoyment. Young Guns is a fairly successful action film
which definitely puts the "wild" back into the "west".
