
Not too long ago I finally got around to seeing this film, I'd heard so
much about it that I had to see it. After seeing it the first time I
thought it was good, but I have to say that I liked it even more on my
second viewing. The film is absolutely wonderful! The story is very
amusing and keeps you interested in the characters from start to
finish.

I literally couldn't wait to see what would happen in the next scene.
This is one of those movies that goes by very quickly. I think that's a
sign of a good movie, when you just can't believe that you're already
an hour or so into the movie. The story really flows nicely from scene
to scene.

The cast is great in the film as well. Billy Crystal pulls off one of
his best performances, and has a slew of great jokes throughout the
film. Meg Ryan looks as beautiful as ever and has such a cute way about
her. Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher definitely deserve a great deal of
credit too, they both did superb jobs as well. Director Rob Reiner did
a great job with the film, keep up the good work Rob.

If you're into romantic comedies, then you definitely should see this
film. Even if you aren't really into the whole romantic part of it, the
comedy is great and worth seeing. I would most definitely recommend
seeing this film.

I hope you like it. Thanks for reading,

-Chris
<|_=00=_|>

This movie grows like a good wine. I really didn't get it when it was
first
released; I avoided it like the plague. But people have a curious tendency
to mature and change their POVs with time, and so was it with me. This
movie
opened me up to a lot of things - believe it or not, I didn't get the
'Call
Me' sequence at first: I was lost, and admit it. But I am not lost now,
and
this movie is partly responsible.

Meg might be the reason guys want to see this movie, again and again, but
after a while you begin to appreciate the contribution Crystal made to the
film. The dialogue has his name all over it. The dialogue in this film is
at
times simply amazing - check the memorable quotes here if you've seen the
movie and have forgot.

I would not pick this movie out of a barrel as most likely to be so
influential, but it's a fact that it is, and rightfully so. Great support
from Kirby and Fisher. Today it's Hanks and Ryan who are paired, thanks
undoubtedly to Sleepless in Seattle, but one wonders why no one has tried
to
get Crystal and Ryan back together again. They're fantastic.

This is one of the all-time best movies ever made. All-time 10? Or 20? or
1000? I don't know; it's just one of the best - it has that quality about
it. Keeper.

<|_=00=_|>
I love romantic comedies, and this may be my all-time favorite. Nora
Ephron's writing is sharp and VERY funny, and the perfect cast delivers
the dialogue with flawless timing. I own it on DVD, and will almost
invariably turn to it for at least a couple of minutes when I see it in
the TV schedule. There are so many priceless moments that I can't pick
out one to highlight; most of them are subtler and funnier than the
famous Simulated Orgasm scene. Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher are
perfect in their supporting roles, and Rob Reiner's direction couldn't
be better. I'm afraid that I'm doing nothing but gushing in this
review, but great is great, and it's hard to say anything else.
<|_=00=_|>

I am no expert on the genre, but I'd have to say "When Harry met Sally" is,
besides the plethora of truly wonderful films made by Woody Allen, the
wittiest and most funny romantic comdedy waiting for you out there in video
world. I'd only wished I'd seen the film sooner because this seems like that
perfect film for discussion with a circle of good friends at Pizzaria Uno.
The movie came out in 1989, but for some reason, I think this is one even
our kids may like.

Like all good films coming from the genere, this film thrives most on its
witty dialgue and cleverness in not "sentimnetalizing" it too much. In other
words, there is that perfect equilibrium between scenes of sheer poignancy
and scenes of brutal comic relief. The thespians involved, of course, have a
lot to do with the film's success and overall appeal. Ryan and Crystal are
perfect for the roles assigned, each one of them bringing their charisma and
fresh breath of life to the screen. Crystal fits snugly into that character
we find all too obnoxious but can't help but loving and Ryan, well, she is
as adorable as always.

The issue the film tackles is an important one, I think. It asks us a
question of universal importance, namely, can women and men ever be
friends?. I'll leave that for you and your friends to talk about at Pizzaria
Uno. For now, I'll just say that with heaps of quirky, funny dialogue, a
taut script from Nora Ephron, and clean directing form Reiner, "When Harry
met Sally" is a highly enjoyable film that unsurprisingly has held strong a
decade after its inception.

dan

<|_=00=_|>

Can men and women ever be merely friends, without the temptation of sex
rearing its ugly head? This is the question that this movie so famously
posed - and so glibly answered - almost fifteen years ago. As it follows the
progression of Harry and Sally - a pair of charming, if neurotic,
Manhattanites - from enemies to confidants to lovers, it seems to smugly
relish the fact that it has proven its point: men and women can never just 
"be friends" - sex is always the bond that unites them. But the film is so
manipulative, so dogged in its pursuit of this goal, that it never appears
an alternative position was ever considered. So, as philosophy, chalk When
Harry Met Sally up to around zilch.

Now, disregard the above paragraph. Because When Harry Met Sally makes up
for its slights to credibility and lack of rigorous thought by being easily
the funniest movie of its year (1989). This humor flows mainly from the
beautifully crafted scenes and dialogue; indeed, each scene is a dialogue
set piece (and could be transferred to the stage quite easily - surprising
no one's ever done it, actually), which flows with the firm and confident
rapidity of a 20th century Shaw or Oscar Wilde. Of course, this approach has
its downside, too: mainly that the lead characters seem less and less like
real people and more like tools for the brilliant lines and conceits of the
screenwriter (Nora Ephron - never better; in fact, never even remotely close
ever again). This may have something to do with the film's inability to seem
completely real or true to human nature as it actually plays out - but with
lines like these, who's complaining?

For, what is great about the movie is not its originality (it steals from
all over, especially Woody Allen movies, and the few ideas it can truly call
its own are, as I've said, not particularly bright or well-thought out), but
its ability to hone in on stereotypes of character and situation and offer
pithy and hilarious precis of the male-female condition through the witty
banter and interaction of its characters. As such, the film is less like a
conventional movie and more like a stand-up routine dealing with life and
love in the Big City: it is to be judged not by its content, but by the
dexterity of its put-ons and one-liners. (It is not surprising, for example,
that several of its set-pieces and comic notions were revisited just a few
years later, and in much the same manner, on "Seinfeld".) In that regard, it
succeeds flawlessly.

Just think of all the conventions it gets in, and skewers: the one-track
mind male (Harry); the "sensitive" and practical female, repulsed yet
intrigued by said male (Sally); the emotionally unsettled mistress playing
the field (Carrie Fisher, who keeps an index card file of "available" men);
the live-ins who can't "commit" (Sally and her ex-boyfriend); women's
concern with middle age and their biological clock ("I'm gonna be 40," weeps
Sally. "When?" asks Harry. "Someday."); the male's tendency to skip out
after making love; the horror and unpredictability of blind dates; and, in a
scene which is almost passe to mention anymore, women's ability to fake
orgasm. The way this film jumps from one familiar convention to another
would be embarrassing if it weren't for the fact that each one is handled
with such economy, humor and grace.

Billy Crystal acquits himself well as Harry - predictably, perhaps, as it's
a part tailor made for a standup comedian. Still, seeing him in this after
years of half-baked movies and fawning Oscar presentations, it's a
revelation how glib and unlikable he can allow himself to be . . . and
*still* be likable. Yo, Billy, if you're listening out there: try
incorporating some of Harry's darker shadings and more egocentric traits
into your future roles; it gives you a more complete palette to work from
and keeps you from being too generic and schticky. And your charm and humor
will always shine through anyway.

If Billy needs to edge a little bit closer back to Harry, though, Meg Ryan
needs to get Sally completely out of her system. This role, deservedly, made
her a star - but she has tried to go back to this particular well once too
many times, and it's become way too familiar: you know, the adorable,
bright-eyed bit - mentally disheveled, prissy around the edges with just a
wisp of klutziness, all topped by that cute, mega-watt smile.  It has become
now the "Meg Ryan" character, but back when Sally came along it was still
fresh, and it was tied to a particular personality. Ryan gives Sally a
shy-cum-toughness as well as a moody, slightly cynical and self-deprecating
wit that is just totally right. She and Crystal play off each other like two
old pros, and they weave in and out of some charming and hilarious verbal
music. 

It's funny, but I just recently saw this movie on a Saturday afternoon
television marathon of "Romantic Weepies" - and it struck me as an odd
designation, because this movie is anything but a weeper. It takes a
clear-eyed, almost cynical view of love and companionship, and creates
around it a charming tapestry of bracing wit and crunching dialogue. So save
the violins and the handkerchiefs for romantic comedies less sure on their
feet - whose deficiency in wit must be made up for by a surfeit of melodrama
and manipulation. This movie is manipulative too, of course, but its
manipulation is almost beside the point. It's the laughs along the way we
remember here, not the big kiss or the grand embrace. That Harry and Sally
were "meant" for each other and that the film "proves" it is much less
important than the fact that Sally does one hell of a great
orgasm.

Waiter, I'll have what they're having . . .

<|_=00=_|>

Can you beat some of the lines in this film? As a guy, which I am, I
identified with Harry's lines so much, and you can't help but side with him.
The chemistry between the two actors, Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan is superb,
and you believe in them when they talk, you feel for them when they look at
each other. Even the friends are well casted, Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby.
It's such relaxed acting and filming that you do nothing but watch these
people fall in love, and pretty soon you feel like you're involved as well.
With a fantastic soundtrack, direction, script and acting, it's a great
film.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is not just your average chick flick tearjerker romance movie.
I'm sure that a lot of guys can relate to this movie as well.

First of all, there are some hilarious lines in this movie that will appeal
to men and women. Second, the orgasm scene in the restaurant has got to be
one of the funniest scenes in movie history. And finally, the guys will be
cheering on Billy Crystal, as he makes love to a LOT of women in this movie.
I really enjoyed this movie, and I'm pretty sure that I am a guy (I'll check
later). 

Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan will remind everyone of their everyday lives in
this true-to-life (and very funny) movie. So guys, don't reject "When Harry
Met Sally..." just because women cried at it. And girls, if you see this
movie, you will probably want to see it another 50 times.

<|_=00=_|>

Aside from freer language and more explicitly sexual humour, When Harry
met
Sally is a very traditional romantic comedy, very much in the mould
established in 1934 by It Happened One Night. Two very different but
evenly-matched people are thrown together by circumstance. They are
initially hostile to one another, but over the course of the film, this
hostility turns to love as their personalities are softened by exposure to
their opposites. Indeed, the central traits of Harry and Sally correspond
very directly to those of Peter and Ellen in IHON - he worldly-wise and
cynical, she spoiled and certain of what's what. Neither of them, it turns
out, is as right or as self-confidant as they believe. What's very modern
about WHMS is its attitude to long-term relationships. It's no longer
enough
for the couple simply to fall in love and live happily ever after. They
must
have a full and real understanding of exactly what, or who, they're
letting
themselves in for. They must also be sexually compatible (hence the
importance of their having slept with one another before they finally get
together).
Within this framework of traditional romance in an unromantic world, WHMS
is
almost perfect. Structurally, there are no gaps or implausibilities. Even
the central coincidence of these people running into each other under
these
circumstances is answered. The short but affecting intermissions of
successful old couples describing their relationships are not only crucial
to the pacing of the film, they also make the point that Harry and Sally
are
just another couple with an unusual and interesting story. There's an
element of luck and coincidence in every successful relationship.
The effectiveness of the film's structure is perhaps best highlighted by
the
soundtrack. There's a perfectly selected Louis Armstrong track for every
phase of their relationship - the soundtrack not only complements the mood
of the film, it comments on the action. The acting is superb, with the two
main protagonists as well as their two foils (Bruno Kirby and Carrie
Fisher)
all giving career-best comic performances. Without such fantastic
performances, it's very possible that the film could have failed: these
are
essentially self-indulgent people, that we sympathise with them and
recognise them is in great measure down to the stars.
Finally, the script is fantastic. Of course nobody really speaks like
that,
but like all great scripts it distills emotions and points of view into a
few lines. And it's funny. The one-liners are still sharp and amusing on
the
twentieth viewing, and the set-pieces are beautifully realised (the orgasm
scene is only the most famous - check out Harry's olympic sex-dream
speech -
"Must have been the dismount" - or the "I'm through making a schmuck out
of
myself" phone call).
All this, and a dinner party talking point about male and female
relationships. Can we ever be just friends? Not even with an ugly girl?
"Nah, you pretty much want to nail them too."
<|_=00=_|>
"When Harry Met Sally" may not at first seem to be the kind of film
that remains classic and timeless. In this very cute exploration of an
age-old question: "Can men and women truly just be friends?," Billy
Crystal and Meg Ryan play the kind of characters we have come to love
to see them play. No surprises there as they skillfully banter back and
forth between adorable, hysterical and morose as the plot rolls on. But
upon closer inspection, this film is actually full of nice surprises,
including its durability. Watch carefully and you will find one of the
best examples of the way an excellent script can propel the plot,
character development and pacing of a film perfectly from start to
finish. Many lines may seem to be merely entertaining one-liners, but
they also serve these other purposes simultaneously. This is a well
crafted and well acted script. Even the most dated aspect of the film,
the intentional focus on clothing, hair and makeup styles as they
change throughout the decades, has taken an unexpected poignancy now
that the styles we may remember as current at the time have come to be
old-fashioned themselves. The end result is that "When Harry Met Sally"
speaks to us if we remember the times portrayed in the film or not.
We're still asking questions about men and women and friendship, and
films such as this still help us answer them.
<|_=00=_|>

This is Billy Crystal's show.  He has an understated, ordinary, humble
screen presence.  It's not the case that every single line HAS to be funny
in order for us to like him - with Crystal, a joke can fall flat and somehow
it doesn't make him personally look bad.  But here every line IS funny, so
he has charm to burn.

I know people like Meg Ryan - I guess I do, too, in this particular film -
and I know that there are people who find her `orgasm' scene amusing, but
Sally is really just someone for Harry to meet and ultimately fall in love
with.  She's completely clueless.  Most of the jokes are at her expense
rather than his.  The genuine wit, the power of observation, the theoretical
insight, all lie with Harry.  Is this a problem?  Not in the least.  Unlike
most romantic comedies this is not some kind of duel - it's the more
realistic study of many, many separate encounters.

Also unlike most romantic comedies, this one is funny.  I think I mentioned
that.

The film benefits from its second rank support: good performances by Carrie
Fischer and that guy whose name doesn't matter, locations someone actually
went to some trouble to look for, and a song-score that is doesn't intrude
and hit us repeatedly over the head.  Allegedly `When Harry Met Sally' has
been imitated by later productions, but I can't think of a case where the
imitation is accurate enough to even be recognisable.
