
You know you've had a boss like this. Someone who stole your ideas,
used you to advance their career, and did everything to keep you from
getting the credit you deserve. I think of him every time I watch this
movie, and although he got his come-uppance, as such people usually do,
this one is still more satisfying.

Griffith is a little annoying as the giggly secretary with ambition,
but it works. Weaver is the greatest comedic villain since Cruella
DeVil. You know she's going to fall, and she does in more ways than
one. While she's mending broken bones from a ski trip, her secretary
finds a memo capitalizing on her idea the boss had pooh-poohed as a
"secretary's notion."

In her boss's absence, Tess (Griffith) uses her boss's name, her
office, her home, even her clothes, to break into the rarefied New York
mergers and acquisitions world. She even falls for the boss's
boyfriend.

Alas, the boss is a fast healer and comes home early. She finds an
entry in her secretary's day planner, and it hits the fan.

It's hard to believe this gem was written by the same writer who
inflicted Meet Joe Black on us, but we can forgive him. Harrison Ford
is at the top of his game as the boyfriend, but Joan Cusack almost
walks away with this one, as usual. Joan is the best comedic supporting
actress around. 

Weaver has one of the the greatest one-liners of all time. When asked
if she's sure her boyfriend will propose, she says "We're in the same
city now. I've indicated I'm receptive to an offer. I've cleared the
month of June. And I am, after all, me." 

The go-go 80's may be long gone, along with the power suits, the BIG
hair, the Perrier, and the bull market, but this hilarious and
heartwarming comedy still works without relying on nostalgia or
sentiment!
<|_=00=_|>

Watching Working Girl ten years after its release, it's hard not to
dismiss
it as a dated satire of the corporate world of the 1980's. At the same
time,
that's part of the movie's charm.
Even though ten years has made the costumes, hair, and production design
irritating, the charm and intelligence of Mike Nichols' Cinderella story
still shine through. As does the quality of the performances, which are
also
revealing a decade later. Harrison Ford makes a perfectly likable romantic
lead while Alec Baldwin and Kevin Spacey offer amusingly smarmy comic
performances. But the actresses walk away with the movie. Joan Cusack is
hilarious in a scene-stealing turn as a Staten Island secretary, and
Sigourney Weaver is great as a shrewd and conniving career woman. The
brilliance of Weaver's performance is how slyly and genuinely she plays
her
villianous character, often decieving the audience as she decieves the
characters in the movie. And finally there is Melanie Griffith who gave a
star-is-born performance as the big-haired secretary who falls in love
with
Ford's merger specialist and smartly climbs her way up the corporate
ladder
after Weaver stabs her in the back.
Griffith earned an Oscar nod for this performance (as did Cusack and
Weaver
for theirs) and it's a testament to how funny, sexy, and wonderful she is
in
the part that even after numerous flops and odd career moves, she's still
a
well-known movie star ten years later (For an opposite side at this
scenario
look at Jennifer Beals in Flashdance or Jennifer Grey in Dirty Dancing,
both
of whom became big stars and then fell off the face of the earth).
Nichols'
direction is smart, as is Kevin Wade's clever screenplay, and the light
and
funny romantic comedy leads up to a surprisingly suspenseful and
enormously
satisfying climax. All-in-all, a satisfying and amusing
entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
It's up there with any of screwball comedies of the 30s... Carole
Lombard, Jean Arthur, Margaret Sullivan. a modern classic...and that's
not hyperbole!

I've been watching this movie every now and again for almost 20 years
(ye gads!), and it's always entertaining. Tonight, I noticed how
effective and subtle an actress Melanie Griffith can be when she's
directed well. She's a real jewel in this film. Sweet, sexy, smart with
a "brain for business and a bod for sin". Mike Nichols clearly loved
filming her. Her expressions are priceless. Watch for the wonderful
scene when Harrison Ford and she are walking to the elevator and he's
asking her out. That face of hers as the elevator doors close is just
heavenly. That's Mike Nichols craft/artistry.

Sigourney Weaver also does a masterful job as a two-faced shark
business woman. What's so wonderful about her character, the writing,
is that Katherine doesn't have a conscience. She's crafty and slick and
manipulative, but she's not out to hurt anyone, just put herself first.
It's too bad if anyone get's in her way. She's not nasty, but there is
no question that she is the most important person in the universe. It's
interesting, too, how her duplicity is reflected in her wardrobe. Most
of the professional women in the movie are dressed in
ultra-conservative boxy business attire, but Katherine/Sigourney
dresses sophisticatedly and elegantly. She knows how to play both
sides, the professional yet still sexy professional. She's so powerful
in herself that she doesn't feel like she has to dress like a man just
because she's in a male- dominated career (mergers/acquisitions). yes,
she's a monster/ogre, but as she states, "This is BUSINESS".

Harrison Ford is his usual witty, slightly befuddled nice guy. He's the
James Stewart of the baby boomer generation.

Joan Cusack is a phenomenon with her iridescent eye-shadow and Bozo
hairdo. I think has the funniest line in the movie-a warning to Tess:
"You know, sometimes I sing and dance around the apartment in my
underwear. Doesn't make me Madonna....never will". that's rich.

Look for Ricki Lake at the wedding.

I put this movie in the same category as Moonstruck, Educating Rita,
Shirley Valentine. Transformation movies. I suppose you could call them
modern day Cinderella Stories, but it's more about the women saving
themselves as opposed to waiting for Prince Charming.

It's a pleasure to see this movie. I hope you enjoy it as much as I do.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a fabulous movie. Maybe not rocket science, but clever enough!
It has an engaging plot, an extremely empathetic heroine, a villainous
boss, a cheatin' boyfriend, and a handsome new love interest just
stepping into the picture. Get your popcorn ready for the comeuppance
story of a lifetime.

The tale revolves around a smart secretary named Tess McGill, who wants
to get ahead in the Big Apple but is beaten down by her nasty boss,
Katherine, who steals her ideas and passes them off as her own. Fortune
smiles on Tess when Katherine breaks her leg during a skiing holiday
and Tess is able to 'take charge'...that is, until her boss, who
recovers all too quickly, returns. Of course there is also a romance
brewing here in the form of a handsome investment banker named Jack
Trainer, who just happens to be her boss's boyfriend.

Harrison Ford is his typical dashing, magnetic self in the role of Jack
Trainer, but it is the two ladies that make this movie. Signourey
Weaver is absolutely villainous as an employee's 'worst nightmare'
boss, a lady (no, not a lady) high up the corporate ladder, but lacking
any semblance of integrity or kindness toward anyone below her in that
ladder. You will be itching to see this nasty snob get her comeuppance.

Above all, Melanie Griffith is brilliant in the role of Tess, every
viewer's favorite downtrodden secretary. She's a woman with all the
intelligence and skills needed to succeed in the corporate world, but
is ill used by those above her who put her down. Many employees out
there will identify with Tess, having at some point in their lives been
ill treated by a boss, whether male or female, with at least shades of
Katherine. Furthermore, Tess will surely gain viewer sympathy regarding
her unfortunate experiences with her sleazy live in lover, Mick.

The scene featuring the Staten Island ferry is beautifully done,
accompanied as it is by Carly Simon's wonderful Oscar winning song,
'Let the River Run'. What an amazing voice! This is really a fantastic,
fun movie. You can't help but love it.
<|_=00=_|>

How can you go wrong with this delightful comedy?  Besides having a great
cast headed by Melanie Griffith, there's Harrison Ford (in one of the rare
romantic comedies that suits his talents), Sigourney Weaver and wonderful
Joan Cusack.  And Olympia Dukakis, Alec Baldwin and Kevin Spacey are in it
too (don't blink)!  A great musical score and Oscar winning song by Carly
Simon, all directed by Mike Nichols, I give this two thumbs up, and a
10!
<|_=00=_|>

With a cast that includes Melanie Griffith, Harrison Ford, Sigourney
Weaver,
Alec Baldwin, Oliver Platt and Kevin Spacey, its a minor miracle Joan
Cusack
got any attention at all.  But she did get attention, and a well-deserved
Oscar nomination.  She is completely hysterical and is one of the best
reasons to see this fairy tale set against the big bad world of Wall
Street.
Her best scene is when she masquerades as Melanie's secretary and makes an
offer to Harrison "Coffee, Tea, Me"?
<|_=00=_|>
A pure fantasy served up by Mike Nichols, but a vastly entertaining
one.

Melanie Griffith is the secretary with massive hair who pretends to be
a corporate business woman when her boss is layed up with a broken leg.
The catch is, she finds out she's pretty good at it, and things get
complicated when she ends up spearheading a business deal and falling
in love with her key partner (Harrison Ford), all the while trying to
keep what she's doing from her boss (Sigourney Weaver). It's the kind
of movie that could just as easily have been made as a screwball comedy
in the 1940s, perhaps with Barbara Stanwyck in the lead role.

The film is a classic in its own small way, one of the best comedies to
emerge from the 1980s. Griffith is matched well with her role, so her
limitations as an actress don't draw too much attention to themselves.
But it's Weaver who steals the show as Griffith's imperious boss. She's
a riot as a confident and powerful career woman from hell. And Joan
Cusack steals a few scenes of her own as Griffith's best friend and
fellow secretary, who sports hair as big as Griffith's and a Joisy
accent to boot.

Nichols knows how to direct a comedy so that the funny bits speak for
themselves.

Grade: A
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not a notable Melanie Griffith fan by any means but it must be said
that she is brilliantly cast in the role of the small time heroine in
the Big Apple. Harrison Ford is surprisingly effective as the
hunk-on-a-stick; it is not surprising in the slightest bit that
Sigourney Weaver is an effectively insidious megalomaniac bitch. This
is also the first in a slew of flicks for Joan Cusack's long line of
effective supporting girlfriends.

Mike Nicholls is a sharp director and succeeds in not only capturing
the look of the trapping and tawdriness of the free market explosion
but also its unutterably tedious underbelly. Kevin Wade's script is the
snappy dramatic and satirical motor at the film's heart to which
Nicholls defers. A unimpeachable feelgood movie - although I can't help
feeling a sorrow from Nicholls on behalf of his characters who, as in
Billy Wilder's The Apartment remain trapped even after the happy
ending. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly let me say that I'm stunned at the mediocre rating this film
has on this site, secondly I disagree with those users who say the film
is too 80s and hasn't aged well because it's central theme fits into
any time frame, it is in fact universal in life.

On the surface the film appears to only operate purely as a romantic
feel good movie, but scratch away the surface and you find that a great
deal of intelligence is coursing thru the veins of this Mike Nichols
effort. Dealing with the harshness of trying to get on in the world of
business, I found that the film is saying that grit and determination
can get you breaks if you have the brains to seize the opportunity, be
strong and maybe you can prosper, now it may not always be the case
that such endeavours are rewarded, but at least you can say you tried.

A never better Melanie Grifith plays Tess McGill with much heart and
passion, and I'm sure that is in no small part down to the adroit
people skills that director Mike Nicholls obviously has. Sigourney
Weaver & Joan Cusack are equally impressive, with Weaver seeming to
relish the role of dastardly boss woman Katharine Parker, whilst
Harrison Ford is simply spot on as the love interest with the smart
business acumen helping Tess in her quest to make it in the often harsh
world of business.

A film with appeal for both sexes, and this particular macho viewer
punched the air at the end in appreciation for a fitting finale, good
work all round here, 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Right from the opening burst of Carly Simon's magnificent theme song, the
audience is taken on a fairy-tale comedy ride with one working-class girl
and her striving to get ahead in the competitive business world of New
York's money market.

Tess McGill (Melanie Griffiths) is a Staten Island Secretary working for a
pair of sleazy bosses in an uptown New York shares company.  Never once
taking her astute business ideas seriously, they set her up with what she
thinks is a job opportunity, but is really an opportunity for a lecherous
colleague (a then unknown Kevin Spacey) to try and sleep with her. 

Angry, she publicly humiliates them and is fired but a sympathetic Personnel
Director (Olympia Dukakis) puts her to work for a female boss Katherine
Parker(Sigourney Weaver), who works in Mergers and Acquisitions.  Although
apparently helpful and sincere, Tess discovers her new boss has been
stealing some of her ideas and claiming them as her own.  When her boss is
injured in a skiing accident, Tess takes over her office and sets about
putting together a deal with one of her own ideas........

The acting is excellent on all fronts in this picture.  Melanie Griffiths
imbues her character with an increasingly confident but very genuine charm. 
Sigourney Weaver is perfect is her stuck-up, patronising superbitch of a
boss.  Harrison Ford is also on form here as the man in both their lives, a
charming yet almost stuffy man who constantly fears losing his job.  Odd,
however, that he should receive top billing when he only appears about
half-way through the film.

The three leads are given tremendous support in the form of Joan Cusack as
Tess's best friend who fears she is getting left behind in the wave of her
friend's ambition.  Other notable players include Nora Dunn as Katherine's
snooty colleague and Philip Bosco as an industry tycoon, who gets the film's
funniest line at the film's satisfying finale.

The script by Kevin Wade is excellent, with plenty of funny one-liners and
double-entendres.  His portrayal of office life may seem a little bit too
romantic at times, in spite of the rich business detail with which he imbues
it, but this a comedy so this is entirely forgivable.

The whole movie is wonderfully accentuated by a rousing score.  Carly
Simon's theme tune beautifully captures the film's themes of hope, ambition
and fair play.

Enjoyable and exhilarating comedy.

