

It's no use. Arguments about the potato-chip thin script, the haphazard
direction and some of the most laughable non-acting ever photographed for
a
film, will prove ineffectual. Such conditions have existed in the realm of
film vehicles for music stars since the genre began, (with some
mind-boggling examples of the worst of the lot offered by every star from
Elvis, to Frankie Avalon, to Vanilla Ice.) What you watch these movies for
is not the deep plots, solid writing or impeccable direction. It's for
those
moments of electricity that leap off the screen, strike you right in the
butt and have you dancing in your theater seat, as the magic of a
performer
at his or her peak, in their heyday, turns a few minutes of film into a
literal celebration of life.

Such is the case with PURPLE RAIN, the one film that, as far as I'm
concerned, effectively captured the raw essence of the good ol' "ME"
Decade.

In a thinly-disguised version of the events that shaped his career and his
life, The Purple One starred as a brilliant songwriter and musician simply
known in Minnesota music circles as "The Kid." There are three distinct
storylines, all of which have been around since Mickey and Judy put on
shows
for the neighborhood. One documents the intensive rivalry existing between
Prince's band and the Time, fronted by the charismatic poseur and
self-described "Lay-deez Man" Morris Day, (who in a satirical and
self-effacing performance, manages to effectively steal every scene he is
in.) The battle is waged nightly at Minneapolis' legendary First Avenue
Club, (where Prince really did get his start with other leading lights
like
Andre Cymone, Jesse Johnson and Morris).

In the second, the two frontmen battle even harder for the affections of
new-girl-in-town Appolonia (Appolonia Kotero, in her debut, and biggest
screen role to date.)

The third reflects "The Kid's" struggle with his inner demons and the
source
of his problems dealing with his career and his personal relationships:
the
volatile, strained marriage between his equally brilliant but tragically
broken father, Francis L. (Clarence Williams III) and headstrong mother
(Olga Karlatos). The scenes between the three of them have provoked
uncontrollable snickers with their over-the-top hystrionics, but those few
moments they work, they do carry an undeniable power, and a window into
"The
Kid's" tortured psyche that fans were only privy to before through the
music.

And ultimately, that is what PURPLE RAIN is all about: the power of music
to
transcend, transform and uplift everything it touches for good or for ill,
though good is ultimately the strongest influence it exudes. Prince's
chart-topping, Oscar winning song score found The Artist at his dazzling
best, and director Magnoli made a wise call including as much
scintillating
concert footage as possible.

The Battle of the Bands sequences are wondrous to behold, with both The
Revolution and The Time at their tightest, loosest and funkiest all at
once.
Even the vocally-deficient, amply-augmented Appolonia 6 (formerly Vanity
6)
sparkles.

The remaining cast all do the best they can with what moments they're
given,
the standouts besides Williams III and Karlatos being the hysterical
rapport
between Day and Time mascot Jerome Benton, and some refreshingly
confrontational moments between "The Kid" and former bandmates Wendy and
Lisa, which threaten at times to edge into the territory of cinema verite,
rather than just popcorn-driven melodrama.

But capturing one of the decade's defining cultural touchstones is the
true
purpose of PURPLE RAIN, and to this day, you can talk to people who can
still remember where they were and what day and time it was the first time
they heard "When Doves Cry." With "1999" running a close second, this was
Prince's masterwork, and even though he still produces material with
flashes
of profane, profound, funk-fueled brilliance, he still has yet to top the
creative bar he raised for himself and everybody else back in 1984.

<|_=00=_|>
A much undervalued film that tells the story of a young musician caught
in an ever-declining spiral of domestic violence.

At times difficult to watch, while Morris Day is portrayed as the
misogynist, Prince as the knight on (motorcycle) steed, he is still
called upon to twice beat a woman as part of the screenplay. That he
can do this and still emerge as a flawed but vindicated hero is credit
to the writing. Prince is so free of ego in this film that not only
does he portray himself as a narcissistic megalomaniac who beats women,
but his most famous song is fictionalised as being written by his
father and Wendy & Lisa. Even further, two of his compositions -
Computer Blue (admittedly the album's weakest track) and Darling Nikki
- are shown as being songs that kill off an audience. Perhaps the only
concession to the Princely ego is a card that lists the (slightly
shorter than Prince) Apollonia as 5'6.

The nearly complete-amateur cast are mainly band members playing
themselves (and reviewers who slate the actors on the terms that
they've never appeared in other movies are completely missing the
point), and do perfectly well under the direction. Morris Day gets most
of the plaudits for his likable ham, though Jerome Benton must also get
credit for bouncing off him well, particularly their stage act, which
is hilarious. Day and Benton even go so far as to make an Abbott and
Costello routine funny, which takes some doing.

Lastly, there's Prince. While I admit to bias, I do actually think he's
a pretty good actor in terms of being able to portray a low-key version
of himself. Acting ISN'T his profession, this was a film made for
entertainment, so anyone pointing out that the guy in the lead role
isn't Robert DeNiro and thinking they're making a point is sadly
deluded. I don't want this review to be a derisory attack of other
people's comments, but I've even this film slated as having a low
budget and being darkly lit. How would a film about domestic violence
be shot, then? With full overhead spotlights and a CGI dinosaur walking
into frame? 

The film acts almost as a perfect snapshot of the neon light and skinny
tie era until you remember that it was actually made in a world of
curly perms and tinny synths, and this isn't some retro-recreation.
Prince's best film with Oscar-winning music, it sees him at his zenith,
and it's saddening to realise that, even though he would make some fine
albums, he would never again capture this high.

Post-Script, July 2016: Seeing this film again, it was clear that I'd
been watching it through Purple-tinted glasses. My original score was
7/10, which is ridiculously high. My revised score of 5/10 stands as
generosity by itself. A genius on record, perhaps... but on film,
definitely not.
<|_=00=_|>
As a big-time Prince fan of the last three to four years, I really
can't believe I've only just got round to watching "Purple Rain". The
brand new 2-disc anniversary Special Edition led me to buy it. Wow, I
was really looking forward to watching it, but I wasn't prepared for
just how electric it actually is. Prince's musical performances
throughout the movie are nothing short of astounding - he REALLY has
the moves in this one. I am very familiar (from repeated listens) with
the classic "Purple Rain" album and all its songs, but to see them in
the context of the movie completely alters your perception of the tunes
and lyrics - like COMPUTER BLUE, THE BEAUTIFUL ONES, WHEN DOVES CRY and
PURPLE RAIN itself. There is something indescribably hypnotising about
the scenes where Prince and The Revolution perform. The closing songs
BABY I'M A STAR and I WOULD DIE FOR U show how much energy and sheer
talent Prince was brimming with in his mid-20s (he's overflowing!), it
blew me away. It even makes Michael Jackson seem inanimate even in his
peak years.

Prince shows you how to win the girl of your dreams - drive her to a
lake, make her jump in, then drive off - absolutely hilarious stuff in
hindsight.

Some of the scenes are very 1980s and unintentionally hilarious but
this adds to the film's overall charm. Morris Day is the coolest cat on
the block (and hilarious), and when his group The Time perform THE BIRD
you get to see Morris Day and Jerome Benton light up the stage
Minneapolis funk style - I love their dancing in this bit, and how
Benton provides Morris with a mirror mid-performance.

I already can't wait to watch it again, I really can't! Extras are
terrific - particularly seeing a young Eddie Murphy pre-Beverly Hills
Cop admit he is a "Prince groupie".
<|_=00=_|>
My girlfriends and I went out last night to our local theater's retro
night. They show movies like pulp fiction, blade runner, and others for
five dollars.

We went out to have dinner and some drinks and caught the 8:00 pm
showing of Purple Rain. Never been much of a Prince fan, but little by
little WE ALL got sucked into the quirky and freaky world that he
painted in this movie. We absolutely enjoyed it and came out of the
movie singing Baby I'm a Star and Take me with you,,,etc. etc.

We went to another dance/bar because we were hyped up to dance after
this movie but we were quickly reminded that that quality of music
doesn't exist within our generation so we made a made dash to some
local stores to try to find the DVD. We were going to literally get it
and go home and PARTY with the movie again. No stores were open but
WALMART so we step in their and didn't find the DVD but found the
soundtrack. We stayed out til 3:00 am driving around downtown in my
girlfriends convertible blasting that whole soundtrack to whoever would
listen.

All I have to say is that the movie made Prince 4 new 20 year old fans!
We all wished we were teens during that era. My god you 30 somethings
are so lucky. Prince, Madonna, U2, Sting, The Police. The music was so
good back then.

Well I just want to share this story to all the original fans out
there. I found the DVD @ borders and will be buying more of his music
SOON.

Might Not Know it Now, But Baby I tell ya I'm A STAR!
<|_=00=_|>

Not terribly different from many of the 1930s-era "backstage musicals,"
Purple Rain sports a contrived plotline that sees Prince (in the film
referred to only as The Kid) battling rival musician Morris Day for the
affections of new-in-town beauty Apollonia and a shot at stardom through a
secure spot on the bill at legendary Minneapolis club First Avenue.  A
secondary narrative thread concerns The Kid's violent home life and his
attempts to protect his mother from his raging, abusive father.  Anyone
looking for nuance and subtlety won't find it in the acting or the
direction, but Prince's stage presence is commanding, and the musical
numbers are electrifying.  The Academy Award winning song score
(irrefutably
one of the best rock albums of the 1980s) and Prince's enigmatic, magnetic
personality are undoubtedly the chief components in Purple Rain's sturdy
cult, but for viewers of the right age, the youthful angst, flip attitude,
and bold sexuality of the film will prove to be irresistibly attractive.

<|_=00=_|>

This electrifying musical has more than a whiff of egotism from it's star,
the musical genius that is Prince. The film is 90 or so minutes of posing
but in truth it is easy to see why it is such a cult classic.

Much like other films that centre around the struggling young musician
trying to be big, this has a hint of drama in it to add a dimension to the
musical numbers. While this film isn't as good as 8 mile as a recent
example, this is entertaining none the less and the soundtrack is much
better.
On the dramatic side of things the story centres around the Kid (Prince) a
young artist and regular spot at a club. The owner of the club is frustrated
with the Kid's arrogance and little does the Kid know that he could soon be
fired and replaced by a rival. One the side the Kid's parents are having
trouble, with his dad abusing her violently. During the course of the film
the Kid learns a few lessons in life, and learns to appreciate his friends
more. It's all stuff we have seen in coming of age dramas of course, but
this is combined as a musical, a very stylised musical.

The cast are good. Prince is actually quite good on the drama side, when
he's not striking a pose. He seems human and relatable. Clarence Williams is
very good as the abusive father as well. Appollonia Kotero makes a good
debut as Princes sexy love interest.

The main strength of the movie however is the superb soundtrack. The musical
numbers are well staged and electrifying. Prince is no doubt a musical
maestro, albeit very eccentric. When he is inspired he is great but on the
flip side he will often do songs that are solely for his own taste, and
occasionally his experimentation can miss-fire, but that is the same for
many musical geniuses. The soundtrack for this film is excellent though,
with only Sexshooter being a weak point. The show-stopping performance of
Purple Rain is the standout though. It is one of my all time favourite
songs. ***


<|_=00=_|>

When I first saw this video in the video store, I didn't know what to make
of it, being from Prince and all. Being an adventurous soul, I rented it
anyway. Good decision! From the very first synthesizer-soaked note of "Let's
Go Crazy," this movie takes hold of your attention, and doesn't let go until
the ending credits. All the music has that '80s new-wave synthesizer sound
goin' for it, but hey, it's an '80s movie! Besides, Prince's songs have a
timeless quality that cannot be ignored. Some people may have their opinions
of the Purple One, and I understand, but as for me, I think he's awesome!
The movie as a whole is cool, with great performances by Morris Day and the
Time, Apollonia (Sex Shooter) 6, and of course, Prince and The Revolution.
Check this one out on a rainy afternoon!
<|_=00=_|>
It seemed as though the year 1984 was anything but the Orwellian
nightmare it was calculated to be with George Orwell's science fiction
novel!! 1984 turned out to be one of the happiest times in American
history!! The upsurge in the economy, and a reemergence in basic
American values, cultivated an idealistic aura of resumed innocence
which was viewed by the American people with a very auspicious
disposition!! There have been many ersatz renditions of classic movies
in the past, but, the originals are almost always considered superior!!
"Purple Rain" is such a movie in this category!! Made in 1984, "Purple
Rain" provided a doggerel of eighties, happy-go-lucky quality music,
which they incorporated into the making of this excellent film!!
Certain artifacts indicative of the eighties are indeed classics!!
Screwball comedies, neon accented clothing, and of course, the music!!
Eighties music is considered by experts to be the best decade for music
in American history!! Set in Minneapolis, "Purple Rain" accommodated
the use of naive entertainment with the changing times of the city.
When I was a little kid, I lived in Minneapolis for about eight months,
back then, the non-white population was under 3%!! By 1984, African
Americans had made some in roads into Minneapolis, and, thus, they
established a firmly embedded culture of their own as well!! The movie
"Purple Rain" evokes an eighties style clothing, and music ensemble,
which effortlessly captivated the movie audience!! I loved the music to
"Purple Rain", and, the innovative approach this film takes to
confrontational success, is indeed, brilliant!! See this movie if you
have not seen it already!! Prince became an eighties icon with this
masterpiece!! For a short time, he dated Kim Bassinger, he must be
doing something right!! "Purple Rain" put Prince on the map!! This film
gets my emphatically assertive verdict of THUMBS UP!!!!
<|_=00=_|>

So there I am at the Landmark Uptown Theater in Minneapolis about a mile
away from the legendary First Avenue nightclub.  It is midnight and they are
showing Purple Rain on the big screen.  I sit patiently in my usual seat
(fifth row, center, one seat to the right) waiting for this movie from my
youth to come on.  The lights dim and the Paramount mountain and stars
appear and then it starts.  `Dearly beloved; we are gathered here today' 
Then it cuts to Prince up on stage.  The title `Purple Rain' appears across
the front with Prince behind it.  You can almost smell the smoke in First
Avenue because the song inspires me to remember back to my MTV days.  When
Prince says `Go Crazy!' a couple of girls run to the front of the theater
and start dancing.  I almost felt like getting up there with them but I was
much too shy.

This is a badly acted film with a decent story but it's true strength is the
energy it conveys through it's music.  That opening number is makes you feel
so many things and that's what we go to the movies for.  To feel.  My
favorite song in the film is probably `Take Me With You'.  Whenever I hear
it, I always think of Prince and Apallonia facing each other and singing
together.  We all have those songs that take us somewhere special.  `Take Me
With You' is mine.

<|_=00=_|>

Ok, so it may not be the award-winning "movie of the year" type-film (apart
from the brilliant soundtrack that I think won a few awards), but it is a
really great film about 'The Kid' (Prince / O( take your pick) and the
happenings around him living in Minneapolis, playing his music. The music
is
absolutely superb, in my opinion you HAVE to own this soundtrack, it is
truly a classic and sums up the eighties sounds and feel in a wonderful
fashion. And the movie itself plays out a nice plot, it's worth seeing over
and over again, espeically if you like Prince / O (which I do) of
course.
