
This is one of my favorite movies. A strange mixture of seemingly
unintentional humor , macabre plot twists, and the charm of off-season
Provincetown. I wouldn't call it a drama. HILARIOUS. Patty L. is a real
overdone nostril flaring trailer park siren. Ryan O'Neil seems to play
the straight man to everyone else. I don't know how he maintained such
a bland facade - I guess that's his style. He mostly stood around
looking haggard, and so managed to provide something like a foil for
all the circus freaks. At one point in the beginning of the film during
a scene with his hard drinking crustacean of a father (L. T. is great),
I thought I saw something like a suppressed smile cross the faces of
both actors - a great moment that I'm sure was totally unintentional.
Who wouldn't crack under the weight of all the corny dialoge? Contains
the funniest dad and son out "fishing" in the rowboat at night scene
ever filmed. I can still hear the foghorns. Despite all the corniness,
its all somehow...so...mesmerizing....
<|_=00=_|>

When Lawrence Tierney utters the line that gives Tough Guys Don't Dance
its
title, he evokes the stoic, hard-boiled codes of post-war noir, felt in
films he made like Born to Kill, The Bodyguard and The Devil Thumbs A
Ride.
And when Isabella Rossellini shows up, she suggests David Lynch's kooky
and
subversive Reagan-era suspense movies like Blue Velvet.  These homages
mark
two of the many streams that flow into Norman Mailer's  rhapsody on themes
of sexual intrigue, multi-tiered duplicity and garish murders.  (Mailer
directed his movie from his 1984 novel.)  It's a baroque contraption that
comes close to self-parody - and may even cross the threshold - but
neither
is it just a fling at film making by a celebrity author intoxicated by his
own publicity.

The forlorn setting is Cape Cod under the sign of Sagittarius: the dunes
and
the bars empty, and the Atlantic is choppy and gunmetal grey.  Ex-con Ryan
O'Neal (his boyish superstardom well behind him) has been drinking heavily
since his wealthy if white-trash wife (Debra Sandlund) left him; one
morning
he wakes to find a tattoo on his arm and his jeep's upholstery soaked in
blood.  Circumstances lead him to a burrow where he stashes his marijuana
harvest; in it he finds the severed heads of his wife and a woman he had
picked up (along with her boyfriend) a few nights before.

The clues he starts piecing together lead him back down paths that wend
through his own none-too-savory past.  There's the out-of-town `couple'
with
whom he had spent a hard-drinking night (Frances Fisher and R. Patrick
Sullivan); a woman he had once loved (Rossellini) now married to
Provincetown's sadistic Chief of Police (Wings Hauser); another woman he
had
met when she was married to a wife-swapping Christian preacher (Penn
Jillette) and who later wed a rich, spoiled Southern boy (John Bedford
Lloyd) then, ultimately, O'Neal, whom she recently left.  Helping him find
his way is his gruff, cancer-ridden father (Tierney).

What plot line there is hangs on cocaine (maybe) and several millions, but
that's but a pretext for Mailer to worry the preoccupations, even
obsessions, which crop up again and again in his work, most notably the
yin/yang of eroticism and violence.  The women come across as predatory
sirens but end up being almost beside the point - they're prizes for
sexual
competition between males, conflict that shades into edgy attraction,
right
up to taunting flirtation.  (The movie is loaded with homosexual
references,
generally pejorative - the bisexual boyfriend is even given the name
`Pangborn' - and the continuum of couplings, both on screen and in the
back
story, results in a very kinky daisy chain in which everybody save Tierney
might just as well have slept with everybody else.  Mailer comes close to
suggesting that two men who have slept with the same woman share an
implicit
homosexual relationship themselves.)

Coming to Tough Guys Don't Dance expecting anything like a conventional
suspense film (even something `post-' or `neo-') is to court
disappointment.
One comes for Mailer, who's like the little girl with the curl right in
the
middle of her forehead: When he's good, he's very, very good, but when
he's
bad, he's horrid.  How the proportions weight out in this movie can be
argued, but adventurous and provocative nuggets nestle among some very bad
choices (the acting runs the gamut from rather good to execrable, often
within the same performance).  Caveat spectator: wildly uneven and
sometimes
grotesquely macho, Tough Guys Don't Dance is far from negligible.


<|_=00=_|>
There are a lot of people who really hate this movie. Then strangely
they go on and on detailing the things that bother them about it but
that they also find fascinating and relentlessly hypnotic.

It's unfortunate that people are so rigid in their definition of what
makes a 'good' movie.

Norman Mailer is by no means a terrible director. He actually does a
very credible and commendable job of adapting his own novel to the
screen. The dialogue is at times overblown and purplish, but it is
never boring and frequently it's downright brilliant.

Every performer acquits themselves well, even Debra Sandlund as Patty
Laureine, Wings Hauser as the sociopathic macho police chief and John
Bedford Lloyd as the eccentric, messed-up millionaire, all of whom can
be accused of overacting. But ultimately their performances are
completely in tune with their insane characters and draw us into a
nasty labyrinth of twisted emotions and nightmarish memories. Ryan
O'Neal actually gives one of his finest performances as an alcoholic
loser who has messed up his life and who is so prone to blackouts, he's
not even sure if he's killed someone. Lawrence Tierney is excellent as
his tough guy dad who helps him make sense of the chaos in their
small-shut-up-for-the-winter-and-consequently-spooky-as-hell
Provincetown coastal neighborhood. Isabella Rossellini is also great in
what appears to be an, at first impression, thankless role, but who in
fact turns out to be the character who gets the last word and the best
revenge.

The great thing about this film is it manages to have its cake and eat
it, too. It's not only an at times very creepy modern film noir, it's
also a frequently hilarious black comedy. Also, contrary to some
people's perceptions, the film has a complex narrative structure that
pulls the viewer in, much like the best mysteries. If you go in not
expecting a conventional mystery thriller but more of a cross between
David Lynch, Roman Polanski, Jules Feiffer, Hal Ashby and maybe Arthur
Penn(when he directed NIGHT MOVES), I guarantee you you will not be
disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>

I always quote this as one of my two favorite movies (the other being "The
Ninth Configuration").  Like that film, it's unpolished, awkward and
brilliant.

Ryan O'Neal, a brilliant empty vessel, as in "Barry Lyndon", is the perfect
receptical for Mailer's essentially passive protagonist.  Grotesque,
awkwardly paced and fascinating, this should be considered manditory
viewing.

Mailer's hand is so heavy and the film feels so writerly that the
experience
is play-like and unusual.  This exploratory quality is to be hugely prized
(see "Kids", "Ninth Configuration", "Safe", "Dancer in the Dark" to see
vastly different but equally praiseworthy examples of what can happen when
Hollywood outsiders are allowed access to decent budgets and
distribution).
<|_=00=_|>

If you have an insatiable appetite for movies and want to get into
something
unusually tasty then serve yourself this movie tonight!

Important sidebar:  if you've already read a critique posted on this site
that nay-sayed this piece please do yourself a favor and etch-a-sketch that
memory away. Though well-worded, Jack Sommersby's review of Tough Guys
Don't
Dance is just as equally misguided. For instance, the same gentleman who
waxes that he was summarily summoned into Sleepyville three times before he
was capable of viddying this work from beginning to end also asserts that
it
is a film that "you can't quite take your eyes off of." Believe me, you
won't have a problem making more than "a bit of sense" from this mixture of
the twisted, oddball and suspenseful. In fact even Doctor Dunderhead
couldn't help but sleepwalk into a bit of truth when he characterized this
Norman Mailer pastiche as "perversely fascinating." You don't need to know
Jack to dig this flick the first time through, and you may find yourself
revisiting it soon afterwards haunted by its savage and sublime
reverbations.

This movie is a MUST SEE for film fans. Ryan O'Neal steps out from under
typecasting--which has rendered him ineffective in much of his work--to
engage in an often upsetting, yet somehow casual dance with the devil. He,
Lawrence Tierney and Wings Hauser serve up sumptuous performances. All the
while the supporting cast provides color, depth and character to a plot
that
is as unnerving as it is both captivating and entertaining.

Ignore Sir Superlative Sommersby's slight of hand and rent this movie! If
I'm wrong then blast me back herein. On the other hand, if you like what
you
see then do me a favor and explain to me what the last phrase of Jaded
Jack's review means--"rendering us helpless under power to disturb"!?! In
the meanwhile, fellow movie devotee, keep on dancing.
<|_=00=_|>

If you view it in the right frame of mind , it is one of the most
perversely
funny films ever made.  Completely over the top. It's hard to see how
anyone
ever could try to view it as a serious example of film noir.  In reality
it
is an acid-washed satire of the genre.  And Lawrence Tierney rocks in
anything he does.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, now that I have your attention, I don't guarantee that you will
rate this the 7/10 I do, even if you qualify as an intelligent and
advanced film buff. However, I do believe you will find something to
chew on here.

It's written and directed by noted author Norman Maileer. And it's
tough in every meaning of the word.

The rough plot sounds like a rather typical noir. An excessively
drinking author given to memory blackouts doesn't know if he committed
a murder or not.

Believe me, it's not that simple and Mailer takes us down a long
winding and convoluted path before we know the whole story. At times,
it seems ludicrous, and although I disagree with the Razzie noms it
got, I understand. This is the type of movie which some will find
inexorably bad.

However, it weaves a spell and the tough will stay with it because it's
addictive. You will laugh at inappropriate times and groan sometimes,
and yet the very serious film buff will continue watching it, and be
glad he/she did. And I do believe that many will find this rewarding
although certainly not unflawed. Maybe Mailer wanted it flawed.

As others mentioned, Wings Hauser is the perfect actor in this.
However, Ryan O'Neal gave this his all, and veteran B film noir actor
Lawrence Tierney also adds to this.

Some will love it; some will hate it. I did neither, but I did enjoy
it. There was a point, the chain connecting the characters in their sex
lives and in the chain of violence.

Love it or hate it, I suspect you will remember this one and not
consider it a waste of time.
<|_=00=_|>
Writers, be they Philip Roth or Jacqueline Susann, invariably complain
about how Hollywood makes a mess of their work when bringing it to the
screen. Norman Mailer was different. Rather than let Hollywood ruin the
movie version of his novel "Tough Guys Don't Dance," he chose to ruin
it himself. That his movie has the ingredients to be a camp classic yet
still falls short is all you need to know about Mailer's skills as a
director.

And yet Mailer comes so close to making this disaster enjoyable. Just
the dialog alone — an awkward mix 1940s gangster patois, writerly
pretensions and gutter vulgarity, usually combined in a single sentence
— should make this a must-see. The dialog doesn't sound like it would
ever be uttered by actual people yet it's highly quotable (though not
here). The only movies I've seen that refer to male genitalia as much
as this one were gay porn videos, which is kind of surprising given the
gay panic coursing through "Tough Guys" (second only to the misogyny).
Or maybe it's not so surprising.

The cast of "Tough Guys Don't Dance" does its part to turn Mailer's
movie into campy fun. Ryan O'Neal pounds the last nail into the coffin
of his career as Tim Madden, the alcoholic would-be writer who can't
quite remember if he's responsible for all the blood in his Jeep or the
head buried with his marijuana stash. Though I kept thinking Nicolas
Cage would've been so much more fun, O'Neal is actually effective in
the role. Too bad his performance can't overcome that awful "oh god oh
man" moment on the beach. A miscast Isabella Rossellini delivers her
lines as if embarrassed to say them, but in her defense she does have
to say things like: "He must have the biggest c—k in all Christendom."
If Elizabeth Berkley of "Showgirls" fame were to play Maggie in a
dinner theater production of "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof" it might look
something like Debra Sundland's portrayal of Madden's money-hungry
ex-wife Patty Lareine. And yet Sundland is never quite that awesome.
John Bedford Lloyd plays the part of Patty Lareine's bisexual
ex-husband Wardley like a Southern belle suffering from a case of the
vapors, so maybe it's perfectly natural that he would use a word like
"imbroglio". But it's Wings Hauser who steals the show as the lunatic
Capt. Alvin Luther Regency, the police chief—and seemingly the town's
sole law enforcement officer—breathing down Tim's neck. Hauser doesn't
chew the scenery; he unhinges his jaw and swallows it whole. Only
Lawrence Tierney, as Madden's father Dougy, emerges from this movie
with his dignity intact.

With a director blinded by ego, over-written dialog and over-the-top
acting, "Tough Guys" should be in the same league as "The Oscar," "The
Concorde-Airport '79" and the remake of "The Wicker Man." But with the
exception of Hauser's performance, it never quite takes off to such
giddy lows. It's a movie that's more fun to talk about than actually
watch. I remember reading an article about the making of this movie in
the late '80s, the lurid plot description – sex! drugs! violence! –
enough to make me seek it out when released on video. I was profoundly
disappointed. I expected trash, but I didn't expect it to be boring. I
re-watched it recently and while I found it more entertaining, I was
still disappointed. But Mailer didn't make this movie to please me, or
anyone else. As made clear by trailer to his movie, in which the
smirking author/auteur reads the scathing comment cards from test
screenings, Mailer doesn't care what you think. The only opinion that
matters is his, and in his own opinion "Tough Guys Don't Dance" is a
good movie. You're just too dumb to appreciate genius.
<|_=00=_|>
The story revolves around Tim Madden, a writer and ex-con.He has to
deal with two heads of women he knew.The problem is he can't remember
if he is the killer or not.Tough Guys Don't Dance (1987) is a Norman
Mailer direction, and he also wrote the book.The movie was a flop, even
getting some Rasberry awards.The actors do a decent job.It has Ryan
O'Neal as Tim Madden.Lawrence Tierney is his father Dougy.Isabella
Rossellini plays Madeleine Regency.Wings Hauser is her husband Capt.
Alvin Luther Regency.Debra Sandlund plays Patty Lareine.Penn Jillette
portrays Big Stoop.Frances Fisher plays the part of Jessica Pond.I read
Mailer's original novel, written in 1984, before seeing the movie.I
must say the novel is better, but the movie isn't a huge failure.It
does fail to be a great movie, though, but it could be a lot worse.I
guess the biggest weakness of the movie is the lack of likable
characters.There are all these killers and junkies, and it's very hard
to like those people.The main character may have some good qualities,
though.But anyway, if you've got nothing better to do, you can watch
this movie.Maybe you even like it a bit.
<|_=00=_|>
The passage of time (now 1/28/11) heals all wounds. This flick may have
been a laughing stock after release in 1987 but the passage of time has
added new dimensions enabling the viewer to see it again from many
different angles; one of which is the involvement of Norman Mailer who
now possesses the mystical aura of a great artist post mortem. The
campy acting and over the top attempts at noir now actually enhance
this film. As a bonus there is the Cape Cod filming location with some
wonderful views of the Cape in winter. The plot is complicated and
almost rises to the level of a good screwball comedy although in this
case the comedy is definitely black. Lots of bodies to be moved from
place to place as the characters frantically try to stay one step ahead
of whatever is threatening them at the moment. In the end, all is
satisfactorily resolved and each character has been dealt with
appropriately by fate. I thought that the last five minutes contained
some of the best black comedy I've ever seen, all topped off by the
happy fairy tale ending.
