

The first part of this movie, showing Eddie Murphy's life as an African
prince, is one of the funniest things I have ever seen. I loved it. The
wedding ceremony alone was so funny, I almost fell out of my chair from
laughing so hard. I thought this could be one of the funniest movies of all
time. 

At about the halfway point, though, it stops being a laugh-a-minute riot,
and kind of settles down into more of a quiet romance movie. The scene at
the basketball game (with the man who worships Murphy) is the last really
hilarious thing that happens. After that, it never again reaches the energy
of the beginning. 

This is not really a bad thing, though: it is still enjoyable from start to
finish, even during the quiet parts. It has good actors, and it is fun to
watch, and that makes it a great movie. I highly recommend it; it is one of
my favorite comedies. I give it 8 out of 10 stars. See it if you
haven't.
<|_=00=_|>
I once used to be a fan of Eddie Murphy and his movies, but in recent
years the only one of "his" movies that I loved was 'Shrek'. He's
excellent as the voice of Donkey, but the rest of his movies aren't
exactly the best examples of fine humor (think of movies like 'The
Nutty Professor'). It's a good thing that from time to time you can
still see one of his older ones on the television, so you won't forget
that the man really has some talent.

In this movie Eddie Murphy plays, most of the time, the role of Prince
Akeem of Zamunda. On his 21st birthday he'll have to marry a woman he
has never seen before. Because he isn't too happy with that and because
he wants a wife that can do more than doing exactly what he tells her
to do (like for instance barking like a dog), he decides to go to
America to find the love of his life. The only problem is that the girl
shouldn't love him for his title and his money, but for his
personality. At first all he gets is a big culture shock, but
eventually he'll find a girl he really likes...

This movie is really one of the funniest Eddie Murphy has ever made. It
has a good story and offers plenty of laughs, but this isn't a comedy
full of toilet humor and may therefor seem dated to the youngest
viewers (let's say those who were born in the nineties). Personally I
really appreciated the fact that not all humor was about farting,
vomiting and other bodily functions, but perhaps that's just me,
perhaps I'm just getting too old to understand today's humor (almost 27
right now). 

There are some excellent parts in the movie (I really love those old
men at the barber shop for instance) and overall the quality is high
enough to enjoy the entire movie. That's why I give it a 7.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>

After several years of starring in rowdy action comedies and con man capers,
Eddie Murphy gets a chance to deliver a more restrained performance with
this film and he manages to do so very well. Murphy portrays Akeem, an
African prince who is being pressured into a forced marriage by his parents
(James Earl Jones, Madge Sinclair). The woman that they have chosen for him
only sees him for his royalty and therefore does not really love him. Akeem
sees this right away and brings his loyal servant, Semi (Arsenio Hall) along
with him on a discreet mission to America where Akeem hopes to find a
beautiful woman who will love him and accept him for who he really is and
not just see him for his royalty. Posing as "common folk", Akeem and Semi
get jobs at a McDonald's style restaurant and Akeem soon falls for the
daughter (Shari Headley) of the restaurant's owner (John Amos). The film
features many hilarious scenes and characters especially a group of boxing
obsessed senior citizens who spend their days arguing with a barber shop
owner. Murphy and Hall demonstrate their levels of versatility by managing
to go under heavy makeup and portray several different costarring roles. Yet
another example of why Murphy is one of the funniest actors in recent
Hollywood history.
<|_=00=_|>
If "Trading Places" is Dan Ackroyd's greatest movie, then "Coming to
America" is Eddie Murphy's greatest movie, and for much the same
reasons. Although the movie may be considered a comedy, and indeed has
its humorous moments, its theme is quite serious. For it's about a man
who is willing to sacrifice money, privilege, power, and position in
quest for personal happiness. This is a powerful role and Eddie Murphy
is great in this role. This movie is proof that when given the chance,
a comic actor like Eddie Murphy is capable of playing a complex
character that is central to a story. The producers of this movie
evidently knew that in Eddie Murphy they had a actor around whom they
could create an excellent movie, and with this movie they prove they
were right.
<|_=00=_|>

COMING TO AMERICA (1988) *** Eddie Murphy, Arsenio Hall, James Earl Jones,
Madge Sinclair, Shari Headley, John Amos, Eriq La Salle, Louie Anderson.
Murphy does a fine job as an African prince unhappy about his upcoming
nuptials to a woman he has never met so he sets off to New York to find
his
true love (and queen) with some sweet moments as well as comic (thanks
largely to his and Hall's neat hat trick of playing several different
characters thanks to the miracle of Rick Baker's make up).  Look sharply
for
Vondie Curtis Hall (of tv's "Chicago Hope") as an overly welcoming fellow
native stateside; Cuba Gooding Jr. in a blink-and-you'll miss cameo
(getting
a haircut) and the clever inserting of Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy as the
Randolph Brothers from Murphy's and director John Landis' previous joint
effort "Trading Places".  Best bit: Murphy becoming a real New Yorker and
greeting a screaming abusive neighbor with "Yes! Yes! ... and F**K YOU
TOO!!!" 
<|_=00=_|>

It must take a lot of hard work to play multi characters film,and
the
hard work of Eddie Murphy and Arsenio Hall really pay off.They take
a
very unique idea for a film,play most of the characters in it,and
the
results are nothing short of hilarious.Murphy plays (among
others),
Prince Akeem of Zumunda.Akeem,discouraged with the arranged
marriage
tradition of his beloved country,seeks to find the true meaning of
love
in America.The typical fish out of water style here is worked
to
perfection by Murphy,as well as Hall.Also excellent are James
Earl
Jones(as always),and Madge Sinclair as King Jaffe and Queen
Aoleon,
Akeem's parents.Jones and Sinclair would later portray husband and
wife
again 6 years later,as the parents of Simba in The Lion King,a
little
trivia for those of you who may not have known.There is a clever
tie-in
involving Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy,portraying their characters
from
another Murphy film,Trading Places.A unique story,great character
acting
and a great supporting cast make Coming to America great fun to
watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Coming to America centers on the story of young prince, set up for an
arranged marriage. He leaves his home in Africa to find a woman that he
can truly love. Like all good tales, this one has already been told
many times. It covers how a newcomer must adjust to a new culture,
including encountering difficulties in the romance department, and
fathers who just don't understand. This is all done to comedic effect,
but not without romantic and dramatic overtones, to the credit of all
involved.

I could watch this movie every week (actually, I have been lately,
since it's on CINEMAX). The writing and direction was fantastic, the
film is perfectly paced, with constant sight gags and witty repartee.
The film works because actors selected have great timing.

Eddie Murphy (Akeem, et al) is quite versatile as the lead. He's in his
very best form, earnest when he needs to in this feel-good comedy, with
on-point comic timing.

Shari Headley (Lisa McDowell), she's level headed, perfect in
delivering outrage and frustration as well as contentment and laughter.

Allison Dean (Princess in "Cool as Ice") as Patricia is not only hot, I
love her nappturality hair styles. (Shari's got some nice ones too).
Allison ideally portrays the jilted, petulant, and gold-digging little
sister.

Eriq La Salle (Darryl) is the outlandish villain you can actually feel
sorry for. His Jeri curl, damn, it's atrocious.

Arsenio Hall (Semmi, et al) was a great, smarmy, sidekick.

I could go on and on. The supporting cast, from James Earl Jones (King
Jaffe Joffer) and Madge Sinclair (Queen Aoleon) to Frankie Faison
(Landlord) and Samuel L. Jackson (hold-up guy), are spectacular.

Every time I watch it again, I find something new. I enjoyed it when I
was younger, but now I like it even more.
<|_=00=_|>
Eddie Murphy is the Prince of Zamunda, he is very wealthy and very
pampered. When he refuses to marry the bride his father has arranged
for him, he goes to Queens to find his queen. With his closest
companion (Arsenio Hall) they try to blend in with the everyday people
of New York, taking jobs as cleaners in a local burger bar.

The entire film is packed with slick gags, hilarious characters and
delightful parody. Coming to American is a romantic comedy that
entertains you again and again, and Eddie Murphy is on top form
throughout.

Recommended 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

I had to buy it on DVD... I saw this movie about 100 time on VHS and I
felt
this movie has to make part of my "digital-collection". I saw it first
time
in theatre in the out-coming-year and the gags influenced my whole youth.
Even nowadays (I'm 27 years old) I often talk about this movie with my
friends. I simply love it like all the Eddie-Movies till and including
"Boomerang".

Where's the spoon? Aha...........
<|_=00=_|>
This Eddie Murphy comedy was somewhat funny at times, but I don't
know...for me it missed the mark. Started out relatively strong, but
faded in the end when it got a bit to sentimental, which admittedly a
lot of comedies tend to do. The story has Murphy as a Prince who is to
be married to a woman who has been groomed to be his bride by following
his every command. Eddie's character does not want this though, he
yearns to find real love so he is off to America a place where not
everyone knows who he is to find Mrs. Right as it were. He gets a job
as a worker at a McDonald's rip off type joint (which to me is the
funniest parts of the movie) and falls for the daughter of the man who
runs this establishment all the while keeping his identity as a prince
a secret. Arsenio is rather good as his faithful traveling companion as
is most of the cast. They are not the problem, the fact this movie
tends to lag is. Slow lengths of the film where there is not all that
much funny stuff going on, the movie is under two hours, but feels more
like a two and a half hour movie. I say I would have liked it more had
they trimmed it down ten or so minutes and kept the laughs going
throughout the whole movie as they were the first part of it.
