

I can't explain why, but this movie captivates me. I had never seen or
even
heard of it, and bought it from a video store that was going out of
business. And I am glad that I did.

For some reason this movie stirrs emotion for me. and the last line at the
end, well, you'll see, if you see the film.

If you have a chance to rent this movie, do so. Even if you don't get the
charge out of it I did, you will at the very least, be
entertained.

I recommend it. 7 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
All the other posters make good points, but the one they miss is that
this is first, last and simply, pure Milius. If you don't know who John
Milius is you probably do not read movie credits. John Milius is a
screen writer and director. Kind of a cult figure. His stock in trade
is manly virtue. His detractors would use the term "macho", but that is
too derogatory. Movies you may have see by him are, "Wind and the Lion,
Red Dawn, Conan the Barbarian, Jeremiah Johnson, Clear and Present
Danger, The Rough Riders, Apocalypse Now, Magnum Force, Dirty Harry,
Life and Times of Judge Roy Bean. See a pattern here? 

Every one of the above movies deals with male relationships, honor,
loyalty, fall and redemption. Romance relationships take a back seat to
the relationships between the male characters, be they protagonists or
antagonists. Jeramiah Johnson is a great example of this and shares
many theme similarities with Farewell to the King.

Milius the director's sense of honor transcends the norm and
underscores his reputation as a Hollywood rebel and outcast. Leroyd is
betrayed by his erstwhile allies symbolized by Gen. MacArthur who gives
his word and violates that promise. Leroyd ultimately accepts his
former hated Japanese enemy simply because he too possesses a personal
code of honor similar to Leroyd. A similar scene plays out at the end
of Red Dawn, where the Cuban Commander lets the dying Jed escape,
carrying his dead brother (Charlie Sheen through a shared warriors
sense of honor. Jed then goes to a playground to sit in a swing,
presumably regaining their lost childhood in joined death. This is a
familiar theme in Milius' work. 

Another familiar theme is that of the Rebel or loose cannon. Dirty
Harry, the Marine Captain in Wind and the Lion, are just a few
examples. Milius is the quintessential loose cannon in Hollywood. So he
probably feels a kinship to the characters of which he writes. 

There are many other themes that are familiar to all his movies. The
female as a catalyst and semi-tragic figure is another. His women move
his protagonists to greater heights. The female at risk or her
unfortunate demise drives the central character to either his doom or
his redemption, or both. 

I have to say that I am a Milius fan. This movie is one of my favorites
by him. Yes, I cringe at some of the acting, like Sgt. Tenga's horrible
fake British accent (Kenyan by way of Chicago, perhaps?) The English
speaking "Apaches" also make me roll my eyes. But scenes like "Advance
the Colors", or Leroyd's redemption at the end of the movie, more than
make up for the other lapses. This movie is good stuff. Get a six pack,
or a bottle of scotch, a few cigars, some munchies and enter the world
of John Milius. A world where men live by their honor, disputes are
resolved man to man, and if enemies survive the ordeal, the sit down
and drink to one another as survivors.
<|_=00=_|>

Nick Nolte stars as the enigmatic hero of this little-known but highly
interesting film. Basically at war with himself, Nolte evolves from Army
deserter to a genuine jungle king.

He's an interesting actor, and never more so than in this movie, which is
set in Borneo during World War II.  It might just as easily been set in a
Montagnard village during the Vietnam War.

This off-beat, under-rated movie is more of a psychological study than a
mindless, run-of-the-mill action flick. This movie has a lot more depth
and
heart than that.

The locations are beautiful, the musical score is outstanding, and, as in
most John Milius films, the uniforms, weapons, and other goodies are
faithfully and accurately depicted with wonderful detail.

This is a thinking man's "war movie".  If you enjoyed "The Man Who Would
Be
King", you will very likely enjoy this film, too.

If you can find it on video, snap it up fast!
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen this film many times and it's one I would watch and enjoy any
time it was on. Sure it has plot problems, but the over-all beauty of
this story is both heart wrenching and epic. It ranks as one of my
all-time favorites, like the beautiful cinematography of "The Mission".
Its depiction of World War II war-time action in an obscure theater of
war like Borneo, is both interesting and eye-opening. The plot is
believable and gut wrenching in its depiction of an invader attacking
ones homeland. I could not help but be reminded of scenes from another
favorite film of mine, "Last of the Dog Men". I only wish this film was
available generally to all in DVD format, as I believe it to be a film
that buffs would want to add to their collection.
<|_=00=_|>
You gotta be really stupid to mark this one lower then 8. It's
fantastic movie that combines films like The Legend of Sleepy Hollow
(Headless Horseman), Dances with Wolves, River on bridge Kwai... With
stunning performance of Nick Nolte - this character has been like made
for him! And not to mention Nigel Havers who is one of the biggest
underdogs in movie industry today. He pick ups where Peter O'Toole
left. Playing dandy intellectuals with ease and graciousness. 

I liked the adaptation skill given to natives. Unlike other portraits
of Indians or other native cannibal age tribes folks here are keen of
accepting useful western habits so the gap of values isn't
unbridgeable. That might be unrealistic but it's a movie and that is
what movies are about.

Although there were sad moments in the movie it didn't left me
depressed but lifted me high. Great soundtrack helps with that.

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>


This is one of the best films of the 80's yet it is criminally
overlooked. Released in an era when Rambo was king, it seems many people
just didn't get the film's messages of loyalty, redemption and personal
integrity. In other words, it is a true adventure and not just a bang-bang
action flick. The kind of movie we need to see more of.
Nick Nolte has never been one of my favorite actors but he shines as
the
gruff King Learoyd. Learoyd is a man of action on the surface but he has
been running from conflict his whole life. When he sees that the justice of
our "real world" is perverted beyond hope, he retreats to the more
honorable
world of primitive, uncorrupted Borneo.Eventually, the real world intrudes
in the form of World War 2. As The Botanist tells him, "you can no longer
avoid history". Learoyd replies, "The world's so full of crap that you're
bound to step in it someday. Is that what you call history?"
Finally, Learoyd can no longer hide and the war hits him with its full
fury. He is shattered by loss yet not unbeaten.He retains his integrity and
transcends to non-violence. In one of the film's most emotional scenes, he
accepts the surrender of the Japanese Colonel who has tormented him with
grace and understanding, leading to the Colonel's own redemption.
This is a gorgeous film. full of breathtaking scenery and
well-conceived action. The performances are all top-notch, especially Nigel
Havers as The Botanist. Why is Havers seen so little?He seems to be an
actor
of depth and talent. I also enjoyed the character of Tenga, who brought
some
welcome humor to the movie.
Farewell to the King can be accused of being too sentimental and I
can't disagree. There are worse things to have in a movie than sentiment,
though. I hope this film achieves some of the recognition it is due. It is
certainly John Milius' best.

<|_=00=_|>
Excellent movie about the wonderful culture of those in Borneo and the
warriors of the Malaysian continent. Awesome message on the effects of
hate and war.....excellent analogy of " Salt" & message about " Life".
The scenery and acting in my opinion makes this film a hidden treasure,
I'm sorry to say, but it took me way to long to discover this movie
......the movie was made in 1989 and I was finally able to view it in
2008. Late Bloomer ! I study the culture of this country and I find it
to be a fantastic piece of information that I can add to my video
library.This movie is in my top 3 ultimate favorites list...right next
to "13th Warrior" and "Braveheart"...... Excellent movie
<|_=00=_|>

One person I know saw this movie and called it "Ramblonde" after Nick
Nolte's long hair.  Other people have characterized as an adaptation of King
Lear.

"Farewell to the King" is really neither.  It's a story about a man who
finds his kingdom and himself against the backdrop of World War Two Borneo.

The movie is touching and dramatic about a man who leaves behind a war he
didn't want and everything he knew, only to have to face it again.  Many
questions are raised about the meaning of loyalty and honor, and who is your
enemy and your friend.

Not, it's definitely not a "Rambo" movie, more a tight and involving drama
the way they used to make them. 
<|_=00=_|>
Farewell to the King is one of the greatest war movies, and simply one
of the greatest movies ever. I've seen and own dozens of WWII movies
and this is one of the best. The story unfolds in a grand sweeping
fashion reminiscent of Lawrence of Arabia, even Lost Horizon. At the
same time it manages to capture a reality of life and loss that rarely
sees the light of day on film or anywhere else for that matter.

It's great to see so many people here at IMDb and elsewhere have so
much good to say about this film. Nick Nolte is fantastic as the
soldier turned king and turns in one of his strongest performances
ever. The film is breathtaking, the acting, story, and music is top
notch. It's a gripping film, very necessary and old school/Hollywood in
a time filled with dime a dozen action hero types.

Perhaps where some of the few critics get thrown is by the near fantasy
nature of the story. If they would follow through with the stories
presentation, intent, and the directors molding (done wonderfully by
John Milius), they could find in fact that it works great on every
level. It starts with a romanticized viewpoint of war and the "Flare of
our youth" that many soldiers could look back on, to descend into the
depths of hell and the realities of war that all should remember and
none should forget. All of this of course is presented in a grand old
tale container. The container has of that nature and large enough to
hold some of the narrative information and striking, barbaric realities
that the film so accurately presents, along side the beauty and
normalities of what people could have in life. It's not easy to portray
a vision of hell and a vision of Shangri-la (of sorts) in the same
picture. This film is saying a great deal on many levels. One thing is
that real freedom and a real Shangri-la is worth fighting for. Yet it's
also one of the few films to even dare begin to unfold the true nature
of how barbaric the Pacific War was. After years of studying the
Pacific War, I can tell you that as well done as this movie is, it only
skims the surface. But what a picture it gives.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a curious piece whose dramatic arc takes a while to reach its
full speed, but builds to a climax of considerable horror, involving
cannibalism, genocide, loyalty and revenge. It is, I think, a mistake
to label it an action movie: it is a drama, and played with a
theatricality to which the viewer must adjust.

Nevertheless, once it gets into its stride this film has considerable
charm.

The core cast bond closely and Frank Mcrae, who plays Sgt Tenga, and
Marius Weyers (Sgt. Conklin) manage to give warmth to the invaders who
threaten the survival of The People of the Hills. 

The central relationship, between Nolte and Havers, is a fragile one
which teeters on the brink of formulaic in Nolte's rescue of the sick
Englishman and their mutual debts of gratitude and obligation. However,
as they plunge into the conflict against the remnants of the defeated
Japanese army, they each shock one another with what they are prepared
to do. 

I think the climax of the horror, which I do not wish to spoil, is
brilliantly done. I felt the protagonists' turmoil and understood their
brutal reactions, while still being shocked by it. 

This film is open to charges of hokiness, theatricality and slowness,
but, given a chance, it explores themes similar to those in The Thin
Red Line; the imperialistic side effects of the Pacific war and the
dehumanising effect of soldiering, against the fully human power of
love and community.

