

I love those cheesy 80's teenage love stories.  They are fun and
entertaining.  "Can't Buy Me Love" is one of the better ones for sure.  It
is one of those movies that you can watch over and over and still love it.
The story is interesting and the performances are great. Amanda Peterson is
fantastic as the high-priced yet emotionally repressed love interest of
lawnboy Patrick Dempsey.  The story is funny and moving and can even make
you cry.  Watch it with friends, watch it alone, watch it with someone you
love and remember the pressures of high school and the friends that got you
through it.
<|_=00=_|>

Most 80's teen flicks leave a rather sick feeling in my stomach, but this
one has always been a favorite despite the stereotypical shallow, big-haired
girls and the Animal House wanna-be jocks. The difference is that the stars,
Patrick Dempsey and Amanda Peterson, are not so stereotypical in their roles
as lonely nerd and ultra-popular head cheerleader.

Patrick Dempsey has always been underrated as an actor with style, and it is
unfortunate that his character, Ronald, is so unlikable after the film's
premise kicks in. Ronald goes "from geek to chic" and back again. But
Dempsey himself seems too inherently confident to really pull off the geek
aspect believably, and he's too cruel to the girl whose heart he won for
Ronald to be a truly sympathetic character. The hip version of Ronald,
however, is a hoot to watch, even if it is somewhat overdone in the context
of an already unlikely plot. 

The standout in this film is Amanda Peterson, whose character Cindy has to
be one of the most genuinely likeable "stuck up" high school girls on film.
Watching her character grow and open her heart to Ronald is the main reason
I've given this film repeated viewings. Although the genres are quite
different, I'd compare Peterson's character to Renee Zellweger's character
in Jerry MaGuire in terms of sheer likability. Making characters likeable is
much more difficult than making them sympathetic, and I'm frankly shocked
that Peterson's career did not skyrocket after this performance.

Whether you're looking for creative ways to invest $1000 or dancing lessons,
Can't Buy Me Love is one 80's teen flick that has a lot to
offer.

<|_=00=_|>

Can't Buy Me Love is a sweet romantic comedy that's still great after all
these years. What was the reason for making an exact replica of the film
(Love Don't Cost A Thing) except geared for young black audiences? Why not
just make an original romantic comedy altogether instead of trying to
replicate this particular teen movie? I hate remakes. 

Can't Buy Me Love ridicules the high school caste system--that popular kids
are the invincible social class that other social groups strive to be part
of, but are limited by the "understood" rigid rules of their place among the
social system. 

Ronald (Patrick Dempsey) is supposed to be the hopeless nerd. He's a quiet
kid that flocks with loners (one of them being the cool Max Perlich). Ronald
is in love with senior cheerleader, Cindy Mancini (Amanda Peterson). As the
popular, rich cheerleader, she is definitely hands off for Ronald. Ronald
wants the girl. He wants to be popular. Is it possible for the geek to
transcend his expected role in the game of high school social groups?
Definitely, but for Ronald, the consequences are disasturous and also
conducive to helping Ronald straighten out his priorities of friendship,
love, and the like. Is he willing to trade it all in for popularity and all
the superficiality that comes with it?

Ronald's opportunity arrives when Cindy stumbles into the mall one day
looking to return or exchange her mother's outfit stained with wine thanks
to Cindy, who wasn't supposed to be wearing it, anways. The price of a new
outfit: $1,000. So, Ronald, who happens to have that cash since he was
saving up for a telescope, makes Cindy an offer: to pretend to be his
girlfriend for a month. Ronald expects that this will give him just the
popularity he wants. To be a high school senior, friends with Cindy, and
make the A List? For Ronald, that's all he wants. 

Cindy's grossed out by the idea at first, not wanting to be scene with
Donald (as she constantly mistakens his name). But with the Mancini make
over, Ronald's on his way to being the new stud on campus. One month later,
Ronald is rubbing elbows with Cindy's senior friends, cheerleaders Barbara
and Patti and and jocks Big John and Ricky. But, Ronald, in his transition,
seemed to forgot that what he wanted all along was a date with Cindy
Mancini, who's makeover has turned Ronald into some kind of monster. Ronald
doesn't only push Cindy away, but also his closest friend, Kenneth (Courtney
Gains) and the rest of his old crowd of friends who hate their friend's
newfound social life. But, how far is Ronald willing to go? And how long can
he live down the lie?

It was one of three good movies Dempsey made in 1987, along with Loverboy
and In the Mood (actually the latter is better than the former), all being
cute romantic comedies. But I think Can't Buy Me Love will always be my
favorite. Patrick Dempsey, Amanda Peterson, Seth Green (who plays Ronald's
little brother, Chuckie), or hell, even Max Perlich fans, are certain to
like this movie. It's got good style for the 80s too and hot teen cast. I
still think it is one of the top 80s teen comedies. 
<|_=00=_|>
The person that said this movie was overlong but enjoyable doesn't know
what they are talking about. If you want to see overlong, watch Dances
With Wolves and it wasn't even enjoyable. "Can't Buy Me Love" is the
ultimate 80's movie along with "Breakfast Club" and "Adventures in
Babysitting". I watch this movie each time it's on TV. I also have it
on VHS and DVD. The story line was easy to follow, not that matters and
just kept you interested. I enjoyed all the characters and could
definitely see my high school years in them. If you haven't seen this
movie, rent, get it, watch it. If you have seen this movie then you
know what I'm talking about.

I'm Nikki and I approve this message.
<|_=00=_|>
If you like 80s movies this is my top 5 of all time. This movie is
amazing and should not be forgotten. The story is about Ronald played
by Patrick Dempsey who is a nerd and lives next door to Cindy the most
popular girl in High School played by Amanda Peterson. Ronald mows
lawns for a living and is saving his money for his science project. He
finally has enough money to pay for his project but he decides to help
out Cindy with dilemma. Cindy ruins her moms dress at a party and she
needs a 1,000 dollars to buy a new dress so her mom doesn't ground her
for life. Ronald decides to give up his money for the project if Cindy
pretends to like him. The movie is amazing. Its very funny, great
acting, and the chemistry works. This is one of my favorite movies of
all time. I could watch it over and over again. If you like 80s movies
check this movie out as well as Teen Witch, Some Kind Of Wonderful,
Just One of the guys, and Big.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes the most important thing eludes us and we don't recognize it.
Not everyone has the opportunity to recognize, especially when one lives
it, what is really important, what is in fact real; the truth of who we
are and who others are. And to recognize that before the others and
ourselves. Not everyone has that opportunity. Almost all of us fall in
the lies and fictions of who we are, who the others are and the place
of all of us in our world, but only few of us - lucky few - manage, in
the end, but maybe still in time, to see the truth, the reality. And
these ones, may consider themselves very happy.

All it takes is to understand that, and we can be who we want to: our
own selves.

If you like '80s teen comedies, this one is not to be missed. I liked
this movie and i just wanted to share these thoughts i had after seeing
it. Patrick Dempsey is good in it, and Amanda Peterson is absolutely
great, loved her. Wish i had met a girl like her when i was in high
school. But then again, maybe i did...

7/10 overall, a good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
It kind of reminded me of revenge of the nerds. I liked this cute
little movie about a geeky boy who pays the hottest highschool
cheerleader at his school to pose as his girlfriend. This is a fun
movie and one that works surprisingly well. One of the better teen
comedies from the 80's. Myabe not as popular as some others but just as
good and somehow does not come across as ridiculous as so many similar
movies of this time period did. It's a definite must see for anyone who
appreciates a movie like "Revenge of the nerds" and hasn't got to see
this yet. I really enjoyed it. Obviously the movie's not an Oscar
winner or to highly original but it works and as teen movies go, it is
toward the top of the heap.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the best "wannabe popular" teen movie I've seen. Yes it's old,
only a year after I was born, but it's still way cool to see the awful
trends of the 80's :) It's about the typical "geek" wanting to be the
"popluar" kid, who takes extreme measures to achieve his goal. It's not
anything anyone hasn't seen before. Geek wants the girl, geek gets
popular, geek drops his true friends, becomes a geek again, although
the ending is really good! It's just so much fun to watch an 80's teen
movie, there so great! It's also fun to see stars in earlier films. Who
doesn't want to see Seth Green as a bratty younger brother? Good movie,
watch it!
<|_=00=_|>

I've seen bundles of these teen comedies, and "Can't Buy Me Love" does
contain every cliche in the book.  But it was made in 1987.  This was a
little past the dawning of the high school movie, and the characters of the
nerd, jock, cheerleader, etc. were just recently created.  I don't know. 
Maybe this movie was even a huge cliche back in the eighties.  But I'm still
gonna give it the benefit of the doubt.  

I catch this movie on TBS quite a lot of times, and I can't help but enjoy
it.  There are certain cliched scenes that just force me to roll my eyes and
sigh, yet I can't change the channel.  Well, there are two key elements that
make this flyweight teen comedy work:  Patrick Dempsey and Amanda Peterson. 
They both give charming performances, and have a wonderful chemistry.  Even
though you know exactly what will happen between them, it's still a delight
to see them on screen.  Dempsey hasn't had a big role in years, and you can
technically classify him as a has-been, but he is a good, charismatic actor.
 And it would've been nice if his career actually took off.  As for
Peterson, I don't remember her from any other movies, so I have no knowledge
of her career.  All I know is she's good-looking and I liked her in this
movie.  

The story is as predictable as you can get, with paperthin characters, but
as I said it's good flyweight entertainment.  Strictly a guilty pleasure. 
If I were in the mood for a good--and by that I mean good in quality--high
school movie I'd watch "Ghost World" or one of the "American Pie" movies. 
But if I just want to kick back and watch a cheesy high school movie that
will put a smile on my face and contains no intellectual value, I'll watch
"Can't Buy Me Love."  

Of course, the movie has a "message" at the end about being yourself, and
not caring what others think of you, but the message is delivered with the
finesse of an after-school special and is strictly pasted on.  When you have
characters that are so stereotypical and implausible, it's hard to fit in a
believable message.  But what would a high school movie be without a
schmaltzy third act?  

That's why I recommend this movie, just as a guilty pleasure.  It's far from
great, yet undeniably appealing.  But please do not bother to analyze this
movie.  You'll be wasting your time.    

My score:  7 (out of 10)
<|_=00=_|>

A high school boy saves up 2000 dollars for a new telescope, but winds up
spending it for a girlfriend. She was the most popular girl at school, and
needed the money to replace her mother's jacket that she [the girl] had
ruined. In return, the girl must date the boy for a month, making him
suddenly popular, something he isn't used to at all. Of course, he is
found
out eventually, and all his new "friends" turn against him. A picture
which
is well worth seeing.
