
A comment re the other comments: A lot of the comments criticize the
first half hour as being too long. In my opinion, these comments miss
the point of the movie.

Of course many of the scenes in the first hour don't advance the
narrative. They're not supposed to; they're for character development.

The whole point of the movie is to show us how the various characters
were affected by the war. It wouldn't have worked nearly as powerfully
as it does had the first hour been trimmed down. We have to sense the
careless and frat-boy-like immaturity of these young men. That's why
the scenes all revolve around frivolity and seemingly senseless boyish
behavior; it creates such a stark contrast to the devastated characters
of the three who went to war (and the relatively unaffected
personalities of those who stayed behind, like Stanley).

The strong points of the film are the outstanding performances of
nearly every actor in the movie. Yes, there are technical deficiencies
in the sound, but it hardly matters. This is nitpicking compared to the
overall construction of the film.
<|_=00=_|>
No, this is not the best film about the Vietnam War; it's hardly about
Vietnam at all. The vets who don't like it have it wrong, as do the
Vietnamese who found it racist. It could be any war, with any
combatants. But because the (primary) victims here are recognizable
American archetypes, Americans will feel this in their gut more than
any other war film I know of. This is one of the very few post-war
Hollywood films that shows a sincere reverence for the lives of small
town Americans.

After seeing it in a very high quality theater on its initial release,
I walked out thinking it was easily one of the best movies I had ever
seen - and that I never wanted to see it again. But I looked at it
today on cable and found that not much had changed about it, or me. I
don't want to see it again...but I want you to see it.

Even now, the Russian Roulette scene (in context, people: watch all
that comes before it first) is the single most intense sequence I've
seen; it makes the end of "Reservoir Dogs" seem like a cartoon. Best
Walken performance, period. Meryl Streep glows, DeNiro has seldom been
more affecting. A unique classic...it is not surprising that Cimino
didn't have another movie in him after something this wrenching.
<|_=00=_|>
"One shot is what it's all about. A deer has to be taken with one
shot."

There's that particularly infamous scene in "The Deer Hunter" that
seems to remain more disturbing each time we view it, when Michael
(Robert De Niro), a Vietnam veteran, tracks down a friend of his named
Nicky (Christopher Walken), who never arrived home after the war and is
eventually found in Saigon, playing Russian Roulette for money, his
mind an utter mess. He is unable to fully remember Michael, and refuses
to return home, and what proceeds in the following sequence is a
haunting example of gut-wrenching film-making.

The Vietnam sequences take place midway through the movie, serving as a
connection between the beginning and the end, both of which study the
lives of the men and not the war around them. Michael, Nicky and Steven
(John Savage) are young Pennsylvanian miners drafted into the war.
Steven has just gotten married to the love of his life, but has little
time to celebrate as he is shipped overseas with his friends. They
eventually all find themselves taken hostage in a Vietnamese POW camp
where their captors force them to play Russian Roulette. The rules of
the game? Put a single bullet in a random chamber of a handgun, spin
it, snap it, raise it to your head, squeeze the trigger, and repeat
these steps until there's only one man left standing.

After a series of fortunate events Michael, Nicky and Steven escape and
make their way downriver. All three men are eventually rescued, Nicky
via helicopter and Michael and Steven later on. Steven's battered,
infected legs are amputated and he is left helpless in a wheelchair.
Michael returns home as well only to find that Nicky is still back in
Vietnam. Nicky's girlfriend back home, Linda (Meryl Street), begins to
fall in love with Michael, but Michael soon remembers his promise to
Nicky ("If I don't make it back don't leave me over there") and travels
over 2,000 miles back into the middle of his own personal hell to find
and rescue his best friend. It's hard for him to understand why Nicky
doesn't recognize him when he finally tracks him down. "It's me, Mike."
"Mike who?"

Causing mass controversy upon its release because of its alleged
"racist" content regarding the Vietnamese, a crowd of Vietnam veterans
gathered around outside the Oscars ceremony and caused riots as well,
claiming that the film was "not accurate" and somehow insulting to the
veterans of the war. 

However as many film historians, authors and critics have already
pointed out, the film is never meant to be a 100% accurate depiction of
the events in Vietnam. It is not really a Vietnam War picture at all.
Instead, it is a focus on the aftermath of war, and how damaging it can
be, both physically and mentally, to its participants. Because of the
era that "The Deer Hunter" was released in, Vietnam was a recent event,
the focus of the nation, and is therefore used as a more convenient --
and relative -- backdrop (much like "Apocalypse Now"). Unlike "Platoon"
this is not a movie relating specifically to the Vietnam War, in fact
less than a half an hour is devoted to the war scenes. It is a
character study, and accusations of racism -- although perhaps
justified to some extent -- are hardly convincing as the film itself is
not concerned with bashing the participants of the war as it is the war
itself.

It is the film's necessary setup that is often called long and boring
and, ironically, unnecessary, but this is essentially where the nature
of each character is examined for the audience. To launch directly into
the war sequences would be sloppy, and we would have a harder time
caring for the characters. Instead, we are given scenes with weddings,
discussions, and hunting trips -- normal events. Then, the end, a
somber reflection upon the past, chronicles the aftermath of the
damaging events in the lives of Michael, Steven, Nicky and their loved
ones. Michael has a hard time adapting back to his normal life. It
would be hard for anyone, after experiencing such damaging events and
images. 

De Niro made a few post-Vietnam films during the '70s and '80s, the
most famous being "Taxi Driver," in which Travis Bickle was totally
unable to find his way in life again after the war and resorted to
violence in order to justify his existence and release his anger. "The
Deer Hunter" is similar in approach but reveals more background; this
would be a suitable prequel of sorts if the names had been changed.

Over the years "The Deer Hunter" has surprisingly gained a fairly bad
reputation -- most of which stems back to the controversy surroundings
its release and protested accolades. Director Michael Cimino's
follow-up ("Heaven's Gate") was an enormous flop, bankrupting United
Artists, and he had a hard time finding work afterwards. His first
feature film, "Thunderbolt and Lightfoot," which starred Clint Eastwood
and Jeff Bridges, was a buddy road movie that was also a sign of things
to come in Cimino' later features, most notably the process of male
bonding, which is a huge primal element in this project. Cimino was an
extremely talented and visionary director, and it's a shame that the
ambition of "Heaven's Gate" cost him his career.

And furthermore, despite the negativity surrounding "The Deer Hunter,"
it is still one of the finest works of American cinema, a touching,
poignant and ultimately depressing film that asks us if the effects of
war extend past the physical and into the realm of human mentality.
Yes, I think they do.
<|_=00=_|>
Most young people today need to learn that Robert De Niro was not just 
the person in Meet the Parents or The Adventures of Rocky and 
Bullwinkle, but he starred in films like The Deer Hunter, which got him 
to where he is today. Not only is he a great actor, he always picks 
good films to act in. And with a strong supporting cast, also, you 
can't really go wrong with The Deer Hunter.

Michael (De Niro), Nick (Christopher Walken), and Steven (John Savage) 
sign up to go to Vietnam. They leave after a farewell party/wedding 
party for Stanley and Angela (Rutanya Alda). Once in the 
midst of the war, they are forced into playing Russian Roulette and 
eventually they escape, but none of them can forget the experiences 
from the war.

It's sad to see that Michael Cimino fade from view, because his 
direction here is really memorable and it's what holds the film 
together. There's about 70 minutes in the beginning of the film that 
has nothing to do with the rest of the film, but it gets us to know 
these three main characters, and it seems like you wouldn't care if 
they even went to Vietnam, because you certainly were intrigued by 
these three people. And once they're in the perils of war, you feel 
enough for these three basic people to get through the war.

The Russian Roulette scenes are harrowing, even when it's a complete 
stranger who has the gun to their head. I read that to get the tension 
on set, a live bullet was put into the gun, but it was checked to make 
sure that it wasn't the one about to be shot. And, since you've known 
these people for 90 minutes already, you obviously didn't want them to 
die, making them all the more nervous.

The Deer Hunter is quite unlike another great Vietnam film, Full Metal 
Jacket. While FMJ just showed the immediate results, this movie showed 
the results immediately and in the future, back at home. This helped 
make everything seem more realistic, which it was. For each of the 
three main characters, the war has changed them greatly, and none for 
the better.

De Niro is great, but the stand out here is Walken, who accurately 
takes his role and makes it into something memorable. Thankfully, he 
won best supporting actor. Meryl Streep was nominated as a supporting 
character, deservedly. However, this movie is not all about the acting, 
it's about the feeling you get. As one character says, 'I don't know 
how I feel.' That's exactly how you'll feel after seeing this 
tour-de-force.

My rating: 10/10

Rated R for strong language and violence.
<|_=00=_|>

 I've now seen this film three times with a decade or more between viewings,
and every time I see it I come away feeling that movies can't get any better
than this.  People always comment on the Viet Nam scenes, and it's true that
they are as powerful and intense as any war scenes ever filmed.  The
Russian-roulette betting game, in both its up-river and Saigon venues, may
be the most riveting, shattering plot device ever invented, as measured by
the pounding of the heart.

 But it's the 'home front' scenes that stick with me through the years.  I
think all the steel town scenes are nearly perfect, untoppable.  And that
very much includes the Eastern Orthodox wedding and its sequel.  When anyone
tells me they were bored I just shake my head.  There's no arguing with
short and shallow attention spans.  You're either capable of appreciating
art or you're not. 

  I do have a quibble or two.  The deer-hunting scenes looked like nowhere
I've ever seen in Pennsylvania, or anywhere else East of the Rockies.  I
think Cimino deliberately picked an ethereal location above the clouds as a
contrast to the steel town.  When John Cazale and the others get loaded and
act like jerks it jars on Michael, because they have brought the stupid
distractions of ordinary life to an extraordinary place.  This would matter
less if the 'genius loci' were not so strongly present in the other home
front scenes. I wish he had used the soft, green forested hills of
Pennsylvania for the hunting.

  And some of the dialogue--Meryl Streep's in particular--wouldn't work on
the page, and only first-rate acting by an inspired ensemble--has there ever
been a better cast of young actors?--pulls it off.  But these are forgivable
errors in one of the finest films ever made.
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot fathom the absolute horror that war brings to a persons life,
but never has a film depicted it more harrowing than The Deerhunter. At
182 minutes, it seemed to fly by, leaving me wanting more and wishing
this would not end. all facets are explored, all people's emotions are
laid bare, not just the combatants. If we obviously did not know
better, one would have to say this was a British film, as it has all
the best elements that British movie making displays. i can eulogise
for hundreds of lines, but this really is the ONLY American movie i can
think of (others? apart from taxi driver) that is RAW. A strange word i
know but the movie oozes a raw edge to it. Immense performances from
all concerned, and if i had to say, i believe i have not seen
Christopher Walken in a better role. One of the very few films i
deservedly give 10/10. A must for any collection and a stunning example
of every aspect of film making coming together, albeit for a sombre
depiction of life.
<|_=00=_|>
Outstanding and haunting Best Picture winner of 1978 that still packs a
punch nearly 25 years later. Robert DeNiro (Oscar-nominated),
Christopher Walken (Oscar-winning for Best Supporting Actor) and John
Savage are on their way to fight for their country in Vietnam. The
three are in for a rude awakening from their simple lives in a small
steel town in Pennsylvania. The terrors of Vietnam will change all.
DeNiro, an avid deer hunter, cannot stand to even shoot a gun after he
returns. Savage loses his legs and is too ashamed and scared to return
home to his new wife and friends. Walken has lost it mentally and stays
in Vietnam and develops the taste for Russian roulette. The movie is a
trial to sit through in many ways, but it is also an important film
that was the first commentary on the topic of Vietnam. Meryl Streep
also received her first of a record 12 Oscar nominations as Walken's
love interest. John Cazale was deathly ill during the making of the
movie and died shortly after the film was completed of terminal cancer.
Michael Cimino's amazing Oscar-nominated screenplay and
out-of-this-world Oscar-winning direction are right on key. "The Deer
Hunter" is important film-making that has a strong message about life,
death and love. It is a movie that should be experienced by everyone at
least once. 5 stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
Of the first two American films about the Vietnam war with a priceless
artistic weight, "the Deer Hunter" wins hands down over "Apocalypse
Now" (1979) although Francis Ford Coppola's work is very potent too.

But would it be judicious to pigeonhole Michael Cimino's work in the
category of the war movie? Unlike Coppola's visual nightmare, only the
central part takes place in Vietnam and the filmmaker barely shoots one
fight sequence before Mike (Robert De Niro), Nick (Christopher Walken)
and Stevie (John Savage) are prisoners of the enemy and are forced to
play Russian roulette in the notorious unbearable scene. Actually "the
Deer Hunter" is a film straddling two movie genres: the war movie and
the social drama. Rather than shooting a political film, Cimino chose
to represent us the deadly impact this nightmarish war had on an
American community whose hopes and values disappeared.

Dividing his work in three parts: before, during, after and thanks to
symbolical images, scenes or even eloquent details, Cimino used and
honed his own cinematographic language to set out his stalls and the
result can only command respect and admiration. Each sequence could be
separately taken and carefully studied like the representation of the
humdrum but reassuring living standards of the blue-collars with their
everyday rituals (Cimino's obsession with rites and customs) revolving
around factory, bar, friends and hunting (you have to admire the
startling contrast between the dirty little town and the gorgeous, wild
landscapes). Archetypal sequences that epitomize life and it reaches
its height in the famous, unusually long wedding sequence. Perhaps
Cimino wanted to stretch this sequence to make his characters take
advantage of this rapture moment. But even during this state of bliss
that lives inside them, the imminent tragedy ominously lurks: Mike and
Nick gently laugh at an officer who remains dumb and when Stevie and
his wife have to drink in a dish, some drops fall on her wedding dress.
This sequence also epitomizes the polar opposite to the sequence of the
Russian roulette in which death is just around the corner. After the
war when Mike comes back to the small town, he's completely altered.
Before, a devotee of deer hunting; after his traumatizing experience,
he can't kill one. He's unable to talk about about what he went through
and for his sidekicks, the experience of a war like this one is
incomprehensible. Cimino eschews classical, predictable storytelling
and hasn't recourse to psychological study. Nearly everything occurs in
gestures and looks while the suggested has a meaty part in the dialogs.
Besides, during the whole movie the topic of the war is barely
mentioned by the characters. A lyrical whiff blows on the film,
dovetailed by Cimino's astounding directing.

Cimino was consumed with ambition and went at it hammer and tongs to
get his crew completely involved in his project. He was hard on his
actors (Robert De Niro has often said that "the Deer Hunter" was his
most grueling role to date) and was obsessed with absolute control. But
the efforts weren't vain at all and gave a heartfelt, invaluable
yardstick in war movie, even American cinema which reached the streets
when America rose from its ruins. It was also the beginning of the end
for Cimino, a filmmaker ahead of his time and on the fringe of
cinematographic trends.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Deer Hunter" is 32 years old. How extraordinary to sit through it
now. Walking over the politics that divided , somehow, all of its
admirers then. "Great film but..." How silly to think of it now.
Michael (a sensational young Robert De Niro) is as extreme a character
as Rocco was in "Rocco And His Brothers" His goodness, the one that was
always there but that he discovers under the most horrendous
circumstances, underlined by Stanley Mayers's "Cavatina" permeates the
entire film. I remember thinking, when I saw the film for the first
time, that I couldn't or wouldn't spend ten minutes with Michael and
his friends, the ones we meet at the beginning of the film but by the
end I thought of them as brothers and I loved them. I actually loved
them. That in itself is a sort of film miracle. John Savage will break
your heart, it certainly broke mine and Christopher Walken is
absolutely riveting. How strange to tho think that Michael Cimino,
still a young man, is nowhere to be seen. Is still a punishment for
"Heaven's Gate" and "Indecent Exposure" or there is something else we
don't know about. The Cimino behind "The Deer Hunter" is a true master.
<|_=00=_|>
Opening in Pennsylvania steel town that morning, Steven (John Savage)
is going to get married Just a few days later, he and his best friends
Michael (Robert De Niro) and Nick (Christopher Walken) will join the
Army and go to Vietnam 

All three are made prisoners of war who finally escape their ordeal,
although with several complications The terrible experiences that they
are subjected to change their whole life 

Over the course of more than three-hours of screen time, "The Deer
Hunter" presents outrageous and impressive scenes of sadistic Vietcong
force tossing grenades into shelters filled with helpless women and
children, and later forcing American captives to play Russian roulette
for their amusement, while the prison guards bet on the result 

Whatever his intention, Cimino goes courageously forth, staging with
power his big end during the fall of Saigon, depicting the trauma of
war and the effort of one friend to rescue the other 

The extreme effects of the conflict provide indelible images, and make
us feel the pain, the compulsion, the threat, and the terror of war
