
As an action lover firstly, Dark Angel is a film that any enthusiast
will find hard not to enjoy. It's a great, and entertaining slice of
violent sci-fi hokum served up in a brisk 89 minutes. Secondly as a
fans of Dolph Lundgren, it marks perhaps his most polished and
entertaining solo work. The 80's itself was a great time for action
movies, with countless action stars, and the essential ingredients were
a simple plot, plenty of wise cracking and plenty of action. Lundgren
had been responsible for the far more stern and serious action flicks
Red Scorpion and the under-rated Punisher film yet Dark Angel was one
of a string of 3 films Dolph did, very much in the trend of
Schwarzenegger's simpler action films like Red Heat, Running Man and
Raw Deal. It was brainless, yet highly enjoyable, slick and violent.
Dolph followed this entertaining fare with the similarly comic book
styled Showdown In Little Tokyo and then Universal Soldier. These three
films remain Dolph's apex. He got the humour right in them and they are
best described as Arnie styled actioners. Dark Angel though had a twist
on the concept with the slightly imaginative idea of an Alien coming
down from outer space, injecting victims full of heroin and then using
hi-tech alien techniques, removing the endorphins from the brain. It's
implausible but who cares? Naturally Dolph has to save the day and has
help from uptight FBI pen pusher Brian Benben. What marks this film as
Dolphs career highlight is the fact that this is his movie, 100%. Dolph
is the star, the head honcho. His other best films had him share the
screen with bigger, or soon to be bigger stars like Stallone, Van Damme
and Brandon Lee. The chemistry between Lundgren and Benben works
superbly, and Lundgren is on fine Arnie zinger form. It makes you
wonder why some of the one liners in his other films don't come off
when he delivered them so perfectly in this film. In some respects this
is a Dolph out of Dolph movie, with him sporting dark brown hair and
brown contacts.

Directed by Craig R Baxley, the stunt co-ordinator and sometimes
director for the A- Team, the action of this piece has a slick polish
to it and there is plenty of it too. In fact this film probably
features the largest number of exploding cars ever. The concept of the
Alien brings in some imaginary and cool weaponry including a super hand
gun, and deadly flying CD's that lock into the electric current in the
human body, as Dolph's scientist friend (a bit of luck in Dolphy's
little black book) explains "It's like setting your radio dial to
K-I-L-L!" The script is blessed with some witty one-liners that would
make the Governator proud. Dolph is good in the lead doing the macho
thing well and kicking ass in the action. Then there is good support
from Benben and Betsy Brantley.

This film surprisingly flopped in the states and you have to wonder
why. It still remains Dolph's biggest critical hit, especially in
Europe where it was received mostly positively. It's a solid middle of
the road 3 star film, you can't give it more because of its simplicity
yet even those not massively keen on action films would find it hard
not to enjoy. It's a guilty pleasure movie like Commando, like Last Boy
Scout and the like. The movie did good business in the UK and
particularly on video. As a youngster this was one of my favourite
action movies. The whole cool factor you get from the Alien and his
weapons, combined with the 80's action machismo sensibility. Overall
this is a piece of simple entertainment. To be enjoyed for it's guilty
taste, that slips down the throat guilty, like chocolate, this is not
recommended for its nutritional value. ***
<|_=00=_|>

I was surprised to see such a low rating for this movie.  I've probably
seen
this movie like 10 times.   And after my wife found out I'm a Dolph
Lundgren
fan, I think the first thing she asked me was, "do you own "I Come In
Peace"?", because she was already a fan of the movie too.  Anyway, if you
like sci-fi action movies, check it out.  
<|_=00=_|>

This is Dolph Lundgren's best film to date with one of the most unique and
original storylines ever...........a movie where the action and words
never
cease to amuse.  If you are looking to see action & sci-fi done right,
here
it is.


<|_=00=_|>

You've got to like 80's Sci-Fi to really appreciate movies like this. I
rank it right up there with Terminator, Hawk The Slayer, The Guyver,
Highlander, and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles for good, hilarious sci-fi
fun.

No, I don't think the mainstream public would like a movie like this,
but if you like B-rated horror movies & sci-fi, then you should find
this one to your liking too. Beastmaster, Krull, and many other movies
from that era come to mind when I see this one.

Wonder if it's available on DVD yet....nope. Darn. Maybe one day.

8 out of 10 stars.

<|_=00=_|>

I like original movies and this one is.  The villain arrives at earth to
creates drugs from humans.  Great concept, and this drug dealer has some
nasty weapons too boot.  Good story line, with a odd couple teaming up to
solve the problem.  In the end, this movie is crazy enough for a
entertaining 2 hour.  Mike's pick I give it a 7!
<|_=00=_|>

I love this movie. Why?

The reasons are legion. Its just so refreshing to find a sci-fi flick so
utterly lacking in pretension, and so deeply committed to doing just one
thing perfectly (being entertaining) that I can't help but love it more
than
many "classic" movies which deserve much more critical
kudos.

Dolph Lundgren makes for a very competant hero, and as far as "acting"
goes,
he does a surprisingly admirable job of making his character far more human
and warm than many of his contemporaries could ever manage. Brian Benben is
great value as his cocky sidekick, and the supporting cast all pull their
weight in a highly inventive and very self aware sci-fi flick which
(please!!) will hopefully attain a new life and reputation when it
eventually hits DVD.  
<|_=00=_|>
The tag line on the old VHS box cover of "I Come In Peace" (aka "Dark
Angel" if you're outside of the U.S.) pretty much tells you everything
you need to know about the movie: "Good Cop. Bad Alien. BIG Trouble."
Dolph Lundgren made his mark on the late '80s action B-Film scene in
many other movies but for my money "I Come In Peace" remains his best
film. It's got everything an action junkie could want: big explosions,
car chases, big explosions, gun fights, big explosions, alien
encounters, and big explosions. Did I mention the big explosions?
Seriously though, "I Come In Peace" may not be a terribly original film
(basically it's a buddy-cop action movie bolted together from pieces of
"RoboCop," "The Terminator" and "Predator") but it is one heck of a fun
ride. Lundgren plays Jack Caine, a tough-as-nails,
kick-ass-first-and-ask-questions-later Houston police detective who
gets caught up in the midst of an FBI murder investigation after his
partner is killed during a failed drug-sting operation. Not only was
Caine's partner murdered, but then so were the gangsters who did it --
and by an unknown weapon that seems light years ahead of Earth
technology. The viewer already knows that the culprit in these murders
is actually a hulking humanoid Alien (played by German actor Matthias
Hues, a big nasty looking S.O.B. who dresses like he's in a Scorpions
video) who is running around the city, pumping unlucky Earthlings full
of stolen heroin and then sucking their brains dry just as they expire.
Apparently drug-addled human brain juice is a powerful narcotic
wherever this guy comes from. Hues has very little dialogue (basically
he repeats the phrase "I come in peace!" over and over again to his
hapless victims), but that's OK because it gives the movie more room
for the hilarious banter between Caine and Agent Smith (Brian Benben of
HBO's late 80s comedy series "Dream On"), a stick-in-the-mud,
by-the-book FBI agent Caine is saddled with throughout the
investigation. Of course, Caine and Smith start off hating each other's
guts but once they discover that their murderer is of extraterrestrial
origin, they bond, settle their professional differences, and team up
to destroy it. In between, lots of stuff blows up, cars get smashed,
people's throats get slit by a flying alien disc weapon that looks a
lot like a CD, and more stuff blows up. Seriously, this is one of the
most pyrotechnic action movies I've ever seen. I'm not sure what the
budget was for this flick but I'm sure a good half of it must've gone
to pay for explosives. Then again, director Craig R. Baxley is a former
stuntman and stunt coordinator, so he obviously knows a thing or two
about crashin' stuff and blowin' it up real good.

In short, "I Come in Peace" is a 24-karat hoot. Unfortunately it's not
currently available on DVD here in the U.S. but those of you in other
regions can supposedly find it easily on DVD under its alternate title,
"Dark Angel." Until the U.S. is blessed with the same luck, used VHS
copies can be found pretty much anywhere. Seek and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

My video of this film is called "Dark Angel". It's a great Dolph film, I
also like 'The Punisher' and 'Big Showdown in Little Tokyo'.
Dark Angel is a bit different...I enjoyed watching the relationships
unfold
between him and his police partner and him and his girlfriend.
The scientist character is brilliantly overacted...although I know some
computer programmers who are stressed out in the same manner!
Some years ago, whilst watching the video at my brother's house in
surround
sound, my son walked into the room during a bit where a disk is flying
around a room striking things...and he actually ducked! It still is the
best
bit of surround that I ever heard.
Caine's final words to the alien are classic!
<|_=00=_|>
A renegade cop (You know the kind)teams up with a straight arrow FBI
agent to take down a drug dealer from outer space. Seems our villain of
the peace extracts the brains (Juiced up on heroin) to sell back on his
turf for cash. Also aiding our heroes is an alien cop. Dolph Lundgren
movies can never be judged the same as other types of movies. Movies
like I Come In Peace exist only to provide visceral thrills and little
else, on the basis of this I Come In Peace does provide an adequate way
for fans to enjoy the action. Also I Come In Peace has it's share of
twists which blend well with the action.

* *1/2 out of 4-(Pretty good)
<|_=00=_|>

The story, while being a little predictable, starts well and is generally
solid and well-paced. Special effects are stunning in places and lame in
others, but the effect of the action upon the characters makes up for it.
An
improbable turn as a buddy movie between two guys with nothing in common -
finding they have the world in common is always a good story - even if
you've heard it before. An Al Leong appearance certifies this as a good
B-grade action movie, and Betsy Brantley (who has played opposite arguably
the best Sherlock ever, Jeremy Brett) does a workman's job as Dolph
Lundgren's love interest. Brian Benben fits nicely into the standard
"sidekick - not a sidekick" position common in such films as this one. The
supporting cast is apparently enjoying the production and the feel of the
film is positive, if not worthy of the Academy. One of the film's messages
that I find useful, is to learn to use your ray-gun BEFORE you go into
battle!
