

My Christmas is filled with ritual, as I guess most people's are. Part of
that ritual is National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation, about which I have
nothing but good things to say. This should be part of your Holiday season
too, because despite it not seeming like it all the way through, the film
as
a whole is just so thoroughly festive, cheery and good-hearted.

It opens with a great set-piece, Clark taking his family out in the
"front-wheel drive sleigh" to dig their Christmas tree out of the
snow-covered ground. He's a desperate loser, but you have to love the guy,
working his butt off to give his extended family the perfect Christmas.
(That's the difference in this Vacation movie, by the way - the Griswolds
don't go anywhere, their folks come to them).

So the shenanigans finding a tree set the pattern for a season of chaos,
fighting in-laws, squirrels, stupid relatives, huge dogs, snooty
neighbours
and collapsing turkeys. And as if that wasn't stress enough for poor
Clark,
he's waiting for his Christmas bonus to come through to cover a cheque
he's
already written.

The script brims with festive jollity, enthusing the audience with Clark's
excitement for the holidays. Stand out moments include the welcome (and
hilarious) return of Randy Quaid as Cousin Eddie, the uber-hick sponger
with
a trailer-full of weirdo kids and rubber sheets, and Mae Questel's
appearance as Aunt Bethany. She used to voice Betty Boo, and plays the
crazy
old woman to perfection.

See this movie. Get it on video. I normally watch it the first time on a
miserable October Sunday, when I start to think properly about Christmas.
Nothing can replace this movie as the one thing guaranteed to get me
looking
forward to late December. Fabulous stuff, and as festive for me as tinsel
and carols. Cuddle up with this one.

<|_=00=_|>
Poor Clark Griswold, no matter how optimistic he is, his family
vacations always seem to go severely wrong. First time around he went
across America in a metallic pea Station Wagon and it ended in
disaster. Then they went across Europe and met similar, albeit much
less funny, results.

For those of you who are unfamiliar with the Griswolds, Clark is food
additives expert who works for a company that doesn't appreciate him.
He sets high standards for holiday events that no one can live up to
and is notorious for dragging his grudging family along on every
painstaking detail of every scheme. His wife Ellen (Beverly D'Angelo)
is the voice of reason, who keeps the family rooted in reality and
responds with frequent deadpan bewilderment to his constant disasters.
The long-suffering kids, Russ and Audrey (Johnny Galecki and a very
young Juliette Lewis) have turned into the living embodiment of pure
cynicism, but there's no talking any sense into Clark Griswold. Ever! 

But now Clark just wants to stay at home in the snowy Chicago suburbs
for a 'fun, old-fashioned, family Christmas' and he's going to let
nothing stop him. His enthusiasm for the holidays manages to infect the
audience and you'll be rooting for him the whole way. He's an
anti-Scrooge and if you're having a Christmas crisis then you need to
watch this movie. Any disasters can be overcome.

But that's easier said than done. He didn't bargain on bickering family
members (including the voice of Betty Boop, Mae Questel, as a senile
old aunt), a house covered in non-working Christmas lights, a seriously
over-cooked turkey, snotty Yuppie neighbors making fun of him or Cousin
Eddie (Randy Quaid) and his hickabilly family turning up unannounced to
sponge some Christmas cheer off him.

What stops it from being just another generic Christmas movie is a
brilliant script by John Hughes packed full of hilarious set-pieces and
perfect comic timing from Chevy Chase. He's a great actor but his
appeal sadly declined in the 90s when he refused to evolve into more
serious roles like Bill Murray did. Clark Griswold and Fletch are
probably his most famous roles and this Vacation is definitely one you
need to take.

It's hard to pick the best moments but Randy Quaid's sudden appearance
will make you grin a mile wide, a cat wrapped up in a box (with Happy
Birthday paper!) that meets an unfortunate end and 'an asshole in his
bathrobe emptying a chemical toilet into the sewer' are just plain
brilliant. But what gives Christmas Vacation something more that makes
it so much more special that all the other Christmas movies is that
wonderful theme song! It's absolutely brilliant! But that ain't the
only great tune the film as to offer. There are also some classic songs
by Ray Charles, Bing Crosby and Gene Autry.

Although not the best of the bunch (Harold Ramis' direction had an evil
edge to the first film that made it just that little bit better), this
film has become a Yuletide classic and must be watched every year.
Since Christmas is full of annual traditions this film is definitely
one you should add to the list. It would criminal to give it anything
less that the highly coveted 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>

This is the one Christmas movie that I don't anyone can ever get tired of. 
Chevy Chase returns in the third installment of the Vacation series as
Clarke W. Griswold as he tries desperately to maintain his sanity during the
holidays with all of his relatives coming to stay under his roof and
enduring all the mishaps along the way.

This is the funniest film in the series plain and simple.  Chevy Chase has
never been better.  Christmas Vacation is filled with countless jokes and
gags that it's impossible not to laugh.

10/10  
<|_=00=_|>

	The Griswold family is set to celebrate the holidays like never before, in
`National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation,' directed by Jeremiah S. Chechik and
written by John Hughes.  Clark Griswold (Chevy Chase) has decided to have a
traditional, old-fashioned family Christmas, and has invited his parents and
in-laws to stay with them through the season.  He has a surprise he wants to
share with everyone this year; with his Christmas bonus from work, he's
putting in a pool, to which he's already committed the down-payment money
(so the bonus had better come through, big time, or he's `in it up to
here').  To kick off the season, he takes Ellen (Beverly D'Angelo) and the
kids, Audrey (Juliette Lewis) and Rusty (Johnny Galecki) to the mountains to
find the perfect `Griswold family Christmas tree.  And it's only the first
of one hilarious scene after another, as we follow Clark and clan through
one long laugh-fest, filled with surprises and fun.
	Chase is at his best here, in the most enduring (and endearing) character
he's ever done; Clark the Everyman, who only wants the best things for his
family and himself, but whose plans more often than not go awry, doomed to
fall just short of realization.  When he decorates the outside of the house,
he uses 25,000 twinkle lights; they use enough juice to black-out an entire
neighborhood, and they do (once he can get them to work).  Then when cousin
Eddie (Randy Quaid) and cousin Catherine (Miriam Flynn) show up unexpectedly
in the `RV' they now call home, Eddie asks Clark if he's surprised to see
him.  Surprised?  Eddie is the last person on earth Clark expected, or
wanted, to see.  `Eddie,' he tells him, `I couldn't be more surprised if I
woke up tomorrow morning with my head sewn to the carpet.'  Another
memorable scene involves a wild squirrel who came in with the Christmas tree
and proceeds to make his appearance during dinner, only to provoke a wild
romp upstairs and down as they all pursue (and in some cases try to elude)
the deadly invader.
	A terrific cast was assembled for this movie, but Quaid is the stand-out,
and he perfects the Eddie character in this one; forever the lamebrain with
the big heart, and the one who takes the situation in hand when Clark's
bonus turns out to be an enrollment in a jelly-of-the-month club.  Clark's
parents are played by Diane Ladd (Nora) and John Randolph (Clark, Sr.), and
Ellen's by Doris Roberts (Frances) and E.G. Marshall (Art).  Other notable
performances are turned in by Julia Louis-Dreyfus (Margo) and Nicholas Guest
(Todd), as Clark's yuppie next door neighbors, and also by William Hickey
(Uncle Lewis) and Mae Questel (Aunt Bethany).  Rounding out the supporting
cast are Nicolette Scorsese (Mary), Cody Burger (Rocky), Ellen Hamilton
Latzen (Ruby Sue) and Brian Doyle-Murray (Frank Shirley).  `National
Lampoon's Christmas Vacation' is timeless comedy, a must for every video
collection.  It can be watched over and over again, and the humor stays
fresh while the laughs get even bigger.  There's a little bit of every
family in here, and this movie may be just the tonic you'll need some day to
get you through your own `special' holiday season.  I rate this one 10/10.  
                
<|_=00=_|>

A comedy with laughs is good.  

A comedy with feel-good laughs is better.

A comedy like "Christmas Vacation" is great.

When the Griswolds go on vacation, disaster is a certainty.  But staying
home to celebrate Christmas with some far-flung relatives (who obviously
weren't flung far enough) leaves room for not only some top-drawer fun but
also time to reflect on family, love, goodwill, belief in one's
self....

Who expected so much from Chevy Chase?

After watching "Christmas Vacation", you will.

Nine stars.  And when you light up your house this Christmas, make sure
there's a nuclear reactor nearby.
<|_=00=_|>

This is probably the best Vacation film to come from the National Lampoon
series.  There are so many laughs to go around (thanks to writer John
Hughes) that it boggles the mind (and it might be the final time Checy
Chase
brings belly laughs).  Here, the Griswalds don't go on a vacation, but
instead the family stays in Chicago where there relatives come to town and
hell will come too.  Randy Quaid makes this film a treat by having just
laugh out loud moments on the screen.  Great fun for the whole family (I
think).  A+
<|_=00=_|>

Since the holidays are approaching, I feel I should comment on this
Christmas classic. Chevy Chase is hilarious once again as Clark, and this
is
the funniest Vacation next to the original when they go to Wally World.
Some
of the funniest lines too: "Gonna burn some dust here, eat my rubber." "It
is a bit nipply out, I mean nippy out!". A Christmas movie to own , and if
you don't, worthy of a rent at the holidays. Randy Quaid has some great
moments as Eddie, and don't miss Chase's run down the hill in the
sled!
<|_=00=_|>
We watch this movie every Christmas on Christmas Eve (the whole family
gets together).We laugh harder every year as we unpeel the humorous
layers of this film.Watch for when Clark's wife checks out Snot's
balls.It's hilarious.How about when Eddie returns with Clark's boss and
kicks him in the ass as they walk up the path to the house.How about
these quotes: "Why is there water everywhere Todd?" " I don't know
Margeaux." The Ray Charles Christmas song during the attic scene is one
of the most beautiful songs I've heard.His voice is so sweet.The eyes
crossed,kicked by a mule,falls in a well comment still cracks me up.I
love it when Clark's Dad says that if he (Clark) needs any help that he
(Dad) will be up in his room taking a nap.How about the office scene?
"Good morning ,kiss my ass,kiss his ass,etc."This movie is more fun to
watch in a large group.Enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
The holidays are the hot time for those who love family to gather, and
make merry. For the other 90% of the population it's a hassle, a
burden, and frankly a pain in the butt. Without a doubt we've all
experienced the "worst Christmas ever" but probably not like the
Griswolds. This is without a doubt one of my favorite holiday films
because even though family gatherings can be a pain, it's always there
to (hilariously) remind me to be grateful.

This is without a doubt one of my favorite Chevy Chase movies, and it
puts newer "National Lampoon" titles to shame. If you're a "deadpan
comedy" fan and haven't seen this movie you owe it to yourself to wait
until it gets cold, start a fire, and pop in this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know how anyone could ever go in life without seeing Christmas
Vacation, it's one of the necessary movies you have to watch during the
holidays. The reason being is that everyone can relate to this movie in
one way or another. Who hasn't had their crazy family over during the
holiday season? Well, that's Christmas Vacation, one of the funniest
movies you will ever see. You think that Vacation topped it off with
the laughs, believe me when I say that you've seen nothing yet. With an
all star cast that clicked so well, you couldn't go wrong going on a
great Christmas Vacation with the Griswolds.

Clark Griswold has really got the Christmas spirit this year, and his
wife Ellen, son Rusty, and daughter Audrey have noticed that. Clark has
invited Ellen's parents Art and Francis Smith, his own parents Clark
and Nora Griswold, and his Aunt Bethany and Uncle Lewis to spend the
holidays at the Griswold house in Chicago. But in spite of all the good
intentions and careful planning, Christmas plans start to go awry:
crazy squirrels, SWAT teams, burning Christmas trees, an over cooked
turkey and of course a visit from the world's favorite white trash with
a heart of gold Cousin Eddie! A Christmas ride not to be missed with
the Griswold family.

One of the things I just adore about this movie is the little touches
they put in the film: the grandparents falling asleep to an old
Christmas movie playing on TV, the anxiety you feel as the doorbell
rings knowing who's going to be behind it, and the little awkwardness
during dinner when you hear everyone chewing their food. Chevy Chase is
still such a pervert of course going for the hot sales lady instead of
Cristy Brinkley this time, but you can't help but love and laugh at his
fantasy in the back yard while the whole family is swimming in his most
wanted work bonus: a family sized pool. He maybe a crazy pervert at
times, but you feel the love he has for his family and how badly he
wants Christmas to be perfect.

There are some great laughs in this movie: a squirrel gets caught in
the Christmas tree that Clark brings in and it attacks the family and
neighbors! Clark gets upset that there is no Christmas bonus so his
cousin Eddie kidnaps Clark's boss, wraps him in a bow and gives him to
Clark so he could kick him in the butt! A cat chews on the Christmas
lights and gets electrocuted under the chair. But if you also get past
all the slap stick humor, you still feel the Christmas message at the
end, that despite all the craziness that comes around Christmas, don't
forget what it's really about: peace and love. A wonderful ending and a
perfect movie for Christmas that I watch every year, Christmas Vacation
is definitely in Santa's movie collection somewhere.

10/10
