


I have seen the movie several times now and every time I watch it I see
something new, something I haven't seen or heard before. Some unsung line,
some lost message... Every time I watch the movie I seem to dig deeper into
this complex work of art.

However, I cannot tell you how disappointed I am that this movie is so
underestimated, and, above all, misunderstood. How many times have you heard
someone say something like: "You can't watch 'The Wall' unless you're really
drunk or really high" ? I have heard this line probably from every single
person that has seen the movie and it hurts me so much that nobody really
tries to understand the movie.

The key to understanding the movie is in the lyrics. The movie is not just
a long series of video clips that accompany the album. The images are just a
final piece of the puzzle, the final touch on a magnificent piece of
art.

The first time I saw this movie I felt very embarassed. Yes, embarassed,
because I felt like a fool for hearing the album so many times and not
realizing what it was about. The movie made me appreciate the lyrics of a
rock song for the first time in my life.

The week after seeing "The Wall" for the first time I bought Pink Floyd's
"The Final Cut". Do you know what was the first thing I did when I opened
the CD case? I read the lyrics, from the first to the last word. And I
actually tried to understand what the album was about.

"The Wall" is so much more than you think it is. The only solution to not
understaning the movie is watching it again and paying more attention. Once
you get it, you will never forget it.
<|_=00=_|>

What can you possibly say except that this movie is amazing?

"The Wall" is one of the few movies out there that has a powerful effect on
the people are receptive to its message. Told with practically no dialogue,
the only guide to the bizarre, frightening, and strange images is the
incredible music by Pink Floyd, from their equally good double album. A
considerable number of the songs were re-recorded for this movie, and one
song (the heart-wrenching "When the Tigers Broke Free") was added. The new
versions of the songs are sometimes worse than the album (Waiting for the
Worms), and sometimes better (Mother, In the Flesh).

"The Wall" isn't a pleasant movie, nor is it a simplistic or banal movie. It
is brutal, cynical, and disturbing, but it has moments of flesh-tingling
beauty and an uplifting message in the end, if you persevere. I recommend
both it and the album to anyone who enjoys a powerful movie. In my opinion,
"The Wall," along with a few other albums, represents the pinnacle of rock
music.
<|_=00=_|>

"Pink Floyd The Wall" is a great film, based on the already great album by
Pink Floyd!  I was stunned by the use of imagery, combined with the great
soundtrack of the album, which gave us a strange, drugged up vision of
what
a burnt out rock star would see.  It's really crazy!  Yet it shows how
these
famous rock stars are bombarded with fame and applause, and how insane it
can drive an already disturbed person.  "The Wall" itself, is the
isolation
and separation from society and saneness, which is a place that can easily
be avoided if only people gave us a fair chance to.  The depressing part
about the film is that none of this is the rock star's fault.  He was
driven
to it by loneliness in his growing up years(since he lost his father to
the
war), along with psychological torment by his teachers, parents, and above
all, his sexually controlling wife.  The movie is twisted because this is
how the lead character sees the world.  Worse yet, after he has already
been
driven to the edge of his own sanity, in his mind, the people who drove
him
to that edge, come back to testify against him.  It's weird the first time
you watch it, and looks a lot like a crazy music video that was pulled out
of MTV.  The only difference is that this one is telling a story, and has
been transferred to the big wide screen.  Alan Parker has directed the
film,
but Roger Waters seems to be in charge here, because it's his album, his
story, and his conception.  All that's really been done here is
transforming
the album to celluloid.  I in some ways, like this better than the album,
because now we have images to reinforce the songs and the story.  I wish I
could have seen this on the big screen, because the variety of images and
the loud music seem compressed and compacted on a small TV set.  You might
not understand this the first time, especially if you haven't heard the
album yet.  But it really is a great film, and it actually has a story and
a
point that most music videos today unfortunately lack!  I think that this
film will teach people the reasons why these talented individuals suffer
and
lose their minds.  The people that have guided and taken care of them
while
they grew up, often take away their ability to happily and normally
function
on their own.  And the album and film's lesson is for not only the people
who drove him to his wall to back off, but for him to pull himself out.

<|_=00=_|>

The opening tracking shot of a hotel hallway that resembles a prison should
clue you in as to what awaits. There are so many things to like and be
fascinated by in this movie. And for all of its avant-garde leanings, this
is actually a very classically designed story. An iconoclastic music star,
Pink Floyd, tries/tries not to think about his past and how he got to where
he is, which is borderline psychotic. And because he's so disturbed, he
can't even think in a linear way, so the journey we take into his mind is
necessarily whacked-out.

We also get to see how fascism is born from misdirected hate and idolatry.
As a rock star, Floyd has seen the adulation of his audiences, so he's
familiar with the phenomenon. But at the same time, he detests them for
buying into his act. It's like the old Groucho Marx joke about refusing
membership to any group who would let you in. He knows he's a fake (his
teachers and people like his wife have told him so), so everyone else who
thinks he's real must be fakes also. It's a big cyclic game. So he can't
let
any of them in, behind his wall, because they are, by definition,
phony.

It's interesting, also, to think about how he has turned full circle into
fascism. It's just part of his dream and how he deals with his anger, but
it's also an interesting reaction to the absent father. Had there been no
homosexuals or Jews etc., there would have been no need for a Hitler, and
therefore there would have been no need for his father to die. But instead
of hating Nazis, he hates the people that "provoked" the Nazis. (I could go
on for days with stuff like this, but I'll stop here.)

Just watch the movie and be impressed with the way it works on so many
levels.


<|_=00=_|>
Alan Parker has always had a gift for the integration of music and
film, and his efforts over the years have reflected that. Movies like
"Fame" & "The Commitments" have made him a director more remembered for
his music video skills than his storytelling, even though he directed
gripping controversial more seriously films, like "Midnight Express,"
and "Mississippi Burning." 

"The Wall" tells the account of a rock star's breakdown, Pink Floyd
slowing down into madness... Pink's madness is illustrated with living
flashbacks of his life... He has visions of his childhood from a baby
held in the cradle to his present moment... We have little Pink
suffering from alienation for the death of his father in the war, and
taken under the care of his mother... We have also rock and roll star
Pink, who is destroyed by his evident insanity and is driven over the
edge by his wife's infidelity and we have a blown insane Pink, a Nazi
dictator under the Hammer Regime leading a series of occurrences like
raping, breaking and pillaging...

Alan Parker translates the music into memorable images that are
insensible to love or pity... All of Pink's life is projected on the
screen... We see and hear songs altered from an abstract concept into a
disgusting vision of students being thrown into a meat grinder...

Pink constructs the wall by building up tension... In mixing up
sexuality and violence, he creates a new window into Pink's
character... The animated sequences that reflected Pink's foolishness
are important and influential...

Alan Parker's direction moves the story cleverly from the present into
the past and into a possible future, drawing a warning, but still
contemplating traumas of a child with hurtful effects on the fully
grown man... The result is a mad piece of cinema, a kind of a bad dream
becoming even worse than usual...

The film exploits great special effects, some frightful and impossible
to understand... The music praises the film so well from declaring
noisy rock and roll music to quiet ballads of insanity...

Bob Geldof is amazing as Pink, the British rock star broken in pieces
under the psychological pressure of an American Tour...

Pink Floyd-The Wall is a bizarre animation reinforcing its vision of an
insane, inhumane, unjust and cruel world, not easy to follow...

The film stands out as one of the classic in the teenage scene,
specially teenagers who take or receive narcotic and due to its
psychedelic nature leaves you greatly depressed...
<|_=00=_|>
If for whatever reason you should find yourself in the company of
aliens from the planet Nietsche , a planet whose inhabitants have gone
beyond what can be described as human nature so much so that they have
no knowledge of what being human is , then show them this film that
explains everything 

The story starts with the Anzio landings that sees the death of Pink's
father . As Plato said " Only the dead have seen the end of war " and
that is bitterly true , man will always be man and man will always kill
man until the end of time 

Pink goes to school and education is a double edged sword . It has the
potential to educate young humans but as often happens these young
humans find themselves being used as victims of whatever mood the
teacher is in . Someone must pay for authorities inaquequacies 

Pink leaves school and falls in love , but love is the sharpest and
most double edged sword in all of creation . It inspires but it also
destroys us . Despite hundreds of millions of human beings being killed
in wars , genocide and purges there is nothing so personally painful or
as cruel as the betrayal by a lover . The darkest pits of Hell can not
be as hellish or as sadistic as infidelity 

As Pink descends further into his personal madness we see him take his
revenge . Humans are sexual beings and perhaps this is what makes us
both demons and avenging angels . Irony is to the fore as he stops
becoming a victim and turns into unfeeling fascist dictator . Someone
must pay for all the wrongs Pink has endured and it's the innocent that
must suffer 

You could go to the planet Nietsche with all the written works of every
human philosopher who ever lived and that still wouldn't be enough to
explain what it's like to be human . As it stands Alan Parker and Roger
Waters have made a cogent film explaining why humans are the way they
are and how they react to the surrounding universe . It's a film whose
soundtrack is every bit as powerful as the human condition
<|_=00=_|>
Roger Waters has weaved a compelling visual of the journey of a
disturbed and misled mind. Though the viewer is sometimes left to sort
out obscure animations and confusing images, it is not without
direction. Subsequent viewings of this film reveal substance that only
a genius could imbue in his writing. Character development through such
subtle action in places casts a light upon Roger Waters as a person who
understands the frailty of the human mind. The main character, Pink,
portrays angles of the human condition we all face at some point by
embodying a victimized character: sick over the loss of his father to
the war; negatively spotlighted at school for talents that are
apparently unfavorable at the time; unable or just unwilling to relate
to his wife; and ultimately shut off from effectively relating to
others because of an inability to express himself in ways that others
understand.

Not only is the story captivating, but the music is such that it will
always be noted as not only ahead of its time, but timeless.

The Wall is a masterpiece of storytelling, but not in the traditional
sense. One must not watch this film expecting everything on a silver
platter. Symbolism and metaphors abound, leaving a great deal of
interpretation and adaptation to the viewer. Sit with an open mind and
let Waters' character help you read into yourself.
<|_=00=_|>

Whether you're sober, buzzed, high, or fully baked this movie is enjoyable.
Anyway you look at it. Some people will naturally say you can only watch it
high for it to make sense. Ignore those pothead hippies. Don't get me wrong
I love pot as much as the next guy but what they say is untrue. Maybe it's
more enjoyable baked or drunk but what isn't? If you're under the age of 30
and over the age of 12 and haven't seen it feel free to join your generation
anytime now. What you missing is a great movie about isolation, depression,
and anger. And for those of you too baked for any amount of attention span
put the movie on anyways cause the soundtrack rules. However if you ever run
across a chance to see it at a theater, as a midnite matinee or just a run
of old movies, pay any amount for admission it'll be worth it. For those of
you who enjoy getting stoned and watching movies see Story Of Ricky. It's
nearly as good as this. For those of you looking for insanity on video see
Taxi Driver.
<|_=00=_|>
I recently rented and re-watched Pink Floyd The Wall for the 200th
time, and I had forgotten, over the years, why this is my favorite
movie. Surprisingly, the reason it is so good has little to do with a
rock star having a mental breakdown. Pink being a rock star is almost
incidental to the real message of the film. It seems as if director
Parker took the initial idea of Pink Floyd's album and ran away with
it. The film serves less as a study of one celebrity individual,
instead serving as a cinematic indictment of all of our worst aspects
as human beings: cruelty, brutality, insanity, herd mentality,
fascism--all the most negative traits of twentieth century man are
splashed upon the movie screen, as if the Director was asking the
audience "Why?" This is a film in rebellion against the status quo.
Funny then, that it should be driven by the music of a major rock and
roll band. But, all in all, that is besides the point. The film of the
Wall begins and ends with scenes of oppression by authoritarian figures
(police men, skinheads, teachers, etc.)It is almost as if the entire
sub textual content of the film is drawing a parallel between the
internal alienation of a single individual and the social and global
alienation that fostered the cruelties of World War 2, the holocaust,
ad infinitum. Pinks degeneration is the degeneration of Everyman,
confronted by a world that is (still) spinning increasingly out of
control, away from the light, further behind the wall of its own
nihilistic will toward self-obliteration. The violence of the imagery,
the final "Trial", and the psychic attack of the final montage of
disturbing images (masked children put into a meat grinder, cartoon
teachers becoming hammers, neo-Nazis on a rampage) as the scene fades
into a blank grey wall, are grand, satirical, operatic "Theater of
Cruelty" in a cinematic framework. But it is the final lyric (sung by a
repulsive, animated "Judge") that puts the entire scope of this picture
into focus: "I sentence you to be EXPOSED before your peers..." The
Judge , of course, is not merely talking to the fictional "Pink", but
to the viewers of the film, and well, the entire world, for all that,
and again, the Director has, seemingly, high jacked the "rock opera"
format, and used it as a vehicle to ask that ultimate question: why is
mankind so mutually interested in its own self-destruction? Why do
nations and civilized cultures slide easily into fascistic thinking?
How many war orphans are we still, to this day, creating?

I am not, now, a fan of Pink Floyd's music, although all of the music
in this film is beyond excellent. Oddly enough, I am the farthest thing
from the dope-smoking "hippy" that is supposed to be a Pink Floyd fan.
I am an Industrial musician and a writer. My favorite music, at this
point, is anything by NON, Throbbing Gristle, etc. This film has, over
the years though, shaped my own artistic outlook in ways I am probably
not even aware of. One does not need to smoke dope, or even be a Pink
Floyd fan, to be affected quite deeply by this film. Roger Ebert once
said that Star Wars was, to him at least "a perfect film". Well, Pink
Floyd The Wall, to myself, is a perfect film, whether you are a pothead
or no. I have given this film ten stars, but it is a little beyond
that. If it was simply a rock movie, it could be rated in a
conventional manner. But Allan Parker has done something here that is
beyond even the concept of the bestselling album that this movie is
based upon. He has crafted a surreal essay on the madness and
self-destruction that lurks within the human spirit. And he has created
one of the most sobering, angry, and dizzying satirical pieces ever
committed to celluloid. In short, this film is a work of sheer,
jaundiced brilliance.
<|_=00=_|>
If you like Pink Floyd, you'll love the movie regardless of what you
think the cinematic value of the film is. To me, Roger Water's ability
to express himself is outrageously smart. He is a genius. His English
is masterful and the way he expresses how he feels is just
mind-blowing. I am sure that every one of us has felt exactly the same
as Pink/Roger felt at some point of our life but have never been able
to successfully explain it. It is therefore my opinion that the lyrics
are what make this film great. As a movie, it also translates those
feelings well. All the actors were superb. Alan Parker managed to pull
the whole thing together cleverly and all in all it is an excellent
choice for a late night stoner's kick back - brilliant.
