
You don't hear or read much about this movie based on a short story
written by Stephen King and I think that's a shame. It sure ain't no
big masterpiece but it got several things going for it. Though, there
is ONE aspect that makes this film very memorable ! The very creepy
atmosphere. Graveyard Shift takes place is a textile factory during a
very hot summer. Temperatures are so high, the men have to work at
night...during the Graveyard Shift !

You can actually feel the heat these men are working in. You can feel
the sweat running down their back and you can feel the dirt on their
bodies, caused by the hard work. That's a very good mood being set.
When it comes to the level of "scary" I would dare to say that some
scenes equal to that of "Arachnophobia"... Because the hideous little
creatures here are rats, and these animals scare and disgust people as
much as spiders do. Graveyard Shift contains some great acting
performances as well. Andrew Divoff is a decent actor and the guy who
plays Warwick is fantastic ! He has the face of a natural born bastard
so the role he plays fits him very well. I don't know his name but he
reminds me of Fred Ward. I'll keep my eyes open for possible other
movies he starred in. And then there's ...Brad Dourif!! This guy always
delivers !!! Whether he plays in big budget productions like LOTR: The
Two Towers or in small obscure horror films, he's always brilliant.
Especially here, as the "Exterminator". His little Vietnam anecdote is
the best scene in the whole film. He's still too underrated, if you ask
me. So these are all good elements, no ? Then, why is Graveyard Shift
not up there with the big titles in the genre? Well, the low budget
obviously killed this movie. Most scenes are very dark and hard to
follow. The big monster is supposed to be very impressive, but you're
never able to see it properly. Half of the time, you're wondering
"what? ...what happened ??" Real shame and waste. I'm convinced that
with a few clear and decent special effects and make-up, this movie
could have been one of the best horror films of the 90's.
<|_=00=_|>
Films like this one were released by the bucket load in the 1980's, but
as 1990 approached; they became less and less common. Still, there are
a lot of silly horror flicks that were released in the 90's debut year,
and, surprisingly, this one isn't all that bad. It lacks all the
elements that make great films great films, of course; things such as
brains, coherency and any whisper of characters has been neglected in
favour of monster special effects and a few nice death scenes; but
seriously, that's all you want from a film like this, so to say that
Graveyard Shift does it's job isn't wrong. The film is based on a short
story by Stephen King. Nearly everything that King has ever touched has
been turned into a film, with a lot of mixed results. I would put this
one in the middling category, which isn't a bad place to be in
considering all the failed adaptations. The plot is typically thin (it
is a SHORT story!) and it follows a man who gets a job in a cotton
mill. The place is infested with rats, and after being charged with
cleaning the place up, our hero finds a trapdoor and soon he and his
team are up against the reason rats have made their home in the mill...

One thing that really stands out about this film is the atmosphere.
Director Ralph S. Singleton delights in presenting a fetid and
disturbing aura around the central location, and this helps the story
massively and gives the film an almost 'odyssey' approach when the
characters finally make their way underground. I don't find rats scary,
personally, but many people do and this film could easily be a reason
why! The way that the rats surround the characters is brooding and
frightening and provides the film with one of it's key elements. Acting
definitely isn't a key element of Graveyard Shift, but the appearance
of popular cult actor Brad Dourif will please many of this films'
audience. I'm not a massive of fan of Dourif personally, but I respect
his ability to shine in campy productions. The story doesn't offer
anything in the way of a point, and it's incoherency will annoy many -
but if you go into this film with the right sort of expectations, and
don't think you're about to see a horror classic, Graveyard Shift
really shouldn't disappoint.
<|_=00=_|>

Right then, I've read every review up until this one and I have to say..its
the same old story - you're mostly all fruitcakes. GRAVEYARD SHIFT is one
ripper of an admittedly "oddball" movie. A few people evidently share this
view which is encouraging at least.

The film is a terrific character study and never have I come across a more
depressingly grotty and apt setting for a bleak horror film. You need little
imagination to smell the filth and dirt. David Andrews makes a superb
anti-hero, as the college-boy/drifter who takes it right up to Mill owner
Warwick...as dislikable a screen presence as any and so well played by
Stephen Macht. Loved the caddie-bashing sequence. Brad Dourif as the
Exterminator was simply out of his tree here - overacting?????  hardly! this
is Brad Dourif we're talking about!

So, four-fifths of you heaped scorn on the rat/bat? (it was a BAT actually)
What the HELL does it matter WHAT it was - a feral chicken even? I've seen
way worse monsters than this in my time around horror flicks. The production
values on this film were high, this was NOT a rabid el-cheapo along the
lines of HOWLING II !

In case you're interested. I would rate this as one of the better horror
flicks of the last millennium. If I'm losing my objectivity then it must be
a case of collective hypnosis because everyone in this family (and you're
talking seriously varied tastes here) likes this flick! I would rate it a
6.75 ! 
<|_=00=_|>
This might be the craziest Stephen King adaptation ever made (and yes,
I am aware of "The Lawnmower Man"). It's so f**king intense from start
to finish that it makes Stanley Kubrick's "The Shining" look like a
Hallmark movie. The studio executives no doubt wanted to make a few
bucks with a by-the-numbers B-movie and chose the director based on his
past experience on a number of respectable movies; no one could have
predicted that he'd go balls-out crazy and treat a story about a mutant
rat monster as if he'd been handed the script to "Macbeth." 

A drifter named John arrives in the town of Gate's Falls and applies
for a job in a rat-infested textile mill run by Mr. Warwick (played by
an unknown actor named Stephen Macht, whose attempted Maine accent
sounds more Transylvanian), a deliriously evil man who rules not only
the mill, but the entire town, with an iron fist. Warwick regularly
strolls through the mill to laugh at how exhausted everyone is and
knowingly sends his employees to their doom in the basement, which is
inhabited by a huge rat-bat hybrid. This seems like an extremely
counterproductive way to run a business, but it's best not to question
anything in this movie. Meanwhile, an exterminator gone wrong (Brad
Dourif's performance will give you nightmares) attempts to flush out
the mill's rats, and John sort of develops a relationship with the
mill's secretary, although even the romantic scenes are not handled
calmly. As an example of the film's overall mood, at one point Warwick
sends John to help clean the basement; the script probably said,
"Warwick sends John to clean the basement," but it plays out with
Warwick and John staring each other down wild-eyed as if Warwick had
challenged John to a death-match; it is indeed the most intense "one
character asks another to do a simple task" scene in history.

Basically everything in the movie is like that, until the final
sequence, at which point the maniacal director apparently tore the
script into confetti and threw it into the air, because all nine levels
of hell break loose. Our small cleaning crew, including Warwick,
descends through a trapdoor and finds itself lost in a maze of wooden
tunnels, the mill being some kind of labyrinthine, "House of
Leaves"-style structure that extends hundreds of feet below the surface
of the earth, and the rat-bat begins killing them off. Warwick goes
completely off the beam at this time and begins chasing John and his
girlfriend through the tunnels after smearing his face full of black
grease. He encounters the rat-beast and throws himself at it,
screaming, "We're going to hell... TOGETHUUUHHH!!!" Somehow, John and
Jane descend even deeper, and end up in a massive cavern packed full of
human bones; I could only imagine the director running around foaming
at the mouth as he told his set design crew he needed the most gigantic
cavern ever put on screen. Then, through some miracle, our man John
makes it back into the textile mill and defeats the monster using, and
this is no less crazy than it sounds, a Pepsi can. These final scenes
are exhausting, but the movie isn't about to let some trifle like an
"ending" release its grip on the viewer, because a nightmarish theme
song then begins playing consisting of a bizarre techno beat with
sounds of industrial machinery and bits of dialogue mixed over it. The
tremendous amount of effort that was put into this thing forces me to
rate it 8/10; any less and I am afraid the director might track me down
and cut out my eyes or something.
<|_=00=_|>


This film is sadly underrated: Actually, this may be caused by the relative
low-key way the film is shot in. In contrast to many other recent
"horror"-movies (take "The Mummy" for instance) the special effects are not
generally exploiting gory, in-depth looks at the monsters (which almost
always tend to ruin much of the real horror, i e where you yourself fill in
on the aspects not covered by the camera; a commendable example of this last
aspect would be the first "Alien", where the monster often only is shown in
extreme short-cut scenes). Anyway, what made the film stand out is, however,
not the spare use of monster-over exposure but the social setting of the
plot.
Unlike many other American stories, which seem to be set in rather idyllic
surroundings (but for the appearance of the monster, that is!), this film
actually lay out a more grim, perspective: The owners and the manager of the
plant are basically exploiting the workers in search of greater profits, the
possibilities of getting other jobs seem slim, the local people is not very
keen on strangers and peoples´ basic attitudes towards each other often seem
to range between distrust and hostility. This creates a darker, more
menacing setting for the everyday life than could be expected; something I
find much more interesting than the ordinary "everything here was so fine
until the monster arrived to our idyllic town"-plot.
If one likes to think about symbolic interpretations of horror movies (and
why not? Even Stephen King does this in his book "Dance Macabre"), one could
perhaps state that the monster in some way could be perceived as the
physical manifestation of all hostility, exploitation and other bad feelings
which seem to prevail in the little society depicted;-)

To top it all (warning- spoiler ahead!), given what happens to one of the
sympathetic characters very close to the end of the movie, there is not a
really wholeheartedly happy ending: Quite extraordinary if you think about
that this actually is an American movie! 

To summarize: This is a horror movie which, in many positive ways, feels
like it was made by an independent company! 
<|_=00=_|>
In Gates Falls,Maine,an old textile mill that has been closed down for
many years is reopened.The place is dirty,run down,and overrun with
huge rats.The graveyard shift is operated by a skeleton crew,just
enough to keep it going.This is where we meet John Hall,a young drifter
who gets hired on to work with the crew.The plant which is infested
with rats also harbors something much larger,deep in it's cotton filled
bowels,something that wants to come up to the surface.The crew of the
graveyard shift are about to come face to face with what's underneath
the factory."Graveyard Shift" is loosely based on Stephen King's short
story.The film is fast-paced and entertaining and offers some gore plus
a few shocks.Many people trashed this horror film,but I don't
care."Graveyard Shift" is still much better than bloodless and
politically correct horror garbage produced today.The cast is decent
and the production design provides plenty of eerie atmosphere.Give this
one a look.9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I love this film to death. It's one of my childhood favorites. It's
incredible how a film can constantly stay in your memory and ignite
such excitement thinking back on it through the years as this one does.
A solid horror film, one of the best ever made. It should be watched
every year on Halloween to celebrate it. And every actor that was in it
should be hunted down and hailed. This film is such a masterpiece, it
has every ingredient possible to create a true and complete horror
film: Extreme terror and gore, a creepy old mill and cemetery, a cool
handsome hero, an evil ugly boss, a wacky exterminator, a small
forbidden town, an unspeakable monster below, a dirty job, a kick-ass
title, great lines, great music, comedy, what more can you ask for???
It's impossible to get every atmospheric scene and campy character out
of my mind. It's one hell of a joy ride. A must see for serious horror
buffs. Will you survive the Graveyard Shift?
<|_=00=_|>
John Hall (David Andrews) is a drifter looking for a job in a small
town, somewhere in Maine. He is hired by Warwick (Stephen Macht) to
work the Graveyard Shift at the local textile mill. Some of the
employees are starting to disappear during the night shift. When
Warwick hires John and a group of other workers to work in the fourth
of July for clean-up work. Soon enough, they discover the unknown.

Directed by Ralph S. Singleton made an decent horror movie, based on a
short story by Stephen King (Cat's Eye, Creepshow, Stand by Me). The
two-thirds of "Graveyard Shift" is pretty good, but the Giant
Rat-Bat(!) shows up towards the end, the feature turns silly. Still,
there is some good performances by Andrews, Macht and Brad Dourif as
the Exterminator. Andrew Diroff, Best Known as The Djinn in "Wishmaster
1 & 2" is wasted in a supporting role. Die-Hard fans of Stephen King
might forgive some of the flawed. Despite, an messy third act. It is
worth a look. (*** ½/*****).
<|_=00=_|>
Bland David Andrews is a quiet hunk drifter who starts the late shift
at a grimy Maine textile mill, headed over by a sadistic sleazeball
boss (Stephen Macht). The basement work crew start falling prey to a
giant rat monster that lurks underground. Real rats are all over the
place too, to clean up the bodies.

The gore FX are mostly top-notch, the sets are good and there's plenty
of violence and action, but this pointless movie is one big, unpleasant
cliché thanks to poor direction and scripting (by John Esposito, based
on the Stephen King story). Everyone yells and screams a lot, but Kelly
Wolf (as a tough female worker who can hold her own) and Brad Dourif
(as 'Nam vet pest exterminator Tucker Cleveland) are the only two who
bring any spark to their roles.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one that goes under the title, "How To Make a Bad Creature
Feature." Still, it's completely trashy nature charms me somewhat. It
certainly has enough filth, garbage & rats to satisfy anyone who loves
to immerse themselves in low-rent horror.

Down in the bowels of a cotton mill lives something quite sinister,
with an appetite for factory workers who venture anywhere near his
lair.

John Hall(Dana Andrews, who is simply a lifeless blank)is a mysterious
drifter who wanders into the position of running a Graveyard Shift
textile machine once operated by someone else who saw something massive
and fell it that blasted machine providing the rats with nourishment.
Warwick(Stephen Macht, a hoot as he overextends his character's menace
to the extreme) is the manager of the mill with a bit of a nasty streak
which hides under a vile visage. Tucker Cleveland(Brad Dourif, who
easily steals the film with his limited time on screen)is the
exterminator of the mill who works day and night wasting those
rat-vermin who wish to rear their ugly heads from the bowels. This mill
should've been closed down forever, but Warwick has a way of extending
time for a 4th of July clean-up where those who decide to work for
double-pay, including Hall and his love-interest Jane(Kelly Wolf), will
find true horror down in the basement of the place.

I have no right whatsoever recommending this hunk of pure trash to
anyone, but those who enjoy rats and garbage may find it amusing. It's
full of nefarious, colorfully animated characters like Macht's evil
manager and Dourif's exterminator which may bring a delight to
trash-lovers everywhere. Highlights include Dourif's exterminator
explaining to Hall about an experience in Vietnam which inspired his
choice of occupation where a prisoner of war is used as meat for
specially trained rats(as he expresses in exact detail, Dourif gets so
caught up in the intensity of the character he sheds a tear..that ought
to bring a bit of respect from some that an actor of his caliber would
care so much to give away part of himself to such a rotten movie), or
how Hall traps the monster in the textile machine.But how Warwick goes
over the edge, insanely with face paint used from grease of an old jar,
as he chases after the creature has to be the ultimate highlight.

I think the best audience for this type of film is those lovers of bad
Creature features, because in it's own ugly way, this film can be
entertaining. But, it doesn't have one good bone in it's body, so
others might wish to stay as far away as possible.
