

You know, Grease 2 has taken a lot of flack & extensive bad reviews for not
living up to the original. I really don't think that is to fair considering
the cast was totally different. Granted there was no super-star-pop-icon
like Olivia Newton-John. There wasn't the hot-70's & 80's actor John
Travolta. However, there were some great stars in this film. The writing may
have been a little less than perfect...the direction might not have been up
to par. But for me, being EXTREMLY young when both Grease 1 & 2 came out, I
never compared the two. I think they are two different films with the same
"type" of concept. The music was good. The dance scenes are good. & yes,
even the story is okay. Grease mania is about being a devoted fan... that is
something I am. I liked both of these films on two different levels. Grease
without a doubt is the better of the two. But this one is not as bad as the
negativity everyone feeds into it. If see one, see the other. Just note that
they are both FUN movies! Nothing more. The sequel centers around Sandy's
cousin Michael. He is in love with Stephanie, & trys EVERYTHING possible to
win her over. The Pink Ladies are still cooler than ever. The T-Birds are
not as tuff, but are sexy! 1-10 Grease(10) Grease2(8) Z.
<|_=00=_|>

I grew up with both of the Grease films but I must say, Grease 2 is my
favourite and there are many reasons.  It does have the same kind of
formula
as the orginal Grease but is dealt with in a completely different way.
Danny faniced Sandy back, but Stephanie (played by the young Michelle
Pfhieffer) doesn't even give Michael (Caulfield) a second glance.  Also,
instead of cars, a motorbike is the new 'thing' to have.

Michael Carrington, a straight A student from England, transfers to Rydell
High and is immediately put into the 'nerd' category and the T-Birds brand
him 'Shakesphere'.  He is smart, extremely uncool and very
shy.

Stephenie, the leader of the Pink ladies has come back from the summer
holidays having broke up with Johnny, the T-Birds leader, having grown out
of him.  Johnny is clearly still interested in Stephanie but she doesn't
want to know.  Her loyalty to the Birds has faltered as she wants someone
even cooler.

First day back Stephanie sees the Birds picking on Michael and defends
him,
from that moment on Michael vows to become a T-Bird and win her
heart.

So there is the story, but what Grease is famous for is the memorable
songs,
and this film has them!  There are 12 songs on the soundtrack and there
isn't one that I really skip.  The music has changed since the first
Grease
as it was made in the decade of the 80's.  Its early 80's rock that you
are
getting yourself into for the most part.  You have the romanitc songs
(Turn
Back The Hands Of Time, We'll Be Together, Charades), the heavy rock songs
(Cool Rider, Who's That Guy), the happy-go-dancing songs (Score Tonight,
Back To School), the sweet songs (Love For All Seasons) and the down right
silly songs (Reproduction, Prowlin').  These are all songs that stick in
your mind and just can't stop singing them to yourself.  All the songs are
quality and stand on their own.  Absolutely brilliant soundtrack.

What would Grease be without the classic characters?  We have the T-Birds
who are actually not cool in any way or form, its only the leader (Johnny)
who is 'cool', the others just follow his lead.  Johnny is a classic
character who makes you laugh over and over again, its hilarious whenever
he
loses his cool.  Frenchy unfortunately doesn't have a big part in the film
but nethertheless she is there.  The coach is back but you only see him
twice if that.  Mrs Mcgee and Blanche are also back making quite a funny
duo
as they did last time.  Two new teachers; a very sexy female who always
has
low cut tops on and pays $500 for her hair (according to the cheer leading
twins).  She falls for the unlikely nerdy substitute teacher, Mr Stewart,
who teaches the immortal 'Reproduction' lesson.  The new Pink ladies have
very distinctive characters, one of them is obsessed with her nose and
doesnt come into it much (Rhonda), Paulette is somewhat the second leader
in
my view who has a crush on Johnny, she does have her own intentions but
she
does care for her friends; nothing like Riz.  Sharon is a bubbly flirty
character who is the prey of one of the T-Birds (Louis) to get into bed.
Then there is Dolores, Paulettes little sister who isn't a Pink lady but a
pink lady mascot, she looks about 12, mouthy and carries a skate board
everywhere.

The performances were actually very good in my humble opinion, especially
Max Caulfield who seemed very uncomfortable... and that is the way Michael
is supposed to be!  He wins me over with those puppy innocent eyes, then
when he is the mysterious guy he acts completely cool.  Max was a triumph.
His voice isn't the best thing in the world but he didn't sing that much
anyway.  Michelle Pfhieffer was wonderful as an actress and singer.  When
you hear her sing you won't need to wonder why Andrew Lloyd Webber wanted
her as Evita in his film musical and NOT Madonna.  She shines in 'Cool
Rider'.  The whole cast was believable.  I normally sit back in films and
watch peoples performances and dig at them but I didnt do that at all in
this movie.

This film has a lot of negative feedback as every one compares it to the
Original Grease.  My opinion isnt common, preferring this one to the
original, therefore my advice to you is to forget the first movie when
watching this one.  It needs a chance!
<|_=00=_|>

I dont understand why this movie is being slammed so much. The first Grease
is a classic and its always impossible to follow a classic with an equal
sequel. I happened to enjoy this sequel better than the original. I thought
it was funnier and I enjoyed the music in this movie better than the first.
Especially the "Reproduction"scene...you can't watch that and not agree
that
that is one funny part of the movie. I also thought Maxwell Caulfield was
GORGEOUS as Michael. I overall give this movie 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I used to work in a record store in the late 80s/early 90s, and one
thing we sold a copy of at least every week was the Grease 2
soundtrack. I used to ask the people buying about it, and they all
acknowledged that it was one of the worst movies, but that there is
something about it so lovable, and that the songs are terrible, but
there's something about them so charming Now that I've seen the movie,
I know what they mean.

This movie is appalling in nearly every respect, but there's just
something about it--perhaps how brazenly appalling it is--that gives it
an almost hypnotic fascination. 

I love how the producers made only the most surface-level attempt to
even appear 50s. The clothes, hairstyles, songs, and ways of speaking
all scream 80s. I haven't the slightest idea why they decided to dress
Michelle Pheiffer in things that essentially look like sweatshirts for
the first half of the movie. And she's got on those huge dark glasses
all the time making her look like early Debbie Harry. You just really
have to wonder. As for the sets I don't think I've ever seen such low
production values in a movie released by a major studio. The sets also
are brazenly 80s When Michelle is being tutored, they are OBVIOUSLY in
an Elias Brothers Big Boy! Couldn't they at least have found a
50s-themed diner? There is also a scene showing guys motorcycling
through a subdivision that looks like 1985 Westland, Michigan, and
another time--my favorite--when Michelle and someone are sitting out in
what is obviously some municipal park, with a huge superhighway with
massive 18-wheelers barreling by in the background. I really have to
take my hat off. 

What's also charmingly appalling is how the producers made NO attempt
to recapture ANYTHING you may have loved about the first movie. And I
tell you, this movie makes the original look like Gone With the Wind.
You really should be required to see both to appreciate what a
graceful, charming movie the first one is. This is so obviously just a
craven cash-in by whoever owned the rights (that's you, Allan Carr!)
that, in some perverse way, only makes it the more appealing.

Everyone in this movie looks embarrassed, but none more so that
Michelle Pheiffer. Obviously WRONG in every way for the part, and
obviously PAINFULLY aware that she's going to look like an idiot on
movie screens across America, poor Michelle seems afraid to really put
herself behind any expression, movement, or song, as though by staying
as still as possible she can diminish the damage. The poor girl, you
can really feel her pain, especially as she sings 'Cool Rider,' and
tries to dance up that ladder and down. The thing about musicals is
that the characters have to appear to be transported with joy or
anguish to the point that they break out in song, and poor Michelle is
just so embarrassed that it really clunks. Of course, ALL the musical
sequences clunk massively. If you're not buying a musical sequence it
just looks like a bunch of people idiotically moving around on a set
and that's what we got here. Those poor, poor individuals.

I was amazed how poor the sound quality was. I hear this has been
improved on the DVD, but it's quite clear that they were aware that
these people COULD NOT SING, and tried to bury their voices as deep as
possible.

What else? Well, I guess that's about it. Truly poor direction just
adds to the general malaise. If you like bad, cheesy movies, they just
don't get any better than this. If you are a fan of the original, you
should definitely watch this, as it'll just make you love the
chemistry, charming songs, and graceful story arc all the more.

--- Check out my website devoted to bad and cheesy movies:
www.cinemademerde.com
<|_=00=_|>
When I was 11, Grease 2 was like crack. It was a classless, shameful,
euphoric, and powerfully addictive experience. My sister and I would
watch it, rewind it, and watch it over again and again and again until
we passed out or became too confused and hostile to stand one another.
So, if you are an 11-year old girl, and you reviewed this film as
"brilliant" or "fun" or "better than the original Grease," you have
your fledgling adolescent hormones to blame and you can rest assured
that this unyielding fixation with utter rubbish will pass.

If, however, you are not a little girl, you have absolutely no excuse
to suggest that Grease 2 was anything but an inane, artless, slipshod
embarrassment for all who participated in its production, distribution,
and/or consumption.

For the sake of criticism, I will dignify the film now by explaining
why it blows 

1. In a well-executed musical, the songs should advance the narrative
or develop the characters. In Grease 2, with a few debatable
exceptions, to the music is obscenely pointless. Most of the songs
appear to relate gimped innuendo about sex in an excessive and general
way ("Score Tonight," "Reproduction," "Do It For Our Country," and
"Prowlin'") without making one concrete statement about any of the
film's characters or themes. Plus, all of the music is uncomfortably
stupid and no one in the cast demonstrates even the crudest semblance
of an ability to sing or dance.

2. The T-birds should be badass, and if not at least somewhat likable,
but instead each of them is an annoying wussy-dufus-loser. In the end,
when Johnny Nogerelli offers Michael the sacred T-bird jacket and
initiates him into the gang, Michael should kick it to the ground, spit
on it, and duck away to fervently scrub any part of his body that was
touched by it. But of course, he accepts it as if it is gold because
despite the fact that they are a bunch of bumbling meatheads, there is
no greater honor than to be one with the T-birds. 

3. Since Michael is beautiful, smart, kind, resourceful, and above
average in everyway (his musical impotence notwithstanding), it is
feasible that Stephanie would ultimately embrace him when he reveals
himself to be the man behind the mask. Stephanie, on the other hand, is
a slovenly, slack-jawed, bubble gum smacking, dirty sweatshirt wearing,
gracelessly rude and trashy dingbat. So aside from being pretty (I
guess), she harbors no likable characteristics, thus, audiences are
given no justification whatsoever for the depth of Michael's attraction
to her.

I could go on and on, but I didn't want to mention the gross
inferiority to its predecessor since there are apparently so many
cranks out there who seem to feel that such a comparison is unfair. I
will say this though, to those of you who think you want to revisit
this mess for old time's sake: Grease 2 is an experience akin to
re-living your first kiss. Only you are 32 now and kissing a snot-nosed
13-year old kid with acne and slobby braces. The magic is gone and you
are left feeling dirty and disturbed. Trust me.
<|_=00=_|>


This film to me is not that bad, most the people who have seen it compare
it
to the original. What I reckon is that if this was just a film and not a
sequel to Grease it would probably be appreciated more.

In my opinion I like Grease 2 better, I actually found Grease to be quite
boring, but hey that's just me. In Grease 2 I like the songs better and the
guys are much more better looking than the first one.

Overall this movie for me is quite entertaining and I like it, and I
certainly do not compare it to the first one as it is a whole new different
movie and storyline.

So if you haven't seen Grease 2 before because people say it's crap and
that
it's a waste of time, at least give it a chance and watch it, it might
surprise you.
<|_=00=_|>

I think the reason this movie did so badly, and most people don't like it is
because of the constant comparison to the original "Grease." Of course,
compared to the original it would come up short. but, try to watch it not as
a sequel, but just as a movie in itself, and I think most people would like
it more. Granted, it does have it's cheesy moments, such as the "(Love Will)
Turn Back The Hands Of Time" number, but it's a nice, sweet movie. I loved
it, personally. Rent it, it's lots of fun!
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, this movie is absolutely ridiculous, and if I was only rating its
surface quality, my score would be much lower. The plot and dialogue
are fraught with silliness, and if you watch carefully there are
numerous little mistakes that should have been edited out. (Spoiler:
Michael's motorcycle right out in plain view of Steff, with him leaning
on it, when he's hiding his "cool rider" identity from her.) Some of
the songs are especially painful, particularly in the ultra-serious
motorcycle heaven scene, and the choreography is just bad. Watching
Michelle Pfeiffer dance and sing "Cool Rider" is terrible--she should
not be dancing that way, or singing at all. One has to wonder why
Crater Face was included as a "villain" in this film, because now his
tormenting of the high school students is just sad. 

Then again, I have a soft spot for Grease 2 that I don't have for the
too oft-shown first film. For one, just to get this out of the way,
Maxwell Caulfield is gorgeous in this movie. If you hate the film, you
can always (assuming you swing that way) just watch him. It's not as if
his acting is bad, and neither is Michelle's, though her lines are. And
Grease 2 is funny, in its own way--you simply can't watch Michelle
dance and sing without laughing. There is a lot to laugh at--and even
with--in this musical. "Reproduction" is fun to watch, if certainly
campy, and a couple of the T-birds are entertaining (Leif Green and
Peter Frechette's characters).

As I said, I have a fondness for this movie that is pretty
inexplicable, I know. It's not a classic film by any means. Still, I'd
say if you're looking for a so-bad-it's-good that still isn't too
incredibly awful, to laugh at with your friends, Grease 2 is worth a
rental.
<|_=00=_|>
Depending on when you saw this film relative to when you saw the
original "Grease," your viewpoints probably differ as to the quality of
this movie.

I saw both within a month of each other at age 13. I hated the original
and loved this one.

As I've gotten older, I've come to recognize that the original is a
better piece of work, overall. The music from the original is better
when taken as a whole. The supporting cast of the original has better
players. The storyline doesn't seem as convoluted at times.

But there's something about this movie that holds on to you. It appeals
much more to the age group pictured in the movie (i.e., junior-high and
high-schoolers). The song "Cool Rider" and the scenes that accompany it
in the movie rival anything in the original.

The dialog is better in places and the interplay between the male and
female leads are better, I believe, than in the original. The original
movie's pairing of Travolta and Newton-John gave us a dimwit trying to
woo a goodie-two-shoes girl whose performance was oftentimes wooden and
uncomfortable. This one gives us Caulfield and Pfeiffer, and the
interplay between an intelligent, wise-beyond-his-years male lead and
the "wild child" female lead.

Adrian Zmed's supporting performance as Johnny still cracks me up and
is one of the few performances from this movie that still entertain me
as an adult.

That's because outside of the performances of accomplished character
actors Christopher McDonald, Eve Arden and Dody Goodman, the rest of
this cast is just plain bad. Some of it is bad acting, some of it is
miscasting and a lot of it is bad writing.

What we're left with today, 20-something years later, is a movie that
made a really good attempt to build on the original, but in the end,
was the soufflé that fell. It's still better than most want to admit,
but it could have stood a couple of rewrites and a little more
attention to detail in the prospective cast interview room.
<|_=00=_|>
now i can understand all the bad comments about this film, the acting
is bad, the editing and the continuity is awful, but for some reason i
love it. its the one film that i know every single word off by heart.

The songs may not have an all time classic like "hopelessly devoted"
like grease 1, but the vast majority of the songs are pretty strong and
memorable.

It camp kitsch at its finest. and you'd be surprised just how many
people out there love this film. on a certain social networking site,
there thousands of us in appreciation groups, and they are a pretty
mixed bunch (male - female - somewhere in between) not everyone it
going to love this film, but its worth watching with an open mind!
