

A friend of mine has been after me to watch "Birdy" for several months now. 
Yesterday we finally had a chance and much to my delight, I found the film
to be everything she said it was and more.

"Birdy", directed by Alan Parker, is a story of friendship between Al
(Nicholas Cage) and Birdy (Matthew Modine), two Philadelphia, Pa high
schoolers who end up being sent to Vietnam.  It is the early 1960's and Al
could very easily be the street hood, but we can see he has a heart.  He is
tough (and will not back down from a fight) but plays ball with the
neighborhood kids in the field which ajoins Birdy's house.  Everytime a home
run is hit, the ball flies over the fence and is scooped up by Birdy's
mother, never to be seen again.  Birdy's mother is uncompromising with his
father and the neighborhood kids, a source of embarrassment and guilt which
burdens Birdy, causing him to feel like an outsider.  He is interested in
birds and flight, which becomes a metaphor for Birdy's developing obsession
with the idea of flying away from his increasingly unbearable family
situation.

As a result of a misunderstanding regarding a stolen knife, Al warms to
Birdy and sees there is more to this clumsy kid than meets the eye.  Al is
experiencing his own troubles with his father but deals with the situation
in a different way than Birdy.  The birds begin to fascinate Al and the two
develop a close friendship which strengthens in troubled times and blooms in
good times.

In Vietnam, Birdy finally faces a situation which he can't physically fly
away from, which is a hundred times more horrible than his home life.  And
Al, although also in Vietnam, is not with him for support.  Here is where
Birdy's final breakdown occurs and it's up to Al, who now is dealing with
his own physical scars, to bring Birdy back.

Alan Parker directed this film (from the novel "Birdy" by William Whorton,
who also wrote the source novel for "A Midnight Clear") with a flashback
narrative which works beautifully.  Al and Birdy's friendship is fully
developed and realistic.  Both characters have depth and are engaging. 
Never has Nicholas Cage done as fine a work as his role as Al (his
performance in "Guarding Tess" was close).  His performance as Al made me
wish he would choose more roles like this instead of "Face/Off" and "Con
Air".  Matthew Modine is excellent as Birdy.  We can feel the emotional pain
of a youth who didn't ask for any of this but uses his inner strength of
character to stave off mental defeat.

Thankfully, the Vietnam sequences, although very well done, are short and
few.  This is not a film about Vietnam but a film about Al and Birdy.  Birdy
went to Vietnam with a pre-existing problem.  Vietnam made it worse.  There
is some commentary concerning the military and the VA but it does not
criticize.  Although not always on the right track, the Army Major who
brings Al (a wounded sergeant by this time) from Fort Dix to the VA
psychiatric hospital to speak with Birdy made the right
choice.

"Birdy" is one of those films which haunts the mind. I'm sure other elements
and ideas from the film will become more apparent to me long after this
writing.  This is an outstanding character study which has been overlooked
for too long.                             

                      
<|_=00=_|>

Birdy is a difficult film to describe. It's about the developing friendship
between Al (Nick Cage) and Birdy (Matthew Modine), but it's also about a
descent into madness, and the lengths to which Al goes for his
friend.

The film starts in the late 60's, in a US military mental hospital. Cage has
been seriously wounded, and has had reconstructive surgery on his face, but
he's been brought in because Birdy is here. He's uncommunicative and appears
to recognise no one, spending all day squatting on the floor of his cell
squinting up at the window.

The story is mostly told in flashbacks, either Al recounting incidents in
their growing friendship as neighbourhood kids or, later, Birdy remembering
other incidents. From the start the two are pretty dissimilar - Al is
athletic, outgoing and popular while Birdy is quiet and introverted - a
typical nerd. The two are, paradoxically, brought together by Birdy's love
of birds, and the stupid things they do - making suits out of pigeon
feathers to befriend more pigeons, climbing on (and falling off) factories
trying to capture more birds.

Al tries to set Birdy on a 'normal' track; they buy a wrecked car and fix it
up, and head off to the beach. But Birdy is just too wrapped up in himself
for this to work, and it's a wonder he doesn't alienate Al with his strange
behaviour.

In the 'present', the doctor is putting more pressure on Al to get Birdy to
respond; if he doesn't, then Birdy will be written off and sent to a
permanent mental institution. The flashbacks continue, and it becomes clear
that Birdy's love of birds has turned into an obsession, and then into the
darker realms beyond that.

The final few minutes of the film cover a lot of ground; Al finally realises
that Birdy is pretty well off the deep end; they both go off to fight in the
war; Al gets his injury, while we see the incident that left Birdy in his
present state. Meanwhile the doctor finally decides that time has run out,
but Al decides he's not leaving.

The ending of the film is incredibly powerful, and it should be a criminal
offence to give it away. Is it 'appropriate' to the rest of the film? I
dunno - but I thought it was pretty damn good.

The film stands or falls on the performances of Cage and Modine - and, for
me, it stands tall. Cage is excellent in his role, capturing the bravado of
his character perfectly; but Modine is simply brilliant. During the
flashbacks he portrays his nerdy character completely believably, but it's
the way he handles the scenes in the asylum that amazed me. As soon as you
know his obsession, it is crystal clear that he's not squatting in his cell,
but perching, wishing to fly.

Alan Parker has made some great films; this might just be his
best.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a strange and fascinating - but that likable - story about a
kid who becomes obsessed with birds and then literally goes crazy.
Matthew Modine plays the introverted "Birdy." A young Nicholas Cage
plays his best friend, "Al."

It's not a particularly pleasant story. In fact, it's downright
depressing many times. It also had an unusual ending, one the critics
seemed to all pan but I liked. I thought it was neat.

The movie does keep your interest, so it gets decent points for that,
and it certainly presents a unique character study. 

I haven't seen this film in a long time, but after writing this review,
I'd kind of like to view it again.....depressing or not.
<|_=00=_|>
(I was flipping through the channels one quiet evening at home when I
stumbled across this picture, "Birdy.")

To some, the character Birdy (Matthew Modine) has an unnatural and
(quite) unhealthy obsession with birds. Well, he spends most of his
time with birds, has dreams of flying away from his real-world
troubles, and his only friend is a neighborhood tough named Al (Nicolas
Cage). So because of his obsession with birds, Birdy has to be crazy,
right? So is Al even crazier for befriending him… well, isn't he?

It is these questions and many more that make up the central theme of
Alan Parker's superb 1984 drama "Birdy" (adapted from William Wharton's
novel), a film about two crazy guys whose friendship is ultimately
tested by each other's mental sicknesses. Both of their lives take
drastic turns before and after they have done tours in Vietnam, and
ultimately wind up in opposite ends of the psyche ward of a state
mental hospital, with Al, who's been left virtually unrecognizable by
his facial bandages and Birdy, who's stuck in a catatonic state as a
result of an accident out on the killing fields.

It is also the feelings of isolation between the two that brings them
together, as flashbacks during their stay help to emphasize their
emotions. Birdy, feeling like he is the only one that understands his
bird "dream," may in actuality be the only "sane" character in the
whole film. Al, who is injured from a shell explosion, questions who he
is because he's not even sure who it really is underneath the bandages
on his face. And it is liberation, whether it be physical or mental,
that is expressed greatly by the film's ending, and Birdy's eventual
coming to grips with his own current predicament.

Director Parker has always made it a point of capturing human suffering
on celluloid, and this has been the main subject in a number of his
films, including "Midnight Express" (1978) and "Angel Heart" (1987).
Here, his subject matter is fairly lighter than those films, since the
audience is spared the really intense mental anguish that accompanied
"Express" and the graphic carnage of "Angel."

There's a kind of deep spiritual undercurrent flowing through "Birdy,"
which is most apparent by the lead character's fascination with his
quarry – birds. To him, birds represent freedom, a kind of freedom that
can only be obtained by literally taking to the skies, and soaring high
above all his problems (fans of Terry Gilliam's political satire
"Brazil" should take notice here). This of course leads to the film's
profound ending on the mental hospital's rooftop, where Al and Birdy
must make a desperate choice – choose freedom, or choose confinement –
of the body, or of the psyche.

I won't reveal any more than those close details but you'll have to see
what happens for yourself. It really caught me off guard and in a
lesser movie might seem tacky, but the way Parker and the actors handle
just makes the on-screen action that much more moving. But you can be
sure of this: Birdy flies. And "Birdy" does fly into underrated classic
movie status because of its performers and director Alan Parker's
direction.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Note: this is best read *after* having seen Birdy, as it contains some
general spoilers.

`As scary as a bird's life may be, they always have that.  They can fly
away.'-Birdy.

To say that Birdy is a film about a young man obsessed with birds and
flying is to oversimplify a great deal.  Birdy is an extraordinary film
that
deals with the longing to fly, and everything that such a yearning entails
about a person.  It's about people who weren't meant to live in this
world,
this society, who don't belong, who don't fit in and don't really want to
fit in.  It's about the overwhelming frustration of not having asked for
any
of `this', yet constantly being reminded that no matter how much one
doesn't
want to be a part of it all, just by being human there is no escape; the
world will not let you do as you want, and one cannot fly away. In
director
Alan Parker's vision, these feelings that are so hard to put into words
are
articulately and beautifully expressed.

I'm not going to focus on plot details as much as on what Birdy is
`about', but I will just say that Matthew Modine gives an incredible
performance as Birdy.  At moments his greatest power simply comes from his
eyes and facial expressions (especially in his scenes in the military
asylum).  This is a perfect example of superb casting and an actor just
disappearing into his role. Obviously the character of Birdy is central to
understanding the film, and his fascination with birds and particularly
their flight is his way of trying to deal with a cold, insensitive world
while being a sensitive individual.  His growing obsession with his birds
and disassociation with the outside world comes with his realization that
he
is alone and no one understands him, even Al (Nicholas Cage), his best and
only friend.

Birdy doesn't care about the outside world, and his ideas of what is
truly important and what freedom is couldn't be further from the society
that tells him to be concerned with superficial things. He is pure to the
highest extent in that he is not in the least tainted by the constant
pressure the world places on him to fit in and be `normal'.  Al connects
him
to the outside world, and allows him to share some of his dreams to a
certain degree, but Birdy more or less continues to live in his own little
world.  And even though Birdy isn't disturbing anyone, it seems that just
the little things that mean so much to him are what are constantly
threatened to be taken away.  His own mom always threatens to get rid of
his
birds, and uses this to force Birdy to go to the prom, which he has no
interest in. This serves as an example of a relatively trivial matter that
is looked upon as some major event in every young person's life.  Here
Birdy
is  more or less being told 'fit in, or I'll take away the one thing that
you have that truly matters to you'.  Similarly, all of Birdy and Al's
chances of fun and freedom are taken away throughout the film--their car
for
example, the closest thing they have to being able to get up and take off.
And they get into trouble when they haven't really done anything too bad,
showing the ways the uptight, unreasonable society tries to force everyone
into line.  How it sucks the life out of people is also shown, especially
through adult characters like Birdy and Al's parents. While it's true that
Birdy's parents just want better for him, they could never understand what
would be better for him.  This idea of losing any sort of idealism and
settling down is shown in Birdy and Al's father's jobs.  Birdy's dad is a
janitor at his school and Al's is a garbage man.  I think I can honestly
make a judgement that no one grows up dreaming of or even expecting to
become one of the above jobs.  But time and time again the world crushes
ideals and hopes and dreams and forces everyone into some kind of
role.

Birdy and Al's going off to Vietnam is not only the ultimate example
of being forced to do something one doesn't want--- of no escape and no
choice--- but also shows the irony of war for people like Birdy, who
doesn't
want anything to do with this world anyway, and the anti-authoritarian Al.
Supposedly they are fighting for freedom; yet is this really freedom for
people who never even wanted to be part of this society in the first
place?
Freedom for the very society that crushes their souls and determines how
they will live, to continue to exist? The film is brought to its climatic
height in the scene that shows what sent Birdy over the edge.  As bombs
explode and men die around him there is nothing he can do but sit and
watch
as all sorts of species of birds fly away from the horror.  Birdy is sent
over the edge with this realization that he *can't* fly like a bird, he is
not free and will never truly be on this earth, as a human being.

Finally, I guess at this point it's practically mandatory to comment
on the much-debated ending.  I personally like it and happen to think its
one of the funniest moments in film I've ever seen. But besides, it also
fits into the context of the film.  Here we have a whimsical film about
quirky people doing quirky things.  So why should a quirky ending suddenly
be considered a cheap gag? Sure it's abrupt, but the entire film has been
unconventional and has also had its share of  humorous moments.
Furthermore, I've noticed a great deal of symmetry throughout Birdy,
especially with the `jump/fly' scenes; where every time Birdy gets himself
in trouble and it looks as though he's about to fall to his death, and Al
gets all worried,  Birdy manages to be okay and land on his feet (sort
of).
If you watch closely, and also listen (to the music which seems  to
signify
these scenes) a lot more than you may have expected  will fall into place.
I also just want to quickly mention how beautifully and poetically shot
some
of the scenes are (a great moment is when we fly from a bird's point of
view).  Obviously,  a lot more can be said and be gotten out of Birdy, and
I
didn't use many specific examples because there are just too many to
choose
from, but here I just tried to best sum up what strikes me the most about
this film.  Anyone who's ever felt absolutely out of place in this world
and
frustrated with being stuck on the ground here will almost certainly be
able
to make a connection with this film.
<|_=00=_|>

Many critics rated this as one of the most overlooked films of the
mid-eighties. The film has moments of deep seriousness blended with killer
humour. The interplay of an extrovert and an introvert - the different ways
that they think and react to situations - is often hilarious. The film can
also be regarded as an intriguing psychological study, as Cage tries every
technique his fast-paced mind can think of to snap his introverted friend
out of his acute mental state - a condition caused by witnessing the horrors
of warfare. It is extremely interesting to see what works in the end.
Modine's physically-challenging performance is top-notch. Contains a great
Peter Gabriel soundtrack as well. Although not to everyone's taste, I, for
one, liked the "gag" ending. (10 out of 10)
<|_=00=_|>
"Birdy"is an outstanding character study with a well-written script
that was directed by a very talented director (Alan Parker of "Pink
Floyd The Wall", "Midnight Express", "Mississippi Burning", and "Angel
Heart"). Matthew Modine and Nicolas Cage both gave unforgettable
performances in this dark, disturbing yet somehow uplifting story of
two friends from South Philadelphia, Al (Cage) and Birdy (Modine in the
performance that easily could be one of the best ever given by any
actor on screen and sadly has been overlooked for too long). Birdy is
an innocent and odd young man who has been always fascinated by birds
and wanted to learn to fly. Both friends had to take a traumatic tour
of duty in Vietnam that affected them tremendously – both physically
and mentally. The film is not about Vietnam, though – it is a brilliant
story of friendship and how far Al would go for his friend. The film
has one of the most original and surprising endings ever.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of my favorite movies of all time. It's such a great growing-up
buddy flick. Despite the serious subject matter (shell-shocked, catatonic
Vietnam vet in mental hospital), the movie manages to be very light-hearted
for the most part, without discounting the gravity of the situation that the
characters are in. It doesn't seek to use the war as a means of creating the
identities of the characters, the war and the "present situation" in the
film (most of the film is flashbacks) are more background to the story of
two crazy Philly kids growing up together.

The movie is full of laughs that don't occur at the expense of the
characters, but rather, bring you closer to them. I personally identified
with Matthew Modine's character, and found myself laughing in spite of
myself at some of his mishaps and wondering "how did I ever survive being a
teenager?"

Modine plays Birdy flawlessly. His character, while strange, is certainly
believable and definitely likeable. He's like the visionary mystic friend I
never had! Nicholas Cage is equally good as Al, Birdy's more down-to-earth
lady's man friend. Their friendship seems unlikely on the outside, but
powerful and inevitable by the end of the movie.

I think it's strange that some people didn't like the ending to Birdy. I
think it's one of the best movie endings for a buddy film ever. It
accurately reflects the tone of Birdy and Al's relationship more than any
other ending possibly could. It ties their characters in the present in
perfectly with the growing-up characters of the flashback sequences.
Perfect!

<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe I took so long to get round to seeing this AMAZING
FILM!

It captivated me from the start, beautifully filmed, powerful,
sensitive, funny - Incredibly acted by Modine and Cage!

I would like to thank the reviewer that warned about the animal cruelty
in 1 scene - I 'think' it was just after the stray dog scene, but I
fast forwarded it a littler bit, so didn't seeing anything upsetting.

This film is a must see for any avid movie lover, and yes the ended was
AWESOME!

10 out 10, and i'm going on to Amazon to buy a copy.

Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>

Alan Parker is a British film-maker that was capable of the worst (the
boring "the commitments", the insipid "evita" as well as the best (the
sordid "angel heart", the vibrating "Pink floyd: The Wall". This one,
"Birdy" will surely rank among his best movies. He revives a myth, a desire
that always shone in men: flying but not with a plane or an helicopter, just
like Icare with real wings. This is what haunts a teenager's mind whose name
is Birdy. This one devotes all his free time by inventing stratagems or ways
so as to be able to fly in the sky. he also has an interest in birds' social
life with their habits (it's not a fate that his name is Birdy because
there's the word "bird" in it). Even if he didn't win his best friend's
adherence concerning these odd likings, they succeeded in striking up a
strong relationship. Above all, "birdy" is this: a story of a friendship
between two teenagers brought up in a Philadelphia' popular area. They're
sharing jobs, free time, girls before they were parted by the Vietnam war.
Parker films this relationship with its joys, its sorrows in a hearty way
and make the two actors friendly.
"Birdy" is also a well-regulated movie where Parker knows how to sustain the
interest in the past sequences as well as present sequences (Birdy's room
hospital). Furthermore, there's not a sequence where one of the two main
actors is stealing to the other, the spotlight. But the movie seems easy
when it denounces the atrocities of war and its disastrous consequences on
young people (Cage's long monologue with Modine in his arms towards the end
of the movie). These sorrowful consequences are concrete (Cage's face full
of bandages) and abstract (Modine has become dumb and stays immures in his
silence). Nevertheless, emotion prevails in the end and you sympathize to
the two teenagers' helpless after the war. A beautiful movie and the
revelation of two great actors
