

There is something really nice about seeing a cartoon film that you know was
hand drawn, without a speck of CGI anyplace(too early!). The voices here
carry the day-Newhart, Gabor, Page, Fibber MaGee, little turns by Pat
Buttram, Dub Taylor, Jeannette Nolan, etc. All fine.

Film still has a lotta heart, the songs aren't bad, the backgrounds muted
and not in your face. I remember seeing the sequel (in Aussie from '90)-the
character held up but it wasn't as involving.

Test for a flick like this is to see if it holds up after some years. Well I
had not seen it for about 24 years or so, and ya know what? It still works
very well.

Came from the mid-period team of Disney, post-Jungle Book and pre-Mermaid, a
rather hit and miss era-this one stands out quite well.

*** outta **** 
<|_=00=_|>
Why is The Rescuers my favorite Disney movie? I'm not sure, other than
the fact that it's just so sweet, and never fails to make me really
happy. Seeing those mice from all over the world is just too adorable
for words!

The animation is beautiful, as are the backgrounds, and the character
design is some of the best among Disney movies (Madame Medusa is a
great departure from typical Disney characters). The songs are nice too
(my favorite part of the whole movie is the sequence to "Tomorrow Is
Another Day").

They just don't make movies like this anymore. Penny, the orphan that
Bernard and Bianca rescue from that nasty old Medusa, is truly warm and
sweet, and you really care about her. Something was missing from the
boy that Bernard and Bianca rescued in the sequel. Penny's truly
something else.

The Rescuers is an underrated gem, and has something for everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't fault this movie at all, other than to say the video I have is
a bit grainy. The film is undeniably charming, based on the books by
Margery Sharp, which I haven't read. 

The animation was just wonderful, right from minute one. It was dark
and fluid, and reminded me of the masterpieces of Don Bluth like
American Tail and Secret of NIMH. It matched the music perfectly, and
none of the characters were drawn stereotypically. I loved the fact
they made the protagonists mice, which shows a lot of originality. I
was laughing so much at the swamp animals scene, as it looked so
ridiculous. Another funny scene was the one with the crocs playing the
pipe organ, and then Medussa starts shooting the place down.

The songs were outstanding, and beautifully sung by Shelby Flint. I've
heard criticisms that the songs were lifeless and slow, but I strongly
disagree. The song at the beginning "The Journey" was beautiful beyond
words, as was "Someone's Waiting For You", the one with Penny crying on
the boat deck. They were truly emotional and haunting, and often
misunderstood by people.

The characters were really funny and engaging, especially the two
crocodiles, and Orville(especially when he cries "Mayday,
Mayday!")Bernard was brilliantly voiced by Bob Newhart, likewise Bianca
by beautiful Hungarian actress Eva Gabor. Penny was really sweet, but
the scene-stealer was Geraldine Page as Madam Medussa, who was such a
convincing villainess, very sinister yet absolutely hilarious. She
reminds me of Ursula from the Little Mermaid.

The script was both touching and funny, with the dialogue between
Madame Medussa and Snoops sparkling like bubbles on top of a champagne
glass and the story is compelling and beautifully told. All in all, I
recommend this and the sequel (which isn't quite as good).
10/10.Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
The 23rd animated Disney classic is underrated and somewhat forgotten,
yet one of Disney's finest! It's a great movie, even one of Disney's
finest underrated works.

This charming film, while undoubtedly heartwarming, is also creative
and very lively. It has lots of adventure and suspense, classic humor,
fine artwork, a wonderful soundtrack and a dark atmosphere. When I say
"dark" I mean dark in the sense of being somewhat chilly, but without
being extremely dark or a story of horror/terror. The darkness of the
Devil's Bayou is amazing, creepy to the point of almost looking like a
forbidding place, which helps a lot to create this distinct atmosphere.

Despite the apparent simplicity, this motion picture has some very
artistic palette colors. One good example of this is the amazing and
gorgeous opening sequence. The beautiful but sad song 'The Journey'
matches in perfection.

The song 'Tomorrow is another day' is very optimistic and nostalgic.
Not just that, it fits perfectly on that sequence: beautiful vistas
painted with heart and soul. Besides, that rainbow and those New York
City lights at night look incredibly real.

The song 'Someone's waiting for you' is heartwarming, but so is the
sequence itself. 'The U.S. Air Force' is a delightful instrumental
music, very energetic and full of life.

Medusa is a great villain. One of Disney's best villains, says I. She's
mean and nasty, but at the same time funny (even hilarious at times).
She is a little eccentric but not too much and not annoying. Besides,
she isn't too sinister or one of the most cruel villains.

Medusa's sidekick, Snoops, is someone I don't consider a real villain.
He's not bad enough to be a villain and he doesn't know how to be bad,
although he attempts. I think that deep down he is a good guy. I like
Snoops: he's a simple and goofy guy but funny (even hilarious at times)
and not that bad. He's more of a poor guy who messed with the wrong
person.

By the way, Medusa and Snoops have a nice pawn shop named "Medusa's
pawn shop" or, like Medusa delightfully says on the telephone, «Madame
Medusa's pawn shop boutique».

Comical characters like Luke and the albatross Orville have small
roles, perhaps because this movie is more of a dramatic natured one.
Numerous swamp animals appear (others than Luke), but their roles are
minor (with the exception of Ellie Mae and Evinrude).

Bernard is the kind of romantic and shy hero. Bianca has a
characteristic hungarian charm (her voice actress, Eva Gabor, was
hungarian). Orville is carefree and spirited, as well as a comic
relief. Like albatrosses in real life, he flies beautifully but is very
bad at landings.

Evinrude's sounds are awesome. They sound so real! I have no words to
describe them! James MacDonald really had a gift for sounds.

Penny was apparently modeled after Michelle Stacy, the cute little girl
who did her voice. Penny is cute and has a very cute voice. People
sympathize with Penny and her situation in the film, yet despite being
very endearing she is also confident and has a strong personality -
something which Snoops doesn't know how to deal with.

The crocodiles Nero and Brutus are hilarious in every scene they
appear. I don't know why, but there is something hilarious about them
even just by looking at them. They are at their most hilarious when
they play organ. And those rascals really know how to play talent, LOL.
They have talent for music, LOL! Besides, although they are Medusa's
loyal pets, they are good crocodiles and not vicious. Whenever they
catch Penny, they always grab her carefully not to harm her. And they
are just as careful with her beloved teddy bear. Even in the water they
have special care with her and her teddy bear.

A very good and timeless Disney classic! This is one of those animated
classics I grew up with - and 'The Rescuers Down Under' too. Both were
part of my childhood.

1977 was one of the best years in cinema ever!

This should definitely be on Top 250.
<|_=00=_|>
I may be the only person to say this but I think The Rescuers was a LOT
better than the sequel. Oh don't get me wrong, Down Under's pretty
good. But, to me, The Rescuers is the best.

Since I was a little kid, I have had a short attention span so movies
with more action generally held my attention. The Rescuers and the Pooh
films were the two exceptions for me. This isn't a very fast moving
film, at times it's quite slow. But that's when the tension builds. You
feel a certain warmth watching it, similar to the warm fuzzies you
would get from a Pooh film. It's sweet. It's fun. The characters are
lovable and the villains are detestable (I mean Madame Medusa kidnaps
an innocent little girl and then forces her to go into a dangerous
pirate cave, if that isn't evil, I don't know what is). Even the
supporting cast is awesome, if not entirely memorable. I think there
were too many critters at Devil's Bayou, had they cut the cast down a
bit, perhaps I could remember them all. But that's literally my only
complaint.

The film is slow but it doesn't feel slow. It doesn't lag at all. It
keeps you completely focused on the characters. By the way, the acting
is superb, particularly Michelle Stacy as Penny. Usually child actors
are hit and miss but she does an excellent job, she really makes you
feel for Penny and that's the most important part. Bob Newhart and Eva
Gabor as Bernard and Bianca. They really bring the characters to life.

The animation is beautiful as well. It all seems like a painting come
to life. I am particularly impressed with Bernard and Bianca's
animation because they look a lot like their voice actors. So you can't
imagine a better voice for them. You often forget that they're mice.
And that's really impressive.

So, all in all, this is one of Disney's best. Ever. It's proof that the
animation studio was still going strong after Walt Disney's death. And
it's still one of my all time favorite movies. I say, check it out.
There's something for everyone in it.
<|_=00=_|>
Movies like The Rescuers are simply not made anymore. Nowadays, it's
all CGI with retarded, unfunny jokes, with no real seriousness or
conflict to be found. The Rescuers has all that it says in the tagline
- Mystery, Fun and Intrigue! Despite what others say, this truly
deserves to be called a masterpiece.

The very idea of two little mice saving an orphan girl sounds very
juvenile and slushy - but here, it isn't. The Rescuers combines dark
themes such as child exploitation to light refreshing comedy which does
not detract from the seriousness of the whole film. Benard and Bianca
are very admirable characters, and the swamp creatures are hilarious.
Madame Medusa is an excellent villainness. She's intimidating and funny
at the same time. There are plenty of colourful characters, Brutus and
Nero, the two crocodiles, Orville the albatross and Penny, the sweet
yet strong spirited little girl.

The very idea of two little mice saving an orphan girl sounds very
juvenile and slushy - but here, it isn't. The Rescuers combines dark
themes such as child exploitation to light refreshing comedy which does
not detract from the seriousness of the whole film. Benard and Bianca
are very admirable characters, and the swamp creatures are hilarious.
Madame Medusa is an excellent villainness. She's intimidating and funny
at the same time. There are plenty of colourful characters, Brutus and
Nero, the two crocodiles, Orville the albatross and Penny, the sweet
yet strong spirited little girl.

The animation is typical scratchy 70s style, but the backgrounds are
really top-notch, especially in the swamp scenes. They portray a
foreboding atmosphere that works well in the appropriate scenes. The
paintings shown in the opening credits were inspirational. There are
not many songs in The Rescuers, which is probably one of the reasons
why it's such a serious film. The soundtrack is fits in well, and
nobody bursts into song. 'Someone's waiting for You' is one of the fews
songs that moves me to tears. It is just so touching and beautiful.

Sure, it's not entirely loyal to Magery Sharp's books, but who cares?
You might as well just get mad at 'Monty Python and the Holy Grail,'
because that doesn't stay loyal to the original Arthurian legend. The
Rescuers is a true delight, and deserves a much better DVD than Disney
has given it.
<|_=00=_|>
THE RESCUERS, in my opinion, is a pure Disney blockbuster. It made me
feel all warm and tingly when Bernard (voice of Bob Newhart) and Bianca
(voice of Eva Gabor) set out on their mission to rescue Penny (voice of
Michelle Stacy). If you ask me, Medusa's (voice of Geraldine Page)
clothing was nice, but her hair was absolutely atrocious. To me, it
really did look like snakes. That made it obvious as to why her name
was Medusa. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone was
perfectly cast, the direction was flawless, and Disney has scored a big
hit. In conclusion, I highly recommend this pure Disney blockbuster to
everyone who hasn't seen it. I guarantee you you'll enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>

'The Rescuers' marked the advent of a new team of Disney animators taking
over in 1977 as nine of the "old men" faced retirement. Under the guidance
of the old pros, they turned out a charming fantasy about two adventurous
mice (Bianca and Bernard) who set about to rescue a young girl (Penny)
from
the clutches of the villainess (Madame Medusa). As voiced by Geraldine
Page,
she all but steals the show--although Bianca and Bernard are perfectly
voiced by Eva Gabor and Bob Newhart. A completely delightful Disney hit,
welcome after some let-downs, and fortunately there would be more hits in
the '80s and '90s. Don't underestimate this one. It has plenty of action,
suspense and even a few nice songs--nothing spectacular, in keeping with
the
quiet nature of much of the story. This was a big box-office hit at time
of
release and led to a sequel, 'The Rescuers Down Under'. It may not be
Disney's best, but it has a good amount of humor and charm. The animation
is
superb.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a rescue mission movie from Disney, a story about two mice
named Bernard and Miss Bianca from the Rescue Aid Society out to rescue
a kidnapped, orphaned girl named Penny from two devious treasure
hunters, Madame Medusa and Mr. Snoops. They want to use Penny to help
them find a gigantic diamond from an old Pirate's cave.

It is like a daring and fun detective movie, but with animals serving
as the protagonists. It's non-stop adventure from Bernard and Miss
Bianca looking for clues leading to Penny's whereabouts to them facing
the notorious Madame Medusa and her two crafty pet alligators at their
hideout in Devil's Bayou.

I love the songs in this movie: "Tomorrow is Another Day," sung while
the two mice are riding Orville as he transports them to Devil's Bayou,
is a very relaxing and optimistic song, reminding you that there is
always a tomorrow giving you a chance to accomplish things. "Someone's
Waiting for You" is a heartwarming and hopeful song, reminding you to
always stay strong and keep your faith.

All the characters, especially the critters, are lovable and memorable.
The subplot of Penny looking for adoptive parents is interwoven into
the main plot very well, expanding on Penny's unfortunate, but
courageous character.

This movie is probably the more obscure of Disney films as it does not
utilize the fairytale method, but is nonetheless one of the more
exciting Disney features that would sure delight an audience of all
ages.

Grade A
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of Disney's best underrated creations. Has all the
desirable charm on a Disney cartoon. Its artwork is simple but
undeniably pretty and colorful, which makes it a movie with human
warmth, soul and life. It's a strongly nostalgic classic, delightful,
heartwarming, original, dark and spooky without being too scary,
suspenseful and fun. The fine artwork is delicious for the eyes, with
lots of gorgeous landscapes.

The soundtrack is a classic. "The Journey" and "Someone's Waiting For
You" are not only nostalgic but very moving. "Tomorrow is Another Day",
more than just nostalgic, has very optimistic lyrics. A kind of
optimism so common those days but killed and buried in a coffin by
today's world and society. 

The story is one of the better and more interesting on Disney animated
classics. There are enjoyable characters like Bernard, Bianca, Evinrude
and Orville. Endearing characters such as Penny, a cute little girl
with enormous and expressive eyes. A great villain, Medusa, who happens
to be one of my favorite Disney villains. Although a bad person, she's
not too frightening. She's also got some of the funniest Disney
sidekicks: the hilarious crocodiles Brutus and Nero and the poor devil
Snoops.

'The Rescuers' was one of the movies I watched more times in my
childhood. I think it was one of those I watched almost every day at
the time. It was one of my favorites at the time and now, after so many
years, it continues to be one of my Disney favorites. It has aged very
well, time wasn't able to harm its magic and enchant. It's still
exemplary when it comes to film-making of quality. Or should I say
cartoon-making of quality? Whatever, you know what I mean.

Title in Portugal: 'As Aventuras de Bernardo e Bianca'.
