
Review summary: Mostly obvious knock-off of INDIANA JONES, but
functions more as an entertaining parody. 

I've heard many bad reviews on this film. They all say "Indiana Jones
rip-off" or "Worst movie ever". But to me, this is actually
entertaining, and it's silly fun indeed. The film is usually called a
rip-off because they see some elements they also saw in the Indy
flicks. Truth be told, this has more in kin with the Lucas/Spielberg
classic than H. Rider Haggard's classic adventure novel. But seeing the
film, it actually has a lot of fun with itself. It wasn't meant to be
taken seriously, and I agreed to the bargain. Richard Chamberlain is
not that heroic as Indy, but he throws in a lot of jokes to make
viewers crack a smile. Sharon Stone shouts, complains, whines in the
entire journey, but what would you expect on a big-screen debut.
Herbert Lom, as I see it, is being more of funny than sinister
intentionally. Same goes for John Rhys-Davies, but he looks more
villainous. But it wasn't all parody and humor. "King Solomon's Mines"
is also action-packed. Perhaps one of the real downer in the action
department are the special effects (terrible process shots!) and stunts
(the most obvious stunt doubles ever!!). Still, we have crocodiles,
tribesmen, Nazis and exploding caves of lava. 

Perhaps it's my love for old-fashioned adventure that made me like this
silly, mostly campy adventure, but I couldn't deny the guilty pleasure
I had with it. Overall, this is actually functions as an enjoyable
tongue-in-cheek adventure flick, but make sure you leave any pretense
of common sense at the door. It's stupid fun. 

Rating: *** out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>

If you are rating this low because it doesn't seem realistic or it doesn't
compare to Indiana Jones, quit rating these films without watching them. 

Again, I find people rating films which they didn't even take the time to
watch or try to understand.  This is a low budget film and is closer related
to fantasy/comedy than to realistic action.  This is a B-Movie and directors
of this style of film love to pour on the "CHEESE".  The cast was great and
they actually boosted the movement of the film for the sheer awe of seeing
Stone and Chamberlain do some pretty dry humor.  You can't even compare
Indiana Jones to this as Lucas films are set to make the fantasy world come
as close to reality as possible.  This movie was completely the opposite. 
Great creativity.  If you're looking for wires and obvious painted
backdrops, again, you're not watching the movie.  Laugh at those the second
time you see the film.

Chamberlain's character is asked to help a young attractive woman to help
find her father, who was lost in an exploration looking for King Solomon's
mines.  Someone else is looking for the mines as well and will do anything
to get there and keep others from getting the hidden treasures
first.

Find this and set up for a great party night.  Definitely worth keeping for
classic fun and enjoyment.
<|_=00=_|>
Well I read a lot of the reviews here and it seems to be pretty divided
as to whether or not this is a good movie. So here's my 2 cents. In my
opinion this was not trying to be Indiana Jones. I think the intension
was to make a campy, cheesy spoof, and as that it succeeds
fantastically. Keep in mind this was the early - mid 80's. Cheezeball
B-movies were all the rage and popular. Look was came out in around
that period. King Solomon's Mines, a year later a sequel, Lost City of
Gold. But we had many other great cheese movies like Ice Pirates,
Dungeonmaster, Dragonslayer, Spaceballs, just to name a few. Conan the
Barbarian spawn a whole subgenre of barbarian movies as did Road
Warrior for post-apocalyptic movies. I'm sure there where other movies
of these subjects before, but these were the ones that really kicked it
off for those subgenres. I think that many of those who are complaining
that King Solomon's Mines is so bad are those who are too young to
remember and appreciate these movies that came out in around that
period or those who decided it's not "cool" to like cheesy movies.

Of course you can't compare the effects to that of Raiders of the lost
Ark. Raiders had a near unlimited budget for the day, how do you
compete with something like that? And do you honestly think that they
blatantly ripped off scenes without getting permission first? I
wouldn't be surprised if Lucas is making a small royalty of these
movies, or at least did back when it came out. Yes, they rode the
Raiders wave. Why is it that we criticize someone for riding a winning
wave? If I had the chance, I'd do it in a heartbeat. I would argue that
any of these movies have more heart than most of what comes out of
Hollywood these days. These were made back when, for the most part,
budgets were tight and people made movies for the love of making
movies.

Having a weakness for violent gore movies and foreign, B-Movies and
foreign probably comprise 60% of my DVD collection and 70-80% of my VHS
collection. Almost 600 movies combined. But I have a rare gift to be
able to sit down and watch a movie without comparison to another and
judge it on it's own. That's why my collection contains everything from
Little Mermaid and Aladdin to Cannibal Holocaust(Uncut) and Salo: 120
Days of Sodom(Uncut), from The English Patient to, yes, King Solomon's
Mines. (I do, however, have Lost City of Gold on VHS) So sit back, try
to watch movies without any preconception of what you are about to
watch. Critics, friends, rumors are just that. You are your own person,
make up your own mind. If you can't do this, you are probably looking
at the wrong movie. All you will see is a bad Raiders rip-off and you
should stick to what you know or "reality" *Ya Right* TV.

And that's my 2 cents.

ME
<|_=00=_|>
This is a fun flick, based on the original story by Rider Haggard but
with lots of bits from other sources, along with some totally humorous
and almost unbelievable "stuff". If you want a serious flick and are
the type who takes notes during the show, go somewhere else. If you
want some genuine old-fashioned, borderline ridiculous entertainment
along with your big bowl of popcorn, this is definitely it. Sharron
Stone's character is a trip. The bit with her taking over the position
of pilot in a commandeered biplane, even though she has never even been
in a plane let alone flown one, is absolutely a scream. "Vroom!" was
her exact summation of the experience. As for the Germanic presence in
the dark Continent, as insinuated in this version of "Solomon's Mines",
this is historically correct for the time, though far from accurate in
its presentation; but this is entertainment! This edition of "Solomon's
Mines" is not intended to be an accurate re-run of earlier flicks. If
you gotta have precision and accuracy, see the '40's version with Stu
Grainger and Liz Kerr. If you want some good entertainment of the
non-serious vein, this is a good one. I've worn out my VHS version and
am beating the bush for a DVD replacement.
<|_=00=_|>
A long time ago, I was introduced as an "outsider" to a group of boys
who would get together once a month to have a "Cheese Fest" of real bad
movies. We watched three movies, and laughed until we cried. When it
was over, I shyly suggested a movie called "King Solomon's Mines". They
had never heard of the film, or hadn't seen it yet. This was my opening
to be "cool" with the gang.

At the next gathering, I came over with a VHS copy I rented from a
store. We watched it, and had to stop the movie several times because
we were laughing so hard! We all agreed that this was the best worst
movie we had ever seen! About two days later, my front door bell rang,
and it was the boys there to give me a gift! I had been "accepted" into
their gang! Many nights of "Cheese Fests" followed, but none were as
successful as the night we watched "King Solomon's Mines"! The gift, by
the way, was the very VHS copy of "KSM" (which we pronounce; "Chaos,
Mmm") I had rented! I still have it to this day, and have shown it to
many friends who thank me every time while wiping away a tear.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a movie rated so low by others but by some it gives them a reminder
of indiana jones. Next to those movies this one is the next best. I would
recommend it to indiana jones fans who have been waiting years for another
sequel. This movie has a sequel too which is almost as good but get a bit
slower at the end. The movie is really good though. I enjoyed the
storyline,
the actors, the music by Jerry Goldsmith is very enchanting, the only thing
i could say isnt that good in this film are the special effects but for the
time being it will do. Theres nothing to lose so go out and rent
it!
<|_=00=_|>
H. Rider Haggard's "King Solomon's Mines" has been filmed a number of
times, but this is the only version I have ever seen. It is only very
loosely based on the original novel; a greater influence seems to have
been the first two episodes of the Indiana Jones franchise. The action
is brought forward from the 1880s to the time of the First World War in
order to make the main villain a German; "Raiders of the Lost Ark" had
been set in the 1930s with Nazi villains. Haggard's Allan Quatermain
becomes an action hero based on Indy himself, complete with bush hat
(although without the bullwhip). Like Indy, Quatermain has a glamorous
young female companion, Jessie Huston (who bears certain similarities
to Willie in "Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom"). His male
companions from the original novel, apart from the faithful African
servant Umbopa, disappear.

The 1980s are sometimes regarded as the decade which gave birth to the
concept of political correctness, but there is little evidence of it in
this film. (There is not a lot of evidence of it in "Indiana Jones and
the Temple of Doom" either). For a film made in 1985, "King Solomon's
Mines" achieves the difficult task of being, by a considerable margin,
less politically correct than its source novel, published exactly one
hundred years earlier. Haggard is never entirely free of late-Victorian
assumptions about race, but he does treat his African characters with
dignity and allows them major roles in his novel as heroes and
heroines, not merely as villains. He even allows himself a romance
between the African maiden Foulata and the white Englishman Captain
Good. 

Interracial romances might have been acceptable to readers in 1880s
England, but cinema audiences in 1980s America seem to have been more
puritanical on this point. Neither Foulata nor Good appears in the
film, and Quatermain's love-interest is supplied by the white Jessie,
played by a young Sharon Stone. American squeamishness about mixed-race
romance does not appear to have diminished in the quarter-century since
1985; in the recent film version of "Around the World in Eighty Days"
Phileas Fogg's love-interest was a white Frenchwoman, not an Indian
woman as in Jules Verne's novel. 

The most offensive thing abut the film, however, is the treatment of
the African tribe, the Kakuanas. In Haggard's version they may have
been noble savages, but here they are portrayed as ignoble ones,
bloodthirsty cannibals who love to cook white people in a huge iron
cauldron. This same old cartoon cliché comes up in the 1950s movie
"Gentleman Marry Brunettes", but at least there its offensiveness is
somewhat mitigated by its being presented in the context of a stage
show; in "King Solomon's Mines", by contrast, the film actually appears
to be suggesting that this is how real Africans behave. Ethnic
stereotyping is not confined to Africans; we also have a treacherous,
sadistic Turk and a ruthless, bullying German colonel. 

The film's problems are not confined to its racial attitudes. It was
evidently made on a much lower budget than the Indiana Jones films, and
the action sequences and special effects are not in the same class. The
story is frequently illogical, confusing or both. Richard Chamberlain
makes a lightweight action hero compared to Harrison Ford and Sharon
Stone does not show any evidence of the qualities which would later
make her a major star, other than her sex appeal which is much on
display. About halfway through the film someone obviously thought that
Sharon was not showing enough of her sex appeal, as it is notable that
throughout the later scenes her shorts gradually get shorter and
tighter, until she ends up wearing a pair of minuscule hot-pants which
in the 1910s would probably have got their wearer arrested for
indecency. Male viewers, however, might as well enjoy the sight of
Sharon's legs; there is precious little else in this movie to keep
anyone amused. The only thing that surprises me is that the film-makers
evidently thought highly enough of the film to follow it with a sequel
"Allan Quatermain and the Lost City of Gold" It is sad to think that
the director J. Lee Thompson was once responsible for films as good as
"Yield to the Night", "Ice-Cold in Alex" and "Cape Fear". 3/10
<|_=00=_|>

This movie will forever be dogged by the shadow of elder brother Raiders
of
The Lost Ark, when in actual fact the movie far more resembles that movies
little brother, Temple of Doom.
Now O.K., this is typical Cannon material. A blatant attempt to imitate
more succesful efforts, and if sometimes in this movie anyway, things dont
come off as intended the movie will LOOK bad. However, when all is said
and
done this is one of the better Cannon movies.
Richard Chamberlain is simply wonderful as an Adam West-Alike Quatermain.
Oblivious to the world around him. Sharon Stone too does well, with what
silly dialogue she is given, and the rest of the cast [ John Rhys Davies
etc
] take things seriously, which helps the film. The one thing that does let
the movie down is the direction. Which is a carbon copy of the Indiana
Jones
movies. Maybe Cannon encouraged this, but J. Lee Thompson is in all
honesty
an uninspired director,. Maybe a younger director would have spurned the
chance to out Spielberg Steven, and we might have had a better
movie.
Jerry Goldsmith's Theme is also badly under-rated but adds to the
excitement, and enjoyment. When watching this movie dont take too
seriously
and sit back and enjoy a campy, Batmanesque movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Ok i shall start by saying i am a huge Indiana Jones fan and when i saw
this
recently i thought it was a ghastly copy, but i think as the film
progresses
it gets better and some of the scenes late in the movie are very impressive
- particurly when john rhys-davies forces the german guy to eat the
diamonds. I liked most of the scenes with john ryhs-davies in but i was
slightly disappointed to see him in rip-off of Indiana Jones as he was in
Raiders of the Lost Ark. So overall this film isn't that bad to watch, its
quite fun really but it is nothing compared to the mighty Indiana
Jones.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is not as bad as "Allan Quatermain and the Lost City of
Gold". It has some content of sheer excitement and adventure in it. But
for most people who had already watched "Raiders of the Lost Ark" have
definitely harbored discriminatory feelings and complements for this
action film.

As far as action, adventure and fantasy is concerned, it was a good raw
effort by J. Lee Thompson who had earlier two great feathers to his cap
namely, "The Guns of Navarone" and "MecKenna's Gold". However, the next
sequel of this series i.e., "The Lost City of Gold" is indeed a
hopeless effort to bewitch the audience who are used to viewing better
films.

Nevertheless, KSM is an interesting and reasonably well directed piece
of motion picture.
