

There are two kinds of good movies: The movies that, because of one or
more
characteristics, win grammys, oscars, and much lauding by critics.
Gladiator
comes to mind. Great cinematography, plot, acting.

Then, there are movies, that, although they don't win critical acclaim,
seem
to find their way onto my TV much more than an oscar-winner. Princess
Bride
is a good one. Timothy Dalton's bid for a James Bond movie as well. And
Jewel of the Nile.

Jewel of the Nile is not a stellar specimen of a film in any way. There
are
movies that are better filmed, better acted, better scripted, ones that
don't have as many plot holes, whatever the comparison. It doesn't leave
you
in a state of deep pondering or leave you not wanting to go to bed for
fear
of your life. But it is a movie that I, and my family, put in when we want
to watch something light, uninvolved, comical, and with actors we like to
see. It's something to watch on a Sunday afternoon, over whatever sorry
excuse for lunch I decide to have, and to go to sleep on the couch to.
It's
a good movie to put in and listen to while doing housework, homework, or
another activity. It is full of great one-liners that find their way into
conversation as well as a severe cheesiness factor in some parts(which
isn't
a bad thing).

Bottom line, I guess, is this: You will find movies that are of superior
quality to this one. Ones that you will feel outweigh this one in every
single way. All the same, I would highly recommend adding this movie to
your
cabinet (but purchase and view Romancing the Stone first) because every
once
in a while, you'll come back to the Nile.
<|_=00=_|>
I have given this movie a 7/10 because, taken on its own merits, it is
just a delightful movie to watch. It's funny, although the slapstick
sometimes is a little over done; but good wins out over evil, and
leaves you satisfied at its conclusion. It reminds me of the "On the
Road" movies made by Bob Hope, Bing Crosby, and Dorothy Lamour during
the forties, but with better, if not sometimes outlandish, special
effects and chases (e.g., the F-16 chase) and just as many, if not
more, one liners.

However, the movie is more than just comedy. It pits secular evil
against a spiritual goodness (the Jewel), albeit a spiritual goodness
which on the surface seem naive and comic...but which, in reality,
achieves its goals through that apparent naivty. That is a serious
overtone which many of the previous comments on the movie seem to have
overlooked. The Jewel does not perform miracles, but his presence and
comic actions create an aura of the miraculous.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a worthy sequel to "Romancing the Stone", although not as polished,
with the featured actors already a little stilted after the first outing. It
is probably significant that the following 15 years have not yet seen a
further addition to the series, despite the star quality and charisma of the
two leads who do play comedy well together, both in this truncated series
and in the blacker "War of the Roses". The film suffers from a disjointed
plotting, which appears to serve only to link together both some admittedly
fine action sequences (a ground-based escape in an F-16 fighter plane, among
them) and also the interminable arguments and subsequent reconciliations
between Douglas and Turner.

Whilst certainly not reaching the heights of style of the original film,
"The Jewel of the Nile" nevertheless provides a good rounded slice of
action/adventure/romance entertainment, with some witty one-liners for
DeVito delivered in his own inimitable style and featuring an endearing
cameo from Avner Eisenberg as the mystical `Jewel' of the film's title who
delivers his religious and philosophical pronouncements in a curious
combination of the spiritual world and western pop culture.

<|_=00=_|>
It's been too long since I have seen 'Romancing the Stone' and I had
forgotten that 'The Jewel of the Nile' was a sequel. As a stand alone
movie itself this movie is fun in parts. It's got plenty of ridicule, a
disjointed plot, poorly spoken Arabic, bad pacing, poor special effects
but it is the cast, that includes, Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner and
Danny Devito that keep it alive. They're the ones who provide the
funniest moments. The chemistry between Douglas and Turner shines on
screen. They seem to have a good rapport off screen, which might
explain them doing so many movies together and looking good on screen.
Turner is incredibly sexy. 'The Jewel of the Nile' has some wonderful
shots of Africa and the comedic action sequences are enjoyable. The
African dances are fun to watch. I was quite disappointed by the ending
and what exactly was the point of the holy man being the 'jewel'? Why
is this man so important to the people? There's also a terribly done
pointless scene where the 'Jewel' walks through the fire. All, in all,
it does have a feeling of adventure which would have worked better if
the pacing was a little tighter. There's enough action, adventure and
romance (even though the element of suspense is ruined) to make it
enjoyable at least for a one-time watch.
<|_=00=_|>

A previous reviewer has taken this film to pieces, and while many of his
criticisms are well-made, I can't go along with the overall
rating.

If you're looking for plausibility, then this is certainly one of the
worst
movies of all time, but it wasn't actually intended as a documentary,
unless
I miss my guess completely.

This is a silly action adventure, mostly set in North Africa. There are
good
guys and bad guys, and they have personalities rather than well-rounded
characters. There's some slapstick humour. Danny de Vito is cutely
irritating, Michael Douglas is brave and rugged. We even have a scene in a
tribal village compete with tribal dancing.

In other words, it's an updated version of the Stewart Granger/Rod Taylor
African adventure type movies.

What makes this film worth watching, though, are the chase-type scenes,
the
specific likes of which I'd not seen before. Suffice to say that they're
unusual.

If you can accept a plot with more holes than a tuna net and just let it
flow by, this is a fairly jolly way to spend a couple of
hours.
<|_=00=_|>
This sequel is rather quite disappointing to me. In all honesty I loved
the first film, Romancing the Stone, so I when I heard there was a
sequel to this I was excited to see it. So I went ahead and rented
Jewell and it turned out to be one of the worst sequels I've ever seen.
I figured it would be at least an entertaining fun movie, especially
since it had the stars back from the first film. One thing that really
ticked me off was the cheezy score that accompanied the film. I don't
know whose idea it was to make this movie but as soon as Robert
Zemeckis and Alen Silvestri said no this production should not have
gone underway. Michael and Kathleen weren't bad but even they couldn't
save this one.
<|_=00=_|>
I think the entry review is being very unfair with the movie, so I
transcript ed this review from L. Shirley "Laurie's Boomer Views" (I
hope she doesn't mind;) that I think is much more correct.

"If you loved "Romancing The Stone", and can hardly pass the TV without
stopping to watch when it's on, then go ahead and follow the adventures
of Jack, Joan and Ralph in Africa in "Jewel Of The Nile". It may not
stand up to the repeated viewings like RTS, but it is a fun and action
packed sequel, and it is the characters that we have come to love, that
make us want to watch them in action in a new and different story.

Joan(Kathleen Turner) and Jack(Michael Douglas) have been living
together on his boat for six months already. Jack wants to take off and
see the world, Joan has a bit of a writer's block and wants more from
life. Opportunity knocks on her door when a powerful Sheik wants her to
write his story. She's whisked off to Africa, leaving a brooding Jack
behind, and immediately finds herself in the midst of a mysterious,
intriguing and very dangerous situation involving an all powerful
"Jewel". But have no fear, Jack is warned of the danger his beloved is
in and is off to save her. Ralph( Danny DeVito),who has been lurking
about and hears the word "Jewel" is not going to be left out this time,
and tags along as well. An added bonus to this one are the fabulous
Flying Karamazov Brothers juggling troupe, who jazz up this film a
little with their entertaining skills.

Get the Popcorn ready, and maybe some lemonade..it's a hot trek through
the desert!...enjoy..."
<|_=00=_|>
"The Jewel of the Nile" is a follow-up to "Romancing the Stone". It
lacks the greatness of the original but it keeps the same spirit. This
one has lots of adventure and action (even more than the original, and
is also far more violent).

Robert Zemeckis didn't return to direct this one, but 4 of the same
actors reprise their roles: Michael Douglas (who also produced it),
Kathleen Turner, Danny DeVito and Holland Taylor. The rest of the cast
is entirely different. There are plenty of new characters and new
villains.

As the title says, this movie takes us not to Colombia again, but to
the Egyptian deserts (in Africa, close to the Nile river). Exotic like
the original's but a completely different scenario than the original's.

The main villain in this is Omar Khalifa (well portrayed by Spiros
Focás). He is just as treacherous and dangerous as Zolo from the
original film. Like Zolo, he fools Joan Wilder so that she falls in his
entrapments. He pretends to be a good person, but he's a brutal
dictator. But I do like Omar's Egyptian accent. He speaks with a
charming accent. Funny that he plays an Egyptian when the actor is
Greek, but then, Demis Roussos is a Greek who was born in Egypt.

Avner Eisenberg does a nice portrayal of The Jewel but the character
has a mix of charm and silliness and isn't always lovable.

This film has some really funny and great sequences, but also has a
large number of faults and does not possess the charm of the original.
Therefore, it doesn't match the original's greatness.

Apparently Michael and Kathleen only made this movie because their
contract forced them to. Kathleen even attempted to back it out but was
threatened by 20th Century Fox to be sued with a $25 million lawsuit.
Geez, that is just so wrong! They shouldn't have been forced to do
something they didn't want. I sort of can see why they didn't want to
do it and why Robert Zemeckis refused to make the sequel.

I used to like this movie almost as much as the original. But now it
doesn't seem that great to me anymore. Looking at it now, many things
about it don't make much sense. The original is a great blockbuster and
a timeless classic.
<|_=00=_|>

A somewhat sketchy screenplay and unsteady direction sink "The Jewel of
the
Nile", the sequel to "Romancing the Stone". Kathleen Turner and Michael
Douglas are taking it easy on their yacht, but soon become a bit bored
with
their now simple lives. Turner gets an invitation from a suspicious sheik
in
the Middle East who has a dastardly plan up his sleeves. Danny DeVito is
also along for the ride once again as everyone is searching for the
seemingly unobtainable jewel. Likeable performances are the main
attraction,
but the film is a large step behind "Romancing the Stone". 2.5 out of 5
stars. 
<|_=00=_|>
I loved (Romancing the Stone). I was quite amazed when I knew that it
has a sequel. For a long time I didn't come upon it at all (some
channels hate it ?!). It took me 13 years to get to watch it. And did I
love it? Yes. But lesser than the first. So why is that ?! 

First of all, the script. Compare (Romancing..) to this one, and you'd
know the difference between the Hollywood perfect script and the
Hollywood draft. Simply the first had more emotions; being like a
romantic comedy about the opposite attract, more talk about the dreams;
which makes the characters humans to be related to, before heroes to
cheer on, more hard choices; there was a scene where the lead had to
decide between a gem and a girl, and more twists; namely : more heat.
This one is only a fine skeleton for all of the above, however empty.
Looking to the movie as a whole assures that it's not the matter of the
action-with-more movie and its pure-action sequel, rather the memorable
B movie and another B movie !

True after the jungles in the first they went to the desert in this
one, and after pursuing a gem, this time the gem is a man, but that was
it concerning any "changing" ! The movie is enjoyable but hyped.
Everything runs very fast. In one scene : Joan is at a book signing
engagement, meets Omar, a charming Arab ruler, he offers her the
opportunity to live at his palace while she writes about him, she
agrees, leaves Jack, and travels with Omar…JUST LIKE THAT ?!! The
characters don't think, they just do. There is no gag thrown in-between
or special emotional moment. And it lacks the surprises along the way.
To say the least : It's tangible that the time spent in writing (The
Jewel..) was less than the time spent in writing (Romancing..).

The title character, "The Jewel", is extremely pathetic! Who is that
man anyway? Sometimes he's a very poor street magician, sometimes he's
a man of miracles, and all the time he seems like A-one fool ! And more
than that I was forced to believe that this fool is a religious leader
and beloved icon ???!!! It mirrors dumb writing for sure, especially
when he uses naive tricks to rescue Jack at one moment, while – at
another – we discover that he can walk into fire with no harm
whatsoever!! Or it's part of many Hollywood movies' dogma while dealing
with Arabs; whereas they're pictured, eternally, as throng of idiots
(the movie, this round, resorts to giving them a funky look sometimes
to change the flavor of the pretty old idea though !). Or maybe it's
the way things work in a movie about American adventurous leads, where
the American must be the cowboy, and the rest must be Red Indians !

Then, THE MUSIC ! Jack Nitzsche produced electronic weak thing that
doesn't live up to what it expresses of non-stop action and adventures.
It's a major let-down which almost turned the movie into a cheap, hasty
and cheesy TV episode. And take it from me, don't beat a dead horse by
comparing the first's music, by Alan Silvestri, to this; it would sound
like a comparison between Charles Chaplin and Tom Arnold ! 

The special effects took a lot from the movie's personality as
something done by big production company. They, instead, fit a B movie
from independent destitute company! The walking into the fire scene is
clear example.

The 3 stars, (Kathleen Turner), (Michael Douglas) and (Danny DeVito),
aren't playing their roles inasmuch as playing at them, with not much
of fun. However (Kathleen Turner) is still a treat to watch apart. She
reminds me, with that husky voice of hers, with (Lauren Bacall). Back
then, at her young non-fat phase, she was so sexy. And since her long
legs couldn't be resisted, they have been put, exactly like the
previous movie, in always torn skirts, so with a lot of running and
jumping around you might have a pretty sight indeed. Even at one moment
(DeVito) calls her "LEGS", and obviously he has a point. By the way,
for every male viewer who missed it; its color was white (You know well
what I'm talking about !). The character of (Omar Khalifa) is none
other than a handsome version of (Muammar al-Gaddafi), see how the
smallest details refer to him (the picture with the commander's white
suit). At the time (al-Gaddafi) was a favorite laughingstock in the
American movies. Albeit, the Nile doesn't flow in Libya.

The stars' glow, not glee, and the action sequences are the sole facts
in this movie. Director Lewis Teague, who made many TV series, mastered
a good comic book. He was as vigorous as (Robert Zemeckis), the
director of (Romancing the Stone), yet with less saturated script and
more speedy pace. I bet, with not much time between the 2 movies, they
quickened the sequel. Overall (The Jewel..) made money as huge as the
first (rarely when a Michael Douglas production goes wrong), it works
in terms of being flashy flash, and it shows the nature of the initial
scripts in Hollywood, and the initial ideas at understanding other
nations in the same city too !
