

I will not attempt to describe this movie. It would be fruitless. You may
at
first be frustrated by the seemingly inept invocation of all the tried and
true cliches of the "genre" - from Mad Max to its weirder post-apocalyptic
cousins. But this is not Circuitry Man in reverse - it is much, much
stranger. By the time the polka-dotted bikini-wearing ex-girlfriend of the
hero is playing hostess at the disney-esque bubble-dome camp of the
desert-dwelling homicidal outlaw gang... oh, never mind. By the way,
Melanie
Griffith was much better looking before lip surgery. Almost hot, in fact.
But rest assured, this is a work of genius, exposing a deep understanding
of
the rift between genders during the height of the supposedly
post-sexual-liberation 1980's, an almost sublime sense of humor about
sexual
alienation and most of all, the erotic link between women and cars in
American culture is finally completely laid bare.

In fact, this movie is so profoundly subversive that it could only be made
under cover of shlock. Do not be fooled by what seems like coke-addled
acting and tourette-syndrome editing. This film is high art. Especially
the
part where the robot says "is that your hand?" Stay up late and watch it
on
TBS tonight! And take notes!
<|_=00=_|>

Cherry 2k is a low budget one-off adaptation of the Mad Max concept mixed in
with futurist technology ideas and a very cool love story. The male star
goes on a quest to replace his lost robot sex android. That's the basic
plot.

What's unusual is that this movie succeeds in mixing these elements without
screwing up. The Sci-fi perspective doesn't overwhelm the overall plot, and
vice versa.

Very few B grade movies from this time period were watchable, much less
worth keeping in one's collection. Fortunately, Cherry 2000 bucked this
trend and deserves a spot on the shelf of any cult classic and/or Sci-fi
movie collector.

<|_=00=_|>

Okay, "Cherry 2000" has finally achieved "cult film" status. But unlike many
other cult movies, it actually deserves the title.

There are many things to like about this flick. The nuanced, likeable Ben
Johnson has a good role that even delivers some tragedy (how often do you
get that in a b-movie?). The charismatic Griffith is alternately
contemplative and kick-ass. Of course, Tim Thomerson as Lester nearly steals
the show, providing a truly strange, ruthless villain.

The effects are cheesy, sure, but they never look fake, unlike a lot of the
CGI films coming out today. When you see E. Johnson's Ford being dangled
over the Hoover Dam, that is an ACTUAL car, not some stupid digital
effect.

The movie does lay its message on thick, but considering the obvious budget
constraints they were working with, that's a perfectly excuseable flaw. The
satire is at times hilarious (watch for Larry Fishburne's turn as a lawyer
with Morpheus-esque reflecting sunglasses, and the final exit of the villain
is truly visually ironic). I bought this on DVD (having never seen it on TV)
and really liked it...maybe you will, too.
<|_=00=_|>

"Cherry 2000" was a huge commercial failure and it's hardly ever mentioned
today, but I found it surprisingly entertaining. Sure, the script is
unimaginative and the film has no real vision and the action scenes are
strictly routine, but the two leads are enormously, effortlessly likable.
They make a deeply sweet pair. Maybe the film should have concentrated more
on their love story and less on the familiar action aspects of the story.
And the violence of a couple of scenes seems rather out of place. But even
with its weaknesses, this movie is, fitfully, absorbing and very
entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>

until I saw this film. It's absolutely hilarious.  And Ben Johnson was
just
a treat.  Melanie was never so pouty and sexy, but that Mustang she drove
steals the show.  A really underrated film with lots of very wicked things
to say. This relates to Mad Max about like 007 related to spies or (Chief)
Inspector Clousseau related to detectives. Well, it's not in the same
class,
but it takes a stab at camping the Road Warrior.

<|_=00=_|>
This little-known, under-rated, obscure little film packs a lot of
entertainment value.

A 1987 production, directed by Steve De Jarnatt, and starring Melanie
Griffith, David Andrews, and Pamela Gidley, "Cherry 2000" goes highly
unnoticed and unsung in the sci/fi field. However; I cannot say why, as
this movie is extremely well written and extraordinarily entertaining.

When Sam Treadwell's robotic companion breaks down, he goes in search
of an exact duplicate in which to install her memory chip, and continue
his life. He hires Edith "E" Johnson (Griffith) as a tracker to find
her, and together they begin their journey into "The Zone;" a
danger-filled jungle of a city in which Treadwell finds the ideal
replacement for his Cherry model 2000 love.

It is not just a science fiction classic, but it is a tremendous love
story, and a marvelous work of writing. The acting left a bit to be
desired, but this little-known work of art is definitely more than
worth seeing.

It rates a 7.4/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>

When I first saw this movie I was hooked. I watched it many times and I
still
find new things. It grows on you. Really good cast and storyline. Watch
it!
Pamely Gidley is just superduper and the settings are like the Wild Wild
West!
<|_=00=_|>
Imagination.. Heart..

Very few sci-fi's have this much heart and this much story packed into
a beautiful movie.. So how can I describe Cherry?

Cherry starts out like every good story and builds up to it, by first
establishing the universe.. a post-apocalyptic world (or sum such)
where recycling is important, new fashions are in play and sex robots
are possible and people (at least from the characters point of view)
have to have contracts to date/copulate

Cherry then shows us one of the first *real* female action hero's
(basically Tomb Raiders Laura Croft v1.0) and some great desert and
action sequences that are widely unpredictable and done well

All the while this stories carries on with credibility and imagination,
Cherry 2000 is one of the most successful B movie sci-fi's ever
accomplished it's these kinds of movies that give me hope to see more..
I personally love and still love a lot of 80's movies and 80's style we
have yet to recapture in our let's make it all more real setting.. I'm
not saying that gems aren't still made today they are; they've just
been rarer to find as of late..

Since Cherry is a special vein of movies all its own it's important we
list e'm - Mad Max - The Road Warrior (this one is very special) -
Dead-End Drive In 

What I can say about Cherry after multiple viewing maybe 5-7 now in my
lifetime since I first caught in cinemax or one of the movie channels
one night.. is that's its very, very special.. 

That the story is so good that it can play catch-up or compliment
movies like "A.I." another one of Kubrick's unfigured out
masterpieces..

Normally I would say this movie is 7/10 but I'm upping my vote to 8/10
for now do to shear appreciation of this movie vs. some of the crap we
have been getting these past 2 decades.. (note of course sci-fi had a
great few years from about 1997 to 2001)

On my last viewing this time I noticed again how good Basil Poledouris
score compliments the movie.. (and there is some noticeable re-use of
Conan in there but all composers even the great John Williams seem to
re-use in part some of their stuff)
<|_=00=_|>

This is the kind of film that gets under your skin. One of a small subgenre
of Sci-Fi Westerns, its small flashes of inspired writing make it worth
watching some night when there's nothing else to do. Cameron Milzer is
particularly notable as a blackly comedic psycho-girlfriend, but Tim
Thomerson and Melanie Griffith are no slouches themselves. Pleasant bleak
visuals and an interesting score from Basil Poledouris (Robocop, Hunt For
Red October, & the Conan films, as well as 60 other movies) make for a
modest repeat viewability factor. Fun and stupid! 
<|_=00=_|>

A lightweight love story underpins a fun story with a range of eccentric
characters in a world that has lost it.  At no point in time does the movie
try to be anything other an entertaining comedy with short bursts of action,
and as such, it is a success. 
