

Wowza!

Now this movie aint great (far from it) but it aint horrid
either.
Just yer basic post nuclear sci-fi apocalypse survival
flick.

Survivors get from point A to point B with a bunch of trouble in
between.
The trouble actually doesn't add up to much (look for roaches!) and the
acting and storyline are at a minimum....BUT!!!!!!

The following things kicked ass!:

Beginning!--->creepy slow suspense as the world faces nuclear
destruction!

Score!--->Great music sets the tone for the scenes (saving
many)

Sky FX!--->tripped out! The skies are the best looking I've seen in any
apocalyptic movie...way cool!

The SUV!!--->They actually built this thing! it works and works
great!
No scale model here, although I'm sure its looks are best viewed on the
outside, but its done well, not cheap, handles the road great, and if i
could find one, I'd buy it (look carefully at wheel design....amazing!)

Dats it, Dats all.
B-movie sci-fi fun.
No brainer..great for 2 for 1 rental, follow it with something that will
get
brain workin again.
<|_=00=_|>

The beginning of this film really shakes you up.  The careful, measured
tones coming from the missile base loudspeaker announcing the progress of
"the war" belie the fact that at that moment scores of millions of people
are being atomized as the bombs fall.

However, the aftermath seems to be typical post-nuclear mis-adventure, with
the survivors from the base starting out on a cross-country road trip.  The
"Landmaster" vehicles add a jazzy and technie touch to the otherwise
predictable trip.  Wild weather, crazed hermits, and killer cockroaches
require a little suspension of disbelief, but still keep the pace
going.

Fans of "The A-Team" will like seeing George Peppard in a lead role, as the
by-the-book superior officer who tries to keep the non-conformist junior
officer (Vincent) in line.  Dominique Sanda adds some nice eye candy as the
token female member of the intrepid band of pilgrims, rescued by Peppard
and
company from the ruins of Las Vegas.

Overall, a pretty good film if you are looking for an evening of
distraction
and non-reality, if you can get past the opening sequence.

<|_=00=_|>
So, you've managed to survive world devastation by being inside a
missile silo (after you and your fellow soldiers have reacted so
stoically to the sight of incoming missiles on the screen that it might
as well have been a Russian pizza delivery), but then you discover that
all it takes to wipe out your giant military bunker is a sleepy soldier
dropping a cigar onto a Playboy magazine (a "hot" centerfold being an
aiding factor in the flames). Aw, hell, Tanner, now you gotta hit the
road. 

Of course, it's only been a couple of years after those radioactive
nukes were dropped and the sky looks freakishly dangerous (as in VERY
RADIOACTIVE), but thankfully with a lot of sunscreen and a convenient
monster truck at the ready, you can head off confidently in your
pursuit of a taped signal coming from Albany, New York, and hopefully
there you'll find a home able to withstand the lethal force of a
burning porno magazine. The leader of the expedition looks suspiciously
like George Peppard, but his southern accent makes you wonder. Along
for the ride is Paul Winfield, to give the black audience their token,
always with the caveat that the black supporting actor in horror/sci-fi
films will NOT get the girl and will NOT survive. The girl will be
played by Dominique Sanda, and she, along with Jan Michael Vincent and
Peppard, will provide enough wooden acting that this film will more
resemble a mission of hauling lumber rather than people to Albany.
Especially after the lively and un-wooden Winfield misses the rest of
the ride in order to provide nutrition to an army of "killer
cockroaches" (many of whom are suspiciously riding on conveyor
belts--or perhaps that form of cockroach mass transit is a post-nuclear
evolutionary development.... okay, just cheap effects). 

But what trip through the lonely desert is complete without some "human
cockroaches" who are in the mood to devour Miss Sanda. Get out yer
banjo's, Sonny-Jim, it's the Mountain Man Raping Hour. Oops, forgot to
mention the ugly kid (Jackie Earle Haley) that got picked up by our
heroes along the way. He knows how to throw a rock and helps save the
day (and Miss Sanda's virtue). Unfortunately, the kid only throws rocks
at the actors and not at the director or writers, who are more
deserving (of really big rocks, I might add). I assume original author
Roger Zelazny would like to toss a few himself for the stealing of his
title (well, they certainly DIDN'T steal his book... but then Zelazny's
novel had the nerve not to provide the producers with Killer
Cockroaches or Truck-Stop Rapists). Aw heck, even with those two odd
set-piece detours, this trip is resembling nothing more than a weekend
drive from Los Angeles to Las Vegas (with an acid-trip sky, so perhaps
it's more like Hunter Thompson's weekend drive). Why not finish it off
with a big storm scene and throw a toy version of that monster truck
into the studio tank. 

Well, it's been a long trip and Peppard has mapped it out (calling his
route 'Damnation Alley' hence the cool title) and all have accepted it,
even though Peppard hasn't been out of that bunker since the holocaust
but somehow knows this carefully defined route (and is unperturbed by
the notion that the gasoline they'll need during the trip would have
turned to varnish after sitting for years). At the end of it will be
Albany and people and a big banner that reads YOU MISSED US, RUSSKIES!
Wouldn't you be shocked to discover that you were sitting in that
bunker all that time when you could've been in Albany where not only is
there no devastation, but time has gone backwards and the city now
resembles the land of Andy Hardy or Leave It To Beaver? Surprisingly,
you also discover this is actually a 20th Century Fox film, instead of
the usual cheesy AIP/New World Roger Corman film-slop that it
resembles. And Fox thought THIS was the big sci-fi film on its slate
for 1977. Woe to those who saw this when it opened a few months after
Star Wars (myself sadly included). But now it's cheesy relic that is
only a reminder of what NOT to do, sci-fi filmwise. Still, there is
some accidental twistedness to this saga, especially when you first see
Vincent roaring through the dunes on his motorbike with a passenger
strapped to him. We see at one point it's a real woman, but Vincent
tosses her off to escape from those process shot scorpions (the
filmmakers "process" being state-of-the-art....back in 1910) and we
find out it was a mannequin (can you say "goof"?). Then later, Vincent
does a bike stunt with Sanda aboard and skids to a stop, and we notice
that the stunt rider has a female mannequin for a passenger, not a
stunt double. Strangely, this mannequin gives one of the better
performances. And sadly, in the days before straight-to-video sequels,
we never got to see 'Damnation Alley 2: Tanner's European Vacation.'
<|_=00=_|>
This notoriously hard to get (at least legitimately) movie follows the
travails of five nuke apocalypse survivors in the late 1970s. Their
task is to drive their armored personnel vehicle cum Winnabago from
Bakersfield CA to Albany NY. On the way they stop off in Vegas, Salt
Lake City and Detriot bumping into maniac mutant cockroaches and some
radioactive hillbillies along the way. 99% of the time the sky is a
swirling orangish red that transfers its Gatorade hues to most
sequences in this movie. The locations are all dust, sand and rock...
this is after all Damnation Alley and the Earth has been tilted off its
axis. An absolute trash B movie that I'm sure many of those associated
with would rather forget, it is nonetheless hugely compelling. After
viewing you can appreciate the cult classic status of this film, yet to
not be entirely sure why that is so.
<|_=00=_|>

Based on the post-apocalyptic novel "Damnation Alley" by Roger Zelazny,
the
film version shares almost nothing with the book other than the
title.

In the film, a band of World War III survivors from the 123rd Strategic
Missile Wing in the California desert set out across a devastated America
in
an armored, 12-wheeled "Landmaster" vehicle in search of a faint radio
signal from Albany, New York.  Along the way, they encounter freak storms,
ragged survivors, and yes, those infamous "killer cockroaches."

"Damnation Alley" definitely has its strong points, most notably the first
20 minutes, which features perhaps one of the most chilling depictions of
the start of World War III , as the crew of the 123rd SMW  watches
helplessly as the war begins and ends in a matter of minutes before their
eyes.

On the down side, the film also has a wealth of weak points, most of which
are after the survivors begin their  journey.  Inane dialog, bizzare laser
effects, and plot inconsistencies abound, as do wooden performances by
George Peppard and Jan-Michael Vincent.  Paul Winfield is the only
standout
in the film, and he is offed by the infamous "killer cockroaches" in a
scene
that leads to the best line of the film: "Tanner, this is Denton...  This
whole town is infested with killer cockroaches!!!"

It seems as if many scenes in the film that would have helped it play
better
may have been left on the cutting room floor (and in fact, publicity
stills
from the film do show scenes not included in the final release), and the
inclusion  of these scenes may have turned this mediocre film into
something
better.

Good idea, but poor execution.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a really fun movie if you like post-atomic flicks! Or any Jan
Michael Vincent flick, for that matter. The effects are sometimes
cheesy, but overall the atmosphere and film-work on this are pretty
decent! It's also fun to see Jan Michael 'AIRWOLF' with George Peppard
"A TEAM" together. They make a good pair! The 'bug' scene is very fun-
and includes some great Jan Michael motorcycle wheelies! The tornado
scene is also cool. This movie definitely takes you to a different
world, and the strange sky color throughout sort of makes everything
seem - well- post atomic! It's a clever movie, not too violent, but it
definitely is worth the buy! If you are a Jan Michael fan, this would
be a MUST have as he looks fantastic as usual.
<|_=00=_|>

Killer cockroaches, Jan Michael Vincent, Paul Winfield, George Peppard,
giant scorpions, ultimate SUV's, inbred hillbilly types and dusty old Las
Vegas where the slots still work...all combine to make a fun little, albeit
cheesy, flick.

As a kid this movie was a fun Saturday matinee movie and to this day, still
a fun Saturday Matinee movie...grab a big bucket of popcorn, turn your brain
off and have some cheesy fun...
<|_=00=_|>

***** minor spoilers *****

Without doubt the best scene in DAMNATION ALLEY is the one set in the
control room as the airforce men stand in stunned silence as the major
cities of the USA are nuked . I don`t think as some critics have said that
this scene is bland , it`s because the people in the control room are
shocked that world war 3 has broken out and realise that civilisation has
ended, it`s a very understated and haunting scene. Alas however as soon as
the exposition subtitles come up ( And very purple prose they are too .
They
match the colour of the sky ) the film quickly falls apart . Two of the
characters have now left the airforce which doesn`t strike me as being
logical . After a major event , and they don`t come much more major than
global thermonuclear conflict I`d have thought  , wouldn`t  martial law be
introduced ? If so would servicemen be allowed to leave the forces when
they
felt like it ? And aren`t any men on the base related to anyone ? This
really stuck in my mind that no one ever mentions loved ones who must have
been wiped out during the war . Maybe they were married to the guests on
THE
JERRY SPRINGER SHOW ? If so I guess nuclear holocaust does have its plus
points

The film then turns into an epic quest adventure but if you`re expecting
LORD OF THE RINGS  don`t hold your breathe because it all becomes both
silly
and boring B movie stuff with the only point of interest being the line
about killer cockroaches which made me laugh out loud . And I felt cheated
by the upbeat happy ending . Strangely enough if you look up the resumes
of
the two screenwriters you`ll find they have a very good track record of
writing  intelligent involving scripts so what went wrong here ?

One last point . Watch the scene where Jan Michael Vincent is riding about
the desert evading the crap superimposed mutant scorpians . He`s
supposedly
driving around with a mannequin on the back of his motorbike but if you
look
closely just before he throws it off you can quite clearly see it`s an
actress/ stuntwomen of latino/native American ethnicity


<|_=00=_|>
A film I wanted to like, but I was left feeling quite indifferent. This
adaptation of Roger Zelazny's novel turns out to be a junky, often
exaggerated piece of cheap post-apocalyptic drive-in schlock that pales
alongside its inspiration. The problem mainly lied with it lack of plot
episodes within this road movie through a dangerous landscape and the
ones they went with were quite flat and half-baked (obviously outside
the killer cockroaches segment). In some aspects its budget couldn't
entirely match its vision. What made the feature though were its steady
performances (Paul Winfield is always a delight) and of course how can
you pass on that vehicle --- "The Landmaster". Where can I buy me one
of those? George Peppard and Jan Michael Vincent lead the cast, as two
U.S Air force soldiers who survive a nuclear holocaust caused by WW3,
causing the earth to tilt on its axis creating freak weather patterns
(storms, floods) and mutated insects. So a small crew head out in two
armoured vehicles through radiation affected areas known as "Damnation
Alley" in their journey for survivors and a safe area. Also coming for
a ride are Dominique Sanda, Kip Niven and a young Jackie Earle Haley
who's pretty good at chucking stones. The special effects that are
projected are chintzy with some blotchy optical effects. While limited,
it has its moments, but I wished a little more did happen and that
ending couldn't be any more sickening (, in a suger-coated sense). 

"Nothing good happens by itself."
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoy this every time I watch it. Science Fiction with some very good
and some mediocre visual effects. The cast does a good job. I liked the
vehicle the "Landmaster." Jack Earle Haley, the kid in this movie is
currently in a series on television, and it's pretty good. Most of the
movie takes place as the people go from one place to another in the
Landmaster, and the people and things they meet. Jan Michael Vincent
and Haley get some motorcycle riding in. This was out of print for some
while, also the newest DVD of this movie is slightly different than the
one I originally saw. It is well worth the price of a rental, check it
out and see what you think.
