
"Lethal Weapon 2" is the type of sequel you don't screw with, for fear
of getting seriously beat up if you do. Luckily the praise comes as
easily as the film is good -- and boy, is it good.

If you haven't seen "Lethal Weapon" (1987), get off your computer, drop
that Cheez-It out of your hand, rush to your closest video outlet and
buy it. If you have seen it, then drop that Cheez-It out of your hand,
rush to your closest video outlet and buy the sequel, "Lethal Weapon
2." It's a real ball-breaker, a bruiser, the type of film where the
heroes get beat up mercilessly but when they get mad, boy are they mad,
and they tear apart everything in their path that is standing in their
way. There's a particular shoot-out scene aboard a docked ship where
Riggs (Mel Gibson) goes on a rampage and really kicks butt with a
vengeance.

But I think I'm getting ahead of myself.

The film opens with a high-speed car chase on a freeway in Downtown LA.
Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) are in hot pursuit,
tearing up Murtaugh's wife's brand-new car as they chase the speeder
through an underground tunnel, up a bridge, and so on and so forth.

When they finally catch the speeder they find African gold hidden in
the back of his truck. Soon they are being threatened to stay off of
the case by African diplomats, one of whom Riggs really enjoys
annoying. They can't arrest them because of diplomatic immunity, so
Riggs goes in and shoots up the place where they're staying.

Riggs finds himself a new girl (Patsy Kensit), while Murtaugh protects
a federal witness named Leo Getz (Joe Pesci), a lovable little
blabbermouth who likes being one of the cops. He waddles around
throughout the film like a little eager puppy, ready to do anything
he's told. Of course Riggs and Murtaugh pick on him throughout the
movie, but their friendship is a sort of love-to-hate, explained in
"Lethal Weapon 4" (1997).

What a hard action movie/sequel this is. I had heard nothing very
positive about this movie until right before I saw it. I sat down,
watched it directly after I watched "Lethal Weapon," and realized just
how great of a sequel it really is. It's not repetitive -- it continues
the character progression and friendship seen at the end of "Lethal
Weapon," while at the same time adding a bit more humor than the first
film.

One of the things I praise about the first "Lethal Weapon" movie is
that the characters didn't just suddenly agree to like each other at
the end of the movie like so many films. They gradually learned to
trust each other throughout the film, adding a sense of true friendship
and realism to the film. In "Lethal Weapon 2," the friendship between
Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh is definitely expanded more to the
point where they're best buddies. Most of the time when there is a
sequel to a cop-buddy film, the directors and writers are afraid to
continue the friendship. They seem to forget the end of the original
film, and in the second film the characters hate each other again and
the progress of friendship starts all over again. (As seen in such
films as "Another 48 Hrs.")

But "Lethal Weapon 2" is brave -- it isn't afraid to continue the
story. I think that might be part of what makes it such a great,
well-rounded series. It never really repeats itself, it always seems
eager to move forward and ignore the past. The first film was a
humorous, hard cop-buddy film about two opposites learning to trust
each other. The second movie is a continuation of their friendship. The
third film is almost a full-out comedy. And the fourth film is a
tribute to the first three. Darn good film-making here.

"Lethal Weapon 2" is quite possibly one of the best sequels of all
time. It avoids repetitions, it avoids cop-buddy clichés, and when it
all comes down to it, Mel Gibson and Danny Glover and Joe Pesci are
such an amazing trio, that even if this film did follow the routine
procedures I'd still love it. And you can't say that about many movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Many action flicks over the years have been called loud and dumb. This
is no exception. The "Lethal Weapon" series has never been especially
noted for its intellect but it has something that a lot of action films
lack: heart. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover's winning chemistry created
some of the most tender moments in the series and "Lethal Weapon 2"
excels because they make the audience care about their characters. This
movie is by far the best in the series with tones of moments
registering directly to the viewer. Gibson and Glover provide these
characters with depth that could easily have been lacking and the
ending of this film leaves the audience actually feeling the love these
two men have for each other. And, as a bonus, "Lethal Weapon 2" digs
even deeper into one of the protagonist's past, shedding even more
light as to why he is the way he is.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all this movie is almost as good as the original. It retains
all of the elements that made the first film so darn entertaining and
adds some new elements.

As all actors from the first movie appear in the second one as well its
pretty clear what you can expect acting wise and surprise, surprise:
The acting is still stellar, close to perfection. Mel Gibson is always
good and in the second installment of the series he gets to be a little
more wild and add even more nuances to the character. For example we
get to see Riggs hit on women which adds an entire new side to him as
the side we saw in the first film was of him mourning. Also we find out
how his wife dies in a beautifully underacted scene (if you want to
know how she dies you'll have to see the movie). Danny Glover returns
as well and he plays the character pretty much as he did in the first
film which is good because the character he plays is the one who is not
supposed to change. He is meant to be square and combined with the
character of Riggs this becomes highly entertaining. However, a new
element is put into the mix to make it even more entertaining, Leo
Getz, played beautifully by Joe Pesci and is to this day still one of
his most memorable characters. He is funny and fast talking but most
importantly: he is a crook and when you put him together with Riggs and
Murtaugh the mix becomes explosive. The main villains are played by
Joss Ackland and Derrick O'Connor and they are also good and a bit more
developed than the villains of the first movie obviously because they
had to focus more on the relationship between Riggs and Murtaugh in the
first movie. Riggs' love interest is played Patsy Kensit and she is
good if a bit underdeveloped. 

The story is excellent and is almost better than the story in the first
one. It is entertaining and funny and best of all the incredible
chemistry between Mel Gibson and Danny Glover is maintained and is
almost as good as it was in the first movie. Furthermore the addition
of Joe Pesci was a very nice touch because he immediately makes the
scenes with him, Gibson and Glover even more interesting and
entertaining. The plot with the villains is kept relatively simple like
in the first film, which is good because the goal for the film is
entertainment not to be thought provoking.

The action of the film is kept in the same style as in the first movie
and it is still both exhilarating and entertaining. The effects are
still relatively realistic and this of course gives the movie a level
of credibility that is sorely needed in many modern action movies.

All in all a worthy sequel and an excellent film on its own. 

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Mel Gibson and Danny Glover return to kick heads and shoot
bad
guys for the second time, as Riggs and Murtaugh, the "Oscar
and
Felix" of law enforcement in "Lethal Weapon 2." This time

around, the boys are forced to become the 3 Stooges when
they
are assigned to guard a feisty, foul-mouthed federal witness
named Leo Getz (the frantic Joe Pesci) from a group of
sadistic
Afrikaner thugs (led by the usually dark-natured character
actor
Joss Acklund). At the same time, Riggs meets a new love named

Rika (the hot Patsy Kensit), who happens to be a pawn in the

villain's dangerous games.

The action is faster and more furious in this sequel to the

slam-bang original. Even the banter gets a boost, thanks to the

added comedic riff by Pesci. Watch for his slightly annoying,

yet hilarious speech on a Subway tunafish sandwich!
<|_=00=_|>

The first one was hard core.  It was all about drugs, intrigue and Vietnam.
It was also about Riggs' suicidal tendencies.  It was serious.  Too serious.
That was awesome.  This one is about a lighter, gentler Riggs.  The same
Murtaugh I'm afraid but a lighter gentler Riggs-for a while that is.
Reasons why this film is better than the original:  1.  Leo Getz,  2.  Same
chemistry but with a tighter bond,  3.  Comic relief,  4.  Truly despicable
villains, 5.  Revenge story that pops out of nowhere really (this is quite
surprising for a Gibson flick mind you).  This one's the best of the series.
Part three was a joke.  Part four...I dunno what the hell that one was.
Part one was pure setup baby.  This is the one.  > 
<|_=00=_|>
A terrific sequel to one of the first action duo films that worked
well. Adding Joe Pesci to the cast, what a great choice! He was so
funny, together, Mel, Danny, and Joe are the three stooges of Lethal
Weapon. They work together so well. This movie has everything that you
could want: action, romance, comedy, and drama.

Again, like in my last Lethal Weapon comment, must we go on for ten
sentences? I mean, is it just me or isn't that a little silly? I think
so. It's like, you can't just put down you liked the movie or hated it?
I miss the old IMDb! *sob!* 

8/10 

PS: Ask me questions about the movie if you have doubts about me
witnessing it's glory.
<|_=00=_|>
Riggs and Murtaugh now face a bunch of south African criminals hiding
behind their diplomatic immunity. The duo have to fight for their right
to fight back, as the criminals declare war on the cops, and arouse the
lethal weapon in Riggs.

The introdction of Joe Pesci's character is a little annoying at first
but it soon grows on you and he adds a focus for the comedy element.

Richard Donner again directs the cop duo and again we have a movie well
worth watching.

Plenty of action, a few more laughs and a lethal weapon that is still
just as sharp, all combine to deliver another great outing for Riggs
and Murtaugh.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
In keeping up the tradition of the original "Lethal Weapon", the sequel
still continues the time-honoured tradition to providing the the
action, the humour, and the thrills that made "Lethal Weapon I" one of
the best buddy-cop movies in the history of cinema. The chemistry
between Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Murtaugh (Danny Glover)is still
remarkable. The only thing now is that Riggs is less self-destructive
as he was in the first movie, but I guess it's so that in the first he
tries to get over the loss of his wife and he somehow has moved on. Not
as exciting as the first, but still very believable. 

Some historical-political elements that provides some surprising
educational facts are delivered here in the movie that's obscurely
mentioned in classrooms. Here it takes aim the the South African
apartheid fiasco that ran from 1948, up until 1994 by Nelson Mandela
who over-turned the government and became President of South Africa
putting a stop to apartheid. During it's dying stages, the government
provided segregated communities to it diverse ethnics and tried to
promote theocracy. The South Africans depicted may have been over the
top, but the political upheaval was executed immaculately. 

In spite of that cultural reference, there's a setback to it as well. I
don't understand why did the South Africans killed Riggs' wife and now
have targeted his girlfriend. What's up with that? The whole logic was
completely null and void and has no logic to it at all. Some editing
should have been taken to consideration. 

It's still an enjoyable film, but the first one stands above them all.
<|_=00=_|>

Lethal Weapon 2: A complete review in as short as possible

If you're looking for an extremely enjoyable movie, in all aspects of the
word "enjoyable" i seriously recommend this masterpiece! It has everything
anyone can ask for: a star-studded cast, excellent performances, masterful
directions, engrossing story, amazing action-sequences, witty dialogue,
sensational sound track, and this is just the beginning! And if this is
not
MAGIC then I don't know what is!

Gibson's Riggs and Glover's Murtaugh are amazing, the chemistry here is
absolutely amazing! Each complements the other perfectly and the inclusion
of Pesci's Getz is the best thing that could have ever happened to the
movie.

It's not just the performances either. LW2 is an excellent follow-up to
the
original that spawned 4 sequels and is a MUST-SEE. As a matter of fact, I
personally find it to be the best movie throughout the series. Do not pass
this one up!

Oomph!-scale (from 5) : *****
<|_=00=_|>
Richard Donner shows off his liberal credentials with this ludicrously
overcooked simplistic attack on the politics of South Africa.It's not
as if America is the cradle of racial harmony and brotherly love - and
further irony is added by the fact that the movie is set in the city
that was the home of Rodney King and glorifies the Police Department
that did so much towards community relations with their brutal racist
behaviour. So Donner's salt and pepper pairing who clearly have a late
= developing teenage crush on one another do their own thing with fine
disregard for the rule of law or the rules of evidence and no one
worries because the bad guys are white South Africans - surely a
worrying example of police racism in itself? Inside Rudd's (Joss
Ackland - eminently hissable) office the decor is designed and lit to
resemble as far as possible the Fuhrerbunker and just in case some
rather dumb moviegoers miss the point,he and his men are referred to as
"nazis" at regular intervals. For me the only bright spot in the movie
was when Mel Gibson turned up at an anti - apartheid demonstration
carrying a banner bearing the inscription "End Aparthied Now". The
intensely irritating Joe Pesci is introduced into the franchise to take
some of the weight off the boys' shoulders by following them around
yapping incessantly like a badly-trained puppy.This would be bearable
if there was the remotest possibility of him ending up in a concrete
overcoat,but sadly he survives to irritate another day. Miss Patsy
Kensit seems in a world of her own,perhaps not believing her luck at
being cast opposite Mel Gibson who has little trouble sweeping her into
bed in his mobile home which appears to have been washed up on a beach
somewhere.Shortly after consummating their affair they come under fire
from a number of helicopters that fire enough rounds into Mel's caravan
to keep the U.S. Army in Iraq going for six months. Fortunately he has
a pet dog who is not afraid to cause coitus interruptus just as they
are going for seconds and his barking warns them of the imminent
attack.I hope he got a special bone as a reward. The film
climaxes(without interruption from Mel's dog) on a cargo ship bound for
Nazi Germany (sorry,South Africa),when Mel and Danny murder so many
members of the master race that I lost count.Despite jiggling around
like Bonnie and Clyde under the impact of a hail of bullets,Mel
survives,curled up in his partner's arms like a small child with a wise
and benevolent father.Take that,Apartheid!
