

I'm wondering if everyone who reviewed this was watching the same film that
I've seen because there is no way this movie can "endanger your mental
growth." This movie is great! It's got a funny script and an interesting
storyline...I don't know if people were expecting some kind of "Close
Encounters of the Third Kind" challenger, but you all need to see this
movie
for what it is...somehow I doubt it was meant to deliver some deep message
about society or help you delve into your soul...it's a comedy that is
meant
to entertain! Lighten up, people....
<|_=00=_|>

Ok, I admit to a guilty pleasure at 1)enjoying and 2) recommending this
movie.

The plot is weak, the situation implausible and the secondary characters are
weak.  So why do I give this movie a 7/10?

Dan Aykroyd and Kim Basinger, who have some of the funniest lines in any
movie.

They are both excellent as 'fish out of water' he as a nerdy social misfit
and she as the space travelling investigator who has to find out how Dan
Aykroyd's character was able to contact her planet from a primitive
Earth.

It is a movie that definitely grows on you with repeated
viewings.

<|_=00=_|>
Widower Dr. Steve Mills (Dan Ackroyd) is a two-bit astronomer who wants
desperately to send a light beam "out of" the solar system. He
fervently believes there is life on other planets but his experiments
have been known to damage expensive equipment. Therefore, his boss has
told Steve that he will get the boot if he breaks anything else.
Needing lightning to bolster his beam, Dr. Steve begins his next
attempt at intergalactic communication in a thunderstorm when the
system suddenly gets a "superboost" of power, which he can't explain.
The result is that the radar shows his light went into another GALAXY,
hurrah, but, soon after, the entire system goes south. Steve gets
thrown out on his ear, of course. He goes home to his thirteen year old
daughter, Jessie (Alyson Hannigan) and contemplates his next move. His
womanizing brother, Ron (Jon Lovitz, absolutely hilarious) throws a
party to cheer him up, too. But, crashing the get-together, is a
beautiful blonde, Celeste (Kim Basinger) who flirts with Steve and
wants to know his science secrets. That's because she is an alien whose
planet was damaged by Dr. Mills' light beam. She has only a short time
to get the good astronomer to send the jolt again so that her world
will be saved. But, naturally, Steve must not know she is not an
earthling. From alien "eyes" in handbags to drinking car batteries to
convincing Steve to marry her, will Celeste succeed in her rescue
attempts? If you are world weary, I heartily recommend this old
charmer. It is very funny, probably Richard Benjamin's best effort, and
it has a terrific cast, too. Ackroyd is wonderful but, then, so is
Basinger in a role for which she has probably never garnered any
praise, which is a big shame, for she is very funny and sweet. As for
Lovitz, he could make a stone laugh and he is in excellent form in this
one. All of the other cast members, including Hannigan, in her first
big role, are fine. There is an abundance of terrific sight gags and
special effects and the script is humorous, polished, and offbeat. As
for the costumes, they are impressive, with Basinger looking like a
dream. In short, do not be an alien to this film. There have been many
films in cinematic history which have been praised high above this one
but there are very few that actually deliver the laughs and enjoyment
of this truly winning flick.
<|_=00=_|>
During the period when Richard Benjamin wasn't acting in any movies, he
turned to directing, and "My Stepmother Is an Alien" was one of the
results. It features nerdy astronomer Steven Mills (Dan Aykroyd)
accidentally doing something that causes alien Celeste Martin (Kim
Basinger) to get sent to earth. Naturally, she has to learn about
everything step by step, causing some really wacky situations.

This movie's nothing special, but good for a laugh. You probably really
like the scene where Celeste asks her purse "What is sex?". Also
starring Alyson Hannigan, Jon Lovitz, and Seth Green. Oh, and most of
us probably know that Aykroyd had already played Mr. Conehead on "SNL".
<|_=00=_|>

I rate this film as "so bad, it's kinda good".  It reeks of everything I
feel the Eighties
was trying to get away from when it became the Nineties, however nostalgia
will forever hallow certain themes, in a "beauty is in the eye of the
beholder" sort of way.

 Certainly by today's standards this movie is very corny and lacks any real
depth sought by movie lovers everywhere, but it has a lot of tongue in cheek
charm that other movies lack.  It's possible I only say these things because
I first saw the film when quite young and I remember liking it... that's a
great way to end up liking films that other people really cannot get along
with.

 As a summary, I couldn't sit down and watch this film with any of my
friends, but it would be a perfect companion on a slow evening when I'm ill
and had a few beers and need my mind taking off things.  Like this
evening.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was hilarious! I don't understand how this movie
got an average of 4 stars. I remember liking this movie when I was a
kid and I still love this movie today. I bought the DVD and watch it
often. Kim Basinger and Dan Akroyd are wonderful in this delightful
film together. Not too many movies can make me laugh out loud. Sure
this may be a cheesy film but what 80's movie wasn't cheesy? The
eyeball is also hilarious! One of my fav scenes in the movie is when
the eyeball is teaching Celeste what sex is, both of their reactions
throughout that scene are so funny and unforgettable. I would
definitely recommend this movie to anyone who likes comedies.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was fun.  I don't know why everyone is ragging on
it.
Deserving, nerdy guy gets the girl and saves the world.
Nice salutes to movies of the '40s.
If the plot's weak, it's because there's not much conflict,
no diabolical scheming bad guy.  The characters are all
sweet
and real enough that you care about them.
Ms. Basinger is pretty, but if you want to see her do sexy,
see _Cool World_.

<|_=00=_|>
I don't believe in aliens, but one ever existed and I ran into it, I
hope it looks like Kim Bassinger!

Ditsy but humorous in spots and a generally likable movie is how I saw
this film. Basinger hardly ever looked better, which is saying a lot.
At the time, it was unusual to see her in a comedy after viewing her in
tough crime or sex-type movies for awhile. (I didn't see this film
until 10 years after it had been released.) She's a decent comedienne,
like her ex-husband (Alec Baldwin) has turned out to be, too.

The comedy is more chuckles than guffaws. There is the usual
too-liberal "values" espoused here, in which sex on the first date is
"cool," even considered that b the teen daughter! The latter, however,
"Jessie" (Alyson Hannigan) is a cute kid and not annoying as most teen
girls on in modern-day films. The casual sex and general secular
attitude toward everything including that "science is everything" were
all annoying to me but it's still a likeble movie. The profanity isn't
too much, except by Jon Lovitz, who provides much of it. In all, a dumb
story but a nice, feel-good ending helps.
<|_=00=_|>

My stepmother is an alien is a  wonderful comedy packed with great jokes
and
great characters.Dan Arkroyd plays Steven Mills a scientist who believes
there is life on other planets one night he makes an experiment that will
change his life forever.Kim Basinger plays Celeste an alien from an other
planet who comes to earth to try to save her planet with the help of Steve
Mills.Alyson Hannigan is also great as Jessie Mills who suspects Celeste is
not quite normal.9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie definitely falls under the "so bad it's funny" category. It
is easily one of the most absurd Hollywood movies ever. Some of it
almost feels like a Bugs Bunny cartoon starring SNL alums. The writer
and director were either in the middle of a massive hallucinogen binge
or had just gotten done watching like forty billion bad 1950s movies in
a row.

Akroyd is mostly boring, but the look on his face when the ultra sexy
Basinger puts the moves on him is priceless -- you can tell he's been
in that situation before. The best acting in the movie probably comes
from the dog, but as far as human actors go, Alyson Hannigan (the
daughter) is an entertaining and refreshing break from the pouty, "my
parents are so lame" cardboard cutouts found in most 80s and 90s
comedies.

One of the funniest things I've ever seen comes at the party after the
wedding. It lasts about a split second, but the band's keyboard player
does the goofiest, most ridiculous 'pretending to make music' acting
job ever.

Bottom line: the story and dialogue are so completely ludicrous that
depending on how goofy a sense of humor you have, this will either be
the worst or the funniest movie you'll ever see.
