
You don't review James Bond movies, you evaluate them, rate them
according to how well they meet expectations. There are certain things
one has come to expect, even demand of a Bond film and each individual
effort either delivers or it doesn't. So, here are ten elements that
make a Bond film a Bond film and how THE SPY WHO LOVED ME rates on a
scale of 1 to 10:

Title: THE SPY WHO LOVED ME: The title seems more appropriate for a
Harlequin Romance novel, and if suitable at all for a Bond film, it
would have been a better title for ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE.
Yet, it does finally work the word "spy" into the title of a Bond film.
7 points.

Pre-Credit Teaser: It's all very nicely done: Within a few minutes, we
see a submarine stolen and its crew kidnapped; we meet the Soviet's top
agent, who just happens to be -- surprise! -- a woman; and we get the
added treat of one of Bond's greatest stunts, the great
skiing-skydiving trick. A pretty cool way to kick off the film and set
up the various story lines. 9 points.

Opening Credits: Arguably the silliest of all of Maurice Binder's
efforts, the opening sequence finds 007 bouncing around on a trampoline
while various miniature, and apparently naked, babes do gymnastics on
the barrels of guns. (Pity he didn't come up with that idea for THE MAN
WITH THE GOLDEN GUN.) Bordering on self-parody, it is nonetheless
naughty and fun and colorful and oh-so very James Bond. 9 points.

Theme Song: No beating around the bush here, the song gets right to the
point: "Nobody does it half as good as you, Baby, you're the best."
Just what Bond is best at is open to interpretation. The music by
Marvin Hamlisch is swanky and matched by Carol Bayer Sager's dreamy and
only slightly sarcastic lyrics. And Carly Simon's vocals bring it all
home. Maybe not the best Bond song, but right up there. 9 points.

"Bond, James Bond": Moore finally makes the role his. The number of
smug one-liners have been trimmed, yet he still invests the character
with humor -- plus some warmth and charm, and unexpected sadness. And
we get to see a bit of Bond's vanity as he matches wits with a female
agent who is his equal and not impressed by his stock-and-trade
flirtations. Moore's best appearance as Bond. 9 points.

Bond Babes: The prevailing notion has always been that "Bond Girl"
equals "Bimbo," which is only partly true. Most of the women Bond
encounters are highly skilled professionals -- as well as being bimbos.
But Soviet agent Major Anya Amasova, a.k.a. XXX, is the first Bond Girl
to give James a run for his money. She's smart, sexy, capable,
resourceful and it takes her almost the whole movie to actually fall in
love with Bond. What will power! As played by Barbara Bach (a.k.a.,
soon-to-be Mrs. Ringo Starr), Anya ranks as one of the best Bond Girls,
easily worthy of 9 points.

Bond Villain: Karl Stromberg (nice villainous name, by the way) is one
of those mad billionaires who hopes to create a new world order by mass
genocide and building a new society, this time underwater. It is pretty
much a cliché character and unfortunately Curt Jurgen plays the part
like a grumpy old man and can't seem to muster up even a maniacal
laugh. 5 points.

Bond Baddies: Oddjob look-a-like Sandor, played by Milton Reid, puts in
an appearance long enough to die a memorable death, but it is Richard
Kiel who steps into the limelight as Jaws, one of the great Bond
villains. If being a hulking, seven-foot tall muscle man weren't
enough, he also has steel teeth and an amazingly obsessive desire to
kill 007. Playing Wile E. Coyote to Bond's Road Runner, Jaws earns 9
points.

Sinister Plot: Stromberg steals a Russian and a U.S. sub, as well as a
British one, with the hopes of starting World War III and destroying
the civilization as we know it today. Been there, done that. 4 points.

Production values: Romantic imagery, clever lighting effects and
intriguing camera angles make this the most visually appealing Bond
film. In the past, the emphasis was always on the most effective way to
film action sequences, but here director Gilbert Lewis strives for that
little bit extra as far as mood and romance. 9 points.

Bonus Points: Connery had his Astin Martin and Moore gets a Lotus
Esprit. It is not nearly as snazzy, but it does turn into a submarine
and you never know when that will come in handy. 5 points.

Summary: It had been hinted at in the three previous Bond adventures,
but a new sense of style is fully apparent here. The roughness and grit
that many of the purists loved about Connery's films are pretty much
gone in favor of a polish and panache. Whether that is being suave or
merely superficial is open to interpretation, but it does set the tone
and the expectations for all future Bond adventures.

Bond-o-meter Rating: 84 points out of 100.
<|_=00=_|>

After the critical and commercial beating taken by THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN
GUN, producer Albert Broccoli, now solely in charge of the 007 franchise,
had to re-evaluate the series for the third time in less than ten years.
Certainly, Roger Moore would never be believable in a Sean Connery-type Bond
film, but couldn't some of the series' best elements be restored, and the
comedy reduced a bit, to make Moore's Bond a bit more believable?

The research, which became the basis of THE SPY WHO LOVED ME, took over two
years to complete, and the script went through many writers before the final
draft, by Christopher Wood and Richard Maibaum. With a renewed emphasis on
more realistic action, Broccoli brought back Lewis Gilbert to direct; his
earlier Bond effort, YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE, while not a major 'hit', had
featured the most spectacular action sequences of the series. With Gilbert
on board, the production became very reminiscent of the Connery film (Even
the concept of a supertanker 'swallowing' submarines echoed YOU ONLY LIVE
TWICE, and the spacecraft-'eating' SPECTRE capsule). 

As the villain, esteemed German actor Curt Jurgens was cast as Karl
Stromberg, an ideal choice, as the actor, with his bulging eyes, 'fit' the
role of a fish-like megalomaniac. Playing his henchman, Jaws, in an inspired
piece of casting, giant Richard Kiel, complete with 'bear-trap' steel teeth,
would provide Moore with the greatest danger he'd ever face as Bond. Kiel
was, in fact, so good in the role (possibly the most popular villain of the
entire 007 franchise), that he would return in MOONRAKER, to bedevil Bond
some more. Less successful, dramatically, but still astonishing to watch
would be Stromberg's 'hit woman', Naomi, played by voluptuous Caroline
Munro.

In an effort to 'update' Bond into an era of feminists, the strongest, most
independent love interest to appear in at Bond film to that point was
introduced. Major Anya Amasova, played by Ringo Starr's wife, the exotically
beautiful Barbara Bach, was Bond's opposite number on the Russian side, an
equal to 007 in every way. In a pivotal scene, she would display a knowledge
of Bond's past that even included his dead wife, Tracy (the first time
Bond's marriage had been mentioned since ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE).
Moore's reaction to her comment would be both emotional and abrupt, and
demonstrated that he could do far more than just deliver witty one-liners.

From the spectacular ski chase pre-title sequence, climaxing with a
parachute free fall off a cliff (love that 'Union Jack'), to Bond and Anya's
confrontations with Jaws, in Egypt (reminiscent of Bond's fights with Oddjob
in GOLDFINGER and Tee Hee in LIVE AND LET DIE), to the amazing Lotus that
would do service on land and in the ocean, to the massive tanker battle
while Bond disarms a nuclear warhead (shades of GOLDFINGER), THE SPY WHO
LOVED ME would do homage to 007's previous adventures, and utilize humor in
support of the on-screen action, instead of spoofing it (other than the
brief use of the LAWRENCE OF ARABIA theme...you'll spot
it).

And to top things off, Carly Simon's rendition of the film's title tune,
"Nobody Does It Better", would become a Top Ten hit, worldwide.

Critics and audiences loved THE SPY WHO LOVED ME, hailing it as Moore's best
work, and one of the better Bonds of all time. Things were, again, looking
up for 007...but STAR WARS was about to debut, and things would go
dreadfully amiss, when Broccoli decided to send Bond into space, in
MOONRAKER...

  

 
<|_=00=_|>

Undeniably one of the finest James Bond films to star Roger Moore, the film
has plenty of excess, top notch special effects (for 1977) anyway, the humor
less overt and left over for puns and one liners, and one of the first
strong and independent Bond women, paving the way for future love interests
like Jinx and Wai Lin. The Spy Who Loved Me scarcely puts a foot wrong. Sure
the plot is far fetched to the extreme (an underwater building and a villain
looking to repopulate the earth in his underwater city), but it has plenty
of charm and is frequently enjoyable. Moore looks very confident in his
performance as Bond, the one liners oozing effort and confidence, showing he
has hit  his stride in this, his third appearance as the character. His
chemistry with Barbara Bach is in full swing, despite her odd Russian
accent, and the two of them make for a great on screen
couple.

This is a return to the values of many of the Bond films that were missing
the last  time around. The extravagant sets are back, the villain has plenty
of henchman for Bond and the cavalry to fight and the gadgets are in full
swing. Everything from a parachute with the Union Jack on it to the Lotus
with just about every conceivable gadget at Bond's disposal. The emphasis on
sight gags and overt comedy is gone and replaced with moments of genuine
suspense, just check out Bond having to steal the detonator of a nuclear
weapon, not to mention the superb theme tune Nobody Does it Better by Carly
Simon.

It's an apt song for a series that found its footing and gave its lead actor
his first classic Bond film.
<|_=00=_|>

Just like the highly disappointing "Die another day" is a regrettable class
example of how to do everything in a James Bond film completely wrong,
legendary "The Spy who loved me" is a prototype of a perfect 007 adventure.
Everything seems to work here.

First of all this was the first Bond movie that really showed what a modern
pre-credits sequence should look like. After all in Roger Moore's first two
flicks "Live and let die" and "The Man with the golden gun" we don't even
see 007 until after the credits.

From the opening ski chase to the underwater car, stunts are amazing. In
many ways this has to be one of the most imaginative Bonds. Story is
excellent, especially because it doesn't only deal with Stromberg's evil
plot against the unaware world but because it has a pleasant little sideplot
about 007's relationship with Major Anya Amasova. 

Villains are of course splendid, why should I even bother to mention that
(almost literally) larger-than-life character Jaws is perhaps the most
beloved bad guy James Bond has ever been against with. Curd Jürgens also
gives a magnificent performance as the insane mastermind
Stromberg.

I'm one of the people who thinks that in the end Sean Connery is the one and
only true James Bond. Nevertheless, "The Spy who loved me" is still better
than some of Connery's Bond movies. At least it surpasses "From Russia with
love", "Thunderball" and "Diamonds are forever" and I must admit these films
are most terrific experiences too.

Everyone should see this film, not only the big Bond fanatics. Why? Simply
because "The Spy who loved me" is not only a significant film in the movie
series, it's much more than that. It's an important part of the pop
culture.
<|_=00=_|>
Roger Moore has always maintained that The Spy Who Loved Me is the best
of his Bond films. Personally I prefer Octopussy and For Your Eyes
Only, but this one certainly has its moments. The original novel by Ian
Fleming was an odd-one-out in the book series, describing as it did how
an off-duty Bond saved a female hotelier from a couple of nasty
hoodlums. However, in this film adaptation the novel has been
completely jettisoned and replaced with a story about Bond thwarting a
megalomaniac from achieving world domination.

Bond (Moore) is partnered with Russian agent Anya Amasova (Barbara Bach
- most beautiful of all the many Bond girls) to solve the mysterious
disappearance of two nuclear submarines, one British the other Russian.
They follow the clues to the underwater lair of Karl Stromberg (Curt
Jurgens), an elegant and educated psychopath with a plan to destroy the
world in a nuclear holocaust and retreat to his undersea empire. To add
to their complications, Anya learns that her recently killed boyfriend
was eliminated by Bond during an assignment.

The pre-credit sequence is among the better pre-credit sequences in the
series, involving an extraordinary ski stunt which many consider to be
the most breathtaking stunt ever devised for a Bond film. Moore is good
as Bond, Bach stunningly attractive as his partner (though not very
convincing as an actress), and Jurgens provides a suitably
over-confident villain. The location work in various locations, most
notably Egypt, is nicely photographed. Marvin Hamlisch provides the
music, marking a change from the usual composer John Barry, and
Hamlisch's score is decent enough though it does have a dated '70s
quality to it when listened to nowadays. The plot is totally
implausible and self-parodic (if they'd stuck to the plot in the book
though, it would've been almost impossible to make a Bond movie in the
expected sense of the phrase), but director Lewis Gilbert cleverly
plays it with tongue-in-cheek so that the absurdness of the on-screen
events becomes curiously endearing. The Spy Who Loved Me is silly,
entertaining and extravagantly spectacular.
<|_=00=_|>
In the 10th James Bond film, 007 does not always win and this makes him
more human... His relationship with a resourceful and beautiful Russian
agent is something new for the Bond films...

Lewis Gilbert's film provides direct allusion to David Lean's epic
movies, bringing back a Blofeld-type character... His name is Karl
Stromberg, a shipping tycoon who despises every aspect of terrestrial
civilization...

Stromberg (Curt Jurgens) enjoys hearing classical music while plotting
to decimate the human population... He hijacks atomic submarines
belonging to the British and Soviet navies, and plans to use their
nuclear missiles to destroy both New York and Moscow Stromberg's
aquarium, of sharks and other deadly fish, is his pride and passion...
'For me this is all the world', he declares, 'There is beauty. There is
ugliness. And there is death.'

Stromberg's three killers are Jaws, Sandor and Naomi 

Jaws (Richard Kiel) steals the show as the most menacing and fearsome
henchman Bond has ever faced since the mute Korean assassin Oddjob in
'Goldfinger.' Equipped with stainless steel teeth, Jaws is a giant of a
killer on the loose who can't be stopped or killed 

Sandor (Milton Reid) is the bald, muscle-bound assassin who tries to
kill Bond at Aziz Fekkesh's apartment in Cairo 

Naomi (Caroline Munro) is Stromberg's luscious assistant and helicopter
pilot who shows her 'lovely lines,' giving Bond a lewd while trying to
shoot him and Anya down from the air...

Bond and his very fine Russian ally Anya are sent to Egypt to identify
the traitor who is putting the microfilm of the submarine tracking
system on the open market... Each agent thinks the other is behind the
hijacking... They play a game of spy versus spy in the land of the
Pharaohs, until it is revealed that a third party has been playing them
off against each other in typical SPECTRE style...

Bond is seen sensitive and a little bit incredulous about certain
topics... He is waylaid in the Alps by a posse of Russians on skis...
He shots a KGB agent using a ski-pole gun, and goes over a cliff and
falls and falls and falls... 

Roger Moore again adopts a naval commander's uniform... He orders a
Baccardi on the rocks for Anya, and impresses her when describing her
life story... He comments that he maybe has misjudged Stromberg
referring that "Any man who drinks Dom Perignon '52 can't be all bad."

Barbara Bach had some unfinished business to settle with 007... Her
role of Anya Amasova brings the feminine touch and talent to the
action... Bach is attractive, classy, stylish, intelligent, confident,
very sexy, and absolutely wonderful... 

The film also marks the appearance of Walter Gottel as General Alexis
Gogol, head of the KGB, who (unlike M) possesses somewhat of a sense of
humor... Gogol has a deep attraction for beautiful women, and would
become a regular character... 

Edward De Souza proves to be wonderfully ironic as the
Cambridge-educated Sheikh Hosein, whose harem includes a little
treasure of whom our 'man of action' announces his intention to 'delve
deeply into. 

"The Spy Who Loved Me" deserves its popularity for its exquisite design
for Atlantis, its lovely music score, and its humorous touches The
real names of both M and Q are revealed in the movie
<|_=00=_|>

With Roger Moore making the part his own by this his third bond film, Albert
R. Broccoli had to come up with a strong action-packed epic, if they were to
attract audiences that had been spoilt rotten by 'Star Wars' the same
year.

'The Spy Who Loved Me' offers no new scenarios, in fact you could easily
dissect each key scene and match it to something that's been done before.
There's an underwater battle like the one in 'Thunderball' a ski chase not
too dissimilar to the one in 'Her Majesty's...' and even the final big shoot
out is not unlike the one in 'You Only Live Twice' (which was also directed
by Lewis Gilbert) but 'The Spy Who Loved me' is more than merely a sum of
its parts, and when each part is handled as expertly as these, you don't
seem to care if it has indeed been done before.

The film like Moore exudes a certain charm, and provides a certain amount of
nostalgia looking back at it now, with it's lively 70's fashions, even
Bond's theme gets the disco treatment quite superbly. Ken Adam's stunning
larger than life sets fit the film's extravagant, big budget flavour
perfectly. Appreciative nods must also go to some fantastically attractive
women, Caroline Munro playing the enticing Naomi has to be one of the most
seductive looking femme fatales to steam up a wide-screen, and more's the
pity that she didn't grace it longer. Barbara Bach is equally alluring, and
a fine match for Roger Moore in all sense of the word . The film also offers
a wealth of laughs while not forgetting the chills and spills, Richard Keil
providing all as the relentless and unforgettable Jaws. The scene where he
tears open a Sherpa Van like a sardine can is particularly memorable, as is
him brushing himself off after plummeting into a farmhouse from a flying
Mercedes. Some fine touches of drama too, Bond's response to XXX's remarks
about his career and wife are handled with compassion and reverence.   

So in all everything is here you could possibly want in a 007 adventure; top
stunts, beautiful women, cool villains, those gloriously huge Pinewood sets
and THAT car, wrapped in an exciting globe-trotting story line where Bond
has to save the world from certain destruction, accompanied by Carly Simon
sveltely singing 'Nobody does it better' it's not surprising that the 'Spy
Who Loved Me' is one of the most memorable of all Bond
films.
<|_=00=_|>

The Spy Who Loved Me put the 007 epic back on truly epic grounds after the
bitter disappointment of Diamonds Are Forever and the mixed measure of Live
and Let Die and The Man With The Golden Gun.  Spy adds vast new spectacle to
the Bond epic along with strong interplay with some interesting new
characters and a major improvement in the series' production values. 

The idea of Bond meeting his match is the starting point for The Man With
The Golden Gun, but here the match is in a rival and ally from the Soviet
secret service, Anya Amasova (Barbara Bach, who admittedly is over her head
here but holds her own overall).  We see in Anya the direct counterpart to
HMSS, complete with omnipresent leader in General Gogol (Walter Gotell, who
becomes one of the series' best supporting characters) and a pretty
secretary.  

The Bond series also revisits the SPECTRE days in a sense, in that the
antagonist is a self-contained independent force, shipping magnate Karl
Stromberg (Curt Jurgens).  Stromberg owns a vast experimental undersea
headquarters, Atlantis, and the world's largest container ship, the Liparus.
 Stromberg becomes linked to the disappearence of several nuclear missile
submarines, through a schematic of a submarine tracking system stored on
microfilm.  Just what Stromberg's role entails becomes the mission for both
James and Anya, and both find allies in the US Navy attack boat USS Wayne,
under the command of Captain Scott Carter - here is a rarity in film, a
supporting character who steals the show, here thanks to the splendid
performance of Thunderbirds' own Shane Rimmer.

Another supporting cast member steals the show as well, and would do so in
the next Bond film.  Richard Kiel joins Harold Sakata as the most memorable
of James Bond's offbeat villainous henchmen - where Sakata's Oddjob killed
with a rapier-sharp bowler hat, Richard Kiel's Jaws uses steel alloy teeth
as well as his own gigantic height; Kiel even brings back memories of Robert
Shaw's Donald "Red" Grant in one of the most memorable stages for a Bond
fistfight - the Orient Express.

The film is scored by Marvin Hamlisch rather than John Barry, and Hamlisch
adds a surprisingly effective disco touch to the Bond series, one that
"modernizes" the series without disrupting the power of the tried-and-true
music cues of before.  

But the biggest quality in the film is the vastly improved production
values.  Shane Rimmer was not the only Thunderbirds alumni to work in the
Bond universe - SFX master Derek Meddings had worked with John Stears on Man
With The Golden Gun, but here he takes over the SFX unit and greatly
improves the scope and quality of the effects work, aided greatly by
enormous and effective sets at Pinewood Studios that combine the best of Dr.
No, You Only Live Twice, and especially Thunderball.

The relationship between James and Anya is the primary drive in the tension
of the film.  At first both try to one-up each other, such as in decoding
the microfilm, identifying an obscure logo on the microfilm, and in the
famous Lotus chase sequence when she reveals she stole blueprints for the
design years earlier.  

But the real strain lies in the film's prologue, when Anya's lover, himself
employed by Mother Russia's security service, crosses paths with James - a
confrontation James may not live down now.  His own feelings for Anya,
however, put what is past fully in the past, and it leads to a showdown with
Stromberg amid a threat of annihilation.

It all adds up to an enormously entertaining spectacle, a highlight of the
Bond epic.
<|_=00=_|>
This particular James Bond movie is one of my favorites, perhaps the
favorite. Though it is in a particularly close battle with another of
Roger Moore's films, "For Your Eyes Only" for the top spot. Bizarre
that these two are the two Bond films vying for top spot as they are
both a bit different as far as the plot goes. Here the entire world is
in danger whereas in that one, they are only going after a decoding
device which sank in a ship. While "The Man with the Golden Gun"
features my favorite Bond villain in Scaramanga, this one features my
favorite henchmen in Jaws, played by Richard Kiel. His Jaws is also one
of the few bad guys to return in another film. Granted, Blofeld did as
well, but I do not believe he was ever played by the same person twice.
So this Bond film features a lot of action, a very attractive Bond girl
and a very awesome henchman whose sheer size is intimidating enough,
but then they add metal teeth to the equation! It all adds up to be one
of the more fun Bond films ever and a film where the action almost
never stops! 

The story has both a British and Soviet submarine going missing. Bond
is the man sent to find out what happened to the British one, while a
female Soviet agent codenamed XXX is the one who must find the Soviet.
They begin their search in Egypt where they learn of a submarine
tracking device, but there is more to this than mere missing subs.
Seems a very rich man who has a very strong affinity to the sea is
somehow responsible and it will take a joining of the two agents who
work for opposing companies to find out what this man's ultimate goal
is before it is too late! 

The villain here is pretty good, but Stromberg is just not as equal a
foe to Bond as was Scaramanga. He is the villain who must rely heavily
on others to get what he wants which is why he has two henchmen, though
Jaws definitely was more up to the challenge than was Sandor. Roger
Moore once again does great as Bond and Barbara Bach as XXX is
absolutely stunning. She looked absolutely gorgeous at the end as her
outfit got wet! This movie also features my favorite Bond vehicle, the
Lotus. It is a very cool car and they actually have a rather cool chase
before it plummets into the ocean where we learn of its other special
functions. Just a lot of good things here as the story is much improved
compared to the previous film which had great characters galore, but
not the strongest story to bring it all together.

So this is a favorite Bond film of mine. It often baffles me how people
complain today of all the action in movies with very little plot
development as I see too many films these days that do not do all that
much action and have way too much plot. This film was action sequence
after action sequence, while take your typical comic film of today.
Lots of people crying and doing nothing with maybe three action
sequences at best. Yet these films apparently cost 200 million plus
while this film has action and set pieces galore using more people and
props because on cannot simply craft a special effect with a computer.
This Bond film had it all and makes most of the films today seem very
slow paced by comparison, then again as the song in this film says,
nobody does it better!
<|_=00=_|>
What a nice surprise this was, a change for me since re-viewing some of
these old Bond movies. With the exception of "Goldfinger," I've been
disappointed in the rest....but not this one. This film seemed far
better than I had remembered, one of the best James Bond movies I've
seen. My first look in over 30 years at this stunned me. I couldn't
believe how entertaining and fun it was to watch!

It's enjoyable right from the start and features my all-time favorite
"Bond song" - "Nobody Does It Better," By Carly Simon. It's sung or
palyd throughout the movie.

This was Roger Moore's third attempt at playing James Bond and he
really hit his stride with this, being a natural as the suave spy. The
action is plentiful but never seems too much or gets boring with an
excess. It never quite crosses that line, although it comes close a few
times.

Curt Jurgens is very low-key as the villain "Karl Stromberg." His role
really isn't all that big. You don't see much of him until the end. Who
you DO see is the seven-foot, two-inch giant "Jaws" (Richard Kiel) the
main with the iron teeth. He is fun to watch, and is almost
indestructible, like the evil cyborg in "Terminator 2." Jaws just keeps
coming back no matter what you do to him.

Overall, this Bond film is attractive because it has just the right
mixture of action, suspense and humor, and another pretty leading lady
in Barbara Bach. I'm not sold on her Russian accent as "Major Anya
Amasova" but she is nice the eyes. The accent made her appear sub- par
as an actress. Otherwise, no complaints.

The cinematography in here, too, is above-average. There are very
nicely-filmed scenes with interesting camera-work. Good work,
all-around!
