
You gotta love the '70's! It was really the golden age of cinema. '70's
movies were real, gritty, they had a sense of realism, had an unusual
and often revolutionary style of movie-making. Many of the best movies
ever made are from the '70's. Not sure if "Invasion of the Body
Snatchers" classifies as one of THE best movies ever but it certainly
is one of the very best alien invasion movies ever made and therefor
remains still one of the very best movies out of its genre.

The realism turns out to be a perfect combination with the horror and
science-fiction elements in the movie. It makes the movie haunting and
makes us really feel with all of the characters. Their fear becomes
sensible and their actions understandable. Nothing 'big' or
'impressive' is ever shown and very little is explained in the movie.
The movie and how the events unravel are totally told from the main
characters view point. None of the main characters are 'heroes' and
instead they are just normal every day persons. Those two elements are
the main reason why this movie is so realistic and haunting to watch.
It also is the reason why alien invasion movies made present day fail
to impress ("Independence Day", Spielberg's "War of the Worlds") They
are all told 'big', with special effects and lots of violence with big
name actors in them. They are made for entertainment and most of them
surely also work well as entertainment, especially in my opinion
"Independence Day" which I, unlike many others, find to be a very
entertaining and good movie to watch. Those movies are surely good and
entertaining enough and its not the cast or crews fault that those
recent movies fail to impress the general audience, it's just that
those movies were made in the wrong decade and it misses the '70's
touch that makes the movies so gritty, raw and realistic to watch.

"Invasion of the Body Snatchers" is told slow and things happen in a
low pace. Since nothing is really explained as the movie unravels, you
never really fully understand what is happening and why. It gives the
movie an almost paranoid kind of atmosphere, which helps to make this
movie more of an horror movie than a science-fiction movie, even though
the story itself is obviously fictional. The story to be honest is
quite far fetched and perhaps even ridicules at moments but due to the
realistic and slow way it is told, none of this matters. It helps to
make this movie one of the most haunting ones ever created, also due to
its unforgettable haunting ending that is one of the very best out of
cinema history, it really is!

The typical unusual '70's cinematography is from Michael Chapman. Leave
it up to Chapman to give a movie a realistic look and feeling. ("Taxi
Driver", "Raging Bull", "The Fugitive")

The cast of the movie is great. Like every good genre movie from the
'70's, it has Donald Sutherland in the main lead. He plays an average,
not perfect guy, which again adds to the realism and our involvement
with the character. Other fine roles are being played by Veronica
Cartwright, Leonard Nimoy and Jeff Goldblum in one of his first really
big role.

"Invasion of the Body Snatchers" is way more than just another average,
unlikely alien invasion movie. It's brilliantly told, crafted, acted,
thoughtful, haunting and realistic. '70's film-making at its very best
and it makes this movie still one of the very best out of its genre.

10/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
This is a solid horror/sci-fi story with good production values. Those
values include outstanding direction by Philip Kaufman, camera-work by
Michael Chapman and acting. The cast of main characters was comprised
of Donald Sutherland, Brooke Adams, Leonard Nimoy, Jeff Goldblum and
Veronica Cartwright. Of the group, Sutherland had the most lines and
was the most impressive. All of it added up to a pretty classy film, a
lot more than you'd except reading the movie title. 

There was some profanity and nudity so maybe it wasn't totally classy,
but the profanity was light and the nudity was a few shots of Adams'
breasts. 

The movie clicked because it built up the suspense beautifully, and
proved you don't need a lot of violence and gore to scare the viewer.
Too bad modern filmmakers of horror films can't seem to understand
that. In fact the scariest thing of the movie - and it WAS scary -
might have been the eerie noises emanating from the "re-born" humans.

The photography is good and I loved the facial closeups and interesting
camera angles. The film is a visual treat. The original film in 1956 is
a good one but it's generally conceded this re-make is superior. The
star of that first film, by the way - Kevin McCarthy, makes a cameo
appearance in here. That was a nice touch.
<|_=00=_|>

The original 'Invasion Of The Body Snatchers' is one of my favourite
thrillers of all time, and a very hard movie to top. I'm always sceptical
about remakes of classic horror and SF films, but this version by Philip
Kaufman is much better than one would expect, and ALMOST as good as the
original. I still think Don Siegel's version is the best because it really
evokes small town life in middle America, and that makes the horror and
suspense all the more effective. Kaufman transplants the setting to San
Francisco and the big city location means it loses its sense of intimacy and
community, and instead has more of an alienated urban feel to it. But it's
still an excellent movie, and along with Cronenberg's 'The Fly' and
Carpenter's 'The Thing' the most successful remake of a 1950s horror classic
to date. What really helps this movie is the cast. Donald Sutherland, one of
the 1970s most interesting and intelligent actors, is excellent in the main
role, played by Kevin McCarthy in the first film. And the lovely Brooke
Adams ('Days Of Heaven', 'The Dead Zone', 'The Unborn') is first rate as the
main female lead, her role being much more substantial than Dan Wynter's in
the original. I've had a major crush on Adams ever since I first saw this
movie. She is beautiful but goofy and I really thought she was going to be a
major star. The supporting cast is excellent, led by the wonderful Jeff
Goldblum and 'Alien's Veronica Cartwright, and of course Leonard Nimoy, in
his most memorable non-Trek role. Also keep an eye out for cameos by the
star and director of the original version (Kevin McCarthy and Don 'Dirty
Harry' Siegel), and a very brief but eerie one by Robert Duvall! 'Invasion
Of The Body Snatchers' is a superb example of how to remake a horror
classic, and is one of the creepiest and most nerve-wracking thrillers of
the 1970s. I highly recommend it and the original 'Body Snatchers', they are
two of the scariest movies ever made!
<|_=00=_|>
Shortly after Elizabeth Driscoll (Brooke Adams) discovers a strange
plant in her San Francisco-area yard that she cannot identify, her
boyfriend begins acting strangely--he looks the same, but Elizabeth
swears he's a different person. Before long, more and more people are
claiming the same thing about their friends and relatives. Just what is
going on? Although not quite as good as the original Invasion of the
Body Snatchers (1956), this remake is very interesting and well worth a
watch. Some things it does better than the original, although slightly
more is not done as well. But it is full or intriguing ideas, some
beautiful cinematography, and quite a few quirky charms.

One oddity about this film is that it seems to assume that very few
people will watch who aren't already familiar with the original.
Scripter W.D. Richter and director Philip Kaufman give away the "twist"
immediately, and there are a number of statements from characters in
this film (such as the first time we hear the advice to not fall
asleep) that only make sense if one already knows from Don Siegel's
original just why they shouldn't fall asleep. For this reason, I
strongly recommend that anyone interested in this film who hasn't seen
it yet should make sure they watch the original first.

The opening shots, which firmly set this remake into sci-fi territory,
are a great idea, even if the execution is somewhat questionable. I'm
not sure that Kaufman's "art gel" works, and the way it moves through
space, as if blown by trade winds, is slightly hokey. But I'm willing
to forgive a misstep if it's in service of a great idea, and especially
if the misstep is the result of budgetary limitations.

Early in the film, the major asset is the cinematography. There is an
excellent, slow tracking shot down a hallway, where we only see our
main character by way of her feet and a slight reflection in a window.
There are a lot of great "tilted" shots. There are a lot of subtle
lighting effects to set mood, and a just as many subtle instances of
symbolism for the horrors to come.

The cast, featuring Adams, Donald Sutherland, Jeff Goldblum, Leonard
Nimoy and Veronica Cartwright, is an interesting combination of stars
who tend to give idiosyncratic performances. Kaufman exploits the
collection of personalities well, although occasionally gives us odd
"everyone talk at once" scenes which can verge on the brink of
annoying. Although I'm not usually the biggest fan of Goldblum (in some
roles, such as The Fly, I like him, in some roles he tends to irritate
me), I noted an odd similarity between him in this film and an actor
and performance I'm much more fond of--David Duchovny and his X-Files
character Fox Mulder.

Speaking of that, there is a strong X-Files vibe to this film overall.
Whereas the original Invasion had thinly veiled subtexts of fear and
doubts of "The Other"--whether politically-rooted (the common analysis
is that the original Invasion was a subtext for U.S. fears of
communism), religiously-rooted (some see it as a parable about cults,
or religions in general) or simply about personal identity (in a
philosophical sense of "Who am I/are you?" "What makes one oneself?"),
Kaufman's take has stronger subtexts of encroaching mental
illness--fear of losing one's mind and a generalized, "clinical"
paranoia.

Given that difference, it's perhaps odd that there are so many
similarities between the two films. The character structure and
relationships are largely the same, with some mostly insignificant
differences, including slightly different occupations. There are many
scenes taken almost verbatim from the original film, often only with
differences of setting, but staged the same, with similar scenarios and
occasionally identical dialogue. There is even a wonderful moment where
Kevin McCarthy, star of the original film, comes running down the
street, screaming that we're all doomed.

A number of quirky moments push the value of Kaufman's film up a notch.
These are sprinkled throughout the film, but some highlights are a
Robert Duvall cameo as a priest inexplicably on a swingset next to
toddlers, the "mud bath" parlor, a brief spurt of marvelous,
Zappa-sounding avant-garde classical as we witness a chase down a
staircase, and a greenhouse in a shipping yard, through which Elizabeth
eventually strolls naked, casually walking by employees. The "creature"
effects may be better here than in the original, but they are not more
effective for that.

But overall, this is a great film. Just make sure you don't miss the
superior original.
<|_=00=_|>

I first saw this film in a movie theater at midnight, as part of an
October
horror-movie festival.  I almost didn't go; I had always had this movie
figured as another stupid Hollywood remake of a great film from the past,
and thought they were probably only showing it instead of the original
because of that weird, vague prejudice against black and white movies that
still for some reason permeates this country, even though the novelty of
color wore off about forty years ago.  But I figured what the hell, it
wouldn't hurt to check it out, and when will I get a chance to see any of
these movies in a theater again?  So I went, and was almost immediately
sucked in by the mind-bending direction and the terrific acting.  But not
only that; it was after midnight, remember, and I was getting sleepy, and
I
found myself in that kind of hypnotized, pseudo-dreaming state you can get
into when you're watching a movie really late at night.  I was really into
the movie, mind you, but it was like a dream, I wasn't wholly conscious.
And just as I was at my most out-of-it, as I was almost technically
asleep,
the movie hit me with that last shot, you know the one I mean, and jolted
me
wide awake like a bucket of ice water.  It was just like waking up from a
nightmare.   I thought I was gonna start crying.  I haven't been that
freaked out by a movie since I was a little kid.  As the end credits
rolled
and the house lights came up, I heard some other people in the theater
talking about what a stupid movie it was, man, was that a waste of money,
I'm glad it was only three-fifty, and it was a really surreal moment;
I've
just had one of the most horrifying moments of my waking life, and they're
talking about how silly it was (although, truthfully, they may have been a
little shaken up themselves and just covering for it, I dunno).  A week or
so later I was talking about it with my dad, who had seen it when it came
out, and I mentioned the ending, and he did a dead-on mimic of the last
shot, and I said "God!  Don't do that!"  I was STILL shaken up by this
movie.

There aren't a lot of movies that even try to be frightening--most horror
movies (and novels and so on) actually have other concerns:  being funny,
or
shocking, or gory, or surprising, or bizarre, or whatever--and even fewer
actually pull it off, actually scare you.  Man, does this one pull it
off.
<|_=00=_|>
Invasion of the Body Snatcher (1978)

The original 1950s version of this movie is such a favorite of mine, I
hesitated to watch this one. But fear not. This is great, too. It's got
the same theme, but very richly and creatively rendered, some superb
photography, great night stuff, and most importantly, great acting by
the key 3 or 4 people.

Director Philip Kaufman works sporadically as director and writer (he
hit it big with "Raiders of the Lost Ark") and he clearly has a unique
and somewhat fearless vision that remains rooted in Hollywood
sensibilities. That is, this is no independent film, yet it's creative.

And it's scary. Between the development of fear over the actual
biological invasion, and the old fashioned chase and hide sequences,
this is a tense movie. But yet it's convincing, given the realistic,
nuanced acting by the main couple, Donald Sutherland (as a Health
Department official) and Brooke Adams (as a lab analyst in the same
department). Of course, what happens isn't believable at all, somehow,
but it's so close to feasible, and in fact so close to what we live
with already (some people without feelings, out for themselves, part of
a conspiracy, etc.), it isn't hard to pull it off.

Cinematographer Michael Chapman is about as good as it gets in the
Hollywood vein, polished and with amazing, varied lighting (he also did
"Raging Bull," "The Fugitive," and "Taxi Driver," for starters). So
this movie works on every level. The one thing it isn't, of course, is
original, but as a remake, we have to take it for how it handles it,
1970s style. Impressive.
<|_=00=_|>

The story we have here, filmed once before in 1956 (I haven't seen that
version) and once again later, in 1994, is so strong and thought-provoking
that even a just-adequate film based on it would be quite effective. This
1978 remake goes beyond "just-adequate", though. It's a creepy, scary
chiller, and also one of the most intellectual films of this genre I've
ever
seen. Maybe it lags in a few places, but excellent performances,
methodical
direction and a LITERALLY chilling finale make it first-class
entertainment.
(***)
<|_=00=_|>
Phillip Kaufman's adaptation of Jack Finney's classic novel had a lot
to live up to after the classic 1956 take on it - and I think it lived
up to expectations. Though not as great as the more politically
orientated original, Kaufman's film is still a lesson in suspense and
the central story has lost none of the intrigue that it captured in the
original. The story follows an alien life form that has come from outer
space and taken residence here on earth. Not content with living in
sibilance with humans, the aliens become 'body snatchers' and make
duplications of people while they're sleeping. These duplicates take
the original host's place and are everything their originals were, only
all forms of emotion vanish. Our story takes focus on Martin and
Elizabeth, two workers at the US Health Department. After taking home a
supposedly new type of flower, Elizabeth finds her boyfriend acting
strangely and later discovers that she's not the only one with
relatives who aren't quite themselves...

This film works because of a constant sense of paranoia. In the 1950's,
this was tied in with the then 'reds under the beds' idea of communism
spreading through capitalist America. This film seems to have dispensed
with that idea, which gives way to more opportunity for sci-fi horror,
which is more than welcome in my opinion. The special effects on
display are bold and lavish, and therefore exciting to watch. They are
a little hokey, but still not bad at all - the parts where you see the
alien duplicate forming are fantastically gruesome, and also rather
frightening. The whole idea of the film is frightening, even in spite
of the fact that it ever happening is very unlikely. The idea that an
alien race can take over almost an entire city in one night, and
without anyone realising it, is not one that I'd like to have if I was
a paranoid conspiracy theorist! Then there's the notion that they'll
get you if you sleep as it's like one man in the film says..."gotta
sleep sometime". Invasion of the Body Snatchers is also notable for
featuring a great cast, which not only includes the excellent Donald
Sutherland and the beautiful Brooke Adams, but also Jeff Goldblum (in
his first of two successfully good remakes) and Leonard Nimoy, a.k.a.
Captain Spock from Star Trek. Also watch out for cameos from original
Invasion of the Body Snatchers director Don Siegel and said film's
star.
<|_=00=_|>
Invasion of the Body Snatchers is the remake of 1956 movie by the same
title and considered to be, by many fans, to be the definitive and the
best version of the story.

The movie begins with images of plasmas from an alien world floating
out into space towards planet earth. Then the rain comes and we see an
odd organism growing on plants' leafs. Before too long, people start to
act strange, they group and exchange plants, they act indifferent to
their surroundings, they are emotionless, almost robotic. A group of
characters who are not affected soon find themselves a minority in a
world that is changing rapidly.

One of the greatest appeals of this movie is its socio-political
resonance. It can be interpreted as a state of minority versus
majority, us versus them and individualism versus social conformity. It
shows how we try to turn the others into a version of ourselves because
we can't tolerate the otherness. And maybe this is a universal common
trait of all beings whether alien or human. Even though the commentary
is about humans, it is actually alien organism that takes over human
bodies (snatches human bodies - hence body snatchers).

The movie also questions how much we should sacrifice to achieve
harmony in society. Should we preserve our individuality at risk of
conflicting with other members of the society, or should we just join
the majority, think like others, walk like others and talk like others
do? Like all great science fiction movies, the story is social
commentary on the state of the world. This is probably the reason why
there are so many versions of this movie. And most recently in 2007,
another version was made called "The Invasion" starring Nicole Kidman
and Daniel Craig.
<|_=00=_|>
This remake of the great story of the original is definitely worth a
lot of recognition. It keeps the original story line and stays quite
close to it but adding a few great things such as the ending. It stays
very thrilling and exciting throughout the whole movie. It may seem a
little old fashioned when watching it nowadays but the tension makes up
for that. The only thing that seems a little strange is when he tries
to destroy the factory and it seems like he succeeds doing so because
it appears a little exaggerated in my opinion. Still I personally love
the dark ending, you really wouldn't expect it and to me it's the most
powerful possibility for ending this movie. So if you're in for some
chilling tension and enjoy movies like Alien this is just right for
you.
