
As 80's horror flicks go Cameron's Closet is much better than most. The
acting is decent, the effects are quite good and the death scenes are
well shot. What more can you ask for? The monster is quite cheesy and
you don't get to see much of him, but it somehow works. There's a few
nice death scenes which are actually more gory than a lot of 80's
horror flicks. I do think things started to slip a bit towards the end,
and the ending itself wasn't too amazing. 

Cameron's Closet is by no means an essential watch for horror fans, but
if you come across a cheap copy you can't go wrong. It's decent
entertainment for one night.
<|_=00=_|>
Armand Mastroianni("Blood Wedding","Distortions")directs this slightly
gruesome horror film about young boy named Cameron who has telekinetic
powers.When his father and a psychiatrist run experiments on him,they
unknowingly release an Aztec demon from hell who makes his home in
Cameron's bedroom closet.As the demon eliminates all the adults one by
one,Cameron realizes that he alone possesses the ability to defeat
him."Cameron's Closet" is a pretty mediocre and bland horror
flick.Still there are at least four very violent and gory scenes,in
which certain characters die for no real reason.The monster from Carlo
Rambaldi,who helped build the monster for "Alien",is basically a head
which isn't the least bit menacing.The acting is decent,but the
storyline is completely predictable.Overall,If you are a rabid horror
fan like I am give it a look.6 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
A boy with telekinetic powers, and perhaps other psychic abilities as
well as bowl-cut hair lives with his divorced father, a psychic
researcher or something. The boy plays in his closet with a He-Man-like
action figure, and a odd statuette he calls "Deceptor." His father
hears a strange moan, makes an odd phone call to his research partner,
and goes upstairs to the boy's room with a machete. He goes into the
closet, vandalizes some things, and is in search of something. The
machete moves by itself, and the father falls on it, decapitating
himself.

The boy goes to live with his mother and her boyfriend. Meanwhile, a
police detective who has sleeping problems has a reoccurring nightmare
that is bothering him on the job, and is forced to see a shrink. More
closet-related bizarre deaths occur. The detective befriends the boy,
and the shrink helps him on the case.

The special effects are pretty uneven. The death scenes are fairly
good. A pale grinning figure in the closet is pretty spooky. Dead
people who reappear as zombies or as a demon appearing like them are
pretty well done. The demon exerts its power by psychically dragging
someone up a wall, and across a ceiling towards an out-of-control
ceiling fan. The demon itself is pretty darn lame, however.
<|_=00=_|>
Professor Owen Lansing is researching human psychic abilities hidden
deep in the mind and he experiments on his young son Cameron. They're
going quite well, until Cameron's unintentionally uses his powers to
conjure up a demon. Lansing tries to put a end to the trouble, but his
killed in a horrific 'accident'. So Cameron goes to live with his
mother and her boyfriend, but the demon also follows and takes up
residence in the boy's closest. Meanwhile, police detective Sam
Talliaferro, who has been put onto the case after the unusual death of
his mother's boyfriend. Is having bad dreams that seem to be linked
somehow to Cameron. A psychiatrist Dr. Nora Haley is looking over Sam,
but she also gets the case of Cameron. She discovers the boy's secret
abilities. Nora and Sam go on to connect that everything is contributed
to a demonic presence who has its eyes set on Cameron.

Oh, "Cameron's Closest" is quite an unremarkable low-budget horror
film. Well, it's not completely worthless, even though it's nowhere
near as flavoured and exciting like many of its counterparts within the
same decade. This late 80s horror junk was mildly enjoyable in some
silly patches and icky make-up effects, but ponderous pacing and
muddled plotting makes for mostly a bland outing that keeps us in the
dark to what's going on. There's potential in the interesting and novel
premise of mixing the supernatural with science (which "The Howling"
author Gary Barndner adapted his screenplay off his novel), but
director Armand Mastroianni's unevenly fruitless and ham-fisted
execution leaves a lot of its brimming concepts unfulfilled and sticks
to the gimmicks. Lucky there are some nicely imaginative and downright
bizarre deaths handed out by the evil dweller in the closet. The nasty
make-up, especially from the zombies and death scenes are well
conceived. Even some atmospheric visuals, in the shape of few brooding
dream sequences promise something, to only bungle it with unintentional
goofiness that destroys any unsettling mood that was there. Like that
of special effects designer Carlo Rambaldi's (think of E.T.)
plastically tacky monster creation. Sometimes the FX is questionably
dire and overly sugar-coated, just stick around for the lacklustre
climax between demon and child. It's pretty hasty when it wraps it up.

The material dreams a good concept, but its talky nature, convoluted
angles (so many to choose) and senseless inconsistencies engulf the
monotonously vague script, which could've done with occasional wit. The
presentation is well-photographed and production values hold up, but
the musical score was flat, lighting hazily dim and editing was
terribly hack-eyed. The cast do a fine job, maybe better then the
material actually deserved. Scott Curtis gives an appealing turn as
Cameron. Cotter Smith is sturdily efficient as detective Sam
Talliaferro and Mel Harris impress with a steadfast turn as Dr. Nora
Haley. Tab Hunter plays the unfortunate father who cops it in the
opening minutes. There's sound performances by the support cast Kim
Lankford, Leigh McCloskey, Chuck McCann and Gary Hudson as the jerk
boyfriend.

It's saved by over-the-top deaths, some laughably shoddy developments
and capable performances. Just like Mastroianni's other genre efforts;
"The Supernaturals" and "He Knows You're Alone", it's watchable.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed the plot of this movie. Certainly, monster in the closet is
not an original idea, but they put their own spin on it. Sometimes, old
plots are the best plots. I don't want this to be a spoiler, so I won't
reveal too much.

This movie is about a boy with telekinetic powers. From early in the
movie, we know there is something evil in his closet. The plot builds
up throughout the movie and comes together nice and tight at the end.
This is not some movie with a bunch of weird supernatural stuff that
have nothing to do with each other, like Friday 13th part 7. This one
all comes together.

My favourite scene is the one with the ceiling fan. Very exciting,
though I don't see how a mere ceiling fan is cause for that much alarm.
Well, thats what I love about B-movies. Some people just don't get it.
I gave this 7 out of 10. It is a good horror B-movie. Not a movie for
harsh critics though. Its good fun, very imaginative, but some would
think its pretty stupid. If you're one of those people who hate
everything, don't watch this. If you like B-movies and have a good
imagination, than this, like so many films I recommend, is for you.
<|_=00=_|>
~Spoiler~ 

Cameron's Closet is a fine slice of 80's horror. It stars Scott Curtis
as a young boy with telekinetic powers who accidentally summons an
ancient demon who dwells in his closet. The film (written by Gary
Brandner of The Howling fame) has some truly inspired moments and even
some decent scares. Many of the death scenes are quite memorable. The
closet decapitation, Bob flying through the window, and the maniacal
ceiling fan are my favorite bits. Carlo Rambaldi (E.T., Dune) is
handling the effects and they are well done for the most part. The only
area of the film that is lacking is the ending. It was very weak and
the film suffers for it. The demon just doesn't do too much after he
finally comes out of the closet (pun intended). Also, I felt the
explanation as to how this kid conjured the demon was a little vague.
Surely they could have elaborated a bit more. Cotter Smith is quite
good here and so is the kid as far as child actors go.
<|_=00=_|>
Cameron Lansing (Curtis) is a 10 year old boy with psychic abilities.
His father Owen (Hunter) and a colleague (Chuck McCann) accidentally
has Cameron bring to life an ancient demon from the depths of hell who
lurks in the boys closet. The evil force causes Owen to fall off a
ladder and be graphically decapitated in a great early scene. Cameron
moves in with his mom (Kim Lankford) and her bully boyfriend (Gary
Hudson) who is killed by the beast in the closet by having his eyes
blown out and tossed out the boys window. Detective Sam Taliaferrro
(Smith) and cop shrink DR. Nora Halley (Harris) get brought in to
investigate. Cameron's uncle and Sam's partner are also killed by the
demon and Sam and Cameron join forces to stop the evil. This movie is
an above average supernatural chiller from screen Writer Gary Brandner
(from his novel) and Director Armand Mastroianni, Mastroianni delivers
several nice shocks along with a few good seat rocking jolts throughout
the running time which keeps the audience off guard as to when the next
one is coming. The interesting plot is handled well along with some
inspired gore moments makes this a nice mix. The main demon was
designed by Carlo Rambaldi and looks good when it is shown in quick
flashes and surprise moments, but looks rather fake and unconvincing
the more you see it. Scott Curtis in the lead role of Cameron turns in
a very natural and believable performance which helps the overall film.
On the down side; there are too many dream sequences (thank the late
1980's "A Nightmare on Elm Street" influence for this) and the ending
is nothing special either. There are still plenty of real scares and
good ideas at work here making this worth seeking out.
<|_=00=_|>
"Cameron's Closet" is a bit of a relic and time capsule for a much
simpler time in my eyes. It was a staple of many a late-night horror-
movie marathon and subject of numerous Friday-night rentals at the
local Video King when I was growing up in the early 90's. And of the
handful of people who I know that have seen the film... that seems to
be the common trend.

It's one of those late-80's horror features that frankly fell off the
map when Video Stores fell out of vogue and streaming took over during
the past ten years. Its entire life seemingly spent as one of those
lost, faded video-cassettes that you only discover after an hour of
picking through video-shelves at your rental store of choice.

So it was a bit of a surprise finding it uploaded online not too long
ago. Excited to relive a childhood "classic" that I had "discovered" in
the video-store and rented over and over again, I clicked the play
button, sat back...

...and was pretty underwhelmed.

While it does indeed have a fair share of thrills and chills, director
Armand Mastroianni and writer Gary Brandner (creator of the "Howling"
franchise) are never able to build the film up beyond the level of
mediocrity, rendering it a generally ineffective tale. And while it may
be a fun treat to revisit for the sake of nostalgia for 80's and 90's
kids who are now all grown up, it's definitely best to understand that
this is most certainly a "nostalgia goggles" affair. There's nothing
here that hasn't been done far better in other far better films before.

The film is based on 10-year-old Cameron Lansing (Scott Curtis), a boy
with latent telekinetic and pyschic abilities. After his research
scientist father is killed in a grisly "accident", he is sent to live
with his mother and her boyfriend. However, a series of twisted and
gruesome deaths begin to surround the child, and it quickly becomes
apparent that demonic forces are at play, who wish to get their hands
on the boy for their own devious purposes...

When it's at its best, the film does competently deliver some
satisfyingly chilling thrills and jumps. One particular stand-out scene
involving a ghostly re-animated man with an inhumanly large smile still
sends shivers down my bones. And there is a lot of fun to be had with
the good, old-fashioned 80's practical creature and gore effects on
display. Especially as they came courtesy the same genius that also
created the animatronics in films like Spielberg's "E.T." and the
titular "Alien" in the Ridley Scott classic. But it's at the service of
a relatively cliché and standard (even at times sub-standard) storyline
with forgettable characters and ho-hum development.

Perhaps the harshest thing I could say is that outside of the title, I
didn't remember much about the film from my childhood. And in trying to
write this review not that long after having re-watched it... I'm
straining to think of much to say in regards to it. Either good or bad.
It's a wholly mediocre film that's just watchable enough to kill some
time on a rainy afternoon, but you'll also forget it within a week.

And so, I'm giving it a slightly under-average 4 out of 10. Mainly for
the few effective moments and some creative scenes that take advantage
of the promising premise. This is one of the few horror films that I
honestly wouldn't see being remade... It's got a good idea behind it.
But the film as-is just isn't particularly special.
<|_=00=_|>

Hmm... so Cameron is a psychic kid who accidentally brings a ferocious
demon
up from hell into his closet... Sounds like it might have potential.  It
did, but did it utilize that potential?  No.  Though this movie is tad
creepy, it had some real major lows to it.  Examples: the stomach growling
noises coming from the closet, the almost 80's music video special effects
(no wonder the thing died at the end, I think I would too if someone shot
bad special effects at me through their finger tips).  So, you should only
preview this movie to see if you really like it first, but I don't
recommend
buying right away, especially without a preview.
<|_=00=_|>
If the name Armand Mastroianni rings a bell, it's because he directed
"He Knows You're Alone", most famous as Tom Hanks's movie debut. This
is the only other movie of his with which I'm familiar. If this is any
indication, he went downhill after giving Hanks a start. A number of
the horror flicks that I've seen on FearNet - even if they lack a
masterful plot - have some great music ("Down", "Blood Diner" and
"Waxwork" are the prime examples). "Cameron's Closet" doesn't even have
that. It's another "Exorcist" rip-off. How ironic that the man who
directs these sorts of movies gave a debut to a back-to-back
Oscar-winning actor. Life really is a box of chocolates after all...but
don't bite this one.
