

I saw this movie when I was 8 (I am now 18) and I loved it. It is one of the
few movies I see which have great sentimental value to me and unlike most
other children's movies can be watched on two different levels. When the
children see it they will watch a movie about how 5 baby dinosaurs find
their way to the great valley, while older people will view it as a movie
based around how an abandoned orphaned child copes with the loss of his
mother. The symbolism is great for example the dark rainy scene, but I have
always cried when I see it.

For once A GIRL is seen as the the 'strong' character, Cera the
triCERAtops (why does she only have one horn?) is headstrong and prevents
female sterotyping. I think most people who can see movies with an open mind
(hey it IS a kids movie so don't expect it to appeal to adults) will love
this movie. Incedently my favourite character was Littlefoot, his birth was
absolutly wonderful and unlike the other characters he actually looks like
he has grown.

Unfortunaly due to space I cannot go into detail about the brilliant design
of the backgrounds, characters and music but if on a rainy day you have
nothing to see go and see this. The LAND BEFORE TIME was made by Don Bluth.

Unfortunaly none of the other follow on moives BASED on the 5 characters was
ever is good as this one they are just too childish.

I love this movie 10 stars.... 
<|_=00=_|>

I've adored this film ever since I first saw it at the cinema in '88. Sweet
Littlefoot, Bold Cera, Chatty Ducky, Timid Petrie & Greedy Spike are the
cutest dinosaurs ever. Anyone unmoved by their adventures must have a heart
of stone. The animation is superb and so is the soundtrack. Each dinosaur
has a distinctive personality and you laugh and cry with them throughout. I
only wish the film had been longer. The sequels are cute but it is the
original that has the most heart. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

I remember first seeing this movie in the theatres!!!! I loved it and I
have
had it on video for quite some time now. I am older and realise how good
this movie is and what it truly means! It's such ashame when great movies
like these get destroyed by pointless, stupid sequels which are so
childish.
This movie has it all! A tale about dinosaurs, friendship, love & family,
adventure, hope, and a tale about life itself. You may not physically cry
but your heart will.
<|_=00=_|>

Five adorable baby dinosaurs set out on a heartwarming adventure to find
their lost families. I fell in love with this at the cinema & I feel it
deserves its success in the video market. I own every one but this is by
far
the best. Each character, determined Littlefoot, obstinate Cera, cheerful
Ducky, timid Petrie & ever hungry Spike, is a delight. The story contains
laughter, tears, hope & excitement. It is beautifully scored. The end
title
song, If We Hold On Together, is delightful too. The artwork is cute &
full
of detail. Don Bluth is a master. The voice casting is perfect. An
absolute
treasure.
10/10 *****
<|_=00=_|>

What do you get when you cross a bunch of dinosurs and Don Bluth?? Answer:
this memorable classic!!!

My mum bought me this film when I was 5 or 6 years and I loved it. 13 years
on and my mind hasnt changed. I was watching it this morning and there was
still that Bluth magic. 

In case you dont know, the film is about 5 dinosaurs- a "long neck", a
"three horn", a "big mouth", a "flyer" and a "spike tail". Theyre travelling
to the Great Valley whilst trying to fight off Sharp tooth.

What makes this film a classic is the way things are named. Its educational
to kids on dinosaurs and is done in a childish way. Its brilliant!!!! There
are lessons to be learn with friendships.

The sequels dont match up to it but what do you expect?? They werent done by
Bluth!!!!

Bluth may not have done as many animation as Disney but each of his films
have shown something that Disney cannot do. 

Definelty one to own and keep on watching until the end of
time!!!!

Helen
xxxxx   
<|_=00=_|>

A group of young dinosaurs in a world which is nearing the end of the reign
of the mighty reptiles set out to find a legendary valley which is still
lush and green.

This is one of the best animation films ever made, as it is moving and
entertaining.  Not only is it a story of friendship, courage and love, but
it also demonstrates childhood friendships which are 'not allowed' due to
classism or racism - "Three-horns never play with Longnecks".  'Land Before
Time', with its tribe of various dinosaurs plus a pterodactyl, is a story
about putting aside so-called 'differences' and striving together in 'united
we stand, divided we fall' fashion in order to leave the unlovely wilderness
and find a land of freedom and equality (in this case the Great
Valley).

An excellent and unmissable adventure which will appeal to anybody of any
age.

The sequels sadly did away with the grittyness of this first film and
instead turned to TV cartoonishness and pointless songs, but most of them
(the boring Part 4 aside) are still very enjoyable.  But in the tradition of
most series of films, the original is the best.
<|_=00=_|>

You heard me! Not even through the eight sequels, could they surpass the
enjoyment of this one! The story is just classic. It's Don Bluth's finest
work, I must say. It's ironically the only movie in the LBT series that was
made for theaters! Pretty cool, huh?

I couldn't believe when I read how this movie was only like 70 minutes long.
It seems like a long time, since it's so good. You've got cool dinosaur
characters, going alone on a journey to the Great Valley. I think it's
entertaining the way they have different names for the dinosaur species.
Like "Sharp-tooth" for a T. Rex, or "Three-Horns" for a Stegosauraus or
"Long-Neck" for Brontosauraus. My favorite character is Peetree, who is
pretty cute. Too bad about Judith Barsi dying. That actually makes it
interesting because now I know all the times in the sequels she was voiced
by a different person than this time. I hope I'll see this movie more often.
It seems like forever since I've seen it.

But then came the sequels. Part 4 was very nice(the best sequel yet), and
Parts 2 and 3 were good, but after 4, let's face it. The movies are repetive
and dull, just doing the same things its proceeders did. Why haven't they
just made a TV show instead of all these sequels? Now, THAT would be
something I'd like to see. This classic gets a 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

Don Bluth's masterpiece, The Land Before Time, is a wonderful
children's feature with beautiful animation, a great story, adorable
characters, and good direction.

As a director, Bluth's use of color and texture in this film is
absolutely brilliant. He has this wonderful soft blending of mainly the
background colors (usually most notable in the sky), which suggests use
of chalk pastels to create this effect. In every film of his that I've
seen, he always has great (what I like to call) atmospherics. In this
film, you notice it in the blowing of dust/fog, some of the fire
effects with the volcanoes (mainly the falling fire sparks), the
falling black ash before the characters reach the "mountains that
burn," as well as certain water effects.

The vocal cast was really well suited to all their roles. There were a
few instances where some of the lines were a bit muffled and hard to
understand, but for the most part, the cast did really well with their
lines, made them sound natural, and child-like, and managed not to be
overly cute and obnoxious as some characters made for children's films
inherently are.

The score by James Horner is a wonderful addition to the film's
atmosphere and really does a great job setting the mood. Horner always
has a way of infusing his scores with a sense of romanticism that is
often lacking in today's film composers, and this film is no exception.
He makes really good use of his strings section, especially in this
period of his work.

To be sure, this film is a masterpiece! All of its excellent qualities
are apparent while watching the film, most notably the animation (which
is excellent for a late 80s film), the voice cast, the score, the
story, and the art direction. Without a doubt, it would be
well-deserving of a spot in any animated feature hall of fame.

9 Stars out of 10!

<|_=00=_|>

The Land Before Time is a very entertaining animated movie. They have a
great story here filled with varying emotions from humor to sadness. The
animation is just as good. This film is not just for little kids. Older
kids
and adults will find this just as entertaining, unlike the terrible sequels
which I care not to mention. Thumbs up on this one.
<|_=00=_|>

Now, having been such a raging fan of this movie when I was a kid (I still
like it as an adult, just not nearly as much), I don't really know if I've
got the right to write a review of it.

About the only thing I have to say, really, is that there's more personality
in that one little Pterodactyl who offers Littlefoot his cherry than in the
entire cast of "Disney's Dinosaur".

Other than that, I only have to offer up the following bit of trivia that
fellow "L.B.T." fans should go nuts over.  It turns out that shortly before
"Land Before Time" was officially released, about one million dollars worth
of footage was cut from the film.  Think about that the next time you watch
it.  You'll notice things like how suddenly we cut from Sharptooth and
Littlefoot's mom's battle to the earthquake sequence.  If Universal *really*
loved us (ahem, Money To Be Made here), they'd give us a director's cut or
something.  Just a thought.
