
When people start disappearing in a small seaside resort town, Ned
Turner (John Huston), a newspaper reporter, becomes suspicious that is
has something to do with an underwater construction project being
conducted by Trojan, a company run by Mr. Whitehead (Henry Fonda). As
Turner digs deeper into the mysterious events, his suspicions that
something more sinister is responsible begin to grow. These suspicions
are supported by marine expert Will Gleason (Bo Hopkins).

The above sounds much more appealing than it has any right to. This is
one of the worst films I've ever seen, and I like Ed Wood! Tentacles is
one of the many films that were made in the wake of Jaws that tried to
capitalize on Jaws' incredible success. Unfortunately, almost
everything about the film is completely incompetent. There are only two
minor saving graces that caused me to give this film a "high" rating of
2 out of 10. One, there are some quality actors involved--Huston,
Fonda, Hopkins, and Shelley Winters have all done fantastic work in
other films, and two, there are a couple moments where the incompetence
achieves a level of sublime ridiculousness so that Tentacles becomes
"so bad it's good". However, don't put too much weight on either of
those "pros", as the better performances (Huston and Hopkins) can't
even begin to save this film and you have to sit through a tortuous,
boring hour to get to a point where the film starts being more funny
than painful.

There are a couple reasons you might want to watch this film. If you're
a completist with respect to a member of the cast or crew, you'll have
to watch, and this will likely be the lowlight of their career for you
(at least no other film will "top" it, even if others can match it).
Also, if you're a horror film completist (as I am), you'll want to grin
and bear it once. Another good reason to watch it is as a lesson in how
not to make a film, from every technical aspect. The script is horrible
and at times completely incoherent. It may also set a record for the
largest number of abandoned threads. The director appears to have slept
through most of the shoots. The composer scores every scene
inappropriately, and to top it off, one of the primary instruments is a
harpsichord. The score basically sounds like random 70s porno music.
The editor seems to think that his job involves not leaving any footage
unused.

At about the hour mark, the director decides to employ a lot of freeze
frames during a "high tension" sequence. It's also accompanied by
bizarre non-sequitur "jokes" told by a guy in an Uncle Sam outfit while
Shelley Winters desperately tries to reach two other characters on a
walkie talkie, only we can't hear anything she says--we just see her
mouth moving while we hear Uncle Sam's performance art. This is where
the film finally becomes unintentionally funny. It makes little sense
in the context of the film, although that seems to be a leitmotif.

Tentacles contains the most boring action/suspense sequences I think
I've ever witnessed. There wasn't one for which my attention didn't
drift. I started thinking about things like mowing the lawn, cleaning
out the refrigerator, and so on. It's difficult to believe that any of
the crew had a career after this, but amazingly, most of them did.
<|_=00=_|>

I guess the actors were excited about being sent to Italy, and the downside
is that..it was to be in this movie.  I guess the producers were thinking
they would make some money doing a version of "Jaws" with an octopus
instead.  

But the casual moviegoer, who has reasonable intelligence, will either be
laughing at the whole thing or bored to death.  Either way, the movie is not
insultingly awful.  At least Shelley Winters is under control, for the most
part, but John Huston as a reporter is a riot. Danova had all his dialogue
dubbed, which seems strange since he speaks English (he did in "Viva Las
Vegas" and "Mean Streets", to name two instances). Henry Fonda & Bo Hopkins
are also along for the ride.  
<|_=00=_|>
I have to wonder how this star-studded train wreck came about; I hope
there's a better story than "they were in it for the money." Three
legends - Shelley Winters, John Huston, Henra Fonda - in a low-budget,
poorly..., well everything movie. The giant octopus is rarely seen, and
when it is, it's pretty much obvious that it's a regular octopus filmed
at angles and with bubbles thrown in to demonstrate violence in the
water. And despite the three stars having above-the-title billing, they
really only have supporting roles, and none of them get to Roy Scheider
the octopus. 

Actually I think I have it all figured out. Trying to cash in on the
Jaws craze, they commissioned people to create another sea monster but
overreached in hiring stars and blew their whole budget on their
salaries. There we go.
<|_=00=_|>

Well, hysterically bad! Everyone else's comments already hit the nail on
the
head, so I don't know what is making me laugh harder- this movie or the
comments!

I hope everyone involved in making the movie at least had a good time in
Italy and Southern California. Hopefully they were laughing, too. Huston
was
way too much of a genius not to have seen this as what it is- dreadful.
Perhaps he thought it was a farce of some kind? I would love to have been
a
fly on the wall during the after filming drinks Huston, Winters, and Fonda
must have shared.

The effects are bad, the dubbing atrocious, I couldn't tell if the weird
sounds were music or sound effects, some scenes were lifted almost exactly
from Jaws...

I could go on, but I think you've got the idea. If it is rainy outside,
and
you're bored and ready for a laugh, go ahead and watch.

But don't say you haven't been warned. 
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was great. I had a blast watching it. It was
mellow and took it's time nicely. I don't understand why all the hate.
Yes it's a "Jaws" ripoff but so what? Bo Hopkins was neat to watch as
basically "Chief Brody Hooper Quint", playing the lead character ocean
expert tough guy. John Huston has a side role as a roving investigator
trying to figure out the deaths of people being sucked from land into
sea. Henry Fonda has a phoned in role as the bigwig who might be
responsible for making this octopus such a hungry beast. And one of my
favorite cult actors, Claude Akins, as a cop. The best thing about this
film is the keyboard soundtrack that you can also hear in Quentin
Tarantino's "Death Proof" and Mario Bava's "Rabid Dogs", and a handful
of other films. Whenever the Octopi attacks the music plays and it's
quite cool sounding. I thought the action scenes were nice and yes, the
octopus looked fake, but then again so did the shark in "Jaws", and
"Jaws" is one of the best movies ever made. Mind you, I'm not saying
this is anywhere near "Jaws", but still, they did a good job covering
up the fact that a rubber coat with arms was used as the terrorizing
beast. I thought this movie was totally enjoyable and I find it
relaxing, and there are some beautiful Italian women, all blondes. The
girl who plays Bo Hopkin's wife looks a lot like Heather Graham (or
vice versa). Kick back, and enjoy. Don't expect much. Just have a good
time.
<|_=00=_|>

I first saw the television ad for this film when I was five years old
(1977)
and just knew that I HAD to see this.  Obviously, at five, no one was going
to take me to this in the wake of the JAWS phenomenon and, seeing as I
could
never find it on video, I had to wait fifteen (FIFTEEN !) years for it to
come on television.

Finally, at twenty years old, the big night came around and my life-quest
was coming to an end.  Got three seperate friends to each video this in
case
I missed it and the other two video's failed.

All I can say is that when the end credits rolled, I was a broken man.
Absolute garbage.  The octopus was one rubber tentacle for most of the
attack scenes, until the climax revealed it as a live octopus filmed in an
aquarium.  I'm not gonna reveal how it gets killed but I swear to God I
think they really snuffed that live octopus.  How the hell they got John
Huston in this is a mystery he's taken to his grave.

The only plus ?  An unintentionally hilarious morale-boosting speech Bo
Hopkins gives to a pair of killer whales.  I'm sure it looked great on
paper
but...
<|_=00=_|>
Don't ask me why but I have a bizarre predilection for trashy and
mainly non-American "Jaws" rip-offs; the cheaper the better; and thus
this "Tentacles" is a long anticipated new show-piece in my collection.
So maybe this user comment won't be the most reliable you'll ever read,
but I seriously believe that "Tentacles" is NOT as horrible as everyone
claims it is! Well yes, the screenplay is a shameless and unimaginative
re-telling of Spielberg's classic sea monster movie, but we all knew
that in advance and it surely doesn't mean it can't be entertaining,
right? And "Tentacles" sure is entertaining with its tacky special
effects and especially the over-the-top score that is used to distract
you whenever the underwater cinematography is too murky to follow. The
tourist community Ocean Beach suffers from an unwelcome guest in its
waters and it soon turns out to be a murderous, yet normal-sized,
octopus. Normally, these animals are shy and harmless but this
particular critter went a little mad due to extreme vibrations in the
water, coming from a drilling company that is digging a beach tunnel
nearby. After the alarming discovery of several mutilated corpses,
local reporter Ned Turner (John Huston) calls in the help of
ichthyologist Will Gleason (Bo Hopkins). It's always nice to see
respectable actors in later roles, even if their performances suck and
they clearly just agreed to star to earn some easy money. Apart from
Huston and Gleason, "Tentacles" also stars Henry Fonda, Claude Atkins
and the recently deceased Shelley Winters. With all do respect for Mrs.
Winters but she was the only terrible character here. At least in campy
Italian horror films like this some of the deaths are unexpected and
mildly shocking, like the opening sequence involving the disappearance
of a baby. There's also a neatly staged sequence with the octopus vs a
corpulent dude and an unintentionally hilarious sequence in which
Gleason gives pep-talk to his two killer whales that are about to fight
an enemy in the shape of an octopus! Seriously, how can you not love
this?!?
<|_=00=_|>

Did this movie strike anyone else as odd in that the big name actors
(mainly
Huston and Fonda) seem to be delivering their lines as though they don't
know the plot of the film?  Fonda in particular has so many scenes where
his
lines are vague and could fit into any number of plots, I truly wonder if
he
signed on for a giant cephalopod film.
<|_=00=_|>

This one is fun to watch just to see the old stars who should have faded
away instead of getting old in this picture.  It's so bad, it's funny and
makes for a great comedy as long as you're not trying to pay too much
attention.  The camera shots are the best, never quite getting the stars
completely IN the shot.  I'm sure they wish they weren't in the shots at
all.  If you've got time to kill and some friends who like to make fun of
bad movies, wrap your tentacles around this one.  Ha-ha-ha!  Ok, it wasn't
funny, but this movie definitely is.
<|_=00=_|>

Yes, this one is another cheaply produced flick to capitalize on the market
created by THE killer shark movie.  The "plot" here concerns a giant octopus
eating residents of "Ocean Beach."  This is one poor excuse for a movie in
the end:  The special effects are shoddy, performances are embarrassing,
especially considering that there are some big names (John Huston??!?) in
this, and overall the movie is terrible.  However, to the fan of chessy
cinema, this one will not disappoint.  I enjoyed this one a lot, but again,
don't watch this in a serious mood...if viewed with a straight face, this
may well be one of the worst movies of all time.  Instead, enjoy it for what
it is...another cheesy giant monster flick and pass the popcorn.
hehehe.
