
Honestly... this is my favorite movie of all time. I'm a huge action
fan and this movie remains to this day my favorite fighting movie...
nay, favorite movie period, of all time. Granted, there is no good
acting and there was no reason for all the splits the man performs, but
damn it the tournament was the greatest in-movie fighting tournament
I've ever seen. Never duplicated or improved upon. Yes, they did
stereotype everyone in the world.... literally, but boy was it funny...
and oh so entertaining to see how they put the fights together.

Greatest fighting movie of all time... a perfect cult classic... and
the ultimate treat for the Van Damm fan
<|_=00=_|>
My mother was on the verge of death a few years ago( boob cancer). In
her hospital room there was TV and VCR, so i thought to bring her some
movies. Well, I accidentally brought my copy of BloodSport-along with
Fried Green Tomatoes. I left the videos with her, and when I returned
the next day I was surprised to see her cheering along with Van Damme
as he was beating the large Asian Man.

A few days later, she was walking around and trying to perform some of
the stunts she saw in her new favorite movie. I even saw the copy of
Fried Green Tomatoes in the trash bin.

The next week the Doctor came to me and said he witnessed a miracle. It
seems my mother's cancer had disappeared.

She checked out of the hospital and told me she had to meet the man who
cured her of her wicked disease: Van Damme.

So me and my mom set out in a beat up VW Bug and headed towards
Hollywood. But that's a different story all together.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie all about fighting,and the fact that it is based on a true
story
just makes it better.
This is the first time Van Damme fights Bolo Yeung and it is a spectacular
fight he also fights him in Double impact.
Bolo is the perfect evil guy and his fighting style is one of a
kind.

They dont make movies like this anymore.
Bad acting and story,but you gotto love it anyway.
<|_=00=_|>
I had never seen a van Damme-movie before this one. And oh boy, I was
surprised in a really positive way. The best thing about this movie is
that it's from the 80's. That means really GREAT music, and in this
movie, the music makes up a really magnificent atmosphere for the
viewer through the whole film. Of course, the fighting is good. It's
not just good, it's great. It was really exciting to see different
fighting styles from all over the world. And Bolo Yeung did a really
great job as the villain. He barely talks, but shows with his behavior
that he is Mr. ruthless himself. The final fight with van Dammes
trademark, the 360-kick, shown several times in slow motion, is a feast
for the eye. Hong Kong is the location for the movie, and the city fits
perfectly for it. Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>

Bloodsport is, and always will be, Van Damme's greatest display of his
martial talent. While it seems to have a similar storyline to other martial
arts films, this one differs in that it is based on the true events of Frank
Dux, who also assisted the fighters for this movie.

Anyone at all that doubts Van Damme's talent as a fighter, should see this
film.

Bolo Yeung also makes a spectacular appearance as the evil one in the
tournament. He acts about as cruel and heartless as one can get, and he
makes the perfect climax for the film.

If you are after a good quality martial arts film, and you haven't seen
Bloodsport, then this is the one for you. If you have seen it, then you will
know why it deserves the title of 'best martial arts film of the
century'.
<|_=00=_|>
I love this man. His acting wasn't very good. (I do think though it
improved over time... a little.) 

Bloodsport was inspiration for a whole generation to start learning
martial arts. A Cult movie. I grew up some of my life in Asia and it
amuses me to see those buff cliché white men jumping around through
colourful, but grubby marketplaces/ back alleys. In fact the whole
movie is simple and has even a nice tidy cliché structure: Man starts
terribly, improves through tough training and develops into sexy
fighting machine. Some people who commented on this movie said he is no
Bruce Lee. But that is the beauty of it. He is somebody from a western
country trying to measure up and fit into the eastern culture. Good
stuff.
<|_=00=_|>

Bloodsport is an excellent movie, which includes everything a martial arts
fan can possibly dream off...
Great fight-choreography, excellent filming, fine music and a good
story.
The movie takes you to a world of fighting where "only the strongest
wins".
Jean Claude van Damme as Frank Dux, a young, talented martial artist. This
was THE movie for van Damme, beside Kickboxer, he has never preformed so
well.

Watch & Enjoy !!
<|_=00=_|>
If you look at the rating for this film it is only 5.8 percent at
present that is a serious understatement of this films genius. This
film deserves a much more higher rating. Okay its not an Oscar winner
for acting, but who cares! its not about acting its about true martial
arts and fighting on the big screen and Bloodsport brings this to you
superbly. One of my favourite movies it also provides the Rocky pump,
as in like Rocky it has the emotion both in action and through the
films music and the fighting makes you want to get up and starting
punching and kicking anything! and you don't get that sort of feeling
with many films. Rocky had it and Bloodsport has it, and if a fighting
film makes you get up and fight your living room wall then its a
winner! Van Damme is excellent, his fighting manoeuvres are
breathtaking, the range of different styles of fighters is great and
well know martial artist Bolo Yeung's destruction of all opponents is
wonderfully filmed, and as Van Dammes main contender we have a great
adventure. All the fighters give great performances and the fighting
scenes are superb. Great performance from big Donald Gibb as the
hilarious Ray Jackson. His running punch on his first opponent is worth
watching for that alone! Donald Gibb is excellent and brings humour to
the role as well as some excellent and sometimes hilarious no nonsense
fighting! The story too is superb, the kumite bringing the worlds
greatest fighters together and by invitation only and the location also
brilliant. Hiden in the depths of Hong Kong badlands. A winner in all
departments. I remember watching this with friends and going out in the
garden for some Bloodsport kicking and punching well not each other,
thin air! but it makes you feel alive. Not many films do that. 10/10
for me. Fantastic film!
<|_=00=_|>
Being a film watcher that looks for great acting, i surprised myself
when i enjoyed this film.

Being more a film fan than a martial arts fan i was expecting to be
writing a bad review for this flick. No one can deny that van damme is
a great martial artist, but his acting is so so the opposite.

You have to look at it as a martial arts film (which it is) and accept
the stunning fight sequences (especially the final fight scene which
was very well choreographed) the film offers.

Yes, people will talk about how bad his acting may be, but what people
forget is that he is a martial artist more than an actor. Movies are
just the way he can express his great skills to an audience.

I recommend this film to any martial arts fan but not so much to anyone
looking for a compelling dramatic, mystical thriller because you will
be disappointed.

On all it's a basic, pure, martial arts film that i feel is underrated.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not a huge Van Damme fan, but I have seen (and commented on)
several of his movies. When you watch Van Damme, you want to see bad
acting, bad accents, decent action, and several slow motion kicks to
the face. Bloodsport delivers like no other.

Let's just start with the acting. Van Damme was not quite full of
himself at this point in his career, having played "Gay Karate Guy" in
1984's Monaco Forever, so he's actually not as bad as usual. His main
supporting actor is Donald Gibb, best known for playing Ogre in the
Revenge of the Nerds movies. He basically plays Orge in this movie,
too, although he doesn't shout "NERDS!" He should have, but he didn't.
That is why this is 8 out of 10 instead of 10 out of 10. Forest
Whitaker is in this, too. Apparently, being a supporting actor in
Platoon, Fast Times at Ridgemont High, Color of Money, Stakeout and
Good Morning Vietnam was not enough credit to land him the coveted role
of the main military policeman that is constantly outsmarted by Van
Damme (!) in this film. Instead, the actor with the best film credits
in the movie is the second-in-command military policeman who serves
under the person that is constantly outsmarted by Van Damme. Either the
casting director was racist, or he could see into the future and knew
that Forest would eventually costar in Battlefield Earth and was thus
deserving of punishment. Bolo Yeung, the Asian bad guy with the huge
pecks, plays a suitably evil villain at the impressive age of 50.

The soundtrack is pretty awesome, too. You have a nice blend of lame
80s music combined with a strange theme song that has the refrain
"Ku-mite! Ku-mite!" The song is so good, it makes you wish Ah-Ha
covered it.

The plot of the movie is silly. To avenge the death of his Asian friend
and make his mentor proud, the military-trained Van Damme sneaks off to
Asia to compete in the Kumite. This is the world's most hard-core
fighting tournament and it is ultra-secret. The military doesn't want
Van Damme to fight, so two men are sent to Asia to get him. They fail
frequently until they eventually decide to let him compete. There is a
nosy reporter woman that wants to cover the Kumite. Naturally, her main
purpose in the movie is to give us a reason to see Van Damme's ass. Van
Damme and Ogre become friends after Van Damme beats him in a karate
video game. Ogre (for reasons unbeknownst to me) identifies Van Damme's
accent as American and the two become good friends. After a shot of Van
Damme beating someone up is shown in slow-motion two or three times,
Ogre stands up and shouts, "That's the fastest thing I ever saw!" You
see, if he hadn't said that, the audience wouldn't have known it was
fast; they would have had to rely on the timer above the ring that said
"new world record." Obviously, Van Damme has to fight a number of
people, most of whom have comically unique styles of fighting. Just as
obviously, Van Damme has to fight Bolo in the end. Van Damme has
several slow motion kicks to the face and seven different times where
he does the splits. Van Damme doesn't get much better than this.

By the way, this is based on a true story. HA!
