
Dream Warriors is without a doubt the best Elm Street sequel. The first
2 dealt with just one main character against Freddy and everyone else
thinking they're crazy. But of course, after a while people start
realizing they're all dreaming about Freddy. And If he can use their
dreams against them, they can also use their dreams against him.
Brilliant!

This is where the deaths became more elaborate and Freddy started to
spout out catchy one-liners. A lot of people resent this film for
starting the whole 'joker Freddy' trend, but this has just the right
amount of Freddy wit to still have him be scary and threatening, which
really he is.

This is the most exciting, thrilling, imaginative Freddy movie of the
bunch. You have to see it to believe it.

My Rating: 6.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
A Nightmare on Elm Street 3: Dream Warriors is the third installment of
the Nightmare on Elm Street series. It's actually one of the better
sequels that I enjoyed. I was lucky enough to get the Nightmare on Elm
Street series boxed DVD set for my birthday. So I've now seen all the
sequels and A Nightmare on Elm Street 3: Dream Warriors is a decent
sequel. Not to mention it was pretty cool to see Patricia Arquette's
first big role, I can't believe a lot of these movies how many stars
started out in this series. It was also a nice touch that they had
Nancy back for this film. The deaths are gory and Freddy is back and
meaner than ever! This time he's after the kids in the mental
institution and he's not going to go easy on them at all.

Nancy has now grown up and she's become a therapist for dreams, she
starts her work at the mental institution where she meets Kirsten, a
girl who has the power to pull other people into her dreams. Kirsten is
a bit scared of her powers though and knows that Freddy wants to use
her so he could pretty much squish several bugs with one stomp. But
Nancy knows that Freddy is up to his old ways and wants to help Kirsten
along with the other teenagers at the hospital that Freddy is after,
but hopefully she can do it before it's too late.

A Nightmare on Elm Street 3: Dream Warriors has one of my favorite
nightmare sequences. I loved the puppet on the strings, only, well, I
won't spoil it, you're going to have to trust me when I say that this
was a very cool death scene. This is a must see for the Nightmare on
Elm Street fans of course, but even you're just looking for a good
scare, I promise you that you'll get a few chills from watching this
nightmare. Freddy isn't going light when it comes to scaring these
kids... to death.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Nightmare on Elm Street 3 (1987) was the third film in the Freddy Krueger
series.  This time around a hospital ward full
of disturbed teenagers are the latest target for Freddy Krueger.  Thanks in
large part because the kids can't stop dreaming
about the world's most famous serial killer/ child molester turned
supernatural monster.  Everyone should know by now 
that he likes to feed off the fear of the wee ones.  Now with more people to
add to his collection,  Freddy decides to play ten
little indians with the lot of them.  That is until his old nemesis Nancy
comes back into town to help the kids fight him off 
and end the nightmare.  Will Nancy and the kids be able to defeat Freddy for
good?  Find out because this one's too good to 
pass up. 

Not as complex as the last film but highly entertaining.  This is the film
that has Freddy morphing into his one-liner 
spewing act that has made him insanely popular.  Fun stuff.

Highly recommended.

<|_=00=_|>
I've been a fan of Chuck Russell's films ever since his 1994 classic
THE MASK. Each one of his movies have a strong amount of slickness and
energy, especially A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 3: DREAM WARRIORS. It's
one of the better 'ELM STREET' films in the series and was one of the
cinematic highlights of 1987. Like THE LOST BOYS, which was also
released in 1987, it has style, imagination, a good premise, and gore.
It does have a few faults though. Some of the special effects are dated
and look quite cheesy and the flick seems to rely more on blood than
genuine scares at times. Also, while by no means terrible, Heather
Langenkamp's performance is not quite up to par with her performance in
the first 'ELM STREET' and NEW NIGHTMARE. Occasionally it feels like
she's phoning it in. These faults don't hurt the movie too much. It's
still a enjoyable horror picture that holds up relatively well today.
It may not be as good as the first A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET, but it's
much better than most third installments are. I give it 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Outstanding third entry in the Elm Street movies is definitely the best
of the sequels and well lives up to the excitement of the original
film.

Nancy is now a psychiatrist who must help some troubled youths that are
in danger of being sliced by murderous Freddy!

It's not surprising that this sequel was written by 'Elm Street creator
Wes Craven, who chose to leave the directing to Chuck Russell for this
movie. Nightmare on Elm Street 3 is a fasted-paced, cleverly written
horror fantasy that's the most entertaining of the Elm Street
follow-ups. The movie plays out as a gripping thrill ride that's both
chilling and darkly funny. There's a number of smart twists thrown in
as well. 'Elm Street 3 also has the most dazzling and impressive
special FX of the series, as well as some of the greatest nightmare and
murder sequences. The marionette sequence with Bradly Gregg is a big
favorite. The direction of Chuck Russell is slick indeed, delivering
plenty of atmospheric darkness and energetic action. Even the maze-like
sets are impressive. Charles Bernstein's Elm Street theme music is used
once more. In addition there's also an awesome title rock anthem by the
group Dokken.

Another high point in the film is the cast. Heather Langenkamp reprises
her role well, as does John Saxon who appears once again as
Langenkamp's father. Craig Wasson is a good hero as a doctor attempting
to help the teenagers. Patricia Arquette, Ken Sagoes, Jennifer Rubin,
Bradly Gregg, and Rodney Eastman all make for solid teenage characters.
Of course Robert Englund is back as Freddy, who has a bit more of a
cheeky sense of humor this time around.

One couldn't ask for a better Elm Street sequel than this one. It's a
fun ride all the way for fans and is one of the best horror-fantasy
films out there. Check it out.

Followed by a number of inferior sequels.

*** 1/2 out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
Six Years has passed since the events of the first movie, a beautiful
blonde girl named Kirsten (Patrica Arquette) had a nightmare involving
Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) which almost leads her to suicide as
she ends up in a psychiatric ward with the other kids of Elm Street
named Joey (Rodney Eastman), Taryn (Jennifer Rubin), Philip (Bradley
Gregg), Jennifer (Penelope Sudrow), Will (Ira Heiden) and Kincaid (Ken
Sagoes). However Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp) who survived the
original massacre now works as a psychiatrist who helps with patients
who have dream problems and she's joined by Dr. Neil Goldman (Craig
Wasson). However some of the patients seem to dream about Freddy as
some of them get killed one by one, only Nancy has the answers as she
wants some of those patients to join with her to battle against this
evil cretin once and for all.

The best sequel of the series! after the very disappointing and yet
homoerotic "Freddy's Revenge", New Line Cinema decided to hire Wes
Craven back as he co-write a script with future "Shawshank Redemption"
and "Green Mile" director Frank Darabont to ignore the events of part 2
and continue off the first one. Chuck Russell makes his debut for this
one as it lead him to make "The Blob" in 1988 and "The Mask" in 1994,
this installment delivers all the goods that a fanboy and fangirl can
enjoy. The film co-stars Laurence Fishburne and John Saxton with
appearances by Dick Cavett and Zsa Zsa Gabor, this horror fantasy
thriller has good scares and some gory violence abound. The special
effects even for it's day are just incredible like the Freddy Snake
critter and the acting is superb, this movie made Freddy more popular
thanks to witty one-liners and a dark sense of humor. Greg Cannom and
Kevin Yagher did a nice job on the make-up and gore effects for this
production, the film also gives us a nice look into the mythology of
"Nightmare on Elm Street" with some nice twists and turns even by the
ending.

This is one sequel that still holds up and rocks! i highly recommend
it.

P.S.: The "Dream Warriors" rock song by Dokken rules!
<|_=00=_|>
This part is more entertaining that the original. I always watch
slasher movies only for entertainment, I don't care much about a
dialogs (Psycho would be an exception, the dialogs was the best thing
in it) or acting, all I want to see is some entertaining, sometimes
funny looking graphic murder scenes and this movie has it. My favorite
was TV room scene. I also find this movie being really creepy
sometimes, what is not usual for slasher films, like that scene where
Freddy made one of the kids fall from a window, the whole scene was
kinda creepy. The plot was great, I liked the idea that this movie is
set on mental hospital, that made this movie even more creepy.
<|_=00=_|>
When the teenager Kristen Parker (Patricia Arquette) has nightmares
with Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund), he cuts her wrist and her mother
Elaine Parker (Brooke Bundy) believes her daughter wants to commit
suicide. Elaine interns Kristen in an institution for therapy with
teenagers with dream disorder, where she meets other youngsters having
trouble with Freddy Krueger under the treatment of Dr. Elizabeth Simms
(Priscilla Pointer) and Dr. Neil Gordon (Craig Wasson). When the intern
of dream therapy Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp) arrives in the
hospital, she discovers that Kristen has the ability to draw other
people to her dreams, and she convinces Dr. Gordon that Freddy Kruger
does exist and needs to be destroyed. Nancy uses Kristen and the other
teenagers together in a group session to join forces against and
destroy Freddy Krueger in their common nightmare. Meanwhile Dr. Gordon
meets Sister Mary Helena (Nan Martin) that tells him who is Freddy
Krueger and how to destroy the evil character forever.

"A Nightmare on Elm Street 3: Dream Warriors" is my favorite sequel of
Freddy Krueger's franchise. Written by Wes Craven and with the return
of Nancy Thompson, the story explains how the evil Freddy Krueger was
generated. This movie is also the debut of the gorgeous Patricia
Arquette and Jennifer Rubin. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "A Hora do Pesadelo 3: Os Guerreiros dos Sonhos" ("The
Hour of the Nightmare 3: The Warriors of the Dreams")
<|_=00=_|>
When a terrified teen named Kristen (Patricia Arquette) is been stalked
by a killer in her dreams by the name of Freddy (Robert Englund). When
she wakes up, without knowing that she slits her wrist. She been sent
to a mental hospital for troubled teens. When a new young psychiatrist
specializing in Dream Thearpy is by the name of Nancy Thompson (Heather
Langenkamp). When Nancy finds out that Freddy stills haunt the frighten
teens and knowing what Kristen is talking about. Most of the teens are
now dreaming about the killer in their sleep. Nancy and Dr. Neil Gordon
(Craig Wasson) are helping the teens to fight Freddy back with their
dream powers and their help.

Directed by Chuck Russell (The Blob-1988, Eraser, The Mask) made an
excellent scary sequel, which is closer to the spirit of the original
Nightmare. This film has excellent visual effects are the highlight of
this one, which is done by Oscar-Winning effects house "Dream Quest
Images" (The Abyss, The Crow, Total Recall). This movie has good clever
plot twists and it has the best cast from the series,
including:Jennifer Rubin (Screamers), Bradley Gregg (Fire in the Sky),
Rodney Eastman (The Caveman's Valentine), Laurence Fishburne (The
Matrix Trilogy), John Saxon (Enter the Dragon) and Priscilla Pointer
(Carrie).

DVD has an strong anamorphic Widescreen (1.85:1) transfer (also in Pan
& Scan) and an excellent digitally remastered-Dolby Digital 5.1
Surround Sound. DVD also has the original theatrical trailer, Jump to a
Nightmare Opinion and Cast & Crew information. On the "Elm Street"
Series Box Set in the eighth disc. The DVD has interviews with the Cast
& Crew, a Music Video and Bits moments from MTV with Englund's
appearance as Freddy.

This was a much bigger hit than the previous two "Elm Street" films.
This film has amusing cameos by Dick Cavett and Sza Sza Gabor, who play
themselves on Television in a memorable scene. Englund as Freddy has
some amusing memorable one-liners. Written by Wes Craven (The Hills
Have Eyes, The Last House on the Left, Shocker), Frank Darabont (The
Green Mile, The Majestic, The Shawshank Redemption), director:Russell
and Bruce Wagner (I'm Losing You). From a Story by Craven and Wagner.
Do not miss this imaginatively directed flick. (****/*****).
<|_=00=_|>
a nightmare on elm street 3 is a film that manages to solidify its
villain as a memorable anti hero/icon. the original nightmare on elm
street was an excellent film in terms of scaring the living hell out of
audiences with a truly demonic villain. this film on the other hand
takes its source material and stays true to it while at the same time
opening up a new direction for the character. the comedic one liners
add a really nice touch to a series that could have easily grown
tiresome after a few sequels. the comedy isn't exactly straight comedy
but is black comedy which works very well for the character of Freddy.
his character still remains scary in terms of how devilish and evil he
truly is and the creative ways in which he chooses to kill the teens of
the film. mostly using their fears, past experiences and lifestyles
against them. very creative and entertaining to watch. this is an
important aspect to keep in mind when trying to understand what makes
this film as well as the original work so well. 

the acting is by no means great but the cast does do a solid job. I
don't really have very many complaints in the acting department, john
saxton returns and gives us a good performance. heather langdenkamp (I
believe that's how you spell it) returns as well and gives a decent
performance. here and there some of her dialogue seems a little forced
and unnatural but I think she did a good job in the grand scheme of
things. the rest of the cast all do well in their roles, they are after
all just teenagers and aren't meant to be the most complex characters
in the first place. and last but not least Robert England of course
does an amazing and captivating job as Freddy. 

the script is honestly great! the concept of the characters all having
a dream power to fight back against Freddy is interesting. it did feel
slightly rushed but I don't think it really affects the film. what we
get is good and I can't complain about that. we also get a bit of
backstory on Freddy and his birth which is welcome, it adds to the
mythos of the character and I think it makes him that much more of a
dark character. 

chuck Russell does an excellent job directing. his way of bringing the
dream sequences to the screen is great and I found myself and still
find myself thoroughly entertained. it isn't world class direction like
say the likes of fincher or Hitchcock but it does the script justice
and is not in any way bad directing. 

the gore and special effects all look so good, you can tell the effects
team put a lot of heart and effort in, it definitely showed. I am to
this day still wowed by the effects and wish more horror films from the
modern age would use practical and organic effects like the ones used
in this film. 

all in all the film is truly great, not only is it a good slasher film,
and a good sequel but it really is a great film in general. I would
recommend it to anybody who likes a good time or horror films. 

9.5/10
