

*** out of ****

As a sequel to an immensely popular classic, Jaws 2 had a lot to live up to,
and while it doesn't reach the level of sheer terror of the original, it's
still effective in creating thrills, some scares, and excitement.  The
biggest flaw is the pace, since the scenes on land drag on over and over. 
These moments hurt an otherwise entertaining and often fun motion
picture.

The plot is mostly a re-hash of Jaws.  It even takes place in the same town,
Amity.  It's been years since the first shark was killed and Chief Martin
Brody (Roy Scheider) begins to have his suspicions of another great white in
the vicinity when two divers are reported missing, a boating accident that
results in the mysterious disappearance of a mother and daughter, and a
killer whale washed ashore with large bites all over it.  Brody voices his
beliefs to the mayor (Murray Hamilton), who, along with real estate
developer Glenn Petersen (Joseph Mascolo), disregard this because of the
current production of a hotel on the beach.  

Brody's constant paranoia of the situation eventually gets him fired. 
Meanwhile, his two sons, Mike and Sean, sneak off to sail with a group of
other teens.  When another shark attack occurs and is confirmed, Brody sets
off to find his sons before it's too late. 

I've heard a lot of interesting things involving the making of this sequel. 
Apparently, Spielberg and Dreyfuss were interested in returning, but
couldn't due to their filming of Close Encounters.  The original story was
supposed to be more character-oriented, without as much focus on the teens
in peril, but when Spielberg had to back out the studio executives got
nervous and went with Szwarc to make a more formulaic and "effective"
sequel.  Roy Scheider would be the only big star from the original who would
return.

I'm a huge admirer of Steven Spielberg's film, and it would be hard for any
other director to equal, much less surpass, his filmmaking techniques. 
Director Jeannot Szwarc does an overall solid job here.  He knows what made
the first film effective and holds off long camera shots of the shark for a
while (in my opinion, maybe a little too long).  The beginning of the film
does a nice job of creating interest and a good set-up is appreciated. 
However, this set-up goes on a little too long.  A half-hour would have been
just fine, but Szwarc takes nearly 75 minutes for the film to focus on the
shark hunting down the sailing teens.  

You may wonder why I voice my complaint for this when in the original the
shark didn't make it's first full appearance until near the end.  Well, in
that film's case there were three great characters (only one of whom
returned) and some classic suspense sequences to crank up the tension
(Dreyfuss and Scheider's exploration of the abandoned boat, anyone?).  While
Szwarc should be noted for trying to build up momentum, he slows down
everything a little too much and thrill seekers looking for non-stop action
may find it disappointing, and it might be more up their alley to look for
Deep Blue Sea (which is considerably faster moving, though is an overall
weaker film).

It is initially interesting to see how this sequel builds up its story with
such scenes as the examination of a dead killer whale and a diver who runs
into the shark, and it is quite entertaining to revisit Amity again, but
Brody's constant back and forth debates with the town committee get tiresome
after awhile.  We know he's right and they're wrong and the film makers
should have realized that these arguments get old quickly.  To be fair,
Scheider's performance does put in a bit more tension into these scenes, but
it takes something more clever than that to keep things moving at a brisk
pace.

The film does finally get moving in the last 35 or so minutes, and it's in
those moments that make the film the overall effective sequel it is.  The
constant shark attacks deliver the goods.  Szwarc knows how to milk tension
into these scenes and doesn't disappoint.  The finale is particularly an
exercise in creating seat-gripping suspense.  It's almost a match for the
conclusion to Jaws.  The final showdown between Brody and the shark is just
as memorable and edge-of-the-seat as his final confrontation with the other
great white in the original.  John Williams' score is as effective as ever
and serves to heighten the tension factor by a notch.

Admittedly, there are some implausibilities abound.  Great whites aren't
nearly that aggressive and for one that eats as much as it does, it's really
quite hungry.  The shark even pulls down a helicopter in one scene to
presumably eat the pilot (In the TV version, there's an added scene of the
shark trying to chomp the pilot).  Brody's plan to kill the shark relies on
quite a bit of luck, though I won't complain as much about this since it is
the film's highlight sequence and is an example of masterful
direction.

Most people tend to ridicule the visual effects in the Jaws series.  In my
opinion, they're more effective and significantly better than CGI renditions
of animals seen in the more recent thrillers like Deep Blue Sea, Anaconda,
and Lake Placid.  Szwarc's high angle shots of the great white are the best,
evoking a sense of terror by just looking at the top of this ferocious
animal.  With an animatronic shark, it's not nearly as mobile as what can be
rendered by computer technology, but it beats having the animal look like a
refugee from a video game.  There are also other things that set this film
above those aforementioned movies, such as restraint, seriousness, and no
annoying over-reliance on mostly unfunny self-deprecating
humor.

To mention how effective the script is would probably be a moot point. 
Anybody watching this movie wants to see it for the shark attacks.  Howard
Sackler and Carl Gottlieb do a reasonable job of repeating what was
successful in the original story without completely ripping it off.  This
time around, there's no compelling monologue like Robert Shaw's retelling of
the fate of the men on the U.S.S. Indianapolis, but the screenwriters can be
credited for not writing any laughably ludicrous dialogue.  When the
stranded teens argue, everything they say is reasonable within the context
of the situation they're in.

The film's performances are overall decent.  Roy Scheider has always been
one of my favorite actors; he's easily the best here and is very good as the
man determined to save his sons.  Martin Brody is still by all means a great
character, and Scheider's portrayal of him as an everyman caught up in a
terrifying situation makes it extremely easy to sympathize with him. 
Lorraine Gray is decent as his wife and though she gets more screen time
than before she's still not given a chance to fully flesh out her character.
And, boy, we all saw her character develop in Jaws the Revenge, but we all
know how that turned out. Murray Hamilton and Joseph Mascolo are
appropriately sneaky and sly as the town mayor and real estate developer. 
They're really not so much people as they are those who have to be wrong all
the time.  It's a cliche, and it's not as effective as it was in Jaws. I
can't really say which actor who portrays the teens does the best job. 
They're all fairly equal and they are pretty good at not annoying us, which
makes it easier to feel for them when the shark attacks
begin.

It's basically like this:  when the film takes place on land, it's sometimes
slow-moving and not always interesting.  When it's on water, it's often
exciting and tense, with suspense that sometimes equals the original.  It's
definitely not as great a thriller as Jaws, but it is a worthy sequel and
certainly is better than the likes of Deep Blue Sea, Anaconda, and Lake
Placid.
<|_=00=_|>
It's strange, I wonder how this film would have been received if it was
directed by Spielberg instead of an unknown. Because this film is about
as intense as they come. Granted, it lacks in the personal
relationships and that is what made Jaws such the classic that it is.
We all know that there is no way a sequel to Jaws could ever live up to
what we experienced with Jaws, but this film is about as scary as they
come.

Here, I must admit that the characters take a back seat to the shark.
But is that necessarily wrong? We have already seen the shark in the
first one so the mystery is gone, so now the only thing to do is make
sure the audience is scared out of their minds. And that I can assure
you is done with just as much perfection and attention to detail as the
original. 

Take for example the opening scene where two divers are looking in the
Orca ( Quint's sunken ship from the first film ). They are playfully
taking pictures in front of the sunken ship. Then suddenly, a shot from
behind them, and the ominous music. You know they are going to be
eaten, but the scene is done with so much tension and perfect pacing
that you are scared all over again. And when the shark finally does
strike, we experience that primal emotion all over again.

The story is a fairly simple one but affective at the same time. Brody
( Roy Scheider ) is convinced there is another shark in the waters off
Amity and he is having a hard time convincing the town idiots that he
is right. But this time his two sons are a little older and they will
be involved in the final confrontation with the shark.

There is one other scene that I wanted to point out and that is a scene
where a picture is being developed. Brody is given a camera of the
missing divers from the beginning. The developer then tells him that
the pictures are about to be processed. As he stands in the red room,
waiting for the pictures to develop, he knows. He has that feeling.
Something is going to show up on the picture. And sure enough we see
it. The mouth. The black, doll-like lifeless eye appears in the corner
of the frame and Brody knows. He knows what it is. This is such a
powerful scene in the film and it is directed with such skill that it
looks like it could have been directed by Spielberg. 

I think Jaws 2 is a great film and it is just as scary if not a little
scarier than the first, but what it lacks is that it's characters don't
have time to develop. We don't care as much about these ones as we did
about Hooper and Brody and Quint to some degree. But that is a small
detail, because the film does it's job and that is to scare us. Look
for one more scene where Tina and her boyfriend are boating by
themselves. It will stay with you for quite some time.

Maybe if this was Spielberg's film he would have done something
different. But the one thing he couldn't do is to make it more of a
frightening experience than it is. So that is a compliment to Szwarc, I
just wonder what happened to him. Because he has a vision and a style
that is very reminiscent to Spielberg's original. If you haven't seen
this by now, treat yourself to the first one and then watch this one
right after. Especially to all the young people that are on the IMDb,
Jaws is a classic piece of film making and I have said that it is the
best film ever made, and it is. But if you want to be scared, Jaws 2
will fulfill that need just as well as the first and better than any
film that has come out in the 90's.

And finally, has there ever been a better tagline in the history of
motion pictures? Just when you thought it was safe to go back in the
water...... Brilliant.
<|_=00=_|>
No, this wasn't as good as the original, but it wasn't bad, either. In
fairness, the audiences knew what to expect in this one and had already
been shocked by the killer Great White Shark. Thus, it was no way
audiences were going to react to the sequel as they did the first Jaws
movie.

It didn't have Steven Spielberg directing, but it did have the same
locale with same principal characters on "Amity:" mainly Police Chief
Martin Brody (Roy Scheider), his wife Ellen (Lorraine Gary) and Mayor
Larry Vaughn (Murray Hamilton) so one didn't feel as if this was a
completely new film. There was continuity to it, and we have the same
problem (a big shark eating people). The main difference is that it is
just a few years after the first horrifying incidents.

This story mainly involves Chief Brody's teenage kids and their
friends. Overall, the film moves a little slowly the first hour, but
picks up dramatically in the second half. In fact, it turns out quite
intense, just like the first film. The main mistake the filmmakers made
- which they wouldn't do today, was that it was too slow for too long.
That, and the fact that the area residents apparently had a short
memory; unrealistically short.

Anyway, the shark looks more realistic.....and if you can hang in
there, you'll be rewarded with some good escapist entertainment in the
second hour.
<|_=00=_|>
When Jaws was released in 1975, I don't think audiences knew what hit
them. People were scared to death to go into the waters and Jaws became
the very first summer blockbuster. As set by example by later
Hollywood, it made money, WE NEED A SEQUEL. Well, Jaws 2 was an actual
book, but why not capitalize on it's success? Jaws 2 actually is a
decent movie, I don't know why this film is so picked on. I think
because it does have a bit of a slow start, but the ending is
fantastic. This was one of the first times we saw good looking
teenagers terrorized. Arguably yes, it's silly to think the shark would
come back for a second bite, but why not just let go and have a good
time with this one? I went back for seconds and still like this movie.

Once again, Mayor Vaughn doesn't share Brody's belief that the town has
another shark problem and warns him not to do something hasty. The
following day, while Brody is in an observation tower, he sees a large
shadow produced by a school of bluefish, which he mistakes for a shark.
In his haste, Brody orders everyone out of the water and fires his gun,
causing a panic. The town council fire Brody for the beach incident,
with Mayor Vaughn being the only one to vote against dismissal. The
next morning, Mike sneaks out and goes sailing with his friends, but
has to take his young brother Sean along to stop him telling his
parents about Mike's trip. But as they sail on the waters, the shark
decides it's time for some afternoon lunch and terrorizes the teens.
Martin realizes with his sons missing, they may be in trouble and goes
to save them and their friends.

Does the movie have it's flaws; yes. The acting is alright and the plot
is a bit silly. The beginning is a bit slow and the story isn't as
interesting as the first film with intelligent adults as clearly this
was made more for the scare and bringing back old characters for the
fans. Not to mention that the boat scene was a bit sloppy where the
dumb woman is grabbing a bottle of gasoline to light the shark on fire
I'm assuming but looses her balance and dumps it on herself and
proceeds to shoot a flare gun! Yeah, she had it coming. There is a
really bad mistake caught on film when the shark reaches in to bite
Michael, Jaws scraps it's mouth on the boat and the mouth bends as if
it was plastic, lol. But one of the things I like about the film is
that it still does give a good scare with the teenagers. Especially
when Marge has to save Shawn out of the water and she can't get back up
on the boat and keeps slipping, as you see Jaws going after her and it
just breaks your heart when Shawn witnesses her death. Also I have a
guilty pleasure for the actor Keith Gordon(Christine, All that Jazz,
and Back to School), this was one of his first films and he does a very
good job. The cast seemed to really click and did a good job working
together. Plus you have to love how "marine" Martin Brody gets when he
faces down Jaws for his last time and goes for that money shot. Jaws 2
is definitely flawed, but honestly a fun film that too many people
judge harshly. I think it's just a fun popcorn flick that you need to
let go and just have a good time when sequels had good intentions.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
It only figured that multiple sequels would be spawned from (at the
time) the most financially successful film in history. Jaws 2 was not
the least bit necessary in terms of story and character development.
It's merely an opportunity to put the lives of numerous young
characters in jeopardy before our hero from part one (Scheider) can
paddle to their rescue. The film is technically well-done, and the
action somewhat compelling. This film also made a fortune, but it had
nowhere near the commercial or critical success of the original.

First of all, the acting talent of Robert Shaw and Richard Dreyfuss is
sorely missed. They tried to write the Matt Hooper character back in,
but Dreyfuss was in the midst of shooting Close Encounters with
Spielberg, rendering his physical participation out of the question.
Roy Scheider is back, though. And once again he proves that he is in
fact a hell of a good actor. He's the kind of guy whose character you
always end up rooting for. This time we see a darker side of his Chief
Brody. Convinced there is a new shark in the waters off Amitty, he
presses the point so vigorously that he is fired from his job. Keep in
mind, the same mayor (Hamilton) is still in office, and he's not the
kind of guy who wants his beaches closed for any reason.

Despite losing his job, Brody is once again forced to dispose of the
killer great white before it devours his teenage son's friends and
their sail boats. The film has some good stunt work, and some memorable
shots of the killer fish. There is decidedly less blood shown in this
one. The original barely escaped and R-rating, and they were obviously
not going to chance that again. There are still plenty of frightening
scenes, though. French director Jeannot Szwarc is no Spielberg, but he
does a decent enough job with the material. John Williams' music still
rings true.

Speaking of the material, that's the film's weak spot. Sharks do not
behave like killers in a slasher movie. They don't use strategy to hunt
down their victims like the sharks in these movies. A great white shark
is a powerful and dangerous predator, but humans are generally not on
its menu. Jaws 2 is however, miles above the next two sequels in the
series. Part 3 had only the 3D gimmick to fall back on. Part 4 is
hardly worth mentioning unless you like to laugh at really, really bad
films.

7 of 10 stars for Jaws 2.

The Hound.

Added Feb 14, 2008: RIP Roy Scheider!
<|_=00=_|>
A film like "Jaws 2" proves that we can, indeed, get too much of a good
thing. Action and shark over substance and character development.
Somewhere along the way "Jaws" went from being about deep, intelligent
characters in intense situations to shallow teenagers in
B-monster-movie moments.

"Jaws 2," or "Jaws2" (no space in between "s" and "2"), takes place
four years after the horrid events in Amity, seen in the first film.
Police Chief Brody (Roy Scheider, commonly mistaken for Rob Schneider
with today's audience) is a veteran of a shark attack, of course. And
like most sequels involving characters who once battled a beast of some
sort and survived, Brody is now the official expert on sharks. When a
boat blows up off shore, Brody suspects a shark. When a killer whale is
found dead with chomp marks, Brody suspects a shark. Heck, you could
blow up the state of Arkansas and Brody would probably think it's a
shark.

Soon Brody loses his job because the town mayor (Murray Hamilton,
reprising his role shortly in this film because he had to stop filming
to attend to his sick wife) doesn't like poor Brody, even after the
events of the first film. Then Brody's seventeen-year-old son goes out
on a sail boat and before you can go, "Duh-duh-duh-duh" JAWS is coming
at him and his friends. Brody goes, tries to save them, and you can
guess what the outcome is.

Okay, here are some things I noticed that hindered this film:

1. The first thing that hits you over the head here is how this film is
painfully a copy in every way of the first film, only about ten times
worse. There is no suspense--they show the shark from the beginning on.
In a documentary made just for the "Jaws2" DVD, the director says that
"The shark has already been seen, so there's no suspense--you might as
well show it." Well, this is a bit true--I hate when horror sequels
wait till the end to show the creature ("Predator 2") even though we've
seen them in the first. But the way they do it here is painfully
un-suspenseful. The film really contains no sense of suspense.

2. You'd think that everyone in the town would have learned their
lesson last time: Brody was right about a shark, and he saved the day.
Here we see everyone turning back to their old ways and ignoring Brody.
You could give excuses for this, but the fact of the matter remains:
It's just another retread of the first film, done on a much lesser
scale.

3. The shark here is shown too much--he looks like a rubber ducky in a
bathtub. Kids scream as it attacks boats and helicopters--yes,
helicopters (that looks strange on paper)--and the shark comes out of
the water head first to swim forward. Now, unlike the first film where
the shark was never shown very well--because of mechanical problems or
not, they still didn't show it--they show the shark many, many times
here. And unlike the first when they DID show the shark, in "Jaws2"
they make the shark look utterly unrealistic. In the first the rubber
shark swam like a shark--this thing swims like a giant piece of rubber
in an ocean.

4. The director obviously went for action over story: Steven Spielberg
masterfully crafted an instense and scary film, yet at the same time
provided a very interesting character study. Here, we just see blood,
guts, and big rubber sharks--something that might look good in a
B-horror-movie, but not in a "Jaws" film.

5. What are the remote chances that another 25-foot Great White Shark
(capitalized for effect) would be off the coast off the small town
Amity twice? Perhaps this will answer that question:

After finding a killer whale, Brody asks a marine biologist (filling in
Richard Dreyfuss' most-missed shoes), "You don't think if one shark
dies, another shark could come and"--he gets cut off by the marine
biologist, who says, "Sharks don't take things personally, Mr. Brody."
Well, that's funny, according to the tagline for the forth film they
do. Perhaps that is one of the confusing elements of this film. Is the
shark attacking because Brody killed the other one four years ago? Or
is it just an odd coincidence? We may never know.

Steven Spielberg had the smarts to move on after the first project, as
did Richard Dreyfuss, and Roy Scheider should have said "no," too,
because you can't flog a dead fish and expect people to jump. (Did that
make sense? Sorry, I had a good catch-phrase in my head but it didn't
come out right.)

The first film should have been a stand alone, but in the case that
they should make a sequel to one of the most cherished films of all
time, for heaven's sake, make it good!

So now I come back to my original question. What should my header be
for this review? And then I got it:

"This time it's kind of personal!"

2.5/5 stars -

John Ulmer
<|_=00=_|>

Was there ever a doubt that "Jaws 2" wouldn't stand a chance of equaling the
original film? One could only hope that on its own level it was a decent
film. And that is exactly what we get. To try and view this film and compare
it to the original is an impossible task. The original "Jaws" is one of the
great films of all time. Viewers need to approach "Jaws 2" with the first
film completely out of mind. 

The sequel picks up a few years after the first film. The setting is the
same (Amity Island) and Roy Scheider is back as Chief Brody. Also returning
are Murray Hamilton as the Mayor, Lorraine Gary as Mrs. Brody, and Jeffery
Kramer as deputy Hendricks. Gary and Kramer have bigger parts this time
around while Hamilton still mills about not doing much of anything as he did
in the original.

The story this time centers around the teenagers of Amity Island headed by
the older Brody sons (who are amazingly quite older then just the few years
passed), particularly older brother Mike and his friends. They all like
parasailing and you know what that means right? Early on Brody starts
getting indications of another shark problem and takes his concerns to the
town board and mayor. One of the biggest flaws in the film is their
attitude, which is the same as the mayor's in the first film. Wouldn't you
think they might have a little concern considering what had happened a few
years earlier? The movie moves at a snail's pace for the first hour but
things pick up in the second half once the teenagers take the sailboats out
and realize the trouble that awaits them.

On the positive side the shark looks as good, if not better, then in the
first film. It is completely convincing. Scheider gives his usual solid
performance despite playing second fiddle to a mechanical fish. And the
second half of the film is quite suspenseful at times. There is one shot
that has to be seen to be believed. An unconscience Mike Brody is in the
water with the shark fast approaching. His friends are trying to lift him
into the boat. The shark comes out of the water and.... well I won't tell
you what happens but I think it is the best shark shot in the entire series
of "Jaws" films.

On the negative side the characters of the teenagers are pretty one
dimensional and we don't get to know many of them well enough to care if
they end up as shark dinner or not. One of the teens played by Donna Wilkes
spends the last half hour doing nothing but screaming. The screams are so
annoying either you almost wish she would fall in the water and be done with
it. A scene with a helicopter in the water is as ridiculous as things can
get. The ending (not revealed here) is a touch silly but if you think about
it the ending to the original was no more silly. 

In the end "Jaws 2" is a decent but not great followup. For those that truly
dislike the film I invite them to watch "Jaws 3" or "Jaws: The Revenge".
Those films make part 2 look like the classic the first one
is.
<|_=00=_|>

While Steven Spielberg's "Jaws" a dark, scary, and gripping thriller, "Jaws
2" is a scary movie for kids who don't really want to be scared. The
imagination and unique style that Spielberg put into the original is sorely
lacking here; this is merely a teenagers-in-jeopardy thriller as hordes of
sailboating teens are terrorized by the giant killer shark. Spielberg did
not expose us to the actual shark until much later in the film, which added
to the heightened tension. We see the shark up close right away in this
film, and it's no sense of terror. The shark chomps on water skiers, attacks
boats, drags a helicopter out of the air and into the ocean, snacks on scuba
divers, and the day is once again saved by Chief Brody (Roy Scheider.) With
all this chomping and chewing going on, "Jaws 2" is oddly ineffective and
unscary. While alot of kids were genuinely frightened and scared by the
original "Jaws," this sequel is more like a carnival ride that provides a
few thrills but is forgotten after it is over. The music by John Williams is
absolutely fabulous and the atmosphere is sunnier this time around, but
"Jaws 2" fails to satisfy. It's just alot of kids screaming and falling in
the water. While the original is a horror masterpiece, this is an O.K. film
for squeamish little children.
<|_=00=_|>
A lot of people come under the misconception that only Jaws is good
while all the sequels are bad but that's not entirely true. Of course
Jaws 3D and Jaws the Revenge are the ones you should definitely avoid
at all costs but Jaws 2 is the one that gets under-looked and unfairly
rated because of the bad rep the later sequels did. I assure you all,
Jaws 2 is nothing like those said bad sequels films, in fact this film
is actually as enjoyable as it's preceding film.

Like a proper sequel should do it directly continues from where the
first film left off with most of the same characters returning
including main protagonist Police Chief Martin Brody (Roy Scheider), he
is just an excellent main character, it wouldn't be a Jaws film without
him who has the unfortunate task of dealing with another man eating
shark that is terrorising the sea of this island resort town of Amity.
Although the film starts off slow but as more of the film gets going
the better it becomes. I loved the moments when the shark kills the
victims like a horror villain should.

Now of course Jaws 2 may not match up to the original film but at least
the people who made this film actually tried to make a good film with a
decent story. I enjoyed it and I highly recommend it, it's one of the
many underrated sequels that should be given a chance.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is about as bad as a "teen scream" can get. A shark that can
swim faster than a speed boat to catch water skiers. A shark that can
eat a helicopter. Dumb teens who do little more than whine and scream.
They took the premise of a mature thriller like Jaws and turned it into
a mindless excuse for teens to act "cool" and then really, REALLY
stupid. The latter 3/5 of the movie Roy Scheider is left twiddling his
thumbs lost in the ocean just to give time for a bunch of teens who
can't act their way out of a paper bag. Then Roy Scheider pops back in
at the end for the most implausible way to kill a shark ever put a film
that wasn't direct to video--which is what should have happened to this
film. One word -- BAD!
