

This is one of the funniest and most underrated movies ever made.  Just
when
you think it's about to slow down and become a normal movie, it veers in a
whole other, even crazier (and arguably funnier) direction than you could
have ever hoped for.  With brilliant performances by Peter Falk, Alan
Arkin,
and Richard Libertini (who has one of the film's best lines: "These are
the
best security men in the world.  They used to work for J.C. Penney"), this
is a must see for any fan of true film comedy.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm a big Peter Falk fan, so I watched this movie because he was in it. I
was in for quite a surprise. It has quickly become one of my favorite
comedies of all. Peter Falk and Alan Arkin are a perfect pair. The great
thing about this movie is that it seems to invent itself as it goes along.
The movie isn't following any type of formula, it's making itself up as it
goes along, or so it seems. Very funny. My rating: 10
<|_=00=_|>

This may be one the most underrated comedies ever made. This movie has
made
me laugh out loud each of the many times I have seen it. One of the things
that makes it really special, however, is that this would be a good movie
even if it never had a funny line. The reason is that it is simply a great
story. The plot is full of twists and turns, and leaves you surprised at
the
end. This alone would make this movie a "7." Add the numerous laughs, and
this movie becomes an undenible "10."

<|_=00=_|>

Peter Falk and Alan Arkin are an absolutely killer combination in this
over-the-top comedy. The writer who helped pen "Blazing Saddles," Andrew
Bergman, is back in a solo effort this time that downplays the profanity and
adult situations of that earlier classic for a family-friendly outing that
loses none of its bite or wit.

For me, this film carries the same buttoned-down lunacy of a great Bob and
Ray routine, only sustained for 90 minutes, with hardly a sagging line or
note. Get through the first five minutes, a fairly routine armored car
robbery and a protracted stairwell run, and you will not be sorry, because
the rest of "The In-Laws" is so funny, it will take you three or four eager
viewings before you appreciate just how brilliant beyond belief it is. At
least that's what happened with me.

It's a strangely genial film, its approach personified in Peter Falk's
"friend of the world" interpretation of Vince Ricardo. There's nothing that
phases him, or is too minute to warrant some breezily cheery comment, like
"Is this coffee freeze-dried? It's very good." Or "The benefits [for
belonging to the CIA] are terrific. The trick is not to get killed. That's
the whole key to the benefits package."

Ricardo's approach is exemplified in an apron he is seen wearing at a
barbeque: "I'm loaded with options." That he is, and screenwriter Bergman,
too. In a somewhat desultory but still necessary DVD commentary for
"In-Laws" fanatics like me, it is revealed by Bergman and director Arthur
Hiller reveal the key moment for the screenplay is a fairly straight and
jokeless scene between Alan Arkin's Dr. Kornpett and his daughter, where she
urges him not to reject Ricardo because of his subliminated sexual jealousy
about losing his daughter to Ricardo's son in marriage. Okay, maybe that
does read funny, but it doesn't come across as funny.

The way the scene works, once the hapless dentist hears this, he is screwed.
He has to help out Ricardo, in an inane flight from the government into the
arms of the only Latin American dictator who's national flag features a
topless woman, and whose apparent deputy is a Senor Wences hand puppet. You
just follow along the same way Dr. Kornpett does, never knowing what to
expect next, and, unlike him, enjoying it all the way through.

This film isn't laughs for everyone. Senator Jesus Braunsweiger's
next-of-kin and BMW enthusiasts will find plenty to mourn. But for everyone
else seeing it for the first time, it will be a joy forever, and a bit of a
puzzlement: Why isn't this comedy better-known? Why don't people quote it as
readily as "Caddyshack," "The Blues Brothers" or other lesser, contemporary
fare?

One last thing: Alan Arkin's performance is maybe the best thing in the
movie. I only realized this after repeat viewings. He's not the funniest
comic actor around, frankly I never found his stuff that good in the other
films of his I've seen, but here he makes the thing work. I wanted to say
something about this containing the best straight-man work since Bud Abbott,
but the more I see it, the less I'm sure who's the straight man. So many of
the great lines are his: "There are flames on my car." "Flies with beaks?"
"A Zee? A Zee?" "What flow? There isn't any flow." And to think his first
line in the movie is a complaint about the viscosity of his dental
bibs.

Just shut me up and go see it already. Or see it again. There's worse things
you could do with your time, and not much better. 

<|_=00=_|>

peter faulk and alan arkin make a great comedy,team, because they
counterbalance each other. With a great script and a very funny adjoining
cast of characters, arkin and falk takes us to a various locales and
absurd
locations to show a great talent of comedic timing between the two of them
one being a dentist and the other, a character of enigmatic qualities.
Have
to see this one.
<|_=00=_|>

This is truly one of the most under-appreciated comedies of all time.
Peter Falk and Alan Arkin are magnificent. It was shamed by the
abhorrent re-make/re-visit of 2003. Don't judge this original by that
pathetic after birth. Two scenes stand out as 'need to see.' The first
meeting between Falk and Arkin and the subsequent dinner has many a
classic line, 'Beaks? The flies had beaks?' and 'There's tremendous
red-tape in the bush.' The landing in Tihara and the car chase that
follows including the famous 'Serpentine!' sequence makes me laugh out
loud with every viewing. 'They make a chicken sandwich. They heat it
up, serve it on a hard roll, with orange juice or pineapple juice,
y'know grande, a big one. And coffee. Espresso with that wonderful
foam. Oh Jesus Pigs!' 

If you have no idea what I'm talking about, treat yourself to this
classic. If you like Monty Python, Mel Brooks, Woody Allen and the
like, you will absolutely enjoy The In Laws.

<|_=00=_|>
This movie is absolutely hysterical. And I do not mean very funny. I
mean it is hysterical.

The plot is that a CIA operative and a dentist, played superbly and
respectively by Peter Falk and Alan Arkin, are about to become in-laws
because their two children are to be married. But Falk, about to retire
from his clandestine duties, needs Arkin's help to pull off one final
mission. From beginning to end the antics of these two will leave you
in side-splitting humor. And the performance by Richard Libertini as a
South American dictator is equal to Falk and Arkin's contribution to
this classic comedy.

If you want to see an intelligent and realistic film that is extremely
funny from start to finish then this is it. Don't miss it!
<|_=00=_|>
Watched it again this weekend and laughed as hard - no, harder - than
the previous 20 viewings! What is it about this movie? It gets FUNNIER
every time. Oh sure, everyone comments here about the biggest laugh:
Serpentine! Arguably one of the funniest in film history. But there are
SO MANY great lines and moments: "There's no reason to shoot at me, I'm
a dentist!" "Left turn at The General Garcia Toll Bridge...it's a
fitting tribute general...yes, much better than a statue." "We have no
blindfolds senor, we are a poor country." Vince: "from here on in it's
very cut and dry." Shelley: "it's not cut. it's not dry." How about
Shelley's expression as the general pours cold water into his own hand
to calm down his agitated friend? And the airline safety instructions
delivered by Billy (or is it Bing?) in Chinese. IT JUST GOES ON AND ON!
Tell everyone you know, don't go see the remake - rent the original!
<|_=00=_|>

This truly hilarious comedy is one of the funniest movies of the period.
No
one does the sort of deadpan face that says "I can't believe what I'm
hearing and seeing" like Alan Arkin. Peter Falk's comic abilities match
his
skill in heavier roles. The interplay between them is marvelous, matching
that of Lemmon & Matthau (one wishes they had made more films together).
Many side-splitting moments, and some superbly comic dialogue. Not to be
missed.

Serpentine, Shel, serpentine!!!
<|_=00=_|>

I've just seen this film for the third time - the first was in 1979 when it
was in the cinemas, the second was in 1989, and last night - 1999. And each
time I've loved it. Somehow it catches just the right note early on, and
manages to maintain it right thru the film.

I think the character of Vince (Peter Falk) is the key. At the start of the
film we are convinced that he is a loud-mouthed schmuck with criminal
tendencies, embarrassing and unpleasant to be around. This image slowly
begins to crack, and although his behavior doesn't change one iota from
start to finish, our perception of him does. So much so that by the close of
the film we come to see him as a man of heroic qualities, gracious, and
modest to boot. It's a very clever transformation and it's achieved via a
plot that spirals hilariously out of control at dazzling
speeds.

And of course the other joy of the film is the unlikely relationship which
develops under fire between the zany CIA operative Falk and Alan Arkin as
the dull but respectable dentist. 


