

    I've just seen "Revolution" on TV and I have to say that it's a much
better movie than one may think. 
    Sometimes a movie is worth-seeing only because of its wonderful
production values. And "Revolution" is an eye-popping visual feat: wonderful
cinematography, first-rate period details. I might say that beside Stanley
Kubrick's "Barry Lyndon" and Tony Richardson's "Tom Jones", this is the most
beautifully made period movie about the eighteenth century.
    "Revolution" is also an important film because there are only about a
dozen films on the Revolutionary War and almost all of them are a matter of
obscurity - at least for a Hungarian movie lover. The most popular is Roland
Emmerich's "The Patriot" (2000). In my opinion that's a much worse film than
Hudson's maligned film.
    When "Revolution" was released it was a critical and commercial
disaster. I think it didn't fit in any of the movie trends of the 1980s. But
in the future it might be regarded as a flawed but valuable movie. Its flaws
are obvious and much-discussed so I don't want to speak about
them.
     If you're interested in beautiful period pieces and the Revolutionary
War you might like this movie.    
<|_=00=_|>

This movie has consistantly been trashed by numerous professional and
amateur reviewers alike. Even Leonard Maltin, my personal favorite movie
guy, rated it a "BOMB". I can`t understand why. Although it isn`t a perfect
film endeavor, it does tell a story that`s never been told before...but
obviously in a manner that many found extremely annoying at best. Aside
from
New York and L.A. movie houses, I don`t believe this film was released
nationally at any time. Personally, I thought it was a very different type
of movie, but effective and entertaining in a strange way. It gave me a
feel
for the time period, including an appealing atmospheric identity. Being an
ex-NewYorker and exposed to the famous Revolutionary battlefields, that
still exist throughout the metro area, I felt an aura of actually being
present in that time period, with events occuring on both surrealistic and
realistic levels. Al Pacino is a born/raised New Yorker and I believe
captured the essence of his character very well. Pacino gave a solid
portrayal of an 18th. century individual caught up in a violent period of
American history. This movie has been unfairly criticized and overly
maligned in my humble opinion. A unique film deserving of more praise then
it has been awarded. See it for yourself.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----

<|_=00=_|>

An incomparable historical epic about the American Revolutionary War,
Revolution brings Al Pacino to the fore as Dobbs the trapper swept up in the
Continental Army and Kinski as Daisy the rebellious daughter of a cynically
duplicit Tory merchant family.

 Set against the backdrop of the American Revolution, Al Pacino plays Tom
Dobbs a man swept up in Revolutionary upheaval fighting alongside his son.
After the battle of Brooklyn, Dobbs like most of the patriotic army melts
away, but enduring life in British occupied New York City proves too much.
Dobbs and his son escape conscription into the enemy army by fleeing to
American lines. They're out to teach a murderous redcoat (Donald Sutherland)
a lesson.

 Daisy plays the part the Red Coats complained of and dreaded: nurse at
Brooklyn, spy in Philadelphia and occasionally an irregular soldier with a
loaded pistol for an unsuspecting enemy.

 The historical choreography was outstanding. Attention to detail is
remarkable particularly in the period music. The uniforms and costuming are
magnificent. If Donald Sutherland plays an iron-willed, British
Sergeant-Major, a realistically fiercesome antagonist, the movie catches the
principal grievances between the opposing forces. The deposing of the last
Royal Governor and battle of Brooklyn are imaginatively and accurately
staged. This is no small feat. Only one block of the original Hanseatic city
is left in New York City and the entire battlefield of Brooklyn and Long
Island lay under the nation's fourth largest city. And perhaps `The World
Didn't Turn Upside Down' when Lord Cornwallis wept in his tent and General
O'Hara's Second Guards surrendered to the tune of Minstrel Boy.

 A Classic That Warrants A Second Look Revolution, the movie, was not well
received in its time. Lost in the wilderness of the post-Vietnam malaise of
anti-heroism, critics pinged Al Pacino's inescapable accent. How do you
suppose men from the Hudson River Valley in 1775 spoke when English and
Dutch were still interchangeable? Some reviewers did not like the battle
scenes. The patriotic gore wasn't enough? Some didn't think the snow was
deep enough at Valley Forge. Even in the North East's snowiest winters, it
doesn't snow every day.

 In consequence of the time in which the movie played to, the film was a box
office disaster grossing less than $200,000. There maybe a time when motion
pictures like books win a status long after release they did not enjoy
immediately. Hopefully that time will come for Revolution a movie well worth
revisiting.


<|_=00=_|>
I'm all for the idea of a grand epic of the American Revolutionary War.
This ain't it. (And for that matter, neither was the
Emmerich/Devlin/Gibson THE PATRIOT. But I digress.)

I saw this film at a publicity screening at the old MGM Studios (now
Sony) just before it came out. The audience had high expectations for
this expensive period piece, written by veteran Robert Dillon, directed
by the esteemed Hugh Hudson (of CHARIOTS OF FIRE fame), and starring Al
Pacino.

But it didn't take long for people to start squirming in their seats,
whispering derisive comments about Pacino's horribly misconceived
accent -- he was supposed to be an American frontiersman of Scottish
ancestry(!) -- and that of Nastassja Kinski, who was supposed to be
recently emigrated from England(!!). Then the story started and it all
went downhill fast.

Motivations were muddled, dialogue was atrocious, events had no
historical or political context. What there was of a plot lurched
forward on absurd coincidence; by the second or third time that alleged
lovers Pacino and Kinski stumbled into each other it had become a bad
joke. Donald Sutherland gave an unhinged performance as a British
officer/pederast. His accent was all over the map too. I guess there
weren't any English actors available.

Lots of people left. Those who stayed tried to stifle giggles, then
openly guffawed. I stuck it out -- I figured that at least the battle
scenes might be good. I was wrong. Inexplicably, Hudson chose to film
them with hand-held cameras, not even Steadicam, the jerkiness giving a
misplaced newsreel 'authenticity' which ruined the sense of scale.

There was a semi-famous TV reviewer in the audience a few rows ahead of
me: (the late) Gary Franklin of Channel 7 Eyewitness News. I could tell
he was peeved by the behavior of the rest of us. And sure enough, on
his TV segment the next day he gave the film a '10' on his notorious
'Franklin Scale of 1 to 10', while remarking churlishly about the louts
who'd disrupted the screening the night before, who clearly didn't know
art when they saw it. What a buffoon.

After this disaster, Pacino didn't star in another film for almost 4
years. Hugh Hudson's career never recovered. You can't say I didn't
warn you.
<|_=00=_|>

"Revolution" is short on story and action, however, the set design,
costumes
and above all the cinematography is first rate.  I can easily imagine
that
the way the film shows 18th Century life in North America is how it
actually
was.  Unlike earlier (as well as later films) that favor a more "clean"
depiction of the era "Revolution" shows the poverty, desperation and
filth
that was common in cities like New York without exploiting it.  It is
unfortunate that the plot and casting of the film didn't do justice to
the
outstanding work of the set designers.  I can't bash the story too much
because there have been far worse films that are now heralded as
classics.
If you like period films then give "Revolution" a chance, I think you
will
be pleasantly surprised.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't figure Al Pacino out. I watch him in the Godfather, Scarface,
Carlito's Way, and I think I am watching one of the greatest actors of
the last thirty years. Then I see him in Two for the Money, Any Given
Sunday and Revolution, and I wonder what the guy is thinking.

I stumbled on Revolution a few nights ago, and thought I would invest
the next two hours on this. Here is a news flash: Want to get prisoners
to talk? Force them to watch this over and over...they'll confess to
anything.

I won't rehash the plot since there is no coherent plot, but it does
take place during the American Revolution and Pacino plays an
uneducated peasant who does not want to get involved, but ultimately
does. While he has no money, no education and dresses like a caveman, a
very hot Natasha Kinski falls in love with him for no apparent reason,
since they have only two minutes of dialogue together.

Quite frankly, if "Al Smith" starred in this movie, instead of "Al
Pacino", it would have ruined their career. The script was horrible,
but Pacino's demotivated performance and obvious fake accent made it
even worse. Donald Sutherland's role was laughable. I really can't
describe it. Natasha Kinski is a main character, but has like 5 lines
in the movie. In fact, nobody speaks much in this movie.

One of the most laughable premise in the movie is how Al Pacino and
Kinski have this uncanny knack to continually run into each other on
the battlefield. Its like the entire Northeast is a Starbucks. "Hey,
funny to see you here again, on ANOTHER battlefield 100 miles
away...see you in a few months".

I am required to give this one star by IMDb, since there is nothing
here for a negative score.
<|_=00=_|>

Searching for some short-length used videotapes, I found the laserdisc
version of "Revolution," which I'd never seen. This non-letterbox, TV
format
version had the usual "talking to air" problem with 2.35:1 movies.
Although
a scratch and miscellaneous dirt made the picture skip/repeat/wobble, it
was
an interesting foxhole-level look at the American Revolution. The scenery,
set design, costumes, and varied kinds of people made me think that this
was
Sergio Leone's take on The War for Independence. Was Al Pacino believable
as
a backwoods English colonist? No, but like a scratch running through a
film,
the "speech impediment" is overlooked as the tale unfolds. This film,
unlike
"The Patriot," shows camp followers, Indians on both sides, fighting
women,
"Not Worth a Continental" issues, lots of dirt and the conventions and
results of 18th century warfare. Valley Forge isn't as grim an encampment
as
paintings and written records reported, but it's a close miss for the
English countryside location. Are the characters believable? Hard to tell,
since their histories and motives aren't complete. (Having the action jump
place to place with jumps in time make this a
"fill-in-the-missing-backstory"
exercise found in James Clavell's book "Nobel House" series.) Is it an
interesting movie? Definitely, and has that 18th century "fleas, dirt, and
grease" look that is missing from "The Patriot." 7/10, for presenting
issues
and motives that turned English colonists into Americans.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of my favorites. You would probably have to be a history
nut to agree with me. While the story sometimes lags and gets boring,
this is a well made period piece. The locations, wardrobe, dialect add
to a historically accurate drama. Unlike The Patriot, this movie looks
and feels real. Al Pacino's character Tom Dobb Is an ordinary man in
extraordinary times. He is unwilling to fight as he has lost his entire
family except for one young son who is lured in to the romance of war.
In order to protect his son Tom Dobb must fight for his country. This
is the viewpoint of the Revolutionary War from a common man. No
generals or grand battle plans, just a man trying to save his family
who helps save a country. There are so few movies dedicated to the
Revolutionary War, This one is the best of them all.
<|_=00=_|>
Brilliant actor as he is, Al Pacino completely derails Revolution – his
Method acting approach is totally ill-suited to the role of an
illiterate trapper caught up in the American War of Independence. Much
of the blame should be attributed to director Hugh Hudson (yes, the man
who made Chariots Of Fire just a couple of years earlier – talk about a
come-down!!). One of the many jobs of a director is to marshal the
actors, coaxing believable performances from them, but in this case
Hudson has allowed Pacino to run amok without asking for restraint of
any kind. It's not just Al's career-low performance that hinders the
film though: there are numerous other flaws with Revolution, more of
which will be said later.

Illiterate trapper Tom Dobb (Al Pacino) lives in the north-eastern
region of America with his son Ned (Sid Owen/Dexter Fletcher). He leads
a simple life – living off the land, raising his son, surviving against
the elements. The country is lorded over by the English colonialists,
but during an eight year period (1775-83) a revolution takes place
which ends with the British being defeated and the independent American
nation being born. Dobb gets caught up in the events when his boat and
his son are conscripted by the Continental Army – swept away by events
they can barely understand, the Dobbs finds themselves fighting for
their lives and freedom in one bloody engagement after another. Tom
also falls in love with Daisy McConnahay (Natassja Kinski), a beautiful
and fiery woman of British aristocratic ancestry. Their forbidden love
is played out against the larger historical context of the fighting.

Where to start with the film's flaws? Most key actors are miscast –
Pacino has been criticised enough already, but Kinski fares little
better as the renegade aristocrat while Donald Sutherland is hopelessly
lost as a ruthless English soldier with a wobbly Yorkshire accent.
Robert Dillon's script is muddled in its attempts to bring massive
historical events down to a personal level. At no point does anyone
seem to have decided whether this is meant to be an intimate character
study with the American Revolution as a backdrop, or an epic war film
with a handful of sharply drawn characters used to carry the story
along. As a result, the narrative falls into no man's land, flitting
from "grand spectacle" to "small story" indiscriminately and
meaninglessly. John Corigliano's score is quite ghastly, and is poured
over the proceedings with neither thought nor subtlety. Hugh Hudson's
direction is clumsy throughout, both in his mismanagement of Pacino and
the other key actors, and in the decision to use irritatingly shaky
camera work during the action sequences. The idea of the hand-held
camera is to create immediacy – that feeling of "being there" in the
confusion of battle and musket fire. Like so many other things in the
film, it doesn't work. The one department where the film regains a
modicum of respectability is the period detail, with costumes, sets and
weaponry that look consistently accurate. But if it's period detail
you're interested in a trip to the museum would be a better way to
spend your time, because as a rousing cinematic experience Revolution
doesn't even begin to make the grade. Nothing more than a £18,000,000
mega-bomb that the ailing British film industry could ill afford in the
mid-1980s.
<|_=00=_|>
I had wanted to see this movie for quite some time, but for some
strange reason it never appeared on television despite its cast.
However, I finally managed to find a copy of it at a specialized video
store in my city. (The version I found was the director's cut.) So what
did I think of it? Well, I admit that the look of the movie is very
convincing. The costumes, props, and set decoration look fantastic. It
really seems that they captured what the colonies were like more than
200 years ago.

However, the story and characters are less convincing. For example, the
movie seems to suggest that most Americans were pro-revolution. In
actual fact, a third were pro-revolution, another third were British
loyalists, and the remaining third either didn't care or were
undecided. Another odd fact is that the movie portrays just about all
of the pro- revolutionists as despicable - odd because the filmmakers
were trying to sell this movie to the American public! Actually, most
of the other characters in the movie, like the British soldiers, are
also shown in a negative light. There are precious few characters in
the movie to care about. The actors try, but a lot of the roles are
shallow. Donald Sutherland and Nastassja Kinski have little to do
despite their billing.

There are other problems in the movie I could go on for some time
listing, like Pacino's extensive yet completely unnecessary narration.
Still, I will admit that while I didn't like the movie, I wasn't bored
at any moment. There's plenty of eye candy, and I confess a curiosity
as to how Pacino's character would end up. The movie isn't as bad as
some critics have claimed... though I won't hesitate to add that it
wasn't worth the years I searched for a way to see it.
