

If you liked the original (which I did) and expect the same level of
"sophistication" here, don't.  This is not the sequel you've been waiting
for.

"Porky's II: The Next Day" offers up some laughs but the rest is filled in
with sub-plots about the KKK, political campaigning, American Indians and
right-wing religion.  THIS in a movie with a character named
Pee-Wee?

Maybe Bob Clark felt he needed to do some social atonement for the non-PC
stuff he committed in the original.  But just because it's PC doesn't mean
it's funny.

No Porky, no locker room humor, no Miss Honeywell, no shower scenes... but
at least Miss Balbricker (Parsons) gets her comeuppance thanks to a snake in
a most unexpected place.  

And as far as verbal intelligence goes, its highlight comes when the
principal (Christmas) tell Reverend Flavel (Wiley) what to do with his
flock.  And if that isn't the level of sophistication you were hoping for,
consider yourself warned.

Four stars.  Boogedy, boogedy, boogedy!
<|_=00=_|>

I thought that this was the best movie of the Porky's trilogy.  The
best scene in all the movies is the graveyard scene and this movie has it.
If you're looking for some deep intellectual stuff, stay away from this
movie and the other two.  But, if you're in the mood for good (unclean)
fun
try this movie.  It's hilarious.  And all those people out there who say
women don't like this movie are wrong!  I'm a young women and I loved this
film when I was a teenager, plus I used to watch it with my brother and
(get
this) my mom.
If you're offended by:  foul language, nudity and sexual humor don't
watch this movie!  If you ignore this warning and watch it anyway don't
complain that the characters said the "f word" too much or that everyone
was
obsessed with sex, 'cuz that's what it's about folks!
<|_=00=_|>

Porky's II: The next Day is even funnier than the forst Porky's, but should
be seen together.  Watch Porky's (1981) first, then Porky's II: The Next Day
(1983).  By now you may notice the cast has developed a repertoire and
delivery similar to the Dead End Kids/ East Side Kids/ Bowery Boys of
1937-1958, comedic-wise that is.  This film is NOT for children to see.  As
usual, there is plenty of male nudity, several full frontal, and female
nudity as well.  I will not spoil the surprises of storyline.  But Jewish
people might get a good chuckle this time around and those who are Native
American Indian might be offended or laugh as well.  I doubt that male
indians would partake in such an auditorium gathering but keeping in mind,
this is only a comedy movie.  However, I am glad the bris scene did not go
any further.  Kaki Hunter is a hoot in her star-bangled character.   I was
rolling on the floor with laughter.  The dirty words in Shakespeare Vs.
dirty words in the Holy Bible two-man duet is a riot, too.  Continue
watching this film during the end credits for more adult scenes.  The next
film is Porky's Revenge (1985).
<|_=00=_|>
Porky's 2 was saddled with the unenviable task of following up The Most
Successful Film In Canadain History(TM). It had the majority of the
original cast and the same writer/director - what could possibly go
wrong? Well, just about everything ...

The original Porky's helped to create the genre of the American high
school sex-comedy - still a hugely popular and bankable theme today.
Whilst the original creamed $111 million at the US box office, the
sequel only scored a limp $33 million.

The problem with Porky's II is that it is supposed to be a sex-comedy,
yet it has no sex and very little comedy. Whilst the original film had
a pretty flimsy plot, at least it had one. The characters had clear
motives, be it getting laid or taking revenge on Porky's. In the sequel
the main motivation of the characters is to get a series of Shakespeare
plays performed by their school drama group. Yes, that's right - they
are no longer seeking out the pleasures of strip bars, peeping on the
girls showers or trying to bed nubile cheerleaders - they want to
perform a midsummer night's dream.

It's hard to come up with a more poorly conceived plot device for the
Porky's series. It takes some suspension of disbelief to think that the
likes of Pee Wee and Meat are going to do battle with folk of angel
beach so they put on the works of the great bard.

The villains of this piece are also poorly realised. There is an
extremely annoying hypocritical Reverend and a slimy politician. The
role of Miss Balbricker is downplayed and Porky (the title character!)
doesn't even appear in the film.

The "jokes" here are laboured, far outstaying their welcome. The best
(worst?) example of this is the final scene in the restaurant where
Wendy exacts revenge on the duplicitous politician. It is a scene so
overdone, so overacted that it is painful to watch. To be this bad
takes sausAGES.

Fans of the Porky film are not hard to please. Take some low brow
comedy, add in copious amounts of gratuitous nudity and start counting
in the cash. Remove these elements and you are left with a 90 minute
waste of celluloid.
<|_=00=_|>
Bob Clark's untimely death in a car crash a few days ago brings to mind
his career, including "Porky's II: The Next Day". This one hilariously
continues the get-laid-at-any-cost adventures of the teenage boys
portrayed in the original movie. The actual plot has their school
putting on a production of Shakespeare plays and getting threatened by
the Ku Klux Klan, an angry clergyman, and hypocritical politicians. Of
course, it's all an excuse for any crazy idea that they can dream up. I
nearly laughed myself hoarse during the restaurant scene, not only at
what was happening but also trying to imagine how much fun they must
have had filming it! Anyway, it's just a pleasure to watch,
particularly with what happens in the cemetery, and the whole end
sequence. This was a sequel that equaled its original. And if you
remember the "electric sex" from "A Christmas Story", check out the
Shakespeare performance here! Just hilarious. To play off of what
another Porky famously said: th-th-th-that'll never be all, folks! In
conclusion: Bob Clark, wherever you are, we'll always remember you, if
only for the "Porky's" movies.

Bob Clark directed flicks as different as the "Porky's" movies,
"Children Shouldn't Play with Dead Things" and "A Christmas Story". The
things that we see in life...
<|_=00=_|>
As often happens, this sequel to PORKY'S (1982) is inferior to the
original - but, then, neither is it as bad as Leonard Maltin claims in
his esteemed Film Guide! 

It does cheat by forsaking the titular establishment entirely, though
the formula is pretty much the same as before - except that here some
of the characters from the original disappear and are replaced by new
ones, while the girl who was involved with the protagonist in the first
film gets a bigger part this time around. Again, the film pits a
certain minority - in this case, American Indians - against a bigoted
community.

While the film's major asset has to be the over-the-top
characterization of the hypocritical Reverend, there are almost as many
belly laughs here as in the original. Scenes that particularly stand
out are the 'Shakespeare v. Bible' quoting duel (even if it's kind of
silly and out-of-character to have the boys involved in putting on a
show of the Bard's work in the first place) and the individual
come-uppance of the gang's various antagonists - the KKK (in the school
gymnasium), the duplicitous board member (humiliated in a restaurant
prior to re-election) and the aforementioned evangelist and his flock
(at their own rally).

P.S. Interestingly, co-writer Alan Ormsby had previously collaborated
with Clark on his first two horror outings - CHILDREN SHOULDN'T PLAY
WITH DEAD THINGS (1972; which I've never watched) and DEATHDREAM
(1972)!
<|_=00=_|>
Writer/director Bob Clark must've made a mint from his box office smash
Porky's, so I can't really blame him for capitalising on his success
with a guaranteed cash-cow sequel that repeats the same formula of dumb
pranks and penis gags, while once again throwing in some racial tension
to drive the story. What I do blame him for is making the film such a
laugh-free mess, while toning down the raunchiness, one of the few
factors that made the first Porky's bearable.

No-one in Porky's II gets laid: they're too busy prancing around on
stage in a dreadful Shakespearian high-school production, which brings
them to blows with a local evangelist Reverend Flavel (Bill Wiley), who
deems the show obscene, the KKK, who object to Seminole Indian John
Henry (Joseph Runningfox) playing the part of Romeo, and sleazy county
commissioner Gebhardt (Edward Winter), who tries to seduce Pee Wee's
girlfriend Wendy (Kaki Hunter). Cue lots of desperate gags that involve
someone dressed as a George Romero-style zombie, an exotic dancer
dubbed Graveyard Gloria (Cisse Cameron), a sword-fight with a
mannequin's leg, a snake in a toilet bowl, and fake vomit.

3.5/10, rounded up to 4 for IMDb.
<|_=00=_|>
Our gang of "teenagers"(using teenagers loosely) at Angel Beach High
School are now butting heads with a fundamental minister with a flock
of locals supporting him, the city commission, and the klu klux klan.
It's all over, believe it or not, a Shakespearean festival considered
"obscene." The Klan have a problem with a Native American tribe in the
area with one of their own, a student, in the Shakespeare play taking
place in the school auditorium. Sufficed to say, the teens get their
revenge when the festival is temporarily halted by the power of the
city commission who fear for their political careers thanks in part to
the reverend's clout with the community at large. Filthy language and
sex-on-the-brain dialogue as in the first film, but less nudity. Worth
seeing if just for Meat in drag and Pee Wee dressed as a green fairy.
Porky's absence kind of takes away from this sequel, but Balbricker as
a devoted "member of the flock" is kind of funny. Probably the most
laugh-out-loud moment for me is when the boys play a trick on poor Pee
Wee in the graveyard which results in him streaking down a country road
afraid he had killed a woman via heart attack! Balbricker's snake
incident in a bathroom thanks to the boys in an act of revenge because
of her participation against their Shakespeare festival is another
highlight.
<|_=00=_|>
Director/co-screenwriter Bob Clark follows up his surprise hit original
with this solid and often sidesplitting sequel. This time those rowdy
lads at Angel Beach High are pitted against a bunch of uptight killjoy
religious fanatics led by the smarmy Reverand Flaval (a perfectly slimy
Bill Wiley) who object to a Shakespeare festival on the grounds that
the Bard's work is obscene. Moreover, the local Klu Klux Klan aren't
happy that Native American John Henry (likable James Runningfox) is
playing the lead in the production of "Romeo and Juliet." Clark not
only incorporates the expected wild'n'raunchy anything-goes humor that
was a key pleasing ingredient of the first film, but also takes
wickedly nasty satiric potshots at such deserving targets as racial
prejudice, religious hypocrisy and political corruption. Once again the
cast really sink their teeth into their parts with unbridled gusto.
Special kudos are in order for Dan Monahan as the impish Pee Wee, Kaki
Hunter as the cheerfully bawdy Wendy, Nancy Parsons as stern gym
teacher Ms. Balbricker, and Eric Christmas as the timid Principal
Carter. Comic highlights include a nice tongue-in-cheek homage to
Clark's earlier fright feature "Children Shouldn't Play With Dead
Things," Ms. Balbricker singing on the toilet, and Wendy acting like a
loud obnoxious ill-mannered immature brat at a posh French restaurant.
Cisse Cameron has a memorably sexy bit as a luscious stripper who
disrobes in a cemetery. Reginald H. Morris' slick cinematography, Carl
Zittrer's lively, rousing score, and the catchy golden oldies
soundtrack are all likewise up to par. There's even a surprising amount
of sweet sensitivity to be found amid all the wacky tomfoolery.
Granted, this film doesn't totally match the gut-busting hilarity of
the incredible original, but it's still plenty of good, naughty fun all
the same.
<|_=00=_|>
With most of the original characters, this should have been pretty
good, unfortunately it isn't.

I Think the problem is, the first movie had a story and plenty to drive
it forward, this one doesn't really have a plot, and although it tries
hard to be funny, it never re-captures the humour of the first film
(The Graveyard scene is pretty funny though - Especially the zombie)

Even if you have seen and enjoyed the first, avoid this and go straight
for something else, try Porky's Revenge (III) it,s better than this
rubbish.

3/10 (only because of the graveyard scene)
