

I happened to be flipping channels today and saw this was on.  Since it
had
been several years since I last saw it I clicked it on, but didn't mean to
stay.  As it happened, I found this film to be just as gripping now as it
was before.  My own kids started watching it, too, and enjoyed it - which
was even more satisfying for me considering the kind of current junk
they're
used to.  No, this is not an action-packed thriller, nor are there juicy
love scenes between Abrahams and his actress girlfriend.  There is no
"colorful" language to speak of; no politically correct agenda underlying
its tale of a Cambridge Jew and Scottish Christian.

This is a story about what drives people internally - what pushes them to
excel or at least to make the attempt to do so.  It is a story about
personal and societal values, loyalty, faith, desire to be accepted in
society and healthy competition without the utter selfishness that
characterizes so much of the athletic endeavors of our day.  Certainly the
characters are not alike in their motivation, but the end result is the
same
as far as their accomplishments.

My early adolescent son (whose favorite movies are all of the Star Wars
movies and The Matrix) couldn't stop asking questions throughout the movie
he was so hooked.  It was a great educational opportunity as well as
entertainment.  If you've never seen this film or it's been a long time, I
recommend it unabashedly, regardless of the labels many have tried to give
it for being slow-paced or causing boredom.  In addition to the great
story
- based on real people and events - the photography and the music are
fabulous and moving.  It's no mistake that this movie has been spoofed and
otherwise stolen from in the last twenty years - it's an unforgettable
movie
and in my opinion its bashers are those who hate Oscar winners on
principle
or who don't like the philosophies espoused by its protagonists.
<|_=00=_|>

I beg to differ with several previous reviewers.  This film is neither bland
nor is it solely about professionalism vs. amateurism.

This film is about what drives people to do what they do.  Eric Liddell (Ian
Charleson) runs for the glory of God, whereas Harold Abrahams (Ben Cross)
runs to prove his worth to a society that was anti-Semitic.  Even though
they run for different reasons, their drive and determination spur them on. 
They stand up for what they believe in and refuse to sacrifice their
principles because it is the easy way out. 

The supporting cast is also extraordinary, with Nigel Havers, Nicholas
Farrell, Ian Holm and Sir John Gielgud all making important contributions to
the final product. 

There is absolutely nothing unnecessary in this film.  The writing, the
direction, the acting, the dialogue are all outstanding.  And then there's
that haunting score.  

Once again, this is truly an outstanding film. One with universal themes
that transcend time and place.  
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this again last night. I had forgotten just how beautifully
done it was - both a character study of two very different men and a
gripping plot of their attempts to succeed - partly through athletics.
the writer and director so well convey both Cambridge and the Edinburgh
Presbyterian missionary disciples, in the early 1920s so very well.

The acting is superb - I had never seen a character presented like Eric
Liddell in movies - how fine Ian Charleson was in this role, the
softness of his voice, his ease and joy in running competitively
(especially in contrast with the tense tortured Harold Abrahams). I
also loved the more supporting roles - I've read a biography of F.E.
Smith and Nigel Davenport is exactly how I would imagine him. The actor
who played the Prince of Wales also seemed exactly right with his
effortless charm, looks, and lack of imagination. Ian Holm, John
Gielgud, Lindsay Anderson - all wonderful.

The actors weren't chosen for glamour either - Liddell and Abrahams are
not Leni Riefenstahl images of athletic ideals, Liddell's sister is no
beauty - and Abrahams' girlfriend is pretty but not stunning. It made
them seem more real. (In nice contrast were the near-pretty boy looks
of Nigel Havers as Lord Lindsay - it so suited his character).

The races are riveting - partly due to the music and sound effects.

So many small things are done so well - e.g., when Lord Lindsay has the
confidence of his class to barge into a room containing the Prince of
Wales, and three other lords (including Birkenhead and the head of the
British Olympic Committee) and greets them by name - no need for
introduction there (as there was for Liddell). It's small but seems
quite real.

As an American, it was interesting and funny to see our Olympic team
shown as the numerous, ominous, invulnerable "other"! (something like
watching a Rocky movie with Rocky as the product of a Russian or East
German success machine!). In fact, the one scene that seemed a bit off
was the scene of the American track athletes warming up for the Games -
all heavy music, machine like athletes, ferocious coach yelling with a
megaphone into people's ears. It pounded too hard on the "these are the
scary almighty inhuman opponents" theme in contrast to the cheerful
British boys running along the beach.

Something I had forgotten about the movie was how stubborn BOTH
protagonists are - Liddell fully as much as Abrahams. Liddell is not
overly deferential or bashful when dealing with the Prince of Wales -
but instead straightforward and very firm. 

I truly can't understand anyone not liking this movie - it is very
exciting even on the basic level of "will they win?" and so much more.
(For example, Ian Holm's character's reaction to success after 30 years
is very moving). Those who write to say that "Reds" deserved the Oscar
more - are simply wrong. (Reds was so simplistic that it felt like
watching the movie "The Hardy Boys Go to the Russian Revolution").
Those who say they cannot differentiate among the boys or between the
Scottish and English accents - well, it sounds like some political
statement to me. 

Do watch it - it's very fine, very moving, very exciting.
<|_=00=_|>

I enjoy sports films, especially when they are used to exemplify greater
human truths.  In that regard `Chariots of Fire' is one of my favorite
sports films.  What differentiates this film is that it is really a human
story about sports rather than a pure sports story.  Based on a true story,
it centers on two gifted athletes and their quest to run in the 1924
Olympics.  The first is Harold Abrahams (Ben Cross), a haughty sprinter with
an obsession for winning.  Abrahams, who is Jewish, is a man with something
to prove, mostly to himself.  His rival is Eric Liddell (Ian Charleson), the
first man to ever beat him in a sprint.  Liddell is a devout Christian and
runs for the glory of God.

There is an exquisite interplay of subtle themes in this film underlying the
obvious sports tale.  There is the contrast of motives.  Abraham runs to
validate his feeling of personal power, and his preoccupation with winning
is actually motivated by his fear of losing.  His quest is torturous, and
ultimately his victory empty, more of a relief than a triumph.  Liddell runs
out of a desire to repay God for the physical gifts he has been given.  He
is at peace with himself, but at odds with all those who want to control
him.  Their rivalry represents a battle between the forces of the physical
and spiritual.  Other themes pervade the film.  We have undercurrents of
bigotry against the Jewish runner, a man of whom Cambridge was begrudgingly
proud while berating him behind his back.  We have sinister political
attempts at manipulation in the face of Liddell's staunch integrity in
adhering to his principles.  Together, these forces combine to produce a
film rich in drama and meaning.

The film has been criticized for its inaccuracies.  Some say Abraham did not
suffer from anti-Semitic bigotry and that he was wildly popular at
Cambridge.  This does not necessarily mean he didn't feel inferior.  No one
can know what childhood experiences might have affected his psyche.  Jackson
Scholz was quoted as saying he never gave Liddell a note of encouragement on
the track.  I have to agree that this was a bit of Hollywood drivel that
didn't need to be there.  Additionally, Liddell knew weeks before that the
heats would be on a Sunday, not just before the race as shown, and he was
always scheduled to run the 400-meter race.  The meeting of political
bigwigs that allowed him to switch from the 100 to the 400 was pure
fabrication to emphasize his resistance to compromising his beliefs about
running on the Sabbath.  However, these liberties can be forgiven because
they enriched the story and did not change history in major
ways.

The direction by Hugh Hudson is powerful.  Hudson captures the feeling and
excitement of track and field competition, as well as giving us numerous
beautifully photographed scenes and a wonderful period rendering.  Though
nominated for an Oscar, Hudson was unable to capitalize on the success of
this film, and he has directed very few, mostly minor films since.  The
music by Vangelis is also wonderful, and it won the Best Music
Oscar.

Ben Cross is fantastic as Abrahams.  He brings great intensity to Abrahams'
single-minded obsession for winning.  Cross hasn't done much film work
since, but has had a long and distinguished career in TV.  Ian Charleson is
also excellent as Liddell, but his career went the same route as
Cross'.

This minor film was the sleeper of 1981, nominated for seven Academy Awards
and winning four, including Best Picture.  I rated it a 10/10.  It combines
the best elements of human drama and sport to create a potent and engrossing
film.
<|_=00=_|>

Much more than just another sports movie, CoF analyzes the very different
reasons two men have for devoting so much of their lives to training for the
Olympics. This in an era when there were no commercial sponsors and no
lucrative endorsement contracts. Though there is always fame and personal
satisfaction, it seems to be implied that these things alone are
insufficient to explain the special forces that drive these two men so much
more than all the others.

This is a truly beautiful movie about a different era, about competition and
what may serve as motivation to compete--and perhaps about what kinds of
motivation are healthy and what kinds are not.

9/10

<|_=00=_|>
I had never seen this movie until the fall of 1997 and after watching
40 minutes wondered, "What's the big deal?"

Well, the second half of the film and then subsequent viewings have
done more than just answer my question.

It's one of the RARE movies in the past 30 years which portrays a
Christian in a positive light. Ian Charleson does a convincing job of
portraying a 100 percent sincerely good man who walks the talk.

In here is also a good portrayal of a Jewish man, a student at
Cambridge, acted well by Ben Cross. This man is too defensive about
being Jewish and carries a chip on his shoulder until the end where he
comes out a hero and a fine man as well, the bitterness gone.

The story of those two men and their quest for a gold medal at the 1924
Olympics in France makes for an inspiring film. It's also aided by very
nice photography and a wonderful score by Vangelis. A recently-issued
widescreen DVD finally shows off the award-winning cinematography. The
feel- good ending doesn't hurt, either, especially since these main
characters were real-life people.

Her extraordinary beauty made Alice Krige an interesting person to
watch in the film, and I wonder why she never made it as a "big-name"
actress. Perhaps that was her decision.

In summary, a very classy film, that still lives up to its reputation.
<|_=00=_|>
Having just picked up (1 Feb. 2005) WB's Special Edition DVD of
"Chariots of Fire", I am pleased to report that it indeed "Special"!
The major improvement over the original DVD release is, of course, the
presentation of the feature in its proper 1.85:1 screen ratio. The
feature also has the option of a very fine commentary track by director
Hugh Hudson.

Disc 2 includes two outstanding documentary films. "Wings on Their
Heels: The Making of Chariots of Fire", has interviews with most of the
living participants. It is fascinating and very informative. The
struggle of the film to get financing is covered as well as the process
that took place in finding the lead actors is covered. The excitement
of Oscar night, when the film took home the "Best Picture" award, is
captured through the comments of those who were there.

The second offering, "Chariots of Fire: A Reunion", was shot in England
with the producer, director, cinematographer, and three of the actors
recalling their experiences in working on the film. This is an inspired
way of letting the creative people involved recall and share their
involvement in film that turned out to be the highlight of their
careers.

Both documentary films are a joy to watch, as are the 16 minutes of
scenes cut from the film, including one alternate that was used in the
European release but cut for the U.S. release. There are also a couple
of screen tests for Ben Cross and Ian Charleson that are interesting
--and a nice theatrical trailer.

An interesting side-note is that 20th Century Fox, who financed half of
the $6 million budget, was not interested in releasing the film in the
U.S. -- they figured Americans would not have an interest in British
runners. Ironically, of the films $50 million theatrical gross, $32
million came from the WB domestic release.

Now we finally have a DVD release that is worthy of that is my pick and
the finest film of the 1980s. "Chariots of Fire" is a film that ranks
very high on my list of all-time great films.
<|_=00=_|>

I was a student at Edinburgh University in 1981 and was actually lodging
with one branch of Eric Liddell's family.

My friends and I all went to see this movie repeatedly -- and I mean five,
six, or seven paid entrances. Why?

Personally, I don't think it had anything to do with the plot, character
development, the music, or moral virtue. It was simply that the film was so
utterly beautiful. 

The men were beautiful in a clean, non-glamorous way that we had never seen
before. Not in British films, and certainly not in Hollywood movies.

The social and educational expectations shared by all were beautiful. I know
it is fashionable to decry the British class system, and in principle I
agree with all the criticisms. But it also seems that erasing class-by-birth
leaves little else but crass meritocracy and the sheer vulgarity of the
uneducated masses.  Abraham's fellow students at Cambridge and Liddell's at
Edinburgh participated in a social and educational system not driven by
concerns about jobs, and not pathetically challenged by students who saw
themselves as consumers and professors as entertainers.

Britain was beautiful. Of course some parts still are, but Nazi bombs,
post-war architecture, and modern cars have destroyed much. This was a
Britain where people at the time might have decried "Victorian"
architecture, but we in 1981 were just coming to realize how great it was.
And this was a Britain where, for good or ill, middle class people kept
their houses tasteful, and working-class door-steps were white-stoned each
week.  

In all this movie was a connection to the beautiful aspects of the British
past.  That past might never have existed in reality, but in 1981 we could
just about touch it, above all in Edinburgh, spared by German bombs and
still one of the most beautiful cities in the world.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved the soundtrack to this film and I was glad to watch it on Oscar
Sunday. It is worthy of its' Oscars and is based on a true story. The
music can be haunting and beautiful at the same time. Vangelis is a
musical genius. The cast is stellar with some new faces of actors and
actresses like Alice Krige and even Ruby Wax if you look closely. The
1924 Olympics is the climax of the film. It's still a beautiful and
wonderfully entertaining and educational film to be seen. I loved the
cast including Sir Ian Holm, Sir John Gielgud, and the young aspiring
Olympic athletes including Brad Davis, Ian Charleson, and Ben Cross.
The story is beautifully told in writing and the direction is brilliant
to convey the beauty of the story. This is a feel good classic film
from 1981.
<|_=00=_|>

The strength of this movie is the study in character contrast and
development, with the added attractions of a historical setting and the
soaring, ethereal musical score of Evangelos Papathanassiou.

The film is anchored in the character study of the introspective, brooding,
and complex persona of Harold Abrahams, wonderfully portrayed by Ben Cross. 
Here is a man with all of the outward trappings of success:  academic
achievement, unexcelled athletic ability, wildly popular with his peers, yet
tortured by an inbred inferiority complex and driven to lash out at the
world in response.  In the end, he conquers his inner demons through hard
work, sacrifice, understanding of his fellow man, and the love of a good
woman, to whom he opens his heart.  I found myself thinking that Harold
Abrahams is the kind of man I would want as my best friend, yet at the same
time would find hard to become close with and relate to.

Ian Charleston's character (Eric Liddell) is a bit more one-dimensional.  He
is the archetypical Good Man, faithful to his family, his country, his
friends, and his God.  And in the end he triumphs through sheer force of
will and by tapping that reservoir of inner strength that sustains him.  As
the crusty coach Sam Mussambini says, "He's a gut runner.  Digs
deep...".

It's a bit of a pity that the movie, long though it is, could not have
delved more deeply into the other characters' background.  Lord Andrew
Lindsey is particularly appealing as Harold's and Eric's faithful friend who
gives up his spot in his specialty race (the 400 m) to allow Eric a chance
at the gold.  Sybil Gordon is wonderful as Harold's love interest who tries
to draw him out of his lonely world of bitterness and resentment and
self-hatred ("You ran like a God.  I was proud of you...", even after Harold
loses a race for the first time in his life to a more determined Eric). 
Even some of the American competitors, who are only peripherally portrayed
in the concluding segments, lend some color.  Jackson Scholtz' reaching out
to Eric Liddell gives one the sense that he knows the greatness of spirit
that quietly resides in this unassuming Scotsman.

Its a wonderful story wonderfully told, and when its over you find yourself
longing for it to continue, to see how these characters we've come to know
over the previous two hours will turn out in the rest of their lives.  Alas,
the story of their lives is noted only in subtitles as the film
closes.
