
In all likelihood Spike Lee's most important achievement - as director,
writer and actor (though to my taste Mo' Better Blues is just as good a
picture) and one of the strongest films you'll see about race
relations, 'Do The Right Thing' looks dated at times, but it lost none
of its impact and relevance. The movie takes place in a particularly
hot day in a primarily African-American neighborhood in Brooklyn, and
follows the various personalities who live there throughout the day;
the center of the story is Sal's Famous Pizzeria - its owners, some of
the few white people living in the neighborhood: Sal (Oscar nominated
performance for Danny Aiello) and his two sons (John Torturro and
Richard Edson), and Mookie (Spike Lee himself), the black delivery boy.
What starts out as a light, entertaining movie with some amusing
characters and light humor, gradually builds up tension to the point of
being unbearable, up to the dramatic and tragic climax. Spike doesn't
put as much emphasis on the characters themselves as he does on the
relationships and the tension between them; and in this image of a very
specific and small frame in time and place, makes a strong and
important message about racism and race relations in general. The film
is populated with many different characters, all of them very memorable
and each one a representative of a certain belief, mode of behavior or
state of mind - on both sides of the conflict. From the uninhibited
anger of Buggin Out (Giancarlo Esposito) and Radio Raheem (Bill Nunn)
on one side and Pino (John Torturro) on the other side, to Jade (Joie
Lee, Spike's sister in the film and in real life) and Vito (Richard
Edson), who are trying to connect and live at peace with the other
side, to Da Mayor (Ossie Davis), in his isolated but peaceful state of
mind, living in complete peace with the world around him, and Smiley
(Roger Smith), living in his own isolated existence. Then there's
Mookie, who is stuck in the middle, torn between his commitment and
responsibilities to both sides. Finally we have Mister Senor Love Daddy
- played gorgeously by the one and only Samuel L. Jackson, in one of
his finest performances - half active character and half all-knowing
narrator - who represents the voice of reason in the conflict, the
reason which is bound, ultimately, to collapse. Each and every
character plays an important part in the climatic and dramatic conflict
to which the movie builds up, and though it's the radical ones - Buggin
Out and Radio Raheem - who trigger the events that cause the tragedy,
they are not necessarily the ones who finish it. It is Mookie and Sal,
in fact, who ultimately play the main part.

Do The Right Thing is not an easy watch; it's a mesmerizing, tense,
difficult film that breaks many taboos and slaughters many holy cows.
But in the end of it - hopefully - you'll be wiser than you were in the
beginning, and that's what Lee have always tried to achieve in all his
films. Watch it to get a real view on racism that doesn't duck the
difficult issues and isn't afraid to tackle the real problem, and to
see a master director at work. It's one of the best films of its time.
<|_=00=_|>
90% of Spike Lee's masterpiece Do the Right Thing is a perfectly
developed character study of a wide range of model personalities who
all happen to be in Bedford-Stuyvesant on the hottest day of the
summer. What the other ten percent consists of you will have to
discover for yourself.

This ingenious film explores extremes, but never gives itself over to
stereotypes as its plot cleverly navigates through the politics of
inner city life and the struggles of American racism. As an artful and
intelligent examination of the ethics of violence and prejudice, Do the
Right Thing is unparalleled. It implies a simple profound question -
what is the 'right thing'? But steadfastly refuses to supply even a
hint of an answer - appropriately leaving its central point entirely up
to its audience. Instead, the film points to a different, perhaps more
important question "Whose version of right is right for you?" There are
a lot of good people, a lot of bad people, and a very realistic
majority of people who are usually somewhere in the middle but also
somewhat confused throughout this film. African American, Latino, East
Asian and Italian American cultures form the dynamics of the
relationships that drive the story, and conflict is their medium.
Drawing from two incisive but different comments on violence from
Martin Luther King and Malcolm X, Lee extrapolates his story and the
ideas he wants to explore by showing us characters that are as real as
they are exaggerated and somewhat unpredictable events that they
create, are swept into or actively or passively participate in.
Although the point of the film is not really critique, nobody is left
unscathed.

I am not going to tell you what the film says - I can't, because it is,
more than most films dealing in such a direct manner with the subject
of race, open to interpretation. And what you bring to it will
influence, but not determine what you take away from it. It is just
that powerful.

Instead, I will simply give Do the Right Thing my highest
recommendation.

Superbly written, edited, directed and filmed. Well acted (Danny
Aiello, Ossie Davis, Giancarlo Esposito, Rosie Perez, Spike Lee and
Richard Edson really stood out for me) and very nicely soundscaped, Do
the Right Thing is the perfect film for a solitary night of reflection
or for sharing with an intelligent group of friends. However, be
forewarned, the film hits hard, and will disturb some people a great
deal - especially those who feel a need for closure and resolution.
<|_=00=_|>

"Do the Right Thing" is a powerful, uplifting, visually stunning
masterpiece.  It's a movie that I can watch over and over again, and
deservedly takes the Number 7 Spot of My Favorite Movies Of All Time.  This
was one of Spike's debut efforts, and until this day--the best one.  Spike
gives us an honest, unflinching look at the Bedford-Stuyvestant area of
Brooklyn on the hottest day of the summer.  He perfectly displays the racial
tensions that go on between everybody from blacks to whites to Koreans.  Yet
he never gets preachy, which is one of the brilliant things about this
movie.  Some of Spike's best work is demonstrated in his shots of Radio
Raheem, played excellently by Bill Nunn.  RR doesn't say much, but he has
this violent gaze which sums up his feelings without a word being said. 
Spike gives us some great angles of his face, demonstrating the pure rage
brewing inside of him.  He also has a great scene in which he sums up the
meanings of love and hate, in Spike's trademark poetry-in-motion style.  RR
constantly carries around a boombox, playing the same song "Fight the Power"
by Public Enemy.  That song is one of the best musical themes in movie
history, perfectly summing up racial tension among inner cities.  This movie
doesn't tell its audience that black people are better than others, nor does
it say that Hispanics are, or whites, or Asians.  It just gives us a raw
look at what happens when we let racial quarrels get out of hand.  We learn
how sometimes it's appropriate to preach against racism, and sometimes we're
just overreacting.

The cast is terrific, and they deliver memorable performances.  I really
wish Danny Aiello picked up the Oscar for his role as Sal, because that is
definitely the pinnacle performance of his career and one of the best I've
ever seen.  Other noteworthy performances are by John Turturro, Ossie Davis
and Giancarlo Esposito.  

The film is put together with such fast-paced editing that it doesn't once
get boring, doesn't have any low points.  This is a gritty, memorable film
that I wish can be considered more prominent in the eyes of the average
moviegoer, because it really deserves great recognition for its unique,
unforgettable style.  

Spike definitely knows how to do the right thing.

My score:  10 (out of 10)
<|_=00=_|>

I find it a tremendous oversight that this film gets so little recognition. 
The American film institute couldn't find one place in one hundered 
American films for this cinematic masterpiece that pulls no punches .  It
got no academy award and most importantly I could not find one friend who
had heard of it.  I call this a tremendous oversight because the film is
wonderful.  I know that Spike Lee is a rather eccentric personality and is
not well liked by everyone, but his films are brilliant and this is no
exception.  

For about the first two thirds of the movie the plot meanders around a
section of New York City as the characters awaken and start their days.  For
this first two thirds we have a comedy that is funny because of the
eccentric and wonderfully developed characters.  The audience is pulled into
the story by the rich dialogue and inventive cinematography.  There is just
some quality about this film that makes it seem so real.  This all sets up
for  the imminent tragedy to be all the worse as a result of the connection
the audience has with the movie.

Then the film explodes.  Those who have seen it know what I mean and those
who have not should see it.  This last third of the film should not be
explained, it must be experianced.    In fact this whole film should be
experianced.  I can't say enough.

<|_=00=_|>

I have heard people describe Spike Lee as a second-rate filmmaker; all I
have to say is that second-rate filmmakers do not make films like this. Do
the Right Thing is a masterpiece in both style and substance, and Im hard
pressed to think of a more powerful, earth-shattering film.

But first, let's talk about the style. The color palette of the movie is
wonderful; while its mostly deep reds, they manage to bring home the feeling
that the residents of Bed-Stuy must have been feeling on that day. The
cinematography is excellent... it features a lot of weird viewpoints and
angles, but they are used to great effect and manage to work within the
style of the film. One thing that really managed to impress me about the
film is the razor sharp dialogue... each character has their own style of
talking, and it really works well. This is a masterfully written film.

Now the substance... this movie manages to spiral into a truly spectacular
ending. Throughout, its easy to see the necessary elements building, and,
when it happens, it hardly seems like a surprise, but that doesn't make it
any less shattering. The way that each character acts defines this movie
throughout, especially at the end! Spike Lee does a brilliant job here. The
movie is interesting and well-made throughout; each of the characters are
three-dimensional and feel like real human beings - their motivation is
understood throughout. 

Do the Right Thing is a brilliant movie that never lags and never lets up.
It manages to be vastly entertaining and vastly powerful at the same time.
It's truly an amazing achievement in film, and its a shame it was not
recognized more for its obvious brilliance when it was released in 1989.

<|_=00=_|>
If I had to make a list of the top ten things that I find most boring,
racism would be right at the summit along with economics and The Blair
Witch Project. For that reason, I have avoided Do the Right Thing up
until now for fear that it would be a lecture on racism...but actually,
I don't know what I was afraid of, as this film is really good. Spike
Lee's racial drama is actually more a film about the feebleness of
racial divides and how violence only breeds violence, as opposed to a
film ABOUT racism. In fact, the film can be best described as a
cinematic materialisation of Martin Luther King's famous "an eye for an
eye leaves everybody blind" speech.

For this movie, Spike Lee has put together a terrific cast, that
includes many actors that have gone on to become big names in the movie
industry, people such as Samuel L. Jackson, John Turturro and Martin
Lawrence, not to mention smaller stars such as Ossie Davis. The cast
comes together excellently and the neighbourhood that Spike Lee has
created for this film feels very real, and through the multiple
personalities that inhabit it, it manages to stay interesting and
realistic throughout. The atmosphere of the neighbourhood is also of
note, and you really do get the feeling that someone could say 'biatch'
or 'dogg' at any time. Spike Lee delights in showing us many different
people, and at different times - including their reactions to certain
events and their interactions with each other, and it all helps to
build up both their own characters and the neighbourhood that they live
in. This proves to be invaluable to the film as it has no real plot and
therefore relies on the characters and the neighbourhood that it has
created to build itself, it's scenario and therefore it's message, up.

Do the Right Thing is a portrait of how multiple cultures live together
in modern day America and it also succeeds in being a stark and potent
portrayal of how violence never gets anyone anywhere. Spike Lee has
shown his talents as an actor, director and a writer with this film,
and even though majority opinion of him seems to be that he's a
disagreeable old crone; at least he's one that has talent.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is really just anti-white propaganda... Spike Lee knew when
he made this movie that a overwhelming majority of the black people
that saw it would believe Mookie was the hero at the end. (I saw this
movie in a theatre and was one of about 20 white people there and I
felt LUCKY to make it to my car w/out incident with all the hate that
was thrown at me after (but not before) the movie. Most of the people
in the theatre stood up and screamed and cheered when Mookie threw the
garbage can through the the ONLY message they took away from that movie
was this:

"White guy in a black neighborhood better do WHATEVER the black people
want. Cop killed a black guy = justification for anything after that."

But the message that's downplayed (seems a lot of literate rational
people on these boards picked up on it and say "Why" though) is that
the whole pivot of this movie is that "The community" was wrong in the
first place, Spike (midget racist that he is) can always fall back on
that and say "well if you question the riot you must be racist" (ie
meaning that you're interpreting the message wrong). Which is why he
define the message as an absolute in the movie, that lets him stay a
coward and hide behind the vague. The quotes that follow it though make
it 100% clear, Spike wrote this with Mookie as the Hero.

Consider the main characters here:

1. Sal: Sal OWNED his pizzeria, as such he had a right to decorate it
ANY way he saw fit. The only legal, rational, or civilized response to
not liking the decor is Sals would be one of 2 things. A. Sitting down
with Sal in a reasonable manner and describing the issue. (ie If they
had made presents of pictures of MLK and MX, to Sal and explained how
they enjoyed Sals pizza, they enjoyed his place and would appreciate if
he would hang those gifts as a nod to the community like civilized
people this may never have happened.) Or B. if that didn't work, if Sal
completely within his rights said "Gee,..thanks but no, these are
pictures of people who have influenced MY life and that's what I want
in MY pizzeria." then a boycott (ie not even ENTERING the
establishment) would have been the next logical step (and it was even
mentioned in the movie) 

Anything beyond that puts you in the wrong instantly. Radio Raheem
OBVIOUSLY went into Sal's to instigate a confrontation. He went into
someone else's place of business and disrespected them, refused to
leave, and disrupted business. Sal damaged a SMALL piece of property in
return (when he could have directly assaulted Raheem) and all the while
he was still just trying to get him to leave.

In this movie Sal had proved himself to be a kind upstanding man: He
put up with and paid Mookie despite Mookies crappy work ethic and
attitude. He did so against the peer pressure of the people around him
who were more racist in their attitudes and obviously gave him grief
because he didn't share their racist views. He obviously enjoyed being
a part of the community and providing a service to everyone as well.
Sal was closer to a hero in this movie than mookie was. Even after
everything that happened, he still didn't engage in violence. He was
"the better man" in every sense of the word. (I personally would have
dragged him into the burnt remains of my pizzeria and left a fresh
bloody corpse in there.)

Sal's ONLY negative action was to damage the property of an angry,
uncivilized thug who was forcing a confrontation on Sal's property. 

2. Mookie: Mookie was shown to be taking advantage of Sal, He was shown
to be lazy, he was shown to be irresponsible, was shown to be a racist,
and later shown to be a complete puppet of racist mob mentality. At no
point in this movie did Mookie "Do the right thing" he is considerably
closer to villain than hero.

3. Radio Raheem,.. Violent, stupid, unintelligent thug period. 100%
driven by kneejerk reactions (as so many thugs are) 

4. The Community: Again,..collective stupidity. They wanted to FORCE
their desires on a business owner. There was no legitimate beef with
Sal. Even after the cops killed Raheem at BEST they should have rioted
against "the police" this wasn't a "killed him because he was black"
crime, this was a "killed him because I'm a stupid cop" crime.

5. Da Mayor: This is the only true hero in the movie and yet again
Spike Lee gets to hide behind this to push his racist tripe "Well see I
mean HE was the do the right thing guy, but I'll never SAY that,..I'll
just allude to it when people catch me in my racism. "

Spike Lee has a very distorted view of the world, I don't know if he
was raped by some white guy when he was a kid or something but his
racism seems to extend to being an anti-semite as well so I don't
know,..

White or black I find that the people that find Mookie the Hero are
generally less intelligent, and in most cases are as useless as Mookie,
and as deluded as Spike Lee (VERY fitting that he played that part in
the movie).
<|_=00=_|>

I don't understand everyone raving about this movie! They certainly can't
be black men. the way our race and gender is portrayed in this movie, that
I
believe every black man in america owes Spike Lee an a##
whipping.
Let's start with the character of buggin'out a black man whose such a
loser, troublemaker,a##hole, that while eating a slice of pizza, notices
no
pictures of black people on the wall. what does he do? he wants to incite
a
riot against the owner. does the term "get a life" come to mind. I wonder
what he would of done if the pizza didn't taste good.
Then there's the character of radio raheem who might as well be dead
because the only thing he does is play the same song all day and look
mean.
Oh but he's a good troublemaker though.
Then there's the character of Mookie a lazy shiftless employee who
incites
a riot against his own place of employment. then has the nerve to come
back
the next day and ask for his paycheck! This scene would've been great If
Sal
beats the crap out of mookie. but instead he pays him.
why?
All of these black men are no good to the bone. even hollywood royalty
like Ossie Davis is relegated to the town drunk.
But what angers me most is that if Spielberg directed this movie the
reaction would've been something like, "Spielberg's a racist who has lost
his mind".
<|_=00=_|>

Do the Right Thing begins with girls dancing over the opening credits, and
the dance is sure to make you laugh. It's extraordinarily dated, having been
copied in a billion rap videos and even The Cosby Show, and, today, it seems
very silly. As the film progresses, you're likely to notice dozens of other
instances of severe dating that might make you giggle. Heck, if you didn't
know that he was in it already, you're sure to laugh a little when you see
that Martin Lawrence is in the film. Why did this dating happen? Well,
simply because the film was so influential that other artists co-opted
pieces of it all over the place. This would destroy a regular movie.
Fortunately, Do the Right Thing is no ordinary movie.

This truly is one of the best films ever made. It's a masterpiece by one of
the most talented and, unfortunately, most maligned directors alive. Spike
Lee does not have the answers to the questions he poses, and sometimes I do
object to the way he handles the situation. Sometimes I do ask the
questions, when I am watching one of his films, "why does he have to be so
angry about everything? Why doesn't he try to think these things out?" But I
have great empathy for all emotions, and Lee is great at expressing his
feelings on film. When I watch his films, I sympathize with what is
happening. 

Do the Right Thing is pitched at a feverish pace, and it's filled with
enormous joy and, simultaneously, with enormous anger. This ambiguous mood
is expressed most directly by the character Radio Rahim in a scene adapted
from the great film Night of the Hunter, where Radio recites Robert
Mitchum's "The Battle Between Love and Hate" speech. Immediately in the film
we see that the races are capable of getting along. One black man is angry
that Sal, who owns the local pizzeria, only hangs up pictures of Italian
Americans on his wall, but no African Americans. Other African Americans
find his objection somewhat ridiculous and respect Sal very much. Some
African Americans object to a Korean couple who have successfully opened a
grocery store on a certain corner, but others believe they are just savvy
businessmen. On the other hand, there is a great amount of tension between
the same races. Sal is basically a good man, but he has grown very hard and
his temper is short. Radio Rahim walks in and, yes, rudely leaves his radio
blasting while he tries to buy some pizza. However, did Sal really have to
swear and order him to turn the radio off? Couldn't he, as Radio wonders
later on, have at least said please? 

Lee's feelings about the entire situation are clearly ambiguous. The entire
film is felt deeply, and there is never any intellectualizing in the script.
It is vitally important that Lee casts himself as Mookie, a young, shiftless
man who works as a deliveryman for Sal. It is Mookie who has the choice of
whether to do the right thing or not. 

Perhaps some will be less forgiving about the film's late 1980s trappings.
Even if they find it silly or unwatchable, I will guarantee that in 30
years, when the 1980s and even 1990s are far behind us, Do the Right Thing
will be considered one of America's greatest films, as it more than deserves
to be right now, in 2001. 10/10.

<|_=00=_|>
It's sometimes difficult to separate artists' public statements from
the work they're commenting on, or to ignore the politically charged
aura a film generates. There's always that nagging feeling that a
movie's point must be sussed out, that the real intentions of the
filmmaker must be understood. But in retrospect--and despite director
Spike Lee's rhetoric--Do the Right Thing may not be as profound as
previously thought. While it should be applauded for taking on the
subject of race without Hollywood's usual heavy-handedness, simply
presenting a topic doesn't automatically mean anything is actually
being said about that topic.

Whatever problems there are with the content, Do the Right Thing is
still great film-making. It's a vibrant, passionate, funny movie, and
like a true work of art, it both surprises and provokes. It's
technically audacious and features one of the most successful displays
of stifling, suffocating heat ever put on film.and it does it without
being languid itself. The dialogue is fast paced, the characters
energetic, and the camera-work unpredictable, full of clever pans and
Twilight Zone angles. And, except for the always excruciating Martin
Lawrence, the performances are uniformly good throughout. Lee also
manages to out-Altman Altman by presenting a large cast of characters
without it ever becoming confusing or disjointed.

Taking place over the course of one scorching day in
Bedford-Stuyvesant, most of the action occurs in and around a pizzeria
run by Sal (Danny Aiello) and his sons Pino and Vito (John Turturro,
Richard Edson). But the entire neighborhood is featured as the film
intercuts between various exchanges, many of them tinged with racial
overtones: while Buggin Out (Giancarlo Esposito) challenges a white
tenement owner when he feels slighted, down the street three men debate
the right of a Korean to own a variety store in "their" neighborhood.

There are personal moments as well: Da Mayor (Ossie Davis) continually
attempts to soften Mother Sister's (Ruby Dee) opinion of him, while
Mookie (Lee) juggles time between his job at Sal's and his increasingly
aggravated girlfriend (Rosie Perez). Although Lee doesn't have the time
to make all his characters three-dimensional, he avoids
sentimentalizing or demonizing any one group; there are both blacks and
whites who are sympathetic (Sal, Da Mayor) and troublesome (Pino, Radio
Raheem). Only the Korean storeowner played by Steven Parks is a blatant
caricature. (Asians seem to get short shrift no matter who is behind
the camera.) Presiding over the action is disc jockey Senor Love Daddy
(Samuel L. Jackson). Like Wolfman Jack in American Graffiti, he
provides ongoing background music, as well as periodic commentary.

Eventually, the heat and personal tensions culminate in an explosion of
violence centered on Sal's pizzeria. The violence escalates after one
of the characters is killed. It's at this point that the film becomes
problematic. The murder is supposed to be a tragedy, meant to provoke
outrage in the audience. But the killing of a fictional character isn't
enough in itself to warrant a reaction. It's not that audiences are
jaded, but drama usually elicits judgement based on the narrative
alone. If a character is a jerk, his death won't elicit much of a
response. Like Mel Gibson's The Passion of the Christ, Do the Right
Thing relies too heavily on the personal baggage audiences are
supposedly bringing to the film. Drawing on contemporary events and
feelings may be provocative, but it dates the film and makes for poor
drama. The reactions of Mookie and Mother Sister to the murder may have
been understandable to a disenfranchised group, but in the context of
the plot they appear unmotivated, almost random.

The somewhat ambiguous nature of the movie could easily be trumpeted as
a selling point. Lee doesn't want to hold your hand; he wants you to
make up your own mind. But there is a fine line between "bravely
ambiguous" and "maddeningly directionless." While Oliver Stone
continually has been pilloried for his blatantly didactic films, there
is something to be said for being recklessly personal and taking a
stand. Lee made a movie about racism; but we're so starved for
challenging works, for thematically mature movies, we've embraced a
film that ultimately says nothing more than "racism is bad" and "no one
person or group is to blame."

The simplistic ideals of Do the Right Thing are most evident in four
scenes: 1) Love Daddy lists practically every major black musician from
the last fifty years; 2) in an overly contrived sequence, Mookie gets
Pino to admit that his cultural heroes are all black (Magic Johnson,
Eddie Murphy, and Prince); 3) Martin Luther King, Malcolm X, Al
Sharpton, Jesse Jackson and Louis Farrakhan are all mentioned; 4) the
words "Tawana Told the Truth" appear spray painted on a wall (a
reference to the Tawana Brawley controversy of 1987). No
differentiation is made between the listed artists, and no context is
given for the black leaders mentioned. These aren't explorations of
racially-charged issues, it's just name dropping.

Despite its flaws, Do the Right Thing provokes discussion. It's an
impossible film to dismiss. Spike Lee's subsequent career has turned
out to be a disappointment, but Do the Right Thing, along with Malcolm
X, represent Lee at his creative peak.
