
Poltergeist II (1986) was the second film of the Poltergeist Trilogy.
With the amount of money the first film made. the studio decided to
make another film. The principal players from the Freeling family are
here (sans Dominique Dunne, for reasons known) along with an old friend
from part one. A new character is added to the mix as well. Poltergeist
II is darker than the first one (if you can believe that) but not as
brilliant as the first one.

The Freelings have moved away from the remnants of the home. After the
horrific events of part one, things can't get any worse (or can
they...). An evil entity is following the family on the run. For awhile
things are relativity calm. They've set up a new residence (with a
family member) but the family has fallen on some pretty hard times. But
they're about to get even harder. A dark man has been visiting them
hurling religious epitaphs at them. Like a family house guest he
doesn't want to leave and is even more bothersome than a Fuller Brush
salesman or a religious solicitor. Does this strange figure intended to
harm the Freelings or is he a person from the family's past?

A scary sequel. Not bad, if you want to follow the exploits of the
Freelings then this movie is for you. Poltergeist II is a worthy
sequel. I enjoyed it very much. Followed by the final entry in the
Poltergeist trilogy, the ever so dark and (surprisingly frightening)
part three.

Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

"Poltergeist II: The Other Side" is a very interesting movie despite the
fact that the plot was rather subpar.  My favorite movie of all time is the
original "Poltergeist," and this movie is a respectable sequel.  I like it
because of the character Kane, for one, who gives the movie another ghostly
dimension.  Julian Beck was wonderful in the film as Kane.  Also, the
children remained good actors, especially the late Heather O'Rourke, who
played Carol Anne.  This is another strong performance by the young
actress,
and would have gone on to be a wonderful adult actress later in life had
she
lived.  All in all, I give it a 7.5 out of 10.

<|_=00=_|>
I have seen this sequel to "Poltergeist" many times and have always
enjoyed it as much as I did the first movie. You will find that most
people who dislike this sequel do so for the simple fact that it's a
"SEQUEL" to the original 1982 "Steven Spielberg" produced hit (surprise
surprise!) and "Spielberg" was nowhere in sight this time around (so
what!), not everybody cares about whether a big director is involved
with a movie/sequel or not including myself.

The sequel is written & produced by "Mark Victor" & "Michael Grais" who
co-wrote the original with "Steven Spielberg" and follows the doomed
Freeling family four years after the original classic left off...

I have always regarded "Poltergeist II" as a worthy follow up with it's
flaws (which it is) and can still not understand how this movie made
it's way from a running time of "130" minutes down to a mere "91".

Its obviously down to MGM rushing the movie's production and ordering
pathetic cuts. Some of this movie's editing is really poor and it's a
shame because the movie is actually pretty good and only really falls
apart at the end when you can see how bad a hack job this movie really
received. They should have dropped "The Other Side" from the title
because you only get to see it in the movie for about 2 minutes and
what you do get to see is a rushed not-finished mess of a finale.

The Poltergeist franchise should have been sold to UNIVERSAL (The
company "Steven Spielberg" first approached about the original). They
would have given this movie the justice it deserved. As for the third
movie "I really don't care" nothing could have saved the third movie
from being bad". Even with it's problems, I still loved the character's
from the first movie, the plot was on the right track and introduced us
to one of the most memorable villains in horror sequel history, the
evil "Reverend Kane" brilliantly portrayed by "Julian Beck", and while
not being as productive as the original, the special effects held up
too.

Wrapping everything up, this movie is a decent sequel and has the
advantage of retaining most of the original cast from the first movie
(minus "Dominique Dunne" who was murdered by her boyfriend shortly
after filming the first movie) and there are some really good classic
moments in this sequel, one being... "The Vomit Creature!"...check your
Tequila for strange worms swimming around in it next time!.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

This sequel was okay at the theater when I saw it, but it wasn't great. 
Kind of an average film that adds plot points that really are a bit weak. 
We find out in this one that it was not necessarily the fact the little
community was sitting on an old cemetery that was the problem in the first
one, but rather that the house was over some burial ground of a cult.  There
is also this really old man that is a bit creepy wandering around looking
for Carol Anne and the Freeling clan.  I just think they wanted to add a
more physical enemy, someone you could focus on.  The family is now living
with grandma, but strange stuff starts happening again.  For some reason
they want Carol Anne.  An Indian guy comes to their aid and gives them
advice and there are a series of happenings, but this one just isn't as good
as the first one as it is very slow in places.  The ending was just plain
lame and only makes this one worse than it is.  As not good as this is
though, the next Poltergeist makes this one look a lot better.  Some good
scenes here and there, but ultimately this one disappoints.  Though there is
that memorable scene with the worm.
<|_=00=_|>
While not as good as the first one this movie was interesting. It was
well made and featured many of the same actors and actresses as well as
a few new ones, who all turned out excellent performances.

The story line was solid and thought out. I particularly felt that
Julian Beck's character Cane was a nice addition. He was chilling to
watch on screen as a antagonist to the family. Will Sampson as Taylor
was also an interesting character. R.I.P to both actors and to O'Rouke.

Overall a good film but one that can not possibly hold a candle to the
original.

6 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite the fact that 'E.T.' was released the same year, the first
'Poltergeist' was still quite a hit at the box office and with critics
and viewers. The studio wanted a sequel, something that I don't think
anyone expected to happen. I mean the end of the first one didn't
really leave the door open and there weren't many questions left to be
answered. But 4 years later we got one anyway, but like most sequels it
was met with a mixed reaction. I've never understood why, and like many
others, I feel 'Poltergeist II' is a vastly underrated and
under-appreciated film.

Pros: Excellent performances from the returning cast members and the
newcomers. Another great score by Jerry Goldsmith, which has classic
themes and some memorable new ones. Has a darker and more sinister
atmosphere than the original. Plenty frightening moments and images.
There's also a few nice, sweet moments. Awesome creature and visual
effects. Provides a pretty interesting back-story on the spirits. A
terrifying villain in Reverend Kane. Well-paced. Some more cool set
pieces, especially the one set in the garage.

Cons: The finale isn't bad per se, but the villain is done away with
too fast and easily.

Final thoughts: A sequel this good doesn't come often. Unlike some
other part 2s, like 'Amityville II: The Possession' for example, this
one has heart in it. It isn't just another poor attempt to cash in on
the name of the original. That's a sequel to be proud of.

My rating: 5/5
<|_=00=_|>
In this follow-up to Poltergeist, the Freeling family call on the big
Native American fella from One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest to help them
once again defeat evil malevolent spirits that seem to not like them
very much.

As with virtually all sequels this one is inferior to the original.
However, the first film wasn't all that great and this one isn't a
complete washout either. The story is modified somewhat from the first
episode so that now the source of the poltergeist unrest is attributed
to the dead followers of a cult leader, as opposed to the dead
disturbed by unscrupulous property developers. The change has really
only been made so that they can have a sequel to be perfectly honest,
however, it does mean that the series is able to introduce the evil
Reverend Kane. Kane is probably the best character in the series and
his scene where he confronts the Freeling family on their front porch
is the scariest and most well-crafted moment in any of the films.
Julien Beck is excellent and unforgettable as the skeletal preacher.
The rest of the cast play it strictly by numbers, although once again
Heather O'Rourke is fab as the little girl. The other daughter is
completely written out of this film with no explanation. Although it's
a well documented fact that the actress who played her, Dominique
Dunne, was murdered shortly after the first film was released, I still
don't think it would have trashed her memory to have explained her
absence; quite the opposite in fact.

The Poltergeist series was perhaps most famous at the time for its
spectacular visual effects and this film is no exception. The demon
Kane is a well rendered creation, and there are a number of cool 80's
effects throughout. Unfortunately, though, it all ends in a somewhat
underwhelming finale where the family enter some vortex or something. I
think it would have been better if they had cut back on the
special-effects here and simply re-introduced Reverend Kane, as he was
much scarier. But I guess having a big effects-laden ending is one of
the in-built rules of the Poltergeist movies sadly.

Overall, there's good stuff in this sequel but it's ultimately
squandered on a rubbish ending.
<|_=00=_|>

"Poltergeist II: The Other Side" is a mostly average sequel to the
superb 1982 horror movie about unfriendly ghosts terrorizing a suburban
family. This movie is not real bad like most people say it is (I did
like some of it), but it's not real good either. 

"Poltergeist II" takes place in Arizona, which is where the Freeling
family now resides. But no matter where you go you can't keep a nasty
ghost down, and those pesky spirits are back to terrorize the family
once again. Where the first film was scary with a great sense of humor,
the second film comes off more funny than scary. Not a good sign for a
horror film where you're expected to be scared. And there isn't much
scares this time around. Plus, the special effects this time around
aren't as effective as they were in the first film. Nevertheless, the
effects received another Oscar nomination, which to me was surprising. 

If there's anything to like about "Poltergeist II", it's the acting.
JoBeth Williams, Craig T. Nelson, Heather O'Rourke, Oliver Robins, and
Zelda Rubinstein are all back reprising their roles from the first
film, with a few new faces add to the cast. The new cast members add
some spark here. Will Sampson is very good as the Indian medicine man
who also happens to be an exorcist, and comes in to help out the
Freelings; Julian Beck makes a strong presence as the evil preacher who
happens to be the leader of the ill-mannered ghosts (Beck was
reportedly very ill when he made this, and it shows on the screen; he
died right after filming completed); and the great veteran actress
Geraldine Fitzgerald has a nice small part as Grandma Freeling. So to
sum up this film: good acting, bad story, so-so effects, which makes
for an average movie.

*** (out of five)

<|_=00=_|>
The first movie of course is one of the best horror-terror movies of
all time.The movie scare to they all generation of the 80's and still
scare new generations.That what happen because 2 important things:Tobe
Hopper and Steven Spielberg. This time this masterminds are not
comeback and you can see the result of that.The movie simply don't have
soul,don't have the magic of the first movie,don't have the scares,the
terror,the chemistry,the emotion,the mystery nothing of the original
movie.

This movie feels like a chapter of THE TWILIGHT ZONE of the 80's (i see
better chapter in the series than this movie) so this nothing great or
special of this movie that deserves your attention.

Believe you not lost something not see this movie...If you wanna see a
good sequel of the 80's see FRIGHT NIGHT 2,CHILD PLAY 2,ALIENS to say
some movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Nonsensical supernatural thriller continues the other-worldly
nightmares plaguing the TV set-fearing Freeling family, originally
introduced in 1982's "Poltergeist". Here, a Native American shaman
helps protect the family from the spirit of a demonic, skeletal
preacher who wants to possess little Carol Anne. Depressive sequel
reunites the central cast members from the original but fails to build
on their characters (much of this seems like a cheaply-rendered rerun).
Director Brian Gibson mistakes tasteless jolts (such as "the Vomit
Monster") for scary thrills--and has a severe case of Spielberg-itis
besides. Few involved with the project were satisfied with the results,
and smart audiences knew to stay away. *1/2 from ****
