

A strange thing happened the day after I saw Galaxina, back when it was
released.  The movie is a spoof of sci-fi movies and is full of jokes, puns
and sight gags; but I just sat there in the theater and never laughed once.
Or, more accurately, I didn't feel the least tickle of amusement.  It was
more like a string of detached observations of, "Ah, that joke flopped
badly."  If it had been a live performance, there would have been those
crushing dead silences every time the actors paused to allow reactions to
their jokes.

The next night, at a party, I was trying describe just how bad the movie
really was.  This involved, in part, telling several of the jokes.
Surprisingly, my listeners laughed at them.  I could flatter myself and
claim that I'm such a hot comic that I could get laughs even reading the
obituaries out loud.  But that ain't so.  Let's just say that I gave the
jokes a mildly competent delivery... and that's what Galaxina didn't
do.

Now, a work of genius is indefinable.  No matter how much you analyze it,
you can never quite pin down why it is so exceptional, while another film -
with all the same objective attributes - is merely competent.  The same is
true of transcendent badness.  The world is full of bad movies, with the
same objective failures in budget, acting, writing and directing.  But
Galaxina is loaded with subtle catastrophes.  There are nuances that
extract
the worst possible effect from so many scenes.  And I can't quite figure
out
how it was done.  Without this quality Galaxina might actually have ended
up
acceptably incompetent, a fun cheapo film, and gotten the laughs I did from
its jokes.  
<|_=00=_|>
I first saw this film when I was very young, so my judgement may be
clouded by youthful rose-tinted glasses ... but what the hell, I like
this flick. Call me inane, puerile, sophomoric, or just plain stupid,
but I laughed (and STILL do!) whenever the soundtrack does that DOO-WAH
whenever the Blue Star (I'm gracing it with caps) is mentioned. I beg
anyone who likes this film to seek out the budget UK PAL region 0 DVD
release of this film, as it features the full uncut (and indeed this
film WAS shorn of some 10 minutes of non-essential footage in some
prints, including the Rhino DVD), which to boot is presented in full
2.35:1 widescreen in a jaw-droppingly pristine transfer - for my money
it was gleaned from the original negative. If not, YOU explain why it
looks like it was shot yesterday. Compared to more recent DTV sci-fi
parodies, Galaxina holds up well and deserves a re-appraisal... but see
the uncut widescreen version first!
<|_=00=_|>
I got this movie when I saw it for $5 at this booth where this guy was
selling a lot of old DVDs from Wal-Mart's defunct DVD rental service. I
knew nothing about it, but saw the title, that it was the only film
role for Playboy Playmate of the Year Dorothy Stratten, and that it was
put out by Rhino, so I hauled off and bought it.

It begins with a rip-off of the Star Wars crawl, which they obviously
thought needed to be three long paragraphs in order to be a true
parody, because it goes on forever without having much to say. What it
does is tell you that this ship is traveling along with Galaxina, who
is this robot shaped like a Playboy Playmate who manages this ship.
Then there is a LONG shot of the expanse of the ship, also like Star
Wars, and the credits go on. The credits go on forever, in fact,
pausing every now and then to show Galaxina in her glowly chair (a
great image, but one we end up seeing a lot of) and the ship flying
through space.

What strikes one right away is how straightfaced this all is. The tone
is entirely serious and somber, even when the events of the story are
ridiculous, which sets it apart from other space comedies like The Ice
Pirates, which I just watched, and whose music offers a clue to the
wacky tone throughout. Not here.

Anyway, so we're introduced to our crew, including Sarge, who is first
seen doing rows and smoking a cigar. He looks a bit like Jackson
Browne. There's another, prettier guy, and Captain Corneilius Butt, who
is hilariously introduced at the climax of a 2001-like build-up. They
hang out for a bit, with Butt torturing a captive alien for a while,
before they encounter a Darth Vader-like alien who engages then in a
space fight. There they are, deadlocked and waiting for one ship's
shields to fail first, and then all of a sudden it's over with no
explanation and they just proceed about their business.

Now, Galaxina, who wears a white outfit that can accurately be
described as "form-fitting," cannot speak, and touching her (say when
you're reaching round to goose her) delivers an electric shock. Then
Captain Butt eats a disgusting space egg and burps up an Alien-type
creature which escapes into the ship. Then Sarge declares his love for
Galaxina, and endures a painful shock just to embrace her for a moment.

They are then ordered to go fetch the Blue Star, every mention of which
cues a burst on the soundtrack like upon the utterance of "Frau
Bluerheher" in Young Frankenstein. They will have to go into cryosleep
for 27 years to get there, and 27 more to get back, which they are
justifiably annoyed about. But all is forgiven when they are offered
ONE night of rec leave. What does this say about the priorities of the
working classes? So they spend one night in a space brothel where they
are entertained by a variety of strange female aliens. This sequence is
obviously modeled on the cantina sequence from Star Wars, and features
makeup that is comparable to that movie. Then into cryosleep. While in
cryosleep the little alien comes out and tries to dethaw Captain Butt,
but cannot figure out the code and eventually gives up with a whimper.

While the guys are in cryosleep Galaxina, who has fallen in love with
Sarge, teaches herself to speak and makes her body warm and soft. Upon
thawing him out she offers herself to him, saying that she'll make his
every wish her command. Then she is kidnapped by space bikers who are
going to sacrifice her to the god "Har Lee David Son," when she is
rescued, they get the blue star, the end.

Somewhere in here is a funny commercial that says "Do you have a
drinking problem? Then come on down to Happy Hour Spirits! We've got
all the booze you need!" So, what of it? It's obviously a highly silly
thing (that wears out its welcome after an hour—why do all movies HAVE
to be at least 90 minutes?), but what's strange is that the tone
throughout is sort of spacey and somber, which makes all the supposedly
funny scenes and wackiness have a strange kind of hypnotic sadness and
loneliness. That's the most notable thing about this movie (well, I
guess aside from Stratten), but it's not really enough to make watching
it worthwhile.

And what of Stratten? She is pretty and has a great body, showcased
throughout, but it seems odd for a movie which seems to exist mostly to
highlight her and her charms, that she remains fully covered throughout
and doesn't really even do much that's outwardly sexy. Huh. Stratten is
the subject of Bob Fosse's Star 80, which is now comfortably ensconced
in my rental list.

There is an easter egg where you can click on the spaceship in the
middle of the menu, leading you to "alien audition footage," which is
really three pieces of primitive computer animation. The most
convincing explanation is that some guy who worked on the DVD had these
student projects in computer animation, and couldn't bear to see them
just thrown out.

That's about it. Not really worth seeking out (unless you want to oogle
Stratten), but not really painful to sit through. Another one of those
strange oddities (and odd it definitely is) that was made… for some
reason that remains unclear.

-- Hey, check out Cinema de Merde, my website devoted to bad and cheesy
movies. You can get the url from my email address above...
<|_=00=_|>
I bought this for £1 on DVD and it got left on my shelf for AGES till I
decided to unwrap it and watch it in an effort to get through all the
unwatched films in my collection.

The movie didn't start out that promising it and not that funny. You
could see the jokes were there but most just didn't work (although I
did find anything that came out of Sam Wo's mouth quite funny), as the
film gets on the jokes do get better and it's just something you have
to get into.

This film is probably best left to those who can stand(or do I mean
enjoy) the work of Empire pictures as this will give you an idea of the
kind of stuff to expect.

It's not a laugh riot, it's not a classic, but there are some very
funny lines in there and interesting visuals. But ultimately I guess it
could have been a lot better. I think it may grow on me after a few
watches and maybe I could convince some of my friends to watch it too.
4/10
<|_=00=_|>
... what a porn movie would look like if you took out the sex and just
left in the bad dialog, cheap sets and bad acting, you would have
Galaxina.

This film came out when the Original Star Wars proved there was a
market for Science Fiction. This in turn lead to some gems such as
Alien and a revitalized Star Trek. Unfortunately, it also led to some
bad movies, and this was obviously one of them. (I say obviously,
because I hadn't even heard of this film until a few days ago.I missed
it when it came out in 1980.) 

Here's the underlying problem. Dorothy Stratton couldn't act, so for
most of the movie, they didn't even let her try. I understand her
tragic death has given this film an undeserved cult status, but for the
life of me I can't understand why.

Clearly, the movie tried to Spoof Star Wars, Star Trek and Aliens, but
they clearly don't understand than when you spoof something, it has to
be FUNNY! This movie wasn't, or at least, the comic timing on jokes
that could have been funny weren't. Science Fiction is ripe for parody,
as Spaceballs and Galaxy Quest proved. This movie, however, did it
poorly.
<|_=00=_|>

Dorothy Stratten is the only reason to watch this unfunny sci-fi spoof, and
her appearance is a disappointment.  Though she has the title role, her
screentime is limited, and she only speaks a few lines of dialogue.  If
you're not a Stratten fan, pass this one up.
<|_=00=_|>
If you take this movie as camp, and don't expect any deep "filme
discovere" nuances, you will have a helluva good time! There are many
quotable lines, so if you watch it with a bunch of friends, you may
find yourselves saying to one another, "If a jackass had both your
brains, he'd be a very dumb jackass!" Avery Schreiber is one of those
poor souls who were delegated to the "sidekick" and "character actor"
roles. You may remember him from commercials, rather than from film,
but he is a force to be reckoned with, comically. I can almost
unequivocally guarantee that you will LOVE him in this film! This film
is one of those rare gems that transcends its own "badness." It is so
supremely awful, that it becomes great.....Much like Woody Allen.

Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
Come on guys, Galaxina is not that bad. I got it as a present from a
friend who knows about my interest in let's say 'not so commercially
successful flicks'. A DVD for one pound sterling seemed to qualify for
that category. So we watched it together and I have to say I was the
only one who admitted loving Galaxina. Okay, it's not the funniest
movie ever made; however I made me (and the others) laugh. Not always
when it was probably intended...

To put it in a nutshell, I have seen much worse movies, and after all
Galaxina isn't taking itself seriously either. It's worth reading about
Dorothy Stratten, (Galaxina) and her fate here on IMDb or the web.

So, give it a chance!

Martin
<|_=00=_|>

Many people are devastated after seeing this movie, saying: how can
something be so terribly un-funny? The reason for this total disaster is
simple: if you want to do a science fiction parody, you have to understand
the rules by which the genre works. John Carpenter did a brilliant comedy
with a budget even lower than Galaxina, "Dark Star". He was familiar with
the rules of the genre, that's why it worked. "Galaxy Quest" had a few
hilariously funny scenes, because the movie was referring to all the cliches
of SF. The people who are responsible for Galaxina obviously had no real
love for the genre, it was just a futuristic setting but no substance and no
concept, thus the movie became entirely empty. Empty of anything: acting,
story, fun, thrill... Avoid this void. 
<|_=00=_|>
Daffy sci-fi spoof, from director William Sachs(The Incredible Melting
Man), has a space crew commissioned to find a blue crystal, dueling
with a villainous mechanical creature also desiring it. The film's
titular character is played by Dorothy Stratton, hired it seems based
on her sexiness(..she does look mighty fine in her tight space
suit)alone for she remains rather "robotic"(..written as a robot allows
her to look great without worry of delivering a meaningful
performance)throughout. Stephen Macht is a crew member in love with
Galaxina, but is not allowed to touch her due to programming wiring her
to shock anyone who makes contact. Soon, however, somehow Galaxina
finds a way to feel an emotional attachment to him, and while the crew
are in suspended animation for decades due to their ship's inability to
hyper-jump through space as other more superior travel vessels,
readjusting her programing so she can develop more intimacy with the
man she loves. 

Sachs' film homages Kubrick's 2001 by featuring almost exclusively
classical composers' works as the score to Galaxina. You get spirited
homages to Star Wars as Sachs' film features an alien western bar where
humans are on the menu, and an intergalactic brothel(..oh, Sachs, you
sly devil, you!)where weary travelers can unwind. The budget for the
ship interiors, costumes, and special effects involving the space
vessels are quite small. There are lots of ugly rubber-suited
creatures(..including a rock-eating monster with piranha teeth kept
prisoner in the ship for swallowing the Queen's jewels)and ghastly
make-up effects on the faces of many humans portraying alien humanoids.
While not always hitting the mark, Sachs provides enough for fans of
popular sci-fi films of the time(..including an inspired homage to
Alien)to keep his audience entertained. 

Avery Schreiber is the captain of the ship, with James D Hinton as
Macht's sidekick, wearing a cowboy hat and a soiled Dodgers jersey. The
planet of Altar, where the blue crystal is located, is a place where
the worst of the galaxies retreat, including a gang of leather hoods
who worship a Harley Davidson motorcycle as it's god, and plenty of
ghoulish alien monsters. Other crew members under Captain Cornelius
Butt(Schreidber)include Lionel Mark Smith as Maurice, with pointy ears
and bat-like wings, and Tad Horino, as a pipe-smoking china-man always
offering words of wisdom rejected by his peers..they are the ones with
the responsibility of the ship's engineering, keeping the rust bucket
up and running. I think this is the kind of flick to watch on those
dead afternoons when nothing's happening and you want to waste 80
minutes. Stratton is mighty nice to gaze upon for 80 minutes, as well.
