

Every summer Chevy Chase takes his family on a little trip. This year he
went too far. 

 Chevy Chase stars as Clark Griswold, the typical American businessman.
Well, almost a basic businessman. He works in food preservatives. Beverly
D'Angelo plays his wife, Anthony Michael Hall plays Rusty, his teenage son,
and Dana Barron plays his daughter Audrey . This summer, Clark has decided
to go all out and take a vacation with his family to "Walley World," a theme
park spoof on Disney World, owned by "Roy Walley".

Basically, this film starts out strong and ends strong. There are many gut
grabbing scenes, and the film never resorts to gross out humor. The biggest
gross out is when Clark bites into a sandwich a dog leaked on, but that's a
different story.

Along the way to Walley World, everything and everything that can go wrong
does, and Clark ends up with Aunt Edna (Imogene Coca), who adds more fun to
this wallop of a comedy.

The laughter just escalates more and more as we see Clark's dreams flush
down the toilet farther and farther, and I can't tell you how much I laughed
at some of the scenes.

"Vacation" isn't typical National Lampoon fare.

Chevy Chase gives by far his best performance (akthough he acts just as well
in "Christmas Vacation") as Clark, a real optimist, go get'm kind of guy,
who completely snaps toward the end of the film. The rest of the cast does
well, and Beverly D'Angelo does surprisingly well as a house wife. The two
children, Audrey and Rusy, squawk at each other, but not to the point of
obnoxious, which is another good thing about this film.

Is it no surprise that John Hughes, the king writer/director of the 80's
comedy films wrote this, or that Harold Ramis (Groundhog Day, Ghostbusters,
Striped, Analyze This) directed the film? 

With cameos by the likes of John Candy, Eugene Levy, Brian Doyle Murray (who
played Clark's boss in "Christmas Vacation"), and more, "Vacation" is a
comedic triumph of the eighties that is now an icon of how to make a good
comedy.

4.5/5 stars --

John Ulmer 
<|_=00=_|>

I have seen this movie many times on TV (the German dubbed version, of
course) and I loved it every time...allthough the more often its shown, the
more it gets cut on TV.

Now, for the first time (thanks to DVD), I have been able to watch it in its
original language. And it was just awesome!
The dialogues were even better and the characters were so much better
outlined.

I swear that I will never see such a great movie in a dubbed version
again!

To any Germans in here: go get it on DVD (even though it is just in Mono) -
and delete the video tape if you have recorded it from
TV.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of those movies that i loved when i was younger so i really
didn't know what to think as i watched it again. But to my surprise it is
still charming, funny and sweet. Enter Chevy Chase as the last family guy,
just wanting to spend time with his loving family. A hilarious journey from
Chicago to California to get to an amusement park. You may think, that
shouldn't be a problem, but it is. This is one vacation you will never
forget. I have always liked Chevy Chase and if you watch this movie you will
know why. The sweet caring family man losing more and more of his mind is
nothing less than funny as hell. Maybe you will think twice about taking
your family on vacation after watching this movie. I rate this movie
7/10
<|_=00=_|>
"Vacation", what a hysterical laugh out loud till you hurt movie! I was
watching the wonderful "I love the 80's" on VH1, and they showed this
movie. I remember watching it when I was younger, but I didn't get much
of it obviously. So, I watched it again, because it looked more
appealing than it did when I was a kid.

God, I never laughed so hard in my life. Chevy Chase, Clark Griswald
decides that he is not spending enough time with the kids, so he has
planned a cross road trip with the family to see their favorite cartoon
character theme park "Marty Moose!" and "Wally World!". Back on the old
holiday road, it's not going to be easy. Visiting their hick cousin,
Eddie and his scary hillbilly family and putting their grumpy old aunt
on the trip with the Griswalds. Clark has a mysterious but extremely
sexy girl, Christie Brinkly, following him around in a red hot Ferrari.
Their car is constantly getting into accidents and dents on the way to
California. Finally, after to the point of madness, Clark will kill
every person if he has to to get to Wally World. 

If you loved "Vacation", I highly recommend "Christmas Vacation" as
well. I think the reason why we all love this movie is because we can
relate in some way. How many of us go on vacation and nothing goes
perfect? I loved the ending of this movie so much! I won't give it
away, but trust me that it is that good. If you've seen it, I'm sure
you will agree that this is a must see comedy.

10/10-highly deserved!
<|_=00=_|>
Clark Griswold ignores his family's pleas to go to Hawaii for their
summer vacation and opts for the Walley World resort in California
instead. His long-suffering wife Ellen wants to fly, but Clark would
rather drive and spend time with the kids he hardly ever sees.

Sounds like a simple journey from A to B right? Wrong! The Griswolds
are a gene pool of absolute disaster and nothing...NOTHING goes
right...ever. The fun begins with Clark being forced to accept a
disgusting metallic pea-green family truckster instead of a cool-blue
sports model with CB and optional fun pack. It's literally the most
hideous car in the history of automobiles (and that includes the car
that Homer Simpson made for his brother Herb).

As the lengthy days on the road pass, Clark is ripped-off by street
hustlers, guilt-tripped out of $500 from his hick cousin Eddie (Randy
Quaid in what is, begrudgingly, his most popular role), ripped-off by a
hick sheriff/mechanic, and tempted by gorgeous blonde in a Ferrari.
Though Ellen doesn't take kindly to anyone with an eye on her Sparky
(actually D'Angelo's pet name for Chevy Chase and not something that
was scripted).

Based on John Hughes' ill-fated trip to Disneyworld when he was
five-years-old, Vacation brought us Chevy Chase's most famous character
(sorry Fletch) and most successful series. He has absolutely perfect
chemistry with Beverly D'Angelo, who, with her large eyeballs and
perfect timing, is an under-rated comic actress in her own right.

While I absolutely love the first and third movies in the Vacation
series, and both definitely score 10/10, I have to say the original is
the best as it has a really dark edge that none of the others have.
There's virtually nothing in Vacation that isn't funny. Harold Ramis,
fresh off the absolute anarchy of Caddyshack, keeps a tight, sadistic
reign on the disastrous road trip. If you have a dark sense of humor
and enjoy evil comedy then you'll love Vacation. It was one of the
first movies I ever saw and it helped turn me into the misanthropic,
dysfunctional, ghoulish misfit that I am today.

Thank you, Vacation! Thank you!
<|_=00=_|>

Maybe it's the part when they visit the white trash relatives (Randy Quaid
and his family) and they acquire Aunt Edna for the family trip. Maybe it's
the part when Aunt Edna dies and they put her on the top of the old station
wagon,, maybe it's the fighting and bickering all kids do when the family
goes somewhere,, or maybe it's the part where the Griswolds drive through a
cruddy neighborhood and the station wagon gets vandalised and all of the hib
caps taken..I cannot think of a "favorite" part of this movie because it is
hilarious from start to finish. Clark Griswold's good intentions gone bad
makes this a decent, highly watchable movie with non-stop laughs. It's not
ridiculous nor highly exaggarated either- just a typical American family
trying to get to Wally World in one piece and everything goes wrong. I think
we can all relate to something in this movie when it comes to going on
vacation. I still watch this movie every time it's on television and I still
laugh every time.
<|_=00=_|>

"National Lampoon's Vacation" is a funny movie that follows the Griswold
family, Clark (Chevy Chase) and his wife Ellen (Beverly D'Angelo) along with
their children Rusty (Anthony Michael Hall) and Audrey (Dana Barron), as
they cross country on their station wagon westward from their home in
Chicago to Walley World, the Disneyland-like amusement park in California.
It took them two weeks to get their and have fun. The film co-stars John
Candy (too bad he died), Randy Quaid, Imogene Coca, Eddie Bracken, Eugene
Levy, Christie Brinkley (who plays the girl in the Ferrari here), and the
other cast and crew. If you have not seen "National Lampoon's Vacation", I
suggest you go rent it at your local video store near you and laugh or see
it on television and laugh also. If you'll liked it, buy the video or DVD or
tape it from any channels on television on blank tape. I think you will not
be disappointed. Hilarious!

I give it a perfect 10/10 stars!
<|_=00=_|>
In Illinois, Chicago, the suburban Clark Griswold (Chevy Chase) decides
to travel on vacation with his wife Ellen (Beverly D'Angelo) and their
son Rusty (Anthony Michael Hall) and their daughter Audrey (Dana
Barron) driving his new station wagon to the Walley World theme park in
California. Ellen and the children suggest that they fly to the
destination, but the stubborn Clark wants to spend more time with his
family and say no to the proposed airplane travel.

The Griswold family has many problems along their journey and they
visit Ellen's cousin Catherine (Miriam Flynn), her useless husband
Eddie (Randy Quaid) and their children. When they leave the place, they
are forced to give a ride to the inconvenient Aunt Edna (Imogene Coca)
and her hateful dog. Soon Clark learns that his planned journey has
become a trip from hell.

"Vacation" is a hilarious road movie that makes anyone laughs. The
clumsy Clark Griswold provokes very funny situations with his
attitudes, supported by his beautiful wife. Unfortunately this type of
naive comedy is forgotten by the studios on the present days. My vote
is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Férias Frustradas" ("Frustrated Vacation")
<|_=00=_|>

One of my all time favorite movies I own.  One of Chevy Chase's finest
movie
besides The 3 Amigos.  It seems that Chevy Chase lost his humor after 3
Amigos.  But this movie here had everything you could ask for a comedy,
and
I've seen a number of them.  I'd also like to see Dana Barron (Audrey
Griswald) in more movies, cause what a hottie she is.  And the rest of the
cast did a superb job in making this early '80s movie a box office hit;
and
I would highly recommend anybody to watch this movie, even if it is for
the
first time.
<|_=00=_|>
National Lampoons Vacation is an absolute classic Chevy Chase film.
Chevy (as Clark) is, a very funny lad. Americans are capable of comedy,
although are yet to master the British and their achievements in this
genre. Each time I watch this film the delivery in Chevy's lines
becomes funnier. The absolute classic for the movie is when Clarke
talks about the Mississippi River and then the St Louis Arch.

The cross country adventures are taken to extremes with great
characters such as cousin Eddy at times stealing big Chevy's thunder.
Don't be fooled, I'm not suggesting anyone deserved an Oscar. However,
when you watch a comedy and it is comical then they have to be doing
something right. If your a fan of Chevy then you will have seen this
film so i suggest you go and watch it again.
