
Ernest Saves Christmas is a very underrated Christmas holiday flick. I
will agree that it is very silly, and certainly not Oscar worthy. Don't
expect a sophisticated plot, and a superlative script. Expect a
harmless and fun Christmas comedy, that way you are in for a good time.

While very predictable in plotting and rather repetitive and slow in
the middle half; especially in the first thirty minutes Ernest Saves
Christmas does have its funny moments. And I must say the scene with
the magic sleigh was uproariously funny. Amongst the humour, is an in
general heart-warming story about Santa and his attempts to find a
successor.

The camera-work may be a tad dated, but the music is very nice indeed.
And I actually thought the acting is above decent, with the late (and
talented) Jim Varney wonderfully spirited as Ernest and Douglas Seale
is simply great as Santa. The opening credits with the collage of
Christmas carols were a delight.

Ernest Saves Christmas is an above average seasonal comedy about the
power of belief and the dignity of an individual. It is far from a
masterpiece, but seriously I wasn't expecting it to be. I got exactly
what I wanted, a fun film that while predictable and silly is lots of
fun too. I do also think it is underrated; there are much worse movies
out there, namely any of the Friedberg-Seltzer movies, Home Alone 4 and
Superbabies:Baby Geniuses 2. 7/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>

This, my personal favorite Ernest film, is arguably one of the funniest.
And its holiday theme adds that extra something for a comedy franchise
(like
Christmas Vacation did for the National Lampoon films).  Basic story has
Ernest literally save Christmas, with predictable but sometimes hilarious
results.  If you ever thought Ernest's schtick was funny, you gotta see
this.  And if you wanna laugh for the holidays, you can do a lot worse
than
this.
<|_=00=_|>

If you wasn't to thrilled with Ernest Goes to Camp, write it off and give
this one a shot. A good story involving Ernest helping Santa Clause find a
replacement before Christmas Eve is fun, and delightful. Jim Varney again
does a terrific job playing the dimwitted goofball. Entertaining from
start
to finish, this is the best of the Ernest series.

Rating: B
<|_=00=_|>

Ernest rules! Ernest always can make a good movie for all seasons. I mean,
you got....

1. Ernest Goes To Camp-Good Summer movie.

2. Ernest Saves Christmas-Good Christmas movie.

3. Ernest Scared Stupid-Good Halloween movie.

You got to love Ernest. Watch this movie. But it will get you into a
Christmas mood. Nothing wrong with that.
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe "Ernest Saves Christmas" will never be one of the most
well-respected holiday comedies ever made. Maybe it didn't win the Best
Picture Academy Award. Maybe it isn't a four-star movie or even a very
popular one, but it's still a Christmas must every year. Underneath the
layers of "Hee-Haw"-level blue-collar humor so synonymous with Ernest
is a Christmas movie with heart-- surprising for the classic character.
In a funny way, it almost seems like a different take on "Miracle on
34th Street"-- the old man who knows he's Santa Claus and the cynical
young girl who says it isn't so. "Ernest Saves Christmas" remains one
of the ideal holiday comedies around, whether it was a serious movie or
not.
<|_=00=_|>
Ernest is definitely one of a kind. There is more to him than meets the
eye. I like his movies, and I really like this one. It is funny and has
the Christmas message that all good Christmas movies have.

Ernest always took himself very seriously at not being serious. There
are no pretensions in his movies. If you come to his movies expecting
normal acting that follows the usual standard formulas for comedy, you
will be delighted if you understand what he is doing.

I wonder sometimes if he isn't a misunderstood genius. He always knew
what he was doing.

Anyway, I think it's a good Christmas movie for the family.
<|_=00=_|>
First off R.I.P Jim Varney. Jim Varney was the Charles Chaplin of the
1980's & early 1990's. Jim Varney's goofy alter ego, Ernest was famous
for his trademark slapstick humor, countless Bugs Bunny type dress up
egos, and dumb humor. Despite, Ernest being nearly stupid, Jim Varney,
the actor was a high IQ man. Jim Varney was also a serious
Shakespearian actor. He was phenomenal and much admired in the 'circle'
of Shakespeare, on a par with Sir Lawrence Olivier.. He said he loved
playing Ernest because it was (for him) the direct opposite of doing
Shakespeare. Ernest first made his mark doing commericals for nearly
everything, it was his work with Coca-Cola that allow the Christmas
ad's in the opening of the film. It opens up with Santa Claus (Douglas
Seale) arrived at the Orlando Airport. Douglas Seale has one of the
sweetest voices, and it's works for being Santa Claus. Ernest P.
Worrell works as a taxi driver, and picks him up. Santa Claus is on his
way to get a local celebrity Joe Carruthers to be new Santa Claus due
to Douglas thinking of retiring. While they are driving, a runaway
teenage girl (Noelle Parker) calling herself Harmony Starr joins Ernest
and Santa in the cab. Harmony is a horrible character, who lies
non-stop on end. However on Christmas eve, her conscience prevails and
she reforms her ways. Ernest drops him off to meet Joe, but Ernest
discovers that Santa left his magic sack behind in the cab, and Ernest
begins a quest to find the old man and return it to him. There is a
number of cool scenes in the movie that show Jim Varney's work, one is
the POV Vern's house which pays tribute to the original commercials
that first introduced Ernest, the audience never sees Vern's face. The
other is when Ernest poses as Astor Clementh, an employee of the
governor and Harmony as the governor's niece Mindy, and the two help
Santa escape from jail when Santa got himself locked up by Joe's boss.
The other is when Ernest disguises himself as an Apopka snake rancher
(Lloyd Worrell from Knowhutimean? Hey Vern, It's my Family Album) who
sneaks Santa into a movie studio to find Joe again. There are also
supporting cast from his TV show days, as Chuck and Bobby (Gailard
Sartain & Bill Byrge) that serves as sub-plot as two airport workers
trying to control Santa's reindeer. The movie has a strong Christmas
theme and the humor will keep a range of ages entertained nonetheless.
Ernest is funny without using sex. Ernest also use little violence and
harsh language. Very heartwarming, and works for family events. The
cut-backs of the film can be the over used of advertising in this movie
and re-cuts of older commericals (good example: the pancake on parade),
dodgy plot-points, and bad Christmas puns. Director John Cherry and Jim
Varney made a good movie for such a low-budget and it's one of the last
of the good Ernest movies. Yeah, the Ernest movies are pretty much the
ultimate in guilty pleasure crapfests, but this brings out the
Christmas spirit in all of us.
<|_=00=_|>

I am 16.  When I was younger, I would watch this movie all the time at
Christmas.  This, along with A Christmas Story and (Clark Griswold's)
Christmas Vacation are the traditional Christmas movies.  It didn't get
very
high ratings, but these people are looking for action and intrigue, not
just
good holiday laughs.  I suggest you find a copy for your
children.
<|_=00=_|>
Ernest (Jim Varney) is a cab driver who runs the airport routes in a
big city. One day, he crashes his taxi into the unloading area of the
airport and must make a beeline out of the site. Seeing a white-bearded
gentleman who needs a cab, he hustles the old guy into his clutches and
speeds off. Although Ernest sings "O Christmas Tree" with only these
three words, he's really a nice guy. But, when the bearded one tells
Ernest that his name is Santa Claus, Ernest doesn't really believe him.
He drops the old man off, however, at a retirement home, as requested.
Picking up a Christmas tree that fell off a truck and a homeless young
teenage girl with an attitude, Ernest makes his way over to Vern's
house to decorate. But, wait. The old man left his red, very large
duffle-type bag on board. As Ernest opens the bag, he gets a glimpse of
the bag's magical powers. Could this really have been Santa? Trying to
return the sack to Mr. Claus, Ernest learns, however, that the old man
has been thrown in jail. Is it up to Ernest to make sure Santa can fly
on his big day? This is a sweet and fun family film that borrows a bit
from Miracle on 34th Street and other holiday flicks. There is only one
Ernest, of course, and Varney provides much comedic mayhem with his
unique character. Just watch him talk about "channel number 5 perfume"
or a "failure to accumulate" and you will be laughing heartily. His
expressions are priceless, too. The rest of the cast, although unknown,
are fine as well. No one will find fault with the look of the film,
either, as the costumes, sets, and production values are high. Perhaps
you have heard that Varney's humor is sometimes of the gross-out nature
and you would rather not share his films with your family. Please, do
reconsider when it comes to this one. Its humor is infectious, not
offensive, and its sweet tale will warm the hearts of its viewers. So,
make a batch of mulled, spiced cider and buttered popcorn and put this
one into the home theater machine in the very near future.
<|_=00=_|>

This IS my favorite Christmas movie.  It is funny, in a totally ridiculous,
moronic, Ernest sort of way - it has all of his best schtick and then some.
I really like the message, too - that Christmas is in the heart.   Unlike
some of the typical Christmas movies there is no major transformation where
the mean man becomes the nice guy -the nice guy stays the nice guy and
becomes even better.  Suspend your need to see Citizen Kane and just watch
it for the total silliness.  You will enjoy it.

