

When I was growing up, I would watch Eye For An Eye a million times a year.
That was my favorite Norris movie, until I came across Lone Wolf McQuade in
the video stores in 1987.  I love that movie SO MUCH!  The acting isn't
that
great (I don't think any of his movies have 1st rate acting), but being an
action Norris movie, it's right on target!   The musical theme to Lone Wolf
McQuade fit very much in the movie.  It sounds a bit like those Eastwood
spaghetti western themes, but better!  If anyone didn't like this movie,
they're brain dead!  (Anyone who's a Norris fan that is) :)   If you're a
TRUE Norris fan & if you love action flicks, rent this movie today, you'll
love it!

<|_=00=_|>
The previous posters comments about this film say something about the
reviewer. Um...Chuck Norris and David Carradine??...what kind of movie
did you expect with two KNOWN martial arts stars in it? High Plains
Drifter? 

This movie ranks as probably one of Chuck Norris' best action films of
his career and was certainly the basis for his very successful series
character "Walker, Texas Ranger". With this movie we saw Chuck change
from his old image of the blonde, California boy to the dark haired,
bearded, tough guy Chuck we know today. Chuck's movies took on a
slightly tougher edge from this film forward (i.e. Invasion USA, Code
of Silence). And who can fault the addition of "grasshopper" himself
David Carradine to the mix? A major casting coup for the film.
Carradine camps it up as a drug smuggling, karate champ who taunts and
ultimately tries to kill Texas Ranger McQuade. The dialogue and action
are typical of the genre and the time period but for some reason this
film stands the test of time like some of the John Wayne westerns of
old. Chuck clearly wished to set himself in that "lone, lawman, hero"
mold of Wayne with this film.

There is one shot in the opening sequence where McQuade walks into
frame in silhouette with the sun behind him, bearing down on his enemy
that is right out of the classic westerns of the 50's. That's the money
shot of the film. Robert Beltrane (of "Star Trek: Voyager" fame) does a
nice, early career stint here as the hapless, partner who forced to tag
along on McQuade's heels, but who saves the day in some small way. Much
like Tyne Daly did to Clint Eastwood's Dirty Harry in "The Enforcer".

And you just can't beat the final showdown between Carradine & Norris,
which ranks right up there with Chuck's other famous duel with Bruce
Lee. It's Action Cinema Gold.

All in all, a great little film for people who like action heroes.
<|_=00=_|>
Among all Chuck Norris movies I've watched so far, there were a few I
rather liked (especially "Missing In Action" was so hilarious they had
to quote it in "Hot Shots 2"), but "Lone Wolf McQuade" is the first
time I actually loved every minute. I confess. There are many good
reasons for it, though. Already in the opening scene, I noticed the
excellent music by Francesco De Masi. The guitars, bells, trumpets,
harmonicas are straight from the school of spaghetti western and turn
every close-up into larger-than-life drama. David Carradine is a
opponent way ahead of the villains Chuck battled in other flicks.
Barbara Carrera ("Never Say Never Again") catches the eye as a widow
falling in love with Chuck. The story is (intentionally or not) kept as
basic as possible: hero meets bad guys, tries a solution with violence,
doesn't work, tries MORE violence, then it works. Much in this movie
defies reason and logic, but don't ask "why?", just view it as a kind
of ritualistic fantasy western in a modern day decoration, thus it can
be great fun. And you learn a lot of useful things, for example: you
can revive a seemingly dead and definitely buried man with two cans of
beer. And don't miss one of the first computer hacking scenes in film
history, you won't believe your eyes.
<|_=00=_|>

This is actually a pretty nifty little action film, fashioned as a modern
day "spaghetti western."  Solid direction by B-Movie veteran Steve Carver
and a well-written script combine with a first rate performance by Norris
(his absolute best to date....this character could be seen as a prototype
to
his current smash hit on TV, "Walker: Texas Ranger")to make this great
escapist entertainment.  David Carradine is also memorable as the chief
villain of the story.

I saw this film in a packed theatre when it was first released and the
audience just ate it up.  The scene where he drives his truck out of a
grave
that the bad guys have buried him in was a particular crowd-pleaser!


<|_=00=_|>

Chuck Norris was clean shaven until this role, and since it he hasn't shaved
his beard.  From this movie, Norris' hit t.v. show Walker Texas Ranger is
based.

JJ McQuade (Chuck Norris) is a Lone Wold renegade Texas Ranger.  He is
unstoppable, using karate kicks and uzi's to hose down the enemy.  He is a
divorced father, who takes care of his daughter, yet has enough time for a
love affair with the stunning Barbara Carrera.

This is also the first movie where Robert Beltran of  Star Trek fame is
featured.  Also in this movie are David Carradine and Leon Isaac Kennedy.
So the cast is great, the story is tight, the music by Francesco De Masi is
amazing, and the action is constant.

This is a must see for any action fan, it also makes good viewing at home
with a beer and a date, because there is a lot of romance in it as well.

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED
<|_=00=_|>

This is perhaps the best of all the Chuck Norris movies and is a great
precursor for his long running role as WALKER TEXAS RANGER.J.J.McQuade is
also a Texas Ranger but somewhat more unkempt and ruthless than his TV
counterpart,he is engaged in a running battle against a villainous arms
dealer portrayed by David Carradine who faces Norris at the climax in a down
and dirty mano a mano kick-fest which by this time the audience is screaming
for.This is just the icing on the cake of a pleasing action packed movie
directed with great gusto by Steve  Carver.
The movie also has a superb cod spaghetti western score from Francesco Da
Masi,veteran of dozens of Hercules type movies from the 60s;people enjoy
this who normally would avoid a Chuck Norris movie,for those who like them
anyway this is the best of the bunch.
<|_=00=_|>

Certainly Chucks greatest along with The Delta Force, this film has very
few
flaws. From the outset we see the hard and rugged Chuck fight it out with
style and humour. The joy within this film is yet again a credit to Norris.
The best scene's involve the uzi scene (his face as he spins round - utter
comedy), the line "No one's ever killed a Texas Ranger", the crazy little
guy, THE SHEER DELIGHT as he drives his car out of the ground and the great
end fight scene where Carradine camps it up no end. The what would normally
be haunting music only adds to the fun of this film...the only time I didnt
laugh is when they shot his dog!
<|_=00=_|>
What can I say? This one is a classic!! My all time favorite movie is
John Carpenter's Escape from New York with Kurt Russell. Lone Wolf
McQuade falls into the same genre of early 80's action movies. I saw
this movie when I was a kid and thought to myself, "wow-that desert
place looks cool as hell". Well now I live in El Paso.

Everything about this movie is great. It has it all. Killer fistfights,
beer, explosions, gunfights, awesome scenery, an evil midget, more
beer, and one damn fine senorita' played by Barbera Carrera. The fight
at the end between Norris and Carradine is one of the best on film.
It's up there with the fight in Roadhouse, and in Die Hard. If you like
good ole' fashioned kick ass action. This is your movie!!! A Chuck
Norris masterpiece!
<|_=00=_|>
Chuck Norris. David Carradine. The battle. I could write you the
largest synopsis imaginable, but it's still all about the two legends
squaring off in a martial arts contest. Carradine does the honors of
playing the stone cold heel who runs an operation smuggling stolen
artillery from the military shipping guns and other American weapons to
terrorists. Norris is an El Paso Texas Ranger who doesn't necessarily
operate using the standard "code of ethics" often not "playing by the
rules" in order to catch (or in most cases, kill) criminals. Barbara
Carrera is Lola, the woman between them (although, she loves Norris)
and Dana Kimmell (Friday the 13th III) is the cutesy daughter of
Norris' JJ "Lone Wolf" McQuade. L Q Jones is the retired Texas Ranger
and pal of McQuade, Dakota, who pays a heavy price for assisting in the
"babysitting" of a drug dealer (character actor William Sanderson,
scrawny, nervy, with these glasses which enlarge his eyes to make him
more of a cartoonish criminal who squeals like a pig when Dakota uses
an AK 47 to get his attention). Robert Beltran is McQuade's "new
partner" (yes, quite a cliché, but if you're an action fan this comes
with the territory), green as expected, but loyal and actually comes in
handy during moments where the one man army act is impossible. R G
Armstrong is the boss over the Texas Rangers, always on McQuade about
his appearance and style, believing his men should represent their
badge with a "squeaky clean" image. Sharon Farrell is McQuade's
ex-wife, Molly. Interesting enough, McQuade and Molly get along
cordially, even after she tells him of the acceptance of a job offer in
another Texas city. Leon Isaac Kennedy is a Fed, Jackson, who offers to
help, not hinder, McQuade in his pursuit of the ones responsible for
killing his daughter's boyfriend (and another friend; another cliché,
the murder of the best friend is here)and soldiers during the artillery
heist. What really puts McQuade over the edge, besides being shot at in
his own bedroom, is the damned murder of his pet wolf (what is it with
action movies and killing canines?). Ultimately, it is about Norris and
Carradine engaged in a fight for all the marbles, at the end—after a
lengthly shoot out as McQuade, Jackson, & Beltran's Kayo raid the
desert compound of Carradine's Rawley Wilkes—as Carrera and a kidnapped
Kimmell look on in fear. The music score and opening credits (along
with how the director shoots Norris and Carradine) present "Lone Wolf
McQuade" in the grand tradition of Sergio Leone spaghetti westerns. My
only wish would be that McQuade and Wilkes had fought longer or more
than once, but seeing them going tooth and nail—before Wilkes sucker
punching McQuade's daughter, a definite no-no which gets our hero all
riled up—for even a few minutes was worthwhile. As you would expect,
Norris encounters plenty of punks to pummel, including many half his
size (these big, burly sorts often go down with one punch or kick which
I always find amusing), sent to the ground for a nice, long nap after a
smack or kick (I have nicknamed Norris' spinning kick the "velocity
kick" because it always knocks the recipient unconscious on impact).
Carradine seems to be having fun, gnawing on his cigarillo and oozing
menace, channeling, it seems, Henry Fonda's cold-blooded killer in
"Once Upon a Time in the West".
<|_=00=_|>
In one of his very best vehicles, Chuck Norris plays Texas Ranger J.J.
McQuade, a solitary man with his own way of doing things. In this tale
he must do battle with a nefarious arms dealer, Rawley Wilkes (David
Carradine). His boss tries to saddle him with a partner, nicknamed
"Kayo" (Robert Beltran). J.J. is naturally resistant to this
arrangement, but Kayo is determined to prove himself worthy. J.J. also
finds himself another ally when F.B.I. agent Jackson (Leon Isaac
Kennedy) shows his own willingness to not do things strictly by the
book.

The decision by director Steve Carver (who'd previously worked with
Chuck on the formulaic but fun "An Eye for an Eye") and his filmmaking
company to play this like a Spaghetti Western is an inspired choice.
Carver directs with a real flair, the rural scenery is breathtaking to
behold, the action scenes are extremely well executed, and the Chuck
vs. Carradine title fight is an irresistible hook. Certainly one man
who understands the tone of the whole thing is composer Francesco De
Masi, whose score is just perfect.

What's nice to see is that Carradine, who often slummed in B fare and
basically phoned in his performances, makes for a truly effective
villain here. He actually looks like he's enjoying playing this over
confident, egomaniacal creep. Much eye candy is supplied by the
luscious Barbara Carrera, who has the role of Wilkes's uneasy
"partner". Chuck and Carrera do have some sexy scenes together. Beltran
is fine as the eager beaver young cop who is initially something of a
nuisance but who will prove his worth by the end. Much praise goes to
the uniformly solid supporting cast, including such luminaries as L.Q.
Jones, R.G. Armstrong, Sharon Farrell, and William Sanderson. The
lovely Dana Kimmell of "Friday the 13th Part III" fame plays Chucks'
frequently imperiled daughter. Daniel Frishman has the most delicious
role in the picture as the diminutive crook Falcon; this is another guy
who looks like he's having a good time.

Rough, tough, and rousing, "Lone Wolf McQuade" makes for completely
agreeable entertainment, delivering to us a finale that we can savour.
Chuck and Carradine performed the stunts themselves, to the chagrin of
the producers.

This would make a fine double bill with "Code of Silence", another of
Chucks' best features.

Eight out of 10.
