
First off, I'm not a big BIG 'Star Trek' fan. I've seen the first six
films, and catch an episode of the TV series every now and then (I saw
the whole first season recently, which made me re-visit the
Shatner/Nimoy films). I did however, find this film extremely
entertaining! In fact, it was about as much fun as I think you can have
at home with a (tasteful) video! I found 'Star Trek: The Motion
Picture' a tad dull, although I still enjoyed it. And II and III work
well together, and are both enjoyable sci-fi action flicks ('Wrath of
Khan' is another classic, but I feel IV pips it to the post). However,
when 'The Voyage Home' was over, I had no idea that a film with a plot
which involved two humpback whales and mid-1980s San Fransico could be
so damn fun.

Shatner is on great form as the rogue Capt. Kirk, and Nimoy is
brilliant in conveying Spocks absolute confusion at being stuck on a
planet he partly understands, in a time he cannot comprehend. When Kirk
explains Spocks oddness to the brilliant and frankly underused actress
Catherine Hicks, Kirk says that Spock did a lot of "LDS" back in
college.

Kelley, Takei and company are all on fine form, and the score,
direction and script all work brilliantly. The fact that the 1980s now
seems so long ago (it after all, did not age as well as some decades)
only adds to the films premise.

I would thoroughly recommend this film to anyone - 'Star Trek' fan or
not - as it is a wonderfully entertaining film for all ages. I'm sure
wherever Gene Roddenberry is, he looks back on this film venture with a
wry smile and a bag of popcorn.
<|_=00=_|>
An alien probe is heading towards earth causing tidal waves and
hurricane winds. The probe is trying to get in touch with humpback
whales which no longer exist.In time honoured tradition it is up to
James kirk and crew to go back to the 20th century, find some humpback
whales,take them home with him and save the day again. This is by far
the funniest of all the star trek films due to the fact that it is
played totally tongue in cheek and the cast aren't afraid to poke fun
at themselves.To the crew it is like visiting an "undiscovered country"
and the customs of modern man confuse them totally. Catherine Hicks
plays their 20th century contact,joins in the fun and adds to the
confusion they are feeling by playing her role totally straight. Some
classic scenes include Scotty trying to instruct a computer by talking
into the mouse,Dr Mcoys horror when surgeons are about to drill into
Chekovs skull and Spocks solution to dealing with an arrogant yob on a
bus. However it also has a serious ecological message.If we don't stop
destroying our planet then the day could well come when every kind of
whale will cease to exit.Some video clips, shown in the scene in the
museum,displaying images of men killing whales are disturbing because
they are real. Watch this film ,enjoy it, but remember that sometimes
fact is more disturbing than fiction. In memory of James Doohan 1920-
2005 RIP.
<|_=00=_|>

The Voyage Home is the Star Trek film that had the highest box office gross.
It captured the imagination of the public who were eager to see Kirk and the
crew in present day (1986) San Francisco. Luckily, the film was solid in all
aspects and was enjoyed by long-time fans of the series as well. Although
the outcome of the film is never in doubt, it never loses the attention of
the viewer and entertains throughout. It actually felt fresh and original
despite the fact that time travel had been done before (in the TV series)
and it was the fourth film in the franchise. Recommended,
8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
The fourth entry in the "Star Trek" movie series is the most popular
and unarguably the best-liked of these entertaining movies. It has a
fine variety of scenes, intelligent comedy to leaven the more serious
adventures. it is fast paced, beautifully directed by Leonard Nimoy who
also plays "Spock". What prevented it from being even better perhaps
appreciated is a deliberate attempt by the writers to write short,
choppy-sentence dialogue that in some scenes does not work as well as
more formally-structured words might have worked. The film is bright,
the art direction is very good, the music by Leonard Rosenmann is
outstanding. And the story line is one of the best that sci-fi
filmmakers have yet devised, in my judgment, because it has everything.
As Captain James T. Kirk of the 23rd century starship Enterprise,
William Shatner acts with unusual intelligence and even strength to get
by. As his half-alien First Officer Spock, just recovering from a
traumatic experience that caused him to have to be reeducated from
ground zero, Leonard Nimoy is even better. Everyone of Jim Kirk's
crewmen, including James Doohan as Engineer Montgomer Scott, De Forest
Kelley as CMO Leonard McCoy, Nichelle Nichols as Lt. Uhura of
Communications, talented George Takei as Helmsman Sulu, and Walter
Koenig as Navigator Pavel Chekhov, have good scenes to perform and do
them seamlessly and with professional style. Others in the cast
including Brock Peters, Jane Wyatt, Mark Lenard, Grace Lee Whitney,
Alen Henteloff, Robert Ellenstein and a relative unknown as the
earthwoman who becomes enmeshed in the Enterprise officers' mission,are
given telling moments. There are many memorable visual moments,
including the departure of a stolen Klingon warbird from the planet
Vulcan, the near-wreckage of Starfleet Headquarters, the landing of an
invisible vessel in Golden Gate Park, a slingshot run around the sun, a
descent from the invisible craft to the ground, scenes around the
Alameda Navy Yards, a chase in a hospital and scenes at the cetacean
Institute all make themselves hard-to-forget. It is the sheer fun and
adventure of the storyline--sending a starship back in time to rescue
two hump-backed whales and save the earth from alien destruction--that
sets this film apart. Ignored by critics who have nearly always ignored
sci-fi achievements, this cinematic attainment set a standard for
future sci-fi to which hardly any film's maker has yet approached. The
revelation of character could have been deeper, but the relevance of
every moment to the plot line could hardly have been bettered. Harve
Bennett deserves some of the credit for this script's excellences; so
do the special-effects creators, since for once in Hollywood, every
such effects serve to further the progress the central character and
his helpers are making. This is probably a film to be watched over and
over; I wish there were more such adult sci-fi efforts that eschew
pretension and present so much intelligent dialogue, acting and
intriguing "differences".
<|_=00=_|>

This one is great-I remember laughing my butt off the first time I saw it,
and it still works now. Very well done, the time travel angle was better
handled here then it has been in other Trek films, shows, etc.-and one thing
that makes this work is that they didn't take themselves too seriously. What
a romp! The crew come back to save the whales so they can save themselves in
the future-and make some commentary on 1986, too. 

Personally I donno if this is the best of the run-Undiscovered Country and
Khan are its main competition-but I applaud them for doing this; and hope
they can lighten up the newer generation too now. It is
needed.

*** outta ****, good stuff.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

OK, now if some giant, black, anal probe looking thing starts tooling
around shutting down everything and killing everybody, do you think it
might be hostile? If monkey boys can tell their effects on their
universe why would this giant suppository be different. Oh, it is full
of whales seeking their progeny currently swimming, eating and crapping
in the oceans of the past? Whales are always friendly, just ask the
seals being thrown back and forth on the discovery channel while killer
whales, those saintly creatures, take bites out of them while they
scream. What is with these people? Why are all superior creatures,
always benign? In THE MOTIONLESS PICTURE, the giant ball of rectum gas
apparently did not know scans from weapons; gee, the people who made
the Star Trek movies can, if they can anybody could. Give us a break,
stop worshiping lower life forms and get some therapy. The plan is we
go to the past in this old, beat up, piece of crap bird of prey pick up
some whales and 2000 tons of water and try to attain the same speed
when we almost all died last time? It wiped out the dilithium crystals
in the monkey boy engines? Did the person who wrote this take serious
sedating medicines? Is he under ten years old? Is the script written in
crayon?

What is with these people? Superior beings in their films that are
oblivious to wiping out everything around them. I do not care what
monkey boy Spock says, on earth, as you ascend the evolutionary ladder
it comes with greater not lesser awareness of the consequences of how
your actions effect your environment. Non Sequitur, pointy. Whale Woman
is a great teaching tool if you know someone talking like this open the
phone book to T for therapist. I cannot type what is going on let's
just say she really, really, really likes whales. It started way back
here even before DANCES WITH WOLVES, glorifying lower life forms or
primitive cultures idealizing them beyond Walt Disney to a psychotic
level. These are animals they eat each other OK? They did not descend
from heaven in a beam of light, get a grip on yourself, you are scaring
us. 

Presumeably, the eating, swimming and crapping machines will do what
Star Trek people cannot do, tell the anal probe, "hey, do you notice
our oceans going into the sky, that kills us retards?; get lost, go eat
some mackerel." To people who read these things called books without
the really big print and pictures your movies are frightening. Next
time you see a pod of hungry killer whales take off your clothes and
jump in there, good luck to you. You look like a giant Reuben sandwich
to them. Yes, Whale Woman we promise after we feed the billions of
starving people and eliminate poverty and suffering; the whales are
next on the list, until then take these pills for us. What is hilarious
is if other humans were doing this it would be inimical but whales? Oh,
they love everybody; listen, GALOOOOO, BALLOOOO that means we love you.
Please, you are making us sick. This movie is drop dead funny and I do
not mean that in a nice way.
<|_=00=_|>

Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home is my favorite Trek movie but one that I say
is off-limits when my friends and I discuss which Trek is the best. Quite
simply, this movie is not really a Star Trek movie; Star Trek II and III
are
far better examples of the genre. Of course, that is what makes Star Trek
IV
such a fantastic movie; it's crazy and hilarious. This movie is also
probably the best one for a family to see other than Insurrection, which
is
a weaker film anyway. The movie does have more profanity than usual, but
it
is dealt in such a comedic fashion that it is excusable (the whole
colorful
metaphors thing always makes me laugh). This is a movie that you could put
a
very mixed crowd in front of and enjoy; you don't have to love Star Trek
to
love this movie. This movie is also great because the acting has improved
immeasurably since the hammy days of Star Trek: The Original Series and
Star
Trek - The Motion Picture but everyone has not gone decidedly gray yet.
This
movie might be looked upon best as a spoof of the genre, but it is not
Spaceballs. What this is is a wonderful movie with some great comedy but
still some great science fiction ideas (particularly the probe, which is
one
of the more chilling things I have ever seen in a movie). This was the
first
Star Trek movie I saw as a child, and it was only until years later that I
watched the others. If you have children and want them to introduce them
to
Star Trek, this is the perfect way. It was for me.

3.5/4 stars
<|_=00=_|>
Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home is directed by Leonard Nimoy. The film
stars William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley, Nichelle
Nichols, James Doohan, George Takei, Walter Koenig and Catherine Hicks.

Kirk and the crew are returning to Earth to face the consequences of
their actions during the third film. A mysterious probe is sending a
signal to Earth that is interfering with communications and causing
severe storms.

The crew discover the probes signal is the sound of humpback whales,
which are sadly extinct in the 23rd century. The crew travel back in
time to the 1980's to find some humpback whales, and bring them back to
the future so the probe can detect them.

Upon arriving in the past, Kirk, Spock, McCoy, Uhura, Sulu, Chekov and
Scotty must adjust to a chaotic world. Spock (Leonard Nimoy)is
struggling to readjust to his life, he is more Vulcan now than he has
ever been and this means he doesn't understand human humour as much as
he used to, this leads to many hysterical scenes between him and McCoy.

Kirk is helped by whale expert Gillian(Catherine Hicks)and their
growing relationship is really sweet to watch.

This is a really funny film, I crack up every time I watch this during
Scotty's "hello computer scene" and Chekov's interrogation. McCoy's
amused reaction to Spock covering up his pointed ears is priceless and
don't even get me started on Kirk's reaction to Spock swimming with
whales. McCoy's reaction to 20th century medicine is great too.

The cast are all superb and the film is such good fun.
<|_=00=_|>
WARNING!!! POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!!!!!! "Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home" is
arguably the greatest Trek. It is the most popular Star Trek film (not
including the 2009 reboot). Before the reboot, it was the only Trek to
gross over $100 million domestically, plus it was extremely well
received by critics and fans alike. It surpassed every expectation that
it had set up for itself, simply because it is the funniest and most
light hearted Trek.

The best part is the interactions between the characters. Yes, the film
was nominated for 4 Oscars (once again, the most of any Trek) including
best effects, but the effects aren't the best part. It was the success
of this film that convinced Paramount Television to give a spin-off
series a shot. As you probably know, TNG, DS9, ST:V, and ST:E were all
very successful, and they were the result of a chain reaction which
started with the success of "The Voyage Home".

The film also noted Leonard Nimoy as a top-notch comic director. This
won him the job of directing "Three Men and a Baby".

If you like Star Trek, this is definitely the film for you. Everyone
else? Just research the characters a bit and I'm sure that you'll have
a good time.

This film earned its money and its acclaim. It features many classic
moments (Spock mind-melding with the whale, Scotty talking to the
computer, Kirk using "colourful metaphors" to handle an angry cabbie,
Spock using the nerve pinch on a punk on the bus, Kirk and Spock
arguing over their preferred foods, and that's just scratching the
surface!).

10/10 A Sci-Fi Comedy along the quality of "Ghostbusters", "MIB", and
"Back to the Future"! That might be an overstatement, but I think it's
true!
<|_=00=_|>
I just recently re-watched this one after a long time of no-see and I
will say it's still as funny today as it was in 1986! Spock trying to
use colorful language, Scotty's "hello computer", Chekhov's problems
with the police - on and on... a very unforgettable Star Trek film and
still on of my all time favorite movies.

This film involves a probe that shuts things down in the 23rd century -
threatening all existence... it simply wants to communicate with whales
but there are no whales in the 23rd due to human whale hunting. It's up
to Kirk and crew to devise a plan to go back in time in order to obtain
a male and a female whale to save life in the 23rd century.

First time viewers: This movie you really don't have to watch parts 1,
2 and 3 to know what's going on in part 4 but I do recommend watching
parts 2 and 3 so you will understand the beginning of the film and
what's going on with Mr. Spock a lot better.

A fun, fun movie!! 10/10
