
What do you get when you put Steven Spielberg, Tobe Hooper, Jerry
Goldsmith, and Beatrice Straight in a big budget MGM motion picture
about a haunted house? You get "Poltergeist" a top of the pick, no
holds barred, roller coaster ride through the supernatural world and
back to ours. "Poltergeist" explores the side affects of a haunted
house and it's effects on a normal suburban family who inhabits the
house. 

Steve Freeling is a successful realestate agent who has a nice house
and a loving wife, with a family to die for. There is the spunky,
rebellious eldest daughter, as portrayed gloriously by the late
Dominique Dunne, may she rest in peace. The sporty young son, and the
cute, innocent youngest daughter, Carol Ann, of whom the story is based
around. The Freelings' are a happy American family whose lives are
turned upside down when they realize their house in 'haunted' and the
'poltergeists' kidnap the youngest member of the family. In the film
that pursues, Steve and his wife Diane do everything in their power to
get her back, with the aid of Dr. Lesh, played out Oscar worthy by
Beatrice Straight, and her assistants. Horrors and traumas ensue.

Enough power to knock you out of your dreams for long time, this film,
was said to be directed by Tobe Hooper, whom had previous fame with the
Texas Chainsaw Massacre. But when one watches this film, it is anything
but Hooper. Hooper's trademarks include hysteria and screaming by a
young female in the finale of his films(remember 'Eaten Alive?') and
have no real substance or depth in their plots, what you see is what
you get. Whereas this film, said to be produced by Spielberg, was so
obviously directed(on the side anyway)by also, as his trade marks
include psychological P.O.V. shots(Diane Freeling in the hallway scene)
and wide range of character development(all characters except for Dana
are developed to fruition, but Dunne does such a great job as Dana that
you can't really tell.)There was even controversy over who directed the
film, and still stands so today, although Spielberg came forward a
little after the film was released, and exposed himself as only
producer and assistant to the director, still, rumor is still hovering
over the memory of the production.

The music to the film is superb, with Goldsmith clearly at one of his
best moments, nominated but did not win, although he should have. His
theme for the Freelings' is a calm, gentle one that compliments his
theme for Carol Ann, which is quite possibly one of the prettiest
themes he ever concocted. His score for the ghosts consists of
structured, spiritual themes and rough orchestral brass woodwind,
accompanied by a grand chorus. All other themes he came up with were
just as stand out-ish as the above mentioned.

The acting is top notch, by conflicted Steve Freeling, who is so
confused he self destructs into a pale maelstrom in his mind, and
Diane, the mother and star of the film, Jobeth Williams is at her
finest as she deals with the stress of trying to find her daughter, and
keeping her family afloat amidst the chaos. The children are all really
good under Hooper's(Spielberg's?) direction, particularly Dominique
Dunne, who shines through in all scenes she is in, even though her
character has got to be the most underdeveloped! Robbie is fun to
watch, as all little boys will be boys. And who could forget the cute
Carol-Ann...They're Heeeeere! Enough said. But my personal favorite was
the late Beatrice Straight, as the sympathetic Dr. Lesh, who with every
facial expression, the audience can see what exactly she is thinking,
about to say, and still manages to surprise the audience with her
spontaneous acting skill. The supporting cast are just as great.

Special effects make this even more of a thrill ride of the ages, as
Industrial Light and Magic was first starting out, and makes this one
of the biggest special effects fest of cinema. Nominations for those
also.

So in full circle, this family, this film, the most extraordinary
horror film of the eighties, still has the power to ring every chill
out of it's script, while still managing to keep the audience calm with
it's realism, and relief.

And about the curse that is said to follow the series' past, all just
tragedies and coincidence.

May Dominique Dunne, Beatrice Straight, Heather O' Rourke, Jerry
Goldsmith, all rest in peace.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Horror films often do not get their do, and the 7.1 rating for Poltergeist
shows that this trend will most likely continue. Clearly an influential film
by Chainsaw director Tobe Hooper, Poltergeist reached for, and achieved,
everything that the earlier Amityville Horror failed to be; namely, scary,
credible, and well acted.

Poltergeist, in a nutshell, is a story of suburban California family that
discovers the darker side of the American Dream when their youngest
daughter, Carol Ann, makes contact with evil spirits through the family
television set. "They're here", never fails to send chills down my spine as
I recall seeing this film for the first time as a teenager.

Perhaps 10 to 15 more years will finally lend the credibility to this film
to finally place it among the classics in modern horror cinema.


<|_=00=_|>
I noticed that IMDb lists the release dates for films, and laughed here
because I could never forget Friday, June 4, 1982, my last day in tenth
grade, and about my tenth date with the exceptionally pretty and
wonderful young lady I dated throughout most of high school. The
weather was perfect, and I took my ladyfriend out for a nice lunch and
a walk down Broadway in search of a movie. ET had been the hyped
Spielberg film of that summer, but this one was already out, and the
thought of a horrified hottie clinging to me for dear life (or vice
versa) was irresistible. Poltergeist it was.

Like all Spielberg films, one will not find many weaknesses. The plot
will be engaging, the visuals stunning, the acting excellent, and the
overall experience first-class. This film did not disappoint.

The restrospectively amusing casting of Craig T. Nelson in the lead.
Notable supporting cast include the late Dominique Dunne and the late
Healther O'Rourke, both of whom would die tragically in 1988 and 1982,
respectively, the earlier by domestic violence and the latter by
illness. The loss to Hollywood is still felt to this day as each would
likely have Oscars by now. The cast of competent, moderately known
talents provided a strong yet muted substance to the special-effects
stylings for which Spielberg became so famous.

As I settled in with my date to watch the film, I was equally
enthralled both by her touch and the screen. From the moment O'Rourke
uttered the to-this-day-chilling "They're here!!," through the amusing
plot twist that explains the hauntings (a certain home developer forgot
to do something with the gravesite that had previously existed on the
land and apparently ticked off some spirits), though the death,
destruction, and absolute terror experienced by the hapless protagonist
family.

I will never again be fifteen, never again experience the deep cuts to
the heart that come with teenage desire, never again wonder if maybe
those horror movies could happen in real life, never again will
experience the thrill of not having school or any other
responsibilities for the next three months, and will never again be as
vital or physically capable as I was so effortlessly back then, but to
have had that even once, all at the same time, in the greatest city in
the world, was absolutely awesome.

Whatever might have been wrong with my life at that age simply did not
exist in that theater, during that film, with that date. Anything less
than a perfect film would have spoiled what was literally a perfect
day. It didn't.
<|_=00=_|>
There are two types of "horror" films:There are the scary ones, which
is what the word "horror" means in the first place,and then there is
the bloody,gory kind.Perhaps the latter kind should be categorized
under another name.At any rate,Poltergeist is a good horror film.It
goes beyond the idea of typical ghosts in sheets jumping out of nowhere
and saying "boo!".Most of the adventure takes place in their world
rather than ours,although we cannot see what is going on there.This is
a very thrilling movie.It has great special effects and all of the
scare elements that make a horror film what it is supposed to be.The
clown in the chair at the foot of the boy's bed was a particularly
tense moment for me.This is the only movie I went to see 4 times at the
theater,partly to watch others' reactions.I have often heard that the
film,and it's two sequels,were the victim of some type of curse,as
after each film was released,a member of the cast passed away,including
Heather O'Rourke,who played Carol Anne, after the 3rd film.She was only
10.Curse? Coincidence? Who knows? I guess anything is possible.All in
all,this is one of the best films ever for the horror genre.
<|_=00=_|>

In 1982, Steven Spielberg pulled off an incredible feat.  In June of that
year, Spielberg released two films only weeks apart that were both highly
successful yet diversely different in both subject matter and their target
audiences.  One went on to become the highest grossing film of all-time
(E.T.), the other spawned a franchise (Poltergeist).  

Poltergeist had a screen credit of being directed by Tobe Hooper (The Texas
Chainsaw Massacre), but history has revealed that it was Spielberg's vision,
editing and overall command of the shooting that was really behind the
making of this extraordinary film.  
 
Poltergeist brought back the traditional haunted house genre that lay
dormant and restless since The Amityville Horror in 1979.  The story
surrounds a family's house that has been punctured by the spirit world that
seem keen on the youngest daughter of the clan – Carol Ann Freeling, played
by newcomer Heather O'Rourke.  At first, the family meets the strange
happenings in the home with playful pleasure, but in an instant the
poltergeists intentions turn against the Freelings, and their daughter is
captured and taken back to the supernatural world where communication is
possible only through the bedroom television.

The Freelings waste little time and soon contact a paranormal group, well
over their heads, to help them rescue their daughter from the unseen
captures.  It becomes clearly evident however, that the group is over
matched, and they call in a poltergeist expert, Tangina Barrons (played with
relative enthusiasm and wit by Zelda Rubinstein) to assist with the
phenomena.   Tangina then leads the Freelings through the unknown, both
calming their fears and eventually finding a portal that may be the key to
retrieving their daughter.

Poltergeist works as both a horror and a thriller.  The cast, lead by
O'Rourke, Jo-Beth Williams, Craig T. Nelson and Oliver Robins have real
chemistry and are believable as a family unit, and unlike most horror films,
they make sound judgments and know their limitations.  When Carol Ann's
bedroom becomes overtaken by the ghostly spirits, they lock the room and
keep away rather than trying to fight something they cannot contain.  And
when things begin to look bleak, they call for help and look for experts in
the field.  This is an intelligent horror that doesn't have people running
up the stairs when they should be running out the door.

Put together with a modest budget of less than $12 million, Poltergeist
stretched it's dollars to provide us with an incredible array of special
effects that still hold up well after 20 years of viewing.  Sure, the scene
where a scientist literally pulls his face off or when the bedroom is opened
and we see items flying at random as if in a ghostly tornado, might be
better served with CGI if made today, the effects still keep the story
progressing with a sense of credibility.  

Probably what keeps things so rooted in acceptability is how simplistic some
of the special effects were in the larger scenes.  A closet full of strobe
lights are all that is required to convince us that it is a portal to
another world and a fan gently blowing the hair of mother Williams' is
believable as the spirit of her child flying past her.    Simple plausible.

Whatever the reasons, Poltergeist works.  One of the few screenplays written
by Spielberg from one of his own stories, Poltergeist has all the elements
that we now associate with the master director.  There is a strong family
unit, a child as the central character, above average production values and
most notably, not one fatality in the entire film despite all the jilts and
jolts.  The closing scenes of chaos including a pool of skeletons (later
revealed to be authentic), is pure movie magic with frantic pacing and edge
of your seat suspense.  

Since it's release, a lot has been made of the back stories and the curse
surrounding the production of the franchise.  Heather O'Rourke tragically
died at a young age due to an internal infection and Dominique Dunne (who
played a smaller role as her sister) was murdered the same year as the films
release.  The subsequent sequels have also included characters that died
shortly after their films completion. Truth or fiction, lore or legend,
these stories add to the mystique and mystery surrounding the film.  Having
knowledge of the ‘curse' makes it even scarier and gives it kind of a
feeling like Naomi Watts' character must have experienced in The Ring, as if
just by watching, you are contributing to the ongoing haunting.

Like most movies successful in the late 70's early 80's, there were sequels
that were made with considerably higher budgets but less than stellar
results (Superman III anyone?).  Neither of the Poltergeist sequels or
subsequent television programming could come close to capturing the essence
of the original.  Besides, how can you top what is now one of the most
famous movie tag-lines of all time `They'rrreeee Here'?

Strong recommendation.

<|_=00=_|>

   I am not going to go into all the controversy surrounding this
movie...everybody knows about the various deaths of cast members, as well as
questions over who actually directed "Poltergeist". What I will decribe in
this review are my feelings concerning the movie.

  "Poltergeist" is a good scary picture which will not only entertain you,
but will make you wonder what originally occupied the land where your home
is currently standing. This movie makes good use of foreshadowing and
building of tensions to move a viewer to believe what they are actually
seeing is really happening. While giving the "funeral" for the pet bird,
Robbie asks if they can later dig it up so they can "see the bones". At the
end of the film he is indeed treated to seeing "dug up bones", only they
were not ones he had in mind. 

  Great movie, great acting, great scary fun!   A+
<|_=00=_|>

"Poltergeist" is Steven Spielberg's vision of a ghost story, and a
great one at that. This is an outstanding movie in every way possible.
It has terrific acting, a good story to tell, a nice sense of humor,
and astonishing special effects. Plus when I first saw this film, it
was pretty scary.

"Poltergeist" tells the story of a suburban family living in a small
town in California who's home is abruptly invaded by supernatural
forces who are anything but friendly, and proceed to terrorize the
entire clan. This is a movie that plays like a roller-coaster ride, and
once it gets going it never stops. 

Tobe Hooper, who directed the original 1974 cult classic "The Texas
Chainsaw Massacre", was picked by Spielberg to direct "Poltergeist". He
does a fine job of creating scares and tension, even though rumors were
floating around that writer/producer Spielberg actually stepped in and
directed some of the film (Spielberg went on to say that Hooper was the
director of "Poltergeist" even though Spielberg was very much involved
with this film from start to finish). To me, it doesn't matter who
directed it. This is still an excellent horror movie. Spielberg did a
great job as writer/producer, and even if he had directed the whole
movie it would still be as good. JoBeth Williams and Craig T. Nelson
are wonderful as the head of the Freeling family, with Dominique Dunne,
Oliver Robins, and Heather O'Rourke equally good as their kids. The
late Oscar-winning actress Beatrice Straight ("Network") scores points
as a parapsycologist investigating the hauntings, and Zelda Rubinstein
steals scenes as the mysterious clairvoyant brought in to "clean
house". The acting is great, but it's the Oscar-nominated special
effects that dominate. Wow! This horror film is a must-see!

***** (out of five)

<|_=00=_|>
Poltergeist is a tremendously overrated movie. I watched it again the
other day for the first time in 20 years and had the exact same
reaction as the first time. The plot simply doesn't hold together.

There are too many elements introduced in the story, or hinted at, and
many of them are never explained properly or "paid off" later. It's
classic mediocre scriptwriting. Steven Spielberg is a terrific
director, but a middling writer. He wrote this story, about some of his
childhood fears and recollections, and the movie plays like a
disjointed series of set pieces, which are only partially related by a
poorly thought-out framing story.

First it's about unsettled ghosts. Then it's hinted in one scene that
Satan is involved somehow. This, and how it relates to the ghosts, is
never explained. Then corpses start breaking through the ground. So why
now, some 6-7 years after the house was built over the graves? Where
have all these spirits been for 7 years?? Again, this is never
explained. And why only in this one house, if the whole subdivision was
built over the graves? And what's the deal with the tree that grabs the
son and tries to devour him? Can anyone tell me what the hell this has
to do with the rest of the story as it plays out, because I sure can't!
Just another action set piece.

And in classic bad script fashion, the characters suddenly start acting
clueless in order to further the action. After all that's just
happened, the family decides to spend one more night in the house and
the mother lets her children sleep in the same room which was the
center of all the evil?? OH, PLEASE! Even Tobe Hooper's direction is
slow and plodding, and many of the scenes just don't pack the wallop
they should. IMDb states that Spielberg held Hooper back, so this may
not have been his fault, but it's still a problem with this movie.

I'm sorry if these complaints seem nit-picky, but I don't think they
are. Any good movie, including a good horror one, needs to be coherent
and have things make sense and be understandable. Poltergeist simply
has too many irons in the fire and it comes off as disjointed and
unsatisfying.
<|_=00=_|>

Truly spooky and disturbing horror film from the early-1980s that will make
you jump from your seat. Craig T. Nelson and JoBeth Williams seem to lead a
normal life. He is a successful real estate agent and she is a loving
housewife. They have three beautiful children, but one night all that slowly
changes. The youngest child (Heather O'Rourke) starts talking to unseen
spirits through a scrambled television station. The parents don't think much
of it, until furniture starts to move on its own. However, the real terror
does not start until O'Rourke is taken to another dimension by "the TV
people". Now paranormalists led by Beatrice Straight must come in and try to
get O'Rourke back to her family. Tobe Hooper, who is best known for the
highly over-rated "Texas Chainsaw Massacre", does an admirable job here with
the film's direction. However, it is rumored that Steven Spielberg came in
during his "E.T" days and did the bulk of the work. This makes more sense as
the film is really frightening and disturbing. The special effects are also
impressive and "Poltergeist" ends up being one of those films that just
sticks with you for a long time after you first see it. 4 stars out of
5.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a classic movie. One thing I want to point out is that the
disappearance of the little girl into another dimension was the premise
of a classic Twilight Zone episode aired in 1962 entitled "Little Girl
Lost". If you come across it in reruns, check it out. Many of JoBeth
Williams' reactions are seemingly taken from this Twilight Zone episode
about a little girl who disappears into another dimension during the
night. Poltergeist has many more elements to it( the poltergeist, of
course, the monster, the tree outside, and the appearance of the Indian
burial ground), but the initial disappearance of the little girl is
straight from this Twilight Zone episode.
