
A very solid movie! Charles Bronson is absolutely great in this film.
The fact that the killer was a handsome guy really emphasized that he
was a sociopath and all around creep (smart character development).
Lisa Eilbacher is damn cute! A good psychological action/thriller!

I do not understand why people consider this a "cheesy?" movie or a
"rip-off" of Death Wish. 

Leo Kessler is a hardened cop. Paul Kersey was an architect who took on
the role of vigilante after a life changing event. The two characters
really aren't that similar at all.

I wonder what Lisa Eilbacher is up to nowadays.
<|_=00=_|>

One user comment sums this movie up as "standard fare"?! When push comes to
shove there really isn't anything standard about "10 to
Midnight."

The villain is a young, deeply disturbed man who turns on by knifing people
to death in the nude, and needless to say the movie is filled with a large
amount of nudity.

The hero is a veteran homicide detective who decides to stop at nothing to
get his man, even if it means fabricating evidence. The latter part is
portrayed by the grand-daddy of all tough action heroes, Sir Charles Bronson
(OK, I know he wasn't a Sir, I just wanted to see how it looked :) Compared
to most of the other movies Bronson did with director J. Lee-Thompson here
he really turns in a memorable performance as detective Leo Kessler. Take
for instance the scene where he finds the chief-suspects electric vagina,
the look on Bronson's face is worth the price of admission alone! And the
interrogation scene later where Bronson confronts the suspect with his sex
toy: priceless!

The finale deserves notice for being both disturbing and downright scary,
with it's echoes of the real-life Richard Speck-massacre in
1966.

If you are a Bronson-fan you are almost guaranteed to like "10 to Midnight",
one of his best from the 1980's.
<|_=00=_|>
From the director who brought us The Guns of Navarone and Cape Fear in
the 60's, comes this interesting and suspenseful cop thriller. Charles
Bronson plays a veteran cop who's with a young idealist cop is after a
very smart and dangerous killer who likes to slice pretty and innocent
chicks. The most interesting aspect of the film is that we know from
the beginning who the killer is and for the rest of the film it's a
mind game between Bronson and the killer who knows very well how to
manipulate the system. This is definitely not to the squeamish one's
because this is fairly a brutal film but from the intelligent kind. I'm
familiar with Bronson's works and this is surely his best from the
80's. Anyone who looks for some highly entertaining film shouldn't miss
it. Never mind the user's ratings because it's one of those underrated
gems.

Recommended
<|_=00=_|>
In Los Angeles, the rookie Detective Paul McAnn (Andrew Stevens) teams
up with the veteran Detective Leo Kessler (Charles Bronson) to
investigate the murder of Betty Johnson (June Gilbert) and her
boyfriend that were stabbed by a naked serial-killer in a park.
Detective Kessler recognizes the victim, who lived in the same
neighborhood many years ago and childhood friend of his daughter Laurie
Kessler (Lisa Eilbacher). The killer Warren Stacy (Gene Davis) goes to
the funeral and overhears Betty's father telling Detective Kessler that
his daughter had a diary. 

Warren breaks in Betty's apartment and stabs and kills her roommate
Karen Smalley (Jeana Tomasina) trying to find the diary. But Karen had
already delivered the journal to Detective Kessler. Leo Kessler is sure
that Warren is the serial-killer and her plants a false evidence in his
apartment. However, Warren's defense lawyer presses Detective McAnn
accusing him of perjury and Warren is released. Now the Warren is
stalking Laurie to revenge against her father. 

"10 to Midnight" is a classic thriller from the 80's and among the best
movies of Charles Bronson. I saw this film two or three times in the
past and I have just seen it again. The unexpected reaction of
Detetctive Leo Kessler is the climax of this great film and gives an
unforgettable conclusion to the story. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Dez Minutos para Morrer" ("Ten Minutes to Die")
<|_=00=_|>

A very exciting cop movie, which picks up where Dirty Harry left off and
raises very similar moral questions.  Bronson is in top form and the
villain
is one of the most interesting of the eighties.  Don't just take my word
for
it.  Gene Siskel liked it, and Joe Bob Briggs picked it as one of the
years
top films.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't think Bronson ever made another movie like this one. Some of
the language in this movie is sick, yet it seems so real. As usual
Bronson is his old DEATH WISH self as he tracks down serial murderer
Gene Davis. The script by William Roberts is decent, but the casting of
Davis as the psycho seems odd to me. The reason they give for him
killing women is that he's always being rejected by chicks, yet when
you look at him, he's not ugly, stupid or retarded. There is no way in
the world this guy would have trouble getting chicks. I could see an
ugly guy in the role who couldn't score because he didn't have any
looks, but Davis does, and this puts a big hole in Roberts' script. The
cat and mouse game between Bronson and Davis is exciting, because Chuck
knows from the beginning who is slicing and dicing those hot girls. And
speaking of hot, Lisa Eilbacher is a fox.

Score, 8 out of 10 Stars
<|_=00=_|>
Charles Bronson and director J. Lee-Thompson made nine movies together,
and 10 To Midnight certainly makes a worthy attempt at being the
kinkiest, sleaziest and most violent of the lot. I expected this to be
a real bottom-of-the-barrel entry considering the subject matter, and
the fact that Bronson was appearing in one tired revenge-fantasy after
another at this point of his career, but Ten To Midnight isn't a total
loss. It has a few entertaining set pieces, an interesting moral core,
a modicum of suspense during some of the murder sequences, and a decent
enough soundtrack courtesy of Robert O. Ragland. Alas, when all is said
and done, it is still a fundamentally unpleasant exploitation piece in
which the slaying of nubile – and often nude - young women, by a naked
knife-wielding psycho no less, is served up for our viewing pleasure.
It's not exactly art… it's one of those movies you need to come into
accepting for what it is.

Weird and voyeuristic office youth Warren Stacy (Gene Davis) has a real
problem with women, especially when his overbearing advances are met
with rejection and humiliation. However, he gets his revenge by
tracking down any women that have refused him and brutally murdering
them with a huge knife. Rather perversely, he commits these killings in
the nude to avoid leaving any fibres or other incriminating evidence at
the crime scene. Old-fashioned cop Leo Kessler (Charles Bronson) is
assigned to catch the killer, and partnered with inexperienced rookie
Paul McAnn (Andrew Stevens). It doesn't take them long to figure out
that Stacy is their man, but pinning evidence on him proves a much
trickier challenge. Ultimately Kessler decides to plant incriminating
evidence to get the killer jailed, but his plan goes awry and Stacy is
soon back on the streets feeling meaner than ever. With Kessler's
daughter Laurie (Lisa Eilbacher) the next in line to be killed, it
becomes a race against time to stop the psycho before he strikes again…

10 To Midnight is not an especially well-acted film. Bronson is in his
typically wooden '80s mode; Stevens spends the movie looking handsome
but vacant; and Davis looks physically powerful as the bad guy but
sounds kind of goofy as soon as he speaks in his peculiar
"idiot-drawl". Of the main characters, Eilbacher at least does OK as
Kessler's daughter and the killer's potential next target. There are
some lulls between the murders and action bits, and the film struggles
to maintain much interest when it isn't focusing on these sensational
aspects. But fans of Bronson's unique style of squalid, simple,
blood-and-thunder action flicks will probably come away satisfied,
while the rest of us are left to pick at occasional morsels of quality
in an otherwise exploitative potboiler.
<|_=00=_|>
... Could a tag-line possibly sound more Bronson-like? J. Lee Thompsons
"10 To Midnight" of 1983 starring the great late Charley, is a decent
cop flick, not nearly one of the most memorable Bronson flicks, but
still a pretty suspenseful little thriller that will highly entertain
all my fellow fans of everybody's favorite no-nonsense ass-kicker.

Warren Stacy (Gene Davis) is a psychopathic serial killer who gets his
kicks by running around naked and stabbing his victims to death. He
does not randomly select his victims, but kills, because he wants to
get back at the women who have rebuffed his advances. Leo Kessler
(Charles Bronson) is a tough and experienced cop, who doesn't hesitate
to use unorthodox methods to get justice done. When Kessler
investigates the murders he has to find out that the latest victim was
a close friend of his daughter's (Lisa Eilbacher). Accompanied by his
rookie colleague Paul McAnn (Andrew Stevens), Kessler soon finds out
who the murderer is. Warren Stacy is quite smart, however, and never
leaves any evidence. Things quickly get personal between Kessler and
Stacy, and you know Charley B. - he's probably not the guy you wanna
mess with.

"10 To Midnight" differs from the majority of other Cop vs. Serial
Killer thrillers, since the viewer knows from the very beginning who
the killer is. The movie focuses on the strife between Bronson and the
serial killer, and builds up suspense by focusing on the serial killer
and his possible victims. Since Bronson has to use illegal methods in
order to get justice done ("Forget What's Legal... Do What's Right!")
the film is, of course, politically incorrect as hell; But isn't that
exactly what we love about Charlie Bronson? The man takes the law in
his own hands and doesn't mind the bad guys getting hurt - If you don't
like it, stop whining. Bronson is great as always and Gene Davis
delivers a great performance as the serial killer, very wooden and
therefore very creepy. Lisa Eilbacher, who play's Bronson's daughter,
is very cute, and Geoffrey Lewis is great as the killer's sleazy
lawyer. Some folks complain about poor editing in this movie, I don't
really see why. One of the things I didn't like was the fact that the
killer was rather one dimensional. "10 To Midnight" may lack depth, but
it is a suspenseful film, certainly no masterpiece, but nonetheless a
decent thriller that Bronson fans should like. I recommend to watch
this, and to have a beer doing so.
<|_=00=_|>
you'll have to forgive me for that outburst of enthusiasm, but there
really is no other way i could be summarizing this comment. It's not a
Charles Bronson vehicle, because it has a lot of good elements by which
this movie could still work very well if Bronson weren't playing the
leading role.

Kevin Bacon look-a-like Warren Stacy as the psycho killer switches
swiftly between cruelty and self-piteous anxiety, with a funny Hispanic
accent. which makes the dirty talk he delivers a treat. The manhunt and
the killings are well interwoven until the finale, which would look
fine in a slasher flick if only it were gorier. That resemblance -
together with the hard-boiled style of action film-making nowadays
replaced by bullet-time and the soundtrack - gives this movie that cool
80's feeling so refreshing to a child of the 90's.

Charles Bronson is in great shape as the investigating detective,
possibly because he sort of reprises his signature role, Paul "Death
Wish" Kersey. On one hand his position as a law enforcer gives him more
tricks to keep up his sleeve (such as planting evidence), on the other
he's obliged to catch psychopaths by the book. However, he wouldn't be
Bronson if he didn't book the book in the end and solved the case with
a .38 solution. We end the movie by staring into the barrel, which
brings me to my biggest frustration: we didn't have to wait 90 minutes
to see Bronson take out scum like that in Death Wish. Give me a good
investigation any time, but don't leave it to born gunslingers such as
Bronson or Schwarzenegger.
<|_=00=_|>
After grossing millions of dollars as a 1970s icon, Charles Bronson
appeared in 'Death Wish II,' which began his tenure with Cannon Films
and redefined him as a low-budget action star. Bronson became a sizable
draw amongst exploitation fans, particularly at second-run movie
houses, on cable television, and in the home video market. Besides the
Death Wish series, he maintained his presence in films such as '10 to
Midnight,' 'The Evil That Men Do,' and 'Murphy's Law' for over a
decade.

'10 to Midnight' is perhaps the best film of an association between
Bronson and director J. Lee Thompson that lasted from 'St. Ives' in
1976 until 'Kinjite: Forbidden Subjects' in 1989. Thompson, best known
for 'The Guns of Navaronne' and 'Cape Fear,' also made a cycle of
low-budget films in the '80s that included 'The Evil That Men Do,'
'Murphy's Law,' 'King Solomon's Mines,' and 'Firewalker,' starring
Chuck Norris. Despite their better days having passed, '10 to Midnight'
is a riveting film that comes early in Bronson and Thompson's
exploitation output and features some of the talents for which they're
remembered.

Rehashing ideas from 'Dirty Harry,' Bronson plays Leo Kessler, a Los
Angeles detective who is investigating the brutal murder of a secretary
and her boyfriend. Thanks to an unpleasant opening sequence, we already
know that a handsome but deranged man named Warren Stacy (Gene Davis)
is the culprit. It seems that Warren has major issues with women; he
doesn't have much luck in getting dates and when he does spend time
with a lady, things don't get very far.

Stacy exacts his revenge by hunting these women down and impaling them
with knives. Of course, Stacy is a hard suspect to nail because he
commits the murders while fully naked, making blood quite easy to get
rid of. He's also an expert at constructing alibis; on the night when
our secretary and boyfriend are murdered, Stacy makes himself visible
in a movie theater shortly before and after the killings occur.

With the police on his tail, Stacy becomes a 1980s Macbeth, plotting
against everyone connected to the original victims. Kessler and his
young partner McAnn (Andrew Stevens) are desperate to put Stacy behind
bars, especially with Kessler's daughter Laurie (Lisa Eilbacher)
targeted as a friend of the deceased. The courts are keeping Stacy free
on a lack of evidence and Kessler must finally resort to extralegal
measures.

'10 to Midnight' uses the elusive killer theme championed by Alfred
Hitchcock. Unlike other Cannon films in which Bronson is the lone point
of interest, '10 to Midnight' alternates nicely between the warped
deeds of Stacy and the anxious police work of Kessler. Gene Davis is a
solid presence throughout, displaying enough menace in his role to
coexist with Bronson.

A script by William Roberts and Thompson gives unusual depth to
Bronson's character. Bronson is also helped by a respectable supporting
cast that includes Andrew Stevens, Lisa Eilbacher, and Wilford Brimley
(as Captain Malone). Stevens complements Bronson as his partner, the
son of a teacher whose intellect Kessler views as a hindrance. Geoffrey
Lewis is excellent as Dave Dante, Stacy's repulsive trial lawyer who
knows all the shortcuts of our court system. Kelly Preston has a small
role as one of Laurie's roommates (under 'Kelly Palzis') and Robert F.
Lyons is featured as a Los Angeles prosecutor.

'10 to Midnight' offers ideas similar to 'Dirty Harry,' in that
American justice is full of loopholes used by criminals. The film takes
a brief look at our courts and how a police officer must actually break
the law in order for justice to be served. The film does everything in
its capacity to ram this point home: besides Stacy mutilating women in
the nude (requiring a few odd-angles), Kessler interrogates Stacy with
a sex toy found in his apartment and obscene phone calls are made to
Kessler's daughter in a mock-Spanish accent. '10 to Midnight' has given
TV editors added job security over the years; television broadcasts are
edited so heavily for the nudity, violence, and foul language that much
of its impact is lost.

Instead of being hampered by cheap production values and technical
work, J. Lee Thompson plays off these weaknesses to give '10 to
Midnight' an added seediness. Much of the film takes place in drab,
confined locations with poor lighting; combined with Adam Greenberg's
soft-toned photography, '10 to Midnight' has an unremitting gloom that
adds to Stacy's menace. The film also runs a concise 102 minutes and
displays Thompson's gift for pacing. '10 to Midnight' is a procedural
with scarce action, but the film never drags; Thompson uses flashback,
alternating viewpoints, and periods without dialogue to maintain
suspense. The soundtrack by Robert Ragland has a 1970s feel that only
enhances the dismal setting.

'10 to Midnight' is available on a budget DVD from MGM Home
Entertainment. The disc offers both widescreen and standard format in
mono audio with subtitles in English, French, and Spanish; 10 to
Midnight's theatrical trailer is included as a lone extra. Picture and
audio quality are fairly good considering the low budget that Thompson
originally worked with; there is occasional grain but few artifacts and
Robert Ragland's quirky music comes through nicely. While vulgar,
violent, and in poor taste, '10 to Midnight' is a highly effective
thriller, arguably Bronson and Thompson's strongest outing of the
1980s. It doesn't rank anywhere close to their previous films, but '10
to' is nevertheless intense, well-written, and memorable.

*** out of 4
