
I saw this film initially when I was about six or seven years old and
have seen it several times since. Of all the films I saw during my
early childhood, none captivated me as much as Watership Down. I am now
twenty eight years old and, despite the violence and sadness of the
film, I have somehow turned out to be a fairly normal bloke rather than
a murderer or manic depressive. Funny that.

It is a complete fallacy to suggest that we must shield our children
from anything that hints of the injustices that may exist in the real
world. In fact, seeing a film such as this may help them in dealing
with issues in their own lives or perhaps teach them lessons in
understanding and appreciation of the world around them. Watership Down
had that effect on me.
<|_=00=_|>

I would never spoil the wonder that is "Watership Down". The book and
the
film are timeless classics. I think it is the greatest adaptation of a
novel
(any genre) ever made and one of the most under-rated movies of all-time.
They managed to capture more of a long novel (nearly 500 fantastic pages)
than most films can compile from a 200 page source work. The soundtrack is
beautiful (I'll be getting one for a Christmas present--thanx for the info
IMDb!!) and matches the mood of the scenes perfectly.

Viewers will recognize someone they know in nearly every rabbit and,
with
unbiased observation, probably see themselves. It is at once gripping and
gentle, heart-rending and endearing. You will find yourself humming the
tunes incessantly for months afterward. I recommend reading the book first
(also try "Traveler" by Adams, another classic), then purchasing the film,
then the soundtrack--wait, better yet, write your Congressman and demand a
DVD release. I long for another wide-screen viewing (hint, hint)!

I have noticed multiple comments that state the movie is too violent for
children (it is somewhat graphic--to it's credit). For very small
children,
I would whole-heartedly agree, however, I think it depends on the
individual. I was lucky enough to have a Father who took me to see it at
the
theatre when I was a youngster (about 5) and it did not scar me or give me
nightmares--rather I learned the importance of the symbiotic circle of
existence and the reality and necessity of life and death. It is still a
comfort to me in times of sadness. In addition, the movie is highly
layered
and something new can be gleaned with nearly every viewing.

I enjoyed it for years and only later realized many people had never
even
heard of it...I take every opportunity to recommend it and not once, not
once, have I heard anything but thanks for the suggestion. Most of them
end
up owning the film. Both symbolic and blunt, "Watership Down" is a triumph
of emotional proportions and is exemplary of what adaptations, animation,
scoring and good film-making should be about. This wonderful adventure is
an
asset to any collection...10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
British animated film about a bunch of rabbits leaving their old warren
(which one psychic rabbit can tell is going to be destroyed) and
searching for a new one. The movie recounts their adventures searching
for one.

It may sound like a movie ideal for little kids--but it really isn't.
It's an excellent adaptation of Richard Adams book which was written
more for teenagers and adults. It's an ecological tale of how men are
destroying the earth and (inadvertently it seems) killing innocent
wildlife. It's also a very interesting story about how a group of
rabbits survive on their own.

The animation is excellent--right up there with Walt Disney. The score
is great, the script intelligent and the voices used perfectly match
the characters. However, as I said, this isn't really for little kids.
The story is dead serious and the only humor is provided by the bird
Kehaar (who I personally found very annoying although Zero Mostel DOES
have fun with the voice). Also, at the end, it gets very violent and
quite bloody. When I saw it in a theatre in 1978 one small kid was in
tears by the conclusion. So, use your own judgment but I would never
let a small kid see this. This is perfect for teenagers and adults. A
10.
<|_=00=_|>
I am twelve years old and I personally loved it. It is one of the most
touching films I have seen. All to do with these rabbits hardships.
Some of it made me laugh whilst other bits made me cry, but thats just
me. It is very good and also makes you think about what could be
happening in real life. My dad used to take me shooting rabbits, but
after Watership Down I never went again. The graphics may not be as
high quality as some of the newest releases but don't let that put you
off. It is a remarkable film and I loved it. Don't think that older
films are no good because Watership Down is AMAZING! I think if you are
under the age of eight then you might not like it due to some violence
and gore, but eight plus with love it. Even adults will enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
I had absolutely no knowledge of WATERSHIP DOWN was going to be about
except that it featured rabbits in some capacity . I had an inkling it
was going to be some patronising , juvenile crap that anyone above the
age of seven would find nauseating . It says something about the
quality of television on the run up to Christmas when a bitter and
twisted 39 year old man sits down to watch a feature length about
talking rabbits - Talking rabbits ! OMG , it's not like the author
Richard Adams meant the story to be some drug metaphor is it ? OMG
talking rabbits just how pathetic is that ? And the one thing that I
remembered on its initial release - And which I'm still trying to
forget to this very day - is that gawd awful song by the guy with the
worst hairstyle in the history of pop music . You know the song .... "
bright eyes burning like fire " . Bad enough I saw BARNEY'S BIG
ADVENTURE the previous day . Now I was going to be watching equally
childish sentimental crap with talking rabbits 

Oh hold on . I've just seen WATERSHIP DOWN this very minute . Can
everyone reading this review please ignore erroneous phrases like "
Childish pathetic crap " because this is not how the story plays out .
I do confess that perhaps the original story has perhaps been slightly
flawed in the adaption with the hierarchy of the original warren
somewhat unexplained ( For example why is it treason to leave the
warren and search for a new one ? ) but that is my one and only
criticism of this superb animated adventure which can be enjoyed by
anyone of any age 

In a nut shell WATERSHIP DOWN resembles one of those post apocalypse
dramas by John Wyndham or more especially John Christopher except
instead of humans it features rabbits that talk . No seriously forget
all about the characters being humanized bunnies , this is a dark
dramatic adventure where survivors of an eco-disaster try and find
sanctuary in a bleak , desolate and dangerous world . As crazy as it
sounds some people have picked up on the coincidence that the plot
resembles 28 DAYS LATER and one can't help thinking that it's a little
bit stronger than coincidence . If you've seen one you can't noticing
the quite striking similarities between the two especially the climax .
Of course it could be that the original novel of WATERSHIP DOWN was
influenced by Conrad's HEART OF DARKNESS which seems to have influenced
much of Alex Garland's work but even so 

A thoroughly enthralling adventure that may have children weeping at
the sad bits will certainly keep adults interested as they try and spot
analogies . Let me repeat once again that while there's sad scenes
there is nothing sickeningly sentimental and is a shockingly
sophisticated tale . I certainly rate as being one of the greatest
British productions of the 1970s
<|_=00=_|>

'Watership Down' is quite simply my favourite animated film of all time.

The vocal talent, animation style (both in the main story and in the
mythical opening), soundtrack and script all work wonderfully, shortening
the material of the book but not losing all of its themes. Efrafa was
exactly as I imagined it would be from reading the book, Woundwort being
suitably scary and unhinged.

Obviously the violence and horrific imagery has been toned down to make the
film more accesible to a young audience (at 8 I wore out TWO copies of the
film on VHS!!!) but not so much that the film becomes cutesy. Far from it.
These are not fluffy bunnies in the vein of Thumper, they are real. They get
hurt (Bigwig nearly is killed in a snare, Hazel is shot, Captain Holly
arrives nearly dead), they fight, they flee from domestic dogs, cat, from
humans with guns. There is blood and violence, the film does not shy away
from that...Blackavar's torn ears are as wince-inducing to me now as they
were to me when I first saw the film 10 years ago.

What does surprise me now though is that the film is rated U (universal,
suitable for all) here in the UK. Not only is there some mild swearing, the
level of violence and the visual horror (Fivel seeing the field covered in
blood, Holly's description of the warren blocked with dead bodies) is surely
at least PG? Hmmm....

To conclude it can be said that watching films from your childhood is often
a bad move....they are usually best left in the memory. The same can not be
said of Watership Down. Simply brilliant!
<|_=00=_|>

The first great animated film to come around in the entire history of
motion
pictures!  It's not only original(shying away from the traditional
"Disney"
formula), but it's the first animated film to ponder the meaning of life
itself!  I was really moved by it!  With "Disney" films, you know what to
expect.  This was like watching a Terrence Malick film; beautiful, subtle,
spiritual, and important for our lives.  The only difference is that it's
animated with "cute & cuddly" cartoon characters.  This is a film both
adults and children alike will enjoy and learn from, because it is a
social
commentary on facism, and it is a spiritual film.  It's spirituality lies
in
it's initial message, which is about facing death, and avoiding it as
well.
Not that you can avoid death, but that you can have a sense of self
preservation, purpose, and  a place in life.  The most inspirational line
of
the movie is "All the world will be your enemy.  And when they catch you,
they will kill you.  But first they have to catch you.".  All of your
life,
you will continue to meet people who like you, and those that will attack
you.  Be strong, stand tall, "and your people will never be destroyed.".
That is basically, in a few words, what the world and the meaning of life
is
really all about!  
<|_=00=_|>

If I had had this video when I was 8 or 9, I think I would have watched it
as much as or more than I watched any other video that I had at the time.
It's quite an extraordinary film. I'm 21 now, and I found it very exciting
and involving throughout. The only problem is that it always seems like the
episodes in the film happen a bit too quick, making it pretty obvious that
it was adapted from a  much longer novel. Episodes that seem very important
only last for three minutes or so. And they never did free the rabbits in
the pen at the farmhouse. Still, it's a great movie. While not for the very
young children (there is a bit of violence and gore), I think any kid 8 or
above would really love this film. Learn that you don't have to just buy
videos of recent films for children. Some of the older films are much
better. 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
'Watership Down' is a terrific adaptation of Richard Adams's novel.
Like Orwell's 'Animal Farm', this isn't only a film for children but
equally important for adults. The soundtrack is captivating and I loved
the way Art Garfunkel's song was used. The characters are so richly
written that the viewer immediately empathizes and identifies with
them. They are brave, endearing, loyal and strong and this is all
cleverly downplayed. Fiver and Hazel are the two heroes who are
brilliantly voiced by Richard Briers and John Hurt. The overall voice
acting is very well done.

Unlike most animated films, 'Watership Down' uses a lot of subtlety.
Nothing is overdone. The music flows well, the pacing is smooth and the
characters are real (rather than over the top). The animation is
simplistic, created with watercolour and ink, giving it a gentle touch.
It works effectively.

There story is cleverly layered and there's a lot of intriguing
symbolism. The film never shies away from being brutally honest. It
shows life the way it is: There's pain, there's death, there's
suffering, there's determination and one needs to work hard to have the
best of it, to survive. While many have complained that this is no
movie for children, I think it depends more on the individual because
this film is relevant for everyone. The violent scenes are a bit
graphic and the sad scenes are moving but in the end it is uplifting.

There are very few novels that have been so fascinating on screen.
'Watership Down' is among them. It is a magnificently gripping
adventurous tale. After 30 years it still remains a powerful story that
strongly applies to today's world. I remember seeing it ages ago and
then it was a must-have-on-DVD movie for me. I finally got the DVD and
had the pleasure to watch revisit it today. A dazzling gem.
<|_=00=_|>

While not as good as the book itself, the movie was well done indeed. This
was one of those books I lived in when I first read it, never has Richard
Adams come close to what he achieved here, able to pull you the reader right
down into the grass roots along with Hazel, Fiver and BigWig. And the
animators did him justice...I don't have much to add here that others here
haven't, save to say I enjoyed the classic voices used here a lot-from Joss
Ackland as the 'Black Rabbit of Inle' to the late, much lamented Harry
Andrews as Woundwort. Now THAT guy was as tough and ornery a character actor
as ever I saw onscreen, and he did the brutal  Woundwort character justice
indeed.

Of course I recommend this-***1/2 outta ****, the book being
****.


