

"Cheetah" is a treasure of a family film.  It is very memorable, and
enjoyable throughout.  The acting is good, as the young cast of stars
shine.
The scenery is amazing, and the premise is a unique, original idea.  I'm
surprised this film hasn't received more attention, as it is truly one of
the greatest family films ever.  Disney does a superb job here with
"Cheetah"...people of all ages will enjoy this film.
<|_=00=_|>

Why does Disney always make movies about kids befriending animals and saving
them from poachers? There are just too many to count. In spite of that, this
is a good children's movie. 

Two kids, Ted (Kieth Coogan) and Susan (Lucy Deakins), are living in Kenya
with their parents who are scientists. Boredom overtakes these city kids
until they adopt a cheetah and raise. Soon, however, they must release it
into the wild, due to the obvious difficulties of raising an adult cheetah
and the necessity of having it live outside of the captive. Except, their
cheetah is taken up by those damn poachers. So, the kids and their parents,
fight against the armed poachers to get it back. 

This movie is quite similar to a "A Far Off Place" which was released a few
years later, starring Reece Witherspoon and Ethan Embry. If you enjoy
"Cheetah," you'll likely enjoy that one as well. These were pretty decent
kids movies and ones that provide a gorgeous view of Sub Sahara
Africa.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a very fun movie. My sisters, friends and I grew up watching
Cheetah and it is a bit of a cult favorite amongst us. The scenery is
beautiful, the characters are fun, the animals are gorgeous and
outwitting poachers is awesome! We learned the words to the Swahili
song in the movie and we still love that song. We loved the movie so
much that my mom promised to take us to Africa in ten years (note to
parents: never make promises you don't intend to keep assuming that a
six-year old will not remember it in ten years). Of course we never
made it to Africa, but when I was 16 we had a Cheetah viewing party in
honor of it. The movie was a little cheesier than I remembered it from
when I was little, but we still loved it. I have been looking for
Cheetah at video stores since then, but it seems to have been forgotten
since VHS phased out. I just found out it is now available on DVD, and
although I have never bought a movie in my life, I think I may just
have to buy this one for my kids (I won't be promising them trips to
Africa though)!
<|_=00=_|>
Los Angeles teenager Keith Coogan (as Ted Johnson) and pretty sister
Lucy Deakins (as Susan) go to live in Kenya for six months. They
befriend local goat-herder Colin Mothupi (as Morogo) and adopt a young
cheetah after its mother is killed by poachers. Animals in captivity
don't learn to hunt properly, and are therefore not easy to return to
the wild. When it's time to leave, Mr. Coogan tries to teach "Cheetah"
to hunt, but the cat hasn't a clue. Since this seems to be a relatively
free-to-roam "outside" cat, you have to wonder if something else is
wrong - but, probably, we're just supposed to go with the flow. Also
strange is how Coogan and Ms. Deakins share a bedroom - but they seem
mature enough to work out any awkwardness. Things get really hairy when
poachers target "Cheetah" at the same time Coogan and company are
scheduled to leave the continent. The story is far too simple, but the
cast is likable and the African locations are very beautiful.

****** Cheetah (8/18/89) Jeff Blyth ~ Keith Coogan, Lucy Deakins, Colin
Mothupi, Timothy Landfield
<|_=00=_|>
I love this movie for two reason. For the acting and the meaning. This
movie was created when I was 4 years old, but I still love it! Even
today I have it on my PC. It is a real Disney movie, a family movie,
heart warming, teaches everyone we are all humans, does not matter your
skin tone, your culture, continent. When you need to use your heart we
think the same way. A cheetah is an uncommon kitty pet for kids, it is
a big event for every kid that watches the movie that this can really
happen. As I remember when I first saw it I was wondering is this based
on real events or just a tale.

And the whole movie is full of Africa, beautiful scenery, music :D I am
crying I love it!
<|_=00=_|>
Californian teens Ted (Keith Coogan) and Susan (Lucy Deakins) come to
Kenya to stay with their scientist parents for six months. They
befriend local child goat herder Morogo. They find a baby cheetah after
the mother is killed by poacher. They name her Duma. She gets bigger
and they try to teach her how to hunt with little success. Duma gets
kidnapped by poachers who wants to race her against greyhounds. They
suspect Patel but they are suppose to return home. Instead, they sneak
off to rescue Duma with Morogo's help.

It's a simple family movie. The two lead actors are good capable
performers. The rest of the cast are pretty amateurish. The story isn't
anything special. The best thing about the movie is the wild life.
There are some good close encounters. It's a good one for the tiny ones
but not for anybody else.
<|_=00=_|>

I thoroughly enjoyed this film. It's about two American teenagers from
LA California, named Susan and Ted Johnson (who are brother and
sister), who go to visit the site in Kenya, Africa, where their
scientific parents, Earl and Jean work. Susan and Ted end up staying
there for Six months. Along the way, they learn about African culture,
meet a friend, a young Masai warrior named Morogo, and adopt a young
orphaned cheetah whose mother has died. Susan and Ted are very happy-
until their stay is over and they must return to L.A. They decide to
teach the young cheetah to hunt for herself so they can release her
back into the wild where she belongs. During this time period, however,
Susan and Ted's great goal of helping the cheetah is turned into a
nightmare when the cheetah is catnapped! Now it's up to Susan and Ted,
with the help of Morogo, to rescue the cheetah and return her back into
her true and rightful home. I enjoyed this movie because it is a good
adventure story, taking the movie watcher right into the heart of Kenya
(the movie was actually filmed in Africa). The storyline is really good
too. But, as I have said, the movie makes it seem as if it is easy to
keep and raise wild animals in captivity. Other than that,it is a very
nice movie. The content is fine for any age about 10 years and up. I
would recommend anyone to rent this movie. It's an enjoyment for the
whole family!

<|_=00=_|>
I understand that this film was made with a young audience in mind. A
very, VERY young audience, I suspect. But that is no excuse for
dumbing-down to the point of idiocy, poorly written dialogue that is so
"child-friendly" that it actually has all the adults talking like
children (dumb ones), and a sledge-hammer approach to the "message".

Children are not morons. Even young children. A skilled writer can
produce a movie which is entirely palatable to an eight-year-old, yet
still explores a variety of themes and ideas in a realistic and
un-patronising way. Older characters don't have to behave like children
in order to be liked/understood/accepted by children. They should be
portrayed truthfully.

This film wastes many great opportunities. The scenery is beautiful,
and well photographed by a competent crew. In fact, the whole film is
competently made. It just suffers from TERRIBLE writing, which has a
knock-on effect right down the line. The acting seems poor, but this is
mainly due to the atrocious material that the talented cast is forced
to work with. The story, though far from original, is worth another
telling, and there's certainly nothing wrong with messages about loving
and respecting wildlife. But even a very young audience doesn't need to
be repeatedly whacked over the head with it.

This film can be compared with many others of its kind; all of which
are superior, mainly because they are better written, better acted, and
don't talk down to their audience. I recommend "Born Free: A New
Adventure" and "Dumas" as both being very good examples of how very
similar stories can be told in a less patronising way. (And of course
the original "Born Free" is essential viewing, though admittedly very
dated by modern standards.)

The script is the foundation of every film, TV show, or play. I should
have LOVED this film. It has all the right ingredients. But sadly it
was built on a very shaky foundation. And as a result, it fell down.

5/10
