

Former real life Hollywood couple Jeff Goldblum & Geena Davis made 3 films
together, two of them comedies, one of them serious. The first film, also
the film where they met, was the horror movie spoof "Transylvania 6-5000"
(which I keep looking for but can't seem to find), in which Jeff played a
reporter sent to Transylvania to follow a story with partner Ed Begley Jr.
and Geena played a sex starved nymph who was convinced she was a vampire.
The 2nd one they did and also the only serious one was the 1986 remake of
"The Fly", in which Jeff played a good natured but lonely mad scientist
who
turned into a giant fly monster (that looked nothing like a fly and
something more like a killer praying mantis) and Geena played his
journalist
lover. Then after boldly going where no Hollywood couple had ever gone
before in said remake of "The Fly", they returned to light hearted comedy
with our film here "Earth Girls Are Easy".

I've often theorized that the reason celebrity couples do films together
is
because it gives them a chance to spend time together and work together
(seeing as how the hectic Hollywood schedule tends to keep people apart
for
long periods of time) and because studios can cash in on the respective
fan
bases of both stars. Well, for what it's worth this is a hell of a lot
more
fun to watch than most celebrity couple films.

Anyway, in this their third and final film together, Geena plays a
beautiful
but romantically unhappy manicurist Valley Girl who's doctor boyfriend Ted
is cheating on her and Jeff plays the blue furred ringleader of three
furry
aliens, the other two being yellow furred Damon Wayans and pre-movie
stardom
red furred Jim Carrey (with his hair dyed blond!). Furry aliens Jeff, Jim
and Damon crash land in Geena's pool the day after Geena discovers how
unfaithful Ted's been and the sight of them understandably throws her for
a
loop. With their ship down for repairs the boys will have to stay with
Geena
and, doing her part for interplanetary relations, takes them to her ditzy
manicurist cohort Candy (Julie Brown, who also helped write the film) to
give the guys make overs so they can pass for Earthlings. Guess what?
Geena
eventually falls in love with Captain Jeff.

In an unrelated subplot that never quite went anywhere, Julie Brown's
character fell for Jim Carrey's alien. Watching this back when it was
made,
who would have guessed that Jim Carrey would eventually go on to become
one
of Hollywood's biggest comedic stars and possess a career that would
overshadow stars Jeff Goldblum and Geena Davis?

May not be brilliant comedy but like so many other comedies of the 80s
this
is still a reasonably funny, good natured romp with the cast making the
most
of it. Geena's easy to like and Jeff's a good straight man to the wild
antics of Jim and Damon, who both appear to be having a good time as the
nuttier aliens. I don't know why people keep saying bad things about
Jeff's
performance here, as his quirky style makes him an ideal alien stranger in
a
strange land and manages some of the film's best bits, like when he uses
his
"love touch" to get two cops stuck on each other. There's also a funny
scene
where Jeff offers to make love to Geena to make her feel better about
herself and get her mind off her cheating boyfriend and she tries to
explain
that them making love might not work on account of the fact that he's not
of
the Earth so not everything may work the same way and the whole time he's
undressing off camera and then she gets a look at him and his "equipment"
and just sort of trails off. Of course, she has to make sure he doesn't
get
the impression that "Earth Girls Are Easy".

Bit of a shame that Jeff & Geena's marriage didn't work out.

There are also some funny musical bits.

"Mac is Mr. Right?" - Jeff Goldblum as Mac
<|_=00=_|>

It's cute....  it's bouncy....  it's fluff....  but it's mindless
entertainment for a few hours....  See it!

Plus side:

Geena Davis is perfect as the quirky female lead....  Just enough of a ditz
to be believable....  and yet strong enough, too...

Jeff Goldblum - well, he's kind of typical in this role...  Like W. Shatner,
Jeff has a particular way of speaking....  and this film shows it...  But
his acting was good and he was semi believable as a lovable alien...  And,
he was kind of hunky in that scene....

Jim Carrey & Damon Wayons - these 2 guys are 90% funny 90% of the time... 
they were classic on 'IN LIVING COLOR' and both have gone on to have decent
careers in the years since....  The woodie on the freeway is
hilarious!

Julie Brown - no other big-boobed-blonde could have EVER pulled this off! 
And, her songs from the film - 'Cuz I'm a Blonde, I Like 'em Big and Stupid
- are just the best ...  I don't have to work I just have to jiggle..... 

While the story line may be cheesey and seem like a leftover that sat a bit
too long, it's cute fluff and worth a view...
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the fluff movies which one doesn't need to be ashamed of
admitting to enjoyment in. No, there's nothing plausible about 90% of the
plot, but nor is there any pretense of such, so it's not something worth
angsting over. Three fuzzy, colorful aliens crash their little yellow ship
into the pool of a young, somewhat vapid Geena Davis, who has recently
discovered that her MD. fiance is cheating on her. A quick shave and
styling
at her friend's beauty parlor transforms the three into less hirsute
versions of Goldblum, Carrey and Wayans. Having assimilated at least the
appearance of human beings, the aliens enter the world of 80s California,
and wackiness, along with the necessary romance, ensues.

As 80s flicks go, this is better than, say, Weird Science or Back to
School,
though not up to par with things like Caddyshack or A Fish Called Wanda.
Nothing essential to go out of your way to see, but certainly worth
catching
sometime 
<|_=00=_|>
Sadly a few jaded commentators (including the late redoubtable
Halliwell) seen to have taken this movie far too seriously...pay no
attention! This movie mas made as a zany fluffy comedy, and it succeeds
admirably at it. With talents like Gina Davis, Geoff Goldblum, the
young Jim Carrey and the multi-talented Julie Brown amongst others how
could it fail? Memorable moments include the aliens' learning isolated
English phrases from commercials and old movies - "limp and hard to
manage" has become a family in-joke; the
like,-totally-cool-to-whatever-outrageous-happens surfer Woody (Michael
McKean); the makeover; and Julie Brown's song, now a classic on Dr
Demento, "Because I'm Blonde".

For anyone who complains the special effects are cheesy - they're
_meant_ to be! This is in part a spoof of the 1950's
aliens-come-to-earth B movies, so watch closely when the space ship
arrives, hovers over the trees, and does its forced landing in Davis'
pool: it is a triumph of reproducing the authentic 1950's effect, not a
poor attempt at 80's FX tech! All in all the production values,
cinematography and direction are excellent throughout and support the
fine cast and writers to produce one of the most delightful light
comedies of the 80's.

Don't miss this charmer. See it when it comes around on TV. Rent it, or
buy it and show all your friends. Just be sure you're in the mood for
comic nonsense, not Dostoyevsky!
<|_=00=_|>

'Earth Girls are Easy' is a B-52's kind of style musical. Well, it's sort of
a musical. It's sporadic musical numbers and dance acts that have to keep
this movie plugging along. If you know the Julie Brown song, Earth Girls are
Easy, then you know the story. 

Clueless Valerie (Geena Davis) of the Valley discovers that her idiot
fiancee, Ted (Charles Rocket), is cheating on her about the same time that
some aliens crash land in her swimming pool. With Ted gone, she doesn't mind
entertaining a few aliens (Jim Carey, Damon Wayans, and Jeff Godlbum) for a
while. Actually, the results are pretty funny, since basically she tries to
get them to assimilate to 80 Californian culture as she knows it. She first
does by shaving off their hairy exterior so that they look like humans (of
course). It sure doesn't occur to their blonde, braindead Valley Girl
friends, that there is something wrong Wiploc, Zeebo, and Mac (especially
considering that they repeat everything people tell them and don't say much
else) so long as theyre good dancers, party animals, and good in bed, of
course. In the course of everything, including her creepy fiancee trying to
weasel his way back, Valerie falls in love with Mac (played by her
then-husband, Jeff Goldbum). 

It is an amusing little romantic comedy that seems to have taken some cues
from Susan Sneideman's 'Making Mr. Right' which you might also enjoy if you
like this movie, although that is not quite as funky in the B-52s sense of
the word. Not that the B-52s had anything to do with this movie, either, but
I think they are most closely associated with the style of comedy and
atmosphere I'm referring to.

This is not a movie for everyone, obviously. Earth Girls are Easy is a funky
80s b-comedy recommended for real 80s fans, though it'll probably appeal
more to us female audiences. Just waste your brain, wax your board, and pray
for waves!

<|_=00=_|>
Everyone loves a good (or bad) alien movie, and "Earth Girls Are Easy"
doesn't disappoint. Valerie (Geena Davis) is an every-woman in southern
California whose life is turned upside down when three aliens, Mac
(Jeff Goldblum), Wiploc (Jim Carrey) and Zeebo (Damon Wayans), land in
her swimming pool. She quickly gets them made up to look human, but
they continue acting like non-humans. She has to explain sex to Mac,
while Wiploc and Zeebo are still wacky.

In a way, the whole movie is an excuse to be silly. But believe you me,
they come up with some really funny stuff (Jim Carrey does a great
James Dean impression). You'll wish that some aliens could land in your
swimming pool, or wherever near your house.
<|_=00=_|>

Before three aliens accidentally land into Valerie (Geena Davis)'s pool, 
she is a manicurist in The Valley, California, and is about to marry a
doctor, Ted (Charles Rocket), who has always been unfaithful to her. Now the
arrival of the three extra-terrestrials will change Valerie's life
forever.

As a sci-fi comedy, some occasional singing scenes make this film also fit
the category of musical. Although this is not exactly a profound story, it
is light-hearted, colorful, energetic and successfully made for the purpose
of entertainment.

The whole film is a hilarious party, if you're in the mood to relax, to lay
back and to kick off your shoes without wanting to explore some serious
issue, then you'll have a grand time watching this. The scene Valerie
"destroys" about everything in her house after she sees her fiance with
another woman was skillfully filmed and acted in a very funny and original
way, while Valerie sings "I've lost my faith in you".

As Valerie, Geena Davis beautifully portrayed this cheerful, optimistic,
lively and strong woman. Jeff Goldblum played Mac, a charming, maturer,
steadier alien while his fellow travelers Wiploc and Zeebo (played by Jim
Carrey and Damon Wayens respectively) are wackier and more fun-loving. All
the characters in this movie are likeable and the film itself is just as
interesting.       
<|_=00=_|>

One of the films that fits into the category of Just Fun.

While you could never call this a musical there are definitely lots of
great
musical numbers in it.

Geena Davis has a star turn as the vapid Valley Girl Valerie.  I laughed
at
the fact she spent most of the movie wearing the tiniest bikini
imaginable.
But BOY can she pull it off.

Julie Brown as Candy the proprietor of the Curl Up and Dye beauty salon
was
a treasure.  She always makes me laugh and I always want to see more of
her.

Micheal McKean as Woody once again shows his amazing versatility.  Just
compare him in this movie to his role in "Airheads" and you will see just
how wildly divergent he can be.

Frankly, I didn't recognize him.

This film is high camp and pulls it off well because it never takes itself
seriously.

Not being a big Jim Carrey fan when Valerie tells Wiploc that she will
miss
him least of all I always want to cheer.

See this and have a good time.
<|_=00=_|>

There is something about the standard eighties film that is quite unique,
they seem more light and fluffy than the films released these days.  Even
better, they seemed to attract fairly big name stars of that time...This
is
not a great film, but it is what it is.  It's light hearted, funny, has
some
interesting musical interludes and outrageous costumes and is one of Jim
carrey's earlier films.  There is not much of a story but the slight
premise
it is based on is still entertaining.  Would recommend to any child of the
eighties!
<|_=00=_|>

A VERY silly movie, and none the worse for that. Don't expect (as other
reviewers seem to) this to be a serious treatise on extraterrestrial
biology
- this is a brain switch off movie, meant to be enjoyed and giggled at.
There are some lovely lines in it, and the ending, while not unexpected,
is
happy and feelgood. Great for watching on a plane, or for whiling away a
couple of hours if you want a laugh with a few friends. It's worth it for
the blue, furry Goldblum alone! 6 points.
