
The original Beverley Hills Cop is one of those films that remains a
cult classic because of the fact that it's such a product of the time
it was made. This quintessential eighties style is carried over to the
sequel, made three years later, and although part two; like many
sequels, never quite manages that same verve as the original film - it
still offers a good time, and anyone that enjoyed the first instalment
(and who didn't?) will probably have a good time with this sequel too.
All the main players from the original film have been rounded up once
again, with Eddie Murphy heading a capable ensemble cast, lots of
wisecracks and some gratuitously over the top action sequences. The
plot is, as you would expect, superfluous to the style of the film; and
much of the movie is simply tailored around it; but anyway, it follows
maverick copper Axel Foley and his two California police cronies as
they are pulled into a case known as the 'alphabet murders', which
involves a robbery, a tall blonde woman and a gun shop owner.

I've got to say that Eddie Murphy's wisecracks were a lot funnier in
the first film. While they were still over the top, they were at least
sort of believable. Here, however, Murphy goes massively over the top,
and it's hard to imagine how anyone that obnoxious doesn't end up with
a cracked jaw. Anyway, Murphy obviously enjoys himself; and if you can
get by the complete lack of logic, you probably will too. True to
style, the action is completely over the top too; with several
ridiculous sequences combining to make the movie the entertaining
blockbuster that it is. The film lacks any kind of themes or substance,
meaning that it will both not please serious film fans, and that this
reviewer is running out of steam; but I will say that this movie does
have a point to make, and that is simply entertaining it's audience. It
may be completely silly, illogical fun; but some movies need to be
there just to entertain, and this is one of those. I wouldn't recommend
sticking this movie at the top of any must see lists, or going into
with huge expectations; but it's a good time, that's for sure.
<|_=00=_|>

I finally saw this sequel and it was better than what many people say.
Murphy has some very hilarious moments and Reinhold and Ashton were just
as
good.  Also, the action scene's were decent too, though the chase with
the
cement truck was'nt as good as the chase in the first with the transport
truck.  I did notice that the film lacked the freshness of the first one
but
still it was fun to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Beverly Hills Cop 2 is pretty much just the same as the original
Beverly Hills Cop but without the freshness and originality of the 1st.
Murphy is still a perfect Axel Foley and with some good supporting
characters such as his foul mouthed chief of police and Detectives
Rosewood and Taggart the movie does have it's moments but the rules of
diminishing returns still apply.

With a bit more originality in the script and a bit more daring this
really could have been great. But for a sequel this isn't to bad just
more of the same but not quite as good.

6/10 - Not as good as the original but far superior to the tepid third
instalment.
<|_=00=_|>
The 80s seems to have specialised in this time of throw away
entertainment. Sure it had its promising moments too; there was an
Alien and the first Terminator in there, but this was the decade of the
macho, gun-totting, mulleted male. The emphasise of style over content
is here for all to see, with the excesses of the 80s for all to see
(I'd like to say we have evolved since then but I am really not sure).

Eddie Murphy returns to Beverly Hills again, all smiles and one liners
to help the ungrateful local cops out with the 'alphabet robberies'
(ooowwwww scary). Shoot-outs, pretty pathetic high speed chases, and
illogical trips to a strip joint and the Playboy Mansion follow. On the
way we see plenty of the semi-nudity that the 80s seem to specialise in
(sorry 80s), and the sickeningly smug Foley (Murphy), the 'psycho'
gun-enthusiast Billy (Reinhold), and the hapless Taggart (Ashton)
bungle their way to solving the case and saving the day.

Clichés seem to pop out at every turn. The idiotic and constantly angry
chief of police, the wise-cracking cop who learned his trade 'on the
street', the portrayal of a strong female character as 'that big bitch
over there' and the solving of the case after finding a match book
(surely that has been used in Scooby Doo before!). The ease with which
Murphy's character is able to evade shipment out of the city and fool
the local cops is infuriately stupid.

Two lines summed up the unforgivable nature of this film for me. After
enduring the latest verbal assault from the local police chief Foley,
making light of race relations states supposedly humorously "is it a
black thing?". Later in the film after disposing of a key criminal who
just happens to be a woman Taggart tuts "Women". Come I know i must be
taking this film just a bit too seriously, but there can't be anyone
out there who finds awful and insulting one liners like this funny, can
there? Ultimately between the distractions of the odd breast and an
appearance by Hugh Hefner, an engaging storyline fails to emerge and
the viewer is left with the infamous theme tune stuck in his/her head.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is widely acknowledged as being one of the worst sequels
ever. It's the same movie all over again, but without the intelligence,
humour and charm that made the first film such a winner.

Eddie Murphy returns as fish-out-of-water cop Axel Foley and he's at
his loudest and most annoying here, shouting at the top of his lungs
and speaking so fast that it's difficult to understand what he's saying
(Nutty Professor 2 had the same problem, with those two and "Another 48
Hours" Eddie seems to make a mess of sequels).

Director Tony Scott was hired to direct the sequel. He was hot off "Top
Gun" the year before, but he's not a comedy director. He gives "Beverly
Hills Cop II" his usual glossy look, but he mistimes all of the humour
and it shows.

You can tell a movie franchise is in trouble when it starts killing off
its main characters and that's what happens here when Ronny Cox is shot
(Foley's foul-mouthed boss, Inspector Todd, would be killed off in the
next movie).

Brigitte Nielsen, for the 5 minutes she was on Hollywood's A-list, is
in among the cast. She only got the part after Sylvester Stallone
invited Eddie Murphy over for dinner (Sly apparently fell under the
table laughing at Eddie's Rocky impression).

The screenplay for "Beverly Hills Cop" was nominated for an Oscar and
that just goes to show you how good the original movie was. This movie
got no such recognition. Actor and director Mel Smith once saw this
movie at a Royal Premiere in London and he said: "That is the biggest
load of cr*p you will ever sit through in your life, I would have left,
but you couldn't as there was royalty there." I couldn't agree more.
You should only watch this film at gunpoint. Otherwise, don't waste 2
hours of your life that you won't get back.
<|_=00=_|>
Official Review: Some guys wear trench-coats? They have machine guns?
Something to do with a housing development? I don't know, this movie is
hard to remember. I know for a fact I've seen this movie more than
once, and relatively sober each time, but that's it. There is a shoot
out at the end, but who knows why. I don't know why the bad guy is bad
or what the bad guy does that's bad, also I don't know if there is more
than one bad guy, like Brigitte Nielsen may or may not be a bad guy,
y'know cause I don't remember clearly. In my defense I have an
otherwise very good memory, and I don't want Beverly Hills Cop 2 to be
indicative of my memory skills, it's not my fault, it's this piece of
sh*t movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Sequel to the hugely successful 1984 movies, this film was most unfairly
slated by critics. I believe in some ways it is better than the original
and
certainly far, far better than the third installment. The story is, despite
what everyone says, very engaging and keeps you watching the whole time.
Eddie Murphy starred in Coming to America shortly after this, and then his
career took a nosedive, although he seems to be making a comeback. If he is
given more roles like this, he'll do better. 
<|_=00=_|>
In this second film about notorious Detroit detective , the foul-mouth
and tough Axel Foley (Edddie Murphy) again returns at Beverly Hills to
resolve the responsible for the murder of his chief (Ronny Cox) who has
been gunned down by a tall woman (Brigitte Nielsen). He decides to
track down and clues lead to alphabet robberies that are masterminded
by a weapons kingpin . As always , he's helped by a pair of
sympathetics mates (Judge Reinhold and John Ashton) . They'll have to
confront evil nasties (Jurgen Prochnow and Dean Stockwell) and hold
numerous risks , odds and dangers . 

The picture is plenty of action , humor , suspense , tongue in cheek,
shoot'em up and is developed in agility and movement and for that
reason is amusing . The picture provides fast and furious amusement
with spectacular scenes and unstopped-action. Relief comic is in charge
of Eddie Murphy as his foul and fast-talking creates most big smiles
and causing wreak havoc on the way . Besides his various jokes with the
sidekicks steal enormous laughs . For that the picture is a ¨Buddy
movie¨ though there's a trio protagonist . Eddie Murphy as streetsmart
detective is top-notch, as Axel Foley is his greatest smash-hit and
converted him in a top-international-star confirming his position with
continued successes in the box office . Fish out water formula used in
several films is well narrated and originates enough laughters to
satisfy the viewer . The giant Briggite Nielsen -just married to
Stallone- is attractive and cold . Friends' couple , Judge Reinhold and
John Ashton , are nice and likable . Director Tony Scott stunningly
scoring highest marks on action , as the film is correctly made .
Motion picture will appeal to action-packed enthusiasts and Eddie
Murphy fans.
<|_=00=_|>

"Beverly Hills Cop II" is the entertaining sequel to the 1984 smash hit. Of
course, this sequel can't top the original, but it's still pretty good.
Eddie Murphy returns as Axel Foley and returns to Beverly Hills to help
avenge the attack of a friend. This movie isn't as fresh as the original
movie, but I found myself laughing alot throughout. Plus, the action scenes
are well done. Judge Reinhold, John Ashton, Ronny Cox, and Paul Reiser all
reprise their roles from the first film along with Murphy. "Beverly Hills
Cop II" is a movie that's loud and noisy at times, but it's funny and
entertaining. And it's much better than the disappointing third movie in the
series, "Beverly Hills Cop III".

*** (out of four)

<|_=00=_|>
A terrible and unpleasant sequel to the surprise hit from 1984.

Though it reassembles most of the cast from the original, including
Eddie Murphy in the role that made him a big-screen movie star, all of
the other elements that made the first one so enjoyable are gone.
Director Tony Scott seems to be absolutely clueless about what made the
first one so popular and fresh -- in other words, the comedy -- and
instead focuses on aggressive violence and action.

The song "Shakedown" was nominated for an Academy Award, but otherwise
the film doesn't even boast as good a soundtrack as the original.

Grade: D
