

I have read the other comments and am stunned by people who view The
Mission
in a negative light. It feels as though you are attacking a loved one -
perhaps because this movie IS a loved one to me.  Never, ever have I felt
so
deeply about a film.  I don't have any idea where to begin checking off
the
pro's:  cinematography? stupendous acting? heart-breaking subject matter?
moving soundtrack?  I don't think it's possible to do that with The
Mission
- one needs to absorb it as a whole.  An entire masterpiece.

I was one of the fortunate ones to see this movie in a theatre back in the
80's - we were visiting friends in another city and, for lack of anything
better to do that evening, decided to see this film. To say I was moved
would be such an understatement as to be ridiculous. It is the saddest
commentary on what horrors have been perpetrated in the name of
God....

I have seen this movie several times since then and own it now but I am
always very careful whom I see it with and when I see it.  You need to
have
a block of time set aside when you can completely immerse yourself in this
film. Unplug the phone, put the kids to bed, make sure the dog doesn't
have
to go out. If you don't pay attention - from the very beginning to right
after the credits - you will miss something important.  Prepare yourself
emotionally for The Mission. Step into it, live it, let it speak to you.
Feel the struggle of all involved.

I love this movie. infinity out of 10
<|_=00=_|>

I found myself emotionally devastated after seeing this film the first
time.
The film packs a punch in its contrast between the beauty of nature and
human self-sacrifice on the one hand and the depths of human self-interest
and ruthlessness on the other.  Its theme is as relevant today as it was in
the 1600s - what are  the consequences of my actions, and what price must
be
paid by me and by others as a result?  The film depicts several characters
with whose choices the viewer can identify - the missionary, the repentant
killer, the papal legate - and gives no easy answers to the choices that
confront them.  But the fact that there are no easy answers doesn't let
them
off the hook.  In the end, they all have to take responsibility for what
they do or fail to do.

The magnificent visuals of the Iguassu Falls and the moving score by
Morricone (surely his best) all contribute to an unforgettable
picture.
<|_=00=_|>

While at college I was given the assignment of producing a 30 minute talk
on
the 'Guarana Republic' which is off course the subject matter of this
movie.
Hailing from the Protestant part of Europe I had never even heard about
this
aspect of Jesuit missionary work before, but as I researched the matter I
became fascinated.
So when I heard that a movie had been made about this topic I went to see
it
as soon as possible. Knowing how the film industry tended to treat
historical events I was somewhat suspicious, but I was pleasantly
surprised.
This movie instantly became one of my all time favourites. I think the
subject matter is handled sensitively and sensibly and the cinematography
is
stunning. What also impressed me was the clever way in which this story,
which in reality spanned several generations, was compressed into a period
of about ten years without becoming unbelievable.
Even in a two hour movie there is a limit on what one can touch on, but I
think that a good balance between dialogue, adventure, action, and
character
development, was struck. Even so if the movie would have lasted another
hour
I would still have been happy (perhaps even happier).

<|_=00=_|>
The more I see this film the more I like it. First off, it has
magnificent South American jungle scenery, filmed in an area that
features multiple gorgeous falls. This is one of the prettiest films
you will ever watch - guaranteed - and please see it on widescreen DVD.
"The Mission" won the Oscar for Best Cinematography in 1986 and that
award was well-deserved. There is just one stunning scene after
another.

The story is very interesting, too: a supposed true-life account what
happened back in the 1700s when a few dedicated priests tried to bring
Christianity to the natives. It shows what occurred when a combination
of the Catholic Church and the Portugese slave-traders and politicians
attempted to put a halt to their missionary. This is a drama, not an
"action film," but the movie has extended violent ending, and sometimes
is shocking in that finale.

Jeremy Irons, as the dedicated Jesuit who heads the mission, and Robert
De Niro in a surprise role as the killer slave-trader-turned-repentant
priest are both excellent in their leading roles. It was interesting to
see a young Liam Neeson, too.

To some, the story might be a bit slow I found it very involving. After
several viewings, I began to fully appreciate to lush score by Ennio
Morricone. This is simply one of the prettiest and classiest movies
I've seen and it's highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

After hearing a quick clip from the soundtrack recently I decided to
have another look at 'The Mission' which I hadn't seen for more than
ten years. Interesting viewing in these days when epics abound: Lord of
the Rings, Gladiator, Troy etc.

The first thing that struck me was the intelligence of the script which
often seems an afterthought in today's big budget jobs. Robert Bolt
weaves an intriguing web of characters; mercenary, slavetrader,
starcrossed lover, papal emissary and man of faith. The passion of
Robert de Niro's Mendoza beautifully contrasts the quiet firm
conviction of Jeremy Irons' Gabriel. And the moral dilemma facing the
Catholic Church, whether to abandon influence abroad for the sake of
power at home, is ably brought to life in the tortured mind of Ray
McAnally's Altamirano. This man sent from Rome by the Pope himself has
the power of life and death over the Guarani Indians and the Jesuit
priests who have dedicated their lives to Christian service in the
deepest regions of the South American rainforest.

The film isn't perfect by any means: I would have liked better
representation of at least one Guarani character but the integrity of
Joffe's direction and Chris Menges' spectacular camera-work make this
one film you have to see. And there's that lovely soundtrack by Ennio
Morricone.

We may be more sophisticated these days in terms of technology, sound
engineering and special effects but the lesson from 'The Mission' for
today's directors has to be: it's the story, stupid.

<|_=00=_|>

There are many great movies but The Mission is in a class of its own.  It
belongs to a select group of films which are able to penetrate our lives
and
change us forever.  The powerful themes of forgiveness, love, innocence,
guilt, freedom, and human nature are presented against a backdrop of
incredible scenery and Morricone's now legendary score.  At first glance
The
Mission is a story about a political struggle. Upon closer examination it
is
no less than divine revelation about the nature of the human
heart.

<|_=00=_|>
The Jesuits were to be teachers, educators in philosophy and
religion... They became the intellectual elite of the Catholic Church,
adviser to the kings and queens of Europe, and involved with the forest
Indians...

In Roland Joffe's motion picture, their purpose is to convert and to
civilize the untamed population... But while the Spanish sees the
Guarani Indians as a potential converts for Christianity, the
Portuguese considers them as nothing more than slave labor... Tension
immediately arises among the Spaniards, the Portuguese, the Church, the
Jesuits, and the Guarani...

The film examines the events surrounding the Treaty of Madrid in 1750,
when Spain ceded part of South America to Portugal... As you may know,
Portugal, eventually built a trading empire so dynamic that it would
eventually push out into the Atlantic and set the stage for Spain's
historic expeditions of conquest... By the Treaty, the Jesuits were to
leave the New World... But neither the priests nor their flock wished
to leave... 

There is nothing great in politics, no matter how it is delivered, and
for the noble natives, the consequences are no less dramatic... The
collision of cultures had it enormous consequences... And the film is
no simple account of heroes and villains, or victors and victims... It
is simply a dramatic, sweeping tale of the complex blending two peoples
into one...

Cardinal Altamirano (Ray McAnally) is the papal legate in charge of the
Catholic activities of the South American territories... He faces a
political dilemma: If the Catholic Church leaves the Jesuits as
defenders of the Indians in South America, the Vatican might be at odds
with the crowns of Europe, and the Catholic states might begin to
resist the power of the Pope...

Father Gabriel (Jeremy Irons) is a conqueror without sword against
brutality and oppression... He converts the native peoples to
Christianity, and defends their rights and beliefs against the European
powers... His dream is to see a community in which Christian natives
living in peace with the Spanish and Portuguese...

Rodrigo Mendoza (Robert De Niro), is an ex-slaver turned Jesuit priest,
who wants to defend the Indians by guns against the merciless cruelties
and butcheries of the slave dealers, and ward off the ravages of the
Portuguese...
<|_=00=_|>

I think "The Mission" is better than Joffé's "The killing fields". The
background-story is about political power between Spain and Portugal in 1750
and a Cardinal sent by Rome. But above all it tells of two men. Jeremy Irons
is Jesuit Gabriel who builds a mission in South American jungles. He has got
a deep human character and believes in peace and love. Robert DeNiro is
more interesting. After killing his brother in a duel, he changes from
brutal slave-trader to an expiating Jesuit. One of the best sequences is
when native Indians recognize DeNiro. It looks first as if an Indian would
kill him with a knife, but then he cuts the rope with that DeNiro carried a
heavy ballast of weapons and armings. DeNiro cries and laughs simultaneously 
because he is redeemed. This goes right through your heart. Chris Menges
cinematography is wonderful. Ennio Morricone wrote one of the most
remarkable scores of film history.
Don't leave the cinema while cast and credits are running over the screen at
the end! You would miss the last sequence!
<|_=00=_|>
Rating: ** 1/2 out of **** 

Back in 1984, Roland Joffe accomplished the near impossible; his major
motion picture debut, The Killing Fields, defied every expectation
typically associated with neophyte filmmakers and what Joffe delivered
was one of the most powerful and moving films I've ever seen. So it's
no surprise I highly anticipated his follow-up film, The Mission, and
it's obvious that by bringing back the same team (producer David
Puttnam, cinematographer Chris Menges, and editor Jim Clark), they
attempted to capture the proverbial "lightning in a bottle" a second
time. Unfortunately, the end product isn't quite cinematic magic.

Set in the 18th century, Jeremy Irons stars as Father Gabriel, one of
several Spanish Jesuit priests (including Liam Neeson) assigned to
convert the Guarini tribe of South America into Christians. His efforts
are gradual, but successful. Converging with this story is Rodrigo
Mendoza (Robert De Niro), a slave trader who seeks penance after
killing his own brother in a fit of rage. For all the Guarini that he
has killed or sold off into slavery, they still show compassion and
forgiveness towards him, and he is accepted into the mission, even
converting into a Jesuit priest under the guidance of Father Gabriel.

The priests and the Guarini natives eventually find themselves in
heated discussion with politicians and slave-owners, who are debating
over whether the mission should fall under the rule of Portugal, thus
endangering all the Guarini with the possibility of being made into
slaves. Determined to prevent such an action at any cost, Mendoza takes
up his sword once more, coming into conflict with Father Gabriel's
peaceful approach.

The Mission was released in 1986 with little success in theaters,
despite garnering a respectable 7 Oscar nominations, including Best
Picture. Since then, it's developed a devoted fan base who consider it
among the most underrated films of the decade. As much as I'd like to,
I can't quite agree. Though a respectable and often beautifully crafted
effort, the film ultimately comes up short in human interest and
emotions, with Joffe often favoring lingering shots of lush jungle
scenery and needlessly overlong political machinations involving
secondary characters whom we couldn't care less about.

The film is divided into three acts, the first, involving the spiritual
transformation of Mendoza, is easily the most compelling. Despite De
Niro's occasionally stilted performance (his delivery of some of the
dialogue, particularly "Are you laughing at me?" still makes me
cringe), his emotional torment is heartfelt and absorbing and his
acceptance into the mission is genuinely moving. It's almost all
downhill from there.

The build-up in the second act is initially effective, with the heated
debate over the Guarini engrossing, but the conflict eventually loses
steam when we're subjected to dull, endless dialogue that grows
inadvertently confusing even as it intends to clear up the matters at
hand. It's also in the middle segment the film loses its human focus
and all that's really left is the question of will they or won't they
fight.

The third act is the inevitable battle, and while there are a few
powerful moments amidst the chaos, the sequence is a badly
choreographed mess. The editing also feels a little rough, with quite a
few scenes feeling like they clocked in a little too soon (the sudden
transition after Irons' "God is love!" line is disjointed, to say the
least). The Guarini are never developed beyond the typical "noble
savage" portrayal, so it's difficult to feel for their plight beyond
the fact that their forced subjugation and mass slaughter is a heinous
crime. I wanted to feel more for them, but they're merely a backdrop
for the more seasoned cast.

As Father Gabriel, Jeremy Irons is superb, unquestionably one of the
film's consistent bright spots. It's unfortunate he's never that
well-developed in any of the film's separate acts, but his performance
alone is able to draw us in even if the script lets him (and the
audience) down. In supporting roles, Ray McAnally and Liam Neeson are
excellent, though a bit limited in screen time. For Neeson, this was
more of a hint of greater things to come.

Ennio Morricone's score deserves a special mention; whatever emotions
Joffe is unable to convey on screen, Morricone's music can conjure in
just a few notes. It's one of the most beautiful scores I've had the
pleasure to listen to, especially in segments with oboe and flute. The
chorus in the background is perhaps a bit much, but an overpowering
score can do wonders in a film otherwise unable to muster all the
intended emotions.

Joffe's work in the film is still overall quite solid, but he
completely lost his footing soon afterward, losing a grip on his career
with a long string of critical and financial disasters, including Super
Mario Bros., The Scarlet Letter, and Goodbye Lover. I'm convinced The
Killing Fields was not a fluke, but the sign of a genuine auteur who
showed his prowess thanks to a brilliant script and cast. Blend those
two elements with his natural skills and I'm sure we'll get a film
worthy of mention alongside his debut. Let's just hope this happens
sooner rather than later.
<|_=00=_|>

In `The Mission' Roland Joffé has succeeded in putting together one of the
most majestic visual adventures of all time: and a story that had to be
told. Chris Menges' sumptuous photography is a feast, such that – for once –
the Newsweek quotation on the video cover is superbly apt: `a sweeping
spectacle'.
The whole film is breathtaking: from the depths of the jungle to the indian
villages, from face close-ups to broad panoramas, the visual effects are so
powerful that I just cannot think of any other comparable film. Add to that
fine interpretations, carefully considered and delivered performances by all
concerned with Joffé's exquisite direction, and you have a guarantee of a
magnificent production.
But that is NOT all there is to this great film: Ennio Morricone's music
reaches its greatest power, its most poignant intensity, its most gratifying
melodic line, right here in `The Mission', surpassing everything this
Italian composer had ever done before – even with his great friend, Sergio
Leone. Here Morricone reaches symphonic levels in a wealth of melodic
harmonies, such that what is supposedly `only' a visual attraction – a film
– becomes also a delight to the ears, bringing a lump to my throat at
various moments through this genuinely mighty film.
You might wish to compare this film with `1492: a Conquest of Paradise'
(1992) in which the best of Vangelis can be heard; but even so, I rate `The
Mission' just ahead of `1492'. Both films highly recommendable.
