
Quite a few words spring to my mind when I think of The Untouchables.
Words like: Excellence, entertainment, larger than life and Sean
Connery. These words basically summarize the entire film from my point
of view of course because in my opinion (which I don't expect people to
agree with) this is the best gangster film there is. Obviously people
aren't going to agree because people prefer the likes of the operatic
Godfather trilogy or the ultra realistic Goodfellas but in my head The
Untouchables is the best.

Here are a few reasons why. First reason is that The Untouchables is
just so darn entertaining. All the other films had completely different
aims and even though I love a deep and brilliant story my main
objective when I see a film is to be entertained and basically no film
does that better than The Untouchables. That does not mean, however,
that The Untouchables is just some half baked action comedy. No. There
is genuine emotion and real story in this film. The story is, as most
people know, loosely based on the actual events during the prohibition
era in USA in the 1920s (the story is also based very, very loosely on
the series that go by the same name) which to some extent means that
what we see on the screen is real making the characters and general
story seem that much more believable. This also adds greatly to the
already very high entertainment value of the film because it draws the
audience in. To add to the realism of the film the dialog is also very
memorable and there are some great one-liners including some of my all
time favorites in this film.

The acting is nothing short of brilliant. This is without a doubt Kevin
Costner's best role. Some people have remarked that he seemed stiff and
unable to portray the emotion of the character and to that I can only
ask: Were we watching the same movie?! He is a hundred percent
believable all the way through. In the beginning he seems a bit too
much like a square I-wanna-do-some-good kind of character but as the
story progresses he really evolves and becomes more and more
emotionally involved in what he does. Both in his friends and in the
cause. He even bends some of the rules he initially tried so hard to
uphold. Brilliant. Charles Martin Smith does a good job as well and
even though his character is very limited he still manages to pull the
audience in. Andy Garcia appears in this film in a very limited role as
well and he serves his purpose brilliantly. He is the sharpshooter of
the group and he is perfectly believable in that part. He doesn't get
to say much but what he does get to say is said with as much passion as
I have ever heard from him (he seemed a little stale and lifeless in
Godfather III). Robert DeNiro is great as Al Capone. He steals every
scene he is in and he really brings the larger-than-life quality to the
character which is extremely fitting. The film's best performance
belongs to Sean Connery though. The film is for lack of a better
expression a Sean Connery tour-de-force. Not only does he steal every
scene he is in but he also brings the certain indescribable something
to the character that he always does and in every situation you feel
with him (as you do in all his films whether he is a villain or a
hero). He also got a well deserved Oscar for his performance. People
have claimed that the Oscar wasn't as much for this particular
performance but an Oscar in recognition of his contributions to the
film industry. This belittles his performance which I can safely say is
the best of his career and one of the best displays of acting that I
have ever seen.

The film also has a memorable score made by the legendary Ennio
Morricone who is perhaps best known for the work he did with the
equally legendary western director Sergio Leone (who doesn't know the
score from The Good, the Bad and the Ugly) and in my opinion the score
he did for The Untouchables is the best he has ever made. The score is
very unlike most scores from the 80s which does that the film doesn't
feel like an 80s film as much as Scarface which I find inferior to this
masterpiece. The score is grand and epic just like the story and the
effects. For an 80s movie the effects are pretty amazing. Once again
everything works.

All in all The Untouchables is a riveting story which is highly
recommendable to all fans of crime/gangster movies.

10/10 - on my top 10 of best films
<|_=00=_|>
"The Untouchables" is in my opinion De Palma's greatest work, with his
other masterpiece, namely "Scarface", coming a very close second. In
"Scarface" the focus is on a paranoid and self-destructive gangster who
rises to meteoric heights and then falls; in "The Untouchables" the
focus is on a very honest man with a noble mission, Elliot Ness
(Kostner), who is prepared to do anything to clean Chicago from the
corruption and mayhem caused by the notorious gangster Al Capone (De
Niro). His quest is really tough, as his opponent is determined and
powerful, but he has the help of three invaluable partners: Malone
(Connery), a no-nonsense experienced cop, Wallace (Martin Smith), an
accountant who will try to help bring tax charges against Capone, and
Stone (Garcia), a great shooter.

As I noted before the film is brilliantly directed, with some scenes
such as the one with the baseball bat, or the one with the baby in the
train station, having become classic. The acting is superb, and while
Connery was the one who received his well-deserved Oscar, Kostner and
De Niro made Oscar-class performances too.

Although belonging to a typical genre, this film certainly stands out.
Don't miss it! 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I was not expecting this movie to be this bad. With Depalma, De Niro,
and what looked to be a huge budget with a story that is already
compelling enough in real life, there's no reason to make a film this
absent of quality.

You can tell within the first ten minutes of the movie that the score
is going to ruin the movie. The music was either cliché (smooth
touching melodies in every single last moment of vulnerability in the
movie) or "action music" that feels like it belongs in homeward bound,
not a crime movie. Music was even put into places where it make
absolutely no sense whatsoever. Indeed, it sets the tone for the movie
itself, which is a tone of farce more than grit.

This movie just reeks of farce, from the accountant mowing down people
with a shotgun with the nerdy grin symbolizing his transformation from
mild mannered nerd to empowered bad-ass to the completely arbitrary
scene of Robert DeNiro hitting a guy with a baseball bat (no back
story,no plot movement, seemingly no reason for it to be in the movie
whatsoever)to Sean Connery getting blasted with seemingly dozens of
machine gun bullets, bleeding enough to have died three times over, and
yet still having the power to gasp a few more words just as Elliot Ness
gets there before finally dying. This movie is filled with enough corny
commercial movie tricks and clichés that it just cannot be taken
seriously. This is not a bad thing if you're making a Disney movie, but
when you're making a crime drama, (especially one based on real life)
realism is probably the way you want to go.

This is not even to take into consideration the awful acting throughout
the movie. This actually may be why the movie so heavily relies on
cheesy music. The actor's performances were so weak that it required
cheesy music to make them look better. Kevin Costner is just not a
great actor and none of the supporting cast is exactly Daniel-Day
Lewis. Sean Connery won an academy award for his performance somehow. I
suppose his acting may have not been particularly bad, but his
character seemed so manufactured and out of step with reality that he
simply couldn't be taken seriously. Maybe in a completely fictitious
story it would have worked, but again, not in a story based on real
people and real events.

If you want to see a farce that tries to be serious, every movie cliché
in the book (this is no exaggeration, just look for them) an out of
place and overdone score, and substandard acting, then this is the
movie for you. I somehow doubt, though, that the target audience for
this movie were movie watchers who enjoyed this type of film. Take out
the violence and this movie belongs next to Pete's Dragon on the movie
shelf. It's a disgrace to Al Capone and Elliot Ness both and to anyone
who likes good movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Outstanding production that was the best film of 1987 with the
exception of the very dominant "The Last Emperor". "The Untouchables"
is the story of Elliot Ness (perfectly played by Kevin Costner) who
tries to bring down Chicago Mob boss Al Capone (Robert DeNiro in one of
his most under-rated roles) during the early-1930s. Illegal liquor
smuggling and other much more serious crimes are running amok and
corruption is all over. Costner realizes very fast that he must
hand-pick his own men to bring DeNiro down for good. Thus he enlists
the help of a young cop from the academy (Andy Garcia), a wimpy
book-keeper (Charles Martin Smith) and a hard-nosed Irish beat cop
(Oscar-winner Sean Connery in the performance of a lifetime). Together
they slowly start to peel through the multiple layers of protection to
get DeNiro for good. It seems that the fact that DeNiro has been lax in
paying his income taxes could be his ultimate downfall. Beautifully
directed by Brian De Palma, "The Untouchables" stands very tall with
the other great productions of the 1980s. Ennio Morricone's
Oscar-nominated score is one of the finest the cinema has ever
experienced. Really excellent. I have no negative comments on this
production. 5 stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been debating how hard to come down on 'The Untouchables' since I
watched it again the other day. I don't know anything about the
background of the film; whether it was made in a hurry or if there were
problems with the production or a lot of re-shooting afterward. All I
know is that with all the talent involved and the subject matter
chosen, this should have been a masterpiece, a classic along the lines
of 'The Godfather' or 'Goodfellas,' but sadly it doesn't even come
close. To say it's an enjoyable little film about nabbing Al Capone is
damning it with the slightest of praise. I mean, look at the cast. Sean
Connery, Kevin Costner, Charles Martin Smith, Andy Garcia, even Robert
De Niro! Can't get much better than that. So it's not them; they do
what they can with the material. David Mamet, who wrote the screenplay
(or at least gets credit for it), is one of the greatest living
American authors. And yet the screenplay is as flat and thin as
cardboard. It is almost impossible not to feel that other hands were
involved in the story and dialogue; it has practically none of the
incisiveness or bite one typically associates with Mamet. The director
is Brian De Palma. That's where I'm laying the blame. I have never felt
De Palma is the great director some claim him to be and there are many
aspects of 'The Untouchables' which reinforce my opinion- multiple
examples of shameless audience manipulation and tired clichés. The
geeky accountant who becomes a bad-ass during a confrontation and kills
a bunch of bad guys. The adoring wife who has one expression, one that
says "I love you so much my heart might melt." The old Irish cop who
dispenses endless pearls of wisdom and lessons-in-life. The
straight-arrow leader who has a personal code he never violates. And
all of this is put forward in such a ham-handed fashion; there is no
subtlety to anything here. What's even worse is we never really get to
know the characters; they are painted so broadly, they never register
as anything but stereotypes. But there are SOME good bits in 'The
Untouchables.' Mainly Robert De Niro, who is always interesting to
watch. His shorthand impersonation of Al Capone strikes me as a
throwaway, but it's a good throwaway and he manages to invest a fair
amount of menace into the character, behind the fake smile and
amiability Capone uses to disarm people. The same can more or less be
said about Sean Connery (I can't believe he won an Oscar for this
though). Kevin Costner is saddled with perhaps the weakest dialogue as
Elliot Ness; the film can never decide who he is or what to do with
him. At the beginning, reporters ask Ness, why bother to enforce
prohibition? Because it's the law of the land, he says. At the end,
they ask him what he'll do if prohibition is repealed. Probably go get
a drink, he says. I guess that's supposed to be meaningful and
profound. There seems to be no logic to the dialogue or situations. At
one point, apropos of nothing, Connery's character leads them on a
liquor bust literally on the spur of the moment, with no pre-planning,
no explanation of how he knows about it. 'The Untouchables' has a
climax of sorts in a railway station, then a courtroom scene which
makes no sense at all (how can you switch juries at the END of a
trial?). This film consistently disappoints; the fact that it still
provides a modicum of entertainment is due mainly to the acting skills
of De Niro and Connery.
<|_=00=_|>

	In 1919, over the veto of President Wilson, the Volstead Act was passed,
which made provisions for the enforcement of the Eighteenth Amendment, and
successfully ushered in the era of Prohibition; what it did not do, was keep
people from drinking, or more significantly, keep certain `businessmen' from
selling it, which opened the flood gates to a billion dollar industry of
illegal alcohol.  And in the larger cities, the mob bosses jumped onto the
bandwagon with both feet, the most notorious of which was Al Capone, who by
1930 had a thriving business and the city and the people of Chicago in his
pocket.  From the cop on the beat to the judges sitting on the highest
courts, everyone seemingly had a price and could be bought.  And that's the
way it was until Treasury Agent Eliot Ness showed up for work and hand
picked a squad of honest cops to help him get Capone and clean up the City
of Chicago.  `The Untouchables,' directed by Brian De Palma, is the story of
Ness and his men, dubbed `Untouchable' because they couldn't be bought,
though from the beginning the odds were stacked against them.  They were a
handful against an army of hoodlums who wielded grenades and tommy guns, and
they could trust no one outside of their own circle, not even the cops with
whom they shared the streets.  Many looked upon what Ness was trying to do
as an exercise in futility, but he never gave up, and went after Capone with
everything he had, which wasn't much beyond his own guts and determination
to `do some good.'

	Ness's initial efforts were a disaster-- Capone had informants everywhere
and always knew ahead of time whenever a raid was going down-- so he quickly
realized that the only way to do this thing right was to get men he could
trust and keep everything quiet.  The bureau responded by sending Ness
(Kevin Costner) an accountant, Oscar Wallace (Charles Martin Smith), who
first had the idea of going after Capone for income tax evasion.  Ness then
recruited Jim Malone (Sean Connery), a veteran cop who walked a beat and was
well versed in doing things `The Chicago way,' and George Stone (Andy
Garcia) a crack shot recruited right out of the Police Academy. 

	Connery gives an exemplary performance as Malone (for which he received the
Oscar for Best Supporting Actor), the tough, Irish cop who becomes something
of a tutor to Ness, letting him know from the start what he's getting
himself into.  How do you deal with someone of Capone's ilk?  According to
Malone, `If he pulls a knife, you pull a gun.  If he sends one of yours to
the hospital, you send one of his to the morgue.  That's the Chicago way--
that's how you get Capone.'  It's a perfect part for Connery, whose rugged
appearance and demeanor are entirely convincing; he's got that somewhat
cynical, world-wise and weary manner of a man who has seen it all, but lets
you know that underneath he still holds out hope that some day in some way,
right will win out after all.  And Connery plays it with a hard,
uncompromising edge that makes it so believable, and makes Malone a
memorable character.     
														De Palma brings it all vividly to life, building an underlying
tension from the beginning that he maintains throughout the film, aided by
the intense, sometimes haunting score by Ennio Morricone.  Costner gives a
solid performance as Ness, but he is somewhat overshadowed by the actors and
the characters who surround him, especially Connery as Malone, and Robert De
Niro, who as Capone is absolutely menacing and larger-than-life.  De Niro
captures the ruthlessness that indelibly marked Capone's infamy forever in
the annals of criminal history, with a portrayal of him that is arguably the
best in cinematic history.  De Niro plays it as it lays, presenting Capone
as the brutal criminal he was, without attempting to airbrush away any of
the attributes that made him so despicable.  It's a terrific performance,
for which he should have received at least an Oscar nomination.

	The supporting cast includes Richard Bradford (Mike), Jack Kehoe (Payne),
Brad Sullivan (George), Billy Drago (Nitti) and Patricia Clarkson (Ness'
wife).  Extremely well crafted and delivered by De Palma, who had a great
screenplay (by David Mamet) and a terrific cast with which to work, `The
Untouchables' is a powerful, intense film that successfully evokes this
particular period in the history of America.  And it subtly underscores the
true heroics of men like Ness and his crew, who through their fearless
dedication possibly made it a little safer for someone to walk down the
street, or for an honest man to simply go about the business of making a
living-- things too often taken for granted in our busy world today; things
that are important, and which makes a film like this so much more than
merely entertainment (though it definitely is that).  And that's the real
magic of the movies.  I rate this one 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
As good a gangster movie that has ever been made as DePalma does
justice to Mamet's electric script. The acting on show is right out of
the top draw, the inevitable ease that DeNiro puts menace into Capone
is quite impressive, whilst the fresh faced pugnacious tenacity of Andy
Garcia's George Stone is something of a delightful experience. Yet that
is not enough because we still need the central actors to carry the
film if it is going to triumph. Connery is a given performance wise
(accent aside of course, but then again who cares when the character
portrayal is as sharp as it is here?) but it is Costner as Eliot Ness
that shines like the star he was soon to become, it's a magic
performance that manages to fuse genuine tenderness of family love with
little trips to the dark side in pursuit of making good triumph over
evil.

I love that the film is showing how violence and fear affects families,
mother and child is a theme that is central to the film's heartbeat,
notice how some of the more violent scenes are followed by tender
scenes of Ness and his family. The set pieces here are attention
grabbing entertainment, a roaring Canadian border rumpus and a smashing
roof top pursuit and face off are top value, but it's DePalma gold
watching a brilliant Battleship Potemkin homage at the Union train
station that takes the cake as the film enters its last quarter. Surely
historical facts does not matter when films are as sharp as this one
is? It's frightening, touching, and even witty. So for me at least, the
film is 10/10 in every department (and yes, even with Sean's accent).

Footnote: The academy saw fit to nominate Ennio Morricone for his
wonderful score, yet strangely he used some of it for the main theme in
John Carpenter's 1982 film The Thing, they must have missed it that
time I presume! Must be the genre angle one thinks....
<|_=00=_|>
It's Prohibition-era Chicago, and mob boss Al Capone (Robert De Niro)
controls the illegal shipment of alcohol into the city. Federal Agent
Eliot Ness (Kevin Costner), vows to bring him down. Assembling a crack
squad consisting of: Seasoned Cop Jimmy Maloy (Sean Connery), dead-eyed
rookie George Stone (Andy Garcia), and bookish Accountant Oscar Wallace
(Charles Martin Smith). It is with this simple story that spawns a
beautifully crafted piece of film-making. Sean Connery gives a
compelling performance as Maloy; he's dedicated, determined, and
dangerous. Kevin Costner is great as a man, just out to "Do Some Good".
And Finally, you can't forget Robert De Niro. It must be his general
calm that's so unnerving about him, as if you never know what he'll do
next. I would definitely recommend this movie to anyone who likes
movies. This movie had me on the brink of tears, had me standing up and
cheering, and had me deeply satisfied and entertained.

My Final Rating: 10 out of 10 - A Must See!
<|_=00=_|>
Director Brian De Palma is the son of a surgeon, and perhaps this
explains his high tolerance for the bloodshed that has translated into
brutal, raw scenes in 'The Untouchables'. Then again, this film is set
during one of the bloodiest chapters of American history and demands
unflinching depiction accordingly. Zooming in on prohibition-era
Chicago, a dirty, dingy, crime-infested retreat of mafia, the film lets
us know a special unit headed by Kevin Costner whose objective is to
frame the super villain himself – Al Capone (Robert De Niro).

There are, in effect, three or four things that truly stand out about
The Untouchables–an otherwise standard crime by-the-numbers romp–and at
least one of them should be attributed to the surface of the spectacle;
the costumework and settings are superbly breathed life into, as is De
Palma's accolade, with a screen that is awash with lyrical colours and
accompanied by a swelly, jazzy moonlit music score. Another worthy
accolade is of course Sean Connery as detective Malone – an
American-Irish cop on the beat and down with the ways of the street –
who may deliver one of the worst accents in film history, but makes up
for what he lacks in verbal power with heaps of charisma. Malone is
given, by far, the best dialogue in David Mamet's script as when he
instructs Kevin Costner on how to get to Capone: "He puts one of yours
in the hospital, you put one of his in the morgue." 

Another worthy staple to The Untouchables is its strong individual
scenes. In the front row for these sits the notorious baseball bat
scene in which a furious Al Capone beats one of his associates' head
into a bloody pulp with a bat, right in front of all the guests at the
grand dinner table. Robert De Niro gained weight for his role as the
crime-lord Al Capone and approaches his character with commitment, but
sadly he is ineffective in the film as De Palma does not quite know
what to do with him. Instead he craggily intercuts Capone's boisterous
speeches and monologues with the template storyline of Kevin Costner's
special unit, and the former are incongruous to the key story of 'The
Untouchables'. Here it regrettably becomes apparent that the film
possesses all the necessary ingredients but no blender in which to stir
it – and De Palma is largely to blame for lacking the necessary skill.

Having said that, The Untouchables keeps up the appearance of an epic
crime film so rigorously through seamless costumes, stinky Chicago
accents, vivid chases and a swarming taste to its sets that for a long
time we are led to believe that De Palma has truly done it with this
film. Certainly there are many scenes that testify to this and aptly
camoflauge the shortcomings, such as the suspenseful pre-battle
sequence at the Canadian border in which the Western-loving Costner is
up on horseback to ambush the incoming shipment. Another is the first
meeting between Andy Garcia and Sean Connery, in which the latter
decides to recruit Garcia's Italian character in spite of racial
feuding (Connery's supposed to be Irish), and instead because he likes
his mouthy, bold attitude. Finally there is the unspeakably epic climax
scene that plays on operatic in length through a long, glorious
slow-motion capture by a staircase, politely nodding to The Battleship
Potemkin's 'Odessa Steps Sequence'.

The whole film is in fact an operatic affair with technicalities
deluxe. With its mindboggling ensemble (Kevin Costner, Sean Connery,
Robert De Niro, Andy Garcia and Patricia Clarkson) it is easy to see
how it is cuing us in to like it. To some extent it succeeds well, for
it is suspenseful, but it is not well sewn-together. What good is a De
Niro if you are not going to use him opposite the rest? What good is a
Kevin Costner (who has never looked so ridiculously handsome in his
career for that matter) if you are not going to let him emote? And
lastly, what good is a large handful of fully-fledged wonderful scenes
if you are not going to juxtapose them with something, instead of
dishing them out every now and then to keep our interest? 

7 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>

An absolute classic.
These three words describe this masterpiece.
De Palma and his supreme cast give us what we want. An intense drama about
good and bad.
A towering performance by Connery as an Irish-American cop with a Scottish
accent stand out but Costner, De Niro and the rest of the cast, down to
the
baby in the Potemkin inspired scene at the train station, deliver great
performances.
Another reason for loving this movie is, that it is full of really bad
editing mistakes. The best one being the roof top scene, where Ness helps
Niiti to his car.
If you haven't seen it I feel sorry for you.
Whether you rent it, or buy doesn't matter. But it is a MUST
SEE!
