

I am  surprised at the high percentage of very low votes for this movie,
SUPERGIRL. While it is by no means a great movie, it IS a good film which
makes a comic book story come to life. Helen Slater was only 19 when she
played Supergirl and it is hard to imagine a better choice. She is pretty
and innocent, but has a fine figure and very athletic legs, very believable
as Superman's cousin, come to Earth to return the omegahedron to her
society, while Superman is on self-imposed exile. For a 1984 film the
production values are very high, not one wire is shown in the scenes where
Supergirl flies, unlike Superman IV which is very poor in comparison. And,
except for the drawn-out ending, is paced very nicely. I have the director's
cut, which is 2 hours and 13 minutes of film, and another 5 or 6 minutes of
credits.

Faye Dunnaway is also excellent as the archrival, evil sorceress. To me that
is the best type of role for her. The DVD has a remarkably good video
transfer and is an altogther fun movie, for fans of the Super series of
comic book characters. 

And, at 1:45 into the film, several newly-introduced Honda Sabre motorcycles
were escorting Dunnaway's car. 
<|_=00=_|>

First of all, I am sick of all the bad reviews people seem to say about
this
exceptional film. For starters, the film had over the top special
effects, a
GREAT
cast, BEAUTIFUL heroine, breathtaking musical score, good direction, and
all
else that goes with it! I saw this film as a young child during the whole
war in
early 1990, and let me tell you it was an experience that I haven't yet
forgotten!
The film deals with young Kara, from Argo City, the survivors of krypton.
She
loses the omegahedron, a power source of importance to her argo city.  As
she
knows the consequences of the lost source, she travels to earth to
retrieve
it, but
it has fallen into the hands of the world domination hungry Selina, who
will
consider nothing less. Supergirl arrives on earth and the battle begins
between
good and evil. Supergirl faces a demonic force made from pure energy of
evil,
travels to a dangerous phantom zone. The film was panned for no reason
what
so ever, it has intellect and gracefullness, which the ruthless money
driven
critics obviously chose to ignore. The real root to this film's problems
is
not the
critics, but rather the studio and producers which finished this film.
First, they
didn't like Helen Slater. Ilya Salkind hath many a time mentioned the
regret
he
feels that they didn't get some pretty girl who couldn't act (Brooke
Sheilds) to do
the part. Then, he and his father dumped the film for god knows why! Next
in
line, Warners hailed to the Salkinds for giving them a good Superman, and
who
could blame them, but in this case, because of their doubts, they just
gave
up on
the film altogether. This film is piece by piece what superhero movie
making
is
all about. It cost $50 million to make, and the crew are still proud of
it!
DON'T
HINDER SOMEONE'S ART! Last but not least the cast are powerful and Helen
Slater is the best choice, no one care's what Ilya Salkind thinks! Faye
Dunaway,
who is very much proud of this film, gives a tounge in cheek performance
in
a
campy way! TRI-STAR, who picked this film up chopped the film up and
distributed it horribly. Now, Warners are miffed and trying to speak up
for
it, but
that's a different story. All in all, The film was a GREAT film from the
start, and
remains to this day thusly! Thank you to AnchorBay for recreating my
innocence
and happiness. Sad though, the irony of it is lost in today's generation.
A
10/10!
<|_=00=_|>
In the depths of inner-space, we find a city called Argo City. The
inhabitants are not unknown, for they come from Krypton, a world which
has never been forgotten. These Argonians have barely escaped the
dangers that ruined the Kryptonian existence, and now they have created
Argo City as a new home. We all know Krypton is where Superman is from.
Argo City is the home of his surviving family, including his cousin,
Kara. Kara is Supergirl, and portrayed in the most wondrous, fabulous,
ultimately fantastic performance by the beautiful Helen Slater, who put
so much into the part, she deserved more than America gave her. Kara
creates a problem, as she looses a power source by accident. This power
source is part of what makes the glorious city operate. Thusly, she
takes responsibility for her own actions and goes after it...and onto
the best adventure in superhero history! The film focuses on Supergirls
adventures when she arrives on earth, from her FANTASTIC ariel ballet
entrance, to her final battle with the witch Selena, portrayed by a
darn-good-fun-loving Faye Dunaway. Supergirl must retrieve the power
source, and return it home, where her city shall live again. This film
is simply, the best super-action film in the whole genre. We were given
the ultimate superhero film six years earlier in Christopher Reeve,
whom also portrayed a fantastic superhero. Helen Slater was the only
actress to actually become the girl she displays for us. Faye Dunaway
was extremely fun to watch, as she is in an on-going battle with
another kind of superhero. Being a spin-off of the highly acclaimed '78
masterpiece, this film is gracefully linked with numerous references
and a cameo by Marc McClure. What WB allowed Ilia Salkind and the
director Jeannot Szwarc to do was awful, it was awful! But I feel we
were still given a wonderful movie 20 years ago! What difference does
it make if we cannot answer all the questions, so what if it wasn't the
film this country wanted...it was NOT supposed to be an identical
superhero movie with flying missiles and plots to destroy the world! SO
WHAT? This is a fantasy, and more so as a superhero film would be like.
Monsters and supernatural wonders beyond belief! Something tells me
that if this film were NOT a film about Supermans' cousin, people would
have accepted it better. It was written on a fantasy journey of
familiarity just as "Dark Crystal", "Labyrinth" and "NeverEnding Story"
Could it be that people are not accepting of the female species? Just
look at the awful ways that other female hero films are written! This
film is far better and much more intelligent than that! The film
Supergirl surpasses all that and goes even further than it seems. The
title character is smart, strong, and constantly determined. The
villain is witty, desperate, and viciously determined. In this, we have
a dichotomous image of two sides in one world. What else do you need?
We have a great film that has never been given the proper chance it
deserves. Supergirl is so much more than one sees it to be. People who
do see it for wonderful movie it is, are the real ones who know the
true heart of a beautiful superhero, and will not cease to be satisfied
by what a film of its kind has to offer. The acting is exquisite, and
the direction is perfect. Slater and Dunaway draw a sensational picture
of mental, and physical power, and Jerry Goldsmiths' score will send a
vibrant thrill of emotion through your very heart. Bottum Line: This
film was great 20 years ago at 105 min., and it is great now at 140
min. I LOVE this movie, and I know it flies higher than most people
know. Helen Slater, Faye Dunaway, Peter O'Toole, Brenda Vaccaro, Hart
Bochner, and every one else on the film have every right to be proud of
this masterpiece! Supergirl is a true Superhero.
<|_=00=_|>
Archetypes are written in all kinds of stories. Comedies, Dramas,
Suspenses, Horror films, even documentaries. This was such a film
written at the best archetypal pace and yet, has validity and stands on
it's own as a Superman film. Supergirl was one of the best ideas to hit
the big screen. The Superman formula had been worn very thin by the
egregious Superman III, and the world needed a new style and direction
of the series. Alas, this film was conceived, with the best special
effects crew and a cast that could take home the Oscars like Lord of
the Rings: Return of the King in a limousine on a gravel driveway. But
the film was not well received, because many believed it to be a bad
film and criticized it with out even seeing it. 

The film, a Superhero's story, is about Kara-El, Superman's cousin, who
must go to earth and save mankind from a witch who is going to take
over the world, to save millions and most importantly, to do what's
right. Very major events take place and important life lessons are
learned.

The film is not only a great film of Superhero wonder and mystique, it
is a completely written archetypal story with wit, charm, and heart to
it. The story begins in the inner space where a city has been built to
store all the citizens that survived the Krypton explosion. This is
where not only the movie, but the archetype begins. With the biblical
dressed people of ArgoCity, and the people whom inhabit the story.
then, the magical symbol for eternity is introduced as an omegahedron.
It is lost by a young Kara, who is introduced as the soon to be
Supergirl. This is where our both heroin and initiate is introduced.
She loses the omegahedron and must go to earth to retrieve it. From
here we are taken on the famous dual journey: The Journey of physical
sanctity, but also the journey of self discovery. When Kara goes to
earth and becomes Supergirl-Woman of steel, she is naive to all the
ways of earth, and is new to all the ways of technology. This is
buttressed by her bracelet she carries with her to help her track the
omegahedron, which brings us to our next archetype. Selena is a power
hungry witch who wants no more than to rule the world. This is not just
your average villain, but with needs and clauses to be treated like a
person, but knows not how to obtain these things. This gives Selena
great depth to add to her fueling anger towards mankind for not getting
her what she wants. There are characters all over the place symbolizing
the archetype of the accomplice or friend who helps the heroin through
the beautiful but difficult journey. Then you have the mentor of the
story, zaltar, the founder of Argocity and the one who is paying for
Kara's mistake by sending himself to the phantom zone. This is a
powerful moment of truth and justice when he and Kara are in the
archetypal moment in the movie where the heroin and the mentor are
faced with death and crossroads and must come through new people-all
done greatly and masterly in the frighteningly tense phantom zone scene
which Kara displays great courage in the face of death. Finally the
archetypal battle of the villain and hero ends with the villain in
white and getting a comeuppance of great justice to the hero. Then the
hero returns home knowing that she is a new person and has learned both
lessons of life and lessons about herself. And in the perfect
archetypal ending, she enters the inner space zone through
water-symbolizing the cleansing of her soul and mind. 

So one sees, Supergirl has much to be praised about being a Superhero
film with terrific acting and a great cast, but a script that seems to
be dumped on the most. Everyone attacks the script but does anyone
really think about it? IT is a very intelligently written script about
finding out what you can do and looking inside yourself to see the
beauty within. All attackers of the writing if this greatly done
archetype masterpiece will one day have their comeuppance like the
villain Selena does. And one day this film will, I believe, receive the
best treatment for which is so rightly deserves. Helen Slater, Faye
Dunaway, Peter O Toole, Jeannot Szwarc, Jerry Goldsmith, and Ilya
Salkind all did their absolute best to make sure that this film is a
thrilling experience, and I think they have done their job. Plus all
the rest of the cast and crew which did their time and effort to make
this works. It does. A Great Film. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>


Title: SUPERGIRL
Rating (Theatrical Version): *1/2 (out of 5)
Rating (International Version): ***1/2 (out of 5)
Rating (Extended Director's Cut): **** (out of 5)

There have been many films that, when originally released, have been
spit
on and throughly trashed by the critics and audience; some of these films
have developed into cult classics.  However, I have never seen a film that
has had the first characteristic and then eventually go beyond all
expectations, raising a few eyebrows and almost completely overcome all the
negativity that had been thrown at it in the past. SUPERGIRL is the first
film that I have given ever that respect to and it's a real shame that it
wasn't released the way it should have been.
Personally, I'm a huge fan of the first two SUPERMAN films, and yet I
really don't like comics in general.  However, the original SUPERMAN film
released in 1978, was respected by those who don't even care for superhero
and comic book movies and it, to an extent, had started a phenomenon in
terms of bringing more superheroes and comic book characters to the screen.
When SUPERMAN III was released in 1983, however, it had practically ruined
the concept and the audience had retreated back into their normal lives
when
Christopher Reeve, wisely, retired from the role.  One year later,
SUPERGIRL
was released by the same producers (Alexander and Ilya Salkind) and trashed
almost twice as much as SUPERMAN III was.  Needless to say, when I saw it
on
television in the early 90's, I trashed it to and thought it was worse than
SUPERMAN III, as well as PART IV, and looked at it nothing more than
ridiculous and amateurish.  In 2000, however, my opinion of SUPERGIRL was
completely changed.
Being an avid DVD collector (and a particular fan of audio
commentaries), I decided to give SUPERGIRL a second chance for curiosity's
sake and, as a result, this movie actually made me realize not to never
judge a film again for just for what it shows and presents.  The DVD
version
(by Anchor Bay) has two versions of the film...and neither one is the
original 105 min. version!  They contain the international version (which
runs 124 min.) and a never-before-seen Director's Cut that ran a whopping
138 min!  The latter version contained scenes that have not only never been
released before, but have only recently surfaced in a London vault with the
warning "Do Not Use."  For the very first time, director Jeannot Szwarc has
released his complete vision of the film, complete with a genuinely
surprising audio commentary which touches base on his intentions before and
during the making of the film from the very beginning.
The facts (you can call them SPOILERS if you want) are simply
these:

1.  Christopher Reeve was going to be in it and be a mentor of sorts to
Supergirl in one scene where she arrives on Earth, as well as be in another
scene when Supergirl eventually saves him upon losing all his powers.  Due
to the failure of the third SUPERMAN movie, however, Reeve completely bowed
out of the role due to his blaming of the Salkinds' for how they screwed up
the entire franchise by making the third film campy and put more empahsis
on
comedy, which simply didn't work. Ironically, that's exactly how many
critics and audiences in 1984 thought that SUPERGIRL was
awful.

2.  Director Jeannot Szwarc reveals that, from the beginning, that he
wanted SUPERGIRL to stand on its own and be nothing more (or less) that
what
it was; in other words, he made it so it would pretend to be nothing else
than itself.  He had to contend with many revisions of the script by David
Odell, for not only production reasons, but for studio reasons: Warner Bros
declined to release it (again due to the failure of S. III) and it was then
picked up by then-unknown Tri-Star pictures, who had chopped up the film to
where, when it was released in the U.S., had a lot of incoherency and
confusing development (in both plot and characters), and thus all but
completely trashed Szwarc's vision and intentions.

3. The result made SUPERGIRL virtually ignored by the U.S. audience,
failing miserably at the box office and with every major critic promoting
it
as garbage; my favorite critic, Leonard Maltin called it "a superdrag:
dull,
long, and heavy-handed."  All the well-repected actors in it were condemned
as being "wasted" and "laughable"; this is especially true of Faye Dunaway,
as the villianess bent on obtaining world dominition.  As for its status
today, hardly anyone remembers it, and a few people I've talked to maintain
it doesn't even exist!  That all changed with the 2000 DVD release by
Anchor
Bay, which I had viewed only recently.

I truly believe that when people watch either the International or
Director's Cut, that they will agree with me that it would have been much
better---and maybe even a success---if released that way in 1984.
Presented
in a digitally mastered version by THX, the film matures on almost every
level, beginning with Jerry Goldsmith's score being nothing short of
sensationsal, giving the film what John Williams gave to the original
SUPERMAN, but what's different is that Goldsmith's actually complements the
heroine's qualities by being lyrical and high-spirited.  Then there is Alan
Hume's gorgeous cinematography, which reaches its zenith in a wonderful
sequence where Supergirl does an "aerial ballet" when she discovers her
powers; it supports the idea that her character is innocent and in utter
awe
with her discovery (may I also state that this sequence was cut entirely
when first released). Finally, because of the director's commentary, my
original opinions of the performances have been erased; he states that his
cast chose to be in the film primarily because it was a change-of-pace for
them and all they wanted was, as the director wanted as well, just to "have
fun."  That, combined with the additional footage bringing the full
character development back into focus, the film goes beyond all
expectations.
The key to enjoying this film, bear in mind, is to not take it too
seriously (which many critics tend to do when reviewing a movie).  Despite
all the praise I've given to this new version, the film still does have
flaws, particularly in the writing department, though you do come to
realize
that is not necessarily the fault of the screenwriter when considering the
sequence of events that lead to the film being made.  I encourage anyone to
take a chance to check this film out because it really is very enjoyable
and
a lot of fun; beware of the old video release and TV versions, however!
E-mail me if you want to express your agreements
(or disagreements) with me.


<|_=00=_|>

Sharply done, often pleasing effort from the Salkind/Warner Bros. troupe.
Much
of a relief after the disastrous Superman III, Supergirl is Kal-El's
cousin
from the
inner space community of ArgoCity. After a mistake goes awry within the
peaceful walls of the city of Argo, Kara(Helen Slater, in probably her
best
performance.) must go to earth and retrieve the omegahedron, a power
source
that ArgoCity needs to live. Thus she is transformed to Supergirl-Women
of
Steel! What she does not understand at first, is that the magical source
fell into
the hands of the chaos hungry sorceress Selena, who proceeds to filch it,
and
take over the small town of Midvale, Il. It's up to Supergirl to save the
day and
return the omegahedron to ArgoCity where it belongs. Can she do it? State
of
the art special effects, especially the wire work, and FABulous acting
boost
this
to be one of Hollywood's best efforts. Urbane settings and Mundane
characters
increase this. Jerry Goldsmith's beautiful and imaginative score is
felicitous and
strong. Like Superman/Superman II, the greats were hired to take this
film
flight:
Faye Dunaway(Network), Peter O'Toole(Laurence of Arabia), Brenda
Vaccaro(Midnight Cowboy-Once is Not Enough), Maureen Teefy(Fame), Mia
Farrow(Rosemary's Baby), Peter Cook(Bedazzled), and of course, Helen
Slater,
turns in such good acting that one is right there in the front row
shouting
for her
to win! win! win! All in all, an underrated film(After the Warner Bros.
dropping it
fiasco) and a true diamond in the blockbuster rough!
***** out of *****!
<|_=00=_|>
The way some people see Supergirl is the perfect demonstration that
feminists have been right all along: a woman does have to work twice as
hard just to earn half the pay and a tenth the respect of a man.

The double standard is astounding; the same people who can watch
Superman reverse time by reversing Earth's rotation without so much as
blinking, are the same ones who complain that they never explained
where Supergirl got her outfit. They see nothing wrong with a depowered
Superman who walks all the way to the North Pole without food, water or
so much as a scarf, where he recovers his powers without explanation.
Then they turn around and complain that Supergirl wasn't wet when she
came out of the lake. When the depowered Superman discovers the world
has been taken over by a superpowered madman, he walks to the North
Pole. He doesn't run, or jog, or ride a dogsled or anything; he walks
there. When Supergirl arrives to Earth, she decides that having a base
of operations, sleeping on a comfortable bed, and eating real food are
better than sleeping in the woods eating crickets. Guess who is accused
of not showing enough desperation in the face of adversity and who
isn't.

Most of the flaws that people see in Supergirl exist only in their
imagination. For instance, Supergirl's costume. The movie clearly shows
that Supergirl can change the shape of her outfit at will. She does it
when you first see her in her Supergirl outfit, then when she changes
to Linda, then when she flies out the window to confront the invisible
monster, etc., etc. So why is it that people complain about the wrong
thing (the first appearance of her Supergirl outfit) rather than the
right one (her unexplained ability to change her clothes)? Because they
were not interested in watching the movie, they were only interested in
finding flaws in it. But how can she change her clothes anyway? Let's
see, she's a superpowered being who can move at nearly the speed of
light, who comes from a civilization several hundred years ahead of
ours and who wasn't exactly wearing clothes bought at Kmart to begin
with. Maybe she uses her speed. Maybe her clothes can chance their
shape. Who knows? By the way, is there anyone over six years old who
believes that Peter Parker could've made such a stunning costume by
himself when it took a small army of designers and seamstresses to make
the ones used in the movie? Of course not. Is there anyone who cares?
Of course not, it's just a freaking costume. Oddly enough, this
reasoning, though perfectly valid when applied to Spidey, is never used
with Supergirl.

Another complaint is that the movie never explains how Supergirl knows
so much about Superman. Er, did anyone miss the fact that half the
movie is spent with Selena chasing Supergirl all over the universe
using a device from Argo City? Do I need to remind anyone that
Kryptonians aren't exactly Amish?

Some people claim the movie has bad dialogues. Like when Supergirl asks
a thug "why are you doing this?" and he responds "that's just the way
we are." Let's assume for a moment the apparently preposterous notion
that what characters say should be the result of their intelligence,
knowledge, independent thought process, plus the context of the
dialogue. So here's the scene: two thugs confront Supergirl with the
intention of "having fun" with her. She easily throws one of them away
and asks him why he is doing this (this is the first time she's ever
met a "bad guy"). And what exactly do people expect his response to be?
Shakespeare? A 2-hour dissertation on the psychological origins of his
motivations? A one-liner so full of charm and wit that would make Jon
Stewart insane with envy? This guy is neither an English professor nor
a rocket scientist and the only things in his mind were the curvier
parts of Supergirl's anatomy. He's not interested in impressing anyone
or sounding witty. He simply says the first thing that comes to his
mind, and what he says is pretty much within the ballpark of what you'd
expect from him given the circumstances. The problem is that people are
too used to characters in other superhero movies who are nothing more
than a mouth and an attitude, plus a collection of puns and one-liners
waiting to happen, where the idea of characterization is to have a guy
yell "kneel before Zod!" every ten minutes.

But the silliest complaint is that she joins a school instead of going
bananas trying to find the Omegahedron. Let's see, when you're looking
for a needle in a haystack, what would be more productive: to be smart
and methodical or to run around like a headless chicken? Supergirl
chooses the first option. She finds herself a comfortable base of
operations (where she can easily find all the information she needs
about Earth), where she hides during the day, using the night as a
cover while she searches. But why would she hide? Because when you're
searching for a dangerous weapon, the last thing you'd want to do is
let its current owners know you're looking for them. They'll either
hide or sneak up on you. Once again, people are so used to stupid
superhero behavior (e.g., Superman struggling to pull the Kryptonite
necklace over his head instead of just bending over) that they're
unable to recognize the one time when someone uses her brain.

In the end, there's nothing that Supergirl does wrong that Superman
doesn't do ten times worse, yet all the disastrous flaws in Superman
are either ignored or dismissed as nice little quirks that give the
movie a lovely homemade feeling while every tiny detail in Supergirl is
regarded as a crime against humanity. Is that sexism? You bet.
<|_=00=_|>

I guess I was 7 or 8 when my parents took me to the cinema for the first
time.  They picked Supergirl as something fun and unthreatening.  I have
been hooked on film ever since!  Supergirl is a hugely under-rated movie,
and while I can take on board some of the negative comments you read here,
I
also think they're a bit harsh.  Come on people (you know who you are),
it's
a fantasy film!  If it played the same as Superman (another great), there
would be no point in making it in the first place.  Sure the magic angle
is
slightly odd, but what the hell, it's a fun film which doesn't take itself
too seriously, but doesn't go in for over the top slapstick either (take
heed Richard Lester!!).  And of course the effects are a little dated, it
is
20 years old after all (though many still look great).  Jerry Goldsmith's
score it beautiful and lyrical, as it should be, becoming triumphantly
heroic when it needs to (The main theme is tremendous, even with the
eighties electronic whooshes and eagle squarks).  Helen Slater is gorgeous
in the lead role, and considering this was her first major role, she does
a
commendable job.  Then there's Miss Dunaway: first rate as always-you can
almost see the scenery going down her throat, but that's part of the charm
of the character.  All the actors come off well, and if you ignore some
bits
and pieces (there's still some huge plot holes even in the Directors Cut!)
you should have a great time.  It would be interesting to see a remake
that
perhaps didn't stray so far from the source mythology (was the omegahedron
in the comics?), but on the other hand, the eighties was a different time,
and perhaps today's climate (whether the world could use a super-hero or
not) is not right to relaunch the poor girl to Earth.
One of my all time favourites, and I'm glad to see so many other fans on
the
IMDB.  Let's lobby Anchor Bay for an official Region 2 version.  My TV
can't
broadcast NTSC signals, so have to watch it in black & white, or in jerky
(but colour) vision on a slow laptop.
Peace.  Out.
<|_=00=_|>

Apart from the witchcraft, I LOVE this movie!

This was the first time I ever saw Helen Slater,
and rightaway I knew she was the most beautiful lady in
the
world! (Sorry ladies!)

I think there are some classic lines that have been overlooked:
I remember when the Tractor went wild in Midvale, and Linda/Supergirl was
searching for a place to change into her costume, she spied the Ladies'
Room, and dashed toward it at super-speed, plowing into a woman who was
just
coming out.
Linda apologized, "Sorry, I'm in a rush!" and shot inside.
The woman looked wry. "I know what you mean!"

Perhaps Zaltar (Peter O'Toole) wasn't as important as he could have been.
Although I thought Faye Dunaway was perfect as Selena (a little
type-casting
courtesy of Mommie Dearest), I prefer to wonder what would have happened if
Zaltar had been just a little more complex (he's an artist, after all!) and
a little more selfish, and actually followed through with his plans to see
Outer Space with the assistance of the Omegahedron.

Then he might have been the villain of the piece, and the most dangerous
kind of villain:
the villain an audience can sympathize with. Then the audience would have
been torn between wanting Zaltar to succeed, and wanting Kara/Supergirl to
stop him before the loss of the Omegahedron destroys Argo
City.

Oh! And I would've liked to see how Argo City was torn away more or less
whole from Krypton as the planet detonated, and wound up in Inner Space,
trapped in a warp that only Kal-El's little spaceship was equipped to
navigate and exit.

I don't think it's over for Supergirl, her story could be
REtold
(a la Batman), but I'd only be interested in a remake if the filmmakers
would remain true to the style of THIS movie (Supergirl (1984), rather than
opting for a trendy, dark, angst-ridden "hero" (I use the term loosely) in
a
demented action "adventure". I miss the bright, cheerful style of the old
Superman comics, from the 50's, 60's and 70's, and I'd love to see that
back
on the big screen, like Superman The Movie and Superman II, and . . .
naturally, Supergirl - The First Adventure.

This is a beautiful, dream-like jewel of a movie, a real Pink Panther (I
refer, of course, to the diamond).

That breath-taking, emotional moment as Supergirl arrives on Earth, and
discovers her powers and her new environment, in my humble opinion, is
unmatched in all the Super-movies.

Jerry Goldsmith's score, especially the Supergirl March and the Love Theme
are stirring and moving respectively, and easily equal to John Williams'
contributions to the Superman movies.
I have Jerry's score on CD (thanks to Silva Screen Records) and the
Supergirl Main Theme is my Favorite Movie Theme of all time.

(Superman was and is my hero, Superman II (1980) was THE defining movie of
my youth, and I can probably sing you the entire score to Superman III, but
I love the Supergirl themes more.)

And if a widescreen, remastered version of this movie ever becomes
available
"Down Under" , I want to see it!
<|_=00=_|>

The only known heroes in the days were Superman, Batman, etc. It seemed
like
Superman was the only one fit to fly. Then man invented airplanes, then
man
has been in office as president for over a century. It seems like we have
had enough of men thinking they could fly over tall buildings like twin
towers. Well cruisin back to 1984 we have Supergirl and the woman who
plays
her role is outrageous and perfect for the role at that. No one shows
such
drama and character for the part. In fact I suggest we remake the movie
and
cast someone else to appeal to this new generation. The supergirl movie
appealed to me cause I grew up as a child in the 80s. I think it was the
most wonderful movie to escape to and to really believe in women as
heroes,
for example modern day police officers really do protect you and they are
women, so supergirl was like my hero in the 80s and Faye Dunway did an
excellent job as the wicked witch. I liked the part when she gave the
construction worker a spell beer and he fell into her haunted
house.

The purity and essence of supergirl is almost unattainable by any other
person fit to play her role. It is true and realistic that supergirl
would
save the world from some evil spell caster who wants to wreck the world.

I think this movie is far underrated on IMDB and should get a perfect
10.
