
They don't come any better than Midnight Run. It has everything except
a few Academy Awards and that's a mystery in itself. Dialogue, action,
comic timing, stunts and all around fabulous acting ability from
everyone involved. If you haven't seen this film yet, dig up a copy
from somewhere, get a few beers and prepare to be captivated from
beginning to end. To think that only 10,000 or so have voted for this
film on IMDb and it's not even in the top 250 is a complete travesty. I
know, there are other films just as worthy that are not in the top 250
but this is the one that get's me riled up. There are no weak moments
or poor scenes in the whole film and the ending is pure joy. Someone
please explain why this didn't clean up when it was released because I
can't see anything else that came out in '88 that comes close to
Midnight Run.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the smartest, funniest, and exciting buddy pictures ever made.
It
has never received the wonderful attention it justly deserves. The
performances by the two leads (De Niro and Grodin) are wonderful and they
get outstanding support from Joe Pantolino, Dennis Farina, and Yaphet
Kotto.
But what separates this picture from all the other action / comedies ever
made is that the screenplay is so sharp and original. Easily my all time
favorite movie - you know how I know that? I must have seen "Midnight
Run"
at least thirty times and every time I see it, it gets better and better.
A
true film classic and is getting rereleased on DVD in June of 2003.

<|_=00=_|>
DeNiro is (Jack Walsh) a self-righteous ex-cop so unpopular with the
Chicago police department, now wanting to make one final 'midnight run'
that'll pay big so he can buy a nice coffee shop…

He is hired by an hysterical bondsman to find and bring back a former
Mob accountant called Jonathan "The Duke" Mardukas (Grodin) who has
stolen $15 million from the Los Angeles mob, given the money to the
'unfortunates of the earth.' 

DeNiro quickly captures the 'white-collar criminal' in New York, and is
given five days to bring him to Los Angleles, to collect his $100,000
fee...

Unfortunately for DeNiro, the fugitive accountant is too neurotic to
fly the distance... The embezzler's ex-boss wants him badly for knowing
all his financial transactions, and agent Yaphet Kotto warns Walsh not
to interfere with the FBI's plans to bring the 'Duke' into federal
court… And if this isn't enough, there is some third-rate bounty hunter
(John Ashton) who is intrigued about DeNiro's special deal…

In an extended cross-country chase, the two men's personalities and
relationship develop… 

DeNiro shows how to catch talents of improvisation... His cheeky
schoolboy look certainly supplies some of the film's lighter moments...
He delivers some of the best punchlines, when he replies: 'Well if you
don't cooperate, you're gonna suffer from fistophobia.' 

Charles Grodin is perfect as the prisoner who gets some of Serrano's
records on computer disks, figuring if things got too rough, he could
always trade them for his life… He continually gets on DeNiro's nerves,
and with his soft and ironic tone of voice he advises Walsh that a
restaurant is 'a very tricky investment.' He easily dips into Jack
Walsh's life ('Don't you want to be loved?'), wandering about his
broken marriage ('Did she hurt you, Jack?'), his habits ('Cigarettes
are killers. Put the cigarette out.') and whatever he can think of... 

The best parts of the film are, in fact, the interactions between the
two stars… The story holds up perfectly and entertains the viewer in
every way… Martin Brest does bring out the realistic, funny and moving
sides of his likable characters… Suspense is maintained to the very
end…
<|_=00=_|>
Here is a movie of my favourite sort regardless of the genre - you feel
you would neither add nor substract anything from it. Excellent cast,
beautiful script, professional director's work. The main strength of
the movie can be found in its unpretentiousness. It primarily aims at
providing fun and entertainment, and fulfills it in an efficient way.
You have your comedy and action galore. 

We are usually willing to suspend our disbelief when watching comedies.
No such need when it comes to this movie - the plot, the relations
between characters, their motives, everything works like a flawless
machinery. It is as credible as life itself.

The movie is brimming with memorable scenes. I have seen it twice -
first when it appeared more than 15 years ago, and then again
yesterday. I was delighted to find that the movie had lost nothing of
its freshness and endured all time traps. I highly recommend it.

9/10 !
<|_=00=_|>
Way too much objectionable language is the only fault of this otherwise
extremely-entertaining film that is justifiably popular.

Humor is what makes this "crime film" stand out as tough guys Robert De
Niro, Joe Pantoliano, John Ashton, Dennis Farina and others provide a
lot of laughs as not-so-tough guy Charles Grodin is escorted from New
York to Los Angeles to face retribution from a mob boss.

The dialog between Grodin and his bounty hunter captive De Niro, is
terrific all the way through. The soundtrack, featuring the guitar of
Ry Cooder, also is outstanding and adds to the fun of this film.

The capper to this likable story is the satisfying ending, which almost
everyone seems to like.
<|_=00=_|>

     What can one say about their favorite movie?  A movie that would make
one laugh, in suspense, excited, and even touched.
A film that takes two personalities which clash, and learn
to
get along with each other, to where they actually care for
one
another in the end.  A film that touches one's soul, is a film that one can
consider to be their favorite of all time.
     Robert De Niro plays Jack Walsh, a ex-Chicago police officer who is
currently a bounty hunter.  He works in Los Angeles for Eddie Moscone (Joe
Pantoliano) who is a bail bonds man.  Eddie offers Jack a job to catch and
bring back the infamous Jonathan "the Duke" Markukas (Charles Grodin). 
Jonathan is a accountant who stole millions of Jimmy Serrano's
(Dennis Farina) money, and gave it all to charity.  Jonathan
jumped bail and is in hiding.  Jack needs to find John, bring him to the
L.A. county jail within four days, and Jack will collect 100 thousand
dollars.  Jack does find John, in New York City, the first day.  But Jack
has many people following him.  First there's the FBI, led by Alonzo Mosely
(Yaphet Kotto) who wants John to testify against Jimmy Serrano.  Second
there's Tony Darvo (Richard Foronjy) and Robert Miranda (Joey), two dim-wits
working for Serrano, who want John dead.  Then there is Marvin Dofler (John
Ashton), another bounty hunter who wants John also, but for a smaller price.

     From there on, it's a cross country trip which involve all of the men
looking for Jack and John.  A film which has some
very exciting moments with action.  Other moments where the scenes are
intense where Jack and John's lives are in danger.
And scenes where the two men share each other's thoughts
and
feelings, which surprisingly makes the movie touching.
     The acting by De Niro is at his best.  He does his
usual
tough guy attitude, but he also mixes it with some humor,
and
emotions.  Charles Grodin is also great as the sensitive accountant who is
the exact opposite of Jack's personality.  
And Dennis Farina is funny and scary as the outraged mob boss who has a
vicious attitude.
     The music by Danny Elfman, I find to be his career
best.
It's not like his famous BATMAN, BETTLEJUICE, or SLEEPY
HOLLOW
style of score.  It's more like a mixture classic Chicago
rhythm and blues, which even Elfman himself considered to be his most
unusual score.  
     The writing by George Gallo is also excellent.  He
manages
to fit a cross country story within two hours of time,
while
still bringing out personalities of the characters and making sure there are
no holes in the plot.  He also manages to have some very funny scenes
involving Jack and John.
     And the direction by Martin Brest is outstanding.  He
keeps
the movie at a very fast pace, without any slowing down. 
He
does brilliant moves like having De Niro and Grodin improvising
their lines while arguing.  Brest also does a great job by making the film
enjoyable for it's 125 minutes.
     This is a movie that touched me, it can be considered
a
"man's" movie on the surface.  But take apart this film, and it's also a
film that women can enjoy also.  The most emotional
scenes involve Jack seeing his ex-wife and daughter after
not
seeing them for ten years.  It shows that everybody makes a mistake in life,
and that we can all try to forgive people that
emotionally hurt us.  
      People say that one can identify a person's personality
by the movies and music that they like.  To find out what I
am
like, pop in this movie into your DVD player or VCR, and
you'll
see.  Saying this movie is better than CITIZEN KANE, STAR
WARS,
GODFATHER, and GONE WITH THE WIND is a pretty bold statement.
But, the character of Jack Walsh shows my personality. 
This
is the way I am, therefore it's my favorite movie of all
time.
And I'm not the only one, Robert De Niro said on a interview
on Oprah Winfrey, that this is his most enjoyable film that
he's
done.  ***** (out of five; THE BEST MOVIE OF ALL TIME)
<|_=00=_|>

To hell with the pretentiousness of a Shyamalan or the increasingly
misplaced self-adulation of the Coens, 'Midnight Run' has no other purpose
in life other than to use the movie as a medium of entertainment. . . and it
does. Oh boy; it does.

Badly underrated on release and still unfairly under valued even now,
'Midnight Run' is actually class-act film making, the narrative impeccably
engineered and the acting uniformly excellent throughout.

Faults? Definitely, not the least of 'em being the gratuitous use of
profanity: the movie's tone is such that it just doesn't need the endless
ear-grating use four letter words -- 'Midnight Run' isn't about reality or
anything remotely approaching it, so the insistence on so much gutterspeak
is a major error.

Set pieces though are gloriously handled, and the helicopter sequence is
quite as good as anything in a Bond movie -- a genre that has managed quite
well without spraying profanities everywhere because it knows, and we know,
none of it's real.

9/10 then for 'Midnight Run', because as an exercise in how to develop a
movie, to establish characters and plot trajectories, to bring 'em all
together in a final wrap up and still leave space for a minor plot twist,
it's of textbook quality. 

* I happened to see this as a late-night TV re-run, the day after watching
the Coen's 'The Man Who Wasn't There'. 'Midnight Run' is everything that the
Coen's work is not: it isn't self reverential, it isn't seeking to be a
cult, and above all, it knows how to tell a story with speed and with style.
RECOMMENDED.

<|_=00=_|>

Pleasantly surprised by this one. I had heard people refer to this one, but
hadn't seen it for myself until recently. One of the better buddy-action
movies I've seen, due to a very tight script. Superior writing by George
Gallo. The story is what drives this movie from beginning to end, and
doesn't need to depend solely on the cast to keep the audience interested
for the full 2 hours. DeNiro and Grodin are excellent together, with a great
supporting cast. I would keep this movie in my personal collection. I would
also consider it a fine example for other buddy action movies to follow,
even today. Highly recommended for great comedic writing, directing and
acting.
<|_=00=_|>

Jack Walsh is an ex-cop turned bounty hunter working for bail-bondsman
Eddie Moscone. Looking for another job to bring in, Jack is presented
with an ex-mob accountant, Jonathon Mardukas, who has ripped off the
mafia for millions of dollars and has gone on the run. Using the very
basic tricks of his trade, Jack easily finds and catches his man and
prepares to transport him back to Moscone and collect his pay. However,
with the FBI, the mafia and other bounty hunters all looking to bring
in Jonathon for differing reasons, Jack has a hard road ahead of him –
and that's before he discovers Jonathon's phobias about planes.

In terms of cinema, I remember the 80's for one main genre – the buddy
movie; the genre continues today but that is my overriding memory of
the films I saw during this time and since then from the period. Hardly
a dynamic hotbed or imagination and innovation, the genre did throw up
many films that are quite enjoyable if you meet them on their own terms
and it did occasionally produce some that are very enjoyable and still
stand up years later – for a combination of reasons, Midnight Run is
one of these and, for my money is a great street smart comedy. Of
course it is still a genre film but the plot is well written combining
a reasonably engaging story with a fun series of set pieces. While it
is not laugh our loud funny apart from maybe once or twice what it does
manage is to have a comic tone to it and a great sense of fun and
energy throughout. It is hard to describe but it is one of those films
that just feels comfortable and fun to watch.

A major part of this is the fantastic playing of the actors – the cast
and their chemistry go a long way to making this a better film that it
may have been in other, less able, hands. De Niro plays his
well-practiced tough guy but allows himself to be the butt of humour if
not out and out jokes. What he (and the writers) did very well was to
keep the audience on his side even though he was basically transporting
Jonathon to his death! He comes off as a likable guy and De Niro takes
what many other actors have made into a clichéd part and really made it
his own. His easy chemistry with Grodin also helps a lot and the two
really so work together thanks to a good comic performance from him. Of
course in a more serious film, Jonathon as he was would be very
unrealistic but Grodin's delivery suits the material and tone of the
film perfectly. The support cast are all given minor roles to share out
and they all contribute in their own little way. Kotto gives plenty of
laughs with a minor character. Ashton has less time and a less likable
character but still does OK; Farina could not look more 'mob' if he
tried; Pantoliano swears a lot and is amusing while minor roles for the
like of Walters and Hall add to the cast in cameos. While the film has
a deep cast, it really belongs to De Niro and Grodin, both of whom
really deliver and have an easy chemistry between them befitting the
genre.

If I had a complaint it would be the sheer volume of swear words in the
film; the first time I saw it was on ITV (that most notorious of
editors – they cut whole scenes out of Die Hard due to swearing!) and
it was cut to shreds with plenty of badly dubbed lines and scenes just
removed due to language. Personally I'm not overly bothered by it but
it is such a fun film that it seems a shame to make it unsuitable for
children by such liberal use of the F word (one or two can be forgiven
but every other word pretty much makes it unsuitable), but I suppose it
is all part of the tough but fun tone of the film and I enjoy it
regardless.

Overall this is not one of the greatest films ever nor one of De Niro's
best but it is a very, very good genre film and, in my mind, stands out
from many other buddy-style movies that have been made in the
crime/thriller sort of mould. The plot mixes a good story with many fun
set pieces and keeps a solidly enjoyable pace all the way through while
a roundly strong cast all make better use of the script than lesser
actors could have done. A very enjoyable genre film and one that I will
keep coming back to due to its reliable mix of pace, energy, fun and
excitement.

<|_=00=_|>

This is the most enjoyable movie I have ever seen: hilarious situations,
unforgettable lines, car chases, characters you care for, and even a
dramatic scene that makes me cry every time.  A real American classic: call
it a road movie, action comedy, buddy film, whatever---it's a beautiful
script, professionally executed.  What a country, huh?  What a
country!

My friends and I rented this movie to celebrate a reunion after 12 years,
and we were rolling with laughter in five minutes.  Don't watch the TV
version if it's got the f-words edited out---they are very important to the
experience.

I can't believe: (a) this movie didn't get an Oscar, (b) it's not well known
even in the U.S., and (c) there's no DVD version available any more.  I want
to buy it!  Why don't they want to sell it???


