
Romanticism originally doesn't mean romance. The 19th century romantic
hero was always a doomed one. The romantic characters long for
something larger than life. The frailness, lightness of things is
unbearable to those sensitive beings. This is why romantic stories
typically end with the death of their heroes. Romanticism is the
opposite of Hollywood, as there is no happy end. The epitome of a
romantic story is for example "Romeo and Juliet", where death is
preferred to an impossible love story.

Because such intense feelings are a threat, some people try to escape
them by taking nothing seriously. For example, Tomas (Daniel Day
Lewis), a young surgeon living in Prague in the late sixties. He is a
perfect womanizer, but he never sleeps together with any woman, because
he instinctively refuses any attachment. Such is also sensuous Sabina
(Lena Olin), his favorite mistress and best friend, whose utmost erotic
weapon happens to be... a bowler hat.

When Tomas is called for an operation at a small country spa, he
seduces a young ingenuous waitress named Tereza (Juliette Binoche), but
is not aware that she does not take things as lightly as he does. Bored
to death with her provincial life, Tereza longs for something larger
than life. She is vulnerable, sentimental, attaching. When she shows up
by surprise at Tomas's apartment in Prague one evening, he lets her
stay. He is trapped.

Neither of them suspects that they are living an intense moment in a
crucial place. This is Prague, Czechoslovakia, the Eastern Block. But
the winds of change are blowing in general enthusiasm, and Czechs
believe that they are about to create " socialism with a human face".
Encouraged by Sabina, Tereza becomes a photographer, and captures on
film all the small daily life scenes, the beauty and uniqueness of
every moment. 

Tereza's caring love can't stop Tomas having affairs with "other
women", much to her disarray. As she finally can't take it anymore, she
decides to leave. But as she steps out on the dark streets, it sounds
like an earthquake is coming. The Soviet tanks are entering the city.
The reconstitution of Prague's invasion in this movie is
extraordinarily intense, even more so as clips of the real events are
included in the footage. Those few moments alone are strong enough to
make this long movie worth seeing. 

Tomas, Tereza and Sabina exile themselves to Geneva. Sabina has an
affair with a married Swiss man, who "doesn't like bowler hats". As he
eventually decides to leave his wife for her, she is very shaken, but
she disappears. No attachment. It's lonely to be free. As for Tomas,
Switzerland can't stop him either playing Casanova. Tereza still can't
stand it, and she suddenly goes back to "the land of the weak". But I
said it, Tomas is trapped. He can't live without her. He can't help
following her back to Prague, although it's clear there is no future
for them there anymore. 

The story is an adaptation of a novel by much praised Czech novelist
Milan Kundera, and it is one of those cases when the movie is more
intense than the book. Whereas the movie is highly emotional, the
book's tone is dry, cold, almost clinical.

Made by American director Philip Kaufman, this picture is European in
every way. It captures perfectly well the "old world" nostalgic
atmosphere of Czechoslovakia. The music score by Czech classical
composers is gripping, sometimes melancholic, sometimes frantic. The
lead actors are giving their all, and this film is certainly among
their best performances for all three. The supporting cast also has
some big European names in it (Erland Josephson, Daniel Olbrychski,
Stellan Skarsgård). Cheerful performance by Czech actor Pavel
Landovsky, who personally lived the Prague events. Here, he appears as
a jolly and solid peasant with a pet pig called Mephisto, who follows
him just everywhere, even at wedding parties!

Tomas and Tereza's pet is a she-dog called Karenin. She is the symbol
of their love. They adopt her at the beginning of their relationship,
take her together to Geneva, but as she escapes, Tereza takes her along
back to Prague. As Karenin gets ill in the end, they make her a lethal
injection so that she doesn't suffer. Pretty much what will happen to
them too.

And well, I never knew bowler hats could be so erotic!
<|_=00=_|>

I've not read the book this is based on, so have no way to comment on how
this movie translates it.  But the film itself has stayed in my mind like few
others.  Yes, it's very long, but the characters are so memorable that the
length didn't bother me at all - I loved the time spent in their company.
In particular, Juliette Binoche and Lena Olin are each astonishing in their
own way.  Olin is ferociously sensual and mesmerizing, while Binoche is
superlatively sympathetic and sensitive.  Two of the best female
performances I can remember.  By the end of the film I was totally wrapped
up in these people's lives.  This film is deeply erotic but in an
intelligent and adult way that puts most other film's treatment of sex to
shame.  I thought it was beautifully handled by all concerned, and if I ever
want to cry, I only need watch the scenes with the dog and the final scenes,
both pulled off superbly.
<|_=00=_|>
A few weeks ago I decided to drive from San Diego to Michigan because
my cat had died and I was depressed. On the road I listened to several
books on CD, one of which was "The Unbearable Lightness of Being." The
book intrigued me, partly because near the end, like me, Tomas and
Tereza had to deal with a dying pet, but also because it dealt with big
themes like love, sex and loyalty in a very unusual way. Along the way,
almost incidentally, it shows you what life and politics were like in
Czechoslovakia's "spring," before and after the Soviets moved forcibly
back in the tanks.

So when I got back to San Diego one of the first things I did was rent
the DVD of the movie. And I wasn't disappointed. First off, I think the
movie is as faithful to a book as a movie could or should be,
remembering that we're dealing with two different types of media. In
the commentary on the CD, for example, the screenwriter explains they
decided to leave out scenes with Tereza's mother because they realized
that Juliette Binoche was communicating that part of the story merely
by the way she (brilliantly) portrayed the character of Tereza.

Kundera's themes of lightness, heaviness, and repetition are very deep;
I don't pretend to understand them completely. For me, it's enough that
they intrigue, and the movie does them justice.

The acting of all the principals is astounding. I never had seen Lena
Olin before, and I appreciated Juliette Binoche and Daniel Day Lewis
more than ever.

And as much as I liked listening to the CD of the book, it did not make
me cry at the end.

But the movie did.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the most romantic films ever made, it shows the problems of people
whose intimacies and personal conflicts are being interrupted by history
on
the move. I think this film surpasses the novel, which is utterly cynical
(although understandably). Even in the last moments of the novel, Teresa
is
concerned that Tomas is cheating on her. The film also does well by
dropping
much of Franz's character - he was kind of uninteresting compared to
Teresa,
Tomas, and Sabina. It also drops such deadweight characters as Teresa's
mother, Tomas' son, and Franz's wife. Also, a ton of different coworkers
are
combined into a few, so that their characters have time to develop. By
concentrating on the three central characters, this film blossoms past
what
the novel ever achieved (although the novel is arguably more historically
important). Philip Kaufman and Jean-Claude Carriere also add a couple of
beautiful scenes that weren't in the novel, including Tomas' and Teresa's
wedding, which is one of the most beautiful scenes in filmdom.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great work. The Actors, director and all involved in this
production should be very proud. It is wonderful Film.

The acting is pure and real. Juliette Binoche is truly a remarkable
actor. Her desperation is beautifully played ( "I know he loves me.").
Only a cold heart could not be moved by such a truthful performance.
Daniel Day-Lewis plays his part with such realism, that he seems almost
not to be acting. That is the art of his game. Lena Olin is
outstanding. The scene in which she complains about the music is, I
feel, a classic.

I love this film, and thats what it is, a film. Not a book. This Film
seems to tap into something truly moving and touching. Thank you to all
the crew involved. A Classic of Cinema.
<|_=00=_|>

Imagine you're at the theater attending a live performance, a truly living
performance in which both axioms and mythological truths are entered into
and shared by actors and audience alike.  Now suppose that the backdrop for
all the action is dark, oppressive, and heavy, while all that transpires
before it is light, glib, and ineffectual.  Now consider that, through the
course of the play, all that is bouncy and trivial becomes overwhelmed and
absorbed by the gravity of the background, like light being sucked into the
gravity of a black hole, so that what was once meaningless and unimportant
and even silly becomes increasingly momentous and important and valuable as
the play progresses.  If you can see this outline in your mind's eye, you
have a good idea about The Unbearable Lightness of Being, Milan Kundera's
novel by the same name brought to life as a movie.  The film, like the
novel, declares one thing:  `only necessity is heavy, and only what is heavy
has value.'  I so love this idea, this earth shattering insight:  it
effortlessly capsizes our Postmodern zeitgeist in one innocuous little
phrase.  And the film expresses it beautifully.  

Set in the Prague Spring of 1968, when the Soviets put down Dubcek's
`Socialism with a Human Face,' the weight of these events draws the lives of
a Czech doctor, his wife, and his lovers, into its orbit.  And instead of
crushing them, as one might assume, it becomes the fire that purifies gold. 
Tomas (Daniel Day-Lewis), for example, had previously written a treatise on
Oedipus, a witty exercise in sophistry aimed at the Communist regime as a
provocative analogy, nothing more.  But as the essay becomes an object of
obsession to the Communists, we see Kundera's definition of vertigo come
into play.  It is not the fear of falling, but the soul's defense against
the desire to fall.  Tomas wanted to fall.  Why?  Watch the movie, and find
out for yourself.   

<|_=00=_|>
Using the Prague Spring of 1968 as a backdrop, The Unbearable Lightness
of Being weaves a story of three very real artists and their journey
through love, sex and revolution. The film begins by introducing us to
Tomas (Daniel Day-Lewis) a very charming womanizer and very
intelligent, political doctor. Through all of his one night stands and
emotionless sexual encounters, he only has one real lover; Sabina (Lena
Olin) is a seductive, carefree artist. When Tomas gets a call to
perform an operation in a spa town, he meets the woman of his dreams;
Tereza (Juliette Binoche) the shy waitress who dreams of leaving her
dull, unchallenging life and heading to a place with intellectuals.
When Tomas heads back to Prague, she shows up at his door and they
quickly move in together.

This move changes his life completely. He no longer has numerous flings
and one night stands, but instead only makes time for Tereza at home
and Sabina on the side. When Tomas begs Sabina to provide Tereza with a
job, the three embark on a journey of sexual tension, intellectual
discussion and artistic wonder. However this love triangle is cut short
as Soviet tanks come roaring through Czechoslovakia endangering the
freedom of all three characters, who then decide to flee to
Switzerland. By this time Tomas and Tereza have been long married, and
Sabina meets a new man in the form of Franz (Derek de Lint) a married
man who eventually leaves his wife and family for her. The danger of
commitment drives Sabina away and she moves to the United States,
disappearing for the entire third act of the film.

It's this act that is the most interesting, as it truly examines Tomas
and Tereza's tumultuous relationship. Tereza realizes that she is too
dependant on him, while he could leave her at any time so she moves
back to the now Soviet-controlled Prague and Tomas' love for her drives
him to return there. Of course Tomas' political values, including an
article he wrote criticizing the Soviet Union and 'implying' that they
should all pluck their eyes out doesn't shine too well with the Soviets
and they ask him to sign a letter to repudiate his article. Tomas is
too proud and declines this offer, which leads to him losing his
license and he has to settle to becoming a lowly window washer. But he
can't hide his womanizing desires, and his infidelity drives Tereza to
the same crime. Eventually her shame and the potential of her awkward
lover being a Soviet who will blackmail the couple leads to the two of
them moving to a rural village and living their life their together.

The most beautiful and romantic elements of the film are portrayed once
they move to the village. Without the temptation of infidelity and the
power of political intrigue, their life becomes euphoric and simple.
Tomas works in the field all day, while Tereza cooks and cleans and
they are never too far away from one another. During a trip to a
relatively local bar, Tomas is presented with the opportunity of an
affair but quickly brings his gaze back to Tereza showing that he is
finally complete with her. This blissful relationship provides
overwhelming satisfaction and closure to the chaotic life they had led
up to this point.

Highlighting this impeccable picture are three sensational
performances, a masterfully adapted screenplay full of beautiful and
intriguing dialogue and quite possible the finest cinematography of the
'80s. Day-Lewis perfectly encompasses the charm of Tomas with a subtle
charisma that keeps my eyes glued to him every time he appears on
screen. The young Juliette Binoche is adorable, shy and emotionally
powerful but also plays it off very subtly. Lena Olin is overwhelmingly
seductive and crafts a sense of freedom unlike any I've ever seen.
These characters are all very human which means they have their fair
share of flaws and the performances capture every essence of them so
perfectly.
<|_=00=_|>

Well acted and well directed. An uninhibited examination of lust vs. love,
and the comfort of monogamy vs. the prison of possessiveness without
over-dramatization or false emotion. Kaufman's depiction is faithful to
Kundera's work, even if some depth is lost, as is inevitable in any film
adaptation of a novel.
<|_=00=_|>

I would have to disagree with the previous reviewer.  First of all, the
movie should have a "euro" feel to it because it's about Europeans, in
Europe, and their European mentality.  No car chases here, hot shot.
That
being said, I only have great praise for this film.  It's a tremendous
attempt to put to screen the subtle understanding Milan Kundera has of
the
human condition, and it surprisingly succeeds.  For those more
interested, I
recommend you pick up some of his novels (start with a short story if you
are pressed for time) and you, too, will realize why he is one of the
best
storytellers alive today.
<|_=00=_|>
After reading the book, which had a lot of meaning for me, the movie
didn't give me any of the feeling which the book conveyed. This makes
me wonder if Kaufman even liked this book for he successfully made it
into something else.Either that or he is simply bad. Most importantly
where is the lightness?! From the very first scene, music drownes out
most of the dialogue and feeling, and this continues right through the
movie. I think the makers thought that by having upbeat music playing
right through the movie, this would make the story feel light- however
they have completely failed here. Instead the music manages to give
everything that 'movie feel', in a way dramatising events so that we
linger on them, so that everything actually feels heavy.

Another example of the how this adaptation fails is by embellishing the
story line making it more dramatic. In the movie we see Franz passing
Tomas on the street, who is on his way to see Sabina. The introduction
of this chance meeting/passing, which im sure didn't happen in the
book, gives Tomas' story more significance than it does make it light.

There are many other examples where the continuity of the story has
been changed, imo for the worst, however this might have been done
because the book simply doesn't convert well into a movie, such is
Kundera's style. This makes we wonder if all the generous reviewers on
this site were writing with their book AND movie experience in mind
rather than writing about just the film. A film which is as long as it
is uncompelling. For those who haven't read the book yet I recommend
just reading that. For those who have, I have to say you will just be
wasting your time and probably end up here writing similar stay-clear
warnings.
