
I have introduced this movie to many of my friends, as it seems no one
has really seen it, or heard of it, but it is truly Wonderful and
whenever I get anyone to watch they always agree.

A beautiful, bittersweet look at those touching, heart wrenching times
in the 40's as the war was beginning and so many young men willingly
went to trenches. I love the setting, California along the pacific
coast, such extraordinary scenery. Sean Penn in this movie changed the
way I looked at him, I realized his depth and sensitivity here. I have
loved him ever since.

I have always loved anything about the 40's and this movie offers it up
in spades. From the movie theaters, the roller rink, the side jobs
every one had,to the shoes Caddie desires, this movie really captures
that era. The bowling alley is priceless. Nicholas Cage does an
incredible job here, much more so than the overblown, self-conscious
acting he acquires later.

Movies I really like all have one thing in common, details. All the
little details and extra touches in this movie make it special. From
the pool room scene (nerve-racking) to the abortion scene to the
treasure map scene, there are so many wonderful moments in this movie I
am astonished it did not get more recognition. But I am a fan of movies
that move slow and allow you to absorb the characters and background
and plot. I hate car chases and fight scenes.

This movie is about people and emotion and feeling and should be a must
see for those who care about those sorts of things.
<|_=00=_|>

Unlike most Hollywood movies that must be pigeonholed into
categories--comedy, drama, romance--this movie dared to be all of these.
And it dared to be low-key, without large, manufactured tragedies or plot
hooks.  Rather, it had the elegiac mood and idiosyncratic details of a
fine
short story, with its characters neither good nor bad but human, their
lives
honestly and touchingly observed by a sensitive screenwriter and
director.
<|_=00=_|>
In the Christmas of 1942, in Point Muir, California, the seventeen
years-old Henry "Hopper" Nash (Sean Penn) is the best friend of the
reckless Nicky (Nicolas Cage), who dates the local Sally Kaiser
(Suzanne Adkinson). Henry and Nicky have enlisted themselves in the
U.S. Marines and they are waiting to be summoned to travel very soon.

When Henry sees the gorgeous Caddie Winger (Elizabeth McGovern), he has
a crush on her and follows Caddie to find where she lives. He discovers
that her address is a fancy manor on the top of the hill and Henry
believes she is a wealthy teenager while she is actually the daughter
of the maid.

Sooner Caddie and Henry date each other and they fall in love with each
other. Meanwhile Sally gets pregnant and Nicky needs a large amount for
an abortion. They try to raise the money and when Nicky is desperate,
he takes an attitude that will test his friendship with Henry.

"Racing with the Moon" is a sensitive and wonderful coming of age
story. This film is the second feature of Richard Benjamin that shows
an excellent work of direction giving the right doses of drama, romance
and humor to the story.

Sean Peen and Nicholas Cage give credibility to their irresponsible
characters and the lovely Elizabeth McGovern is so beautiful that
mesmerizes when the camera shows her beautiful face and eyes. The
costumes and art direction are also fantastic and only yesterday I saw
this film for the first time on DVD. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Adeus à Inocência" ("Farewell to the Innocence")
<|_=00=_|>
"Racing with the Moon" (1984): Richard Benjamin directed Sean Penn,
Nicolas Cage, Elizabeth McGovern, Crispen Glover, Carol Kane, Michael
Madsen, Dana Carvey - the list goes on - in this "showcase" film, where
lots of talent received a major boost. Set in 1942, only weeks before
two best friends ship out with the Marines for World War II, we share
intimate, funny, pathetic, sad, frightening, and ambivalent moments
with flawed people you really come to believe you know, and deep down
just have to like. This is a bittersweet, not sugary, nor hopeless
story. It's believable, with the mixed emotions, set in that confusing,
frozen summer between child and adulthood. Scoring is appropriate,
photography is somewhat contrived in spots, but that's the 80's for
you. The "truth" of the story, and the talented actors are why you will
appreciate "Racing with the Moon".
<|_=00=_|>
Recap: The Second World War is raging around the globe. In a little
town in California the war is nowhere to be seen but always present.
Two young boys, Henry and Nicky, is about to turn 18 and is eager to be
off to the war. Now, only a few weeks remain, and the boys have a lot
to do before they enlist. Henry meets the beautiful Caddie, a girl he
thinks is a little out of his league, in any case considering social
status. Both Henry and Nicky are from lower working class, and
considers the rich spoiled and like people from some other kind of
world. Time ticks, and now they have to tie up all lose ends, which is
not as easy as two teenager want them to be.

Comments: The story, or rather there are not much of a story or a plot
as there is life. This is a few weeks out of the two boys life, a time
of much growing up to do, and a time of friendship without limits. So
to speak the story is not very good, one might think. But due mostly to
the casts ability to make it so real, so authentic, and so alive and
feel so current even though the movie is filmed twenty years ago and
set over sixty years ago. And then it hits you that the story is not
bad either, because its never meant to be that kind of story that tell
some events, its a story about life that everyone (more or less) can
relate to. And viewed in in that light, the story is very good.

But as already mentioned, its the actors and actresses, and their
acting that really makes this movie worth watching. The friendship
between Henry and Nicky, the growing relationship between Henry and
Caddie feel very real. You can feel, more than see, the bonds between
them. You can feel them evolve together, or just having a good time, or
both.

A young Sean Penn is magnificent in the lead as Henry. Its very
impressive that an actor in the beginning of his career is able to make
such an performance and carry such a heavy burden of the movie. He has
good help though. A equally young Nicolas Cage plays Nicky, Henry's
friend that has a knack for getting into trouble, and does it really
well. He is the wilder one, compared to Henry, but would never fail his
friend. And then, Elizabeth McGovern as Caddie. At the beginning of her
career too, but already with a Oscar nomination behind her, she has the
ability to pull off a very difficult part. The character of Caddie is a
little in the shadows behind Henry and Nicky, but when called upon
Caddie, i.e. McGovern really shines and interacts well with Henry, and
gives him the reason to grow.

It is very impressive that the director Benjamin and the producers
dared to give all the leads to such young actors. Their trust paid off
well though.

Personally I also liked Henry's father, who had his own way of giving
fatherly advice to his soon, but clearly also understood what he went
through. A very sympathetic character. And also keep an eye out for a
young Michael Madsen.

So, mostly because of the acting (and in some part also the fun to see
well-known actors in the beginning of their careers) 

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Coming-of-age piece set in small town America during WWII. Sean Penn
has seldom been so youthfully exuberant and amiable playing a young
working-class man about to go off to war, finding love for the first
time with a sweet lass he presumes is wealthy ("a Gatsby girl").
Richard Benjamin's direction is sensitive and breezy, and Elizabeth
McGovern is a good romantic match for Penn (though sometimes she talks
down to him, like a big sister might). Nicolas Cage is also fine as
Sean's goof-off buddy, yet the slim screenplay hasn't enough meat on
its bones and the middle portion of the film goes around in circles.
The period flavor has been captured with non-showy flair, and Penn's
exceptional performance is winning, making the film a nearly-satisfying
nostalgic drama. *** from ****
<|_=00=_|>
We never get to see the two main characters in the movie go to War.
This world war 3 setting coming of age drama is not so much about the
war over in Japan but the war on the home front. Growing up in 1943 in
small town California, searching for love and meaning. Sean Penn is
great in his role. Even more, Nicolas Cage is better as his close
friend and side kick. Whether for comic relief of ream moments of edgy
drama, Cage delivers. Also, a surprise in the movie is the performance
of Elizabeth McGovern who is always beautiful. The three quickly
discover life as they grow up before the two boys are shipped out to
the Pacific. Michael Madsen and Crispin Glover pop into the movie with
small roles. A nice movie, I wasn't expecting much until the movie
started. It is a guarantee crowd pleaser.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is a coming-of-age story focusing on two teens in their final
weeks at their quaint home town of Pont Muir, California (really Ft.
Bragg/Mendocino) before their 1943 military induction. Henry "Hopper"
Nash (Sean Penn), son of a gravedigger, is bright, sensitive, and
cultured. His best friend, Nicky (Nicholas Cage), although not
unintelligent, is reckless and self-destructive. Although he does not
really play pool, he likes to hustle sailors at that table-game. Both
Hopper and Nicky like to hitch rides on passing trains. Hopper meets
Caddy Winger (Elizabeth McGovern) when he purchases tickets from her at
the local movie house. He thinks she is rich ("She's a Gatsby!"), but
in reality she is the daughter of a maid who is employed by a rich
family at a mansion "on the hill." They date and soon fall in love.
Nicky also has a girlfriend, Sally Kaiser (Suzanne Adkinson), whom he
does not always treat well. 

"Racing with the Moon" beautifully captures the setting of a west coast
town in the winter of 1942-1943. Nice period sets include the roller
skating rink, the soda fountain, and the bowling alley with pin-boys.
The feature carefully develops the characters of teenagers and honestly
tells their story of early love. The storyline may not always be
pretty, as Sally becomes pregnant and Nicky's attitude is not the best.
However there is not a false note in the movie. Some of the popular
songs include "Tangerine," "Heart and Soul," and "Boogie Woogie Bugle
Boy." 

Beyond the film lies a lingering question as mankind is currently
engaged in the greatest, most destructive war in its history. Assuming
that both boys taste combat and are placed in similar situations, and
knowing about their individual characters, whom do you think has the
better chance of returning home in 1945?
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was filmed in and around Mendicino, California. Beautiful
part of the States. We had the good fortune of spending a long weekend
there just a few years after this movie was made, when the area still
looked the same. It brought back good memories.

Sean Penn carries this movie as Henry, the fairly serious young man
about to complete high school. One day his eye is caught by a new girl
in town, the pretty Caddie (Elizabeth McGovern), whom he watches from
afar, as she works at the movie house ticket booth, occasionally paying
a young boy a few cents to deliver a simple flower to her. This is a
"coming of age" story of these boys and girls. There appears to be good
"chemistry" between Penn and McGovern, and in fact they became engaged
as a result of making this movie together.

Note: The DVD package says this is a "PG" movie, but there is some
off-color language and a scene with brief male and female nudity. It
didn't bother me at all, but it seems that PG-13 would be more
appropriate.

SPOILERS: One evening late, after the ticket booth closed, Caddie came
across the street for a piece of pie, which Henry sold her even though
he didn't work there. Then he followed her home, by jumping onto the
outside of the bus (he was experienced, having jumped on moving trains
many times, for fun). He discovers that she lives in a very nice
estate, assumes she is of a wealthy family, refers to her as a
"gatsby". But her mother is the maid for the wealthy family.Regardless,
Henry and Caddie become close, fall in love. She finds out he is an
accomplished pianist. "How did you learn to play so well?" he responds
simply, "Lessons." His mother wanted him to be in Carnegie Hall, but he
had no interest.

Nicolas Cage is Henry's irresponsible sidekick, gets his girl pregnant,
they seek an abortion. In an interesting casting, Crispin Glover plays
a "Gatsby Boy", who taunts Henry by throwing his bowling ball before
Henry, the pinsetter, gets his feet up and out of harm's way. So Henry
runs over and punches him. This was a couple of years before Glover was
George McFly in "Back to the Future."
<|_=00=_|>

If you like the romance movies this one is the one. It is smart in a nice
way and its dramatic. It takes place in 1940s. Elizabeth McGovern is great,
Nicolas Cage, And Sean Penn. :):):):):):)
I dont know why they call it racing with the moon. watch
it!!!!
