

Despite his recent slide into mediocrity, John Carpenter is responsible
for what could be termed some of the biggest cult movies of the 1980's.
Following his resounding success with Halloween he went on to direct a
number of quirky yet excellent movies that began to tail of toward the
end of the 80's with the release of such dross as Prince of Darkness.
Carpenters movies are probably some of the most under appreciated
pictures of recent cinema history on a commercial level, and none more
so than perhaps one of his finest, the delightfully absurd action movie
Big Trouble in Little China. 

The plot is as daft as they come. Loud mouthed truck driver Jack Burton
(played by Carpenter's long time collaborator Kurt Russell) arrives in
San Francisco's Chinatown where he agrees to help out old friend Wang
(played by Denis Dun) by driving him to the airport to pick up his
green eyed fiancé. Things quickly go south however when a band of
street punks kidnap the girl and the motley duo set off in pursuit. The
pair soon find themselves caught in the middle of gang war that takes
on a decidedly mythical bent and are forced to flee while Jack's truck
is stolen. All this occurs within the first fifteen to twenty minutes. 

If there's one thing you can say about Big Trouble, it's that it's
action packed. The plot (such as it is) moves at an incredible pace and
the film rarely slows to take breath as it rolls from one action set
piece to the next. In such movies, normally the dialogue, and
subsequently the acting suffer from a lack of any real attention. Not
so here. Carpenter balances everything so perfectly that it's a wonder
his career took such a slide. Although the actual story may be
incredibly absurd and at times suffers from some rather obvious gaps of
logic, the dialogue never fails to sparkle. Russell gives his very best
wise ass shtick as Burton, the confused have a go hero who's so out of
his depth he should really be fish bait, while Dun excels with a
character who is consistently more heroic and capable than the lead.
Another wonderful turn comes from an appearance by a young Kim Cattrall
(of Sex and the City fame) as Gracie Law, a downmarket lawyer with an
ability to talk at incredible speed. Some of the scenes between these
three are pure comic genius, as Dun and Cattrall rattle out plot
information at a rapid staccato pace while an increasingly bewildered
Russell tries desperately to keep up. 

Despite such positive remarks, Big Trouble was perhaps one of
Carpenter's biggest commercial flops. While many of the movie's fans
find this difficult to understand I do not. The reason for its failure
is really incredibly simple. In terms of its style and the underlying
comedy behind the piece, Carpenter's loving part tribute, part send up
of all things Kung Fu was way ahead of the curve in every important
respect. Take the relationship between our 'hero' Jack and his
'sidekick' Wang. The true dynamic of this relationship is a wonderfully
post modern slant on the cliché buddy dynamic that existed in the 80's
and it was done long before post modernist humour became truly
fashionable in films (the most obvious example of post modern piece of
cinema being Scream). Despite receiving star billing, Russell's Jack is
actually a sidekick to Wang. While Wang has the knowledge, the skill
and the courage to make him a true classic hero figure, Jack lags
behind, being brash, ignorant and of little actual use in a fight.
Similarly the action, although remarkably quaint by today's standards
in both its look and execution, is a surprisingly accurate foreshadow
of the current Hollywood move toward the more graceful, balletic chaos
exhibited by movies like The Matrix and Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. 

Ultimately Big Trouble in Little China is a movie that survived thanks
to the home video market and for that we can only be grateful. While
its looks may have aged, its sense of humour and style is as fresh
today as the day it first rolled out in cinemas. In short, it's pure
escapist magic.

<|_=00=_|>
This movie occupied most my junior high years. Action, suspense, cheesy
diaologue, and martial arts galore. What more could you ask for from a
b-movie that is clearly a b-movie? Carpenter and the cast and crew must
have had a blast on this film because I can't think of a single movie
that combines some of my favorite things about movies: Action, comedy,
violence, martial arts, and a small tour bus driver named Egg who also
knows a little magic. Magic indeed. This is movie magic. Agree or
disagree, you can't deny that Carpenter succeeded on all levels when he
made this movie. Saturday matineeish? Yes. B-movie cheese? Yes. Pure
movie-going fun? Absolutely. Watch and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

What can one say. The movie plays like one of those great old comic books
you read as a kid. The dialogue is so cartoonish that you expect to see
balloons appear above the characters heads. The acting is excellent, with
everyone taking a tongue in cheek approach and obviously having a good time
making the film. Some of the best fight scenes in recent memory, with
everyone "kung-fu fighting" at the drop of a hat. Kurt Russel is a hoot as
the more than slightly dumb macho hero. Cartoon violence minus the gore,
humourous special effects, evil magicians, green eyed damsels in distress,
even a monster or two. 

A great film for a night of light movies!  See it if you get a
chance!
<|_=00=_|>

John Carpenter really steps away from his usual fare in this easy going
`fortune-cookie theater' parody that was originally the manuscript for the
second Buckaroo Banzai movie.  It features a cast of pithy characters,
bizarre and memorable
dialogue, entertaining special effects and fight scenes that are well
choreographed by western standards.

For those of you who already love John Carpenter, prepare for one of his
finest moments.  In 1987 Carpenter's sentimental sci-fi-side made `Starman'
an instant classic and in 1984 his tense, brooding gothism made `Prince of
Darkness' truly frightening.  Sandwiched  in-between these movie greats is
the 1986 production of `Big Trouble on Little China', where eastern martial
arts mysticism meets John Wayne bravado with zany and often absurdly
hilarious results.  How can you not love a movie unwilling to take itself
too seriously while at the same time still managing to keep a straight face?

Carpenter's skills as a director, producer and songwriter come together in
this film to produce what many consider to be his finest work.  Big Trouble'
s theme and content naturally compliments Carpenter's style of cynical
humor, flashy cinematic expression and loose, caricature-esque  development
of memorable story line figures.  If this isn't his opus magnum then it is
at least one of his greatest moments as a director.


<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the wildest stories ever: a cartoon come to life and a
mixture of an old-time serial with modern special-effects with bold
colors all the way through.

This movie is pure tongue-in-cheek. One just has to take nothing
seriously in here and just go along on the wild ride. From the nonsense
mystical Chinese sorcery that is taken so reverently, to the American
hero "Jack Burton" (Kurt Russell) who displays the fearless macho man,
to combatants flying through the air (this was 15 years before
Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon was filmed), to one exotic character and
situation after another - it's all absurd fun.

Russell plays his role to the hilt, playing his favorite kind of role
when he was younger: brash, bold and an ignoramus who fears absolutely
nothing. His lines are deliberately corny and one can bet he had a lot
of fun making this movie. He even gets in a few good comedic lines. His
partner, Dennis Dunn, is a likable guy with a devilish grin on his face
and Kim Cattrell plays the more modern damsel-in-distress role to the
hilt, too.

They could have lightened this up a bit on the action - it gets to be
too much at times - but the movie is just slightly over an
hour-and-half. It still wore me out the first few times I saw it.

All in all: ludicrous fun, a kind of Indiana Jones in Chinatown
adventure flick.
<|_=00=_|>

John Carpenter's career peaked with Big Trouble in Little China -- and
what
a peak it is.  No other director/writer has attempted to create what
Carpenter did in the 80's.  Why this took so long to come to DVD is beyond
me.  This movie makes the best mix of cavalier anti-heroes, humorous
villains, dark magic overtones, and good old fashioned fight scenes (done
up
as a mix of kung fu with old west shoot-em-up).

Those who don't like this movie don't get it's inherent self-deprecatory
theme.  This movie is all about fun.  If you don't get it, see a doctor
about your broken funny bone!
<|_=00=_|>

Now let me just speak my peace before some of you either laugh at me or
totally agree with me but i feel Big Trouble in Little China is one of the
greatest movies of all time!! Actually it is my favorite movie of all
time!!
Yes i know such movies as Saving Private Ryan, Shawshank Redemption, or
even
Willy Wonka might be looked upon as better movies but i say "Who Cares!!!"
Big trouble in Little China is a fun movie that you can sit back on a
lonely
night and just enjoy. The plot is pretty basic and that is why it is easy
to
follow. Yet the acting of Kurt Russell alone makes the movie. Im not
saying
this just because i am a BIG KR fan but he just does a wonderful job in
this
movie as a Truck drive who has no clue on whats going on but just goes
with
the flow! The witty lines of Kurt Russell in this movie are some of the
funniest lines i have ever heard come from an actors mouth.. I mean the
whole part of Lo-pan and Jack in the wheelchair is one of the funniest
peices of material i have ever seen on the big screen... Well gtg and just
remember if some wild 8ft tall monster grabs the
back of your favorite head and slams it aganist the bar room wall and ask
if
you paid your dues!!??! well just tell him what ole jack always says.. "
Yes
sir the check is in the mail"
<|_=00=_|>

Give this movie a ten, it has more excitement and pure fun than almost any
other, John Carpenter has constructed a masterpiece. This movie is awesome,
It's got Kurt Russell at his best. Every line that he says just rocks.  This
picture is the most unique film that had come around in years when it was
released. Nothing comes close to its ingenuity or classic mixture of
Chinese mythology.  If you don't watch it I will personally search out and
destroy you.  Like some dude up there said, just chill with your popcorn
snacks and drinks, and saddle up, because it's going to be one hell of a
ride!
<|_=00=_|>

If you`ve ever heard of the director John Carpenter, you`ll be familiar with
his works (of art), like Hallowe`en, Escape From New York, Assault On
Precient 13, The Thing, They Live, and this movie, a mid 80`s classic
starring none other than Carpenter`s favourite front man, Kurt Russell. Set
in Chinatown, Los Angeles, its a modern day fable of good versus evil,
Chinese black magic, the hero storms the castle type affair. Russell plays
Jack Burton, a wise cracking long distance truck triver and all American
hero, passing through Chinatown on some business. After a card game with old
friend Wang Chi (Dennis Dun), Wang (now penniless thanks to Burton`s good
fortune) pursuades Jack to drive him to the airport, to pick up his
childhood sweetheart, a girl Wang has not seen since they were children. Its
here the story begins, as Mao Yin, Wang`s girlfriend, is captured by a
mysterious gang. The two form a pact to rescue the girl from the clutches of
the evil Lo Pan, former crimelord of Chinatown, a myth who has apparently
lived to the age of almost 200, with a little help from some black magic.

Thats it, I`m saying no more, cos I don`t want to spoil it. You`ve probably
seen the movie anyway.

Its hard to pick a favourite John Carpenter film, very hard, but this one
has it all. Its a great action movie, a great comedy, an original story,
great lines, and even a love story, a perfect blend of what big screen
entertainment should be. Its strange though, that the ending was left so
open, begging for a sequel that was never made.
<|_=00=_|>

Big Trouble in Little China is one of the few films that generally
impressed me and didn't give off a "fake" feeling like a lot of movies
that are coming out today. I grew up watching this movie almost every
day, and I continue to do so now. The characters in this movie are
played very well, especially Kurt Russell's part as Jack Burton. The
movie blends action, comedy, and even some science fiction/horror, all
the while staying solid instead of seeming like a bunch of unrelated
parts thrown together. If you are a fan of John Carpenter, Kurt
Russell, action movies, the 80's, or a fan of great films, definitely
check this one out. In fewer words, run out and BUY Big Trouble in
Little China right now!

