

After reading all the critiques and reviews, there's just one thing that
all
of you have to remember: THE ACTORS WERE SUPPOSED TO BE PORTRAYING TEENS
WITH THE SOCIAL MENTALITY OF 7 OR 8 YEAR OLDS.  Many critics were saying
that the dialogue and the acting was bad, but in actuality, the acting is
very good for what the plot called for.  Brooke Shields and Christopher
Atkins were supposed to portray young adults who were 'cut off' from the
rest of the world at a very young age.  That's why they were supposed to
portray two people with the limited education, mentality, vocabulary and
speech of 7 or 8 year olds.  It would really have been unrealistic if they
had more developed dialogue, since they had nobody to further their speech
skills on an island with only two people...who were still both mentally
children!  That is why they show scenes where they sing very incomplete
songs, refer to San Francisco as "Sanfarisco", and forget their daily
prayers.

In light of all this, I think they did a very good job of acting and the
writers did a very decent job of limiting the dialogue to the speech
abilities of young children.

However, there are some unbelievable and unexplained scenes, such as the
giving birth scene.  How do they cut the umbilical chord off?? And some
other minor details should have been explained, but overall: A very
beautiful and romantic story with a happy ending.

An 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

I've never understood the critical slam this film has received. Then I saw
the widescreen dvd version and understood; everyone has been watching it in
pan and scan! The film is a visual poem. So much of the story telling is
done through visual information. The impact of this is lost when the
cinematography is altered. Remember that Nestor Almendros received an
Academy Award nomination for his work on this film. The film has resonated
with global audiences for so long for this very reason. I suggest people
watch the dvd commentary with Randal Kleiser and Brooke Shields to get a
better understanding of why this film is still such a popular one.

People attack the acting, but these are children left alone with no one to
guide them into adult sophistication. Their interaction and reactions to
situations are very consistent with this scenario. Yes, the birth scene is a
little rushed, but do we really need to see the umbilical cord? Not all
films need to be about gritty reality, ala "Taxi Driver." No one asks to see
the bloody guts of the smashed witch in "The Wizard of
Oz."

It is a beautiful, romantic film that speaks to millions of people. It seems
that only the most skeptical cynics cannot embrace this
film.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is simple, it captures what life is really about. Without the
many special effects that is used in movies now and even in the past it is
a
absolutely wonderful movie.

A young romance blossoming between two kids who have known nobody else but
themselves. They discover everything in life without all the interference
of
the rest of the world.

The low rating on this movie is unjust, it deserves a lot more then it is
given, this is possibly one of the best movies I have ever
seen.

It is absolutely wonderful for a romantic night just you and the
television.
And the nudity? it was exciting when I was younger, it becomes a bit too
much as I am getting older, but it does not bother me. It fits the movie,
the pure soul of the movie.
<|_=00=_|>

The Blue Lagoon (1980) is so very close to the book, Blue Lagoon: A Romance,
written in 1907 by H. de Vere Stacpoole and published in January 1908.  The
actual book is on the Internet and the dialog in the movie is faithful to
the book.  

Some dismiss the movie as trivial.  However, consider this.  Brooke Christa
Shields was 14 years old (born 1966) when she played Emmeline LeStrange. 
She had already appeared in 12 prior films.  Christopher Atkins was making
his movie debut at the age of 18 years (born 1962) playing Emmeline's
cousin, Richard LeStrange (referred in the book by the diminutive name,
Dicky LeStrange).  In the book, Emmeline is 8 years old and Dicky is 8 years
"and a bit" when the story starts.  

Emmeline's father died before she was born.  Two years later her mother
died.  Her uncle and father's brother, Arthur LeStrange, (veteran actor
William Daniels) took guardianship of Emmeline in Boston.  Mr. LeStrange
purchased a small estate in Los Angeles and was in route by clipper ship to
San Francisco around South America.  The ship, named Northcumberland, had
departed from New Orleans bound for San Francisco.  Having rounded the Cape
of South America and going off course during a calm, a fire breaks out in
the hull of the ship. 

The cook, Paddy Button, played expertly by veteran Australian actor Leo
McKern took Emmeline and Dicky aboard a dinghy launch and attempted to row a
safe distance away from the ship before it exploded from gunpowder stored on
board.  Mr. LeStrange and ships' compliment were separated in the fog from
Paddy, Emmeline, and Dicky after the ship blew up.  Mr. Button and the
children drifted in the South Pacific Ocean for about three days and nights
until they were brought by the tide to an island named in the book as Palm
Tree Island somewhere in the ocean southeast of the Marquesas Islands.  In
the movie we see a Boston newspaper with a date that appears to be 1893
floating in the water.  

The children and Paddy Button are saved and set up housekeeping as
shipwrecked survivors.  For the first 45 minutes of the movie, child actors
Elva Josephson and Glenn Kohan play Emmeline and Dicky.  Elva only acted in
three movies and two TV appearances while Glenn appeared in this film only
and acted no more.  However, they did a good job playing themselves as
eight-year-olds.  On the island Paddy tries to be father and mother to the
children.  He teaches them the basics of survival, gathering fresh water,
harvesting bananas from trees, catching fresh ocean fish, capturing small
rabbits, knot tying, hut building, making a signal fire, making a tree
calendar to mark the days, and exploring the flora and fauna and caves of
the island.  They had rescued a trunk of clothes that the children use as
dress up and play items.  Also, there were three-dimension view photos of
the day of adults in social activities.  These photos would be useful to
educate Emmeline and Dicky in some social graces of civilized people. 

Emmeline had found a keg of rum and a skeleton of another shipwrecked sailor
when they first arrived on the island.  After two years on the island,
Paddy, drinks himself to death.  It is curious that this small keg would
have lasted for two years being the rummy that Paddy was as he tells the
children that he has many children in ports around the world.  However, the
children discover Paddy's dead body and conduct a burial ceremony as best as
they could.  Don't look for this on the TBS "edited for content" version, as
it's not there.  TBS spoils the movie by cutting out what they feel are
"sensitive" parts of the movie, albeit, necessary for continuity of the
story to retain its TV 14 rating.  

(This is not a children's movie.  This is a young adult's movie.  The
rudimentary scenes are necessary to be faithful to the book!  If the rating
ends up being "R", so be it.  Also, this is far from being a "soft porn"
movie as some reviewers suggest.  This is a story about how people can
survive in the late 1800s on a deserted South Pacific Island without the
niceties of the then civilized western world.)

Enter teens Brooke Shields and Christopher Atkins at about the age of 14
years.  The story picks up as the children have entered into puberty. 
Brooke (Emmeline) begins to become aware of her changing body turning her
into a woman and she experiences these changes alone and confused without
another woman to help educate her.  Likewise, Chris (Dicky) is becoming a
man and Brooke, although the same age in the story is more mature than Chris
and is becoming sexually attracted to Chris' emerging manhood.  What was
once child's play and tickle-touch between children, is now, sexually
sensitive to young emerging teens.  Critics -- this is Nature at work!  The
moviemakers did a wonderful job of portraying this on film. 

Of course, they discover sex.  But, they do not know that it produces
children.  Emmeline and Dicky marry each other in a ceremony they devise to
show that they are "civilized."  They begin to live together as husband and
wife.  Ultimately, Emmeline becomes pregnant and finally is aware that there
is something growing within her.  

Fast forward to the "Bogeymen" on the other side of the island.  A tribe of
natives had, from time to time, come by boat to the other side of the
island.  Here they had a stone idol and sacrificial alter.  At least six
times during the film, even when Paddy was still alive, the survivors heard
distant drumbeats.  Paddy knew the danger and passed a "law" warning the
children never to go to the other side of the island.  After Paddy's death,
Emmeline and Dicky do go to the other side and discover the idol.  Emmeline
thinks it is God.  The edited version leaves out the night spying and
confrontation of Dicky with a native.  Get the full version for this
"humane" meeting of East meets West.  Oh, these are not African peoples. 
This is a South Pacific movie.  The natives are supposed to be
"Polynesians."

In the book, Emmeline has her child all alone on the floor of the forest
while Dicky is returning from spying on the Natives.  In the movie, Dicky
returns, "in the nick of time," to witness the child's birth.  No matter. 
That's Hollywood's movie license.

Of course, Uncle Richard has continued to pursue finding his son and niece. 
The book explains how he comes to know where the children might be.  He
hires a ship to search the area of the Palm Tree Island.  Ultimately,
Emmeline, Dicky, and baby Paddy (now about 2 years old  -- in the book she
names the boy child a girls name, Hannah because she likes the name) put out
to sea in the dinghy that is still seaworthy after being shipwrecked for
eight years and five months.  After losing their oars during a shark attack,
the survivors, without food or water, drift in the ocean for three days
before Uncle Richard discovers them.  The movie ends as faithful to the book
ending.  The trio is rescued.  When the rescue boat rows out to intercept
the dinghy, Mr. LeStrange asks, "Are they dead?"  The ship's crewman
replies, "No, they're asleep."

Beautiful Brooke and handsome Chris are not to be made fun of.   They acted
remarkably well portraying children with limited education and vocabulary. 
The island scenery is beautifully photographed.  There is a wonderful
special effect when Brooke baths in the ocean.  Get the video as TBS took a
hatchet to these frames.  If you were living in that era and shipwrecked and
survived, you would want your eight plus years on the island to be like
Brooke and Chris spent in this film.  Get the video and enjoy.  It's an
adult film for mature teens and older adults.     


<|_=00=_|>

This is one of my favorite films. I was 14 when it was released and I
could
really relate to it. It's really hard to describe but it just brings me
back
to a time in life when everything was new and exciting. The storyline is
something that you dream about especially when you're 14 years old. The
beautiful scenery and sound track just puts you in the perfect mindset.
Sure
there are some things in the movie that are a little hard to believe but
that's all part of the whole "fantasy" thing. I've probably watched it
every
chance I've had. I've always thoroughly enjoyed this movie and always
will.
It makes me feel like I'm 14 years old again. The Blue Lagoon is probably
the most beautiful film ever made. I just love the movie! Just give it a
chance sometime. But I guess that's just my opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
I was a young kid when I saw THE BLUE LAGOON and yes, I remember all
the hoopla about the "nude" scenes with Brooke Shields and all that
jazz. I must confess that, being in my early teens at the time I saw
this, there was an inherent morbidity which compelled me to watch
Brooke Shields in the nude. After all, she was probably THE hottest
"teen" actress of the early 80's (and damn, she DID look terrific!).
But now I'm in my late 30's and I have recently seen the film once
again and I must confess, BLUE LAGOON is a darn good movie. Yeah, it
might be corny in some parts, but so what?!?! It's a cute love story
that's very well done and done in a very realistic and believable way.
It's the story of two kids who are stranded on a supposedly deserted
island in the middle of the pacific ocean and that they have to grow up
and learn the things of life by themselves. Yes, there's plenty of
nudity but that's not the charm of this movie (which I recall, was
nominated for best cinematography in 1981). The real deal is the story
of these 2 kids growing up and reaching adulthood on their own
primitive terms. The soundtrack is rich and heartfelt (by maestro Basil
Poledouris) and only enhances the overall grandeur of this film. I
think Chirs Atkins did a great acting job and I have to wonder why his
acting career has faded into near obscurity. And Brooke Shields looks
like a total goddess; she is REALLY beautiful in this movie and I doubt
she's looked better elsewhere. I fully recommend this movie, especially
to young couples, the recently married or just plain love birds.
younger audiences might find it a bit corny, but like I said, this
movie is pure entertainment and despite not being an action flick, it
never bores. You'll do no wrong in watching or better yet, owning THE
BLUE LAGOON on DVD!
<|_=00=_|>

i have not seen this film in many years, and saw it unedited last week on
TCM. when i was a boy, the film's main appeal was in its edenic milieu,
its
charged moments of wonder and terror, and brooke shields' extraordinary
beauty and gamine charm. those qualities are all still there.  But the
film
tells another story that i missed before: two children ripped from
civilization struggle to make sense of the world and themselves. this is
no
rousseau inspired romp. the pulse and power of natures' force wrecks them,
engulfs them, confines them and finally asserts itself through em and
dick.
the question is begged: where does human will and intellect figure in
chaos
of pubescence, sexuality and love? how helpless or powerful are we to
control the furies of love or sex? more helpless than not, the filmaker
seems to be saying. kleiser interposes the stereopticon pictures of the
staid victorian couple with similar scenes of em and dick to highlight
this
point. naked or clothed, in a drawing room or on a beach, we all
experience
the torrent of love in very much the same way. instinct races ahead, sense
chases behind in confusion. "blue lagoon" tells a timeless human story in
a
very simple style.  this movie is better for talking to kids about growing
up than any 10 sex education pamphlets. and if an adult cannot remember
how
this felt when they were young, a little part of them has already died. a
good movie
<|_=00=_|>
Last year I watched The Blue Lagoon for the first time and thought it
was absolutely amazing. When I tell people this they usually laugh in
my face and say that I only like it because of Chris Atkin's sex
appeal, but that is not the only reason. This movie epitomizes Freud's
theories of the id, ego and super ego- explaining these three branches
of the human mind very effectively and creatively. It actually raised
my interest in the subject of human psychology and sociology so much
that I am considering it as a major in college. And who would have ever
thought a buff man running around in a loin cloth could have given me
direction in life?
<|_=00=_|>

I have always liked this film, and don't like it when it is criticized so
much. Brooke Shields and Christopher Atkins did a wonderful job, they were
excellent. Brooke is a beautiful, talented actress. The scenery was just
gorgeous, it makes you want to fly off to Fiji where they filmed most of the
movie to see what it is really like. The music is also very good. The story
starts out with a ship which catches fire, and everyone is forced to abandon
ship. Two young children, Richard and Emmeline, as well as a drunken cook
named Paddy, get on a lifeboat together and drift on the sea for many days,
until they discover land, a bunch of little remote tropical islands. They
build a home there. Time passes, and Paddy passes away, but Richard and
Emmeline continue growing up together. They get older, and new feelings come
over them. They discover many things about adolescence and sex. This is a
great love story, sweet and lovable. Brooke and Chris make a great onscreen
couple. The sex/nudity scenes are not really that bad at all, they're rather
mild. There is more nudity in the underwater swimming sequences, but mostly
all of that was done by Brooke's stand-in, a professional diver. I really
like this movie, and even though there are a few logic loopholes, it is
still enjoyable. My only complaint: I think this film could've gone on for
about 5 more mins. or so and explained things a little bit better.

<|_=00=_|>

I received this movie for Christmas back in 8th grade by my best friend
at
the time. I had seen it first on tv and fell in love with it regardless
of
the major chopping on tv's part with editing. The movie was and still is
my
favorite movie. The ending's a little too ambiguous for my tastes, but
the
music....oh gosh! Basil Poledouris (pardon the bad spelling) made this
film
shine. The concept is great of two people alone growing up without
civilization to guide them. Most people's issue with this movie is the
dialogue. Come on! They were left alone at like 8. Your body matures
people,
but not so your mind. Would it have made any sense if they were speaking
like intelligent teenagers without benefit of education? No. The movie
was
realistic with the constant nudity and the childlike innocence of the two
characters. Brooke Shields is awesome. I loved her in this movie. This
was
when she was at her best. Atkins did a great job as well. I know if I was
on
that island, I'd be naked a lot as well. It was just really put together
nicely. The scenes with the water and the aquatic life was really
gorgeous.
Love this movie!
