

A legendary flop and a legendarily bad movie, this mess is part three in a
career-killing trilogy of Travolta's that also includes "Staying Alive" and
"Two of a Kind".  It took him a long time to bounce back.  It also stalled
Curtis's career for a while until "A Fish Called Wanda" rescued her.  The
story, such as it is, concerns Travolta, a Rolling Stone magazine reporter,
looking for a story angle within a huge gymnasium at the height of the
aerobics and fitness craze.  He's already working on another more important
story, but wants this as a back-up in case an all-important interview falls
through.  He zeroes in on high-profile aerobics instructor Curtis who has a
huge following (which often kisses her on the mouth following one of her
workouts!)  Unfortunately, she's had a major disaster with a reporter in the
past and resists being interviewed for his story.  In order for there to be
a movie, he must wear her down and get her assistance even though there are
90 other instructors at this mega-gym.  The film is very unfocused and
disjointed throughout.  It tries to be too many things:  a reflection of
investigative journalism, an ethics drama, an examination of self-esteem
issues, a music video crash-course in Jazzercise and, most obviously, a
jiggle movie with emphasis on lycra-clad spread legs and tight behinds.  The
script is so crass and stupid with ludicrous lines like, "You're a sphincter
muscle..." (this one is repeated often!) and unnecessary subplots which lead
nowhere.  Travolta is awful.  He speaks his lines with his mouth almost
open, stares blankly with no skill at conveying what's on his mind and, in
the films most celebratedly horrendous scene, gyrates his bulging crotch at
the camera ad nauseam while sweat trickles down his pale, clammy face and
body.  Curtis looks very fresh and attractive most of the film (if a bit
sexually ambiguous) eschewing the huge hair and heavy make-up of the times. 
Her character is a little too self-righteous, but her acting is better than
anyone else around.  Wenner, a non-actor, provides a jarring presence
whenever he appears because he (along with several other "real" people cast
in the film) hasn't got the polish to really sell his role even though it
reflects his position in real life (as the founder of Rolling Stone!)  Most
of the other actors in the film either overact horrendously or flat-line. 
More importantly, the audience does not care about anyone in the film and so
does not care when various events and revelations come about.  There is some
inherent camp value in revisiting the hilarious workout clothes of the 80's
and in hearing the bouncy, tacky music of the era, but the movie is way too
long for it's subject matter and the music montages wear out their welcome
very quickly.  And for all the sweating and gyration, there are no sex
scenes in the film.  Look out for pansexual Burt Reynolds look-alike (and
alleged Travolta bed partner) Barresi in the cast as a gym rat eager to show
off his body.  
<|_=00=_|>
John Travolta tries his best as writer for Rolling Stone magazine
hoping to finish an unflattering piece on the faddish California health
club scene, but complications arise after he falls in love with a sexy,
sensitive aerobics instructor. Perfect-ly awful drama, shallow and
dated, is surprisingly cynical about Rolling Stone and its ethics (this
despite the fact the producers had the magazine's input and even cast
its editor, Jann Wenner, in a supporting role!). Film does get a tiny
bit of class from Jamie Lee Curtis, and supporting players Anne De
Salvo as a photographer and Laraine Newman as a wallflower are more
than respectable in clichéd roles. * from ****
<|_=00=_|>
Made during the heyday of the aerobics craze, Perfect seemed like a
great idea for the studio Columbia to cash in on a trend and more... .
Like Travolta's breakthrough picture Saturday Night Fever and Urban
Cowboy, Travolta's other collaboration with director James Bridges, it
was based on a series of news articles focused on a trend and
lifestyle. But in 1983 Flashdance, maybe the quintessential high
concept picture, came out, a movie, with no plot to speak of, which was
set to an up-tempo chic pop soundtrack and contained a lot of images
with a dancing Jennifer Beals double, that were easily marketable to a
big audience. And they went to see it in big numbers. Perfect,
unfortunately for the studio, came out in theaters when the aerobics
craze had already reached it's peak.

Perfect contains the same elements that made Flashdance a big
commercial success: thin plotting and characterization, an up-tempo pop
soundtrack and lots of images of people dancing to the music in
sequences that don't seem to further the plot or deepen
characterization. But Flashdance didn't pretend to be much more than
what it is: namely a cheap piece of fluff. Perfect, on the other hand,
strives for something a little more worthwhile, but fails on those
accounts. Bridges put in some ethical comments on the profession of
journalism. And he also tried to put in a potentially interesting
thriller-storyline around the McKenzie character. But these are soon
discarded for the romantic storyline between Curtis and Travolta, that
starts out in a playful way but soon turns tiresome due to bad plotting
and characterization. That's not to say that Curtis and Travolta are
bad in this. Curtis, who seems incapable to give an unlikeable
performance, especially does her best and nearly lifts the movie with
her enthusiasm.

What's left of Perfect are a couple of hilariously great aerobics
scenes, in which Curtis gives her all, a hilariously great male
stripper scene and some really bad hair moments. So, bad movie
aficionado's, like me, and Curtis fans, like me, will find something to
like in this. Therefore my rating is 6 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
My Goodness, what a bomb! We didn't drop anything this big on Iraq!

Perfect is the story of a Rolling Stone reporter (Travolta) who trips
over his ethics, or lack there of while writing two big stories. His
first story deals with a computer tycoon in hot water with the U.S.
government for selling his products to an Eastern-Bloc country. This
angle is played way up considering the lack of details we are told
about the situation. No matter, the story you will remember deals with
a swanky health club in L.A.. Travolta wishes to write a piece about
how health clubs in the 1980s are replacing the singles bars of the
1970s as the #1 place for people to meet. Take that premise and see how
long you can stretch it. Director Bridges apparently thought he could
drag it out for nearly two hours and still keep our attention.

This film suffers from a severe lack of focus. There are too many
location changes to count. There is also too much running around and
too much time wasted on insignificant little things. For example, what
was up with Travolta's sudden trip to Morocco near the end of the film.
It had no purpose what so ever! Another problem this film has is its
tendency to drag out every scene to last as long as whatever cheesy 80s
dance song is playing in the background. That gets old pretty darn
quick.

This film is also hopelessly dated in terms of fashion. If any guy came
into my health club wearing tights or a fish-net tank top, he'd
probably get beaten up. Bridges & CO also try to recycle a gag that
worked in Urban Cowboy. In that film, there was a scene featuring
numerous women dressed up for a Dolly Parton look-alike contest. In
this film, we get about a hundred people dressed up as Boy George in a
scene at a hotel. In Urban Cowboy it worked since there was a
legitimate reason for all the people to dress that way. They were at
least trying to win a contest. The scene in Perfect is useless and it
only serves to date the film even further. 

This film was by no means Travolta's worst. Has anyone seen The Experts
or Shout? This film did, however, have his most embarrassing scene. In
it, he's sweating away in Jamie Lee Curtis's aerobics class and doing a
never-ending series of pelvic thrusts to the dance beat. His crotch has
obviously been stuffed with a sock, or perhaps the thing Hammer used in
his Pumps in a Bump video. Truly hilarious!

Travolta is a talented actor, but he has nothing to work with here.
Jamie Lee Curtis is also a great talent, but she is wasted as well. She
looks absolutely gorgeous, but her character is so moody and abrasive
that we can hardly stand her. The supporting cast of mostly unknowns
fills out their respective stereotypical roles as well as they can.

In all, this is a poor film on all levels. It tries to be an insightful
look at journalistic ethics and falls flat on its face. It comes off as
being little more than a two hour plug for Rolling Stone Magazine. Too
Bad.

3 of 10 stars

So sayeth the Hound.
<|_=00=_|>
Really, "Perfect" is not the tactical warhead everyone seems to be
implying. This is not on the same level as 80s catastrophes like
"Megaforce", "Grease 2", "Howard the Duck", or (heaven help us)
"Staying Alive". "Perfect" is nothing more than tragic misfire from
extremely talented director James Bridges ("The Paper Chase", "Urban
Cowboy") that makes the dire mistake of treating the aerobics, health
club fad of the mid-80s as a serious cultural phenomenon (ugh).

It also helped to derail John Travolta's career for the better part of
a decade - sad, because all one has to do is take a look at his
outstanding performances in "Blow Out" and "Urban Cowboy" and realize
that his acting in "Perfect" was just fine (if a bit low key). It's a
shame, he could have made a lot of great movies while he was stuck in
dreck like "The Experts" and strange late 80s Altman theatre pieces
like Pinter's "The Dumb Waiter" (with Tom Conti!).

Travolta plays a Rolling Stone journalist hot on the trail of a big
story about how health clubs are the new pick-up joints, replacing
singles bars. He meets "The Pied Piper of aerobics teachers" Jamie Lee
Curtis, a former Olymic swimmer who was once burned by a journalist
over a piece about how she was having an affair with her coach. Of
course, she and Travolta hook up and Travolta meets some other folks
who frequent the gym, who are like supporting characters in a David
Lynch movie (I'm unsure if the director intended to portray them as
weird as they come off).

Real-life Rolling Stone editor Jann Wenner shows up to essentially play
himself (not very well) and, in the film's most laughable detail,
Travolta writes a version of his story portraying health clubs as
Emersonian watering holes of the future (or something like that).

It's all kind of bloated and weird, but really not that bad. Travolta's
actually pretty good. Jamie Lee Curtis looks great but comes off as
slightly grouchy, but she was probably directed that way.

Don't miss Travolta's notorious pelvic thrust sequence (you can't miss
it).
<|_=00=_|>
"The Hitcher" (young C. Thomas Howell) and "Risky Business" came out,
Wes Craven was doing his "Nightmare on Elm Street" series...so what did
we young people have for drama? This.

If you need a laugh now, you may want to tune in. While Jamie Lee
Curtis tries to elevate this, it is simply not elevate-able.

Laraine Newman and Marilu Henner are gym groupies with no self-esteem,
(Marilu gets the Chippendale man though, so it's all good). John
Travolta as a semi-literate writer at "Rolling Stone". (We know he is
good, because in the end he goes to jail for protecting a source).
There are some scenes with Jann Wenner and Lauren Hutton, apparently
the then in-crowd, at a party.

The really sad part about this is that there really were people like
this; the gym was a sense of self-esteem;(along with anorexia).
Aerobics class became the next singles hang-out as the song
"Masquerade" blares out, while everyone obsesses over plastic surgery
and the perfect body (The Laraine Newman character is particularly
pathetic). 

We see the superficiality. Has anything changed? Indeed, they could
remake this with Jessica Simpson as the lead. Someone get on the phone
to CAA!.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I know this is a bad, bad movie. It's not like I have any "diamond
in the rough" illusions about this actually being a good movie that's
merely misunderstood. So why is it that I watch it every time it's on?
I honestly love watching this film!

Maybe it's the dated 80s setting and the "studly" guys that look
utterly homosexual now. Perhaps it's the great lines, like Anne De
Salvo looking directly into the camera and saying, "C'mon, guys, make
me suffer," or Matthew Reed (in his one and only screen role) saying,
"It was love at first sight. I took one look at those tits and my whole
body got hard!" It could be John Travolta going through his aerobics
routine with a sock in his jock, or Larraine Newman straddling the
leg-spreader, proving that not every woman looks sexy in a leotard.

Of course there's Jamie Lee Curtis calling Travolta a "sphincter
muscle" three different times. There's also Jann Wenner gyrating his
fat gut during the closing credits. How about the pointless scene where
hundreds of Boy George fans storm the hotel, or Curtis "deleting"
Travolta's article by merely backspacing (What kind of word processor
is that)? There's even the premise that Rolling Stone is a serious news
magazine - HAW HAW HAW!

I seriously can't recommend paying money for this, but it's worth a
watch if it comes on a local channel just for the sheer badness of it
all. This is the definitive nadir of Travolta's career (check that...it
is better than Battlefield Earth, but what isn't?) After this, even
Look Who's Talking Now looks brilliant.
<|_=00=_|>
While promoting "Pulp Fiction" back in the 1990's Tarantino while
explaining his casting of John Travolta in what would be one of his
most iconic roles, resurrecting his career and taking to a new status,
the writer and director didn't mention "Grease" or "Saturday Night
Fever" as why he thought Travolta was a good actor. He quoted loving
him in movies such as "Blow Out", "Carrie" and this little gem called
"Perfect". Such opinions are quite surprising since most of those films
(except "Carrie") weren't box-office hits neither well criticized, some
gaining cult status in the following years of its release. However,
even with Quentin's approval "Perfect" still finds a great deal of
unexplainable resistance among film buffs, currently giving to this one
of the most absurd low ratings ever given to a quite decent movie. 

A short way to explain the story is thinking of an "Absence of Malice"
made for the masses: it deals with ethics in journalism with Travolta
playing a biased Rolling Stone reporter while unsatisfied with the
running of a controversial article involving political officials
dealing with corruption charges, decides to write a new and apparently
harmless article on health clubs and their new function as being a cool
dating place replacing the decadent singles bars. Yeah, why bothering
going in places where everybody is so down when you go to a happier
place, make lots of exercise and meet guys and girls with perfect
bodies? There's something worth writing he thinks. Working as an
obstacle to this story is a gym instructor (played by Jamie Lee Curtis)
who doesn't trust reporters after a career damaging event when a
reporter distorted facts while publishing a story involving her. While
Travolta's story goes under false pretensions (with a bit of truth in
it as well), he can't escape resisting some affection he has by the
main character of his article, who each day goes by starts to like this
guy, believing he's about to write a good report on the gym and its
attendees. 

The stone in the way of this movie is that its lack of seriousness
while the events are being unfolded, often deeply concerned about the
romance between the main characters. At times you think something
really dangerous is about to happen, he's being followed by someone due
to the other inflammable article where Travolta is torn in between
telling about what his source said to him on an exclusive interview or
go to jail to protect his source, but no, the film doesn't take off
much from this scenario except towards its conclusion to be used as a
closure to the gym instructor situation, a predictable and not very
believable device. 

But "Perfect" manages to keep you hold to your seat due to the reliable
and impressive performances of Curtis, Travolta, Laraine Newman, Marilu
Henner and small appearances from Kenneth Welsh and David Paymer. It
drags down a bit when it stays for too long in the work out exercises,
fun for the actors jumping up and down to the coolest and energic
1980's soundtrack but tiring for us viewers seeing an unimaginative
lack of camera angles and poor editing which shifts from two different
angles instead of being more acrobatic.

Story delivered some valid points (although it can look ridiculously
dated now since gym's are also definitely places for dating and no one
questions those things anymore), might not be perfect (no pun
intended), it was well balanced and easy to follow and feel interested.
So, why viewers think this is one of the worst movies ever? Makes me
wonder what some of you are watching these days. There's plenty of
quality in "Perfect", you just need to open your eyes to see it. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Being that I was in my early 20s I remember very well the 80s, which
was I need to be perfect decade. Smarts took a back-seat to buff & tan.
Everyone was pumping iron, getting tan, blow-drying their hair,
checking their look in the mirror, and flaunting their bods. Gosh!
Darn! It sounds exactly like South Beach today!! Nothing has changed!

What is a shock is how badly John Travola and Jaime Lee Curtis have
aged. They were both so "perfect" in 1985. There's no excuse for a
"sex-Symbol" like Johnny T. to have gotten so bloated and out-of-shape.
Hey, don't get me wrong, I'm a big fan of Travolta. However his best
work(aside from Pulp Fiction) was made in the late 70s and early
80s-Carrie, Saturday Night Fever, Grease, Urban Cowboy, and even for
its time, Perfect. 

And Jaime Lee was so beautiful, so well-built, and so sexy. Oh well,
thank goodness for videos.

Funny how today's generation thinks the out-fits in this film were so
strange. I look at the out-fits today and I think they are really
"stranger" than anything we wore in the 80s.
<|_=00=_|>

Although this movie didn't do as well as expected at the box office in 1985,
this by no means takes away from the energy and atmosphere of this movie. 
The main drawback back in '85, was that everyone had high expectations for
this movie since it was directed by the same guy that gave us "The China
Syndrome".  The main plot of a Rolling Stone reporter (Travolta) trying to
get the inside scoop of the fitness boom of the '80s from (Curtis) is the
most enjoyable.  The sub plot of white collar crime is a little on the
boring side, and doesn't really mesh with the fitness plot.  It's
interesting to see all of the aerobic exercises in total '80s style, but by
today's standards are outdated.  Everything from the neck rolls Jaime Lee
Curtis does, to the high impact aerobics which looks like it's done on a
minimally padded floor, really makes this movie dated, but funny in a way. 
One thing to remember is that "Perfect" was made during a time when "going
for the burn", and "no pain, no gain" were the buzz words throughout the
fitness industry.  Little did people know that trying to be a "hardbody"
could land you in the hospital!  If you are looking for some light
entertainment, and you are a fan of John Travolta, Jaime Lee Curtis, Marilu
Henner etc, then you will definitely enjoy this enjoyable taste of '80s
nostalgia, legwarmers & all!
