

Biographical films that are done right can be a thing of beauty.  They can
enlighten us by giving us perspective and insight into people that we may
recognize by name but yet know little of the circumstances that have made
up
the fabric of their lives.  And if the life they led is as fascinating as
that of Loretta Lynn, they can also entertain us in the
process.

Based on Lynn's autobiographical novel of the same name, Coal Miner's
Daughter is easily one of the best films of this genre.  It is the story
of
how Loretta Lynn became one of the most successful Country & Western
vocalists in recording history despite having been raised in the poverty
stricken hills of Butcher Holler, Kentucky, marrying at the age of 13, and
having several children to boot.

The first half of Coal Miner's Daughter is a fascinating look at a life
foreign to most of us.  As the daughter of Ted Webb (Levon Helm) and Clara
Webb (Phyllis Boyens), Loretta (Sissy Spacek)seems destined to live her
life
just as all who those who live in Butcher Holler eke out an existence.  It
seems predetermined that she will probably marry one day, that her husband
will be a coal miner just as her own father is, and she will have a
caboodle
of young 'uns running around the hills barefoot.  One day, on a trip into
town with her father, Loretta meets the irrepressible Mooney Lynn (Tommy
Lee
Jones) who has just come home form the service.  It isn't long before
Mooney
convinces the 13 year. old Loretta that they are in love and need to be
married.  After convincing Ted and Clara to give their blessing, the
wedding
takes place, and although it isn't apparent for many years, it's a
decision
that will forever alter the course of her existence.

One of the reasons this film succeeds on the level that it does, is
because
Director Michael Apted never falls into the trap of making the film
judgmental about many  of the events that occur in Loretta's life.  He
let's
the events of the film unfold naturally, and we either accept them for
what
they are or we don't.  For instance, many Directors would have felt the
need
to implant some nefarious motive behind Mooney's relationship with
Loretta.
The events that happen in Loretta's childhood were what they were, and
though letting a child of thirteen marry may be foreign to us, it was
obviously something that may not have been extraordinary unusual back in
Butcher Holler.

There is another reason why Coal Miner's Daughter succeeds on all levels.
Sissy Spacek plays Loretta Lynn as if she were cloned from her.  Not only
is
their resemblance strikingly uncanny, her speaking voice, her singing
voice,
her mannerisms will have you believing that it is Loretta herself starring
in this film.  As if this isn't enough, Spacek was required to play a
character that starts out as a naive thirteen year old girl, and ends as
an
adult woman who suffers through many painful and tumultuous events in her
life.  Not an easy task at all, but it is the stuff for which actresses
win
Academy Awards, and Spacek certainly earned hers.

If Spacek's performance was exceptional, the rest of the cast would merely
need to be adequate to make the film succeed, but they are every bit as
impressive.  Given the difficult role of playing Mooney, Tommy Lee Jones
brings the character to life.  While never making Mooney appear
sympathetic,
he does show us that Mooney is after all a human being, subject to the
same
foibles and temptations as the rest of us.  Most of all, despite his
failings, Jones lets us know that Mooney did indeed care a great deal for
Loretta, even if such outward expressions of love were foreign to
him.

There's more.  Levon Helm as Ted Webb gives one of the best supporting
performance ever in a film.  As Ted, he gives us a father who cares deeply
about his family, doing for them what he can with what little money he can
scrape by on from his earning.  He is a man who has obviously been beaten
down by the drudgery and day to day existence of spending most of his life
with a pick and a shovel mining coal.  It is this existence that
eventually
forces Mooney into his decision to not become a victim of the coal
mines.

Last but certainly not least, is Beverly D'Angelo as Patsy Cline, who not
only befriends Loretta, but helps to teach her the ways of the world.  Her
performance is so good in fact, that although her scenes aren't many,
D'Angelo leaves an indelible mark that made it difficult to accept Jessica
Lange in the same role.  I do not know why Jones, Helm, and D'Angelo were
not recognized when Awards time rolled around as they were all at least
deserving of a nomination if not a win.  Perhaps Spacek's performance was
so
powerful that it overshadowed the fine work done by the rest of the cast.
Then again, I quit trying to figure the reasoning behind awards a long
time
ago.

There is no doubt however, that Coal Miner's Daughter is one of the best
biographical films ever.  It is one of those rare times when cast,
director,
writer, all came together to make a very special film.  And when they all
do
that I have no choice but to give them my grade which for Coal Miner's
Daughter is an A+.


<|_=00=_|>

The reason this film works (arguably the greatest bio-pic ever produced)
is
that it is ABOUT Loretta Lynn's life, not about country music.  From the
opening shots of a young Loretta riding a mule to the mines with her
brother, you know this will be a film about extraordinary characters.  It
is
over an hour before we hear one song from Loretta Lynn; director Michael
Apted and writer Thom Rickman spend time to develop Loretta, Doolittle
and
her family.  When her father dies, the audience cries with Loretta
because
we know her family, her father, we understand where this girl came from
and
why it is such a unique transition from backwoods girl to international
star.

It's been said that Ms. Lynn was named after movie star Loretta Young.
When
approached by executives to make a movie about her life (based on her
best-selling autobiography), she was savvy enough to realize that a film
would end up on television anyway, and opted to have film made.  I can
imagine (most likely to the chagrin of studio execs) that Apted fought to
develop a script that showcased the characters over the music.  The
result
is a film that EVERYONE enjoys.  When the film was released in 1980, I
remember people going who were definitely not country music fans, and I
remember their raves after the movie.

America is about the Horatio Alger storyline: everyone can achieve
greatness.  This film highlights that dream.  While it does fall into
some
cliche trappings once Loretta Lynn is a huge success (the on-the-road
montage, the drugs, the nervous breakdown), there are such cliches
because
the pressure performers feel is one in the same.  Overall, it ages
beautifully because it captures a time when the American hills spawned
such
unique talent (Lynn's contemporaries are either showcased or mentioned to
great effect).

Of special note:  If Oscars could be given for past work, Beverly
D'Angelo
should be voted the "Best Supporting Actress" of 1980 for this film.
Unfortunately, she was not even nominated.  You will be hard-pressed to
find
such a complete performance in film.  Similar in screen time and impact
as
Dame Judi Dench's performance in "Shakespeare In Love", D'Angelo gives a
Master Class in screen acting for her portrayal of the late Patsy Cline.
Most likely, this flash of brilliance is what inspired the film "Sweet
Dreams", the bio-pic of Cline, a film that pales in comparison to "Coal
Miner's Daughter."

This is Spacek's only Oscar win thus far out of six nominations.  She's a
national treasure and this performance is outstanding.  However, you
should
see this film for all its elements, working to create an outstanding
picture.  Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
There is no doubt in my mind that this film is one of the best biopics
brought to the screen. From beginning to end, you are so fully immersed
in the life of Loretta Lynn, that you forget you are watching Sissy
Spacek, who hands down deservedly won the Oscar and 1980 was an
excellent year for the Academy awards with stiff competition.

From the opening sequences, you get sucked right in. The life of
Appalachia and the struggles of Loretta growing up. The devotion of
Doolittle, Tommy Lee Jones best role, to make Loretta the star that she
should be is selfless, despite some tempestuous struggles.

Beverly D'Angelo, who is underrated and versatile, portrays Patsy Cline
with such bravado, it just clicks with the cast and the credibility of
the audience. The fact that both her and Spacek sang on their own just
enhances the credibility of the film.

In summary, a must see for anyone who is a fan of Loretta Lynn and for
how a biography should be filmed.
<|_=00=_|>
Loretta Lynn's life has been to say the least,interesting.A wife at 13,
mother at 14,and walking a long path to her throne as the "Queen of
Country Music".Triumphs and tragedies have virtually filled her life,
and it was expertly brought to life in this film.Sissy Spacek gives a
dead on performance as Lynn,right down to her voice,and even does her
own singing for the film.This is without a doubt one of the best acting
performances of a non fictional character I have ever seen,and let us
not forget the Oscar worthy performance of Tommy Lee Jones as Doolittle
Lynn,Loretta's husband.He is always excellent,but he was never better
than he was here.This is an excellent true story of Loretta's long
journey from the Kentucky backwoods to the Grand Ole Opry stage.A must
see and must own movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Coal Miner's Daughter spans the decades from 1948 Kentucky to the 1970's,
when Loretta Lynn had a nervous breakdown and collapsed on stage. First off,
the scenes in rural Kentucky are very familiar to anyone who grew up in the
mountains at that time. My own grandmother had seven brothers and sisters,
lived in a cabin, and married at age 15. So I've heard the stories of her
growing up, and it's VERY close to what is depicted in this film. The
Butcher Holler scenes are so realistic, they make you feel like you're right
there. It wasn't like the Waltons, folks. This shows how it really was back
then. I will always love Loretta for her honesty and I'm sure that many
women can relate to her wedding night innocence. In fact she didn't know
where the babies were coming from until the first four were born. By that
time she was 18 years old. It was only after Loretta's father died in 1959
that she started singing in honky tonk bars. For anybody who loved the book
as much as I did, I wish they would have shown how Loretta's career affected
her children. By the time her twins were born she was on the road so much
that she simply didn't have time to be an attentive mother. Success didn't
bring lasting happiness. Loretta's busy career caused stress which led to
her pill addiction and breakdown. The scenes of Nashville in the 1960's are
very accurate and Loretta's friendship with Patsy Cline is fun to watch.
Patsy was like a big sister and a mother figure to Loretta. She was
brilliantly depicted by Beverly D' Angelo. Sissy Spacek became Loretta Lynn
for this film and seeing is believing. She was very convincing as a
13-year-old. What an amazing performance. Tommy Lee Jones redeems the
character of Doo for his bad behavior and in the end he is a supportive
father and husband. Loretta's parents are portrayed very accurately by Levon
Helm and Phyllis Boyens. I especially liked the mother's "squaw dance". Coal
Miner's Daughter is a masterpiece as a song, a book, and especially a movie.

<|_=00=_|>
To me, the success of a film biography isn't whether fans of the
personality will watch the movie; they will, whether it is any good, or
not...the true measure of success is how the film captures an audience
who DON'T know the person, and wins their hearts.

"Coal Miner's Daughter" does this, better than nearly any other
'biopic', and the film is as passionate and wonderful today as it was
in 1980.

There are several reasons for the film's 'staying' power; first,
British director Michael Apted, making his first American feature,
brought an unbiased eye to the lifestyle of poor but proud rural
America. Eschewing the clichés of the "Smokey and the Bandit" and
"Dukes of Hazzards" stereotypes, he cast many 'locals' in the film, and
attempted to recreate, as realistically as possible, the world Loretta
Webb/Lynn knew so well.

Second, the film boasts not one or two, but three powerhouse supporting
performances. Tommy Lee Jones, who Apted picked over Harrison Ford, is
a revelation as Doolittle 'Mooney' Lynn. With only a handful of credits
when the film was released, he demonstrated the dazzling combination of
humor and sensitivity that would eventually win him a place as one of
our finest actors. Levon Helm, making his dramatic debut as Loretta's
father, Ted, is even more impressive. Low-key, but irresistible, he
offers so much love and power in his portrayal that it's easy to see
why he would remain influential to his superstar daughter, long after
his passing. In a brief but sparkling portrayal, Beverly D'Angelo
channels Patsy Cline to perfection (I may be alone in my opinion, but I
prefer her portrayal over Jessica Lange's, in "Sweet Dreams"). With
earthy charm and worldliness, she would change Loretta's image from
'cowgirl' to 'royalty', and her shocking, early death would shatter
Loretta, much as it did for everyone who loved her.

Of course, without a strong, charismatic performance in the lead,
nothing else would matter, and Sissy Spacek is nothing less than
spectacular! Handpicked by Loretta Lynn, herself, from a photograph
(Spacek would admit that she felt 'wrong' for the role, and
uncomfortable about Lynn proclaiming the actress as "her" choice on
national TV, but as she was preparing to turn it down, "Coal Miner's
Daughter" came on a 'classical' radio station she was listening to, and
she suddenly knew she was 'meant' to play the part!) Contrary to
popular opinion, she had to learn Lynn's Southern accent, and spent
grueling weeks learning how to sing her signature tunes (including a
week with Loretta, herself). The end results are stunning! Despite only
a passing resemblance, Spacek so totally captured the talent,
vulnerability, feistiness, and strength of Loretta Lynn that she won
the 1980 'Best Actress' Oscar (over Gena Rowlands, Ellen Burstyn,
Goldie Hawn, and Mary Tyler Moore), and is still identified with the
role, today.

I knew little of Country Music in 1980, and even less about Loretta
Lynn, but the film captured my heart...and after 25 years, it still
moves me! "Coal Miner's Daughter" IS a CLASSIC!
<|_=00=_|>
As one of the better cinematic bios, "Coal Miner's Daughter" deserves
praise because it is such a topnotch production. Sissy Spacek gives a
terrific performance in the rags-to-riches, true-life story of country
music legend Loretta Lynn. Spacek does her own singing in the movie, as
does Beverly D'Angelo in the role of Patsy Cline.

But this lavish, big budget film has more to offer than the great
performances of these two actresses. Attention to detail in production
design, costumes, and makeup, plus topnotch editing combine to rev up
the film's technical quality. And I loved that soundtrack with all
those great country/western songs, including especially "Honky Tonk
Angels" by the wonderful Kitty Wells. All of these cinematic elements
render a film that is as entertaining as it is factual.

Loretta Lynn's story originates in the South; it's a story rich in
emotion and appreciation of simple home values like love, family, and
perseverance. Local non-actors are brought into the film in bit parts,
and that amplifies the authenticity of her surroundings, especially her
Southern roots.

My only problem with this film is the plot structure. The first fifty
minutes could have been condensed. In particular, that part of the film
that deals with Loretta's love affair with Mooney (Tommy Lee Jones),
his red jeep, and Loretta's dad was too long and drawn out.

But overall, "Coal Miner's Daughter" is amazing because it presents a
true-life success story that was by no means inevitable. All kinds of
things could have intervened along the way to stop Loretta's rise to
the top. Her husband was a big help, but she also had talent, and she
got some breaks at crucial times. Her journey from rural Kentucky
poverty to Nashville mansion thus makes for a gripping story helped
along by the nearly perfect performance of Sissy Spacek.
<|_=00=_|>

Tommy Lee Jones proves once again he is the best at what he does as Sissy
Spacek shines in one of new favorite films. Based upon the true story of
Loretta Lynn, "Coal Miner's Daughter" profiles one of the greatest country
singers of all time. 

Movies based on true stories are really hard to make since details must be
mostly if not all accurate. "Coal Miner's Daughter" far succeeded this and
what resulted was one of the best true stories ever brought to the big
screen.

"Coal Miner's Daughter" is a film that should be treasured and be considered
as a classic because this is as close to greatness as you will get. Telling
the story of how a coal miner's daughter went from rags to riches with the
help of her husband Mooney. There is so much to learn from watching "Coal
Miner's Daughter" that goes beyond what is shown on film.

If I take one thing away from this film it would be this: no matter what
comes your way, always follow your heart and pursue your dreams because they
will always come true. 

I was so proud to have seen this film because it was not only one of the
best it was also an educational tool that I could implement in my life. I
hope that everyone who reads this review will rent this film and get the
same out of it as I did. 
<|_=00=_|>

The true-life story of Loretta Lynn (dominant Oscar-winner Sissy Spacek)
from her youth where she married at the tender age of 13 all the way to
country music stardom. Along for the ride is her husband (Tommy Lee Jones'
first legitimate role), an amazingly complex individual who has anger
management and jealousy issues. Beverly D'Angelo (in arguably her finest
career performance) is also a solid scene-stealer playing doomed singer
Patsy Cline. Spacek and D'Angelo actually did all the singing themselves and
that just elevates an already high level of performances. The direction by
Michael Apted is adequate and so is the Oscar-nominated adaptation, but the
excellent work by the three leads makes "Coal Miner's Daughter" one of the
finest pictures of the early-1980s. 4.5 out of 5 stars. 

<|_=00=_|>
This film has always had a special place in my heart, and now that I've
viewed it for the first time all the way thru it means even more. Two
things first I grew up in the rural mountains and hills of Southwestern
Virginia and my father earned his living as a hard working and loving
coal miner. As I always said we mountain people always had great work
ethic and determination. And this film proves that by showing the will
and determination that Loretta had to achieve her goal. This film would
not be everyone's cup of tea as many look down on southern rural folks
as many see them as retarded hillbillies and rednecks. Still while
watching "Coal Miner's Daughter" most should feel touched and uplifted
as it's a great real life success story that gives many hope proving
they can escape poverty.

Sissy Spacek(who won an Oscar for best actress) is in top form with her
portrayal of Loretta Lynn and the direction is top notch from Brit
Michael Apted as he adapted the screenplay from George Vecsey's book.
The film traces Loretta from her humble start in the rural Kentucky
hills butcher hollow to be accurately. Loretta was poor as her daddy as
a coal miner still loved and provided for her and her siblings.
Loretta's only escape was when solider boy Doolittle Lynn(in one of
Tommy Lee Jones's earliest and finest roles)returns to the the
bluegrass as he takes her by storm and she marries young and the babies
start to come. Thru this quick love affair one thing is discovered
Loretta has a talent for singing.

Little by little Doolittle helps her transform into a star by sending
out records and slowly but surely Loretta makes appearances up to the
big time. Along the way heartbreak, stress, jealousy, and pain is
present yet nothing will tear down or destroy this strong country gal
she's as tough and gritty emotionally as they come. Nice was seeing in
a great supporting role the early work of Beverly D' Angelo who shined
as Patsy Cline.

This film is a great biopic a triumph of a strong determined woman who
had the will and determination to make it on her talent. Loretta Lynn
proved one can overcome poverty, and in the meantime be proud and never
forget who you are or where you came from that's a lesson many should
take in life be yourself that's another message that this classic
biopic taught.
