
When I saw this in the theater as a 7 or 8 year old kid, I cried when
it finished. It was by far the most captivating movie I had ever seen.
I liked it better than Star Wars. The unbelievable stop-motion effects
of Harryhausen still look great, even when compared to CGI. Things have
not improved much. And Jane Seymore in the belly-dancer outfit! Good
Lord! You must see this movie to believe it! The gold minotaur rowing
the boat and the fight between the troglodyte and the saber-toothed
tiger at the end stand out in my mind so strongly when I think of this
movie.Get a copy of this movie, Jason and the Argonauts, and then Clash
of the Titans and you have a fantastic Saturday afternoon of movie
watching.
<|_=00=_|>

Okay, so the film isn't a masterpiece for anyone involved, but the DVD is
worth the price for Harryhausen fans. I won't reiterate a fairly lame plot
but to say that a prince is morphed into a baboon and Sinbad must find a way
to correct this untimely development in order to repay a friend and win the
hand of the lovely Jane Seymour. All in all, the film turns out to be rather
entertaining once Patrick Troughton makes it on-screen to flesh-out the
dialogue. Overshadowing the movie's multiple shortcomings, however, is the
always inspiring stop-motion work of Ray Harryhausen. The Trog and
sabre-tooth are two fine creations and while we don't see anything on par
with the 7 skeletons in "Jason & the Argonauts" or Medusa from "Clash of the
Titans" there are some great moments with other creatures. While to be
treasured as one of Harryhausen's last films the DVD also includes the added
bonus of "The Ray Harryhausen Chronicles", an in-depth documentary narrated
by Leonard Nimoy featuring a bio and interviews with today's FX masters.
This and other features combine to make an otherwise average
fantasy/adventure film worth a look--if you're a Harryhausen fan and you've
got a DVD player. For all the extra features, I'll give the DVD a
6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
(Minor Spoilers)

Let's be honest and a tad realistic about this film, shall we?

By TODAY'S standards, this is a "cheesy" kinda film compared to what
technology we've got. And I think at the time of this release we had
gotten "Close Encounters of the Third Kind" and "Star Wars" so our
expectation levels were running higher for "special effects" and
"whimsy" than this.

But I still can get entertainment out of this film.

How?

By remembering how old I was when I saw it and WHOM I was with when I
saw it. My family.

I was a child. This film wasn't in my all time top ten, but it
was...fun. It was one of those movies local channels threw on Sunday
afternoon before or after a televised ball game..or when a ball game
was rained out. Come on, admit it..you remember!

And that's the point. This film's special effects were nice..not
spectacular..not even up to Ray Harryhausen's standards, but the
Harryhausen mark was there which made it entertaining (Admit it, you
LOVED the walrus scene!! How 'bout that Cyclops?!?! As a child this was
all good! You remember!!).

For very young girls, this Sinbad was REALLY nice to look at back then.
For the very young guys, so was Miss Jane Seymour and Miss Taryn Power.
Then there was the story which was kinda fun, the adventure which was
kinda whimsical and the happy ending where the bad guys got theirs'.

This was done at a time of assuming children would love this kinda
stuff. Back then, more would have. Now, most children don't even think
"Spy Kids" can give them a buzz.

This movie is about childhood and remembering what it was like to have
an imagination and watch a story unfold for nothing but the sheer
enjoyment of it...the fun of eating "Good 'n' Plenty", "Snowcaps",
"Malted Milk Balls" and Popcorn without thinking about calorie content
to make this even more fun to watch...and the "eye candy" of Wayne,
Seymour and Power help a so-so story that's really better than a lot of
stuff I've seen today that they charge ya $10 a ticket for! Parents may
not have liked it as much as the children but that too is part of the
fun!

Have a heart when watching this. Watch this as a "fun" romp....as
remembering when families watched shows together (..or in my case my
dad mumbling under his breath about how the game was due on and he had
to sit through this 'crap' first!), the pre-teen tingles of watching a
handsome Wayne, young Seymour and/or Power (...ya know...before having
breast implants and weighing 95 pounds was mandatory in Hollywood for
women to do this kind of film work?!?) and telling your parents you
were REALLY interested in the story...really.

Maybe I've got a more "nostalgic" view about this film..its because I'm
not looking for academy award winning material with this kind of film,
but it does its job of...entertaining...and if you have children and
want them to be children for a tad longer, this may be the film fare
for them. Or just for you, if you want to curl up with some popcorn and
remember "the good old movie fluff days" where special effects were
done by hand and stop motion photography by the "grand-daddy" of the
genre and a Sinbad movie where Sinbad actually looked like you might
imagined him to look like back then and evil characters who were evil
and got theirs....pretty much simplified.

Open your mind and when you have a moment...enjoy. Don't take it
seriously just sit back... watch...and HAVE FUN..with your children, as
a family.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of my guilty pleasures; everyone makes fun of me because I
love this movie. Ray Harryhausen has been panned over this film, but I
think he did a fantastic job. It's inventive and eye-catching, and the
Minoton is a marvel.

Patrick Wayne is strong-jawed and stalwart as Sinbad, but Jane Seymour,
as the princess, obviously hadn't done much acting yet when she made
this film. She's really bad in the role of Sinbad's love interest. She
beat Bo Derek by 4 years in starting the cornrow hairstyle, and most of
her hairdos in this movie are more interesting than her acting. The
biggest hoot in the movie is Margaret Whiting as the evil Queen. She's
got an accent that won't quit, but as the film goes on that accent
begins to fascinate the viewer; she's a really good actress, which
surprised me. Even when she turns herself into a seagull. 

It's the outlandish creatures, scenes, and settings that a Harryhausen
movie always has that are its great charms, and this film is one of the
most inventive of his career. Don't expect rocket science when you
watch this, just expect to be royally entertained. The new Twilight
Time Blu-ray release (December 2013) of the film is a wonder and highly
recommended, but hurry and order it today...there are only 3,000 copies
available.
<|_=00=_|>
Sinbad the Sailor voyages to the mythic northern realm of Hyperborea to
restore a caliph from an evil witch's transformation.

Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger, the follow-up to the classics The
Seventh Voyage of Sinbad and The Golden Voyage of Sinbad, is an uneven
conclusion to Ray Harryhausen's celebrated "Sinbad Trilogy". The
troubled production began with a draggy script, budgetary restrictions
and an inexperienced director; the film as released suffers from choppy
editing, over-length and routine music scoring. One animation highlight
(the giant walrus) is obscured by an optical snowstorm. The attractive
cast performs listlessly and the villain is campy rather than truly
menacing, although former "Doctor Who" Patrick Troughton is delightful
as a befuddled wizard.

Yet, for all its flaws, Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger remains an
entertaining escapade in the old-fashioned Saturday-Matinée tradition.
Costuming and settings are colorful and the film looks handsome in
widescreen. The quest for the mystical Shrine of the Four Elements has
a particularly epic quality with the usual eclectic blend of mythical
elements set against the backdrop of the Arabian Nights.

Most importantly, Harryhausen's realistic stop-motion animation is as
extraordinary as ever, with two of the animated-puppet creatures --
Kassim the Baboon and Trog the Troglodyte -- successfully functioning
as actual communicative characters within the body of the story. Other
wonders include insectoid demons, an over-sized mosquito, Minaton the
Brass Minotaur and the saber-tooth tiger of the title.

Genuine movie fantasy is a rare commodity, and Ray Harryhausen's vision
and conviction shine through the circumstances of production to make
this a satisfying final visit to the land beyond Beyond.
<|_=00=_|>
Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger was the third and final Sinbad movie
with Ray Harryhausen creatures.

In this one, a prince is turned into a stop-motion baboon and Sinbad
and crew go on an expedition to Ademaspai to restore him back to human
form. They face plenty of dangers on the way including several giant
creatures, some of them prehistoric (more on those later). He is being
followed by an evil witch with magic powers, Zenobia, along with her
son and a stop-motion metal creature, Minoton. On one occasion, she
turns herself into a seagull to spy on Sinbad and on return to her ship
as she transforms back, she is left with a webbed foot as she has ran
out of potion. She is defeated at the end in the form of a
Sabre-toothed Tiger and the prince is restored back to human form.

Now to those creatures: we start with a trio of ghouls and other
creatures include a giant wasp, a giant walrus, a Troglodite and the
above mentioned Sabre-toothed tiger. The other two stop-motion
creatures, Minoton and the baboon appear throughout the movie. All of
them look impressive, thanks to Ray Harryhausen.

Sinbad is played well by the Duke's son Patrick Wayne (The People That
Time Forgot) and the rest of the cast includes Dr Who actor Patrick
Troughton, Bond girl Jane Seymour (Live and Let Die), Taryn Power,
Margaret Whiting as Zenobi and Nadim Sawalha.

Though not as good as the first Sinbad movie, The Seventh Voyage of
Sinbad, I still enjoyed watching this one. Excellent.

Rating: 4 stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>

A film with animation by Ray Harryhausen.  It's a pity he couldn't have
animated Patrick Wayne, who's bland performance means he comes across as the
least interesting Sinbad.  It is Patrick Troughton's excellently enigmatic
Melanthius and Margaret Whiting's icy Zenobia who are the real stars of this
show.

Sinbad travels to find a way to break the spell which has turned a prince
into a baboon, but Zenobia, who has plans to ensure her son is crowned king
in the prince's place, calls upon the help of various mythical creatures. 
The minotaur is by far the best of these and ought to have faced Sinbad and
his crew rather than just being crushed in an ignoble exit.  Other memorable
creatures include a giant walrus, insectoid-faced demons and a sabre-toothed
cat.  Though the central character of the title is somewhat lacking, this is
still first-rate entertainment and genuine escapism, two things somewhat
lacking in more recent films.
<|_=00=_|>
Loose retelling of the ¨ 1001 Arabian nights¨ , based on ancient
legends , deals with Sinbad The Sailor (Patrick Wayne) sails to deliver
a cursed prince Kassin (Damien Thomas) to a dangerous island in the
face of deadly opposition from a powerful witch (Margaret Whiting) . In
the mysterious land Hyperboria Sinbad along with a sorcerer (Patrick
Troughton) and his crew encounter magical and mystical creatures .

This exciting picture contains swashbuckling , magic , fast-moving plot
, thrills , impressive fights among monsters and lots of fun . It is an
exciting fantasy-adventure full of special effects created by means of
stop-motion technique by the magician Ray Harryhausen . The runtime is
adequate with various incidents and sub-plots . Harryhausen works his
animation magic around a passable-developed screenplay and engaging
acting by the entire performers . The cast is enjoyable with sons of
famous actors as Patrick Wayne and Taryn Power and a gorgeous and very
young Jane Seymour . Agreeable film but hamhanded and confusing if you
seek the hidden plot . Ray can once again claim credit for the unusual
and marvelous mythical creatures springing to life , such as Smilodon ,
Troglodite , Mandril , an enormous mosquito , a giant Morse and many
others . The picture belongs a trilogy , produced by Ray Harryhausen
and Charles H. Schneer , along with ¨The seventh voyage of Simbad¨
(1958) by Nathan Juran with Kerwin Matthews and Kathryn Grant and
¨Golden voyage of Simbad¨ (1973) by Gordon Hessler with John Philip Law
, Tom Baker and Caroline Munro . Great and rousing musical score by Roy
Budd . Colorful cinematography by Ted Moore , filmed in Jordan (Petra)
and Spain . Rating : Acceptable and passable . The motion picture was
professionally directed by the usual actor Sam Wanamaker . Don't watch
this one for the screenplay , which almost doesn't exist , otherwise ,
mildly fun .

Other pictures about the great hero Simbad are the following : ¨Sinbad
the sailor¨ (1947) with Douglas Fairbanks Jr , Maureen O'Hara and
Anthony Quinn ; ¨Sinbad of the seven seas¨ by Enzo G Castellari with
Lou Ferrigno and John Steiner and the cartoon movie ¨Simbad the legend
of seven seas¨ (2003) produced by Dreamworks , a combo of computer
generator and hand-drawn animation by Patrick Gilmore and Tim Johnson
with voices from Brad Pitt and Catherine Zeta Jones.
<|_=00=_|>
Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger starts with Captain Sinbad (Patrick
Wayne) arriving ashore after a long voyage to see his friend Prince
Kassim (Damien Thomas) & his sister Princess Farah (Jane Seymour),
however he discovers that Kassim has been transformed into a Baboon by
his evil step mother Zenobia (Margaret Whiting) using black magic so
her son Rafi (Kurt Christian) can become king. In order to prevent this
Sinbad agrees to do all in his power to turn Kassim back into a human
being & see him take his rightful place as king of his land. First he
must find a wise man named Melanthius (Patrick Troughton), but that is
just the beginning of the journey that spans continents & is full of
danger & evil...

This English production was directed by Sam Wanamaker & I personally
liked it a lot, I like all the Sinbad fantasy films & this is no
exception. The script by Beverly Cross & producer/special effects man
Ray Harryhausen has a simple yet functional story, it has a villain,
plenty of monsters & mythical creatures, exotic locations, action
scenes, sword fights, black magic & a chess playing Baboon, what more
do you want? The film moves along at a nice pace, is never boring or
dull & provides terrific entertainment of the kind that will never be
seen again. The character's are a bit on the thin side with only
Zenobia the villianess standing out as being memorable & the dialogue
isn't great either but that's not the reason you would want to see
Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger is it? Persoanlly I think it's a
magical, hugely entertaining fantasy adventure with plenty of monsters
thrown in there for good measure. I really, really liked it, it's as
simple & straight forward as that.

Director the late Wanamaker seemed an odd choice, he's much more widely
known as an actor & Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger was the only
theatrically released film he ever directed, everything else he
directed was made-for-TV. Anyway, he does an OK job & he integrates
Harryhausen's effects & monsters into the action quite well although no
one set piece really stands out as being brilliant, they're all very
good but not as memorable as some of the other monsters & fights
Harryhausen created for some of his earlier films. I loved the bronze
Minatour & he was easily my favourite creature from the film. The
special effects don't hold up that well in the light of today's multi
million CGI effects but I'd rather watch the magical work of
Harryhausen rather than a soulless computer graphic. Interestingly
Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger came out the same year as Star Wars
(1977) which probably put Harryhausen out of business & just about
ended his career.

Technically the film is good, with nice locations, decent effects,
costumes, sets & production design. There seems to lots of varying
locations as well including the open sea, rocky mountains & a snow
covered pole. The acting isn't anything special apart from Whiting who
seems to be enjoying herself as she plays it up as the villain.

Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger is a terrific film, it has all the
elements one wants in a fantasy film such as this. My only question is
why is it called Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger? Sure there's a cool
sabre-toothed tiger in it but it doesn't have much significance & it's
eye is never even mentioned or has any relevance at all. This was the
third & final Sinbad film following The 7th Voyage of Sinbad (1958) &
The Golden Voyage of Sinbad (1973).
<|_=00=_|>
Evil witch Zenobia (a wonderfully robust and wicked portrayal by
Margaret Whiting) casts a spell on Prince Kassim (handsome Damien
Thomas) which transforms him into a baboon. Courageous legendary sailor
Sinbad (a solid and likable performance by Patrick Wayne) embarks on a
dangerous journey to the chilly Artic in order to reverse the spell
before it's too late. Assisting Sinbad on his perilous pilgrimage are
fiery Princess Farah (radiantly played by the beautiful Jane Seymour),
flaky wise old wizard Melanthius (a delightfully dotty Patrick
Troughton) and Melanthius' feisty daughter Dione (a winning turn by
luscious blonde looker Taryn Power). Standing in Sinbad's way are
Zenobia and her no-count son Rafi (a nicely venomous Kurt Christian).
Director Sam Wanamaker ably maintains a brisk pace throughout, stages
the frequent thrilling action scenes with considerable brio, and
effectively creates a charming magical atmosphere. Ray Harryhausen's
extraordinary stop-motion animation creatures include a chess-playing
baboon (the sequence where the baboon reacts to its reflection in a
mirror with startled grief is truly remarkable), a trio of skeletal
sword-wielding humanoid insect demons, a powerful bronze colossus
called the Minoton, a savage gigantic walrus, a helpful horned
club-brandishing troglodyte, and a ferocious saber-toothed tiger. The
scene where Power and Seymour go skinny-dipping is pretty bold for a
G-rated film. Roy Budd's splendidly stirring'n'sweeping majestic
orchestral score and Ted Moore's exquisitely rich, vivid and vibrant
saturated color cinematography further add to the overall enjoyment of
this engaging and satisfying fantasy adventure treat.
