

You can watch Wall Street and take it for face value.  If you want to do
that, all you have to do is watch Michael Douglas, probably the most
underrated actor of the last 30 years, give his greed speech.  You will be
amazed at this man's talent for delivering a performance.  You can watch
Daryl Hannah give a flawless interpretation of the high priced trophy
girlfriend/wife.  And you can just feel the disappointment that your father
showed you the first time you let him down when you watch Martin and
Charlie
Sheen deliver the hospital scene.  The story is a classic.  It is purely
timeless.  The setting is as grand as the money that they are playing with.
The supporting cast is excellent (realtor, boss, traders, etc.)  This film
is everything a casual movie fan needs to sit for 2 hours and be
entertained.  However, if you want to look deeper into the film you will
appreciate the true intent of Mr. Stone's effort.  Don't get too caught up
in the façade of tall buildings, trading stock and corporate tycoons.  Wall
Street is not necessarily all that it seems.  Rather, it is consistent with
Mr. Stone's clever work in the past.  It seems that to a creative genius
like Stone, it is not enough to make the typical story of the kid hits it
big and suddenly crashes back to earth (see secret of my success, cocktail,
top gun, etc.)  The intent of the picture may be completely different from
the actual medium chosen.  Stone drops clues throughout the film.  It's the
dawn of a new age, 1987.  The journey from the old economy i.e. the airline
industry and paper industry to the age of information.  The sun is rising
in
the east as shown in the beach scene.  A quote from Stone's character Gekko
`damn I wish you could see this' is the perfect hint of what Mr. Stone is
trying to say.  Oliver Stone sees the future, it is a future economy based
on information being the most powerful resource in the world.  The eastern
philosophy, the greed, the self-destruction of smoking and working out.
All
these things brought Gekko down.  Gekko was brought down by what?  A man
with a micro tape recorder.  A man armed with the medium of the new
economy,
electronic media.  He was nailed by a person whom he trained to `get
information'  Well, he got the information and Gekko was brought down by
the
fact that he was short sighted to it.  Great movie and excellent foresight
by Mr. Stone as always.  I suggest you watch it again.  But, this time I
suggest that you look for the real intent of the film.  In my opinion, this
is quite simply one of the best films of all time.  Not only because of its
timeliness, amazing foresight (see stock market crash in October 87, and
the
rise of silicon valley and Microsoft in late 80's) and one of the best
performances by an actor period in Michael Douglas' portrayal of Gordon
Gekko.
<|_=00=_|>

Wall Street is about those for whom material wealth takes precedence over
morality, and those for whom it does not. Moreover, it is the story of one
who is struggling to decide which of the two he is: greedy or ethical.

Bud Fox is a young stock broker who only wishes to excel in life. His
father, Carl, provides a strong moral foundation, prioritizing human life
and well being over profit. Bud's mentor, Gordon Gekko, is a ruthless and
legendary Wall Street player whose values couldn't conflict with those of
Bud's father more perfectly. So caught in the middle is Bud, who pitches
his
father's airline to Gekko with the intentions of saving the company while
everyone gets rich in the process. This business deal sets the stage for
the
conflict of interests Bud faces, and whether in the end it is his moral
father or his greedy mentor he would most like to become.

Wall Street is impeccably directed and perfectly cast. Oliver Stone really
captures all the elements necessary to the telling of this story, with all
its moral, economic, and legal implications. Michael Douglas is almost
frightening as the ghastly Gordon Gekko, a role for which he took home the
Oscar for best actor. And the casting of Martin and Charlie Sheen as
father
and son lends authenticity to their numerous emotional exchanges. We see
what seem to be genuine hurt, pride, and shame from the two of them
together. John C. McGinley makes his customary appearance in yet another
of
Stone's movies as Bud's coworker, and as always he shines, contributing
his
unique personality to the film. The combined efforts of talented
individuals
in a powerful story of human strength and weakness makes Wall Street a
must
see movie.

I rate it 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Deceptively deep and complex picture from co-writer/director Oliver Stone
paints a vivid portrait of 1980s over-excesses as the age of "Me, Me, Me"
(otherwise known as the 1980s) is explored through the eyes of a young,
eager and impatient stockbroker (Charlie Sheen) who moonlights as a liaison
to a heartless, ruthless and crazily greedy mega-millionaire (Michael
Douglas in a smashing Oscar-winning turn) who seemingly has his hands on
most every aspect of big business. Naturally dilemmas occur in every
direction for Sheen as the lifestyle he wants comes at a very heavy price
(both literally and figuratively). A strained relationship with his father
(real-life dad Martin Sheen) and a whirlwind fling with the superficial
Daryl Hannah just leads to more and more cinematic fireworks. "Wall Street"
is really the only film I can think of to deal seriously with its subject
matter. Everyone of the age remembers the yuppie phase this nation had in
the mid-1980s. Young urban professionals did their best to make as much as
they could as fast as possible (sometimes through crooked and illegal
means). The idea of retiring at 40 seemed like a good notion, but those same
people with those thoughts are still working today (they never made their
millions or they made their money and ended up going into a lifetime of debt
because they spent their earnings quicker than they could make it).
Ultimately the 1980s was good while it lasted, but good like that never
lasts forever and that becomes painfully clear as Sheen's character becomes
a warning to all those who think they can out-think and manipulate a
strained economic system. Douglas is a complete revelation. I mean there is
no doubt that he is an excellent performer, but his portrayal of a money-
and power-mad player in New York is truly one of those instances of classic
career work being achieved. Super-slick, wickedly intelligent and definitely
a thinking person's movie, "Wall Street" continues to strike a chord when
looking back at a very unique time of American economic history. 4.5 out of
5 stars.      
<|_=00=_|>
Wall Street (1987) is one of the films that defines the 80's American
Lifestyle. A dog eat dog society fueled by greed, materialistic
possessions, excess and drugs. People preying on others, a world of
unscrupulous inside trading and the rise of yuppies. Oliver Stone is
one of those film makers who knew the 80's inside out. People say John
Hughes defined the 80's but Mr. Stone showed it's true side and it was
ugly. 

The film follows a low level day trader (Charlie Sheen) who strives to
become a very powerful figure on Wall Street like his idol Gordon
Geckko (Michael Douglas). To justify his rise to power, he uses his
father (Martin Sheen) knowledge of the flight industry for his own
personnel gains. He wants to get his foot into the door of the oily
Geckko. Will he sell his soul for a quick buck? How far and fast will
this rising star soar? To find these answers check out Wall Street.

This film was made immediately after Platoon. Stone made it clear that
he wasn't going to let an Oscar winning malaise effect him. He explores
the two fathers theme that he used in Platton and once again makes it
work. A highly underrated film that has sadly been neglected by the
mainstream audience. What makes it even sadder is the fact that it
still applies today.

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

First of all, it's amazing now to see how young, baby-faced and gauche
Charlie Sheen looks from this distance in time, particularly when he's
trying to hit on Daryl Hannah.

In today's dumbed down movie world, Gordon Gekko could have been scripted
and played exactly the same except for one thing: you'd never see the scene
when he suddenly stops to admire the ocean at dawn.  Fortunately Michael
Douglas clearly added his own dimensions to the character whom, if left to
Stone, would have been a cardboard money-grabber.  As far as Stone is
concerned Gekko wants money for its own sake, but Michael Douglas manages to
evince a man who revels in the power and influence that money gets him. 
Stone's dialogue actually undercuts this perception on occasion, as when Bud
Fox yells at Gekko, "How many yachts can you sail!?", and when Gekko,
enticing Fox by outlining how rich he could be, says, "Rich enough to have
your own jet" - as if owning a jet wasn't the minimum accoutrement you'd
expect from the least successful company director or minor pop star.  Other
infelicities in the script include the moment when Stone wanted to signal
that Bud Fox has reached the peak of success and found it empty: following
the montage of the condo purchase and decoration, the perfect meal for two,
culminating in making love to Daryl Hannah, Stone has Fox standing on his
balcony, and apropos of nothing at all, he just says, "Who am I?"  It has to
be said that Sheen wasn't really up to the task of delivering this atrocious
line.

I've rarely seen a film in which the female lead was so comprehensively
abandoned by the director.  Stone clearly wanted to focus all his attention
on Sheen and crucially on Douglas, leaving Hannah floundering and unable to
clearly express just how much into Bud Fox her character is at any one time.
 At the final break-up you almost hear Stone's sigh of relief at being able
to get rid of the irrelevant female (probably forced on him by the studio)
and concentrate on the man's world of stockbroking.

I seem to be finding a lot of flaws in what is basically a most compelling
and watchable film. Despite the complex jargon-riddled technicalities of the
subject matter, the movie's plot grabs hold of the viewer from the first
scene and never lets go.  Of course Douglas dominates most of the movie,
until Fox sr. (Sheen sr.) throws the spanner in the works of his son's
airline deal.  Thank heavens Charlie Sheen took the unbelievably courageous
decision to have his own father (instead of Jack Lemmon) play his
character's father because the two of them perform an absolute barnstormer
of a scene in which every word, inflexion and facial expression is repleat
with absolute truth; and it's all the more poignant considering Charlie
Sheen's own personal difficulties which faced him in later years, and the
well-publicised ups and downs of his relationship with Martin as a result. 
Had those troubled times preceded this movie, it's hard to imagine the
performances could have been any different - that's how good they
are.

Fantastic character support comes from Hal Holbrook, the always reliable
Saul Rubinek and John C. McGinley (who does not seem to have changed at all
in the intervening years!), a young James Spader and the magisterial Terence
Stamp who understands the unutterable menace with which it is possible to
lace the single word "Mate".
<|_=00=_|>
With his diabolical charm, slicked-back hair, city-college chip on his
shoulder, and era-defining "greed-is-good" mantra, Gordon Gekko may by
one of the all-time great film roles. Michael Douglas's performance as
Gekko won a deserved Oscar in 1988 and makes "Wall Street" required
viewing.

There are two schools of thought when it comes to money. Some
economists argue money is an expanding resource, and prosperity a
rising tide that lifts all boats. For Gekko, the truth is simpler and
more brutal: The rich get richer off the backs of everyone else. "Money
itself isn't lost or made, it's simply transferred," he tells his young
protégé Bud Fox (Charlie Sheen).

No question writer-director Oliver Stone feels the same way, as he
presents this tale of wealth acquisition at its very apex, lower
Manhattan circa 1985. In practically every frame showcasing the opulent
world Gekko travels can be glimpsed beggars, fishermen, window washers,
people who never will have access to the white-collar lifestyles their
lowly status perversely enables for others.

For some, this zero-sum take of America clouds their enjoyment of "Wall
Street" the movie. It shouldn't. You don't have to buy Shakespeare's
version of history in "Richard III" to enjoy the morally bankrupt
character at its center, and you don't need to adopt Stone's philosophy
to enjoy Gekko.

In fact Stone's attitude about the Street, presented here as a kind of
Hogarth caricature, helps make the film so entertaining. He captures
the scenes of floor trading and calls and puts in journalistic detail,
but leaves room for the human equation. And he has fun, a lot of fun,
especially with Gekko, a character who makes you laugh with his pithy
comments even as he sets about using poor Fox as a human ashtray.

On an upcoming charity event for the Bronx Zoo: "That's the thing about
WASPs. They hate people, but they love animals." On a rival: "If he was
in the funeral business, no one would ever die!" To Fox: "You had what
it took to get into my office, sport, the question is do you have what
it takes to stay."

Fox wants to stay, and allows no SEC regulation to block his wayward
path. Stone's father was a stockbroker, and so the director takes
special care to show us that all Wall Streeters aren't bad. There's Hal
Holbrook, almost too saintly and somewhat detached from day-to-day
business of his brokerage house to the point he seems a slumming
B-school don. John C. McGinley delivers a standout performance as a
vulgar, greedy friend of Fox's who we nevertheless find ourselves
sympathetic to, especially as Fox ditches him for Gekko.

But of course it's really Gekko's world, as we watch him at his desk,
punching telephone-line buttons and encouraging subordinates to "rip
their throats out," checking his blood pressure with one hand while
smoking a cigarette in the other. His centerpiece moment, his speech to
the stockholders at Teldar Paper, is a compelling soliloquy not because
it showcases his brutality but because it allows him a chance to
explain his philosophy in a way that sounds logical, even honorable,
until you think through the implications. That's Stone's screen writing
at its best.

Sheen is also masterful in his role, playing the naive waif who wants
to swim with the sharks and thus giving Douglas daylight to run. Too
bad there's a tacked-on romance that never really works, in part
because the character of Darien Taylor is not well developed, in part
because Darryl Hannah hadn't yet met Quentin Tarantino. The ending is a
bit too neat, and loses the subtlety that makes the rest of the film so
good.

But the heck with subtlety when you have Gordon Gekko. Douglas is the
reason for watching "Wall Street," and a terrific one. Just watch the
way he looks at Bud, eyebrows raised to hold a pregnant silence, or
enjoys the discomfort of his arbitrager-rival Sir Larry (a solid
Terence Stamp). Stone knew what he had here, and makes the most of it.
As a twisted morality tale, "Wall Street" is a thrilling, scenic ride
down a dark and dangerous road.
<|_=00=_|>

Michael Douglas deservedly won an Oscar for his portrayal of the ruthless,
chain-smoking capitalist guru, Gordon Gekko, who leads Charlie Sheen's Bud
Fox down the garden path to Wall Street's hidden abyss.  Good supporting
cast includes Sean Young, James Spader, reliable Hal Holbrook, and the
wonderful Sylvia Miles.  Tight direction, perceptive script with realistic
techno-lingo, fabulous production design, dazzling cinematography of the
Manhattan skyline, and hip 80's music rev up the technical quality of this
Oliver Stone "message" film.  If only the message had been more
reassuring.

Gekko is a villain and an outlaw, but mostly he comes across to viewers as a
worldly tough guy, a charming bully with a glamorous lifestyle.  We see his
high-class mega-office, his plush home and chic wife, his expensive
paintings, his rapid-fire commands to his robotic lieutenants, his snazzy
clothes and "in vogue" friends.  Here and there we see his frustrations, but
that only accentuates his toughness.  We do not see him suffer, nor do we
see the consequences of his selfish, Machiavellian behavior.

As a result, to viewers, especially to those youthful, bright, materialistic
Americans with a smug, "can do" attitude, and disdain for ethics, Gekko is,
unfortunately, someone to admire, a Wall Street role model.

<|_=00=_|>

I mainly purchased the DVD, because of two reasons:  Michael Douglas and
Charlie Sheen.  I'm quite an admirer of both actors.  I have virtually no
knowledge about the stock market, or about stocks themselves.  Those who are
in the market or have vast knowledge about stocks will probably enjoy the
film much more.  However, I still enjoyed the film.  When a movie's really
good, it doesn't matter whether or not the audience member is interested in
the topic.  Besides, the film boils down to basic universal themes, like
selling your soul to the devil and money being the root of all evil.   

The characters are interesting and richly developed, with the exception of
Darryl Hannah's underwritten character.  I can see why she didn't like
playing that role.  Douglas is always a joy to watch, and makes a suave yet
slimy villain.  I wouldn't necessarily say he deserved an Oscar, but he did
a fine job nonetheless.  So did Charlie Sheen, who is actually the star of
the film despite the fact that most people remember "Wall Street" for
Douglas as Gordon Gecko.  Sheen gives a fine multi-dimensional performance. 
I love the scenes between him and his father Martin Sheen, who plays his
father in the film.  Oliver Stone made a great choice casting the
father-and-son team, since the tension in their scenes feels very
authentic.

There are some predictable plot turns and character arcs, but altogether
Stone keeps the excitement going.  I like how the climactic scene between
Douglas and Sheen is shot without cuts, with the camera moving from person
to person, keeping the tension going.  If I knew at least an inkling about
the stock market, I wouldn't be completely lost during certain scenes, but
what can you do?  I still think it's a fine film with solid performances. 

My score:  7 (out of 10)  
<|_=00=_|>

Wall Street could have fit in very nicely in the theatres today.  The bull
market of the late 80's can be compared to the insane dot.com market of the
late 90's, the same mistakes made on Wall Street repeated themselves again. 
Hal Holbrook's character is the voice of reason in Wall Street, telling Bud
Fox (Charlie Sheen) to stick to the basics, and not get carried away with
going for the easy buck.  Fox is entranced by dynamo Gordon Gekko (Michael
Douglas), whose specialty is taking over and "wrecking" companies, "because
they're wreckable".  Gekko takes Fox in as his protege, teaching him the
ropes and showing him the realities of greed.  Fox becomes corrupted, and
despite the sobering influence of his union man dad (Martin Sheen) gets
ensnared in Gekko's web.  Great performances all around, Douglas was
deserving of the Oscar, Charlie Sheen was very good in his role as well. 
There are terrific supporting roles in this movie; Martin Sheen, Holbrook,
Terence Stamp and Oliver Stone's favourite character actor, John C.
McGinley.  For all of Stone's later failed movies, Wall Street hits the nail
on the head, and above all entertains the audience.  It's hard to see how
the same man directed trash like Natural Born Killers afterwards.

<|_=00=_|>

I have seen this movie dozens of times.  It is a must see for any
capitalist
pig.  Gordon Gekko remains one of the great movie villains, evil and
ruthless to the core.  You will love the music by Stewart Copland and
Oliver
Stone's direction and co-writing of a great screenplay.  I went to this
film
expecting to hate it and loved it.  This film will remind you of when
Oliver
Stone made REAL films.  Its also a perfect time capsule for what 1980's
America was like.
