

This is a great, great film. Quite possibly one of the most accurate
depictions of high school life I've ever seen. Lucas is funny, touching, and
insightful. Corey Haim gives a truly winning performance as the tormented
title character and makes the audience sympathetic towards him. Charlie
Sheen, Kerri Green, and Winona Ryder all leave their mark in this film as
his few friends and the rest of the cast works nicely. The great thing about
this movie is that, although billed as a romantic comedy, it is more of a
drama that explores the difficulty of being an outsider, this film doesn't
give in to teen-flick cliches, it is almost relentless in terms of causing
the audience to feel sorry for Lucas and at times it's downright scary. This
film really made me think about how stupid high school social structures can
be, it really is that bad for some people, in fact it's worse. I think this
film is an emotional, moral masterpiece. I hate high school, I love Lucas.
If you want to see high school for what it really is...skip "Ferris Bueller"
or "10 things I hate about you", see Lucas, good stuff.  

<|_=00=_|>
I saw Lucas for the first time today... more than 20 years since it
first came out. I have to admit, I'm a huge 80's fan and even though I
was just a kid during the 80's I consider myself to be pretty familiar
with the pop culture of the time. However, for some odd reason, I never
got around to seeing Lucas. I have to say that, despite the fact that
this movie is so old and I've seen movies with similar plots since,
this movie still made me teary-eyed. I absolutely adored Corey Haim
when I was a young girl and his role as the sweet, vulnerable, yet
highly intelligent nerd gave me the fuzzies... the same way he used to
when I was young. He, along with the rest of the cast (including Kerri
Green, Winona Ryder, and Charlie Sheen), gave a great performance...
typical of the 80's teen flicks (with an over-abundance of clichés),
but, nonetheless, touching. It's definitely up there with the all time
classics: Sixteen Candles, Pretty in Pink... and any of the flicks
including the Brat Pack. Definitely worth seeing if you're in a
nostalgic mood and want to revisit the old days of knee-high tube socks
and head bands.
<|_=00=_|>
...and "Lucas" is still a charming and sentimental little
high school campus comedy with a message about what's
important in life (and it ain't football). Telling of a
goggle-eyed "shrimp" (Haim) with little going for him,
save
his indomitable spirit, who tries desperately to win the
affection of a pretty cheerleader (Green), "Lucas" is a
crowd pleasing blast from the past with its priorities
in
order. In this day when movies with messages are rare,
"Lucas" is a good family flick (for 13 and up) worth
revisiting.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is becoming a classic because of the fine, early performances from
Winona Ryder, Charlie Sheen, Corey Haim, even Courtney Thorne-Smith of "Ally
McBeal".

It is a unique movie with a love triangle where the viewer wants both guys
(Sheen and Haim) to get the girl.  But of course both can
not.

"Lucas" is about the truths of life and relationships, and how the teenage
years bring them to the surface.  Another interesting element is the use of
insects for symbolism.
<|_=00=_|>

Lucas was released with little fanfare in 1986, and many think it is one of
the greatest "teen" movies ever made. I would agree, for the simple reason
that this particular film has realistic, sympathetic and likeable characters
and, with the exception of all the football heroic antics towards the end,
it's just full of sweetness and charm.

Looking back, it's one of those films with a very interesting
cast...

Corey Haim (Lucas Blye) - this was Haim's finest hour, giving a really
excellent performance as the title character, a misfit who listens to
classical music and collects bugs in lieu of rock 'n' roll and partying. He
followed this up with The Lost Boys the following year, but then WHAT
happened?!!?...

Kerri Green (Maggie) - everyone loved this sweetly appealing, auburn haired
actress in The Goonies (1985) and Lucas - she was lovely in both films.
However, Kerri sadly chose not to persue an active film career, which is a
disappointment as she would certainly have become a big movie star had she
wanted to be...

Winona Ryder (Rena) - even in such a small supporting role, not to mention a
debut performance, Winona indicated that she had an extraordinary acting
talent. Even though her Lucas co-stars had the bigger roles, it was Winona
who has become a major movie star with a huge array of films to her credit,
plus two Oscar nominations for her work in The Age of Innocence (1993) and
Little Women (1994)...

Charlie Sheen (Cappie) - 1986 was a great year for Martin Sheen's son. In
Lucas and Platoon, Sheen did some great work. But like Corey Haim, what on
earth went wrong?!...

Courtney Thorne-Smith (Alise) - who would have thought over a decade later
this actress would do such a good job as Georgia Thomas in the hugely
successful TV series Ally McBeal?!...

Despite its almost universal acclaim and brilliant young cast, Lucas is not
as well-known to movie lovers as, say, Pretty in Pink or any other teen
movie of that era. Well, all I can say is that those who have not seen Lucas
are sadly missing out on something incredibly special.
<|_=00=_|>

What ever happened to the adorable female co-star of this film? She's
quite lovely in this film, but she seems to have disappeared. Anyway, this is a fun teenage comedy-romance that features Corey Haim, before he got annoying, in a role where he showed great
potential as an actor. My guess, he didn't know Corey Feldman yet? Charlie Sheen mumbles his way through the role of
the jock with a heart. Winona Ryder, Jeremy Piven, Courtney-Thorne Smith
also co-star in this...a cute film.  
<|_=00=_|>
There's something extraordinary about "Lucas"; something that makes it
impossible for us to reject it. We have always watched movies like
"Lucas" along the ages, I have watched plenty of movies like it; and
have disliked them all. Not that "Lucas" is great, but you know what I
say about 'Love Actually"? If you express it with this film, "Lucas" is
good as a movie, but almost brilliant as a family inspirational
picture.

What happens in the film is like a taleAn old tale of a boy who is not
accepted in his everyday environment and tries to live with it. The
hero of this tale is the special Lucas, played by Corey Haim as a boy
who is definitely stranger and more intelligent than the rest of his
companions; it's something you notice immediately.

Or at least Maggie (Kerri Green) notices it. She spends the entire
summer with him and when school starts he doesn't know what's going to
happen. Logically, he has his two or three nerdy best friends that are
there for him, included a girl named Rina (the first role Winona Ryder
ever played, with 15 years old or soGorgeous), who obviously likes him
and follows his look while he is searching for Maggie on the first day
of classes. 

It's not that Lucas dislikes his friends, but that he had sensed
something different when knowing Maggie. But Maggie is older, and
interested in older guys like Cappie (a very young Charlie Sheen), for
example. In a very good scene where Cappie takes care of Lucas, Maggie
thanks him and they both talk about LucasMy brother thought Maggie was
in love with Lucas, but I told him that she had a crush on CappieThe
movie understands the characters so well that it turned out the way I
said, of course.

The language these kids deal with, the situations they live are real.
David Seltzer, who directed and wrote the film, puts strong and hurtful
words in his screenplay so they generate an impact in the picture's
most moving moments. "But that doesn't turn you on, does it?", Lucas
tells MaggieThat's not the kind of phrase you'd commonly listen a
13-year old say, even less on a film. That's the way Seltzer shapes his
characters, in a way that we believe everything they declare and in a
way that the only thing that becomes predictable in the movie is the
storyline itself.

A known writer, Seltzer has directed few things. As a director, he also
preserves his characters. Watch a beautiful scene where the choir is
singing and the camera goes from side to side showing each of the main
characters looking at the person he likes, but not one of them being
corresponded with the look. That's perfect directing, even more in a
film of this typeSo classic: the simple edition (Priscilla
Nedd-Friendly, "Down to Earth"), the touchy score (Dave Grusin, "The
Goonies", "Hope Floats", "Selena").

What I'm trying to say is that, to Seltzer, is all about the movie. The
actors don't show off, Corey Haim is the hero but not the star. It's
about the movie; a piece with an absolutely clichéd resolution that we
find inspiring and therefore embrace.
<|_=00=_|>

Haim gives his overall best performance as the 14-year-old title character
who has a crush on new girl Green and they bond during the summer, but by
the time school begins, he gets teased by the jocks and Green leaves him out
in the cold and has eyes for football hunk Sheen, who has become Lucas's
bodyguard.  Fraught with rejection and neglect, Lucas attempts to prove
himself worthy by trying out for the football team, which he knows is no
easy task for a boy his age.  Unlike many other teen movies, LUCAS gives us
a character that we can actually relate to, and the other characters fit in
perfectly.  One of the best teen movies of the 80's.

4 out of 5
<|_=00=_|>

*Spoiler Alert*

Lucas is the story of an odd, but gifted pre-pubescent youth who happens to
be attending high school at an early age. He falls for the pretty new girl
in town who happens to be a few years older. She, on the other hand, has the
hots for hunky Charlie Sheen, and Lucas is relegated to "friend status". (As
if he ever had a chance with her in the first place.) 

Lucas is played by to perfection by Corey Haim. In fact this is most likely
his best film role. (It sure beats the heck out of Blown
Away!).
Kerri Green (I wonder what she's doing today) plays the new girl in
town.They along with the rest of the cast is top drawer. Many of the main
characters are well-known celebs today. Look for Winona Ryder in her screen
debut as a nerdy girl who has a crush on Lucas. The lovely Courtney
Thorne-Smith plays Sheen's hottie girlfriend before he dumps her for Green.

As the action unfolds, we see Lucas try everything to win Green's affection
to no avail. At one point he even tries out for the football team and
proceeds to get clobbered by the bigger upper-classmen. We as the viewer
feel for the kid, because we all know the deck is stacked against him.

This film is truly special. It packs a real emotional punch at a time when
most movies dealing with teens were pretty shallow. We can all relate to
Lucas to some degree. We have all pretty much had strong feelings for
someone we knew we could never have. This film captures the pain involved
with crushes better than any other I have seen. In some ways it can be
tougher to just be friends with a girl you like than if she never talked to
you at all. 

Another thing that is really great about the film is the ending. It isn't
simply your run-of-the-mill happy ending where the hero gets the girl. Lucas
fails to win her over, but at least he wins the respect of the guys who have
been tormenting him.

If you haven't seen this one, SEE IT!
If you have, SEE IT AGAIN!

4&1/2 of 5 stars

So sayeth the Hound.
<|_=00=_|>
During the summer vacation, the fourteen year-old Lucas Bly (Corey
Haim) meets the sixteen year-old newcomer in town Maggie (Kerri Green)
and they become best friends. Lucas is an intelligent boy that loves
bugs and shows the mansion where he lives to Maggie. When classes
begin, Maggie learns that Lucas is not a popular student but an outcast
nerd at school and bullied by the football players. The football
captain Cappie (Charlie Sheen) protects Lucas because the boy helped
him when he was ill. Soon Lucas has a crush on Maggie but she falls in
love with Cappie, while Lucas' schoolmate Rina (Winona Ryder) loves
him. When Maggie joins the cheerleaders, Cappie's girlfriend Alise
(Courtney Thorne-Smith) becomes jealous of her and she ends the
relationship with Cappie. Meanwhile Lucas joins the football team
expecting to impress Maggie. During a game, Lucas is hurt and Maggie
finds that he lives in a trailer with his alcoholic father. What will
happen to Lucas?

"Lucas" is a touching classic from the wonderful 80's, with a pleasant
and sensitive story of unrequited first love. Corey Haim has a
magnificent performance in the role of a boy with no family that falls
in love with an older girl. The difference of two years for a fourteen
year-old boy is indeed too much. Another attraction is to see Winona
Ryder, Charles Sheen and others very young in the beginning of career.
After almost thirty years, "Lucas" is still a delightful heartbreaking
film. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "A Inocência do Primeiro Amor" ("The Innocence of the
First Love")
