
"The Dead Zone" is one of the few King novels turned into really good
movies. It is very true to the book in its first two thirds and
integrates some nice new elements in the last. Making Sarah a supporter
of Greg Stillson was a brilliant idea that adds a bit more intensity to
the finale. Some details of the novel are only hinted at or cut out
entirely (Johnny's mother's religious delusion, his first accident on
the ice, the Wheel Of Fortune, etc), but compromises have to be made
when turning a book with 500 pages into a feature length movie and I
think the right editing choices have been made.

"The Dead Zone" is not only an overlooked gem when it comes to Stephen
King adaptations, it's also one of Cronenberg's best directing jobs,
not very typical of his work, but pretty timeless. Sure, nowadays the
accident at the beginning, Johnny's visions and the shootout at the end
would be made more gripping and spectacular, but those minor flaws
don't really make the movie seem all that dated.

Of course, having read the book I enjoyed the movie as a portrayal of
events I had pictured in my mind before. I don't know, if "The Dead
Zone" is thrilling to first time viewers, too, since the plot leaps a
little, being a series of episodes rather than one continuous story.
After all, I believe that Christopher Walken's performance is strong
enough to carry most of the story and make you care about this
character and his fate. In fact, all the roles have been cast pretty
accurately to my personal imagination.

This movie is an artifact of the times when Hollywood's most important
directors would fight for the opportunity to adapt one of Stephen
King's novels. It's every bit as enjoyable as "The Shining" as a movie,
it's just based on an inferior model. Still, "The Dead Zone" can be
recommended to King fans as well as those who are indifferent to his
work.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm a great admirer of David Cronenberg, and "The Dead Zone' could well be
his most underrated movie. The problem is that it's just not very
Cronenbergesque, and being "Deprave" Cronenberg's first mainstream Hollywood
movie, and coming hot off his provocative and mind blowing 'Videodrome',
many people regard it as some kind of sell out. I really cannot agree. If
you forget your preconceived idea of what Cronenberg movies SHOULD be (and
let's not forget his other career oddities 'Fast Company' or 'M.
Butterfly'), and just accept it for what it is, you'll see that it is a very
well made and well acted thriller, and is almost impossible to fault. In my
opinion it joins Kubrick's 'The Shining' and De Palma's 'Carrie' as the most
effective Steven King adaptations to date. Christopher Walken is on top form
here, and I think gives one of his very best performances. The supporting
cast are also excellent, the lovely Brooke Adams ('Invasion Of The Body
Snatchers'), horror veteran Herbert Lom ('Mark Of The Devil'), Martin Sheen
('Badlands'), Tom Skerritt ('Alien'), Anthony Zerbe ('The Omega Man'), and
Cronenberg regular Nicholas Campbell, who is involved in the movies most
unforgettable sequence. I've lost track of how many times I've watched 'The
Dead Zone' over the years, but it never fails to hook me in, and I always
get something more out of Walken's performance every time I view it. This
movie may not be typical fare from David Cronenberg, but it is one of his
most straightforward and entertaining films. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has been running on the pay channels lately, and I have been
watching repeatedly. I saw this movie years ago, and I never took the
time to read the book. Therefore, I picked up the book and read it. I
have read probably 25 Steven King books and in every case the book is
always better than the movie, here was the first. The movie The Dead
Zone is by far superior to the book. The book of course has more detail
and characters, but the book's characters are boring. Martin Sheen as
Greg Stillson was a perfect fit. The changes in the story, (without
giving away the movie), where much better in the movie than in the
book. A fun suggestion, read the book, and then watch the movie. See if
I'm right…….
<|_=00=_|>
The Dead Zone, along with The Shining and Salem's Lot (1979) is
probably one of the best cinematic adaptions of a Stephen King novel.
The Dead Zone centers around young schoolteacher John Smith (the
awesome Christopher Walken) who leads a pretty normal life in a small
town in Maine. John is a nice young man with a classroom full of
students who like him, a pretty girlfriend he wants to marry and a good
relationship with his mom and dad. But late one night, a horrific car
accident takes all of that away from him...and replaces it with the
gift - or is it the curse? - of precognition. John awakens from a five
year coma to find his girlfriend married to another man, his job long
gone and his parents much more feeble and shaken. But the one thing he
does have - and isn't sure he wants - is a powerful ability to see both
into the past and the future. Everyone he touches is an open book - the
nurse whose house is burning down, the doctor whose mother escaped Nazi
occupied Poland, the reporter whose sister killed herself...and a
brutal serial killer who is raping and strangling young women. But the
worst is yet to come. John meets an eager and ruthless politician
(Martin Sheen) who is determined to get into the White House and
declare nuclear war in the name of God. John finally decides to make
use of his harrowing visions and sets out to change the future, even if
it means he will not live to see it for himself.

This is an emotional, sorrowful tale of loss, grief and sacrifice. John
is no superhero, no butt-kicking killing machine out to stomp the bad
guys. He's a sad, lonely man with a limp and a terrible case of bad
luck. The pain of John Smith haunts the expressive face of Christopher
Walken throughout the entire film, and the rage he feels at the rotten
hand that life has dealt him is understandable, believable and
shattering. This is a man who has suffered every pain and loss that a
man can suffer, yet is still determined to make the world a safe place
for those he loves, even if it means losing them forever.

John is indeed one of screendom's saddest heroes - accessible,
believable and heartbreaking. Christopher Walken is thoroughly
convincing in his performance here: very likable and, at the same time,
frighteningly intense. The cold, eternal winter in which the film takes
place just reinforces the sense of loneliness and alienation. The
violence is brief, but shocking, and the images are so powerful that
they remain with you long after the film ends. Martin Sheen is also
incredibly good as the dangerously psycho politician, and Brooke Adams
is the dark ghost of regret as John's true love, Sarah. 

This is a powerful, unforgettable film, whether you consider it a
mystery, a horror-thriller or a tragic love story. Don't miss it, if
you can help it. 10 huge stars!
<|_=00=_|>
A schoolteacher Johnny Smith (Christopher Walken) a survivor of a road
accident awakes from a five-year coma to discover he has psychic
abilities, which he gets visions of the past, present and the deadly
future. And how he does it, is through the use of touch. But life has
changed within that time with his girlfriend (Brooke Adams) being
married; he's basically crippled and no longer having a job. So now he
uses his abilities to help a sheriff (Tom Skerritt) solve a murder
case, to save a child's life and predicting world's fate from an evilly
corrupt politician (Martin Sheen) who plans to be president.

It's definitely one of my favourite King adaptations and you could say
Cronenberg at his best. This time around Cronenberg has taken a more
mainstream (even though depressing) approach with none of his grotesque
and disturbing visuals evident, but that doesn't take away from the
experience - as on show is good story telling, performances and
film-making. Visually the film does hold strong imagery (especially the
vision scenes) and also the picture truly captures the unsaturated
colours of the wintry backdrop, which makes the bleak atmosphere such a
dour affair. Though the sharp stabbing sounds when Johnny gets a vision
truly knocks you, but it's the stinging outcome that made the film for
me. Distinctive photography by Mark Irwin was beautifully constructed
and pretty smooth in the detail of the settings. While, the driving
score stood out and was particularly on the spot with capturing the
right mood. Sound performances are given by the likes of the
sympathetic Christopher Walken and the innocent Brooke Adams. Martian
Sheen delivers a rather hammy performance and Tom Skerritt's
performance is the total opposite, being rather toned down.
Cronenberg's solid direction paces the film swiftly and also creates
some well-staged sequences of tension that stick in your head. In all
you can always expect dashing film-making by Cronenberg and that's what
you get in this picture.

The story is what I had some gripes with. At times it felt like writer
Jeffrey Boam was trying to squeeze too much into the story. Some
interesting and intelligent sub-plots (murder investigation) felt
hurried and rather contrived - it was like it was concentrating and
building more towards the final act instead. But then again time is
money and it didn't take away from my overall enjoyment of this film.
The plot is basically a portrait of a man coming to grips with his pain
and accepting the fate his been chosen and also throw in some social
commentary into the mix. Also added is the occasional dabbing of
dry/witty remarks, but for me it was uncomfortable humour. That being
pretty much the state of the film. One thing I noticed, but don't know
if this symbolism was intended but the way Johnny is always wearing the
black coat reminded me of death (fate). Especially with touch his can
see into the future and actually alter what can happen (say death).
Maybe it was just I? 

It isn't gut wrenching stuff (visually speaking) we've come to expect
by Cronenberg, but still he nails down a well drawn up and gripping
drama/thriller.
<|_=00=_|>
It seems that movies starring Christopher Walken just can't go wrong!
David Cronenberg's adaptation of Stephen King's "The Dead Zone"
features him in one of his most interesting roles as literature teacher
Johnny Smith, who becomes psychic after surviving a car wreck. He uses
his newfound power to help people avoid danger, but soon faces a moral
dilemma when it looks like political candidate Greg Stilson (Martin
Sheen) may become the next Hitler.

This is one of those movies that has shades of everyone involved in it.
Walken's eerie presence, Sheen's (apparent) "aw shucks" demeanor, plus
the horrific feeling of Cronenberg and King. You're sure to love it.
Also starring are Brooke Adams as Johnny's ex hubby, and Herbert Lom as
a doctor (you may expect him to launch into an anti-Clouseau diatribe,
but his role here is as far removed from Commissioner Dreyfus as
possible).

Very well done.
<|_=00=_|>

David Cronenberg's "The Dead Zone" is certainly one of the best -- if
not THE best -- adaptations of any Stephen King novel on film. It holds
up as well now as it did on its premiere over twenty years ago. Among
its strengths are Jeffrey Boam's screenplay -- this adaptation catches
all the essentials of King's story (losing only some of the
mood-setting backstories), cuts some of the novel's dross, and adds a
few spot-on creative tweaks of its own (e.g. the references to Poe and
Irving, quite appropriate given hero Johnny Smith's profession).

The acting is excellent throughout, from the starring roles down
through smaller parts such as the hero's parents. I also love the
moody, haunting score by Michael Kamen, which is a masterly adaptation
of, and variation on, a theme from the second symphony of Finnish
composer Jean Sibelius.

Be forewarned, however, that "The Dead Zone" is no horror movie in the
sense of featuring vampires, ghosties, werewolves, or zombies. It might
be called a thriller or even, loosely, science fiction, in the sense
that it operates from the hypothetical "what-if?" premise of
precognition, or seeing into the future. It could even be called a
tragedy. There is certainly a terrible sense of loss over the
star-crossed love of Johnny and Sarah at the end of this doom-laden
story.

<|_=00=_|>
THE DEAD ZONE (1983) ***1/2 Christopher Walken, Brooke Adams, Tom
Skerritt, Herbert Lom, Colleen Dewhurst, Martin Sheen. David Cronenberg
directed this exceptional adaptation of Stephen King's successful
chilling novel about sad-eyed school teacher Johnny Smith (eerily
personified by the always wonderful Walken) who after hurtled into a
coma from a car accident, resurrects to find himself with clairvoyant
powers by the simple touch with another human being. Effectively creepy
at times and nice use of snow engulfed Maine as its setting. One of
Walken's uncanniest performances and one of his own personal faves
(which he lampooned later to much hilarity on a 'Saturday Night Live'
skit ).
<|_=00=_|>

 One of the unwritten laws of the movies is that Stephen King books are
nearly always disappointing when transferred to the big screen. One film
which doesn't fit that rule is The Dead Zone. In the hands of David
Cronenberg, you may expect this to be a gore-filled affair, but it is
actually a very well-made, subtle film which emphasises the psychological
sense of fear rather than settling for blood-spattered mayhem. There isn't a
moment in the film that will make you jump out of your seat, but it is still
an effectively scary film because it plays on your mind.

 Normal, down-to-earth everyman Johnny Smith (Christopher Walken) is
involved in a terrible car crash which leaves him comatose. Four years
later, he miraculously awakens. To begin with, he is devastated to learn
that his girlfriend has moved on, marrying and starting a family with
another man. But soon he realises that this is the least of his problems. He
soon discovers that the accident has left him with remarkable powers, which
enable him to see into people's futures just by touching their hand. And
Johnny is in for one hell of a nasty shock when he shakes hands with
potential senator Greg Stillson (Martin Sheen) at a political
rally....

 An intelligently paced and very well-acted film, The Dead Zone is also full
of unpredictable plot developments. Walken elicits great sympathy as the
normal guy who rapidly learns that his new gift is actually a curse, and
there are fabulous supporting performances from Tom Skerritt, Herbert Lom,
Brooke Adams and the terrifying Martin Sheen. The film has several
tremendous moments, but the climax in particular builds to an emotional
crescendo. The premise of The Dead Zone is probably rather silly if you stop
to think about it, but other than that it is a most impressive film - and
still ranks as one of, if not THE, best adaptation of a Stephen King story
so far.
<|_=00=_|>
At this point in his career, Stephen King had the miraculous, almost
Hitchcockian ability to allow a story to proceed from the most
believable of circumstances, trickle like water delicately over tiny
steps which, taken alone, did not seem too out of the ordinary, and
then coalesce magnificently into masterpieces that defy categorization
– not horror, not science fiction, but truly something magical, if
unnameable. Dead Zone is such a masterpiece.

Owing in no small part to the subtle yet compelling performance of
Christopher Walken, who in the same year would star in one of my most
beloved films of the genre, Brainstorm, Dead Zone may well be one of
King's best. Almost certainly based to some extent on real-life psychic
Peter Hurkos, Dead Zone shows the master, King, taking an already well
known premise to a new and thrilling conclusion.

The theme developed here is a common one for King. An innocent victim,
through no fault of his own, is thrown into a paranormal world that
will lead to an ultimate test. The idea is classic literary tragedy at
its best, and is represented with equal aplomb in King's
contemporaneous work such as Firestarter and Christine.

Director David Cronenberg, smoking hot at the time with masterpieces of
his own – Scanners and Videodrome, delivers a film that resonates
perfectly with King's book, with pacing and tone that capture what was
best about King in this period. King himself was experiencing his
golden age, with Cujo, Firestarter, Carrie and The Shining rounding out
his catalog within a few years. In other words, this is the best of the
best for some people who gave us some pretty good stuff.

The supporting cast is brilliant. Martin Sheen, Tom Skerritt, Anthony
Zerbe, and the lovely Brooke Adams are all exceptional. Screenwriter
Jeffrey Boam, who also penned such classics as Lost Boys, Lethal Weapon
2 and 3, and the Witches of Eastwick, crafted a brilliant treatment
that works absolutely perfectly from start to finish. Michael Kamen's
brilliant score is but one jewel in the crown of his many achievements,
and was said to be so disturbing that overhearing him practicing it
gave his neighbors nightmares.

I suppose I could try to think of more ways to say it, but there is no
need. It can be summed up once and for all in a single sentence. Dead
Zone is perfection.
