


Alex Cox's WALKER is a cult movie in search of an audience.  Ignored
by audiences upon its original release, despised by critics (Leonard Maltin
unfairly gives it a BOMB), WALKER is nonetheless a fascinating oddity of a
movie that will be of interest to anyone who likes "psychotronic"
cinema.

I am something of an expert on William Walker (1824-1860), the Nashville
born doctor/lawyer/journalist who made his mark on Latin American history as
a "filibuster," or soldier of fortune.  As such, I have long wanted to see a
movie about my "hero."  I admit I was disappointed at first with Cox's
film--it starts out as a serious biography, but it slowly degenerates into
an arch, anachronistic political satire.  Some of the humor is over the top
and gells uneasily with the more serious aspects of the film.  Sometimes I
get the feeling that Cox and company just said "to hell with it, let's make
this a big joke." Repeated viewings, however, have revealed the film's
strengths.  Ed Harris is perfect as Walker--he plays the "Gray Eyed Man of
Destiny" exactly as I perceive the man's character to be.  The supporting
cast, full of familiar faces, is also dead-on.  The music by Joe Strummer,
formerly of The Clash, is a terrific blend of latino, jazz, country, and
other styles.  Many individual scenes stand out; the climax, in which Walker
orders the sacking of Granada, is a nightmarish image of the madness and
horror of war.
I feel WALKER is bound to become a major cult film--it is quite simply
too strange to be anything else, and it deserves more than oblivion.  While
others remember Cox's SID AND NANCY and REPO MAN, this picture is far more
interesting and deserves more attention than those more celebrated works.
WALKER is rarely televised and hard to find on video--but I strongly urge
anyone who reads this to seek it out.  I promise you won't have seen
anything else like it! 
<|_=00=_|>

I'm totally baffled by the way Alex Cox's 'Walker' has been ignored,
vilified, criticised, ridiculed and slandered over the years. Maybe it's
political message cuts too close to the bone, or maybe the mainstream movie
critics are even more conservative and short sighted than you think. Maltin
gives it a BOMB rating, and even the usually perceptive Ebert totally
dismisses it. Forget them! Watch 'Walker' and make your own mind up.

'Walker' is certainly no masterpiece, it has many flaws and problems. It
isn't subtle political satire (polemic?), it's often crude and ill advised.
Some of the actors, especially Marlee Matlin and Gerrit Graham are
under-used. However, it is FAR from a "bomb"! Cox is a passionate man, and
any failings here are due to that passion. The movie is a cry for help for
Nicaragua and its people, and draws parallels between America's involvement
in the 19th century and the 1980s. 

This movie is clever, stupid, rough, accomplished, funny and tragic all at
the same time. Ed Harris is marvellous in the title role, and many cult
actors turn up in supporting roles. Cox is a Peckinpah devotee and some of
that great director's influence can be seen on screen. But Cox is no carbon
copy he's a true original. 'Repo Man' shows that, and anyone who enjoyed
that or 'Sid And Nancy' should take a look at this, one of the most unjustly
ignored movies of the 80s.
<|_=00=_|>
Visionary movie-making. I will not write any spoiler, so I can't
describe the brilliant way Cox expresses his story with some
mind-bending visual and verbal devices. Some might dismiss it as
trickery, but I think of it as magical realism.

William Walker was a real person and his "liberation" of Nicaragua did
take place, roughly as shown in this movie. Cox and Wurlitzer took some
major liberties with historic details- perhaps for narrative pace,
budget reasons, or whatever. I read quite a lot about Walker and
Nicaragua after seeing this movie and there's no distortion for
ideological reasons.

If you value originality, subtlety, honesty and an occasional slap in
the face, see this movie. I envy first-time viewers.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the greatest films i have ever seen. The only issue I
have with it is that it is out of print. I'd do almost anything to find
a copy. While not the most accurate account of LITERAL history, it
still provides decent reference as long as it is taken in its intended
symbolic context. It is a truly profound portrayal, a historical as
well as a relevant political statement filled with striking imagery and
an outstanding score. Possibly too abstract for some, but in all
actuality a most outstanding movie. If anyone knows where i might be
able to find a copy of this I would be most obliged. I recommend it to
anyone interested in...well I recommend it to anyone really.
<|_=00=_|>
Walker was both a box office and critical failure upon its initial
release, and even though it's not hard to see why (viewers expecting a
historic drama played straight, by Cox of all directors, will be sorely
disappointed), it certainly deserves to be rediscovered by a whole new
audience. OK maybe Cox tries to be "cult" a little too hard for his own
good, but that aside he pulls it off surprisingly well. Ed Harris is OK
in the leading role but I would have LOVED to see Gary Oldman portray
the semi-insane William Walker. If any role called for scenery
consumption, it's this one. Watch it for the great Peckinpah-esquire
shooting in slow motion, the amusing anachronisms (choppers, computers,
Newsweek magazines, Coca-Cola bottles, Marlboros), the general air of
absurdity and psychotronic charm, the comedic touches, the political
commentary and the great cinematography. Walker is good exactly because
it refuses to take itself overly serious.
<|_=00=_|>

Alex Cox has created a visionary work.  This film is a masterpiece.  It's
a
one and a half hour joke with an incredible punchline that indelibly
changed
how I view the world.  Ed Harris is a dead ringer for the "grey eyed man
of
destiny".  I couldn't see anyone else in this role.  He's a perfect fit.
This is an incredibly original work of historical fiction that tells a
truly
timeless story (pardon the pun) in a way that one could never
forget.

By all means, find this movie!  
<|_=00=_|>
"Walker" is an unique film, but its easy to see why it flopped
commercially and critically when originally released. The film tells
the tale of a 19th century mercenary soldier who invades Nicaragua to
install democracy and winds up making a tyrannical government. The
central character, Walker, is a completely insane man, which makes Alex
Cox's over-the-top style of storytelling rather effective. The film,
along with the equally berserk but not nearly as interesting "Straight
to Hell", completely destroyed Cox's career after the promise of his
first two films "Repo Man" and "Sid and Nancy". Its easy to see why.
Not because this film is bad or anything, but its sledgehammer style
really nails the point home and was probably uncomfortable for audience
members.

That isn't to say its a masterpiece. Cox is a bit too sledgehammer in
his style, meaning he often sacrifices character development or a
compelling storyline in order to get the point across. Plus, the satire
is often a bit too over-the-top and comes across as juvenile
(espescially for the first twenty minutes or so). Still, Cox is clearly
a passionate man and one has to admire him for making such an
uncompromising picture. Its still unique and entertaining in how
surreal it often is. (7/10)
<|_=00=_|>
Alex Cox and Rudy Wurlitzer have one of the more perplexing and rather
cool works of late 80s subversive film-making with Walker, a film about
a real man and his mad overthrow of the government of Nicaragua in the
mid 1850s. It was a fiasco, but it almost wasn't at one point. There
was a moment where the line was distinctly crossed with the execution
of a certain character, and it's also at this point in the film that
Cox lets things go even further off the wall from the period setting.
For a while it's so not trying to be any kind of absurdist take on
things that it seems like a (good) serious take on a man like Walker
(Ed Harris) in a strange land that he thinks he can make well under
"democratic" terms. As he soon goes against everything stood for, the
film too goes into bizarro world, mixing in cars, computers, Time and
Newsweek, and even a real army helicopter and soldiers (the copter, I
might add, was a real chopper used in the Nicaraguan battles of 1987).

In the sense of marking out ground that is all of a director's own in
this form and context, it's not quite Aguirre, but for Alex Cox, a
director who's had his ups and downs, it's a significant achievement.
It seems like it should be all nonsense, and that the film might be
taking itself too seriously. But in reality the nonsense is what the
film is sort of about, not really how it comes off. Cox goes between
overtly homage-like slow-motion action shots of battle and blood
splattering with guns going off like Peckinpah with a heap-load to let
go. What is it, anyway, to try and bring democracy to a land like
Nicaragua, and under the circumstances (i.e. under Vanderbilt, played
by Peter Boyle with his own crazy-big mutton chops) that should be
already considered troublesome? Walker wasn't even any kind of
politician before this, though as also a doctor and lawyer he tried
(unsuccessfully) to bring some battle over Mexico. 

Is it a microcosm? Does it say where we're headed, or rather where we
are now? Probably to both. It's a trip that shouldn't be taken too
lightly, and it definitely isn't for everyone, but what's thrilling
about Cox's vision is that he has no fear of what the audience will
think anyway. Like Repo Man's mix of teen punk comedy and sci-fi action
pic, Cox is mixing and experimenting forms, a Dr. Strangelove take on
Manifest Destiny with a style that veers between obscure spaghetti
western and featuring one of the great, groovy soundtracks of the 80s
from Joe Strummer. It might not be anything that will end up on
'best-of-ever' lists, but as a work unto itself this and Withnail & I
are the superb cult films of 1987, with this begging for some
re-examination twenty-something years later. At the least, it's one of
Ed Harris's unsung masterful and subtle performances.
<|_=00=_|>
In the 1850's an American soldier-of-fortune known as William Walker
marches his army into Nicaragua to take control of the country for a
wealthy and powerful capitalist, Cornelius Vanderbilt. Through time,
Walker sets himself up as the ruler of the worn-torn country, but the
power gets to his head when he bites off more than he can chew to keep
it that way and hold onto those principles he believes in.

Cult director Alex Cox churns out one very peculiar, social minded and
disjointed experience from his effort on "Walker (1987)". While, the
film does contain bad aspects and goes about things rather forcefully.
There's still entertainment within this spirited feature and Ed Harris
kept me captivated with a truly intense and radiant performance as the
black dressed William Walker. After a somewhat serious opening on the
factual story, it eventually succumbs to surreal imagery and
anachronistic details to get its loud and intrusive message across.
Like many have mentioned in their comments it does have real visionary
punch to it that resembles Sam Peckinpah's work. Just look at the
brutal action and glamorous slow-mo interwoven into many scenes. Alex
Cox's direction is quite staged and can get heavy-handed, but the many
stylistic touches and eccentric moods do rub off. I loved the way he
decided to shoot the flick. Rudy Wurlitzer's over-dramatic, but
stirring screenplay is laced with pot shots and parallels on the
political interference of the USA from 1850's to the most recent. There
seems to be too much going on in the script and it felt like it was
pushed along too quickly, which meant the diverse narration became
choppy with some unclear details. It was actually hard during certain
moments to take it seriously because of some odd and absurd comedic
developments. 

Joe Strummer provides the ever-changing carefree mixture in the music
score with perfect results in capturing the tenor. The strong
supporting cast with the likes of Richard Masur, Xander Berkeley, Rene
Auberjonois, Sy Richardson, Marlee Matlin and so on work very well and
fed of Harris' egotistical character marvellously. The way Walkers'
progressive power got to his head personally and finally backfires on
him (and his followers) with many disillusions having a lasting affect
on his judgement is portrayed beautifully and concisely.

It probably thinks it's more grandeur than it actually is, but this is
one fascinating foray nonetheless.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is one of those rare films I can't help but admire for its
temerity. Hiding its eccentricities under the guise of a biographical
epic, this film breaks all conventions, storytelling and otherwise to
create a jarring yet memorable experience.

The film concerns itself with American 18th century soldier of fortune
William Walker (Ed Helms) who from 1855 to 1857 was de facto ruler of
Nicaragua. After the unexpected death of his wife (Marlee Matlin),
Walker leaves for Nicaragua with the support of Cornelius Vanderbilt
(Peter Boyle) who hopes to capitalize on the country's position between
the Atlantic and Pacific. He is also aided by a group of mercenaries
some of which worked with him in an unsuccessful campaign in Mexico.
They would become known as Walker's Immortals.

"Walker" is like "Aguirre" mixed with "Wild Bunch" and "Fear and
Loathing in Las Vegas." The film starts out in a hail of gunfire and
blood before setting up breezy yet much needed exposition. From then on
its a no holds barred acid trip with a modern satirical twist. While
Arthur Miller's The Crucible was a veiled criticism of McCarthyism,
Walker is a downright admonishment of U.S. involvement in Nicaragua
during the 80's complete with cars, modern rifles and Time magazine. I
could imagine the producers watching the final cut of "Walker" huddled
into the screening room thinking "we're so screwed!" Director Alex Cox
slowly unveils his demented scheme with such relish that its hard not
to enjoy his F-U to the Hollywood studio system. In satirizing modern
politics he also satirizes conventions of biographical film-making.
Despite long hours of research most "true story" films are speculative
anyway so why not show a helicopter in the 1850's? "Walker" is an ugly
film about an ugly man told with energy and gumption. Ed Harris does a
great job chewing the scenery creating a glory seeking reptilian
monster who at one point seems not to know the means to his ends. Alex
Cox has never since had a widely distributed film released in the
United States which is a shame but on the bright side he follows an age
old tradition. Welles had "Citizen Kane," Coppola had "Apocalypse Now"
and Cox has "Walker."

http://theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com/
