
Everyone knows this was Natalie Wood's last film, and that some of her
scenes were filmed after her death with a stand-in you only see from
behind. Director Donald Trumball, best known for his special effects
work in Blade Runner, Close Enounters, and Star Trek, chose this time
to build his story on plot and character development, a good choice
given the enormous talent he had to work with. Trumball's battle with
studio execs to finish the film after Wood's death, rather than claim
the insurance proceeds and call the film off, ended his career in
Hollywood, but assured that this gem would not be lost. It is somewhat
ironic that Natalie's swan song should be a sci-fi movie, since she was
hardly known for work in the genre, but she brings a grace and charm,
as well as depth and beauty, to the genre that is usually lacking.

Most sci-fi films based on technology don't age well, and there are
times where this is no exception. The idea of recording on tape, let
alone making tape loops, must seem like wax cylinder recordings to
today's MP3 generation. The tapes themselves were props borrowed from a
film being shot nearby, and that film was itself a dismal failure. But
the concept is timeless, and so well done that, all in all, the film
still works as well as it did in 1983.

Lesser screenplays would have been content with the main story line;
scientists invent a way to record brainwaves and play them back for a
real life out of body experience, and for just such a stinker, check
out Strange Days. But then along comes the incomparable, utterly
fabulous Louise Fletcher, who, as one of the co-inventors of the
aforementioned device, records her death when she suffers a heart
attack while working late one night. For the rest of the film, people
are either trying to play the tape or prevent others from playing it.
Meanwhile, the technology gets hijacked by two-dimensional government
lackeys trying to exploit the weapons potential of the invention.

One can easily pick out scenes of this movie to vilify or exalt, all
these years later, and any object viewed over time eventually has a
vanishing point. The almost slapstick scene where the assembly robots
go berserk is one example of a scene that, while consistent with its
contemporaries, is silly today. The death scene, though much maligned,
is equally misunderstood, and provides the metaphysical underpinnings
that elevate Brainstorm above mere gadget flicks. Brainstorm is about
exploring experience, life, love, even death, from the point of view of
others, and Academy Award winner Louise Fletcher allows us to do so
through her consummate skill in presenting a death scene of sufficient
awe and wonder to warrant exploration.

If you want to find out what else happens, watch the film, but when you
do, don't ignore the beautiful, delicate interplay between Christopher
Walken and Natalie Wood. Their careening relationship seems somehow
tied to the invention they helped make, and there are sequences so
beautiful that I sometimes take out the DVD just to marvel at them.

Despite changing styles in special effects, this is a timeless and
beautiful story that transcends the genre and, with Walken, Wood and
Fletcher, becomes more than just a story about shiny gold tapes that
record brain waves. It's more about immovable objects and irresistible
forces and what happens when they collide. Intrigued? Good. Go watch
it.
<|_=00=_|>
I have read comments about this film and am a little bemused as to how
no one has talked about what the film is really about. Christopher
Walken's character Mike is given insight (unintentionally)via the
technology as to why his marriage has broken up. He pieces together
memories in order to enter a new romance with his wife Karen played by
Natalie Wood. The key scene is when he asks Karen to put on the headset
and clear her mind and they record her thoughts for 30 seconds. Mike
then puts on the headset and replays the tape. He is suddenly aware of
his dismissive manner to his wife(from her POV) and then taken back to
an argument years ago where he shouts at her that she 'can have the
house, the car, take it all!'. When he takes off the headset he becomes
angry as he is forced to cope with his new feelings and does not know
how to deal with them. From that moment on he changes and becomes more
aware of his wife's feelings. He also realises that he can actually
record his feelings on to tape at this point and goes about recording
tender memories from their past together. When he gives Karen the tape
and she asks what is on it, Mike replies 'It's me'. They are drawn even
closer together through the death of a colleague(Louise Fletcher)who
records her death experience on tape . His wife Karen is behind him all
the way and supports his decision to play the recording because she
knows how much it means to her husband even though it might kill him.
Through all this mayhem Mike gets to play the tape with his wife at his
side. 

This is the central story of what I think is a very powerful and
uplifting film.
<|_=00=_|>

Brainstorm is an amazing and beautifully crafted film, worth watching more
than once.  From the opening credits and the music that never quite resolves,
it is one of those experiences that leaves one unsettled, but not untouched.
The images, the stories, and the issues keep this film from succumbing to the
temptation of being more science than fiction.  The subtle performances and
direction, although sometimes underrated, are intriguing and lend a
sophisticated air.

Watch it as an experience rather than as a scientific treatise and you will
surely have a great ride.
<|_=00=_|>

Brainstorm had a rocky road to completion. After Natalie Wood died before
completion
of shooting, the studio wanted to shut it down and cash in the completion
bond.
Trumbull had fought tooth and nail to get the film made to begin with,
and
when it
looked like it would be snatched from the jaws of victory, he hunkered
down
and
dramatically altered sequences to prove it could indeed be finished
without
Wood's
unshot scenes.

The "recorded memory" sequences were even more vivid for us in
Indianapolis
who saw
it at the Eastwood theatre. The Eastwood had one of the few curved
Cinerama
roadshow
screens outside of New York and Hollywood's Cinerama Dome. Think of it as
a
smaller
version of an Omnimax screen. Sitting in the front row, you were
completely
enveloped
by the film, and the visual and audio effect when the "memory" sequences
lit
up were
quite attention grabbing. Trumbull was at this time working on his
ill-fated
Showscan
process for amusement park rides, and was very interested in audience
perceptions of
diffrent lenses and frame rates. Some of this is used in Brainstorm. It's
just not the same
on a TV set of any size.

The central core of the story - the recording of the death of Lillian and
Michael's
obsession to experience it - is a disturbing one, because it explores the
very nature of
life and death. It can satisfy or dissappoint, because Trumbull has put
his
vision of
memory, experience, death and afterlife on film for everyone to take pot
shots at. And
they did. It's a shame, because the film is beautiful, thought provoking,
and ingenious.
Yeah, I know, it has all of that evil government plot boilerplate. Look
past
it.

(It even revels in the quirks of the researchers, showing the second
thing
everybody
does with new technology is use it for porn.)
<|_=00=_|>

I first watched Brainstorm when I was barely a teenager
and was fairly impressed, an impression that lasted to
date.
For the first time, I'd seen a movie where someone was
presented
with amazing options, and the movie actually covered everything
I'd have thought of. Unlike in those flicks where someone
would
get three wishes and never would wish to get as many wishes
as they wanted (or happiness ever after, or instant death,
or
whatever), "Brainstorm" explores all possible consequences
of
the introduction of new, ground-breaking options:

A team of scientists comes up with a way to
*really* share experience, to let each other in on how
they
experience the eternal essentials; love, life, sex; even
death. And then, it doesn't stop there, taking into consideration the dark
side as well -- what happens if you
share your pain as well? What happens if The Wrong People(TM)
monopolize the Amazing Secret(TM) first?

I love this movie. It ties up eternal questions and hopes
with
fun F/X and combines them into a touching and thrilling
plot
that makes other movies (mostly of the "cyberpunk"-era)
like
"Strange Days" that exploit a similar theme seem anemic in comparison at
best.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a subtle, deeply engaging film which deals with a brilliant and
thought-provoking concept. The ability to live and think and feel as someone
else... Something everyone has wanted to do at some time or other. And more
than that, to be able to have a peek at what happens after death, the
scariest thing a human being will ever have to face. Complex and convincing
performances from all the leads are complemented by sfx that do not
overpower the drama. 
<|_=00=_|>

The first and last time I saw this movie was back in 1983 and I've wanted to
watch it again  many  times since then.  I just couldnt remember the title ,
until someone here on IMDB reminded me.

I used to explain the plot to the guys at video rental places, and they
would just stare at me as though I had gone nuts......

I then recently saw Flatliners and felt the urge to watch Brainstorm
again.....so I did..... and I found it just as good as when I first saw
it.

Of course there are a few bad points, but it is the idea behind the movie
and  the way it is projected  that leaves you .......feeling......and thats
rare for a movie these days.

If you're tired of the usual  stuff being churned out by Hollywood, watch
Brainstorm.........you wont see anything like it.
<|_=00=_|>

What are the boundaries of science fiction?  This film explores them. Like
the thirteenth floor, dark city or the matrix the film leaves a lingering
uncertainty as to what out ultimate destiny or origin is.  Good science
fiction probes us and questions our limitations.
<|_=00=_|>

First off, let's get a few things out of the way:

Yes, "Brainstorm" is marred by uneven acting and the death of its lead
actress, Natalie Wood, under circumstances that to this day are still the
stuff of speculation.

Yes, Louise Fletcher's death scene is overacted to the point of
parody.

Yes, it's not easy to accept Christoper Walken in a role of a semi-normal
person.

Yes, "Brainstorm" was only Douglas Trumbull's second film as a director,
and
some might argue that it was little better than "Silent
Running."

But, even despite all of that, the story is incredibly engaging, the
visuals
are striking (what else would you expect from the wizard responsible for
"2001" and "Blade Runner"?), James Horner's music is absolutely divine,
and
the film is quite enjoyable.

Also, in its favor, a great deal of the credit (or blame, as many would
say)
for the final result lies squarely with MGM/UA. Still dealing with United
Artists' financial baggage after their merger, the company all but took
the
film away from Trumbull after Wood's death--not to mention the studio's
lack
of support for Trumbull's plan to film the "helmet" sequences in his
ultra-realistic Showscan process.

So, in point, I highly recommend this movie, but just be aware of what
you're getting into...
<|_=00=_|>
There's something magical about "Brainstorm". If it's the plot, the
music, Christoper Walken, i don't know. But this one changed my digital
lifestyle. 

"Brainstorm" feels like a farsighted dot.com commercial to me, way
before the web was won. OK, merchandised mind reading technology. Well,
that was a doubtlessly stunning plot. But gee, this guy hooked a mobile
(!) PC to some company's intra-net via phone line (!), just like
operating a fax machine! Far out, THAT was cool and sensational! I was
completely struck, and the next day i got me an acoustic coupling
device, "communication software" and online i went, visiting
"mailboxes" with my 1MHz IBM compatible. On 300 baud/sec. Or 0,003 MBit
in contemporary terminology. The digits dropped in, one by one, and i
felt sooo hip. Some months later i was the first person i knew doing
online banking, and my friends considered me not hip but eccentric.
However, it took me 20 years to actually purchase a mobile PC, because
i needed slots slots slots *lol*...

By the time "Brainstorm" was made, being online was for nerds. The
technological "atmosphere" held not the faintest haze of what we know
now as the world-wide-web, turning the most remote and separate corners
of the world into one global village. 

The idea of sharing sensual impressions by technical means is not
necessarily new, as plenty of sci-fi authors (especially of
east-European origin) dealt with that before. "Brainstorm" was just too
cool in depicting the consequences of such-alike machinery: elder men
going nuts with looped orgasms, children haphazardly checking out tapes
with psychotic episodes, deliberately tracked death experiences locked
away by military, a black market of ethically questionable contents
etc. 

We're working on it, i guess. In fact, we're working on everything that
mother nature won't supply voluntarily. Weird we are. The only question
is: helmets or implants?
