

Murder aboard a Nile steamer in the 1930s is deftly handled here thanks to a
good script and some excellent performances.

There can be no question about it--if you're a mystery fan of the sort of
crime novels Agatha Christie wrote during her prolific writing career--this
is for you. The script fashioned from one of her best works gives a number
of interesting actors roles they can chew the scenery with--and most of them
do. I can't praise Angela Lansbury enough for her deft and daffy portrayal
of a tipsy authoress--so good, she deserved at least an Oscar nomination.
The only real flaw is the film's tendency to move at a rather slow pace
before things get more intense.

Other acting kudos among the suspects aboard a Nile steamer belong to Bette
Davis as an elderly dowager with a penchant for stealing jewelry; her
servant, Maggie Smith, with whom she exchanges some priceless barbs; Simon
MacCorkindale and Lois Chiles as lovers; Mia Farrow as a vengeful
ex-sweetheart; and of course Peter Ustinov as Poirot. David Niven has the
least colorful role and can do little with it as he endeavors to help Poirot
solve the mystery. The plot has all the ingenious twists we come to expect
of Christie and is a very clever one--if slightly improbable when you stop
to think about it--depending heavily on luck and coincidence.

But it's all delivered as entertainment and wrapped up in a package designed
to stir the senses with an excellent musical score, some fine scenery and
Oscar-winning costumes. It's a relief that the writer decided to keep the
period of the novel in the 1930s rather than update it as has been done with
other Christie stories--notably, MURDER IS EASY ('82) which was updated to
include computer technology as part of the plotline. The period flavor here
is an added pleasure.

Flavorful, and highly amusing whenever Bette Davis and Maggie Smith have a
go at some wisecracks, with an ending that will surprise you if you fail to
catch some of the clues. Superior entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>

An heiress is murdered while honeymooning on a Nile cruise. Fortunately, the
famous Belgian detective Hercule Poirot is holidaying on the same paddle
steamer, and begins an investigation. However, it would seem that all of the
other passengers on board have clear motives for committing the
murder.

This was the second of Agatha Christie's novels featuring Hercule Poirot to
be filmed, after the success of 'Murder On The Orient Express' a few years
earlier. The great Peter Ustinov, who so recently passed away, took on the
role this time, and injected it with his own droll humour. Indeed the whole
film seems rather tongue in cheek, with the all star cast having fun with
their roles. Bette Davis, Maggie Smith and Jack Warden all enjoyably ham it
up, but Angela Lansbury manages to outdo them all with a delightfully over
the top performance as the perpetually drunk author of erotic novels. David
Niven, ever the archetypal British gent, proves a good foil as Poirot's
partner in the investigation.

Where the film really scores is in the locations and photography. Egypt
proves a stately backdrop to proceedings and veteran Cinematographer Jack
Cardiff makes the most of it. The 1930's setting also gives an air of
genteel opulence to the surroundings. While the film couldn't claim to be a
classic tension filled mystery, it is a pleasant, laid back and enjoyable
entertainment, that's clever enough to keep you guessing until the
end.
<|_=00=_|>
The book, from which this film was adapted, is probably one of Agatha
Christie's best. The plot centres on Linnet Doyle, a woman who stole
her best friend's fiancé. The scorned Jackie pursues the couple
wherever they go, and when she follows them onto a Nile cruise, it
seems that Jackie is not the only one who has a motive for murder. Of
course, the ever dependable Poirot is on hand to solve the incredibly
cleverly planned crime.

This film contains some fantastic scenes set in the heart of Egypt,
along with an all star cast. The most brilliant performance of all
comes from Angela Lansbury, who plays Mrs. Otterbourne, a drunken old
writer who apparently used Linnet in one of her overly erotic books and
is consequently being taken to court where she may loose everything.
Lansbury captures the humorous side but also the unfortunate aspect of
the character and it is this immense acting ability that should have
won her an Oscar.

The chemistry between the main characters is marvellous and at the end,
when the final solution to the affair is presented, the audience is
shocked when they learn who did it, appreciating fully the extent of
Christie's genius. This is a fantastic film, which builds up tension
fantastically, and is perhaps one of the greatest films ever made, and
is always underrated.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was the first and best of Peter Ustinov's performances as Hercule
Poirot.  Though physically not very accurate to Agatha Christie's
description of the little Belgian detective, for this one movie everything
worked and the discrepancy was not a problem.  The film is well-paced, with
all the plot turns and clues coming with perfect timing, not too fast to be
confusing, but not too slow to strain the rather flimsy fabric of the story.
 The whole cast is very good, especially Bette Davis as a malevolent old
spider of a woman, gleefully tormenting her long-suffering companion, Maggie
Smith. The scene where she smiles indulgently at a group of Egyptian
children waving at her on the river bank, only to sink into mortified
disgust as they turn around and moon her, is a highlight of the movie.  The
climax of the film is quite surprising, and unlike many mysteries, does not
cheat the viewer by withholding vital information until the last moment.  We
feel the pleasure of being honestly fooled throughout, and the conclusion is
thoroughly satisfying.
<|_=00=_|>

I have always loved Agatha Christie novels because she never cheats in her
mysteries.  We're given all of the information and if we're clever enough,
we can unravel the mystery and all will be revealed.  This is true with
the
film adaptation of Death on the Nile.  I adore Mr. Ustinov's Poirot and
Maggie Smith, Betty Davis, Angela Landsbury, Mia Farrow and David Niven
are
just fabulous.  Just so that no one is surprised the murders are very
grisly
even by todays standard, but the scenery is breathtaking and the sets and
costumes transported me to Egypt and I loved every minute of it.  Watch
and
enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>

A wonderful cast of superb actors playing a wonderful cast of outrageous
characters. Exotic locale. Lots of laughs. Great lines. ("If there are two
things I hate it's heat and heathens.) Ustinov gives a somewhat harder spin
to Christie's Poirot than Suchet but he's just as wonderful. Angela Lansbury
should have had the Oscar for best supporting actress that year for her
tipsy, dipsy authoress. Maggie Smith is her usual incredible self. The great
and always fascinating Bette Davis. And the wonderfully synchophantic
"manager" of the steamer. All this with exotic locations, superb camera work
and well paced suspense. Not too often I vote a ten. On this one I did.
Bravo!

<|_=00=_|>
I love Peter Ustinov as Hercule Poirot. Forget all those other phonies
who've tried to fill his shoes! Including that ridiculous Murder on the
Orient Express! 

His sly, lovable demeanor rivals any of the great actors playing
detectives- Peter Falk as Columbo, etc. He has a wonderful way of
gaining the confidence and trust of each of his suspects, while probing
them for information. You never really know who he suspects, and that's
the fun of the mystery. He guides you through the maze like true
detective. 

I have seen each of his delicious portrayals as the great, Belgian
detective several times, and they just get better with age.
<|_=00=_|>

Filthy rich Lois Chiles is killed on a ship traveling down the Nile River in
Egypt.  Good thing that detective Hercule Poirot (Peter Ustinov) is aboard. 
Unfortunately, everyone on board had a reason to kill her.  Poirot tries to
figure out who did it while the bodies start to pile up....

Visually beautiful and totally fascinating adaptation of an Agatha Christie
mystery.  It was a deserved Oscar Winner for Costume Design--all the
clothing was in period and looks truly beautiful.  Also they shot on
location in Egypt which helps.  The cast went through hell though--it was
very hot and the clothes they wore were heavy and uncomfortable.  Bette
Davis especially complained loudly about the clothes and tore into Olivia
Hussey for playing loud music in her cabin--at 6:30 in the
morning.

The cast, however, is very good in their roles.  Ustinov is perfect as
Poirot--much better than Albert Finney in "Murder on the Orient Express". 
Bette Davis does wonders with next to nothing in her role as a jewel thief.
David Niven just tags along with Ustinov helping him solve the mystery.  Mia
Farrow is (sadly) miscast--she struggles in a very difficult role.  Angela
Landsbury (obviously enjoying herself) runs away with the movie as an
alcoholic novelist.  George Kennedy barely registers--he's very
underwritten.  Maggie Smith, playing Davis' maid, is a treat--the sparring
insults between her and Davis are VERY funny.  Jack Warden is OK faking a
fairly convincing German accent as a doctor.  Lois Chiles looks absolutely
stunning...but is killed off.  Olivia Hussey is sadly underused.  Simon
MacCorkindale is very good as Chiles' husband.  And Jon Finch is very wooden
as a revolutionary.  Still, everything works.

I saw it back in a theatre in 1978 and loved it.  Over 20 years later, I
STILL love it.  Much better than the overrated "Murder on the Orient
Express".  A definite 10 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is one of my all time favourites. 

As an Agatha Christie fan I am carefully critical about adaptations of
her works. The screenplay is as good as one of her better novels; it
makes a seamless transition from book to screen, eliminating some
subplots and more minor characters (e.g. the Allertons) in order to
achieve a flowing and 'easy to understand' plot with no holes. 

The choice of Peter Ustinov as Poirot was inspired. His Poirot is
distinctly recognisable as that from the books but the talent and
ability of Ustinov shines through. Albert Finney would not have been as
good in this film.

The supporting cast is brilliant. Each gives a performance that makes
you wish they were on screen for longer; Angela Lansbury as a drunken
novelist, Mia Farrow as a cold calculating murderer, etc.. One of the
best is the young Simon MacCorkindale, for whom this was his
breakthrough film (he is currently Consultant Harry Harper in BBC One's
Casualty, for UK readers), as the man torn between love and then led to
murder. Also David Niven gives an especially strong performance as
Colonel Race.

All in all; it is, in typical Christie fashion, a satire on the lives
of the upper class that is buoyant with snippets of humour and romance
as well as the inevitable murder (or rather four and a suicide). The
score is very good too and the movie has a good old straight backed
stiff upper lip feeling to it that makes it a pleasure to watch and
makes one wish they could be there themselves.
<|_=00=_|>
Peter Ustinov is an absolute joy to behold in the role of Hercule
Poirot. He played Poirot in three theatrical films: Death On the Nile,
Evil Under the Sun, and Appointment With Death. He also played Poirot
in three TV movies: Thirteen At Dinner, Murder in Three Acts, and Dead
Man's Folly. It's always a delight to spend time with Ustinov's Poirot.
He's so much fun! The three Poirot TV movies starring Ustinov are now
available in a three DVD set. I've had a great time watching these with
friends and family and all of Ustinov's Poirot movies are worth
watching and re-watching. My deep affection for Ustinov's Poirot grows
with each viewing. He's brilliant and each of his Poirot movies are
fantastic fun.
