

As sequels go, this isn't a better movie than the original, but what it is
and what it does well, it does really well.  I have to say right away here
that I was scared in this movie.  There are some truly ingenious and
horrific shots in this film.  There are times when you really aren't
expecting what's about to transpire, and when it does, it sends chills
through you.

I first saw this film in my " horror " days in the mid 80's.  I was 12
years
old then.  So I just recently watched it again to see if it would have the
same affect on me now.  I sat in my basement and turned off all the lights
and you know what, I was spooked.  Right from the opening number of
Carpenter's ominous music and the pumpkin slowly transforming into
Michael's
angry face, I knew right there that I was in for a night of fear.  And I
was.

The story starts the same night as Halloween ended on.  Laurie is being
taken to the hospital and there is a massive manhunt to find Myers.
Laurie
eventually gets settled into the hospital and it becomes only a matter of
time until Michael can find out where she is.  He finally comes to get her
and then all hell breaks loose.

One of the major players in this film is the locale.  The hospital is dark
and quiet and rather empty.  And that adds to the atmosphere of the film.
It gives us lots of long hallways so we can have a few shots of Michael
hunting his prey.  What we also get is an array of rooms to 86 his victims
in and a slew of weapons to do it with.

Rick Rosenthal directed this film and I am amazed that he really didn't go
on to do much because he almost copies Carpenter's style to the tee here.
Brilliant in particular are two shots.  One is where Michael appears out
of
the darkness in one room to attack his victim.  The lighting is solely
responsible for the affectiveness of this shot and it works so well that
it
still gives me the shivers when I watch it.  The second is when Micael
attacks one of the nurses while Laurie watched helplessly from a
distance.

Not only is this a good horror movie, it is a good film and if the first
rates a 10/10, this is certainly of a 9.  It is that good.  And if you
don't
agree with me, watch it again---by yourself and then answer that
question.
<|_=00=_|>
Michael Myers, he's a household name, in my opinion he's the ultimate
boogeyman, no matter what you do or how many times you try to kill him,
he just comes back. Hence the Halloween series. We do have quite a bit
of horror movie sequels: the Nightmare on Elm Street franchise, Friday
the 13th, Hellraiser, Scream, and so on. Most sequels are extremely
cheesy and don't deliver the same scares as the original movie does,
but the Halloween franchise is a different story, I think these sequels
were always a ton of fun and delivered just as many scares. Nothing
will ever compare to the original Halloween, but it was cool to see the
story continue on Michael Myers. In this story we follow Laurie Strode
to the hospital and Michael doesn't just give up that easily, he's on a
mission.

After the film replays the last scene of Halloween, it moves on to Dr.
Sam Loomis warning Sheriff Leigh Brackett that although he has shot
Myers six times in the heart, Myers still lives. Meanwhile, Laurie
Strode is taken to Haddonfield Memorial Hospital and Myers wanders
around Haddonfield in search of her. Laurie is informed that the man
who attacked her was Michael Myers, infamous for murdering his older
sister fifteen years earlier on Halloween night. After this, Laurie
drifts in and out of consciousness, having strange flashbacks about her
adoption by the Strodes and visiting a boy in an institution. Myers
learns that she is at the hospital. He goes there and murders the
hospital's staff one by one. Laurie manages to elude him, but she is
limping badly and sedated and is thus unable to move very quickly. Dr.
Loomis and the Haddonfield police continue to search the town for
Myers. Nurse Marion Chambers, Loomis' assistant, arrives and tells
Loomis that she has discovered a secret file on Myers to which he was
not privy. The file reveals that Laurie is actually Myers's sister,
adopted by the Strodes after Myers killed his older sister, Judith.
Chambers also informs Loomis that he has strict orders to return to
Smith's Grove. So they have to get back to the hospital to save Laurie
before Michael can get to her.

Halloween 2 is probably my second favorite sequel in the Halloween
franchise next to H20. I can't tell you how creepy this movie was, I
know that these sequels are a bit much, but for any horror movie fan,
they are a ton of fun to get into. The whole hospital setting was
really scary, I love Laurie Strode, she's the strongest female in a
horror movie, she's in a weakened state but just keeps going. You have
to love the return of Dr. Loomis, him helping Laurie and making sure
that Michael goes away for good, well we clearly know that it's not
going to happen, but you have to give him credit for his optimism. If
you are going to watch a Halloween sequel, I do recommend Halloween 2,
it's very creepy and a great addition to the story.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Halloween 2 seems to get mixed reactions but no one can deny that it
stands alone as a great slasher film. Of course it's hard to take
Halloween 2 as its "own" film compared to the greatness that is the
original Halloween, but most should be able to overlook that and enjoy
it for what it is. Halloween 2 uses the suspense of Halloween but adds
more gore and a faster pace to the mix. I found it thoroughly
entertaining, with some great death scenes and genuinely suspenseful
moments (Jamie-Lee escaping through the ventilation grill). The only
minor points spoiling Halloween 2 are that sometimes it gets a bit
far-fetched. For example, Jamie-Lee is escaping through the ventilation
grill and Michael Myers takes an eternity to simply walk over and pull
her back down. There were also a few moments of very bad acting. 

Overall though it's thoroughly entertaining and I would recommend it to
all horror fans. It doesn't ruin the integrity of the original film
like most sequels do.
<|_=00=_|>

As far as I am concerned this was the last Halloween movie with Myers worth
watching.  I prefer the third movie which has nothing to do with him to all
the mess that follows.  This movie is a continuation of the first as it is
still the same night.  Myers has of course gotten up and Jamie Lee has been
taken to a hospital to recuperate from her wounds.  Of course this one tries
to shock us with its revelations and such, but nothing to shocking.  There
are kills and once again Dr. Loomis is obsessed with getting Myers.  Some
good kills are to be found as is to be expected.  Though I always feel sorry
for the guy that gets hit by the car as he is obviously not Myers.  There is
a television version of this one that totally blows as it is very toned down
and they even have a happier ending.  Watch the uncut theater version as it
is much better.  
<|_=00=_|>
The sequel to John Carpenter's "Halloween" doesn't surpass the
original. Freshman director Rick Rosenthal creates only a handful of
suspenseful moments, but "Halloween 2" suffers from a weak script that
was unfortunately penned by Carpenter and co-producer Hill. Michael
Myers gets up and walks away after Dr. Loomis bangs off six shots into
him. We never learn what makes Michael such an unstoppable demon. In
"Halloween," Michael embodied a supernatural evil, but in "Halloween 2"
doesn't develop his character. No matter how many times people pump
bullets into the guy, he just doesn't stay down for the count. The
problem is Rosenthal's comatose direction. This chiller generates a
body count but it doesn't generate horror. Instead, it becomes
monotonous with Michael trudging into and out of scenes like a wraith. 

The action picks up where it left off in "Halloween." Michael plunges
into the yard, hard enough to leave an impression of his body, after
Loomis opens fire on him. When Loomis goes to confirm his kill, he
realizes to his horror that Michael has gotten up and vanished.
Meanwhile, the paramedics haul Laurie off to the hospital. Futilely she
pleads with them not to give her anything that will put her to sleep.
Of course, the doctor ignores her request and administers an injection
designed to knock her out. Although Laurie is deadly afraid of Michael
and what he is capable of doing to her, "Halloween 2" doesn't develop a
strong sense of fear. The best scene finds a hospital guard
investigating noises. When he opens a cabinet, an avalanche of items
topples onto him. When he turns around, Michael is there waiting for
him. Earlier, the guard had spotted blood in a trash dumpster and a
shrieking black cat flew out at him. Everything else unfolds in a
matter of fact fashion. 

Of course, "Halloween 2" is just a mindless horror movie, but the
idiocy gets out of hand. The movie lacks a sense of humor, much less a
sense of irony. Michael himself doesn't speak, but he seems to know
exactly what to do in every given situation and where to go. You cannot
fool this bogyman. Sometimes, like in the hydro-therapy, you have to
wonder if Carpenter and Hill aren't going a bit off the deep end. I
mean, Michael holds the poor nurse's head under the scalding water, but
the scorching water exerts no visible effect on him. When he casts the
nurse aside, her face looks hideous. If this is supposed to show that
Michael is invulnerable himself, then you have to wonder why Carpenter
and Hill behave so inconsistently. Later, in the final confrontation in
the hospital, Loomis blasts Michael multiple times again but the guy
gets back up. Finally, when Laurie혰who shouldn't even be able to climb
out of bed혰blows Michael's eyeballs out, the guy begins to behave like
he is mortal. Clearly, Loomis should have shot Michael's feet to
ribbons so that he couldn't walk. Imagine how much blood that this guy
has lost after being shot혰twelve times혰but he displays virtually no
signs of slowing down.

Michael Myers is the equivalent of a Steven Seagal hero. He is
indestructible until Loomis sacrifices his own life in the hospital and
incinerates him. The end credits show us Michael burning to a crisp.
The other thing that bothered me about this mute murderer who escaped
from the asylum is his innovative ways of killing people. He stabs a
surgeon in the eyeball with a pair of scissors. He buries a claw hammer
into the guard's head. He drains the blood from a nurse. He guts
another nurse on a scalpel and then hoists her so high in the air that
her shoes fall out. Michael acts like he is a scenarist's puppet,
killing people in imaginative ways rather than with his brute strength
and knife. 

Another problem with "Halloween 2" is the way that Rosenthal force
feeds us exposition. The entire scene in the back of the sheriff's
cruiser when the nurse informs Loomis that Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee
Curtis) is really Michael's baby sister and all the stuff about the
sealed records struck me as too contrived and obvious. Mind you, I know
that this is supposed to be a different kind of horror movie with an
impervious killer, but there is just no excitement. It looks slick when
the nurse's boyfriend is killed behind the marbled glass in the
hydro-therapy and it is neat when the nurse believes that Michael is
her boyfriend, but afterward things go flat with Michael drowning her.
The idea that Michael can stroll around unnoticed and people can bump
into him without recognizing him seems contradictory. We are never told
why Michael decides to kill who he does and then ignores everybody
else. "Halloween 2" does something different in that there are no
teenagers getting naked and then dying at Michael's hands. The idea
that a hospital would be as deserted as the hospital in the movie seems
far-fetched. Neither Carpenter & Hill nor Rosenthal make any of the
victims look sympathetic. Michael seems far too clever to be doing what
he gets away with. "Halloween 2" is predictable because we know Michael
cannot be killed in an ordinary way, but it is also predictable because
we know that his victims will die horribly but pose little threat to
him. 

Altogether, "Halloween 2" has all the dramatic impact of a flat-line on
a heart monitor. The dialogue is strictly expository with nothing in
the way of memorable or quotable lines. Indeed, Michael here is such an
inexorable source of evil that he is neither interesting nor
intimidating. He emerges as a one-dimensional character that you don't
care about any more than you sympathizes his cardboard victims.
"Halloween 2" qualifies as an exercise in nihilism.
<|_=00=_|>
Picking up exactly where the original left off, "Halloween II" has
Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) getting transferred to the hospital,
while Dr. Sam Loomis (Donald Pleasance) continues looking for Michael
Myers. In the process of everything, we learn some things about the
characters (like a little something about Laurie that would play a part
in the later movies). Of course, in the process, Michael himself goes
around killing people. A particularly interesting scene is how he kills
a woman in the hospital. Oh, and by the way, this is Dana Carvey's film
debut (interestingly, he later co-starred with Mike Myers, whose name
sounds like the killer here). A worthy sequel it is. Numbers 4, 5, and
6 were pathetic (and #8 apparently was), #7 was really cool, while #3
wasn't even really part of the series.
<|_=00=_|>
OK. I would like to complain that out of all the slasher movie
franchises, I FRIGGIN' HATE Halloween above them all. While although
the first one was by far the superior installment of this franchise,
the sequels are just plain stupid. I'll give you a few good reasons why
in the review as I had to look up the definition of a spoiler before I
could go onto write anymore reviews on here.

One of the biggest turn offs in a film is inconsistency of logic or a
lack of realism at least. Therefore, most movies --regardless of
genre-- are turn offs as a rule for that reason. I mean it would be one
thing if Myers was a resurrected psycho like Jason who couldn't stop,
but he's clearly not. He's human like you and I, though apparently on
PCP or something that makes him almost superhuman. I guess I could
forgive the latter sequels more easily because that's exactly what he's
supposed to be in those.

Kudos: I think that this is the only slasher I've seen that's based in
a hospital. No other slasher that I've seen since has had such a
prop-base.

Complaint: Michael Myers gets shot right between the eyes, and then
gets back up and starts stalking again. I don't know if anyone else
caught this, but I did and I have found that to be the BIGGEST INSULT
to my intelligence. Even a crack-head on PCP would think twice about
stalking when shot between the eyes! In contrast to the first film, I
found this to be equal to getting stabbed in the jugular w/ a knife.
OUCH! Then, they blow themselves up, kill Myers, and leave in an
ambulance. Wtf? * Laughs *

Whoever wrote that script ought to have been fired for stupidity! And
unlike in the last film, Michael Myers, as someone else mentioned, has
been reduced to nothing more than a human shark swimming after his prey
in the sea of terror-struck-Haddonfield. And this is well portrayed in
even Michael Myers' mannerisms as he seems somewhat stiff in contrast
to the original. (I guess he hadn't gotten used to having about six
slugs plugged into his major organs, already.) 

There are one pair of tits at least, whom are ravaged in one of the
meanest scenes that I've seen in a slasher. And there is a lot of
blood, though it's not excessive as some other slashers I've seen. And
how Myers escapes getting his hands burnt off during this is a mystery
to me? As for me, the audience, being that this was cable TV, I was
bored thru this, while wondering what kind of crank that Carpenter and
crew were on when they wrote this? But anyways, I gave it a 3 because I
could finish it and I even fell in love w/ some of the characters; so
the acting wasn't bad at all.
<|_=00=_|>
All i can say is what a pile of rubbish!!this film is so boring and has
little suspense,i love the original Halloween and a few of its
sequels(Hallowen 4 and H20) but this is just dull and almost as bad as
Halloween Resurrection. It could have been a great follow up to a
classic original but those making it were more interested on cashing in
on the original than trying to make a worthy sequel. I mean Haddonfield
memorial has to be the quietest hospital in the world! Where did all
the staff and patients go, if only my local A&E was so quiet! and Jamie
Lee Curtis does hardly anything in this movie apart from being drugged
up on medication and wearing a really bad wig. The only good point i
can make about this movie is that this is the only Halloween sequel
where the Michael Myers mask actually looks like the original. I give
this movie 2 out of 10, and that is being generous!
<|_=00=_|>
Sorry I didn't publish this review on Halloween as I intended. If you
remember the post I made many months ago, I promised to review many
older horror films and their contemporary versions. I always planned to
include Halloween II as part of this series. This entry would have
appeared anyway, but the psychological aspect of posting on October 31
would have been worthwhile. Oh well, I'll also review Halloween III:
Season of the Witch since a sequel to the new film will be released
next year.

In the surprisingly long three years between Halloween and its sequel,
the horror film market underwent a drastic change. The last remnants of
literature-based horror films gave way to crazy people with weapons
films. People rediscovered Black Christmas and ate up Halloween. The
expected sequel to the original film is a genre film in this tradition.
Is it a worthy follow-up? No, it isn't.

The story takes place directly after the first film. Michael Myers
survives six shots at point-blank range and has to find more young
people to kill. His eternal and hitherto inexplicable nemesis, Laurie
Strode, has been taken to Haddonfield Hospital to recover from her
wounds. Michael goes there and kills nearly everyone until Dr. Loomis
realizes where he is and kills him and himself in a fiery explosion.

Everyone in Haddonfield who isn't Laurie Strode is a complete idiot. It
takes them nearly the entire movie to determine where Myers could be.
They even conduct a thorough investigation of Haddonfield sans hospital
before they figure it out. The hospital staff is even worse. If you're
someone involved in the medical field, don't watch this film. It
equally insults everyone in your community. Doctors have nothing better
to do than flirt with horny nurses who ignore infants to bathe with
their suitors. Teenagers at least have the excuse of youth when they
act stupid but not medical staff.

By the way, since when have hospitals been so poorly lighted and
serving so few patients? Rick Rosenthal attempts to recreate the
sensation of Michael walking in Laurie's house from the first film
without considering context. An empty house at night is much more
frightening than an empty hospital at night. I'm aware that these films
aren't intended to be fully realistic, but Halloween II is so stylized
that I couldn't avoid feeling like I was watching a cartoon. The
production feels more like a parody of the original than an actual
continuation of story. In the first film, Michael Myers was a presence,
something that wouldn't go away, like the monster under your bed.
Laurie was the heroine. In Halloween II he is transformed into a
protagonist who we have no reason to like. He's just there.

The movie isn't scary either. Instead of suspenseful chases, Michael
Myers disposes of victims violently and shows us lots of blood. Rick
Rosenthal claims that it was John Carpenter's idea to add gore.
Wikipedia has a link to a quote Carpenter made claiming "it wasn't
scary enough." Shame on you John Carpenter for not believing in the
technique you used in the first film. Indeed, there are moments when
Halloween II actually works like its predecessor. How nice it would be
to see the film as Rosenthal intended. Maybe he will finally release
his preferred version of the film sometime in 2010.

Many people say critics didn't originally understand that slasher
"antagonists" like Myers are actually the main characters. The whole
first person perspective seems to support this idea. It's especially
true in this entry. We see too much from Myers' view. Laurie,
therefore, loses her hardiness and becomes a generic victim who should
die but doesn't. How does she elude the Shape? Not like she does in the
first film by actively refusing to die but by dumb luck. Only Dr.
Loomis is able to maintain his composure as a complete character. These
types of movies really are sexist, but not just in how they portray
women. For their intended male audience, they subtly support male
domination over women. The man could be a husband or a killer in a
mask. If this is one of the better sequels to the classic, I'm going to
have many bad horror movie filled Friday nights.
<|_=00=_|>
Following straight on from where the original finished is where
Halloween 2 starts off, Laurie Strode injured, Micheal Myers (I'll be
calling him MM from now on) escaped even though he was badly injured
and Dr Loomis still in pursuit.

In case you'd forgotten the ending of Halloween there is a brief
reprise here from when Laurie sends the 2 kids to call the police
onwards. MM should have been caught as he was watching Loomis talk to
the cop, there were a load of children walking down the alley and in
the amount of time he was watching Loomis they would have reached where
he was standing. I've debunked the film in the opening 10 minutes.

The 2nd pretty HUGE goof is the guy they've got playing "The Shape" AKA
MM, he is no-where near as big as the guy in the previous movie, he's
too short and way too slim built to be Myers. If he's going to be
lifting anyone up and throwing them around like the original it won't
be believable at all.

The story of the murders and the killers escape makes the TV & Radio
news FAR TOO QUICKLY! This type of story back then would have taken
days to be released, for fear of causing a local panic. The fake scare
with the cat was very predictable (outside the hospital). It is amazing
that none of the mob outside the Myers house tried to burn the place
down (you'd think at least 1 person would try!).

Now we only find out Laurie & Micheal are related in Laurie's dream
sequence so that could have been a whole red herring. It's also obvious
that both the nurse and orderly are going to die as they've had sex.

Would anyone like to explain how Laurie went from unconscious and
catatonic to escaping down a corridor in mere minutes? And MM would NOT
be able to lift that nurse up on a tiny scalpel the way he does, the
blade or handle would snap!

Loomis put 5 rounds into Myers in the foyer (so he's now been shot 11
times), I assume the empty 9mm he points at MM before he gets stabbed
was a gun he took off the Marshal in the car. Laurie manages to fire 2
shots from a revolver that only had 1 round left in it hitting MM in
both eyes (a shot that even a marksman would struggle to make at close
range in the dark and she was firing with a bad shoulder!).

Our final look at Myers sees him face down on fire (having somehow
survived a gas explosion but he was already blind anyway) and almost
certainly dead and Laurie Strode being taken to an unknown destination.

Weak ending and awful sequel, especially the idea of Laurie being MM's
sister.
