

Solid film that has multiple people working together to pull off a jewel
heist.  David Niven is good, and Burt Reynolds breaks out of his "Smokey"
types role and does something more sophisticated.  Very much on the
Oceans
mold, though not as good.  I always enjoy catching it on TV, fun film
with
some unexpected twists and turns.
<|_=00=_|>

Rough Cut is delicious froth, a shiny bauble of wonderfully made costume
jewelry - not the real thing, but so much fun you don't care how silly and
artificial it is. Burt Reynolds and the overpoweringly gorgeous Lesley-Anne
Down are so perfect in the lead roles that you forgive this movie its many
flaws.

This is, essentially, a fairy tale. You know everything will go right, it's
just a question of how. It's like the great early 1990s British show
Lovejoy
- filmed in a beautiful England of pastels and greenery, of charming U
characters and not-all-that-menacing bad guys.

It's just a very enjoyable, very romantic caper movie with two terrific
stars and a fine supporting cast, filmed in splendid colors. Everything
doesn't have to be Some Like It Hot.
<|_=00=_|>
In his long lists of wonderful movies, Mr. David Niven has given
audiences some real gems, this is among those which did not market very
well, but has become a notable jewel. Niven plays an English Inspector
who has tallied a great number of criminals. One however has continued
to elude him for twenty years. Mr Jack Rhodes (Burt Reynolds) is the
one Jewel thief he hopes to arrest before he is forced into retirement.
To do that he extorts the services of Gillian Bromley (Lesley-Anne
Down) another jewel thief. Her task is to lure Rhodes into a heist with
a snare. The movie, Directed by Don Siegel, has many copy-cats such as
'jack of Diamonds' 'Entrapment' and 'Thomas Crown Affair.' In each is
danger, interest and romance, but with this version, comedy become the
additional element. Reynolds and Niven work well together and in doing
so carry this film well. With good character actors like Patrick Magee
and Timothy West, the story written by Larry Gelbart (MASH) fits well
for all fans. As a result Reynolds and Niven create amusing fanfare for
everybody. ****
<|_=00=_|>
This a brilliant film, a sophisticated comedy thriller in the 'North By
Northwest' and 'To Catch A Thief' mould. I have always thought that
Burt Reynolds was at his best in comedies, and his performance in this
delightful film proves my point. David Niven adds his usual strong
support in the role of the craft Chief Inspector Cyril Willis, (What a
great name), and Lesley-Anne Down adds the required sophistication and
glamour in necessary quantities. The supporting cast is excellent,
especially Patrick Magee as the Nazi pilot. The script is extremely
literate and funny, and the locations are glamorous and sophisticated.
A great movie that I hope will come out on DVD. I musn't forget Nelson
Riddle's brilliant score, orchestrating the work of Duke Ellington into
a remarkable and hummable score. Can anybody please tell me if a
soundtrack exists for this brilliant film? Also, who originally sang
the song, 'Boogie, Let's Boogie'? Any help really will be appreciated.
Thanks, Gaz.
<|_=00=_|>
Another enjoyably hearty Burt Reynolds vehicle to the long-winded
comedy caper list, but making it more a welcoming ride is a strong cast
along side him with David Niven, Lesley-Ann Down and Patrick Magee.
Director Don Siegel serviceably lets it flow without much structure, as
the crafty story has its twists and turns with its clever façade before
finally revealing its trump cards. An aging Scotland Yard detective
Chief Insp. Cyril Willis is coming towards retirement, but before
calling it a day he has plans of capturing Jack Rhodes an American
jewel thief that throughout his career has always been one step ahead.
So in comes a beautiful lady, which is part of the plan to nab his man.
But what blossoms is unexpected.

Tailored like an old-fashioned romance comedy, "Rough Cut" is all about
a laconically lounging Reynolds sweeping the gorgeous Lesley Ann-Down
off her feet, while finding some time to organise a quick in and out
heist of some diamonds. Sometimes the tone can be jumpy, but everything
feels like its on cruise-control with Siegel's automatic handling,
especially when it comes to the excitement and dangers of the job. The
witty script is where the rapid fire comes from. However the action
when it arrives is masterfully shot. It's smooth and magnetic, just
like the performances. The interplay between the cast works. Reynolds
plays it dry and confident. A sexy Down is a complete delight and Niven
only adds to the wilily fun.
<|_=00=_|>

Very ordinary indeed. There is almost nothing to separate this film from
dozens of similar capers. There are bits of sophisticated dialogue and
phlegmatic humor, but most of the time the film comes off as a poor
imitation of its superior predecessors (Hitchcock's "To Catch A Thief"
comes
to mind). Unfortunately, director Don Siegel is not in top form and the
film
often feels too low-key and lacks energy. But Reynolds's charm is at its
zenith here, and his pretty good byplay with David Niven provides some
funny
moments.

<|_=00=_|>

Yes, the poster for this film.  The neat image of sparkling, cut diamonds
slipping through Burt Reynolds fingers.  That's pretty much all I liked
about this flick.  Burt stars as a jewel thief who pulls off a heist in
jolly old England.  There's a very dated scene where one of the guys in
Burt's crew shows of his collection of Nazi memorabilia.  Nice. 
Not.
But the Nazi dude then does his part in the caper working alongside the
token black dude in the crew, so I guess the character's more liberal minded
than the average Nazi.  Don Siegel is usually a kickass director (i.e. Dirty
Harry etc.) but he isn't here.  Skip this film, you'll thank me in the
morning, dear...over 'n' out...
