
I love this movie. I have watched it numerous times, and I still love
it! It is one of those "feel good" movies that we seldom see anymore.
No violence, no sex, no "strong language", etc. Just a strong woman,
and a strong man, gradually falling in love. No negatives at all. If
you want to watch a pleasant movie, and go to bed feeling happy, watch
this. James Garner and Sally Field both play very non-Hollywood types,
and we love them all the more for it. (Watch for the scene where they
are dancing - it is hysterical!)
<|_=00=_|>
This may or may not be a chick flick. But who cares. Growing up in the
60s and 70s, Garner and Fields were two of my favorite television
stars. So to see them together in a movie is a treat. While Garner's
character is about 30 years older than Sally's, there is an undeniable
chemistry between the two. 

Also, there is a gentle, mature humor in this movie. It will bring a
smile to your face without the gross physical comedy or profanity so
prevalent in modern movies. 

I have to admit that I am a romantic at heart, and this movie certainly
hit home. If you like a film with a touch of romance, humor, and good
performances by the lead actors, this is a movie you should add to you
DVD collection.
<|_=00=_|>
James Garner and Sally Field make an appealing couple involved in a
May-December romance. This theme has been done before in films but
Garner and Field bring a freshness that gives the production
credibility as they form a casual friendship that intensifies as time
passes. Field's troublesome and immature ex-spouse shows up to try to
win her back and his presence causes an awkward, strained triangle that
resolves itself in due course. Garner is a relaxed middle-aged
pharmacist who is comfortable with himself and takes each day as it
comes. Field is determined to make a new life for herself and her son
as a horse trainer in a small Arizona town. Brian Kerwin and Corey Haim
as Field's ex-husband and young son are good in supporting roles.
<|_=00=_|>
Sure, this is a romantic comedy, but I wouldn't call it a chick flick.
It's a great story, and all the principals work effortlessly towards
making the film just downright entertaining.

Garner is at his best as an understatedly charming small-town
pharmacist who becomes entangled in the life of a fiercely independent
single mother with a deadbeat ex-husband. Field hits all the right
notes with her character, but I can't tell if she's stepping back, or
she just doesn't know how to play against Garner's lackadaisical style.
Brian Kerwin gives his best screen performance as her ex, and sure, he
plays a deadbeat, but he just oozes sex appeal.
<|_=00=_|>
This is such a cute movie! I remember seeing it when I was a senior in
high school and absolutely loving it. I'm a big fan of Jim Garner and
romantic comedies. This is just a totally feel-good movie. Garner's
dialog and character are perfect. His words are so snappy and funny.
Oh, to find a man like Murphy in real life... It was interesting to
find out that Garner and Sally Field are really only 18 years apart. He
was 56 and she was 38 when they made it. I watch it whenever it's on
TV. I hate the way they edit it though. They took out one of the best
lines, "How do you like your eggs, Murphy?" Why? I highly recommend
this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Murphy's Romance is a great movie. My husband is not a big fan of Chick
flicks and he loved it too. I think everyone should see it if they
haven't already and I think there should be more films like this. I
can't think of one that compares to it. I loved the setting in Arizona
and the fact that she was working horses. You don't get too many films
like this anymore. It was about starting over and finding love in an
unexpected place. Sally Field and James Garner were spectacular.
Murphy's Romance contained all the features a great film should
possess. It was funny, yet serious and full of romance. It portrayed a
mother and son who were close to one another. It was about making tough
decisions and real life.
<|_=00=_|>

Aging Garner makes the most of this showcase role, arguably among his best
work.  Sally Field is also appealing and believable as the much younger
woman torn between romancing a ne'er-do-well but age appropriate peer or the
warm-n'-fuzzy but still studly sexagenarian Garner.  The dialogue exchanges
between Garner and Field pop nicely and the direction is tight.  Less
polished is the plotline, which veers between the simplistic soap operatics
in Field's life (boring and largely cliched) and the gradual courtship
process between Garner and Field (sly, entertaining and winning). 

Overall, though, this is a satisfying portrayal of may-december romance with
the mush women will love and just enough conflict and tension to keep the
men around, too.  We all know the outcome before the start but it's still a
gentle and loving rendition of the blossoming of true love.
<|_=00=_|>

Jim and Sally are brilliant in this easy yarn of a couple falling in love,
even though he is a good 15 years old than her. Proves age doesn't mean a
cracker.
The ex-husband sub-plot is a waste of movie time, but it has no effect on
the final outcome.
Bravo for an excellent story and outstanding acting!
<|_=00=_|>
Murphy's Romance is a pleasant easy to take movie about a May - October
romance between widower James Garner and younger divorcée Sally Field.
It's set in modern day Texas and it moves with grace of a gazelle and
the speed of a Galapagos tortoise. And that's not meant in a negative
way.

Sally Field with the ink barely dry on her divorce from Brian Kerwin
has moved to a small Texas town where she's now acquired a ranch which
could use a lot of improvement. She's got her son Corey Haim in tow and
they aim to start anew.

The first and best friend they make in town is 60 year old James
Garner, the local druggist. He's part of a disappearing breed in that
he owns his own pharmacy. Given the way things are 23 years after
Murphy's Romance, Garner's store if it still is operating is probably
part of chain now, even in small town America.

A steady reliable guy like Garner is all any girl could wish for, but
ambling back into the picture is Kerwin who swears on a stack of Bibles
he's a changed man. Why he's even a born again Christian.

The man knows how to ring her bell, but that's about all he's good for.
In fact he furnishes his own proof before the film ends.

James Garner got his only Oscar nomination and I remember how much I
wanted him to win that night watching the Oscars. It would have been
great, but William Hurt won for Kiss of the Spider Woman. Murphy's
Romance got one other nomination for cinematography, but it lost to the
year's Best Picture, Out of Africa.

Murphy's Romance is a tender and touching story about a couple of
mature people, one a bit more mature than the other finding true love.
As Garner says this is his last love and Field responds this is her
first. It's a film for romantics of any age.
<|_=00=_|>

James Garner (Oscar-nominated) stars as a small town pharmacist in this
very
good motion picture. Sally Field and her teenage son (Corey Haim) move
to
the small Texas town and Garner and Field slowly fall head-over-heels
for
each other. The film is a showcase for Garner's sometimes hidden
talents.
This is his show and his Oscar nod was well-deserved. Sally Field proves
to
be a very capable supporter once again as she shares and also steps away
from the spotlight throughout. 4.5 out of 5 stars.
