

"Casualties of War" is based on a horrifying true accident which took place
in 1966.Some American soldiers abducted a teen-age Vietnamese girl and
dragged her on a long-range reconnaissance mission.They tortured,raped and
finally murdered her.Michael J.Fox is excellent as a the only soldier in the
platoon who tries to stop the violent crime.Thuy Thu Le is also impressive
as the victim-her performance is so convincing that I'm surprised that she
hasn't appeared in the other movies.The rape/murder scene is among the most
heart-breaking sequences ever captured on screen.The film is well-directed
by Brian De Palma("Sisters","Carrie","Dressed to Kill")and it delivers the
message which tells the viewer that war is hell and can turn young men into
monsters.A must-see for fans of disturbing and thought-provoking
cinema.
<|_=00=_|>

`Casualties of War' belongs to the same year as that other anti-war film
`Born on the Fourth of July'. From about the mid-eighties American feeling
rose bitterly against the aftermath of the Viet Nam war: the price had been
too high. Too many young men killed or wounded and, worse perhaps, too many
young men psychologically scarred for the rest of their lives. `Casualties
of War' does not point any accusing fingers at anyone: the film is an
anguishing account of a horrendous series of actions based on real facts.
Even so, our interpretation must go a little beyond what the film tells us,
what we are seeing. We must ask how many more service-men lost their nerve
in the middle of that jungle inferno which was Viet Nam?

Brian de Palma obliges us to enter into that indescribable hell, so that we
might, with a bit of luck, if our feelings can bear the torture of
witnessing such inhumane irrationality, understand a little more the
agonising palpable naked terror which so many men had to go through.

However, whether Michael J. Fox or whether Sean Penn played their part
better seems to overlook an obviety: without that performance by the
Vietnamese girl, Thuy Thu Le, this film would have been forgotten years ago.
My first seeing of that fragile creature – some years ago – left me
nauseated, my stomache churned and I had bad dreams for several nights. That
pathetic little face and her screams of anguish haunted me for days
afterwards. Her performance was so compelling, rivetting, anguishing, it had
me hating being a man. I only just stopped short of throwing up. Perhaps
nobody expresses this better than `Tony's Corner: a Fan's Notes'
(www.colba.net):

<< the performance of a young actress, a woman named Thuy Thu Le. It
is to my mind, one of the bravest, most courageous, and one of the most
heartbreakingly real pieces of acting that I've ever seen………… the
intolerable suffering that Thuy's character Oahn endures, her emotional
intensity………... searing power, of blistering emotion, and raging despair,
the outstanding performance of Thuy Thu Le is central to it's success
>> (end partial quote)

Amen. 

It is one of those performances that no Oscar can ever pay for: indeed such
a triviality would have been an insult. The film is cruel, sickening,
loathsome, heartbreaking; but something humane, something I can't explain,
something deep inside me, compelled me to see this poor `wretch' again,
compelled me to witness once again her tremendous scream of despair against
the bestial inhumanity of war – any, every and all war. I have no love of
morbidity: I shun such ridiculous programmes. But this poor creature called
Thuy Thu Le forced me to see the film for a second time.

Enough: I will never see this film again. I have seen naked desperation and
fear so realistic that my soul seethes to boiling point and is about to
burst thus twice. That will do. In the end we are all casualties of
war.....

No vote: I cannot reduce this to a simple vote. It just would not have any
real meaning, would it?
<|_=00=_|>

This is a true story of what happens in war when morality and ethics are
tossed aside. The killing that is involved in war gets mixed up with murder,
bigotry, and revenge in this factual horror story.

Fox is excellent as the naive but ethical young man exposed to a "Nobody
cares" atmosphere in the midst of war. The film not only shows what can
happen to human beings when they let go of any sense of conscience, but it
is also a metaphor of the amoral mentality that was behind the Viet Nam
conflict and its aftermath.

The struggle depicted here is between going along with the group or
maintaining one's own integrity. Are there rules of war? Are there rules of
living? These are the profound questions which underlie the action in this
disturbing film.
<|_=00=_|>

The odd thing about this film, is that it could've taken place with any
background.  War, college campus, neighborhood gang.  The real plot is
about
the affects of rape and murder on the good guy and the bad guys.  The
Vietnam war just happens to be where it really took place, so we are
entered
into that gritty world of sudden violence, if not sudden death.  Fox is a
rookie soldier joining Penn's squad.  Penn sort of casually mentions that
they're gonna find themselves a girl to "keep up morale" while they are on
their journey.  This involves abducting a young farm girl from her villiage
in the middle of the night, not affected in the least by the girl's
hysterical mother.  Each man (it's a group of 5) has his different
reaction,
Riley as the dumb "go along with anything" soldier does exactly that,
Harvey, in a terrific wacko performance, loves the idea, with Leguizamo and
Fox opposed.  But Leguizamo, feeling the equivalent of teen peer pressure,
does not back Fox when the two want to approach Penn about his antics.  So
Fox is left in an awkward position the rest of his stay in the field with
his squad.  There is of course, a confrontation, in a drawn out scene,
where
toughies Penn and Harvey accuse him of being gay and not doing to the enemy
what they deserve.  This is the core of the film's impact, as they quarrel,
the girl is raped, and then Penn demands that Fox kill her!  When she
becomes ill, Penn fears her coughing may give away their posistion, so he
berates Fox to stab her.  He refuses, and in an ensuing arguement, the girl
tries to get away, which ends up leading to a chaotic scene in which she
reaches a slow, painful demise.  The rest of the film deals with Fox trying
to bring attention about what happened to his mostly deaf and incompotent
superiors.  That brief summary, though, barely scratches the surface of the
emotionally charged scenes you will experience in the movie.  There are
many
sad moments even before the girl is introduced.  And then audience anguish
when we think that maybe these men will get away with what they did.  The
key to the impact is, of course, the performances.  Penn is his usual out
of
control self, who you may feel bad for, seeing how he's such a dedicated
soldier and even decent guy before the kidnapping.  An underrated and
hardly
known Don Harvey, I think somewhat outshines Penn with his always angry,
scary corporal whose dark eyes and contant scowl give him a great
intimidation factor.  Riley makes you roll your eyes with his convincing
moron, a guy who baffles as to why he'd get into the army, with his I.Q.
seeming to be below 40.  Leguizamo you try to forgive because of how he's
afraid of being attacked verbally, or even physically, by his partners.
You
can understand his dilemma.  Le, as the girl, as expected has little to
say,
but in her facial expressions, shows us the fright and terror that's enough
to jar us.  And as far as Fox is concerned, a PERFECT performance and
choice
for him to show us his dramatic side.  He did so sometimes on "Family Ties"
and in a couple of cinematic bombs (i.e. "Light of Day", "Bright Lights,
Big
City") but those works did not nearly approach the powerful scope that this
film exhibits.  And he puts his dramatic talent on full blast, displaying
the mental exhaustion so well, from the disturbing events he went through.
It was a very big key to his career when he decided to take this.  Some
might say how can you make entertainment out of rape, but the one scene of
it is only 2 minutes long, with the real story here of how people handle
themselves in crisis.  The only mis-steps were the sometimes overly
violin-ey score, getting a little too weepy here and there.  And also the
fact that even though Fox is the one good guy of the film, we never find
out
his first name!  But there are too many hard hitting moments of realism to
sink this, with the best highlight being the strong acting.
<|_=00=_|>
Although Platoon may have gotten more acclaim, by far the best film on
the Vietnam War is this one. Casualties Of War is going to leave
Platoon way in the dust when history has its verdict.

Though Sean Penn's got several great films to his credit, by far this
is the best work of Michael J. Fox on the big screen. His soldier with
a conscious who can't live with himself after witnessing an act of
barbarity that the other men of his squad commit should have brought
him an Oscar nomination. In fact there could have and should have been
a few of them for this film. 

Fox plays a young soldier only a few weeks in Vietnam. On patrol
Sergeant Sean Penn saves his life, but then on a second patrol because
Penn and friends could not get leave to bleed the lizard as they say,
they kidnap a young Vietnamese woman and take her on patrol. All the
men on the patrol, Penn, Don Harvey, John C. Reilly, and John Leguizamo
all gang rape the girl, but Fox refuses. Later on he's got a crisis of
conscience.

Kids who grew up on World War II movies and westerns with clearly
defined good and bad guys were ill prepared for a war in Vietnam. So
was our government which had been involved in more or less degree since
the end of World War II and the breakup of French Indochina. The
subtleties of the regional politics eluded our policy makers in
Washington. It was mighty hard to tell who was a friend and who was an
enemy. You treated anyone with a yellowish pigmentation and slanted
eyes as an enemy, the only friends you knew were the ones wearing the
same green jungle fatigues as you were.

The war twisted Penn and Harvey. Leguizamo and Reilly were essentially
followers, only Fox who hadn't been there long enough to have his sense
of morality impaired could see this was all wrong. That's the
frightening part of Casualties Of War. None of the four could see
anything wrong, even Leguizamo who sees his first duty as to stick with
the guys who have your back in the field.

As good as Fox and Penn and the rest of the Occidental cast is, the
best performance in the film is Thuy Thu Lee. As the bewildered and
frightened young girl she will positively break your heart with her one
and only film performance.

Casualties Of War was shot in Thailand so we're seeing actual Southeast
Asia locations. Brian DePalma's direction of his stellar cast is right
on target. Don't ever miss Casualties Of War about the ultimate Vietnam
experience.
<|_=00=_|>

It's the only film of De Palma's that I've seen that doesn't imitate
Hitchcock, engage in shameless self indulgence, or pander to its audience. 
("Pander."  Interesting word, from a character in Chaucer who acted as a
sexual intermediary.)  

This is structured more like a three-act play than a traditional movie.  (1)
Fox is introduced to the other members of his squad and gets in a fire
fight.  (2)  The squad kidnap a girl, take her into the bush, rape her and
kill her, and engaged in another fire fight.  (3)  Fox tries to blow the
whistle but the higher up the ladder he goes, the more angry the resistance
becomes, until he finally sees the four criminals brought to trial. 

It is not an epic war movie full of majestic music and heroic acts and a
cast of thousands, but it belongs up there with "Platoon" and the others. 
It's quite well done.

The acting is uniformly good.  Fox is fine as a short, shiny faced,
humanitarian newbie who answers to a higher authority than he can find
easily in the military chain of command.  Penn adopts a New York accent that
is so thick that it's sometimes hard to follow, but he puts a lot of energy
into the role of sergeant, almost to the point of hamminess.  His men are
well-differentiated by the script -- one a savage and stupid killer, one a
remorseful Hispanic, and another newly arrived grunt who goes along
willingly because he's been led to believe that this is the way things are
done.  The Vietnamese girl is as good as any of the men.  She appears in two
roles, as the victim and, later, as a college student who has a brief,
understanding exchange with Fox.

In many ways this is a far more shocking movie than any that De Palma has
come up with, before or since.  The girl is beautiful, fine-boned, and has
long black Asian hair with reddish highlights.  Her suffering during the
trek into the bush, in her bare feet, carrying the men's gear on her
bleeding back, is palpable.  After being gang banged she huddles in a dark
corner and sobs abjectly.  Fox approaches her and she is jolted upward with
fear.  And we see not the face of the pretty young girl but a battered
bloody swollen toothless mask.  The scene is light years away from Angie
Dickinson getting slashed with a razor in an elevator while the audience
thrills.

There is another scene that is outstanding, a kind of denouement.  Fox is
drunk and is queried by a friendly chaplain.  Having been ignored before, he
spills out his hopeless story once again.  De Palma dissolves from Fox's
stricken face to the court martial of the four men.  It's another shocker,
the more effective for not being underlined.  Instead of the four men we
have seen before, sweating and unkempt, in dirty fatigues, swearing
abominably and threatening Fox, we see them cleaned up in starched kakhis,
wearing their campaign ribbons and insignia.  And we are forced to the
realization that these murderers and rapists, whom we have taken to be
nothing more than an anarchic group of bums, are in fact representatives of
the U. S. Army and are subject to its laws.  (De Palma doesn't show the
court itself, just the defendants responding to questions.)  They have
changed, and yet not changed.  The uncomprehending stupdity remains, and the
simmering desperation.  Penn's sergeant is only twenty years
old.

The scene with the Vietnamese student at the end is a necessary catharsis. 
Fox is on a train and after she gets off, he notices that she has left a
scarf behind.  He retrieves the scarf and hurries after her, calling out in
Vietnamese.  She smiles and asks him, "Do I remind you of someone?"  His
distress becomes plain, and she guesses its source and asks, "Did you have a
bad dream?  I think it's over now."  Brief but touching.

De Palma should get a decoration too because he has disregarded his cheesier
tendencies as a director.  Another De Palma might have handled that rape
scene quite differently, as an opportunity for the audience to identify with
the rapists and a chance to display some succulent female flesh.  (Here are
her nipples.  See how purple they look?)  But not here.  It's a movie made
by a grown up, for grown ups.    
<|_=00=_|>

Coppola, Stone and Cimino did their best, but the award for best Vietnam
movie goes to Brian De Palma. One of the only directors working today who
still knows the meaning of 'cinema', De Palma uses all his favorite
techniques (the long shots, split-focus)without being intrusive. There are
so many fantastic moments in this film, so many images that stay in your
mind long after the credits rolled by. Who could forget the death of the
girl on that railwaybridge? It's truly one of the most chilling images I've
ever seen on screen, also thanks to the haunting score by Ennio
Morricone.

The acting is fantastic. Sean Penn makes it very easy for you to hate him,
John Leguizamo as the pathetic Diaz hits all the right notes, John C. Reilly
is wonderful as always. And then there's Michael J. Fox, in a rare dramatic
role. As Ericcson, he's the beating heart of this film, the only human
creature on screen. His attempts to save the girl are heartbreaking and
deeply tragic. 

It's a mystery why this movie doesn't get the recognition it deserves. Maybe
the Americans don't like the way some of their countrymen are portrayed
here. Maybe the idea of Marty McFly as G.I. Joe turns some people off. The
IMDb rating this movie gets is a joke, albeit not a very funny
one.
This is one of Brian De Palmas finest movies (it's so hard to choose a
favorite he has made so many classics), the best war movie I've ever seen
and one of the greatest American movies ever. 

You simply HAVE to see this!


<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

"Like it doesn't matter what we do, maybe its the other way around,
maybe because any of us might be blown away at any moment, maybe it
matters more, maybe it matters more than we even know." Want to see in
the movie in one scene? Where the Chaplin, in the bar, asks Fox why he
is upset. Listen to his voice, when he comes to the last two
words,"Stop Them," listen to the ineffable anguish in his voice. See,
he will always be on that bridge looking at her body covered in blood.
That is what the ending means, her surrogate tells him the nightmare is
over, he did his duty before God, he can leave the bridge now. The film
appears to be about Vietnam but not really. All of DePalma's movies are
about morality and the costs of doing the right thing. Remember Rick in
Snake Eyes staring at the money on the carpet soaked in blood seeing it
for the first time morally. Rick says,"I never killed anybody," Kevin
answers,"Don't worry, you just point her out to me. I'll take care of
it." The movie is Fox believing the captain yet risking his family and
himself for that little girl dead on the ground. We hear Ving Rhames
tell him; that's the way things are don't buck the system.

See, Diaz had the convictions but not the moral courage. Fox knew the
minute Meserve made that little speech about who is or is not VC and "I
don't know about you?" that his life may be lost trying to protect her.
They almost kill him when he refuses to rape her; it comes very close.
After he goes to Meserve's superiors, Clark almost kills him with a
grenade in the latrine. The next scene is priceless: See the strength
to risk death and do good, that same strength can be used for evil with
equal facility. Watch after he bashes Clark in the face, see the fear,
for the first time in the entire movie, in Merserve's face. He is
seeing Ericson for the very first time. They thought he refused because
he was too weak, their miscalculation almost costs them everything.
DePalma, despite all the blood and nudity, is a deeply moral filmmaker.
Remember Blow Out, the Black Angel Of Death towering over Nancy Allen
in the train station? Same thing, she caused the death of another and
the destroyer is coming for her. He really is identical to his master
Alfred Hitchcock. 

The movie is a morality play; the Vietnam war is but the substratum the
movie plays upon. DePalma really is not insulting our veterans by
implying this was anything but an isolated anomaly by a grief stricken
sergeant who just lost his best buddy right before he snapped and did
this. In Snake Eyes, Rick's life is destroyed and he is publicly
humiliated; he loses everything by protecting that girl. It is the very
same here, look at the cost Fox paid; he expected to lose his family as
well. DePalma's point is a most timely one within this zeitgeist, doing
good always comes with a heavy price; that is why so few people perform
it. See, sending waves of positive energy or thinking only good
thoughts is a hollow facsimile of real good. Fox does real good and he
almost pays with his life. He was right; it does matter more than we
will ever know. The highest duty that towers over all others is to God.
DePalma is speaking through Ericsson to us; believe it or not, we may
have to answer for the evil that we do. I am not a Christian but a
Theistic Existentialist but the movie's moral power is overwhelming
even to non Christians. A painful movie to watch like The Mission; It
will transform you, make yourself watch it. Even if it had cost him
everything, it still was the right choice. 

"Whatsoever You Do To The Least Of These, You Do To Me." Christ
<|_=00=_|>

While not as good a Vietnam movie as Platoon or Apocalypse Now, Casualties
of War nevertheless delivers the emotional punch through DePalma's depiction
of how war can truly bring out the worst in people. Similar in content to
the village massacre scene of Platoon, Casualties actually hits home with
greater force the horrific conduct and depravity of how low these GIs had
been morally reduced to. You almost cringe at certain scenes such as
Corporal Clark's callous crooning of The Door's "Hello, I love you" while
escorting their victim on the march. By being able to fully empathize with
Erikson, we feel appauled and helpless as we witness his uncontrolable
situation, and can't but help feel a bitter satisfaction when he lays into
one of the soldiers with a shovel back at base camp. I felt angry and
depressed at how any human being could act the way these soldiers did, and
was haunted long after the movie's conclusion.                              
                                                                            
                         Based on a true story, we realize the true tragedy
of what has occurred at the movie's end, when Erikson returns to the present
from his flashback and the girl suggets that he had had a "bad dream". The
painful reality is that it wasn't just a dream, anymore than the whole
Vietnam War was.                                                            
                                                                DePalma
examines in great depth not just the ethics concerning warfare, but the
values of right and wrong & good and evil, which every single one of us on
this planet faces. Just as in Platoon with Charlie Sheen's concluding
helicopter voiceover, and Saving Private Ryan's portrayal of the aged Ryan
asking his wife "have I been a good man, have I led a good life?",
Casualties of War highlights a similar concept when Erikson states that one
should never abandon their sense of morality-to cease caring- just because
they are surrounded by the possibility of death. Overall you are left with a
harrowing feeling that is akin to the likes of having watched Schindler's
List or The Killing Fields.
<|_=00=_|>
CASUALTIES OF WAR 

Aspect ratio: 2.39:1 (Panavision)

Sound format: 6-track Dolby Stereo

(35mm and 70mm release prints)

During a routine field trip at the height of the Vietnam War, a young
soldier (Michael J. Fox) rebels against his commanding officer (Sean
Penn) and other members of his patrol when they kidnap a defenceless
Vietnamese girl (Thuy Thu Le) and subject her to a terrifying physical
ordeal.

Unfairly overshadowed by the simultaneous theatrical release of Oliver
Stone's pompous - but still impressive - BORN ON THE FOURTH OF JULY
(1989), Brian DePalma's CASUALTIES OF WAR recreates a harrowing
incident from the Vietnam conflict - first reported in 'New Yorker'
magazine in 1969 - in which a group of otherwise decent men succumbed
to their own worst impulses and committed a terrible crime. Filmed with
typical cinematic bravado by master craftsman DePalma, the movie uses
every inch of the scope frame to convey both the duality of the
landscape (vast swathes of breathtaking countryside, where sudden death
lurks around every corner) and the moral vacuum which stretches the two
central characters (Fox and Penn) to breaking point. Crafted with
blistering simplicity by screenwriter David Rabe (himself a Vietnam
veteran and author of the acclaimed stageplay 'Streamers'), the
soldiers are depicted as brave individuals whose principles are
shattered by their traumatic combat experiences, leaving Fox to essay
the role of peacemaker in a world where all the rules have been turned
upside down. Thuy - a model with no prior acting experience - is truly
heartbreaking as the soldiers' terrified prisoner, and her ultimate
fate is so horrific (arguably the most disturbing set-piece of this
director's entire career), many viewers will be too appalled to see the
film through to its inevitable conclusion. All in all, this
uncompromising drama emerges as one of DePalma's strongest films to
date.
