

By turns horrific, hilarious, disgusting and absurd Dawn of the
Dead is the work of a director truly on top of his game.  Given
almost total control (something which was to be denied Romero in
later years) George Romero gives us his unique and vivid view of a
world in absolute turmoil.

Not just a mockery of the hedonistic and empty America of the late 
70's Dawn is also a parable or warning if you like of the brittle
structure of society and how easily it can be disintegrated.  Many
have criticised the film for being too over the top and questioned
the quality of the acting.  This for me is one of the joys of the film,
Romero uses gaudy sets and effects and combines this with
comic book hero dialogue to lull us into a false sense of security. 
Then masterfully Romero pulls the rug out from under us and
brings the reality of the situation crashing in on our
heads.

Dawn stands alone well but really comes into its own as part of
the trilogy to which it belongs.  One theory of mine is that the Alien
trilogy (forgetting the miserable fourth installment) takes a lot from
the dead trilogy namely the pace and claustrophobia of the two which
book-end the mass hysteria and over the top horror and violence
of the middle film.

Undoubtedly one of the great Horror films of modern time. Or
perhaps there is something about being the only people left alive
and living in a shopping mall that appeals to the kid in all of
us.
10/10   
<|_=00=_|>

This review refers to the theatrical cut of the film.

 When George A. Romero's no-budget horror movie Night of the Living Dead hit
screens in 1968, the same year that had already given audiences the all time
genre classic Rosemary's Baby, no one could have predicted the indelible
effect it would have on the history of cinema. The film introduced audiences
to a degree of graphic violence never before witnessed on American screens.
However, it was the film's intense, omnipotent terror that forever scarred a
generation of viewers.

 Although the film enjoyed unprecedented mainstream success for an
independent production, the filmmakers saw little of the movie's earnings.
Romero's string of box office disappointments in the years to follow would
diminish his clout in Hollywood, and as such he found it was an uphill
battle to fund his ambitious sequel to the film. Then along came Italian
horror maestro Dario Argento, hot off the heels of such international
blockbusters as Deep Red and Suspiria. Argento helped secure funding for the
film, in exchange for the rights to personally oversee the international cut
of the film.

 The collaboration would be a match made in horror movie heaven, for the end
product would be Dawn of the Dead, one of the most acclaimed and enduringly
popular horror movies of all time.

 Dawn of the Dead's plot is so effectively simple, and now thoroughly
familiar, that it almost goes without description. While the world
approaches a still unexplained and ever growing zombie apocalypse, four
individuals-two millitary men, a helicopter pilot, and his TV reporter
girlfriend-barricade themselves in an abandoned suburban shopping mall. The
mall provides fodder not only for the film's well known social commentary,
but also for some truly thrilling-if not terrifying-setpieces.

With its graphic depictions of human evisceration, exploding heads, and
gruesome flesh eating, Dawn of the Dead may well be the goriest American
film of all time. The film is actually so violent and gruesome that it was
released unrated in the United States for fear of being slapped with an X
Rating. That didn't stop the film from being a huge hit at home and abroad.
The film earned rave reviews from critics (most famously, from Roger Ebert,
who called it `one of the best horror movies of all time'). It instantly
became recognized not only as a genre classic, but also as one of the
sharpest social satires of the decade, with its often hilarious commentary
on an ever growing consumer culture embodied by the film's mall location.

Internationally, the film was even bigger. The movie was released in a
special 117 minute cut overseas (the US theatrical version was 120 minutes)
which was edited by Dario Argento and featured a more prominent presentation
of the soundtrack by rock band Goblin as well as a much faster overall pace.
Released in most countries as `Zombie: Dawn of the Dead' or `Zombies', it
was so big in Italy that the following year Lucio Fulci, previously a
director of `giallo' thrillers, helmed a gory semi-sequel. His `Zombie 2',
released in the US as `Zombie', would become one of the most popular drive
in hits of the 1970s, a massive international success that solidified the
zombie/cannibal craze of the early 1980s and sparked Lucio Fulci's own reign
as a horror movie icon.

 Dawn of the Dead is a truly stunning example of the horror genre's ability
to produce works that are as socially relevant as they are terrifying, films
which break free of the constraints of conventional horror movie elements
and in doing so establish themselves as being truly timeless. While I would
still give Night of the Living Dead the slight edge between the two, Dawn of
the Dead is still an extraordinary film in its own right as well as an
almost superior sequel to another of the scariest movies ever made.


<|_=00=_|>
When you want brutal, look no further, but when you also want to see
perhaps the greatest of all comic-book movies not based on a
comic-book, it's in George Romero's original take on his continuing
mythology. It's not just one of the towering horror films, or horror
comedies (what will a poor dead fellow do when the escalator starts?!)
but one of the great sequels, more ambitious and ass-kicking than its
predecessor, with a filmmaker more confident and technically proficient
with his abilities.

Romero didn't originally want to do *any* sequel to his original
'Night', but after a visit by some friends to a soon-to-open mall
nearby his hometown of Pittsburgh, it struck a chord as to who would be
coming here – and what so much consumerism in one place would mean.
"Why do they come here?" one of the four survivors that happens upon
this mall swarming with these flesh-eaters asks another. "This meant
something to them. Instinct, maybe. This was an important part of their
lives," he responds.

I don't think necessarily Romero meant to show the film as any sort of
'This is what will happen!" type of social horror thing. It's more
about, this is where we are at NOW, and in that sense, though broader
and a whole LOT bloodier, it holds a place right next to a film like
Network as one of the magnificent satires of its time and place, and as
much about what the public is like. Romero acts as both pessimist and
optimist in this world though; past all the chopped limbs, exploding
heads (oh yeah!), Tom Savini stunt and make-up and intestines ripped
apart, what holds up the film for me is seeing these four characters
come to grip with the horror they've made for themselves, holding up in
this "paradise" of a mall.

Balls-to-the-wall horror, social horror, and some genuine paranoid
horror stuff (note to self, never try and fire a gun at a single zombie
when in a dark room full of electrical wiring and pipes), and plenty of
rock and roll attitude, this is a personal favorite and the most
entertaining horror film of its time. And the Goblin music soundtrack…
yummy.
<|_=00=_|>
Dawn of the Dead is concrete proof that extreme gore and violence
doesn't always equal a dumb movie and that the two can make very nice
bedfellows indeed. This film is a rare thing in that it will please
both gorehounds and fans of art cinema, and there isn't a vast amount
of films that do that. Aside from doing what I've just mentioned, this
follow up to Night of the Living Dead established George Romero as a
household name in many a gore fan's home and his trilogy of zombie
films will ensure for ever more that the name 'Romero' and the zombie
film will always go hand in hand. The plot of this film follows four
survivors of the zombie apocalypse that has ensued after the events of
Night of the Living Dead as they hold up in a shopping mall to try and
hide from the events going on in the outside world. However, this poses
another problem, as once their home has been built up in the midst of
the atrocities; will our hero's be able to give up all that they have
built?

The commentary on society and the trappings of consumerism that Romero
appears to be keen to implement in his film come off as being somewhat
muddled, due to the fact that it's lost under the reality that what we
see our hero's doing makes absolute perfect sense. This, however, is
where the genius behind the commentary comes into play; it's a
depiction of what people within a consumerist society would do in this
situation, which makes the commentary all the more potent. Despite it
being a film about zombies, Romero implements a sense of realism into
the proceedings, which works due to the fact that he never overindulges
in anything. Sure, the gore towards the end is over the top; but even
that is realistic as it is what you would expect a zombie massacre to
be. Because of his sense of realism, we are able to care for the
characters that Romero has presented us with, even though we really
know little about them. The audience is able to put themselves into
their situation and we are constantly given the feeling that we are
actually involved in the events on screen. This makes the ending of the
movie more potent by way of the sense of security that Romero has
lulled you into throughout the movie, and at the end; we really feel
for what is happening to our characters and even though we want to see
the massacre happen (as that's why we're watching the film at the end
of the day), we sort of don't want to see it at the same time. This
kind of mind-game isn't carried off successfully very often, but Romero
has it down to an art form here.

The movie benefits massively from a great score by Dario Argento's
house band, Goblin. In fact, with the obvious exception of Suspiria; I
would even go as far as to say that this is their best work ever. The
score blends so well with the happenings on screen that it's impossible
to have one without the other. Some films have a superfluous score, or
one that doesn't add anything to the film; but it's undeniable that the
score of Dawn of the Dead not only adds to what we're seeing, but
'makes' it. As many people will be tuning in to see gore, I am pleased
to tell you that this film doesn't disappoint in that respect. It's one
of the goriest films ever made, with many sequences reaching a level of
disgustingness that is rarely seen in cinema (intestine dinner,
anyone?). As you are probably aware, Tom Savini did the make-up effects
for Dawn of the Dead and it is the film that made his career and
established him as the gore guru that he is often seen as today. The
film is also notable for a certain line that has been quoted more times
than any other line uttered in any other horror movie. I am of course
talking about the fabulous; "When there's no more room in hell, the
dead will walk the Earth".

Dawn of the Dead is undoubtedly one of the most important films ever
made. It inspired a barrage of rip-off's that are still being made
today and it stands tall on many a horror fan's list of favourite
horror films. Dawn of the Dead is one of the most recent films to
inspire a remake and, unfortunately, it turned out to be terrible. Not
that it matters, as the original is where it's at; and this film is an
undeniable masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>

Dawn of the Dead- ****/****

George A. Romero's masterful classic is least of anything a film about
zombies. "Dawn of the Dead" is thinly disguised as a zombie gore flick, but
it is really three things. 1. A cultural statement portraying racism, angst,
counter-culture and degradation. 2. An account of human bonding and human
reaction to different environments, harsh and eclectic. 3. Least of this
trio, it is a black comedy. Rather, it contains dark comedic elements.

 Somewhere early along in the film, I looked past the initial plot of four
strangers hiding in a mall from hordes of zombies swarming the world, as the
government attempts to find a solution to the chaotic massacres. Peter
Washington (Ken Foree) is the strong, black, courageous SWAT team member who
rises above the other three protagonists to become their leader. Steven
Andrews (David Emge) is the  somewhat timid and hesitant traffic reporter,
lover of the pregnant Francine (Gaylen Ross). Ostensibly hapless and
useless, Francine is actually a valuable aide to the quartet. Last, is the
resourceful and daring Roger (Scott H. Reiniger).

From where I left off, I overlooked the premise of the quartet defending
themselves from hordes of flesh-eating monsters and instead saw thoroughly
fleshed out character personalities, bonds, and interactions. Throughout the
movie's length, we learn to genuinely love these guys; Roger is so smooth
and fun, easily likeable, Peter is quiet, warm-spirited, and reliable,
Steven and Francine are charming. We knows them like our friends and heroes,
so when they are attacked by the ferocious zombies, the suspense is so
nerve-wracking and our hearts beat so rapidly because we really care about
the four protagonists and could not bear to watch them die. They started off
as strangers and parted as companions. Also, it is very interesting to watch
how they monopolized the mall, how, in the beginning, they slept on cold
hallway floors, constantly keeping watch. Later, they eliminated the threat,
dined in the mall's fancy restaurant, ice skated on the mall's link, visited
the gun shop for weapons, slept in rooms with beds, dressers, televisions,
and other luxuries. This is an accurate representation of how it is human
nature to manipulate and survive through alien atmospheres. I found that
vision ingenious.

 Another brilliant message the film brings attention to regards the
1970-decade. I found that like "Pulp Fiction," "Dawn of the Dead" captures
the spirit of its era. The racism, tumult, riots, counter-culture,
degradation are all well represented here. The film shows SWAT teams,
complete with racist officers, who kill for fun, raiding an unruly group of
Hispanics and Blacks, hillbillies heading out in troops to battle zombies
for sport, mercenaries and vigilantes running wild, all events
indistinguishable from incidents in the 70's. Perhaps the most disturbing
and ironic "70's incident" in the movie involves raiding gangs of bikers who
explode into the mall, mirthfully slaughtering zombies (not that that is an
offense) and vandalizing stores, stealing jewelry, guns, clothes, and
everything they can find; whereas our heroes took only their necessities.
What happens next is very scathingly satirical and ironic. In between the
battle for the survival of the human species, the bikers find it necessary
to start their own little civil war amongst the not-so-numerous survivors.
They hunt down both zombies and our good guys; a perfectly timed paradoxical
and cynical scene. Just like the battles between non-conformists and
conventionalists during the 1970's and 1960's, when America was on the brink
of disaster, this cinematic revolution is hard-hitting, gut wrenching, and
very real. One fascinating facet of the movie is how the audience learns to
disregard the now "minor" threat of the slow-moving zombies (a bullet or
incision to the head will do the job). At this point, one would not even
notice that this film had the slightest relevance to the horror genre.
Instead, we fear the vicious bikers, a bigger threat, villains with swords
and guns. This time, the suspense and uneasiness detonates, for there is a
much greater chance of death for the heroes. I found the scariest part of
the movie was the deterioration of the planet during the zombie apocalypse;
how the human species' decline is morbidly presented effectively and
expertly by George A. Romano.

 However, a refreshing sense of black humor is tossed in towards the middle
of the film. Zombies attempt to walk up escalators, ice skate, and explore
their surroundings, with chuckles as the result of their clumsiness. One
biting laugh comes when Steven explains to Francine why all these creatures
have returned to the mall.  "Instinct, memory. This was an important place
in their lives," he points out.

 And of course, there are many, many thrills and chills. This film isn't
very "jump-out-from-the dark-with-a-chainsaw" scary, but more disturbing and
extremely tense, because we actually care about our characters and don't
want them to die. The movie is unpredictable in this aspect, unlike slashers
where you are guessing who the one survivor is and how the others die. As
the zombies close in, we plead, "Don't die, don't die!"

 I have two minor complaints with this film. My biggest one is that the
movie seems to carry on forever, the way "Goodfellas" did. Despite the
brilliance I felt enraptured with, I kept asking myself, "When will this
movie end?!?" However, I realize that Romano could not have trimmed any more
scenes  without damaging the potency of his work. Also, the gore was at
times just too much. For instance, the exploding head scene was revolting,
and most of all, the intestinal feeding scene when a biker is torn apart was
repulsive; I couldn't watch as his guts were graphically shown ripping
apart.

Aside from those two unfortunate aspects, I strongly encourage you, rather
you HAVE to, watch "Dawn of the Dead." Thrilling and suspenseful thanks to
extremely distinct characters, whose fate you hope a happy one, and
grippingly socially relevant, this is a unique horror, or really of all
genres, treasure.

<|_=00=_|>

'Dawn of the dead' may lack the pulverising immediacy of 'Night of the
Living Dead', but it gains in exhilirating, epic scope.  It is one of the
best films of the 1970s, a reckless, hubristic, over-ambitious masterpiece
whose excess is reined in by its Langian formal precision.  The
claustrophobia of the first film is replaced by a wider frame of reference,
including the media, the military and suburbia; although, typically, the
move is once again towards the indoors.

The film starts explosively, inside a panicking TV station trying to report
on the inexplicable emergence from the earth of the undead.  An assorted
quartet - two media, two army; three white, one black; three men, one woman
- escape in a helicopter used for rush-hour traffic reports.  There is a
sense of relief in this, a sense of breaking free from the circle of undead
enclosing America's major cities.

But not for long - it seems that modern American man, unlike his pioneering
ancestors, cannot stand open spaces, and holes up in a building, a shopping

mall, which is crawling with zombies, and recognised by the woman as a
prison.  Not content with this level of confinement, our heroes draw plans,
erect barriers, shut down grids.  Romero pinpoints this national insularity
by framing his modern horror movie as a transposed Western, with the
foursome as latterday frontiersmen wiping out the natives, and erecting a
new civilisation.

Some might say that Romero's irony is a little heavy here - the
mock-triumphal Western music on the soundtrack; the composition of the four
at the height of the crisis standing in front of a sign with just the
letters 'U' and 'S' visible; the glee in the gun culture, including an
ersatz Western gun store in the mall the 'Red River' like beseiging  of the
mall by the 'Indian' Hells' Angels on their motorbike/horses complete with
tomahawks.  But such irony is never stable - Romero keeps pulling the
ground
from under the viewers' feet, both in terms of character identification,
and
the shifting meanings embodied by the zombies.

Romero's terrifying vision is of an America turned in on itself, eating
itself through cannibalistic greed, the very system of capitalism based on
a
cycle of power and repression in which the repressed will never quite go
away.  'Night' pulsated with a late 1960s urgency reflecting contemporary
social and political upheaval, white capitalist America beseiged by the
peoples it had oppressed for centuries.  By 1978, that political anger is
gone, and America has reverted to being a race of consumer zombies,
congregating around massive shopping malls like they're the religious
temples of the Incas, trapped there not by the freedom of choice of
capitalist propaganda, but mindless instinct.

the zombies are supposed to be the enemy, the Other in conventional horror
terms, but the first thing the so-called heroes do on landing at the mall
is
substitute urgent survival for gleeful consumerism (compare with the very
similar silent fantasy, 'Paris Qui Dort').  There's no way to deal with any
outside threat because we are numbed and bloated by products.  Reality
ceases to exist; there are some beautifully surreal scenes, as our heroes
make homes in showrooms.

The mall sequence as a whole has a Bunuellian savagery about it, and the
film builds up an aggression like the characters until all is chaos -
tones,
modes, genres all colliding, the 'reality' or 'integrity' or, even,
'seriousness' of the film as much in question as the modern world the
protagonists live in, where even time seems to stand still, the weeks of
the
action compressed into the framework of a day, with the night of the living
dead giving onto the dawn.  It is probably allegorically significant which
characters survive, but by the end we're not sure whether we're watching a
horror, a comedy, a thriller, a Western, or a very bitter joke.  Certainly
scarier than 'The Stepford Wives'
<|_=00=_|>

Thoughtful if unsubtle epic follow-up to Night of the Living Dead was one
of
THE influential movies of the late 70's; pity, then, that the people it
influenced paid more attention to the amped-up gore than to the sense of
contained hysteria that makes what should be tough going (there are
basically three scenes in this movie: zombies attack people, people attack
zombies, people stand around talking) a uniquely involving and provocative
self-analysis of the zombie film.

The symbolism is, well, not delicate. Just in case we missed it the first
time, the trope that the mall attracts the zombies "because it was an
important place to them" is repeated for our rumination. But the overall
sustained atmosphere, inside and outside of the banal environment of the
shopping mall, is by far the film's salient contribution; even when there
is
no obvious action onscreen, there is the threat of an attack to come, and
the clock is clearly ticking on the four protagonists during their idyll.
Moreover, it takes the conspicuously familiar and catapults it into an
apocalyptic situation, creating a powerful sense of displacement.

The violence, which is primarily what draws people to or repels them from
this movie, comes on strong, but quickly becomes monotonous (as it is, the
vast majority of the violence in the movie is inflicted against the zombies
rather than by them, though is none the less repulsive for that); the
scariest part of the movie is how plausible it makes the concept of total
disintegration of what we perceive as civilization. The soundtrack,
highlighting pulsing, insistent synthesizer chords, contributes much to the
onscreen tension, which the action choreography is exemplary. An unlikely
masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>

If only every horror movie was made with such determination as this one.  A
zombie classic, Dawn of the Dead succeeds in every aspect.  It has enough
violence and gore to gratify any horror fan, and then some!  The weird thing
is that the gore in this movie isn't unnecessary, it suits the purpose.  In
this sequel to the classic Night of the Living Dead, the zombies have taken
over the land and have spread to immense numbers.  A group of people escape
the carnage in a helicopter, and take refuge in a huge mall where they can
live off the supplies inside for years.  They have to fend off the zombies
trying to get in, as well as a sadistic group of bikers who want to loot the
place.  Great film, lots of gory action and flesh-munching.  Make sure to
check out the newly remastered director's cut for terrific picture and
sound, and extra footage. 
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has always been a big favorite of mine. I went through a
zombie phase in high school and this is, hands down, the best zombie
film ever made. With all the crap coming out today, it still stands
out.

Dawn is a great satire of materialistic modern society. All of the
performances are spot on, George Romero's writing and direction is
flawless as usual, and the gore is brilliant. What could be better than
a bunch of zombies taking over a shopping mall? That's right, nothing.

If you call yourself a horror fan and you haven't seen the original
Dawn of the Dead, you need to get with the program immediately! No one
messes with Romero, no one!
<|_=00=_|>
There's not much use denying it… George A. Romero's "Dawn of the Dead"
is one of the chosen few, absolute greatest horror films ever made and
it's fairly unimaginable that a powerful movie like this will ever come
out again. Even more than its 1968 predecessor, the landmark known as
"Night of the Living Dead", this film contains literally everything to
satisfy even the most demanding fan of horror cinema. Some films
attempt to reach a maximum level of high tension throughout; some have
eminent directors and/or a professional cast; some horrors will
distinguish themselves from the rest by providing a lot of gore &
gruesome make-up effects and others completely rely on uniquely
atmospheric set pieces and filming locations. "Dawn of the Dead"
consists of ALL these trademarks and yet a whole lot more! This film
more or less begins where "Night" ended, with an alarming increase of
zombies that feast their way through America. The opening sequences
masterfully capture the growing sense of mass hysteria and disbelief in
a TV-studio, where a 'scientist' warns the population not to regard
these walking corpses as former family members or friends, but as mere
monsters on the constant lookout for human flesh to feed on. These
scenes introduce Peter and Francine, who plan to escape the big city in
a helicopter. Cut to another very perplexing series of action sequences
in which fellow policemen Stephen & Peter battle their way through a
zombie-infested apartment building. Eventually these four characters
flee together and entrench themselves in a large shopping mall complex.
They can fairly easily handle the menace of the zombies here, but the
biggest danger comes from typical human greed and selfishness. It's
downright amazing how Romero manages to present such an implausible
topic like zombie mayhem in such a realistic and incredibly disturbing
way. He already did that in "Night of the Living Dead" but "Dawn" is
entirely different film all together, since it contains a lot more
humor and intelligently subtle society-mockery. The gore is sensational
and plentiful (thank you, Tom Savini!) but the film never at one point
drags in the tension or bad editing department. It's just, in one word,
the perfect horror movie. There exist more than a dozen different
versions of this film, which are all worth seeing at least once if only
to spot the differences. Particularly recommended are Romero's original
director's cut (duh!!) and Argento's European cut. This latter cuts a
little on the dialogues and humor, but it features another brilliant
soundtrack by Goblin! I could easily write another five page-essay
about the genius of this movie, but it would just constantly re-confirm
that it's absolute must-see! In case you haven't yet, make "Dawn of the
Dead" a priority and also make sure you've got the horror-munchies!
