

Oh boy do I ever enjoy this movie. For some reason I've managed to see it
at
least
once a year since it was released and I never get sick of it and I really
have no idea
why. Mental disorder, perhaps. This movie redefines camp for
post-apocalyptic scifi
quest adventure 3-D crap. Peter Strauss and Molly Ringwald are both great
in
their
stock roles--Strauss is refreshingly down-to-earth, so unlike the usual
all-knowing
megalomaniac space ranger with a girl in every port (his girl is a
purchased
robot
companion, which says things about a guy); Ringwald's whine would give God
a

headache, but she's got the right proportion of bravado and vulnerability
to
create a
believable, occasionally endearing space orphan. I like the random nature
of
their
search, designed to place them in situations where the production can use
up
a set or
two that might have been intended for some other movie. Plenty of rubbery
creatures abound. And the Thunderdome-esque stuff is actually pretty
cool--I'm
reminded of Leela's test in that Doctor Who episode (something people who
like
Spacehunter are a plausible demographic to remember). All in all this is a
happily-brainless-yet-somehow-lovable piece of space junk and I'm crazy
about it.
Or just crazy.
<|_=00=_|>

Back when I was 12, renting this movie was like popping in the end-all
be-all of science fiction, especially since I didn't get to see it at the
theater!  The credits were funky, the heroic Elmer Bernstein score was
sweeping, the dialogue was amusing and the plot was something every
12-year-old boy only wishes he could take part in.  After all, what could
be
more fun than taking your android companion on a simple mission to retrieve
3 female survivors from a destroyed outer space pleasure cruise ship who
land on a planet nobody is supposed to go anywhere near?  I was
game!

As Wolfe, the man motivated to rescue the three maidens for some big time
"megacredits", Peter Strauss is fantastically watchable.  I don't know what
it is about him as an actor, but he does try to bring some sense and
sensibility to a pretty generic role.  Joining this little adventure is
Niki, played by a very young Molly Ringwald.  Sure, she's annoying and a
pain-in-Wolfe's rear end, but who else could you see playing her from that
time period?  One of the cast members of "The Facts Of Life"?  Also
included
in the cast is Andrea Marcovicci (too bad her part wasn't a bit longer),
Ernie Hudson (who always manages to bring some intensity to his roles
whether in a good or "not so good" film) and Michael Ironside as Overdog
(the opposite of "Underdog"?), the baddie.

Yes, the film consists of a whole lotta cheese; the dialogue borders on
laughable (especially by the dwellers on the planet), the special effects
don't quite live up to expectations and the plot revolves around a bunch of
set pieces that don't seem to make for a consistent story.

Still, you know what?  This movie holds a very special place in my heart.
Let's face it, folks, they don't make them like this anymore.  There's no
fart jokes, no nudity, no sex and very little language.  What's more, Peter
Strauss gets some very funny moments!  Upon finally rescuing the three
screaming women from Overdog, a frustrated Wolfe shouts at them "Will you
PLEASE shut up?  I'm trying to rescue you!"

Haven't we all had a moment when we've wanted to say this very same
thing?

8 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
Spacehunter is a film I saw as a child, which has remained at the back
of my mind for years. Around the same time, I was watching things like
Ghostbusters and Star Trek (The Wrath of Khan), and knew nothing about
special effects, budgets or story lines. All I knew was that I liked
these films. Having recently obtained a copy of Spacehunter, I was
pleasantly surprised at how well it holds up, compared to other
classics. Yes, a lot of it is hokey nonsense, but in a GOOD way. 

Strauss makes a likable rogue, obviously straight from the Han Solo
mold, and Molly Ringwald is her usual early eighties cutie. The special
effects are fair for the time (though the title sequence leaves
something to be desired), and the futuristic 'Mad Max' style vehicles
could easily be from a more recent movie.

Michael Ironside is almost unrecogniseable underneath prosthetics, but
offers a great performance, hampered only by his lack of mobility in
costume. I was especially surprised to recognise Ernie Hudson as a
supporting character, playing Strauss' ex-buddy.

In all, a great film with a few minor flaws. I'm amazed this got no
further than it did at the time. One of the few post-Star Wars movies
that deserves a sequel (which i'm tempted to have a bash at myself).
<|_=00=_|>
Been waiting for this for a long time - as cult classics go it's one of
my more memorable adolescent reminiscences.

I remember seeing this on the big screen when it was first released.
Loved it then, for several reasons: Strauss was capable but cool as the
hero Wolf, Molly Ringwald was feisty, mouthy and cheeky as the elfin
Nikki, and Michael Ironsides was virtually unrecognisable under his
make-up, but still gave Overdog a sinister air of menace and cruelty.

Now, 20 years later, I get to see it again, and there are flaws that
time has exposed. The effects and the music are very dated. The
dialogue is weak in places, and the acting from the minor characters
leaves something to be desired. However, it still has a sense of
excitement and adventure that many other sci-fi flicks of the 80s now
lack. The action is fast-paced, the interaction between the leads is
good, and the scenery is suitably dark and barren.

7/10 - it's well worth overlooking the more dated elements in order to
uncover the gem underneath.
<|_=00=_|>
Take star wars, mad max 1, 2, 3, running man, barbarella, and some
terry gilliam films, mix them together and you have spacehunter. some
of these films were made after this one so it shows some originality. I
never get tired of watching this film, i think is because there are no
dull moments, its just one great scene after another. Its obviously a
light hearted sci-fi and the story isn't exactly complicated but it has
lots of good points. there are quite a lot of chuckle moments with the
strange speak from Niki and the one liners from the reluctant baby
sitter Wolf.

The effects are very good and still hold up especially the vehicles, no
CGI here! I just like the look of it too the colour filters and
locations are great to see. well worth a watch if you like any of the
above films.
<|_=00=_|>

Humorous enough, and not as bleak as Mad Max series. Good sets, and quirky
machines (like Mad Max). Very enjoyable, my pals and I would often go for
a
few beers, shoot some pool, and then sit back and watch this movie, almost
every Friday night. So, OK, it is not particularly cerebral, but good
entertainment. This is an all-time great. Dunno why everyone else rates it
so low, but there you go.
<|_=00=_|>

I make a point to catch Spacehunter every time it airs (usually after 1
a.m.).  It's classic cheese, and I submit there's a place in our
moral-cinematic universe for such films.

What films?  Oh, having Michael Ironside as the villain is a good clue.  If
I had to define them...films so goofy (yet riddled with neat ideas that only
the low-budget creative intellect can conjure) that we harken back to
adolescence and think how cool these films would have been/were when we saw
them with our junior high pals.

Yes, this is MST3K material, but lovingly so, nostalgically so.  An ugly
duckling that never becomes a swan--never even really gives such a
transformation a shot--but one we can groove on precisely because it's so
dorky.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this in July, 2008 for the first time and was surprised by the
amount of mechanical devices and vehicles built for this one. And the
attention to detail is higher than many modern productions.

A funny thing about making movies in 1983 is your choice of either
using miniature models or constructing full scale behemoths. This movie
goes for the latter option, which is one of its strengths, almost
everything you see is right there and not some blue screened effect or
shoddy computer graphics. This investment carries very well still today
some 25 years later. It is like watching Road Warrior with all of the
bikes, cars and trains and it all looks authentic because its actually
there. Speaking of Road Warrior, it must be said that Spacehunter has
an apparent look and feel of a post-apocalyptic desert world similar to
that of the Mad Max films.

Striking are the interesting locations which are thrown at the viewer
at a fast pace where new environments show up around every corner
during their hunt in the forbidden zone. While short scenes in
themselves, they come together nicely in creating the feel of a good
adventure movie reminiscent of the Indiana Jones movies.

Not sure of the budget here, many things look really nice, some space
scenes are awful but very, very short. I've mentioned two series of
other films in this review, don't expect to find either one of them in
Spacehunter, rather expect to find elements of all of them combined.
<|_=00=_|>

I don't know why the other commenters seem to not like it much. This is one
of my favorite movies. I saw it in the theatres when it came out and
several
times on video since then, and the reason I came here was that I was
looking
around for a DVD with it. The campiness works perfectly fine for me. I very
much enjoyed Molly Ringwald and Michael Ironside, and most of the other
characters. Overall I can't think of anything I didn't think worked about
it. Its very entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>

Spoilers herein.

I am often hard on films that do a poor job of creating a world. That's an
especially 
obvious flaw in science fiction movies, especially the space travel variant.
So I need to 
celebrate when one comes along that does do well, even if it is a cheesy
project.

And this is cheesy. But nearly all of this ilk is, from Star Wars on down,
with the only 
question being a matter of what bothers you and whether there is enough to
distract you 
from the annoyances. 

This one has four features that allow me to recommend it to
you:

-- The first and most obvious is the squawking Molly. I have a special
fondness for her. 
She had just done her first film, in which she carried a key role as the
Miranda in a 
humanized "Tempest." I distrust the values of Mazursky, so reject that
project -- but its 
very being involved some considerations of what film is. Molly carried her
weight with 
some pretty intense players.

Then she did this, then some well done exploitative kiddiefare. Then, my
friends, she 
turned her back on the trite world of John Hughes -- though it made her a
celebrity -- 
and joined Goddard in a version of "King Lear" that has to be one of the
most interesting 
film experiments ever. I am currently waiting to see here in "Tulse Luper,"
by our greatest 
living filmmaker.

She is not a great craftswoman, but intelligent actresses are so rare you
have to note 
when they come around, even if as a bratty 'Liza Doolittle.

-- The original release of this was in 3-D, and really was worth
experiencing. The 
technology is unsatisfying, even in the hands of Hitchcock, but was great
fun.

-- And it was fun, especially given the extraordinary design of this film.
Yes, it all looks 
hokey, but this is pretty wonderful art nouveau inspired hokum. Its pretty
atypical for 
space designs which tend to be techno. And it is different than the "Mad
Max" ethic 
which is punk, boring. This is swoopy, organic and appealing as all getout.
Just like 
Molly, now that you mention it.

-- Finally, there is a piece of film iconography in its embryonic stage
here. Film is largely 
a matter of successful images that enter the world and stay forever. One of
those images 
is Robert Redford washing Meryl Streep's hair by a pond. That sensual image
has since 
taken on a life as its own meme. You can see here -- so the legend goes --
where 
Pollack got the idea. A sweet bit of unlikely film ecology.

Those are enough to allow me to pass over all the inadequacies in this.
Except one. 
Science fiction writers have the burden of making things different but
similar enough for 
us to grasp. Here, Niki uses the term "Brainworked." We are supposed to
understand it as 
a notch down toward the primitive in understanding.

But think about this. Primitives can talk about why something is, or why you
believe what 
you do. But it is a very specific sophisticated notion to impute a brain
that reasons so. 
That's a notch beyond where we are in everyday life folks, not
below.

Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4: Worth w
