
It may take two or three viewings to warm up to "Beetlejuice". It has a
kooky, cockeyed sensibility and a rhythm that is by turns easy, lazy
and frenetic. A charming couple in New England die and come back to
their beloved home as ghosts, determined to rid the place of the
horrendous new tenants. Possibly the most benign and engaging
performance ever by Alec Baldwin; Geena Davis, Winona Ryder and Sylvia
Sidney are also very appealing. The new couple from New York who take
over the house (Jeffrey Jones and Catherine O'Hara) aren't as well
written or thought-out as the other characters and some of their
bemused, dry-ice comic lines take a few seconds to reach you. Of
course, there's Michael Keaton, wildly comic as Betelgeuse. I recall
hearing comments back in 1988 that Keaton wasn't around enough to make
the picture worthwhile, but that's only if you watch the film for the
fast quips and sight-gags. Keaton is truly wonderful, but he's also
bombastic, and I felt there was just enough of him to satisfy--it's
really not his story anyway, it belongs to Baldwin and Davis;
Betelgeuse is used as a horny, vulgar punchline. Director Tim Burton is
very careful not to overload the movie with raunch; he is surprisingly
careful in setting up this story, and he works magic within a dubious
scenario: a comic fantasy about dead folks which ultimately celebrates
life. ***1/2 from ****
<|_=00=_|>
Once again I'm not sure exactly how to start this comment other than to
praise Tim Burton, Beetlejuice is a movie that was based on his idea
and is still remembered to this very day. He picked a great leading
male, Michael Keaton as well as to pick a very strong cast that turned
into what could have been a total flop into a cult classic that will be
remembered for ages to come. Beetlejuice is a very strange movie that
explores life after death, turning into a ghost and having to accept
that you died, now move on. But what if there was one ghost who maybe
had too much fun and just wanted to rock the living world? That's what
Beetlejuice is about, the one zombie that you'd love to party with once
but then ignore at the next party he's invited too.

Barbara and Adam Maitland decide to spend their vacation decorating
their idyllic New England country home. Upon returning from the trip to
town, however, Barbara swerves to avoid a dog wandering the roadway.
The couple's vehicle crashes through a covered bridge and plunges into
the river below, killing Barbara and Adam. The couple soon returns home
in spirit form and quickly come to the conclusion that they are dead. A
book entitled Handbook for the Recently Deceased confirms the couple's
suspicion that they are, in fact, dead. Barbara and Adam's peace is
soon shattered when their house is sold and the new residents arrive
from New York City. Charles Deetz, aspiring sculptor and Charles'
second wife Delia, and Charles' goth daughter Lydia from his first
marriage, move into the home. Juno, who informs Barbara and Adam that
they must remain in the house for 125 years. If they want the Deetzes
out, it is up to them to scare them away. Although the Maitlands remain
invisible to Charles and Delia, their daughter Lydia can see Adam and
Barbara and becomes their friend. Against the advice of Juno, the
Maitlands contact the miscreant Betelgeuse, a freelance "bio-exorcist",
to scare away the Deetzes, but they have their hands full now with this
crazy psycho.

Beetlejuice is an awesome movie, it's one of the funniest movies you'll
see. I will be honest, it's a strange humor as it's a dark comedy, but
it's all good. Seriously Michael Keaton is such a great comedic actor,
he was the perfect choice, he brought the right amount of cockiness and
comedy to the role. Also Geena Davis and Alec Baldwin had great
chemistry as well as the perfect Leave it to Beaver-esquire type of
couple that has a hard time accepting their world as the afterlife.
Jeffrey Jones, Catherine O'Hara and Winona Ryder were perfect as the
Deetzes, quite disturbing and awkward. I highly recommend this movie if
you get the chance to see it, it's a great comedy classic.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Watching this one more time on TV yesterday reminded me of the first time I
saw it all those years ago at the movies when Tim Burton was just the guy
who had directed that funny Pee-wee Herman movie. Walking into 'Beetlejuice'
then, without knowing anything about it, was an amazing experience. Along
with 'Blade Runner', 'Blue Velvet', 'Videodrome', 'Brazil', 'Paris, Texas',
'The Terminator' and 'Repo Man' it was one of the most astonishing and
memorable  movies of the 1980s, an era dominated by Hollywood dreck like
'Flashdance', 'Top Gun', and 'Footloose'. The whole Bruckheimer/Simpson/Spielberg/Hughes
zeitgeist that dumbed down popular movies as never before. Movies like
'Beetlejuice' were a glimmer of hope in a truly awful period.

The big question is - how does it stand up today? The answer is better than
ever! In fact I would argue that 'Beetlejuice' is Tim Burton's most
successful and least compromised film. Everything about it is perfect. A
great cast lead by the very appealing and likable Alec Baldwin and Geena
Davis as the newly dead Maitlands, a star turn by Michael Keaton as the
gonzo "bio-exorcist" title character, and strong support from Jeffrey Jones,
Catherine O'Hara, and especially Winona Ryder (a performance that really put
her on the map), as the new occupants of the Maitlands house. 'Beetlejuice'
juggles gruesome, trippy and genuinely witty sequences, and ends up becoming
one of the freshest and surreal movies to find a mainstream audience since
the heyday of 60s/70s "head" movies. Forget Burton's more recent hit and
miss big budget efforts, and try this for the real deal, Luis Bunuel meets
Tex Avery meets George Romero, and then some! 'Beetlejuice' is a
blast!
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of Tim Burton's best films. His sophomore effort shows the
story of a married couple (the Maitlands played with good degree by
Alec Baldwin and Geena Davis) who die accidentally off a bridge and
wind up the target for a upper-class family (including a young yet well
played Winona Ryder) and a weird yet scary ghost (with the most) named
Beetleguise (or Beetlejuice in a scene of laughs) played to immense
complexity by Michael Keaton. Sure this plot may sound a little
anti-climactic being mainly gags and not really a focused story, but so
what? In a film where you see sandworms from saturn, shrimps that
attach after calypso and a nut who has seen the exorcist 167 time
(insert quote here), why bother with a plot. Great fun every time I
watch. Reccomendable to anyone.
<|_=00=_|>
You gotta figure that only Tim Burton could come up with this! An
ultra-zany story of rural couple Adam (Alec Baldwin) and Barbara
Maitland (Geena Davis), who accidentally get killed and witness a
tasteless couple moving into their house, forcing them to hire
"bio-exorcist" Beetle Juice (Michael Keaton), is truly something else.
With a new joke almost every minute, the movie never gets dull. And how
about that soundtrack? "Day-O" in the most morbid comedy ever? Yep,
it's all here. Great support from Catherine O'Hara and Jeffrey Jones as
the tasteless couple, Winona Ryder as their disaffected daughter Lydia,
and Sylvia Sidney as afterlife counselor Juno, make this one of the
coolest movies of 1988!
<|_=00=_|>
With ghosts and the dead, one would normally anticipate a horror movie
loaded with screams and gory figures. But in Beetlejuice, we see a new
dimension humour being experimented with.

Taking into the account that the movie was made in 1988 with limited
special effects, Beetlejuice could be simply labelled as "creativity at
its best".

Tim Burton is a pure visionary and with this movie you cannot help but
appreciate the amount of creativity he has and his ability to translate
it to screen.

Acting is top-rate from all fronts. One can't help but admire promising
young Winona Ryder - a flower ready to bloom.

It would take a couple of viewings to be appreciate the movie in
totality.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie always was: 1 - very popular; 2 - very different; 3 - very
entertaining; 4 - a very fast-moving hour-and-a-half of a film.

Several characters in here - mainly Michael Keaton's unique and
sometimes- revolting title character "Beetlejuice"- are always
fascinating to watch. With him - and the whole movie - you also get a
lot of humor and scary special-effects..

It was odd to see Alec Baldwin in such a low-key role. In the '90s, he
played very few of these type of guys. Davis looks and acts
like...well, Davis, who has almost always played nice, cute people that
viewers like. It took me four viewings before I finally appreciated
Catharine O'Hara's comedic talents in this movie. Now, she's my
favorite and someone I find absolutely hilarious as the messed-up
wife/mother of a family who moves into a "haunted house" inhabited by
Baldwin and Davis.

Keaton made himself a name as an actor with this whacked-out Robin
Williams-type role, although he never really followed up with anything
that was as popular as this film. Winona Rider is cute as the teenage
daughter and we get other fun supporting roles from diverse people as
talk show host Dick Cavett, singer Robert Goulet and actor Jeffrey
Jones. All of them are good.

Tim Burton directed the film and so I wasn't surprised there were the
typical occult themes with ghosts and the like, and no heaven or hell
but some other strange existence being touted where dead people go....a
ridiculous picture of the afterlife. However, I just chalk it up to
someone just trying to make a fun, entertaining picture and on that, it
succeeds.

Overall, a unique and entertaining film. It's different, to say the
least!
<|_=00=_|>

Tim Burton's Beetlejuice is a great film. The director was given free reign
to make his own film visually and it is great. The casting is good, but the
standout is Michael Keaton. Keaton is absolutely hilarious in the title
role. This movie is very funny and well done.
<|_=00=_|>

Keaton steals the show as the title character in
this off the wall comedy from director Burton.
Baldwin and Davis are two new ghosts who try to scare
new occupants of their home out, with the help of
"bio exorcist" Keaton. Won a much deserved Oscar
for its make up effects. 
<|_=00=_|>

Spoilers herein.

I revisited this film for a specific project. IMDB comment-writing has given
me an excuse to resee and think about what films were important (or good in
some way) and why. Now after almost two years, I'm developing a list of
filmmakers and a few actors worth following. Should Tim Burton be on the
list?

Tim has at least one rare quality of an effective filmmaker: he has the
ability to shape some critical mass of the elements of his work to adhere to
a coherent vision. A Burton film is pretty recognizable. But have any of his
films struck me in a particularly strong way? Have any been life-altering
(some by others have) or even remembered particularly fondly? The strongest
candidate was this one. It is also of passing interest for Geena and Winona
history.

There are only two things in this film to recommend it: Keaton's slapstick
performance. But his three or four frenetic appearances alone are not enough
to justify sitting front of the screen. The other element is remarkable:
Efman's score. Our old Boingo man I think has literally helped Burton define
himself, so the sonic texture here is more than perfect.

Burton does not go on my list of greats. But I think I'll start a list of
film score composers.

A remark on the architecture. I have a special interest in how films handle
space, and a part of that is the architecture. What Otho supposedly did to
the outside of the house is pretty good actually, very apt for the notion of
the film itself: what you see is some distance removed from
reality.
