

I saw this picture on Betamax in '81 or '82 and it really got under my
skin.
Frankenheimer's monster movie is partly responsible for me getting into
the
business (along with Jaws, Alien, Raiders, Blade Runner, not that I'm
really
inviting such comparisons). I actually had occasion to have a smoke and
chat
briefly with Robert Foxworth about the making of the picture when I was
grip
on a made-for-TV suspense pic in Atlanta. He was approachable, friendly
and
enjoyed talking about that show. He said that they had lost a stunt
driver,
and narrowly escaped losing a cast member or two when their first
construction truck/picture car (the 4wd monster truck our ensemble try to
escape in) took a dive off a cliff. They had to scramble to find another
one
and finish the picture. RF also said that Frankenheimer was an
accomplished
chef and had occasionally treated the DP and Cast to gourmet meals.

Prophecy is now on DVD, presented the way it was originally shot. I think
I
bought my copy for less than $15. All of the criticisms of this film are
true, and it does not belong in the first Frankenheimer potential box set
with "The Train," "Manchurian Candidate," and "Seven Days in May." But
with
this marginal script and genre, bound together with a tired, preachy and
inaccurate environmental message, Frankenheimer managed to put together a
monster picture that has surprisingly stout legs. Remember, Paramount
released this monster muppet against "Alien," arguably the best film of
its
kind ever made.
The monster grizzly is enraged, frightening and unpredictable. It is key
to
the film's suspense. If the Emmerich/Devlin team gave 'Zilla the same
qualities, suddenly that film is worth watching for more than the effects.
Prophecy had virtually no effects by today's standards. They had to make
up
for this with shooting and editing; a.k.a. conventional, hand-crafted
filmmaking.
I may indeed be prejudiced, but I still like this movie with all of its
problems.    
<|_=00=_|>

Reviewers of the film are quick to undercut its actual effectiveness as a
film without realizing that many parts of the film succeed, including the
tension of the characters against the beast, the horror of the beasts'
attacks, the helplessness of man within nature, etc. Reviewers would be
accurate to attack the cheesy effects, hokey dialogue at times and overall
loss on energy in the film toward the climax, but there's much more going
on
here.

Prophecy is, at best, a) a departure for John Frankenheimer, b) a 70's
horror movie with a social conscience and, c) not withstanding amateurish
special effects, predictable dialogue and long-view shots of Talia Shire
looking petrified beyond speech, an actually entertaining, somewhat
surprisingly satisfying film.  The novel created an intelligent, often
compelling case for early environmentalism and the frightening consequences
of doing nothing in light of the dangerous contamination of the Earth.
Prophecy as a film suffers from a deplorable special effects deficiancy
(case in point: at one point in the film, the monster is clearly "walking"
on the dock with the courtesy of a mechanical dolly and hydraulic
levers...uggh) as said before, but looking beyond this, the film's plotline
does build tension, though it loses steam in the end, concluding with a
rather lamely tacked-on "surprise" ending that is more befitting of the TV
networks in the 70's.   Frankenheimer captures a "land-locked" Jaws-like
eating machine on film with a vengeance, and the subsequent carnage is,
while unfortunate, in light of the circumstances that created the beast,
understandable.  The focal point of the movie, the beast itself, operates
as
a deranged ecological locomotive ( actually sounding like one onfilm at
times ) hell-bent on taxing mankind for its misfortune.

Remarkably ( and most likely accidentally) the film achieved a perfect "of
the moment" time slice capture of the late 70's era, replete with the
worries, political movements, ambiguities and uncertainties of the time all
woven within the backstory of the Indian's struggle against the papermill,
global overpopulation, bigotry and commercialization at the expense of
nature.

Beautiful scenery ( courtesy of British Columbia, circa 1978/1979),
believable performances, particularly from Richard Dysart and Armand
Assanti, combined with circumstances and sequences never actually realized
on film before combine to make a pretty meaty B movie. Case in point, the
opening sequence with the dogs and the cliff, the tunnels of the Indian
village and their subsequent use later in the film. I saw this film when I
was 11, and the memory of the camping family and their fate in the film has
YET to leave me. Don't think I've ever camped again without recalling that
scene...

I recommend the film without taking it as seriously as it seems to take
itself, though the message of environmentalism is one worth listening to.
The plot device of methyl mercury poisoning in Minimata, Japan is based on
true life actual events, and is considerably more frightening than the sum
of this movie, but is worth researching sometime.

- Monstergarp

<|_=00=_|>
It did have its share of cheesy moments, but Prophecy is one of the
best rampaging-mutant movies I've seen - and I've seen quite a few.
Some users have complained that the terror shots are too few and far
between, but this is an ancient and now-lost film-making technique
called 'building suspense'. Personally, I think it enhanced the shock
value of the monster (which, by the way, still manages to give me the
occasional nightmare, even as I approach 30). The scene where Foxworth,
speaking into a tape recorder as he puzzles out the environmental
disaster, gradually realizes the nature and extent of what he's facing,
is a true cinematic gem. If this were a 'serious' movie, it would have
been worth of at least a nomination, and the chainsaw/axe duel is
intense. However, horror movies rarely win awards.

I do laugh during the sleeping bag scene, though. Can't help myself.
And the viewer can clearly see that the monster morphs from fifteen
feet tall to eight feet tall when it goes from close-ups to action
shots. The creature itself is terrifying, in my opinion. Anyone who
can't suspend their disbelief enough to overlook a few flaws in the
special effects techniques probably shouldn't be watching monster
movies, anyway.

This is one of the prizes of my video collection, if I ever find it on
DVD, I won't hesitate to add it to THAT collection, as well.
<|_=00=_|>

Maybe it's because the setting of the movie- New England- is where I spent
many an idyllic vacation with my family, but to see this creepy-looking
mutant bear running around in the forest is really terrifying.
John Frankenheimer directs a nighmarish film that should not be seen alone.

I saw "Prophecy" on a double bill with the original "Friday the 13th,"
another bloody romp in the forest. The Jason film was second on the bill,
and would've been unimpressive on its own, but was rendered especially
impotent to this viewer after having all the bejeezus scared out of me by
"Prophecy." 

Highly recommended!

<|_=00=_|>

Saw this at a Drive-In with Friday the 13th, thought this film was
better.
The plot is great, unlike most films of this type,(SPOILERS AHEAD)the
local
papermill uses a chemical to soak its logs in, the EPA is brought in to
check things out, the Native Americans are wanting the White people to
stay
off their land and quit demolishing their land, and then there is a
deformed
mother bear looking for her cubs. This and the fact that a search party
winds up missing, a family is killed, and the papermill is blaming the
Native Americas, and the horror is growing inside a person. Great movie,
one
of my favorites, never gets old. 10/10 and Highly recomended.
<|_=00=_|>
It's been years since I saw Prophecy on the big screen, 24 in fact, but
it impacted me so greatly that I own it still today.

This film has its campy moments, some performances appear hesitant and
unsure, and some of the dialog really makes you roll your eyes and
laugh. But the message of this movie sticks with you forever.

This is the movie that contains that memorable scene of the camper, all
zipped up in his bedroll/sleeping bag, trying in vain to hop away from
the monster. You may remember this scene as it was used in many ads for
Paramount, for years to come.

The message of this film is simple: the Earth is our Mother, and only
we can save Her.

As a horror movie, it's extremely good, even by today's standards.

It was well-written, well directed and for the most part well done.

As I said before, it has its campy moments, but overall, Frankenheimer
(who's got so many films to his credit I won't bother listing them
here) did a wonderful job of getting the message across, even if it was
through a creative media such as a film of horror.

It gets a 7.9/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Prophecy when I was 13 in the there, and it is exactly the kind
of movie that I love to watch even now 25 odd years later. It is a
horror with a great combination: A disgusting, if campy, host of
mutants; a plausible foundation for the existence of the mutants; and
some great "outright screamer" scares.

If you are watching Prophecy for slick effects, don't waste your time.
If you are looking for a thoughtful script that provokes a life
altering change in paradigms, don't waste your time. If you are looking
for a great "turn the lights out" scary movie that has some solid
"darn-near-soil-your-underwear" surprises, this is a pretty good start.

The challenge that many contemporary horror flicks have even today is
the inability to do the one thing that Prophecy does. It gives you a
plausible premise (ecological damage resulting in mutations),
reasonable (if nowhere near Academy award winning) acting, and, the
coup de grace, a boatload of drawn out suspense scenes.

The majority of commenter's that dislike this movie base their disgust
on the effects (which aren't great, but hey ever had someone pop a
paper bag near you when you are nervous anyway) or the acting. It's
just a good mutant horror flick folks, I doubt anyone sensed as they
did the movie that it would be on the AFI top 100, relax.

Spoilers below: There are four scenes which I find make this movie a
great "scary" flick.

1)The search and rescue team at the beginning which is a great suspense
piece.

2)The Indian tunnels 3)The drive through the forest (which seems to go
on forever, but is worth it when the mutant finally arrives, just for
the scare) 4)The grand finale at the lake What I liked most about this
movie is it's ability to provide me with a lasting scare (or scar). I
doubt I'll be in space anytime soon to face-off with an Alien. I don't
buy into all of the occult pieces. I doubt that Satan or his child
really care to waste their energy on my sorry …. But, I go camping all
the time, and after Prophecy, I don't care how cold I get I will never
sleep in a mummy bag, I live in logging country and I will never eat
the fish from a lake near a paper mill, and I will seriously think
about going back to suburbia if I see tadpoles the size of bass.

That is the real treasure in Prophecy, a scary movie that does what it
is supposed to do, scare you. Forget the ecological message of the
film, forget the social message of the film, suspend disbelief and take
a fun ride for the shear joy of being scared by a horror flick.

Only one movie and one book have scared me more than Prophecy did, 7
and It, respectively. Perhaps, I was too impressionable at 13, but
Prophecy is the kind of flick purist horror fans should love, just a
darn good scare and a "that could happen to me" feeling that may keep
you awake at night on a couple of deep woods camping trips.
<|_=00=_|>
...... but the creature itself isn't half bad considering that this was
made in 79'- pre CGI. The film has some great expansive wilderness
scenery and an effective score by Leonard Rosenman. It has a great
opening which in a sense promises more than the rest of the film
delivers—quite plodding for the most part—but this is really a minor
quibble. The acting is decent and there is enough tension generated by
the opening sequence to keep ones interest throughout the proceedings.

There is minimal gore, but the tone of the film is relatively intense
and serious, with a violent undercurrent that is more implied than
expressive and adds to some well mounted terror sequences. The last
half hour certainly isn't dull and is filmed with panache and a great
deal of swampy atmosphere.

This is a very hard US PG rating (pre - PG13 days). A brief fight scene
involving a chainsaw and an axe (although by no means graphic) is like
something seen in a more exploitative hardcore action film. Had the
film makers pushed a little stronger and bloodied a little more and
went for an R' rating, this film may have become a minor horror classic
considering the talent involved. As it stands, its still a hoot and
well worth a mention in your DVD creature feature collection.
<|_=00=_|>

PROPHECY is the kind of movie that makes you go, "Aw, man!"  Not because it
just plain sucks, but because the movie never once lives up to its
potential.  It repeatedly pulls its punches and draws back just as it's
getting good.

The poster is probably the best thing about it, showing a creepy little
mutant fetus floating in a womb.  A movie about that thing?  As an eight
year old kid, I was the first on line!  And, as an added bonus, it was PG,
so I knew I could get in.  Not to mention the fact that this was when
Hollywood still had some balls, and a PG movie could still contain some
hefty doses of gore and T&A.

I remember finding individual scenes to be pretty scary.  A family is
slaughtered while camping in one scene.  A guy in an overturned jeep gets
his head ripped off.  And the giant mutant bear is, at times, genuinely
freaky.

But even I, as a little kid, could tell that the movie was uneven and poorly
paced.  When the monster isn't attacking, it's yawn city, with Robert
Foxworth pontificating endlessly to the point where, even though I agreed
with every word he said, I wanted to bash his face in.  And Talia Shire's
eye-bugging and whining got pretty tiresome after a while as
well.

You rarely, if ever, get a good look at the monster.  That technique worked
in ALIEN, but, whereas ALIEN kept the monster hidden through stylish
photography and sly editing, PROPHECY is just poorly shot, badly lit, and
sloppily put together.  

Ridley Scott wanted to keep the alien partially hidden, so all you saw was
teeth and claws and could put the thing together in your mind.  I think John
Frankenheimer just couldn't figure out how to hide the seams in the
dime-store monster costume he had to work with, so just lit everything so
dimly you could barely see anything.  The monster is pretty grotesque and
occasionally looks fearsome, but usually looks like nothing more than a big
gray blob.

The baby monster bear that Shire cradles through the second half of the
movie is much more freakish looking.  PROPHECY is watchble enough if it
shows up on cable one rainy day when there's nothing else to do.  Just
remember to watch it through an eight year old's eyes.
<|_=00=_|>
One of those - How did they screw this up so badly? films. A doctor and
his wife leave the big city and take refuge in the Maine wilderness,
only to find just as much, if not more, conflict. The corporate
lumbermen harass the local Indian tribe, who resent their treatment of
the land. The local lumberyard is pumping toxic mercury into the
environment leading to an outbreak of birth deformities, but are more
interested in covering it up than cleaning it up. And somewhere in the
woods is an enraged gigantic beast that is attacking campers and the
local populace.

There is a lot of juicy tidbits here, yet director John Frankenheimer
(responsible for the amazing The Manchurian Candidate) somehow lets the
film get completely away from him. The film is really just a straight
horror thriller with topical political overtones, but it rarely engages
on any level. The conflict between the corporate interests and the
Indians remains static at best. The film's groundwork for the
revelation of the giant monster consists of a giant trout that swims to
the surface of a lake and gobbles a duck and a large piece of rubber
that someone proclaims a "tadpole", all of which are borderline
laughable. The subplot of the local deformities in human babies is
underplayed.

Yet for all of this the film should really work on a visceral level as
a horror film. There is something inherently frightening about the dark
forest at night, with strange sounds emanating from all around. This is
something that the film never really takes advantage of. The latter
third of the film is basically a lengthy pursuit of a diversity of
eclectic characters trying to escape the onslaught of the rampaging
monster, and this works much better than what has proceeded it, but it
still does not work as potently as it should. Some of the earlier
attack scenes are too few and far between - including a bungled opening
sequence that is no where near as effective as the film seems to
believe and a borderline laughable assault on a camping family
memorable for the hilarious burst sleeping bag and feathers moment. The
film pushes the then PG-rated boundaries with some surprising violence
in the latter portion, but we are not especially invested in any of
these characters at peril and when the creature finally emerges it
looks nothing like that depicted on the poster. Rather it alternates
between looking like a guy in a rubber suit, a slimy bear, a stuffed
slimy bear and a huge knockwurst. In short, nothing to remotely
frighten one despite the severity of the attacks. The fact that the
film is able to generate some decent suspense in this third is largely
because of some level of professionalism in Frankenheimer's direction
and the promise still inherent in the material (which is largely
undeveloped).

The dreadful acting also does not help this film. Talia Shire spends
much of the film looking bored and spends the final moments appearing
as though on the verge of slipping into a Valium-induced coma. The film
throws her character some drama with a plot revelation, but instead of
emoting she restrains herself to the point of lifelessness. Armand
Assante probably contributes the best performance as a local Native
American activist whom the powers-that-be initially try to pin the
attacks on.

The worst performance comes courtesy of Robert Foxworth as Shire's
husband, and he deserves his own paragraph. It is a straight-forward
straight-arrow good guy role that just requires someone solid and
appealing. Instead, Foxworth contributes a performance that would be
too broad for a Greek amphitheater. In scenes where he is to appear
sympathetic, he positively drips with self-righteousness. In scenes
where he is disturbed about the trials around him, he sputters,
blusters and waves his arms all over the place. When Shire tells him a
late plot twist, he stares with such intensity at her that it is a
wonder she is not burned to a cinder. He has absolutely no chemistry
with Shire and every time a character asks for his opinion as a doctor,
he strides as though heading center stage and begins to pontificate as
though launching into a soliloquy from Shakespeare. His final
confrontation with the creature should be played in acting classes as a
perfect definition of how NOT to act on screen. It is a dreadfully
laughable performance that degenerates into a mockery of hammy-ness
that completely overwhelms the role, the people around him and the film
itself.

On an aside, this is definitely a story that would be ripe for a
remake. With better special effects, a more polished screenplay,
tighter direction and (arguably most important of all) a better leading
man, this could transform itself into a amazingly scary thrill ride.
