

Once again, I've had the pleasure of showing this film to one of my
College
literature classes; we're studying the World War One poets of England, and
this film shows my students in vivid detail what made this war so
different
from anything that had come before it.  The world lost its innocence with
"The Great War," and we are still reeling from the consequences a century
later.  Peter Weir's magnificent film follows the story of two best
"mates"
from the Australian outback and their sudden thrust into the realities of
a
new world order.  Mel Gibson, Mark Lee, and a fine cast create the sense
of
brotherhood and horror that makes this film so profoundly moving.  The
last
20 minutes spares the audience no detail, and while more recent films like
"Black Hawk Down" and "Saving Private Ryan" are perhaps more graphic,
"Gallipoli" immerses us in the human loss more fully.  In "Gallipoli" we
get
to know these friends in intimate detail, making the losses they suffer in
the end truly gut wrenching.  Five stars out of five stars.
<|_=00=_|>

'Gallipoli' is the story of two young sprinters who join the war effort in
Turkey during World War I.  There have been countless war films in cinema
history covering the different wars, the horrors of war, etc.  What is
unique about this story is its probing of two young friends and their
journey into the military effort--unlike other war films, which deal
directly with the war, 90% of this film follows the journey of these two
young men before they transfer over to the war.  The special quality of this
is that the viewer gets to know these two protagonists very well and their
humble lives in Australia--which makes the tragic ending all the more
devastating.  The last 20 or 30 minutes of the film is spent at the
Gallipoli peninsula, inside the war trenches.  The generals vainly send men
running toward the enemy and they are swiftly slaughtered.  These scenes
demonstrate the horrible truth of war, that healthy young men with lives
ahead of them are destroyed forever in a single, pointless
instance.

The final minute of the film is truly heartbreaking, as a tragedy occurs
between the two young friends.  The very last shot of the film is stunning,
as a horrible image is frozen on screen.  Director Weir could have fallen
into the sentimentality trap, but he was smart: the tragedy occurs, and the
moment it does, the movie ends RIGHT THERE, leaving you with a haunting
final image.

A landmark war film, highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I taught HS history and used very few commercial movies in
teaching...the exceptions included GALLIPOLI and PATHS OF GLORY and the
newer remake of ALL QUIET. I've never watched a film that builds plot,
mood and theme any better than Gallipoli. While there are many
light-hearted and humorous forays which add to character development,
the ongoing drum-beat of the film is war, war, war--attack, attack,
attack. I can't imagine any better musical score or musical editing:the
juxtaposition of elegant Strauss waltzes the night before debarkation
with the funereal Adagio as the troops cross the water is genius. I'm
surprised that we haven't seen more of Marc Lee-the idealistic Archie.
He does a wonderful job along with a VERY young Mel Gibson. When I
showed the movie to my classes I was careful to watch THE STUDENTS as
the final scenes arrived rather than the film. Now THAT was telling! I
absolutely commend this film to all! (ADDED)BTW...Brits---try not to
take the criticism of the military operation as criticism of YOU...I
think the entire film was meant to be an indictment of war as an
instrument of national policy. Your very own John Keegan observed that
once wars begin, they have a way of creating their own momentum and
justification. It's for this reason that Herodotus said that "all wars
are popular in their inception". The film, as I viewed it, was about
the futility of war, the fixation of military commanders to fix the
"previous war" and the price we pay for stupidity. The lesson should
not be lost on the US in Iraq either.
<|_=00=_|>

There is not a lot wrong with this movie.  The entire thing seems authentic
- meaning you feel like you're in Australia in 1915.  You are living on a
farm, running in a race and ultimately in a war.

What is also very extraordinary is that there is not really a lot that
happens, there is barely a plot.  But it doesn't matter, because Peter Weir
is a master storyteller.  The actors are all superb and your heart may hurt
at the climax - mine did.

Unforgettable, like all great movies.
<|_=00=_|>

A lesson still sadly unlearned by today's great "Empire" - this film builds
perfectly to show that war IS terror. In 1915, as today, it is not the
ruling elites that ultimately face that terror, but everyday people full of
precious dreams and yet-to-be-fulfilled promise. "Gallipoli" follows the
adventure of two Australian mates fighting for the British Empire in a
badly-managed attack in Turkey during WW1. The deckchairs have been somewhat
rearranged these days, but the message is as relevant, as chilling and as
powerful as ever. A true classic.  
<|_=00=_|>
All of our characters spend the entire first half of this movie
developing their personalities, and letting the audience get to know
them. The cast signs up for war, considering it to be just the sport
that it had been in past days. Instead, all of them, with their
individual phrases, look, and persona, join a cannon-fodder army which
could indeed be compared to hell itself.

One of the particular themes that shows in this movie is the
replacement of conventional weapons. No longer are the glory days when
a man could be shot, shake hands with his foe, and call it a day.
Instead, we watch many of our innocent, sporty youths run up to "fight
the turks," and barely take one step before the loud rattling of a
machine gun renders him mutilated beyond all recognition. Indeed, the
heroes barely comprehend the concept of death, as one of the most
harrowing lines states: "Barney. He's dead. He was standin' right
beside me, and I- and I though' he jus' tripped and fell. Y'know,
B-barney's like that. He's- He...Was always clumsy."

Another is the use of your allies and soldiers as cannon fodder. To
supposedly "let the British advance into the peninsula," the Australian
troops, including our youths, are forced to run directly into the
no-mans' land, being shredded into kindling while their superiors
question their ability as soldiers. "Why aren't we advancing?" "But
sir, all of our men, they barely get out of the holes and they die!" "I
don't care. We won't win until we advance. The fight must go on."

A movie that easily sheds tears (well, I cried), Gallipoli is not
necessarily a film to enjoy, but instead to reveal the dark side of the
"modernized" Western World.
<|_=00=_|>
Peter Weir has long been one of my favorite directors, and he has had a
career consumed by subtle, quiet, lingering films. He can make the most
banal concept seem thrilling and suspenseful; a perfect example is the
Harrison Ford film "Witness." It could have easily become a stupid,
insulting, exploitative "thriller." The ending is, in retrospect, quite
ridiculous. But Weir has a strange ability to make anything seem
realistic.

"Gallipoli" is one of his older films, from 1981, and it stars a huge
cast of names - most famous today, of course, Mel Gibson...whose name
is now splattered across the front of the DVD case.

The story is a true one and follows a group of young Australian men who
join the ANZACs in World War I. They are sent to Gallipoli, and amidst
personal and emotional turmoil they must learn to band together and
fight the Turkish Army.

The movie is long, as another reviewer on the site points out. But all
of Weir's films are. What I didn't like about his most recent - "Master
& Commander" - is that it used special effects (exteriors of ships,
etc.) and action sequences (raging storms) to compensate for the slow
bits... and came across (to me anyway) as quite dull and down-trodden.

"Gallipoli" is a great film - slow, subtle, low-key. It's a bit like an
Australian version of "All Quiet on the Western Front." I'd recommend
it to anyone who enjoys slower films and can appreciate
character-driven dramas. Don't go near it if your attention span was
dimming during "xXx2."
<|_=00=_|>

The Australian classic, handling a subject that is a significant part of
Australian history and culture.  The characters are heart-felt and
sincere,
without the standard mawkishness of American movies.  They reflect the
underdog, larrakin nature of the traditional Aussie spirit.  This is the
closest most Australians get to a blatant flag-waving exercise, so let us
enjoy it!  It certainly helps make ANZAC Day ceremonies a lot more
meaningful to the younger generations, who need full-color pictures to
help
visualize the events.  Of course it shouldn't be taken as a documentary,
but
I have heard that most war veterans approved of the
dramatization.
<|_=00=_|>
Terrific film that so succinctly sums up the passion and the innocence
of the Aussie soldiers as they gave their lives up for a cause not
their own, believing to the end that duty demanded that they make a
good showing of themselves. This story is based in historical fact and
is still discussed today as one of the most terrible follies foisted
upon young men by totally incompetent military leaders. There are even
worse stories that are told about the wars outcome in France and
Belgium but this film captures enough of the tragedy to drive home the
point of how mad all wars are.

The very young and handsome and Aussie sounding Mel Gibson is very
convincing as are the entire cast. Peter Weir crafted a heart wrenching
film which ends with a moment that you just can not shake from your
mind. Great film and very moving.
<|_=00=_|>

I've always felt that "Gallipoli" was an extremely underrated film. Despite
being early in Mel Gibson's career I felt it was his best movie still to
date (also Peter Weir's). 

The film starts with two talented sprinters who almost instantly become
friends. One of them, Archy Hamilton (Mark Lee) is almost eighteen and dying
to get out of the remote outback of Australia and see the world, go on
adventures etc. He cuts out dramatic newspaper clippings from WWI which is
at it's peak at the time. He sees enlisting into the cavalry (Australian
lighthorse) as his ticket out of his boredom. Ironically despite wanting to
join the army, the film shows that he has absolutely no idea how exactly the
war even started. When asked by a drifter how it began he claims "I'm not
sure, but it was the German's fault". He's simply a naive kid who has no
idea what he's about to get himself into and who believes he's
indestructable. He's  after some vauge adventure that he has in his head (a
reason that many young people enlist to go to war.) 

The Mel Gibson character (Frank Dunne) is the smarter of the two. He
believes the war is a British conflict that has nothing to do with
Australia. Much of the social animosity that exists between Australia and
Britain is expressed through his character. However after his friends all
decide to enlist along with his new friend Archie, he finally succumbs to
the peer-pressure and enlists himself (which is another reason why many
young people end up in wars). However he enlists reluctantly and is more
realistic about what lays ahead for him. 

(Spoilers)...The friendship between the two young men is very touching and
is the centerpiece of the whole movie. When the two are inevitably sent to
the trenches, the reality really begins to sink in for the Frank character.
Finally at the very end, Archie's dreams of glory are dashed when he
realizes that he's basically about to be used as nothing but cannon fodder
for a very incompetently planned offensive.  

This film doesn't have the gore that "Saving Private Ryan" or "Black Hawk
Down" has, but the scenes of warfare are extremely disturbing and emotional
nonetheless. The feeling of waste as wave after wave of troops are gunned
down is gripping. Easily my favorite war film.

