

If I'm not mistaken, I think it's just about my one-year anniversary here at
IMDB.  Now I'm sure my raging fans (all two of you) are well aware that I
can't get enough of weird cartoons.  I happened to run into "Pinocchio and
the Emperor of the Night" in the bargain bin of a thrift store recently,
bought it remembering only that I had rented it several times as a kid, and
came away concluding that it's going to take one heck of a cartoon to beat
this one!

This movie is crazy.  It's like somebody wanted to do an animated film of
_Faust_, got bored with it, and decided for the heck of it to throw
Pinocchio and Gepetto in it (other characters from the _Pinocchio_ story
show up in poor disguises).  Pinocchio's adventure leads him from an evil
carnival to a freakish neon Hell populated by small children and lastly to
the domain of a quadrimanous Satan.  Along the way, he has run-ins with a
wooden insect, a monkey who is eerily prescient of JarJar Binks down to the
last stupid big tooth, and a pretty girl puppet owned by Satan's minion. 
This last character (the puppet, not the minion) is the focus of a crush
from Pinocchio, and I guess this is supposed to be romantic but it comes
across as very creepy.  (I mean, he's a real boy lusting over a *doll*
people; look at the looks he's giving her!)

This is a very trippy movie.  On that level, it isn't half bad.  I actually
rather enjoyed it.
<|_=00=_|>

I think that when all of us were kids we had one or two movies that we loved
so much that we sat down and watched them dozens of times. For me one of
those movies was Pinocchio and the Emperor of the Night, which is definitely
a lesser known animated feature but all the same still holds up today. After
ordering a copy from Amazon.com and watching it again all these years later,
I was pleasantly surprised that Emperor entertained me even at my usually
cynical age.

Sure, you could nitpick that the animation is inconsistent, with some scenes
appearing less detailed while others are excessively so, and that certain
backgrounds are obviously repeated during chase scenes ala The Flintstones
(it's even more pronounced here due to the visible line in the visuals), but
frankly those didn't hamper my enjoyment of the film. The animation is
usually quite vibrant and expressive, and the story takes the usual
Pinocchio antics in a different direction by providing an actual villain in
the uber-creepy Emperor (voiced by that staple of movie villains, James Earl
Jones). In fact, much of the movie is downright dark, from the opening
sequence where a demented carnival seems to set itself up to Pinocchio's
transformation back into a puppet. I'm not saying any of this will scare
kids today, as they've probably seen much worse, but it does give a good
balance to the otherwise cheerful imagery.

I can't get through this review without mentioning the handful of songs
which are peppered throughout Pinocchio and the Emperor of the Night. I
can't get enough of "Love Is The Light Inside Your Heart," which is just a
beautiful little pop ballad that I can't get out of my head because it's so
memorable. True, the Fairy Godmother may sound like she's doped up during
her speaking lines, but the song is great. "Neon Cabaret" is more of a
background song than "Love," but it still has a nice little jazz beat that
goes well with its scene, a night club where children basically throw back
green alcohol (come on ya know it was alcohol) and go nuts. Finally there's
"Your A Star," which while not a phenomenal song once again fits with the
visuals of the sequence. Like I said before, much of the visuals of the
movie are extremely well done and give the movie a vintage '80s feel I
couldn't help but like.

Now this is coming from a guy who's reviewed countless animated movie, but I
think it's safe to say that young kids could still get a kick out of this
movie. It's got everything the modern animated flicks have, but without the
crass marketing. And the sidekicks aren't half as tiresome or irritating,
with the only ones being a glow worm voiced by Don Knotts and a bee named
Grumblebee. Some sections of the film may seem like filler, like the scene
involving a toad and a city of insects which lasts a bit too long, but other
than that I give Pinocchio and the Emperor of the Night an enthusiastic
recommendation. 3/4 stars
<|_=00=_|>

Don't be put off by those who would label this little gem a Disney ripoff. 
In a time when very few animated features were being produced, Pinocchio and
the Emperor of the Night is a surprisingly nice little animated film.  From
the opening moments, you can see that this was intended to be something
special.  There is some great animation, such as the ending on the Emperor
of the Night's ship.  There are some dark, genuinely frightening moments
such as James Earl Jones as the titular Emperor and his macabre carnival, or
a scene which has Pinocchio transformed back into a lifeless puppet.  There
are comical moments with Gee Willikers the wooden glowbug and Grumblebee. 
There are also bizarre, surreal scenes, notably a sequence where Pinocchio
is tempted in a dream-like land by the Emperor and his minions.   The song
in this scene, "The Neon Cabaret", is jazzy and upbeat, and it enhances 
strange mood.  Don Knotts, James Earl Jones, Ed Asner, and Jonathan Harris
all give wonderful voice performances to their respective characters. 
Rickie Lee Jones as the Fairy Godmother tends to grate
though.

The overall impression is that of a very ambitious production.  The film
moves along at a good pace and boils to a great climactic finish. 
Definitely worth a look!

<|_=00=_|>
A creepy mysterious carnival comes to town, Pinocchio (voiced by Scott
Grimes) has just celebrated his first birthday as a human has been
given a special assignment from his dad Gheppeto (voiced by Tom Bosley)
to return an important jewel box back to the mayor and has been granted
the power of freedom from his Fairy Godmother (voiced by Rickie Lee
Jones) as he must be responsible for it or else he'll end up a puppet
again. He gets swindled by a scandalous Raccoon named Scalawag (voiced
by Ed Asner) and his monkey assistant Igor (voiced by Frank Welker) for
a worthless fake ruby, it upsets his dad so much that he decides to run
away to join the carnival for he falls for the hypnotic singing of a
beautiful female puppet named Twinkle (voiced by Lana Beeson) over
there and is tricked by the evil Puppetino (voiced by William Windon)
as he is magically changed back into a puppet. However, Pinocchio does
escape as he looks for the two scumbags that swindled him for they go
after the traveling carnival to get the box back and end up in the
nightmarish Las Vegas-esquire hellish realm of the empire of the night
ruled by the evil Emperor (Voiced by James Earl Jones).

Co-starring the voices of Jonathan Harris and Don Knotts, this is a
highly underrated and hugely entertaining animated fantasy from
Filmation (The studios behind "He-Man", "Fat Albert", "Star Trek
Animated" and "She-Ra") for i believe this is their best movie besides
"Starchaser: Legend of Orin" and "The Secret of the Sword". The film
does have a few good songs such as the haunting "Love is the light
inside your heart" by Rickie Lee Jones, the upbeat "Neon Carbret" and
finally the most fun song of all "You're a Star".

I remembered back in 1987 when i was 5 on Christmas night when i lived
in St. Louis, my mom took me to see this movie at a shopping mall
theater and it sure scared the crap out of me. But now i love it for
it's one of my favorite animated movies ever! the animation is just
breathtaking here considering it's an improvement over any Filmation
animated effort and the film really gets dark with such moments like
the absolutely horrifying sequence where Pinocchio changes back into a
puppet as he's surrounded by puppets for it will scare the hell out of
kids considering it almost escape the "PG" rating plus the Emperor
himself is quite an awesome villain here.

If you love animation and good fantasy stories then this is a must see!
it's a rare forgotten 80's animated diamond in the rough.

Also recommended: "The Black Cauldron", "Rock & Rule", "Fire & Ice",
"Wizards", "The Dark Crystal", "Aladdin", "Big Trouble in Little
China", "The Phantom Tollbooth", "Transformers: The Movie", "The Wizard
of Oz", "Snow White and The Seven Dwarfs", "The Great Mouse Detective",
"Sleepy Hollow", "The Corpse Bride", "Willy Wonka and The Chocholate
Factory", "Return to Oz", "Oliver & Company", "The Little Mermaid",
"The Last Unicorn", "The Secret of NIMH", "Charlie and The Chocolate
Factory", "Mulan", "Spirited Away", "Making Contact (a.k.a. Joey)".
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie when I was about 10 or so and I absolutely loved it.
The
animation was fantastic and I actually thought it was better than the
Disney
movie.  The story was very involved, but not too hard for a kid to
follow. 
I hope to find this movie on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>

This film will go down as one of my all-time favorites. Filmation wasn't
known for phenomenal animation, but after watching the Masters of the
Universe series again, I wasn't expecting too much from them on THIS one- I
was COMPLETELY blown away! The animation is PHENOMENAL, coming from
Filmation. The Emperor looks awesome, and the music scores are EXCELLENT.
In
my opinion, this film never received the marketing blitz it truly deserved.
Personally, I like THIS film better than DISNEY'S Pinocchio, and this film
is actually not a continuation of the DISNEY film, but of the Adventures of
Pinocchio animated series. Every time I see this film, I love it even more.
A real winner in my book! :)
<|_=00=_|>
I grew up watching the Disney film, and also love the book by Carlo
Collodi. This is a wonderful underrated gem from 1987, that is a lot of
fun. If I had to decide which is better, Disney's "Pinocchio" or
"Pinocchio and the Emperor of the Night", the Disney film but only
marginally.

For one thing, the animation is very impressive. The backgrounds are
surprisingly detailed and the character movements are convincing. The
animation on the Emperor of the Night is absolutely brilliant. Also,
the songs are fun and memorable. "Love is the Light Inside Your Heart"
is not only haunting but a genuine tearjerker. "Neon Cabaret", while
more a background song is also great, while "You're a Star" is
wonderfully upbeat.

Other advantages are an engaging, dark and heartwarming story that
keeps to the spirit of the book, a strong script and good characters,
including the hilarious Igor and Puppetino(the part when he turns
Pinocchio into a puppet was quite frightening). Pinocchio is engaging
enough, and the Emperor of the Night while very intense is a great
villain. Oh and the Good Fairy is gorgeous.

The voice acting is top notch, you don't hear much of James Earl Jones
but once again he does an awesome job as the voice of the Emperor of
the Night. Tom Bosley is surprisingly good as Geopetto, while William
Windom is unrecognisable as Puppetino. Also Frank Welker deserves
credit for his hysterical performance as Igor. In conclusion, this is
wonderful and something quite special. 10/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
i love this film the songs in it are brilliant it is very dark at times
i.e. the part where Pinocchio turns back into a puppet puppetino is
very creepy in this scene with that laugh of his and the part the land
where dreams come true where the emperor of the night is superb (with
James earl Jones voicing him) these scenes are what i always remember
about the film but what the film is trying to tell us is that we should
never take the freedom we have for granted or else we might lose it and
become mere puppets like the ones in the film the animation might not
be pixar class but they were good for its time and like i said i
believe that this film is a masterpiece in its own right and not a
Disney rip off
<|_=00=_|>

I watched this movie when I was little (can't remember exactly how old I
was), and I just recently got hold of a copy and thought I'd watch it
again
(brings back memories, ya know).

It's supposed to be a sequel to Disney's Pinocchio. The characters are
similar to the ones in the Disney movie - all except for the Emperor of
the
Night (I don't know where they got him from). He seemed a little bit too
much to throw into this story (and he might be a little too scary for the
really young ones). I mean, what kind of demonic overlord would want
anything to do with an has-been puppet? (The story tries to explain this,
but doesn't do a very good job.) Anyway, the kids will probably enjoy it,
so
rent it for them if you get the chance (if there's nothing better to get,
that is).
<|_=00=_|>
Pinocchio and the emperor of the night is a film I am sure would have
repelled more 4-year olds than draw them in with its horrifying imagery
for a G rating. But as a film for anyone over 9 years old, I think it
is a movie that holds up very well, and is often forgotten. I think it
even trumps the Disney film! But why? Well, here we go! This was made
by filmation, who also created He-man and all the Archiecomics
cartoons. The animation is stunning and you can tell a lot of effort
was put into it. The characters are believable and fun to watch.
Especially the main villain, the emperor of the night, which has that
whole Shiva thing going on with more than two arms. This movie is an
alternate time line to the original fairytale, in which the event where
the blue fairy changed pinocchio happened, but nothing else. At least I
think it is. Everyone else I run into thinks it is a direct sequel, but
I personally think it has to be an alternate time line, but the film
doesn't explain very well, mystifying most people. However, the songs
are mostly bland and forgettable. They are okay at best, except for the
blue fairy song, which is horrendous. But, this movie has great voice
acting and a very ambient and well- defined tone to it. It has great
action, and can be suspenseful and fun, especially near the end when
Pinocchio and the emperor of the night are battling over buying
Pinocchio's soul. The character designs are really cool. I especially
love Pinocchio and Gee willikers, the movie's replacement of Jimminy
cricket. I also liked their design of the blue fairy over the one from
the Disney version. This is a very well done movie with plenty of good
things going for it. I recommend to check it out if you are deep into
obscure animated movies with an edge that time forgot.
