

Without a doubt, the work of Cunningham and Carpenter during 1978 & 1980
rocked the world of the horror genre. Friday the 13th is one of the films
that to this day still has repercussions. It demonstrated the importance of
setting the tone in horror movies, making the audience themselves feel as if
they too were being stalked. Cunningham also was one of the few directors to
introduce the idea of a possible female serial killer.

Without this film, Scream's Randy would have never uttered those famous
words, 'There are certain rules to surviving a horror movie..' This film
combined with Carpenter's Halloween, firmly etched the rules in stone. The
creepy music, the infamous "ch-ch-ch-ha-ha-ha", the crude photography and
the graphic depiction of the murders of the counsellors all blend together
to give a classic piece of film history. It scared the hell out of
multitudes of teenagers who, in many instances could see themselves in the
victims of the stalker. These weren't bad people getting killed, these were
just your typical average American kids, having a good time, getting picked
off.

That is what makes this film so defining, that is why, for all its crude and
harsh imagery, this is a classic. This is why alot of recent attempts at
horror don't measure up. It's not the effects or the blood necessarily, it's
the atmosphere and the familiarity that bring it home.It is more frightening
to think, "That could be me"
<|_=00=_|>
Friday the 13th. The movie which turned around the horror genre and
gave us one of the most unforgettable villains and endings, is, and
always will be a horror classic. Friday the 13th doesn't set out to be
glossy and glamorous. Friday the 13th sets out to do what it wants to
do; and that is, make you sit on the edge of your seat, feel
uncomfortable and unnerved, to make you frightened when you go to bed
after watching it. Friday the 13th delivers all of the fantastic horror
goods. The plot revolves around American teenagers, who are the new
counsellors at the apparently jinxed Camp Crystal Lake. These naive,
horny youngsters have a one-track mind and break all of the innocent
borders which has more depth than you would think. Basically, the
message is "Don't have pre-marital sex, or you'll die" just like many
of Friday the 13th's predecessors and clones send out as well. Friday
the 13th has a variety of characters, all who you could possibly relate
to. These characters are then slowly followed and hacked off one by
one, in dark, gory, claustrophobic manners, which may leave you
frightened in the same way Psycho made showers scary. As the camp
counsellors are knocked off one by one, the tension rises higher and
higher. Along the journey of carnage, the hugely effective soundtrack
really creeps under your skin, highlighting how jumpy and scary the
events happening on screen really are. For example when a chase scene
occurs, the music may speed up, the tempo rising and jittering, almost
moving like the characters on screen are. The acting in Friday the 13th
is not bad at all; some of the actors/actresses may be a little
amateur, but there is nothing terrible in this picture. The settings
are also very effective. The stalkings and slaying in broad daylight
and open spaces are a twist in a new direction, showing that not
everything has to happen in the dark, in a small isolated house on the
top of a hill, so the variation of location makes forests, cabins and
even lakes more unappealing to the viewers afterwards, and may leave
them creeped out by the aforementioned places. The camera-work is also
very effective. The way the camera 'stalks' the victim behind trees and
bushes, and the way the camera chases after it's victims as the point
of view of the villain is unique and exciting, and adds a more tense
and faster chill to the movie. Friday the 13th may play as a clichéd
slasher, a story of sex equalling carnage, but it plays so effectively
well it is a too important horror movie to simply be dismissed. It
collects everything appealing about the 80's horror genre and wraps it
up neatly into this fantastic horror package. A classic in it's genre.
<|_=00=_|>
I consider Friday THE 13TH a classic, despite everything seemingly
going against it. Yes, the original Friday THE 13TH part 1 and part 2
owe a lot to BAY OF BLOOD (or TWITCH OF DEATH NERVE). There's no
question about it. The similarities between the two films are obvious.
The film is responsible for spawning an endless number of truly awful
sequels. The acting is nothing spectacular. The script is barely there.
And the film sorta drags a bit in the middle. And the ending of Friday
THE 13TH is an indirect rip-off of the ending in CARRIE. But the
backwoods atmosphere/mystique behind Friday THE 13TH is totally
original and effective (much more than any of the sequels), and the
ending of FT13 is, imo, WAY better than the ending of CARRIE. The
ending of FT13 makes the movie. The entire FT13 series exists merely on
the strength of that ending. It created a myth, in the name of Jason.
The story (or script) is wonderfully absurd (when you think about it)
which gives the murders an even more psychotic edge to them, and in my
mind, are more effective than the ones in BAY OF BLOOD or in any other
Friday THE 13TH sequels because of the kooky reasoning behind them.
Watching Jason kill his victims in the sequels quickly got boring. And
the fact that Tom Savini created the excellent gory FX is a definite
plus. The acting is average (some of it even poor) but let's face it,
the characters, aside from their individual death scenes, don't have a
lot of dramatic things to do, except for Betsy Palmer and Adrienne
King, who is good but is not the best "last surviving female" actress
ever to appear in a slasher. On the other hand, Betsy Palmer is amazing
as Mrs. Voorhees. She's a combination of total sweetness, insanity and
camp all rolled into one. Once Betsy appears on screen the film is
thrilling and she adds a lot of life (no pun intended) to the whole
proceeding, which was lacking from a good part of the film. And let's
not forget the good score. Very effective even if it sometimes sounds
derivative. And the original poster is great!

The funny thing about Friday THE 13TH is that when I first saw it 20
years ago I thought it was good but not as good as HALLOWEEN. Fast
forward 20 years, and today I sorta prefer Friday THE 13TH slightly
more than HALLOWEEN now, which has lost a lot of its luster, due mainly
to HALLOWEEN's awful sequels and their stupid story-lines.
Artistically, HALLOWEEN is still the better film of the two. There's no
comparison there. But it has lost its edge, while FT13's trashiness has
oddly kept it fresh. While HALLOWEEN has irremediably lost a lot of its
mystique with each subsequent sequels, Friday THE 13TH, on the other
hand, actually gained more credibility with every release of its
seemingly endless number of ultra-stupid sequels. After seeing some of
those sequels, the original FT13 looks positively brilliant compared to
those horrendous sequels. It's a classic in its own special way.
<|_=00=_|>
Friday the 13th (1980) kicked started the early 80's slasher film
phenomenon that was ignited by Halloween (1978) but fueled intensely by
this reworking of the Mario Bava classic "Twitch of the Death Nerve".
Once Friday the 13th was released, there was no turning back. The
slasher film was part of the American horror film genre and it would
remain that way for years to come. A film that launched countless
knock-offs, wannabes, sequels and a t.v. series?! Camp Crystal Lake and
the Friday the 13th film franchise are a part of Americana. The film is
merely a stage for the splatter effects of F/X maestro Tom Savini. They
were later toned down for it's American release and were softened even
further during it's video release.

The movie itself isn't that great. Technically it's boring. To get the
most out of the film you have to watch it uncut. Friday the 13th was
designed around Savini's gory set pieces. Watching them with out it is
like drinking a mayonnaise soda. I encourage you to seek out the uncut
version of this film. Recommended.

A (uncut)

D (American version)
<|_=00=_|>

Friday the 13th must be one of the biggest mysteries in cinema. Although
it's a long way from being a good movie, its success and influence is
unnameable ( and even unbelievable ).
Don't get me wrong...I'm not at all saying that Friday the 13th is a
terrible film or not even worth a watch but - let's face it - the plot idea
is pretty dumb, the acting and directing are far below average and they
haven't fully used the options of setting and location they had. The make-up
effects ( by the master Tom Savini himself ) are excellent, but that alone
isn't really enough to create a legendary horror movie in my opinion. Some
of the later sequels ( Episode 6 : Jason Lives is the perfect example ) and
even a few of the numberless rip-offs are superior to the production.

I suppose the story is pretty much known by everyone know and I even think
the identity of the "mysterious killer" of this episode isn't that much of a
mystery anymore. Anyway, in case you don't know it, I won't spoil the fun so
see for yourself. Although my thoughts on it aren't that high, I do think
it's must-see stuff for horror fans. 
Without any shame, I even admit that Friday the 13th and ALL its sequels are
a guilty pleasure of mine. I'll never reckon them as good - or even decent -
efforts in the genre, but I'm always up for a little bit of brainless gore
slashing. And that's what these series are made for...pure entertainment !!
So, in a way, they succeeded after all. They never try to give a thoughtful
message to the viewer or something. There are just dumb-looking teenagers
being slaughtered...the more the merrier.

Favorite "rewind"-scene : A young and horny Kevin Bacon being brutally
killed in one of his first memorable roles.  
<|_=00=_|>
Friday THE 13TH (1980)

directed by: Sean S. Cunningham

starring: Betsy Palmer, Adrienne King, Jeannine Taylor, and Kevin Bacon

plot: Seven camp councilors head to Camp Crystal Lake to fix it up for
the summer. Despite warnings of a dark past and a 'death curse', the
teens decide to have a good time anyway, and at night indulge in sex,
drugs, and strip poker. Unfortunately for them, a psycho killer is
prowling the camp grounds, picking them off one by one. When only one
is left, she must discover the identity of the killer and fight for her
life.

my thoughts: Ever since I can remember, I've loved this film. When I
was a child, it scared the crap out of me. That chilling noise playing
in the stalk sequences (which has now become the most famous sound in
horror films) haunted my nightmares, and some of the gore scenes were
really graphic.

Viewing it now, it is no longer that scary but it is still a lot of
fun. I liked how these earlier Friday films ignored the stereotypical
teenage characters. There's no slut, no jock, no token anything. Every
character felt really natural and for some of them, I cared when they
died.

The gore scenes are great, thanks to Tom Savini. We get stabbings,
decapitations, and plenty more. Gore hounds will love this. Well since
every gore hound has seen this, gore hounds mostly already love this.

And then there's the two key things in making a good horror film. The
directing and the music. Sean S. Cunningham is a really good director
and establishes the camp setting perfectly. He adds beautiful shots of
the wind blowing against the trees, the lake at sunrise, that you
wouldn't find in later entries.

The music is also great. Harry Manfredini is one of my favorite
composers, because he makes the chase scenes so much more exciting. The
music in the final scene also works like a charm.

I forgot to mention that this film has one of the most popular and
remembered horror endings of all time. And while it may have stolen
from CARRIE, it works just as well here and is the cherry on top of a
classic slasher film.
<|_=00=_|>
The original Friday The 13th was the one that started it all. The
world's first exposure to the infamous Camp Crystal Lake aka Camp
Blood. It goes like this. Camp Crystal Lake, after being closed for a
number of years is reopening. The Camp has been closed for so long due
to a number of catastrophes such as the young boy Jason Voorhees
drowning in the lake, cabins catching on fire, and (I almost forgot)
tons of camp counselors being brutally slashed and murdered by a killer
running loose in the camp. So when the camp is being reopened, its deja
vu, the new camp conselors are in for it. The killer is back and is
ready for more. This is the movie that started in all, the classic
slasher series that has a total of 11 films to date. The movie is good,
but don't expect a truly scary horror film. Its full of some tense
moments, nice jumps, and gore, lots of gore. What it lacks is some
decent acting (not very impressive). Still, any horror collection isn't
complete if you don't have at least one Friday the 13th film, so this
one is not to be missed.
<|_=00=_|>
More than 25 years since its release, more than 10 sequels and an
infinite number of imitations, most people seem to remember "Friday the
13th" as just another slasher with good-looking teens being killed by a
seemingly unstoppable psycho while roaming in an isolated location.
However, what most people seem to forget, is that "Friday the 13th"
looks so typical nowadays precisely because it was the first film of
its class, the origin of all those clichés and the film that redefined
the mainstream horror genre during the 80s and the 90s. At its time, it
was a film as daring enough to be called controversial yet at the same
time accessible enough to be appreciated by the mainstream audiences;
for those reasons and more, this films can be proud of being the first
one, the definitive one, the film that gave birth to the slasher sub
genre. 

Our story begins 22 years after a series of unsolved murders happened
at Camp Crystal Lake and forced the closure of the beloved Summer Camp
and started the legend of the death curse of Camp Crystal Lake, now
known as "Camp Blood". Now, the new owner, Steve Christy (Peter
Brouwer), decides to reopen the infamous "Camp Blood" with the help of
six new counselors. Ignoring the warnings of the locals, Steve and his
young assistants begin the restoration of the long abandoned Camp, but
on the night of Friday the 13th, the group of teens will discover that
there may be some true behind the local legends, as the death curse of
"Camp Blood" returns and a mysterious killer starts to claim fresh,
young victims.

Writer Victor Miller claims to have taken a crash course in horror
writing when he wrote "Friday the 13th", as both he and director Sean
Cunningham were in desperate need of a success and saw that the horror
genre had potential, but knew very little about it. So, by taking John
Carpenter's "Halloween" as a model, Miller crafted his story about the
nightmarish night where a group of teens end up isolated and at the
mercy of an unknown serial killer, with the sole purpose of making a
successful horror film. And he succeeded, as he took the many different
elements that would create the "slasher rules" and turned the simple
and derivative plot into a roller-coaster of horror, with the perfect
mix of fun, horror and mystery that just keeps getting better and
better until it reaches the climatic finale.

Just like Miller took ideas from other horror stories, Cunningham too
employs elements from "Psycho", "Texas Chainsaw Massacre" and specially
"Reazione a Catena", mixing them and taking them one step further, in a
simple but very effective approach that slowly develops Miller's plot
while at the same time offers a quite graphic vision of violence
(thanks to Tom Savini's excellent effects) that completes what we know
as the "slasher set of rules". Cunningham may not be an original
filmmaker, but his "Friday the 13th" remains as one of the most
effective suspense tales that despite the bad reputation earned by its
sequels, still packs up some good chills thanks to its remarkably well
done set pieces and the good use of visuals and music to create
tension.

The acting of the film is one the level of the horror films of its
time; sure, those may not be the best performances in horror but are
miles ahead most of what was delivered by the film's sequels. While the
cast is nothing really special, two exceptions are easily noticeable:
the young Adrienne King, who becomes our main character, delivers a
very good performance that makes her decision of stop acting even more
surprising. And of course, Betsy Palmer, who gives the performance of
her lifetime as Mrs. Vorhees, a former cook at Camp Crystal Lake that
knows more about the Camp's curse than what she may tell. Palmer truly
created an iconic character that sadly has been overshadowed by the
image of the killer with the Hockey Mask.

While it's true that Cunningham and Miller made a film heavily based on
previous horror classics, "Friday the 13th" doesn't feel as derivative
as it should, as the many "borrowed" elements here work together with
frightening perfection. And despite having average acting, and a fairly
low-budget, what truly has become the movie's fatal flaw is the poor
reputation that its sequels, its parodies and its imitators have given
to "Friday the 13th"'s name, making the film the source of laughs
instead of scares, and making the series to be synonymous with stupid
horror tales. 

The many sequels have truly harmed this film's reputation among the
classics, but the truth is that while this movie is far from being a
perfect movie, it's creepy and entertaining enough to deliver fun even
more than 25 years after its initial release. To enjoy "Friday the
13th", one must try to forget what it's known about the series, and
simply enjoy the film as if it was the first time one heard about the
infamous crimes of "Camp Blood". 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

In 1980, two years after "Halloween" scared the hell out of everybody,
"Friday the 13th" was released to theaters. This was a clever knockoff of
the John Carpenter horror classic, only this one was more violent and
gruesome. That aspect turned critics off big time. But moviegoers couldn't
resist. They flocked to see this movie and made it a big hit. I never saw
this film on the big screen because I was only 9 years old when it came out.
After I saw it on cable a few years later, it scared the hell out of me! It
doesn't scare me that much today, but it's a far more effective
horror/thriller than the last five movies in the series (parts 5 through 9).
They should have stopped making these "Friday the 13th" movies after the
fourth film, which was subtitled "The Final Chapter". And you know what's
even scarier, they're making part 10. "Friday the 13th" was the beginning of
the sick slasher genre that played out during the early 1980s. The first
films in both the "Halloween" and "Friday the 13th" series' were easily the
best. "Halloween" was a great horror film. "Friday the 13th" isn't up there
with "Halloween", but it's a well-crafted gorefest.

*** (out of four)

<|_=00=_|>
A group of camp counselors, a young Kevin Bacon among them, are busy
trying to re-open Camp Crystal Lake years after multiple murders shut
it down, despite the ravings of Crazy Ralph. They are dispatched one by
one by an unseen killer. This IS a classic and always will be. Don't
get me wrong as it's not perfect. But it's far from "merely a
Halloween" clone which some people say. The original Halloween is a
perfect classic, but let this film stand on it's own legs as it has
every right to. Although I'm saddened about how shoddily Paramount
seemed to put out their recent box set. Hell when New Line acquired the
rights to the series, yes their Jason films suck, but at least they do
right by the fans DVD-wise.Paramount could have done a great service to
us by looking back at New Lin's Nightmare on Elm Street box set. It's a
shame they didn't.

My Grade: A- 

Eye Candy: Jeannine Taylor shows ta-tas and ass cleavage
