

This movie is just great, its really funny & original for its time.
Martin Short & Nick Nolte really make this movie work, I would say this
is Martin Shorts best role in a movie where he's actually really
hilarious throughout the movie. The casting for this movie is also good
too, movie keeps traveling at a fairly consistent pace. In my own
opinion this is a great family comedy movie. Its extremely funny &
touching all at the same time, I recommend this to all comedy movie
lovers, the bank scene is just simply hilarious. This is my favourite
Nick Nolte movie, i haven't seen too many of his movies but his acting
was great in this movie. I give this 8.5/10 for being a very under
estimated movie.

<|_=00=_|>
If you're that "god, I'm a serious movie rater and this better impress
me" kind of movie watcher then go find another. But If you are in the
mood to laugh and think odd pairs are funny then go for it. It helps to
know the history of Martin Short's style of comedy. Nick Nolte's a
pretty big guy and Sarah Doroff is really little. So Nolte just got
outa prison and is supposed to be this big bad bank robber with a
reputation. Martin Short is this nervous jobless dad that robs a bank
just as Nick Nolte is there and takes Martin takes 'Nick' as a hostage.

Nick gets SHOT! Martin has a senile old friend that takes care of
Rover(Nick). James Earl Jones does a belly-laugh. Sarah overcomes her
trama to change gender. Martin Changes Gender! There's a Happy Ending
Such a sweet movie- after its over put A Nightmare on Elm Street in for
the contrast!
<|_=00=_|>

This is not as bad or as unfunny a movie as some IMDb posters make out. The
central situation of Lucas (Nick Nolte), a tough, professional
heist-meister, being taken hostage by Perry (Martin Short), a bungling 
first-time bank robber, is pleasingly ridiculous.  In particular, Perry's
antics in the early bank robbery scenes are laugh-out-loud funny; as is
Lucas's later violent entry into the bar where Perry is being held prisoner.
The section towards the end, when Perry is disguised as a woman is also
reasonably amusing. The scenes between Lucas and Perry's daughter (Sarah
Rowland Doroff), are quite touching, when they could easily have been been
sickly sentimental. (It helps that the little girl is supposed to have a
psychological problem, so she hardly speaks.) 

On the downside, there are undoubtedly soggy patches in the middle of the
film, including the scene where James Earl Jones and Alan Ruck, as the two
policemen leading the chase for Perry and Lucas, find it hilariously funny
that Lucas was treated for a gunshot wound by a crazy vet who thought he was
a dog. Another defect is the whiny music, which is repetitive and
irritating.   

All in all, this may not be a film to spend much money on, but is worth
watching if it turns up on TV.   

  
<|_=00=_|>
While being a great enthusiast of French cinema, I hadn't heard of
Francis Veber when I saw this magnificent comedy in 1989. Unfortunately
his wonderful films were never released in the UK, until 'Le Dîner des
Cons'. So I came to it fresh... and WOW. Here we have Nick Nolte in a
perfect role as the tough former bank robber and Martin Short as the
perfect nerdish but determined sidekick. The opening bank robbery
sequence, that sets up the film is magnificent and hilarious. The
sub-plot involving the little girl is sweet and moving - almost worthy
of Chaplin. The loopy vet is amazing and one of his scenes had me
crawling on the floor with laughter. I could start analysing the
structure or the mise en scène, but such sophistry is irrelevant - just
see it and laugh out loud like you will rarely have done so before.
(Amazingly I haven't seen the original with Depardieu and Pierre
Richard... why don't they release a subtitled version?????)
<|_=00=_|>

This is a light 80's style comedy with heavy doses of schmaltz.  The plot
revolves around Lucas (Nick Nolte) who's been released from jail after 5
years for armed bank robbery.  On his first day of release, he gets taken
hostage by Perry (Martin Short), who tries to rob a bank in order to
continue to care for his ailing daughter Meg.  We've seen it many times
before, Perry is completely inept, knowing only that he has to care for his
daughter, Lucas is the tough ex-con with the heart of gold, oh you can
almost picture the buddy-buddy hilarity to come.

Unfortunately, this movie completely under-utilises one of the great
American comedic actors in Martin Short.  These scenes that revolve around
him just drag, and you end up longing for Nolte returning to the screen.
The most poignant scenes revolve around the relationship formed between
Lucas and Meg.  Both of these two are fantastic in these scenes, and it's
that which keeps you drawn to the film longing to see how it plays
out.

The Three Fugitives is a fun little movie that won't bore you, is worth
watching if you see it on TV.  I wouldn't bother going out of you way to
view it though.

All in all 6 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
This is the kind of 1980s film that Hollywood never seems to make
anymore. Unassuming, low key and charming without a big budget or a
labyrinthine plot, it simply tells a simple story and then finishes.

Nowadays low budget films must have a hook, which generally means they
are extremely art-housey or plain horror flicks, there aren't many
little family-friendly flicks. Marketing and a lack of cross-promotion
opportunities wouldn't allow it.

This is a bit of a shame, as Three Fugitives is the kind of film that
you can all sit in front of the TV and kill 100 minutes without anyone
in the room whining unnecessarily. Nick Nolte plays Lucas, who is being
released from prison after a 5 year sentence earned by holding up 14
banks. (It was amazing seeing how fit Nolte looks here, he's still
gruff and weathered but he is actually in really good shape, something
he couldn't say for anything since the early 90s.) Now Lucas claims he
is going straight, something that his arresting officer (played by
James Earl Jones) gravely doubts. When Darth Vader stops Lucas as he
leaves prison to tell him "I've got my eye on you", Lucas asks for a
lift to the local bank so that he can rob it, and this is where the fun
starts… After entering the bank to open a new account, Lucas
unwittingly becomes embroiled in a hold up perpetrated by the bumbling
Ned, played by Martin Short, (who these days turns me to tears but who
is fitting here, as his character is required by the plot to be
pathetic and annoying, something he is in spades).

Ned ultimately screws up big and takes Lucas hostage for some reason,
even though at 6 foot plus and a good 50kg heavier than Ned he could
snap him like a twig. The cops, thinking Lucas really held up the bank,
tell him to give up and he yells back that he has nothing to do with
it, a gun accidentally goes off, Lucas is shot in the leg and off they
go on the lam. (That's cops & robbers shop talk for run away.)
Initially Lucas tries at the first opportunity to turn Ned in at the
local cop shop to absolve himself from guilt and clear his name, he
quickly realizes that Ned has no intention of giving himself up, but a
lack of blood caused by the bullet in his leg removes a bit of his get
up and go, so Ned takes him to a Vet for treatment.

Enter the reason for Ned's robbery and desire to remain free: 6ish year
old Meg.

Meg is Ned's daughter, who hasn't spoken for years since the sudden
death of her mother. Ned is unemployed and attempted the hold up to
keep afloat so that Meg wouldn't need to go to a home or a special
needs facility, and his desire to care for her is evident.

Lucas initially wants nothing to do with Meg and gives Ned the address
of a guy who can forge him some papers so that he can at least safely
skip town.

Without going into detail or the Spoiler-iffic zone, the three
fugitives of the title band together through the various impediments
and pitfalls that beset them in order to cross the border to Canada,
with the cops on their tail the whole time.

This is very light and fanciful stuff, and a great deal of the
amusement comes from watching Lucas brutalise Ned in an off-handed way,
as if he does it all the time (and he probably does).

The second half of the film is Run. Escape. Run. Escape, with more and
more unlikely near misses each time, all wrapped in a neat bow with a
hokey 80s movie ending.

This doesn't mean the film is not entertaining though, it is a fluff
piece that never seems dated despite being in its 20s, and while never
scaling great heights it remains amusing throughout.

If nothing else it proves that if you try to entertaining you don't
need to aim for greatness to achieve, after all for some reason it has
given Robbie Williams a career.

Final Rating – 7 / 10. You won't be breathlessly describing it to mates
the next day but while it is running you will enjoy yourself.

If you liked this review (or even if you didn't) check out
oneguyrambling.com
<|_=00=_|>
I have a personal bias against American remakes of foreign films. They
seem to exist to be made only because an American/English audience
doesn't relish the idea of having to read subtitles while watching a
film. And not many of these remakes work anyway. Look at the dire likes
of True Lies and Three Men and a Baby.

Three Fugitives was no doubt inspired by the recent success of TMAAB.
They're both American remakes of French comedies, and Touchstone have
even taken the precaution of importing the director and writer of the
original version, Francis Veber. I haven't seen Les Fugitifs so I can't
debate how close Veber sticks to his own material, or if he makes any
drastic changes, but as it is, Three Fugitives is an amiable caper, if
one that never bursts out with gut busting laughs.

Lucas (Nick Nolte) is an ex-con who's decided to go straight. But on
the day of his parole, he walks into a bank and right into the middle
of a hold-up. Ned Perry (Martin Short) is an incompetent bank robber
who wears a nylon stocking for a balaclava. And when the robbery takes
much longer then planned, that gives the police enough time to surround
the place. In desperation, Ned takes Lucas hostage. But the police, who
know of Lucas' track record for armed robberies think he's the robber.
Meaning these two mismatched men must go on the run together.

I admit to enjoying Three Fugitives far more then Three Men and a Baby.
They are quite similar films at heart. Both Touchstone financed
American remakes of French originals, and the plots both revolve around
a youngster. In this case Ned's mute six-year old daughter Meg. It
turns out Ned pulled the robbery because he needed money to send Meg to
a special school after being laid off from his job as a sales manager.
Meg hasn't spoken a word since her mother died two years ago.

Three Fugitives has its funny moments. Ned's bank robbery is so
hopeless it gets funnier just watching it all go wrong around him. Like
when he shoots the ceiling he gets showered in plaster. His disguise
splits open. And when a bank teller throws him the bag full of money,
it lands in a ceiling fixture. I also liked the scene when Lucas gets
accidentally shot by Ned, and Ned has to take him to a vet to get
treated (like a dog!).

Its the bits in between that don't really work. All the funny parts
come in isolated moments. And Francis Veber's direction isn't fast and
frantic enough. So the film moves in fits and starts. It seems to take
too long for the film to get to anything good. The inclusion of Meg to
the plot also seems a bit of a miscalculation, and suggests something
of the tweeness that capsized Three Men and a Baby.

It never really boils over. Even if it lacks credibility. But its not
helped by Sarah Rowland Doroff's rather flat performance. Even as she
begins to open up, she's just as blank in the second half as she is in
the first. Nick Nolte and Martin Short have they're amusements, even if
they don't exactly have cracking chemistry. They're only paired up
together just to play off of each other's obvious differences. So in
other words you're typical buddy movie.

Three Fugitives still feels a bit shapeless. It just moves from one
spot to the next. Some funny (like Lucas getting a job as a
locksmith!). Some cringeworthy (like Ned dressing up as a woman to
avoid border checks). And the film doesn't end. It just sort of stops
without any real attempt at an ending. Sporadically funny. Forgotten
the next day.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the very best! This movie defines the word genius. It is a very
clever comedy. It has some many side splitting moments you'll have to
buy it!

It doesn't seem to work as a certificate 15 however, i think it would
have been a fantastic family film. Saying that, i watched it as a young
kid with my family, so it brings back the good old days. This is the
type of film where it is almost 'innocent' laughter, it doesn't rely on
sexual jokes to make audience laugh, it doesn't really rely on anything
, it's just naturally funny!! It's the type of film that your chirpy
Grandad enjoys!

But it should bring out the kid in you !

LOVE IT!

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
After spending five years in prison for 14 separate bank robberies
"Lucas" (Nick Nolte) has finally been granted parole and is set free.
Unfortunately, when he goes to a bank to deposit his prison check he
finds himself on the receiving end of a bank robbery by what turns out
to be an extremely bumbling novice by the name of "Ned Perry" (Martin
Short). To make matters worse, when the police surround the bank Ned
picks Lucas—of all people--to be his hostage. This selection causes the
police to think that both Ned and Lucas are acting as a team and as a
result the two of them are forced to work together to somehow extricate
themselves from this situation. To further complicate matters, Ned's
young daughter "Meg" (Sarah Rowland Doroff) has some serious issues
related to trauma which has caused her to withdraw from everyone around
her—until she meets Lucas. As a result, instead of two fugitives from
the law there are now three—and each of them have their own priorities
which don't necessarily relate to one another. Now rather than reveal
any more I will just say that this film turned out better than I
thought it would due mainly to the humorous twists and turns
throughout. That said, while it's certainly not the greatest comedy
ever made, it's still a cute little film which should appeal to most
viewers interested in something of this type. Slightly above average.
<|_=00=_|>
Watching Three Fugitives is like traveling back in time to a bygone
era, when there was no Internet, only four TV channels and John Major
was prime minister. But hey, it wasn't all bad... We got films like
this, where the focus is purely on the relationship between a grumpy,
fresh out of jail bank thief portrayed by Nick Nolte, a mute six year
old girl and her well-meaning but accident prone father, played by
Martin Short.

Caught up in a heist-gone-wrong with a case of mistaken identity thrown
into the bargain, the trio (as the title suggests) go on the lam
together. Ever cop in the district is looking for them, Short is a
walking disaster area, the kid wanders off at every given opportunity
and Nolte just wants to ditch the other two and go straight. Easier
said then done, when Short lands them in non-stop trouble, and Nolte
begins to form a connection with the little girl...

It's not a laugh-a-minute split-your-sides experience, but what it IS
is a perfect fusion of pathos, understated action and amusing character
moments. It's easy to predict the hate-love arc of the Nolte/Short
friendship, and some of the punchline are visible from miles off. But
frankly, I didn't care.

All the cast play their roles so well, they transform what could have a
humdrum script into something quite special. Of course, it also helps
to have one of the cutest screen children around as their co-star.
Makes their ongoing struggle more believable when we sees what's at
stake, ya see? One to watch every few years from now on, I think. I'll
never get tired of it, that's for sure. 8/10
