
A very strange movie but incredible. A young man (Kyle MacLaclan) comes
home to help care for his sick father. Soon he's in love with a
detective's daughter (Laura Dern) and mixed up in a mystery involving
Dorothy Valdes (Isabella Rossellinni) and psycho Frank Booth (Dennis
Hopper).

Probably David Lynch's best film. The story has gaps in logic, but it's
secondary to some incredible wide screen imagery (this has to be seen
letter-boxed...no two ways about it). Lynch has said in interviews that
he thinks of the image first then works it into the movie. You can
tell...things that make no sense at first gradually make sense later
on. This movie also demands multiple viewings...I was so shocked the
first time I saw it, I couldn't concentrate on it...it took THREE
viewings to finally get it. 

As to what the movie is about...it depends who you ask. Some people
said it's the Hardy Boys on drugs...others say it's about a boy's
sexual awakening...others see it as good vs. evil...each one is a valid
statement! To me, that's a true art film...one that means multiple
things all at once.

The performances are top-notch. This film made MacLachlan...him and
Laura Dern work well together and give nice low-key performances. Dern
is just great...but she does look pretty silly when she tries to cry.
Rossellinni is nowhere near as good as her mother (Ingrid Bergman) was,
but she deserves credit for taking such a risky role. She's pretty
good. Hopper is WAYYYYYYY over the top as Booth...he's both horrifying
and hilarious...a great performance. And let's not forget Dean
Stockwell as "suave Ben". His "performance" of "In Dreams" is a
definite highlight.

Be warned--the film is very extreme. There's explicit violence, plenty
of nudity, sex and tons of profanity. Not for the squeamish. Still, I
loved it from beginning to end. One of my favorite films of all time.
<|_=00=_|>
In the early moments of "Blue Velvet" we see idealized small town
images - blooming red roses and immaculate white picket fences -
accompanied by the sounds of the gentle Bobby Vinton pop tune that
gives the film its title. If you sense something unsettling about this
perfection, that's only appropriate. "Blue Velvet" is a David Lynch
film, you see, and it won't be long at all before a clean-cut college
student comes across a rotting ear in an open field.

Jeffrey Beaumont (Kyle MacLachlan) is the boy who finds the ear, and
Sandy Williams (Laura Dern) is the blonde policeman's daughter who
assists Jeffrey when he decides to investigate the truth about his
disturbing discovery. Sandy and Jeffrey link the ear to night club
singer Dorothy Vallens (Isabella Rossellini) and later, a deranged man
named Frank Booth (Dennis Hopper).

"I don't know if you're a detective or a pervert," Sandy tells Jeffrey
when he decides to sneak into Dorothy's apartment. As Jeffrey becomes
sexually entangled with Dorothy, we can only cast similar doubt.

It's true that "Blue Velvet"'s dark mysteries have the power to
repulse. Voyeurism, rape, torture, and murder are all key to the plot.
Yet the film is also spellbinding in its beauty. Vibrant colors and
ominous shadows offer gorgeous contrast - call it Technicolor noir -
and the film is rife with unforgettable imagery. Moments big and small,
from MacLachlan playing with a child's birthday hat to Dean Stockwell's
show-stopping lip-synch of Roy Orbison's "In Dreams", are as haunting
as anything you will see at the movies anywhere.

The acting is top-notch. MacLachlan is just right as the lost innocent
Jeffrey, and Hopper shreds the screen as his depraved counterpoint
Frank. Rossellini's performance as Dorothy is devastating and extremely
courageous: this is her defining moment as an actress.

"Blue Velvet" is perhaps the quintesstential David Lynch film. His
strange humor and painterly gift for creating stunning images are
prominently on display, and the film illustrates Lynch's contradictory
impulses toward unbridled nastiness and aw-shucks sweetness like no
other has. After all these years, "Blue Velvet" is still a shocker, and
deciding how one feels about it is still a challenge. It is a film to
be considered and then reconsidered, visited and revisited, the kind of
film that will never fade away. For serious cinephiles, then, "Blue
Velvet" is a film to be cherished.
<|_=00=_|>

There is far more to 'Blue Velvet' than meets the eye.  You can't label
this
as drama, satire, or black comedy.  It just doesn't work.

'Blue Velvet' is an example of our world's disarray.  This film is VERY
genius in its portrayal.  We see a hokey, innocent town that yields a dark
secret.

The symbolism is great.  White picket fences, waving fireman, hokey
acting,
and a sunny day show the apparent innocence.  But a stroke, black insects,
a
candle getting blown out, etc. show us something else.

I love how when we see the innocence, everything is hokey.  The music,
acting, dialogue... everything.  But when the darkness appears, everything
becomes serious.  The script improves, the acting is better... everything.
That's something that was missed by most viewers.

David Lynch is brilliant, but he also has a great sense of humor.  Jokes
aren't funny... absurdity is funny.

Lightness and darkness seemingly coexist in this lumber town... each in
their own place.  When a curious fellow returns home, he disrupts the
balance and the two forces go to war.  Yet, we don't really even know
which
side he's on.  I love how Jeffrey always wears black and white.  I love
all
the symbology of this film.

If you haven't seen this yet, break away from the Hollywood cookie cutter
movies and prepare to have your mind challenged and entertained.

Makes a fun party movie, too.   ;o)

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

What surprised me was how very different this was from the two other great
David Lynch films I'd seen: "Lost Highway" and "The Straight Story", which
are in turn very different from one another. I'd been told by a disappointed
David Lynch fan, back in 1997, that the only reason I was so deeply
impressed with "Lost Highway" was that I hadn't seen "Bue Velvet", in which
he does much the same kind of thing better. "Blue Velvet" may indeed be
better (I wouldn't want to say), but in no respect is it the same kind of
thing. (The only instance I've encountered so far of Lynch making the same
film twice is "Lost Highway" being remade as "Mulholland Drive", which
partly accounts for the latter film being so stale and
uninvolving.)

"Blue Velvet" is a simple amateur sleuthing story, but the genius is in the
telling of it. It's hard to avoid the feeling that something supernatural is
somehow involved, although it isn't, and we know that it isn't. It looks and
feels as though we're watching the world through a special enchanted (or
cursed) prism: the image has been pulled apart, ALMOST into two distinct
images, with the elements of pure evil and pure wholesomeness now distinct
from one another, sitting just millimetres apart.

Unrelated to this, but still contributing to the intense suspense and the
overall creepiness, is Lynch's ability to make us familiar with a few
ordinary locations, which grow more sinister - or at least more meaningful -
every time we see them, until the sight of a simple concrete stairwell in
the dark is enough to make us start to panic.
<|_=00=_|>
Title: Blue Velvet (1986)

Director: David Lynch 

Cast: Isabella Rosellini, Kyle Mac Lachlan, Dennis Hopper, Laura Dern 

Review: David Lynch films are paintings come to life, this has very
much to do with the fact that Lynch himself is a painter and he brings
that artistic point of view to his film making. Like a good painting,
his movies tell a story, which much like an abstract painting, is not
always easy to figure out. But what a treat it is to try.

Blue Velvet is a story about a young man returning to his hometown to
visit his father who is sick in the hospital. Upon his return he
stumbles upon a frightening discovery: a human ear lying on the grass
as he walks through the forest behind his parents home. He then takes
it upon himself to discover where this ear came from and discovers that
that ear will be the reason why he discovers that this is in fact a
very strange and dangerous world in which we live in.

Lynch is synonymous with the strange and unusual and Blue Velvet is a
good example of this. For those who have ventured into Lynchian
territory with films like Mullholland Dr. or Lost Highway get ready for
some more crazy imagery and messed up situations. But Ill be honest
this time around, even though the situations and images are very very
surreal and strange the story itself is pretty easy to understand. Lost
Highway remains a total mystery to me to this day, Mullholland Dr. I
had to watch about 6 times to figure out....but Blue Velvet though
equally as strange and fascinating as those films mentioned, is
actually easy to follow and understand.

I loved Kyle MacLachlans character and it was very interesting to see
him go through the changes he goes through after he makes his
discoveries. He isn't quite the same anymore after he sees the things
he sees and does the things he does. Loved that scene in which Laura
Dern tries to let him see that even though there's some crazy things in
this world there's some good bound to show up sooner or later. Laura
Derns character was beautiful and innocent, the one thing that could
bring balance to MacLachlans character. By far the most interesting and
memorable thing in this film is Dennis Hoppers character, yes my
friends, I'm talking about that crazy, demented, sex-crazed freak known
as Frank Booth.

Frank Booth is one of those characters that just oozes with evil. You
don't feel like its this actor playing some villain, when that happens
you totally stop believing that said villain is dangerous. Not so here.
Hopper looks, breaths and speaks pure evil! Your kind of scared that
there might actually be people like him out in the real world. His
scenes and dialog is truly disturbing stuff....."Ill f##C@ anything
that moooves!" 

I loved the visual aspect of the film which was -as is usual in a Lynch
film- extremely beautiful. We may be looking at sliced human ears and
demented sex freaks...but everything is photographed within the context
of beautiful haunting colors, exotic plays of shadows and lights. Great
visuals. The music is incredible as well. Lynch seems to be fond of
lounge singers cause very much like he did in Mullholland Drive in Club
Silencio, we get another sequence much like that one, with Isabella
Rosellini singing us "Blue Velvet" the title song. And there's also a
sequence which is very very humorous yet strange and alluring....Dean
Stockwell singing Roy Orbinsons "In Dreams". Awesome sequence, one of
the most memorable sequences on this film or any other Lynch film. When
that scene comes on, you'll be transported to another time and place.
What time and place it is Ill leave it up to you.

All in all a great Lynch film not to be missed. A masterpiece that lets
me know why Lynch is one of the greatest American directors ever to be
in the business of making bizarro, beautiful cinema.

Rating: 5 out of 5 (and very very much so!)
<|_=00=_|>
The sexual revolution in film came some ten years after the label's
coinage in the late Sixties. It probably began with Last Tango in
Paris. Directed by the acclaimed Bernardo Bertolucci, Last Tango is
notorious for a sex scene involving Marlon and roughly a third of a
stick of butter. Theretofore sex in film could potentially be used as a
means of revealing the lightest or the darkest character's traits:
primarily, vulnerability, instinct, sadism and impulse. Blue Velvet is
a good example of a movie using such a dynamic. Blue Velvet is not a
film that is easily appreciated. Likewise, it is not a film that is
easily forgotten. It is a timeless controversy, and it is a vision
demanding attention if not praise. 

Set in a small American town, Blue Velvet is a dark, sensuous mystery
involving the intertwining lives of four very different individuals.
The film's painful realism reminds us that we are not immune to the
disturbing events which transpire in Blue Velvet's sleepy community.
There is a darker side of life waiting for us all. And as a critic said
'you either think it's dementedly wild at heart or a lost highway to
nowhere'. Even some eighteen years after the release of Blue Velvet its
vision remains wildly adamant relative to the stride of other works of
contemporary noir. There have been many films about suburban crime, but
none as dangerously imposing as this. Why is that so? 

If Blue Velvet might not be labeled as a masterpiece one has to
acknowledge that there are in this movie a lot of so called
'masterpiece element' and if Blue Velvet will never be considered as
Mr. Lynch best feature, I personally can see a lot of David Lynch's
genius flowing in that movie.

First of all, the way David Lynch makes Blue Velvet increasingly
disturbing is a perfect example of how pristine the dynamics of
weirdness and tension are built (remember Eraserhead and Elephant Man).
Through this process Mr. Lynch indeed deconstructs the audience
expectations. The film setting and mood are introduced in an exposition
lifted directly from older films (there are numerous references to It's
A Wonderful Life). In result the film is initially expected to follow a
particular path. The way Mr. Lynch associate elements of classic
narrative methodology and 'his dynamics of noir' (previously explained)
appears to be original at worst 'avant gardiste' at best. 

Second of all, the opposition between the creepiness of the plot and
the setting of it is definitely for me a masterpiece element. The film
is set in Lumberton. This does not represent a quaint, small town by
similarity; it is one. Lumberton is filled with characters that are
completely typical. I can almost see the cops eating doughnuts in the
coffee shop and the local football star dating the head cheerleader.
This typicality is definitely not out of coincidence but of intention.
In fact these characters function to punctuate the story, not to
distinguish it. The 'infamous' individuality of Lynch's vision is
established in the darker side of Lumberton. Our perspective throughout
the film is fixed on Jeffery, and is deliberately biased by his good
nature. Jeffery is portrayed with great subtlety by Kyle MacLachlan
(FBI agent from "Twin Peaks"). He is paired with Sandy (Laura Dern),
the daughter of a neighborhood investigator who epitomizes to
perfection the 'girl-next-door'; in Blue Velvet it is her literal
function. Completing this diverse list of roles is a haunting and brief
performance by Dean Stockwell as well as Dennis Hopper who creates a
flabbergasting portrait of unrepentant and irredeemable evil. The
confrontation or those characters or the collision among themselves
makes for a mesmerizing experience. 

Once again Mr. Lynch succeeds in the masterful exercise of controlling
the audience's attention. Most of us will not quite know what to make
of it and we can disagree on the value of such a cinematic experience.
However audacious, erotic, disturbing, haunting are adjectives that
will always be linked with Blue Velvet. The 'Thriller' has just been
re-invented by Mr. Lynch right in front of our eyes.
<|_=00=_|>
This has always been a unique crime movie, like no story I have seen
before or since. In numerous ways, it's a sick film...but utterly
fascinating, even after a handful of viewings. It's a certainly a
trademark of director David Lynch with its bizarre story and twists and
strange characters.

This movie has one of the most evil characters ever put on screen:
"Frank Booth," played by Dennis Hopper. The latter is known for playing
psychotic killers and this role tops them all. Hopper was never sicker.
Almost as bizarre as him is the female victim in here, "Dorothy
Vallens," played a mysterious Isabella Rossellini.

Kyle MacLaclan is good as the nosy late-teen who just has to find out
what is going on in Dorothy's apartment while girlfriend Laura Dern
gets caught up in his curiosity.

In a movie that features strange characters, the strangest scene of
them - and there are a number - is in Booth's apartment with Dean
Stockwell and his friends. Stockwell's lip-synching to an old Roy
Orbison song is really freaky. Make no mistake, though: as bizarre as
this film can get, it's mostly a very suspenseful crime story that can
get very uncomfortable to watch at times. The language in this film was
surprisingly tame.....until Hopper enters the scene. He's about the
only character who uses profanity but he makes up for the others by
using the f-word in about every sentence. He is so over-the-top,
though, that after the initial shock seeing this movie once or twice, I
know almost laugh out loud at him and way he acts. 

Visually and audibly, this is another interesting Lynch movie with
superb colors, creepy camera angles and a diverse soundtrack. You hear
everything from lush classical music to old rock 'n roll songs, and a
bunch of bizarre noises (sound effects). 

From discussions I've had, this seems to be a film people love or hate.
There is not much room for middle ground. Lynch has done much "nicer"
films such as "The Straight Story," crazier films ("Wild At Heart,"
"Eraserhead") and classier movies ("The Elephant Man") but this will be
his trademark film: the one above others he will be remembered for,
good or bad.
<|_=00=_|>

Jeffrey Beaumont returns to his small town home when his father has an
accident and ends up in hospital.  A quiet walk home changes his perceptions
forever when he discovers a human ear in the long grass.  He reports it to
the police but decides to make some enquires himself with the help of the
officer's daughter Sandy.  The trail begins with the mysterious Dorothy
Vallens and drags Jeffrey into the unseen underworld of Frank
Booth.

For the majority of people, you either like Lynch or you dislike him. 
Personally I like the majority of his work, I love the sense of normalcy
that he can create and slowly change to reveal a darkness that is worryingly
close to the surface.  That is the case here, beginning with a blue sky,
white picket fence vision of small town America the camera drops into the
grass to see a torrent of bugs scrambling just under the surface.  In the
same way the film follows Jeffrey's journey into the underbelly of his home
town.

In some ways this is one of the easiest Lynch films to get into – here the
darkness is not a wide world of demons as in Fire Walk With Me, but is one
man and his associates who can be overcome.  The darkness is therefore
accessible to all but is laced with just enough weirdness to disturb – my
favourite scene is where Frank takes Jeffrey to see Ben, it is just a little
unsettling.  In hand with this is the fact that it is easily one of his most
optimistic films, the good angel in Jeffrey's life is a strong character and
the ending is one of certainty rather than open to interpretation – that
robin has about a clear a meaning as it can.

MacLachlan is well used as Jeffrey.  He is wide eyed and innocent even when
being sucked into the underworld.  Dern plays `all-American' well but
doesn't have the complexity of MacLachlan in the script.  Rossellini has a
challenging role and carries it off quite well – I didn't fully understand
her character but I don't know if that was my fault or hers.  Of course the
film belongs to Hopper who is terrifyingly unstable.  Without a doubt he is
a monster and you never are left in any doubt as to his state of mind.  For
an example of his work here watch the scene where Stockwell (in a
wonderfully weird cameo) sings and Hopper clearly falls to
pieces.

Although I prefer Fire Walk With Me, I do think that this is Lynch's best
film.  It is weird without going totally overboard and it allows us to sink
into the underworld gradually without sudden falls.  Hopper controls every
scene he is in, but the meeting of wholesome and weird is perfectly
delivered and is trademark Lynch.
<|_=00=_|>

With Blue Velvet, David Lynch made a film that was so pure to his original
vision that it would become the archetype of his work for the next fifteen
years.  Here, Lynch cast his ever probing, surrealist gaze upon small town
middle America, and for the first time in a US film, showed the audience the
darker side to what was often depicted as nothing more than the birth place
of apple pie. We are drawn into the story almost immediately, with what
would seem like a simple depiction of small town life, but the use of
slow-motion hints that there is something not quite right with what we are
looking at.  So by the time Lynch has pushed his camera through the soft
green grass of a regular front lawn, only to show us the slithering insects
that hide in the darkness, we know that we are about to enter a very dark
world.

Blue Velvet is a world filled with not only darkness, but also ambiguity. 
The characters of this world are constantly hiding behind some kind of
façade, be it the wardrobe doors that practicing teenage voyeur Jeffrey
peers from behind as he watches Dorothy and Frank interact, or something as
simple as the make-up worn by Ben.  Everything suggests to us that these
characters inhabit a world at night, a world away from the life they live in
the day.  As the film moves closer and closer to the climax Jeffrey begins
to feel more of a connection with Frank, having to go to some very dark
places within his psyche.  However Lynch's message, that underneath the
normal persona of a regular human being is a repressed pervert laying in
wait, or whatever point he is making doesn't really translate well.  Not
least to today's audience.  

Blue Velvet is very much a film of its time, that time being the
mid-eighties, with aids paranoia everywhere, it's easy to see this metaphor
for the dangers of sex and love within the films turgid dreamscapes.  But
beneath this message hides a strong detective story, a modern day neo-noir
that delivers interesting twists and a controversial pay-off with it's
almost fairytale climax.  This is the film David Lynch got right, proceeding
to make great films that where all personal, but completely different in
terms of style and substance from one another.  Blue Velvet is a great film,
with some fine (albeit bizarre) performances, still challenging to this day,
If only Lynch hadn't gone on to spend the rest of his career re-making it.  


<|_=00=_|>

Back in the days when David Lynch's 
movies used to be coherent, this film 
proves to be one of the most powerful 
in a long line of odd and strange films. 
I felt all of the actors were exceptional 
in this film, reflecting the power and 
evil in Dennis Hopper's character. I 
can't see anyone else in this role, 
and Hopper proved once again he 
is the go-to guy when it comes to 
portraying a lunatic. Lynch's 
cinematography and artistic endeavors 
fit in so perfectly with each other, the 
film reeks of noir and suspense. An 
excellent film to watch for any first time 
Lynch watchers.
