

I saw this movie in the theater the week it opened way back when.  It was a
very, very late showing, and there were approximately five other people in
the theater.  Two walked out during the film.  As the film credits rolled,
the two women sitting next to us said, "My god!  That was the worst film I
have ever seen!"  My only thoughts were, "They have not seen
Starcrash!"

Both my friend and I loved Hardware.  I introduced my SO to it this
weekend,
and he loved it.  I think what I like about it is that it's a small movie
that manages to execute its space perfectly.  The universe of Hardware is
dark, dirty, claustrophobic (without being small).  The narrative is pure
dystopia, which fits very well with the droid gone wild theme.  The droid
is
so unrelenting, as is the dreariness of existence in this post apocalyptic
space.  I like how tight the movie is.  I also like how clean the narrative
is.  There isn't any extraneous fluff.

I think this movie will appeal to the slightly more sophisticated film
lover.  It doesn't have big movie pretensions.  Hollywood did not destroy
this movie.  The symbolism is far more subtle than in big productions.  The
pacing is also different.  I loved the slow buildup.

This movie worked, but it's not an easy movie.  If you're willing to work a
little with a movie that doesn't have the big movie facade of Terminator II
or Independence Day, and you enjoy dystopic science fiction, I think you
will like this one. 
<|_=00=_|>

After all the horrible things I heard about this movie, I wasn't expecting
much when I found it for $3 in a pawn shop... and, after watching it a
couple of times, I don't know what the hell people who say this is "the
worst movie in the world" were smoking... because this is one of the best
low-budget sci-fi flicks I have ever come across.

Though it is by no means a sublime piece of art, I find the fact that the
plot concerns one woman and her boyfriend fighting off this robot in her
apartment, with the collapsing world as a backdrop around them to be
somewhat refreshing in an age of sci-fi films trying to be epic and ending
up trite. Though clumsily written at times and with the robot looking
almost
ridiculous at points, we get a nicely shot, stylishly lit sci-fi thriller
that takes place on a human scale and whose premise has enough depth,
symbolism and irony to make it all worthwhile. Best film I have ever seen?
Hardly. But the best deal I've had for $3 in a very, very long
time.
<|_=00=_|>
I must admit I am a huge fan of this under-estimated, enigmatic South
African director.

Like his magnificent masterpiece, Dust Devil, Hardware deals with
similar themes - the desert, the Old Testament, and sexual violence.

I first saw this movie many years ago when still basically a kid before
I went to film school and certain sequences have stayed with me
forever.

Watching it again in 2005 the movie seems a little dated or rather
post-rock video in places, but when it was made in 1990, this was all
cutting-edge stuff. I am not giving anything away by saying that the
plot is in many ways a re-working of The Terminator or Alien, when
Dylan McDermott gives his girlfriend Jill (played by Stacey Travis)what
he thinks is a load of unusual scrap metal salvaged from the desert.
She is an artist and welds these robot parts to a sculpture she is
making...

This is an extremely visceral movie, laced with religious iconography
(mark-13 often adopts crucifixion poses and in the shower scene at the
end, appears to be in a prayer position) and boosted by an extremely
eclectic and unusual cast. Motorhead singer Lemmy crops up playing a
sort of ferryman, Iggy Pop plays DJ Angry Bob, and John Lynch is
excellent as my favourite character from this film, Shades.

The narrative is essentially straight-forward but what makes this movie
different and memorable is Stanley's vision. The mise-en-scene is
bleached red (post-appocalypse), the use of montage is often extremely
effective and nightmarish and I was frequently reminded when watching
it of Renaissence paintings, just in glimpses here and there (hell,
maybe that's just me..!) There is also some American comment in this
movie; mark-13 is adorned with a stars-and-stripes, and the deadly
toxin it employs is described as 'smelling like apple pie'. This of
course is akin to Dust Devil, where the demon is simply called 'Texas'
by Wendy.

So, to conclude, if you haven't seen this movie or heard of this
director before I urge you to seek him out. Anyone with a love for
avant-garde and challenging cinema (like me) should have heard of this
guy (proper auteur by the way) and his thematically-consistent visions.

This is still a fine film but probably hasn't aged as well as it might
have done - it's strength is that it is far more complex than it first
appears to be.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a very cool little sci-fi flick.  OK, it's no Aliens, but it has a
lot of really interesting things happening.  First off it has a slick look,
filmed very well by first time director/writer Richard Stanley, a lot of
strobes and brilliant colour give it a perfect setting for the `robot goes
crazy' plot.  I also liked the post-apocalyptic landscape, which I think
worked well along with Iggy Pop's narration as `Angry Bob'.  It takes a
little while to build, but the ending packs a decent punch, along with just
enough gratuitous violence to keep me happy.  There are also plenty of
religious references and imagery to look for, all centering around the `MARK
13 Cyborg.'  So, if you like sci-fi, I think you should give this movie a
try,  it's a pretty cool ride with some very cool imagery.


<|_=00=_|>
First off, let's get my bias out the way, I'm a die-hard fan of this
movie, and this review is definitely intended to get the reader to give
it a chance.

The film is riddled with industrial (music) culture references and
cameos, and if you're into that scene, there's a certain sick thrill
about seeing Carl McCoy as the zone trooper, and seeing footage of
proto-industrial performance artist Monte Cazazza in this. The general
tone and ambiance of the whole piece of wonderfully clichéd cyberpunk.

And that's really the interesting thing about this film. While there
are a plethora of terrible sci-fi slasher flicks out there desperately
claiming the 'cyberpunk' moniker, here is a film that claims to be
nothing more than a sci-fi slasher flick, and manages to be somewhat of
a pulp-cyberpunk classic instead.

The whole movie is a mood piece, designed more for its ambiance and the
feel of its world, than particularly flashy action sequences or
on-screen 'wow' factor. It's meant to be a genre movie, but it manages
to feel like a 'serious' film under the influence of some heavy drugs.
Not a bad thing really, but your tastes may disagree. Personally I've
always liked that sunset-filtered-through pollution look that
Bladerunner was infamous for, and hardware utilizes the same rather
well.

Genre movie it may be, but it shows far less cheese coating and
terrible acting than any of the current glut of genre movies being
produced for the Sci-Fi channel. In fact the whole movie feels more
like a good pulpy cyberpunk novella than a genre movie by far. Calling
the movie 'mood music for rivetheads' isn't really an insult to it.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is one of the best looks at a bleak future that I've seen. It's
effective in every way, except one. I've never been a big fan of
self-regeneration, and it seems like a less-than-subtle way to bring our
"killer robot" into play. If you look past that, and write it off as
Richard
Stanley's only conceivable way to bring the robot into existence, you have
a
masterpiece of modern sci-fi. From the sick, obsessive neighbor, to the
radio-active environment, to the incredible pieces of "cyber-punk" music
(PIL, Ministry), to the casual look at substance abuse,...this movie will
leave you dreading what the future might hold for the computer obsessed
masses. It's not a movie about a killer robot, it's a movie about the
future
that we are making for ourselves.
<|_=00=_|>

Those judging Hardware using the same criteria for judging major Hollywood
sci-fi films are missing the point entirely.

Hardware is much more an art film than it is science fiction; it merely
happens to have a sci-fi theme.  

Given, the plot is a little cheesy.  Given, the situation fairly
unbelievable.  And given, there are a few holes in the
story.

Almost no film has all of these elements, but Hardware has something even
more important.  The way the story is told is nothing short of genius. 
Perhaps not in the way the happenings actually unfold, but in how they are
presented.  Hardware is an astounding achievement in lighting,
cinematography, and audio engineering.  As a professional video editor
myself, I can assure you that this movie benefits from an A+ editing job. 

I completely agree that there are only 2 types of people:  those who love
Hardware, and those who simply do not get it.  

From the first frame of video, this movie is a constant barrage on the eyes,
ears, and mind.  If nothing else, you must admire the bleak vision of a
post-nuclear holocaust America presented in Hardware.  Images ranging from
billowing smoke stacks and butchers in apartment lobbies to toddlers
physically tied to their dead parents, Stanley paints a haunting vision of
the future that will not be forgotten after you press stop.

Hardware is not what you would expect to come out of Hollywood.  It is what
you would expect a pure artist to create.  Perhaps it is better suited to
fans of independent film than just sci-fi fans.  Films like Terminator and
Aliens might be regarded as much better sci-fi work, but I assure you that
they can't touch the riskiness and edginess of Hardware in how they are
presented.  That is why you hear casual moviegoers complaining about this
movie.  For pure fans of the art behind film making, sci-fi just doesn't get
any better than Hardware.  

It should be noted that the excellent score does much to augment the visuals
in this film.  It's criminal that nobody has seen it necessary to print
Hardware on DVD as I would love to experience it in Dolby
5.1.

As a final note, Hardware may not be a film everyone will enjoy.  Even if
you don't like it, you will become a more enlightened viewer if you can at
least identify why this is such a courageous film and how it differs from
the Hollywood fodder you are probably used to.  
<|_=00=_|>

I remember first seeing Hardware late on night on cinemax and thinking it
was gonna be some really lousy mess.  Well that was probably about 6 years
ago and still today it's one of my fave movies.  Granted it's cheesy at
times but it's also pretty intense and very artsy.  Richard Stanley will
always be one of my favorite directors just because of this movie, from
what
I've heard he was a music video director before this movie which explains
why it's so cool looking (regardless of what some say I love when music
video directors get a chance to direct movies).  The acting ranges from
good
to o.k. (William Hootkins who played in the similar Death Machine goes
from
being the nastiest talking pervert to singing a really goofy song...which
is
the movies lowest point).  The movie was very low budget but looks
awesome,
the production design is very good as are the effects.  It looks like
Blade
Runner or maybe The Crow with a red/orange filter used to film every scene
which gives it a gritty, bleak feel.  The cyborg effects are pretty good
also, it's filmed in a way that is similar to Alien, quick cuts and
covered
in darkness which can make the effects look better but also make the
cyborg
more menacing.  And if you're looking for gore u found it here.  I had a
field day with all the blood effects...people get cut in half, eyes get
squished, people are drilled, and there's a really trippy death scene at
the
end which is gory and poetic at the same time...oh and the cyborg goes to
town on one guy's dead body with a chainsaw appendage that it has.  Some
reviews bitched about style over substance and lack of substance but
Hardware is what it is....a really good horror/sci-fi movie.  I read an
interview in fangoria with Richard Stanley a few years back when he was
unfairly fired from Island of Dr. Moreau and he said he was gonna have to
do
whatever he could to make a name for himself again after that incident and
if all's true he did some kids movies last year and all but now he's
supposed to come back with a sci-fi movie called A Season Of Soft
Rains...hopefully more people will see what a truly gifted and talented
director he really is.  Now only if we can get an uncut version of
Hardware
on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
The 21st century world is a radioactive wasteland as a result of a
nuclear war. A traveling scavenger comes across the remains of a cyborg
named Mark 13 in the desert; He salvages pieces of it. The cyborg head
ends up with a metal sculptress, who is unaware of the cyborg's infamy
as a governmental killing machine project that was scrapped due to its
defects. Mark 13 reconstructs itself utilizing household appliances and
metal parts, and goes amok.

Hardware is a movie that relies on its post-modernistic stylings to
bring out its flavor but most of the time it falls flat. It's full of
oddly placed music, I heard somewhere that the director Richard Stanley
used to direct music videos, so maybe that explains a few reasons as to
why this movie is the way it is. The red filter used through at least
50% of the movie can become highly annoying and get in the way of
viewing some potentially good, violent scenes. Also the scenes which
slowly push the plots progression could have done without the
distraction.

Luckily enough, when the movie really gets going (it takes almost an
hour!) its quite a fun ride of just extremely painful death scenes as
the clunky robot Mark-13 chases down all humans in his way.
<|_=00=_|>
I read that many people around hate this (to me fantastic) movie: of
course, I pass on those who say this sucks because of the gore and
violence (it's rated R - and originally even X- : what you think you're
going to see, SNOW WHITE AND THE SEVEN DWARFS?). I think this movie is
a little masterpiece: Stanley later will reach the excellence with DUST
DEVIL, but this low-budget sci-fi\horror flick can show his great
skills too. Also, there are a lot of little good ideas (for example the
tripping toxin or the peeping fat neighbour) that makes it original.

The story is very simple, as it should be for a movie of this kind: the
first half of it is really focused in the description of a messed-up
future and while it continues we're introduced to the main characters
and how they relate with each other and the new environment.

Then comes the second part and the action begins: you know who is Jill,
you were informed about the droid...what else do you want? This is a
(great) B-Movie, not ANNA KARENINA. Of course, there are a lot of
clichés (Stanley himself calls it a "design movie", written after he
got a lot of projects rejected) taken from many other horror and sci-fi
flicks - such as SUSPIRIA, THE SLUMBER PARTY MASSACRE, PSYCHO,
PREDATOR, HALLOWEEN and so on -, but they're quiet smartly used: all
the world loves Tarantino referential- movies (as I do), says that
SCREAM was genius (as I don't) but at the end of the day they don't see
the same in movies like this.

Another pointed- at flaw are the Special Effects: first, I'd like to
say that I love the design of the droid, since it's quiet far from all
those Terminator or Robocop-like cyborgs that were filling b-movies at
that time. Of course, because it was basically a guy in a suit, it
wasn't showed clearly (Stanley scores again: somebody else wouldn't
care of the limits of it and show it with less touch - just think about
WATCHERS 2!) - but you can't say it isn't menacing or scary. Also, it
was shot between 1989 and 1990 (TERMINATOR 2 and it's CG were far
away): the only other way to get the droid moving would had been the
stop-motion animation (which is btw used a little bit in the rebuilding
sequence). Yes, if you watch carefully in the letter boxed video
edition, you would see the legs of the stunt guy coming out of the
suit: pretty embarrassing, but isn't something you can blame Stanley
for (the same happens, for example, in the video edition of PREDATOR -
and disappears in the DVD widescreen version-: you can see Carl
Weather's real arm behind his back when the creature is supposed to
blow it off and the diving-board when the monster lifts him). I don't
remember any movie from that period where a creature or similar is
widely and clearly showed. Oh, yes: I'm not talking about STAR WARS or
similar movies with colossal budgets.

The tight editing is another smart trick: it covers most of the flaws
of the special effects and locations, but also it generates a very
claustrophobic atmosphere that helps the suspense.

The cinematography is great - it can remember a video clip but I don't
care: besides, nowadays many movies have a video clip or spot-oriented
photography, with lower results (at least to me: I don't like, for
example, the one in the remake of DAWN OF THE DEAD by Snyder).

As for the soundtrack, I love Lydon's THE ORDER OF DEATH and the score
by Simon Boswell (who also worked on DUST DEVIL and many Italian horror
movies) - also the idea of putting STABAT MATER during the deadly-trip
scene is great! 

Eventually, maybe this flick isn't a (total) masterpiece in the A-
series films, but is a god among b-movies.
