
This movie is not historically accurate. Let's get that out of the way
right off the bat. This is not about the history of the Sex Pistols.
Details don't matter, this movie is about feeling. Two misguided,
deluded outcasts who are so completely, desperately in love, that they
won't leave each other, even though they are probably the worst people
in the world for each other. They spiral into heroin addiction, (which
is NOT glamorized. Some of the scenes with them bunkered down in the
Chelsea Hotel are downright disgusting) and one of them is killed,
although no one knows how exactly how. Punks are usually the
unsentimental type, so they tend to give this film the two-finger
salute. Well, screw them. It is a beautiful film, which speaks more
honestly about love and addiction than any Oscar-grabbing shite that I
can find in the New Release section. Gary Oldman and and Chole Webb are
excellent, inhabiting their characters right down to marrow. The era is
evoked wonderfully, and the film is littered with gorgeous, iconic
images, the best of which being Sid and Nancy kissing in an alleyway
while garbage rains down on them from above like rice at a wedding.
Also, most people ignore how FUNNY this movie is, despite it's
heartbreaking subject matter. This is an enjoyable movie, not a
punishment, or a slog through the mud. After seeing this movie, a
friend of mine was so moved, she packed up everything she had and moved
to London, where she lived on the streets for a year, trying to form a
punk band. I'd recommend this movie to anyone, not just punks or Sex
Pistols fans. It's appeal is much more universal than that. To me, this
movie exemplifies my idea of true love. It isn't always pretty. It can
drag you over glass, lead you to your grave, debase, humiliate, and
destroy you. But it's a connection so strong that you can't deny it.
And it's so beautiful that you really don't care if it kills you.
<|_=00=_|>

When I was 15, I loved this movie because I loved the Sex Pistols and
everything punk.  Now that I am twice that age, I love this film for its
unflinching portrayal of two people's lives, despite how uncomfortable it
makes us, how little we sympathize with them as people, or how hard it is
for us to comprehend the choices they made.  I personally believe at least
part of the discomfort comes from the fact that at some level, we DO
understand Sid and Nancy, their love for each other, and the choices they
make beneath the haze of addiction.

I realize, seeing it with adult eyes, why my parents were so shocked I was
watching this film in 1987.  But ironically, it was the best anti-drug
message I could have seen in my teenage years.  In performances so masterful
they make me wince, fight off nausea, and weep for their misfortune, Gary
Oldman and Chloe Webb constructed characters no one would ever want to be. 
The supporting cast deserves accolades as well - in particular, Andrew
Schofield turns in a seamless portrayal of Johnny Rotten, who, unlike Sid,
knows full well Malcolm MacLaren created him.

Having read "And I Don't Want To Live This Life" by Debora Spungen, and
having seen more than a handful of documentaries with live footage of the
band throughout the years, what impressed me most was the consistency of
tone that Oldman and Webb bring to their performances.  They are spot-on,
not just in stupor and excess, but in tenderness and rare moments of
clarity.  The movie's ending was unique among biopics where the truth is in
dispute, in that it did not profess to know the answer to that burning
question (did Sid kill Nancy?) any more than Sid knew himself.

Why watch a film about a couple of junkies who came from unremarkable
backgrounds and disappeared into the bleakness of drug addiction?  We seem
to want our films to be about something loftier than ourselves.  I view "Sid
and Nancy" more as a play than a movie - we allow our plays to be about
uncomfortable subjects and unhappy people, but seem to think that celluloid
must be as bright as the projector light behind it.  This film is a study in
love and dysfunction; its characters are painfully imperfect but perfectly
portrayed and we cannot help but respond, even if our response is the deep,
squirming discomfort that leads us to say we disliked the whole
experience.

I rated this film a very rare 9.
<|_=00=_|>

The brilliant performances of Gary Oldman and Chloe
Webb in the title roles propel this bleak and depressing
look into the calamitous relationship between Sex Pistols
bass player Sid Vicious and American punk rock groupie
Nancy Spungen. The characters are introduced to us in
tragedy right from the opening scene, casting the rest of the
film with a fatalistic sense of impending doom. These are
two tortured souls in communion who seem at odds with
just about every facet of society -- even the extreme punk
rock counter-culture to which they both ostensibly belong.

A major problem with the film (and all the more reason to
tip our hats to the two leads) is that Sid and Nancy are
written as such abrasive and disagreeable characters, one
is hard pressed to relate to them on any meaningful level.

And while the re-creation of their reckless and volatile
rebelliousness is quite detailed and credible, we never get
a sense of how they came to be so angry and tortured to
begin with. Even the smallest glimpse at their inner turmoil
would have gone a long way in creating sympathy and
concern from the audience. Instead, director Cox relies on
the pureness of their genuine love for each other to provide
that hook. That strategy succeeds to the extent it does
ONLY because of Oldman's and Webb's amazing
transformation into these parts.

If you own a DVD player, try to get a hold of the Criterion
Collection edition of this film. That disc contains some
excellent, revealing footage of the REAL Sid and Nancy that
was shot for a contemporary documentary on the Sex
Pistols ill-fated 1978 tour of the USA. If nothing else, the
footage will increase your appreciation for these two
splendid performances.
<|_=00=_|>

Recent social history is very hard to capture through drama and Alex Cox
must be grateful to have such a good plot device (a far from standard
love
story) to carry us through this difficult and much misunderstood period
of
history.

Punk rock was born to be a cult. Through all the headlines and publicity
the
central music barely scrapped the US charts: The Sex Pistols one studio
album only just crept in to the American top 100 and they  were viewed
more
as a novelty act than the next big thing. Only when the whole thing was
tamed and popified did the thing take off, by then renamed "new wave" to
differentiate between the new and old school.

(By this time the Pistols had long since self-destructed.)

In the beginning, the Sex Pistols were more a private party than a band,
indeed they often played them instead of more normal gigs. The original
punks were anti fashion and anti everything, attracting misfits of all
kinds
and colours; although art and fashion students made up the majority. This
really was an open house with prostitutes, homosexuals and exhibtionists
being equally welcome.

(This is accurately depicted in the movie.)

Sid and Nancy were from this hanging-on group and although joining the
group
as bassist  and groupie respectively (Nancy tried to get it on with most
of
the band) they were never more than window dressing. The Pistol sound was
Lydon/Rotten's voice and Steve Jones's power chords. Sid never even
played
on the records.

It is notable that many icons manage to have an icon haircut (Elvis,
Rolling
Stones, Beatles all set hair fashions) and amazingly SV even managed one
himself with his perfect spikes. His look, his life and his early death
made
him a cult, but he didn't leave a legacy behind other than a series of
half-hearted drunken rants.

Hard to see how Oldman could do more to be Vicious other than lose a few
years. SV died at 21 and Oldman is clearly older (28 at the time of
filming), but that is my only quibble. Chloe Webb (as Nancy) is also
good,
but annoying, like a dog that won't shut up barking and chewing the
furniture, until you just accept it. A life consisting of drugs, sex and
TV
- often consumed all at the same time.

Alex Cox's direction (possibly because he knew the punk movement first
hand
rather than through the papers) is first rate - like Quentin Tarantino
lite
- but he is  just as much a flash-in-the-pan as Sid and Nancy himself. He
can't make a mainstream movie, because all he is interested in is man's
ugly
underbelly and without major acting talent these things look
self-indulgent
and even amateurish.

However this is a moral look at drug taking - not the "fun before it gets
serious" moral - the "its never a good idea full stop" one. Sid is a
child,
Nancy is barely any more than a child, but more street-wise. Too lazy for
work she used oral sex like most people use a credit card.

I like this film because it has something to say about undeserved fame,
what
you do (or the few choices you have) after your fifteen minutes is up and
how empty headed people with no agenda get treated in this big bad world.
Whether you want to spend time learning all this is up to you, but it is
very well done if you do.

<|_=00=_|>
Finally upgraded from VHS to the special edition DVD of this Alex Cox
film about the ill fated Sid Vicious & his honey Nancy Spungen.

Watched it twice in fact , just had to hear the commentary from Cox
because he is a director who I admire for trying to tap into the
conscious of the subject he tackles.

As an old punk myself it would be easy for me to be biased and lean
with a nostalgic slant with the film, but truth is this film doesn't
glamorise the duo because they are portrayed as the pathetic self
destructive couple they were. The film perfectly captures the time
frame of what is indisputably the music and cultural phenomenon known
as Punk Rock, the only blight on this great piece of work is the
ending, which as Cox agrees is far too romanticised after the harshness
the viewer has just sat thru. Yet this film ranks as one of the most
honest and frank music biography movies out on the market, and I urge
anyone who stays away from it because of an aversion to Punk and it's
offshoots to seek it out ASAP.

The acting from Gary Oldman & Chloe Webb is nothing short of amazing,
the photography from Roger Deakins is very impressive......

...witness a scene as Vicious leaves a New Jersey prison and walks
across a deserted scrap heap with New York prominent in the background,
the twin towers cloaked in cloud . The direction is smart, funny, and
handled perfectly {till that ending }, and the music arrangement is
done adroitly by all involved, but I have to say that viewing it now
and hearing Joe Strummer sing Love Kills at the closing credits gives
me an added emotional kicker {SO YES A LITTLE BIAS HERE FROM ME }.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Some films tend to glorify rock and roll by showing off its glamorous
side full of adventure and wonder. Sid and Nancy does no such thing.
Instead it exposes the dirty, grimy, seedy underbelly of punk rock
which is full of violence and drugs. Gary Oldman plays Sid Vicious, the
bassist for British punk rock group the Sex Pistols. The film
chronicles his life from when he meets his junky girlfriend, Nancy
Spungen, to the tragic demise of that relationship. It is a loud, mean,
ugly, and crass film that perfectly captures all that the Sex Pistols
stood for... anarchy. Filled with all sorts of sex, drugs, and rock and
roll, Sid and Nancy is a seriously wild ride.

If there's anything that makes this film, it's Gary Oldman and Chloe
Webb. These two are incredible, Oldman more so. Oldman captures the
self destructive tendencies of Sid excellently and takes it to a
frighteningly believable extreme. It is a terrifying and shocking
experience to watch him run amuck in this film, spray painting walls,
nonstop drinking, shooting heroin every chance he gets, burning houses,
etc. He is the true essence of anarchy, and yet somehow we feel
sympathy for him. This is solely because of Nancy, the girlfriend. She
is a character you love to hate. She is a pathetic excuse for a human
being, always whining to get her way and her drugs, never contributing
anything positive to Sid's life, and always screaming about her own
problems. It is sickening and it makes the film all the more twisted
and engrossing as we watch such self destruction unfold on screen.

It's not easy to tell a story where your two main characters are so
easily hateable, but somehow this film does it. I think it is because
of the balance between Nancy and Sid that we feel compelled to pity Sid
and despise Nancy, making the film engaging in an offbeat and slightly
deranged way. Their story is so backwards and so wretchedly obscene
that we have to be interested in it somehow. It starts off simply
enough. The Sex Pistols are all about anarchy and they go around
beating people up, cursing, drinking, and all that sort of thing. But
it isn't until Sid meets Nancy that things really start to explode as
the story falls deeper and deeper into a twisted fit of depravity.
Thing get worse and worse for the two as the film progresses and Sid's
life slowly crumbles around him, with him too drunk or too high to even
notice. The film does lag a little bit towards the middle as the
conversations between Nancy and Sid begin to get a little repetitive,
but we are then hit by an expected yet still powerful ending that
closes out the film at just the right tone and atmosphere.

There is really nothing sane or reasonable about Sid and Nancy. It
envelopes true chaos and discourse through the life of one man and his
ridiculous girlfriend. It is a chore to watch this film as it does
chronicle a life full of the most horrible habits and attitudes
imaginable, but if you can stomach it all then Sid and Nancy is a
fantastic film to experience. I loved this film and was truly
fascinated by it. It displays a lifestyle a would never want to live.
Instead, I only want to learn about it in vulgar detail from a great
film like Sid and Nancy.
<|_=00=_|>
Given the discipline of a strong director, Alex Cox has revealed
overwhelming ambition, and a ferocious imagination in his films…

"Sid and Nancy" was impressive, turning the dirty and depressing true
story of Sid Vicious and his lover Nancy Spungen into a surprisingly
moving romance…

Clear-eyed in his cautious celebration of the punk movement's rebellion
against the oppressive realities of Thatcher's Britain, and similarly
lucid about the difficulties of sudden fame, Cox never glamorized his
drug-addict protagonists; nor, even more remarkably, did he condemn
them for their idiotic, anti-social, frequently pathetic odyssey
towards self-destruction in New York's Chelsea Hotel…

Sadly, the film's tense, gripping authenticity of atmosphere and
performance was to be repeated neither in the indulgent, unfunny
spaghetti Western spoof "Straight to Hell," nor in "Walker," an uneven,
allegorical satire on American imperialism in the form of a
l9th-century colonialist who sets himself up as tyrant of Nicaragua…
<|_=00=_|>
Sid and Nancy is a movie about the tortured relationship between Sid
Vicious and his whiny girlfriend, Nancy. Please, somebody turn down the
volume on this one, simply because her voice is just too irritating on
this critic's last nerve! (Did she really talk like that, or was Ms.
Webb in serious need of a voice coach? We may never know.) Most of Sid
and Nancy revolves around the two titled post-teen's attempt to
maintain some semblance of a real relationship in the midst of a lot of
drugs and self-induced violence. What stopped me from turning off this
sad statement of a generation was the performance of Gary Oldman. His
sneering imitation of Sid's contempt for almost everyone around him
masked a touching vulnerability when it came to Nancy and – yep, even
their pet kitty.

And I've got to give the truly unforgettable award to Sid and Nancy,
based on one single cinematic moment in the film--- you know what that
moment is, don't you? Yeppers - Sid belting out a searing rendition of
Old Blue Eye's favorite, "My Way". Set against a backdrop of stairs
(that call to mind every high school assembly), Oldman scratches and
claws at this song with such a ferocious intensity I'd give him the
gold statue right now.

Because that's what a cinematic moment really is, the sum total of the
character, presented to the audience in a kernel of truth. Gary Oldman
– an actor whose gold statuette is long overdue — captures the twin
torments of a twisted teen that really just wants to be loved and
doesn't know how to get past his own angry angst.
<|_=00=_|>
This vivid recreation of the last, not quite desperate days of Sex
Pistol Sid Vicious and his junkie/lover Nancy Spungen celebrates all
the pathetic excesses of punk rock anarchy, but without the overwrought
clichés Oliver Stone would later use to embalm kindred rock martyr Jim
Morrison. It would be hard to find a more honest and unsettling
portrait of show biz degradation, and yet the two lovers shared an
almost tender (if self-destructive) affection for each other, conveyed
by director Alex Cox with a gritty, forthright lyricism (their
silhouetted embrace amidst a hail of garbage provides the film's most
telling image). If nothing else, the pair were certainly more loyal to
the nihilistic punk aesthetic than their contemporaries, and the film
chronicles their slow, co-dependent suicide from the gutters of
swinging London to the alleys of New York City, with an ill-conceived
detour to Nancy's white-bread Middle America homestead. Gary Oldman
brilliantly captures the ignorant anger (and sometimes disarming
innocence) of the man described by Sex Pistols manager Malcolm McLaren
as a "fabulous disaster", and Chloe Webb is equally fine as the ugly
duckling drug addict Nancy.
<|_=00=_|>
I missed SID & NANCY when it was first released. I wasn't expecting
much when settling down to watch the DVD. I was pleasantly surprised to
find a coherent, energetic but ultimately melancholy study of
co-dependency, with two terrific central performances.

We get to know Chloe Webb's child-woman Nancy to a greater extent than
we do Gary Oldman's wild-man Sid. Not the actors' fault. In fact it's
not a fault at all. There is something inexplicable there. Whatever
forces were at play in forming the young man who became Sid Vicious,
it's to the credit of Alex Cox and his team that they don't waste time
speculating upon them or trying to analyse them. Instead, the film
lives up to its title, starting just before the relationship starts and
ending just after Nancy's death. 

The era in which the film was made is a significant factor in
appreciating it. It was, in the UK at any rate, a time when the welfare
state that had been so painstakingly put into place began to be
systematically unravelled, a land where the notion of Society was
belittled, in which hyper-individualism was lauded, where any sense of
community was being abandoned, and the search for it becoming a joke.
WALL ST, the'hero' of which was to famously declare Greed to be good,
was released the year after SID AND NANCY. I remember all that only too
well. And of course it's not over yet: the unravelling continues.

Sid and Nancy meet in a frenzy and finish in a fog. In between they
shore each other up as best they can, two bits of flotsam on an
indifferent sea. We're shown only a little of where Sid came from,
mercifully not enough to help us theorise about how he came to be the
embodiment of anarchy. Instead, through Oldman's bravura, we see his
unmitigated charisma, at which the film's unctuous Malcolm McClaren
(played by David Hayman) smiles knowingly and which he merrily
exploits. We do see Nancy in the context of her family, but again,
instead of attempting to use this encounter to explaining her, Cox
gives us a sense of how pleased the family was to get rid of her. If
Romeo and Juliet had been like Sid and Nancy, the Montagues and the
Capulets would have paid to get them married and out of Verona
altogether.
