
First Blood and Rambo are completely different movies. They have same
two characters bu that is where the similarity ends. First Blood was a
tightly wound excellent action picture directed very well by Ted
Kotcheff. Rambo is an action extravaganza that is not to high on the
psychological element the way the first one was. They are both
excellent films but I find them entertaining for different reasons. One
of the reasons that I find Rambo so damn entertaining is because I
enjoy that Rambo is now larger than life. He is the ultimate fighting
machine who's only desire is to win a war that someone else lost, and
if winning means he has to die then he'll die, no fear, no regrets.
That is what makes Rambo the ultimate fighting machine and the ultimate
movie character.

I love this movie. I love how far fetched it is. I love that Rambo can
withstand hours of torture and then have enough energy to escape into
the jungle and take on the whole Vietnemese and Russian army. That is
what makes this movie so damned entertaining. When I was 14, this was
my favourite movie, and it took a great many films and years before it
was dethroned. I think I can enjoy and appreciate movies like
Apocalypse Now and JFK better than when I was 14, but my love for Rambo
and films of its kind will never diminish. This movie is amazing from
start to finish.

Rambo's mission in this film is to go back to Vietnam and see if he can
find a certain camp that may be harbouring POW's. But if he finds these
men, he can only take pictures. He has a problem with that and when he
does find one he is left behind by the "stinkin bureaucrat" named
Murdoch who orders the mission aborted before Trautman can pick him up.
It is while Rambo is captured that the movie becomes tight, tense and
incredibly entertaining. Rambo is also fun to watch on a physical
level. Stallone was in the best shape of his life in 1985 as he
simultaneously made Rambo and Rocky IV. He is huge, ripped and strong
as hell in this movie and it is his psychical presence that adds to his
persona. He single handedly goes through a whole army and lives to go
get the bastards that left him behind. Rambo is one of the old school
feel good summer type movies.

Rambo does not claim to be JFK or Mississippi Burning in the sense that
it wants you to leave the theater with a message. It has its own
beliefs that is for certain, but what Rambo does just like Raiders does
is, it entertains. It has you rooting and cheering for Rambo and
dissing and swearing at the bad guys for 90 minutes. It is so much fun
that I highly recommend this film to anyone who likes to be
entertained. Leave your politics for some other movie, that is not what
Rambo is about. It is about being entertained and wearing your emotions
on your sleeve. That is what is beautiful about this movie. It doesn't
apologize for being a bit over the top. Neither should you, for
enjoying the film. It is a true wonder. A great piece of entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>

Sylvester Stallone has one of the most recognizable faces in the world for a
reason; this genius has created two pop culture Icons Rocky and Rambo. 
Anywhere, in the world these two characters will be reconized.  Stallone has
many detractors, but his vision, writing, and acting out these characters
has made him rich and sucessful in a highly competitive industry.  Before
Rambo, his sequel to First Blood, Stallone was just a star like Gene
Hackmen, but this movie created a mega star.  As part of gen x I love this
film, it is a prototype for many action films that followed.  The story
brings out raw emotions, tension, and adrenaline. The viewer relates with
John Rambo his pain, and how the government lies.  The action takes the
viewer on a incredible ride.  I love the battlecry he gives out when he does
a chopper assault on the bad guys, and the explosive arrow that smashes his
adversary, along with the machine gunning of the computer system at the
base.  The camera angles, expressions, and physical acting is perfectly
done.  You leave the picture feeling good, and that is what movie escapism
should be.  Stallone, who is ridiculed, along with Arnold for his physical
acting, can with this ability create a great stage presence. This emotion he
creates with his body is done by, how he walks, flexs his arm etc.  Could
Robert De Niro done this film, maybe(ie Cape Fear) Tom Cruise no way, Val
Kilmer No. This film is what an  action film should be, I've seen very few
lines for an Action movie as long as this one.  PS the speech at the end
gave the spirit of what the film was about.
<|_=00=_|>

A lot of negative reviews I see, but what about the heart of the
movie?
Doesn't it make you remember the main point--Vietnam and the POW's still
there?  How they were treated when they came home?

So there are flaws in the movie, we know when Rambo fires the missle in
the
helicopter, the guys in back would have been toast, but that didn't
matter.
It's good against evil; and if you know anything about that time frame,
you
can see so much "truth" in characters like Murdock and what goes on in
reality.

The action is excellent, non-stop, with heart, and instead of
critical
and harsh comments on acting, look at the Broad Picture here, or
like
Murdock...did you forget too?

A hell of an action film, well done stunt work (mostly done by Stallone)
Well worth watching for many reasons.
<|_=00=_|>

Okay, first of all, I was born after this movie was made.  Second of all,
I'm a girl.  So for me to say it's a good movie means it's a good movie.  My
father received this movie as a gag gift.  Just by glancing at the cover, I
had the impression that Rambo movies were nothing but blood-and-guts,
guns-blazing, psycho, no-plotline movies that exist solely for the purpose
of making men feel macho.  I hate those movies (Steven Segal, Chuck Norris,
etc.) But when I popped in this movie out of boredom, I was surprisingly
pleased.  I'll admit I never saw the first one, but this film doesn't really
call for it.  It stands on its own.  The plot is good-a little too
unrealistic but good, the cinematography and scenery is great, Stallone may
not be the best actor in the world but he PERSONIFIES John Rambo, and the
aspect that makes the movie worth watching is the fact that a woman was a
main character and she was not just there for looks; she had an important
role and she is portrayed almost as Rambo's equal.  The semi-happy ending
was cool, too.  Although there are many cheezy moments where you just want
to roll your eyes, there are also many feel-good moments that have the
audience cheer for Rambo.  After seeing this film I can understand why it
was nominated for an Oscar.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is a sort of legend.It's the greatest action flick of all the
times,and the only movie can be compared to it it's "Rambo 3",another
masterpiece.
"Rambo:First Blood Part.2" is intelligent,beautiful,frightening and...so
"Eighties" that you could consider it a piece of history.One of the best
performance of Sylvester Stallone.Julie Nicholson (Co Bau) is great and
she's a fine actress.Richard Crenna is a myth.The screenplay's a
masterstroke,and i don't care the track of "reaganism" in it. Rambo is a
rebel,a lone soldier,not a simple puppet in the hands of America.Not a
simple human instrument.America offended and pushed him in the first
movie.Rambo is an anti-hero,he really don't care 'bout America.He cares
'bout american soldiers STILL trapped in that hell.Point.Have you
understand
?
Best sequence: All the movie.My favourite :The Co Bau's death...so
poetic.Sly seems a dancer when he fights,but he's one of the greatest actor
too.He's not only a bunch of muscles !!!!!!!
If you love good movies,you'll love "Rambo:First blood part 2".The mother
of
all the action flicks !!!!!!!!!!! Without it,forget "Die hard" and "Lethal
weapon".Forget the word "Action" .
<|_=00=_|>

I'm really surprised at how little respect people have for this movie.  I
could be wrong, but it seems to be the ideal movie for any Vietnam vet
looking for an outlet to his frustration.  The government used Rambo the
way
many soldiers must have felt used.  If this movie is nothing more than a
tiny way of saying "we're sorry you had to go through that," then the
movie
deserves all the respect we can muster.
<|_=00=_|>
The fame of Sylvester Stallone initially picked up with The Rocky
series. However, he did not settle to create only the icon of Rocky
Balboa. His ambitious and craggy nature took him to endeavor the
creation of a new kind of hero cum macho man yet unknown to cine-goers.

Rambo was the culmination of an American war commando who was taught
and weathered to sustain and persevere in the most unfavorable, hostile
and cruel conditions. Under enemy captivity in Vietnam while trying to
rescue American POWs, he showed stoic fortitude and the solid grit not
to bend before the enemy bullies. Sylvester Stallone's body and
features that seem to be chiseled in stone bore a perfect resemblance
to Rambo's character sketch. Richard Crenna as Col. Samuel has also
portrayed a good role as Rambo's mentor.

This is by far a most popular and fascinating depiction of a new style
of action, adventure thriller of its time and definitely rose Stallone
to new heights of stardom and instantly established him as a top
favorite Hollywood icon.
<|_=00=_|>

I am a Sergeant in the Army who previously served in the National
Guard. I joined the West Virginia Army National Guard in the summer of
1985
when this film was first released and I have to admit I was caught up in
the
patriotic "Rambo" fever that was sweeping the country. Sylvester Stallone
was sort of like a modern day John Wayne in creating a hero on screen
that
made us cheer for him and feel patriotic.
John Rambo symbolized the Vietnam veteran that went and fought and
did
his all for his country and was spit on and left to stand alone when he
returned. The first scene in this film is Colonel Trautman visitng Rambo
in
prison and offering him a chance at a pardon if he will participate in a
special mission. Rambo accepts and says "Sir do we get to win this time?"
Trautman says "Its up to you".
Murdock, the character that Charles Napier plays, represents the
typical government beaurocrat that slept on clean sheets with a full
belly
while soldiers died in Vietnam because they were sent out to fight with
one
hand tied behind their back. He lies to Rambo about his combat experience
and Rambo realizes Trautman is the only one he trusts. (Incidentally
Charles
Napier is a highly decorated Korean war veteran in real
life).
Rambo parachutes into Nam and finds there are POWS left alive, he
even
manages to help one escape and Murdock aborts the mission and leaves them
to
their fate. There is an intense scene where Trautman confronts Murdock
and
calls him a stinking coward covering his ass! He says you made one
mistake
leaving Rambo alive!
There are some awesome sequences that keep you on the edge of your
seat.
Stallone's approach to playing Rambo is like the one Clint Eastwood used
in
playing No Name. He uses a minimum of dialogue. However, you sense this
man's inner pain that he has borne all his life. This film has some of
the
most graphic torture sequences ever committed to screen as they try to
make
Rambo talk. They get him on the radio with Murdock and he says "MURDOCK
I'M
COMING TO GET YOU!!!!" I have to admit, I cheered like everyone else when
Rambo killed all the enemy and rescued the POWs. There is an intense
helicopter chase before he finally fakes a crash and then blows the enemy
helicopter away! (I wanted to mention one error they made in this film.
Rambo uses a LAWs rocket to shoot the enemy helicopter, if he had done
this
in real life, he would have blown up his own copter as well because of
the
backblast effect. I have trained with LAWs rockets and I know).

I love the last scene in the film where he flys the copter back and
goes
after Murdock. He scares the (*&^ out of him by shoving him down on a
table
and stabbing his knife into it, but he only tells him "There are more men
out there, find them or I will find you"
The last scene in the film SPOILER ALERT is the best. Colonel Trautman
asks Rambo what he wants and Stallone makes his longest speech "I WANT
WHAT
THEY WANT AND EVERY OTHER GUY WHO WENT OVER THERE AND SPILLED HIS GUTS
AND
GAVE IT ALL HE HAD WANTS FOR OUR COUNTRY TO LOVE US AS MUCH AS WE LOVE IT
THAT IS WHAT I WANT!!!!" It was like he was speaking for all Vietnam
vets.
This is a film that makes you stand up and cheer in the end. Corny? maybe
but I always remember the lyrics of the song at the end (Stallone's
brother
wrote them) Peace in our life/remember the cause/a cheer for my brothers
think of them all/home of the free, well never fall the strength of our
nation belongs to us all. 
<|_=00=_|>

Double crossed by "UNCLE SAM", Sly Stallone makes a radio call back to
base and asks for the "STINKIN' BEAUROCRAT" who set him up. As
lightning strikes and Sly's knuckles crack and tighten around the radio
microphone, he slurs the following words, "Murdock, I'm comin' ta git
you". After which he pulverises and electrofies his captors and escapes
into the jungle p***ed as a rattle snake. They don't make movies like
this anymore, Rambo is an old school action favourite, made at a time
when stunt men could really hurt themselves and at a time when
explosions weren't made on a computer screen. At its time of release
the film was criticized for exploiting real life P.O.W's and a minority
of the public, especially the men who fought in the Vietnam war were
deeply offended by the film. Unfortunately those people made the
mistake of taking the film too seriously. Rambo is a very entertaining
action movie directed by George P. Cosmatos who also directed Sly, one
year later, in Cobra. Mr Cosmatos shows real style in his direction and
I would like to see him team up again with Sly for another project.
Rambo is a real crowd pleaser of a film, destined to become a classic
if it isn't already.

<|_=00=_|>

Viewed as an action film, Rambo First Blood Part II is hard to beat. It just
never lets up, and it has Stallone at the top of his game. Its comic strip
stuff, and is much less credible than First Blood. I don't care about that
though, you want a serious film then watch The Deer Hunter or Platoon, but
if you want to see a superbly made action film watch this. After the events
of First Blood, John Rambo is in prison but gets released to be sent back to
Vietnam to take pictures of a pow camp to get proof that there is still
American pow's there. But he is double-crossed by his superiors when he
tries to take some pow's out with him, he wasn't meant to do that, he was
ordered to only take photos, so he's left behind to be captured , imprisoned
and tortured by those oh so nasty RUSSIANS! Sly really had it in for the
reds in 1985 after this film, he sent Rocky out to Russia to beat up that
other nasty Russian Ivan Drago! It must have been what the people wanted as
this and Rocky IV were two of the biggest smashes of the year. Steven
Berkhoff plays the Russian bad guy in practically a carbon copy of his role
in the James Bond film Octopussy, he does it well though, he was one of
Hollywoods favourite bad guys of the mid 80's, you might remember him in
Beverly Hills Cop, which was a film initially intended for........Sylvester
Stallone! This movie has just been giving the DVD special edition treatment,
buy it, and get yourself one of the greatest action flms ever
made.
