
People misunderstood "The Color of Money," I think. There are a few
things to keep in mind: 

1) This was a Martin Scorsese film. Scorsese was fresh off "Taxi
Driver," "Raging Bull," and other such successes from less than a
decade before. People were expecting a lot.

2) It starred Paul Newman, returning to his character from "The
Hustler," in a sequel that was twenty-five years in the making. That's
longer than the wait for the "Phantom Menace" prequel.

Perhaps for those two (very strong) reasons alone, when "The Color of
Money" opened in 1986, the critics and audiences didn't think much of
it. It garnered decent praise from both areas but most critics seemed
to agree: it didn't hold a candle to "The Hustler," and anyone other
than Scorsese could have easily made the same picture.

After 19 years, I disagree. I think "The Color of Money" is not only an
intelligent and amusing character piece, but an excellent continuation
of a character we haven't seen for 25 years.

First of all, Scorsese's direction isn't his best, but it's still very
good. And he's definitely got the same elements going on as "After
Hours" from a few years before -- his cinematography is identical and
the dark colors and grainy '80s vibe are present in every frame.
Likewise he's using the quick-cuts and zooms and iconic panning shots
that he's known for. The thing is, Scorsese's styles just changed a bit
during the 1980s (they even carried on into "GoodFellas" -- the
night-time shots carry the same foreboding look as "After Hours" and
"Color of Money"). I think now, looking back, since we've seen more of
Scorsese's films, it's easier to notice that this is indeed a Martin
Scorsese film. A man who is constantly changing his directorial
approach. (Just look at "The Aviator" for goodness sake!) Newman
deserved the Oscar more for "The Hustler," of course, but for what it's
worth, Fast Eddie Felson's evolution is handled with care in the script
and it's very entertaining (for anyone who's seen the original) to note
the change in his behavior. It's also interesting to see the new cocky
pool hustler, Vince (Tom Cruise), filling in the shoes of Eddie from a
few decades before.

If "The Hustler" was a great insight into the life of a troubled young
man, then "The Color of Money" is a terrific insight into the evolution
of this man, and the contrast between the young and the old. All adults
tell us as children that they were just like us at one time, and we
don't believe them. "The Color of Money" follows this principal -- in
thirty years, we all know Vince will be just like Fast Eddie: wise and
matured. And then he'll probably be coaching a young guy who thinks
he's the king of the world. Will they make another sequel based on this
continuation of the story? I doubt it. It's unnecessary, because as far
as I'm concerned "The Color of Money" has already stressed the point.
But you never know...

Overall this isn't a great movie and I won't pretend it is. But I do
think it's one of the better films to come out of the 1980s and had a
lot more going for it than some of the critics gave it credit for. Film
buffs should see it, especially those who loved "The Hustler."
<|_=00=_|>
Paul Newman reprised his role of Eddie Felson from "The Hustler"
(1961), on all short lists of great movies, to star in "The Color of
Money", a worthy sequel in the way "Rocky II" was to "Rocky" -- not a
great movie, but very good.

Eddie, advancing in years, has apparently left the hustling circuit for
a more respectable job as a liquor wholesalesman. On his route, he
encounters a brash, obnoxious pool shark named Vincent (Tom Cruise) and
his girlfriend (Mary Mastrantonio). Vincent has the talent, but not the
brains or knowledge, to be another great hustler, so Eddie, his desire
for the circuit reignited, offers to stake Vincent and teach him the
ropes, in exchange for a substantial piece of the winnings. At first,
Vincent's ego and obnoxiousness threaten his development, but he soon
learns all of Eddie's tricks -- and a few of his own. By the time of
the big tournament at the end of the movie, Eddie and Vince have split
ways -- and find themselves on a collision course.

I just realized that "The Color of Money" is my favorite Tom Cruise
movie, but not my favorite Paul Newman movie (which could well be "The
Hustler"). I re-viewed this movie recently after a long discussion with
some friends about the difference between a movie star and an actor,
and the few living legends that are both (besides Newman, I'd include
Jack Nicholson and Robert de Niro). As always, Newman, even with such a
huge public persona, disappears into the role of the middle-aged
grifter, heartbroken how far his game has fallen in the days since he
left the pool hall circuit. But he also makes the other performers
around him shine. Cruise's trademark cockiness shines through in
Vincent. Besides Mastrantonio, one of my favorite actresses Helen
Shaver turns in a nice performance as Eddie's girlfriend, and Forest
Whitaker first appeared on my radar in his short time on screen.

The other star of the movie is the game. While Scorsese didn't make his
movie into the character study of "The Hustler", he uses the pool
tables and balls as a medium for many artistic scenes. If you are
someone who enjoys looking at beautiful movies, you won't be
disappointed. And there might even be some real pool players -- you
never know...

The story is good, not great. "The Color of Money" is not cut from the
same felt as "The Hustler", and does not try to be. It is a movie about
pool, not a character study. I don't think I would be up to repeated
viewings as frequent as "The Hustler", but it's a fine way to spend an
evening watching Newman and Cruise shoot pool.
<|_=00=_|>

"The Color Of Money" continues the story of pool player/hustler 'Fast Eddie'
Felson (Paul Newman). He's 25 years old, and 25 years wiser as he's spent
that time watching pool hustles and schemes and selling wine after his
'early' retirement from pool playing in the original.

But now he's got a new excitement and energy to the game, as he meets
Vincent (Tom Cruise), a young, cocky but talented fresh player who's not
well known around the low-level pool rooms Eddie has been frequenting.
Eddie and Vincent's girlfriend, Carmen (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio) see
Vincent as a cash cow. Indeed, everybody uses everyone, and we're never
quite sure the relationship between the three. That's the beauty of it.

Scorsese's never been more refined yet quietly flashy, dealing with a
traditional 'old' Hollywood tale of a mentor and protege as small time
hustlers playing each other and getting played.  The film is an underrated
gem, truly downplayed in Scorsese's overall filmography.

Definitely recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
"Twenty five years ago, my career ended before it had even really
started," Eddie Felson tells Vince, a young pool shark. No longer the
cocky man he was in "The Hustler," Eddie (Paul Newman) in 1986 is
retired from pool and a successful investor. When he spots hot-shot
Vince (Tom Cruise), he decides to invest in him and take him on the
road, with the goal of Vince winning a big pool tournament in Atlantic
City. Along the way, Eddie confronts what he was and is no more and
looks at the dreams he let die. When Vince is too foolish and
strong-willed to take his advice, Eddie makes an important decision.

Though not as strong a film as "The Hustler," "The Color of Money" is
still an excellent film with a great cast led by Newman, at the peak of
his "older man" good looks and the brilliant acting he's always had.
And, as usual, he tells you everything you need to know about a
character. It's clear that he was content with his life and his
attractive girlfriend (Helen Shaver) until he saw Vince. Then the old
restlessness and competitiveness came creeping back into his blood.

Seeing Tom Cruise in 1986 is startling since today, the lower half of
his face has changed drastically due to plastic surgery. Here he
conveys the raw, youthful energy that helped make him a star. Like many
successful movie actors, he has a wonderful physical agility. His
pompadoured Vince is a short-tempered, jealous, talented ingrate who
can't help showing off. Cruise is very effective, as is Mary Elizabeth
Mastroantonio as his sultry, beautiful girlfriend in another role she
made memorable in the '80s.

Beautifully directed by Scorcese, "The Color of Money" shows that it's
never too late to follow your dreams and, with the right actors and the
right script, you can do a good sequel even 25 years after the
original.
<|_=00=_|>
Although a lot of this plot is taken from the Richard Widmark rodeo
film When the Legends Die, The Color of Money is still a worthy film
and a good successor to the early Paul Newman classic, The Hustler.

I imagine that players like Paul Newman who create classic characters
like Fast Eddie Felson must be bombarded with scripts or story ideas
for sequels. Paul Newman is one of the most discriminating of players
and up to this point he had only reprised his role in Harper with The
Drowning Pool.

When he decided to do The Color of Money there was no need to age
Newman twenty five years with makeup. Time had done a better job than
any makeup man could have done. Time had also honed his acting
abilities so that he could realistically recreate one of his classic
characters in an older generation.

One thing about The Color of Money is that can and does stand
independently of The Hustler. You do not have to have seen the earlier
film to know what's happening here. Nevertheless in that earlier film,
promising new pool player Eddie Felson does not take direction from
mobsters who effectively end his career before he gets it firmly on
track.

Fast forward from 1961 to 1986 and Paul Newman is now a liquor salesman
who hangs around poolrooms in tank towns and dreams what might have
been. A young kid with a 'sledgehammer break' gets Newman's attention
and its Tom Cruise. He's got a girlfriend, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio
with him and the three sort of adopt each other. 

It's a complicated relationship between all three of them and all three
of them manage to convey the many ups and downs of this triangle.
Newman teaches Cruise the tricks of the trade including how to tank a
game occasionally to bring up the betting odds. In many ways Cruise
learns too well and Newman hanging around with him makes him realize
just how much he's missed because of the gangland blackball.

Reportedly Newman and Cruise got along splendidly during the making of
The Color of Money. Their joint interest in auto racing cemented a very
good working relationship.

Paul Newman was also nominated during the eighties for Absence of
Malice and The Verdict which are two of my favorites with him.
Unfortunately in the first he was up against Henry Fonda who had been
similarly snubbed for years by the Academy and was dying during the
Oscar voting. The second time Ben Kingsley portrayal of the title role
in the massive blockbuster Gandhi obscured what I think is Newman's
finest performance in The Verdict.

Though the Oscar was an Oscar for lifetime of work, The Color of Money
is a worthy sequel to The Hustler. Martin Scorsese got great
performances out of the whole cast. And Paul Newman finally got a
matching Oscar to go with the one Joanne Woodward won for The Three
Faces of Eve for their mantelpiece.
<|_=00=_|>

Near excellent sequel to "The Hustler" which returns Paul Newman (finally in
an Oscar-winning role) as the old wise former hustler who decides to take
young jerk Tom Cruise and his hot, but shady girlfriend (Mary Elizabeth
Mastrantonio in her Oscar-nominated role) on the road to take advantage of
all pool table challengers. Newman's reprise of his greatest role is truly
something to experience. He is at the top of his career in this one, playing
a quiet and complicated role of a man who has been tortured by time, loss
and missed dreams of total success. Martin Scorsese's subtle and focused
direction stays on task throughout and he lets his three outstanding leads
do the bulk of the work. Not quite as good as "The Hustler" due to a weaker
screenplay and less suspense, but still a very memorable cinematic
experience. 4.5 out of 5 stars.  
<|_=00=_|>
The Color of Money is a slick sequel to The Hustler where Paul Newman
as a much younger man paid the price for hustling pool. Now, twenty
some years later, his Fast Eddie Felson is driving around in a big
fancy Cadillac selling liquor and stake-horsing younger pool players.
One day, while romancing his bartender girlfriend, his young protégé
(John Tuturro) gets whipped by this cocky kid named Vincent. Eddie
Felson is immediately drawn to the flaky, loud-mouthed kid with the
name "Vince" stenciled on his tee shirt. After some arm twisting and
manipulating, Eddie, Vincent, and Vincent's streetwise girlfriend
Carmen (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio) are making their way to Atlantic
City where a 9 Ball pool tournament awaits. Along they way Eddie tries
to teach them how to hustle pool. This will be a problem because of
course the cocky youngster won't do as he's told. He has a gift and
knows it. It is simply impossible for him to hold back and let someone
beat him. Even when it could lead to a bigger payoff down the road. His
girlfriend Carmen also seems to see both Vincent and Eddie as a way to
make money for herself. She is clearly a woman with motives all her
own. Of course this will all lead up to a climatic match in Atlantic
City between the old master and the young protégé, won't it? Well, it
appears to for a moment, until we learn that what we saw wasn't really
what it appeared to be.

And that's the part of the film that seemed to really irk Roger Ebert
in his review. He was expecting a masterpiece of a film for no other
reason than Martin Scorcese is the director. But the film isn't a
masterpiece. Its simply a very good film with some great performances,
great music, and some gritty and authentic-looking locations. Who is
the better pool player is the last thing this film is about. This is a
film about people using other people. Be it for money, inspiration,
comfort, you name it. Newman plays Felson here as a gruff, seasoned man
who thinks he knows everything about the game, and those who play it.
He finds out as the film moves along that is not always the case.
Sometimes these younger players have new tricks up their sleeves, and
if you let your guard down, they will hustle even the smartest old
timer. There is a classic scene where Eddie, after a few too many
drinks, allows a chubby and apparently dim-witted Forest Whitaker to
take him for hundreds of dollars. The film is full of scenes that end
in ways you don't quite expect.

This is one of those movies where above all else, the casting was
almost perfect. Newman is as watchable as ever. Mastrantonio steals a
few scenes. Cruise is annoying of course, but he was supposed to be.
Still, he looks kind of weak compared to the other actors. Great
support from Helen Shaver and Bill Cobbs, too. Watch closely for an
appearance from music icon Iggy Pop. During a montage, Cruise hustles
him and then steals a shot of booze right out of his hand! The
cinematography from Michael Ballhaus is great as always. In fact its
too good! Some of the camera shots just look too stylish for such a
film. Maybe that was Scorcese's way of trying to liven up a picture
with so little violence! Overall, The Color of Money is worth your
time. 8 of 10 stars.

The Hound
<|_=00=_|>
The Color of Money (1986)

The reputation of this films rides partly on its director, a mainstream
Martin Scorsese, and on the previous film it bounces off of (and makes
vague reference to), The Hustler. Key to both films is the astonishing
Paul Newman, who holds his end of the stick and then some. The rest of
the cast is purely in canned and competent support roles, or in
semi-star roles by two young actors with some screen presence but no
great subtle skill to match Newman's. 

I'm speaking not only of Mary Elizabeth Mastrontonio, who is forced to
play the slightly tough, slightly sexy, generally submissive
girlfriend, but also of Tom Cruise, who is brilliant at being "flakey"
partly because he is in real life, from all accounts. You give Scorsese
credit here for using the young actor in a role that matches his
natural persona, in contrast to others, including Spielberg, who seem
to make more of the actor than there is, and a certain falseness gets
in the way. But this film uses the awkwardness and naive, boyish
qualities of Cruise as a sudden pool shark really well. 

What holds it all back? I think basically plot. I mean, it's fun to see
the big hustle at play, and to get stung once or twice when things
aren't what they seem. But we sort of know going in that that's the
general plan, and then it happens. And it takes a long time
happening...there are no (no) complications here, beyond pool and
hustling. The romances, for what they are worth, a completely thin, and
didn't have to be. The settings, all these great (great) poolhalls and
small town joints are terrific, populated a little too perfectly by
locals of all different stripes. The camera-work makes some fairly
cinema verite footage make sense in the scenes, but not with either
edge or lyricism. 

This all sounds a little like I'm working hard to point out the flaws,
and I must go back to where I started about Newman, and the basic
strength of the aging pool player facing a change in his personal
scenery. It's a canned affair overall. Well done, sure, but without the
richness of the best of Scorsese's work, or the best of Hollywood, for
that matter, including the preceding The Hustler, which you might see
in a pairing with this one.
<|_=00=_|>
25 years after casting his magic in The Hustler, Paul Newman returns
again as Fast Eddie Felson, and the results are almost as good as the
1961 offering. Here he is older and wiser and carrying around a cue
case full of cynicism, tho no longer involved in the game of pool he
has his hunger for the game and the money it makes, rekindled by a
meeting with dynamite hot shot Vincent and his beautiful girlfriend
Carmen.

The story involves the three of them going on the road hustling and
aiming for the big pay off that Vincent's talent can ultimately bring
them, naturally it's not all sweetness and light tho.

It's a fine film when looking at it now, and I was amazed that it
didn't feel like an 80s film as such, and this is down to the cracking
direction of Martin Scorsese, it may be one of his most mainstream
commercial offerings but his fine work is there for all to see. The
camera glides around as if on air to create joyous results, shots that
put the pool action right into the conscious of the viewer, it's a
great effort. The film is further boosted by two wonderful performances
from the leading men, Newman deserved his Oscar for putting such verve
and honesty into the now grizzled Felson, there is a scene with Forest
Whitaker that is Newman gold without him hardly having to say anything
. Then there is Cruise, all big hair and a ball of adrenaline, a great
ebullient show that is great fun to watch. I read somewhere that Newman
praised Cruise for capturing the essence of a young Eddie Felson, well
you can't say fairer than that. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio more than
holds her own with the boys and fleshes out a smart and entertaining
film that seems to get better with age, just like Felson funnily
enough.

Oh he's back alright, 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Pool hustler Fast Eddie Felson (Paul Newman) discovers a cocky, young
pool player Vincent (Tom Cruise) in a local bar. Along with Vincent's
girl Carmen (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio), he tries to teach the
youngster all that he knows about the hustle.

Tom Cruise overplays the cocky arrogant characters. At times, he plays
him like a cartoon character. Luckily Paul Newman could bring the
acting chops to this movie. When Paul's character loses to Amos (Forest
Whitaker), you see a history of the man's failures. You felt his defeat
emotionally. Martin Scorsese directs this. I wonder if Martin Scorsese
held back a little. The violence and grittiness for which he's known
for isn't all there. They're traveling the darkest and lowest pool
halls, but it could have been much worst.
