
Creepshow (1982) was a horror fan's dream come true. Two of the masters
in their respective fields joining forces to collaborate on a movie.
Several tales filmed in an anthology style based upon the E.C. Comics
that the two enjoyed reading in their youths. With Stephen King writing
and George A. Romero directing plus Tom Savini creating the gory
special effects how can you go wrong? You just can't and the
aforementioned duo delivers the goods.

The story begins as a young kid is being punished by his overbearing
and brutish father for reading "trashy filth" and is punished. During
the night the tossed out comic book comes to life and plays out all the
stories (in comic book form) with the "Creepshow Ghoul' leading the
way. Black comedy has never been funnier.

All the stories are excellent and well directed. The set pieces are
very well designed and are brilliantly executed. You have to love the
lighting schemes. The cast is a mixture of new actors and classic ones.
George A. Romero stated that he finally got to work with Fritz Weaver
and Hal Holbrook and E.G. Marshall. Leslie Nielsen, Adrienne Barbeau,
Ted Danson and Ed Harris co-star as well. A couple of Romero regulars
such as his wife Christine, Tom Savini and who can forget Stephen King
as Jordy Verill.

Creepshow is a true modern day horror classic. I have enjoyed this as a
child and I still consider this movie one of my favorite horror films.
Sadly the two could never capture the magic they once had. Maybe
they'll work together directly in the near future. This movie was near
flawless in design. They set out to recapture the old E.C. Comics aura
and they succeeded. Followed by a absolutely bad sequel. 

Highly recommended!
<|_=00=_|>

George A.Romero("Dawn of the Dead","Day of the Dead","Martin")after huge
success with "Dawn of the Dead" directed his another masterpiece-an
anthology of five short stories called "Creepshow".The script was written by
Stephen King,and the special effects were made by F/X wizard Tom
Savini("Martin","Maniac","The Prowler").The first story "Father's Day" is
so-so-nothing special,but the zombie looks terrific;the second story "The
Lonesome Death of Jordy Verril" is the funniest,Stephen King steals the show
as a Jordy,a goofy farmer,who finds a strange meteor;the third story
"Something To Tide You Over" is my favourite-it's ghastly,creepy,funny and a
little bit disturbing,again great make-up of the drowned zombies;the fourth
story "The Crate" is the longest and goriest-there's a lot of suspense and
plenty of gore mixed with black humour.Finally we are getting to the last
story "Creeping Up On You"-an enjoyable story about cockroaches with some
rather gross special effects.Overall I must say that I love
"Creepshow"-surely they don't make them like this anymore.This is a REAL
horror,not a teen-oriented garbage like "Scream" or "Urban Legend".Check it
out.
<|_=00=_|>
"Creepshow" is a unique, funny, and creepy horror anthology from
Stephen King and George A. Romero. The film centers around five stories
- consisting of a murderous revenge tale of a father on fathers day ; a
redneck (played by Stephen King himself) who begins growing a green
substance on his body after coming in contact with a meteor ; a man who
buries his wife and her lover up to their heads on the beach as the
tide begins to come in ; a strange monster that lives in a crate that
was discovered beneath a stairway ; and a Scrooge-like businessman who
lives in a purely sanitized apartment that can't get rid of pesky
cockroaches.

Each of the stories displayed in this movie are a little bit corny to a
certain extent, but they are still well done and are quite amusing.
There is a very good cast, including Ed Harris, Leslie Nielsen, Ted
Danson, Adrienne Barbeau, and E.G. Marshall, whom all give good
performances in the movie. The whole movie is tied in with the classic
E.C. comics from the 1950s, each story as if it were from a comic book.
I thought that whole comic aspect was pretty unique, and I liked the
stories in the film ("The Crate" is by far the best of them all, the
one with Leslie Nielsen is my runner up for second place).

Bottom line - if you are expecting some serious, intense horror movie,
this is not for you. This movie isn't scary at all, I watched it when I
was very young and it failed to even scare me then. "Creepshow" is a
comical, campy, and well-done horror anthology. I only recommend it if
you like this sort of thing, because it is more comic than horrific.
Otherwise, it's really quite good for what it is. 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I think it's pretty clear that the amount of enjoyment you get out of
this movie is directly related to how sick your sense of humor is.
Those people with a fairly low tolerance for sick humor, such as
myself, won't particularly like it, but people who thoroughly enjoy
horror cheese like "Tales From the Crypt" should LOVE this. 

Now, even though I personally don't like this movie, I have to admit it
is very well made. Everything is perfectly over-the-top: the music, the
gaudy colors, the makeup--it's all done to the point where it is
totally ridiculous, which is what King and Romero want. And I must
admit I did like the segment "The Crate." How can you NOT love a giant
ape-monster running around tearing people to bits? Sick, sick stuff,
but enjoyable all the same.

If you like gruesome black humor, this is the movie for you.
"Creepshow" is shock schlock at its very best. And as an added bonus,
it is not very well known today, so it can have a wonderful "What the
hell are you WATCHING!?" effect on other people.

8/10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

I was ten years old the first time I saw Creepshow in the theater in 1982. I
was overtook by the visual effects. The backgrounds are what make the film.
My brother looked at the wrong newspaper for the movie, so I arived at the
theater twenty minutes late for the movie. My heart raced and my eyes
opened wide to the sight of a half-decayed man with a head on a platter.
There were candles and icing on the decapitated head. The decayed man said
in a disgusting voice,"It's Father's Day...And I got my cake!"
No other horror movie ever effected me in that way. It was the most
brilliant spectical I've ever seen in a motion picture.
Creepshow is a very under-rated film. 
I had to get that out.

<|_=00=_|>
This was after Tales from the Crypt, however, Romero and King both
where heavily influenced by these comics that they developed a movie
that was sort of a satire/parody of Tales but in the same time a
tribute to that comic book. In this movie there are four scary stories
being told some written by Stephen King from his short stories and some
written by Romero and SK. These stores, for that time, were pretty
scary and freaked me out when they came in theaters. There are many
great things about this movie that I enjoyed but there was, however,
one huge things that I did not like about this movie. Regardless, it's
about time for two horror geniuses to team up and do something good for
a change.

First off, the movie itself is about a comic book similar to Tails and
the four stories in the movie come directly from the Creepshow comic
books. The reason why that this idea works in not only the principle of
bringing a comic book to life but the way it was shot, edited and lit.
The camera angles had very defined and geometrical angels, similar to
those that you would see in a comic book. The lighting when something
horrible happens turns red, or if somebody is screaming the background
turns to a shattered red background, thereby giving each scene a more
comic book-like feel to visual picture. It had choppy edits and quick
cuts, which we all know that comic books have. So we have a visual
perspective of a comic, the overall pattern and texture of a comic and
now we have the quick stimulus of a comic.

Between each story there is a sub-story dealing with a young boy who
finds the Creepshow comic book and how little by little he becomes more
possessed by it. These intermissions also incorporate The Creep or our
host for the evening. This character is by far the Crypt Keeper or the
Vault Keeper to our mockup of Tales. Like the Crypt Keeper in the
actual comic, he begins each segment with a scene setup and a
conclusion, however he does not talk, he just blows around in the wind.
With the beginning of each new story it starts out with a still scene
of that story with heavy rotoscoping to make it look as if it is a
comic book page, then fades out to a real-life still image and then
begins. The same could be said about the ending. The clever technique
gives the viewer a further illustration that this is a comic book come
to life.

Though this movie strikes it rich on my scare-o-meter there is just one
thing that took me out of the movie just a little. I know what they
where going at when they decided this concept and I understand it was a
good idea but it doesn't work when it gets put on film. The campy
one-liners, the cheesy sub-story and the lame screams. Of course its
predecessor did the same thing, I don't think that it works as well on
film as it does on paper. I think it was a nice try though.

Overall I do believe that this is a horror/parody classic and that many
horror fans, if not cult horror fans, would like this movie for what it
is. I certainly enjoyed it, even now; I recommend this movie to anybody
who loves the zombie king and the horror king. A movie worth buying a
ticket for.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is divided in five stories, conducted by a leading segment
where the stressed father of a boy that loves horror comic books throws
his Creepshow magazine in the garbage. The wind changes the pages and
discloses the tales listed below.

"Father's Day" – While waiting Aunt Bedelia (Viveca Lindfors) for a
dinner party, the greedy family recalls that she killed her own father
seven years ago. Now her undead father returns from the grave as a
zombie expecting to eat his cake. This segment is weak, and it is
curious to see Ed Harris performing a minor role. (6).

"The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill" – The redneck farmer Jordy
Verrill (Stephen King) finds a meteor in his property in Castle Rock
County and dreams on selling it for the local university and raising a
large amount. However he is affected by the meteor and strange weeds
grow-up on his body. This segment is the silliest and the greatest
curiosity is Stephen King performing the lonely farmer. (5).

"Something to Tide you Over" - Harry Wentworth (Ted Danson) is forced
by the revengeful Richard Vickers (Leslie Nielsen), who is the former
husband of his woman Becky Vickers (Gaylen Ross), to go to Comfort
Point beach and to bury himself in the sand. Then he brings a
Television and a VCR to show Becky buried in the same conditions. With
the high tide, their heads are submerged for the pleasure of the insane
Richard. However, on the next night, he is visited by a couple of
zombie lovers. This dark and claustrophobic segment is the scariest one
and the only flaw is the lack of previous development of the
characters. (9).

"The Crate" – When the janitor of a university finds a crate hidden
below the stairs, he reports his findings to Professor Dexter Stanley
(Fritz Weaver). They open the container and sooner Dexter finds that
there is a hunger creature inside that devours the janitor and another
scientist. When the disturbed Dexter tells to his colleague and friend
Henry Northrup (Hal Holbrook) what happened, Henry sees the chance to
get rid off his bitch wife Wilma Northrup (Adrienne Barbeau). This
segment is the funniest, and the situations of Henry imagining killing
Wilma are hilarious. (8).

"They're Creeping up on You!" – The mean and selfish Upson Pratt (E.G.
Marshall) lives in an expensive bug-proof penthouse and treats his
employees like garbage. During a blackout, his fancy apartment is
infested by coach roaches driving Pratt to a tragic end. This gruesome
tale is simple but nasty, with many coach roaches. (7).

The lead segment ends with the boy using a voodoo doll to provoke pain
in his father.

This is the third time that I watch these entertaining horror tales,
now on DVD. I only regret that there are no sequels of these great
stories. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Creepshow"
<|_=00=_|>
Despite some major problems (mainly contained in Stephen King's uneven
and often heavy-handed script), this is still a pretty fun attempt to
bring 1950s EC horror comics to the big screen. One of the best things
about it is director George ('Night of the Living Dead') Romero's
creative, vivid direction, that captures the bright color schemes and
comic book framing to a tee. Each tale has a different horror theme
usually tempered with some comedy and ranging from a rich patriarch
returning from the dead to get revenge on his obnoxious family to a
meteor that causes an outbreak of vegetation to a fanged, ape-like
creature that's been locked away in a crate for decades. All five of
the tales presented, despite some missteps, offer up good gory fun.
Some of the acting is good, too, particularly Adrienne Barbeau as a
heavy drinking, obnoxious faculty wife who gets what she deserves, Hal
Holbrook as her hen-pecked husband and E.G. Marshall as a wealthy,
obsessively clean old jerk who is savaged in his futuristic apartment
by a legion of cockroaches. Talk about flesh crawling! Tom Savini's
special effects are great, as usual.
<|_=00=_|>
George A Romero & Stephen King combine here to give us 5 joyously silly
tales based on the style of the E.C. Comics that both men loved as
youths.

The film begins with a young boy having his comic collection thrown
away by his father, this angers the boy and he plots evil revenge that
segues into the five stories.

"Father's Day" is the opening story and whilst it isn't short on the
camp factor, it's a very inauspicious start, a zombie father returns to
enact vengeance on his horrid family in the name of cake! Next up is
"The Lonesome Death Of Jody Verill", which sees Stephen King himself in
the title role of a less than dumb hick who touches a fallen meteor and
thus starts to turn into a plant monster. King has fun with the role
but overplays it to dangerously annoying ham proportions, but it's a
tidy fable with a cool ending. We then get to my personal favourite of
the bunch with "Something To Tide You Over," here we have a
delightfully villainous Leslie Nielson burying his unfaithful wife and
her lover {Ted Danson} in the sand up to their necks as the tide starts
to come in, naturally there is a grizzly twist a coming.

"The Crate" sees the arrival of Hal Holbrook and Adrienne Barbeau into
the proceedings, a smart message of not opening crates marked with
"Danger, Do Not Open," and here we get a genuinely scary monster into
the show. The final segment is "They're Creeping Up On You" which seems
to be a favourite of many across the site, and although it has creepy
impact for those scared of insects, it's not the crowning glory I was
hoping for. We are then cut back to the boy and his thirst for revenge
and the film finishes with a glint in its eye, more schlock and camp
than outright horror, but still a great piece of 80s fun for fans to
enjoy, 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
What a fun movie! Stephen King as Jordy Verril was surprisingly
good(considering he sucks at acting in almost everything he's ever
done), Leslie Nielson and Ted Danson killing each other were brilliant
(you've come a long way, Becker), and the rest of the cast is just
fabulous. As for the writing, it mas simply masterful, and we would
expect nothing less from King. Five original, striking vignettes of
people killing each other, getting killed, going crazy, and getting the
crap scared out of them. Best of all was the directing, easily. Romero
did a great job creating the pulp comic feel, with comic book panel
segues, goofy dream sequences and flashbacks, and best of all, the
jarring zooms with the red and blue lighting. It sounds stupid, but it
works superbly. Everything came together on this film, and it shows.
8/10
