
The Hitcher is a marvelous thriller and Rutger Hauer is truly scary as
hell. He is undoubtedly one of the best villains in cinematic history.
The game that Hauer and C. Thomas Howell play out makes for a great way
to spend an hour and a half of your life. You can't help but feel sorry
for Howell as he can never escape the madman. Hauer has zero motive and
that makes him all the more evil. And how he always finds Howell is
something that is unnerving and unexplainable. It's like their paths
were meant to cross somewhere out in in the desert. Eric Red's script
leaves nothing to be desired. The scene where Howell is eating french
fries is one of the most unforgettable in horror history. And so is the
event that leads to the capture of Hauer. The end is fantastic and it's
something that you want to do through the entire movie. It will
definitely make you think twice before picking up hitchhikers. If you
enjoyed The Hitcher, Check out Hitch-Hike (with David Hess) and Duel.
<|_=00=_|>

Starring everybody's favourite Dutchman, Rutger Hauer, this superb road
movie thriller is tense, thrilling and superbly atmospheric.

The first scene between the Hitcher and Jim Holsey was superb, Rutger puts
in a chilling performance. Mr Hauer has a reputation for pulling off some
memorable bad guy performances, namely this, Blade runner and Nighthawks,
but this is my favourite of his performances. The lines he has were
brilliant. The pacing of the film was very good and apart from Rutger
stealing the show the other actors were good. Jennifer Jason Leigh was good
in her small role and of course C Thomas Howell in the lead does a good job.
Overall this gets a 9/10 from me.
<|_=00=_|>

The Hitcher (1986) was a directing debut for Robert Harmon, who had
previously worked as a cameraman. The film is written by Eric Red whose
other credits as a writer include brilliant Near Dark by Kathryn Bigelow.
The Hitcher tells the story of an ordinary young man, who is taking his
friend's car to other state/destination through the empty and deserted roads
of America. He is very tired and almost collides with a huge truck. It rains
hard. Soon he notices a figure standing by the side of the road raising his
thumb..Our youngster unwisely stops and says the legendary line: "My mom
always told not to do this." And then, the incredible and surrealistic
nightmare begins...

This film is unbelievably beautifully shot and it is easy to see that Harmon
was cinematographer before this directing debut. Camera flows and moves so
smoothly and gently that the atmosphere is guaranteed to last throughout the
film. The music by Mark Isham is also extremely important element and with
the exceptional camerawork, these are the greatest elements in this piece of
difficult art. The scenes are very similar in mood to Kathryn Bigelow's Near
Dark which has the unforgettable music by Tangerine Dream, and both films
are scripted by Eric Red, as mentioned earlier. The Hitcher is one of the
most beautiful terror films I've ever witnessed.

The Hitcher is not a realistic film and the hitcher character played by
Rutger Hauer is not a realistic human being as he can follow the young
protagonist (C.J Howell) anywhere and always knows where he is. He will kill
the youngster no matter what and no one can tell why. Even the hitcher
himself doesn't give a clear answer when he is asked why he kills and does
these horrific things. My opinion is that the hitcher is a double side of
Howell's personality (everyman's personality) and he is the bad and evil
side of human beings' nature. The hitcher is pure evil and no one can change
his thoughts and mind, because evil cannot be changed or turned into "good."
It is about which side, evil or good, is one's primary personality. There
are always both sides, but the both cannot influence at the same
time..Howell has to destroy the hitcher/his bad and evil side in order to
continue his life and recognize and accept his and others' "dual
personality" in the future. There are no good persons in the world, there
are only persons who can control their bad/evil side and keep it
"un-active", and so they can be considered "good." 

Couple of scenes are totally outstanding in their virtuosity such as the
scene where two police cars are destroyed by a shotgun blast and they fly
and crash in a slow motion. That kind of thing would never happen in real
world, but those unrealistic scenes make this film even more nightmarish and
effective. Also, the end scene between these two protagonists, Hauer and
Howell, is memorable and gorgeously shot. I will definitely not spoil how
this one ends, but at the end, the main character is much more wiser and
knows that human beings and thus himself are not as simple as one might
think..

There is no point in describing the greatest scenes in the film because the
whole film is so great. It is unmatchable nightmare that has no equal in
history of cinema. It handles the theme of wickedness in a form of road
movie and horror movie and the result is perfect piece of art. When I said
earlier "difficult art" I meant that due to the film's violence (there is
not plenty, but that what is on screen is brutal and disturbing) this may be
too hard to take and understand for most of the viewers. So this cannot be
recommended for everybody like some mainstream movie, but people with open
minds and hunger for intelligent and symbolic cinema should love this film,
even though it is pretty difficult to "love" ! 

I have seen this three times now and it unfolds more and more with each
viewing time. 10 out of 10 masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
Murder Spree Road Flick. Contains many fairly stupid moments ("plot
holes") and yet remains gripping throughout its length. Graphic,
stunning violence; be warned. 

Howell is slightly vapid yet pretty and his relations with Rutger Hauer
verge on the homo-erotic. Hauer is a near-perfect villain,
demonstrating the steely resolve and psychological impenetrability that
have made him a favorite "bad guy" in other films. 

A great movie for the paranoid who wish to feed their fantasies. Owes
something to Spielberg's "Duel" but remains its own film. Relatively
spare visual style well-suited to the theme. Recommended, but not for
the faint of heart.
<|_=00=_|>
A definitive Road Movie which features some impressive stunt work,
chases and crashes, as well as a storming performance from Rutger Hauer
and some shocking moments and twists. One of the best underrated films
of the eighties, and apparently set to be remade. Sigh.

C.Thomas Howell plays a Jim, young man with the job of driving a car
for his company through the desert to California. One ominous, rainy
night he sees a hitchhiker at the side of the road, and decides to pick
him up. 'My mother told me never to do this' he says jokingly, but it
soon becomes clear that the hiker, John Ryder is a little strange. He
doesn't talk much and soon becomes violent and sadistic. Jim grows
increasingly worried and gets rid of the Hitcher when he gets the
chance. This gets his heart pumping, and he drives on. However, later
he finds that the Hitcher is following him, and that he is a murderer,
getting picked up, killing those in the car, and moving on. He is a
serial killer of anyone who picks him up. When Jim sees him in the back
of car with a family he tries to warn them but they don't realise.
Later he finds their car, empty at the side of the road. Jim reports
the deaths, but Ryder makes it look as if Jim is the killer,
continually framing him. Jim meets a truck stop waitress, Nash who
believes he is innocent and joins him on the road, but Ryder, and the
cops are on his tail. Just when Jim thinks he is safe, that the cops
believe him, Ryder appears and destroys everything again with an
uncanny ability to kill and survive. Eventually he catches up with Jim
and Nash, and kidnaps her. The cops come too late, and see that Jim was
telling the truth all along. He has Nash in a slightly dangerous
position and wants Jim to come with him to save her life. Soon the pair
are on the road together in one final fight and chase where Jim becomes
more and more violent and unhinged.

The ambiguous ending is a source of much discussion, as are many of the
unanswered questions of the film. But we're smart kids, we can figure
it out. We do not need to know any motive for murder- does it matter
when someone is stalking you relentlessly? This adds to the tension of
the chase, and the madness to Ryder's character. The reasons do not
matter, it is the fact that we will spend time trying to work it out
rather than facing the fact that someone is after us and trying to deal
with it. You can search for reasons afterwards, if you must. Reasons
are given for comfort, so that we have something concrete to hold on
to, but we are not meant to feel any comfort here. It is a nightmare
which seems to get worse as it continues, and there seems to be no
escape, Hitchcockian in the way the falsely accused man is sought and
tries to prove his innocence. In the end this does not matter either-
all that matters from the start is what happens between Jim and John.
Nash is a tragic figure, showing what can happen to the innocent when
they get involved with something evil. A killer of Ryder's nature does
not care who gets in his way, by the point where he catches Nash, all
he cares about is changing and hurting Jim. Does Jim become like Ryder
by the end? Is he redeemed or cursed by getting revenge? This is up to
us.

Some of the crashes here rank with The Road Warrior as some of the best
ever filmed. They are filmed in such a way to heighten the sense of
Ryder's madness and seeming immortality, and to show the growing fear
and detachment of Jim. The score is also very subtle, and the dialogue,
especially between Jim and John is meant to be ambiguous and give rise
to questions-Ryder is looking for a reaction and thought from Jim, as
the director is from us. Hauer steals the film, giving arguably his
best performance, and it remains one of the best performances in a
horror movie. Howell has caused annoyance amongst critics and viewers
for his performance, but he portrays the fear, naivety and excitement
of a teen going out on his own for the first time. His portrayal of
being wrongly accused, trying to escape the cops and Ryder, trying to
save others, and eventually becoming solely interested in revenge, is
perfect and could not be bettered by any other actor. Leigh as Nash is
also strong and we feel sympathy for her as she is drawn deeper into
the game, and she offers a softer emotional content than the two
increasingly frantic men give. Say what you will of her treatment, but
this was the only way Ryder could get what he wanted from Jim. A cult
classic which deserves much credit and respect.

9 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
A normal ordinary guy picks up a stranger in the middle of nowhere so
that he could drive awake. Little does he know that he's going into a
road trip from hell...

Rutger Hauer give what I think is his best performance. Sure, there was
that menacing Replicant in Blade Runner, but this one overshoots it by
a long shot. He delivers a performance so good, that you'll find it
difficult to question whether his character is believable or
unbelievable.

C. Thomas Howell, one one of the kids in Steven Spielberg's ET, plays
the protagonist. Here, he faces every driver's worst nightmare
imaginable, and he delivers it with realism. Howell also demonstrates
how an ordinary teenager can change into a helpless being who is caught
between a psychopathic game of cat-and-mouse set by a brutal man
hell-bent on killing him.

The nice New Mexico cinematography of which the film was filmed and set
gives tranquility to the picture and makes the film looks good while
delivering the thrills. Strongly supporting this topic is composer Mark
Isham's gritty yet beautiful score. It;s just perfect for this kind of
movie.

The action sequences are handled very nicely here. We got a petrol
station blowing up, an intense police car chase, and one of the
greatest endings in cinematic history. Period.

The Hitcher (1986) is one of the first films I have ever watched, and I
still cherish it to this day. The 2007 remake, or rather, reDO, is a
shallow and uninspiring music-videoish piece of crud that will only be
liked by the MTV generation, but never the fans of the original. Why
was it remade, we will never know.

Overall, it is an excellent movie and one of the best thrillers ever
made. Pick this one up, guys, it's worth it.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

A cat spends the day chasing a mouse.  When he finally corners the mouse, he
takes sadistic delight in batting it around, playing with it before it goes
in for the kill.  The cat wishes to savor the look of fear on its prey,
instead of merely indulging the reward it's worked so hard to catch.  This
is the predator/prey relationship evidenced in "The Hitcher," one of the
most relentlessly intense and mean-spirited horror films ever
made.

Since the setting is the desert, I suppose it would make more sense to call
John Ryder (played by Rutger Hauer) a vicious coyote, who is picked up one
rainy night by a stray lamb named Jim Halsey (C. Thomas Howell).  Ryder,
who's apparently been murdering people all over the desert, is looking to do
the same with Halsey, who cheats death only to be tormented for the rest of
the film by this savage predator.  The coyote craves a challenge--in fact,
he seems to live for it.

Nothing else needs to be said.  "The Hitcher" relies so heavily on a plot
that weaves in and out of 'the expected' that any further description would
spoil the fun.  The two leads are excellent--Rutger Hauer has created one of
the great villains of modern cinema, and C. Thomas Howell is a sympathetic
and believable victim driven to madness.  While the film isn't necessarily
deep, the high-energy cast, moody desert settings and twisty script fuel
this effort for 98 intense minutes.  3.5 stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
The Hitcher is guided to being such an awesome feat because it features
a character and a performance that lift reality into hyper-reality, and
it's frightening and fascinating to see how the character John Ryder
becomes like a presence as alarming as just a state of mind than as an
actual threat. It may be a super anti-kindness to an extent (one could
say that Jim Halsey is asking for it simply by picking up the man in
coat and thumb out in the dead of night in the rainy desert), but once
it takes off from its point of departure it doesn't stop. In that sense
Robert Harman's film could make some comparison to Spielberg's Duel,
only this case in place of a truck is, well, Rutger Hauer. It's a
purely relentless cat-and-mouse game, as ambiguous about what lies
behind the dark forces of life and death as No Country for Old Men (if
not quite as timeless as that film).

It should be said, plain and simple, Hauer's performance here and in
Blade Runner are his definitive work as an actor. He's does so much
with so little that even when he's not totally on screen or isn't in
frame he gives the chills incredibly by his face, those eyes peering
out. Him and Kinski have that affectation, though with Hauer there's
something about him that could, under other circumstances, look very
kind and heartfelt. But between scenes like his "talk" with Jim at the
diner to his mere (more than usual) startling re-appearance in the
motel room lying next to Jennifer Jason Leigh, one can't help but feel
his character and performance to a degree straddles the line of reality
and the supernatural, as if it's all allegory while at the same time
directed and acted with such a straight face. Considering the whole
concept is based off of the Doors song "Riders on the Storm" I hope
that comes as sincere a compliment at possible.

But Hauer isn't alone in delivering an uncommonly good performance in a
thriller. Years before he became just another hack-actor looking for
whatever work he could (such as last year's War of the Worlds 2 and Day
the Earth Stopped), C. Thomas Howell was delivering the goods and this
shows him in his own right as a fine counterpart to Hauer. At his older
counterpart's level? Probably not, but it's hard not to feel for him
and see him go deeper into the insanity of the story as it unfolds.
What will finally lead him to killing this psychopath on his trail?
Will he have to take a cop or two with him? The dilemma is further
compounded by the immediate task to stay alive.

In a more conventional neo-noir it might be simply that Ryder would set
up Jim with these crimes or whatever on the road and that Jim would
have to do heavy jail time without any witnesses or evidence of the
existence of this "Mr Ryder". But the writer of the script, Eric Red,
is far more interested in the minute-to-minute danger present with
Ryder's vendetta with Jim. What is it about death or murder that keeps
this young guy from going for it? I have to wonder if Christopher Nolan
watched this film, and particularly studied the climax, for the Dark
Knight (one can see the ambiguity with his Joker and obsession against
the Batman as a comparison to Jim and Ryder), since at the least the
Hitcher delivers so strongly on counts of storytelling, acting,
cinematography, even the somewhat dated 80s music sticks tough. And in
case it needed it, the action is cool too (maybe *too* cool in that way
that sadly inspired Michael Bay to produce a remake).

Not for the squeamish, and certainly not for budding Rutger Hauer fans
to miss, the film is something of a minor mid-80s classic.
<|_=00=_|>
This excellent film tells the viewer one very simple but demanding
message: Don't pick up a hitchhiker! A young C. Thomas Howell is Jim
Halsey, driving along a deserted stretch of mountainous desert road.
After nearly falling asleep at the wheel he stops and picks up what
turns out be The Hitcher, John Ryder (brilliantly played by a
thoroughly convincing Rutger Hauer). When Ryder threatens to kill Jim,
the young man pushes him out of the fast moving car, and thinks the
nightmare is over. In fact it's only just begun...

Cue a terrifying series of events where The Hitcher seems
indestructible, killing innocent people and not giving a care in the
world about them or himself.

The Hitcher as a film flows beautifully (despite its short 93min
length), with wonderfully ominous music, and a watchable performance
from Jennifer Jason Leigh as Nash, Jim's only friend in the entire
film! This was certainly a brave effort from all concerned, and will
certainly be far superior to the 2007 remake, as well as the extremely
poor sequel in 2003. The Hitcher will go down as one of the most
thrilling, scary and psychological films of all time.
<|_=00=_|>
The first time I saw this movie it just about terrified me....and few
films have ever done that to me as an adult. Rutger Hauer was haunting
as the demented killer.

The film moves very fast in this story of a maniac stalking a young
motorist (C. Thomas Howell). Two subsequent viewings have quieted the
fear but it's still a very chilling film and should keep most people
riveted to the screen. It's an hour- and-a-half that will fly by with
action and suspense.

On the negative side, not once but twice we have to watch Howell vomit.
Neither he nor female lead Jennifer Jason Leigh are likable "good
guys." (Of course, when has Leigh ever been a "good person" on screen?)
The police, as usual in films, are pictured as sadistic, short-tempered
idiots. Finally, credibility gets stretched a bit, particularly in the
last 30 minutes.

So....expect a lot of good and a fair share of bad in this film. But,
overall, it will be a film that will get your attention, beginning with
Mr. Hauer.
