
Despite the fact that the films usually revolve around good and
interesting stories, film adaptations of Stephen King's works are often
not the best horror movies. Firestarter isn't the best known of his
books, and that's slightly odd as this film adaptation is one of the
best based on his stories. The film takes obvious influence from Brian
De Palma's 'The Fury', as aside from the fact that this one is about a
young girl that can start fires, and De Palma's film features a boy
with psychic abilities; the way that both plots play out is very
similar indeed. The plot has a number of problems, and the characters
don't always act logically; but this is offset by the likable nature of
the film, and characters that are easy to get along with due to their
relatively simplistic nature. The film follows the aftermath of an
experiment in which people were given an experimental drug. The
ultimate result of this experiment was a child born of Andy and Vicky
McGee; a child with a unique ability known as 'pyrokinesis' - the
ability to start fires at will.

The film benefits from a range of cult stars. A young Drew Barrymore
takes the title role, and although her acting skills hadn't been honed
by the time this film was released, and she is more than a little bit
wooden; she provides an interesting lead. David Keith and Martin Sheen
back her up well in supporting roles, but the main acting plaudits go
to the great George C. Scott who is good in what is probably the
meatiest role of the piece. The running time is a little long for a
film like this, but it's well used and the fact that the story doesn't
get caught up with needless elements such as the girl's mother and
father falling in love is definitely a good thing. The plot is very
relaxed for most of the way through, and director Mark L. Lester seems
content to just let things play out. That is until the last fifteen
minutes; when the plot reaches its full potential and explodes with a
fun and exciting finale. The film does feel more than a little bit like
a TV movie at times; and the dumbed down techno soundtrack doesn't help
this. Overall, the film definitely isn't perfect; but it's an enjoyable
watch and King films have definitely been a lot worse!
<|_=00=_|>
Firestarter is the story of Charlie (Drew Barrymore at age 8) and Andy,
her dad (David Keith), and the people who are trying to imprison,
control and/or kill them (Martin Sheen, George C. Scott, Moses Gunn,
and others). Charlie is a mutant. Her father and mother were part of an
experiment on mutagenic substances performed on college students in the
1960s by The Shop. The experiment gave Andy the ability to control
others minds, but the mutation, apparently dormant in his wife, was
passed on through the sex chromosome to his daughter. Charlie, quite
plainly, can combust virtually anything with her mind.

Though all the acting in this film is good, Barrymore and Scott are
truly awesome. Scott plays a brilliant sociopath, and can go from a
kindly old Viet Nam vet to a ruthless killer with one quick change of
facial expression. And Barrymore (at the age of 8, if you didn't pick
up on that the first time I said it) gives her character a fully
believable person-hood with great depth.

Like the novel, this is more of a horror-thriller than classic King
ghost stories - like The Shining. It is also less classic King horror -
like Carrie. And its also not a great drama like Dolores Claiborne,
Misery and Stand By Me. Though it fits into roughly the same category
as Hearts in Atlantis, it is not a literary as this much later King
work and the characters are not as well developed. Although the book
could be said to be one of King's earlier experiments with what would
become a formula for his lesser works, King's writing is so lucid, and
his characters are so interesting, believable and nicely examined, that
his 'B fiction' is still somewhat above the average best-seller. The
film follows the book very closely, and, like the book, is sort of a
prototype for the more formulaic films in the King portfolio.

The directing is very good, the cinematography (especially the effects)
is excellent, and the film is, as a whole entertaining. But, for those
who have not read the book, the film will likely come off as 'no big
deal.' As with many of the more formulaic King-derived films, this is
best seen as a cathartic summary of the original work (like
Dreamcatchers, Running Man, The Stand, Maximum Overdrive, The Mangler
and others).
<|_=00=_|>

Firestarter is one of those movies that bores critics and often appears as
weekend or late night filler on TV.  Even so, the movie does have its
moments.  Give it a chance, and Firestarter will grow on
you.

Fans of the X Files will be at home with the movie's plot about an
experimental drug given to 60s college students by a secret government
agency, known as The Shop.  Two of the students (portrayed by David Keith
and Heather Locklear) eventually marry and a child is born; a "firestarter"
(played by Drew Barrymore) who can set anything ablaze with just one angry
thought.  Martin Sheen and George C. Scott round out the cast as heads of
The Shop, who are now bent on capturing the girl and harnessing her power as
a weapon, not to mention using her as a way to get funding for more
experiments.

The acting and dialogue certainly aren't award-winning, but they do carry
the movie along.  The music, written and performed by Tangerine Dream, is
perfectly suited to the movie, and in my opinion is some of Tangerine
Dream's best work.  The special effects are convincing, and at times,
chilling.  Readers of Stephen King's best-selling novel will be happy to
know that this movie is, for the most part, faithful to his original story,
despite a rather clipped ending.

In all, if you have a taste for conspiracy thrillers with a healthy dose of
science fiction thrown in, you'll like this one, though it probably won't be
your favorite. 
<|_=00=_|>
During 1983 and 1984, there were no fewer than four movies released
that were based on the works of Stephen King, this era's horror
literature maven. The first three were THE DEAD ZONE, CUJO, and
CHRISTINE. The fourth, and least commercially successful, was
FIRESTARTER, based on King's 1980 novel. The fact that it didn't fare
all that well with critics or audiences doesn't diminish the fact that
it remains, despite some flaws, one of the best adaptations of King's
works, as well as a commentary on the dangerous of government
interference and dissembling in people's lives.

Drew Barrymore, who made a star-making turn in E.T.: THE
EXTRA-TERRESTRIAL, is the young girl possessed of a devastating kind of
psychic power called pyrokinesis, the ability to light fires just by
concentrating long and hard about it. Her power is the result of her
parents (David Keith; Heather Locklear) having undergone a bizarre
chemical experiment in 1969 conducted by a secret government agency
known as The Shop. Since then, eight of the ten patients originally
involved have died horrible deaths, and Locklear has been murdered by
agents of the Shop. Now, Keith and Barrymore are on their own, with
Keith's only ability to protect Barrymore being his own psychic
ability. But once in the hands of the Shop, led by Martin Sheen and
George C. Scott, they are the subject of various experiments on their
abilities. Barrymore gets special attention, of course, because of her
fiery power, especially from Scott. In the end, of course, Sheen and
Scott, and the rest of the Shop's minions, find out what happens when
you play with a power that you don't fully appreciate...

There are admittedly flaws with FIRESTARTER, most of them having to do
with the slightly perfunctory way that Mark L. Lester (CLASS OF 1984)
directs the actors, this even though he has some superb ones, notably
Sheen and Scott. The dialogue is also a little clunky at times too. But
overall, FIRESTARTER succeeds more often than it fails, due to King's
own narrative genius, Barrymore's credible performance, and the special
effects wizardry of Mike Wood. The scenes of the Shop being incinerated
at the end by Barrymore's burning rage after her father has been killed
are particularly spectacular. FIRESTARTER also benefits from brief but
welcome cameo roles by Art Carney and Louise Fletcher, who become her
protectors after the firestorm.

However flawed it might be, FIRESTARTER does provide plenty of suspense
and atmosphere without an extreme amount of bloodshed (though the fire
scenes are quite hair-raising all the same), and is well worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
If you thought that "Carrie" made incredible use of conflagrations, you
ain't seen nothing yet! In Stephen King's other combustion-themed
story, "Firestarter" portrays the daughter (Drew Barrymore) of a
experimental guinea pig (David Keith) using her ignition abilities to
get her way. When the government kidnaps her and her father, things
really get ugly.

On one level, this movie seems a little preachy, with the shadowy
agents going after the man and his daughter. But I would call that an
accurate depiction of things. And you gotta agree with what the girl
does, no matter how extreme she gets (and I'm talking really extreme).
So I definitely recommend this movie. But if you're a pyromaniac, don't
let this movie encourage you.

Also starring Heather Locklear, Martin Sheen, George C. Scott, Art
Carney and Louise Fletcher.
<|_=00=_|>
The main problem with "Firestarter" is it tries to adapt the story of
the book faithfully, at the expense of character development. It is
impossible to cram a five hundred page book into one two hour movie and
make it work favourably. For much of the picture, the pacing feels
awkward and rushed, more interested in moving the plot along than
developing the characters.

Brian De Palma's "Carrie" followed the story of the book just as
closely. But seeing as "Carrie" is less than half the length of
"Firestarter", it made for a much more comfortable adaptation.

Stanley Kubrick had the right idea with "the Shining". The book was
about the same length as "Firestarter", and as a result the plot was
butchered heavily to make it work for the screen. Stephen King (and
much of his loyal fanbase) have misgivings about Kubrick's adaptation,
a lot of people who love film (and recognise it as the different medium
that it is) regard it as a masterpiece.

Mark Lester's "Firestarter" isn't all bad however. George C. Scott's
John Rainbird is inspired casting, and probably the best thing this
film has going for it. The scene at the Manders' farm, and the
conclusion at the Shop's headquarters make for enjoyable viewing and
are handled capably.

It's a shame, that as a whole, the film doesn't work too well. I'd
definitely like to see this re-adapted into another film or a
mini-series. The book isn't exactly King's best, but it has a lot of
potential for another screen outing. 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Suspenseful and terrifying entertainment that goes beyond its genre ,
dealing with a girl who has the unwanted and often uncontrollable gift
of Pyrokinesis, as a result of a government experiment , lighting fires
by mere thought . A couple Victoria 'Vicky' Tomlinson McGee (Heather
Locklear of Dynasty) and Andy McGee (David Keith , he was 14th choice)
who participated in a potent medical experiment gain telekinetic
ability and then have a child named Charlene 'Charlie' McGee (Jennifer
Connelly , Taylor Neff were considered and Bridgette Andersen, the star
of Savannah Smiles, tested for the role of Charlie, ultimately played
by Drew Barrymore) who is pyrokinetic . Charlie McGee (whose character
was modeled on King's daughter Naomi) has an extraordinary power (or is
that haunted) , sometimes uncontrollable and an evil destructive force
. Meanwhile a secret government agency known as "The Shop" led by
Captain Hollister (Martin Sheen took over at a late stage from Burt
Lancaster who had to withdraw following heart surgery) and send a
sniper named John Rainbird (George C Scott) and plot to kidnap the duo
for study them and testing their abilities.

This exciting tale packs noisy action , explosions , suspense ,
thriller , chills , poignant plot and results to be an enjoyable though
frightening entertainment , including some silly and embarrassing
scenes . The movie delivers the goods with hair-rising thrills as when
the little girl executes the astonishing abilities . It stars Drew
Barrymore in one of her first roles after E.T. , as the gifted child of
the title who has the ability to ignite objects around her . David
Keith is good as the daddy who attempts to protect her from the nasties
. Secondary cast is frankly excellent as Freddie Jones as Doctor Joseph
Wanley , Art Carney as Irv Manders , Louise Fletcher as Norma Manders ,
Moses Gunn as Doctor Pynchot and Antonio Fargas as a Cabman . The fire
special effects , themselves , of course , are the real protagonists ,
and they're surprising , astounding, and quite convincing . The special
effects gave work to a great number of technician people and lots of
stunts . This film was originally going to be directed by John
Carpenter. According to Carpenter, Universal executives removed him
from the project in the wake of the box office and critical drubbing
they received for The Thing ,Carpenter had reportedly talked to his
Assault on Precinct 13 actor, Darwin Joston about taking on the role of
John Rainbird, which was ultimately played by George C. Scott . Strange
soundtrack by Tangerine Dream was composed and performed by means of
synthesizer ,they never actually saw the film and sent filmmaker some
music and told him to choose whatever he liked . It was followed by
¨Firestarter 2 : rekindled¨ (2002) by Robert Iscove with Marguerite
Moreau as Charlene "Charlie" McGee , Malcolm McDowell , Dennis Hopper
and Danny Nucci and in which Charlie has been in hiding for nearly all
her life from a top-secret government fringe group headed by a maniacal
who wants to find and use her as the ultimate weapon of war. 

The motion picture was well produced by Dino Laurentiis and
professionally directed by Mark L. Lester. Director Mark L. Lester
confirmed that this is his most difficult film that he ever made . He's
a cool director and producer -American World Pictures- of B movies ,
his greatest success was during the 80s when he directed hits , such as
¨Commando¨, ¨Showdown in Little Tokio¨ and ¨Class of 99¨ and this
¨Firestarter¨.
<|_=00=_|>

Good special effects and a great cast make this film above-average, as
Stephen King adaptations go (well, it's certainly better than "Maximum
Overdrive"). The story may be a bit predictable, partly because King had
visited similar territory before ("Carrie", anyone?), but you have to
admire
the way the film puts you into the action right from the start, omitting
any
slow introductions, and George C.Scott is such a strong, perverse and
eccentric villain that you can't help watching him.
(**1/2)
<|_=00=_|>
Psychological and psychedelic testing produce some amazing results. Now
those results are walking and talking and very unhappy with the agency
who created it.

Delightfully triumphant, wonderfully destructive forces are about to be
tapped, honed and unleashed against the government who has created and
now hopes to utilize these frightening powers upon the world.

Charlie McGee (Drew Barrymore at the age of 9) is the product of
psychological and psychedelic drug experiments performed by the US
government upon her parents before her conception.

After witnessing the murder of her mother, she and her father are on
the run from the mysterious bunch of gun-carrying miscreants known only
as "the Agency." 

Her father (David Keith) is also a telepath as a result of these
experiments, who enjoys telekinetic abilities as well. These abilities
help, but not well enough.

Will Charlie be able to save her father? Herself? Will they make it
through this, or be forever torn apart by the Firestarter?

Excellent movie. Excellent performances by Drew Barrymore (if a little
hesitant and deliberate at times), George C. Scott (hated, Hated, HATED
his character!! that must mean he played it very very well *lol*),
Martin Sheen and David Keith.

The effects were quite good, though in post-StarWars 1984, I had hoped
for better; as was the plot and storyline. 

As Stephen King adaptations go, it varied from the book just enough to
make it one of the FEW adaptations of King's work through which I don't
find myself cringing.

It gets a solid 8/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
Surprisingly I only saw this movie some 20 years after it first came
out and I must say I was very surprised. I suppose one could say that
this film plus Carrie was the for-runner (on screen that is) of such
films as X-Men and Heroes on TV. The acting was superb. If you want to
know who is a good actor and who is average see them in a death scene.
The way Brian Keith acted when he found his wife dead brought tears to
my eyes such was the realism. As for Drew Barrymore I continue to be
astounded by her acting ability it is just a shame (though not in this
case) that the films she is in do not do her ability justice. The
special effects for the time (1984)is excellent and if you do not
believe me watch the end of Firestarter and then watch X-men two (the
bobby at home scene) and you will see what I mean. As for me the
highest praise I can give this film is to say that as soon as I
finished watching it I hit the internet and bought it on DVD.
