

Stacy Keach plays a truck driver, he and his best friend, a dingo, are
taking meat to Perth, along the way he wonders about other drivers and their
life, a way to keep himself distracted. A suspicious green van catches his
attention, later on when he finds out that murders have been taking place,
he immediately associates them with the van. After watching the van's driver
bury a couple of bags in the middle of the desert he has no more doubts
about the relation of it to the murders. Braking "truckers" rules he picks
up a hitchhiker, Pam (Jamie Lee Curtis), they'll complement each other
perfectly, sharing murder theories among other things. The police ends up
suspecting Pat (Stacy Keach) so Pam believes that the only way for him to
prove is innocence is to find the real killer but he finds them first and
kidnaps her, or is it that she went by her own free will?

Nice thriller, the acting as you can expect is pretty good. Keach and Curtis
create a believable bond, a mutual crush develops but the age difference is
a problem. The script is fairly intelligent and certainly effective. Keach's
character is full of theories and anecdotes, which keeps the movie
interesting at moments where all you see is the Australian outback. Well
worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
I first saw this movie on TV. I taped it and watched it later. A couple
of weeks ago I bought it on DVD and re-watched it. I had forgotten just
how much I loved it. To me, watching this movie is just like watching
an Alfred Hitchcock movie. It's filled with suspense. The characters
are amazingly intelligent too, especially Stacy Keach's character, Pat
Quid. At one point he picks up a hitchhiker, played by Jamie Lee
Curtis, but is a gentleman the whole time she is in his truck. That was
perfect. I mean, if he fooled around with her, that would have
seriously detracted from the story. All the way through it the story
has good supporting characters that only add to the quality of the
film. Plus the cinematography in Australia's Outback is beautiful. I
also enjoyed the truck driving sequences. One other thing, even though
the movie is by no means a comedy, there are some very funny scenes in
it, which you should enjoy. I don't want to give any of it away though.
You need to watch it for yourself. I highly recommend this one. It's
worth at least a rental. You will probably want to own it after seeing
it once though. I know I did.
<|_=00=_|>

Road Games is an Ok suspense film by Hitchcock disciple Richard Franklin
(see also Psycho II, Link, FX II:The Deadly Art of Illusion). It features a
good performance by Stacy Keach as a lone truck driver transporting bacon
across the Australian outback during a butcher's strike. Every now and then,
Keach comes across other travellers on the road, one of whom is the driver
of a mysterious green van. Keach, having heard about a serial killer on the
loose on his radio, convinces himself that the driver of the green van is
also the murderer the police are looking for. However, Keach takes such
ludicrous and unorthodox actions to prove his theory that he ends up making
himself look like the culprit.

The main theme here of an innocent man being mistaken for a murderer is as
old as the hills. The freshness of this film is provided principally by the
unconventional locale (Aussie outback) and the outlandish set of supporting
characters introduced during the course of the film. The suspense is good
during the main scenes, but in between the film loses momentum. Hardly
surprising, since Keach spends much of the film alone, chatting away to
himself and his pet dingo in the cab of his truck. Listening to a man
talkking to himself is hardly the best way to build excitement. However, you
can feel a prickle of terror in your heart during one particularly hair
raising sequence in which Keach investigates a peculiar sound in the back of
his lorry.

I like this film, but it's no classic. Just one of those quiet, forgotten
gems that film buffs ought to seek out for a rainy day.
<|_=00=_|>

Roadgames is a pretty good thriller about truck driver Quid (Stacey Keach)
follows what he suspects to be a serial killer along the Southern Australia
interstates. Having only the circumstantial clues and never actually
witnessing any of the murders, Quid isn't sure whether this guy really is
the serial killer that police reports on the radio indicate, or whether it
is Quid's psychological games about guessing what people on the road could
be like when he passes a noisy family in a station wagon and guesses the
occupation of the driver. Quid is pushed nearly to the brink of insanity as
he tries to distinguish between fact and fiction as he and the green van
play cat and mouse all over the outback. 

It's a really good thriller and better than say, The Hitcher, another movie
involving a serial killer along deserted highways that torments a driver.
But the difference is that Quid has limited interaction with his suspect,
because the whole time you're left guessing whether the guy in the green van
is really a killer at all, or whether it was just another one of Quid's
games meant to entertain himself, but gone totally out of control. The movie
has very Hitchcock-esque traits such as building Quid up from a normal man
to one that starts to develop something almost like a split personality as
he drives himself crazy trying to figure out the deal his adversary. Or the
way that everyone in town seems to turn against Quid even though he is
supposed to be the innocent person here. It's also good with some of that
good Stacey Keach sarcasm and delivery. I think he fit the part of Quid
quite nicely. Despite the fact that the story starts to lose momentum
towards the end (but not the conclusion), it is nonetheless, a pretty good
thriller. 
<|_=00=_|>
Richard Franklin's potboiler "Road Games" is quite an accomplishment of
Australian cinema. That's right Quentin. I know we agree. While
transporting pork to Perth trough the whole Australia, American truck
driver Pat Quid (Stacy Keach) traces a serial killer who tries to get
rid of the body of the girl he's recently murdered. In the meantime,
Pat meets Pamela (Jamie Lee Curtis) who decides to help him capture the
dangerous psycho. Due to its tone, the movie feels like Hitchcock's
"Rear Window" on the road. Screenwriter Everet De Roche presents
travellers as some kind of integral community comprising of totally
different people connected by accident. It's to director Franklin's
credit though that the movie is so frantic and suspenseful throughout.
There are moments of sheer genius when the movie gets almost unbearably
tense in its crucial scenes including unique finale. All in all, "Road
Games" is a cleverly scripted, refreshing thriller that just waits to
be rediscovered and admired. 8/10 (B+)
<|_=00=_|>

It's amazing how many pleasant treats you'll find on TV Friday nights at one
o'clock in the morning. Take "Roadgames" (or "Road Games") for example: The
Hitchcockian story of a trucker delivering meat across Australia who becomes
entangled in a possible mystery involving an unapprehensible serial killer
who may or may not have murdered a helpless hitchhiker traveling the roads
he's driving on.

Often referred to as "Rear Window" on the road, self-proclaimed Hitchcock
enthusiast Richard Franklin has directed a quaint, low-budget thriller with
a likable (although quite unusual) lead actor in the role of Frustrated
Hero.

Pat Quid (Stacy Keach--who is indeed a man) is driving across Australia in a
meat truck when he thinks he's noticed a strange happening--a man in a van
seems to be burying a bag in the middle of a desert in Australia, and when
he is noticed he climbs back into his blue van and speeds away into the
distance.

Pat puts this event into the back of his mind when he decides against
regulations to pick up a wandering hitchhiker named Pam Rushworth (Jamie Lee
Curtis), who has run away from home in an effort to escape her famous
father's life. The two bond together on the road and have some fun playing
various games--until she is kidnapped by the same strange man in a van. At
first, Pat thinks he's just being paranoid--he even starts to think that Pam
left him for the man.

But then he realizes that Pam has indeed been kidnapped, and he suspects
that the strange man in the van might be a notorious serial killer who has
been killing young women and scattering their body parts miles apart from
each other. 

After the police offer no help, Pat takes matters into his own hands and
sets off on a quest to bring back Pam to safety and apprehend the killer
before he can strike again. Some twists and turns ensue, although nothing
very surprising.

If this were a mainstream horror film with an overblown budget and big-name
actors, I'd probably give "Roadgames" a bad rating. But this is the type of
pleasant, likable low-budget thriller that is easy to watch and knows it's
nothing more than a shadow of greater film noir mysteries/thrillers like
"Rear Window" or "The Third Man"--the type of film that thrusts its hero on
a one-man venture into the heart of darkness in order to find out the
truth.

Stacy Keach is strikingly likable as the lonely trucker who talks to his own
pet dingo as he drives along, contemplating all types of conspiracy theories
about serial killers and mysteries. What could definitely become
tiring--listening to a man talk to his dingo for the majority of a movie,
that is--actually becomes quite fun. Keach is funny, nice, and
just...likable! Too bad his career was put on hold years later after he got
arrested for smuggling cocaine...

The director, Richard Franklin, is a huge Hitchcock fan--and it shows. This
film is like a sort of remake of "Rear Window" and other such
mystery-thrillers. It's loads of fun and an easy watch. (Trivia note:
Franklin directed "Psycho II," the sequel to Hitchcock's 1960 classic
original.)

I can definitely say that this film is most like "Breakdown," the Jonathan
Mostow movie starring Kurt Russell as a man who loses his wife to a trucker
and tries to get her back, even though there seems to be no evidence of her
disappearance. But unlike the great "Breakdown," this film doesn't wither
away in the second half and turn into a disappointing movie--it remains
strong throughout, and yes, it has plenty of nods towards Hitchcock. (Check
out the magazines Curtis starts sorting through--there he
is!)

3.5/5 stars.

- John Ulmer
<|_=00=_|>
While driving alone through the Australia outback with his dingo, the
truck driver Patrick Quid (Stacy Keach) becomes aware that a serial
killer is attacking women and he suspects that the driver of a green
van is the murderer and is getting rid of the bodies in pieces in
plastic bags burying them in the desert. On his way to Perth with a
load of pork meat, he gives a ride to the hitchhiker Pamela Rushworth
(Jamie Lee Curtis) and tells his theory about the killer to her. When
they park in a gas station, they see the van and Pamela decides to
break in the car to investigate. When Pamela disappears, Pat pursuits
the van while he becomes the prime suspect of the police.

"Roadgames" is a suspenseful black humor road movie, with a good and
very tense story, great lines and excellent acting of Stacey Keach and
Jamie Lee Curtis. The lead couple shows a fantastic chemistry in a plot
that is a sort of combination of "Duel" and "The Hitchhiker". The sexy
Jamie Lee Curtis is in the top of her beauty and Stacey Keach has one
of his best performances in this attractive film. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Enigma na Estrada" ("Enigma on the Road")
<|_=00=_|>

Nice, quiet thriller with hitchcockian tones, with Stacy Keach as a truck
driver would be Sherlock Holmes in the Australian wilderness, following a
possible hitchiker murderer. With a young and pretty Jamie Lee Curtis and
several curious cameos. Not to be missed if you like a strange,
fascinating
road movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I would not recommend you wait on this if you are a fan of suspense.
There is also an early role for Jamie Lee Curtis, as well. There are
decent performances all around, save for the horrible police officers.
They must have been the real thing.

Pros: High suspense, well-written characters, great use of a low
budget, good plot twist, keeps you guessing, fine ending.

Cons: Drags in spots, dialogue can be pretentious and unrealistic, a
few continuity issues, with respect to sequencing.

For a PG rated movie, this is rather adult themed and creepy, if not
scary. I recommend this film to all.
<|_=00=_|>

Based on Anchor Bay R1 DVD 101 minutes.

An interesting little movie that runs like a stage play on wheels. Some of
the Aussie touches may be lost on dwellers of smaller countries but they
add
to the movie, long haul driver Quid keeps meeting the same characters over
several days something that would be unheard of in Ireland!

The ending is a little unbelievable but it's exciting to
watch.

6/10 worth a rental.
