

"The Black Cauldron" certainly doesn't fall into the genre of animated
Disney family favorite, but instead feels much like the more grim and
complicated fantasy films that were made in the eighties. Does it stack up
to such films as "Return To Oz" and "The Dark Crystal"? Well, although not
as complex as the aformentioned, this film is not without its
charm.

The story of Taran, the pig-keeper's journey from gawky boy to gawky
boy-hero apparently works better as told through the course of five books,
and indeed it is the plot that feels put together, with a lot cut out of it
for it's slim 1:20 running time.  Also suffering because of the short time
is any character development, or a reason why the charcter of Dallben (an
old minstrel) are in the film at all. However, this film still has a lot
going for it.

The film has a wonderful pacing to it with some fantastic action scenes. It
is adventurous and fun. An engaing film for any fantasy fan. What really
makes the film though is it's terrifying and dastardly villain, The Horned
King. He is basically a Skeletor knock off with absolutely no sense of
humor. He looks like he stepped right out of an Iron Maden album cover, and
that is a monumental good thing. The true threat felt by the presence of
this decidedly un-Disney character keeps the tension of the film
high.

It is this contrast, between the unconventionally ghoulish villans
(definatly enspirered by Bakshi's animated adaptation of "Lord of the
Rings") and the stock Disney characters makes the audience care more-so for
the cutesy characters than usual. This is especially true for the cutsey
character of Gurgi, who is much more tollerable than almost all other
Disney
sidekicks and especially more tollerable than a certain J*r J*r B*nks that
we have all been over exposed to lately.

So I would recommend "The Black Cauldron", it's a fun and well animated
adventure film. Compleatly scary and strange for Disney to make, but still
very very good for other reasons nonetheless.
<|_=00=_|>

"The Black Cauldron" is not a typical Disney animated feature.  For one
thing, it's not a G-rated musical.  In fact, it was the first-ever Disney
feature to receive a PG rating.  The story comes from the works of Lloyd
Alexander, in the spirit of J.R.R. Tolkien.  In it, Taran, a young
pig-keeper must protect Henwen, a prophetic pig who can divine the
whereabouts of a powerful weapon known as the Black Cauldron.  The demonic
Horned King is after this bastion of black magic to create an invincible
army of the undead.  This movie boasts impressive art shot in 70mm
widescreen format, art which includes the contributions of a young Tim
Burton.  Sadly, this feature did poorly in theaters, possibly being too
frightening, or going over the heads of Disney's usual target audience. 
Just the same, "The Black Cauldron" deserves a good look!
<|_=00=_|>

There were many good things going on in the Black Cauldron.  First, there
 were NO SONGS, which really helped move things along.  Second, the villain
 was truly frightening, the supporting cast was a lot of fun, and the movie's
 breakneck pace held my interest and entertained me throughout.  But,
 there were some bad things as well.  Taran wasn't really a character at
 all.  Every important thing that happened to him was by luck or accident. 
 And at the end of the story he's right back where he started.  Also, the
 plot was little more than a succession of action sequences, with little
 sense holding it together.  The heroes simply fell out of one situation
 into the next, perhaps the result of squeezing two full-length novels into
 one movie.  And don't get me started on the ending.  Our hero stumbles
 through the picture so that -- his furball sidekick can become the true
 hero of the piece.  Yech.  Still, I was entertained, and I'd see  it again.
  But for those looking for the REAL Black Cauldron, read "The Chronicles of
 Prydain" by Lloyd Alexander.  You'll be glad you did.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw "The Black Cauldron" when it first came out.  I was about six at the
time, and ever since then, I had always wondered why I had never heard about
it again.  I only had vague memories about it, but I remembered enjoying it.
I had heard somewhere that Disney was so ashamed of the film that they had
promised never to release it.  However, upon viewing it today, I have no
idea what they were so ashamed of.  The movie is very entertaining in its
own way; yes, it's very dark, and maybe not appropriate for young children,
but I enjoyed it.  There is some excellent bits of animation in it, and it's
a pleasure to see some vintage Disney before it started churning out the
overblown, empty films it has made recently.  The movie is able to keep a
quick pace so that you never get bored.  All in all, I would say that it is
not one of Disney's best efforts, but it is certainly nothing to keep hidden
away for 10+ years. 
<|_=00=_|>
"The Black Cauldron" provides us with "Exhibit A" of the disorganized
nature of the Disney organization from the mid-1970s through the
mid-80s. The company's feature films were attracting smaller and
smaller audiences, and no real creative force had emerged since Walt
Disney's death in 1966. By the mid- to late-70s, it was clear that new
ideas needed to be tried. The phenomenal success of "Star Wars"
appeared to offer a sure-fire way to box-office success: sci-fi/fantasy
movies. At the same time, Disney Studio's full-length animated features
continued their descent from the heights scaled in 1959's "Sleeping
Beauty", at first downscaling the subject matter, then progressing to
less and less impressive animation, and finally combining the first two
trends with boring storytelling (see "The Fox and the Hound" - 1981).

It was in this context that pre-production began on "The Black
Cauldron" in the late 1970s. From an artistic standpoint, its goals
were two-fold. First, the film was to recapture the lead in animation
quality that Disney had traditionally held, while the second goal was
to incorporate the advances in animation and subject matter made in the
1970s (i.e., playing "catch up"). Some early decisions were good: the
source material was top-notch. Lloyd Alexander's "Chronicles of
Prydain" are fantastic works of fantasy for the young adult - I loved
them as a middle-schooler in the mid-80s, and the choice to film the
story in 70mm widescreen harkened back to the glory days of "Sleeping
Beauty." Unfortunately, not much else worked. The studio's writers did
a terrible job of condensing the first two books of Alexander's series,
and we end up caring little for the characters that emerge, or for the
plot as it unfolds. Also, the movie's tone is uneven. Overall, the work
is very dark and un-Disney, which would've been fine had it been
executed better. Further, the grimness of the plot doesn't mesh with
occasionally clumsy and earthy attempts at humor, and the character
animation fluctuates between sober naturalism and exaggerated,
cartoonish mannerisms (stretching ears, gaping mouths, etc.) Still,
some of the shots are stunning and rank among the best in the history
of hand-drawn animation (e.g., multiplaned exterior shot of the Horned
King's castle, beautiful backgrounds within the same, Hen-Wen's capture
by the Horned King's creatures). The result of this mish-mash was a
box-office flop ($25 million to make, $5 million in ticket sales upon
its 1985 release).

In short, see this film for its often-impressive animation and
intermittent charm. Be sure to get the newly-available widescreen
version on DVD. Bemoan the end of the era of stunning hand-drawn
animation (Disney has closed up its shop; "Home on the Range" was its
penultimate hand-drawn feature). Don't expect a classic, but appreciate
the vision of its artistry - even if the final product didn't quite
mesh satisfactorily. "The Black Cauldron" is a noble failure.
<|_=00=_|>

I first saw this movie when I was a kid (probably 7 or 8) and I loved it.
After that I didn't know what happened to it. Then last year (or so) it
appeared on video. Naturally I snapped it up.

Well? Had the years been kind? Somewhat. Of course the build-up I had
given it could never have been lived up to, but I enjoyed it. Watching it
again, without the preconceptions, I thought it was wonderful. Maybe not as
good as I thought as a kid, but still great.

Sure, some of the animation isn't as polished and crisp as the likes of
'The Little Mermaid' or 'Beauty and the Beast' (2 of my favorites) but it
still looks great (especially the cauldron scenes near the end). And the
team didn't feel the need to squeeze songs in where they would have been
unwelcome. There are NO songs in this movie.

Overall, I can see why some people don't like it, but that's surely true
of any movie. This is an atypical Disney release, but a classic. One of my
favorites.
<|_=00=_|>

I must say first that my opinion on this film is slightly biased. I was
one
of the handful of people to have seen this film on its initial theatrical
run. I was also 11 and a boy (a target audience of this film). I owned the
Gurgi and Hen Wen plushes, got excited by the preview on the "Pinocchio"
video, etc.,etc.

After seeing the movie, I remember being entertained (maybe not
enthralled)
by the film and was saddened by Gurgi's sacrifice at the end.

Years passed. And passed. And passed. And people seemed to have forgotten
"Black Cauldron" in the wake of "Little Mermaid" and her
successors.

I must admit that I became somewhat obsessed with finding out why Disney
thought of the film so poorly and why everyone gave me "blank stares" when
I
mentioned it. To say the least, I longed for a video release of the
film.

A year or two ago, I got my wish, and now that I'm older and "wiser" I'm
able to make a better judgement of the film. Is it Disney's worst film
ever?
Absolutely not. "Black Cauldron" is probably the finest animated film of
the
1980's ("Little Mermaid" not withstanding). It IS a scary film for young
kids (hence the PG rating) but I think audiences today are able to deal
with
that more than they were back in 1985 (just look at "Dinosaur," "Road to
El
Dorado," and the upcoming "Titan AE" which are all rated PG). The story
may
not be up to Disney standards, but for a film of its genre (i.e fantasy)
it
has a very compelling and understandable story. The animation has its
highs
and lows. But this film was made by a large number of people over a long
period of time, so it is inevitable that there should be some fluctuation
in
quality.

Lastly, I too have read Lloyd Alexander's books, and I too adore them. No,
Disney's film does not even begin to compare to the books, but what movie
does?

On its own terms, "Black Cauldron" stands as a remarkable achievement in
animation, and a film for those people who don't just think cartoons are
"babysitters for kids."
<|_=00=_|>

For years before I saw this film, I had been a fan of Lloyd Alexander's
books.  To me, The Chronicles of Preydain rank alongside Tolkien's Middle
Earth and Lewis' Narnia as one of the greatest fantasy worlds of all time. 
Based deeply in Welsh legend and Mythology (many elements come directly from
The Mabinogion, almost the bible of Welsh mythology) Preydain is easily one
of the deepest, and most developed worlds out there.  So, needless to say,
when I heard that Disney had a film in the pipeline, I got very excited. 
Then I saw it...

I can't say that I hated it.  More that I was disappointed.  This wasn't the
Preydain I knew.  It was more a fairy tale kingdom than celtic Wales.  And
what did they do with the characters?  Gurgi a cute fuzzy monster?  Elonwy
turned into a typical damsel in distress?  And where were Coll, or Gwydon? 
I'm sorry, but I didn't know these people.  The characters were all
different?  And what about the rich sense of legend?  The books had been
based deeply on mythology, but the movie took the first two books, sprinkled
bits and pieces of them into a script, and added a ton of fairy tale and
fantasy cliches.

I've always wondered what it is with Disney writers that makes them feel it
necessary to screw around with anything and everything (witness the amount
of "creative license" taken with Pocahantas or Mulan.)  I'm sorry, but you
don't have to have cute characters or happy endings on everything.  But
Disney's writers think that you must.  And in this case, it cheapened the
ending of the film.  One of the major plot points of The Black Cauldron is
that the cauldron can only be destroyed by a living person sacrificing
themselves by throwing themselves into it.  This was kept in the film.  Yet,
when Disney did it, they still copped out to the happy ending by having the
three Enchantresses, Ordu, Orwen, and Oregch bring him back to life... 
Jeeze!

It went on from there.  The absence of the true villan of the Preydain
chronicles, Arawn, the lord of the dead, the turning of the fair folk (who
in celtic mythology were more akin to elves and dwarves) into stock, albeit
grouchy, faries....  The list goes on...  Disney ruined one of my favorite
stories, and I can't ever forget that.  Even my love for Disney masterpieces
like Beauty and the Beast or 101 Dalmations is tarnished by what they did to
some of my favorite books of my youth...
<|_=00=_|>
Always curious about The Black Cauldron, I finally got around to it
after seeing a DVD at the rental store. Despite a lot of grating
elements, I ended up liking it overall.

The movie starts off on the wrong foot. The voices come across as
recorded at low fidelity, and when combined with the sometimes
hard-to-understand British accents, can be somewhat off-putting. Issues
with voice and script become even more pronounced with characters such
as Gurgi and his Gollum-esquire speech patterns. Indeed, the second
time I watched the DVD I threw the English subtitles on, and not just
for Gurgi.

Other problems with voicing include an exceedingly dull lead actor for
Taran (he simply can't emote), and an overly chirpy female lead for
Eilonwy.

Most other elements of the film proved passable if predictable in the
Disney mold of plot, hero design, sidekicks, etc. Where it branches out
for the better is in avoiding any and all musical interludes and along
the way offering some scenarios and graphic effects that are more
mature than most other Disney animated feature films (though later in
the '90s the likes of The Lion King, Hunchback, and Tarzan would also
tangle with mature themes).

Animation is also spectacularly mixed in quality, an odd distinction
among Disney films but a distinction nonetheless. Usually solid, there
are high points such as external shots of a dark castle or a visceral
chase sequence. There are also low points such as unnatural shifts in
hair color that overemphasize different environments, or obvious spots
where animation was rushed (a rock slide sequence).

Yet for all these lows and highs, as an animation fan I ended up siding
with the high points. Many sequences are inviting to re-watch, even if
the entirety of the movie may not be. For all the talk of failure that
continues to surround this movie, one can see in the film itself
elements of a more mature Disney that could have been extremely
promising with a more seasoned batch of animators and a world less
hostile to PG animated fare.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a grade A Disney animated film from the so-called Dark Ages of
the studio and I feel that is an unfair label overall but is especially
unfair when it comes to this film which is one of the studio's darkest
and most enjoyable.

The plot concerns would-be warrior Taran who sets on a quest to stop
the evil Horned Kig (voiced magnificently by John Hurt) from getting
his hands on a mysterious object which could unleash all supernatural
hell on Earth. Along the way, he acquires a traveling company that
includes a beautiful princess, a bumbling minstrel and a cute creature
named Gurgi.

The film has it all. The voice work is first rate with a cast including
Nigel Hawthorne, John Byner, Phil Fondacaro, Arthur Malet, and Freddie
Jones who all turn in good performances. Special mention needs to go to
the narrator John Huston who's wondrous voice sets up the story quite
well.

The animation is lush, the effects are impressive and a real sense of
adventure is aroused. My only complaint would probably be the pace
which is a little sluggish and the standard happy ending does seem a
little forced in.

But those mere cracks are not enough to damage or destroy what is
ultimately one of Disney's best. I certainly rank it in my top five and
if you haven't seen it, check it out.
