

This film can be summed up in two words. Superman Trouble. That is the
case.
There are two versions of the film "Superman II." One is the vision of
acclaimed director Richard Donner, full of color flourishes, and camera
work
by the late Geoffrey Unsworth. The second, is the vision put on director
Richard Lester, by choice of the film's producers, Alexander and Ilya
Salkind. Both the films contain the same story and characters, but each
was
shot with a different tone, different dialogue and footage, which clash
with
intention. So in the end, footage from each are woven into one movie which
film buffs all over the world will notice is somewhat difficult to grasp.
Due to the different directing styles of each director, the final cut of
Superman II ends up being a cliche work of special effects, mismatched
character analysis, and central themes. The film deals with Superman and
Lois falling in love, and the three super villains from the prologue of
the
first film landing on earth and ultimately trying to take over. Very
intense
stuff. But this is where we as an audience need to know all the facts, and
here they are: The first version of Superman II, known as "Superman II:
The
Adventure Continues" was directed by Richard Donner and supposed to be
straight forward with serious tones and action packed sequences. This
version was shot simultaneously with the original "Superman" in 1977-78.
Originally to be released back to back with the original, "Superman II"
was
filmed with vigorous explosions, dangerous situations, and tense,
irrefutable drama. In the opening, a female liberation symbol, Lois Lane,
tries to prove that Clark Kent is Superman by throwing herself out a
window,
knowing that Clark(Superman) will fly out and save her. In another scene,
Superman gives up his powers and nearly kills himself, only to get them
back
later on, nearly killing himself again. This nailbittingly tense script
brought back old characters and was to bring the original "Superman" to a
full closure. All actors are fully concentrated and the print is a
paragon.
80& of this film was finished when the producers fired director Donner due
to some arguments that are still unknown to this day, and replaced him
with
director Richard Lester, and thusly, "Superman II: The Adventure
Continues"
was culminated. This is where the Richard Lester vision of the film comes
into place. Simply titles "Superman II", the Richard Lester version is
full
of clumsy comedy, amateur plotting, and is nowhere near as affective as
the
Donner version. Lester is a comic director, whom had worked on the
previous
Beatles films, "Help" and "Hard Days Night" and had no experience
directing
any international blockbusters. To give him more credit than Richard
Donner,
the producers rewrote most of the footage that Donner shot and went in
with
the actors for re-shoots...even though Donner had already taken care of
this! The villains are portrayed here as careless and comic, whereas in
Donner's version they were cold as steel, and not to be messed with. In
one
re-shot scene, we see three villains who are Superman's foes land on earth
and take interest in a snake. The snake bites the female villain and
instead
of showing her wrath on nature, as was seen in Donner's moon scene which
she
kills an innocent astronaut in cold blood, she sets the reptile on fire
and
giggles about it! Central themes of love and home were lost because of
this
as well. Because of budget problems and deadline, the producers could not
finish the re-shoot and "Superman II", and had to fill the gaps with
Donner
footage from the vault, making "Superman II" confusing and abstruce, and
that is what made "Superman II" an atavistic failure. 70% of the film is
clumsy, contrived comedy and useless violence, while 30% of the film is
straight forward, full of munificent morals and such. The final cut has
one
scene showing the villains breaking into the white house and consequently
taking over the world, with sheer John Williams music, the next scene you
see them bored and incoherently complaining about being on a world where
"mankind doesn't even resist." The first film "Superman" had morals of
justice, and the American way, while the second film was supposed to show
morals of love and home, and earthly pleasures that remind people of the
good in the world-in a sense, taking along with the "truth, justice, and
the
American way." This message was lost between the footage by raconteur
Donner
and comic Lester. Nonetheless, the film was a box office success, and many
critics, including the late Pauline Kael and Roger Ebert praised the film
for it's portrayal of good versus evil in the modern day society. Some of
the footage shot by Donner that was not put into the final cut of the film
has since been seen on network television showings and bootlegs, but not
all
of it. The original opening which gave the film a better sense of
dangerous
excitement, scenes involving Kal-El and his father were scrapped(Due to
the
Marlon Brando court case) and the full original ending have all been
locked
away in London vaults and never before seen by anyone. So on the all in
all
level, "Superman II" fails because it is nothing more than two films put
together, one a comedy, one an action drama, and this keeps "Superman II'
from being anything close to what the original has become.

<|_=00=_|>
This is the best of the Superman movies because of the three villains,
played by Terrence Stamp, Sarah Douglas and Jack O'Halloran.

Those three are so good, particularly Stamp, that they make this easily
the most memorable of the four films. The scenes with them on the moon,
their first encounter on earth and their climactic fight against
Superman in the skies above Metropolis are all outstanding.

Once again, Superman goes a little overboard in his romance to Lois
Lane (do you believe some reviewers are upset there weren't explicit
sex scenes in the film?) Hey, folks, it's just a comic book and it's
supposed to be innocent, clean fun. Sorry that turns you off. For the
rest of us, this is generally very enjoyable film from start to finish,
with no real lulls.
<|_=00=_|>

After the rushing into pre-production of Superman, Superman II footage
remained in vaults in Pinewood Studios for the time being. This was where
the cast and crew were supposed to pick up filming of Superman II in early
February of 1979. However a new order was called in by producer Ilya
Salkind. A new director to be exact, and that was the dellima of Superman
II. In 1977-78, Richard Donner shot a near estimate of 80 % of Superman II
simultaneously with Superman, but that is not the point. The point is that
his version was a much more subtle version, which followed the characters
emotions from the blockbuster first film, and had an exciting plot of Lois
and Superman falling in love, villains killing earth beings, and Superman
almost having to risk it all for the world...or the woman he loves! But
when
director Richard Lester came in to do reshoots and shoot all new scenes,
he
had a different vision in mind. His version was simple. Make the villains
look like dumb butts, while Lois and Superman enjoy an unequal
relationship
where Lois is given the back seat treatment to mediocre looks and a
Superman
that would rather make the metropolis people laugh than save the world! As
that is what so wrongly happens, we shall go over the facts. Superman and
Lois are supposed to have the kind of love that EVERY American dreams of
having. Donner insured this in never seen love scenes which would have
garnered the film an R-rating. Lester's love scenes are cheap and tacky
with
hilarious dialogue and no wit to back it up. The villains scenes in the
Donner version are cruel, ruthless, and downright evil. In Lester's
scenes,
the villains pronounce names wrong, look at eachother in stupidity, and
act
like imbeciles. The film had a good premise going for it: Superman has
just
saved the world from nuclear destruction and then the villains arrive and
start destruction. Meanwhile, Lois and Superman fall in love. That was
still
the plot, but the myth and mystique which made the original film such a
classic are nowhere to be seen here. Instead we get NASA jerks talking
about
a "curl" in space! Lester was really trashing the mythology with this
peice
of junk. America had thought that the second Superman film would be a film
that they would remember. No such luck as one would have guessed. The film
is basically two unfinished films sloppily put together in this turkey!
Superman II is NOT without interest. In fact, alot of the scenes are fun
to
watch because of the action sequences. But it is true what others say,
that
it seems like Lester was trying at a Beatles/Superman film. Clumsy comedy
and stupid chaos ensues as the villains blow through metropolis. Another
thing that gets on this writer's nerves is when the townspeople are
rooting
for Superman in the battle sequence! This villains are trying to kill
these
people and what do they do? They don't run in fear as they should, but
root
for Superman when he beats the villains up, calling out rediculous
dialogue
such as "C'mon! Get 'em Superman!" as if they are present at a high school
football match! Too much stupid writing and directing. I will always have
respect for Superman II because the whole Superman series has been a part
of
my better memories in life for a long time. We have yet to see if the true
version of Superman will ever be released on DVD, in the form of the
Richard
Donner cut, as so many fans like to call it. IT is really Ilya Salkinds
cut,
as he has the contract to the rights of ALL the films(including Supergirl)
and their footage. All in all, Superman II fails on a lot of top levels
but
has the interest for lower levels. Only if Richard Donner's version gets
released, will we as an audience and appreciative film viewers get the
true
experience of Superman II: The Adventure Continues!
<|_=00=_|>
For those who are into the comic book movie craze today, this one is
one of the best comic-y movies from the beginning of the summer
blockbuster heyday. The original Superman is really an excellent film
with solid, honest direction by Richard Donner. Donner shot around half
of this sequel and his scenes are all excellent (Note: Every Gene
Hackman scene was shot by Donner - Hackman refused to return to
production after Donner was fired).

There is still much hope that Donner's footage will re-surface. Most
importantly of all there are vital scenes with Marlon Brando returning
as Superman's father, Jor-El and giving his "life" to save his son and
save the planet from the evil villains he vanquished from Krypton. It
would also be interesting for audiences to see the difference between
Donner's scenes and the ones re-shot by Lester.

The characters are great. Superman, played by Christopher Reeve, is in
solid form and he and Lois are given the opportunity to enhance their
relationship from the original story. Jackie Cooper is once again great
as Perry White, the chief editor of the Daily Planet.

What makes this movie move is the villains. Gene Hackman is funnier and
still up to no good and the villains from Krypton are menacing. His
dialogue is truly witty and Hackman's timing is perfect. Terence Stamp
is the power hungry General Zod, out for revenge against the son of
Jor-El. Stamp plays it straight and his scenes directed by Donner show
a true megalomaniac. Jack O'Halloran is solid as the hulking Non.

Best of all is Sarah Douglas as the cold and evil Ursa in a truly
underrated performance. She is the most curious and most interesting of
the bunch. She collects badges as trophies for her conquering of earth,
wearing them to mock male hierarchy. Ursa seems to be a forerunner of
all of the sexy female superwomen today, but her role is not overstated
and stale. She is not given gratuitous cleavage shots or anything of
the sort. Ursa is a beautiful vamp and a tease, and if anything we wish
she would have more screen time. Sarah Douglas constantly gives us
hints as to Ursa's wishes, and we can only try to surmise what evil
plans she is up to.

The music is John Williams' score from the first film, but used
differently. Not sure if much of the music is original. Ken Thorne does
a good job here of accenting cuts with Williams' original score
(Williams too refused to return after Donner was fired.) Some great
cues are Superman returning to fight the villains, which is wonderfully
heroic; Ursa's shocking appearance to both the astronauts on the moon
(a violent scene that uses the darkest motifs from Krypton in the first
film); and the whole Metropolis battle in the end, which is well
supported by the music.

The effects are very good for 1980. I keep reading how people are
unhappy and always apologize for the FX in any movie more than a couple
of years old. This one is solid and for the film it serves, does well.
The only major goof is when Superman delivers the American Flag at the
end - The water fountain in front of the White House is clearly a model
with "frozen" bursting water! The scene in the de-powering chamber is
not well-handled either.

Overall, this is a very entertaining film, and really amazingly
considering it is obviously the work of two directors. Of all the comic
book movies made from the 60s thru the 90s, this one definitely rates
in the top five along with the first Superman, the first two Batmans.
Supermans 3 and 4 were really poor. It is too bad that Christopher
Reeve did not make more good Superman films. This one has some camp,
but it's way too entertaining and it's the only sequel to still have
the flavor of the original. And please, let's see a special edition DVD
with all of the missing Richard Donner footage!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>

I have a confession to make. I love Superman II. Such innocent, almost
niave, filmmaking, it personifies the term "family entertainment" and is,
simply, great fun to watch.

Other superheroes have floundered at the box office, and maybe this is to do
with lack of affinity between the makers and the source material. Certainly,
the Superman films are tongue-in-cheek but never so that they're
disrespectful to their content or their audience. The Crow was a good
example of the "graphic novel" set, and the Batman series did well under the
underrated Michael Keaton, but floundered under the flat Val Kilmer and
increasingly childish set-pieces. The less said about "Batman and Robin" the
better.

Of course, Superman had his own "Batman and Robin" in the guise of "Superman
VI: The Quest For Peace", a movie made four years after the third and with
seemingly a fraction of the budget. But Superman II was the series at its'
peak. The theme music, a startling Star Wars sound-a-like by John Williams,
fades to edited recaps of the previous film. These involve Superman as a
baby being sent from the destruction of his home planet and are cleverly
spliced together so as to avoid having to pay Marlon Brando any more
royalties. (Yet we do see Brando's hand. Surely that's worth half a
million?). 20% of this movie was shot alongside the 1978 vehicle and so we
get reminded in this sequence of the three Kryptonian villains, about to be
accidentally released by Superman in a h-bomb explosion.

This was still in the days when films were properly constructed to allow for
a genuine build-up, a fully-formed middle and a proper end. Even minor
players, such as Perry White (Jackie Cooper) have great lines and
characterisation thrusted upon them. This may be just a "fun" movie, but it
is lovingly put together, not "thrown together" as many films are. All the
actors are wonderful, Christopher Reeve is just right as Superman, Margot
Kidder is the definitive Lois Lane (despite almost drowning in soft focus
for her close-ups) and Gene Hackman is, of course, absolutely hilarious as
Lex Luthor. 

But my favourite player in this sequel is Terence Camp as General Zod.
Terence plays Zod exactly the same as he plays Bernadette in "The Adventures
of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert" and makes great work of the lead villain
that must be, in Hollywood circles, always English. "Why do you say these
things when you know I will kill you for it?" he minces to Hackman with
great effect.

Of course, now twenty years old, this film is less "You'll believe a man can
fly" than "You'll believe a man can swing on wires in front of an
unconvincing backdrop" but this is still wonderful entertainment. Maybe the
middle section, with Clark getting cut to ribbons after being thrown through
a plate glass window is a little violent, as is the confrontation between
Superman and the trio of villains. There's also the nagging feeling that
this section is the biggest single example of product placement ever seen on
film. Or is it coincidence that a Superman who featured in a comicbook
anti-smoking campaign (against "Nick O'Teen", no less) is continually thrown
into a Malboro van? Even Zod gets to know "things look better with
Coca-Cola" as he is unceremoniously hurled into a neon sign for the
corporation.

But these are minor gripes, and how anyone can hold them against such a
harmless film is beyond me. Superman II isn't Citizen Kane by any means, but
I defy you to sit through this movie and not love it.
<|_=00=_|>
Not many films from the 70's have stood the test of time but those that
have had one basic fact in common: "a good story". The fact that this
film has a great story as well as some of the best special effects
available in the 1970s is perhaps the reason for it's success. If you
are reading this thread and have not seen this film you must certainly
be from another planet. 

I will not spoil this film by telling you the plot or anything that
happens in the film as others more worthy of my name ("filmspoiler")
have done. I will only say that this film joins the very few
(Terminator 2, Back to the future 2, Final Destination 2) sequels that
are as good as, if not better than, there prequels. I only hope that
the 2006 remake "Superman Returns" is 30 years ahead of it's time!!

(PS: Above comments written by someone old enough to remember the much
older "Rocket Man" TV series)
<|_=00=_|>

"Superman II" opens up with a spectacular opening shot of
Superman(Christopher Reeve)saving Lois Lane(Margot Kidder)from danger at the
Eiffel Tower in Paris and goes on to deliver exciting events at every turn
that gives this film plenty of firepower and the viewer alot of heart racing
excitement."Superman II" continues te events of the man of steel in which he
must battle three supervillains(Terence Stamp,Jack O'Halloran and Sarah
Douglas)with the same powers he has.These villains take over the world which
results in plenty of nonstop excitement that I thought was spectacular in
every way.I enjoy fast paced action films and "Superman II" is one of
them.The romance between Superman and Lois Lane is given first class
treatment and the score by Ken Thorne is grand and really great.The battle
scenes in Metropolis is a perfect example of great special effects.
"Superman II" is a film that entertains to the fullest.
<|_=00=_|>

Simply put, Superman II is one of the best action/comic-oriented films of
all time. I'd rank it second only to the original Superman: The Movie and
only X-Men is right up there.

The thing about this movie that bugs me is that I grew up watching the ABC
expanded version. That's the version my dad taped for me, so for years I
thought the expanded version was the only version. It wasn't until the
mid-80s when I saw SII on HBO that I realized what the theatrical cut was
and how much of the expanded version added to the film.

So if you ask me about Superman II expanded edition, I'd definitely rank
that as the best comic oriented film all time. Hopefully, Warner Bros.
will
put together an interesting DVD on the film with all the supplemental
footage, including the never-before-seen Marlon Brando segment that was
completely removed from the picture. The making of this film was a big
time
headache. All of Gene Hackman's scenes were filmed by Superman I director
Richard Donner, and then he was fired, and Richard Lester was brought in.
So
it would be really cool and really insightful if a future DVD came out on
the making of the film. But I digress.

The (theatrical version) film, while a bit aged, is still tremendous fun.
Christopher Reeve remains the embodiment of the Man of Steel and remains a
case for one example of perfect casting. He makes the whole Clark
Kent/Superman thing plausible by making Kent an insecure, bumbling
reporter.
Terrence Stamp is also wonderfully cast as arch-villain General Zod.

The climax in Times Square is still exciting and funny. And the whole
relationship between Lois and Clark/Superman is brought to the fore-front.

I'd definitely put this film as a supreme candidate for the full DVD red
carpet treatment complete because the current DVD lacks big
time.

<|_=00=_|>

 This Superman movie has got to be the bench mark for future producers of
Superman movies. They must be sat down with this film, because it is an
absolute classic, and as far as Superman films go it will be hard to
top.
 Richard Lester, is not very popular with some Superman fans, because he
took over on a movie that they feel would have been better had Richard
Donner been allowed to complete. But Lester has his admirers, and iam one of
them. The first Superman movie tended to go along with boring
philosophising, or over sentimental dramatics, these are mainly absent in
Superman II,. They are replaced with cut to the action dramatics by Richard
Lester who in my opinion saved the movie, or at least made it all the more
exciting. I enjoy his sense of comic book adventure, and the final Times
Square battle between Superman vs Zod,Non and Ursa is straight out of a
comic book and is all Lesters.
 The main thing that complements the movie is the towering performance by
Christopher Reeve as Clark Kent/Superman. Reeve is hillarious in his Cary
Grant-a-like interpretation of Kent and wonderfull as a humanistic Superman.
Margot Kidder is fabulous to and it is the acting of theese two that makes
the Superman//Lois love triangle work. Terance Stamp as Zod is very creepy,
and Sarah Douglas as Ursa very sexy, but the man who very nearly steels the
show is Gene Hackman hilarious as Lex Luther.
 The special effects are brilliant, because they look glossy, and the Ken
Thorne variation of John Williams Superman theme is at its best here. The
best aspects though is the action, the aforementioned Times Square battle,
and the interaction between the actors. 
Well done Richard Lester. A True classic of Superhero cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
(I just couldn't wait for the director's cut, so anything I say here
might soon be outdated.)

"Superman II," directed in 1980 by Richard Lester, is probably the best
sequel of the first wave of superhero movies. "Superman II" is big,
goofy fun, with a sense of action, romance, and humor that wouldn't
quite be seen again in the genre until last year's "Fantastic Four."
"Superman II" is one of the great sequels, despite its sloppy editing
and a controversial back-story worthy of a movie of its own.

We know that "Superman" (1978) director, Richard Donner, was originally
supposed to direct the sequel but was fired under highly suspicious and
(to this day) unknown circumstances following a dispute with that
film's producers, the Salkinds. Supposedly, it began with issues over
creative direction. Compounding that, Donner had gone over the
originally planned budget for "Superman," and the Salkinds had been
rushing the poor man to complete the film. Conversely, Marlon Brando
(Jor-El in "Superman"), didn't want to be in the second movie and filed
suit over his percentage of that film's earnings. Simultaneously,
Donner had also been shooting footage for "Superman II" and had
completed somewhere around 75% of it between 1976-1978 before he was
fired. But of course, the lore is well-known to those who pay attention
to this film's history, and what I just described were probably the
biggest reasons for Donner's removal.

Lester was brought in after Donner, scrapped most of Donner's footage,
and replaced it with his own material that was filmed between '79-'80
(to the untrained eye, the different footage appears seamless but to
those aware of "Superman II's" history, it'll be a lot like a shooting
gallery for continuity errors). Only about 25% of the original scenes
Donner filmed are in the movie we know today, with jarring transitions
between scenes since nearly three years had passed between the two
directors' filming of scenes. This all caused a near-mutinous
insurrection on the set, and many of the actors (Gene Hackman,
Christopher Reeve - R.I.P., Margot Kidder, and Terence Stamp) were
quite vocal about this; Hackman refused to appear in any of Lester's
new scenes and it's easy to tell when a body double is being used.

Original composer John Williams also walked away from the project
following Donner's removal, and was replaced by Ken Thorne, who takes
material from Williams's score and merely covers it with his own in
much the same way Lester did with Donner. Lastly, cinematographer
Robert Paynter gave a comic book look to the film that conflicted with
the sparkling, epic cinematography of the late Geoffrey Unsworth. What
we get, to paraphrase another viewer, is "sloppy seconds," but still an
enjoyable and moving experience in its right. "Superman II" still made
a box office killing in 1981, so it couldn't have been that bad (?).
(Hopefully, this will all be cured by the new Richard Donner cut that's
due out on Nov. 28 later this year, which should include more of
Donner's original material, more Hackman footage, Marlon Brando, more
violence and story dealing with the three Krypton villains' task on
Earth, more scenes with Reeve and Kidder, completed special effects, a
new opening and ending - ?, and Lester footage to fill in the gaps.)

In "Superman II," the Man of Steel, as Clark Kent (Reeve), is getting
serious with Lois Lane (Kidder), and considers giving up being
Superman. If he were to do this, however, he will become a normal human
being, with no way to restore his powers, and no way to stand up to a
diner's bullying customer. This romantic infatuation probably could not
have come at a worse time because a nuclear explosion in outer space
shatters the Phantom Zone, the eternal prison of three outcasts from
Superman's home planet Krypton. The blast frees the traitorous head of
Krypton's military forces, General Zod (Stamp), the man-hating Ursa
(Sarah Douglas) and the brutish Non (Jack O'Halloran), who then make a
bee-line for Earth in a bid for world domination. Once on Earth, they
discover they have all of Superman's powers, and then some. Meanwhile,
Lex Luthor (Hackman) manages to escape from prison (with help from Miss
Teschmacher, played by Valerie Perrine), leaving a hapless Otis (Ned
Beatty) behind, and sets out on a quest to the North Pole to find the
Fortress of Solitude using a device he constructed while incarcerated.

What this all climaxes in, is an action-packed (if not somewhat
slapstick) special effects bonanza that takes place in the skies over
Metropolis, with Superman and the three Krypton villains going head to
head. It's really exciting stuff to see Superman grappling with the new
experience of fighting three adversaries of his power level.

Is "Superman II" a failure? Yes, because it betrays what was originally
laid out by a great director and is probably one of the great, early
examples of Hollywood "chopping & screwing." "Superman II" is still
highly regarded as a cult classic, and director Sam Raimi makes a few
nods with "Spider-Man 2" (2004). I can see that DC Comics is making a
comeback; if original Superman co-creators Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster
could see these films, I bet they'd be proud.

P.S.: R.I.P. - Marlon Brando

10/10
