

This sequel to THE OMEN is a "fun" film.  It continues the story of the
anti-Christ Damien into his teenage years and his years in military
school.
Now adopted into the family of his father's brother, an unsuspecting
Damien
is unwittingly at the centre of a plot to bring Satan's son to the
threshold
of power.  Everyone around him is at risk as the secret of Damien's birth
is
under threat of exposure by forces emerging from around the world - and at
the root of this threat are the mad depictions painted on an ancient wall
that reveal the very face of evil.

Jonathon Scott-Taylor gives a commanding and creepy performance as the
ultimate misfit son.  Looking particularly significant in his military
outfit, Scott-Taylor captures - as much as the script allows him - the
torment of self-discovery as the truth of his existence is revealed to
him.
The script could have demanded more from such a fascinating scenario, and
tried to make Damien more of a Miltonic Satanic Hero, but the film chooses
to go for as much shock value whenever it can.  Mysterious and violent
accidents - linked by the ever-present shadow of a raven of death -
dominate
this movie from beginning to end.  The scene involving an ill-fated lady
on
a deserted country road is one of its most grotesque.  As death and
destruction mount, Damien goes from self-possessed orphan to
self-recognized
supreme power in the span of two hours.

William Holden and Lee Grant play Damien's surrogate parents, Richard and
Ann Thorn.  They are not really allowed to display their incredible
talents
in this film, but Holden does fine trying to duplicate Peck's memorable
performance in the original. Grant does what she can with this supporting
role, but has a great moment in the film that proves worthy to wait for.
The always wonderful Sylvia Sidney makes a memorable appearance as one of
Damien's greatest "thorns" - the troublemaking menace Aunt Marion. And the
ending is a bit of a shock if you watch the film closely, particularly if
you listen to the exposition early on in the film about "The Whore of
Babylon."

Another highlight is Jerry Goldsmith's title score - empowering,
commanding
and downright evil, the opening score is one of my favorites.

Although not as creepy as the first film, DAMIEN: OMEN II has its moments,
and is worth seeing for anyone who likes to have a fun time with all this
biblical stuff.  
<|_=00=_|>

If you liked the first installment, you probably will like Damien-Omen II.
It still has the creepiness involved in the first movie and the theme of
good vs. evil.  But like the first Omen movie, it is quite predictable.
Some of the kill scenes are good though, especially the elevator
scene.

Take a shot and rent this one.  Just don't expect to see a
classic.
<|_=00=_|>
"She pollutes the air with her craziness", gotta love that line near
the film's beginning. Damien:Omen II is an ambitious and entertaining
sequel to the classic Omen. This film is an almost perfect stepping
stone in the Omen trilogy, focusing on Damien Thorn becoming a
teenager. The film obviously lacks the fresh originality of the first
film but it still deserves credit for maintaining a sense of dread and
menace when somebody crosses the young Damien Thorn. The death scenes
are both chilling and creative and the film's trademark score is
brilliant. As far as sequels go, Omen II is a solid effort, leading the
pathway clearly open for the third chapter. In terms of comparison Omen
II doesn't surpass the original but if you enjoyed the Omen then
Damien:Omen II shouldn't disappoint.
<|_=00=_|>
Beginning again with the mad dash of Bugenhagen(Leo McKern) through the
Haifa port under the very fitting theme of Jerry Goldsmith, this film
contains all of the chills of the original as Damien learns about who
he really is. It has one thing that I particularly liked that moment of
indecision,when Damien, in a mirror of Jesus asks himself, why is it
me. The moment when whatever innocence is in him is finally lost.
William Holden and Lee Grant are excellent as his aunt and uncle, and
there are several actors who cement their acting careers in the parts
they play in this film. I am referring to Robert Foxworth for one, and
Lance Henrickson for another. Silvia Sydney is one of of her last roles
as Aunt Marion (smelling of Lilac or lavender) and the one really weak
role was Nicholas Pryor as the director of the Thorn Museum. I am truly
sorry for those people who did not care for this film, as it is head
and shoulders above most of the Anti-Christ movies made. If you liked
the first one this is a must see.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm an avid fan of the original "Omen". I think it was everything that
"The Exorcist" is made out to be by fans and critics all over the
world: thrilling, intriguing and incredibly creepy. With it's
apocalyptic open ending a second part could only take away from the
original's ending.

The truth is, "Damien: Omen II" is by no means as bad as it could have
been. Sure, the excitement and the perfect structure of the original
aren't there. Basically, this plays out like an early ancestor of the
"Final Destination"-franchise. Characters become aware of who Damien is
and from this point on we know they're doomed and anticipate their
gruesome death. Most of all the movie is muddled with bad character
development. Lance Henriksen's character, for instance, is never
elaborated on. It doesn't make him any more mysterious, it just feels
incomplete.

A good portion of the movie is spent with nothing much going on except
for a few people dying around Damien while he just keeps on living a
completely normal life unaware of who he his. Then, all of a sudden
everything happens way too quickly. Damien finds out about his destiny
and immediately accepts it. The same goes for his father, who is
infuriated at first when someone suggests that his son might be Satan's
spawn, only to accept that fact shortly afterwards. The final climax
and ending arrive just as quickly leaving you wondering why the whole
thing was so unbalanced.

Still, as long as it's running "Damien: Omen II" doesn't fail to
entertain. Like every "Omen"-movie up to and including "The Final
Conflict" this one has this nice 70's UK-flair that you can get lost in
for a few hours on homey evenings in front of the television. It may
not be enough to make the series go down in history as one of the best,
but these movies are all very watchable in one sitting, making this one
of the most coherent franchises of the horror genre.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, it wasn't great, but I have to admit that the second Omen was
pretty good and in some ways just necessary. Necessary, I mean because
this story is of course not finished. Before seeing "The Hills have
Eyes" on Friday night, they had trailers, and one was *shudder* a
remake to the Omen. Another one, another remake! Oh, well, this just
isn't going to stop. So, anyways, I saw The Omen last year and figured
I should finish the trilogy. I am curious and frankly, a bit creeped
out that the new Omen is being released on 06-06-2006, "666", get it?

The story itself is pretty good actually, now that Damien has been
under the care of his aunt and uncle, strange things are happening
again. It seems like anyone who is getting to close to finding out the
truth about Damien is getting killed in some freak accident. This is a
very good sequel that should be given a second chance.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Damien:Omen 2 is a very enjoyable sequel to The Omen in my opinion the
first is better but i did enjoy this also. This film was released in
1978 2 years after the first and it tells the story of Damien the
Anti-Christ who is now age 12 he is starting to understand his duty in
the line of Satan whilst a strange crow eliminates any people who know
his real identity and are seen enemies in the eyes of Satan. This film
is not the best in the Omen series but it is a very watchable film, it
isn't a film that will bore you to death and it isn't a film that will
keep you on the end of your seat for 100 minutes but i do recommend it
to the people who are interested in these films it is a clever entry in
the omen franchise 

***/*****
<|_=00=_|>
The original Omen left itself wide open for a sequel, and even though I
personally don't think it particularly needed one; I have to say that
this second part, to my surprise, is actually very good! Don Taylor's
sequel, of course, has nothing on Richard Donner's original; and even
though the film often gets too convoluted and is more than a little bit
silly, The Omen II follows on from the original nicely and is an
overall worthy sequel. For the sequel, the action has expectedly moved
to America; and the film delivers more of the uncompromising gore that
helped to round off the original as an all round horror masterpiece.
Logically, the film picks up the story of Damien seven years after his
father, Robert Thawn, tried to kill him under mysterious circumstances.
The film starts off with the revelation that Damien Thawn is the
antichrist, and from there we follow him as he joins military school,
comes under the guidance of one of Satan's disciples and violently
disposes of anyone who stands a chance of discovering his real
identity! 

Jonathan Scott-Taylor is the actor given the honour of portraying the
son of the devil this time around, and it has to be said that he does a
really good job with it; even though the actor has hardly been seen
since. William Holden is no Gregory Peck, but he does well in the older
lead actor role; and he receives good backup from Lee Grant in the role
of his wife. The cast is rounded off by cult stars Nicholas Pryor and
Lance Henriksen. The plot pacing can be a little hard to follow, and
not all the plot threads (the ones involving Thawn Industries in
particular) are able to come through properly. However, director Don
Taylor combats this by adding in an over the top and gory murder
sequence every time the plot looks like it's going downhill. Here we
have people burning to death, freezing to death, having their eyes
plucked out and - of course - being cut in half in an elevator! The
film just about carries off a mysterious religious tone throughout, and
I was pleased that the film didn't get bogged down with theories
surrounding Damien. The film ends with a nice little twist, before once
again leaving the series open for a sequel - which, of course, it got
three years later. The Omen II isn't a classic or must see; but it's a
nice sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
That lovable little rapscallion from "The Omen" has returned to raise
more Hell in "Damien: Omen II". No longer a toddler, Damien is closing
in on his 13th birthday. While most pre-teens must cope with puberty
and the confusion that accompanies it, Damien (portrayed by Jonathan
Scott-Taylor) is more pre-occupied with his destiny, which is that of
the son of the Satan, The Anti-Christ. He is now living with his Uncle
and attends a military academy where he is quick to put his peers in
his place and is encouraged by a sketchy teacher (the one and only
Lance Henriksen!) who encourages him to read a passage in the Bible
that tells him all he needs to know about himself. If only every
teenager were given such guidance!

The film faced an uphill battle when its original director, Mike
Hodges, was swapped out for Don Taylor, but thankfully, the end results
aren't as compromised as one would expect. On the contrary, "Damien:
The Omen II" is a rather solid companion piece to the Richard Donner
original, with death scenes that are every bit as ground-breaking for
their time and still shocking today (all about the crow pecking out the
eyeballs) and a great cast that includes William Holden, Lee Grant and
Elizabeth Shepard. Scott-Taylor seems born to have played Damien,
managing the dynamics of being a sympathetic character turned a
bone-chilling menace quite effectively. The film may rush a bit to its
ending, which is perhaps its only flaw, but on the whole, it's a worthy
follow-up that is almost every bit as mean and memorable as its
predecessor.
<|_=00=_|>
I really liked this sequel and some good gory deaths in this movie.

I love scene where the women is attack by the crows one of best scenes
in the movie. 

which i could not leave out, The others deaths are good too not as gory
as the first movie but these deaths scenes did have some great
atmosphere.

This not as scary of as good as The 1st Omen movies, This acting in
this movie was really good.

It stared of really well and start with it but near the end and the
ending for me just felt a little flat for me, i could have had better
ending. 

It's a really good movie
