
Hannah and Her Sisters (1986) Probably when all is said and done, my
favorite Allen movie. This is definitely one of those examples where
the sum is greater than the parts. Great shots of New York
(specifically the city's architecture), great situations, great parties
and great music

Among the Manhattan-dwelling characters is Michael Caine, who is
married to Hannah (Mia Farrow) but lusts after her sister (Barbara
Hershey) who lives with a tormented artist (Max Von Sydow.) Hannah's
ex-husband (Woody Allen) starts dating her other sister (Diane Weist)
who wants to date Sam Waterston, even though he'd rather date her
friend (Carrie Fisher).

In addition to the cameo by Julia Louise Dreyfuss, the film features
two supporting performances by old school actors, Lloyd Nolan and Mia
Farrow's real life mom, the original Jane in the Tarzan movies, Maureen
O'Sullivan.

If that's not enough, Allen throws in plenty of his trademark
hypochondria hysteria, questioning the meaning of the universe and
whether God exists.
<|_=00=_|>

Arguably Woody Allen's best production with the exception of "Annie Hall".
The film follows three sisters (Mia Farrow, Barbara Hershey and Oscar-winner
Dianne Wiest) through their careers and their relationships. Farrow is the
backbone that keeps everything together. However, husband Michael Caine
(Oscar-winning) has his eye of Hershey and something might come of his
crush. Max Von Sydow is seeing Hershey, but he may not be enough to curve
her lust. Wiest seems to be the odd one out as she struggles with
everything, thinking of herself as second-rate to sister Farrow. You know
she might fit in well with Farrow's ex-husband (the priceless Allen). A wild
film of vivid characters that entertains to the paramount. Allen received an
Oscar for his screenplay and was nominated yet again for his dead-on
direction. Not a perfect film, but Allen's amazing story-telling and his
superb creation of memorable characters and sequences make "Hannah and Her
Sisters" one of the better films of the 1980s. 4.5 out of 5
stars.
<|_=00=_|>

"Hannah and Her Sisters" is a comedy/drama (though mostly drama) about a
dozen characters and their stories, all connecting back to three sisters:
Hannah (Mia Farrow), Lee (Barbara Hershey) and Holly (Dianne Wiest).  Hannah
is the favorite, talented and kind, Lee is almost equally favored, but Holly
is the outcast, with a past of drugs and always asking for money.  Other
characters include Hannah's hypochondriac ex-husband Mickey (Woody Allen),
her current husband Elliot (Michael Caine), Lee's boyfriend Frederic (Max
von Sydow) and Holly's friend April (Carrie Fisher).

Like I said before, this is not so much a comedy as it is a drama.  The
comedy that's in it fits, and is good, but the drama is better.  Elliot's
secret love for Lee is handled in a romantic way, but their infidelity is
still seen as wrong, and you feel their guilt and inner turmoil.  Mickey
thinks he has a brain tumor, he finds out he doesn't and then he feels
worse, and starts desperately searching for a purpose to live.  All the
other stories are equally dramatic, with comedy fittingly sprinkled in
places too.

The acting is quite good, everyone playing their part perfectly, whether
it's big or small.  The film's best performances come from Allen (in what's
no doubt his best performance) and Dianne Wiest as the extremely
under-confident youngest sister.  Allen and Wiest don't necessarily carry
the film, as there's no need to, but their segments were certainly the best,
for me at least.  The rest of the cast put forward too, especially Max von
Sydow and Michael Caine in his first (and so far his only deserving) Oscar
win.

Woody Allen's direction is at the top of its form here too, much like "Annie
Hall" and his other greats.  The camera work and use of voice overs are
excellent.  For instance, there is an intensely dramatic scene where the
three sisters have lunch together and for the entire scene the camera
rotates around the table, the speaker not always in the frame.  His script
is great too, it knows when to be dramatic and when to be funny and when to
be both.

One of Allen's very best, 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Woody Allen makes movies that will sometimes be partial duds with great
lines and characters, and then he'll make an all around great movie
like Manhattan, Sleeper or Deconstructing Harry. In the 80's, he had a
period where most of his films were generally great (Midsummer Night's
Sex Comedy might be the exception). But this is one of the gems in that
period, a comedy with great acting matched with a finely tuned
screenplay. 

Though not without an ending that leaves everything a little too neat
(however upon pressure from the studio, not Allen's original intentions
of course), this is another relationship-centric picture, with the
side-bar of Woody's character being chronically afraid of death and
what comes after it. Deservedly his last big award winner, it's a
possibility for my favorite Woody 80s movie (even if the experience in
the theater sucked- the downside to seeing an Allen movie is the large
amount of old people, and the occasional old man who sits very close
with a constantly shifting candy wrapper, smacking lips, and a penchant
for a horrible sinus conditon...just think who the fans of Woody movies
will be then they croak).
<|_=00=_|>
Very funny comedy has one of Woody's all time best casts. Dianne Wiest
is the best; glowing, neurotic, irritating and vulnerable, within
minutes. Michael Caine is the most touching, Mia Farrow, as always,
close to heartbreaking. I think it's her voice that does it. Nice
scenes with her and her real-life mother, Maureen O'Sullivan.

Like Manhattan, this picture looks beautiful; NY in all its many
breath- taking colors. The relationships of everyone on the screen are
perfectly woven, and Woody has the best sight gag of the film when he
takes a bible and a crucifix out of a paper bag (to find religion), and
follows them up with some Wonder Bread and mayonaisse. Hilarious!

Deserving of its writing and supporting actor Oscars, it's too bad
everyone in the movie couldn't have won. They're all believable and
enjoyable to watch. My favorite: Max Von Sydow as the very cynical,
older Frederick. He should have had more moments. Imagine him at one of
the Thanksgiving dinners...
<|_=00=_|>

While I am a Woody Allen fanatic, I'm not sure if I agree with the minority
of Woody fans who claim this is his best film, instead of "Annie Hall". 
Sure, I would be quick to elect "Annie" as Woody's best, but then I regard
"Manhattan", "Stardust Memories", "Crimes & Misdemeanors", as well as
"Hannah And Her Sisters", and I become unsure.  This is certainly one of
Woody's most mature films, and I would freely place it in my top five of
Woody's works.  It nicely balances comedy with drama, and it also began a
new era of high accomplishment for Woody.  Functioning as an ensemble drama
loosely organized around three sisters, "Hannah" chronicles several stories
at once.  The film has an incredibly warm, intimate feeling about it, as
people talk in their earth-toned apartments over J.S. Bach or stroll through
the city's crisp autumn air.  What rings most true about this film is that
it doesn't end quite the way you thought it would (the words "too tidy" and
"unpunished" get unfairly used a lot), yet it ends as it should. 

Ironically, Hannah (played by Mia Farrow) doesn't fare too deeply in the
film.  The eldest of three, she's the family matriarch soothing her aging
parents, a showbiz couple reluctantly settling into old age and blaming each
other for it.  Her husband Elliot (Michael Caine expertly stuttering &
flushing) is consumed with guilt over his heavy crush on Hannah's sensuous,
down-to-earth sister, Lee.  Lee is slowly pulling away from her failing
relationship with Frederick (the always excellent Max Von Sydow), a horribly
misanthropic curmudgeon whose reliance on her as his last link to humanity
becomes suffocating.  The youngest sister, Holly (Dianne Wiest - kicking ass
as usual), is a nervous, impatient actress whose insecurity and lack of
success lead to competing with her best friend April over work and men. 
Meanwhile, Hannah's ex-husband Mickey (Woody), a severe hypochondriac, is
trying desperately to accept his eventual mortality and still find some
meaning in life, which it what it seems all the other characters are trying
to do.  I won't say where the stories are going or where they all end up,
but I will say the ensemble cast is all-around great, Michael Caine and
Dianne Wiest are definitely the stand-outs here (their Oscars were
well-deserved), but Max Von Sydow and Barbara Hershey do quite fine as well.
 As for Woody - Mickey is the kind of character that fans were probably
waiting for him to play for years, and he pulls it off with his classic
ticks & twitches.  

Woody's evident genius is shown here by juggling the separate stories back &
forth so fluidly.  Most attention seems to be focused on Elliot and Lee
during the first half (both conflicted & confused), while the second half
slightly centers around Mickey and Holly (both nervous & unsure).  Mickey
operates mostly as an outsider and the strength of his story doesn't pertain
too much to "the sisters" (although there are two hysterical flashbacks
sequences, one involving Hannah and the other detailing a disastrous date
with Holly).  Another masterstroke on Woody's part are the internal
voice-overs.  Woody is too smart to know that there are certain thoughts a
person has that will exist only in their head, and extracting these feelings
into some kind of dialogue with another person would seem forced.  It's
casual pacing, novelistic endeavors, vivid characters, cozy settings,
heartfelt music and sharp, candid dialogue are what makes this film hold up
beautifully for me after dozens of viewings.  It's an absolute Woody Allen
film.
<|_=00=_|>

This is what I would call a perfect film.  This was  my first Woody Allen
experience and I have been shamelessly hooked ever since!  I have probably
seen it about 20x's and I always love it!!  It has it all; it's
hysterically
funny at times (the hypochodriac), it's incredibly painful(afternoons) at
others and the blending of the characters paths(lucky I ran into you) is
just beautiful.  I watch this movie every couple of months when I need a
little cheering up and it always works.  Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Contrary to the comments of many critics (including the usually
sagacious Ebert) the film IS a comedy, in the classic sense, as is an
opera buffa, The Marriage of Figaro, A Midsummer Night's Dream, etc.
One IMDb commentator here, mattijohn, describes it: "Holly got over her
depression and sense of rejections, Elliot has gotten over his
infatuation with Lee and finally realises how much he in fact loves
Hannah and loves her, Lee is in a better relationship, in which she
does not feel looked down upon etc. Similarly Mickey gets over his
neurosis and gets on with living his life, not thinking and worrying
all the time about happens next." Mozart, or Rossini, would write a
final chorus with all of these principals voicing their joy.
<|_=00=_|>
An interesting and very well acted slice of different people's lives,
the film poses a number of intriguing questions in terms of life,
death, love and relationships. It is a fascinating film: carefully
directed and aided by some meticulously perfect use of non-original
music. The film is split in chapters, and such a style makes the film
flow very well. Despite being a drama, it is still manages to meld in
some of Woody Allen's delightful wit, creating a film with laughs,
pains, joys and sorrows. And then there is the quality of the acting,
which is stunning to say the least. Mia Farrow is sensational in the
best performance of her career, just brilliant as the providing,
sustaining sister of the family, and Caine, Allen, Hershey, Kavner and
even Max Von Sydow are all at their careers' best. For a film that has
nowhere much too go, it is certainly quite something.
<|_=00=_|>

What more does a Woody lover want...New York, Thanksgiving (x 3), SoHo,
the now-closed Pageant Book Store, e.e. Cummings, the cute and
beautiful Dianne Wiest (her first Oscar as Best Supporting Actress).
Best scene: the three sisters having lunch at a roundtable with the
camera revolving around them (the vertigo reflects their
conversations). Next best scene is the Woody-Dianne date in the punk
rock club and then to see Bobby Short. And that NY architectural tour
catches a lot of the City's best buildings. Now the interwoven story
between Woody, Mia, Michael Caine, and in the end Dianne Wiest was very
well conceived and written. Great surprise and happy ending. (btw, the
Thalia movie house where Woody sees an old Marx Brothers flick in
Manhattan's Upper West Side in now gone.)

