

I found the chemistry between Ringwald and Downey, Jr. to be as
scintillating as that of Bruce Willis and Cybill Shepard of Moonlighting
fame.  I do agree that this film was probably designed to showcase Ms.
Ringwald's talent, but in the process, showcased the charisma and talent
of
Robert Downey, Jr.

I first saw this film right after high school.  It was light and
entertaining.  These days, the teen flicks bore me to tears, but I can
honestly say that Downey's performance pulls me to the small screen time
and
time again.  It's not a must see, but the sparks flying between these two
stars make it quite enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
Robert Downey Jr. is husky and young and wiry as a streetwise ladies'
man who does more striking-out than scoring, but his attempts are
colorful (you can sense he turns women on just by attempting); Molly
Ringwald is a good screen-match for Downey playing sassy tour guide
whose alcoholic father is in trouble with the mob. So far, so good--and
early on director James Toback displays a sweet, screwball side that
was never apparent in his works prior to this--but, unfortunately, the
convoluted script gets all gummed-up by the second-half, and the leads
go back and forth with each other so much that it all becomes fairly
ridiculous. Some pre-release dubbing was obviously done to cover the
saltier dialogue passages; it looks sloppy, but that's nothing compared
to listening to Downey and Ringwald having sex (what was she in
real-life, 17?). These two look good together but are far too young for
this scenario, which is by turns cartoonishly sordid and
melodramatically soapy. *1/2 from ****
<|_=00=_|>
It really is a mystery for me, why I like this film. I guess that,
before going on, I must introduce myself - usually I'm considered quite
a film buff, and my favorite film decade actually is the 1930's. Why,
then, would I even bother to watch a Molly Ringwald - Robert Downey,
Jr. film from the 80's which has a terrible reputation? Good question.
I caught it on TV the other day by accident. It tells a dull story (a
girl must get 25 thousand dollars to pay off her alcoholic father's
gambling debts and finds a womanizing teacher who eventually helps her
out of it, if it makes any sense) with a lot of implausible moments -
the scene of the robber singing Elvis, for instance, like another
comment mentioned - but it does have a lot of familiar faces and I
found all performances likable, particularly that of Downey Jr - but
then again, his talent should never be in question, in spite of all his
drug problems. Ringwald and Downey have great chemistry and pull of
what could've become quite unwatchable. In the end of the day, I liked
it and didn't think it was a time waster. If you watch it, maybe you'll
be able to tell me why. It's been bothering me.
<|_=00=_|>
The good things first (sing this): Summer in the city!, and the city,
New York, the one star in this movie that looks good 'til the very end,
is just beautiful. And because it is summer, and because the city looks
as good as the women that populate it, we do not ask that whatever
Robert Downey is up to in the beginning is in any way "realistic", as
long as it is carefree, funny, and playfully energetic. But from then
on...

I do not ask of a movie that it be literally truthful, however, there
should be some inner truth, a veracity in the characters or a
thoughtful comment on life or something--and this movie does not have
any of it. It seems that most of the characters are caricatures, such
as the alcoholic gambling father, the mafia bad guy and his entourage
(a whole armada with Italian accents), the corrupt policeman, and the
Columbian rich man; nobody is in any way real, not even
three-dimensional. (I did like the bad guy's girlfriend though,
probably also a caricature, but at least flirty, lively, and
refreshing.) On top of that, our romantic couple has no chemistry (at
least not any I can detect), always deadly for a romantic comedy. The
philosophic sentences about life and relationships that come out of our
protagonists' mouths are, well let's say, completely beside the point.
They are probably supposed to show that our characters are "serious",
and maybe if I was 16 again, I would find these parts of the movie
"deep", but at my age, I just find them false and somewhat annoying.

So, if you have seen this movie already, I hope you enjoyed the city,
the summer, Robert Downey... and maybe some thing or other that I have
missed.
<|_=00=_|>
What a lesson in film-making!

Let me report that among date movies, very few age well. This one has
improved remarkably with age. 

Part of the reason is the two main actors. Molly is her most striking
here. She's absolutely at her peak in what she does, which is a sort of
sassy, deliberately fostered innocent/wise cuteness. No one can do this
today, and the attempts are depressing. Kate Hudson? We all die a
little when she tries.

And then we have Downey. He's already heavy into drugs and he doesn't
have the drugged discipline he had in "Chaplin." But he has an energy
that is so appealing. Undisciplined, druggy energy would usually be
just dispersed effort, but this is a date movie, something that depends
on misregistration of self.

And look who surrounds them: Aiello doing his working class avuncular
bit. Keitel being such a movie gangster they bleeped his every speech.
And Dennis Hopper! That man who is a permanent token of intoxicated
risktaking. Three solid marks in film characters, all portrayed by
their inventors.

You can see that the filmmaker is a writer. The script is actually very
good. Very good indeed for what it is and the assets that are
available. The direction is so inadequate it hurts. But it hurts in
exactly the right way. This is a film about stretching, about yearning
without touching. Its all about inadequacy in love, a sort of
reality-tinged inadequacy overlain on the romantic comedy template.

Because the camera is always in the wrong place, is always too
tentative, is always unsure of itself, but still goes, still goes...

It puts us in the thing as one of these kids, clumsy, bold without
cause.

I recommend this. I do. Its problems work for it.

Molly has faded as a presence now. But that's inevitable because of how
we all exploited her youth. We shouldn't think that she is a flake,
like say Meg Ryan or Julia Roberts. This very year she starred in one
of the most intellectually ambitious movies of all time, Godards "King
Lear." And more recently, she was in a Greenaway film. No stupid actor
would do that.

Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>

One plot device that the movie turns on is absolutely unbelievable. I won't
spoil it, but it stands out like a sore thumb. The opening twenty minutes or
so are nicely done as the two leads get to know one another, sort of. After
their lives are revealed to each other things get very dull and I can't get
past the inanity of this plot point.

I thought Molly Ringwald was good in her role, what there was of it. The
script is awful and that's a good deal of the problem, but there's no
chemistry here, either.
<|_=00=_|>
Robert Downey Jr. (In his first starring role) as womanizer elementary
school gym teacher who meet his match with the lovely Molly Ringwald
who's museum guide and tried to save her alcoholic father (Dennis
Hopper) from mob (Harvey Keitel) who own them debt.

The movie has weak storyline, it not hitting. Robert and Molly
chemistry is okay but they deserves a better movie than this. It plays
a lot of oldies music and feature familiar faces. I think you rather
skip this movie and watch any good rom-comedy. Watch for Vanessa
Williams at the beginning as one the woman that Downey Jr. tried to hit
on while she walking with her dog named Caligula (!!!).
<|_=00=_|>
A young Robert Downey Jr. thinks that he is a man about down as he goes
around in his never ending attempt to pick up women. He is eventually
smitten by Molly Ringwald, who is way out of her league in this film. A
mobster's daughter, she really has the gambling habit.

The other actors are typically stereotyped in their usual roles. Harvey
Keitel as the mobster and the late Dennis Hopper as the boozed up and
probably drug taking person are naturals for their respective parts.

Watch out for a very young Christine Baranski in a one scene stealer
and of all people, an elderly Mildred Dunnock plays Downey's diabetic
grandmother, who apparently even has a guy at the end.

Of all things, Downey is an elementary school gym teacher in the film
and fortunately this is downplayed. Let's not further upset our
educational system.
<|_=00=_|>

The only thing you will probably get from this film are some decent pick up
lines.  Downey does okay with his role as the pick up artist but does things
that I don't see anyone ever doing.  Molly did great with the part she was
given but this is one of her last teen films.

This film got the PG-13 rating but at times you might be curious as to how. 
Molly is aloud to say one word that I don't think is aloud in this rating
anymore.  

The only other thing I did not like was the whole idea of luck, chances, and
the thought that it can happen to you.  This might be a SPOILER:  How can
you say it is right to gamble to pay off a gambling debt?  Is this not just
a catch 22?  

If I'm bored one night I might take another chance on this film.  Otherwise
I will definitely find something better to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a preview for this movie and happened to find it on an old VHS
while glancing the thrift stores. When I first saw the trailer with
Molly Ringwald and Robert Downey Jr., I figured the movie had to be
pretty good. I love Ringwald's work in the John Hughes films, and just
like Downey in general so I thought I was in for a really funny, warm
treat. Add to the cast Dennis Hopper, fresh off of an Oscar nod from
the previous year's Hoosier's as well as Danny Aiello, Bob Gunton
(warden Norton from my all time fave "The Shawshank Redemption) and
Harvey Keitel, and you got what seems like a really fun comedy with a
powerhouse cast. 

And it starts off that way, but it takes some seriously wrong turns
after the first half-hour and just gets progressively worse to the
point where I wanted to take my eyes off the TV set. The so called
"story" is very lame once the premise is established. Downey plays his
usual sarcastic, self-centered character, who happens to be a womanizer
here, who tries to put all of his smooth moves on Ringwald (what guy in
the 80's wouldn't have tried though?). She at first is uninterested but
he is her only saving grace when gangster Keitel and his hit men,
kidnap Hopper playing Ringwald's father, and Downey is forced to come
up with the ransom money to save Hopper and ultimately Ringwald's
lives. 

The problem here is with this fantastic cast, the story and characters
should be much more interesting and likable, not bland and generic like
it is here. The movie would have been better with Downey's character
being the same and leaving more room for character development getting
to know both he Ringwald's characters better and taking them on another
crazy adventure rather than the stupid mob sub-plot that is the focus
here. Ringwald also seems like she's trying too hard to be an adult
actress here, and not be typecast-ed with her typical teen roles from
her tenure with Hughes. Taking this approach however is not successful,
as her character here is bland and unlikable. The movie would have been
much better here, if she would have played a character similar to the
ones she did in "The Breakfast Club," or "Pretty in Pink." When actors
try hard to be different than their usual persona, they come across as
unlikable and that's definitely the case with Ringwald here. Maybe if
John Hughes would have directed this, it would have been a different,
and certainly much better movie. 

Also, the supporting cast is entirely wasted and all characters are
underdeveloped. Hopper seems like he is doing a much more comical
version of his character from "Hoosiers" here, and it gets rather
annoying quite quickly, especially considering he played the same
character exactly a year before and did it much better then. He is also
given very little to do, and the fact he receives screen credit is
ridiculous, this could have easily been an extended cameo, and a bad
one at that. What a waste of Hopper's fine talent. Fortunately we have
better movies in his career before and after this to remember him by
like "Easy Rider," "Hoosiers", "Blue Velvet" and "Speed". 

Keitel is also annoying here, playing his usual tough-guy role, and he
forces it so much that after a while it just becomes plain laughable.
That role works for other movies but doesn't cut it here. He is wasted
here, and given a bad role. Even Joe Pesci or Danny De Vito would have
been better suited for this part, and could have brought some humor and
originality to the character. Keitel plays it so straight that it's
just painful to watch. The character is irritating and extremely
one-dimensional. Didn't the director tell him this was a comedy before
he signed on? 

Gunton, a fine character actor is also wasted here and given nothing to
do, same for Aiello. And then of course, there's Downey who puts a lot
of effort into his character, but acts as if he knows the script stinks
and aims to do his best with it. Downey does a generally good job, and
gives the movie some saving grace, but this character would be suited
better with another script and in another movie. 

All in all the movie is very forgettable and wastes it's fine cast, who
deserved a much better script, story and direction than what they got.
