

As you might know, Baseball is not big in Germany. Hardly anybody knows or
understands the rules. People watch soccer here. Basketball gets bigger. But
Baseball? No.

So this movie, which many of my friends watched as well, was my first
contact with this interesting sport. Of course, it is a fairy tale. Of
course, the underdog won't get that big that it will beat everybody and win
the championship. Or will it? 

Sports history tells us different. The story is the same in every sport.
Just two years ago, a team just promoted from second division won the German
soccer championship! 

This movie depicts the glorious story of a bunch of outsiders and
underachievers who finally win some games. And it is told in such a
wonderful manner that you can't but root for them on their way out of the
slumps. Yes! It is a simple story! But the characters are wonderful, the
wisecracking Harry Doyle incredibly funny and the finals... well... no
spoilers here.

My most favorite moment is when oldtimer pitcher Harris is replaced by
Charlie Sheens character in the finals. In the first games of the season,
some die-hard fans had given Sheen the nickname "Wild thing" and sang the
famous song. Now, the whole crowd is chanting this song as Sheen steps onto
the field to pitch his largest enemy. This scene always gives me goosebumps.
It is splendid.

Many great moments, excellent humor and a fate you would wish for your
favorite sports team as well - unless you are one of those boring Yankees,
Bulls or Bayern Muenchen fans...
<|_=00=_|>

Over the years many times I have watched Major League and each time I enjoy
it. This film just seems better if you watch it during baseball season. The
cast and plot of this movie is just great. You have a bunch of misfits and
old-timers who come together and bring the Cleveland Indians out of many
years of a slump, and finally contend for an American League Pennant. The
movie has plenty of funny moments and mishaps that the characters do just to
make you laugh while at the same moment you cheer for the team in each game
of the season. Charlie Sheen is great he was perfectly cast as the pitcher.
Plus the cast of Wesley Snipes, James Gammon, Dennis Haysbert, Corbin
Bernsen, and Tom Berenger all worked very good together even Bob Uecker is a
joy as the Indians very funny play-by-play announcer. Major League is just
one of those movies when you watch it each time you enjoy it and you just
love to cheer for the underdog. If you are a baseball fan and love a little
comedy mixed with winning then Major League is a movie to watch many times.

<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie when it was released back in 1989 and I couldn't stop
laughing;  This movie was hilarious.  

It was very fitting, since the Cleveland Indians at the time were the
laughingsock of the Major Leagues and for years, they were stuck in the
realms of mediocrity or in last place year after year.

The cast was great; Led by Tom Berringer, and Margaret Whitton.  She played
the perfect villain in this movie.  You just wanted to hate her.  Charlie
Sheen, Corbin Bersen, along with 3 unknown actors at the time, Wesley
Snipes, Dennis Haysbert and Rene Russo.  Snipes was hilarious as Willie
"Mays" Hayes as well as Haysbert as Pedro Cerrano, the power hitter who
practices voodoo.  The cast was well rounded off with Checie Ross as Eddie
Harris, the aging religious pitcher, James Gammon, Charles Cypers and Bob
Uecker as "Harry Doyle".

There were many great one liners and hilarious scenes.  The American Express
commercial was classic and here's a couple of my favorite
scenes:

-Jake Taylor, Willie "Mays" Hayes and Ricky Vaughn are in a bar after a game
and discussing the long ball Vaughn gave up:

Taylor:  "It wasn't that bad"
Vaughn: "Oh yeah?  Name one park that ball couldn't have
left"
Taylor: "Yellowstone"
(All 3 laughing)

That scene was in the theater version and I've seen it in the trailers for
the movie, but it was deleted in the video version.  I'd like to know why,
because that was one of my favorite scenes.

-"Oh now you come around; But he isn't fooled"- Eddie Harris on seeing Pedro
Cerrano crossing himself.

Here's a few bits of trivia on the movie:

-Funny thing was seeing Pete Vukovich as Klu Haywood, a first baseman. 
Mainly because he was a pitcher in the Major Leagues.

-Catcher Jake Taylor wore #7.  This was the uniform number of longtime Los
Angeles Dodger catcher Steve Yeager, who was the technical advisor to this
movie and played 3rd Base Coach, "Duke Temple" (Fitting that Taylor wore his
number?).

-The movie was filmed in Milwaukee and 3 people affiliated with the Brewers
were featured:  Pete Vukovich, Bob Uecker (Brewers play-by -play man) and
pitcher Jerry Augustine (Duke Simms).

-Was it a coincedence that Miller and Lite Beer was used, since Bob Uecker
at the time was spokesman for the Miller Brewing Company?

This movie is one of the best sports movies around.  Getting the dvd is
worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the cleverest predictable movies of all time, and for my
taste the best baseball movie. A great cast, an underdog plot, and one
memorable choice after another by the writers and director make this a
valentine to the foot soldiers of our national pastime. (Remember, this
was 15 years ago.) 

The fabulous scoreboard, the hysterical radio play-by-play of Bob
Uecker, even the motley occupants of Cleveland sports bars are
irresistible hooks to reel us in, after we've been hooked by the motley
team of colorful has-beens and never-were's. If this is a formula, it's
the right one. I deeply love this movie, and regret not having seen it
in its theatrical run. (I've seen it a dozen times since.) I'm sure the
audience went wild during that climactic Yankees game! How about that
Dorn making a bunch of clutch plays! Didn't you love Cerrano carrying
his bat around the bases with him? Jake not dusting off, and pointing,
twice...man, I wish I'd been there.

Then there's the little insert, early in the story, about Jake's
fantasy of hitting the winning run out of the park. What happened
instead when the chips were really down? 

Okay, it isn't "poetry" -- it's more of a limerick, know what I mean?
Just start with three words: "There once was...." and finish it
yourself! I bet you'll finish with a big smile on your face!
<|_=00=_|>

This is easily my favorite movie of all-time.  Being a sports fan who
loves
comedies, you can't beat this flick.  This is one movie that I can watch
over and over without getting sick of it.  Definitely hilarious, the
one-liners are great.  The cast is solid as well.  Wesley Snipes, Tom
Berenger, Dennis Haysbert, Corbin Bernsen, Charlie Sheen and Bob Uecker
are
excellent in their roles.  I love how the film holds nothing back as
well,
unlike the sequel where the language and what not was toned down.

Is Major League predictable? I guess...but it is still a great movie.
Its a
***** movie in my opinion, plus it was filmed at the late MCS (Milwaukee
County Stadium) so that makes it even better!

<|_=00=_|>

I grew up in Strongsville Ohio and suffered through many bad Indians
teams in the 70's and 80's.  At the beginning of the movie it was great
seeing the pan view of downtown Cleveland.  Oh yes, the movie.......THE
INDIANS WIN IT! sums it up perfectly.  A million thanks to Tom
Berenger,
Wesley Snipes, Charlie Sheen and the rest of a great cast for making such
a
funny and heart-warming movie.  Thanks to you too, Euk, for giving that
line
its heart!  Give Cleveland a decent sports franchise and they will come
for
miles to support them.  Sold a few home games out at the Jake as you will
recall..........a few tough times have hit the Tribe lately but they're
coming back....With Mike Hargrove back that's a step in the right
direction.
Definitely watch this movie if you want to relax in the comfort and
safety
of a hilarious and nostalgic movie.   GO TRIBE!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Major League was six years too early in its prophecy for success for
the Cleveland Indians. I'm old enough to remember when they had a good
team back in the Fifties. When I was just a small kid, large Municipal
Stadium known without affection as mistake on the lake used to have
70,000 plus crowds because the Indians had such players as Bob Feller,
Lou Boudreau, Joe Gordon, and Satchel Paige. But when that team went
bad, the larger the stadium and they had the largest in baseball looked
all the more empty.

Terry Pluto wrote a book on the history of the Indians failure called
The Curse Of Colavito. In 1959 the Indians finished a respectable
second to the White Sox in the pennant race that year with Casey
Stengel's Yankees having an inexplicable bad season and a distant
third. Rocky Colavito led the American League in home runs and he was
the most popular fellow in Cleveland. He became one of a select group
of Major Leaguers that year to hit four home-runs in one game. And he
was traded to the Detroit Tigers for the batting champion, Harvey
Kuenn. It was never the same for Cleveland. 

Which takes us to the futile Indians of 1989 as futile in real life as
they start on screen. The team comes into the possession of a new owner
former showgirl Margaret Whitton. Her contract with the city specifies
that if the team attendance dips below 700,000 for the season, she can
move the team and she wants the warm sun of Miami instead of winters on
the Cuyahoga River.

Building a winning team in baseball is a lot harder than what you see
in Major League. But this collection of goofballs, misfits, and has
beens actually get mad enough and start winning.

Major League has a nice collection of players playing ballplayers like
veteran catcher Tom Berenger, narcissistic third baseman Corbin
Bernsen, juvenile delinquent rookie pitcher Charlie Sheen known as Wild
Thing for his lack of control, Wesley Snipes as center-fielder Willie
Mays Hayes and Dennis Haysbert as a Santeria observing power hitter. It
is the American League so Haysbert probably is the designated hitter.
My favorite in the film is veteran manager James Gammon who pulls this
collection together for a winning team.

Major League is a film for baseball and film fans it so nicely blends
the interests. As for the Cleveland Indians when Municipal Stadium
closed down and they got a new ballpark in Jacobs Field, they actually
won a couple of pennants in 1995 and 1997. Of course the process to
build the Indians wasn't half as entertaining as Major League is.
<|_=00=_|>

There have been some excellent baseball movies made from Field of Dreams to
The Pride of the Yankees, but no movie based on the national pastime can
ever claim to be as hysterically funny as Major League.  Granted, the value
of the original was hurt by the second and third attempts at re-creating the
atmosphere.  Those two films were an embarrassment to all
involved.

Major League, however, personified the attitude of "Nothing to lose".  Aside
from the easily identified woes of the Cleveland franchise of the
late-eighties, there were several actors in this film that had yet to hit
big or had started to fall from grace.  The incredibly strong language of
the movie only made it seem that much more realistic.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't care what anyone says this is by far the best baseball movie
ever made. Bull Durham was a bit too much of a chick flick to be a real
baseball fans movie of choice.

Major League isn't a movie that's going to solve world peace or
anything but if you want a light hearted, entertaining film that is
hysterically funny then you need to see this.

Charlie Sheen being a former high school pitcher who was able to get 85
mph on his fastball, which isn't as fast as characters 100 mph. But
close enough to with the way they film it to make it look believable as
being a real flame thrower. If they had someone who didn't have a
background in baseball they would've probably had to use a stunt double
for his pitching scenes, which would've sucked.
<|_=00=_|>
Major League holds up today not only as the rare sports-themed comedy
to balance goofiness and dynamic game atmospherics seamlessly, but also
as a fleeting reminder of baseball's last remnants of participatory
charm and gee-whiz curveball worship.

In the History of sports there's always been at least two baseball
films that has stood out above all the rest. For me it's Major League
and The Sandlot. Major League is truly a sports comedy classic. What
makes Major League such a winner is the many memorable scenes in the
film and characters. Charlie Sheen as "Wild Thing" Vaughn, I mean you
gotta love his bad boy character.

As funny as this movie is, it's the vulnerability of the three main
stars is really what makes the movie work.
