

This scary and rather gory adaptation of Stephen King's great novel features
outstanding central performances by Dale Midkiff,Fred Gwynne(who sadly died
few years ago)and Denise Crosby and some really gruesome gore
effects.Director Mary Lambert has a wonderful sense of  visual style,and
manages to make this one of the few  versions of King's work that is not
only worth seeing,but genuinely unnerving.The depiction of the zombie child
Gage(Miko Hughes-later in "New Nightmare")is equally noteworthy,as what
could easily have been a laughable character  is made menacing and spooky.As
for the people,who think that this one isn't scary-watch it alone in the
dark(eventually with your squeamish girlfriend)and I guarantee you that "Pet
Sematary" will creep you out.Some horror movies like this one or "The Texas
Chain Saw Massacre" shouldn't be watched in group.Recommended for horror
fans!
<|_=00=_|>

Pet Sematary is a very good horror film
and believe it or not somebody can make a good
horror film out of a Stephen King novel.
Mary Lambert does a great job with this
film and manages to bring across King's
creepy story pretty well. Most people may
avoid this, but they should check it out. 
<|_=00=_|>
The underlying idea in "Pet Sematary" seems to be that when people are
brought back from the dead, they have all their brains, but no souls.
Definitely a cool idea, but for some reason it is never expanded,
explained, or even mentioned. Theology aside, even the science of
what's going on is unclear. How come Timmy, when raised from the dead,
staggers around like your run-of-the-mill zombie, while little Gage
actually seems smarter and suddenly knows how to operate a telephone?
It's all very sloppily done. In fact, the only explanation at all for
why the cemetery does what it does is that the ground is "sour." Sorry,
but that doesn't really cut it for me. If the movie had focused more on
the mystery of the cemetery, it would have been a fantastic thriller.
Unfortunately, it ditches the interesting stuff, and instead turns into
a "Tales of the Crypt" episode about a crazy toddler with a knife.

Of course, there's still a lot to like about this movie. If it's main
intention is to scare you, it certainly does it's job. The scene with
Zelda is one of the scariest things I've ever seen, and the death of
Gage is very upsetting and hard to watch. The mysterious Judd is
arguably one of the coolest movie characters of all time (and to be
honest, I was so upset when he died, I completely lost interest in the
rest). And while at first it seems a bit odd for a zombie with half his
head missing to be the comic relief, somehow it works. But even though
it has its good parts, not nearly enough attention is given to the
intriguing premise, and it ultimately turns into a cheesy spook story.
Too bad, because it could have been a lot more.
<|_=00=_|>

I am a big fan of Stephen King's work, and this film has made me an even
greater fan of King. Pet Sematary is about the Creed family. They have
just
moved into a new house, and they seem happy. But there is a pet cemetery
behind their house. The Creed's new neighbor Jud (played by Fred Gwyne)
explains the burial ground behind the pet cemetery. That burial ground is
pure evil. Jud tells Louis Creed that when you bury a human being (or any
kind of pet) up in the burial ground, they would come back to life. The
only
problem, is that when they come back, they are NOT the same person,
they're
evil. Soon after Jud explains everything about the Pet Sematary,
everything
starts to go to hell. I wont explain anymore because I don't want to give
away some of the main parts in the film. The acting that Pet Sematary had
was pretty good, but needed a little bit of work. The story was one of the
main parts of this movie, mainly because it was so original and gripping.
This film features lots of make-up effects that make the movie way more
eerie, and frightening. One of the most basic reasons why this movie sent
chills up my back, was in fact the make-up effects. There is one character
in this film that is truly freaky. That character is "Zelda." This
particular character pops up in the film about three times to be precise.
Zelda is Rachel Creed's sister who passed away years before, but Rachel is
still haunted by her. The first time Zelda appears in the movie isn't
generally scary because she isn't talking or anything, but the second time
is the worst, and to be honest, the second time scares the living **** out
of me. There is absolutely nothing wrong with this movie, it is almost
perfect. Pet Sematary delivers great scares, some pretty good acting,
first
rate plot, and mesmerizing make-up. This is truly one of most favorite
horror films of all time. 10 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
In the trivia section for Pet Sematary, it mentions that George Romero
(director of two Stephen King stories, Creepshow and The Dark Half) was
set to direct and then pulled out. One wonders what he would've brought
to the film, as the director Mary Lambert, while not really a bad
director, doesn't really bring that much imagination to this adaptation
of King's novel, of which he wrote the screenplay. There are of course
some very effective, grotesquely surreal scenes (mainly involving the
sister Zelda, likely more of a creep-out for kids if they see the
film), and the casting in some of the roles is dead-perfect. But
something feels missing at times, some sort of style that could
correspond with the unmistakably King-like atmosphere, which is in this
case about as morbid as you're going to get without incestuous
cannibals rising from the graves being thrown in (who knows if he'll
save that for his final novel...) 

As mentioned though, some of the casting is terrific, notably Miko
Hughes as Gage Creed, the little boy who goes from being one of the
cutest little kids this side of an 80's horror movie, to being a little
monster (I say that as a compliment, of course, especially in scenes
brandishing a certain scalpel). And there is also a juicy supporting
role for Fred Gwynne of the Munsters, who plays this old, secretive man
with the right notes of under-playing and doom in tone. And applause
goes to whomever did the make-up on Andrew Hubatsek. But there are some
other flaws though in the other casting; Dale Midkiff is good, not
great, as the conflicted, disturbed father figure Creed, and his
daughter Ellie is played by an actress that just didn't work for me at
all.

In terms of setting up some chilling set-pieces, only a couple really
stand-out: a certain plot-thickening moment (not to spoil, it does
involve a cool Ramones song), and the first visit to the pet sematary
(the bigger one), including the sort of mystical overtones King had in
the Shining. For the most part it's a very polished directing job,
though it could've been made even darker to correspond with the script.
If thought out in logical terms (albeit in King terms) it is really one
of his more effective works of the period. But it doesn't add up like
it could, or should. Still, it makes for a nifty little midnight movie.
<|_=00=_|>
As this happens to be one of most favorite novels , I was very excited
to see the move. I was not disappointed! Yes of course there are a few
things that I could pick on , but I think that the movie stuck true to
the book, and was a really good movie. It seems that Stephen King films
mostly get a bad review , but this is one of the good ones. It is such
a dark story , which I guess is why I like it .. and what is better
than the dead coming to life.. and something about animals returning
from the grave is quite creepy too. If you have seen the movie do
yourself a huge favor and now read the book!! It is a well written
screen play , the actors could have done a better job ( I only say this
for Rachel , and Ellie .. she was so whinny ) I liked everyone else a
lot.. and most important to me .. it stuck true with the novel.
<|_=00=_|>
Pet Semetary (1989) 9/10 The Creed family have just moved into the
small town of Ludlow. The family consists of a father, Louis, a mother,
Rachel, a brother Gage, and a daughter, Ellen. They are greeted with
kindness by Jud Crandall. Jud is 89, and could basically tell you about
the entire history of Ludlow.

Behind the Creed's new house, there is a path leading to a pet cemetery
(spelled pet sematary). When Ellen wants to go up to see it, Jud
willfully takes the family on a trip. That is the start of hell for the
Creed family.

When Rachel and the kids are gone, Ellen's cat Church dies. Jud feels
that Ellen isn't ready for the death of her cat, so he suggests Louis
follow him further up the path, past the pet cemetery.

Jud tells Louis of this burial ground, once used by Micmac Indians.
Louis buries Church, without Jud's help. A couple of days later, Church
returns, alive, but from hell.

This movie was one of two horror movies that could actually scare me,
aside from "The Exorcist." The greatest performance would ever be
Zelda, Rachel's sister with spinal meningitis, or Victor Pascow, a
ghost who tries to help the Creeds from making the mistake of bringing
back things from the dead.

The music in this movie plays an extravagant part. It is at the same
time sad and mysterious. It goes along with the movie wonderfully.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Louis Creed, a doctor from Chicago, moves to a large house near a small
town, since he is going to be giving classes in the University of
Maine's. Along with him, is his wife Rachel and their two kids, Ellie
and Gage,as well as Ellie's cat, Church. Soon, they met their new
neighbor,and old man named Judd Crandall.Judd not only warns Louis and
Rachel about the danger that is the highway that runs past their
house(that is constantly a way used by big trucks) but also show to the
family a pet cemetery that is located near their house. Judd starts to
talk about the importance of the pet cemetery, but Rachel is against to
talk about death and spirituality with her children, since she has
traumas from her sister Zelda's death.

During the first week of the family in the new house, Louis already has
dead people to deal with: Victor Pascow, a student who has been fatally
injured in an automobile accident, addresses his dying words to Louis
personally, even though the two men are strangers. On the night
following Pascow's death, Louis experiences what he believes is a very
vivid dream in which he meets Pascow, who leads him to the pet cemetery
and warns Louis to not "go beyond, no matter how much you feel you need
to." Louis wakes up in bed the next morning convinced it was only a
dream, until he discovers his feet and the bedsheets covered with dirt
and pine needles. Anyway, he dismisses the dream. Many strange things
starts to happen and Church, Ellie's cat, dies while walking on the
highway. Louis stays worried in how he is going to talk about Church's
death with Ellie, but Judd, sympathizing with him, Jud takes Louis to
the pet cemetery, supposedly to bury Church. But instead of stopping
there, Jud leads Louis farther on a frightening journey to "the real
cemetery": an ancient burial ground that was once used by the Micmac
('...Indians...'). There Louis buries the cat on Jud's instruction,
with Jud saying that animals buried there have come back to life. And
that is where the real horror story begins...

I personally find this movie very good. It's not THE most horrifying of
all, but it is one of the best horror movies I watched. The way Gage
dies, is almost impossible to not stay in your memory, specially being
a toddler. It's cool to see Stephen King's cameo as the minister of the
funeral.

Of course, there are some script errors: How can a rich doctor with two
small kids, goes to live in a place where there is a dangerous highway
near his house? How Gage has no scratches or anything after being hit
by a truck? Why Louis continues to resurrect every member of his family
knowing they are all going to stay like monsters? Things like that
doesn't make any sense, but I can understand that all horror's scripts
needs to have some surreal ideas to work.

A good thing I saw in this movie, is the necessity to talk about death
with the children, no matter what is your religion or if you are an
atheist, and also that avoiding important subjects doesn't help
anything. Because of Louis being afraid to be honest with Ellie,
confronting her and saying that her cat wouldn't be back again, all the
nightmare began.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the best (if not the best) Stephen King's screenings. Dark as dark
can be, surprising non-hollywood ending, terrifying atmosphere, amazing book
adaptation, outstanding cast, educational (don't play with afterlife), in
short - everything an excellent horror should be...

My favorite horror movie, straight 10+.
<|_=00=_|>
Dale Midkiff and Denise Crosby move to Maine with their two small
children and cat in a big house on a highway with lots of truck
traffic. Close at hand...is a pet cemetery where all the dogs and cats
killed on the road are buried. Neighbor Fred Gwynne shows another
cemetery with incredible powers just beyond...the power to reanimate
the dead. Trouble is the dead are nothing like they once were. Although
I have not read the book by Stephen King, he did write the screenplay
and must have remained relatively faithful to his own work. The film
has many flaws but is also worthwhile. Coincidence and some muddled
flashbacks from the past help make the script somewhat erratic and
implausible. The acting in the leads is OK, but in the second half
really deteriorates. Fred Gwynne is literally and figuratively a cut
above the rest. He gives a heartfelt performance as a man run down with
time and over-burdened with knowledge he should or would not have. Brad
Greenquist is also good in his role as a ghost. His character also
causes some believability factors. Director Mary Lambert does do some
things rather nicely. There are some well-shot scenes of the
cemeteries. The peril of the trucks is made very real, and she also
relies heavily on human emotion that is universal. At its heart, Pet
Semetary is about loss, coping with loss, and grief, and what are some
of the effects of not coping with those things well. The film has many
suspenseful moments, and although the ending became a bit tiresome -
still manages to keeps its mood and message throughout. Author Stephen
King has an interesting cameo as a preacher!
