

I recently remembered seeing this film when I was much younger and liking
it.  When I checked it out on IMDb, I was quite disturbed.  Why in the
world
would I like this weird, arm wrestling movie with Sylvester Stallone?  So I
rented it again to see why I had liked it as a kid or to see if I had been
delirious when I first saw it.  The strange thing is, even though it is not
at all my type of movie, I still really enjoyed it.  I've heard that the
kid
is a bad actor and all, but I really don't think he is.  Maybe I'm still
delirious, but I thought the movie was pretty darn heart warming.

<|_=00=_|>
This movie embodies all that I find amazing in a movie. Passion: about
a son, a truck, and, of course, arm-wrestling. Sly Stallone deserves an
exponentially increased amount of respect for writing this masterpiece.
I don't understand how someone can watch this movie and fail to be
entertained by the compelling plot and characters.

As a movie from the 80s, Over the Top pretty much represents everything
good about the decade. Other than perhaps Rocky IV, this is definitely
Stallone's best work. The man is unquestionably a genius. The only part
of the movie that is a little far-fetched is when Stallone plows
through his father-in-law's gates in a moment of pure man-passion. The
unrealistic quality of this scene is obviously the lack of explosion
when Stallone's truck hits the gates. This is also an anomaly of the
80s; I think Stallone was going for something unique in a decade of
decadence, but I can only hope to comprehend the motives behind any of
his films.

I would highly recommend Over the Top for anyone who enjoys classy
film.
<|_=00=_|>

Some LOVE this movie. I do. I LOVE the soundtrack. You'll see a million
posts from "critics" on here who will look down their nose at this flick.
Do
you like a movie? WATCH IT! Forget what these morons say about bad
cinematography, etc. Movie-makers create films for one reason -- viewers'
pleasure (which brings money). Great 80's movie. Period.
<|_=00=_|>
I find every movie of Silvester Stallone very inspiring no matter what
the critics may say. Maybe because he is the brightest example of a man
who reached so much in his life. I am not a truck driver. I am a judge.
But I can tell right after the first few minutes of the film how much
Mr Stallone got into his character. He is even driving with the
gestures of a real truck driver.

I think it takes too much to be an actor of his value, to go deep into
his character and to drive a huge truck. And again there comes the idea
of physical strength and stamina.

Which I find very inspiring. Not drugs, bad language and manours.
Training the body and the mind. Silvester Stallone is one of my
inspirations to deal with sports. And I have done it for over a decade
now.
<|_=00=_|>

I read one comment that said this movie is boring and lifeless which is a
false statement.  This movie is classic Sylvester Stallone and if you
enjoyed the Rocky series you will enjoy this also.  There are not many
movies out there about arm wrestling but this movie does a great job and
who
better to star in the role but Stallone.  Their might be some things in
this
movie that are stupid but it is the kind of stupid you laugh at.  Also
the
names in this movie are great also, and it is just like a Stallone movie
to
have great names, but Lincoln Hawk is a great name.  Underdog movies like
this are great to watch and no one does them better than Stallone.  The
names and the one liners definetly make this movie worth watching. "When
I
turn the hat around its like a switch."
<|_=00=_|>

This film is all about the thrill of seeing Stallone reveal his more
'sensitive' side. Not to mention the great scenes where he works out the
rippling biceps of his 'wrestling arm' using an ingenious hand-weight
pulley
system in the cab of his truck. Sure it's cheesy, but this film does what
any good 80s movie should. The part where he turns his cap backwards
before
a wrestling match is a highlight, symbolising some kind of metamorphosis
from sensitive dad to macho man. What a great flick!
<|_=00=_|>
Well... I will start by saying that I realize that every movie is not
for everyone. That being said, I will say this movie is very much to my
liking, I watched this movie in the theater when it was new with my
family...we all liked it then & My brothers & I still do to this day.
Some of this could be due to the fact that our father was a truck
driver & my older brother is a truck driver now as well. Add to that
the fact that this is a Stallone movie + having to do with the sport of
arm wrestling & you have a winner in my book. Yes I will admit that you
know ahead of time what is going to happen in the end, but to me that
doesn't take away from the enjoyment of this film (atleast for myself)
It also has very touching moments thru out the movie. When Mike's
Mother/Stallones x wife in the movie is found to have passed away, wile
Lincoln Hawk(Stallone) & his son Mike were on the way to see her still
gives me moist eyes every time as well as other situations during the
film. Plus the very cool classic Stallone lines that stick in my head
to this day.... "The world meets nobody halfway Mike"...& "You've gotta
do what's best for you"....& the "I'm thru talking" response to Mr.
Cutler's body guard just to name a few. Yes the movie has the same
concept as the Rocky films & the Rambo films with the underdog winning
in the end, but come on now who want's to go to the movies & see the
hero of the film come up just short in the end. The movie has a good
soundtrack as well with Kenny Loggins doing a few of them...Over all it
is a simple movie but a great movie, I am looking for it on DVD
<|_=00=_|>

I grew up on this movie. This is the first movie I ever recall watching.
My
grandpa has his own Tractor-Trailer and I always went with him on road
trips, so I instantly fell in love with this movie when I saw the truck.
Even though it's an old, beaten up, disgusting truck, I would have to say
it
looks pretty sweet. Lincoln Hawk, played by Sylvester Stallone, is a
independent trucker just trying to put his life back together. He realized
he made mistakes, and tries to reconcile with his son that he abandoned
years earlier. When the boy's grandfather offers Hawk the offer of a life
time, and Hawk refuses....it's very clear to him, that he has no other
choice but to win, and the determination really shows. Sly acts a bit
uninterested in this movie...you can see it in his eyes. Every now and
then
you can catch his wandering off and not paying attention. If you watch
closely, some of the extras often keep there eyes on the camera, and Sly
will look at them. Pretty good movie, could have been better, but it's a
for
sure movie to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to dislike Over The Top. Sure, it can get corny,
old-fashioned, far-fetched (the gate-crashing scene, fun and
unbelievable.) The movie sorta plays like a cross between Highway to
Heaven and THe A-Team. But somehow, you find yourself watching despite
whatever 'good judgment' you think you might have regarding the cinema.
You get swept up in the film's good vibes. You care about what happens
to Hawke and his son. Most of the credit for this has to go to
Sylvester Stallone. He plays the part of a truck driver coping with the
new experience of getting to know his twelve-year-old son for the first
time quite well. You care because you sense how much HE cares. it is
conveyed by a sure delivery from Stallone. His character never seems
too slight or well, too Over the top. There is a bond that slowly forms
between him and his son. And the movie has a great "training" montage
complete with great song that will remind you of what was so good about
the Rocky films. David Mendenhall agreeably plays the part of Mike with
the combination of distrust, arrogance and vulnerability you would
expect from someone his age who went thru what he did.. No, he's not
Haley Joel Osmont. We won't leave the movie shaking our heads at his
incredible,precocious talent. That doesn't mean he didn't acquit
himself nicely in the film. Robert Loggia's role could have been
fleshed out a little more. He seems to much like a comic-strip villain.
The film could have delved more into his reasons for hating Hawke. that
part could have been beefed up a bit. 

I enjoyed the Arm-wrestling backdrop. It was a refreshing change for
movies of that era that boasted big stars like Stallone. Usually,
movies that were sport-specific other than the trad football, baseball,
or boxing stories tended to use people who were less known (Gotcha,
Gleaning the Cube)

A good film. warm, funny, exciting. The better face of the Eighties
cinema.
<|_=00=_|>

Good choice of work for Sly - a trucker. Something 'masculine', on the move.
He wrangles with his father-in-law for custody of his son, who thought his
dad (Sly) disowned him. To the contrary, grandfather didn't want the boy
associating with Sly because he was'nt 'of money' like grandfather was. When
Sly's former wife dies of cancer, (Susan Blakely again), Sly sees it as a
'sign' to take his responsibility seriously & raise his son the only way he
knows how - take him on the road with him, teach him not to be a spoiled
brat all his life, live a little! At first, his son rejects him totally. But
later on when he finds out the truth about his dad, he decides he WANTS to
be with him. 

Yes, the veritable 'macho-sport of arm-wrestling' is thrown in as a way to
win big money quick & show-off Sly's ever-bulging muscles. But hey! What's a
Sly-film without muscles?? See this one for family entertainment. Sly might
be a bit 'wooden' with some of his lines, but the action scenes are
typically Sly!

