

The problem with Woody has always been that everyone takes his movies more
seriously than he does. Here, using the tactics of Felini, he makes fools of
his detractors including the greatest detractor of all, Woody himself. For
many reasons, I rank this among his best. He removes the restraint of plot,
and just goes balls out nuts with his usual philosophical angst, and endless
worship of beautiful dames. Oddly enough, without the fetters of convention,
to me it was actually less pretentious or indulgent I think people like to
call it, and a lot easier to understand and empathize with. One thing that
I've always found absurd, and ironically what this film dwells on, is the
complaints by fans and critics that he should go back to making comedies.
Woody cannot not make a funny movie. If he's in it, and he's talking, I'm
laughing. Especially back in this era, when his jokes were so fresh. So make
no mistake, this film is loaded with comedy. Finally, I liked his choice of
women in this. Charlotte Rampling is what I suppose the word breathtaking
was originally meant to describe. If you arent touched by the final scenes
with her, you got issues. 
<|_=00=_|>
I was very surprised to find out that Stardust Memories is dismissed by
both critics (at least some of them) and viewers as absolutely
unwatchable Allen's film, his most chaotic attempt to claim that he can
not stand his fans. I found it insightful and witty satire that
cleverly (as always; if anything, Woody is a very clever man) fuses the
comic and the serious.

Sandy Bates (Allen, of course) - a comic director who does not want to
make funny films anymore "because there is so much suffering in the
world" (the scene reminds so much of Sturgis's "Sullivan's Travels").
Sandy is depressed because his new "serious" film is not well received
by both critics and public and he is spending a weekend at Stardust
Hotel during showing of his films. While there, he reflects upon his
life, art, and relationships with three different women. Sounds
familiar? Like 8 1/2, anyone? You are absolutely right. Woody meets
Federico in the Stardust Hotel. The film is delight in gorgeous black
and white. It is funny, touching, angry - all in the same time. The
film was made twenty four years ago and I am very happy that Sandy -
Woody had realized that to help the world IS to do what you do the best
- funny movies. "The people survived because they laughed".

One more thing - Charlotte Rampling is breathtaking.

9.5/10
<|_=00=_|>

Reading some of the comments listed here, I'm dismayed by some of the
narrowness of the criticisms ("It's shot in black & white for no reason!" 
"The flashbacks are indistinguishable from the present day!")... as if these
were somehow to be construed as mistakes.  Jeez.

I love this film.  It rambles a little here and there, and sometimes it's so
personal I feel voyeuristic watching it.  The montage of Charlotte Rampling
towards the end is stunning in how it summarizes Allen's feelings about
memory, nostalgia, and the ever-present reality that never seems to allow
the past to make sense.

One cannot deny that Allen has a very keen understanding of who he is, as a
person, comedian, and lover.  This is not to say that he is infallible or
somehow more evolved than anyone else, but rather - through the
retrospective of his "earlier funny films" - it's clear that he understands
his strengths, and - outside the theatre - the weaknesses of his emotional
life.

A perfect film for a quiet Sunday.
<|_=00=_|>

While this film doesn't get the praise and respect of, say, "Annie Hall"
or
"Manhattan," I think it is a brilliant look into the mind of a film
director.  How much of Woody Allen is Sandy Bates?  Some, I'm sure, but I
think it's more interesting to compare Sandy to Woody Allen's
"persona"--that is, who the public thinks he is.

The structure of the film is also quite interesting to me.  Allen had done
a
very non-linear story structure, mixed with occasional flights of fantasy,
in "Annie Hall," but "Stardust Memories" does that and piles on a movie
within a movie within a movie, and manages to both comment on all that, at
the same time  as he's telling the story of the brilliant, but
self-absorbed
Sandy Bates.

A great movie, that you probably should see more than once to
appreciate.
<|_=00=_|>

It seems that Stardust Memories does not get the credit that it truly
deserves. Everyone has such distaste for this film because they thought
that
this was an autobiography and it was Woody's attack on his fans/critics.
Woody himself has said many times that this is not the case, but even if
it
were, I believe that the fans/critics deserve to be lowered down a peg.
After all, Woody's interpretation of his fans (via Fellini's style of
awkward and hilarious faces) is valid. Fans and critics alike should never
have verbally abused him so much after the release of Interiors (1978).
Why
should directors be type-casted? Let him have his freedom! After all,
Interiors wasn't such a bad movie. It was different, but not bad. Stardust
Memories has also been accused of Woody's most self-indulgent film, but
this
is an outrage. All of Woody's films have something to do with his personal
life, but if he had casted someone like John Cusack as Sandy Bates, then
everyone would have stopped complaining about it's self-indulgence and
start
understanding how much of a creative genius Woody Allen is. Overall,
Stardust Memories will be one of his films that lasts; but only time will
tell.
<|_=00=_|>

Only a filmmaking genius like Woody Allen could bring such viable characters
to the screen with such life and perception.  Allen (who also scripted) is
Sandy Bates, an acclaimed, world-reknowned director who attends a weekend
festival honoring his works.  When he's not being bombarded by mobs of
autograph hounds and PR people, he takes time to reflect on himself and the
three diverse women in his life: drug-abusing actress Dorrie (Charlotte
Rampling), wistful violinist Daisy (Jessica Harper, who also appeared in
Allen's "Love and Death" (1975)) and French housewife Isobel (Academy
Award-nominee Marie-Christine Barrault).  Loaded with the crisp dialogue
that we've come to expect from Allen (Best line: "I would trade that Oscar
for one more second of life"), "Stardust Memories" is noticably one of
Allen's most personal films.  Also, what makes "SM" unlike his other works,
where his characters do a lot of interacting, the film's focus is mainly on
Allen (most beautifully) interacting with himself mentally.  Sharon Stone
has a bit part in the beginning as a train passenger.  Gordon Willis'
cinematography is gorgeous.  ***1/2 of ****.
<|_=00=_|>

In my opinion, Stardust Memories is Allen's greatest achievement. The film
perceptively explores the relationships between art and reality, between the
artist and his work, between the work and its consumers. Beyond its
philosophic concerns though, this is also an incredibly funny film. There
are more genuinely funny moments within this serious film than in many of
Allen's earlier pure comedies. It skewers the movie industry, the
movie-going public, Allen's own earlier work, Allen's present insecurities
(surprise!), and a number of other targets. Intelligent, thought provoking,
and at times hilarious, this film is an overlooked gem in the Allen
canon.
<|_=00=_|>

Contrary to popular and critical opinion, this is Woody Allen's Best film.
Yes, better than Manhattan or Annie Hall and all the others (about 30 i
think). It is his best film because it is his most truthful, and it's
angry.
Critics dont like it because it attacks critics. But it is inventive,
brillantly imaginative and purely cinematic, the narrative is almost
non-existent and the film is really feelings put onto celluloid, in this
sense it is a very PURE film, and probably autobiographical. Although no
doubt Allen would deny this! I love the off-beat characters , and its also
a
very atmospheric film. I have seen about 25 Woody Allen films and think
this
is the most honest of them all.
<|_=00=_|>
...and, in Sandy Bates, the lead of his satire on celebrity, loves, and
his usual themes of turmoil over life and death, is a sense that Woody
Allen is doing one of two things (or both perhaps)- taking from his own
life and thinly disguising characters and situations, or using his own
public image in film's culture to look through the looking glass
slightly at some of his popular themes. This is not to say that the
film is one of his very best. I could see what Allen was doing, for
example, with the scenes and instances of tipping the hat to Fellini
and his masterwork 8 1/2- the two films share that common thread of an
artist in an overall funk of bittersweet memories and creative
confusion. But while Fellini made his film out of a burning need to
reveal all of his love for cinema out of his angst(s) after La Dolce
Vita, Allen's track record shows that he's near incapable of waiting
around too long to make a film (he's averaged nearly a film a year in
37 years up till 2003) so much of what comes forth in Stardust Memories
isn't as much autobiographical as it is told through a character
filtered with and not with himself. In short, a lot of the 8 1/2 dues
were my least favorite parts in the movie (though I did like the quick
Superman-type mementos).

But does that make Stardust Memories a failure, pretentious? Not to my
point of view- once Allen starts the story rolling, and he gets his
characters/actors into the gist of the film, it goes along like most
other Allen films involving phobias, fears, loves (women), and
sophisticated sense of varied parody. There are moments that Allen's
stand-up act is injected into the mix, or a scene that could've been a
chapter from one of his books, but mostly the audience gets the sense
of his OWN love of cinema via Sandy Bates. Bates is another one of
those Woody characters that seems all the more impressively formed and
executed since it feels like the Woody we know, but Bates is just a
little more on the edge of satire, viewing into his own self-doubts and
trying to see if there can be any hope or meaning to it all- or if he
can tell funny jokes. 

The script contains some of the most memorable moments of Allen's
career in one-liners (there are a few from the fans and
autograph-hounds that stick out) and in having a natural flow, close to
a type of poetry, in the conversations and dialog in the film. Even if
one doesn't laugh, it definitely shows the work of a wonderful writer
at the peak of his game. His direction is also intrinsically
interesting, especially how he uses the unique, dark, and evoking
cinematography by the great Gordon Willis, and the unusual editing
stylizing by Susan Morse (though, once again, some of these editing
tricks are to Fellini's credit). And the performances work well enough
for the material, more often than not, with Charlotte Rampling as
Dorrie, Bates' wonderfully stressed ex-girlfriend, Marie-Christine
Barrault as Isobel, an old friend who left her husband for him, Jessica
Harper as Daisy, whom he falls head over heels for while she and her
professor-boyfriend are at the Stardust attending Bates' appearance(s),
and Tony Roberts, who had a worthy supporting role in Annie Hall, pops
up here as well.

I can recommend Stardust Memories for Woody Allen's main fan base, as
it gives those who love his early films and his films that have more
mature subject matter a bit of a (delightful) challenge. I don't know
if I could recommend it however, as the very first film someone could
see if the person wants to start of his films. There is an amusing
quality to it that could give non-Woody fans a second thought about the
filmmaker's work, but it's hard to say. It's not an altogether easy
film to watch, or is it a masterwork like Manhattan. By the end of it,
never-the-less, my time was not the least wasted, I knew I saw some
ingenious scenes and jokes here and there, and there was a subtlety to
it that has me liking it and responding more to it on repeat viewings.
Is it homage? Sure, but it's a blend of homage (or as Roberts says
"ripping it off") and a personal, nearly original style, and it ends
up, on a repeat viewing, a major work. 9.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is, i would say, not only woody allen's greatest movie, it is also
my favourite film ever, by anyone. i've gotten more from this film
every time I've watched it, over the years - which is many times - &
i've found something different & new on each occasion.

This glowing recommendation doesn't, by the way, mean i am a rabidly
undiscerning woody allen fanatic. i don't think he's made even a decent
film since deconstructing harry - another great film inexplicably
reviled upon its release - & the 'early, funny' films i have always
found dull & juvenile.

What is great about woody allen - & this is still what the majority of
the critics seem invariably to miss - is that only Chaplin before him
mixed tragedy, comedy & pathos so perfectly (leading to the maxim in
the movie industry that 'only woody can do woody'). It is this that is
Allen's great gift, all his most perfect films are aglow with this
sublime anomaly, & it is these films that people will still be watching
fifty or a hundred years from now.

For the record, the films you really & truly need to see by woody allen
are these:

Annie Hall. Stardust Memories. Manhattan. Hannah & Her Sisters. Crimes
& Misdemeanours. Deconstructing Harry.

Zelig is good too, if a little slight, as is Broadway Danny Rose. of
the earlier, "funny" films, Sleeper & Love And Death are by far the
best. And of the films he directed but not appear, Sweet & Lowdown is
probably the best, though Purple Rose of Cairo also deserves an
honourable mention.

This film, Stardust Memories, will haunt you, enrich & nourish your
life for years to come.

Check it out! And tell your friends!
