
I found this movie in a video store shelf when I was 14. At the time,
this movie was phenomenal. This movie gives you a very nostalgic feel
of what the 1980's would be like in Miami. I am a very big 80's buff so
this was a definite for my collection. I am very pleased to see they
released it on DVD. What really makes this movie neat is that at the
time, almost all of the actors were unknown, with the exception of
James Remar. This movie is based upon the many programs that were
employed to straighten up troubled minors and make them realize the
value of life. Unfortunately, many of those programs were cut because
of mismanagement, lack of funding, or were bogus boot camps run by
abusive individuals. I do believe with the right people, a program like
this can work, and that is what this movie portrays. Although this plot
is fictional, it still leaves you with that feeling of "Wouldn't it be
great if this actually worked". This movie was one of the first '80's
films I can recall to touch racism, drug trafficking, assault weapons,
gang warfare, and the effect it had on the youth at the time and put a
positive spin on the outcome. One more thing, Bob Dylan and the
Heartbreaker's (from Tom Petty) recorded a song for this movie
specifically that cannot be found anywhere else. It is called "Hell
Time" and it is pretty awesome. The rest of the soundtrack could use
some work as they did not include Mr. Mister or Prince. If you enjoyed
the Miami Vice series or if your a big action packed '80's buff, I
highly recommend this movie whether you rent it once or add it to your
collection as I did.
<|_=00=_|>

The people who rag on BAND were probably the same who bought Don
Johnson sport coats in the 80s and are now ashamed.  You trendy-then
now-pretentious fools, it's not supposed to be freakin' Shakespeare!
BAND
is a stylish 80s flick with plenty of heart, action and coolness.  It's
the
ultimate fantasy for 15-year-olds.  Five troubled 'yoots' are sent to an
experimental last-chance program in the Everglades run by Joe, a
mysterious
Miccosukee Indian/Nam Era elite commando.  (See?  Already off to a good
start)!  Joes lays it down:  learn to live in this wilderness or
die.
The 2nd half of the movie (and 'program') takes place in a Miami
ghetto
run by local drug lord LARRY Fishburne, replete with cute lil' lines
buzzed
in the sides of his high-top fade.  (There's also an underaged Lauren
Holly
to consider, long before that drooling idiot Carey came and went).

War ensues in the hood as Joe trains the yoots to fight.  Purists
and
prudes can shove it...when Dorcey's machine gun lights up the street from
the roof of the feel-good 80s pastel renovated crackhouse it's a spinal
moment.  The characters don't have to be 'deep' cause they're all the way
likable and automatic gold star for the guest appearance of a vulcan
cannon
(aka "that's a goddam minigun!")  If you don't dig this flick, YOU'RE OUT
OF
MIAMI!
<|_=00=_|>

When I was a kid, I used to watch BAND OF THE HAND all the time because it
always came on HBO.  I know it's a cheesie movie, but there's something
about it that makes it cool.  Is it the fact that Bob Dylan sings the
theme
song? Is it future star Laurence Fishburne in an embarrassing pre-fame
role
as a drug lord?  Or is it the cool shootout's on the playground and the
drug
factory?  Whatever the case, it's a neat nostalgic piece from the
Reagan-era
anti-drug Zeitgeist, and it just equals cool.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of those movies that you had to see when it first came out.  It
also helps I think if you were the same age as the kids in the movie.  The
locations were magnificent.  And some of the performances were not too
shabby either I might add.  This was an atypical 80's movie, set in Florida
(do you think that a Miami Vice relation was intentional?).  When I was a
kid I loved this movie, and upon watching it again recently, I didn't even
remember how cheesy it was.  I just remembered these 5 deadbeat kids, forced
to work as a group to survive, and everyone thinking that it would never
work.  Even now that I've seen it and know how cheesy it is, I still just
remember it the way I used too.
<|_=00=_|>

For my brother, "Billy Jack" was the film that was low budget, cheezy and
darn good when it came to telling a story you really WANTED to hear.  For
me, it was "Band of the Hand."

Though I was in the ultimate conservative environment (1st school after
Marine Boot Camp), I couldn't help but love the melding of "the
establishment" and a bunch of kids who were definitely from the "wrong
side
of the tracks."  Most important, it let someone show some teens that they
could make a difference, even if the method might have been a bit
much.

One more thing:  Lauran Holly may have been "eye candy" for the movie but
she DID have a powerful albeit limited role, and that impression has
positively affected my opinion of her in later roles.  James Remar (you
ladies know him from Sex and the City) did a good psycho role as
well.
<|_=00=_|>
Good story, good acting, good music. Oh, and it's freakin' hilarious. I
first saw this movie as a kid with friends and we loved it for the
hilarious lines and characters. Now as i watch it at age 24 i still
love it. Its one of those movies that has so much unintentional comedy
that its such a pleasure to watch. 

And the cast isn't to shabby either. You can even find Lawrence
Fishburn, credited as Larry Fishburn, playing a coke peddling pimp. I
highly recommend this film.

And if for nothing else, watch this movie to see Lauren Holly attempt
to pronounce "brujeria."

"I keep askin', where's the facility?" - Ruben Pacheco
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is just THE BEST. It's absolutely hilarious - a total knock
off of Miami Vice. I found it on VHS tape at a thrift shop and gave it
a go. I had forgotten how many up and coming BIG name actors were in
this.

James Remar makes an excellent villain. A young Laurence Fishburne is
also very good as a Little Haiti drug dealer. Lauren Holly is also
great in an early role as Nikki, lover of BOTH member Carlos.

The first half of the film as the Band train with Joe in the
Everglades, learning how to survive is done very well, with the Band
naturally complaining about everything at first but slowly and surely
adapting. The final big battle at a Miami dope farm after Joe's death
is great as well, where the Band of The Hansd finally put all their
experience with their mentor to the test.

The film is, in short, great. Not excellent, but great, and I strongly
recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>

This is such a wonderfully dorky, cheesy movie. I have always liked it, and
I've watched it many times.  I love the clothes, the soundtrack, the
hairstyles, everything.  The story is pure crap, but I enjoy it
nonetheless.
Perhaps the best part of all is the actors who've achieved so much since
then: a pre-Matrix Laurence Fishburne, a pre-Jim Carrey Lauren Holly, and
best of all, a pre-Hedwig John Cameron Mitchell!  Who could have imagined
that cute little silent Crazy would grow into the singing, song writing
victim of a botched sex-change operation?  Not I.  It just makes Band of
the
Hand more fun.  And was there ever a cooler Indian than Joe?  I think not.
My siblings and I giggle like mad whenever he appears on
screen.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't really give this film much thought when I first saw it
advertised on a VHS tape I have at home years ago. But after a few
years, I did get curious and decided to have a look-see. And I have to
say I'm glad I did.

Yes, the fashion and dialogue etc. is very 80s in this movie, but then
again, every movie sooner or later shows signs of age. So I'll forgive
the Miami VICE fashions and stereotypical characters and concentrate on
what made this film good. The central performance of Stephen Lang as
'Nam vet Joe Tiger (pronounced Tee-ger) is very good as he takes it
upon himself to train a bunch of juvenile delinquents whom the law has
deemed as being beyond redemption into becoming survivors, fighters and
ultimately those who will right the wrongs of society.

Yes, it is far-fetched, but movies are supposed to be about escapism,
aren't they? The actors playing the teens range from okay to over the
top, but handle the action well. And once again, Mr. James Remar, one
of my favourite actors makes an excellent villain. A young Laurence
Fishburne is also very good as a Little Haiti drug dealer. Lauren Holly
is also great in an early role as Nikki, lover of BOTH member Carlos.

The first half of the film as the Band train with Joe in the
Everglades, learning how to survive is done very well, with the Band
naturally complaining about everything at first but slowly and surely
adapting. The final big battle at a Miami dope farm after Joe's death
is great as well, where the Band of The Hansd finally put all their
experience with their mentor to the test.

The film is, in short, great. Not excellent, but great, and I strongly
recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
Seems like an episode of Miami Vice, thats probably because Michael
Mann is the producer. Even while it is silly at times there is good
flow to the movie. The soundtrack rocks and there are good performances
by Larry Fisburne, James Remar,Lauren Holly & Stephen Lang. I'am
surprised that with the popularity of Grand Theft Auto Vice City this
movie does not collect royalties with the look of Miami in the 1980's.
The only crime is that the only copy around is a crappy full screen DVD
put out a few years ago. I doubt there will be a better version anytime
soon so fans of the movie better make do with this copy. Maybe Michael
Mann will feel bad and put out a better version. In the meantime enjoy
a slice from the 80's.
