

Let's be perfectly honest. "Kingdom of the Spiders" is not a blockbuster.
But, neither is it junk. It's where it needs to be -- director John "Bud"
Cardos aimed to make an interesting, creepy film on the level of good and
succeeded. It's not "Arachnophobia," which aimed high as a summer
blockbuster and didn't meet its lofty goals. But, if the American Film
Institute (AFI) comes out with a list of the top "nature goes wild" films,
I'd rank "Kingdom of the Spiders" in the top 10 with "Them," "Tarantula,"
"Jaws," "The Birds" and "Alligator." Of course, when you think about it,
most of the "nature goes wild" films ("Empire of the Ants," "Grizzly,"
"Beaks," "Great White," "The Giant Spider Invasion" etc.) would actually
rank among the worst films ever made.

"Kingdom of the Spiders" was actually a made-for-TV movie, although a few
four-letter words make it into the film. There's a brief glimpse of the
underside of Tiffany Bolling's left breast, which is tame compared to
"Melrose Place."

It takes place in peaceful Verde Valley, Arizona ("A great place to live
in"
as a radio announcer says). Ironically, the Arizona desert was also used
for
the 1955 classic "Tarantula," as well as the 2002 spider flick
"Eight-Legged
Freaks." The soundtrack (every song) is by country singer Dorsey Burnette.
This is his only claim to fame, but the theme song will actually grow on
you. Listen closely to the background music, then rent a copy of
"Tarantula"
and you'll hear the same notes.

William Shatner is actually a little more reserved here, playing a vet
named
Rack Hanson. That's him actually taking a blood sample from a calf, and he
also corrals a steer so he can jab it in the butt with a real syringe (that
the steer didn't kick him where it counts shows how much confidence Shatner
had in the scene). He is perplexed by a series of animal deaths, especially
the aforementioned calf, owned by Walter Colby (Woody Strode) and Birch
Colby (Altovise Davis -- Sammy's wife -- in her movie debut). A sample sent
to Arizona State University (breaking another Hollywood cliche by using an
actual college). The college sends Tiffany Bolling up to explain that the
calf died from a massive dose of spider venom.

From there we really get creepy. Hoke Howell -- the John Carradine of the
70's, 80's and 90's -- as a garage owner gets bitten by a pesky tarantula,
which actually tries to chase him for another bite. Strode reveals a spider
hill to Bolling and Shatner, which is abnormal because tarantulas are
loners. A later scene involves a prize bull crashing out of its stall while

covered with tarantulas. It's so sudden it will make just about anyone
jump.

It seems the tarantulas have gotten a little p***ed that overuse of
pesticides has killed off their normal food supply. They decide to band
together to fight back. After taking care of the domestic animal
population,
they turn on Man.

The movie has many aspects similar to "Jaws." Verde Valley is a small town
dependent on its county fair for its life. It even has a jackass of a mayor
who doesn't want the fair tarnished. It features an enemy that is made to
appear intelligent. And it has a recognizable cast of veterans that acts
well enough to let the monsters be the real stars of the
film.

The really creepy aspect of the film is the enemy. There are no real
special
effects. The scene where spiders get inside a plane that's about to bomb
them with DDT is predictable, but the real beauty is seeing the tarantulas
crawling all over the pilot's head and face. When the plane crashes into
Howell's garage, that's all real stunt work. Another creepy scene involves
the local sheriff telling a woman that her husband's been killed by
tarantulas. As he does it, nearby, atop a fence, sits a tarantula. When the
woman bursts out crying, the tarantulas turns and slowly crawls away, as if
it was actually paying attention to the whole scene. I won't try to give
away too much, but other creepy bits include a child on a swing just inches
above a horde of tarantulas that seem to leap up to get at her. More
tarantulas are inside a speeding truck. Still others get the jump on
Shatner, who should get points for having them crawl all over his
face!

The ending is really the kicker. Shatner, Bolling and a few others hole up
in a lodge as thousands of spiders try to get in -- through open windows,
through the air vents, through the kitchen stove vents, through the
fireplace, even through the windows by weighing down the glass with their
bodies. Meanwhile, in town, we see the panicked population running around,
screaming, covered with tarantulas. I personally believe the screams were
real since the spiders were real, though defanged. We see cocooned bodies
everywhere. The spiders are all over the road, inside buildings and cars,
just everywhere. Worst of all is that Tiffany Bolling discovers that foam
fire extinguishers kill the spiders by coating their book-like lungs, but
we
viewers know there's not enough foam in Arizona to stop this invasion. It
seems to only be delaying the inevitable.

A word to the wise. There is a painting shown at the end of the film and it
does look cheesy now. But the concept it implies is what matters and that
makes for one of the strangest and creepiest movie endings of all
time.

Overall, the movie is good. It aims high, but not too high and it succeeds.
It has a few flaws (noticeably why Shatner and company don't leap into a
nearby RV and get the hell out of Dodge instead of waiting around for the
sheriff to come back), but they're not too bad. Shatner, Bolling and Strode
acquit themselves well (amazing for Shatner, too). Even the potential
cliches are dispelled. In one scene, Bolling takes a shower and we see a
tarantula crawl up and into her dresser drawer. She comes out of the
shadows, sits down at the dresser and reaches into the drawer. Instead of
screaming, she gently picks up the tarantula, pets it and takes it back
outside (lucky tarantula). Another scene does away with Shatner's leading
man role as he only gets a brief kiss with Bolling before the tarantulas
turn his life into a living hell. His character panics just as badly as the
rest of the cast and he even has to get his butt saved.

On a side note, the SPCA would go mad now, but all the spiders in the movie
were real. They used 10,000 live tarantulas (!) for the movie. Even the
ones
that get coated with foam, get stomped, get run over by tires are real. All
the ones one the people are real. Reportedly, the extras were paid double
wages because they had to have spiders crawl all over them. Even the pilot
of the plane that crashes had spiders on him and he had to resist the urge
to just jump up and pull them off his face. The producers had to drug the
calf and, later, the prize bull so they wouldn't freak at having spiders
all
over them and so they would collapse as if affected by the spider
venom.

Also, George Lucas and Steven Spielberg were supposedly inspired by this
movie and added that opening scene in "Raiders of the Lost Ark" where
Indiana Jones and his companion go into the cave and get covered by
tarantulas.

All in all, it's an very good film. I've watched it many times and I still
sometimes get bugged out (no pun intended) when I fall asleep afterwards
and
feel a breeze across my body.

Rent or buy it, but just get it. Just don't try to compare it to
"Arachnophobia" or try to make it into a classic. It's just a fun and
creepy
movie.
<|_=00=_|>

"Kingdom of the Spiders" has earned a bit of notoriety in the 20+ years
since its release, mainly because it features Captain Kitsch himself,
William Shatner.  However, this is actually a decent, watchable (though
somewhat intense) horror film.

"KOTS" was one of the numerous "nature on the rampage" films that (pardon
the pun) swarmed into theaters in the mid to late 1970s, riding the
successful crest of Steven Spielberg's "Jaws".  It seems to draw inspiration
not only from that film (in that it is set in a small town that relies on a
summer festival to survive), but also "The Birds" (an antagonistic romance
between the two leads, a small town turned into utter chaos) and even "Night
of the Living Dead" (the main characters ultimately wind up barricading
themselves in a house to survive the onslaught).

The plot is typical: Shatner plays a veterinarian in a small Arizona town
who is baffled by the sudden death of a seemingly healthy calf.  When he
asks for help from a university, they send an entomologist, played by
Bolling, who informs Shatner that the animal died from a massive dose of
spider venom.  Sure enough, an investigation uncovers a massive "spider
hill", a kind of giant ant hill inhabited by hundreds of tarantulas, in a
local farmers' field, and many others are discovered later.  Bolling
theorizes that the normally solitary tarantulas have banded together to find
food since farmers have killed their natural prey through overuse of
insecticides.  The hairy little devils show they have also become quite
intelligent, as they carefully disrupt attempts to eradicate them, and
ultimately invade the town.

Although the script is paper-thin at times, the special effects are
well-done, giving the viewer a genuine "this could really happen!" feeling.
Not recommended for those who suffer from real-life arachnophobia, but
highly recommended for anyone looking for a good thriller.
<|_=00=_|>
Even the most avid fans of 70's kitsch-cinema will have difficulties
defending this "Kingdom of the Spiders", as it basically is rubbish
from start to finish! Immensely entertaining rubbish, though, with
lousy but unscrupulous plotting and over-the-top action sequences
that'll keep you amused unconditionally! Charismatic actor and
professional cool dude William Shatner stars as the veterinarian of a
little Arizona town that developed a BIG spider problem on short
notice! Tarantulas have suddenly altered all their natural instincts
and they're turning against the yummy cattle and – of course – the
unknowing inhabitants of the little town. The female scientist Diane
Ashley explains that this is due to the destroying of their normal food
sources with pesticides etc, but it's too late... The extremely
venomous spiders eat their way the town and really nothing can
extinguish them! "Kingdom of the Spiders" actually is so damn
entertaining because of its ineptness! The screenplay doesn't even
bother to drag in theories about genetic mutation or military
experiments gone wrong, like it usually is the case in this type of
creature-features. The spiders are just furious at humans and eat
them...period! Although very low-budgeted, some sequences are
well-mounted and quite suspenseful. Especially the obligatory
mass-hysteria scene in which the poor villagers get overrun by millions
and millions of tarantulas is a fine example of trash-cinema. Director
John "Bud" Cardos, previously an actor is dreadful drive-in horror
movies himself, clearly had great fun making this good old-fashioned
"Don't-mess-with-Mother-Nature" flick, so why shouldn't you! His
enthusiasm even was so big he threw in a hilariously inappropriate
country & western soundtrack! That's fabulous!!
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie when I was about 12 years old, having already been
traumatized by the tarantula horrors of "Arachnophobia" a few years earlier.
Not only did it make my arachnophobia much worse, it was my favorite movie
for several years!

"Kingdom of the Spiders" was one of the first horror movies to feature
normal everyday spiders as villains (earlier films such as "Tarantula" and
"Earth vs. the Spider" has made the arachnids giant in order to scare an
audience). As far as my memory serves me, the only other movie prior to this
that used normal-sized spiders as villains was "Kiss of the Tarantula"! The
cast of "Kingdom" is sort of a potpourri of 70s drive-in movie names:
Tiffany Bolling of "Wicked Wicked" and "The Candy Snatchers"; William
Shatner of countless low-grade B-movies and "Star Trek"; Lieux Dressler of
"Truck Stop Women"; Woody Strode of "Black Jesus"; and Altovise Davis, Sammy
Davis, Jr.'s wife who attempted a movie career. The cast is fabulous and is
for the most part above average for this kind of movie. A noticeable face in
the crowd is Adele Malis as the sweet older lady on vacation with her
husband in peaceful Verde Valley. She is funny and lovable and creates great
sympathy from the audience! I love her! The music is a mix of Dorsey
Burnette country songs (the best of which is the title song "Peaceful Verde
Valley") and music stolen from THE TWILIGHT ZONE episode "To Serve
Man"!

Now for the main reason anyone would see this movie: the spiders. They are
horrifying! The first appearance of one is when a mechanic feels inside a
tire in a shack to see if it's full and is bitten by a hidden tarantula!
It's quite a shock and is one of many. They are everywhere! I would dare to
say that "Kingdom of the Spiders" is equal to, if not better, than its
latter-day companion "Arachnophobia". Both deliver the goods to their
audiences (you will be looking under chairs and between blankets weeks after
seeing this movie!), the only difference being the budget and the
professional cast of "Arachnophobia".

"Kingdom of the Spiders" isn't too hard to find and if you do find it to
rent or buy, do so! There are too many great scare scenes not to be missed
and an ending that socks quite a punch! The obvious warnings are given to
those with SEVERE arachnophobia and those would like to get some sleep after
watching this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

I have no idea how old I was when I first saw this movie, maybe 9 or 10 and
yes, I'm happy that we don't have any biting, poisonous spiders here in
Germany. The plot is better than most of this genre, it's good structured
and it lacks a stupid showdown with a giant monster breeding millions of
smaller beings. Instead, it's an open end an an appeal against the abuse of
pesticides. Big bonus. And the tarantulas are soooooo yucky. I even think
this movie is the cause for my brothers aracnophobia. One thing that upsets
me in almost every of this kind of movies is that the "hero" (in this case
Captain Kirk) saves a child. I like "Smilla's sense of snow" because this
annoying inuit boy is thrown off the roof. Kill more kids in movies!!! Same
rights for everyone!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
No pun intended btw with the summary line. And I'm sure not everyone
will like the ending. But I think it's almost the only way to end this.
William Shatner is really great in this and you can feel him, playing
the ridiculousness of the script. There are even scenes, were he
"fights" with Spiders, were you could be excused thinking this was
directed by Mr. Ed Wood.

But of course this does has something to say and since the spiders were
real (well at least most, maybe they a few plastic one thrown into the
mix), this also feels real. Which must have been good and bad for the
actors. Good because they didn't need a great motivation to act scared
and bad ... because some actually must have been genuinely scared!

Having said that, the movie does not have a big budget (I even read
this might have been initially made for TV, although I'm not sure if
that's true) and the dialog is off quite a few times. If that doesn't
matter much to you, you will get a really quite good, eerie and scary
horror movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Most spider movies I've seen were average, with the exception of
Arachnaphobia. Most spider movies rely too much on CGI nowadays. The
effects are over the top, the story is predictable and the characters
are plain/shallow.

This is not the case with this movie however.

Kingdom of the Spiders has a great cast. Every single character has a
role in the story. Some more then others. The acting is very well done.
Actions and reactions towards people and the spiders are really
believable. You won't find a 'dumb' moment in the dialog either. At
least I didn't.

The story builds up slowly, yet surely. In fact, it all builds to the
2nd half of the movie. That's when all breaks loose.

And with all, I mean the hundreds and hundreds of spiders. REAL
spiders. That's right, they used real spiders for this movie. No CGI,
no puppets, no plastic.

That fact alone makes this movie very effective. If you are afraid of
spiders, then this ain't a movie for you. If you can handle some
creepiness, then you will get a kick out of this movie.

I got goosebumps from watching this. There are some very well-directed
scenes. Time and time again, I asked myself how the actors could
possibly work with real spiders. Tarantulas are, as I remember
correctly, not aggressive by nature though. 

People get covered in spiders. Spiders drop from ceilings, pipes,
windows, trees. They hide in shoes, climb on beds and even hide in
cars. In this movie, they are literally EVERYWHERE.

This movie proves that you don't need fancy effects to make a great
film. I recommend this to anyone who likes 'nature attacks' movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Top notch nature-on-the-rampage thriller takes its time getting
started, but emerges a real grabber. It's extremely well directed (by
John "Bud" Cardos), with lots of great animal action. It's solidly
acted by a sturdy cast led by the almighty William Shatner. It builds
to one hell of an intense "Night of the Living Dead" style climax,
intercut with catastrophic scenes in the local town that makes one
wonder how the characters can possibly hope to prevail. The onslaught
of ferocious tarantulas is awe-inspiring.

The Shat, at his charismatic best, plays "Rack" Hansen, amiable small
town veterinarian who calls in big city entomologist Diane Ashley (70s
B movie hottie Tiffany Bolling) when faced with the death of rancher
Walter Colby's (Woody Strode) prize calf. She realizes that the cause
of death was injection of spider venom. Soon scores of tarantulas swarm
through the desert, attacking humans and other larger life forms
basically because the over use of DDT has eliminated the arachnids'
normal food supply.

Shatner, Bolling, and the always excellent Strode are well supported by
Lieux Dressler, David McLean, Natasha Ryan, Altovise Davis, Marcy
Lafferty (Shatners' then-wife, playing his sister- in-law), Roy Engel,
and Hoke Howell. The movie is nicely photographed by John Arthur
Morrill on picturesque Arizona desert locations. The images of numerous
extras covered with tarantulas - and webbing as well - is pretty
chilling. There's a touch of "Jaws" in the screenplay by Richard
Robinson and Alan Caillou in that the local mayor (Engel) doesn't want
anything to hurt the success of the county fair going on. And the
implications of that final shot are spooky.

A very fine movie of its type.

Eight out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
A rural town is overwhelmed by a plague of deadly tarantulas whose
toxicity and ferociousness have been engorged by a cocktail of crop
accelerants in another nature turns feral episode. All the usual motifs
and roadblocks are wheeled out with little in the way of innovation or
originality in the formula applied. Despite the predictable treatment,
Shatner is such an undeniably charismatic and affable leading man, and
his quirky characterization and apparent chemistry with both the female
leads (principally Bolling but also, perhaps understandably, real-life
wife Lafferty) makes it hard not to forgive the makers of this
shameless rip-off. But while not quite as tongue-in-cheek as his
long-time small screen persona, Shatner does offer a few well timed
laughs that lighten up proceedings, just when things seem to be getting
a bit heavy.

An equally likable supporting cast of relaxed characters (notably
MacLean and Dressler) band together to combat the nemesis at the local
bed and breakfast, but it seems the end is nigh for mankind. Director
Cardos handles the subject matter well, bracing the audience for mild
shocks and timing the suspense with aplomb.

The dialogue incorporates the usual scientific gabble, with the lusty
entomologist Bolling (momentarily disrobed, but alas, just a feint
glimpse) hypothesizing on the cause of cattle deaths from apparent
spider bites, and there's plenty of cheerful banter (some of which
sounds improvised) between her and Shatner's rugged, gregarious vet in
between grim discoveries. The ending might seem like the easy way out,
avoiding the necessary plot complexities to manufacture a tidy outcome,
and the country-western music a tad unfitting, still in all, it's
agreeably light and entertaining, and distinguished by a likable cast
of laid back larrikins.
<|_=00=_|>
In the countryside, after the death of the awarded calf of the farmer
Walter Colby (Woody Strode), the veterinary Dr. Robert 'Rack' Hansen
(William Shatner) sends blood samples to be analyzed by the University.
A couple of days later, the scientist Dr. Diane Ashley (Tiffany
Bolling) comes to the location and tells that the animal was bitten by
spiders and killed by a massive dose of their venom. The skeptical Rack
heads with Diane to Walter's farm and they find a huge spider nest in
the field. Further, they find that the town is surrounded an enormous
number of killer spiders and there is no way to run.

"Kingdom of the Spiders" is a horror trash-cult movie, with William
Shatner in the lead role in a period that he was worshiped as Captain
James T. Kirk of "Star Trek". The storyline follows the usual standard
of this type of film (a murder; the discovery of the cause; the Mayor
that wants to preserve his town for a big local fair; and so on). But
the film is above the average of this type of film. In the end, it is
worthwhile watching this entertaining film. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "O Império das Aranhas" ("The Kingdom of the Spiders")
