
After the failure that was the 3rd Halloween sequel, the writers knew
that was mainly due to the absence of Michael Myers. So what did they
do? They invited Michael back in for the 4th sequel and back into the
story of Halloween. Even though I did enjoy the 3rd sequel, I do agree
that I missed Michael. He's my favorite boogeyman, so it'd be cool to
see him return and do what he does best, slice and dice and scare the
heck out of me. Well is this really scary? Not too much, but still it's
a fun sequel to get into and watch in the dark. I like the story and
how they are continuing into the Myer's past and how far Michael will
go to destroy this blood line. Although I was disappointed to not have
Laurie Strode in this one, it was interesting to see how her legacy
lives on with her daughter and now she will have the struggle with
Michael Myers.

Michael Myers has been in a coma for ten years, when his massacre was
stopped by Dr. Samuel J. Loomis and Laurie Strode. Myers is being
transferred from Ridgemont Federal Sanitarium to Smith's Grove
Sanitarium. He awakens when he hears that Laurie Strode, his sister, is
deceased, but her daughter, Jamie Lloyd is alive and well in
Haddonfield. He kills the ambulance crew and escapes. Dr. Loomis races
to Haddonfield in an attempt to bring Myers' killing spree to an end
once and for all. In Haddonfield, his niece Jamie Lloyd, has been
adopted by the Carruthers family. She has frequent nightmares about
Michael, though she does not know who he is. On Halloween night, Jamie
goes out trick-or-treating dressed as a clown with her teenage foster
sister Rachel. Her uncle, Michael, follows them. Meanwhile, Loomis
arrives in Haddonfield after an exhausting journey, and contacts the
police department to inform them of Myers' escape. He and Haddonfield's
new Sheriff Ben Meeker begin to search the town for Michael and Jamie.
Myers has also blacked out the town's electricity by throwing a
technician onto a electrical box and singlehandedly annihilated the
entire police force. The girls barricade themselves in the Sheriff's
house, while awaiting the arrival of the state police where Michael
follows them and you'll have to see the movie to see the exciting
conclusion.

So over all Halloween 4 is a good sequel, it's not the strongest in the
series, but it's one of the better stories of the franchise. I do like
Jamie Lloyd, she was an interesting addition to the story and the
writers are making these movies very interesting. I'm glad they brought
Dr. Loomis back in, it brings us back into the original Halloween and
he'll never give up until Michael Myers is gone for good, which we know
is not going to happen since we still have 4 more sequels after this
one. But the 4th installment into the Halloween franchise is a good one
so I do recommend that you see it if you get the chance.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>

After a seven year absence from the screen, Michael Myers returns. Set ten
years after the first two films (#2 was filmed in 1981, but set immediately
after #1 in 1978), THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS opens with the infamous
killer being transfered between psyhiciatric hospitals. Naturally, he
escapes, and, tipped off that he has a niece (daugther of the now-deceased
Jamie Lee Curtis character) living in Haddonfield, sets out to find her.
Hot
on his trail, as always, is Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasence). After some were
turned off by the more-gruesome deaths in HALLOWEEN 2, this film is more
in-line with the original, relying more heavily on suspense and honest
scares than blood and gore. For a nine-year-old, Harris delivers a good
performance, and Donald Pleasence (as usual) is also good, with a
performance that lets you know this is a
been-there-don't-want-to-go-through-that-again
character. Director Dwight H. Little brings a sense of atmosphere to the
film and creates a number of suspenseful scenes. Thankfully, the make-shirt
mob of gun-toting beer-guzzlers isn't as bad as it could have been.
HALLOWEEN 4 is one of the best of the series.
<|_=00=_|>
. . . considering Halloween 4 came some eight years after the previous
Myers-inclusive Halloween, considering Carpenter had even less influence,
considering the plot took a slightly different direction, considering most
other franchises really suck before they even get to 3
sequels.

The problem I have with most horror sequels is the fact it switches over to
new characters every film, and none of the characters really get much
sympathy.  I dunno if I ever cared about anyone in Friday the 13th.  But in
the Halloweens (1,2,4,and 5), they've always taken the time to get to know
the main characters first and stick with them for at least one sequel.  Also
in Halloween, we had a staple character besides Myers - Donald Pleasence -
who returned to battle Myers every time until his untimely death. 

I really liked the Jamie Lloyd character (I mean, getting decent actors in
horror is difficult enough, but getting a good child actor in horror?  Look
at Child's Play!  We struck gold with Danielle), her storyline, and the rest
of the new characters for Michael to stalk.  Oh yes, and of course, Donald
Pleasence.      

Alan Howarth parts with Carpenter, and takes the score solo, playing some
fun twists to the main Halloween and the stalking theme, giving Jamie a
theme appropriately derivative of Laurie's theme and intermingling all the
themes in various places for an original sound with music that's been with
us for 2 movies now.

Hopefully the viewer won't remember the end of Halloween 2 well enough to
recall Laurie shooting Michael's eyes out, and him stumbling around slicing
blindly as blood ran down his mask--wait, this is horror, everyone's
accustomed to inconsistency with horror.  Nevermind.  Besides, compared to
the plot holes of Curse of Michael Myers and then H20 neglecting Halloween 4
& 5, who cares about that minor detail.  

Despite the new look, new characters, new tweaks, Halloween 4 can't escape
the fact that it is a sequel slasher and so despite everything that's new
(that works) . . . it's all the same.  That's where my problem with the film
lay, and that's why I can't rank this up there with some of my favorite
horror films of all time.  It's a good Halloween sequel, but there are
better, more original films, within this series and especially in other
series.  Oh well.
<|_=00=_|>

It is ten years after Michael Myers escaped from the psychiatric clinic and
went on the rampage and he has been in a coma ever since being burnt at the
end of Halloween 2.  But one of the ambulance drivers transporting him
somewhere lets slip that he has a niece in Haddonfield and before you know
it he's making his way back there.

Myers has become seemingly indestructable by now.  He was seen emerging from
a hospital as a human fireball at the end of art 2 and yet he seems to have
escaped more or less unscathed.  And howcome he can see anything when he was
blinded in Part 2 just before being roasted alive?

However, if you overlook these points you'll find this is an entertaining
and well-made film.  Dr Loomis returns to Haddonfield after his ex-patient,
played by Donald Pleasance at his best, and there are plenty of interesting
characters and situations.

One of the better of the Halloween series, certainly much more worthwhile
than the dismal Halloween 5 or most of the repetative Friday the 13th
films.


<|_=00=_|>

Scary, Scary, Scary! And FAR superior to part 5 The Revenge Of Michael
Myers. I love the scene where Kelly Meeker brings the coffee to who she
*thinks* is the deputy sitting in the rocking chair. SCARY stuff. That
scene
ALWAYS scares the crap out of me. This movie is loaded with suspense, and
it
has an absolutely SHOCKING, although unexplained ending. Just hearing Dr.
Loomis saying "no, no, nooo..." then crying can spook you out! The truck
scene towards the end is very scary and suspenseful as well. The scene
where
he bashes his head through the windshield still makes me
jump.

Also, the heroines in this movie are almost as good as Laurie and her
girlfriends in the first movie. Ellie Cornell is superb as Rachel (I was
very sorry to see her get killed off in the next movie), and the
relationship between her and her stepsister Jamie is wonderful.

For a Halloween movie, I'd definitely give it a 9 out of a
10!

(I always wondered and hoped that there really was a Haddonfield here in
Illinois!)
<|_=00=_|>
So, it transpires that Michael Myers survived being blown up on
Halloween night 1978, and ten years later HE wakes from a decade of
comatose to kill again.

OK, the premise is laughable but the decision to resurrect deranged
serial killer Michael Myers is vindicated through a fine movie with
several memorable moments and a shocking finale.

Donald Pleasence is on fine form as Myer's increasingly crazed doctor,
Sam Loomis, who also survived being blown up in Halloween II. Loomis
now walks with the aid of a stick and has burns to his face and hands
but is otherwise fine. Blimey! He's almost as indestructible as Myers
himself! 

Halloween 4 racks up the jumps and gore but loses none of the thrills
and excitement form the original movies. Ellie Cornell and Danielle
Harris are excellent support for Pleasence in one of the best in the
Halloween franchise.
<|_=00=_|>

The first time I saw this film, I was bored. I thought it was uneventful.
But then, I watched it a second time and loved it. This movie is very
suspenseful, has very little blood/gore, and the acting by Danielle Harris
is just incredible. I also love Ellis Cornell, she is such a doll! Brady
was
an idiot to let go of such a cute girl.

Rent this! It's better than II and V.
<|_=00=_|>

The fourth movie of the Halloween series sees the return of Michael Myers
and Dr. Loomis. Surprisingly, considering what happened to both of the them
at the end of Halloween 2. But, it seems that they brought back Michael
Myers for three reasons. First, it is 1980's and it's all about the horror
sequels baby!!! Just like Friday the 13th, Amityville, Psycho, Howling, and
Nightmare, Halloween couldn't resist the fun. Second, it was the 10 year
anniversary of Halloween, so they had to honor Myers by bringing him back
again, just like the 20th anniversary for H20. I guess will also see the
25th and 30th anniversary of Halloween with Myers escaping the nursing home
on Halloween for these sequels. Finally, they brought him back because of
the utter disappointment of Halloween 3, which shouldn't have ever been
made. But after these reasons, it isn't that bad a sequel. Good for a late
80's horror movie. ** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
Well after that disgusting piece of filth called Halloween 3...we go
back to the original story of Michael Myers and Haddonfield. 

Halloween 4 really took a step forward....and it scared me. the acting
with "Most" actors was good, Donald Pleasence as Dr Loomis was perfect
as usual and Danielle Harris as Michael's Niece Jamie was very good and
Ellie Cornell as Rachael Corruthers was also very good.

They Original score was good but i believe i think they re-did
it...Michael also did some good stylish murders in this one the only
thing that disappointed me was the mask probably my least favorite mask
in the series. Halloween 4 is worth watching so either buy it or rent
it....now! Halloween 4 Is my fourth Favourite Halloween Film
<|_=00=_|>

I love this movie. It's so much better than part two and way better than
the
shape-less 3rd installment. everything in this movie works and i was
suprissed by the acting in this film

Halloween 4 picks up 10 years after the original and michael has awaken
from
the coma he suffered when he was burned in the hospital explosion in part
two. Instead of stalking laurie, who suposedly died in a car accident, he
tracks down her daughter, his niece. this saga  is one of the best in the
series.

The acting is great in this film. Danielle Harris is very good in this film
and her acting is superb for her age. Ellie cornell is also good as rachel
and i wish she was in more films today becasue she is really
good.

Great movie with a twist at the end you won't believe. **** out of
****
