

It is a mystery for me how the great movies sometimes fall through the
cracks. I don't expect it to be everyone's favorite but being completely
missed by almost everybody? It puzzles me. If you up for a tough and
disturbing movie tonight rent it. You won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Mickey Rourke is enjoying a renaissance at the moment... and fair play
to him. I always liked his image and his acting ability in such fare as
Angel Heart and Johnny Handsome. You know what you are going to get
with Rourke - mean, moody, dirty. But this film gives you much more -
and you don't want most of it.

First and foremost - this whole thing just doesn't make sense. Rourke
is a hardened IRA killer who after killing a bus-load of schoolchildren
flees Ireland for London. He is on the run from the cops and from his
own Army comrades. He has also vowed to never kill again. It looks like
the bus full of kids finally did it for him.

However, when he gets to London he is tracked down by a local mobster
(Bates - looking like his eyebrows and hair came straight off a
Burton's dummy) to kill his main competitor in turn for £50,000 and a
boat trip to the US. Rourke reluctantly agrees to do it but is seen by
a priest (Hoskins) and confesses the crime to him in the confessional
in order to keep the priest's mouth shut. He figures it is better than
killing him.

A wealth of things arise here which just don't add up : 

1. Why pick Rourke to off your competition? As is illustrated by a
scene whereby an employee is pinned to a wall by a couple of heavies
with what look like awls - these London guys are tough enough anyway to
do their own killing.

2. Not only that but the Mobster gets a guy to follow Rourke and
witness the killing with his own eyes. Why didn't that guy simply kill
the competitor and save all the hassle of dealing with Rourke? 

3.Hoskins sees the murder take place and the police let him go off -
without protection, I may add - to take confession? No way.

4. Rourke hangs around the church (right next to where he carried out
the murder ) immediately after the crime takes place to go to
confession. Why aren't the cops checking the place out? 

5. Rourke hangs around the church and Hoskin's blind niece in
particular, for days afterward without anybody bothering him. What?
He's on the run and he stays put by the very place where he committed
another murder? Stupid.

6. The cops actually meet Rourke in the church "fixing" the organ and
have no idea who he is. Do they not know he is on the run for the
school bus bombing? They don't even check up on him? 

7. Why get Rourke to kill for you, and then tell him to wait around for
a few days to get on the boat? You'd think you'd want to get rid of him
immediately. Or kill him. One or the other? 

8. Why does Bates' brother suddenly decide to rape the blind niece in
the midst of all the waiting? Could he not restrain himself for a few
days? At least until Rourke has been safely offed to the States?
Ridiculous.

9. Rourke suddenly has inner turmoil after all his years of killing and
wins over the blind niece immediately - even after she knows he is a
killer, she still loves him? Again - utterly ludicrous. And besides -
she falls in "love" with him in record time - a few days !!!! 

10. The whole bomb thing at the end is just plain silly from Bates'
point of view.

11. Things happen in parts of this film that just do not make sense or
are simply in there to help the storyline (and I say that in jest)
along. Bates' houses Rourke in a whorehouse until the boat is ready to
sail and Rourke suddenly displays a moral high ground to respect the
whore in the house - but yet will bed a blind girl.

12. Rourke asks a henchman on the boat where Bates is - and the
henchman practically spurts out the entire movements of his boss in
less than 10 seconds. It was embarrassing - the guy was telling Rourke
far more than he even asked.

13. Hoskin's priest is an ex-army guy and we see him beat up three
henchmen behind a pub. Totally uncalled-for and yet another
cringe-worthy scene.

I'm gonna stop there at unlucky 13 without mentioning Rourke's hair (so
falsely red it is laughable), his accent (which to be fair is not too
bad sometimes but deteriorates to a barely heard mumble at other
times), his clothes, walk, looks to the heavens etc. Nor will I mention
the music and the choppy editing style.

Oooppps - I have just mentioned them.

Overall - a disaster of a film with some obvious religious imagery
thrown in (Rourke on the cross, preaching from a pulpit) which would
embarrass a first year film student never mind a top star and director.

4/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Fine character portrayals by Rourke, Hoskins, Davis and Bates. If you
don't
generally
think highly of him, don't be put off by Rourke starring; he shines in
this
ensemble piece  . If you only think of Hoskins as a humorous figure, see
this movie for a
new
perspective.

The plot is dark; the pace, at times, deliberate, but it maintains its
intensity well, for
most of the film, through to its satisfying, if somewhat abrupt,
conclusion.

Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

In my opinion Mickey Rourke's third best movie, the first being "Angel
Heart" and the second being "Year of the Dragon".

Rourke teamed up with Mike Hodges the director of such classics as "Get
Carter" and the more recent "Croupier" in April of 1986 in
London.

The whole movie was filmed on location in London, the Irish scenes at the
beginning were filmed probably in Herts.  The actual church is in Canning
in
London, near the ill fated Millennium Dome and still stands today.  It
wasn't being used as a church at the time, and the roof damage was real
due
to a bombing in the second world war. The church still stands and is
currently used as a community centre.

Rourke plays Martin Fallon an IRA terrorist with a heart who recently
bombed
a school bus by accident and fled to London to evade the IRA and start
again.  He is taken on by local kingpin Jack Meehan played by a very camp
Alan Bates whom has a day job of a funeral director and by night a nasty
villain who wants Fallon to do one last job and he will pay him well and
give him a passport and ticket to the US.

The mark Fallon is to kill is another local kingpin whom Meehan wants dead
so he can take over his drug business.  The mark he has to kill always
visits his mother in a local church where Fallon shoots him, but is seen
by
Father Da Costa played very well by Bob Hoskins.  Da Costa won't
co-operate
with the police after hearing Fallon's confession and the whole movie then
is based around Jack Meehan trying to kill Fallon and the Da
Costa.

Rourke's accent is spot on, maybe not to a true Irishman, but certainly to
most it is very good, and his acting is on top form.

Hoskins is believable and carries of being a vicar fairly well, and the
script also tells he is an ex army officer which gives him a bit of reason
to be little rough on some of the villains.

Look out for a young Anthony Head (from Buffy) and a blind Sammi Davis
whom
was very popular in a lot of Ken Russell movies from the early
90's.
<|_=00=_|>

Gotta admit, I'm on a Mickey Rourke run, having just seen Angel Heart,
Barfly, and Francesco. A Prayer for the Dying is a wonderful piece of work 
-teriffic acting by all, including Bates, Hoskins, etc. Mickey Rourke has to
be one of the most under-rated actors in the industry. His "bad-boy" image
hasn't helped, as it has helped other actors who fall into the same
category. He reminds me a lot of Steve McQueen  -subtle, intense, controlled
acting, but when the action is needed he delivers. I sincerely hope he has a
comeback sometime soon. In the meantime, run to your nearest video store and
rent this great film. There are some incredible moments that I won't forget
anytime soon. This story has been told before: bad guy trying to get away
from the badness. . . but Rourke makes is all new, by adding his own unique
charism. See it.
<|_=00=_|>
A bizarre, rather disappointing choice for nearly all involved. The
film is essentially an action movie, although it certainly makes an
effort to rise above its lowly fate as such and make a statement about
the ability to forgive others, and ultimately to forgive yourself. Mike
Hodges' biggest mistake is not letting the film be what it was meant to
be, a thriller.

It begins with Irish Republican Army operatives Martin Fallon (Mickey
Rourke) and Liam Docherty (a game Liam Neeson) overseeing the bombing
of an English army transport truck. The bombing goes awry, however, and
a schoolbus carrying a handful of children is detonated instead. In the
ensuing chaos, Martin and Liam are separated. Guilt-stricken, Martin
goes on the run. Liam is sent by his IRA superiors to find Martin and
either bring him back or kill him.

Martin wants to drop out of the terrorist business and go to America.
In order to get the papers he needs from creepy crime boss/undertaker
Jack Meehan (Alan Bates), he agrees to one last job, the assassination
of a rival gang leader. Martin goes to a cemetery to do the job, but is
witnessed by Father Da Costa (Bob Hoskins). In order to prevent the
priest from identifying him to the police, Martin confesses his crime
to Da Costa.

And that's when things get complicated. Meehan wants Martin to off the
priest, but Martin says he's done killing. Da Costa is uncomfortable
with keeping Martin's secret, but as a Catholic priest he has no
choice. And Liam is closing in on Martin every day.

There are moments of genuine pathos, mostly thanks to Mickey Rourke,
who does his absolute best with the material at hand. The more I see of
him, the more I'm reminded of what Marlon Brando was like in his youth.
Aside from a significant facial and physical resemblance, they share a
vulnerability on screen that's very unusual. For the most part,
however, this is silly stuff, especially Fallon's romance with Da
Costa's blind niece (a godawful Sammi Davis). That was just
unnecessary.

I should probably mention that Alan Bates makes a pretty terrific
villain, and he's almost worth the price of a rental all by himself.
Not quite, but almost. There's also some fine cinematography. The score
got on my nerves though; in fact, you could say the score is a perfect
metaphor for the film. It weaved from mournful, evocative Irish folk
music to typical action-adventure crap, often within heartbeats of one
another.

Overall, an uneven, occasionally dull effort. Huzzah for Alan Bates for
keeping it interesting though.
<|_=00=_|>

Mickey Rourke ( who was once a famous movie star ) plays Martin Fallon
an IRA terrorist who accidentally blows up a school bus full of
children who is so disgusted by his actions decides to leave the IRA
and goes on the run in London 

!!!! MILD SPOILERS !!!!

The movie's opening is rather disturbing as the lives of little
children are ended in a fireball . Things like this happened throughout
the 1970s and 1980s and into the 1990s in Northern Ireland which gives
A PRAYER FOR THE DYING a stark realism . However as soon as Fallon
decides he's going to give up violence ( What ? He's a terrorist and
he's never blown up innocent passerbys before ? ) realism disappears
and clichés and ridiculous plot twists take place . Martin is employed
by the London underworld ( Don't they have their own hit men ? )to
commit a hit while he wears an IRA " uniform " ( Never knew the provos
wore uniforms ) at a cemetery in broad daylight ( Wouldn't an IRA man
use a bomb placed under a car ? ) where he's spotted by a priest who
recognises him while he was in the SAS . Hands up who thinks I'm lying
? I'm not and we're half way through the running time and there's still
several clichés to come 

This all sounds very silly and it is but what do you expect from a
novel by Jack Higgins ? Everything is clichéd , contrived and
stereotypical and the bits that aren't are just plain bizarre . The
critics slaughtered this movie when it came out , most notably they
stated that it might have some potential if the movie had Bob Hoskins
playing gangster Jack Meehan and Alan Bates playing the SAS soldier
turned priest and for once the critics would have been right . They
should also noted the film might have been less dire if Fallon was
played by someone who was capable of doing an Irish accent . Rourke
might be hunky and macho ( Oh gawd another movie with an IRA uberhunk )
but accents aren't his strong point any more than character acting is .
To give you an idea how disappointing PRAYER FOR THE DYING IS the
director ended up disowning it which is always a bad sign 

As a footnote the original release of PRAYER FOR THE DYING in Britain
was delayed for several months because of " The Enniskillen bombing " .
In November 1987 the Provisional IRA exploded a bomb in the centre of
Enniskillen where a Remembrance Day parade which commemorates Britain's
war dead was being held . Eleven ( 11 ) people were killed and scores
more injured . It wasn't an accident and no one left the IRA because of
it

<|_=00=_|>
Already a quarter century has passed since A Prayer for the Dying was
first released, and I don't think age has been kind to either Mickey's
character portrayal of an IRA bomber named Martin Fallon, nor to the
films story line. I believe Mickey Rourke to be a fine actor whose body
of work has been solid decade by decade. He is an actor that I look
forward to seeing what he plans to do next. I just don't think this
particular screen play was very realistic, so first rate actors such as
Mickey Rourke, Bob Hoskins, Liam Neeson and Alison Doody who had
thought they had ordered top grade steak were served ground beef
instead for the screenplay. 

The movie is about Martin Fallon a cold hearted IRA bomber who hangs up
his TNT after accidentally blowing up a school bus of children which
was intended for another IRA target. Of course Martin Fallon is forced
to come out of retirement for just one last hit which he completes for
another mobster appropriately at a cemetery. Unfortunately Martin fails
to see the priest Father Michael Da Costa who witnesses his
assassination. The priest is played by the very versatile actor Bob
Hoskins. 

Yes, there was a steady stream of IRA villains planning other hits, the
London Bobby's were continually chasing after the elusive IRA bomber
Martin Fallon, the Irish mob wanting their own way, and the film even
had a blind damsel in distress named Anna played by Sammi Davis who
Martin Fallon falls in love with. 

Even with all this potential, and actors of the highest caliber, the
film lacked any depth of true characters or continuous suspense.
Instead, I felt the movie just plodded on through out and left me half
way through the film expecting little more to come of it other than a
disappointing ending which was the case.

I give the film a rare 5 out of 10 only on the strength of Mickey
Rourke and Bob Hoskins, otherwise my rating would have been even lower.
<|_=00=_|>

Completely (and rather unjustly) forgotten today, this is an offbeat,
interesting dramatic thriller based on a book that seems to lift its basic
idea from Alfred Hitchcock's "I Confess" (actually, I haven't seen "I
Confess" yet, but everybody knows its premise). The movie has a great cast
and makes an earnest attempt to combine psychodrama with more traditional
thriller elements. The main problem is that, once the basic situation has
been (elaborately) set up, the story seems to get stalled and has nowhere to
go. There is also a subplot, involving Liam Neeson in an early role as
Mickey Rourke's old comrade in the IRA, that's ultimately just a waste of
time.      (**)
<|_=00=_|>
Jack Higgins' straightforward thriller about a guilt-ridden IRA bomber
forced into "one last job" (where have I heard that plot before?) gets
a snarky treatment from cult director Mike Hodges. Mickey Rourke, with
alarming red hair, confesses all to the priest (Bob Hoskins, of all
people) who accidentally witnessed the shooting. The rules of the
church keep Father Bob from talking, but then Rourke goes and falls in
love with the priest's blind niece. They bond at the church organ.
What? Really, that's the plot. Alan Bates is around as the top dog
mobster who's calling the shots (literally) and he seems to be the only
actor who's on to the jokey tone Hodges is aiming at. Bates is all set
to do a sort of U.K. PRIZZI'S HONOR, but no one else, including an
effortlessly charismatic Liam Neeson in a supporting role, has been
informed.
