

 Sly Stallone hit gold with this seriously under rated film. This is surely
Stallone's best films with Cliffhanger and Demolitian Man
following.

 There are superb performances from the main man and his supporting
characters like Donald Sutherland(the assignment), Tom Sizemore(enemy of the
state), John Amos, Sonny Landham(predator) and Danny Trejo(desperado).

 The story is gritty and involving, and the best scene is Sizemore's last
bid for Stallone's friendship. Watch it and you'll know what I
mean.

 This a great film. Do not miss it. Rating=4/5 
<|_=00=_|>

Lock Up I feel is one of Stallone's better movie's. The storyline seems to
fit the acting character of Stallone very well. Sutherland's depiction as
the Warden "Drumgroole" also was excellent. As always, Stallone seems to
epitomize struggle in movies very well. In the movie Stallone is a convict
just trying to ride his time out, but the warden makes it very hard on
him.
John Amos also depicts the caring but hard as nails Prison guard "Micon"
very well. In my opinion Lock Up is a Top Level Stallone film, and didn't
get nearly the credit it deserved. I certainly would recommend this film.
One word that can describe this film would be "EMOTIONAL" If you like a
tough, gritty prison movie, then you will certainly like Lockup.

<|_=00=_|>

I often find myself disagreeing with the critics, but in this case I am in
agreement with the other reviewers on this page... This is a terrific movie,
pure entertainment. I am frankly tired of so many modern movies that are
nothing but violence, nudity and special effects. Well, this movie is not
one of them -- it actually has a good plot. Oh, what a rare
treat!

The best acting is not Stallone's (no surprise there) but that of Donald
Sutherland's portrayal of the sadistic and bloodthirsty prison warden. And
the scene with the Mustang nearly made me cry. 

If you haven't yet seen this film... What are you waiting for? You're
missing what is probably Stallone's best films! Run, don't walk, to your
nearest video store! :-)
<|_=00=_|>

I really enjoy watching this movie.Although the movie isn't much
famous
as Rambo or Rocky series it's a real masterpiece.Stallone gives an
excellent
performance as Frank Leone- a convict that is pushed too much and not
fairily  from the prison warden (D.Sutherland) who has a personal vendetta
with him.Frank finally achieves in an astonishing way to prove that the
warden has set him up in order to escape.There is where his personal drama
ends.

It's a drama-action-romance movie that it's worth to see it not only for
the good performances(S.Stallone,T.Sizemore,L.Romano,F.McRay) but for the
suspense especially in the end.

For me it's just a Stallone's classic one, so take a seat and enjoy this
really entertaining movie


<|_=00=_|>
Have to say right off that I can't believe the low rating for this one
here, because it delivers everything that a Stallone fan would want, if
one is loading this into the player then surely they know what to
expect?

Frank Leone (Sylvester Stallone) only has a few weeks to go before
being released from prison, he is no hard core offender, he is a loving
man and is ready for a new life with his gorgeous girlfriend Melissa
(Darlanne Fluegel). During the night he is whisked away to a maximum
security prison on the orders of a sadistic warden out for revenge
because Leone was the only man to have ever escaped from his prison,
thus setting in motion the wheels of revenge.

We then follow Leone as he is pushed to the limits by crazy warden
Drumgoole (Donald Sutherland) and all the sadistic guards under his
command. He also enlists the help of resident inmate beefcake Chink
Weber (Sonny Landham), and they all in turn try to break Leone at all
costs to ensure that he never leaves prison again. There certainly is
nothing here that hasn't been done before in the prison film genre, and
only an idiot would expect anything other than the ending we get, but
this is a Stallone movie and it's full of guts, testo macho action, and
it should be noted that Sly here puts some depth to the character of
Leone. He garners our sympathy quite quickly, and considering the bloke
is built like the proverbial brick outhouse, it's quite an achievement.

The supporting players are a mixed bunch, this is Tom Sizemore's first
motion picture and he does really well with the character of Dallas,
Sonny Landham is his usual scary menacing self, whilst Frank McRae as
Eclipse does just enough right to make his mark. So it's something of a
surprise to me that the best actor on show is actually the film's weak
link. Donald Sutherland does overplay it to the point that he goes
beyond pantomime villain, it's a real teeth itching performance that he
would only outdo with the dreadful Jamie Lee Curtis starrer, Virus, 10
years later, but in a film with such primal fun/action intentions, it
doesn't ruin the film and leaves it all told as a fine genre piece.

No awards here for sure, but when I watch a film about a man played by
Sly Stallone in prison then I think I know what to expect, and it
delivers all that I hoped for, so hooray for the beefcake I say. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

This is a definite must for anyone following Stallone's
movies! It is great in its storyline, its atmosphere,
its characters and its ending! If you let it, it'll really
grip you and hold you in tight suspense till the very end
of the drama. I'd say this is one of the most underrated
movies ever. If someone knows why, please write me a note.

<|_=00=_|>

The movie starts off pretty slow. But the pace picks up. I enjoyed every
minute of it. It shows the tortures and wars that go on in prison.
Sutherland (drumcoole) plays the bad warden. Stallone (leone) plays the
role
of an an escaped convict who is in a good low-security prison having just
6
weeks to finish his term. Drumcoole gets him transferred to one of the
worst
prisons ever for taking his past vengeance.Drumcoole wants to take him in
for life. And Leone has got to resist this and has to submit to his
torture.
But when it starts getting personal,Leone can't take it any more and wants
to break out.But he breaks his golden rule " D.T.A "(Don't trust anyone).
Stallone is in great shape and there are excellent realistic fight
sequences
in the movie. The last 15 minutes are the movie's best. A must-see for all
Stallone fans as well as for the ppl who like thrillers or prison movies.
Its a bomb-ass movie !!!
<|_=00=_|>
The mechanic Frank Leone (Sylvester Stallone) is a model inmate in a
low security prison and has only six months to serve. He intends to
spend the rest of his life working in his garage and with his beloved
girlfriend Melissa (Darlanne Fluegel). Out of the blue, Leone is
brutally transferred during the night to the maximum security Gateway
Prison without any explanation. Soon he learns that Warden Drumgoole
(Donald Sutherland) is the responsible for his transference. 

Leone had been sentenced to Treadmore Prison after beating the punks
that hit his mentor and friend that taught him his profession of auto
mechanic. When his mentor was dying, he asked permission to Drumgoole
to go to visit his friend but the request was denied. Leone fled from
Treadmore and his lawyer went to the press to expose Drumgoole's
behavior. The result was Leone in a minimum security prison and
Drumgoole sent to Gateway. Now the warden is seeking revenge and will
do anything to keep Leone behind bars.

"Lock up" is an entertaining prison drama full of action with Sylvester
Stallone after the successful Rambo trilogy. The story is flawed and
shallow, and the viewer shall not think how a prisoner is transferred
the way Frank Leone is and his lawyer simply does not exist in the
story. The characters are not well developed and there is no
explanation for the sadistic behavior of the prison guards. However
this type of movie is not to think and entertains. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Condenação Brutal" ("Brutal Conviction")
<|_=00=_|>
Lock Up starts as model prisoner Frank Leone (Sylvester Stallone) is
transfered from the nice minimum security prison Norwood to the maximum
security hell-hole that is Gateway run by sadistic bent warden
Drumgoole (Donald Sutherland) who has a personal axe to grind against
Leone. Several years prior Drumgoole refused to let Leone out to visit
his dying friend so Leone escaped & went to the press about his
treatment at the hands of Drumgoole, he was left to rot in charge of
Gateway while Leone was put in the cushy Norwood which Drumgoole still
feels a certain amount of bitterness about. Having Leone transfered
with a mere six months of his sentence remaining Drumgoole has to
provoke him into another escape or some misdemeanour so he can increase
his sentence & using his unsympathetic guards torture him & make the
rest of his life a living hell...

Directed by John Flynn I didn't think Lock Up was brilliant but at the
same time I didn't think it was too bad either. The script by Richard
Smith, Jeb Stewart & Henry Rosenbaum takes itself pretty seriously &
some of the sloppy sentiment can make sitting through his a chore
especially the prolonged scene when Stallone & his convict friends
repair an old car. This isn't a typical Stallone action vehicle & while
it does have a few action sequences in it their thin on the ground &
consist of fights rather than huge budget set-pieces. I quite liked the
story no matter how improbable it was, I liked the character's although
they do seem to come & go a little to easily & it kept me quiet for a
couple of hours. The mix between action & sentimental male bonding
isn't quite right & focuses a little too much on the later but as I
said I still liked it although if pushed I'd find it hard to
unreservedly recommend, I think maybe Lock Up is an acquired taste.

Director Flynn does OK, I wouldn't call it particularly stylish & he
gets the pacing slightly wrong but it looks nice enough if not
spectacular. The action scenes are fairly violent but there's no car
chases or explosions which Stallone action flicks are perhaps better
known for, action fans may be a little disappointed.

Technically the film is good if a little bland & forgettable,
apparently Stallone got paid a tasty $15,000,000 for this which seems a
lot... The acting is alright, Sutherland makes for a suitably sadistic
bad guy & John Amos makes for a good hard as nails prison guard with a
heart.

Lock Up is a decent film which I actually quite liked although thinking
about it now it's difficult for me to explain why, it's just one of
those films that you like but deep down know that you shouldn't & you
don't know why.
<|_=00=_|>
Great just look at the cast who director John Flynn gets us locked up
with. Sylvester Stallone plays the ideal prisoner - a rock, Tom
Sizemore an edgy inmate, Larry Romano the naïve kid, Frank McRae the
friendly man mountain, Sonny Landham dominates with a snake-like turn,
John Amos a hardened prison officer captain and finally Donald
Sutherland looking down on them as the menacing prison warden using his
inmates like chess pieces "That's no game man. It's a lesson". You'll
love to hate him, as Sutherland is picture-perfect in his delivery. The
cast are outstanding, as the performances of all simply engage. Also
making the cut is Darlanne Fluegal, William Allen Young, Jordan Lund
and Danny Trejo makes a brief appearance here or there. The story
follows that of Frank Leone having only 6 months of his sentence to
serve, but then one night he's whisked away and he finds himself in a
high security penitentiary with a warden Drumgoole (who he shares a
past with) that tends to break his spirit within that time by using
brutality, intimidation and humiliation. However despite Drumgoole's
grudge to see Leone's spirit smothered, he'll find out it won't come
too easy. Habitual structure, but quite a tense, grim and barbaric
prison-yard story with director Flynn's durably taut handling rising
above the predictability. It does seem to move from one sadistic act to
another (as the warden tries about anything to break his man), but the
plot installs some genuine companionship's between the characters and
provides a mind-set of how these inmates truly get through the days so
to keep from sinking in to insanity. Unpleasant, but also affecting.
Bill Conti strings together an effective music score.

"You won't break me."
