

We all know Cujo is a giant St. Bernard that has to kill because he is
rabid.  The film works as a horror film because of that concept, but this
film and the story writer behind it believe that paybacks are a bitch.
Retribution is always around the corner and when it is your time, you
don't
know if it is going to from a guy in a hockey mask, a massive great white
shark,a 58 red and white Plymouth Fury, some idiot with long finger knives
or a lovable Saint Bernard.  Whatever it is though, sin always accounted
for.  Cujo subscribes to that theory.

Everyone that dies in this film, with the exception of maybe one, does so
because they are not very likable people to begin with.  They are all
tainted and when Cujo gets a hold of them, we are almost glad that he
wants
their blood.  But it is the climax of the film that is the most
intriguing.
Because here we have a woman who has gotten rid of her sin.  But she now
has
to face the music not for what she is doing, but for what she has done.
And
if you read the book, you will see that it sticks to that theory and
message
much more than the film does.  It is understood that Cujo has to have a
happy Hollywood ending, and that is fine, but the book tells a much more
clear yet paradoxically convoluted tale of a boy, his dog, and how sin is
never really forgiven.

What is also great about Cujo is how it shows the dog coming unravelled.
We
see the transformation from lovable suck of a family dog, to vicious
killing
machine that has an insatiable need for blood.  We see his nose get more
wet, we see how certain noises bother him more and we see how much saliva
this dog has stored up in his nasty mouth.

Cujo is a good movie.  It is scary, especially the last half hour and it
actually has a point.  It also does a fairly good job of bringing King's
vision to life.  It is not easy to do that, after all King has a very
vivid
imagination.  But Cujo comes close.  Very close 
<|_=00=_|>

Cujo is a movie that will scare the hell out of dog owners, to say the
least. It's very frightening and very underrated, and for most of the movie,
there is no sign that it is a horror movie. However, Cujo is very
frightening, mainly because these kind of things do happen, a lot of people
(kids in particular) are bitten by dogs every day. 

The leading lady of 80's horror movies, Dee Wallace Stone, plays a woman who
is trapped in her car with her 5 year old son, as a rabid St. Bernard
terrorises them. 

The tension in Cujo takes a long time to build up, but when it starts, it
never lets up. Under no circumstances should young kids watch this movie,
they'll be wetting their beds for weeks. 7.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I think of Cujo as "realistic horror" because it is something that
could really happen. People really do get killed by rabid dogs...this
film just exaggerates the truth a bit. I can't say I really enjoyed
this film as it is not what I look for in horror films. It's a very
good film - well acted, well directed, suspenseful and emotional, but
it's not really "fun" to watch. It starts off with the dog getting
infected, and from then on tension is built up slowly as you sense the
dog is getting angrier and angrier. Eventually it snaps and starts
killing people. The bulk of the film focuses on when Donna and her son
are trapped in the broken down car because Cujo attacks whenever they
try to leave. You can feel all the desperation, pain and isolation of
Donna and her son as they lay trapped inside. It makes you think twice
about dogs and certainly what you would do in such a situation. Would
you run, attack the dog, or wait until help arrives? 

This is not a fun, campy or cheesy horror film, so don't watch if
you're a fan of cheese. It's for those who want to feel suspense, fear
and pain.
<|_=00=_|>
A St. Bernard dog is playfully chasing a rabbit, but when the dog
decides to pop its head into a burrow it's bitten by a rabies-infected
bat and slowly over time it becomes a maliciously uncontrolled mutt.
Which, it turns on its owner and also terrorises that of a unfaithful
women and her son that came to get their vehicle repaired, but only to
be trapped in their broken down car with rabid dog outside trying to
get to them.

Beethoven yep, I just couldn't stop thinking of the lovable Beethoven
when watching this flick. That was one of my childhood favourites, but
I guess it isn't going to be quite the same when I come across it
again. I won't look a Beethoven the same way again. Anyhow, this is one
of the King's better-made adaptations. Although, it's a long way from
brilliant, it delivers a stable amount of interest and tension to
proceedings. This was my second viewing of it and it has hardly lost
any of that full-blooded impact it generated, especially the heart
racing standoff between the dog and the trapped victims. I wouldn't be
surprise that you don't think your watching a horror film to begin
with, as the opening basis centres around a family melodrama, raising
martial issues and work commitments. It kind of comes across as cheesy
in its supposed sentiment in those moments. 

Then it kicks into gear with the slow beginning making way for a
crackerjack final 40 minutes of simple confined tension built around
isolation. It also doesn't hold back on the vicious dog attacks with
ample ferocity and raw suspense being belted out. Watching people being
mauled apart by this giant scuffed up dog wasn't that pleasant at all.
The gore effects were more than adequate and it looked the part of a
rabid dog perfectly. But you couldn't help but feel sorry for the dog,
as it's more of a victim then the people who he's terrorising. Honestly
I cared more for the misunderstood pooch than the initial victims. The
characters weren't entirely likable, with the exception of one or two,
but I didn't connect with them in this mess. The story is simple and
plays it straight, but that doesn't mean it avoids the familiar
clichés. Although, it doesn't entirely hurt the film, well it kind of
enhances it actually. A surprising factor I found was that the film's
camera-work was well choreographed with plenty of swirling shots and
when it needed to up the ante it became rather erratic to fit in with
the mood. Also add in some glorious slow-mo. The score on the other
hand I thought was forcefully unbalanced and didn't fit into the mood
at times. The performances are all sturdy and very hard to knock. Dee
Wallace-Stone was at the top of her game as the wayward wife and Danny
Pintauro as her worried son was equally so. Daniel Hugh Kelly gives a
likable performance as the father and of course the endearing dog is
worth a mention too. The strong performances make this traumatic
experience even more believable.

A tautly constructed and work-man like film that won't push the
boundaries, but its intensely petrifying in its simple origins.
<|_=00=_|>

Hardcore horror fans won't be disappointed (although for a while they may
think they will be) with this extremely bloody and gruesome shocker. The
attack scenes are about as intense as possible - the director almost pushes
them TOO far. But the first half of the movie is plodding, filled with
unnecessary scenes, and the kid's constant whining (although justified) is
sure to get on your nerves.   (**1/2)
<|_=00=_|>
Stephen King-based thriller is a sweat-inducing shocker that ranks
among the most intense King adaptations.

Woman and child are trapped inside their stalled car by a huge, rabid
dog.

Cujo remains one of the more memorable Stephen King novels because it's
a tale of such merciless suspense and in the hands of director Lewis
Teague much of that same horror transcends well into this film. This
film benefits greatly from a powerful story with some well fleshed-out
characters, it's much more than just another 'animal attacks' movie.
Teague's direction is also very tight and helps to build an unnerving
tension through out this film. The atmosphere is very heated, the look
of the movie very gritty, and the danger feels all the more real! The
camera work is also excellent and makes this film feel truly
claustrophobic! It builds to a finale that is heart-stopping. The music
score is harrowing and the filming locations are good.

Cast-wise the film is quite strong too. The great Dee Wallace delivers
an emotionally powerful performance as a mother desperate to protect
her child and survive herself. Young Danny Pintauro is great as
Wallace's horrified child. The supporting cast is good too, as are the
numerous St. Bernard's that play our vicious title character.

Cujo is a top-notch suspense film that never loses its edge. A
must-see, and not just for King fans.

**** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
After reading King's fantastic novel "Cujo" - off which the movie is
clearly based - I was beyond excited to watch the movie. I wondered
excitedly how they would accurately depict the intricate and emotional
lives of the 8 or so main characters. After watching the movie I can
say with confidence that they failed to do the job.

First off - many of the characters that are quite prominent in the
novel and add to the intensity and suspense are given nothing but
slight cameos in the movie, or are not shown at all. The Camber family,
composed of Joe, wife Charity, and son Brett, might collectively have
25 lines which is ridiculous. Roger Breakstone, Sheriff Bannerman, Gary
Pervier, George Meara and Steve Kemp as characters with clear motives
and reactions in the novel, are all about as deep as paper in the film.
Aunt Evvie Chambers, Holly and her family, and a few other minor
characters have been omitted from the film completely.

If this wasn't bad enough, the main story was altered drastically, and
there was no falling action whatsoever! 

* SPOILER ALERT *

Tad Trenton lives in the movie! This huge change in plot completely
takes away from the tragedy that Stephen King so wonderfully wrote.
Also, Cujo is shot in the end. This quick, seemingly painless death
allows the film to end quickly but totally ruins it. In the novel, the
long, painful, graphic death of Cujo is, in a sense, justice being
served. In the film there is no such thing.

Ultimately, this film is weak, not scary, and does not stay true to the
novel. I had to read the novel in broad daylight because of how
frightening it was, I watched the movie alone, in the dark, at night.
The film is the terrible, shameful younger brother - nay - cousin of
the original novel.
<|_=00=_|>
I have a love-hate relationship with Stephen King adaptations. I love
The Shining, Misery, and most of IT, but can't get behind The Shawshank
Redemption or The Green Mile. I want to love the adaptations based on
his books, but as masterful as the beginnings are, the endings mostly
seem to fall flat; a phenomenon not unlike Stephen King's books. The
1983 film Cujo by Lewis Teague was no different than my viewings of
other King adaptations, in the way that it starts off strong, then
falls off in the middle and the end. Starring Dee Wallace and Danny
Pintauro Cujo tells the story about a rabid dog who turns on those
around him and brings evil to the small town he lives in. 

In the sleepy town of Castle Rock, Maine, Donna Trenton (Dee Wallace)
lives a modest unfulfilling life with her son, Tad Trenton (Danny
Pintauro) and busy husband Vic Trenton (Daniel Hugh Kelly). Spending
her days taking care of her son and dealing with her husband's absence
Donna seems to feel as though her very existence has been hijacked by
the other members of her family. Feeling as though she solely exists
for others, Donna begins an affair with her husband's friend Steve Kemp
(Christopher Stone). When Vic finds out about the affair, he abruptly
leaves the house; busy dealing with a business emergency anyway, Donna
is suddenly alone with her son. Because he had to hurry away to deal
with the business emergency, Vic left his family's car needing repairs.
On the way to have the repairs done, the car breaks down leaving Donna
and her son Tad face to face with a rapid dog intent to kill. 

I never know what to expect with Stephen King films. Some are great and
some are terrible. Cujo is somewhere in the middle of this spectrum.
There are some good things that happen in this film. The score is
brilliant, and the dog is well-done for the screen. All the bad
outweighs the few good things, however. Pacing is just horrible; I
typically find great enjoyment out of a film that takes place in
confinement, as this film does in the car. Cujo is not a film that
works well in confinement. Bad child actors can ruin a good movie, and
that is certainly the case with Cujo. The more horror movies I watch,
the more disappointed I am. I love the genre, but it just seems that
what passes as a horror movie is always disappointing. I won't quit the
quest, but Cujo certainly did not satisfy my craving for horror movies.
<|_=00=_|>
This didn't get the distribution or attention "Misery" got, but it's
equally tense and equally well acted by Dee Wallace-Stone (as Donna
Trenton).

The simple premise is that a woman becomes trapped in a car while a
rabid dog, Cujo, waits to tear her apart.

As "Misery" was about confinement, so is "Cujo", and director Lewis
Teague "("Educating Rita") keeps the suspense high and convinces us
that Donna's situation is real. The dog is not entirely unsympathetic,
either, as we are given the reasons for his mental and physical state.

The film has a refreshing, picturesque simplicity and, by virtue of its
shorter form, cuts away the lengthy novel's fat and improves on the
premise, getting us to the jeopardy quicker and keeping us there.

The original poster, which depicted a distant farmhouse on a hill, may
not have sold tickets, but it was a stunning piece of creative
understatement.
<|_=00=_|>
The novels of Stephen King provided the basis for a number of horror
films that ranged from rather good (FIRESTARTER; THE DEAD ZONE;
CHRISTINE) to absolute masterworks (CARRIE; THE SHINING). One
adaptation that flew under the radar screens of even the most devoted
fans of the horror genre (as well as a few critics) was CUJO, based on
King's 1981 novel of the same name, and released in the late summer of
1983. Part of it could be that the story itself was considered a bit
thinner than what most were used to from King as a novelist.
Nevertheless, in a decade that didn't see too many horror films become
masterpieces (and this even applied to later King adaptations like PET
SEMETARY and CHILDREN OF THE CORN), even slightly lower-caliber King
from the 1980s like CUJO still outdoes even in the 21st century much of
what is out there now.

Dee Wallace, who portrayed the emotionally distant mother in director
Steven Spielberg's 1982 sci-fi masterpiece E.T.: THE EXTRA-TERRESTRIAL,
plays more or less a similar role in CUJO, a frustrated suburban wife
in a northern California town whose life has become a subject of
turmoil; she has had an affair behind her husband (Daniel Hugh-Kelly)
with another man (Christopher Stone); and her five year-old son (Danny
Pintauro) is troubled by these issues which he is much too young to
even begin to comprehend. Elsewhere in town, another young boy (Billy
Jayne) has other issues coping with youth, and his only real "friend"
in the world is his St. Bernard dog Cujo. Unfortunately, what nobody
yet knows is that Cujo is the victim of a horrible encounter. In the
film's opening, Cujo chases a rabbit into a hollowed-out, rotten log,
only to get bitten on the nose by a bat infected with rabies. When
Wallace and Pintauro stop off at the local garage where Cujo is kept,
their car breaks down; and very soon, they are viciously attacked by
the unfortunate St. Bernard. They are trapped in the broken-down car
for much of the hot summer day, the target of Cujo's wrath.

Lewis Teague, who directed the 1979 Dillinger-inspired THE LADY IN RED,
and the 1980 cult horror film ALLIGATOR, does an effective job of
conveying small-town life in this, the first of King's adaptations to
be set in his fictional community of Castle Rock. The major issue that
he faces in directing this film is how he depicts Cujo's attacks, which
in the novel were not surprisingly quite a bit more explicit, and how
sympathetic one can be towards a St. Bernard who slowly but surely
evolves into a vicious killer with teeth. This becomes a prime focus
when it is perfectly obvious how well Wallace and Pintauro connect as
mother and young son. A basic clue can be gleaned from the fact that
Cujo's horrifying transformation from loving St. Bernard to irrational
mauler isn't fast or easy. Another issue, though more minor, is how
Teague can keep up the suspense once Wallace and Pintauro find
themselves trapped in their car at the hands of Cujo. Since the attacks
can't be depicted with such relentlessness, but must be spaced at
intervals, as was the case in Alfred Hitchcock's 1963 horror classic
THE BIRDS, the film inevitably slows down at times; and horror film
fans impatient for the blood and gore to start pouring are likely to
find all of this boring. But astute fans of the genre know that it's
far better to do it this way.

While King is often known for situations involving horror of some kind,
primarily supernatural (though not really here), he also has a firm eye
for characterizations; and Teague and screenwriters Dunaway and Currier
take their cue from that aspect of King, while not leaving out the
horror (though the attacks themselves, while plenty horrifying, aren't
revoltingly graphic). The film's on-location settings in areas around
Petaluma and Santa Rosa gives the Castle Rock an idyllic but also
sometimes claustrophobic feel, which is enhanced and intensified once
Cujo becomes a killer.

In the end, CUJO, while not quite a masterpiece on the level of either
CARRIE or THE SHINING, must still be counted as one of the better
horror films, thanks to the emphasis on characterization and suspense,
and not just on blood and gore, while providing plenty of scares. Not
many horror films in the 1980s did that, and even fewer would do so in
the decades to come, and on into the 21st century.
