
I'm quite appalled by the user rating, here. The film too, does not
have bad acting, especially from it's lead, Colosimo, where after this,
his career went on hold, where all I can say is thank you for The Wog
Boy and Chopper. Like Moving Out, here's another tale of angst.
Colosimo is a rebel, involved in some bad dealings, while dealing with
own domestic troubles, on the account of his violent father. He finds
an outlet, fronting for the new drummer of a school band, while he does
fall out here and there with people, like authorities and one teacher
in particular, he ends up decking in a cheer moment. Street Hero is an
exciting if sort of glamorized drama, shot in quite nice color. The
film never dulls and Colosimo is an acting revelation, while I really
enjoyed Peta Toppano, as the suffering mother, while I really lied
Sandy Gore, back on board with Colosimo, as a lesbian teacher who takes
him in, after a quite heavy and shocking tragedy. It has a great
soundtrack, plus other songs, featuring one of Leo Sayer's I really
liked. Watch for Adelaide's Paul Makin in the starting, spouting some
priceless dialogue.
<|_=00=_|>
I bought this film second hand for real cheap a couple of years ago...
I was drawn in by the cool cover art that Medusa pictures made for it.
Now, despite what everybody else says...this movie really isn't bad at
all, its got great soundtrack, style and actors.The main actor Vince
Colosimo is perfect as the good looking hero of the story and makes the
character sympathetic as a tough guy who's just from the wrong side of
the tracks and is really a nice guy!Watch out for the part were he hits
one of his teachers in the face when she bullies him...cool scene! Also
the song on the end credits "Every Beat Of My Heart" by Jon English is
such a cool song.The only slight fault of this movie is that it is a
tad too long but hey, we cant hold that against it... so my advice
would be to get it despite of the bad comments from others...and
definitely check it out if you love eighties style movies and eighties
rock music cause there's tons of that cool stuff!!!I should also
mention that this film is hard to come by but you should try get it one
ebay because it is worth it.The story to it is about a young dude
called Vinnie who does boxing in his spare time but keeps getting
kicked out of school.His mother is going out with a real scumbag guy
because the father died.He often beats her and Vinnie thinks hes no
good for her!Vinnies mother asks him to join the school band because
she thinks it will keep him busy and off the streets away from all the
bad action and maybe help him with a future career! All during this
film there is some really great music by rare rock bands like
Dragon...some of the cool songs are "New Hero","Wilder World" and "No
Angels Tonight" all of which are brilliant tunes that you'll find
yourself humming them for the following couple of days!
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't mind this movie mainly due to the soundtrack. I saw this at
the movies when it was released and the audience (mostly teens of
course) were in stitches with this. Vince Colosimo's acting was
poor,very poor. His line at the hospital where his mother lay in bed
dying was a audience stealer." i don't know what's wrong with me,i cant
stop crying. The doctor said you might die,what would he know,the
prick". It had the audience in stitches. I haven't seen the movie in a
while but i can still remember the lines and if not 100% accurate it's
close.I wonder what Sigrid Thornton thought of Colosimo's
acting.Colosimo himself would probably look back on this and laugh now.
He has come a long way since this. This movie is due for release on DVD
in the next couple of months. This movie had a very good soundtrack
though and that's what saved it for mine.
<|_=00=_|>
An early 80's suburban Melbourne film, about a boy in with the wrong
crowd, bastard of a step dad and in love. 

I bought this film for five dollars at the reject shop. I thought why
not? I got about 15 minutes into the film and remembered I had seen
bits of it or if not the whole film before. That is the type of film it
was. Forgetible.

This film at times appears to be trying to be a Hollywood film and at
other times sticks to it's Australian origin. Low budget props,
particularly the policemen's uniforms.

Vince Colosimo has moved on to bigger and better things and I guess we
all have to start somewhere, and for that I recommend that people see
films like this.

You won't be constantly wowed but is worth watching at least once.
<|_=00=_|>

all of of the tortures in the world could not compare to sitting down and
watching this filth.Surely even when this film was first released it
would
have been considered tacky back then.i'm ashamed to even live in the same
country as this film was made in.what a waste of plastic and
film.
<|_=00=_|>

Seeing as the other people who have submitted comments for this pile of
old trousers have kept it short and sweet, I will keep the ball rolling
by simply saying:

1. This is the first film I have been able to follow on fast-forward
just as easily as if I was watching it on regular speed with sound,
that's how predictable it was.

2. It's not only Hollywood that knows how to beat the old
bad-boy-turns-good redemption tale to death with a stick, the Aussies
can certainly give them a run for their money.

That is all. Oh, and the soundtrack was absolutely terrible.

<|_=00=_|>

Tired old tale of a rough boy from a hellish background whose heart's in
the
right place and who battles against the odds to make it because there's
one
radical authority figure who believes in him. Oh and of course, he's in
love.

The only entertainment in it is the horror effect of the mid-80s Pat
Benatar
fashion, make-up and hairdos. Where do you buy a red leather sleeveless
jacket these days?
