
Reading previous commentary, I'm amused by the violent reaction this
movie still elicits. The ranting of previous reviewers indicates the
movie touched a nerve. I have seen really, really bad movies and Red
Dawn is certainly not as bad as the ratings it has received here.

As is so often the case, many previous reviewers are criticizing the
film because its premise conflicts with their political philosophy. I
wonder how they would have rated this film had the characters been
teen-aged members of an all-black football team who become partisans
fighting bigoted southern whites in a 1960s civil war that never
occurred. Would they be so harsh if the movie were about a group of
teenage Jewish soccer team members fighting the Nazis in World War II?
they might not have rated it nine or 10 stars but I'd bet they would
have given it more than one star. Given the current political climate,
they might even receive it more warmly if the characters were Iraqi
teenagers fighting Americans.

I understand the temptation to judge movies based on your own
preferences rather than the movie's own merits. I recently watched Easy
Rider for the first time and absolutely could have kicked myself for
wasting the two hours or so it took the silly drivel to play out. Were
I to rate it strictly on the way I felt about the movie -- the silly
situations at the commune where 50 hippies are supposed to live all
winter on about a half acre of wheat, about enough to produce a loaf of
bread, the laborious acid dropping scene, the cartoonishly villainous
red necks, the lame acting (other than Nicholson) -- I guess I'd have
to give it about a one-star rating. But it was a beautifully filmed
movie and it obviously spoke to people at that time. So a more valid
assessment from my perspective would be that it's an anachronism that
seems a bit silly today but obviously had merit in context.

I believe Red Dawn touched something in young people of the mid-80s in
the same way Easy Rider touched young people in the late 60s. Sift
through the silliness of both movies and you find something people were
looking for. Prior to this movie, young people were told that if World
War III came, they would either be swallowed by an irresistible
communist onslaught or fried in a matter of seconds by a nuclear
explosion. Red Dawn said to them, "If the time comes, you will not be
helpless. You will fight back and win." It was an entirely unique
message at the time and one people were longing to hear. In fact, The
United States was already fighting back and won it's greatest victory
over its most formidable foe without direct armed conflict and
bloodshed because of visionary and resolute political leadership.

From the time of its release until today, Red Dawn has been roundly
criticized for the implausibility of the plot. It's quite true that the
communist bloc was not capable of a successful invasion of the United
States in 1984. But for those who failed to grasp this, Red Dawn was
not a documentary. The prologue establishes the circumstances under
which the invasion occurred and the action that proceeds from that
premise is possible. Would communist troops shoot up a school? Their
battle record indicates that if they saw it as or mistook it for a
tactical objective, they most certainly would. Would they shoot
civilians? Is there anybody out there so ignorant to suggest they
wouldn't?

Good Points about Red Dawn: *The action sequences are well done and
look realistic. For instance, there's a scene where a plane drops a
bomb. You see the fireball first and then hear the sounds. That's a
nice, realistic touch. *The actors handle their weapons properly
*Beautiful photography *There's some good chemistry between some of the
actors *The outcome is typical of what happens in partisan fighting.
Partisans typically enjoy initial success because of surprise and
knowledge of the terrain. But they usually eventually succumb to
better-trained, better-equipped troops *I liked the musical score

Bad points about Red Dawn: *The communists are a tad too stupid for too
long *The use of horses is a stretch. *Some of the teenage high-fiving
and exuberance will make you groan *Some (but not all) of the dialog
and acting is awfully stiff

In short, it's an action picture that will entertain people who like
action pictures. It has a unique plot line that has now become an
anachronism. At it takes a jab at one of Hollywood's scared cows,
communism which is refreshing. Nobody should be ashamed of making it,
acting in it or enjoying watching it.

Politically, the real question is not why Hollywood made a film like
Red Dawn. It is rather, why did 50 years of totalitarian communist
oppression spawn so few films critical of communism? Why are there
seemingly scores of movies about McCarthyism and none about the Soviet
gulag system? Schindler's List shows that Hollywood can make an
incredible film, a film so compelling you can't take your eyes off of
it, about something so horrible you can hardly bear to think about it.
Stalin's body count exceeds Hitler's yet there is no Schindler's List
for the Gulag. And that is something to be ashamed of.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie when I was in college in Colorado Springs, Colorado when
it
came out in 1984.  Many people dismiss this movie at best as either a teen
fantasy or at worse as a right-wing maniac's delusional vision of the
future.  Yes, it is a teen movie, but there's a bit more to it than that.
I'm basically writing this for those of you who either weren't born or too
young to remember those days.  I grew up in the aftermath of the Vietnam
War. Anything mildly patriotic was regarded in bad taste.  So when John
Millius and his friends decided to make this patriotic teen movie about
resistance fighters fighting invaders from the Evil Empire, he was just
tapping into the frustration that many people (including myself) felt at
that time.  The scene I remember most vividly is the one when Patrick
Swazye
shoots the young Russian political officer in the Chevy Blazer.  The
audience consisted mostly of guys from nearby Fort Collins and Peterson
AFB,
and they gave this scene a standing ovation.  In this post 11 September
world, it's hard to imagine a time when, during the Cold War, flying the
flag or loving your native land made many people think you were either a
Nazi or a member of the John Birch Society.  Now this film isn't "Seven
Days
in May" or "Fail-Safe."  It's just a movie that was made at a time after we
had lost a war and many in the world regarded the USA as a paper tiger.
That's all.
<|_=00=_|>

Previous commenter Wayne missed the point... "Red Dawn" does not
glorify violence and war. Far from it... the movie tries to show just
how gruesome and de-humanizing an extended conflict like this can be.
The occupying Soviet and Cuban/Nicaraguan soldiers are not portrayed as
monsters. In fact, there are many moments when they are shown for
exactly what they are... often young and frequently scared soldiers,
doing the job they have been told to do. There are certain individual
characters that are shown as ruthless killers, but they are generally
the exception. The movie is less an action film, and more a cautionary
tale of taking things too far and going over a precipice from which it
is not easy to return. Neitzsche said "Those that do battle with
monsters should take care, lest monsters they become." The Wolverines
start out as a band of scared kids running for their lives, and grow
into guerilla fighters forced to fight for their freedom. Eventually,
they take it too far, and start to lose their emotional connection to
what they are doing. It's hard to say more without giving away some key
points of the ending sequences, but suffice to say that the kids come
perilously close to fulfilling Neitzsche's warning. Those that take
this movie simply at face value will lose a lot of the potential
impact, and will likely miss the messages contained therein.

<|_=00=_|>
Being a Russian American I found myself switching allegiances during
this movie. I must say I loved this flick. I've always been fascinated
with the cold war, and the what if scenarios. If you can relate, then
this movie is a must see. I thought this movie showed a very strong
human side to the realities of a partisan's life, and I believe it was
fair. It wasn't an American Rambo, where one man takes down a whole
Soviet battalion. No it was a powerful story of what people must
conform to in order to deal with the outcome of invasion of ones
motherland, and how people, the ordinary person deals with this reality
and how they're transformed by it. The United States has never been
invaded, and I found this film to be a great prediction of how if an
invasion ever took place the American people would fight to the bitter
end if they had to. In a way these partisans reminded me of the Soviet
partisans of WW2, and how they fought on. This is a great movie which
is not overdone, but is very realistic, and fair. The acting is not
brilliant, but is good, and the whole movie works. I absolutely loved
it!
<|_=00=_|>

Someone else before me wrote that a lot of people don't understand how
believable this movie was in it's day. I have to agree with the author. I
remember this movie as being pretty scary and pretty violent. I haven't seen
it in a while but there's a lot of scenes that haunt me. One in particular
is when several of the kids look for their parents at a concentration camp.
Harry Dean Stanton gives a powerful performance that serves to show that
he's a genuine actor. That scene is heartbreaking, as well as a scene that
follows with Patrick Swayze breaking down in the snow covered woods. C.
Thomas Howell vs. the helicopter. The ritual of the deer blood. Powers
Boothe. The final battle and resolution. Yeah, it's a little much and these
days, it wouldn't exactly fly but dammit Jim, I dug it at the time and I
still do. I think everyone should see it, just so you can either remember or
learn what it was like to live in a time when the general thinking was a
little paranoid. I think the movie manages to capture at least that, being
what it is, a paranoid fantasy of someone who probably has a huge gun
collection in his concrete reinforced cellar. Rating: *** out of
*****.
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen this "movie" on TV a few times (although it would be better
described as propaganda) and have to honestly say that there are so
many problems with it's basic premise and message that it stands more
as a tribute to the paranoia of the far right in the early 1980's than
anything else.

Just starting with the basic premise of how the events that lead to
what happens in the movie is so out there and nonsensical that it
beggars belief.

Here a just a few examples of how ridiculous this movie is: The
Russians achieve their initial invasion by commandeering thousands of
commercial jets and flying then into US airspace.

Okay, the problem with this is that even though the FAA and air traffic
controllers are rather overworked but I'd still think that someone
somewhere working in an air traffic control tower would notice SEVERAL
THOUSAND UNSCHEDULED AIRCRAFT JUST SUDDENLY APPEARING OUT OF NOWHERE.

"West Germany elects the greens to power and they demand that all
nuclear weapons be removed from European soil which leads N.A.T.O
dissolves and leaves America to "stand alone" with only Britain at it's
side".

Aside from this being little more than a cheap dig at the peace and
anti-nuclear weapons movements that were gaining influence at that time
there is no way short of those other countries being nuked into
oblivion that that would happen.

"Russian forces invaded Alaska and came down through Canada" And no one
in Alaska or Canada noticed thousands of Russian troops and pieces of
equipment rolling through the streets and thought to notify the
Canadian or American government to tell them the Russians were coming.

Lastly that a meat headed high school football quarterback who's only
previous experience in a leadership role of any kind is being a high
school football team quarterback and goes hunting with dad somehow
qualifies him with advanced knowledge of military maneuvers and tactics
especially considering the fact that he and his "Wolverines" going up
against SPEZNAZ Troopers who are the elite forces of the Russian Army
(although in this movie they are depicted as being bumbling fools who
can't hit the broadside of a barn with a machine gun)and can organize
to engage them in battle and win.

Those are just some of the biggest implausibilities in this movie.

Not to mention the fact that the overall message of this movie is that
it's fun to watch teenagers kill people as long as they're big bad
commies one character even says without an ounce of remorse when asked
what it felt like to murder in cold blood a drunken Russian soldier who
was unarmed and he say's "it felt good".

Director John Milius has admitted that he wrote this pathetic exercise
in jingoism in response to the 1983 TV movie The Day After (which was a
far superior film about the aftermath of nuclear war on a small Kansas
town and the people living there)because he was angered by the way war
and the aftermath of a nuclear attack was presented in a negative light
and he felt that it was "just a hippie peacenik movie designed to
unfairly influence the youth of America away from liking war and
towards both peace and nuclear disarmament".

This movie is little more than cheap far right propaganda designed to
feed the paranoia of the far right and a chance to feed their lust for
blood.
<|_=00=_|>
'Far Off Gone' is right on with that summary.

As a teen when this movie came out, us kids had grown up with Cold War
news every night on TV. All these ICBMs being made, the 'Star Wars'
defense initiative (SDI), even movies like 'War Games' contributed to a
overall climate of concern about Russian/USA relations.

Then this movie hit theaters and us teens and younger adults felt we
weren't so powerless after all. I can only speak for myself, but the
opening scene was very sobering to a 18 year old kid who could relate
to the dumbfounded kids in the classroom watching Soviet paratroopers
hitting the schoolyard. I guess its one of those things where you had
to be at the age and grown up in that era to really understand how the
movie was received for its time.

The cast is chock full of stars in their younger years, and acting
isn't bad either. Great movie and certainly worth watching at least
once.
<|_=00=_|>

Anyone who has seen Leni Riefenstahl's "Triumph Des Willens" (Triumph of
the
Will), the documentary about the Nuremburg Rallies, understands that even
the vilest propaganda can attain the status of great art. Without a doubt,
Nazism was a force to be despised and resisted, yet "Triumph" remains a
fascinating, even great film.

That said, I will not put "Red Dawn" on the same plane as Riefenstahl's
work. It is neither as good a film nor as vile propaganda. But it does
underscore a point I see running through many of the criticisms of "Red
Dawn" that have been posted here. Many of the movie's detractors reject
the
film out of hand because of its undeniably conservative overtones. This, I
believe, is lazy criticism. The movie has an excellent pedigree. I suggest
you search on ImDb under John Milius' name to see what other films he has
been involved in. Some of his more notable accomplishments include the
screenplays of "Jeremiah Johnson" and co-authoring "Apocalypse Now", as
well
as the notably UNconservative adaptation of "Clear and Present Danger".
Basil Poledouris' score is fantastic, with its Copland-esque homages. The
touches of authenticity in the film are also admirable, including the
indoctrination camp (see the recently published "Gulag" or Koestler's
"Darkness at Noon")and "Radio Free America" scenes, not to mention the
efforts the filmmakers went to to make the military hardware look Russian
(as opposed to Russians flying American aircraft in dismal movies like
"Iron
Eagle II" and "Rambo"). Yes, Red Dawn is propaganda, but just because it
may
be, from your perspective, the wrong kind of propaganda, you are not
justified in invalidating the whole enterprise. It is slick, well-made,
and
memorable.
<|_=00=_|>
Looking over previous reviews it's obvious that this film has generated
a large degree of debate. Most people argue that your view of the film
will be tainted by your political philosophy (are you a red-blooded
American who would give your life to defend the values of your country,
or a cowardly tree hugger in denial about the imminent Cubo-Russian
assault?)

Well, as neither of those (Cubans and Russians teaming up to invade a
hick town is completely believable, yeah?), I hope to be able to give a
somewhat balanced review of the film, and the fact is, it is terrible.

The main problem with the film is that it just seems like a bunch of
scenes thrown together rather than sequence of events leading to a
climax and resolution. There is almost no characterisation apart from a
few throwaway lines near the start of the movie, and the action starts
about 1 minute in to the movie. If alarm bells are ringing, good. It's
really hard to care about what happens to someone when you haven't even
caught their name. Compounding this problem is the woeful acting - the
acting is often so wooden I caught myself laughing out loud several
times.

And as previously mentioned, there is no context to the majority of the
movie. It's just a lot of scenes of our heroes killing commies in the
woods / attacking enemy bases. This is what absolutely killed it for me
- most of the time you don't know who they are attacking, what purpose
it serves, what they are trying to achieve, what the desired outcome is
etc etc. This makes it mind numbing to watch - it's almost like
watching stock footage of a war where you don't know which side is
which. I understand that this might be the situation they are placed
in, where they don't know how long they will be fighting for and so on,
but it certainly does not make for good cinema when you have no reason
to care about the outcome of the battles they engage in. I guess what
I'm saying is that there's no progression throughout the movie - it
would be entirely feasible to cut and paste 80% of the movie into a
different order and it would have no bearing whatsoever on the plot.

Perhaps the most ironic part of the movie is that the only person to
show mercy is one of the Communists. It hardly makes you feel for the
"Good Guys" when they kill people in cold blood throughout the movie
yet the "Bad Guy" is the only one big enough to let a wounded enemy
walk away. Actually that's not true, the most ironic part of the movie
would have to be the moustaches which all the commies have, but that's
another story....

I guess the one thing that saves it for me is that not all of our
"heroes" live - it would have received one star had it been a complete
feel good walkover, and it's a measure of restraint which the movie
could have used a lot more of.

So, if you're a red blooded American whose eyes brim with tears every
time you hear your national anthem then by all means see this movie as
you'll probably enjoy it. That doesn't mean it's a good movie though.
<|_=00=_|>
Some weeks ago, I got to see the notorious 1984 film 'Red Dawn' on TV.
I had been looking forward to the experience since i played a certain
computer game with a similar plot some years back. There was something
exotic and fascinating with the thought of a very unlikely Soviet
invasion of the USA. Disappointingly, what I saw was pretty trashy.

In the movie, America has been deserted by many former allied because
of an extremely unlikely dissolvement of NATO (except of the UK, of
course). As if that wasn't enough, Mexico has underwent a Revolution to
become a Marxist state. In 1984, the Soviets got unlucky with their
harvest, which leads to the invasion of the US. Naturally. According to
an Air Force officer the heroes in the movie encounter later, they
smuggled in special troops (Spetsnaz) using charter planes, to secure
key strategic points. He adds: 'the same way they did in Afghanistan'.
Interestingly, that's the first time I've heard of charter routes to
that specific country. Spies had somehow crippled the American ability
to defend and retaliate, and a lot of horrifying commies from Latin
America swarmed across the border. The Soviets showed up with massive
armies, who were somewhat stopped by the armed defenders. Is there
still hope? Of course! Because 1: The American youth are professional
guerrilla warriors, and 2: The Soviets don't have a clue how to occupy
a country (as seen in Afghanistan). The youth call themselves 'The
Wolverines', and kill LOADS of occupants using captured equipment.

The script is maybe the most disturbing aspect of this film: It has
dumb clichés, witless dialog, and is far, far from being
intellectual/contemplative. On the question of how it felt to kill a
foe, a youth who had lost his parents answer: 'It felt good'. This
particular actor was especially horrendous, so that you almost laugh
out loud when he says it.

The special effects are cheap and uncomfortable to look at, which
strengthens the feeling that this is a low-budget film. I hoped for
lots of tanks, massive air strikes etc., but the movie contains a
minimum of cool combat sequences. The attack choppers late in the movie
doesn't even look like the infamous Soviet Hinds, they're just crappy
look-a-likes.

The acting was bad. Seriously, it was BAD. I understand completely why
Patrick Swayze had his breakthrough in a later movie, and not in this
one. Charlie Sheen, who plays his brother is awful as well. The
supporting cast sometimes seem like a group of randomly selected
amateurs. The actors have serious problems displaying their characters.
Emotions seem fake. I'm surprised those morons weren't nailed at the
Razzie awards that year.

The director of this crap is John Milius. He also participated in the
creation of the script. For these imbecilic escapades, I suspect his
family of being badly inbred. I mean he must have intellectual issues
when he makes a bomb like this. When he made this film, he obviously
had no clue how to make a movie entertaining for people with adequate
intelligence.

The controversy around this film was caused by its political message.
It was by many labeled as propaganda, and that's what the movie is
remembered for. However, what will make me remember it, is the poor
quality.
