

From the team that brought us the horror classic; Re-Animator comes From
Beyond; a tale of a mad scientist and his search for the ultimate
pleasure.

Like Re-Animator, From Beyond is based on a story by the fantastic horror
writer H.P. Lovecraft. The acting here comes courtesy of two of
Re-Animator's best actors; Jeffrey Combs, a man that is well known in the
world of B-Movie, and Barbara Crampton; the scream queen that we all
remember from the infamous 'head' sequence in Re-Animator. There is also a
role in this movie for Ken Foree, whom horror fans will instantly recognize
from the classic film, Dawn of the Dead. I didn't know he was in this movie,
so it was a nice surprise for me. From Beyond is also brought to the screen
by the same team that brought Re-Animator to the screen; Stuart Gordon in
the director's chair and Brian Yuzna producing. With a group of people as
accomplished in the horror genre as this fine bunch, what could possibly go
wrong?

The plot of this movie is good because it very much plunges into the
unknown, and as well all know; it is that which makes horror frightening.
This movie is also made good by the fact that once the horror starts, it
doesn't stop and that's always a good thing for a horror movie as nobody
likes waiting for the next horror sequence to turn up. The team of Gordon
and Yuzna obviously knows that relentlessness makes a good horror movie as
it is evident in all horror movies that they have worked on, together or
separately. The idea behind it is also an original one, as ever with H.P.
Lovecraft and it leaves a lot open for creativity, which is capitalized upon
very well by Stuart Gordon with his interesting and effective creatures that
are brought into the film as a result of the scientist's foray into 'the
beyond'. The story, it could be said, is unrealistic, which is true of most
horror films. However, the way it is brought to life seems realistic and as
there is some explanation to the point of the machine and that which it
does, so the audience can somewhat believe it; much to the film's
credit.

In the 80's, horror reached a new point; gone was the creativity of the 60's
and 70's, and a new area of over the top and extremely gory horror was
opened up. From Beyond very much capitalizes on this 'new wave', but unlike
a lot of the 80's films that did, From Beyond manages to pull it off so it
is both interesting and creative and therefore it is a cut above the
majority of other 80's films of the same ilk. From Beyond is not a
masterpiece, but it is very good and fans of the horror genre will certainly
find something to like about it. Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

**** stars out of ****.

Surpassing even the great "re-animator", "from beyond" is a fantastic
horror
film that boasts a great score, great acting, plot, and
so-on.
Jeffery Combs delivers the good once again, and Ken Foree, one of the most
underrated actors (in my opinion) of all time is great as the tough,
face-stuffing cop as well. And Barbara Crampton's scene is great! (you
know
what I'm talking about).......Excellent special effects too, loads of
awesome slimy monsters and cool transformation scenes by Mark
Shotorom.
<|_=00=_|>


This is done by the same crew that gave us ReAnimator and while it follows
in the same tradition of camp, cheese, and corn, "From Beyond" offers
something more. There is sexier sex from Barbara Crampton, fresh from the
Young and the Restless daytime soap. It is hard to decide if it is her
Femme
Fatal or her Black Leather Dominatrix that is the sexier. She does them
both
so well.
Jeffery Combs gets a true starring role in this time out and offers much
more depth to his reluctant hero character. His mentor/adversary Dr.
Pretorius, played by Ted Sorel, is the essence of perverse
genius.
The special effects are also more intense and a step beyond anything else
you're likely to have seen. Especially the battles between Pretorius and
Combs' character, Crawford Tillinghast.
With all the tongue in cheek humor, the campy sets and costumes, and the
cheesy dialogue there still lies a truly spine tingling and disturbing
storyline beneath it all. This movie could have easily been just another
campy horror film but the terror of perversion makes it so much more.

This film disturbs and entertains, excites and amuses a unique vision
unlike anything else.


<|_=00=_|>
This film is without a shadow of a doubt, the best film ever - believe!
Pure twisted weirdness that pummels you into submission, without ever
letting you catch your breath. Starring the great Jeffrey Combs
(Re-Animator), as the unfortunate Dr. Crawford Tillinghast who is
assisting his superior - Dr. Edward Pretorius in creating a resonator
with the intent to stimulate the pineal gland in a dormant part of the
brain (to create a sixth-sense). Unfortunately, things don't go as
planned (it would be pretty boring if they did!) and Dr Pretorius gets
his head bit off ("Like a gingerbread man!") after weird slimy
creatures start to appear while his sidekick gets away from the house
but is blamed for the death and put into an asylum. A very sexy doctor
- Dr. Katherine McMichaels accompanied by a Shaft wannabe - Leroy
'Bubba' Brown ("I'm the LAW here!") remove Crawford from the
institution and back to the dreaded house to recreate the experiment
and prove Crawford's innocence, needless to say, Crawford is a bit
miffed about leaving his cosy straitjacket and; relative safety. 

There are GREAT lines (especially from Combs) - "Alright! Come and get
me...EUNUCH! This time I'm not running away!", gross-out effects
aplenty - heads being twisted off, killer bees that reduce their victim
to a bloody, boney mess, and just look at how Dr Pretorius slowly
changes into something vile; 

Crawford - "My God Edward, what have you become?" 

Pretorius - "Myself!" 

Pure genius. 

I love this film, I really do. If not for the fact that there is never
a moment of boredom, the fact it has a real Lovecraftian sense of
dread, or the way it manages to come off looking like some kind of acid
trip, then just to see, Barbara Crampton in full S&M gear.

Oh, the movie was filmed using some sort of pink filter, which just
adds to the weirdness. Did I mention how great it was? 

See it (wo)man, just see it!
<|_=00=_|>
Its been a while since I saw this, but I fondly remember it as being
one of the wildest and most entertaining horror films of the 80s. I
liked it even more than Re-Animator, partly because there is something
more intriguing about parallel dimensions and the connection to
schizophrenia, than Re-Animators simple (though still entertaining )
"dead come back to life"-scenario. Some of the outlandish effects seem
to be influenced by Dali, bodies in a constant state transformation and
re-evaluation. It is mind-boggling that it is still so hard to get a
hold of on DVD, I only watched a British VHS copy years ago which had
some cuts and I still long to see the original unrated version. The
score, by Richard Band, is also impressively aggressive and
atmospheric. Would somebody please just release it on DVD! They just
don't make them like this anymore.
<|_=00=_|>
"From Beyond" has the unfortunate task of following up one of the most
vivid, effective, and hilarious horror films ever
made–"Re-Animator"–and comes up short in almost every area. Once again,
director Stuart Gordon is adapting an H.P. Lovecraft tale, this one
about two scientists who create a device that stimulates a "sixth
sense" and allows slimy creatures from another dimension to seep
through. Stars Jeffrey Combs, Barbara Crampton, and Ken Foree ("Dawn of
the Dead") do their best, but the script is too limited, and neither
the humor nor horror is as strong as in "Re-Animator." Still, this is
incomparably better than most of the dreck lining video shelves these
days.
<|_=00=_|>

This seminal film by Stuart Gordon reeks pure 80's. Following the
success of the far superior Re-Animator, Gordon experiments with one of
the works of his favourite literary sources: HP Lovecraft. The film
tackles the popular sci-fiction theme of the sixth dimension -- and
considering the small-budget limitations placed upon the director, it
is a reasonable treatment of the multi-dimension theme. The resonator
depicted in the film demonstrates strong Lovecraftian imagery . . . not
easy to achieve. What strengthens the film are the grotesque F/X and
Jeffery Combs/Barbara Crampton: both of these elements are excellent
(for the genre and budget). Some of the F/X are really stomach churning
-- try eating jello or fried liver and Chianti when watching the film .
. . If your are a HPL, Gordon, Combs or Crampton fan, this film is an
essential viewing for you.

<|_=00=_|>

Stuart Gordon's debut 'Re-Animator' is a horror classic, and 'From Beyond'
is an attempt to get lightning to strike twice. Once again Gordon and
producer/co-writer Brian Yuzna make a gory horror/black comedy loosely
inspired by a H.P. Lovecraft story, and get cult hero Jeffrey Combs and
scream queen Barbara Crampton to star. And you know what? It's actually as
great in its own way as 'Re-Animator'. They really pulled it off! Combs
isn't quite as outrageous this time round, but he's still excellent, and
Crampton has a more important role, which includes her memorably dressing up
in bondage gear. Another 'Re-Animator' actor Carolyn Purdy-Gordon also
appears in the supporting cast, as does Ken Foree, one of the stars of
Romero's zombie classic 'Dawn Of The Dead', and Ted Sorel plays Dr.
Pretorious (a deliberate reference to 'Bride Of Frankenstein'), in a role
one could almost imagine was written specifically for the late David Gale
('Re-Animator's Dr. Hill). The story is original and unpredictable, the
humour dark and surprisingly subtle, and the special effects are excellent
and very effective. For me this movie is extremely underrated and gets
better with each subsequent viewing. If you enjoyed 'Re-Animator' you'll
love 'From Beyond'. Gordon and Yuzna's subsequent careers, both separately
and together, have been extremely uneven, but give credit where credit is
due, this one's a winner! Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Mention H.P. Lovecraft and you betcha I'll pay attention. Mention slimy
effects and Jeffrey Coombs....you bet your sweet ass again I'll be
paying attention. But when you mention Stuart Gordon or Brian
Yuzna....ehh, either dude is hit or miss with me. Thankfully, From
Beyond delivered enough entertainment to make this bizarro movie lover
pretty satisfied.

The movie revolves around some type of resonator thingy that enlarges
your Pineal Gland in your brain. This gland, when given the right
magnetic frequencies (?) enables you to see creatures that secretly
reside in our world. Include a nerdy yet sexy psychiatrist and a
ex-football player cop, you have a trio of true 80's weirdom. And for
many fans of 80's horror, this film is a gem and probably a favorite of
theirs.

From Beyond delivers well on a couple things: The slimy special effects
are all well-done, which is no surprise if you've seen Brian Yuzna's
Society. The script and acting overall is completely weak and cheesy,
but if you know anything about 80s horror, that's not necessarily a bad
thing. I thought it was alright, 80s horror fans will love it, anyone
else will probably completely dislike it. And the violence was on a
pretty high level as well, which was surprising, I wasn't expecting so
much blood, that was a nice surprise. Unfortunately though, the movie
just doesn't entertain like you'd hope it would. The resonator scenes
are done well, but most of the other scenes are rather uneventful and
kinda dull. But this is no surprise, especially considering Yuzna or
Gordon. Like I said before, they are both very hit or miss.

Overall though, the movie does deliver a unique scifi/horror 80s feel,
great slimy effects, some 80 cheese and even a couple nipples. From
Beyond is a bizarre flick that all true fans of 80s horror should
enjoy...to some degree.
<|_=00=_|>

Wicked adaption of the H.P. Lovecraft story written and directed by horror
master Stuart Gordon. The story is about experiments that cause people to
be
able to use their sixth sense. This however opens the door to another
universe full of weird creatures and monsters and causes those who are part
of the experiment to go mad. Terrific special effects, a fast pace and a
nasty sense of humor make this a memorable outing. Good camp cast
too.

Rated R; Nudity, Graphic Violence and Profanity.
