
Action is a proud man, a high-school track star, a dedicated cop, a
sergeant who lost his lieutenant's stripes almost two years ago 

He jostles a conceited, two-faced, backstabbing mass murderer called
Peter Dellaplane (Craig T. Nelson). Director Craig R. Baxley has not
only carried it off, but makes you believe it One must also give some
of the credit to Carl Weathers whose erect muscular body and his charm
and good looks give some credence to the heroics 

The picture contains fun, lots of action, and two sexy women 

Vanity looked so gorgeous when she was shot up with heroin 

Stone met her husband after his first wife died and his son went to
prison She thinks that he may seem greedy and arrogant but he remained
loved by everyone, and the whole experience changed him She also
thinks that Jackson is not so different from her husband, that both are
stubborn, and both intent on getting what they want
<|_=00=_|>
I did a quick search on the internet to see if my memory served me
right, and apparently it has. By 1981, the Blaxploitation action film
was exhausted. - Although Fred Williamson had made a couple of action
films in the mid-'80s, these don't really count, because Williamson
can't act and can't direct. 

The good news was that African-American cinema could say farewell to a
stereotype; the bad news was that Hollywood wanted to find some way to
say farewell to African-American cinema. The mid-'80s were lean years
for anyone with dark-skin in Hollywood. 

One of the problems had been that people critical of blaxploitation had
missed the fact that Hollywood only does two type of films with any
regularity, the action film (Western, Sci-Fi, crime, etc.) and the
sit-com (domestic comedy). The notion that Hollywood does dramatic or
otherwise serious films is a myth Hollywood likes to drag out at the
Academy Awards. So if you're not making action films or comedies,
you're not in Hollywood.

By the late '80s it was clear to everyone that African Americans (now
constituting a sizable portion of regular movie audiences) were going
to have to be represented on film again. But by then it was also clear
that this audience wasn't going to tolerate being relegated to pimp and
gang roles, at least not completely. For one thing, Eddie Murphy had
broken the blaxploitation mold in 48 Hours and Beverly Hills Cop. I
don't think anybody realizes that Murphy's roles in these films are a
basic blaxploitation stereotypes, because Murphy clearly wasn't going
to let himself be stereotyped. Murphy's popularity and savvy probably
caused more anxiety than the anger of Melvin Van Peebles or Richard
Pryor ever had, because it was clear that he was there to make money,
something Hollywood could really understand.

At any rate: In 1988 the Wayans produced I'm Gonna Git You Sucka, a
knock-down parody of the blaxploitation genre that pretty much assured
that it would never raise its afro-covered head again. But it was still
clear that African Americans needed a new action hero; so enter Action
Jackson. 

The reason why this film is not better remembered as the return of the
black action hero is clearly because of the script. This is
paint-by-numbers formula movie-making; this script has been written and
filmed a hundred times, and every action star in Hollywood has appeared
in some version of it, all of the Baldwin brothers in turn, Sly
Stallone, Kirk Russell, Seagal, Schwarzenegger, Brandon Lee - I'm sure
the reader can fill in the titles of each actor's version, regardless
how unmemorable the films may have been. This formula was a kind of
rite-of-passage for anyone wanting to make action films in the late
'80s - early '90s. So why not Carl Weathers?

Actually, Weathers' performance in this film is quite good. It's hard
to come up with a bone-breaking/rule-breaking cop who also happens to
be suave and savvy (think part Dirty Harry, part James Bond), but
Weathers nearly pulls it off. The decision not to play him with a
'black-english' accent and with no chip on his shoulder were exactly
the qualities needed to leave the whole blaxploitation question away
from the film at the time it was made. There are also some important
ethnic transgressions here - we first find Vanity as the new mistress
of the white bad-guy, whereas it's clear that Sharon stone's character
has had a fling with Carl weathers'. Essentially, then, the film
portrays a fantasy Detroit, where racism has indeed become a thing of
the past that its all but forgotten. If only that were really true!
But, again, that was exactly what was needed to get African Americans
back into action films - i.e., back into Hollywood.

The direction of the film is fairly tight. The characters are so two
dimensional, it may not be noticeable but the performances are all
pretty solid; the whole film is professionally produced and presented.
Also, two years before everybody in America would discover who Jackie
Chan was and that he came from somewhere called Hong Kong, there are
some terrific stunts in this film. And I noticed that other critics
have reported that both Sharon Stone and Vanity get naked in this
movie; frankly, I find such comments tasteless. On the other hand,
there's no denying the attraction some men will feel for such important
examples of women taking proper care of their health.

But the main point is, the film should be preserved if for now other
reason, than because it was indeed the return to the mainstream of the
strong African-American male hero; and we still need that in the
cinema, and always have.
<|_=00=_|>

The violence in this movie is brutal and efficiently directed, the action
sequences spectacular, the main villain great and the hero, Carl Weathers,
can hold his own when compared to other big action stars of the 80's. In
short, "Action Jackson" has all the ingredients to be a good rental choice
for action fans. If only they had avoided some of those needless
digressions
(like Jackson's fight with a junkie)....  (**1/2) 
<|_=00=_|>

When I saw this movie back in 1988, I thought then & think now that it was
one of the most action packed movies for this genre.  Carl Weathers plays a
likable cop that goes after an unscrupulous high-end car manufacturer.  All
of the characters, Vanity, Craig T. Nelson & Sharon Stone round out the cast
nicely to make an enjoyable, action packed viewing experience for the 1h30m
that it's on.  It wasn't mean't to be an academy award winner, but it set
out to do what it was intended to do, and that's to be an action packed
movie from start to finish.  If you can appreciate movies from the '80s,
this one will be a welcome addition to any collector's library.  I am glad
to see it on DVD, because I have played my VHS copy to the max! 

<|_=00=_|>
Okay, now what isn't there to like about a movie that stars Carl
Weathers, Craig T. Nelson, a young Sharon Stone (scrumptious), Bill
Duke, Vanity (good googly moogly) and tons of other recognizable 80s
actors? Nothing! This movie rules. In the words of my roommate, "you
come for Carl Weathers and you stay for Craig T Nelson." Carl Weathers
is great as straight ahead copper Action Jackson, but Craig T Nelson
steals the show here as the evil Mr. Delaplane. He is such a twisted
jerk that being the richest man in Detroit and having a young Sharon
Stone as his wife isn't enough, he needs to shoot Vanity full of
heroin, too. (Side note: Vanity was extremely strung out on crack
cocaine at this time, read Motley Crue's book: "The Dirt" for more
info.) The action and laughs are nonstop. If you love dumb 80s big
budget action, this is a must see. 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Carl Weathers gets a chance to be an action hero in this very enjoyable
80's
action movie.  There are plenty of fist fights, explosions, car crashes,
and
other action in this one, and I thought Weathers did a good job in this
film.  The scene when he outruns a cab and rides on the roof of it was
kinda
dumb but still entertaining.  Craig T. Nelson does a good job as the bad
guy.  There are plenty of familiar faces in this one including Sharon
Stone,
Bill Duke, Ed O'Ross, Sonny Landham, and many more.  In all, a recommended
film, not the best action film of the 80's, but still a fun one.
3.5/5
<|_=00=_|>
Great late 80's Action Film that's a lot of fun!. The characters were
all great, Especially Weather's and Vanity's characters. The Main
villain was VERY menacing in Craig T. Nelson he does fabulous here.
There is lots of action, and lots of funny one liners from Carl
Weathers!. This has been Panned by a lot of people why? it's a lot of
fun and i personally enjoyed it a lot!. The Direction is fine. Craig R.
Baxley does a fine job keeping the film at a tight pace , cool camera
angles and overall he did a good job!. There is a bit of blood and
violence. a person gets some bloody cuts on there face from glass,
knife in the hand, 2 knives in the chest, arrow in the back, 5 very
bloody gunshot wounds, impaling, and someone gets hit by a car
graphically. The Acting is great!. Carl Weathers is AWESOME here
delivering those one liners like a champ, he had good chemistry with
Vanity and overall he just entertained the hell out of me! and was
perfect for the part he is an awesome actor and one of my favorites!.
(Weathers Rules!). Craig T. Nelson is perfect as The Main villain he is
very menacing and did a terrific job overall!. Vanity is GORGEOUS! and
did surprisingly very well here i liked her a lot. Sharon Stone is
STUNNINGLY GORGEOUS! and does good here too too bad she is rather
wasted!. Robert Davi, Ed O'Ross, Mary Ellen Trainor, and Nicholas Worth
are all good in there short roles. Overall i highly recommend this for
a night of cheesy fun!. ***1/2 out of 5 (Barely)
<|_=00=_|>
There isn't much to say about this movie. It's so stereo-type 80's it's
unreal! Carl Weathers (Rocky, Predator) plays Jericho 'Action' Jackson.
Im just gonna leave it there because his name is just too damn awesome!
This is full of explosions, fulls of fist fights, full of awful acting
and one-liners and amazingly, has a half decent cast of big name 80's
action stars like Bill Duke and Sonny Landham (both of whom appeared in
Predator with Weathers and Arnold Schwarzenegger), and Robert Davy (Die
Hard, Raw Deal, Predator 2). But the story is basically about Jackson,
who has been demoted to a desk cop and hates it, and has to keep his
old 'Action Jackson' rebellious days behind him if he want's to be
promoted again. When he is trailing a sadistic businessman who is
murdering all his union competition so he can take the head job, then
you know his 'Action Jackson' gun-ho days are going to return to save
the day! It really is fun, I recommend it completely.
<|_=00=_|>

Did you get my joke? No? Well then let me explain it to you cretins out
there who have never indulged in bad cinema. Mike Nelson, the genius who
wrote for and hosted the insanely brilliant series Mystery Science Theatre
3000, published a book all about wonderfully cheesy movies that he liked to
watch. Action Jackson was just one of those movies, and I am glad to say
that while it is most certainly dumb and as predictable as a parking meter,
it's just goofy enough to be fun. A lot of people think that when a critic
calls a film cheesy, they mean it's bad. Not necessarily, my naive friends.
Everyone likes to eat cheese every now and then, right? Heck, one of my
all-time favorite foods is macaroni and cheese! Sure, we all like to pretend
that we have refined tastes, munching on caviar and other such sophisticated
vittles, but every now and then we just have to let our hair down and have a
nice slice of good American cheese. And trust me folks, Action Jackson, is
just dripping with the stuff. Just look at the plot: A former lieutenant
known for his hot temper and loose cannon tactics is reduced to a desk job
(check). He has a bookish superior who likes to play by the rules and
refuses to let our hero see some "action" until he shapes up (check). Then
suddenly a new case opens up - it seems that the same man who cost Action
Jackson's lieutenant position is up to his old tricks, but no one suspects
him because he's a respected businessman (check). Will Action Jackson
uncover the villain's dastardly plot, save the day, get the chick who he at
first thought was annoying, and get that lucrative lieutenant position back?
What do you think?! Come on, this is as by the numbers as you can get,
people. This story has been done hundreds of times, and yet here it's still
simple, dorky fun. Action Jackson is played by the man who trained Sylvesyer
Stallone in the original Rocky, and Craig "Coach" T. Nelson himself is the
bad guy. And to top it all off, VANITY is the romantic love interest! I
could not believe it when her named popped up on the screen. Now I own two
movies starring this horrible actress: Today's feature, and the John Stamos
spy disaster, Never Too Young To Die. What a small world, huh? There are
explosions, car chases, groovy 80s tunes, and even a hotel manager whose
lisp is so obvious that you can't understand a word he says. How can you go
wrong? Trust me folks, this is not painful in the slightest. Well, okay,
maybe Vanity's two songs can be zipped through via the fast forward button
(check out her nasty hair!), but otherwise Action Jackson is a great B-movie
for those rainy days. 
<|_=00=_|>
Forget about Apollo Creed from "Rocky" and Dillon from "Predator", the
ultimate Carl Weathers feature is "Action Jackson" why because he is
the "star". He plays a cop not an ordinary cop, but one that has a
reputation of doing things his way. Is that out of the ordinary? Ah who
cares? Weathers in good fun in the tough as nails role. This time the
action is set in Detroit and Weathers finds himself up against a
wide-eyed Craig T Nelson. I don't know, but it felt like Nelson was
always in some staring competition. It was those unblinking eyes. Truly
a fitting bad-ass villainous turn; Hateful, smarmy and he knew how to
work his charm. Who does he have working for him; quick moving
assassins who look like they are out of some 80s rock band. Bad hair,
reflective sunnies and little to say. Maybe it's their second job in
between gigs, as they do seem to go missing midway through the film.
There are some familiar faces in the cast too; ex-model / singer Vanity
gives a sultry performance as a nightclub singer (with a steamy
soundtrack to boot), Bill Duke as the hardened police captain that's
always on Jackson's back, a unhinged Robert Davi as an old friend and a
minor turn by Sharon Stone.

The ludicrously pulpy story doesn't break any new ground (sometimes a
little too makeshift and contrived), but it's gloriously violent,
equipped with smart-lipped one-liners and works in some exciting action
set-pieces (Ferrari driving in a mansion) within its urban backdrop
thanks to Craig R Baxley's rigidly confident direction.
