
It is a hot sunny day in South America. We see a bunch of men, shot
mostly from the back. They are walking deep into the forest. We see a
tall dark figure. He is wearing an old leather jacket, he has the 5
o'clock shadow looking like it's closer to midnight, he wears a fedora
and he carries a bull-whip ( yes a bull-whip ). Finally, two of the men
enter a cave and we hear about some guy named Forstall, who was good,
very, very good, but he never came out of the place alive. But they
enter anyway. They are confronted with tarantulas, spears that are
triggered by blocking out the light, a pit that they must swing over
and then more tiny poisonous darts that come out of the wall. All this
to protect an ancient gold statue. They recover it. One guy dies and
the other barely makes it out of the room before it all falls on him.
Then he has to get out of the cave and a giant boulder chases him.
Finally he makes it out of the cave only to be surrounded by Hovitos
and his arch enemy named Belloq. He takes the gold statue that this guy
worked so hard for and then the guy runs and makes it to the plane
where he is in the passenger seat and there is big snake in the plane.
He hates snakes. This mans name? Indiana Jones!

Whhhoooooo!! I'm left breathless just describing that opening. But is
there a better beginning of a movie ever? Absolutely not. Does the
beginning have anything to do with the rest of the film. No. It is all
decoration for what the movie is going to put you through in the 90
minutes to come.

Indiana Jones is the best character to ever hit the screens. And he
better be. He is created by George, Steven and played by Harrison Ford.
That may seem normal now that we have lived with him for 20 years, but
can you imagine what that must have been like back in 1981. That would
be like Tom Hanks or Will Smith joining forces with James Cameron and
Steven Spielberg for a completely original idea in today's terms.

Raiders took a simple idea and maybe an idea that the guys had from
watching Saturday afternoon movies and made it larger than life. This
film never stops for you to take your breath. It is filled with rich
characters from Indy himself to Marion to Belloq and even to Marcus
Brody. Each has their own personality that shines through in certain
scenes. Some of my faves were when we first meet Marion having a shot
contest in her bar in Nepal. Then there is her scene with Belloq and
they get drunk together and she tries to leave using only a butter
knife. And of course who can forget Indy's battle with the swordsman
and his unrivaled determination to get the ark. " Indy, there is not
time. If you still want the truck it is being loaded on a truck for
Cairo. " ( a battered and bloody Indy ) " Truck? What truck?" ( and
then later ) "Get some transport back to England, boat, plane,
anything. Meet me at Omar's. I'm going after that truck. "

Sola ) " How? " ( Indy ) I don't know I'm making this up as I go."

Raiders has more energy than three action films. And that is what makes
it the classic that it is. If you like movies, then Raiders is a movie
that will not let you down. It is pure entertainment and that is
indisputable. It finds the youngster in all of us and bombards us with
this silly, whip-cracking, average, incredibly determined archaeologist
and only asks us to have fun. And that we do. And to me, the only
reason that Chariots of Fire won best picture that year is because it
is a serious film. Raiders was heads and shoulders above Chariots and
it should have cleaned up at the Oscars in 81. But more politics with
the academy.

Raiders of the Lost Ark is the epitome of entertainment. What more can
be said about it. If you haven't seen this movie in a while or if you
haven't seen it at all ( gasp ) then do yourself a favour and rent it
tonight. It is awesome.

TRUST ME
<|_=00=_|>

If you've seen this movie and heard the score, then my one line summary
won't read like a mating call for sheep, but rather the absolutely
exhilarating "Raider's March" which stirs my blood and makes me think of an
unforgettable hero, Indiana Jones. If not, see it now.

I love going to movies. I always have. I remember when this film came out.
My friends had seen it before I had. They boasted it was great, the best
film ever. Some even said it was better than Star Wars (utter blasphemy to a
devout 10 year old Jedi-wannabe). I thought no way is this film better than
Star Wars, but I was still curious and began the begging of my father to
take me.

When I was young, almost all of the films that I had seen, I saw with my
Dad. He would take me and my mother would stay at home with my siblings. We
saw a number of films that failed to generate a reaction with him as they
did with me, but this one was different. This one, my Dad might've enjoyed
just as much.

Who can forget the scene where Indy faces bandits in the marketplace,
fighting swords with his wits and fists, only to be finally challenged by a
dark robed adversary brandishing a heavy, dismembering type of sabre as he
swings the impressive blade about his head menacingly?

Indiana looks his opponent up and down briefly and draws his pistol casually
and shoots the villain dead as if his patience had been tested a moment
longer than he could tolerate.

My father, and the entire audience for that matter, laughed and cheered at
this incredible scene. And it was the first time I'd actually been aware of
his enjoyment of the film. Usually I'm so transfixed that I wouldn't notice
if my legs were on fire. He enjoyed it so much, that he still tends to bring
up that scene, even today.

My father and I shared a great moment in movie history, and I will never
forget it for as long as I live. I will always be grateful for the time we
spent together and the films that I otherwise would have been unable to see
without him taking me.

Just a side note about the scene I've described above. It wasn't meant to go
that  way at all. As Steven Spielberg explained in a television interview,
the scene was meant to have an elaborate fight sequence, but Harrison Ford
was suffering from diarrhea and couldn't go through with the elaborate
set-up required. Someone said, "the only way we can finish this scene today
is if he shoots him". Steven said, "Wait a minute, we might have something
there."

As for where it ranks with Star Wars, it's hard for me to say, so I won't.
Star Wars was the first film I ever saw, and there's a story in that as
well. Thanks again, Dad.


<|_=00=_|>
Nowadays we keep forgetting how beautiful blockbusters can be. Too much
CGI makes everything possible and therefore very often also arbitrary.
In Raiders you actually seem to feel the physical pain some of the
actors/stuntmen had to go through to provide 2 hours of pure
entertainment.

Of course the story isn't waterproof, the Nazi weren't that present in
Egypt in 1936 and how did Indy survive that ride on the submarine
again? But lots of good and variable action scenes are accompanied by a
story that develops fast and excitingly and is always close to being
implausible but luckily never is. 

Spielberg, Lucas and most of all Harrison Ford created a hero that is
nowadays iconic. With their attempt to make an homage to adventure
comics of the 1930's they created their own legend. 

It's funny, exiting, thrilling and romantic. What more can you ask for?
<|_=00=_|>
I remember seeing this movie when I was young, and it may well have
been in the cinema with my Father, I can't quite remember (if he does,
then please post the answer), anyway I do remember seeing it and being
thoroughly entertained and that feeling of excitement and total fun
staying with me to this very day as that is the feeling that the movie
conjures up whenever I think of it.

I think a part of that is down to the fact it's a complete retake on
the old serial movies combined with obvious comic book style, and that
is just perfect for kids and appeals to them no end, or rather it did
then! So it was with excitement that I opened my presents on my
birthday and found the boxset for the Indiana Jones Trilogy, and with
even more excitement when I finally watched the first in the trilogy,
Raiders of the lost Ark.

It was just as I remembered, fun, excitement, wise cracks, a tiny
splattering of romance but with a manliness that kids would allow, and
lots of stunts and action. It's a superb movie and captures that style
of serials, adventure stories and comic books perfectly, how I know
that for sure is only through repeats since I wasn't alive during those
times.

The set pieces are fantastic, and although some of the wilder end
sequences are slightly dated now, it hasn't lost the excitement factor.
It's a perfectly crafted movie as well, moving from location to
location without any distraction or superfluous scenes, it just feels
like it's all there for a reason and that it belongs there.

Harrison Ford is excellent in the role, and I'm inclined to think he
was more Indy than he was Solo, but that's a personal opinion. He has
many more facial movements and voice inclinations in this early movie
than he does nowadays, now he belongs to the moody, quiet school of
acting, then he was dynamic, adventurous, strong and as wisecracking as
the best of them.

There are some excellent movie making moments in this with George Lucas
and Steven Spielberg showing talent galore just oozing out of every
pore (where did all that go for Star Wars I to III Mr Lucas?), and they
end up making an excellently entertaining movie.

Some could argue that there could be a bit more depth or seriousness to
the story, but come on, it's a ripping adventure yarn, you don't need
depth. Saving the Ark from the Nazi's, surely that's enough! An
excellent movie and great fun too, without a doubt one of my favourite
of all time.
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen Raiders of the Lost Ark numerous times on TV, DVD and big
screen. My local theatre had a special showing last night and the
400-seat screen completely sold out (as Indy films always do). Luckily
for me and my pal, we got the last 2 tickets available! I can't think
of many films that still sell-out 25 years after their original
release. There's just something about Indy movies(iconic hero,
affection, epic spectacle) that brings you back again and again.

The only trouble with that is there are zillions of reviews, critiques
and dissections of this movie already out there, so what I have to
offer will probably not be anything new. I will however not go the way
of the cliché and mention 1930's serials, Tom Selleck or the sword/gun
fight.

I will, however, ask you one question. Did you know that some of the
more iconic, memorable sequences from Raiders owe quite a lot to Duck
Tales? What? Surely it's the other way around? Well, no. The
globe-trotting adventures of Scrooge McDuck, Huey, Duey, Luey and
Donald in Carl Bank's Disney comic-books from the 50s came first. If
you can find some of these then you'll surely notice the similarities.

The hunt for the Ark of the Covenant is more than just an excuse for
action. So many movies these days seem to come up with action first and
string them together with some lame plot. Movies like this are quickly
forgotten and one of the reasons Raiders holds up so well is because it
works the Covenant story so well into the plot.

The action comes in a succession of set-pieces. I do enjoy films that
have to increasingly better themselves in every scene. Raiders
introduced this as a standard that the sequels had to live up to. My
fave scene has to be the massive truck chase through Egypt, which is
made up of many of its own smaller sequences. One little idiosyncrasy I
like about Indy is that even though he's a College Professor and
Doctor, he has no beef killing people. So very far from the ubiquitous
PC heroes of todays movies.

You might think that it's rather geeky to hype up the editing and sound
design, but they do stand out from recent action movies. The gunfire
and punching seem to have a sort of 'Indy' signature sound to them,
that I've not heard in any other films. And obviously, John William's
classic score is one of those themes that just everybody in the world
knows (though I prefer his score to Temple of Doom), truly one of the
best movie themes ever. Better than Star Wars! 

I'm not sure if Spielberg planned on Raiders starting the Indy
franchise but there's already enough in here to establish a whole
universe of potential stories and character arcs. There's talk of a
fourth movie at the moment, but I personally don't think it will happen
and I don't want it to. It's perfect existing as a trilogy and a sequel
that comes traipsing in 18 years after the last is just not going to
feel right. Even if you are hungry for more Indy then there are loads
of books and video games out there and then there's the Young Indiana
Jones TV show (where are the DVDs?), which are official Indy canon and
even starred Ford once (they bounced around in time).

I am giving Raiders 9/10 because I just have a soft spot for Temple of
Doom (which is obviously a 10/10 movie). Even 25 years after it first
came out it still has the power to captivate the audience and provoke
sheer excitement every time. And in 25 years it will still be far
superior to almost everything.

Now there's something you cannot say about The Fast and the Furious!
Sigh, where did all the special movies go?
<|_=00=_|>

There are few movies I can watch over and over again, but this is one of
them.  This movie has it all: action, romance, comedy, and suspense. 
Harrison Ford is at his best as Dr. Jones, one of the most exciting
archeologist ever.  From the start to the end you are hooked to this movie. 
I love the opening when he as to dodge traps as he tries to get this
treasure, I love it when he is running through the streets trying to save
the girl, I just love every bit of it.  Spielburg said he wanted a b-type
movie like he remembered from his youth, but this far surpasses any b movie
and any a movie as far as I am concerned.  
<|_=00=_|>
There are only so many films in history that I can watch again and
again, gaining new appreciation for, one of them is this film. I went
from the movies to VHS, and finally to DVD. The availability and
quality of this film keep raising the bar of what I can get from it.

I read someone posted that this is the king of B movies or something of
that sort, while I honestly think in some scenes like when Indy is
running from the Hovitos and he rises over the hill, the film had a
really strange documentary feeling, like if a comic actually came to
life and like in the Twilight Zone, you were stuck in it. It is great
to see this film, now that I edit and produce small independent films,
and have worked in post production in Los Angeles. I honestly think
almost every scene in this film is better than what's coming out today
in sci-fi/adventure. I might pull back that comment in regards to some
nice visuals in Riddick, and maybe the new Star Wars: Revenge of the
Sith, but I'm not certain.

The amount of time and effort put into the comedy, adventure, and depth
of each character dazzles me because I really can't tell it was filmed
the same year Fame was. It really has a unique look to it. The key
lighting in the piece is amazing, almost everything looks like it was
perfectly worked out.

My only complaint is the attempt to visualize the opening of the Ark,
as most of the other scenes don't deal with the supernatural except
maybe a burning crate with a nazi symbol on it. George should redo that
last scene in my opinion, and tighten it up, because I really think it
wasn't coming together, however when I was a child it was so amazing
and scary realistic. It's all perspective, but my point it that now in
this modern filming era, the acting and film production is holding
tight to this day.

I forward you to just enjoy this film and look for things like formulas
on chalkboards, skeletons in classrooms, proper patches on Nazi gear,
gun accuracy. Research the film's era and background, and it only gets
better. That's the ability that Spielberg and Lucas have, attention to
detail and clever twists on most of their bodies of work.

Watch this film again, it's worth it, I promise you.
<|_=00=_|>
Ford stars as Indiana Jones, an archaeologist adventurer, who spends
his time traveling all over the world through jungles, deserts, oceans,
and caverns in search for hidden treasures—like the priceless long-lost
Ark of the Covenant (the Hebrew sacred artifact that held the supposed
Ten Commandments). Unfortunately, a group of treasure-hungry Nazis
wants it too, having heard that any army who wins it would receive
supernatural powers… 

With his trademark hat, whip, leather jacket, and pistol for backup,
our stubborn, intelligent, determined and loyal hero escapes
innumerable dangers, evades multiple obstacles including fearsome thugs
in a busy Cairo bazaar, and hangs underneath a fast-moving truck in an
exciting chase through a road… These are only some of the film's
incredible set pieces… Steven Spielberg likable hero is not invincible,
though, facing impossible odds, capable of getting beaten, struck
violently, heart broken, and falling asleep after the first kiss… 

The villains—especially Indy's suave and cultured French rival wearing
a Panama hat and white suits, Rene Belloq (Paul Freeman)—are not really
that much different from him, except in their motivation… The shrill
heroine, Marion (Karen Allen)—is not the girl always in discomfort
either, but a resourceful, dynamic and formidable woman who doesn't
require the hero at all… 

"Raiders of the Lost Arc" is a perfect package of unforgettable scenes,
countless action, humor, astonishing technical effects, thrilling
sequences, and terrific performances… It was followed by three fun
sequels…
<|_=00=_|>
The Indiana Jones series was the best series ever made, in my opinion.
It was extremely fun and enjoyable to watch and it can be watched
repeatedly, with no lesser joy. Harrison Ford as Indy is extremely
charismatic, like Han Solo, but the character of Indiana for me has an
essence that creates a more likable character (modesty, I think) and by
doing that, it creates a better trilogy for me, indeed surpassing the
Original Star Wars Tilogy (don't get me wrong I love Star Wars as
well).

Raiders is such a great film, containing some great action scenes (the
Truck scene) and creating Indiana Jones, which is the best adventure
hero ever made, partly I think due to Harrison Ford (I don't think
these movies would have been as good with Tom Selleck).
<|_=00=_|>
Rating: **** out of ****

There is no doubt in my mind that Indiana Jones is the best movie
series in the history of cinema. And the one start it all was Raiders
of the Lost Ark, a fast-paced adventure packed with one death-defying
cliff-hanger situation after another. To this day, Raiders remains one
of the best action movies, holding up better than most of today's
rapid-cut, MTV-style "thrill rides." Raiders relied on no CGI, no
flashy editing, just pure, exhilarating film-making and storytelling, a
combo of its kind that has only been surpassed by its second sequel,
Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade.

Harrison Ford stars as Jones, an archaeologist who dresses in a brown
coat and fedora, armed with a revolver and lion-taming whip. A
delightful opening involving elaborate booby traps informs us he's used
to these adventures (especially his even closer brushes with death in
Temple of Doom, which was a prequel). When he returns to the states
from his latest "excavation," he's informed by the military that the
Nazis are after the ark of the covenant, an artifact that could possess
the power to make the Nazis an invincible army. So Jones sets out to
retrieve the ark first, in what will prove to be one of his greatest
adventures.

There's probably little doubt that Raiders is the fan/critical favorite
of the trilogy, but there are a few things that I actually have to
gripe about, blasphemous as it may be. For one, even though the story
is excellent, it's not without its holes. Most perplexing is in the
film's opening scenes, when we wonder why Jones bothered to bring along
potentially traitorous porters when it's such a short distance from the
river to the cave temple. Also (spoilers), one needs only to see the
film once to realize that if Indy had never tried to intercept the Ark,
the Nazis would a) have never found it or b) still would have suffered
the same horrible fate regardless.

The action sequences are superb, though an early bar shootout isn't
quite as adrenaline-pumping as it could be and looks quite bland
compared to the film's other action scenes. Thankfully, the following
street chase is playful and exciting and keeps the joyous momentum
flowing. Overall, I'd still argue that both Temple of Doom and The Last
Crusade boast more inventive action but there's no questioning that the
action scenes in Raiders are fantastic and likely superior to any film
you may have seen the last few years.

As bitchy as I may sound, I'm not trying to harp on Raiders, at least
not too much. The movie does feature the famous (and deservedly so)
truck chase, one of the most unbelievably thrilling and exhilarating
action setpieces I've ever seen (and given an extra boost by John
Williams' beautifully rousing score). To this day, even with the recent
chase scenes in The Matrix Reloaded and Terminator 3, this sequence has
yet to be surpassed.

Other standout sequences include a sarcophagus almost entirely
decorated with snakes, imposing statues, and well-preserved mummies,
and Jones' mano-a-mano battle with a seemingly impervious Nazi
mechanic. The finale takes the film dangerously close to the horror
genre, climaxing things with a truly memorable (and quite frightening)
light show for the ages. Every Indiana Jones film has a scene that
scarred me as a kid and I think every one who's seen Raiders knows what
I'm referring to (as well as its sequels)

I've said it before, Harrison Ford is wonderful as Jones, embodying a
hero that's cool beyond words, yet still entirely human and believable.
The supporting cast isn't as up to par: Paul Freeman makes for a decent
but not particularly menacing villain as Belloq and Karen Allen is
somewhat annoying as Indy's love interest, but there are an equal share
in gems, particularly Denholm Elliot as Marcus Brody and John
Rhys-Davies as Sallah (The Last Crusade wisely gave these
actors/characters more screen time).

Raiders of the Lost Ark was revolutionary cinema, paving way for summer
blockbusters that would attempt for the same winning mix of thrills and
humor. Only its sequels matched and/or surpassed it, but some have
actually come close (The Mummy). If you haven't seen Raiders yet, put
it on the top of your list.
