

Regardless of your opinion of NASCAR racing, this is an incredibly fun
movie
for guys.

Is it creative? No. It's pretty obvious that it's the same thing as Top
Gun.
The only difference is maturity. Over the years, Tom Cruise had developed
into a fine actor, and when coupled with Robert Duvall (in a spectacular
performance) and a surprising Randy Quaid, Days of Thunder becomes a film
which gets pretty much any guy involved in it.

I personally hate NASCAR, but still I find this film absolutely riveting,
and every time I watch it, I suddenly have a desire to go race my car down
the highway. In fact, the biggest argument against this movie is that it
does get to the testosterone.

The music for Days of Thunder sets it up perfectly. Hans Zimmer does an
effective job with his second Cruise film in two years (Rain Man was the
other), and The Spencer Davis Group's Gimme Some Lovin' makes some plotless
racing scenes worth watching.

The script, penned by Bob Towne, is far more clever than the average action
movie and actually creates some serious character depth for Cole and Rowdy,
although Cary Elwes' character seems excessively evil.

But, all in all, this is an action movie that works for Cruise fans, even
if
they don't like action movies. 8.5 out of 10 (On a pure enjoyment
basis).
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is basically paying homage to Top Gun.  The same team that made
that movie a success got together to create another pumped up movie. 

Cruise plays Cole Trickle, a very cocky and smooth indy car driver that lost
his ride and decided to head to NASCAR with team owner Tim Daland,(Randy
Quaid), and be coached by legendary crew chief Harry Hogge (Robert Duvall).
During the Daytona 500 Cole and nemesis Rowdy Burns are involved in a
nasty wreck that hospitalizes both of them and threaten to end their
careers.  They become friends but Cole realizes his mortality and must
overcome it if he is to ever race effectively again. 

This has better romantic chemistry than Top Gun.  Due in part to the fact
that Cruise and Kidman really were attracted to each other and we know the
rest is history.  The action scenes are great and filmed superbly.  It's
also a very loud movie.  It received an Oscar nomination for best sound. 
It's just another mindless action movie to help relieve boredom.  7 out of
10.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all this movie has Tom Cruise in it, which to be honest is the
reason that I hesitated for so long to see it. Secondly It's about
NASCAR for Christ's sake! The problem is, I did enjoy it. I believe its
for the reasons that I mentioned that I actually did enjoy it. An
escapist sort of entertainment that puts you in a place that you would
really never even consider going. I was forced to rent this recently by
a friend and after sitting about 15 minutes in to it I just let go and
let the colors and sounds wash over me. This movie is the visual
equivalent of a music video with dialog. Every scene is short and to
the point, and if its forward momentum you are looking for in your
movies then you've come to the right place. The entire duration of the
movies length I kept thinking that I wish there were more movies made
that took you to another world the way this one does. Tony Scott you've
done it again sir, Congratulations!
<|_=00=_|>
The producers, director and star of Top Gun get together again for this
above average racing drama. Its nowhere near as good as Top Gun of
course but its no disaster. Tom Cruise is good as the daftly named
racing driver Cole Trickle and the ever reliable Robert Duvall offers
classy support. Michael Rooker is excellent as Toms rival and Randy
Quaid shows a more serious side to those who only know him from the
Vacation movies. Surprisingly the usually good Nicole Kidman is rather
bland as the love interest although to be fair she's not given a heck
of a lot to work with. The music is of course all important in a movie
like this and it has a pretty good soundtrack including Maria McKee's
Number One hit Show Me Heaven, but again Top Gun had a much better
soundtrack with Hans Zimmmer no match for Harold Faltermeyer. Tony
Scott directs with his usual style, if you have seen Top Gun or Beverly
Hills Cop 2 you'll no what to expect, very flashy and VERY LOUD. With a
slightly less predictable story this could have been a lot better but
as it is its a pretty enjoyable way to pass a couple of hours.
<|_=00=_|>
If I had to guess the genesis for Days of Thunder had its place in two
areas. First the fact that Top Gun proved to be such a mega-hit for Tom
Cruise that a similar film was almost dictated to be made by Paramount.
But secondly it was reported that on the set of The Color of Money,
co-star Paul Newman got Cruise interested in auto racing so you put
those two things together, Days of Thunder was almost a film that had
to be made.

The film certainly has the feel of NASCAR to it and it takes its place
along side such racing classics as Grand Prix, The Racers and Paul
Newman's own film, Winning. The story is the teaming of young rookie
sensation Cruise and top mechanic Robert Duvall. 

Tom's character is a whole lot like the young fighter pilot in Top Gun,
a kid with a world of confidence and the ability to make his brag
become fact. He's a driver by instinct not knowing a whole lot about
the mechanics of a racing car. That's the way he and Duvall complement
each other although it's not an easy relationship.

Days of Thunder is also the film on which Tom met Mrs. Cruise number
two, Nicole Kidman. She's a neurologist who gets to treat Tom after a
crash and also drops the hammer on Cruise's rival Michael Rooker and
his career after a serious head injury. 

There are also some nice performances by Randy Quaid as the stock car
owner and Cary Elwes as another of Cruise's rival drivers. 

Fred Dalton Thompson, District Attorney of New York County on Law and
Order, former United States Senator, and would be President of the
United States is in the cast as the head of NASCAR. If the political
thing doesn't work out for Fred, he certainly has the presence and
authority to be a baseball commissioner. They'll certainly need another
Judge Landis in that job to restore some integrity to that sport.

Days of Thunder got an Academy Award nomination for Sound Recording and
it's a good followup film for Top Gun.
<|_=00=_|>
Boy, Tom Cruise had that obnoxious character down pat for quite some
time, didn't he? Here is yet another film in which he plays that type
of annoying character you want to slap in the face (or something else).
Yeah, if you liked Top Gun and his other "pretty-boy" films of this
period - and some were pretty good, actually - you might like this. In
fact, this film might be more popular now since NASCAR is televised so
much more these days. This movie may get a new audience. Frankly, I
could care less about auto racing, back then and now, but I don't hate
it, I love most other sports and I like a good movie. This was only
fair in all categories. Not bad; not good.

Racing fans tell me there wasn't a lot of realism with this and actual
NASCAR events - mainly involving sponsorship - back then, but I was
looking an entertaining film....and I like Robert Duvall as actor and
don't mind gazing at Nicole Kidman (who can also act.) Michael Rooker
and Randy Quaid usually portray interesting people, too.

It's basically a story about a guy who wants to prove himself on the
race track, and I have no problem with that. It's not a memorable but
it's not a waste of time either. You should be reasonably entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
A very good Tom Cruise action flick; and talk about action...he has the
right moves on and off the track. Cruise plays Cole Trickle, an
arrogant hotshot with minimum experience driving a stock car, but an
uncanny ability to hold his own on the track. He impresses a two-faced
Randy Quaid enough to get a car and veteran driver Robert Duvall to
build it. Trickle enters a rivalry with the top driver(Michael Rooker),
but tragedy introduces him to self-discovery and a beautiful
neurosurgeon(Nicole Kidman). Trickle takes on the toughest odds and
becomes an even better driver. Also in the cast: Cary Elwes, Fred
Dalton Thompson and John C. Reilly. The racing scenes will bring back
that feeling evoked by TOP GUN. A hard thumping soundtrack features the
likes of: Joan Jett, Elton John, Chicago, Tina Turner and Maria McKee.
And yes, it is hard not to notice the Cruise/Kidman chemistry.
<|_=00=_|>
I like NASCAR, and I enjoyed Days of Thunder. The opening sequence at
the Daytona 500 gives me goosebumps and makes me want to crank up the
surround sound - a homage to NASCAR, the late 80s, and Americana. There
were other fun sequences in the movie, like when Cole Trickle is
crashing his car every week and when his crew played a prank on him
after winning his first race. The movie came out during the height of
the "Tom Cruise is Cool" era. And, Cruise is cool in this movie. Robert
Duvall, who plays his crew chief, is even better in the film.

That said, there were so many errors in this film, it's laughable. The
racing shots were taken from real races, and the film editing did a
poor job of disguising real race cars (like Dale Earnhardt's No. 3) for
fictional ones. The timing is off. There's a scene where Tom Cruise is
talking but his lips don't move. There's another scene where a
character in the movie calls him Tom instead of Cole - really
inexcusable that a error that big was missed. The scenes of cars
ramming into one another while leading the race wouldn't be possible in
reality: they would wreck or cause too much damage to remain at top
speed.

By conventional standards, it's a terrible movie. But, somehow, it's
still a fun movie! Action on the race track is similar to the action in
the sky in Top Gun. If you're up for a little escapism and wish
fulfillment, then Days of Thunder lives up to the billing. But, if
you're a critical viewer, you won't be impressed by this film - unless
you're looking for ways to laugh at its mistakes.
<|_=00=_|>

-SMALL SPOILERS-

I was a NASCAR fan before this movie came out, and I still am. This is an
enjoyable movie that (somewhat) accurately portrays the on-track action I
watch on Sundays. To be honest, I didn't care that much about who was in
it
or the plot that it had, I was in it for the racing from the beginning.
The
actors and writing hold it together and, from a fan's perspective, the
racing is great, although the cars are incredibly tough and drive all over
the walls and each other, something you can't do in a real race. Still,
the
racing stays true to life and, with one exception, the cars remain on the
ground. They don't seem to be on the moon or some other zero-gravity
environment like in DRIVEN. If you're a fan of NASCAR, you'll love this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This is written from a point of view of a racing fan, I won't address
the other aspects of the movie.

I saw this movie today for the first time and it is just ridiculous.

I mean, after the race is over he drives into the pits, requests new
tires, goes back on track and then crashes into the race winner on
purpose? I'm not really familiar with NASCAR but I'm pretty sure you
get a lifelong ban for that.

Also, the scene where he explains Nicole Kidman that they're developing
'a little thing called 'drafting''.

Early on in the movie we're told that Tom Cruise doesn't know anything
about cars but drafting is part of the absolute basics of racing.

It would be like watching a movie about soccer and the main character
says that 'they're developing 'a little thing called 'scoring a goal''.

As a movie I'd probably give it a 6 but the racing part is just ... so
... awful.
