

Lay off this movie, people.  It's a teen-age sex romp comedy.  It doesn't
pretend to be anything more.  And as for teen sex-romp comedies, it's pretty
entertaining.

 Tom Cruise is in it.  Shelley Long has a good part.  And the guy from
Breaking Away has the best character of all.  What I really liked about this
movie was how it "romanticized" Tijuana.  It makes you want to take a trip
down there and raise some hell yourself.

 This movie is a good time on a Friday night.  If you're gonna rent a movie
like this, rent this one.  You won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>

I thought that this movie was very funny the first time I saw it ten
years
ago, and I still do today. This is a movie that is in the same genre as
Porky's or Revenge of the Nerds. True fact, Tom Cruise said in a Playboy
interview that he did this movie because of Jackie Earle Haley. Since
Haley
had been in Breaking Away, Cruise figured that this movie would be just
as
good. It didn't quite work out the way he expected, at least not right
away.
Cruise fan or not, it's worth a look. For me, Jackie pretty much steals
every scene he's in. Anytime I watch this movie, I have to laugh at Tom
Cruise because he ended up becoming one of the biggest stars in the movie
world, and he started out in this. If you REALLY want to see Cruise in
another light, check out Endless Love, with Brooke Shields. It's his
first
movie, and though he's in it for less than a minute, it's worth a look,
just
like Losin' It. Check it out!  
<|_=00=_|>

I loved this movie cause it's so funny and it has the then unknown Tom
Cruise and Shelley Long in this movie before they went onto fame later on
the 80's, but the best performance goes to Jackie Earle Haley as Dave, who
is a sex obsessed pal who is a Frank Sinatra wannabe, and I also liked John
Stockwell's character Spyder who came from a broken home, Tom Cruise is the
intellegent honor student.
This movie is about 3 high school seniors who want to go to Tijuana in
search of sex (without their parents knowing it) and things don't work out
the way they want it as Dave's little brother Wendell 'Wimp' (John Navin)
goes along for the ride and later they shoplift a grocery store and the
owner's wife goes with them cause she claims that she's gonna divorce him
and she finds out that they stoled some items at the grocery store but she
didn't care, the situations that the boys got themselves in Tijuana are
hilarious and they later meet crooked cops, insane marine sailors and
junkyard ruffians, will they get out of Tijuana alive, will the three boys
lose their virginity, in order to find out, watch this movie and it's way
better than the movies of today, I think that Losin' It deserves more
recognition than what it gets cause it's a funny movie and if you can find
this movie at your local video store, rent it and have a good laugh, it's a
great way to spend a weekend evening.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie in an entirely appropriate place -- as part of an
all-night quadruple feature at a cinema in Northern Ontario, which
could have been more accurately described as "Four lousy films for the
price of one"! (For the record, the other three films were "Ghoulies",
"Missing in Action" and "Ninja III - The Domination").

I would say that Losin' It is probably the best of these four films –
not that that's really saying very much. (It was the concluding feature
of a very long night of cinematic mediocrity) . It's not an awful film
(particularly compared with some of the other components of this
multiple feature), and it has the advantage of having been put together
by a crew who knew what they were doing. Rather, it's an assembly line
teen film of the period, which is given somewhat more polish than usual
by the presence of Shelley Long and the up-and-coming Tom Cruise in the
cast.

Two years previously in 1981, Porky's established a profitable template
for teen films that many producers are still exploiting today. I see
Losin' It as a Porky's knock-off, from a similar time and aimed at a
similar audience. Essentially, if you were part of that target
audience, you would probably have enjoyed it. I was just passing out of
the target demographic when I saw this, so perhaps I'm more blasé about
it than I might have been if I had seen it a few years earlier. There's
a whole genre of teen sex comedy (which tries to tease the audience
while dancing around the fact that they can't really show very much)
that loses a lot of its impact once you've actually "lost it" yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
Losin' It is a pretty funny roadtrip movie, thanks to the comedic
antics of Jackie Earle Haley ('Breaking Away') who plays Dave, an
oversexed kid desperate from some action during a weekend in Mexico. He
and his buddies, Woody (Tom Cruise) clean cut shy kid, headlong Spider
(the gorgeous John Stockwell) and Dave's clever brother Wendell (John
P. Navin Jr.), embark on a wild roadtrip to lust after girls and
underaged booze in 1965.

Each of the guys has their own experiences with love and mischief.
Woody spends most of the time with Kathy (Shelly Long), a flamboyant
older woman who hitched a ride with the boys to get a quickie divorce.
Spider, the ego, abandons the group and frequently gets in trouble with
a corrupt sheriff. Wendell, who came along for lots of black market
goodies, spends the weekend trying to save his brother's ass, since
Dave's misconception that the town is full of easy women gets him in
heavy trouble with the locals.

It's a pretty funny movie that I'm surprised hasn't been given more
notoriety among 80s fans. Tom Cruise and John Stockwell played their
typical characters, but the stars of this movie, were really Jackie
Earle Haley and John Navin. They were perfect.
<|_=00=_|>
Losin' It is the film that Tom Cruise got first billing in. On the
strength of being more than noticed in Endless Love, Taps, and The
Outsiders, Cruise got the lead in this minor teen comedy that made
quite a bit of money back in the day. 

Cruise, Jackie Earle Haley, and John Stockwell are three high school
kids from the Eisenhower years who are looking to have a good time in
Tijuana. Unfortunately they can't make the trip without John P. Navin
who is Stockwell's brother because Stockwell came up short of cash.

Along the way the three of them pick up Shelley Long who is a young
married who runs a convenient store on the way with her husband. Our
three heroes just happen on her store when she's having a knockdown
drag-out with her husband, culminating in Long walking out on her
husband to hitching a ride to Tijuana to get a quickie Mexican divorce.

The rest of the film is about their adventures in Tijuana and their
escape from there. I do say escape because Stockwell and Haley get into
some serious trouble down there in separate incidents. They manage to
get some marines on liberty down there mad at them and they fall into
the hands of a crooked Tijuana cop played by Henry Darrow who really
likes jamming up young Yanqui snot nose kids.

Cruise has an adventure of a different sort with Shelley Long in her
pre-Cheers days. He's the only one who gets some enjoyment from
Tijuana.

If there's a moral here, there's two of them. First there's no such
thing as Spanish fly and second Tijuana is not a good place if you
don't know the ropes.

After this Tom Cruise did Risky Business which cemented him as a teen
idol and after that All the Right Moves which proved he was not only a
box office draw, but a very capable actor.

As for Losin' It, it's an average teen sex comedy without the presence
of Tom Cruise would barely be remembered.
<|_=00=_|>

Don't let the cast and director fool you.  This is a teen sex comedy
that's
just as bad as any of the dozens (hundreds?) that Hollywood churned out
back
in the 1980s.  Bad enough that this turkey wastes the talents of future
stars Tom Cruise and Shelley Long.  What's worse is that this was directed
by Curtis Hanson (you know, of "L.A. Confidential" and "Wonder Boys"
fame --
THAT Curtis Hanson.)  I realize he was just an up-and-coming director at
the
time, but surely he must have taken one look at the script and realized it
didn't have a chance.  (Maybe he was gambling this film would be another
"Porky's" and skyrocket him to fame.  He gambled wrong.)

Even if you're a die-hard Cruise fan, you're advised to stay away.
Cruise,
at this time, had yet to hone the persona upon which he would build his
career.  In other words, he isn't his usually funny, cocky self this time
around, but instead comes across as bland, dull, and surprisingly
lifeless.
Shelley Long, on the other hand, is quite good in her thankless role as a
runaway bride headed to Tijuana for a quickie divorce.  Too bad the script
doesn't give her anything funny to do.

Also, since this is a teen sex comedy, I should mention that there's
almost
no raunch and nudity at all.  Basically, this film is ninety minutes of
three teen-aged jerks raising havoc in T.J., getting into lots of dumb bar
fights and a few car chases with the usual Hollywood Mexican
stereotypes.

Bottom line: compared to this film, "Top Gun" (which also starred Cruise
and
John Stockwell) is deserving of ten Academy awards.)
<|_=00=_|>
Look, it's not high art, but even as a sex comedy it fails. The
characters are totally unlikeable or bland and the entire plot line of
going to Mexico to hire hookers is gross. For an hour or so the movie
plays as just a kind of bland look at jerks who want to pay for sex.
There's no chemistry between Shelly Long and Tom Cruise and Jackie Earl
Haley is really annoying. But then, something happens at the end and
the movie manages to salvage everything with a decent little ending car
chase sequence that manages to tie it all up in a nice way. It can't be
a raunch classic because there wasn't enough nudity or hijinks, but as
a historical curiosity I guess you could do worse.
<|_=00=_|>
Losin' It is teen sex comedy.The setting was in 1965.It which follows
four school friends namely:Woody, Dave, Spider, Wendell.They are from
Los Angeles who got to travel south border of Mexico in Tijuana.They
were accompanied by Kathy,a woman who plans of having a quick divorce
from her husband.The LA friends and Kathy got into a lot of
misadventures causing trouble.Aside from that,the LA friends made a
pact to lose their virginity before their trip is over.Woody lost his
when he spent the night with Kathy.

Losin' It was an average teen sex comedy.The story was predictable.The
laughs aren't really that funny.The acting was mediocre even from
future stars,Tom Cruise,who played Woody; and Shelley Long,who played
Kathy.The direction was also lacking from future Oscar-winning
director,Curtis Hanson.Obviously,it also was a low-budget production as
evidence by the quality of the film. The only good thing about this
movie is the performance of Jackie Earle Haley,who stole the show in
this film.

Overall,Losin' It would have been a forgettable film if only
Cruise,Long and Hanson did not achieve future success in their
careers.Also,it reminded us how talented actor Jackie Earle Haley
should keep getting movie roles and continue making films.
<|_=00=_|>
Considering how endless the supply of horny teenager movies was in the
'80s, it's not surprising when actors who would become big stars turn
up in them. Consider Johnny Depp in Private Resort and Tom Hanks in
Bachelor Party. Oh, and Tim Robbins in Fraternity Vacation and Kevin
Bacon in Animal House. Rarer is a director who would go onto bigger and
better things, which is what we have here. Curtis Hanson won hearts and
minds over ten years after this film about teenagers trying to lose
their virginity when he made LA Confidential, and later, 8 Mile. 

Losin' It is a lot better made than the majority of teen sex movies,
but that is not saying a whole lot. Most of them were clearly turned
out as quickly and cheaply as possible; it was not uncommon for the
boom mic to make several uncredited appearances in these movies, and
the lack of budget showed in other ways, like very few inner location
shots: the characters may be in high school or college, but we'd rarely
see the inside of a classroom. 

So while Losin' It has a much better director, better actors and a
better budget... it really doesn't have that much going for it. There's
the usual fast talking, utterly sex (and Frank Sinatra) obsessed teen,
played by Jackie Earle Haley, and the also usual shy, more sensitive
teen, played by Tom Cruise. There's also the sullen and aggressive
Spider, played by John Stockwell, and Haley's mercenary younger
brother, who joins them on their trip to Tijuana to buy illegal
firecrackers he can sell across the border.

They get into the usual hijinks involving hookers, cops, and trying to
hit on the wrong girls. There's also an older woman who comes along for
the ride to get divorced - can you guess which of the guys mentioned
above she falls for?

I wasn't that interested in the exploits of these characters, clichéd
and simplistic as they were, past the halfway mark, but at least they
spent time on the inside of buildings other than the director's house,
and the boom mic didn't keep mugging for attention.
