

It's a shame that this movie is usually snubbed by shoving it into the
"action" category. Sure, there are lot of legendary action sequences to be
found, but RoboCop is a LOT more than that.

Next time when you watch it, try to shift your focus from the cyborgs,
explosions and gore towards the writing. From the main theme of
criticizing
the modern money driven society (a topic still relevant today, and will
most
likely be so in the future as well) all the way to the smallest bits of
dialogue, the writing is nothing short of outstanding. RoboCop is simply
the
most intelligent "action" film to come out of Hollywood, ever.
Unfortunately, the cleverness is hidden "between the lines" of comic book
action. No wonder so many people fail to see this film for what it really
is.

Amazing cinematography, solid performances (especially from Kurtwood Smith
and Miguel Ferrer), memorable musical score.. The list is endless.
Granted,
the stop motion effects of ED-209 look quite old today, but you have to
remember we're talking about a movie made in 1987. RoboCop has its faults,
like the rather embarrassing toxic waste scene, but they are easily
forgiven
compared to all the good things.

You must be thinking "What is this guy on? It's just a dumb little action
flick about a cyborg!" .. Relax, take a deep breath and watch it again. I
like obscure art films as much as the next guy, but I'm not going to
dismiss
such greatness just because it comes wrapped in cartoon violence. I'm not
saying RoboCop is art, the best movie ever made or the most important film
of the year/decade/millennium. But it definitely deserves to be regarded
higher.

My only question is: How could Verhoeven succeed so well with this movie,
and fail miserably in ALL other Hollywood titles he has worked
on?
<|_=00=_|>

Robocop is an unbelieveable experience. I haven't watched
the film since 1988 and the other day I recieved it on
DVD. So I eagerly popped it in the player and BOOM!!! The
only way I can describe Robocop is ultraviolence. The film
is so over the top and out of control. The film speaks of
a future where big companies will run the governmental
defense. Those times are upon us more and more everyday.
Paul Verhoeven has made one of the most important science
fiction films ever made and it's a brillant piece of 
cinema.
<|_=00=_|>

Paul Verhoeven's career in recent years has been wildly uneven, but back in
the 1980s he rocked! His movies 'Spetters', 'The Fourth Man' and 'Flesh &
Blood' are all brilliant and worth tracking down. His next movie, his first
Hollywood one, could have been a complete disaster. Verhoeven initially
passed on it without reading the script and wasn't experienced in working
with special effects or a fan of science fiction. Thankfully his wife
insisted he make the picture and the end result was a triumph. Apparently
this was a very tough shoot for all concerned but the bottom line is what is
on screen, and it really works. Few movies if any have managed to juggle SF,
action and grim satire in such an entertaining and original fashion.
Verhoeven was blessed with an excellent script, a well chosen bunch of
actors, and a great behind the scenes team, and added to his own vision
'RoboCop' turned out to be one of the best movies of the 1980s, whatever the
genre. Peter Weller ('Buckaroo Banzai') pulls off a difficult job - making
the audience care about a guy in a monster suit. Probably the best
performance of its kind since Boris Karloff in James Whale's 'Frankenstein'
back in the 1930s. Nancy Allen ('Dressed To Kill'), Kurtwood Smith ('12.01
PM'), Ronny Cox ('Deliverance'), Miguel Ferrer ('Twin Peaks'), and the rest
of the supporting cast are all first rate, and everything about this movie
is perfect. Verhoeven stumbled with his next movie 'Total Recall', and apart
from 'Starship Troopers' has pretty much failed to fulfill his potential,
but 'RoboCop' remains a classic SF/action movie and a fantastic way to end a
great decade of work. 
<|_=00=_|>
The success of this movie can be credited to one man; Paul Verhoeven.
His special touch of violence, gore and social satire make the movie
more than just your average B-movie, with a lame title and simple story
and characters. Yes, without Verhoeven this movie seriously would had
been nothing more like another B-movie on par with
science-fiction/action movies like "Timecop" and Albert Pyun movies.

The main story of "RoboCop" itself is simply and not that complex,
however Verhoeven manages to put many different layers for the story as
well as the characters in the movie. The social satire in the movie
works out brilliantly and is what makes the movie perhaps more
entertaining than thrilling or tense. Especially those typical
Verhoeven news sketches are brilliant! But also those who will not be
able to understand or fully appreciate the social satire elements in
the movie, will have plenty to enjoy while watching this. The action
itself is top-class and the characters are fun as well as cool. RoboCop
himself looks awesome, both in his movements and the way his costume
looks. Oh and of course I may not forget his awesome gun!

The movie is not only filled with some typical Verhoeven social satire
elements but also with some trademark Verhoeven gore and violence. The
way Murphy gets killed is very graphic and disturbing. But as always in
most Verhoeven movies is the case, the violence is so over-the-top that
it's not really shocking to look at but almost more comical like
because it's just so over-the-top. Especially what happens to Emil at
the end, the gore is way over-the-top there and I absolutely love it!

In a movie like this the characters are also always important.
Especially the villains and yes, "RoboCop" has some highly entertaining
and good villains. The group of Clarence, Leon, Joe and Steve are a
bunch of entertaining, charismatic stereotypical villains. But also the
more educated villains like Dick Jones (Ronny Cox) and Bob Morton (a
very young Miguel Ferrer) who also isn't a very nice person. But also
the mechanical villain ED-209 is extremely cool and dangerous looking.
The stop-motion effects for him are of course heavily outdated this
days but it takes away nothing of his threatening appearance. All of
the character are entertaining and well developed. Characters also
worth mentioning are The Old Man (Dan O'Herlihy) who plays the
president of OCP and you can tell by his face gestures that he's not
very pleased with the direction Dick Jones is heading towards with the
company and Johnson who is always smiling. And of course let's not
forget Bixby "I'd buy that for a dollar!" Snyder, he's a real classic!
They should given that guy a real show on TV.

Also the musical score by Basil Poledouris is what helps to make this
movie a very memorable one. Poledouris delivers one of his best works.
When will he finally get some more attention from the big awards? He
has made some great stuff but he rarely has won anything of importance
with it. A bit of a disgrace for such a wonderful composer.

All in all this is a brilliantly entertaining science-fiction/action
movie that simply is perfect in every way, mainly thanks to Verhoeven
his input.

10/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>

When I first saw "Robocop" on Showtime back in 1989, I was about 8 years
old. It was definitely the most violent, and one of the most sophisticated
films I'd ever seen (at that time...being 8, my dad had issues with
showing
me "Blade Runner" though he seriously wanted me to since it was first
released). Everything about the film grabbed me on some level. A lot of
people seem to really like this film, though I've heard a share of people
and critics say that it's a second-rate film due to the extensive violence
and sappy dialogue, calling it cartoon-ish. Well, I have to say that the
cartoon-ish quality to the film is part of its allure. It's not only a
humorous device for the sake of entertainment, but its significance to the
story is great. This is a dystopian future where big companies control
almost every part of our existence, from the government to the police to
our
domestic lives. It's almost Orwell-ian (anybody notice how the OCP
building
is the tallest in the city?). It's a future where criminals run rampant in
every form, from street thugs to business execs. Seriously, the head
villain
is a greedy business suit who uses a street gang to create trouble so he
can
provide a solution in the form of a droid with enough firepower to put up
a
fight with a tank...only to have that blow up in his face and mutilate a
fellow exec at its unveiling. Bill Gates never had a bad day like this. Or
how about when the gang blows Murphy into a million pieces with enough
shotgun ammo to make even the NRA cringe, totally destroying any remnants
of
his right arm. It's cartoon-ish because it's a comentary on the direction
the world could conceivably take, while at the same time being a source of
entertainment. Whether the entertainment value was intended for people who
love to see guns blazing or for people who like to see horrifying sights
(Murphy's execution, for as long as it was and as bloody as it was, HAD to
demand a lot of sympathy from people...if it didn't, there's something
wrong
with you, and let's not forget when Robocop was getting shot up by the
swat
team). This film has everything going for it. A plot that exists on more
levels than its B-movie surface. It's a social commentary, a satire, an
action film, a sci-fi film, and at times even a comedy (when Robocop
dragged
the guy away by his hair, I laughed like mad). The acting is great, the
effects are great (not perfect, but that adds to the visual appeal because
it's as gritty as the story), the music is great (kudos to Basil
Poledouris
on an amazing score), and overall...this film is one of the greatest films
of its genre. I wouldn't call it "THE" greatest, but it's very high up
there. I still have yet to see the uncut Director's version, but knowing
Paul Verhoeven's work as I do, I know it must be far more brutal than the
domestic version (hard to grasp with how far this film goes, but...it
evidently went further, showing just how cartoon-ish things can get I
suppose). I give it a definite 10/10!!!
<|_=00=_|>

"RoboCop" is a surprisingly impressive action film about a young cop (Peter
Weller) who is killed by a gang of cruel criminals and is brought back to
life with both human and robotic characteristics.  Now he is cleaning up the
city of Detroit and going after those who brutally murdered him when he was
100% human.  This film is ultra-violent in every sense of the word.  Anyone
under the age of 17 should be strongly cautioned before seeing this film. 
However, the violence makes the film realistic and more exciting.  Paul
Verhoeven does some of his best work as a director.  The screenplay is very
smart for an action film and all the actors give bravura performances. 
Peter Weller will always be remembered as the original "RoboCop".  Ronny
Cox, Nancy Allen, Miguel Ferrer, and an incredibly evil Kurtwood Smith all
do the best work of their careers.  An impressive film from the action
genre.  4 stars out of 5.    
<|_=00=_|>
The thing people are starting to realize about Paul Verhoeven is that
most of his films are ultimately high concept satires. Both "Showgirls"
and "Starship Troopers" have been recently undergoing reevaluation and
getting the critical praise that was completely absent when originally
released. "Robocop" was Verhoeven's first American success, and while
it was never damned in the way his later projects were, many viewers
are just starting to pick up on the abundance of satire the material
contains, even past the television parodies. The main jab is that
Robocop is ostensibly the hero, but his tactics against criminals are
often more brutal than the initial crimes themselves.

Fortunately, audiences don't need to pay attention to the subtext to
enjoy the film. In addition to being an extremely low key comedy, the
film also works as an action picture. The action sequences are very
well handled by Verhoeven, full of excitement and violence. Its easy to
see why this was a huge box office hit when originally released. The
pace never once slows down.

Another memorable aspect of the picture, even more so than Robocop
possibly, are the colorful villains. Ronny Cox is an underrated actor
and excels here as the big business villain. Even more astonishing is
Kurtwood Smith, an actor best known to my generation for playing Red on
"That 70s Show", as one of the most hiss-worthy and flat-out sadistic
bad guys ever in a film. The rest of the cast is good, but its the
villains that steal the show. Overall, "Robocop" remains incredibly
enjoyable to watch over twenty years later. (8/10)
<|_=00=_|>
Robocop, born of technology is a cyborg, half man/half machine. The
future of Law enforcement is here, and he's kicking ass.

Alex Murphy was the unfortunate candidate chosen to be robocop after he
was brutally massacred by a gang of scumbag criminals. And the robocop
program was brought in, after the E.D. 209 (An all robot killing
machine) proto-type failed so disastrously.

Alex Murphy, now Robocop is effectively dead, but he still has a
memory, and sets out on a quest to avenge his own Death, by finding the
scumbags responsible.

With some quite horrific violence (E.D. 209 and Murphy scenes mainly)
and some brilliant action, Robocop is character that you will warm to,
as he fights crime on a personal level.

Solid entertainment 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

In a futurist Detroit, crime is high and the police are run by a massive
private company, keener to reduce running costs than reduce crime.  When
their new police robot ED209 develops a glitch, they turn to a prototype
that blends human tissue with high-tech circuitry.  Meanwhile Police officer
Murphy and his partner Lewis are out gunned by criminals leaving Murphy
mortally wounded.  OCP take Murphy's body and use it to make Robocop. 
However Robocop is so successful that he is targeted by criminal Boddicker. 
 Boddicker turns to his shadowy partners in crime, while Robocop struggles
to deal with human memories and a programming system that seems designed to
control him and keep him in the dark.

Verhoeven's first US film was to set the mould for how the rest of his
career would pan out - extreme violence and very little idea of restraint. 
However this is one of his best films and has much in common with one of his
other best (Starship Troopers) - ultra-violence, funny black humour, great
action and tonnes of satirical digs at modern life.  Here the plot revolves
around the creation of Robocop and his fight against crime that goes right
to the top.  This is complimented by the sub-plot of him trying to
rediscover his human side.  This is full of great action scenes and
eccentric villains.

The black comedy is funny, although sometimes you feel bad laughing at so
much violence, but the sideswipes are the best.  Verhoeven takes digs at TV
with his advert filled news broadcasts, at privatisation by showing the
crumbling police stations and the huge corporate towers and at heroism by
showing Robocop creating just as much mayhem and destruction as the
criminals he pursues.  His strength however is the action scenes and the
sense of tension he creates - I'll don't think anyone can forget the sheer
terror of ED209's `glitch'.

Weller is good - cast because of his strong jaw and ability to project
emotion through a suit of armour - and he does manage to bring out the human
side.  Allen is good but a but dry.  The real support comes from the
eccentric, and well known villains and corporate bosses.  Ronny Cox, Smith,
Ray Wise, Perry, O'Herlihy and Miguel Ferrer are all great in various
capacities.  Criminal or greedy corporate leader - it's hard to tell which
is which at times.

A classic bit of sci-fi.  Verhoeven has sadly not had a moment as fine as
this since and has recently had problems being excessive in Hollywood - the
land of excess!  This is a landmark film that may not be to everyone's
taste.
<|_=00=_|>

I've got the music for this movie humming in my head as I type the review.
Maybe it's the effect of the movie, or the computer-game based on the
movie,
I'm not quite sure. Either way it's put me in a more agreeable mood
towards
this picture.

In the future-world of `Robocop', crime is running wild. The OCP, the
police
of Detroit, try desperately to fight against it but it's a losing battle.
When Officer Murphy is brutally gunned down by a bunch of thugs they see
an
opportunity to test a new technology. Infusing the body with
cyber-technology they create the ultimate crime-fighting machine - the
synthetic Robocop. Robocop is out to fight crime. but finds that the fight
may take him places he never thought of, including inside his past that he
thought erased.

Acting? It's actually above average for a sci-fi flick. Peter Weller is
mostly stoic and chisel-jawed here, as he should be seeing as how he's a
robot. However the emotion underneath is shown in the glimpse of the eyes,
the almost too-determined posture. It's subtle but it works. Those playing
the villains have the real fun. They seem to have delight in playing utter
pieces of scum, camping it up in a delightfully menacing fashion that's a
joy to see.

Speaking of camp. this movie has a great comic-book feel to it. Paul
Verhoeven, and the script, have their tongue lodged firmly in their cheek
as
they make this movie into a satire about the way our vales are changing.
The
over-the-top violence of the future is reflected in a blackly humorous
style
by contrasting it against fake-news and ad-snippets. The sheer amount of
bullets flying is too much to take in and so you are reduced to
incredulity
and smiles rather than horror. This is intentional, a saturation of the
sensibilities. Without it the movie could feel very bleak. With it there's
the feeling of adventure, and an ironic acknowledgement of our own
blood-lust in movies. The tone melds with the viewer very well and makes
the
movie appear more intelligent than it actually probably is, which is
something to be said in the IQ of 0 sci-fi culture we're often in.

There's enough action throughout this movie that you're never left bored.
The villains have about as much dimension as a dot, but Robocop himself
has
enough character to have merited the concept of a franchise (even if the
follow-ups failed to live up the series' potential). It's a very
entertaining piece which is told in a manner that's quite amusing. Worthy
of
a watch, just don't accept to be blown away. 7/10.
