

I saw this film again yesterday for what must now be the tenth or so time
and it's a film that makes me stop whatever I'm doing and immerse myself in
the unfolding story. Never mind the fact that I am by now familiar with the
premise, which incidentally far exceeds similar ones of the genre released
at this time - Vice Versa and 18 Again (the latter being truly
dire).

I think this is one of Hanks' finest hours and see it as the pinnacle of
his
early pre-90's career. His later performance in Philadelphia would eclipse
this role, although this was obviously more serious in its
message.

It takes real talent to act the young boy in the body of a thirty something
and Hanks' copes admirably, from the comical leaping around the bedroom
when
he is trying to put on the jeans of the child on discovering his
transformation to the child-like reaction displayed on Perkins' advances
toward him. He captures the essence of youthful innocence both in the
company of his younger peers and older 'work' colleagues.

Elizabeth Perkins complements the performance of Hanks' and it seems a
shame
that on searching the database that her career perhaps hasn't mirrored the
success of Hanks' since making 'Big'.

I don't know why, but I always shed a tear at the end of the film. Perhaps
it is the longing in all of us to want to return to the days of our youth
and that we cannot turn back the clock as one can in the imaginary world of
film.

As I grow older, and watch my children grow-up it makes me realise that
time
is a precious commodity and that life is a gift that should be cherished
and
nurtured carefully. This film somehow reinforces these
feelings.
<|_=00=_|>

This charming, sweet, hilarious gem of a film works because Tom Hanks makes
you believe he actually is a small boy in the body of an
adult.

The interesting trick of what makes the story appealing is not so much the
magic that the boy gets his wish to be "big." It's that once he is in an
adult, he has to navigate the adult world with the mind of a child -- and
ultimately realizes that he is missing something if he makes the leap from
boy to man without going through all the fun and the struggle in between.
There are several other films that have the boy-to-man switch, but none of
them have the depth of understanding about human nature that this film
portrays.

The story is wonderfully written and directed, and Tom Hanks is a star. The
film made me laugh, and it made me cry. What more can you ask of one
movie?
<|_=00=_|>

I don't even dare to guess how many times I've seen "Big" but if you ask me
to watch it with you I'll be glad to join you anytime. Still, after hugely
successful smash hits like "Forrest Gump", "Saving Private Ryan" and "The
Green mile" this remains to be one of Tom Hanks' greatest movies ever. Not
only that but it's definitely one of the funniest films of the 80's. It's
timeless, entertaining, moving, splendidly written and stylishly directed
classic. If you haven't seen this marvelous 14 year old first rate comedy
try to find it out as fast as you can. Tom Hanks is spectacular!
<|_=00=_|>

Saw this movie again recently and found that it stands up well to repeat
viewings. Tom Hanks meets a difficult challenge here - to convincingly show
us how a twelve-year old boy would act if he were trapped in an adult's body
and had to "pass" in a grownup world. He meets the challenge in spades,
aided by a script that is by turns witty, clever, insightful, and touching,
and by Penny Marshall's able direction. Much is added by Robert Loggia's
sympathetic portrayal of Tom/Josh's boss, and by Jared Rushton as his friend
Billy. The movie is much more than an exercise in slapstick or farce: it is
really a disquisition on the wonder of childhood. In the end it is quite
touching, if not moving, reminding us all of the innocence of youth and the
aching sadness of recalling its loss. Too early to tell, but the film might
very well be destined to become a classic.
<|_=00=_|>

Tom Hanks is at  his best -- as are the others in this wonderful movie.
Manages to be lighthearted and profound at the same time.  The individual
scenes are funny and memorable (the boy in a man's body unabashedly devours
the food at the office party, surrounded by the restrained and constrained
adults), but the whole narrative works as well.  Underrated by IMDb users,
based on the ratings!  If you haven't seen it, rent it next time you are in
the mood for something fun.  
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is great. I mean, really. That's what every boy dreams of -
becoming an adult overnight! It's absolutely gorgeous to see Tom Hanks'
performance - that's real acting, it requires a lot to play this part
as genuinely and cordial as he did. The message is so clear and so
honest. The nostalgic edge is of such profound significance to the
story. It's about the differences between being a kid and being an
adult. It's about two very different perceptions of the same world that
surrounds us. It's just us and how we make the best out of every day of
our lives, and all it needs is to see the world through the eyes of a
kid. A kid perceives all the things differently, with much more native
and modest simplicity - the keystone to imagination and magic, the
keystone to cherish the daily miracles in our lives. This movie has a
deep and very pervasive message. It has so much charm and vitality
mingled with nostalgia and witchcraft. One of those movies I enjoyed
watching when I was a kid. Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I often wonder why it's so damn hard to just be a big kid no matter how
old you are. Big is a movie about hanging on to that carefree child
even when you grow up. It's about not getting caught up in stringent
rules and routines, remembering those things that made being young so
great, the outlook on life, especially when facing the mundane world of
adulthood. Big strikes the balance between the two.

This is one of those movies that nearly everyone has seen. And, I
suppose it's the precursor to that movie, 13 Going on 30, despite some
differences in how the metamorphosis occurs and the result and
everything.

Big is the story of 13 year-old Josh Baskin who is tired of missing out
on all the privileges of being an adult. He's tired of simply being a
kid. One night, he makes a drastic wish at a carnival arcade machine,
and in the next day, he wakes up 30 years-old (or so). So the kid gets
his wish, and while trying to return to normal, is a 13 year-old kid
faced with a 30-year old's responsibilities. And it's a lot of fun. He
works at a toy manufacturer. He gets the most excellent loft. I
remember wanting a place like that when I was a teenager. Eventually,
the 13-year-old must balance with the responsibilities of being a 30
year-old when Josh falls seriously in love with Susan (Perkins). 

Big is one of the greatest movies ever simply because of the idea of a
kid trying to be an adult and an adult still trying to hang on to being
a kid, and all that things that Josh Baskins gets to experience while
doing that.

As one of Penny Marshall's most notable production, this is enjoyable
for nearly any age group. Everyone in it is fantastic--Hanks, Perkins,
Loggia, Heard, Rheul, Moscow, and Rushton. It's a tough thing trying to
hang to being young when you get older, but Big's a good reminder to
keep trying.
<|_=00=_|>

For some reason this movie makes me well up with tears of joy every single
second I'm watching it. I think it's the concept of adults discovering the
children inside themselves. The simple innocence and well-meaning intent of
josh baskins in this movie is like a magic elixir that changes everyone and
everything he comes in contact with.

 This movie is amazing because I saw it when it came out, when I was 13
years old, the same age as josh baskins in the movie, and I loved it then.
It speaks to you as a child because it's completely realistic, everything is
just the way a kid would see it. Most of the time when adults try to
simulate what it's like to be a child, they fail miserably (see all the 80's
anti-drug propaganda ads as an example). It takes an immense amount of
creativity and sensitivity to be able to write something like this. But then
when I see this movie as an adult, it speaks to me on a completely different
level. This film is a lesson to adults as well as children. Don't miss out
on the fun and spirit of life! Don't get to wrapped up in your petty
concerns of status and materialism, just try to enjoy every moment the most
that you can, because you'll never get another chance to relive each moment
of your life.

 Any of these fools that didn't like this movie are just that, they've
probably missed out completely on the message because they can't remember
what it was like to be a kid, to see the world as one big optimistic toy
you're lucky to be able to play with. Think about that and see this movie
again if you don't remember how amazing it is...

> 
<|_=00=_|>

Ah, those were the days. All of us have done it. Wished we were older, so we
could do more. Well, in the movie "Big", a child's wish to become big comes
true.

Josh is a boy who is not tall enough to ride a roller coaster at a theme
park. Humilated in front of a girl he likes, he goes to a "fortune telling"
machine, and wishes he could be bigger. He wakes up the next day as a man.
When everyone he knows throws him out of their lives, except his best
friend, he goes into the adult world. Just by knowing what kids want in
toys, he becomes a success in a toy company. He also manages to get a girl
wanting him(even though he is completely oblivious to it). All he wants is
be himself again.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

What we're talking about is a wonderful fantasy comedy about the child, who
sleeps in everyone's soul and waits to get free. Superbly written scenes
follow each other, not to mention Tom Hanks' performance, which should have
been awarded. He seems to me the only contemporary actor, who was able to
play the role of a 13-year-old teenager, who becomes an adult from one day
to another. Elizabeth Perkins and especially John Heard form a strong
supporting cast and this time they really support Hanks' work. This film
bothers to talk about more important things, like the loss of innocence,
friendship and the first love, not just tells a story about a boy in the
big
city. This was Hanks' star-making role after a string of stupid comedies in
the middle 80s and he deservedly became one of the biggest stars of the
90s.
And don't forget, this was his first film in his "outsider" series: he made
his biggest successes playing somehow outsider figures: Sleepless in
Seattle, Philadelphia, Forrest Gump or the Cast Away. Go and see it, you
won't be disappointed even if you think you've lost the child inside
you...with the help of this film you will find it. Believe
me.
