
How do I start? I love this film! It has a great plot line and
incredible music. It is a fun musical that makes you want to get up and
dance.

Grease is the story of Danny Zucko and Sandy Olsen (or Dumbruski) two
high school seniors who fall in love over the summer. They have a
wonderful summer together and are sad to see it end. The first day of
school arrives and little does Danny know him and Sandy would soon be
reunited. But Sandy is shocked to find the nice guy she meet at the
beach is the leader of a greaser gang called 'The T'birds' Meanwhile
Sandy is trying to fit in with her new "friends" the T'birds female
counterparts The Pink Ladies. Will Sandy and Danny ever be together
again? Along with this plot comes song that will be stuck in your head
for centuries. Such songs include Summer Nights, Beauty School Dropout
and the now famous song Greased Lightining. Grease is a timeless
classic that will have you singing and dancing by the end of the movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Sandy and Danny, their names alone mean nothing, together they represent
the
film we all know and love that brought us 'Summer Nights' and 'Greased
Lightnin'. Grease is an infamous musical-play turned film, adapted and
produced by Allan Carr, chartering the summertastic rock 'n' roll of the
1950s, centring on the highs and lows of a group of teenagers at
high-school, Rydell High.

The film begins with two people having a summer romance, Sandy
(Newton-John)
an uptight, naïve, nerdy Australian girl and Danny (Travolta), a
'jack-the-lad' 'T' bird. After the opening credits which are amusing
cartoons of the main characters we see the two well known groups of
teenagers, the Pink Ladies and the 'T' Birds going back to school after
summer vacation. The rest of the film centres mostly on the relationship
of
Sandy and Danny, the problems they face, and the ups and downs of their
high
school chums. The main characters and the unusual pairing of Sandy and
Danny
makes for comfortable viewing.

My favourite part of the film is the music, this film has such a brilliant
soundtrack. If you have the chance to watch the film on DVD you get the
added bonus of a songbook. However with a musical film you do find some
parts unrealistic when they sing, why would a group of lads sing Summer
Nights for example? Yet that aside the songs, mostly corny love songs are
addictive and easy to pick up unfortunately will be in your head all day.
Grease may not have had a lavish budget like films
made today, but this 1978 film directed by Randal Kleiser still manages to
have great audience appeal. Its' scenes and costumes are basic and
probably
didn't break the bank to produce but this all adds to the realism of the
film.

I like the film and could watch it over and over again. Newton-John's
debut
performance is excellent but her character Sandy is too 2D and has no
depth.
Travolta's performance is to perfection and this film benchmarked his film
career. Danny is 3D, he can be loving, self obsessed, a saviour and a
winner, whereas Sandy to me is just a bore. All characters bring something
different to the film making it a success. Rizzo is the hard nosed cow,
bitchy about Sandy, possibly jealous, who seeks revenge on her boyfriend
by
going out with his arch enemy. There is also Marcy who loves the men and
has
lots of boyfriends, and Frenchy who becomes Sandy's best friend who is
caring.

This uplifting, audience grabbing film may be slightly cheesy but there is
just so much to love about it, especially the soundtrack and dance moves!
This gives it longevity making it such a great film that could be the best
musical ever made. This classic film deserves a 5/5 just for being groovy!
But I just can't stop thinking why is it called Grease?!

<|_=00=_|>

This play turned movie is one my favorites. It has mostly anything you
could ask for. Being a romance, comedy, musical and so much more, makes
it unique. John Travolta, Olivia Newton-John, Stockard Channing, Didi
Cohn, Jeff Conaway and so many more make this an all-star hit. This
movie well illustrates what the 50s was all about. I must say, anyone
who thinks its ovverrated or anything else bad must've not really
thought and seen how amazing this classic is. I will keep and treasure
my 20th anniversary DVD to share with my children, my children's
children, and so on. The vocals in this film are outstanding, with the
breath-taking voice of Olivia Newton-John, and John Travolta's rock
numbers. Its a timeless hit that will have people enjoying it
throughout the ages.

<|_=00=_|>

I hated this movie when I was a teenager and I'm so pissed at myself
because of that. Looking at this movie now in my 20's I can appreciate
what a fun-loving view of life this provides. All the songs are of at
least decent quality but three of them in particular are just amazing.
This is hands down one of the better musicals out there. The
choreography can't be more well done than shown here. It's funny
because I liked "Saturday Night Fever" better when I was younger but
now I don't care for that movie and the exact opposite happened with
this one...go figure. Olivia Newton-John is just gorgeous, why she
didn't star in many movies afterward I'll never understand and god what
a voice!!! John Travolta was great, and everyone else (especially
Stockard Channing) were all fabulous. Oh and if you ever go to a
Karaoke night make sure you do the "Grease Megamix" sometime throughout
the night as it'll get the crowd pumped guaranteed.

Final Synopsis:

Movies : I did see this when I was in high school because it was
re-released in the late 90's in theaters but stupid macho me back then
didn't care for it. This is one you can view easily on the silver
screen and enjoy it just as much for a lot cheaper.

DVD Purchase : Couldn't resist for only $9.

Rental : This could easily be a once a year habit.

<|_=00=_|>

GREASE (1978) **** John Travolta, Olivia Newton-John, Jeff Conaway, Stockard
Channing, Dinah Manoff, Eve Arden, Sid Caesar, Edd `Kookie' Byrnes, ShaNaNa,
Frankie Avalon, Joan Blondell, Ellen Travolta, Eddie Deezen, Lorenzo Lamas. 
One of the best Broadway musicals ever adapted for the big screen largely
thanks to producer Allan Carr and director Randal Kleiser set at Rydell High
circa 1950s with Travolta (in his other iconic role) as leather jacket
wearing, hunky hood with a heart-of-gold Danny Zuko recalling his `Summer
Nights' with Aussie sexpot Newton-John (in her sunny to sultry iconic turn)
as goody-goody Sandy who learns some things from The Pink Ladies' tough yet
tender leader Rizzo (Channing, ditto).  Good old fashioned knuckle-headed
comedy and toe-tapping tunes that will have you dancing and singing along to
`Greased Lightning' (imagine Elvis doing this!) , the dance contest's
hyper-paced `Hand Jive' sequence and the closer `We Go Together'.  Title
tune by Franki Valli. A film I've seen probably a hundred times and never
tire of.
<|_=00=_|>
Although it is old, Grease is still loved and watching by adults and
children alike. Once you watch Grease you just want to get up and
dance! Grease is the story of bad-boy Danny and good-girl Sandy meeting
each other over summer break then happen to returning to the same
school. There's a great mix of kids, they all are very different and
have one thing that separates them very much from each other. There's a
great mix of songs too; slow and very fast. Also, the dancing is
amazing. The end also blows your mind and just makes you so astonished,
but in such a good way. The up-beat fun never stops and makes you want
to watch the movie again and again. Grease is a definite must see for
everyone!
<|_=00=_|>
Grease definitely has a fun energy to it, and all of the cast has great
chemistry. That's the main reason that this film, despite being nearly
30 years old and set 20 years earlier than that, still manages to
appeal to young people of today who laugh and have fun with it, and of
course, sing those timeless songs. So hats off to Grease for that.

Now that being said: the movie is incredibly stupid! It's basically a
90 minute episode of Happy Days or Saved By the Bell in which we follow
various plot lines in a high school, strung together by the fun songs.
We're treated to such stupid dialog as: "This year, I don't take no
crap from nobody." "Yes, ma'am. No, ma'am." "Hey, it's Eugene!" 

In one plot line, Frenchy (who's a memorable character but dumber than
a bag of nails) becomes a beauty school drop out. However, aside from
being an excuse for Frankie Avalon to sing that song, the plot line
goes nowhere and she still magically graduates high school along side
everyone else. Who knew it was so easy to drop out and get back in? 

But then there's the main plot line: two youths named Danny and Sandy
fall in love one summer, which is just fine in the real world, but once
back in high school, they realize they're in different social cliques;
he's a greaser and she's a goody-goody. Throughout the school year
their relationship takes several turns, before arriving at an absurd
ending in which all problems are magically solved by Sandy getting a
makeover and becoming "cool." The message here is so superficial that
it's actually funny: "Give in to peer pressure and be whatever kind of
person you need to be to make your boyfriend or girlfriend happy."
Considering Sandy has been celibate through all of the movie till now,
I think it's implied Danny will get a nice surprise that night; a
message to give to young girls, ha ha.

So, to wrap up this little review, Grease certainly has its moments,
and IS a well-made movie musical, or else it wouldn't have the audience
it does. It's a feel-good movie; it just has zero substance.
<|_=00=_|>

No other musical beats this one! The cast is perfect, and it is very funny
as well. Travolta is still a babe. Watching this movie, you will be singing
the songs with everybody. Fun cast, great songs and appeal still make this a
great film today. Grease is still the word!
<|_=00=_|>
Since I am still just a teen, I know that many others might say I am
not one to criticize a movie, and in most cases I might disagree, but
with this movie... what is there to criticize? The atmosphere of the
movie, the charisma of the actors, the addiction to the awesome songs
in it, even the what could have been outdated costumes instantly became
a Halloween fave... I myself dressed up as "new" Sandy when I was
little... and I still wish I could have been in the movie. I admit, the
sequel to it seemed horrible to me after watching the original, and I
wished they had kept all of the original actors, and well, not tried to
even make the sequel, but, well a movie like that can only be made once
I suppose. Anyways, I just want to give my props and admiration to all
of the directors, actors, and others who helped with this movie, (being
an ITS member myself and LOVING acting) I think that anyone who has not
seen this movie needs to go right to the store and find it....
otherwise they really missed out. :)Thanks for reading this, hope you
agree!
<|_=00=_|>

Grease has to be the best musical off all the time. The wonderful actors and
actress' give there characters all they've got and bring out a wonderful
performance all the way through the movie especially John Travolta, Olivia
Newton-John, Stockard Channing and Didi Conn. And, who can forget the music.
Absolutely amazing. It's no wonder that the Grease soundtrack in the best
selling musical soundrack ever. (It sure is brilliant.) Grease really is the
word. It's fantastic. 10/10 
