
Jon Peters' first production as he transformed himself (with girlfriend
Barbra Streisand's help) from hairdresser to movie producer, the movie
is a gem of Seventies style at it's finest. The clothes, the hair,
makeup, music, attitude, interiors and locations ride the crest of the
high-style wave that flooded the world through the Eighties. Combining
the improbable worlds of violence and fashion, with a story that
centers on a famous photographer (Dunaway) and her ability to *see* her
friends and colleagues being stalked and murdered, *Eyes* has moments
of serious suspense, but that's hardly the reason to see this movie.
Utilizing the actual photography of fashion god Helmut Newton, the film
maker has exquisitely captured the 1978 New York fashion and disco
scene in a way that none of the recent looks at the Seventies has been
able to, but then, again, this movie was *made* in 1978, not 27 years
later. The scenes of photo shoots are particularly fun to watch, with
one scene portraying a burning car crash in Columbus Circle in which
the models, clad in garter belts and fur coats cat-fight before the
camera. The ingenuous use of *real* models add the precise amount of
vacuity necessary to make the surreal shot work. Another photo shoot
involves a model dead from a gunshot to his heart lying in a pool
surrounded by exotically dressed disco-dancing models and a throbbing
disco beat. The plot is secondary to style in this movie, and style is
the only reason this movie should be remembered. Favorite moment:
Darlanne Fluegel as the model Lulu haplessly trying to explain to the
press *why* violence is important in fashion photos.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was around for twenty years before I saw it. I recall it as not
having the best of reputations. But I found it to be suspenseful and it
could be considered a forerunner of today's erotic thrillers.

Faye Dunaway is Laura Mars, a fashion/glamour photographer whose work is
controversial in that some say it glorifies both sex and violence towards
women. (Sounds like a pretty contemporary theme, doesn't it?) She becomes
troubled by frightening visions she has of killers-eye views of murders.
When a killing she has just "seen" turns out to have actually happened
nearby she tells the police. She then finds out that a detective (Tommy
Lee
Jones) has already been investigating some cases where murder scenes
closely
resembled her photos.

Dunaway is always consistent in delivering good performances and this one
is
no exception. It was refreshing not to see Jones in his "Mr. Intensity"
character he's played so often since 'The Fugitive.' Although some will
doubtless find flaws to point up here and there, I found the film to be
very
enjoyable. Brad Dourif, Rene Aberjonois and Raul Julia also star. Irvin
Kershner's direction is stylish and John Carpenter is responsible for the
story and co-wrote the script.

<|_=00=_|>

This 1978 chiller directed by Irvin Kerschner (RoboCop 2) and based on a
story by John Carpenter, has Faye Dunaway as a fashion photographer who
suddenly discovers that she has the ability to "see" through the eyes of a
serial killer. All her premonitions of the murders are very accurate, and
the victims are all people she knows. Soon it becomes apparent the killer
is
coming after her. Tommy Lee Jones is great as the police lieutenant/love
interest (back when his face wasn't pockmarked with age), and the
supporting
cast (Raul Julia, Brad Dourif) is excellent. The movie's depictions of the
murders were quite shocking for it's day, and it manages to keep us scared
and in suspense throughout, though some of the scenes border on grotesque.
Direction by Kirschner is tight, music is suitably eery, and the
performances are overall impressive. A winner 
<|_=00=_|>
Eyes of Laura Mars -- Horror/Thriller -- 1978

This is an old supernatural thriller of sorts from way back in the
70s'. It revolves around a female fashion/glamour photographer who
lives to make crude photographic nudie art that sepcializes in scenes
of violence. Some people find her "art" to be rather disturbing and
horribly offensive. So someone decides to go around killing her friends
and acquaintances. To make matters worse, Laura Mars can see the
murders happening--through her own eyes!

Here's the breakdown:

The Good:

--Clever story, and fairly original. Adds a nice twist to the usual
cops-hunting-murderer story.

--Good acting all around. Brad Dourif is creepy, Tommy Lee Jones is
cool, Raul Julia is... kinda weird...

--Good atmosphere and cinematography all around, with some strong
direction. The tense moments are generally pretty well done.

--Some nice, genuine, surprises throughout the film. It does manage to
successfully keep you guessing just who the killer is.

Didn't Hurt It, Didn't Help:

--Contains a decent amount of fairly well-known actors including Faye
Dunaway, Tommy Lee Jones, Brad Dourif (better known as Chucky from the
Child's Play series), Raul Julia, and Rene Auberjonois (famous for his
Star Trek: Deep Space Nine role). It was also co-written by John
"Halloween" Carpenter.

--Quite a bit of nudity. She is taking pictures of naked "victims of
violence" after all.

--Somewhat grotesque 70's music permeates here and there.

--Some decent character development and depth.

The Bad:

--Not quite as scary or riveting as I'm sure it was back in '78. This
review being written in 2006.

--Some "logic" problems every now and then. For instance, when Laura
Mars sees someone being murdered, that's all she sees--yet there are
times when she seems to be able to move around, once even driving a
car, with more competence than one would expect from someone who just
instantly "went blind."

--Occasional dips in the quality of the atmosphere and writing.

The Ugly:

--The make-up used on the models in the 70's. Holy crap!

Memorable Scene:

--Nice climax to the film.

Fun Fact:

--The photographic art in the film is actually from professional
"glamour" photographer Helmut Newton.

Acting: 8/10 , Story: 8/10 , Atmosphere: 7/10 , Cinematography: 8/10 ,
Character Development: 7/10 , Special Effects/Make-up: 7/10 , Dialog:
7/10 , Music: 6/10 , Direction: 9/10

Nudity/Sexuality: 5/10 , Violence: 6/10 , Gore: 3/10

Cheesiness: 2/10 , Crappiness: 0/10

Overall: 7/10

Finally, I would recommend this to hardcore horror/thriller fans or
film buffs. John Carpenter or Tommy Lee Jones fans will likely enjoy
it. The movie is not without its problems, small though they are, but
may not be enjoyed all that well by many modern viewers.

www.ResidentHazard.com

http://bartboard.proboards3.com/index.cgi (Movie themed message board)
<|_=00=_|>
A surprisingly forgotten gem of a psychological thriller, Eyes of Laura
Mars is a unique and sophisticated shocker that stands out from the
normal variety of thrillers.

NYC fashion photographer is having visions where she sees through the
eyes of the murderer that's targeting the people around her. But what
will she do when she sees said murderer coming after her?

Eyes of Laura Mars was originally based upon a screenplay by master
horror director John Carpenter, which isn't surprising considering just
how imaginative and effectively frightening that this film comes off.
Yet, Eyes' isn't just a terror film, it's also a film of intriguing
mystery, sweeping romance, and well-rounded characters. All of this
adds up to an enveloping story that's directed with flair and style by
Irvin Kershner. The murder sequences pack plenty of tension, yet they
aren't gory. The NYC filming locations are fantastic and allow for some
truly breath taking cinematography. While the 70's fashions do date the
film, they don't subtract from its over all impact. The soundtrack is
composed of some great disco numbers, and the theme song by Barbara
Streisand is stunningly good.

The cast is perhaps the best highlight of the film though. Star Faye
Dunaway is excellent as always as our understandably disturbed heroine.
Tommy Lee Jones is equally excellent as the police detective who falls
in love with Dunaway. Rene Auberjonois is plucky as Dunaway's agent.
Brad Dourif is good as the shifty-eyed driver, as is Raul Julia as
Dunaway's wretched ex-husband.

Eyes of Laura Mars is on a level above the average terror film. It's
not only thrilling, but strong enough to be emotionally devastating as
well. Well worth finding for thriller and horror fans alike.

*** 1/2 out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
Laura Mars is a very successful fashion photographer who one day starts
to get visions of brutal murders being carried out. Troubled and in
fear for her sanity, Laura turns to the police for help. But this only
adds to her problems as Detective Neville points out to her that the
murder scenes bare similarities to some of her staged photographs. The
pair of them must figure it out quickly because the murderer is closing
in on Laura and those close to her.

In 1978, John Carpenter thrilled horror fans with his baby sitting
terror piece, Halloween. Also released was this mystery/thriller/horror
film, written by Carpenter and directed by Irvin Kershner {The Empire
Strikes Back} which is a film that has been called anything from
innovative to outright rubbish. The truth is that where Halloween is a
horror film of no character substance, Eyes Of Laura Mars is a
completely different animal. It's bright blending of 70s fashion
photography with Carpenter's dastardly tale {tho the final draft was
tampered by many}, is a success. This is a psychological thriller first
and foremost, yes horror elements are there {it's a done deal with a
serial killer on the loose}, but running alongside a clever romantic
angle, the film gains an intensity that few other 70s psychological
thrillers can boast.

The cast, other than an insipidly hammy Raul Julia, also come out
rather well. Faye Dunaway {Mars}, Tommy Lee Jones {Neville}, Brad
Dourif {horror staple that he is} and Rene Auberjonois give credit to
well formed characters. Technically it's a fine picture as well, Irvin
Kershner and his cinematographer Victor J. Kemper excellently utilise
the New York City location. Especially during the fashion shoot
sequences, where the 70s and its glamour is fully realised. "Innovated"
blurred corridor shots to portray Laura's terrible visions are creepy
and highly effective, while i would be surprised if anyone doubted the
impact of a mirror shot in the glorious finale.

Thought by many to have not aged well, Eyes Of Laura Mars is often
consigned to the cupboard marked "dated", that's unfair because good
thrillers are good thrillers, regardless of age. Emotionally strong and
pulsing with imminent terror, this is a badly undervalued, and
forgotten picture. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Sure....  Compared to the thrillers of today - it just can't compare.  It
seems low budget and 3rd world in quality.  But it's got so much more
beneath the surface.

The plot is simple - a 'High Fashion' photographer (Laura Mars) begins to
have visions of brutal murders - both when sleeping and while awake.  Some
of these visions begin to seep into her work and her images.  But soon, the
visions begin to include many of her friends, acquaintances and co-workers. 
A homicide detective (John Neville) assigned to the case begins hanging
around and trying to solve the case, including the murders involving Laura's
friends.  Many of Laura's friends & acquaintances get killed along the way,
leaving her emotionally bereft and open to Neville's advances.  I won't blow
the end of the film (as others may) by giving away the twists and
turns.

There are a few decent performances in the movie - including Rene
Auberjunois as Laura's 'flamboyantly flaming' manager, assistant and best
friend.  And, how he can wear a dress....

This stylish & sometimes sexy thriller is an 8 of 10 when the age of the
flick comes into consideration.  Decent plot, decent acting and decent
twists.  And, I am sorry, but Barbara Streisand's opening song still stands
as one of my all time favorite songs....  Speaking of the opening, the
opening credits of the film are kinda creepy and chilling.  Go rent it and
decide for yourself!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Eyes of Laura Mars a few years ago and just watched it again very
recently. I remembered it as being fantastic but upon watching it again
I was a little disappointed. It's a solid film, by no means bad, it's
just nothing all that special.

For the past 3 years or so I've been totally hooked on giallo's and
this film plays in a lot of ways like an homage to those Italian
thrillers. Touches here and there remind you of Dario Argento
(obsessive mirror imagery, Laura's visions etc.), Lucio Fulci, Sergio
Martino and Mario Bava, such as the model settings and murder
scenarios. While this film scores heavy on style (and music, though I
find this soundtrack a bit hokey, but generally OK) it just lacks the
magic that the best giallo's seem to have. The plot, while intriguing
enough, is not nearly played out to it's full potential. There are
gripping scenes here to be sure, but the film drags quite a bit and
nothing virtually happens for a long period of time.

For seasoned giallo fans, we know the killer is most definitely gonna
be the most unlikely one, and for a lack of suspects, I didn't find it
hard to figure out who was guilty, but there's pretty much no logic to
support it (but that's a giallo trademark, a pro rather than a con
actually). For me, the problem is that this film doesn't have the same
trashy feel and atmosphere as the best Italian thrillers it seems to be
imitating. In a lot of ways I like this film, certain scenes are truly
gripping but there's simply something lacking. Being a huge fan of John
Carpenter, I can't help but think what he could have done had he
directed this. He came up with the story and shares the credits as the
writer of the screenplay and what's more, he loves the Italian giallo
films as well. His own homage to the genre; Someone's Watching Me, the
little known TV film was terrific and you could see that he definitely
had the feel for the genre and could easily translate it to American
settings. I don't feel that Kershner, as good a director as he is, has
the same love for the genre as Carpenter.

I recommend watching it, it scores on a number of levels.
<|_=00=_|>
I understand that this was filmed and set in the 70s in New York and I
think it's meant to mirror some of the avant garde style of that time
and locale, but I couldn't stand Faye's acting style in this film. Her
character is supposed to be a strong, successful,
visionary/controversial photographer. She seemed to start many scenes
playing just that, but would then quickly fall to pieces and appear to
not know where she was, what she was doing, or how to answer a simple
question. This happens over and over. I felt like I was watching over-
acting from the 40s.

The rest of the cast saved it for me. Especially Brad Dourif and Tommy
Lee Jones.

I liked the general story and premise, but even at only 104 minutes, it
felt drawn-out. 

A lot of people seem to think the ending was predictable. It caught me
pleasantly by surprise!

I doubt as many people will be as put off as I was by Faye's acting in
this particular film, so I would recommend this with my own
reservations. I love supernatural movies and whodunits, and this was an
interesting combination of both. It is definitely dated, though. Good
luck.
<|_=00=_|>
The Seventies seemed to be a time for film makers to push the envelope
by shocking viewers and challenging mainstream perceptions with
stylized treatments of sex and violence. Other movies that come to mind
are 1971's "Klute" and 1977's "Looking for Mr. Goodbar". I would even
throw 1970's "Joe' into that mix with it's take on free love and
nudity. What's kind of funny as I watched the picture today on cable,
was that the exposed breasts of women in Laura Mars' photos were
uncensored, but the ones on the live models were. What's the point of
that? 

There's that other element that gets some treatment from the newspaper
reporter in the story speculating on whether the gallery photo exhibit
has a desensitizing effect on society, and might possibly be the cause
of some deranged killer who gets inspired by the titillation of sex and
violence together. There are those, primarily in the position of making
these pictures, that think that's all hogwash, but why wouldn't a
rational person make the same observation. Sometimes bad ideas get
their start in a subliminal way.

Anyway, this was a fair enough thriller. Trying to figure out the
murderer in a murder mystery can often be a challenging exercise, but
this film tried too hard to pin the crimes on Brad Dourif's character,
so I had him dismissed right off. That John Neville (Tommy Lee Jones)
turned out to be the killer in Laura's visions wasn't a complete
surprise, though the picture could have better explored at which point
in his life Neville went completely off the rails. The confrontational
scene in which Laura realizes in horror that John is a madman was
handled well, I was patiently waiting for her to pull the trigger and
she didn't let me down. Good job, Laura.
