

Most of the cheap or not so cheaply made horror films these days are
nothing
more than a tedious exercise in how to bump off as many teenagers in as
many
different ways as one can imagine in ninety minutes or less.  One need
only
watch recent films such as Wrong Turn or the remake of Texas Chainsaw
Massacre to realize how far the horror genre has fallen.  Once John
Carpenter made the first Halloween film, we have been subject to an
endless
series of copy cat films whose only purpose seems to be finding an
imaginative way to slice and dice the local teenage population.  All of
the
Freddies, Jasons, and Michael Myers films combined don't come close to
having an ounce of the entertainment and imagination of Producer Brian
Yuzna
and Director and Writer Stuart Gordon's Re-animator.

Professor Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs) is a scientist who has discovered a
formula which brings the dead back to life by reanimating their tissue.
After an experiment in Switzerland goes awry, he moves to Miskatonic
University to continue his experiments.  One thing Professor West isn't
and
that is modest.  He even takes a few moments to ridicule a professor, Dr.
Carl Hill (David Gale) when he disagrees with him about when death
actually
occurs.  He eventually rents a room from fellow student Dan Cain (Bruce
Abbot).  Dan is dating Megan Halsey  (Barbara Crampton) who is the
daughter
of the college dean, Alan Halsey (Robert Sampson).  What Dan doesn't know
is
that the aforementioned Dr. Hill has a perverted eye on Megan also.  We
know
this because of the sleazy stares Dr. Hill eyeballs her with when ever
she's
around.  Think of Megan as being an overage Lolita and Dr. Hill as Humbert
Humbert and you've got the idea.  All of this is not window dressing as it
would be in some other films.  It all comes into play very nicely.  It
goes
without saying that sooner or later, Dr. West will be making good use of
his
reanimation formula, in ways only those with the most grotesque sense of
humor can imagine.  To say any more than that would deny you of the true
pleasures of this film.

How can a film that is so explicitly graphic and perverted in nature be
fun?
It's because every person involved in the making of Re-Animator was smart
enough not to take it too seriously themselves.  Everything in this film
is
so wildly over the top, that you can't help but chuckle right along with
them as they wink their eye at you.  There may be certain moments of the
film that would normally sicken even the most hardcore horror film
fanatic,
but since Yuzna and Gordon never once let Re-animator sink into the
tedious
by the numbers game of other films of these nature, these same scenes
become
intentionally cartoonish and silly.

But more than anything, this film owes it's life to it's cast.  Jeffrey
Combs as Herbert West should serve as the model for anyone wanting to make
a
film involving a mad or semi-mad scientist.  Given this kind of role,
there
is many an actor who would have been tempted to ham it up and alas in many
horror films they do just that.  However, when Combs seems to imply that
he
is the smartest man on the planet and the rest of us are Neanderthal, we
don't hate him for this implication at all.  He is so good at making us
believe he is the smartest man since Einstein and we are all nothing but
Cro-magnon man by comparison that we love him for it just the same.  He
may
be crazy, but he's a fun kind of crazy.

David Gale as the smarmy Dr. Hill, is a joy to watch also.  He has some of
the most ridiculous scenes in the film yet somehow manages to keep a
straight face through it all.  He gives new life to the old saying about
not
losing your head over a piece of tail.

Bruce Abbot as Dan Cain is the perfect contrast for West.  He is a
straight
arrow, is madly in love with Megan, yet somehow lets himself become
involved
in West's experiments.  Abbot also is smart enough to know that the center
of this film is West, and never once overplays his role to try and
overshadow him.  As for Barbara Crampton, she should have won some kind of
award, just for the abuse the producers put her through as Megan.  Is
there
an award for most abuse of a female by the walking dead?

Re-animator was made on a budget of less than a million dollars which is
truly remarkable. There isn't a film budget in the world though that can
replace the imagination and daring rampant through out Re-Animator.  And
when a horror film is that well done, and is something all the Freddies,
and
Jasons, And Michael Myers can only dream about, I have no choice but to
give
it my grade which for Re-Animator is an A.


<|_=00=_|>
Ah, finally a horror camp classic that deserves to be called a horror
camp classic. Re-Animator is one of those fun horror movies that is so
over the top that it is just a lot of fun to watch, kind of like the
spectacular Evil Dead films, although not quite to that same level of
skillful horror/comedy mix. Ironically enough, I think it should be a
testament to the quality of the rest of the movie that it is able to
work so well despite prominently featuring a soundtrack that is a naked
rip-off of the Psycho soundtrack. It's amazing to me that Richard Bond,
the music composer, didn't think anyone would notice him plagiarizing
one of the most famous movie soundtracks in cinematic history, but
luckily everyone else in the production was right on the mark.

Jeffrey Combs delivers a wonderfully crazy performance as Herbert West,
the scientist in the movie who is determined that he has discovered a
scientific method to beat death, and is desperate to try it out on a
human being rather than small animals, on whom he has had remarkable
success. He is playing a completely one-dimensional character, a genius
scientist whose mental capacity is also tinged with madness, but which
is counterbalanced by the fact that he may very well be desperate to
try something potentially immoral but which could also potentially
revolutionize medicine. Maybe his intentions are good after all, but
for the purposes of the film, he just wants to get his hands on some
fresh corpses, which is a great premise for a horror film.

The movie operates in its own world, like the Evil Dead films did. It
takes place in the horror genre but wants to combine some elements of
drama as well, as we have a real scientist who is truly brilliant. He
is still in medical school, I believe, but is often smarter than his
often-published professors, criticizing their work for being incorrect
or even plagiarized. He's very quick to make enemies, I would think his
line of work might be easier the less people he had watching him, so
it's unfortunate that he was so good at making people not like him.
Mere days after he rents out a room from a couple of other students,
they find their cat dead in his refrigerator. I hate it when new
roommates do that.

There is plenty of gratuitous nudity in the film, and while I
appreciate nudity as much as the next guy, I don't like it when it
drives a weak film, and that is certainly not the case here. There is a
graphic and highly disturbing nude scene three quarters or so through
the film that made me literally cringe and turn my head, not because of
gore but by the sheer disturbing idea of it, it was awful. But the
thing that I loved is that that scene fits in with the rest of this
movie so well. It is all about too much gore and too much blood and too
much nudity, but also lots of laughs. This is a perfect example of how
much fun scary movies can be.
<|_=00=_|>

The astute viewer will immediately pick up on the tone of Re-Animator. The
introduction (added to the film at the last minute before its release) is
a
glimpse of the over-the-top nature of the entire production. If one were
to
be frightened by this intro, he or she will be comforted by the playful
cheer of the opening title music. The score was heavily inspired by the
famous Psycho score, a classic by Bernard Herrmann.

The movie, inspired by H.P. Lovecraft's `Herbert West: Re-Animator',
follows
a simple plot. Herbert West (played to precise pitch perfection by Jeffrey
Combs who, like Bruce Campbell, is a B-Movie legend) is new at Miskatonic
Medical University. Immediately, Herbert clashes with Dr. Carl Hill (David
Gale) on the subject of `brain death'.

At the same time, Dan Cain (Bruce Abbot) is looking for a roommate. He is
also dating Dean Alan Halsey's (Robert Sampson) daughter, Megan (Barbara
Crampton). When Herbert West shows up at Dan's door one night during a
`study' session, Megan is immediately suspicious. Why is Herbert so
anxious
to move in? Why is he so interested in the basement?

It is not long before the cat is dead, re-animated and dead again. The
early
scenes of violence are disturbing and hilarious at the same time and are
only a taste of what is to come. Dan tries to resist the temptation of
power
inherent in the re-animating fluid, but is sucked into Herbert's mad world
of life giving.

There is a turn of events about halfway through the film (which I would be
crazy to spoil) that almost screams to the viewer, `We aren't playing by
the
rules here.' The storyline twists its way to the famous conclusion that,
if
you haven't heard of it, will leave you breathless. Even if you know what
is
going to happen, when you finally see it, in all of it's gory, sexual
glory
you understand why this classic has achieved such a status. The finale of
the film is twisted in so many ways it's impossible to count.

Obviously, I loved the movie. Having never been anything but a horror fan,
I
cannot say it will suit everyones' tastes. The film is so over-the-top
that
the outrageous gore becomes less and less shocking. The timid viewer may
want to shy away from this masterpiece. Anyone with even the slightest
curiosity should seek this movie out.

<|_=00=_|>

Very loosely based on H.P. Lovecraft's story "Herbert West:
Re-Animator"

Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs) is new at Misketonic University in the
(fictional) town of Arkham MA.  He rooms with nice guy Dan (Bruce Abbott)
but Dan's girlfriend Meg (Barbara Crampton) doesn't trust him.  And evil Dr.
Hill (the late David Gale) hates him.  It seems West has a glowing
green/yellow potion that brings the dead back to life...but they always come
back in a foul mood.  But he hasn't tried it on humans...yet...

Boy, do I miss the 80s!  Back then they could make extremely gory, sick,
violent, unrated films like this and get them to play at mainstream
theatres.  I saw this opening night in Boston back in 1985--it was unrated
and no one under 18 was allowed in the theatre.  The audience was quiet at
first, but as the violence and gore escelated and the black humor kicked in,
the audience came alive.  People were screaming, yelling, laughing...just
about everything!  Especially during a sequence between Crampton and Gale
which just went way over the boundaries of good taste.  It was just great! 
The movie is fun on its own, but with the right type of audience it really
comes alive.

The film has extreme gore...probably the goriest movie of its decade.  It
also has huge doses of black humor and the whole cast blessedly plays it
straight...it they had winked at the camera once it would have destroyed the
film.

The film also has a tight, well-written script (it runs 86 minutes), is well
directed by Stuart Gordon and has a great cast--David Gale (sadly no longer
with us) was fantastic as the evil Hill.  Jeffrey Combs plays West just
perfect--we see his obsession with the potion but Combs never overplays it. 
Abbott is somewhat bland but plays a very good hero.  Crampton is just
excellent as Meg--sexy, smart and very brave.  Also Robert Sampson adds
strong support as Meg's father.

Basically a must-see for any horror fan.  Also a great score and I LOVE the
ending!  Don't miss this one!

Try to see the Special Edition DVD--it shows deleted scenes that flesh out
the story more.
  
<|_=00=_|>

when i first saw re-animator in 85, i hadn't been introduced to the likes
of
the evil dead series, dead alive, or any of that horror/comedy genre. i
thought horror/comedy went together as well as military
intelligence...

i was aghast and appalled. i just didn't get it. i was a classic horror
fan;
so when i heard the obvious rip from psycho's theme, it irritated me even
more.

well, now i'm an older, wiser horror fan. i just saw it again for the
first
time since 85 and i laughed my bum off!
homage, homage, homage! honouring everything from hitchcock to raimi, from
day of the dead to frankenstein. this in-your-face send off is a great
double feature with dead alive. jeffery combs' over the top performance is
reminiscent of colin clive and cronenberg found his very own ash in bruce
abbott.
so sit back, relax (as much as you can...) and enjoy
re-animator.
<|_=00=_|>

Considering the 70's was a decade of monumental proportions as far as films
went, it was a shame the 80's had to produce such dreck, especially where
horror films are concerned. In the 70's we had "The Exorcist", "Halloween",
"Texas Chainsaw Massacre", "Phantasm"-just to name a few. The 80's did
produce a small but stellar group of classics, however, including "Evil
Dead" 1 & 2, "A Nightmare On Elm Street", "An American Werewolf In London"
and, of course, "Re-Animator". Like "Werewolf" and the "Evil Dead" films,
part of "Re-Animator"'s success and notoriety is the film's deliciously
sinister blend of horror and humor. Wait let me correct that-perverse horror
and sick humor. In accordance with the decade that birthed it, this film is
typically over the top and totally gratuitous, pulling out all the stops at
every turn. Jeffrey Combs heads a great cast as Herbert West, a strange and
eccentric but brilliant young doctor/scientist who has perfected a syrum
that can reanimate the dead. Circumstances get out of hand when a medical
student and his fiance (Bruce Abbott & Barbara Crampton) get involved in
West's work and a plagarist rival doctor (David Gale) plots to steal his
idea. Horror and hilarity ensue from there on, thanks to imaginitive visual
effects coupled with clever dialogue. For nitpickers like myself there are a
few minor inconsistencies in the screenplay, but it does very little to
hinder the film. Ironically, several scenes that wound up on the cutting
room floor (included on the dvd) would have fleshed out those minor story
flaws, but they were excised-and probably rightly so-in the name of pacing.
Besides, any flaws in writing are easily forgotten about thanks to the
terrific performances. Here is a cast that really brought the characters "to
life" so to speak; Combs as the nerdy scientist and Gale's lecherous Dr.
Hill are both standouts. And Stuart Gordon's strong direction holds the
whole thing together even when the film threatens to be crushed by it's own
outlandishness. For those interested, check out the sequel "Bride of
Re-Animator" that followed 4 years later. It doesn't hold a candle to this
one, but it's plenty of fun in it's own right. 
<|_=00=_|>
After learning all he can learn in Switzerland, Herbert West comes to
America to study life and death. Can death be overcome? West thinks so,
and with his reagent serum he might just prove to the world how right
he is.

"Re-Animator" ranks at the very top of my all-time favorite horror
movies. For a guy who has seen probably one thousand horror films,
that's quite the accomplishment. For me, the film is paced perfectly,
has plenty of gore, a fair amount of nudity (and a scene of sexuality
you won't find elsewhere), some black comedy and a simple plot premise
(a variation on the Frankenstein story).

This is the film that gave Jeffrey Combs his place in cult film
history. On the basis of this movie alone, he is sought after to appear
in other horror films and appear at horror conventions. Sure, some of
his other films are pretty good, and he had an impressive run on both
"Star Trek: Deep Space Nine" and "The 4400". But he will always be
known as Herbert West. None of the other stars (David Gale, Bruce
Abbott, Barbara Crampton) has gone on to such a level of recognition.

The film has some flaws. The score, which is supposed to be an "homage"
to "Psycho" sounds more like a blatant ripoff. And my biggest pet peeve
is trying to find a complete copy of the film. I owned the longer,
R-rated version on VHS. Now I own the shorter, unrated version on DVD
(the Millennium Edition). I have yet to find one that combines the gore
of the uncut version with the plot of the R-rated one (which I think
really drives home the story and fleshes out the motives and power of
Dr. Hill).

But the sheer fun of the film makes up for the flaws. Jeffrey Combs is
clearly having plenty of fun, and the way they approach such things as
the reanimated cat and the use of the reagent as an intravenous drug
tells me they knew that the key was just letting a good time fly.

The people involved with this film (Combs, director Stuart Gordon and
producer Brian Yuzna) went on to make a variety of other
Lovecraft-inspired films. So I guess I have to thank the success of
"Re-Animator" for giving them the chance to pursue these other projects
(even the less wonderful ones like "Necronomicon" or "Dagon" (which
many people like but I wasn't impressed)).

If you're a horror fan and haven't seen this, shame on you. You simply
cannot have an in-depth conversation on horror without this film coming
up. I urge you to check it out and decide for yourself. Can thousands
of horror fans be wrong on this one? When have they steered you wrong
before?
<|_=00=_|>

While many horror movies have strong doses of humour in them (from 'Bride Of
Frankenstein' to 'Dawn Of The Dead', 'The Texas Chainsaw Massacre' to 'From
Dusk Til Dawn'), there's very few actual horror-comedies I enjoy. 'Motel
Hell' is one exception, Frank Henenlotter's movies, especially
'Frankenhooker' are others, but to my mind Stuart Gordon's 'Re-Animator' is
by far the most original and entertaining one ever made in my opinion. This
movie put Gordon on the map and also made Jeffrey Combs into a worldwide
cult figure. Combs is absolutely brilliant as Herbert West, one of the most
memorable mad scientists in horror history, and the rest of the supporting
cast - Bruce Abbott, David Gale, and the lovely Barbara Crampton - are all
excellent. Gordon uses H.P. Lovecraft's West stories as a jumping off point
for some grotesque and genuinely funny moments that once seen are never
forgotten, particularly THAT scene between Crampton and Gale, which is now
the stuff of legend, though beware it is cut from some versions of the
movie. Make sure you see the uncut version of 'Re-Animator' whatever you do!
Gordon went on to make some other Lovecraft adaptations, some good, some not
so good, but 'Re-Animator' was the first and is still in my opinion the
best. Highly recommended fun which gets better and better as the years go
by! This movie is an unquestionable horror classic!
<|_=00=_|>
In Austria, the medical student Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs) develops a
serum to resuscitate the dead while working with a famous scientist
that mysteriously dies. Herbert travels to Massachusetts and his
application is accepted by the Miskatonic Medical University Dean Alan
Halsey (Robert Sampson); then he moves to the basement of the house of
Daniel 'Dan' Cain (Bruce Abbott), a medical student that is seeking a
roommate to share his expenses and that is in love with Alan's daughter
Megan Halsey (Barbara Crampton). When Megan's cat disappears, she finds
it dead in Herbert's refrigerator. Later, Daniel hears a cat and
Herbert screaming and he sees the cat alive violently attacking Herbert
and they kill the animal again. Herbert invites Daniel to work with
him, but Megan sees the bizarre experiment and tells her father that
expels the students from the University. But Herbert and Daniel go to
the morgue to find a corpse to revive and they are surprised by the
dean that is murdered by a resurrected man. Herbert injects the
re-animating fluid in Alan that revives but the envious and greedy Dr.
Carl Hill (David Gale) wants his formula to become famous.

"Re-Animator" is one of my favorite cult-movie and I have just watched
it again at least for the sixth time (last time I saw it was on 21
March 2000). This funny and gore B-movie has excellent special effects
and made Jeffrey Combs worshiped for the rest of his career. Barbara
Crampton is very beautiful and the scene in the laboratory with she
naked and Dr. Carl Hill beheaded is one of the funniest I have ever
seen. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Re-Animator"

Note: On 26 August 2012, I saw this film again, now on DVD.

Note: On 25 June 2015, I saw this movie again.
<|_=00=_|>
I like to think of Re-Animator as a prime example of the french
art-form, the Grand Guignol - a puppet show meant to disturb the
audience. Viewing this film as such, rather than as a straight horror
film (a film that's meant to terrify), I think raises its stature.

Taken as a horror film, Re-Animator would really not qualify as
anything other than yet another gruesome sort of zombie movie. Anyone
who has seen this film, though, knows that Re-Animator is not your
run-of-the-mill Romero knock-off, not your ordinary horror film. It's
unique. 

There's something off-kilter about this flick, something very, very
funny, and also something quite disturbing. Re-Animator (spoilers
maybe), with its demonic cat, provides an instance of intense slapstick
at which the audience laughs. Simultaneously, the audience must also
feel revulsion both at what's taking place on screen and at themselves.
Surely, a cat, it's neck broken for the sake of science and brought
back to life only to die an even worse death is not something to laugh
at. Yet it's staged like an old 3 Stooges episode. The film-makers
undoubtedly understand this, desire to make their audience
uncomfortable, and do a commendable job. Like all great Grand Guignol,
then, it thoroughly disturbs. 

The cunnilingus performed by the severed head provides a similar
moment. 

Viewed as a Grand Guignol, and an experiment in creating a distraught
audience, Re-Animator succeeds admirably. It's an excellent movie,
highly entertaining, and worth seeking out.

8/10
