
Spaceballs is one of my favorite comedies of all time, it's actually
one of those few movies that I know every single line too. I know that
seems a bit sad, but this film has so many memorable lines that it came
so natural. I've watched this movie since I was a little girl and the
strange thing is that every time I watch it, it just seems to get
funnier and funnier. I don't understand how a person could not laugh
with this film, it just has perfect humor that I'm sure could make the
emotionally stunted person laugh. How could you not laugh at Rick
Morannis as Lord Helmet? He was beyond a perfect choice for Helmet, he
was the complete opposite of what Darth Vadar was, and he didn't have a
problem making fun of himself. In fact, the whole cast looked like they
had the ultimate blast making this film, everyone clicked so well. The
story is one of Mel's finest parades, of course, this one is of Star
Wars or pretty much any space film.

Lord Helmet and President Skroob wish to steal all of Planet Druidia's
fresh air and transfer it onto their own, but they must get the
combination to the air shield that is protecting it. King Roland's
daughter, Princess Vespa, runs away from her wedding, since King Roland
is the king of Druidia, Lord Helmet kidnaps her to get the combination.
King Roland asks space rebel, Lone Starr and his faithful side kick
Mog(half-man half-dog) Barf, to save the princess. But things quickly
turn bad when Helmet does get the combination and now Lone Starr must
use the "schwartz" and defeat Lord Helmet and Skroob before they suck
all the air from Druidia.

Spaceballs is seriously just a great comedy, I guarantee you that you
will have a good laugh by watching this film. Every scene is just so
funny, my favorite is always the one with Lord Helmet playing with his
dolls and Corinel Sanders walks in on him, you'll just have to see what
I mean, but it's the funniest scene in my opinion. But there isn't one
scene that isn't funny. If you are a fan of Mel Brooks, I don't see any
reason why you shouldn't love this film, it's my second favorite just
behind Young Frankenstein, but that was a tough choice. I highly
recommend Spaceballs for anyone, please see this film, you won't regret
it.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Leave it to Mel Brooks; no one else could make a space movie with references
to "The Wizard of Oz", "The Godfather", Mr. Coffee and flying
Winnebagos.

"Spaceballs" is just about the best post-"History of the World Part I" film
Mel has made and that's saying something, considering how many great jokes
Mel and Company is able to pull off while within PG territory.

Easy enough to guess that this is Mel's take on "Star Wars", complete with
his own versions of C-3P0 (Dot Matrix), Princess Leia (Princess Vespa),
Chewbacca (Barf the Mawg) and a combination of Han Solo and Luke Skywalker
(LoneStarr).  

Oh, and let's not forget Dark Helmet!  The very embodiment of evil (Mel
Brooks-style) who not only wears a black cloak and headpiece but also a
stylishly-wide black tie.  And when he strikes...it's usually not above the
belt.

The gags come fast and furious and, as is usually the case, all the regular
faces show up (Graham, DeLuise, Van Patten) and Mel gives it all he's got. 
Lots of space sagas get equal ribbing (the "Star Wars" trilogy, "Alien",
"Planet of the Apes") and there isn't a cliche that Mel fails to notice. 

You can't blame Mel Brooks for thinking this genre needed a good skewering. 
He started it in "History of the World" with his "Jews in Space" coming
attraction and continues it here.  My only complaint: Mel, why did you have
to wait so long??

Eight stars, plus a half star more for Pizza the Hutt; I loved it,
especially when the pepperoni started running.  Also for President Skroob's
(Brooks') comment after being mis-transported ("Why didn't somebody tell me
my a** was so big??").  

Okay, nine stars.  Mel Brooks strikes back!
<|_=00=_|>

Brisk parody of "Star Wars" and other great science fiction films pits
Bill
Pullman and his man-dog/dog-man partner John Candy against Rick Moranis
and
Mel Brooks as they try to rescue Princess Daphne Zuniga from the clutches
of
the evil Space-Balls.

The cast are clearly enjoying themselves and there's a gag almost every
minute, mostly notably the Star Wars gags. Some of the best are -

1) Pizza the Hutt

2) The 'Alien' Diner scene with John Hurt ("Oh no... not
again!")

3) Yogurt the Yoda clone (also Mel Brooks; "Please, I'm just plain
Yogurt.")

4) Dot's "Virgin Alarm" ("Designed to go off before you
do.")

5) A pot shot at "Lawrence of Arabia"

6) The 'combing the desert' sequence

7) Rick Moranis 'playing with his toys'

8) The Statue of Liberty Transformer

9) The Planet of the Apes sequence

10) The light saber schwartz duel

11) The guard instructing Bill Pullman on how to properly do the Vulcan
nerve pinch.

12) Accidentally capturing the stunt doubles.

13) The quote unquote "sexual tension" between Bill and
Daphne.

And many more. Keep an eye out for this one.

"Where're you from?" - Daphne Zuniga

"I don't know. Somewhere in the Ford Galaxy." - Bill Pullman

<|_=00=_|>
A joyous, hilarious fairy-tale (which just happens to be set in a
galaxy resembling one far, far away, a long time ago)! Many cheap,
childish, utterly irresistible gags. Special effects of sufficient
quality that they don't distract. Excellent ensemble acting with Rick
Moranis a real highlight. And a space Winnebago...

One of Mr. Brooks's finest efforts! When the cod-seriousness of
Episodes I, II and III gets too much for you, just imagine Mace Windu
with his Schwartz tangled and pop this movie on.

Now, it's getting a bit stuffy in here so I'm off to inhale some
delightful Perri-air.
<|_=00=_|>

Spaceballs is one of the funniest movies ever. In the tradition of Airplane
it spoofs nearly all modern SciFi including: Star Wars, The Empire Strikes
Back, Return Of The Jedi, Alien, Star Trek, and Planet Of The Apes. Mel
Brook's has had some funny movies but this takes the cake. Rick Moranis is
inarguably his second best role after Strange Brew. John Candy has one of
his better performances. Bill Pullman (a long way from Independence Day) is
the central character Lone Star, a combination Luke Skywalker and Han Solo.
Sight gags and classic memorable lines are present here from beginning to
end. Just looking at Dark Helmet is enough to induce laughter. Spaceballs is
a truly great film. Let's see how well you handle it!
<|_=00=_|>

"Spaceballs" is one of my favorite Mel Brooks comedies. Brooks has made some
of the funniest movies of our time ("The Producers", "Brazing Saddles",
"High Anxiety", etc.) and I think "Spaceballs" is up there in the same
league. This film spoofs the "Star Wars" movies in general, but there's also
references to "Star Trek", "Alien", and "Planet of the Apes" just to name a
few. The actors are all very funny, with Brooks in two roles: President
Skroob and Yogurt (his version of Yoda); the late John Candy as Barf the
mawg (half man, half dog); Rick Moranis as the Darth Vader clone Dark
Helmet; Bill Pullman as Lone Starr, the Luke Skywalker takeoff; Daphne
Zuniga as Princess Vespa, similar to Princess Leia; and Dot Matrix, the
robot with the voice of Joan Rivers who's obviously in the C-3P0 role.
There's plenty of silly gags throughout "Spaceballs", and I laughed most of
the time. Very funny, entertaining sci-fi comedy from one of the great
comedic filmmakers of all time. 

***1/2 (out of four)
   
<|_=00=_|>
This movie can be absolutely hilarious, if you are in the right mood
for it. If you didn't liked this movie, then you probably weren't in
the right mood, because there is no way you can dislike and find this
movie unfunny.

Most fun thing about the movie is Rick Moranis as Dark Helmet who is
the complete opposite in every way of the ultimate bad guy from the
entire universe; Darth Vader, especially in size. Like almost every
other Mel Brook's movie this movie has some extreme hits and some
extreme misses, by seriously it all is just a matter of taste. What
might seem funny for some is unfunny to others and vice versa.

The acting is over the top and quite bad actually especially Bill
Pullman and Daphne Zuniga. Thank goodness that the sidekicks are the
better and funnier characters in this movie, characters with poetic
names such as Barf, Colonel Sandurz, Major Asshole, Yogurt and Pizza
the Hutt.

The movie suffers from some horrible eighties songs, the curse of
almost every eighties movies these days, other than that, there isn't
much negative to say about his movie even though it is far from Brook's
best.

7/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>

This film is stupid, pointless and has got to be one of the best
comedies in existence alongside "Monsters, inc.". If you're feeling
low, this film will cheer you up unbelievably. "May the Schwartz be
with you". It has an endless line of rib-cracking gags ("Let's jam the
catapult" says a character at a certain stage in the film. they then
toss a jar of jam at the catapult. Another great gag is when the bad
guys are chasing after the good guys, instead of going at light speed
they go at "ludicrous" speed. Every space film you could think of is
spoofed in this film, from "Planet Of The Apes" to "Star Wars". There's
even a spoof of "It Happened one Night" (the bride running away from
the wedding). Whether the weather is cold or hot see this film, and
remember, if the combination on your suitcase is 1,2,3,4 you had better
change it. Enjoy!

<|_=00=_|>
Best SI-FI Comedy I have ever seen.

With Mell Brooks at the helm of this gem how could it go wrong . 

i would like to see part 2 of space-balls taking the crap out of
Starwars 1 2 and 3 that would be cool. I got the VHS a long time ago ,
and now have the DVD i have watched it at least 100 times . and still
can watch it over and over again. Some Things i liked. "may the
Schwartz be with you" "what the hell it worked on star-trek" "Pizza the
hut" "I told you we should have put more then five bucks in" and the
part where they have instant cassettes where the movie is out before
its finished.

I req this movie for all ages . 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
It seemed obvious for a long time that someone would do a "Star Wars"
spoof, and it seems that only Mel Brooks could do it. "Spaceballs"
starts off by showing us a spaceship...for a very long time. Then, we
learn that the planet Spaceballs has used up all its air. So, Pres.
Skroob (Mel Brooks) has sent the ultra-evil, ultra-dork Dark Helmet
(Rick Moranis) to kidnap Princess Vespa (Daphne Zuniga) from the planet
Druidia to extort their air.

Fear not! There are two people who can save her: space-traveling
everyman Lone Starr (Bill Pullman) and his half-dog, half-human friend
Barf (John Candy, and the character is his own best friend!). And they
do it by jamming Dark Helmet's radar...with real jam.

From there, the whole thing is typical Mel Brooks stuff, with a gag
every minute and parts where they admit that they're in a movie. I
think that my favorite part is when they watch "Spaceballs: The Movie"
("But we're barely halfway through making it!"). But the scene where
John Hurt spoofs one of his most famous scenes is also something. A
laugh riot from beginning to end. Also starring Dom DeLuise, Dick Van
Patten, George Wyner, and the voice of Joan Rivers.

May the Schwartz be with us all!
