

An amazing film, one of my favorites. I watch this regularly,
especially at times when the reality of life is overwhelming, just to
refocus and regain some sense of perspective.

Everything in this film works toward one end: to transform the adult
sense of fear back into the childlike sense of wonder at the world.
From the very opening moments of the film, designed to create confusion
and startlement, this movie creates a sensation of dread and
foreboding. The dissonance of the soundtrack, the juxtaposition of
images, they all are working to build into the viewer a feeling that
something just isn't right, that something out of the ordinary is
taking place, and underscoring this all with a sense that this is
something to resist, to pull away from, to not allow it to affect one's
"ordinary life." 

But as the movie progresses, the tone begins to shift, and the true
intent of the film begins to peek through. This isn't about being
afraid of the unknown, but rather embracing it. Paying attention to the
"subliminal images" in life, allowing them to lead you into something
unknown and perhaps dangerous, only then can one be open to wonder and
experience the world through the magical eyes of a child.

Dreyfuss' character takes us on this journey, met with resistance all
along the way. His wife, his neighbors, his job, his community, all are
working against him, and it's only when he's reached his craziest that
he truly gives in and begins to stop trying to understand and instead
embraces the experiences in store for him. The scientific community is
seeking to understand, but without having any personal calling to be
involved. Only Barry is truly able to throw himself into the
strangeness that is taking place, and his enthusiasm is greeted by both
the characters and the audience as somehow alien and threatening.

The ending of this film, when all the fear is finally stripped away and
the sense of amazed wonder overtakes everyone on the screen and in the
audience, brings about an amazing catharsis. Discarding all the "adult"
sensibilities and being able to approach life once again with a sense
of innocent amazement for the Strange hidden amongst the Ordinary, one
can begin again to approach life from a fresh vantage point. 

Powerful, mystifying, and rejuvenating. I highly recommend this film
for anyone jaded with life and seeking a sense of renewal.

<|_=00=_|>

For my taste, the first hour and a half of this movie is the greatest
stretch of filmmaking ever.  Up until Roy and Jillian reach the "dark side
of the moon" on Devil's Tower, this movie is perfect.  No, it's beyond
perfect -- it's sublime.  It takes me to a level of bliss that no other
movie can do.

Many critics and viewers -- including a number on this site -- don't like
this movie at all.  Those who do like it almost uniformly like the final
sequence, the "alien landing," the best.  For me it is the rest of the
movie
that is the most remarkable.  Some of my favorite sequences:

1.  The blinding flash of light that ends the opening credits and leads us
to a sandstorm in Sonora Desert, Mexico -- Present Day, with various team
leaders, Bob Balaban, and Francois Truffaut speaking three languages as
they
find a whole bunch of old Navy planes lost in the Bermuda Triangle and an
old geezer who saw something very strange.  "El sol salio a noche.  Y me
canto," he keeps saying.  Translation: "He says the sun came out last
night.
He says it sang to him."  Then Balaban translates for Truffaut: "Il dit
que
le soleil etait venue ici hier soir, et qu'il chantait pour lui."  Then
Balaban disappears in a cloud of dust.  The mystery created in that
sequence
is incredible -- the greatest opening of all time, if you ask me.  Trivia
note:  that sequence was the last Spielberg filmed before the movie's
release.  The shooting script opens with Indianapolis Flight Control, but
Spielberg decided he wanted a new opening and shot this after production
had
wrapped.  Supposedly this sequence was inspired by the Iraqi prologue in
the
Exorcist.

2.  Roy's first encounter with the aliens in his power company truck -- a
brilliantly conceived and edited sequence.  I love the dolly in to Roy's
window as he pants in shock in the shadows, then the comedy of his
reaction
when the lights in the truck come back on.

3.  The "sky speeders" disappearing into the clouds over Muncie, followed
by
lightning and then the lights of the city coming back on, bit by bit.
Spielberg's use of miniatures here is breathtaking -- as it was in 1941
and
as it is later in CE3K when the UFO believers gather again to await
another
encounter and the lights from the government helicopters move toward them
across the plains below.

4.  The entire sequence of Roy going crazy.  This was controversial with
critics -- Pauline Kael, who loved the movie generally, hated Roy throwing
the bushes into the kitchen -- and Spielberg actually cut the entire
digging
up the garden sequence from the so-called "Special Edition."  To me,
though,
this is the absolute heart of the movie.  Ask people what they remember
from
CE3K and the first thing they'll say is "mashed potatoes."  To my mind,
the
garden sequence is one of those magical moments that is so funny and so
sad
it's just perfect.  I believe every second of it, every time.  The
reactions
of the kids are perfect -- the oldest son is big enough to be angry, while
the middle says, "Dad, when we're finished with this can we throw dirt in
my
window?"  (In the dinner sequence, little Sylvia has arguably the best
line
in a movie full of them -- "I hate, I hate these potatoes.  There's a dead
fly in my potatoes."  An ad lib, of course.)

In recent years, Spielberg has expressed concern with the fact that Roy
leaves his family to pursue the aliens, and has said that if he were to
make
the movie over again, he would change that part.  To my way of thinking,
if
you take that out, there is no movie.  What this movie is really about is
Roy's obsession, and that, I think, is why it has such a hold on me
personally.  This movie is about what it's like for a person whose life
has
lost its meaning suddenly finding there is a really important purpose, and
pursuing that purpose at all costs.  Is it right for him to turn his
family's life upside down and ultimately leave them behind to do that?
No.
But his obsession is understandable, I think, and the purpose Roy finds is
something a lot of people would like to feel.  Also, it's clear that Roy
is
not acting entirely of his own free will -- he has been "commanded"
subliminally to make his way to Devil's Tower.

I am not aware of any other movie -- or book, or any other source, for
that
matter -- that portrays 70s suburban life so accurately.  The street, the
house, the cars, the toys, the furniture -- it is like an archeological
document.  And the way the kids act, and the family conflicts -- to my way
of thinking, they are all portrayed with unerring accuracy and realism.
Some have contended that Ronnie is unflatteringly portrayed, but to me
that's not fair.  She can't be blamed for reacting the way she does to Roy
-- many people in her shoes would.  Garr's performance is brilliant; she
and
Dreyfuss are magical together.  Melinda Dillon, too, is brilliant in her
role.  In the shooting script, the sexual attraction between Roy and
Jillian
was more overt, but Spielberg wisely downplays it in the finished film.
It's only hinted at, although it is there.

The actual "alien landing" sequence, in my opinion, is a letdown.  It's
brilliantly photographed and realized, but once Roy and Jillian make it to
the dark side of the moon, the primary tension in the story is gone.  If I
could edit this movie, I'd take a major pair of shears to the final
sequence, cut it down to maybe half its current length.  I do get choked
up
when I see Roy in his red suit at the end of the line of astronauts,
though,
and Jillian wiping tears away as she clicks away with her
Kodak.

As with the original Star Wars, my other all-time favorite movie, I have a
problem with the way this picture has been hacked and altered from its
original release through various special editions.  I understand it's
possible to watch the original 1977 cut on the DVD, and I'm glad of that.
That original version is the best.  I first got to know this movie on ABC
in
the early 1980s, when it was shown with all the original and Special
Edition
footage edited together.  Personally, I don't think the special edition
footage adds much (even the Gobi desert sequence, which is an interesting
concept that was in the shooting script, stands out because it was
obviously
shot by a different DP and doesn't have Truffaut in it).

Anyway, I will always cherish this movie.  "You tell Crystal Lake we're
going to candlepower in ten minutes!"  "Zey belong here more zan we."
"There's always some joker who thinks he's immune."  "You can't fool us by
agreeing with us."  "What the hell is going on around here?  Who the hell
are you people?"  "Ronnie, everything's fine.  All this stuff is coming
down."
<|_=00=_|>
Steven Spielberg has made huge popcorn blockbusters that gross more
money at the box office (i.e. "Jaws," "Raiders of the Lost Ark," or
"Jurassic Park") and are more exciting on a visceral level. As he as
aged and matured as a director, he has also made movies that are more
important and will hold a more solid place in the chronicles of film as
an artistic document of history (i.e. "Schindler's List," "Saving
Private Ryan," and "Munich"). For my money, his best film will still
always be "Close Encounters of the Third Kind." This film is
Spielberg's humanistic and heartfelt answer to Kubrick's intellectual
and cerebral look at man's first contact with life from elsewhere in
the universe in his 1968 opus "2001: A Space Odyssey."

"Close Encounters" came early on in Spielberg's career, made in 1977,
and has all the hallmarks of his later films played just right before
he became so self-referential. Here we have his typical bag of tricks
long before they became so typical: familial strife, coming to terms
with something bigger than oneself that challenges the male
protagonist's view of the world around him, little kids in jeopardy,
superb build up of suspense, fantastic visual effects, and a memorable
score from John Williams. From the first UFO sightings in Muncie,
Indiana to the fantastic finale at Devil's Tower in Wyoming, this is
grand entertainment. Lots of films have emulated this movie to varying
degrees of success, from Robert Zemeckis' earnest "Contact," to the
shameful scam that was M. Night Shymalan's "Signs," and even Spielberg
himself recently did the dark natured flip-side to benevolent alien
encounters with his remake of "War of the Worlds" (which makes a
fantastic double-feature with this). However, nothing compares to this
true original. No other film has made me want to believe in aliens
more, and I'll never look at a plate of mashed potatoes the same again.
<|_=00=_|>
Watch the skies, you may see the stars move. Is it your imagination, or
did it really happen. Answer to that could go both ways. Three UFOs fly
past you while you are on the highway, one bright blue, the other red
and blue, and the third bright orange, followed by a small red orbit
tailgating it. Was this real, or just your imagination: Either it was
real, or you must be seeing things...

Thus is among th many questions asked in the Steven Spielberg UFO
classic, "Close Encounters of the Third Kind" a film that explores not
just the possibility that we are not alone in the universe, but a film
that compels us to look inside ourselves and try to find the real
meaning in our lives. The story starts when lost pilots planes are
being found, except that they have been lost for over thirty years! And
in another part of this world, a married man, working for a cable
company, experiences a "close encounter" of the first kind - sighting a
UFO. Then, he experiences physical experiences regarding a shape and
place he has never comprehending before. With a scientific expedition
in pursuit, Roy Neary( Richard Dreyfuss) and a fellow "close
encountering" Jillian Guiler(Melinda Dillon) try to find out the answer
to their questions of why these strange occurrences are happening.

As realistic as it could be, this film transcends the usual alien
picture because it portrays the unbelievable as totally realistic and
what one wouldn't expect - intelligent life is just that - intelligent,
and accepting, of our world and universe. The images in this film light
up the screen and make you feel like you are living a dream, with
flurry images of light, making one feel warm and gentle. The locations
are great too, as they go from Mongolian deserts, to farmlands, to the
famous "Devil's Tower" in Wyoming, where the main magic happens.

The characters are what really grab you. Roy Neary, the main focus, is
as normal as he can be, what with working for a power company. A
perfect fit in the puzzle this movie weaves. Francois Truffaut makes an
almost rare appearance in a much bigger role than usual, as an
astronaut that is just as fascinated with these happenings as the rest
of the civilians. All characters are credible and you just learn to
love 'em. The story lines (including family values, what is more
important in one's life, and what the ultimate experience in heaven is)
are as empathetic as it can get. 

John Williams scores a masterpiece with a score that touches all the
senses in our subconscious and takes us on a journey with the
characters, but on a journey within ourselves, as does the movie, and
in the end, you feel refreshed and ready to take on your troubles and
strife.

The matter of which version is which is a real conversation piece. As
the original theatrical version is VERY rarely seen, one suspects,
based on many reviews, that the 1980 re - release is a much better
film. But this should not hinder any viewings of this spectacular film. 

Spielberg, get back to these kinds of films!
<|_=00=_|>

* 1/2 star out of ****

Keep in mind Steven Spielberg is my all-time favorite director.  I love so
many of his works, whether it's powerful drama (Saving Private Ryan,
Schindler's List, Amistad) or fun escapist action films (the Indiana Jones
films).  But with Close Encounters of the Third Kind, I was hugely dismayed
by how dull, plodding, predictable, and outright stupid this film was. 

The fact is, the film contains so many annoying little flaws that all
combine to bring the whole thing down.  Probably the most damaging aspect is
the predictability of the story.  It takes 2 hours for the film to get to
where I knew it was headed, and the resolution was most definitely not worth
it.

Richard Dreyfuss (who you'll probably confuse with Bob Balaban because of
their similar looks), who is a decent actor in his own right, is
disappointing as Roy Neary, whose character is so crazy and unlikeable, the
experience of watching the film becomes numb.  The fact that he decides
(spoiler) to leave his family behind to go with the aliens is unbelievable,
nowhere near as convincing as Jodie Foster's and Gary Sinise's decisions to
explore the stars in their respective sci-fi dramas, Contact and Mission to
Mars, two vastly superior films.

Close Encounters also suffers from some rhythmless pacing.  Everything moves
slowly, and nothing really interesting occurs.  Granted, the finale is a
visual treat, and the aliens do look realistic, but it's surprisingly
dissatisfying.  There's nothing here truly worth watching.

The script, written by Spielberg himself, isn't particularly compelling. 
The dialogue is a little weak, the character development misfires, and
attempts to inspire a sense of awe are smothered by some really odd music
from John Wiliams (a contrast to the brilliant scores of Alan Silvestri and
Ennio Morricone in, once again, Contact and Mission to Mars).  Talk about a
time when this film could have used one of those two composers or James
Horner instead.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw this first in the theatre I was blown away. It affected me
profoundly. I thought the whole concept was fresh and new, the family
strife, the yearning for and then actively seeking a higher concept for
one's life, the mental breakdown of the main character as he tries to
visualize what's inside his head: messages from alien beings.

Richard Dreyfus, Francois Truffaut, Teri Garr, Melinda Dillon, all
perfectly cast. Along with Cary, the child actor who is brilliant.

As a microcosm of life in the seventies, the film is amazingly
evocative, the perfect young family suburb, the children, the stay at
home wife, the backyard barbecues. The husband who is a dreamer and
when he starts to act it out, shatters this perfect home life.

Then the action moves to the mountain where the aliens are preparing to
land. This scene got me in the theatre and gets me now. It is highly
emotional. The music, the lights, the response of the mother ship.
Highly charged cinematic moments.

However, and it is a big one. The transition of Richard Dreyfuss's
character is far too sudden, he turns his back on children he obviously
adores without any reflection whatsoever. How on earth would they
survive in a seventies world without his income? Also Bob Balaban and
Richard Dreyfuss are almost twin like in appearance and I kept getting
them mixed up.

Francois Truffaut gave a fine performance as did many of the minor
players. And the special affects - way before modern CGI - are
breathtaking for their time.

Sometimes one is better leaving a movie seen in a theatre on its
release exactly there: a one time viewing only. Seeing it for a second
time removes the wonder and awe of that first viewing.

I would have given it a 9 the first time, this time a 6 so I calculated
a 7 out of 10 to be fair.
<|_=00=_|>

	Strange things are happening around the world; things that challenge the
imagination and open the mind to possibilities almost beyond imagining. 
Things that only director Steven Spielberg can explain, which he does in his
monumental epic of man's encounter with alien life, `Close Encounters of the
Third Kind.'  Planes lost in WWII suddenly appear in a Mexican desert; a
long lost ship turns up in the middle of the Gobi Desert; and in Dharmsala,
Northern India, hundreds of people are gathered together, singing--a short
`tune' that consists of a mere five notes, over and over, repeatedly.  When
they are asked where they heard this tune, the throng, as one, dramatically
thrust their hands into the air and point to the sky.  And, indeed, in the
skies all around the world, strange things are happening.

And even as these events are transpiring, one evening in Muncie, Indiana,
the city is suddenly blacked out by an inexplicable power outage.  Roy Neary
(Richard Dreyfuss) is at home when it hits, and he is called in by the power
company for which he works, then sent out in the darkness to an unfamiliar
location.  Lost, he sits in his pick-up truck at a railroad crossing,
studying a map, when all at once he notices a `disturbance' around him. 
Mailboxes along the side of the road are clanging open and shut by
themselves; then things inside his truck begin to move, subtly at first,
then erupting and flying about as if caught up in a tornado--and then just
as suddenly his truck is engulfed in a blinding light.  He leans out the
window for a look, but it's too bright and he has to pull back.  Then just
as abruptly, it all stops-- the disturbance, the light-- everything.  And he
looks out the window again; but this time he sees something.  And though he
doesn't realize it at the time, at that moment, his life changed
forever.

In this wonderfully realized, highly imaginative film that is extremely well
crafted and presented by Spielberg, he takes you along with Roy in the days
that follow that strange occurrence in Muncie.  Roy becomes lost in thought,
drifting, unable to focus on anything, much to the consternation of his
wife, Ronnie (Teri Garr).  But he can't help himself; something-- an image--
has begun to form in his mind.  He has no idea what it is or what it means,
but it becomes an obsession, and slowly it begins to take shape:  First in a
handful of shaving cream, then in a plate of mashed potatoes, which he piles
up and begins to sculpt with his fork, while Ronnie and his kids look on in
bewilderment.  But he can see it in his mind, and it's like a mountain-- a
mountain shaped like a `tower.'  And Roy isn't the only one.  Around the
world, others are being drawn to the same image in their minds, and it's a
force that compels them, pushing them on to find whatever it is, a power so
strong in cannot be denied or refused.  They know only one thing:  Whatever
it is, it's important, and they have no choice but to follow where it may
lead.  And it becomes a great adventure, one in which they discover what Man
has long suspected:  We are not alone.

Richard Dreyfuss is perfectly cast as Neary, a regular guy-- he could be
your neighbor or the man who comes to install your phone-- and gives a
thoroughly convincing, introspective performance while creating a character
with whom it is easy to relate and through whom you are able to share this
unique adventure.  Garr does a good job, as well, as Ronnie, the wife
concerned with her husband's sudden and seemingly bizarre behavior, someone
with whom you can certainly sympathize.  Dillon delivers, too, as the single
mother who suddenly finds herself caught up in these inexplicable and
extraordinary events, and also turning in a memorable performance is the
young Cary Guffey, as Barry, Jillian's son, who makes his own connection
with the other-worldly visitors. 

The supporting cast includes Francois Truffaut (Lacombe), Bob Balaban
(Laughlin) and Lance Henriksen (Robert).  An uplifting, positive motion
picture, `Close Encounters of the Third Kind' is thoroughly entertaining, as
well as thought provoking.  Spielberg draws you in as few filmmakers can,
with a great story and with characters who are readily accessible and with
whom it is easy to identify-- all of which adds up to an absorbing,
memorable and enjoyable experience, and a perfect example of the real magic
of the movies.  I rate this one 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Hated it when it came out, still feel the same. Pure fantasy, not to be
confused with real science fiction. "The Burbs" of UFO movies. Hard to take
this one seriously. And with all due apologies to Mr.Spielberg, who has made
a number of great movies, but this ain't one of em'. There's nothing
compelling, or intriguing about this flick and it's quite silly actually. I
doubt that was the intent. Impossible to muster any sympathy for Richard
Dreyfuss' character. He appeared to be having a little too much fun with his
"obsession." Either that or he was warming up for his part in What About
Bob. Melinda Dillon was quite good though in a contrasting role. And
(spoiler alert) please people, escaping from the grasp of the military on a
top secret installation and actually allowed to get away so they can take a
peek at that horrible giant Fisher-Price synthesizer and watch the pretty
UFO's dart about all dressed up in their finest Christmas season trim! I
don't think so. If you're ever out in Vegas, take a run up to Groom Lake
where you will likely be greeted very rudely if you trespass the signs that
read "Lethal Force Authorized." That basically means shoot first and ask
questions later. Good alternative to Disney for the kiddies. 4/10

<|_=00=_|>
I love Steven's movies and brought this for £3 at the store today,
simply because his name was attached to it and figured "hey if it's not
great, it'll at least be fun"... unfortunately I was wrong.

Me and my fiancée sat watching it, but the film never really seems to
grip you in any shape or form. I really enjoyed the character
development in the film, showing excellent emotion and the lead
character was quite amusing with his crazy moments.

My disappointment was down to the fact we were never really given
anything to sink our teeth into... then the ending resulting in a bunch
of song playing between ships and a keyboard with little lights?....
then more ships come to play a song... followed by a really BIG ship
who out plays the musician..... it just seemed something and a whole
lot of nothing in the end.

They fly light years to return a bunch of people and old planes, to
kidnap a child for a couple of days and then take a guy, breaking his
family up on the sole purpose of seeing some lights and hearing them
play five keys of music? The end?....

Now I'm not bashing those who like it and don't want a flame war on
here, at the end of the day it's just my opinion, but it really felt
like two hours of nothing, with the opening ten minutes being the best
part of the movie. A real shame as the opening ten mins seemed to be
building up to an interesting movie.
<|_=00=_|>
After "Jaws" launched him toward eternal fame in 1975, Steven
Spielberg's follow-up film would tackle a bigger cultural phenomenon:
UFOs. "Close Encounters of the Third Kind" was only the beginning of
the director/producer's love affair with the possibility of life on
other planets and the first to capture the magnitude of what first
contact would be like with aliens in the era of emerging special
effects.

But let's take a look at a film released just before it, in the same
year (1977) in fact. A little film called "Star Wars." More than 30
years later it might not be fair to compare to the two, but the truth
is that one film was about producing a big-budget cash-eating spectacle
while the other was fulfilling the dream of a filmmaker to tell an
amazing story in a world never before imagined. "Star Wars" has heart
and "Close Encounters" has nothing but our attention.

It's hard to knock a film made before I was born in an era where I
can't appreciate it for what it was at the time, but there are a lot of
fundamental storytelling principles simply left out of this story that
one cannot overlook. Visual effects, cinematography and Spielberg's
knack for crafting great cinematic moments aren't enough to cover up
barely existent character motivation.

I've read that Spielberg has regrets about the ending of this film,
that his main character, Roy (Richard Dreyfuss), wouldn't make the
choice he makes in the end. I have to agree -- and it's symptomatic of
his entire film. Roy is a normal suburban Indiana family man who we
don't know much about. Then his truck stalls and he has a close
encounter with some kind of UFO. Suddenly he's a madman, being haunted
by images of a mesa, ruining his familial relationships. He's driven as
if by some other force to go all the way to Wyoming to figure out what
it's all about.

Spielberg has us at that last bit of figuring out what it's all about.
Roy, on the other hand, and the mother of a child who was "abducted"
(Melinda Dillon) are just inexplicably possessed and driven to madness
by a vision of a mesa. Roy going crazy and throwing dirt into his
kitchen window or randomly sitting in the tub with the shower on for
hours keeps our attention, but there's little sympathy going on because
we really have no idea who he is. The ending scene of the film is much
the same way. It's this drawn out scene of VFX spectacle and flashing
lights and John Williams music but it's only a climax in that awing
sense and in finally delivering what the film has been hiding from us
the whole time. It is not a climax of great character realization (or
at least epiphany that makes sense). It can be completely basic, like
Luke Skywalker trusting the force, believing in his destiny and then
becoming victorious, but it still has to be there and resonate with us
in some way.

I certainly recognize some of the brilliant scene work Spielberg does
throughout parts of the beginning and the latter half of the film, but
there's a reason this is not a classic for all generations: great
movies, especially sci-fi films, tell stories that transcend bad
special effects or any other inhibitors and "Close Encounters" is about
making a suspenseful film, not telling a deeply human story.

~Steven C

Visit my site at http://moviemusereviews.com
