

I saw this movie when I was younger and for some reason it always stuck with
me.  I'll always remember the music (the title song as well as the classical
pieces used throughout), the vestibule of Mimi Roger's apartment palace, the
scene of Tom Berenger having breakfast with his family, Lorraine Bracco's
fiery performance as his wife, and the haunting opening aerial shots of NYC
lit up at night.  I watched it again for the first time in probably nine or
ten years and it was like visiting with an old friend or curling up with a
good book you had read before.  You knew the story, but it was all
fascinatingly interesting.  The plot here is pretty basic: working class cop
has to babysit upper class babe who witnesses heinous murder.  It doesn't
take a rocket scientist to figure out how it all ends, but director Ridley
Scott somehow manages to keep it compelling thanks to some great direction
and wonderful performances from the cast.  Somewhere I saw this billed as an
erotic thriller, which is way off base.  Scott keeps everything here
extremely classy.  It's more of a romantic thriller and throwback to the
noir films of the 1940's.  This may not be the best film you'll ever see,
but it's one of the better thrillers of the 1980's, and a worthy testament
to Ridley Scott's versatility as a director.  It's also nice to see Jerry
Orbach in a supporting role that probably paved the way for his part in the
never ending "Law and Order" TV series.
<|_=00=_|>

This has been one of my favorite movies.  I admit that this is not
something
that might be recognized by academy people. There is nothing new and
original about the story and situation and it is rather easy to guess what
would happen next. But somehow it is an attractive movie (to me?) and I
keep
watching it over and over (I have a video).  Actors are good and the view
of
New York is wonderful in every part of the movie.  Most of all music is
superb! Ever since I first saw this movie, "Someone to watch over me" has
been my favorite jazz standard.  One more thing.  If somebody else directed
this it might have been VERY boring.  Great touch by Ridley Scott.

<|_=00=_|>
In Queens, Mike Keegan (Tom Berenger) is celebrating with his wife
Ellie (Lorraine Bracco), his son Tommy and friends his recent promotion
to detective in a precinct in Manhattan. Meanwhile, in a fancy club,
the socialite Claire Gregory (Mimi Rogers) witnesses the murder of the
owner of the place by the powerful mobster Joey Venza (Andreas
Katsulas). Mike is assigned to protect her in the night shift in her
apartment in Manhattan. When Venza threatens Claire, the contact of
Mike with Claire gets closer and conflicts him, dividing between the
love for his family and the heat passion for Claire and the fascination
for her world. 

Today I have just watched "Someone to Watch Over Me" maybe for the
sixth or seventh time, and every time I see this movie, I conclude that
it is an underrated stylish masterpiece. Everything works perfectly in
this film. The story may be not original, the conclusion is quite
moralist, but there is an important and unusual approach regarding the
difference of classes and consequently of worlds, which is the basis
for the conflictive romance between Claire and Mike. The direction of
Ridley Scott is tight and perfect, as usual, using different angles
camera and magnificent photography and shadows in the night, to express
the differences between the two worlds. There is one specific scene
that I love, when Mike is sat with his face half illuminated in the
hall of Claire's apartment, totally confused and with his feelings
divided. The cast is very inspired, and in my opinion, this is the best
role of Mimi Rogers, amazingly perfect as an elegant, wealthy and needy
of love woman and wearing a beautiful hair style. Tom Berenger is
outstanding as Mike, and Lorraine Bracco is also fantastic in the role
of a simple woman and wounded wife. The music score is awesome,
highlighting the three versions of the song of George and Ira Gershwin,
which gives the title of the film, specially the last one with the
interpretation of Roberta Flack. My vote is ten.

Title (Brazil): "Perigo na Noite" ("Danger in the Night")
<|_=00=_|>
A highly stylized crime thriller that also manages to work as a tale of
adulterous romance in addition to an effective parable of the culture
clashes that are apparent between the upper and lower classes. This is
a film with multiple agendas, and Ridley Scott, best known at the time
for 1979's ALIEN and 1982's BLADE RUNNER, is frankly an odd choice to
direct such a picture. However, Scott proves himself to be up to the
challenge, and film plays like a slightly abstract dream that isn't
afraid to crash down into gritty realism on occasion. With his film
noir skills perfected with BLADE RUNNER, Scott turns the focus from the
future to an equally idealized version of the present (well, 1987 to be
exact), but he maintains the same sense of visual menace and harsh
industrialism.

Tom Berenger has received a considerable amount of criticism for the
irritating fake Brooklyn accent he delivers his lines in, but I overall
I found him to be quite acceptable in the role. Even better is Mimi
Rogers, who convincingly portrays the detached loneliness of the high
society lifestyle without the benefit of screen dialogue that permits
her to openly address such an issue. Jerry Orbach and John Rubinstein
are also memorable supporting parts, but it is Lorraine Bracco who
steals the picture as Berenger's feisty wife. Long before she was best
known as Tony Soprano's psychiatrist, Bracco brought to the screen the
ultimate portrayal of the modern wife and mother - loving but fierce,
tough but compassionate, and not afraid to slap some sense into the man
who has done her wrong.

And I love Sting's opening rendition of the title Gershwin classic.
<|_=00=_|>

As other reviewers have noted, the story is none too special, quite
generic.
But even a generic story can be made memorable by good writing, good
acting,
and good directing; this movie has all three of those. Tom Berenger as
the
somewhat naive and vulnerable work-class junior detective. Mimi Rogers
(who
I did not even recognize initially, with the 80's hairstyle), as the
upper-class murder witness. And even the supporting cast were all great.
Nobody overacted, and no cliches. I credit the director, Ridley Scott,
for
keeping it low-key and believable.
<|_=00=_|>

We've seen the script a hundred times if we've seen it once; happily married
cop assigned to stand guard over a beautiful woman, cop falls in love with
woman, etc. The difference with this one is that it actually works, even
though you know how the story is going to go. Berenger is solid in the lead
and Bracco fantastic as the fiery wife, while Rogers is sultry in a very
classy way as the other woman. Andreas Katsulas is menacing and scary as
Venza, which was perfect for this part. The classical music scores add a
perfect touch, and the ending is actually quite thrilling. Something about
this one just clicks, making it one of the better films of the genre. 7.5
out of 10. 
<|_=00=_|>
How has Tom Berenger slipped out of the view of Hollywood? This man is
a real talent, who conveys the confusion and pathos of an untenable
situation with passion, conviction and realism. 

Scott makes the tension palpable, and the supporting cast is so well
rounded that IMHO it makes one of the best ever cinematic experiences.
Mimi Rogers puts in a credible performance as a tortured socialite and
the thrill of the chase makes for some startling and real scenes which
keep you on the edge of your seat. If you want great entertainment
without the hugest cerebral challenge (!) this is a fab way to spend an
evening.
<|_=00=_|>
Brooklyn Detective Tom Berenger is assigned to watch over socialite
Mimi Rogers after she witnesses a brutal murder where a high profile
Mafioso is involved. Berenger gets caught between two worlds; the upper
class one he takes a liking to and the normal one (with a wife and kid)
in the slums of Queens which he seems to be tiring of.

Highly stylish drama/thriller courtesy of Ridley Scott, who directs
with his usual visual flair and examines the world of the wealthy seen
through the eyes of a middle class voyeur and mixes in some solid
suspense to boot. The drama aspect is well handled, pitting Berenger in
a dire situation where he must ultimately choose between a life he's
already made for himself and a life that can seem very tempting from
his perspective.

Suspense is also plenty with some fantastic sequences, particularly one
inside Mimi Rogers' apartment, not too unlike Dario Argento's Opera in
some respects (and even beat it by a year, I think).

Tom Berenger does well in the lead, displaying easily the conflicts his
character is facing, Rogers is a stunner and gives a subdued and
convincing performance. The usually intolerable Lorraine Bracco gives a
forceful performance, and one the whole her relationship with Berenger
is not only well played out but wholly believable.

Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Solid thriller about a NYC detective protecting a rich socialite from
the killer that she saw in the commission of a murder. Tom Berenger,
Mike Keegan, is great as a NYC cop, sporting a very good New York City
working-class class accent, being assigned on his first case as a NYC
detective to keep eye-witness Mimi Rogers, Claire Gregory, alive and
well to identify the murderer Andreas Katsulas, Joey Venza, of a
nightclub owner Mark Moses, Win Hockings, who was a good friend of
hers. 

Det. Keegan falls in love with the beautiful, which is obvious to
everyone watching the movie, Miss.Gregory which ends up almost wrecking
his marriage as well as his job to no fault of his own under the
circumstances that he was put in, the guy's only human! 

With Mimi Rogers giving one of her best performances as a woman who's
life is turned upside down by what she saw. And Andreas Katsulas is
terrifyingly effective as the psycho killer who's out to stop
Miss.Gregory from talking to the police. Very good interacting between
Tom Berenger and his wife in the movie Ellie, Lorraine Bracco, on how
the rigors of Det.Keegan being a cop in a big city can create havoc for
his family as well as his professional life with a frightening and
suspenseful ending that strikes home in more ways then one.

"Someone to watch over me" has a good story and great acting all around
with Lorraine Bracco a real stand out in one of the best police
thrillers of the 1980's.
<|_=00=_|>

Brooklyn detective (Berenger) gets promoted & has new assignment - Keep
watch over rich & sultry Manhattanite Claire Gregory (Mimi Rogers) becuz she
witnessed a murder. NEVER pair up 2 good-looking people for night time (or
daytime) close association no matter HOW solid one's marriage is!! And why
not? Becuz THIS could happen! 

'Watch' this film & find out.

Berenger looks fit & handsome as usual, especially back in the '80's. Rogers
should have gotten a better hairdo. Larrainne Bracco, a NY favorite of mine,
is just great in this role. Jerry Orbach, Berenger's superior is another NY
favorite of mine. Tony DiBenedetto (the big burly limo driver from My
Favorite Year) was also 'on the watch' & played Berenger's best friend. The
most annoying thing about this film is the slow awful tune sung by Sting
here! When the credits role in the beginning, we're shown The Big Bad Apple
in all it's glory, lit up in the dark like nobody's business! But that song
makes you just want to fast-forward!! Arrrgh!! Then he sings it again at the
end!! Arrrgh!! 
