

It was almost too much to hope that someone would make a movie version of
Ray Bradbury's outstanding fantasy novel 'Something Wicked This Way Comes'
that did justice to it, but director Jack Clayton did. He and his cohorts
managed to capture all the dark, ominous portents and mysterious, mystical
happenings that fill Bradbury's book.

Set earlier in this century, a carnival comes to a small town at a strange
time of year, October. But then it's a mighty strange carnival, one that
fulfills the fantasies--and fears--of the town's residents. Two young boys,
Will Halloway and Jim Nightshade (Vidal Peterson and Shawn Carson) find out
the foreboding and forbidden secrets of the carnival, as does the tired,
prematurely old man (Jason Robards) who is Will's father.

As has been noted, there probably isn't another film with the Walt Disney
name on it that is as dark as this one. It may be too frightening in parts
for very young children and too disturbing at times for slightly older ones.
A person's enjoyment of the film would be helped considerably by reading the
book beforehand, much like Kubrick's '2001...' Besides those already
mentioned, some of the good performances in the movie come from Royal Dano,
James Stacy, and Jonathan Pryce as Mr. Dark. 


<|_=00=_|>

This film is well made in all regards; the cast is top-notch, the
cinematography and direction drive the tone of the movie, the effects
inventive and wonderful (even by late-90's standards) and best of all, the
storyline superb.

That said, this is arguably the best film made from any of Ray Bradbury's
works. I first read the book years ago as a 13-year-old and remember the
images the tale concocted, and the questions about myself that the
storyline
propose ring as true today from the film as they did then from the
page.

Owing much to the casting of the film, the director marvelously weaves the
story around the principal leads by allowing a score of tertiary
characters
to guide the plot's tone, mood and motion. Each person, whether major or
minor, is an intriguing part of the tale with their own tale to tell. With
great efficiency we understand what drives each of the townspeople, and
grow
more curious and suspicious as to the background of the carnival
folk.

Sympathy -- or contempt -- for each of the characters is developed
throughout, and best the film's two supporting actors, Jason Robards and
Jonathan Pryce. While neither is exactly cast against type here, both
provide a driving stability for the film. The two boys that serve as the
film's protagonists do an admirable job in portraying both the fear and
delight that is part of youth, and inherent to coming of
age.

This movie is a fine example of how an effective thriller can be made
without resorting to language, blood, sex, or violence. While I am not all
opposed to films that use any or all of those conventions, it is a
refreshing change from what is otherwise the norm.

One of the greatest benefits is that the resulting film is one that you
can
watch with your children, a film that will provide them a healthy scare
and
stimulate their mind as well. As the film does contain some dark and
frightening imagery, it could certainly serve as a source of nightmares
for
younger children.

<|_=00=_|>

Ray Bradbury and the makers of this film ventured into foreign territory for
the Disney Studios, they went to explore the dark side of humanity and came
back with the honest truth that much of humanity is plagued and there are
shiny bright spots within.  This film explores the petty desires of everyday
people, their eagerness to give what is really important in life up for
things like vanity, lust, money, etc...  The story centers around two small
boys, Will and Jim, and how their lives change and the townfolk around them
when a carnival comes to town.  The atmosphere is chilling to say the least.
 It is easily the darkest of any Disney film(even considering the
outstanding The Hunchback of Notre Dame).  It uses dark landscapes, eerie
haunting music, and bleak characterizations to perfection.  The acting is
good all around with two standouts.  Jason Robards plays Will's father, and
is the epitome of flawed goodness.  He suffers for his goodness but has
strength of heart.  Robards is wonderful, and I felt myself wishing this man
had been my father(or my father more like him).  For an actor to be able to
create that appeal is a true feat of integrity of performance.  On the other
side, in a simply sinister portrayal of evil incarnate is the performance of
Jonathan Pryce, an overlooked and underappreciated English actor.  His
performance is scary, and he chews up every and each scene he is in.  The
script by Bradbury himself, based on his novel, is full of rich texture and
subtlety.  As with just about every film adaptation, the film is not the
book...but then if you wanted that you only have to sit down and read...one
page at a time. 
<|_=00=_|>
After reading some of the previous comments made about this film, I
feel compelled to add my own.

I've never read the Ray Bradbury novel, though this movie did make me
want to read more of his work. So what if it's not entirely true to the
book? How many supernatural-themed stories adapted for film actually
were true to the story in pre-CGI days? At any rate, I love this movie
because it was spooky without being scary, and for a kid's movie, that
was perfect for me. I'll never forget how creepy Jonathan Price was in
this film. I loved the effects and the moody art direction.

It's dark without being too dark for kids, which I'm pretty sure is
what Disney and most parents would want.
<|_=00=_|>

Two young boys (Vidal Peterson & Shawn Carson) notice the arrival of a
carnival. Its owner (Jonathan Pryce) makes wishes for the town's citizens
come true, but with horrifying results. Pryce knowing that the two boys know
what is going on unbeknowest to the town sets about trying to hunt them down
with the assistance of a dust witch (Pam Grier). However, if he is going to
get the children he is going to have to go through the boy's father (Jason
Robards).

Sure, it is predictable. However, it has excellent production design,
original and creative special effects, and a thoughtful screenplay. Pryce
turns in a scary performance. Robards captures that right balance of being
brave, yet terrified. And Grier turns in a seductive, very mysterious
performance that has a very commanding presence in the film even though she
has very little screen time. Rather intense and scary film. The scene with
Pryce ripping pages out of a book and Grier placing a spell on Robards are
quite memorable. 

Rated PG; Violence.
<|_=00=_|>

Yes, this was a big disappointment to many Bradbury fans, but it still has
enough charm to make it a satisfactory cinematic experience.  It is
debatable whether or not one should read the book before seeing the movie. 
You will certainly have a better understanding of what is happening, but the
terror conveyed in the book is not present in the movie. 

EXCEPT...

There is the scene with Pryce and Robards in the town library.  Even with
the outdated FX, this scene is pure Bradbury...I could feel the tugging on
my heart as Pryce's character ripped each page from the book.  Truly a
classic moment and not to be missed.

*** out of *****
<|_=00=_|>

Frequently billed as kids fare, since it is a Disney Production, this movie
is a beautifully crafted adaptation of the Ray Bradbury science fiction
story. It is perhaps one of Disney's finest productions, a real movie with a
real plot, excellent characterizations, and well acted. This from a company
more known for mindless mush. This movie has something for everyone. For the
kids there is a simple horror story, not too scary, one they can handle. Yet
for the mature viewer there is lots of symbolism and allegory, deep imagery
and lots to analyse.

The cast is first rate. Jason Robards plays Dad, the town librarian. Arthur
Hill is the narrator, or the voice of young Will Halloway, son of the
librarian. Royal Dano has a role as the one legged, one armed town barkeep.
And Johnathan Pryce plays the evil Mr. Dark. Diane Ladd plays his sidekick,
the evil Mrs. Nightshade.

The story is about young Will, acted by Vidal Peterson, and his best friend
Jim, acted by Shawn Carson. Both are 12 years old, and the movie is really
their coming of age. For a boy to become a man, he must realize the
consequences of his choices in life.

Everyone in this little town needs something, has a dream or wish. Will
needs a dad who's healthy and can play with him. Poor dad needs a better
heart. Jim's dad ran away, and his mom is loopy. The barkeep needs new
limbs. The barber needs a girlfriend. The teacher needs her beauty
returned.

The evil Mr. Dark and his circus arrive in town. And promise to make
everyone's dream come true. But only at a great price, of giving up their
souls. A deal with the devil.

This is temptation with a capital T. Greed overcomes prudence, and everyone
will take on Mr. Dark's offer. Only Will can save his best pal Jim, and also
the rest of the town. Love will conquer evil, good will triumph after a long
fight. Temptation does go away if it is fought long enough.

The boys act with great talent. Pity they did not go on to similar quality
appearances. One is reminded of the twin boys Chris and Martin Udvanorsky in
the movie The Other, which is also a horror thriller. Or the horror movie
The Good Son with Mac Culkin and Elijah Wood.
<|_=00=_|>

This is always touted as a movie for children but not much is mentioned of
the way it is also aimed at adults. The narration is skillfully done by
Arthur Hill. In the beginning he speaks of his "first look into the fearful
needs of the human heart." Maybe it's just me, but that sounds fairly
mature. And the theme of the movie, selling ones' soul to the devil is both
scary and grown up. And the final theme, the one of love overcoming regret
is very adult. Ray Bradbury (Fahrenheit 451 and Martian Chronicle fame)
adapted his own story for the screen and did a wonderful job. This movie has
a lot of mood and atmosphere too. This is a movie both children and adults
can enjoy. 
<|_=00=_|>
Bradburys book was a disappointing to me. I don't found it "more adult
a terrifying" than the movie. Really the movie is much more polished
(style, narrative, characters development, etc) suspenseful and less
sappiness.

I think that the movie was lucky to have a subtle, elegant and
intelligent distant of ridiculous over-dramatic excess British director
Jack Clayton (other claustrophobic dramas -with horror touches-
involving (but non exactly for) kids from him: The masterpiece "The
Innocents" and "Our Mother's House"). His mise-en-scene ideas are
wonderful: an early happy camera movement around the square; a
beautiful shot of fire reflecting in Wills glasses; the father-son
conversations with (careful) culminating close-ups of their faces; the
disquieting,sensitive captation of nightly, lonely streets; the filming
and editing of Charles Halloway/Mr. Dark confrontation (genious Jason
Robards & Jonathan Pryce) while the kids are hidden down the street;
the famous library scene and a lot of other "little" moments (superb
Stephen Burum cinematography). Clayton refuses much of the teletubbie
metaphysics of the book in favour to lives up the symbolic cardboard
characters with real more complex emotions: the "river incident" gives
sense (inexistant in book) to father-son emotional paralysis and the
weariness, downfall and fear to old age and death of the first one.
Clayton also tighten much more the "Jim's wishes to be a mature man"
with "his father absence". And in the movie we has more folk characters
with emotional "faults": Crosetti desires women, Tetley wants money, Ed
dreams with his missing arm & leg and Miss Foley dreams with her
missing attractiveness. In book only appears Miss Foley (to cry and
receive a more condescending treatment that in the film) and, during a
moment, Crosetti (to cry, too ).

SPOILER! Moreover the director repulse the pedestrian didactism of the
novels climax ending changing (with the help of his friend
screenwritter John -"The Innocents"- Mortimer) the Bad Guys deaths and
reducing the Good characters fool dances & singings (Oh, Susanna!. Oh,
don't you cry for me!". Come on Ray, please ) to a few Jason Robards
movements. Being implicitly didactic can be a good thing (why not?) but
trivializing a story with over-the-head messages so that the less
intelligent kid reader understand the whole thing, is a very different
(bad) one. END SPOILER!

My only problems with the movie are the unnecessary fx imposed by the
dumb Disney execs in post-production, above all the green mist. Those
fx are a bit excessive but they don't attain to break the intimist tone
of the movie. At least the train-carnival transformation was eliminated
in last minute 

Movie: 9/10 Novel: 4/10
<|_=00=_|>
There seems to be something about small Midwestern towns that sticks
with the writers who have grown up in them, a sense of childhood
idealism now lost. Ray Bradbury had it. So did Rod Serling and Harper
Lee. (Okay, I'm defining the Midwest in such a way as to include New
York state and the South. If there's "poetic license" and "artistic
license," we can have "geographic license" too.) I don't know how
Hemingway didn't "get it." 

This movie does a much better job of translating Bradbuy's often
lyrical but still commercial prose into a visual medium. The village
atmosphere is effectively evoked. The script tells us that everyone
knows everyone else. And two you boys are the kind of close friends you
can only have when you're a twelve-year-old kid, secretly crawling
across tree branches and roofs into each others' bedrooms and worrying
that one is trying to "ditch" the other. These boys aren't interested
in girls -- yet. Freud called this developmental phase "latent
homosexuality" but he probably had it wrong. What we see is not
inversion but a budding social solidarity, a loyalty to a still-small
group. If these kids are gay then so is the U. S. Marine Corps.

Anyway, the acting by everyone concerned is splendid, with the possible
exception of Jonathan Price. It isn't his performance at fault. It's
just that I couldn't buy him as the demonic carnival owner. Maybe it
was his hair do, which was like unto that of a Beverly Hills doctor
specializing in diseases of the rich.

The photography, lighting, and art direction couldn't be improved upon.
There are a couple of shots of Vermont but most of the scenes are
indoors or on a Small Town, USA, set on the back lot. That's okay. Sets
can be stylized to a degree that real small towns can't, and that's
what's required in a spooky fantasy like this. The smallest details
seem apt. Note, for instance, the exceedingly drab wallpaper in Miss
Farley's house. Ugh. It's the kind that Oscar Wilde must have had to
cope with when he cracked from his deathbed, "Either this wallpaper has
to go or I do." And -- whew -- is Pamela Grier a knockout. And Jason
Robards has one of his best roles. What a magnificent smoke-and-vodka
cured voice he has. In profile his features seem so flat as to have
been painted on the front of his face, but when we get a good look at
them they're extremely expressive. He looks and acts like a
guilt-ridden father, frightened of death.

I don't know why it doesn't all quite come together. The story seems
less focused than it might be. Oh, we know the carnival is evil, right
from the beginning, that spectacular shot of the locomotive from hell
pounding camerawards. But then what? Episodes that are hard to fit into
the main plot. A big guy gets on a merry-go-round which spins him
backwards and turns him into a child who then pretends to be Miss
Farley's nephew, Robert, and she goes along with it. Why? Miss Farley
doesn't seem especially fond of him. Is this her secret dream which the
carnival is bringing to realization? Maybe, but later while looking in
the mirror, Miss Farley turns into a lovely young woman and then
promptly goes blind. How many secret dreams does this babe have? And
why is she (and the others) punished for the dissatisfaction she feels?
What do the evildoers at the carnival GET out of it?

I've used Miss Farley as an example but there are others. Too many. The
plot seems loose limbed and gangles a little. What does Jonathan Price
care whether he catches the two boys or not? Nobody's going to believe
their story. And the multitude of tarantulas is a kind of cheap scare
for a movie full of wistful memories like this. Especially when the
kids wake up from the dream and thrust their screaming faces into the
lens. 

It's still a good movie for the reasons I've given, and the
characterizations are good too. I wound up feeling very sorry for Jason
Robards who is facing the prospect of being cured of life, which
Kierkegaard called "the disease of eternity." At the same time I do
wish they hadn't impaled Pam Grier on that shard of glass or whatever
it was. I wonder how Val Lewton would have handled all this.
