

It's almost 10 years now but I am still awed by the caliber of the film.
McTiernan has made a moderately good book by Clancy into an outstanding
political thriller.

The complexity of the film is particularly challenging.  Clancy plots are
notorious for beginning with several different threads that interweave
somewhere in the book.  Screenwriter Larry Ferguson takes apart those
threads and models a film based on dual protagonists, Connery and Baldwin.
The myriad of supporting actors (including current TN Sen. Fred Thompson)
that appear on screen subsequently all have distinct but nonetheless crucial
roles to the plot.

Baldwin, in what is and will probably be his career best role ever, shines
as the intelligent and patriotic Jack Ryan, a thinking man's hero.  Connery
lends incredible presence, as usual, to his interpretation of
Ramius.

A pure masterpiece. 
<|_=00=_|>

'Red October' did for modern submarine warfare what 'Das Boot' did for WWII.
 It took a concept that is inconceivable to most people (living in a boat
underwater with people trying to blow you up) and brought it up close and
personal.  The resulting suspense and excitement for this type of film is
always extremely entertaining and this film delivers nicely.

Tom Clancy's thrilling novel converts well to the big screen.  Clancy is a
master of making improbable tales of international intrigue seem plausible. 
This story of a Soviet sub commander who is trying to defect to the U.S.
adds a unique twist to the suspense normally associated with submarine
films.

John McTiernan, who is building an enormous reputation in the
action/adventure genre did a fabulous job as director.  This film focused
less on the submarine and its crew than its cousin 'Das Boot', and more on
the international intrigue angle.  McTiernan is very effective in keeping up
the pace and giving the viewer riveting suspense as smart torpedos chase
subs through the murky deep.

As always, Sean Connery was powerful as the defecting captain, determined
not to allow this first strike weapon to start a nuclear holocaust.  Connery
gave his character both a conscience and a ruthless commitment, stopping at
nothing to reach his goal.

Alec Baldwin turns in one of his better performances as Jack Ryan.  Unlike
Harrison Ford who made Ryan into an action hero in other Tom Clancy
adaptations, Baldwin seemed better cast as the CIA nerd who was thrust into
a field situation without any real experience.  In this way, I felt he was a
better representation of the character as Clancy originally wrote
him.

This is a highly entertaining and engrossing film that will keep most action
and suspense viewers on the edge of their seats.  I rated it a 9/10. 


<|_=00=_|>
After seeing this movie, you'll wonder how Hollywood manages to turn
out so many junk-action movies, now that they've figured out the right
formula. To be fair, the vast majority of action movies don't have the
benefit of Tom Clancy's greatest novel (granted, 'Sum of All Fears' was
a very, very close second, for me). High tension and realistic
(emphasis on that last word) depictions of modern warfare make for an
excellent story.

Nonetheless, there are a few key qualities that shouldn't go unnoticed
to today's directors. First (again) is the basis of a good plot that
actually captures your attention, makes you think, and puts you on the
edge of your seat. Second is the high caliber of actors: James Earl
Jones, Alec Baldwin (I'm a Harrison Ford fan, but I still think Baldwin
was far better for the role), and - last but certainly not least - Sean
Connery. I'm sure this wasn't cheap, but when you look at the product
produced by three of the best professional actors, it's worth every
penny. Third, is the great music; nothing too over the top, but
well-orchestrated, and featuring a great set of pieces by a Russian
men's choir (hard to go wrong!). Lastly, the great use of special
effects, from which George Lucas himself could use a clue or two: it
smoothly supports, and doesn't take the place of or interfere with, the
development of the plot.

This is my #2 favorite movie of all-time, but you don't have to take my
word for it. See it yourself! You'll be glad you did.
<|_=00=_|>
Because of the intrigue this film offers, the circumstances involved
tie up neatly in a very convincing way. Needing all of the variables to
fall into place if his defection hopes to be successful, Soviet
(although Lithuanian by birth) submarine Captain Ramius (Sean Connery)
is a very worthy submarine captain. Never cracking under pressure and
carrying out his duty professionally, Ramius is the perfect ally to the
west in keeping the balance between the super powers in their military
endeavours.

Alec Baldwin is good as Jack Ryan. I wish he had stayed on as this
character in 'Patriot Games' and 'Clear and Present Danger', because
although I like Harrison Ford better as a movie star/actor, Baldwin
just seemed better for this role. Too bad he left.

Director John McTiernan uses a smooth pace and lets the screenplay
speak louder than his role as the man in charge of it all and the
film's photography is tense along with the editing and sound. An Oscar
winner for sound effects editing, 'The Hunt for Red October' will put a
submarine in your living room if you have the DVD 5.1. surround sound.
It's positively realistic!
<|_=00=_|>
Tom Clancy is a gearhead whose books I find nearly impossible to get
into. So it's a surprise to find one of his novels, adapted on screen,
is not only good but as enjoyable and riveting as is "The Hunt For Red
October."

Sean Connery plays a Soviet sub skipper, Marko Ramius, who at the
height of the Cold War is put at the helm of his navy's most advanced
creation, the Red October, a nuclear-missile carrier with a propulsion
system that enables it to elude sonar. After he puts out to sea, Ramius
has a letter delivered to a senior Soviet official that sends the
U.S.S.R. into panic mode. The U.S. wonders why. Has Ramius gone nuts?
Will the U.S. be able to stop him before he has the ability to park his
missiles along the Eastern Seaboard? Or is CIA analyst Jack Ryan (Alec
Baldwin) correct in suggesting another reason for Ramius's aberrant
behavior?

Some have speculated this story is not completely fictional. Watching
this film, it's easy to understand why. "The Hunt For Red October," on
screen, moves with uncommon verity for a spy yarn. With a zest for
detail and the human equation, director John McTiernan examines the
inner workings not only of the Red October but of the subs, ships, and
helicopters chasing it as well as the corridors of power where the fate
of the Red October and perhaps the world must be decided. You get the
feeling at times you are not just watching an ace popcorn thriller but
sitting in on some undocumented bit of history.

The movie's chief strengths are its moody lighting, its unrelenting
pace, and especially its deep bench of acting talent. Connery suggests
a note of uncertainty to Ramius that keeps the audience on its toes.
For the longest time, we don't know what he's up to. Baldwin plays Ryan
in a very realistic way that establishes his basically gentle, bookish
nature but underscores the depths of his heroism as he pursues an
increasingly dangerous path no one else believes in. Scott Glenn is
terrific as a crusty U.S. sub commander, while Stellan Skarsgard
glowers effectively in-between cigarette puffs as a cagey Soviet.
Richard Jordan, in one of his last roles, steals every scene he's in as
the National Security Adviser.

There's a nice bit of business between Ryan and Jordan's Jeffrey Pelt
where Ryan sticks his neck out and Pelt pounces, telling the analyst
that if he believes Ramius is defecting, he should go out there and try
to collect him. Pelt's no humanitarian, understand, he just wants to
keep his options open: "Listen, I'm a politician, which means I'm a
cheat and a liar, and when I'm not kissing babies I'm stealing their
lollipops." That's the best thing about the movie. Even as it ups the
ante on what's at stake, and feeds you with outlandish moments of humor
and drama, the motivations of the characters, and their reactions to
increasingly hypertense situations, are kept grounded in reality.

The ending comes off a bit pat, and the behavior of Capt. Ramius and
his officers seems at times questionable, but the film doesn't slip in
any discernible way, unless you're Russian and notice Connery's
Lithuanian "brogue." In fact, it's a rare techno-thriller that not only
holds up with repeat viewings, but manages to be even more exciting the
more one understands what is going on.

McTiernan is making a guy film here, but he does a nice job providing
some brain food, too. Notice how the transition on having the Soviet
characters speak Russian to English turns on the word "Armageddon," or
the clever interplay between Ramius and his questioning crew. There's a
lot going on here, and it makes the film worth treasuring.
<|_=00=_|>

"The Hunt for Red October" is taken off of military-expert Tom Clancy's
gripping novel. Tom Clancy has a knack for the inner-psyche of our fears. He
doesn't openly thrill us, but rather opens our minds to the potential
hazards in the US government. Most government/military thrillers skim the
surface and gather us a few good things to make us go, "Whoo," but Tom
Clancy's books make us fall over in amazement. The man has an incredible
knowledge of the government and its subsidaries, and his novels show
this.

His film adaptations normally make good. All four are at least good, and one
of them, "The Hunt for Red October," is taut, tense, and powerfully moving.
The plot of the film is fictional, but it is right out of the headlines.

It is about a submarine, a Russian, and an American. It sounds like the
setup for a bar-joke, but it's not. The Russian man is named Ramius (Sean
Connery), who, along with his crew, takes a Soviet submarine out to the
North Atlantic ocean. The sub is the best-of-the-best, with an all-new
propolsion system (it's faster than other submarines), and uses advanced
techniques to literally disappear off radar.

After a few days out at sea, the submarine vanishes off radar, and the
Russians, frantic, tell the American government that Ramius has taken the
sub to America's mainland to launch a missile attack. However, CIA Analyst
Jack Ryan (Alec Baldwin) thinks otherwise. He believes Ramius is defecting
to the States along with his crew. Further, he believes the Russians don't
want to admit this for fear of losing their best submarine.

The film is directed by John McTiernan, who brought us "Predator," "Die
Hard," "The Thomas Crown Affair" (remake) and "Die Hard with a Vengeance."
All of the preceding films are very good, most of them great, and "The Hunt
for Red October" qualifies as "very good."

Sean Connery gives a commanding performance as the leading character,
Ramius. His second-hand-man is played by Sam Neil, faking a Russian accent
very badly. But Neil is lovable in his role, despite having the worst
Russian accent ever. Tim Curry joins along for the ride on the misfortuned
sub as well, and Alec Baldwin gives his best performance as Jack
Ryan.

As much as I don't like to admit it, Harrison Ford isn't the ideal Jack Ryan
for me. He differs too much from the character in the novel. Neither Ben
Affleck nor Alec Baldwin take the cake, either. But if you look past the
book persona, you will enjoy the performances in all the films much
more.

I don't tend to like military thrillers most of the time. Most likely
because they are put together sloppily on the whole. But "The Hunt for Red
October" isn't sloppy, careless, nor boring. It's thrilling, exciting, and
entertaining.

But the book is better.

4/5 stars -

John Ulmer
<|_=00=_|>

This movie never fails to entertain me.  Smartly directed, well written,
and
acted it always brings a fresh newness no matter how many times I've seen
it.  It could have been the beginning of a franchise for Alec Baldwin.  He
is very much centered and controlled.  Sean Connery is also
standout.

Could recommend this to anyone without hesitation. On DVD it's a visual
feast.  Just a great looking movie.  Wish that all the other Clancy books
had been adapted so well.   
<|_=00=_|>

A Russian submarine, rigged with a stealth drive to hide the noise of the
screws, has slipped silently away from it's planned course.  The Captain,
Ramius, has left a note indicating that he intends to defect to the US. 
Desperate to stop the US acquiring the stealth technology Russia inform the
US of Ramius' plan to attack the US and engage their help in stopping him. 
However CIA analysist Jack Ryan suspects Ramius may really be defecting and
sets out to help him. An underwater game of cat and mouse
ensues.

The first of the ‘Jack Ryan' films is almost the best.  Not only do we do
without Ford's rather dull and workmanlike performances, but also has a good
story and sense of time.  The story is solid – it isn't flashy, but it
delivers well.  The only time it seems weak is when it goes away from the
action to try and give a character background, eg Ryan with his family etc,
then it is cheesy and forced.  However when it is with the action it manages
to be tense without being really exciting.  The story never plods but at
times it does move slow, however this is well played as tension and makes it
more enjoyable.

However the film's main asset is simply put – Connery.  Despite playing a
Russian with a Scottish accent, Connery is magnificent and dominates the
screen no matter who he shares it with.  He manages to make us care more
about him than any of the American characters.  Baldwin is good, he wasn't a
star at this point but he makes a better Ryan than Ford did.  The rest of
the cast is deep in quality – in both big roles and small roles.  Sam Neill,
James Earl Jones, Joss Ackland, Richard Jordan, Tim Curry, Courtney Vance,
Stellan Skarsgård, Jeffrey Jones etc (even a small role for McTiernan's
dad).  The deep cast helps add a touch of class to proceedings.

Overall this isn't a fantastic thriller, however it is classy and very solid
in all departments.  It may lack a certain spark but it is solidly
entertaining throughout.
<|_=00=_|>

     Fortuneately, this movie is not entirely true to Tom Clancy's vision
and book.  Tom Clancy is an American superpatriot and nationalist.  He loves
to gush about the superiority of the American military establishment and its
high technology.  This movie puts a more sympathetic face on the Russians
and the commoner's point of view.
     Sean Connery plays a very likable Russian Submarine Commander.  Of
course, Sean Connery is always going to steal the show in any movie.  He's
kind of like the John Wayne of the last twenty five years.  But the
supporting actors are also engaging as well.  Scott Glenn, Fred Thompson,
and James Earl Jones all do very well at commanding our attention.  These
actors always give strong, interesting, and dynamic performances.
     With all the high technology and military hardware in this movie it is
interesting to note how a simple seaman(an enlisted man at that!) solves the
great technical puzzle in this movie.  All the officers, admirals,
computers, aircraft carriers, nuclear submarines and what have you are
clearly stumped.  But, Jonesy, with simple reasoning and a keen intuition,
solves the riddle that is the Red October.  Yes, he uses a computer to help
him, but most importantly, he uses his mind!
      The strength of this movie is that with all the gadgetry and high
technology, the human element is not lost but is always on top.  Plus, it
does not degrade into pro-American propaganda.  Because of this, I think
that people who know nothing about the military or who don't even like war
movies will find this movie enjoyable.  
<|_=00=_|>

Tom Clancy's tour-de-force turned into a great movie, with a great cast.
Sean Connery IS Marko Ramius--he steals every scene he's in.  Alec Baldwin
is solid as Jack Ryan.  And the supporting cast led by James Earl Jones,
Scott Glenn, Sam Neill, Fred Dalton Thompson, and the late Richard Jordan
is
supurb. This is a suspensful thriller from the word go.  The action is
almost non-stop.  The combat footage--both above and below the water are
excellent.  Hitchcock would have loved this one!  
