
In the tradition of other horror movie franchises, Phantasm takes the
action route for this sequel. The horror and sci-fi are still there but
there's more combat, stuff blowing-up and gore than there was before. I
suppose it does keep things fresh but it does get a bit too
tongue-in-cheek sometimes. Kinda like Evil Dead II, I'm not sure if
this really fits in with the tone set by the first film.

Phantasm II begins right after where the first film left off. The
freaky dwarfs have invaded Mike's home and Reggie must foil the Tall
Man's attempts at kidnapping him. Flash forward seven years and Mike is
in a mental institution. He is released upon admitting that the whole
Phantasm experience was made up only to find that in his absence the
Tall Man has been plundering many of America's small towns and
thousands of graves are empty.

After the Tall Man kills Reggie's family in a gas explosion, Reg teams
up with Mike to hunt him down and kick his head in...again. All they
have to do is follow the trail of dead people, right? And this time
they are ready for whatever outlandish tricks he's ready to play on
them, armed to the teeth with quadruple-barrelled shotguns,
flame-throwers and chainsaws. Complicating matters are Mike's
inexplicable visions of the future and psychic connections to a
mysterious girl he has never met before.

As before, the Tall Man is the best thing in the film. Angus Scrimm is
so wonderfully silent and unholy that no matter how slick and
entertaining the rest of the film is he'll come out on top.

Don Coscarelli was given a budget 10 times that of the original by
Universal, but they did interfere with production quite a lot, much to
his annoyance. They said that only one of the original cast members
could return, so he chose Reggie Bannister and re-cast Mike with James
LeGros (after turning down Brad Pitt!). It does kind of ruin the
continuity a bit but it's not terribly distracting.

They also demanded a more simple and linear story, so don't expect any
of the bizarre dream sequences and flashbacks. If you're a big fan of
the first this might seem disappointing but you know how studios love
to think less of their audiences.

The higher budget helps Phantasm to have a bigger scope than the
original. The first half of the film feels like a road movie with lots
of pretty scenery while the rest is kind of like a low-rent
Ghostbusters/Lost Boys clone. Which sounds like a negative point, but
the hokey tone of the film vanishes when it heads off into HP Lovecraft
territory.

If you're looking for answers as to what the first film was all about
then you won't find many. In fact it raises more questions than
anything else. But it's still a fun ride. I'm just kind of annoyed that
the music took the more generic synth approach that was common in the
80's instead of the funky 70's beats we got before. The main Phantasm
theme is still there for your enjoyment however and gets a great finish
on the end credits.
<|_=00=_|>
What is notable about PHANTASM II, is how the sequel takes a much
different route than the first film. Coscarelli rather than recycling
the plot of the first, instead adds a new flavour to help keep the
sequel not only fresher, but also makes the film a Action/Horror road
movie, rather than a surreal like Horror/Drama that the original was.
When watching the film, it becomes readily apparent that the film is
much higher budgeted than what Coscarelli had to work on the original
film. Unlike what most film-makers would do, when working on a bigger
budgeted sequel to a film of theirs, Coscarelli doesn't waste money on
familiar actors, but rather sticks to casting no name, fresh faced
actors in the film & spends his money more wisely on special effects &
stunts & it really shows here. For starters we get a good look at the
Lurkers ghoulish looking faces, zombie make-up, a mutated monster
erupting from a girls back & there's a car chase. A decent car & house
explosion, a chainsaw duel, better special effects & visual effects,
including a gold sphere that can shoot out a laser beam that can blow
up anything that moves, a drill like device that can erupt from it &
this time there are three spheres! a much better done heat seeking
Silver Sphere POV & an incredible melting man effect & a silver sphere
burrowing under a Pallbearers spine, through his stomach & up through
his throat, before getting stuck in his mouth! The set design for the
mausoleums & the deserted, decaying towns & cemeteries are very well
done & the "fourbarrelled shot gun", chainsaws & home made flame
thrower weapons the hero's use are pretty awesome. Coscarelli also adds
some Gothic, Hammer horrorish elements, mainly from two deathly pale
pallbearers who are assisting the Tall Man in his evil quests, & Gas
masked Grave Diggers. The acting is better than the first & Coscarelli
again does very good behind the camera. However it's also clear when
watching the film, that Coscarelli did not have as much control over
this film as he did the first one, which he raised the money for
himself. PHANTASM II remains the only studio backed entry to the series
& as a result one can well see the studio's fingerprints all over it.
For one, Mike is played by then newcomer JAMES LeGROS, who actually
performs quiet well as Mike, but it just doesn't feel like a real
PHANTASM movie without A. MICHAEL BALDWIN playing the role, he's really
missing here & it shows. Minus REGGIE BANNISTER (who also had to
audition for his role in order to keep it) & ANGUS SCRIMM & Director
Coscarelli, none of the crew of the first returned here. The film has
also lost it's surreal like dream quality look & feel that the original
had, for a more linear approach. Also gone is the psychological
undertones of the first & the mystery surrounding the Tall Man & the
Dwarfs are kept as ambiguous as ever. The gore scenes also disappoint,
since most of the gore footage wound up on Universal Studio's cutting
room floor. PHANTASM II is virtually bloodless, minus a quick cut shot
of a sliced off ear & brief blink & you'll miss them shots, of brains
being drilled out via the flying spheres & shot out back of it & the
puddle of blood on the floor, before said victim collapses. The gore is
very watered down & we also get to see a badly charred burned hand,
very briefly pass a small porthole window, on a crematorium, that one
of the Pallbearer's was tossed into & Reggie thrusts a chainsaw into a
gravediggers groin (off screen), a severed hand etc. It also adds a
voice over narration from both Liz, Mike & Reggie. The film also
introduces not one but two teen psychic characters, Mike & another girl
named LIZ (PAULA IRVINE) the two eventually meet & strike up a
relationship in a somewhat out of place teen love angle, that I felt
again was not only out of place, but also didn't really gel well in the
films story. If you were to take it out you would still have a movie,
thankfully Coscarelli doesn't care for it either & doesn't spend to
much time with it. There are some slow spots to be had, the
introduction to Liz kind of slows down the picture. ANGUS SCRIMM seems
to be having ball playing the Tall Man & plays the role with such
sadistic glee, he really is a fun villain & deserves more recognition
within the horror community, than what he has gotten over the years.
All in all, PHANTASM II is pretty fast moving & highly enjoyable. Some
people tend to prefer this over the original. To be honest I can't say
I am one of them, since I prefer the original films eeriness & surreal
dream like qualities to straight laced action/horror which this film
is. Love the Hemicuda the hero's travel in. Look for LETHAL WEAPON'S
own, KENNETH TIGAR as a priest who knows what is going on & attempts to
stop the terror & a ROBOCOP tribute where we see Alex Murphy's
headstone in the cemetery, but his body has went missing, since the
Tall Man has had it dug up in order to shrink it to the size of a
dwarf!. Love the scene where SAM (SPIDER-MAN/EVIL DEAD) RAIMI'S ashes
are being put in a bag, by one for the morgue attendants. The down beat
ending is utterly silly & just a re-staging of the first films closing
shot, but is original & not done often (the bad guys win & the hero's
wind up dying). Followed by PHANTASM III: LORD OF THE DEAD

*** stars
<|_=00=_|>

While it isn't the iconic horror film it's predecessor was, Phantasm II
is
backed by better production values, a cool apocalyptic premise and a
stand-out improvement in James LeGros replacing Baldwin. There is a
reason
why LeGros has appeared in a great deal more than Baldwin (including a
hilarious parody of Brad Pitt in Living in Oblivion) and shows it here in
spades. Frankly I feel this was as good or better than the first but the
required shock ending that punctuates each of the films in this series
has
grown tiresome and makes each feel like they do not truly stand on their
own
as their own experience. Nevertheless, the entire series is original,
imaginative and involving. Phantasm II really should have capped off the
series with it's big budget backing, as the very next film in the series
felt a lot like Alien 3 where the film picks up characters from the
second
film discarded in a very unfortunate and disappointing manner...but I
digress. Phantasm II is solid, quad barrel shotgun monster blasting fun
and
a must see for monster movie fans everywhere!
<|_=00=_|>
Phantasm II manages, within a minuscule budget, to nearly outdo the
original film's atmosphere and scares while sticking to a more linear
storyline. Despite Universal's interference and insistence on a less
dreamlike narrative (the backbone of all the other Phantasms), director
Don Coscarelli manages to give this installment the most polished look
and measured, exciting pace of the series.

While being stuck telling a more on-the-surface story than the first
film, he manages to plant extremely frightening, original, surrealistic
images throughout the film that stick in the viewer's mind forever(I
first saw this when I was 12 in a theater, and have never forgotten
it). A priest's worried look over his shoulder at his empty town; a
writhing, screaming parasite burning to death.. auto parts hanging from
a burning tree after a car crash..gasmasked beings carting exhumed
coffins across a porcelain hallway; an abandoned mortuary..full of
freshly lit candles! The stark simplicity of the doorway to the
villain's homeworld. Hooded creatures storming Reggie's kitchen in the
dark. And on, and on..

The story is simple enough, seven years after the original a teenaged
Mike (now played by James Le Gros) is released from an asylum and is
immediately drawn back into the Tall Man's game, traveling through an
emptied America into a nightmare that could very well all be in his
mind. This early in the series, the mysterious Tall Man is just that..
he probably has ten minutes screen time in the film, and yet the mood
and pacing always make you nervous that he'll appear behind you and
cart you off to be part of his experiments. Where IS he? What is he
doing when we do not see him? This lack of resolution actually works
for the picture's benefit, and not against it. Indeed, though Phantasm
spawned an additional two intelligent, emotional sequels, as we learned
more about the villain Mike and Reggie are up against, we're much less
frightened of him.

Angus Scrimm is at his creepiest in this installment. Reggie begins to
take his place as audience favorite, a reluctant hero on par with Ash
(Evil Dead) and Dr. Loomis. Le Gros does well as the buff but still
doubtful Mike. Kudos to character actor Kenneth Tigar for his role as
the tortured priest, who "can't close his eyes to the things he's
seen", who manages to draw us in with his nuanced, emotional
performance. He could have easily shown up to give exposition and get
killed, instead he manages to keep the viewer hooked AND meet his
untimely end.

Full of suspense, scares, and action, Phantasm II may not be the
mindbender of the original, but it's no a less worthy chapter of the
most surrealistic, thought-provoking horror series ever created.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw "Phantasm II" before watching any of the other Phantasm movies, and
despite its shortcomings, it converted me into a fan of the series.  While
it has an effective atmosphere and an interesting array of characters, the
plot certainly could have been more carefully written.  There is one part
where Mike risks his life handling a very dangerous flying sphere and uses
it as a key to open some weird door, but the movie fails to show the purpose
of opening that door.  Sure, it shows you what lies behind the door, but
that's it! Mike and his friends don't really do anything in there! Also, the
Tall Man goes through the trouble of luring Liz into a trap, but he just
throws her against a wall once he catches her.  If Liz was such a threat to
his evil plans (as the plot asserts), then wouldn't the Tall Man want to
make sure she's dead?  Still, when you have a couple psychics, an ex-ice
cream vendor, a mysterious hitchhiker, an army of dwarves, flying spheres
and a rather omnipotent--and scary-looking--old guy called the Tall Man
rolled into one picture, the movie promises to be interesting, and it
delivers for the most part.

Compared to the other Phantasm movies, I liked "Phantasm II" better than
"Phantasm III" and "Phantasm: Oblivion," but it's not quite as good as the
original Phantasm.

<|_=00=_|>
.......................................................from
Pasto,Colombia...Via: L.A. CA., CALI, COLOMBIA...and ORLANDO, FL 

When I saw PHANTASM in a theater in 1979, I liked it so much(9*), I
went back a week later and saw it again! I missed Phantasm II while I
was living in Colombia, So I decided to take a delayed-by-25-years
look! My psyche was all set to enjoy PHANTASM II to the max! I hadn't
seen much in the horror/terror genre in recent years, because I really
don't like the direction the genre has been going in throughout the
past 1/4 century. 8 to 9* was what I was hoping for...I was somewhat
disappointed, but will give it 7*.

Let's talk about P-2 for a moment...The whole film is based around
sustaining a mood of imminent danger, a foreboding atmosphere. If you
agree to go along with it, providing suspension of disbelief, you'll
probably get a nice kick out of P-2. IMHO elements of the film, music,
sound effects, lighting, pacing, etc., all contribute well to that end.
So if you are genre-friendly, let's bump my 7* UP to 8*! If the
horror/terror genre usually isn't your cup of tea, well let's round
DOWN to 6*...Fair enough? In this case, I'd say having seen the
original PHANTASM would add tend to add a Star to rating P-2, so it
does help, but isn't absolutely indispensable.

I really had forgotten how much gruesome gore there was in the
original. There's probably even more here, but a lot less than in
recent offerings, undoubtedly influenced by PHANTASM 1 and 2, like the
SAW franchise (YECH!) As is typically the case in "B" movies, the
acting and dialog usually leave a lot to be desired, but, hey, we don't
watch these scouting for potential Oscar-nominees, now do we?!?
Bottom-line: ALL of you who are, or have been horror/terror film buffs;
a semi-cult classic you won't want to miss, or that you'll want to
REDUX! If not in the above group...MAYBE NOT! 

In either case...ENJOY/DISFRUTELA!
<|_=00=_|>
In 1979, Don Coscarelli wrote and directed the surreal horror classic,
"Phantasm". His film used great special effects and a very creepy score
by Fred Myrow ("Soylent Green", "Rubin and Ed"). Nine years later,
Coscarelli teamed up with actors Reggie Banister and Angus Scrimm again
to make the appropriately titled, "Phantasm II".

While certainly not as creepy as the first film, "Phantasm II" is
certainly very fun. Coscarelli was able to use better special effects
than in the first film and it certainly is noticeable. Also, this
sequel goes with the "Evil Dead II" logic of "bigger is better".
Chainsaw duels and explosions are added, not to mention an arsenal of
extremely cool weapons including a home made flamethrower and a really
cool double shotgun. But bigger is not always better...

One problem that this film has is that it does not capture the "coming
of age" theme that the first film has. While this is understandable
because all the characters have aged nine years, the feeling the first
film had of "investigating something creepy in town" is something we
can all relate to. "Stand by Me", "Blue Velvet", and the first
"Phantasm" all used this very appropriately, but I only wish that the
sequel did as well. Another problem I have is that the character of
Mike is so different. In the first he was a curious youngster (similar
to Jeffrey Beaumont in "Blue Velvet") but he is much different in this
film, as he is much more level headed. However, it is better that his
character has changed because he fits the mood of this film.

"Phantasm II" is not a spectacular film, but I really do enjoy it, and
that's why I rate it a nine out of ten. It is a rather different film
from the first, but is still extremely fun, and that's the reason why I
rate it as one of my favorites. Don't go expecting the same mood of
"Phantasm", but rather the mood of "Army of Darkness"...

THIS MOVIE GETS BONUS POINTS FOR...

Angus Scrimm, great special effects, creepy soundtrack
<|_=00=_|>

I can't explain in words how much I love the Phantasm series.  Each film
is
a direct continuation of the last and each time we get answers to
questions
about The Tall Man while at the same time more are being asked.  Phantasm
II
is probably my fave in the series not because of the action (most phans
say
it's the most action packed but I think part III holds that honor) but
really this is the only one where Reggie and Mike are side by side and in
my
opinion thats why it's the best (in all the others Reggie being the horn
dog
he is is trying to find mike AND get laid...which is still cool).  I can't
believe that no other phans have mentioned how much Phantasm II mirrors
Evil
Dead 2 (I know they've had to notice it) that however is not a problem
cause
right next to the Phantasm series is the Evil Dead series.  Just look at
it
and you will see what I'm talking about.  Phantasm II follows Evil Dead 2
by
going into comedy at times, others have complained that Phantasm III had
comedy but they for some reason they forget II did also....it just wasn't
as
campy but still was funny, like when Reggie beat a dwarf creature into
pieces by going crazy on it with the end of a shot gun or the look on his
face when Alchemy is riding him and smacks him on top of his head and when
he pulls a chainsaw on the graver at the end only for the graver to pull
out
a really LONG chainsaw...and of course just about everything Reggie says
is
funny.  And like Ash getting equipped with his chainsaw in ED 2 Reggie
gets
his now trademark 4-barrel shotgun, and the scene where the mortician gets
a
sphere in his back and bounces all over the room makes me think of ED 2.
But believe me Phantasm II is not a copy cat of ED 2.  It still has some
creepy stuff in it like the scene where the grandfather is getting his
mouth
sewn up.  But this movie screams atmosphere more than anything, with it's
great score and visual style really helping to push that home.  All the
actors give great performances and The Tall Man is the ultimate villain
thanks to a great creepy performance by Angus Scrimm...all he's gotta do
is
twitch an eyebrow.  Also the scene where the priest gets it is really cool
(you can tell that the MPAA made them trim it though but thats just my
opinion).  But I think what really separates this horror series from most
is
that in almost all the other you root for Freddy, Jason, or Michael Myers
and even though I love The Tall Man (God bless you Mr. Scrimm) Reggie is
without a doubt THE man.  Some people may have Indiana Jones or any of
those
guys as their fave characters but mine will always be Reggie (played
perfectly by Reggie Bannister) along with the Ash character from Evil Dead
(Bruce Campbell...need I say more), Herbert West from the Re-Animator
series
(Jeffrey Combs...one of the funniest actors around) and the best character
Kurt Russell (no introduction needed) EVER played....no it's not Snake
Plissken...but Jack Burton from the great Big Trouble in Little China.
Sorry for going off on a rant there just wanted you to know.  Anyways
Reggie
is the glue that holds the series together.  Why Universal has not put
this
and part III out on DVD is beyond me, yet they will do another DVD edition
of The Mummy remake.  I think the reason this series is not as well known
is
because of the studio's killing it's chances (check out the web site on
how
they released Phantasm II) and instead of going in different directions to
gain mass appeal (like the Elm Street series....which if I'm right Don
Coscarelli was offered to direct part 2...the most under appreciated of
that
series) the Phantasm series as they went (and hopefully go) on tried to
please it's core audiance.  And the series keeps the same characters
through
out so you really care for these guys and like them want to know what the
hell is going on.  I love these movies more than any other series and hope
they are continued to be made.  Hopefully we will see that Roger Avary
penned script be made into a movie soon.

<|_=00=_|>

            Decided to tape this film early in the AM television programing
and was greatly surprised at the entire plot.  If you love graveyards, and
watching steel balls flying through the air that can make your insides turn
in a few minutes to Swiss Cheese, this film is definitely for YOU!  James
LeGros,(Mike),"Sexual Life",'04 and Paula Irvine(Liz),"Party Lamp",'86 put
their hearts and soul into their roles and experienced horrible situations
you will never forget.  I missed all the other Phantasm flicks,however, I do
intend to catch up and view all the present and past other Horrible
"Phantasm" films.   If you are a nut about blood and seeing human bodies
crumble in front of your very eyes, THIS IS YOUR FILM! 
ENJOY!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Phantasm 2 is my very favorite of the Phantasm films. It picks up eight
years after the original (or is it seven years--slight continuity error
in the dialogue, I believe). Mike is older and uglier and is just
getting out of the nut hut where he's been since he started telling
people the events which happened to him in the first Phantasm film. He
gets discharged and meets up with Reggie and they team up to take out
the Tall Man once and for all and along the way they team up with a
chick named Liz that Mike is psychically bonded with--they're both
drawn to the Tall Man.

Plenty to love in this one--mo' creepy Jawas, mo' gore, some boobs, and
the implements of destruction that Reg and Mike make are off the hook,
son! Mike gets a homemade flamethrower and Reg gets the awesome
FOUR-BARRELED SHOTGUN!!!!! (Sadly, I only remember it being used once
in the course of the movie but it takes out four midgets at a clip so
it's all good.) The ending to this flick kicks ass!! KICKS
ASSSSSSS!!!!!!! Phantasm 2 would make part of a great marathon with Bad
Dreams and From Beyond. Peep it even if you haven't seen the first
one--8/10.
