

Every great gangster movie has under-currents of human drama. Don't
expect an emotional story of guilt, retribution and despair from
"Scarface". This is a tale of ferocious greed, corruption, and power.
The darker side of the fabled "American Dream".

Anybody complaining about the "cheesiness" of this film is missing the
point. The superficial characters, cheesy music, and dated fashions
further fuel the criticism of this life of diabolical excess. Nothing
in the lives of these characters really matter, not on any human level
at least. In fact the film practically borderlines satire, ironic
considering all the gangsta rappers that were positively inspired by
the lifestyle of Tony Montana.

This isn't Brian DePalma's strongest directorial effort, it is
occasionally excellent and well-handled (particularly the memorable
finale), but frequently sinks to sloppy and misled. Thankfully, it is
supported by a very strong script by Oliver Stone (probably good
therapy for him, considering the coke habit he was tackling at the
time). The themes are consistent, with the focus primarily on the life
of Tony Montana, and the evolution of his character as he is consumed
by greed and power. The dialogue is also excellent, see-sawing
comfortably between humour and drama. There are many stand-out lines,
which have since wormed their way into popular culture in one form or
another.

The cast help make it what it is as well, but this is really Pacino's
film. One of his earlier less subtle performances (something much more
common from him nowadays), this is a world entirely separate from
Michael Corleone and Frank Serpico. Yet he is as watchable here as
ever, in very entertaining (and intentionally over-the-top) form. It is
hard to imagine another Tony Montana after seeing this film, in
possibly one of the most mimicked performances ever. Pfeiffer stood out
as dull and uncomfortable on first viewing, but I've come to realize
how she plays out the part of the bored little wife. Not an exceptional
effort, but unfairly misjudged. The supporting players are very good
too, particularly Paul Shenar as the suave Alejandro Sosa.

Powerful, occasionally humorous, sometimes shocking, and continually
controversial. "Scarface" is one of the films of the eighties (whatever
that might mean to you). An essential and accessible gangster flick,
and a pop-culture landmark. 9/10

<|_=00=_|>
"Scarface" has a major cult following even now, 22 years after its
release.

It has also been widely criticized as being very tacky, unrefined,
over-the-top and all bloated up! These are people who compare Scarface
to The Godfather movies. It is true that on the technical front,
(cinematography, screenplay, direction, etc.) Scarface is way behind
'The Godfather'.

But it is also true, that what Scarface has and some other gangster
movies lack, is the rawness, the sheer crude approach of the gangsters.
The Latino gangsters in this movie look much more menacing and real
than any of the polished Italian or Irish gangsters from other gangster
classics like 'The Godfather' or 'Goodfellas'. This is one of the major
winning points of Scarface and I strongly believe that this fact has
been written off as "tackiness" by most critics! I have seen the
original 1932 Scarface, and I must say that both these movies are way
too different from each other and should be seen as two different
movies instead of praising the original over the "remake"! 

Al Pacino has been criticized to be over-the-top and loud in this
movie. But how about considering that that is precisely the way the
film-makers wanted Tony Montana's character to be! He is this angry
young man who takes hasty decisions and throws fits of tantrum every
other minute! He is not the calm Michael Corleone here. He is Tony
Montana, a very tacky, uneducated individual who doesn't really think
much and gets angry all the time!

There is definitely a very 80s feel to this movie. The soundtrack is
all 80s! I love some of the songs, including 'Gina and Elvira's theme',
'Push it to the limit' and the title track instrumental.

There are some memorable and beautifully shot sequences, including the
famous chainsaw scene, the Rebenga hit, the first meeting with Sosa and
Tony's visit to his mother's.

About the performances: Al Pacino is brilliant as the angry Cuban
refugee. He has reportedly mentioned that he enjoyed playing Tony
Montana the most in his entire career. And it really does seem like he
has enjoyed himself thoroughly in all his scenes! One wonders what
"Scarface" would be like without Pacino. I just couldn't imagine anyone
else portraying Tony Montana and in all probabilities, the film
wouldn't be as effective without him!

Steven Bauer shines as Tony's friend Manny.

Robert Loggia is wonderful as Tony's boss, Lopez. So is F. Murray
Abraham (as Omar) in a small role.

Then there is some eye-candy in the form of Elvira played by Michelle
Pfeiffer. She looks beautiful and is adequate in her role.

The director does go a bit overboard during a particular part in the
climax. Without revealing anything, I would only say that that was the
only little part that suffers due to improper handling.

"Scarface" is definitely one of the most entertaining and one of the
best gangster movies to ever come out. Enjoy it for what it is: a raw
portrayal of the Drug Lords and their gangland!
<|_=00=_|>
"A Classic is something that everybody wants to have read but nobody
wants to read. A classic is also something that everyone praises but no
one has read." -Mark Twain

'Classic' seems to be the word used to describe "Scarface", Brian
DePalma's 1983 film about opulence, self surrender, greed, and danger
among Florida's drug ring. People and critics (and rappers for that
matter) deem this film 'an epic gangster classic' or 'eptiome of
gangster films.' When it is anything but. It is praised for all the
wrong reasons. Scarface is a terrific film that deserves praise from
all over, but not all the praise it gets from audiences today, and
therefor the fine points it so poignantly makes are missed by the
general public.

First off, the film is about a Cuban refugee, with a past of wanting to
escape communism grasp and find happiness. Simple? Yes. But the layers
of De Palma's directing genius, and the great story written by Oliver
Stone (yes I know, he actually wrote a real good one here) play into
all of it. The characters are all looking for an escape, as escape is a
natural element dealt with in the film by all. Each character has
something to offer, that makes them likable by everyone who could
appreciate this film. They are entwined in a world of mystique and
money, but all that has a price, as they all learn. Each character
thinks they are getting better chances in life, when in true dramatic
irony, they are actually getting worse. 'Tragedy' would be a better
word to describe this movie. All those who praise the film for it's
drug usage, it's violence, it's dialog, totally missed the point. There
is nothing really positive about the film besides the characters
positive expectations of themselves. And that is why the film works so
well. The devastation through out the film serves to deliver the
message of the film, not to look cool or attract viewers. Brian De
Palma doesn't make movies for cult gangsters, or brainless action fans.

Next on, the film is an adult drama. It is not a 'gangster film'. It
has it's share of action, but the action is plotted very carefully, so
it has a point. It's not like "Aliens"- an example of a big dumb action
film, and most audiences perceive this film as a big dumb action
gangster film about doing drugs and shooting people. Ridiculous.
Hogwash. If this film is about that, then it is about how bad it is.
Not a promotion of it. 

This being said, the film is indeed a great film. It has great
cinematography that pulls you into the story. It has a very dramatic
score (in true Giorgio Moroder style), which simply could give you
chills, or bring you to tears. The film is rather lengthy, but it is a
story, and each moment counts. The acting is terrific. Al Pacino -
enough said. He can do any role that he puts his mind to, and this was
no exception. Pretty boy Steven Bauer, as Manny. I didn't think much of
him in other films he did, but he actually makes you like him when he
goes under maestro De Palma's direction. Michelle Pfeiffer is a true
gem as Elvira. Popping' fresh off the heels of a sort of embarrassment
in "Grease 2" she got her ticket to ride performing a no holds barred
performance of a beauty that is more than meets the eye. But the three
true diamonds in this rough are Mary Elizabeth Mastrontonio as Tony's
sister Gina, who when she smiles, or cries, we see her soul and her
fresh way of living, and watch it deteriorate; Paul Shenar as Alejandro
Sosa, a drug lord, who runs deeper than a river, and Shenar portrays
him as so; and Miriam Colom as Tony and Gina's torn mother. These three
dig the film as deep as it can go. 

This reviewer learned one main thing when watching "Scarface" for the
first time. Always go into a film unsuspecting. All the hype and talk
of this film cannot possibly prepare you for what you really see. Only
knowing De Palma (like I do) can give you even a glimpse of what this
film holds. So ignore the rap crap, ignore the mindless violence
supporters, and fix yourself a glass of Bailey's on the rocks, and
indulge yourself in an emotional viewing of a great film, the real
"Scarface."
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of my all time favorites.

If the movie has a flaw, it's that it comes at you like a raging bull.
It doesn't so much engage the viewer as assault him. ''Scarface'' is as
voracious and unyielding a production as Tony Montana himself. Nothing
is left to the viewer's imagination.

Moroder's languorous synthpop fits the action to a tee. Like the chorus
in a Greek tragedy, it wails and gnashes, broods and tugs, a constant
reminder of Tony's inexorable fate.

Not so much a tale of caution as a disaster in progress, ''Scarface''
rips across the screen with the unstoppable force of a runaway train.
<|_=00=_|>
Directed by Brian De Palma and written by Oliver Stone, "Scarface" is a
movie that will not be forgotten. A Cuban refugee named Tony Montana
(Pacino) comes to America for the American Dream. Montana then becomes
the "king" in the drug world as he ruthlessly runs his empire of crime
in Miami, Florida. This gangster movie is very violent, and some scenes
are unpleasant to watch. This movie has around 180+ F-words and is
almost three hours long. This movie is entertaining and you will never
get bored. You cheer for the Drug-lord, and in some scenes you find out
that Montana isn't as evil as some other Crime Lords. This is a
masterpiece and i recommend that you see this. You will not be
disappointed. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

Ya know when one looks at this Brian DePalma film today, I'm sure there
has
been allot of criticism about how dated it is. Also, about the violence.
When I looked at this film on VHS when I was 20, I thought it was
ulta-violent and gritty as well. But I didn't get 'it'.

A few decades go by and man, how I know how much I didn't get in this
film!!
This is a remake of an excellent film which was done back in the
30's/40's.
How can you improve upon a classic? Ya don't. But you tell a tale that is
brought up to date through the eyes of the "new immigrants" during the
most
greed ridden decade, the over indulgent 80's. DePalma, Stone and the gang
present an ambitious, disturbing and darn right good film.

Yes....Disco was dying and New Wave/Punk were taking over but these
immigrants from Cuba who had to make a new home in Florida couldn't tell
the
difference. It was exciting, it was what they wanted but how to get
it????
To these immigrants, there was only one way to get it in Florida where
they
were..by having lots of money and to get the money, you had to take over
running a drug empire.

Al Pacino was fantastic to me as Tony Montana, the "little train that
could". What an amazing way to have your lead character look at America:
to
fight, kill, steal. lie, cheat all to get -- "the money, the women and
the
power."

That's what Tony saw as the American dream.

He wanted it, he wanted to live it and in his circle saw nothing wrong
with
how he went to get it. Tony Montana's command of the English language was
heavily saturated with the "f" word but what did you expect, Emily Post's
finishing school for him and his co-horts? Look at how they CAME to
America,
what they knew, what they were exposed to. This is the way Tony and his
crew
chose to "be all they can be in America." It was all about the power.
Tony
Montana would and did ANYTHING to achieve it..it all its violent, lying,
stealing, crooked, thieving glory.

The part of the film that personified the 1980's to me, is the money
laundering. Tony's crew bringing sacks of drug money to the bank. Did
those
around Tony and his crew care? At the clubs where he spent and drank?
Nope.
Money was money and with money, you get the power. Tony was living high
off
the hog. He and his pretty blond American trophy he married played well
by
Michelle Pfieffer.

After Tony Montana's rise to power, he finds out its really crappy up
there.
He's riddled with doubt, he's drug addicted, he's paranoid, he's
surrounded
by those who want to take him on in a bloody take-over, his trophy 80's
American blonde drug addicted wife he finds out is a bore, he needs to
keep
atop of his empire because...he's going down. And down he goes in a
horrific
violent fashion, but again I ask, what do you expect?

This is the quintessential 1980's film telling you a warped tale of how
some
misunderstand the American Dream...to obsession. It's violent, bloody,
overly so..but it drives the point disturbingly home. Not all Cubans
thrown
out of Cuba who landed in Florida in the 80's were anything like Tony
Montana. Give me a break. But the showing of how miserable the 1980's
were
with its emphasis on greed and money as the only measures in the USA to
"be
somebody" and have power took its tool on these poor characters and their
lives in America.

Makes you wonder -- has anything from then -- been learned
today?

<|_=00=_|>

Pacino gives an amazing performance that is both comic and tragic in this
remake of the 1932 classic about corruption in America.

Brian De Palma updated the original Prohibition story to the era of the
Mariel boat-lift and the heavy traffic in drugs that still infest the United
States. The film is an uncompromising revelation of humanity's dark side as
Pacino's character learns never to underestimate the other guy's greed. He
neglects to learn the other important lesson -- never get caught in the vice
you are pushing on others.

Pacino's character wants the world and everything in it. That's what he
gets. We are reminded to beware of what we wish for.

The film is violent but never makes drug dealing seem glamorous.
<|_=00=_|>

	In 1983, Director Brian De Palma set out to make a film about the rise and
fall of an American gangster, and that he did-- with the help of a terrific
screenplay by Oliver Stone and some impeccable work by an outstanding cast. 
The result was `Scarface,' starring Al Pacino in one of his most memorable
roles.  The story begins in May of 1980, when Castro opened the harbor at
Mariel, Cuba, to allow Cuban nationals to join their families in the United
States.  125,000 left Cuba at that time, for the greener pastures of freedom
in America, and most were honest, hard-working people, thankful for the
opportunity they had been granted.  But not all.  Among the `Marielitos' who
streamed into Florida, approximately 25,000 had criminal records and were
nothing less than the dregs of Cuba's jails-- criminals considered beyond
redemption, who Castro had merely wanted to be rid of.  And they, too, saw
America as a land of opportunity, even as Al Capone had considered Chicago
some fifty years earlier.  And among the most ambitious was a man named Tony
Montana (Pacino), known to his associates as `Caracortada.' 
Scarface.

Now that he was free of the yoke of Communism under which he had grown up, 
Montana wanted what he felt was coming to him, and he wanted it now; and
from the moment he stepped off the boat in Florida, he was determined to
have it all.  Wealth and power-- that was Montana's dream, and he would get
it by doing what he did best, beginning with a favor for a man living in
Miami by the name of Frank Lopez (Robert Loggia).  Lopez, it seems, had a
brother in Cuba who had met an untimely end at the hands of one of Castro's
goons, a man who, having outlived his usefulness to Castro, had been
summarily discarded and was currently being held in `Little Havana,' along
with Montana and all of the Cubans just off the boats, where they awaited
their papers from the government that would effect their transition into
their new lives.  And in short order, Montana sees to it that Lopez's
brother has been avenged, and it sets the stage for his own entrance into
the underworld of America.

Lopez, a wealthy businessman with the right connections, in return for the
favor gets Montana and his friend, Manny (Steven Bauer), released from the
holding camp, and puts them to work.  In his day, Capone may have had
bootlegging as a means through which to line his coffers with illicit gain,
but Lopez has the modern day equivalent, and it's even more lucrative: 
Cocaine.  Lopez takes Montana under his wing and indoctrinates him into the
life, but once he has a taste of it, Montana isn't satisfied with whatever
crumbs Lopez sees fit to throw his way, and he sets a course that will take
him to where he wants to be:  At the `top.'  With a cold-blooded, iron will,
Montana decides he'll do whatever it takes to get there, no matter what the
cost.  but before it's over, he will realize the price for his dream, and
he'll pay it; but for a brief moment, perhaps he will know what it's like to
be The Man.  And he will also know whether or not it was worth
it.

In step with De Palma's vision, Pacino plays Montana larger-than-life, and
he does it beautifully.  From the accent he affects (which he researched
thoroughly to make sure he got it right-- and he did), to the body language
and the attitude, he's got it all, and it makes Montana convincing and very
real.  What he brings to the role is nuance and style, in a way that few
actors (De Niro would be one) can.  This is definitely not a character that
is sympathetic in any way, nor is there anything about Montana that you can
readily relate to on a personal level; but Pacino's screen presence is so
strong that it makes him a thoroughly engrossing character, even though it's
hard to become emotionally involved with him.  It's quite simply a dynamic,
memorable performance.

Michelle Pfeiffer gives a solid performance, as well, in the role that put
her on the path to stardom.  As Elvira, the woman who becomes an integral
part of Montana's dream, Pfeiffer is subtle and understated, giving that
sense of something going on underneath, while affecting a rather cold and
distant exterior countenance.  She, like Pacino, definitely makes her
presence felt as she fairly glides across the screen with a stoic, enigmatic
and sultry demeanor.

The supporting cast includes Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio (Gina), Miriam
Colon (Mama Montana), F. Murray Abraham (Omar), Paul Shenar (Sosa) and
Harris Yulin (Bernstein).  An excellent precursor to the more recent and
highly acclaimed `Traffic,' and `Blow,' and well as having a climactic scene
reminiscent of Peckinpah's `The Wild Bunch,' De Palma's `Scarface,'
originally panned by critics, has since been cited by many as being the
definitive American gangster saga.  Much of the violence is implied rather
than graphic, but this film still has an edge of realism to it that many may
find somewhat disturbing.  But if you stay with it, there is a lesson to be
learned in the end.  And like many lessons in life, the most valuable are
often the hardest to take at the time.  But the reward is always worth it,
and that's the way it is with this film.  I rate this one 8/10. 

    

    

      
<|_=00=_|>
Arguebly Al Pacino's best role. He plays Tony Montana, A small time
hood from Cuba turned into a rich and powerful crime lord in Miami, and
he does it with the only two things he's got in this world, his balls
and his word, and he doesn't break'em for nobody. Starts as doing jobs
for a big time Cuban dealer, Frank Lopez (Robert Loggia) and quickly
goes up the ladder of the organization along with his long time friend
Manny (Steven Bauer). Soon he has an eye for the boss's sexy wife
Elvira (Michelle Pfeiffer). After Frank sees a threat from Tony to his
position, he attempts to assassin Tony but with no luck. Tony is upset
and nothing can stop him now. the film has a great supporting cast
among them is F. Murray Abraham as a jumpy gangster, another familiar
face is Harris Yulin as a crooked cop trying to shake down Tony, Marry
Elizabeth Mastrantonio as Tony's young sister. Credits to the Ecxellent
screenplay by Oliver Stone. This film is one of Brian DePalma's
Brightest points in his long ups and downs career, you can see this guy
is very talented. The movie has a magnificent look to it. Also pay
attention for two memorable scenes: The one at the fancy restaurant
("Say goodnight to the bad guy"). the other is the final shootout where
Tony shows that he still knows how to kick ass and kills about 20
assassins that invaded to his house. this is certainly one of the most
impressive endings to a movie I have ever seen. For fans of Al Pacino
and crime movies it's a must-see. For the rest of you it's highly
recommended. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

I find myself enjoying this film when I watch it. Well, perhaps
enjoying is a bit of an odd verb when you think of
the storyline, its characters, the amount of violence and
of course, the f-bomb being dropped about 15,000 times. 

I like Pacino in this film. He shows us the violent
anger we didn't see in Michael Corleone. We're Michael
would say, "Never hate your enemies, it clouds your judgement,"
Tony Montana's out killing everybody. Now granted, there
are moments in his performance...or in the script where
you have to laugh. The questioning scene in the beginning
of the film is a fine example of this. When asked where
he got that scar on his cheek...well, I can't write what
he says in the regular version, but I will tell you that on edited version on
TNT, it from was "eating pine apple." 

There is a great performance from Robert Loggia. He's
the only character I truly believed in the film. Frank
was a businessman, not a killer. All he wanted was the money.
Greed killed him, as it has killed so many people. I enjoyed
the direction Loggia went with Frank. It has carried over
his recent work and has made Loggia one of Hollywood's
must durable supporting actors. 

Brian DePalma adds his usual blend of violence, but it
seemed that for once, he was trying to make his own film.
Not borrowed. No guessing games on who he stole from this
time.
Although he's blasted for the film's content, it is a new
beginning to his career which took off, but it was really
"The Untouchables" that made me consider him a serious director.

