
Despite the overwhelming hatred for Superman III, I gotta say that I
think it's an excellent film. One of the two best of the whole Superman
saga, actually. The other, of course, is the original film. But
Superman III is so much fun, and a great example of how it's possible
for Superman to have enemies OTHER than Lex Luthor. The guy's been the
main villain in, how many is it, FOUR of the now FIVE Superman films? I
liked Gene Hackman's Luthor (far superior to Kevin Spacey's), but you
gotta take a break at some point. No, Superman III is a refreshing
change of pace, not only in that respect, but in several ways.

Most noticeable, and much to the chagrin of many people, is the
slightly more comedic tone of the film, centered mainly around Richard
Pryor's character, August 'Gus' Gorman. I thought Prior was great. He
plays an over-the-top character in a movie series about an over-the-top
character. I hear people complain all the time that they hate the
comedy that Prior brought to the film because Superman is supposed to
be, and these are actual quotes, "gritty" and "realistic". NO, he's
not. Superman is not gritty, and he's not realistic. Never was, never
will be. Richard Donner's original doesn't even come CLOSE to playing
it straight. Just look at how he portrays Clark Kent. In the comic
books and 1950's television series, the "mild-mannered" Clark Kent is
treated with respect and professionalism. He basically co-exists
amongst his peers at the Daily Planet. In "Superman: The Movie",
Richard Donner has taken the character straight out of the old comics
and TV series, with all the same mannerisms and morals, and placed him
in a very modern 1978. This is a set-up for much of the films adequate
amount of comedy relief. "Superman: The Movie" is not a comedy. Neither
is "Superman III", but they both have comic relief. The Clark Kent
character is slightly more serious in this one, thus, you have Gus. A
funny little man, with an interesting power. A savant-like intellect
that gives him complete control over any computer system.

I especially like how Clark Kent, Superman's alterego, is fleshed out
more as he returns home to Smallville. This is a great follow-up to
Richard Donner's brief exploration to Superman's early years in
Smallville. The inclusion of Lana Lang as Clark's high school crush was
great, even better in that they chose the lovely Annette O'Toole to
portray the character. I LOVE Margot Kidder, but I think Lana is a very
important character in Superman's backstory.

All the delving into Clark Kent's character and background leads us to
one of the greatest scenes in motion picture history... Clark Kent vs.
Evil Superman. I could sit here and expound on the scene's metaphoric
implications all day long, but simply put, I found it jaw-dropping.
Christopher Reeve was always perfect as Superman, but his best work is
here in this scene. Evil Superman is a very physical representation of
everything Clark/Superman has ever repressed, and obviously we're
talking about a lot of repression here. It's great stuff. I still wanna
cheer every time the victorious Clark Kent opens his shirt to reveal
his famous insignia, which, by the way, is differentiated by Evil
Superman's in that it's excessively bright, where as his was really
dark and dingy looking. Having been a Superman fan since I was a kid
way back in the day, that's one of those scenes I'll remember 'till the
day I die. I remember it from my childhood, but it's actually more
relateable for me now as an adult.

Superman III is one of the greats. If you haven't seen it yet, I only
ask that you watch it with an open mind and not look for grit or
realism where it has no place being. Instead, just believe a man can
fly... again.
<|_=00=_|>

I will admit that when compared to the first two films, this is obviously
inferior. But still, it's not all that bad. Christopher Reeves is still
the
best Superman, and Richard Pryor was okay. I remember seeing this a lot
when
I was real young, so I have a special place for this film in my heart. I
will always remember the scenes when Superman fights the separate
superman.
The scene where that lady is turned into a robot used to scare me, but I
think it's cool now. A good Saturday afternoon film.
<|_=00=_|>
After making two fairly decent Superman movies, things took a slightly
different turn with Superman III. Gene Hackman was nowhere to be found,
Lois Lane has such a small part that she's essentially not even in the
continuity anymore (Clark apparently forgets all about his love of Lois
when he re-meets Lana Lang). And things became really funny, or were at
least supposed to be. If you consider "campy" to be funny.

Superman faces off against himself, after being exposed to a new form
of kryptonite that has tobacco tar mixed in. Can the world trust a
Superman who destroys oil tankers and sleeps with random women on top
of the Statue of Liberty? The best part of the "Evil Superman" sequence
is when we see Superman drunk, if for no other reason than the thought
of Superman getting drunk (or even having the ability to become
intoxicated) is a most unusual thought. Good thing Superman doesn't
drive a car.

I really enjoyed the entrance of Lana Lang into the film. Lana, in my
opinion, was always the more appropriate match for Superman and there
is no exception in this movie. She shares a history with him, is more
caring than Lois and less dominant. I'm curious where the Lois/Lana
thing will go in Part 4, if it goes anywhere. (I am not suggesting
dominant women are bad, by the way. But the fact of the matter is
anyone dating Superman is going to have to be comfortable with being
second fiddle.) What sold me on this movie (and almost scored it a 7
instead of a 6) is the tie-in with "Office Space". In Office Space,
Superman III is referenced for a computer program that takes fractions
of a cent and puts them in a bank account. The scene in this film was
great, and really made me appreciate the way Mike Judge used it many
years later.

With nicotine and tar being the secret ingredients in the new
kryptonite, was there some message being sent? Richard Pryor was great.
He was funny and made the entire film more of a comedy with kitsch than
the serious films we had seen before. Many people really didn't like
the campiness, I guess, but I thought it was enjoyable for the most
part (though they did go over the top just a bit). In my mind, Superman
was the light story and Batman the dark story, so I'd rather see a
silly Superman than a silly Batman.

The new villain to replace Lex Luthor was okay, but why bother making a
new villain if he's going to be the exact same character? I would hope
after fifty years of comic books, there would have been at least one
other super villain they could have chosen (although the new "Superman
Returns" focuses on Luthor again, so I guess creativity is minimal in
the Superman world).

If you've seen parts one and two, you may as well see this. But do keep
in mind that the world of Superman turns a little "bizarro" for the
next two hours of film time...
<|_=00=_|>
If you're a fan of Superman you'll find plenty to enjoy in this third
installment in the series. I do, but it must be admitted that this film
is much inferior to the first two.

This has Richard Lester written all over it. Superman II was Richard
Donner's creation and Lester simply took over and wisely kept the tone
of the film but with some added humor. This time around the humor
steers the film as it's mostly a Richard Pryor vehicle. It doesn't come
as much of a surprise that the film fares best when focusing on the Man
of Steel, whether he's romancing an old flame in Smallville or in high
flying action.

This is also the film where Superman goes bad and fights his alter ego
to the death. Those scenes are the best in the film. Some set pieces
are pretty good and special effects are decent. However, the finale has
to be deemed utterly ridiculous when Superman battles a "sophisticated"
computer! 

Reeve is amazing as Superman/Clark Kent. Effortlessly switching to
playing a meaner version of himself, he's simply perfect. Richard Pryor
is always the same, so if you're a fan of his work you'll love him
here. Everyone else is decent except those three villains; they're a
little too much, especially Vaughn.

A lot less humor and more seriousness would have made the film very
good.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll be frank: SUPERMAN III is NOT a good film. Having heard both from
people who loved the movie and hated the movie, I watched it with an
open mind, but in the end it was clear to me that this movie is weak.
Very weak.

Half of the movie revolves around Gus Gorman (Richard Pryor!), a
dim-witted computer programmer who becomes involved in crime when he
begins working for millionaire Ross Webster (Robert Vaughn). The other
half of the film revolves around Superman (Christopher Reeve), as he is
reunited with high school sweetheart Lana Lang (Annette O'Toole) and
becomes evil when exposed to synthetic kryptonite.

One can't help but wonder what David and Leslie Newman, who co-wrote
the previous two SUPERMAN films, were thinking when they wrote this
film. It opens with a cringe-worthy slapstick sequence, and gets worse
from there. Any and all scenes involving Richard Pryor are completely
out of place in this film, making it seem more like an unfunny comedy
than a superhero film. Director Richard Lester tries his best to make
the movie work, but ultimately, it doesn't, thanks in part to the
absence of Gene Hackman as Lex Luthor and the near-absence of Margot
Kidder as Lois Lane (Kidder has a total of about three minutes
on-screen). Christopher Reeve, however, is excellent as always, and
Annette O'Toole is a good fit for the part of Lana Lang; interestingly,
she portrayed Clark's mother, Martha Kent, on the hit Superman TV
series SMALLVILLE.

SUPERMAN III is mediocre at best, a failed attempt to continue an
excellent series. While it couldn't hold my attention for the 125
minute runtime, I can think of worse movies to watch late at night with
a bowl of popcorn and a Coke. Superman fans may want to check it out;
all others, steer clear.
<|_=00=_|>
I love this movie, for those of you think it's really bad because it's
too ridiculous, you must not read too many of the comics. The very
first comics I never read were Superman comics, and that was when I
hadn't even got into kindergarten, and let me tell you, they could be
pretty silly but never boring.

The same could be said for this movie. First of all, I love Richard
Pryor and he has a field day in this movie. Secondly, I love Robert
Vaughn, and he plays a really juicy villain in this one. And then
there's this great fight scene between two Supermen... but I don't want
to give away everything from those of you haven't seen the film yet.

There is everything you should expect in this kind of movie. My only
complaint was not enough Lois Lane (Margo Kidder) and maybe I'm
nitpicking, but continuity with the other two films seems to be ignored
completely. According to this entry in the series, Clark graduated from
Smallville high in 1962. The problem with that is that in the first
film, is clear that when Clark is in high school, it's the late 1940s
by the vintage cars and trucks in the scenes. But hey, if we can
believe that a man can come from another planet, fly, see through
walls, burn through things with his eyes and lift trains into the air
then why bitch about little things like continuity?

Not only do I have this baby on video from cable TV, but I also taped
the network version just for the outtakes and edited out every single
commercial. (The beautifully choreographed opening credits with the
blind man, some mechanical penguins on fire and more is even longer and
better in the TV version.)

So hate this one if you must, but I will take it over the second film
any the day of the week. (That is, the Richard Lester version. I LOVED
the Richard Donner cut which recently made it to DVD.)

I give it a 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Sorry, -1000, not 1. This settles the debate about Lester's cheese ball
SUPERMAN 2 and about Richard Lester in general. The man never made one
movie that did not feature five year old's unfunny humor? Do not
believe me? Watch A FUNNY THING HAPPENED ON THE WAY TO THE FORUM or how
about his terrible, crappy musketeer movies that even Racquel Welch's
cleavage could not salvage. Want a sample of what you are in for?
Richard Pryor, the most unfunny comic of the 20th century, skis off of
a forty story building, lands on top of an awning, unharmed, skis off
of it into the street. Wasn't that hilarious? It gets worse, he turns
superman into an angry, drunken, prostitute chasing dirt bag in faded
tights. Hey, bring the kids. He throws in the terrible actress Annette
O Toole who single handedly laid waste to ONE ON ONE. Hackman refused
to do the movie, do you blame him? So, instead of Lex Luthor you have
Robert Vaughn who was a television actor, brace yourself. The acting in
the movie was legendarily bad; Pam Stephenson was as untalented an
actress as she was beautiful. It features boring, badly shot action
scenes that make the first movie look like THE GODFATHER.

You will love the missile attack on superman based on a ripped off
Atari video game of the period with the worst graphics since PONG. The
majority of the movie consists of Richard Pryor doing what he called
comedy: bellowing at the top of his lungs, or whining and complaining.
Nobody, for PC reasons, was able to whisper the truth about this movie.
It was the effects, or evil superman; yes, those were contributing
factors but Pryor destroyed the movie. Nobody dared utter the truth,
please OK, he always sucked. Find one movie he made that was a success?
STIR CRAZY? One half of a good movie, yes it was so great Poitier never
directed another movie. In my audience, people were yelling SHUT UP at
him all through the movie. 

It opened in a 550 seat auditorium, by twenty minutes in, the exodus
began. At the end of the movie, it was my friend and I with 12 other
people. Stop with the false dichotomy, we do not have to pick Donnor or
Lester, they both suck. Donnor's cut of Superman 2 was boring and awful
but Lester's was like this: stupid, unfunny and annoying. If you enjoy
seeing an angry, drunken, prostitute chasing, loser superman
interspersed with an annoying unfunny comedian, you have found your
movie. The worst movie I have ever watched I prefer BARBARELLA to this.
At least Jane Fonda had a hot body; who noticed how lousy the movie
was? You will notice it here.
<|_=00=_|>
Gus Gorman (Richard Pryor) who is a fun-loving computer genius has been
hired by a mad rich computer company tycoon named Ross Webster (Robert
Vaughn)to help him with his plans along with Ross's sister Vera (Annie
Ross) and girlfriend Loreli (Pamela Stephenson) but Superman
(Christopher Reeve)interferes with their plans as they must plot to
stop Superman for good. Clark Kent revisits his old boyhood town called
Smallville, where he is reunited with an old flame named Lana Lang
(Annette O'Toole) at a high school reunion during his visit. Gus comes
up with a scheme to make a special kryptonite with tobacco tar to make
Superman evil including splitting up with his personality so that way
Gus and Webster can make their supercomputer that can control the
world's energy, can Superman come back to normal or will the computer
take over mankind? 

Enjoyable sequel but not as awesome as the first two movies, Richard
Lester who did his version of "Superman II" just added some unnecessary
comedy relief such as the "Three Stooges"-esquire opening sequence that
didn't help or that ludicrous video game footage but there was some
good special effects and memorable moments like Clark Kent vs. Superman
in the junkyard sequence or the part where Vera becomes a Dot Matrix
from Spaceballs-like android, although Ms. Stephenson was pretty cute.

All in all it's that bad folks, just relax, enjoy and suspend your
disbelief.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is not worthy of the 9/10 I gave it. But I saw that the
average was below 5 and I feel the need to "corrupt" the statistics. I
want to increase this average so that score is a truer reflection of
the quality and public's perception of this film.

Many may think that this is unfair or unreasonable. But I regard it as
a reflex reaction to traditionalists who gave it '1' because it strayed
from the typical superman formula, irrespective of whether it was a
good film in its own right... and it was! Since they are unfairly
under-rating the film, I feel justified in over-rating the film.....
DEAL WITH IT! The traditionalists want the love interest Lois Lane to
feature prominently, along with the naive Jimmy Olsen, the ranting
Perry White and the conniving and ruthless Lex Luthor.

Well, Jimmy breaks his leg in the first 15 minutes and is (presumably)
hospitalised for the rest of the film, Lois (kidder) makes a cameo
appearance at the start of the film to let us know that she's going on
holiday, Lex (& his numb-skull sidekick Otis) isn't even mentioned and
it seems as if the Daily Planet doesn't mind if Clark Kent goes to his
high school reunion and then takes the next few weeks off work. With
all the plot devices removed, I was actually interested in where this
movie would take me, rather than rolling my eyes before the film has
even begun.

First and foremost, the film opens better than any other of th0e Reeve
Supermans. First, Superman saves a man from drowning in his car (wait
till you see it!) and shortly after, there is a fire at a chemical
factory (and superman arrives again to save the day). I felt that this
opening was rather thrilling and the film makers stuck to the
traditions of classic Superman.

Then we move onto the story of Clark Kent rekindling a romance with a
high school sweetheart, who is, at the same time, fending off an old
alcoholic ex-boyfriend. This scenario gives rise to a number of funny
scenes (the one at the bowling alley was side splitting). As per usual,
Reeves played the part of the bumbling, geeky Clark Kent to perfection.

Running along side is the story of Richard Prior. He's an unemployed
bum (scenes in the welfare office are hysterical) who suddenly finds
that he has a knack for computers. He commits a fraud using his
extensive knowledge of computers (the fraud is later repeated - with
acknowledgment - in the brilliant film "Office Space") and when he is
caught, he assumes that he will be fired and arrested. However, his
sinister boss has something else in mind for our comic computer whiz.

However, their plans are thwarted by Superman and in response, Prior
and his boss obtain kryptonite. However, the kryptonite is 'not quite
right' and causes superman to become evil (rather than weaken him). In
any case, superman is out of the way, which allows Prior and his boss
go to work on a "super computer" that can control the world. Will
Superman become good again and save the day in time? 

All in all, a very enjoyable film, even though there are short comings.
The performances are very good and I couldn't imagine the computer
whiz's part being played by anyone other than Prior. The villain was
also terrific, as was his sister and co-conspirator.

Yes - this does stray from the traditional Superman plot formulars. But
it did so without dishonouring the Superman tradition if that makes
sense. And besides, it's good to have a different villain than Lex
Luthor and a break from the irritatingly unresolvable romance between
Kent/Superman and Lois Lane.

In closing, I found it rather amusing that the traditionalists put this
effort down, but when the Reeve's series returned to it's old plot
formulars (Luthor, Daily Planet, Lane...) in the woeful Superman IV -
The Quest For Peace, the critics, traditionalists and general audiences
all gave it a giant thumbs down!

However, the film did lose a star for having this bizarre left-wing
after-taste. Instead of a crazed criminal seeking world domination, the
villain is a corporate boss who wants control of the coffee market and
quotes Atilla the Hun. He is enraged by and destroys a small South
American country that thinks it can dictate terms to the "free market." 

Clark Kent's high school crush is now a "perfect single mother" - see
it's perfectly OK if Hollywood says so; and the film opens with poor
old lovable Richard Pryor getting booted off welfare. Ironically, the
villain goes for the oil towards the end of the film. But alas,
Superman saved the day by ridding the world of this capitalist threat.
Almost as laughable as the politically neutral "truth, justice, and
.... all that stuff" in the recent Superman Returns. Get over it.
<|_=00=_|>

It'll keep you watching, you can say that.  Either on the bad levels or
the
good ones (if you should find some), since most fans are so divided on
this
third entry.  It falls somewhere under fair for me, as the effects
continue
to be awesome, but the story this time is tremendously lacking.  Part two
had three villians equally as strong as Superman, plus the romance going
with Lois Lane.  This one has a Lex Luthor clone (Hackman's Lex is left
off-screen in jail) who also would like to rule the world, a dweeby
computer
genius (Pryor, as the much debated addition to the cast) and a romance you
know will go nowhere with one of Reeve's lost loves.  We already saw that
he
couldn't give things up for Lois, so why bother brining on a new girl?
Though O' Toole is gorgeous, a lot more than Kidder, who is featured at
the
beginning of the film looking aged, then at the end with a bad tan.  Rumor
has it she outpriced herself which resulted in the character being shipped
off to Bermuda.  With her out of the picture, Reeve attends a high school
reunion where he bumps into O'Toole.  Meantime, Vaughn and Pryor are
poised
for world dominance, though Pryor is realizing the ramifications and is
reluctant.  But he still goes through it, concocting a kryptonite like
impairment for Superman, which results in some of the film's best scenes.
Reeve develops a naughty alter ego, and we get to see Superbad-man get
drunk, straighten the Tower of Pisa, even get horny,  among other things.
There's a terrific showdown between Reeve and...well, Reeve in a junkyard
where bad Supes confronts his inner goodness, Clark Kent.  After this,
though, the film sags to it's conclusion, as Reeve goes up against more
rockets and missiles, a la part one.  Despite missing the tension of part
two, the film is interesting in a disjointed kind of way.  The flying
effects are once again top-notch, and strangely enough, are better than in
the next film which came out four years later!  And most have mentioned
the
dopey opening sequence that belonged more in a silent comedy than here,
but
it wasn't a horrendous mistake.  I must note as a kid that when Vaughn's
sister is turned into that psycho-robot it FREAKED me out!  Biggest
annoyance is the kid who plays Ricky, his voice is badly dubbed and
incredibly nerve-racking.  Also could've done without O'Herlihy's drunken
antagonist.  Most of the music is lifted from part two, but since I liked
Ken Thorne's work, I didn't mind.  I could even say (Supe fans will kill
me)
I would rather watch this one than the first movie.  So even though the
story isn't really there like in the previous films, the movie overall
still
FLIES (hehe).
