

The Empire Strikes Back is the best film in the original Star Wars trilogy.
It has all the great qualities that the original Star Wars has: great
effects (at the time of its release), appealing characters, and lots of
spellbinding action.  It also has eliminated some of the problems that
plagued the first: the storyline is tighter, and goes much deeper into
character development.  The performances are terrific, especially by
Harrison Ford as Han Solo, and Billy Dee Williams as Lando Calrissian.
George Lucas has also remembered to include a spellbinding battle sequence
with the snowspeeder sequence near the beginning of the film.  The
conclusion, with a lightsaber duel between Darth Vader and Luke Skywalker,
is truly one of the most suspenseful and dramatic scenes in the entire
series.  This is a truly wondrous film, and serves as a constant reminder
that just because a movie is expensive and a blockbuster doesn't mean that
it has to be shallow and two dimensional.  This film will undoubtedly
entertain viewers of all ages from start to finish. 
<|_=00=_|>

`It avoids having the standard shoot-'em-up ending,' says a friend of mine,
`by not having an ending.'  I suppose this is what most people think, but
all the same the film manages to form a satisfying whole; or at least, a
whole that satisfies me.  I'm therefore inclined to think it DOES have an
ending.  Obviously, I can't discuss this without giving things away to
those
few who don't know what happens.  If you're one of those few, then believe
me: your ignorance is precious enough to be worth guarding until you see
the
film.  Stop reading now.

After the surprise attack on the rebel base, Luke Skywalker splits with
Han,
Leia, et al.  Han's party gets away first (is it just me, or is the shot of
Luke watching the Falcon flying off while he stands stranded on the ground,
a poignant one?), but thereafter they face one narrow escape after another,
while Luke slinks off quietly and safely to train with
Yoda.

The training scenes are many and Yoda talks a great deal of rubbish.  But
somehow it doesn't matter.  The film is ambivalent in its attitude towards
Yoda, anyway.  Our sympathy clearly lies with the entirely non-spiritual
concerns of Han, Leia and the adolescent Luke.  The main story concerns the
understanding that builds between Han and Leia.  In the end they are honest
with one another; and if Han's being frozen and shipped back to Tatooine is
the price to pay for this, well, it's the price to pay.  It was very
important NOT to end with the dashing rescue that opens `Return of the
Jedi', which would be dramatically beside the point.  Instead we end with
the promise that the rescue will some day occur.  That's
enough.

As for Luke: he abandons Yoda to rescue Han and Leia, and achieves NOTHING
WHATEVER.  This was my favourite touch.  All five Jedis - Luke, Obi-Wan,
Yoda, Vader, and the Emperor - find that their conflicting instincts are
all
entirely wrong.  The film is really about the temporary triumph of human
impulses over the mystical Force.  Luke's human idealism is vindicated, but
his supernatural powers, just this once, are not.

When George Lucas gave his Star Wars trilogy a fresh coat of varnish in
1997
he felt he had to justify the expense by making needless changes.  You'll
notice he made precious few changes to episode V.  There just wasn't room.
He added a few extra shots of the ice monster, which of course weakened
that
one scene; but even with those changes in place the Special Edition is
virtually identical to the original edition.  Since Lucas was so keen on
making changes wherever he could this is obviously a tribute to the
tightness of the story and the direction.  It's also a tribute to the
perfection of the original special effects, more innovative than the
effects
in the first Star Wars movie and better than the effects in any subsequent
one.
<|_=00=_|>

The Rebellion has struck an important blow to the power of the Empire by
destroying it's Death Star, however the power of the Dark Side of the Force
remains strong and continues to hunt the rebellion.  While the Rebellion
base on Hoth is under treat, Luke has gone to a distant swamp planet to
receive further Jedi training from Master Yoda.  However the power of the
dark side should not be underestimated and many dark truths are revealed as
the threat of the Empire looms large.

Following Star Wars was never going to be easy but this is actually better. 
Empire retains the same characters and the same sense of fun that the first
had – the battle on Hoth is just one of THE moments of the series.  However
what gets added to that is a much darker strand.  The Empire is not beaten
by the destruction of one ship – it's power is barely dented in fact.  This
sees some startling revelations (I won't spoil it in case you've been living
under a rock!) but also sees significant blows to the rebellion.  In fact
the ending of this film could not be more different from the end of Star
Wars.

Like the recent episode two this follows two strands – the more pedestrian
scenes with Luke and Yoda and the more action based scenes with Han and
company.  The scenes with Yoda add depth to the film and hint at the truth. 
Meanwhile the other half is a lot more action orientated and has comedy and
good new characters such as Bobba Fett.  The two work well together and come
together well for a great finale.  The addition of a dark strand to the film
makes it all the better as it can be enjoyed as a story and not just a fun
sci-fi film with good effects.

The characters are better here than the first.  The strong characters from
the first (Han, C3P0 et al) are all still good here.  However we also get a
much more interesting version of Luke as he continues his journey into
becoming a full Jedi.  Yoda is a good addition (despite sounding like Fozzie
Bear!) and Darth Vader becomes a lot more than just a good villain – we
learn his past, a revelation then, but a thing of common knowledge
now.

Overall this is as good as Star Wars at it's heart, but the darker nature of
the film makes it much better.  Where the first one was a victorious
uprising this is, as the title suggests, the time in history where the
Empire strikes back against the uprising.  All the music, characters and
things that make Star Wars Star Wars are here and it's simply one of the
best of the series to date.
<|_=00=_|>

My five children were all pre-teens when 'The Empire Strikes Back' came
to the theater. While there had been other Sci-Fi movies with a theme
of conflict in outer space, the 'Star Wars' trilogy filled our
imaginations like no other movies before them. The fantastic, strange
worlds were presented almost like we were there too. Aliens sitting
around a tavern, enjoying drinks and speaking in all sorts of
languages. Nothing before had approached the sheer size of the space
ships depicted here, huge cities traveling all over the galaxy. And how
about the jump to hyper speed, then disappearing from the screen as the
speed exceeds light speed! And the light sabres of the Jedi Knights.
The Jedi Knights, a striking parallel to the Japanese Samurai.

It is fruitless trying to argue 'which is best' in a trilogy, because
the first one, in this case 'Star Wars', starts it all and has to be
the 'father'. However, an argument can be made that 'The Empire Strikes
Back' (now on DVD called Episode V) is overall a better-made movie
which has more excitement, and grabs your imagination,than the other
two original installments (now called parts IV and VI). The DVDs
finally came out last month, and they are near perfect, as we should
expect from Lucas Films and THX. The bit rate is high, and the picture
is nothing short of superb. As is the Dolby EX surround track. 

My wife and I watched all three of the movies on DVD this week -- Star
Wars, Empire Strikes Back, and Return of the Jedi -- compliments of our
local public library. It was an appropriate reminder how good these
movies are, and still ahead of their time. Nothing else has been made
to compare to them.

<|_=00=_|>

In a film like The Empire Strikes Back, especially a few years on the
heels
of such a mind-bogglingly great film like the original Star Wars, there is
something that comes immediately to mind that would at first seem to count
against the film, but instead only winds up increasing the respect that it
commands. In the 1977 Star Wars, there is a clear reliance on simplicity
in
some parts. Obviously, it is much more than a simply made science fiction
film, but like I said in my review of it, there was a lot of highly
effective reliance on things that were not put on screen, such as Obi
Wan's
description of The Force to Luke. In The Empire Strike Back, the first
thing
that we are treated to is the traditional scrolling text along a
background
of stars, depicting what has happened between the last film and this one,
and reminding us of the things that were mentioned in the last film but
never explained.

At first, this would almost seem to be a way to save money to get more
information across to the audience without having to actually put it on
screen, but this is really an ingenious way of furthering the story. The
very fact that we are so willing to read all this information and forgive
our inability to actually see it is a testament to the quality of the
series, even at this early stage in its presentation, and we know the
story
so well from the first film that we are glad to see such a large change in
what's happening in the films, not for a second lamenting the fact that we
have obviously missed so much action. And besides that, if and when George
Lucas runs out of new prequels to release, and maybe if he someday begins
to
run low on how many hundreds of millions of dollars he has, he could go
right back and make these in-between scenes into full length films. What
would he call these, if he did that? Introquels? Who cares! The names
themselves would be interesting enough, and if you go back and read the
stuff that introduces this film, it's obvious that there's an entire film
there just waiting to be made. I guess the question of actors would be a
formidable one, though.

The Empire Strikes Back is the film where we are first introduced to the
great Jedi master Yoda (`Away put your weapon!'), as well as some of the
most thrilling battle sequences of the entire Star Wars series, and that
includes the prequels. The battle scene where the rebels fight the
Imperial
Walkers on the ice planet is an incredibly well-made battle scene, not
only
in the way that it was put together so convincingly using models, but that
the machines themselves are so creatively made. Indeed, the Imperial
Walkers
are some of the most recognizable machines from the entire Star Wars saga,
right up there with the Millennium Falcon and the Death Star.

I have just watched this film again, having already seen Episode I and
Episode II, and not having seen any of the original Star Wars films for
maybe 10 years (except for the original 1977 Star Wars, which I saw and
reviewed a few days ago - and these aren't even the Special Edition
versions!). When I first saw Yoda when watching The Empire Strikes Back
again, I was really struck by how different he looked from in the newer
movies. Obviously, he's completely computer generated in the new films,
but
here in Episode V he looks like a muppet! Even so, I would like to express
my opinion that Yoda is more realistic and more interesting here as a
puppet
than in the newer films as a computer generated image. At least here in
the
older films you know that he's actually THERE, and that he's not just
added
into the film later.

Oh yeah, speaking of Yoda, can I just complain for a minute? What the hell
was up with the Jedi training? Yes, I realize that I'm just a lowly IMDb
reviewer, while The Empire Strikes Back is a part of the greatest science
fiction series of all time, but would it have killed George Lucas to write
in a little more creative training for Luke? The thing that struck me
first
about the Star Wars films when I first started watching them was how
incredibly imaginative they were, but then Luke started his training. You
know, when I was in high school I played football. I was a wide
receiver/tight end and I hardly ever got to play because I was too tall
and
too skinny, but part of my workout was to carry the linemen up and down
the
stairs to the weight room. Some of these guys weighed 100 pounds more than
me, and I still almost never saw the field, and here's Luke Skywalker. He
carries Yoda around this boggy swamp and he gets to be a Jedi! What the
hell!

There is also the addition of a surprisingly fitting love story. First of
all, anyone who has ever read my review of a Jerry Bruckheimer movie will
know that I am not the biggest fan of cramming a love story into a movie
where it doesn't belong. I can't seem to write anything about Bruckheimer
movies without complaining about the idiot love story, and now it's even
worse because here's this movie that was made so long before, from which
Bruckheimer could obviously have at least learned a LITTLE bit about how
to
do it right. Han Solo and Princess Leia maintain the personalities that
they
developed in the first Star Wars film and there is now a sort of love/hate
relationship between the two of them, where neither one of them wants to
admit their feelings for the other. This romantic subplot is characterized
perfectly in the scene just before Solo is carbon frozen, when Leia risks
approaching a cheesy romantic moment by saying `I love you' just before
Han
is lowered into the freezing chamber, and he saves the moment by
responding,
`I know.' Han Solo. Smart-ass to the last drop.

Before I end I would like to point out that the goofs that can be found on
the IMDb for this film are some of the most blatant that I've ever seen in
a
film. The scene where you can see someone giving a woman at the tactical
maps a cue to deliver her lines is amazingly obvious, and some of the
other
ones, such as the stage hand swinging the light saber prop briefly into
view
as he switches it for an `off' prop with Luke just after he knocks Darth
Vader over backwards, are just as much fun to look for. I have one
question
about the goofs, though. There's one where Luke looks off into the fog
just
after R2-D2 is eaten by the sea monster, and you can CLEARLY see a person
running to the right a little ways off in the fog. Is that meant to be
Luke?
It seems that it's supposed to be him running in his search for R2,
because
you can even hear the FOOTSTEPS of the person running. I can't even
IMAGINE
how they could have missed THAT!!

It is, however, a testament to the quality of a film when such tremendous
oversights in editing do nothing to take away from the overall quality of
the film. The Empire Strikes Back remains an extremely powerful and
well-made installment in the Star Wars series, not taking even a single
step
backwards in the sheer breathtaking adventure of the original film. It's
not
often that a film as good as Star Wars can be released and then followed
up
with a sequel that is just as great, as is clearly the case here. Star
Wars
was a gigantic film upon its release, and with The Empire Strikes Back,
Lucas has begun the formation of one of the greatest film series' in
cinematic history.
<|_=00=_|>
An excellent sequel to Star Wars, this is easily the darkest and most
serious out of all the Star Wars films, at least until Revenge of the
Sith comes out. This movie benefits from the introduction of Yoda, a
diminutive yet wise Jedi master who helps Luke prepare for his showdown
with Darth Vader. It also introduces Lando Calrissian, Han's old
gambling and smuggling buddy played very well by Billy Dee Williams.
Empire is more character driven than the original and relies more on
comic relief to help lighten the mood, but it doesn't go overboard with
the humor. The story is more refined and the acting is better as well.
Despite all of this I can't really say that I enjoyed Empire more than
the original. The original Star Wars has a certain charm to it that
none of the sequels (or prequels) have captured. I'd say that it is at
least on par with the original though and is a fitting follow up in
what is probably the greatest series of movies in the history of
cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot believe some people out there didn't like this film, yet claim
to have enjoyed Episode One. No comparison whatsoever. "The Empire
Strike Back" is George Lucas' best contribution to human history, and
it will be remembered long after most other science fiction films have
gone the way of the Do-Do Bird. The optical effects still stand the
test of time, and the acting is superb. Harrison Ford, Mark Hamil and
Carrie Fisher are all better than they we in the original Star Wars,
having fully developed and grown into their characters, and the story
just keeps going and going, from asteroid fields to swamp planets to
cities in the sky, everything in this film works. So ignore anyone who
claims to dislike it, and see it for yourself if you haven't already
done so. 20 out of 10!!

Oh, and Han Solo shot first! =)
<|_=00=_|>

The sequel to Star Wars is argueably the best of all the Star Wars
films.This is much darker than the 1st one.Look for the Super Star
Destroyer,it is a awesome ship.Boba Fett makes his fist appearence here.The
chase scene the M.Falcon is being chased down by the Star Destroyers and Tie
Fighters is really a cool scene.I f you like the 1st Star Wars then you will
love this one!

Note: The special edition has added scenes,special effects,sounds,and
creatures. To ME the highlight of this special edition is seeing the Wampa
monster!
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILERS Three years after "Star Wars", creator George Lucas released
the second part of his trilogy. Giving scripting credits to Leigh
Brackett and Lawrence Kasden, as well as directing to Irvin Kershner,
Lucas made his smartest ever decision and as a result was able to
release the finest film of the trilogy by a mile. Considerably darker
and more mature than it's predecessor, "The Empire Strikes Back" is a
masterpiece of modern film. It is an intense, powerful, entertaining
film with the ultimate cinema twist and with a script worthy of it's
potential.

After the events of the first film, Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill) and
Han Solo (Harrison Ford) are now members of the rebel alliance. Hidden
on a frozen planet, the rebels hide from the domineering glow of the
Empire. All is not well however as the evil Darth Vader (voiced by
James Earl Jones) is on his way to find them.

Easily the best of the trilogy, "The Empire Strikes Back" has so much
going for it. A wonderful plot, an equally good script with some
brilliant lines (even actor Harrison Ford joining in with a line or two
of his own) and special effects to match, this film is a glowing
example of why people love the trilogy so much.

Since George Lucas passed on the major responsibilities for this film,
we are given a more professional, well made film for our attention and
Lucas's vision is better off for it. With it's recent remastering, it
is also the only film in the trilogy to not be damaged by Lucas'
tampering. Extra images are added, graphics are honed, but nothing
major is changed. As a result the film appears to us to be no different
from it's original self.

Darker and more mature as well, this sequel is better than the original
"Star Wars" because it isn't so black and white. Presenting the evil
Darth Vader as a more balanced individual, we don't quite have the
confused Vader of the final chapter, but we are beginning to get signs
that he isn't quite as we expected.

This second part also gives us the finest performance ever by one of
the universes most important characters. Still a rubber puppet with
bendy ears, Jedi Master Yoda is introduced in this film as a creature
of wit and intelligence. Voiced by Frank Oz, Yoda is brilliant because
of his lines. Legendarily possessing of an obsession for splitting
sentences up and rehashing them together, Yoda very often speaks
normally throughout this film. Occasionally demonstrating his penchant
for bad English, he does make a few minor errors, but ultimately it is
up to the later scripts of George Lucas to corrupt Yoda's style and
turn this wonderful character into an annoying figure of fun.

There's no real way to fault "The Empire Strikes Back". The finest part
of the original trilogy, this film is amazing because it is
professionally done. Nobody would ever deny that George Lucas did
something wonderful when he thought up "Star Wars", but unfortunately
for a lot of the films, Lucas always insisted on too much control. A
dire writer of scripts, Lucas can destroy his films by making them
infuriating to watch. In this part though, Lucas didn't get involved
and as a result, "The Empire Strikes Back" is a masterpiece in it's own
right.
<|_=00=_|>

While the Titanic made all the rich people (with the exception of Molly
Brown and Rose) automatically uncaring, snobby, and thoughtless just
because
they were rich and needed a couple of villains for the story, The Empire
Strikes Back did not portray "the villain" in a completely evil light.
Sympathy is induced when we see the back of Darth Vader's scarred and
pasty
head.  When he tells Luke of their blood relationship, some feeling is
allowed to creep in, telling us that he is not just some maniacal killing
machine, but a human, fallen from grace, yet able to retain some sense of
love, however twisted it may be.
