
Many people say the cried at the end of this movie... Huh! Knowing the
plot already, I (a grown up man) can barely hold my tears from the very
beginning whenever I watch it. Much more than just a "cute and sad
fairy tale", this movie is a true piece of art. This is one of those
rarest cases when a bunch of talented and truly, but truly dedicated
people set out to create something beautiful, some chemistry occurs and
... a miracle happens. Fortunately for all of us, this miracle
immortalized on film.

Throughout the human history, the wisdom of generation was conveyed
through fairy tales. This tale is no exception. This story, told in
magic simplicity, actually has some deep philosophical meanings. While
mercilessly debunking the true nature of human beings, this tragic
story really tears your heart, and yet it fills it with hope. That is
the true and, perhaps, the only purpose of art, if you ask me.

Why do we need music, painting, theatre, poetry? Is there a real excuse
for their existence? To me, the only purpose, the only excuse is to
help people go on, to give them hope. And it's well worth it!

To sum up, easily Tim Burton's best, this film is a masterpiece, my
favorite American movie, and probably one of the best movies of all
times. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

There is absolutely no way I can view this film in even a remotely objective
manner, so I won't even try.  Like eveything I've seen by Tim Burton, this
film is at one and the same time, warm and frightening, tender and
heart-wrenchingly evil, uplifting and dark.  The good and bad in humanity
are shown in stark relief quite clearly for everyone to see.  But in the
final analysis, the most important message the film has to offer is this:
Love truly does make the world go 'round and redemption and just living to
see another day is a kind of victory.  There will always be bullies, just as
there will always be kind souls who actively try to make things better (and
who sometimes make things worse through their efforts).  The most important
thing is to be true to yourself, treat others as you wish to be treated and
that if the bad guys win, we all lose-including the bad guys.  Excellent
cast, fine script and just overall a worthy effort not to be missed.  One of
Vincent Price's last performances, if not the last.  I love this film!  Most
highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I have watched Edward Scissorhands ever since I was a little girl, this
movie has always held a very special place in my heart. I think because
I could relate to Edward… no, I don't have scissors for hands, but what
I mean is that this is a fairytale story, but this is a simple story of
a man who just wants to fit into a society of "norms". This is
completely Tim Burton's creation and story, he's a very criticized
director, he's either loved or hated. Some consider his stories to be
too dark and strange, but when you get inside his head, you realize
this is a man who is pure genius. He thinks completely outside the box
and doesn't just resort to what Hollywood wants, he knows his audience
and doesn't insult their intelligence, he brings us a charming story
about Edward Scissorhands.

An elderly woman tells a story to her granddaughter of a man with
scissors for hands named Edward, the creation of an inventor. He raised
Edward as his son and tutored him in various subjects, but died while
in the act of offering a pair of hands to Edward. Many years later,
local Avon saleswoman Peg Boggs, after failing to make profits in her
suburban neighborhood, visits a Gothic mansion on a hill. There, she
finds Edward, and convinces him to have her take him in. Edward
befriends Peg's young son, Kevin and her teenage daughter Kim. Peg's
neighbors become curious and thrilled at Edward's masterful skills at
hedge clipping and haircutting. However Kim's jock boyfriend Jim
dislikes Edward immediately. Edward's innocence becomes an easy target
for everyone to take advantage of him as often as they can. Wither it's
destroying his reputation or putting him in danger, Edward was never
prepared for this harsh world when he was given the kindest heart.

From the acting, Johnny Depp's first real leading role in a movie, he's
so young and so incredibly talented. He plays Edward with perfect
sympathy not over or under acting it, to be honest I'm a little
surprised he wasn't nominated for an Oscar, but it's such a bizarre
role, I think it was very over looked. He makes Edward into a charming
beautiful character that you fall in love with. Dianne Wiest, one of my
favorite actress as the Avon lady, Peg, who takes Edward home with her,
the reason I love her so much is she brings so much class into whatever
role she is playing. She seems like the most lovely woman you could
meet and makes Peg into a delightful woman who just wanted to help this
man and didn't realize the world she brought him into. Winona Ryder,
who was dating Depp at the time, had great chemistry and was absolutely
beautiful. To the sets, which this world was just bizarre and stands
out against so many other movies, like a strange Leave it to Beaver
nightmare, all the houses in the suburbia are different pastel colors
to this one hill with a dark castle. To the outstanding make up
effects, can only imagine the pain it took to get in and out of that
costume for Edward. Edward Scissorhands is truly a masterpiece and in
my opinion will always remain a treasured classic, because all in all
this is one of the most beautiful movies of all time.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Tim Burton should have won an academy award for this film. It is
truelly a masterpiece. Never have I felt more sympathetic for a
character before in my life. Edward Scissorhands...a creation...an
unfinished product made by an inventor, his father. When his "father"
dies he is left alone in the mansion to fend for himself and discover
things on his own without any guidance. Next an avon lady comes in and
detaches him from his isolation and throws him into a society where
everything is pastel, everything is precise and everyone is stiff.
Edward Scissorhands gets thrown into a world comPLETELY unlike the one
he was used to. Now he is the outsider.

Johnny Depp should have also won an Academy Award for his performance
in this film. Although he had very few lines in this film, less than
100, his facial expressions and actions spoke loudly. Every detail he
gave his character was so perfect and precise. When Edward examines the
water bed, and takes his first sip of (what I'm guessing is) scotch, or
in the beginning when he takes his first ride ever in a car into town.
Just the look on his face when he finally gets to see what the outside
world looks like was pure genius.

I hold this movie very deeply to my heart. In my opinion it encompasses
every human emotion and nature. When Edward first arrives the locals
accepted him and he became a famed hair/bush stylist. In the end they
turn on him and see him for what he looks like, a monster. My rating
for this film: 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Edward Scissorhands is really an amazing movie.  The plethora of lush
cinematography, beautiful musical score, and great characters are extremely
entertaining.  The storyline is simple yet very moving.  I still get
misty-eyed at the end, even though I watched it many times already.  The
musical scores by the amazing Danny Elfman in Edward Scissorhands are one
of
his best work.  It is achingly beautiful.  Everytime Tim Burton and Danny
Elfman worked together in a movie, magic happens.  Burton's gothic style
and
Elfman's halloween-like scores always blends perfectly.

The story surrounds an unfinished creation named Edward, played brilliantly
by Johnny Depp.  The talented actor managed to make Edward a simple being
that radiates vulnerability as well as restrained passion suggesting the
real, imperfect humanity within.  Edward's intimidating scissorhands and
strange black & white physical appearance looked out of place amongst the
pastel-colored suburban surroundings.  He is unique; we both laugh and
sympathize when we see Edward having a hard time trying to eat a single
green pea with his scissorhands, but then we become slack-jawed to see that
his expression of artistry in sculpting are effortless, masterful,
imaginative, and passionate.

The movie ends rather sadly, yet beautifully at the same time.  The tragic
incident at the end over Jim (Anthony Michael Hall) is a single act of both
unvented frustrations over the injustices done by Jim, as well as to
protect
Kim Boggs (Winona Ryder), the love of his life.  This shows that although
uncompleted, the fearsome scissorhands merely masks our eyes to his
feelings, conflicts, and the imperfections of that of a real human being.
His body is not completed, but his heart is.
<|_=00=_|>
Tim Burton is a brilliant visual director but with Edward Scissorhands
he managed to combine these talents with pure, classic storytelling –
Scissorhands is his best overall film, abandoning the slight
characterizations and special effects-driven spectacle of the (albeit
hugely enjoyable) Batman and serving up a convincingly detailed
left-of-center fairytale romance.

The story is fairly basic, being the standard Frankenstein-esque tale
of alienation and the empowerment of love. Edward (Johnny Depp) is a
lonely man with scissors for hands, crafted by an eccentric inventor
(magnificently played by Vincent Price in flashbacks) prior to his
death. After Edward witnesses the death of his creator he stays locked
away inside his mansion all day, which is located atop the otherwise
cheerfully picture-perfect local neighborhood community.

Then one day a nosy neighbor decides to investigate, and ends up
bringing Edward to reality. He falls in love with a local girl (Winona
Ryder), and is witness first-hand to the joys of life, until
accidentally injuring a young boy and becoming the enemy of the
overzealous town. Soon everyone is out to get him for no good reason –
the climax is beautifully done and, because Burton has allowed his
characters to expand so much, it's also very touching.

The movie is decidedly odd but in a good way – the only problem is that
it is occasionally quite thin when it comes to actual depth. Burton's
never been as good at telling believable stories as he has mythical,
exciting fables (see Sleepy Hollow for a similar example). Even
Burton's Big Fish – arguably his most story-oriented film of his career
– was somewhat shady. The mix of screwball dark comedy, horror, drama,
romance and elements and familiar happenings of other genres results in
a very different combination. You can literally "feel" the vibe of this
picture, its heart pulsing black blood.

The movie was a childhood project of Burton, who drew sketches of
Edward as a boy and used to alienate himself from his hostile
surroundings by taking refuge in fictional stories involving the
scissor-handed hero. As a result Burton's true affinity for the subject
is evident – it's clear that he takes this entire project very
seriously.

The acting is marvelous – Depp's performance is one of his finest and,
arguably, one of the most convincing and fun of all-time. Depp has
formed a Scorsese/De Niro-like companionship with Burton over the
years, teaming up for various pictures (including Sleepy Hollow and the
upcoming Charlie and the Chocolate Factory). He's always had fun
relishing his over-the-top and absurdly dark roles, such as Ichabod
Crane in particular. In Scissorhands he gives the equivalent of a
Travis Bickle – a man who feels shunned by society, only to open his
heart and have it feel crushed again. This is possibly one of the
reasons the film is able to affect its audience so well to this very
day. The tale does not grow old because the values are timeless.

Edward Scissorhands, despite its occasional flaws, finally gave Burton
the chance to unleash his talents as a visual filmmaker along with a
pretty solid story mold – the result being a sublimely dark
rom-com-drama that never conforms to the typical genre clichés and
becomes quite a unique film in its own little world.

4.5/5
<|_=00=_|>
This movie impressed me to such an extent, that I had trouble sleeping
for the first few nights after I saw it, not because he scared me. I
just kept thinking about this guy who had scissors for hands, and was
so unfamiliar with the world,

He had a wonderful talent for making things with his unique hands, but
he was still confused about the way the world worked.

He finally wound up back where he began, which in a macabre sort of way
was where he belonged, because his background just wouldn't let him fit
into a so called normal world.

The ending was very sad. I'm a relative old man, and it made me cry.
Watch it!! It's probably the best movie you'll ever see.
<|_=00=_|>

You could have thought that Tim Burton would rest on his laurels, following
"Batman"'s huge commercial success. Well, not at all. "Edward Scissorhands"
appears like a more serious, more mature and even touching movie. This
modern fairy tale links skilfully elements from the basic fairy tale (the
castle) and elements from the social life (Peg's job as representative for a
cosmetics firm) and it can be divided into two parts: the first one that
epitomizes Edward's rise: thanks to his scissorhands that give him gifts as
a hairdresser and a gardener, he becomes the idol of the town. The second
one that shows Edward's fall, following a burglary in which he was
inconveniently involved in, he becomes the town's bête noire (and the movie
becomes painful)
Tim Burton tells this modern fairy tale by introducing a lot of poetry, and
during his movie, he tries to create an aesthetic beauty and he succeeds in,
especially with the gardens of the castle, Edward's sculptures and Edward
himself is good-looking in spite of his scissorhands.
But "Edward Scissorhands" is also a movie of contrasts. There's an obvious
contrast between the brightly coloured town and the dark rooms of the castle
but also one between the bright town and its inhabitants who are scornful or
mocking. Besides, they're the object of a satire of the actual society and
Burton tries to underline its weaknesses. Of course, the inhabitants
appreciate Edward but only for his gifts. Otherwise, they're mistrustful
towards him because, in their eyes, he's different and eccentric (you could
be one of the inhabitants!) and the single mistake (the burglary) can lead
to unexpected consequences...
Whereas Johnny Depp, he's simply extraordinary and finds here, one of his
best roles. He provides to his character, a lot of tenderness, affection and
above all, a deep sensitivity.
At last, Tim Burton knew skilfully how to blend several cinematographic
styles in just one film. In "Edward Scissorhands", you find everything:
comedy, fantastic, horror and drama. Moreover, Danny Elfman's gothic music
is widely gorgeous to create an intense emotion. It's sometimes difficult to
hold his tears...
All in all, a movie which is both tender, cruel and Tim Burton's best movie
after "Ed Wood".  
<|_=00=_|>

I really cannot add too much more to the wealth of praise directed toward
this film...much of it very deserved.  Tim Burton really shows us his
ability to transcend mere comedic situations(Pee Wee and Beetlejuice) and
tell a story of humour love, pity, conformity, and so on in an eerie and
entertaining way.  The way this film is constructed is amazing...the sets
are wonderful as they depict something so real and yet so far away.  Burton
takes us into a kind of fairy land of Suburbia...with a haunting, empty
castle at the end of the block that just happens to house a man with
scissors for hands.  The music in this film helps create a great deal of
atmosphere and really lends to character development;  I particularly
enjoyed his use of the music of Tom Jones.  The acting in the film is superb
on all accounts.  Burton got a subtle and effective performance from Johhny
Depp, whose talents cease to amaze me.  A nice Burton touch was the use of
Vincent Price in one of his final roles.  Although only in three scenes,
seeing Vincent again was a real joy.
<|_=00=_|>
BIG SPOILERS.

"Give it to my loved ones?" - Edward Scissorhands. 

Created by an inventor who dies before finishing his creation, and so
leaving him with razor-sharp shears as hands - Edward Scissorhands
(JOHNNY DEPP) isn't like other people. 

When kindly Avon lady Peg Boggs (DIANE WIEST) finds him one day, hidden
away in a Gothic mansion on top of a hill, she takes him under her wing
and decides to take him back to the suburbs to live with her. 

When we see Edward in this pastel paradise for the first time, it is
apparent that he doesn't belong: his wild, dark and frightening
appearance contrasting against the immaculate, sweetly colored people
and homes of the suburbs. It's an ironic contrast too, as both of these
'worlds' reflect feelings and thoughts that should not associated with
them - as Edward is a good-hearted person, whereas the people of the
suburbs are unkind and intolerant.

When Edward arrives there he is welcomed and loved, due to the way in
which he can sculpt hedges, dogs and hair into amazing works of art.
But eventually, due to human trickery and greed, and Edward's want of
acceptance and love, Edward is painted by the townspeople as a monster
when he is told to rob a house by the boyfriend of Peg's daughter, Kim
(WINONA RYDER), and he is ostracized by the town. 

Throughout the course of the movie, Edward falls in love with Kim.
Originally treating him as an outcast, she falls in love with him too,
realizing what a kind and remarkable being he is. In the end, she is
the only one who accepts him, when the entire town turns against him.
Kim's boyfriend, Jim, enraged by jealousy of Edward, tries to kill him.
In defense of Kim and himself, Edward plunges his scissor-hands into
Jim's chest and kills him. Realising both that by what he has done they
can never see each other again for his safety they share a final kiss
and part ways, Edward remaining in his mansion and Kim returning to the
shocked town below. The ending of this movie is one of the most
wonderful I've seen. Poignant and bittersweet, it is hard to forget
quickly.

Johnny Depp is outstanding as Edward Scissorhands, showing a kind of
curious and bemused innocence within in the character, but at the same
time a restrained passion. Every expression on his face is full of raw
emotion: every cautious smile, and every time of hurt and confusion.
Johhny Depp is Edward Scissorhands. 

This is a wonderful fable from the brilliant imagination of Tim Burton.
It's a twisted and sophisticated Gothic fairytale with a dose of
comedy, and a good helping of morality, too. While a family movie, it's
not really for kids - some things in there even shocked me.

This movie is amazing, and I was entranced by it the very first time I
watched it. I'm not usually one for ridiculous hyperbole about movies,
but there is very little wrong with this one. I love this movie. 

10/10
