
Not saying this isn't an excellent film, it is just bluntly honest. I
remember in English class in high school, we were learning about racism
in the 60's, and how horrible it was. The worst part was that I am from
a very racist town, unfortunately, and watching the beginning of the
film terrified me because I felt like this world hadn't changed since I
felt like I was living that film. Being one voice sometimes can either
be helpful or get you into a lot of trouble.

I didn't want to see this film again because of the awful situations I
saw or heard of. Now, I am out on my own, and I had the chance to see
the movie once again, and felt that I could see it. It's a terrific and
very powerful movie that can get anyone to cry unbearably. It's not
just the actors, but Gene and William's characters, I wanted to be just
like them, they were able to stand up even though the many times of
being knocked down and caring so much just to try to in some way save
that town.

I honestly feel that everyone should see this movie, it can change your
life or make you look around and want to change things. I know this
comment feels more like a lecture than a comment, but that's how much
this movie got to me. I think we all can do something right in this
world, it's just a matter or standing up. Even if this film isn't
historically accurate, it's accurate enough to see how people treat
other people. Hopefully, we will have a better future for generations
to come.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

Where?  Where does racism come from?  How can one race feel superior to
another?  Are we born with it?  No.  Do we become it on our own?  Maybe?  Or
is it perhaps that we are taught it?  There is a small scene in Mississippi
Burning that is just as powerful as any Gene Hackman speech or any violent
montage to gospel music that is in this film.  There is a rally at a park
with the head of the KKK ( without his hood ) telling thousands of people
that have gathered that he loves being white.  He loves the fact that
Mississippi is segregated.  And in the crowd the camera pans across and
shows three year old kids smiling and cheering as gleefully and loudly as
their parent's are.  It is haunting.

This film is bit like JFK in a way.  It is not an absolute recreation of the
events that took place in 1964, but it is a film that tells a true story and
then adds a bit of fiction to make it more interesting for a mass audience.
For example, the case was not cracked by Mr. Anderson fooling around with
Pell's wife.  But that is besides the point, the point being that this film
is mesmerizing.  Everything from its direction, cinematography, acting,
writing and music, it is the best film of 1988.  And having Rain Man take
most of the major awards is really quite sad.  Because Mississippi Burning
is much more ambitious, important and well done.  Rain Man is a very good
film and I will even go as far as to say that Hoffman is the only one that
deserved to win best actor just as much as Hackman did.  But 1988 was a bad
year for the rest of the Oscars.  Anyway...

I have been edgy before.  Boyz and the Hood did that to me, but this film
makes me angry.  It makes me want to jump back into 1964 and try to do
something to stop this.  The film is that strong at showing us how terrible
and pointless racism is.  And in order to make this film work, there has to
be strong elements in all areas.  But for me, what really made me feel the
things that I did is the actors that played their roles.

Hackman is brilliant.  He gives the performance of a lifetime and it is his
anger that gives him his edge.  He sees things differently than Mr. Ward
does and that sometimes makes them bump heads with each other.  But they
ultimately have the same goal in mind.  Just different ways of achieving
that goal.  Dafoe is great as well, but it is the supporting cast that
really makes this film.  From Dourif to R. Lee Ermey to Stephen Tobolwolski,
these characters are richly portrayed by the actors that play them.  There
is however one actor in particular that I wanted to touch on and that is
Michael Rooker.  He plays Frank, the nastiest, meanest, no conscience, negro
hating person that I think I have ever seen on film.  I don't know where his
anger comes from, but he is the kind of character that you can imagine had a
violent father that drank too much and always told stories about how bad the
black man was.  When Rooker is on screen you listen.  You pay attention to
what he is saying and doing.  And my hatred of him was one of my favourite
parts of the film.

Mississippi Burning shows us how strange people are when it comes to racism.
The characters in this film don't know why they hate the way they do, they
just know that they do.  And they are powerless to stop themselves.  What
happened to the three civil rights workers was a disgrace and a tragedy.
But not just because three boys were murdered, but because no one knows why
they were murdered,besides racism that is.  Why did they have to die?
Because they were a different colour of skin?  Because they were Jewish?  It
really doesn't make any sense.

Mississippi Burning is one of the best films I have ever seen.  It is
important and it is entertaining.  If you haven't seen it, do so just for
the scene with Mr. Anderson and Deputy Pell at the barber shop.  That is
worth the price of the rental alone.  But for a really important film that
has something to say, this is one of the best.  
<|_=00=_|>

Great movies are ones that invoke a strong emotional response that lingers
long after the movie is over. Mississippi Burning is that kind of film.
You
may love it, you  may hate it. You may think that it is an accurate
depiction of the south in 1964, you may think its pure fiction. No matter
what you will respond strongly.

Director Alan Parker has been down this road before with Midnight Express,
another crushing, gut-wrenching tale based on a true story. In both cases,
a
great deal of liberty is taken with the facts, but that doesn't matter.
Mississippi Burning is not a docudrama or an A & E special, it is at its
heart, a police drama, and a near perfect one at that.

It is criticized by some for its depiction of southerners of the time as a
group of brain-dead racists with no moral fiber whatsoever. I don't
believe
that is the movie's intention, but it spends time showing this side of
society to make us understand how hate breeds itself, and how it becomes a
way of life and an accepted standard. As one character states, "When we
were
seven years old, they told us that segregation was in the bible. You hear
that long enough, you start to believe it".

Mississippi Burning won a (well-deserved) Oscar for cinematography, but
sat
and watched Rain Main take home the majors. It was clearly the best film
of
1988 and stands as one of the great works of American cinema of the 80's.
Hackman and Dafoe are at their best, and Frances McDormand delivers a
beautifully understated, powerful performance as the deputy's wife - a
woman
at war with her sense of right and wrong, struggling with fear and
loyalty.
Her character is the centerpiece of the movie.

This is not a preachy or melodramatic movie. You won't get a lecture on
why
racism is wrong. You will get an rich, engaging crime drama depicting a
pivotal time in American History, and you will never forget
it.

**** out of ****.
<|_=00=_|>

A highly charged box of fireworks is the best way to describe "Mississippi
Burning". It is 1964 and the Civil Rights Movement is tearing apart many
areas in the deep south. Mississippi is definitely the hottest spot of all
as the entire state seems to be split between whites and African Americans.
After some white Civil Rights activists disappear, the FBI is called in to
investigate (Oscar-nominee Gene Hackman and Willem Dafoe). Naturally the
sheriff's department is difficult to say the least and it appears that it
may have even had a part in the apparent murders. Frances McDormand
(Oscar-nominated) proved that she was a truly gifted actress as the wife of
one of the local deputies (an evil Brad Dourif). Alan Parker's smart
Oscar-nominated direction and the Oscar-winning cinematography give the film
a tense feel that leaves its audience visibly shaken during and after its
running time. A great achievement. Easily one of the finest films of the
1980s. 5 stars out of 5.     
<|_=00=_|>
1964 - The year America was at war with itself! Thats a pretty good
tag-line. The promotion for this film seemed to pitch it as a thriller
or a buddy movie. It is neither. This is a very mature investigation of
a racist Mississippi town where the brutal murder of three civil rights
activists took place in 1964. The film is inspired by real-life events.

Dafoe and Hackman play the two FBI agents sent to investigate. Their
differing styles of pursuing the case and Dafoe's belated admiration
for Hackman's "method's" is an interesting layer of flesh added to the
structure of the film.

You will see some really nasty racist characters played by familiar
faces like Brad Dourif, Lee Ermey and an especially violent Michael
Rooker. All are excellent. Frances McDormand really steals the movie as
the wife of racist Dourif.

This film is far more intelligent than some of the Stanley Kramer
movies of the 60's which dealt with racism. It does not shy away from
showing the seriousness (and sickness) of the racial mindset without
being excessively preachy. It is in fact very watchable - largely due
to a colorful and humorous Hackman whose character was himself a
Mississippi small-town Sheriff at one time and understands the pitfalls
of the Hoover boys going in all guns blazing.

Highly recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
Mississippi Burning is set in 1964 when three civil rights activists
are murdered in a small town by the Ku Klux Klan… Two of them were
white and one of them black…

Based on actual events in Philadelphia, the screenplay centers chiefly
on the hostility relationship between the two FBI agents (Gene Hackman
and Willem Dafoe) sent down to the small Mississippi town to seek
information about the vanishing of the three victims… Immediately upon
their arrival, they are greeted with hostility by the local law
enforcement and the town in general… 

Dafoe's Ward— in charge of the case—comes off as the embodiment of
everything those men in the south dislike about the "Yankees" who are
coming down there commanding them how to act… 

Anderson(Hackman), who was once a Mississippi officer himself, has a
special feel for how to settle things with Southerners… He uses his
charm to win the confidence of the friendly wife of a Klansman deputy,
whom he suspects holds the key to unravel the details of the case…

The scenes between McDormand and Hackman are the best of the film… They
dramatize how quickly two lonely people can match... 

The film succeeds by being gripping, emotional, and disturbing… Alan
parker graphically explores the hatred, motivations and mentality that
were once flaming through the American society in the 60's.
<|_=00=_|>

Well, I guess this is why movies are so personal to the
viewer.

I've read some of the other comments here and have seen words like
"condescending" and "mediocre."

I couldn't disagree more.  "Mississippi Burning" is an intellectually
challenging movie.  It demands that you immerse yourself in the worst of
southern culture, whether you like it or not.

Based on a true story, the film takes place in 1964 (my birth year,
incidentally) in a small town ugly and virulent with racism.  The good ol'
boy sheriff and his stoolies ambush and in cold blood murder three civil
rights workers.  The world's a-changing, but the power-brokers in this place
refuse to let that happen.  They'll do anything to prevent blacks from
taking their rightful place at the table - literally.

The FBI sends a couple of mismatched agents in to search for the three
missing young men.  One agent (Hackman) is 'old school', sly, and knows his
enemies a little too well.  The other (Dafoe) is a naive Kennedy fire-eater,
ready to bring the full force of the FBI and military down upon this small
town's head.  Although he is easy to underestimate at first, he grows into
his role, showing astonishing decisiveness and strength.

The relationship between the town's blacks and whites is complicated and
fraught with rules - spoken and unspoken.  It's a not-so-secret secret that
the civil rights workers have been murdered.  Hackman and Dafoe just have to
get the bodies and the evidence, that's all.  Fear and loathing prevent that
from happening, until the wife of a deputy (the amazing Frances McDormand)
throws herself on the fire and blows her slimy husband's
alibi.

There is justice - of a sort - in the end.  It's not enough.  Real change
crawls on it's belly in the south.

"Mississippi Burning" is a movie of operatic gestures.  The script is
spongey with regional color and snappy, powerful dialogue.

Hackman and McDormand are simply magical.  They don't take or make a false
step from the first frame to the last.  As she would go on to prove in later
films, McDormand doesn't just 'play' a character - she IS that character. 
And Hackman is never more affecting that in this film.  One syllable from
him is more subtle than an entire Shakespeare speech when delivered by a
lesser actor.  Hackman is a national treasure.

IMO, Dafoe is a well-meaning revelation until circumstances forces him to
cave into Hackman's just-get-it-done ways.  He comes to see that idealism
must relent to pragmatism in extreme cases, although that knowledge repulses
him.  He wants nothing more than to get out of the south and go home to a
world he believes is cleaner and more simple.

The conclusion of "Mississippi" is more bitter than sweet.  The guilty are
arrested and convicted, although their various punishments are a joke.  (R.
Lee Ermey is the only one in the bunch who meets a just fate.)  McDormand is
brutally beaten to within an inch of her life for betraying the status quo
and doing the right thing.  Although she and Hackman have fallen in love,
she refuses to leave with him because "this" - gesturing to the vandalized
ruins of the house she was born in - "is my home."

I know the history, and I know this movie inside and out.  And yet I still
bawl like a baby every time I see it.  The power of this film and the fact
that "Mississippi" is based on ACTUAL EVENTS never fails to get to
me.

"Mississippi Burning" has a place in my 'Top 50 Dramas.'  

  
<|_=00=_|>

This film is a good,though not flawless representative of the
turbulent
1960's south.The character representation is good,though taken to
a
bit of an extreme in places.Gene Hackman gives another
knockout
performance here,as he does always as does Willem Dafoe.The cast
is
great,though Gailard Sartain was a surprising choice as Sheriff
Stuckey,
given his penchant for appearing in the worst of films.It is based
on
a true story,and as we all know,true stories are never presented to
perfection.It is,however,presented as well as it can be.This is a
very
gripping,edge of your seat film,and very well done.
<|_=00=_|>
I am from Mississippi. I lived through these times. Secretly, I did
things to help in the voter-registration of Black folks; things you
could get killed for, in those days. I know whereof I speak.

Therefore, let me say this: the events this film seeks to depict were
bad enough without any inventions. But invent they did. Every local
Black person in this movie is noble and a great singer. Their
buildings, however, would lead you to believe they couldn't put tin on
a roof straight. Why try to improve on facts? Every White person
depicted in this film is an idiot. Out-houses in the sixties? KKK
ruling the roost in an entire town?

Where are the rich, educated, "landed gentry" who were behind all this
violence, encouraging the rednecks with nods and winks? Not in this
movie. But I know they exist, because I know some of them...a few who
are still living. Mostly it is their children I know, who still feel
the same way about Blacks, and still do the same encouraging of White
trash.

This film does not show how things really were. It seeks to make things
look even worse, to people who don't know any better. It is a terrible
story, with moments of good acting from many of the stars. It is the
script and the direction that are awful.

What you see in this movie is not true. The truth is far worse.
<|_=00=_|>

Alan Parker's Mississippi Burning is an unflinching look at racism in the
South.  This is a very difficult movie to watch, but it is well worth it,
and a reminder of past events -- events that should never be forgotten.
Gene Hackman gives a power-house of a performance, ripping up the screen
in
every scene.  The film has a strong supporting cast as well, including the
always dynamic Michael Rooker.

Many have complained about the death-wish like final act, but the final
results are completely called for and necessary.
