

Tom and Mae Garvey (Mel Gibson, Sissy Spacek) are the owners of a small
eastern Tennessee farm that has been in the Garvey family for generations.
It is the early 1980s, when the staggering U.S. economy threatens the
welfare of the American family farm.  The Garveys' struggles are
compounded
by the fact that their property is in a flood plain, and by the enmity of
Tom's rival Joe Wade (Scott Glenn), who is a wealthy and powerful foe.
This
is not lighthearted entertainment.

For me, the film's most powerful moments come when cash-strapped Tom has
to
leave the farm to find work elsewhere.  He unknowingly becomes a scab in a
factory where the regular labor force is on strike.  At least there is a
regular paycheck, but the contrast between the man-made hell of a iron
foundry/steel mill and the natural beauty of the family farm is
compelling,
and you can see why the Garveys struggle to hold on to their agricultural
way of life, however hard it is.  The cinematography for this movie is way
above average, a celebration of rural America.

Sissy Spacek delivers her usual fine performance.  Mel Gibson is very
good--
his Tennessee accent quite convincing.  The two youngsters who play their
children deserve special praise for their natural performances.  This is a
good, thoughtful movie-- not romantic, thrilling or exciting-- but one the
family can watch together and think what sacrifices they would make to
keep
a heritage and a way of life preserved.
<|_=00=_|>

I recently rented this movie because I'm a Mel Gibson fan, but before I
did,
I read over the review by Leonard Maltin on these pages and found that his
comment "but Gibson's character is so coldly stubborn that it's hard to
empathize" regarding the character Tom Garvey was pretty
harsh.

This is not a man so stubborn you cannot empathize with him in the least.
Harrison Ford's character in Mosquito Coast was such a man, but this guy
is
a good man trying to do what's right for himself and for his family and I
didn't see him as cold either.  Again, look to Mosquito Coast if you're
looking for a father who's cold, TOO stubborn and unloving.

If you want to see a good movie about farmers facing adversity from the
weather and from their "neighbors" this is a good one to rent.  Justly
nominated for cinematography, it's a very pretty movie, although I'd have
liked to see it on the big screen to get the full effects of the river
shots.  Sissy Spacek was of course excellent as well.

<|_=00=_|>
The River features a decent portrayal of the harsh life of American
farmers and delivers a fine message that stands as the epitome of
genuine American virtues. It is the story of Tom Garvey (Mel Gibson)
and his family. They cultivate land close to the banks of the Tennessee
River and have to fight floods and financial crises while one of the
local capitalists plans to build a reservoir and wants them to abandon
their land. Tom and his wife Mae (Sissy Spacek) are unwilling to yield.
They rather chose to continue their inhuman struggles and stick to the
grounds of their ancestors. What follows is a desperate and almost
destructive fight to survive against adversities that seem invincible.

Mel Gibson and Sissy Spacek are portrayed as a loving couple that would
never back down. Despite mounting pressure and considerable setbacks it
is a question of honor and integrity for them to hold on. Due to
financial reasons, Tom takes a job as a factory worker and has to leave
Mae with the work at home. Mae is a rugged but also very sensitive and
determined woman. She is not as stubborn as her husband and does indeed
show signs of wavering and despair. Yet she is as dogged as he is when
it comes to defend their land and their family. This is where both get
their strength from. Land and family. The most important values for
Americans. As long as there is land, and as long as the family is
intact, there is always hope. Whatever adversity is thrown upon you –
natural or man-made – backing down is no option. The movie lives from
this emotional and psychologically compelling commitment and brings
these genuine American virtues to the fore with sincere authenticity
and without glossing over the facts. The life of the family is
portrayed in all its depressing hardships and stands as a symbol for
the bold ambitions and the perseverance of the pioneers of the
historical frontier. At the same time Tom and Mae embody natural
virtues of not just Americans but all humans.

Apart from the very obvious emphasis on courage and steadfastness, the
movie provides visually intriguing sequences. The camera work is
sublime and manages to capture at least some of the most picturesque
images of the Tennessee River. The entire movie is shot on location in
the Volunteer State along the banks of the great river. The scenes shot
at night and during heavy rain are stunning and require substantial
experience.

The River is indeed more than an average movie. Its story is simple but
compelling. The characters are decently portrayed and the message is
both appealing and inspirational. Storyline developments are sometimes
still too slow and some scenes are occasionally long-winded. It is a
typical American movie, thus elaborating strongly on American issues
and American virtues.
<|_=00=_|>

By 1984, Hollywood must have decided we had been in outer space too long
with the Star Wars Trilogy.  They decided to bring us not only back down
to
earth, but to take us down on the farm with The Green Acres trilogy.  In
the
space of a year they gave us Places In The Heart, with Sally Field,
Country
with Jessica Lange, and this movie The River with Sissy Spacek and Mel
Gibson.

Of the three this is the only one I saw in a theater, and if you're going
to
view this film, it is best viewed in a theater or on a  big screen TV with
the DVD.  That's not to say you can't otherwise enjoy The River, but what
you miss is some beautiful photography by Vilmos Zsigmond, that draws you
in
from the opening frame and will keep you enthralled throughout.  From the
opening shots of the grey clouding skies and the first drops of rain
dropping gently off the leaves, to the mighty force of the torrential
thunderstorm and the raging waters of the river, you are treated to a
Cinematographer's delight.  Not once, during the first fifteen twenty
minutes of The River do you even consider the notion that there are guys
out
there with hoses spraying the set down, and if they were I sure don't want
to know about it.  Even after the opening storm has subsided, the film
becomes almost like an oil painting of rural America.

Not only is the photography in The River impeccable, it has sound editing
that matches it on every level.  This sounds like a storm in every aspect,
from the rain hitting the tin barn roof, the sound of the river water
overflowing it's banks, to the sound Tom Garvey's (Mel Gibson) boots
sloshing through the mud.  Even the sound of Tom's tractor, as he is
anxiously trying to keep the river from overflowing it's banks is
meticulously detailed.  This film was deservedly nominated for an Oscar
for
both cinematography and sound editing, and in my opinion, should have won
both, having lost out to The Killing Fields and Amadeus, respectively.
(It
did win a special achievement award for sound effects so go
figure!)

Then there's the musical score.  One critic complained that John Williams
academy award nominated score was a bit overdone, but I think what that
particular critic  didn't understand is that the musical score perfectly
complimented the cinematography.  It's beautifully done, and it's a shame
that it is never mentioned in the huge lists of John William's film
scores.

Okay, so what about the rest of the film?   Tom Garvey, his wife Mae
(Sissy
Spacek in an academy award nominated performance, but lost to Sally Fields
for the previously mentioned Places In The Heart) along with their two
children Lewis and Beth (well played by Shane Bailey and Becky Jo Lynch),
are trying desperately to hold on to their farm through tough times.  It
doesn't help matters that Tom's crop is washed out at the beginning of the
film by a massive flood.  Throw into this mix, Joe Wade (Scott Glenn), who
wants to see the Garveys fail so that his own Leutz Corporation can buy
the
farm out so that a dam can be built, a dam that would flood the valley,
taking Tom and Mae's farm with it.  This is not only a film about a man
trying to hold on, but it is also an essay on character, Tom's, Mae's, and
Joe Wade's.

Just by listening, we find out that at one time, before Mae and Tom were
married, there was something going on between her and Joe Wade, and that
Joe
ended up with someone else.  We are never told much of the details, but we
know that anything that Joe Wade does irritates Tom tremendously.  There
is
a scene between Mae and Tom, after Joe has made Tom what seems to be a
more
than reasonable offer on the farm, he refuses to even discuss it.
"Because
it's from him?" Mae asks.  It is Tom's hesitation before giving her a
stock
answer that gives him away.  He says it is not, but Mae and the audience
know otherwise. As you watch this film, it is the subtlety in the
performances, that says more here than any of the dialogue which drops
only
subtle hints about what happened in the past.  Joe is on Tom and Mae's
minds, even when he's not around.

Though she never says anything to make us think so, we can tell that there
are times when  being a farmer's wife is beginning to wear on Mae.  At one
scene taking place at a farm auction, another woman tells her "I hate
being
a farmer's wife".  From the look on Mae's face, at this particular moment
in
time, she is in agreement.  When she is trying to figure out where the
money
is going to come from to pay Sears, when she can't call a vet when their
cow
is dying, you can tell Mae is being worn down.  As Mae looks around her,
when they are at the auction, and sees what is happening to not only
herself, but to all the other farmers around her we know what she is
thinking, though she hardly speaks.

Some have complained about Mel Gibson's Tom Garvey being too stubborn and
unsympathetic.  There is another scene at the auction when someone offers
to
help Tom unload his truck and Tom refuses the offer.  Mae grabs the man by
the arm and tells this guy that he knows how Tom is not to take it
personally.  "Yes, just like, his father" he answers.  Towards the end of
the film, when the River is about to flood once again, we see Tom treating
his children more like work hands than anything else, and we can imagine
that Tom was raised in much the same way, so though we may not like his
stubbornness, we now at least understand why he's that way.  If Gibson's
performance weren't consistent throughout, then the whole characterization
wouldn't have worked.

There are some minor flaws in the film.  Most of the things that happen
when
Tom takes a job as a scab at an iron works plant, are too loaded with
heavy-handed symbolism, and unnecessarily so.  The end of this film is
also
a bit of a disappointment.  We may not like Joe Wade much, but we never
feel
any great animosity toward him at any time.  The actions he takes in the
waning moments, are way over the top in order to bring things to some type
of dramatic close.  It is not true to what the character had been up to
that
point, and it unnecessarily makes too much of a villain out of him.
Besides, someone who runs a big corporation wouldn't take such actions, as
it easily would open them up to a gigantic law suit.

Of the three farm movies that opened in a years time, I think this one is
the most underrated and forgotten of the three.  I've seen all of them,
and
though Sally Field's performance in Places in the Heart was good, I think
Sissy Spacek's role here was much more difficult, as it required her to do
so much in a very subtle way.  Then again, I've never thought of the
Academy
Awards as being much of a judge of anything, let alone who was the best
farmer!

Till Next Time,
Next Class Please


<|_=00=_|>
Mel Gibson and Sissy Spacek, are a young Farming family who battles not
just the river of the title but also other matters such as the bank
threatening to repossess their farm, and Scott Glenn plays a scrupulous
land developer who plans to buy the farm to make way for a dam.
together the family battles through the hard times in a desperate
battle to hold on to their farm. Directed by Mark Rydell who directed
such other fine American films 'The Reivers' 'The Rose' 'Harry & Walter
go to New York' 'On Golden Pond' 'The River' is still a relevant if not
hard to watch film in these downtrodden times. It also represents Mel
Gibson at a time he was making quality fare. As usual Vilmos Zsigmond
contributes terrific photography.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed this movie for the most part, it wasn't fantastic, it was
interesting though and somewhat exhausting, watching how hard this
family works to keep afloat. 

Its a slow building movie following Tom and Mae Garvey (Mel Gibson and
Sissy Spacek) a hardy Tennessee farming couple who must defend their
farm against man and nature, constantly one step away from foreclosing
or flooding. This is from the early 80's so Mel Gibson is very good
looking here as well as doing a decent southern accent. Sissy looks
good too.

There are also some interesting scenes in this, one in particular
stands out when Tom takes a job at a foundry and a deer enters which
then has all the workers surrounding it, planning on killing it and
then they just release it. I'm not entirely sure what it was meant to
signify? 

The ending felt a bit abrupt with yet another flood and a somewhat
cheesy conclusion to everything with the outcome of the bad guy land
developer (Scott Glen). I was left wondering and then what happens?
Probably the same exact circle of events next season. 10/24/15
<|_=00=_|>
Tom (Mel Gibson) and Mae Garvey (Sissy Spacek) struggle to keep their
farm afloat after a devastating flood. Joe Wade (Scott Glenn) has a
scheme to build a dam to bring water to his land. To do it, he would
need to buy out all the farmers including the Garveys. Tom needs a loan
but Joe Wade has lined up the bank and political backers against them.

It is the little guy struggling against the big guy. It is also about
Tom's single-mindedness. Tom is not necessarily a sympathetic guy. He
is stubborn beyond reason. He has a mean streak in him. This makes the
simplistic movie structure of small-guy-makes-good not so simplistic.
Sissy Spacek is able to soften him image somewhat. There are a couple
of great scenes in the mix. The auction scene is the most memorable and
heart breaking. The faces in the crowd says it all. The other is the
strike. The ending of which is another great scene for a different
reason. This starts out yet another small farmer struggle movie. In
fact, it's the last of three big such releases of that year. It turns
into a man obsessed against the river.
<|_=00=_|>
From the opening sequence, you can tell this is a movie that is going
to take it's time to tell a story, to introduce, and take you into this
world. What begins as a gentle rain shower turns into a flood, as we
are introduced to the Garveys, rushing about with shovels and bags, and
a bulldozer, trying to save their farm from the rising water. They've
done this before, we see, as Mae Garvey (Sissy Spacek) hands her
daughter the "good quilt" to take upstairs, and gathers family photos
and other irreplacables, putting them out of harm's way upstairs, and
as they head outside into the weather again, we see the flood waters
lapping at the back steps.

The farm has been in Tom Garvey's (Mel Gibson) family for generations,
so he's reluctant to sell up and leave, especially because the offer to
buy comes from Joe Wade (Scott Glenn), Mae Garvey's former beau, who
wants to flood the whole area (in the name of the Almighty Dollar) to
build a hydroelectric plant.

But times are indeed tough, and the bank is reluctant to loan any more
money, which Tom and Mae desperately need to stay afloat. In
desperation, Tom takes a job at an iron-works, but doesn't know until
he gets there that he's part of a group of "scabs" brought in to work
while the contractors of the iron works are on strike. Ripped away from
the idyllic river-front farm, he is unable to leave, lest the
contractors see him doing so, and beat him to death without a second
thought. 4.50 an hour. 50 hour week. 10 minute "p*ss break" every two
hours...you do the math...that's hard work! 

Meanwhile, "back on the farm", Mae has her own problems in a scene that
still grips my gut to this day: fixing a piece of farm equipment
hundreds of metres away from the farm house, she gets her arm trapped
in a cog-and-chain, and is unable to free herself, plus she starts
bleeding from the wound, really badly. I wasn't expecting such a
nail-biting scene in such a seemingly placid film. It was really well
done.

Not only that, but she has the renewed attentions of Joe Wade to deal
with as he plays "knight in shining armour" to the injured Mae while
Tom is stuck at the factory, and lets her know in no uncertain terms
that he wants her back, using the "I can look after your kids better
than Tom" argument to try to convince her. While obviously the "what
could have been" crosses her mind, she loves her husband, and tells Joe
to back off.

The scenes between Gibson and Spacek are great. They have some real
chemistry and raw emotions you rarely see in films these days. Mel does
a great "tough-guy exterior" thing when Joe gives Mae a ride home from
the store, but as he comes on to Mae afterwards in the kitchen, we can
tell that although he's doing it coz he's attracted to her, he is also
doing it because her old flame just gave her a ride home.

All the performances are great, and very real, from the townsfolk
shouting "no sale!" at the auction to the grimy iron works factory
workers, to Tom and Mae's kids (Shane Bailey and Becky Jo Lynch), who
give startlingly believable performances.

This film is a quiet one best watched in the evening, and with the
lights off...the velvety cinematography and rich John Williams score
will enrapture you from the start to the moving final scene. Someone
else on here commented that the photography is like a beautiful old oil
painting...I couldn't agree more. Enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
This film portrays the powerful struggles that a lot of independent
farmers, face. That being, corporate take over or buy-out's which fazes
out the livelihood of a farmer and their families. The direction is
colorful and nearly flawless. I agree with the previous reviewer though
about Mel Gibson. His character, a mite too proud, is a little
difficult to take sometimes. He definitely could have shown more bite
in the scene where he is attacked by the strikers. The scene where he
confronts Scott Glenn in the office is his best scene in this movie.
But he definitely could have done a better job with the character. He
seems miscast at times.

The on screen chemistry between Spacek and Gibson underscores the
uncomfortable aura of the marriage in the movie. There's something
strange about the couple, something that just doesn't click; a feeling
of looming doom regarding their relationship. Scott Glenn's character
does not help the uneasy tension. They're all just trying to keep their
families afloat, is all. Mel Gibson played a terrific part in this
movie and he was brilliant in every scene. Cinematography is nice.
Country was a better take on this topic of the early 80's-people losing
their family farms to the banks. Country had some show stopping moments
of dialog delivered by Jessica Lange. Jessica seemed less a victim than
the two main characters here. There is little triumph in the survival
of Mel and Sissy.Jessica was more Joan of Arc than merely a survivor.
The movie has a lot to do with the 1980's recession that is plaguing
farms throughout the state of Tennessee, not to mention the constant
flooding of the river that is threatening to wash away everything that
the farmers worked hard for.

Overall rating: 7 out of 10. Overall rating: 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
"I saw the weary farmer, plowing sod and loam. I heard the auction
hammer, knocking down his home. But the banks are made of marble, with
a guard at every door, and the vaults are stuffed with silver, that the
farmer sweated for." - Pete Seeger 

Mark Rydell's "The River" stars Mel Gibson and Sissy Spacek as a pair
of struggling farmers. Combating floodwaters, bankers, scheming
capitalists and angry unionists, the duo desperately attempt to keep
the family farm from foreclosure.

John Steinbeck published "Grapes of Wrath" in 1939, turned into a film
one year later by John Ford. In many ways, Rydell's film plays like a
1980s update of the aforementioned works. At its best, it conveys the
insensitivity of power brokers and landowners, tests the assumptions
about private property and class difference upon which our social order
rests, and details the ease at which humans (with common interests and
shared grievances) are divided into subsets and pitted against one
another. 

Not as sophisticated as Elia Kazan's similarly themed "Wild River",
"River" climaxes with our heroes saving their farm and "becoming rich".
This hokey climax not only betrays the film's original ethos, but
ultimately endorses the problems and pursuits it pretends to denounce.
In "River", everything's fine so long as you make a profit at the end.

Aesthetically, "River" offers a nice blend of 1980s Hollywood and early
20th century neo-realism. Part of a wave of big-budget "women's
picture", and influenced by the ripples of second-wave feminism, the
film features another wonderful performance from Spacek. Blending
strength with fragility, beauty with plainness, her character endures
the labours of motherhood, matrimony and agronomics. Mel Gibson, though
photogenic, is miscast as Spacek's husband.

7.9/10 – Underrated. See Ford's "Grapes of Wrath" and Ken Loach's
"Bread and Roses".
