

A View To A Kill seems to get more than its fair share of criticism. Often
it is labelled the weakest of the Bond entries, but I don't think this is
particularly true. Personally, I don't even rate it as the poorest of Roger
Moore's Bond outings, with Moonraker and The Man With the Golden Gun
standing out in my memeory as less memorable escapades than this
one.

It's Moore's final appearance as 007, and he is trying to prevent a
psychotic business magnate, Max Zorin (Walken) from destroying Silicon
Valley and cornering the world electronic market all for himself. To make
matters worse, Zorin is not your average adversary, since he was born as the
result of a Nazi doctor's scientific tamperings resulting in him being
hyper-intelligent but also uncontrollably murderous. The mission takes Bond
from Zorin's French chateau, to San Francisco, and ultimately to an
abandoned mine close to Silicon Valley, where Zorin plans to detonate a bomb
which will trigger a cataclysmic earthquake.

The set pieces are memorable, including a parachute pursuit from the Eiffel
Tower, a fire engine chase around the hilly streets of San Francisco, and an
airship crash on the Golden Gate bridge. Moore looks a bit old for the part,
and his sexual humour bears a greater emphasis than usual of the "dirty old
man" baggage. However, he still has an easy-going charisma and good comic
timing. Walken makes for a good, supremely confident villain, and is well
backed by the fearsome Grace Jones. However, Tanya Roberts might be a
gorgeous looker, but her Bond girl character is whining and screaming so
much in this film that she eventually wears out her welcome. The theme song
from Duran Duran is rather too '80s, but the instrumental music by John
Barry is stirring and dramatic.

I'm not sure what all the disappointment is about. A View To A Kill is an
above average Bond flick with plenty to keep you entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
Seriously underrated and lambasted by critics, but in my opinion one of
the best Bond films. Moore bowed out of the series, just in time (well,
at least close to it...) and with a serious bang. Christopher Walken is
deliciously evil and psychopathic as Mack Zorin, the Nazi engineered
genius looking to take over the tech industry by destroying Silicon
Valley with a major flood disaster and earthquake. He is definitely one
of the best movie villains ever. Along with some of the best music
scoring of all the films in the series, including the fantastic Duran
Duran song which epitomizes the 80's, the final showdown between Zorin
and Bond on top of the golden gate bridge is breathtakingly exciting. I
get goose bumps watching the ending! Many people hate this entry in the
007 series, calling it cheezy, clichéd, and that Moore is just too
hammy and way too old. I disagree. I claim to be a true Bond-phile,
having seen every film many times over, and have read every one of the
most excellent (and quite different from the films) Fleming novels (btw
the Fleming short story View to a Kill is actually the basis for the
films Live and Let Die and For Your Eyes Only) and find that this is
definitely one of my favourites. A great watch with amazing music,
villains, and final action sequence.
<|_=00=_|>
"A View to a Kill" is a true remake of "Goldfinger." Let's start with
the villain and his scheme… The villain, Max Zorin (Christopher
Walken), is a true and exact copy of Auric Goldfinger… He owns a stud
farm, and wins horse races by cheating... He is the European outsider
who plans to wipe out a massive American resource, thus increasing the
value of his own stockpiled wealth…His lust for power are greater than
his loyalty to a lover… 

Disco diva Grace Jones took the role of May Day, Zorin's natural born
killer… May Day's leap off the top of the Eiffel Tower is a fine moment
in best Bond tradition…This statuesque Jamaican woman—with sharp-cut
hair to enhance her profile—is cast as a horse-taming, Kickboxing
American who, according to Q, 'must take a lot of vitamins.'
Nevertheless, at the film's climax, she retained a few shreds of
humanity…

The film opens on an icy Siberian shore, where Bond recovers a
microchip from the body of 003, driving back a party of Russian
militiamen in his flight back to a British submarine disguised as an
ice floe and controlled by blonde compatriot Kimberley Jones (Mary
Stavin). The location chosen is both arresting and well-photographed
enough to distinguish itself… 

Bond is alerted to Zorin's intentions while investigating how the
Russians have managed to duplicate a secret microchip resistant to
damage caused by the magnetic pulse of a nuclear explosion… The
technology has been leaked to the KGB following Zorin's purchase of the
research company that developed the chip… 

Tanya Roberts—who had joined the cast of television detective series
Charlie's Ange1s in 1980—is cast for the role of Stacey Sutton, the
beautiful blond geologist and heiress who results a vital assistance to
007 in unraveling the details of Zorin's scheme to detonate a bomb in
one of his mines and create a cataclysmic earthquake… 

"A View to a Kill" represents the farewell of Lois Maxwell who appeared
as Miss Moneypenny for over 20 years of loyal secretarial service, and
a unique claim to have featured in every Bond film… The motion picture
also concludes Roger Moore's activities for over a decade in Bond
adventures…In all his Bond's movies, Moore was a likable hero who
softened the menace saving the world seven times with charm,
intelligence, and great dialog… However action sequences lost their
deadly flavor and took on a madcap flavor… In battles with characters
such as J. W. Pepper, Nick Nack, Jaws, and May Day, it was hard to keep
too straight a face—and Bond didn't…
<|_=00=_|>

With A View To a Kill, the cutain falls on one of the greatest era's in
action/adventure movies, as we, EON and the rest of the world bid a fond
farewell to Roger Moore's James Bond. And what an exit Moore makes, put
simply A View to a Kill is on of the most exciting, stylish, well written
and under-rated Bond movies of all time.

The basic feel of the movie is pure electric. The series is on a role
after
the rousing successes that were For Your Eyes Only and Octopussy. Both
these
movies had represented a maturing point in the series and the shot in the
arm of suspense,action and excitement that was needed. This trend is
continued to the full with A View To A Kill, and in his goodbye
performance
Roger Moore manages to remarkably combine all the best elements of his
previous Bond movies, and comes up with a perfect way to leave behind Bond
and Her Majestys Secret Service.

Cubby Broccoli could hardly have awarded Roger a better acolade in wich to
leave the series, than to give him the opportunity to act alongside one of
America's all time best character/villain actors : Christopher Walken.
Walken as Zorin is the best villain in the series since Christopher Lee's
Scaramanga in The Man with The Golden Gun. Walken brings a refreshing air
of
realism and menace combined to put him amngst the great villains of the
series. Equally impressive is Grace Jones as MayDay. Jones is the epitomy
of
a she-hulk and is the very fore of mid 80-s femenism.She strangely manages
to be beautiful and frightening in the same breath, and looks fantastic in
the action and love making sequences were she lets Bond know who's on top!
Then there is Patrick MacNee as Tibbet. Tibbet is a fun character and when
posing as Bonds servent early on in the movie Moore takes every
opportunity
to ad-lib, ordering and bossing MacNee about. In truth it is very amusing
to
see John Steed carrying Simon Templer's Bags around. It is a petty that
MacNee's character is Killed because other Bond movies would have
benefited
from Macnee's presence. Less succesfull on the character fronts are David
Yip, whos character drifts into the movie, seemingly to make the numbers
up
and is then killed, and of course Tanya Roberts as Stacey Sutton. Sutton
makes Brit Ecklands Goodnight look impressive. Roberts looks good, nd the
part is well written , so perhaps it is a case of miscasting. Luckily, the
beautiful Fiona Fullerton, who may have been a more impressive Stacey
Sutton
turns up as the tantalisingly sexy Pola Evanova.

The action set pieces like in every Bond movie fire and work on all
cilendars. There is a wonderfull pre-credits Ski-Chase battle set in a
picturesque arctic glacier. The excitement begins in Parris were BJ Worth
doubled for grace Jones and parachuted off the Eiffel Tower, and this is
imediately followed by a fantastic car chase through the Parrisian locals.
This later shifts to a simmilar scene in San Francisco, wich has bon
Escape
a burning elavator shaft and end up driving a Fire Engine [or dangling
from
one] at full speed through the city. And finally to the Golden Gate bridge
via Air Balloon were Bond and Zorin battle to death. Here Walken displays
all the depth of his character, giving a knowing giggle before plummiting
to
his death, as though he apreciates the joke is on him.

A View to a Kill represents one of the finest scripts in the series, the
battle for monopoly over the microchip market. Even if the climax borrows
slightly from Superman the Movies flooding of St Andres Fault, or in this
case Sillicon Valley. All the elements work. John Barry's Score is his
best
since On Her Majesty's Secret Service, and the title song by Duran Duran
is
one of the most energetic and exciting of the series and has quickly becom
a
standard. In all this is a most satisfying Bond movie. An adequate exit
for
Roger Moore and one that has stood the test of time well. Thanks Roger and
goodbye.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a good Bond film, but sadly is the last with Roger as 007. Despite
this, A View to a Kill has one of if not the best Bond bad guys ever. Chris
Walken is in fine form as the evil Zorin - a psychopathic mega-lo-maniac
with his eyes set on computer domination of the world by destroying silicone
valley. I found his devilish laughter, especially just before he dies, one
of the best moments in the film. Also his horse related exchanges with 007
are swiftly and enjoyable executed. Obviously Moore does it again with a
fine portrayal as JB. The scene with the Iceberg, the fight at Miss Suttons
house, the fire truck, the race course are particularly enjoyable. Grace
Jones is VERY scary as May Day and certainly one of the most unusual Bond
girls. Tanya Roberts as Stacey Sutton is fine and does what all Bond girls
are supposed to do - say "oh James" at the end of the film. With Lois
Maxwell and Roger Moore leaving the series its a good swan song for them
both. (Also, the title Duran Duran sequence is probably the best of the lot
with its colourful 80's imagery and the punchy track from a great band!) 

 
<|_=00=_|>
After reading several not very flattering opinions of this film, I
thought it right to add my own opinion to this film. I'd like to
discuss a couple of points mentioned in previous comments.

1) Roger's age - I know Roger was in his late 50's when this movie was
made but I don't think it really affects the flow of the film. I
actually think this is one of Roger's better films.

2). One of the worst bond films of all time - Lot's of comments refer
to this movie as being Roger's worst and possibly one of the worst Bond
movies of all time. For me the movie has all the essential bond
elements a sexy bond girl, a great theme song, terrific bad guy
(Christopher Walken) and Roger on top form. The humour is there
throughout the film and it just feels like a bond film. Compare this to
'for your eyes only' which never felt like a bond film to me. I feel it
is certainly worthy of a much higher rating than 6.0.
<|_=00=_|>

In Roger Moore's final cinematic assignment as Agent 007, the super-spy
must
investigate the connection between a Soviet research centre's reproduction
of British high-tech blast-proof microchips based and a multi-national
industrialist who is hoarding them. With a supporting cast of Christopher
Walken, Grace Jones, Patrick McNee, and Tanya Roberts, and locations such
as
Paris and San Francisco, what you have is another Bond movie with the size
and scope to match any of its contemporaries.

To start with the good points, Roger Moore is once again reliable and
believable in the role of Bond, and although critics of this movie
maintain
he was told old by now, this is disputable. The script doesn't allow him
as
much of his custom wit and repartee, with the writers dropping his usual
amiability towards the villain in favour of a disgusted and repulsed tone,
which is quite a turn. For those sick of the movies where Bond and his
enemies swap endless pleasantries despite efforts to kill each other,
check
out the Bond/Zorin scenes towards the middle and end of this film.
Although
not Moore's most memorable turn, he is very solid as 007.

Christopher Walken as Max Zorin, the product of a Nazi genetic experiment
who was artificially given both incredible intelligence and psycopathy as
a
side effect of his mother's treatment in the concentration camps before
his
birth, gives us an odd-ball but distinctive performance, and is very
credible as a single-minded sociopath. Grace Jones plays MayDay, Zorin's
bodyguard/girlfriend/personal trainer/hit-woman/seductress and whilst she
won't go down as either one of the most beautiful Bond girls or one of his
most feared villains, Jones still comes across well with some menace and
formidable qualities that even Bond struggles to get to grips with (quite
literally!). Both Walken and Jones were odd choices for roles in a Bond
movie but both acquit themselves well and gain a respectable place in the
pantheon of 007's enemies.

Continuing with the positives, the regulars M, Q, Moneypenny, Frederick
Gray, and General Gogol (with Lois Maxwell in her last Bond role) are
dependable as ever, and are joined by David Yip as a CIA agent. As in the
two previous Bond movies, Moore is joined by a fellow agent on his
mission,
this time Patrick McNee as Sir Godfrey Tibbett, a horse racing expert
affiliated to MI6. In some brilliantly funny scenes, with Bond posing as
an
owner and Tibbett as his valet, the pair go undercover at Zorin's stables
during a horse sale with both hamming it up to distract the guards from
suspecting them as impostors. Moore and McNee also appeared together in
Sherlock Holmes in New York as Holmes and Watson respectively, as well as
The Sea Wolves, and their chemistry is a highlight of the film. Too bad
really that Tibbett is assassinated in unusual but chilling fashion by
MayDay before the film can make more of his obvious debonair charm.

Also on the plus side, the action is handled very competently, with a
Siberian (actually Iceland) ski-chase featuring some extreme-sport
pursuits
like snowboarding before they became more well-known, an
adrenaline-fuelled
horse race in which Bond comes under attack from Zorin's henchmen, and a
scene in which a Russian agent is fed into a propeller after he is found
spying on Zorin. There are also some great stunts, such a base-jump off
the
Eiffel Tower and in the aforementioned ski scene. For a Bond film the plot
is actually fairly logical, although it seems to have borrowed some
inspiration from its predecessors. Having said that, which Bond film
didn't?

However it isn't all roses. Tanya Roberts is extremely annoying and not at
all believable as California's state geologist and a businesswoman whose
shares Zorin is trying to buy. Every time it comes to a fight or some
action
she cowers and whimpers, yelling `Help me James' at the top of her shrill
voice, and spends most of the time as some sort of damsel in distress for
Bond to save. Apart from Mayday, the henchmen are rather boring this time,
with a bunch of caricatures instead of characters: a Texan oil boss, a mad
scientist (plus monocle, tweed suit, wild hair, and German accent), and a
tall silent type with a facial scar as his single defining feature. Lucky
then that Walken is there to bail the movie out and prove, as the tagline
suggests, to provide a match for James Bond.

Also, the technically well-done chase sequence in Paris is ruined due to a
ludicrous moment in which Bond-s care is hit by another and breaks in
half!
It looked cool driving on two wheels, but it would have been better in a
cartoon. In keeping with some of the less attractive Bond conventions,
some
of the other action scenes are ruined by an overly-jokey feel - the San
Francisco fire truck chase, for example, is played totally for laughs,
and,
like the Golden Gate Bridge scenes, features so much poor back-projection
it
is hard not to laugh. Plus, the pre-credits ski-chase is wrecked by an
80's
cover of 'California Girls' being played over the action, and Bond's
companion and vehicle at the end of this sequence. For all the problems in
this paragraph, director John Glen deserves the blame, although he was
hardly alone in getting things wrong during 007's 40-year history.

Despite criticisms from some that this is a tired movie with a re-hashed
plot and an uninspired screenplay, A View To A Kill holds up pretty well.
Most diehard fans of the series don't rank this too highly amongst the
others, but for the less demanding viewer there is enough of the Bond
formula to appreciate, without a great deal of silliness. There are a few
flaws in AVTAK but the positives outweigh the negatives, and while Roger
Moore didn't make a great success of his post-Bond career, at least he had
a
very respectable sign-of from the series with this.

Verdict: 3.5/5: Well worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
This 1985 Bond film is one of the better entries in the Bond series,
even if the story is a bit absurd. It's not quite as good as some of
the 1960's classics, and Tanya Roberts is simply awful as the heroine,
but Roger Moore is always a treat to watch, and Christopher Walken is
solid, if a bit low-key. Some of the scenes in France drag on (the
"horse steroids" subplot is tangential to the main story about
microchips), but A View to a Kill is still more intelligent than the
mindless, over-the-top-action-over-storyline Bonds of the Pierce
Brosnan era. Roger Moore is the second-best bond because of his wit
alone. If you have to guess who the BEST Bond is, you obviously don't
know your Bond history very well.
<|_=00=_|>
I can say I am a Bond fan, seeing as I own twenty of the twenty-two
movies currently on DVD (as of writing this review). So far the only
film I haven't enjoyed in the series has been Roger Moore's Moonraker,
just because of the over the top silliness and the obvious sell-out to
appeal to moviegoers who had just seen Star Wars.

Upon seeing 'A View to a Kill' I instantly was prepared for the worst,
and let me tell you this certainly is a bad Bond film. Moore is showing
his obvious age, making the relations with his leading ladies
undeniably awkward, to say the least. The plot is as simple as they
come, and none of the actors are really given any chance with the
dialogue they have been given. Moore has very few witty comments in
this movie, and most of the other characters are cardboard cut outs.

One thing however manages to make this film better than Moonraker. This
is the under-appreciated role of Max Zorin, played by the always
wonderful Christopher Walken. I can say without a doubt in my mind that
Walken is the single saving grace in this film, exhibiting everything
any good Bond villain needs.

Exotic locations: Check! Unique henchmen/henchwoman: Check! Surrounded
by beautiful girls: Check Cold and ruthless attitude: Double check!
Heartless and chilling disregard for henchmen life: CHECK Walken, with
a horrid script (every character in this movie is poorly written) is
able to create one of the best Bond villains I've ever seen! The way he
talks, the way he acts, everything he does showcases his undeniable
talent. So for a movie like 'A View to a Kill' Walken's performance is
like shifting through sewage and finding a large diamond ring.

It is because of Walken that I recommend this movie and give it a
relatively good rating. Everything else about this film is really
forgettable. You'd think a super-strong female henchwoman would make
for a memorable moment in the franchise, but this is so poorly handled
that she winds up as one of the most forgettable characters in the
series, as opposed to one of the best.

Roger Moore, unfortunately, ends his career on Bond in perhaps his own
worst performance, which is undeniably sad. It seems that all Bond
actors seem to end their careers on the lowest of their films (Connery
with 'Diamonds are Forever', Brosnan with 'Die Another Day', and though
Dalton was a great Bond, I have to say 'License to Kill' was a weak
film) but with those films it has always been more the scripts fault,
as opposed to the actor's talent (all three tried their best with the
material). Moore is just plain stiff in his last entry! The man seems
to have totally lost interest in playing the character by this point.

I consider 1979's 'Moonraker' Moore's worst, but like 'Diamonds are
Forever', and 'Die Another Day', Moonraker was more the fault of the
script writers; not the Bond actor. In 'A View to a Kill' Moore really
shows that he is no longer capable of playing the part, and that is the
saddest part of the film (especially seeing Moore seducing girls much
younger than himself, with his developing turkey neck becoming quite
obvious). Walken makes the movie an enjoyable, B-grade action movie,
but as for Bond, this is where it becomes an undeniable fact that Moore
has overstayed his welcome as Agent 007.

Moore deserved a better ending, and the fact is that he just shouldn't
have come back for this film. Octopussy may have actually been a decent
departure, but Moore decided to try one last time and it really is the
straw that breaks the Moore Bond's back. Enough was enough, and Moore
failed to recognize when he should have cried "when!" I give this film
a decent rating for the performance of Christopher Walken, but
everything else is very low, and forgettable. Go and see it for Walken,
but it is sad to see Moore's finally desperate breaths as he tries to
keep the character going one last time.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite Roger Moore being a little over the hill for his last Bond
film, I still loved it.

The basic premise of this movie is, yes, I admit it, similar to
Goldfinger. Christopher Walken who happened to be a product of Nazi
experimentation plans to destroy silicone valley and have a monopoly on
the computer chip market. This was a great story line, especially in
the 1980's when computers were becoming cool.

Tonya Roberts, In my humble opinion was probably the most beautiful
Bond girl there was. Her sexy throaty whisper was intoxicating. May Day
(Walken's strange and muscular girlfriend) added so much too the story,
especially what she did at the end.

Despite what people say about this being one of the worst 007 movies,
it had a solid story. An amazing performance by Christopher Walken and
a very sexy Tanya Roberts. This movie should at least be somewhere in
the middle of your James Bond list. So please give this one a chance,
it's one of my favorites. Oh, and we can't forget the theme song, which
has to be the best James Bond theme ever, and you can't deny that.
