
I have to hand it to Sylvester Stallone – he did the impossible with
'Rocky II' and made a successful follow-up to 'Rocky,' winner of the
1976 Best Picture Academy Award.

Some argue that 'Taxi Driver' (also nominated) deserved the Oscar more.
I'm not so sure. 'Rocky' came along at just the right time – it was an
uplifting story and people needed that back then. Now, 'Taxi Driver' is
usually considered the superior of the two – but they're entirely
different and, in my opinion (and it's a rare one), 'Rocky' is just as
good – but in a different way. They're both great films, and I'm not
saying that 'Taxi Driver' shouldn't have won – but I'm not necessarily
saying it should have, either. 'Rocky's' achievement is monumental and
it is one of the greatest films ever made. To say it's 'not as good'
merely because it is more optimistic is nonsense.

So what's so great about 'Rocky II' and why is it generally underrated?
(Its average user score right now on the Internet Movie Database --
with over 8,000 votes -- is a measly 6.2/10, compared to the original's
7.7)

Because it maintains the focus of the first film, and continues the
story rather well. A story that didn't really need to be continued, per
se, but nevertheless formed the foundation of one of the greatest film
franchises of all time. That's right – many people hate the 'Rocky'
sequels, but apart from 'Part V,' they're all surprisingly entertaining
– and, more importantly, well made. I like them; they entertain me, and
I think they all serve their purpose.

What's particularly interesting about 'Rocky II' is that apart from
repeating the central theme of fighting Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers),
Rocky (Stallone) goes through a character arc here that many sequels
totally ignore – we see the after-effects of his fight, and him
struggling to adapt to the 'New Life.' 

Rocky is not a smart person. But he is one of cinema's deepest
characters. Stallone (who wrote all the scripts and directed three of
the sequels) succeeds at evolving Rocky's self-confidence. After
winning a small fortune from his famous fight with Creed, he goes out
on an impulsive shopping spree, buying a cool car, a new leather jacket
(with a tiger – the beast with the 'eye' that Rocky re-captures in
'Part III' – printed on the back), and a new luxurious apartment for
him and his wife Adrienne (Talia Shire).

The problem is that Rocky soon runs out of money. His happy-go-lucky
personality crashes when he is faced with the prospect of losing it
all. He promised Adrienne never to fight again, and keeps his word by
trying to get a 'real' job at the meat-processing factory (the same one
he trained at in the original film). However due to staff cut backs he
is fired and soon realizes that he was born for one reason: To fight. 

Meanwhile, Apollo is eager to take on 'The Italian Stallion' again – to
prove he isn't the coward that criticizers are implying he is. He
entices Rocky back into the ring for a final match – and to say that
the outcome is satisfactory is an understatement.

Most people seem to forget that Stallone is almost solely responsible
for the entire success of 'Rocky' as a whole. He came up with the idea,
wrote a script, fought to get it made, fought to become the leading
star, and literally fought to get in shape. All of this fighting paid
off – and it continued to pay off as he kept on cranking out all the
sequels.

Indeed, the 'Rocky' legacy is often poked fun at because it is the
typical endless Hollywood moneymaking franchise. But 'Rocky II' and
'III' (more so than the other two sequels) have guts, power,
determination and focus – they've got the so-called 'Eye of the Tiger'
and I can't really say that I agree with anyone who says these movies
are worthless. They aren't masterpieces but they certainly aren't
trash, either. I give 'Rocky II' a hearty recommendation – it's a truly
solid sequel that surprises us right when we expect to be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>

"Rocky II" is one of those sequels that is just as good as the original, if
not better in 
some aspects.  I can't say it's better than the original because you can't
have the second 
film without the first one.  Meaning that this film does not stand on it's
own, you need 
the first film to understand the characters and back-stories of everything
in this film.  
But all in all, I think "Rocky II" is slightly more enjoyable than the
original "Rocky".

In all honesty, I think this film is better directed than the first film. 
The story seems to 
flow quite nicely and is slightly faster paced than the original.  Not only
that, but the 
main fight in the film is much more exciting and longer.

The acting in "Rocky II" is better as well, or at least I thought so. 
Sylvester Stallone does 
a fantastic job with his role of Rocky Balboa and really struts his stuff
here.  Talia Shire 
and Burt Young also pull off nice performances.  Carl Weathers plays the
character of 
Apollo Creed to a "T".  And of course, Burgess Meredith does a fantastic job
as Mickey.

This is one of those sequels that truly has the same feel as the original. 
Granted, it isn't 
as fresh as the original...but it's a re-match that can't be missed.  If you
liked the 
original "Rocky", then you definitely ought to check this one out, I don't
think you'll be 
disappointed.  I hope you like the film as much as I do.  Thanks for
reading,

-LebowskiT1000
<|_=00=_|>
I'm old enough to remember the thrill of seeing each of the "Rocky"
films during their original, theatrical runs. The magical component
that Stallone achieved was to tell nearly the exact same story, twice
in a row, with the same characters... and yet, he gives us a one-two
punch that hits just solidly as the first.

It's truly a remarkable feat. Differences? We've already met all the
characters. Gone is the sense of discovery, the sense of learning who
these people are. We already know, don't we? Yet, Stallone's characters
are sufficiently interesting enough for us to want to spend more time
with them, seeing them in a world most of us don't know, living a life
few of us would really want. While the sense of discovery about these
characters is gone, our joy of being a voyeur into their world is not.

It's a toss up which movie, "Rocky" or "Rocky II," asks us to suspend
disbelief more. In "Rocky," we have to accept that a nobody, unrated,
club fighter could a) get the chance to fight the world champion. B) He
could possibly defy all odds and go the distance. That's a huge stretch
only possible in Hollywood movies, classifying the first movie as a
fairy tale along the lines of Cinderella.

Soap opera-esquire is not a bad way to characterize "Rocky II" because
of the emotional ride, but I don't find it as trite as a soap opera.
Rocky's actions are very believable, from his earnings feeling like a
fortune to him (when they were obviously not), to his illiteracy and
his unsophisticated, "punch drunk" boxer. The ramifications of his past
are believable. He fritters away the money and is unable to capitalize
on his 15 minutes of fame. Hey, it happens all the time. Very
believable.

With a pregnant wife, no job, and no way to pay his bills, he's backed
into a corner. What's a fighter to do? (And in this case, I mean "a
fighter" in its most literal sense.) He's willing to risk his health
and even his marriage to do what any man should do: provide for his
family.

Adrian's bit of drama is the single "problem" with the movie, but it's
also the heart of the movie. It's not a movie about losing it all and
coming back again, it's much more than that. It's about a simple man
who's trying to do the best he can with the only tools he has. And when
Adrian is first to go down for the count, it puts it all in jeopardy.

It's not until his wife is ready to accept him as he is, for what he
is, that he can continue his quest, one more fight, for his family, for
himself.

The story arc feels so similar to the first movie that this one is
often tossed to the side, yet it truly is amazing how Stallone managed
to re-imagine all the magic of the first movie and, better still, give
us a second helping of it that's just as sweet. Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>

Immediately after Rocky's close contest with Apollo Creed, he is drawn into
fame only to find it is a temporary thing.  As the money fades he finds
personal crisis is never far away and is tempted into a big money rematch
against Creed.  Meanwhile Creed, who should fight other fighters, is plagued
by suggestions that the first fight was staged to go the distance.  Things
build to the rematch.

Stallone proves that he has got a money making brain in his head by
basically remaking Rocky.  The story covers similar themes – it's a soap
opera with a fight at the end.  Here the soapy mush is mostly about his loss
of money and decline back into the gutter, while we have children and comas
thrown in for good measure.  This is all well and good, and Stallone doesn't
let it get too mushy.  The script has some good scenes and mixes in comedy –
my favourtie line being where Rocky is advised to invest his money in
condominiums, to which Rocky replies `condominiums? But I don't use
them.'

This comedy helps endear Rocky to us despite being a bit `punchy'.  The
fight however – that's where the money is.  As in the first Rocky movie, the
fight is a huge thing, full of emotion and welling music.  The fighting is,
of course, nonsense – even sillier than the first film, but with the raw
emotion and use of music you can't help but get involved – even if you don't
want to!  At times it goes a bit far and may look a bit like ego-massaging
by Stallone, eg the scene where he is out on his training run and is
followed by hundreds of supportive children!

Stallone is good in all his roles, the playing of Rocky as a working class
bum made good is bang on.  Shire doesn't have much to do but she's good
beside Stallone.  Young is good and Meredith easily repeats his
tour-de-force as the grizzled trainer.  Carl Weathers is good as Apollo
Creed and this is one of his best roles.

Overall this isn't a classic but by repeating the basic formula of the first
movie and taking Rocky back to the gutter, this remains an entertaining soap
that is driven by mushy, if formulaic, emotion.
<|_=00=_|>
"Rocky" is truly one of the greatest films ever made. So a sequel to
this film would have a tough time following it. Rocky 2 does a great
job following up "Rocky" and is truly a great film.

The story starts up right where "Rocky" left off. Rocky goes to the
hospital and has surgery and it is revealed that further fighting could
damage his eye badly and make him go blind possibly. So Rocky settles
down, marries Adrian and starts making commercials. Soon Adrian gets
pregnant. However soon his ability to not read well costs him his job
making commercials and Rocky struggles to find another job. Elsewhere
Apollo Creed is furious that so many people are criticizing him for
going 15 rounds with a guy who came off that street. So Apollo wants a
rematch. Rocky decides that he must fight again, which upsets Adrian
due to the health risks he may face.

This film succeeds mainly due to the fact that it does a great job
continuing the Rocky saga. It starts right up after "Rocky" and further
continues the story. It is an awesome follow up. All of the characters
are further developed. Apollo Creed is shown more and his character is
expanded the most and you get to see what he is like more. Carl
Weathers does a great job with Creed in this episode and really plays
the upset athlete at the media well. Paulie takes a back seat in this
film for the most part but Adrian is very significant in this film as
she is the main reason why Rocky is so reluctant to get back in the
ring.

Rocky 2 is really funny, more so than the first one. Love how Rocky
goes around trying to get a job despite the fact that he has basically
no education. Also humorous is how bad Rocky is at reading cue cards
and what he chooses to talk about at his press conference with Apollo.
For the most part Rocky and Rocky 2 are more funny than the next films
mainly because of how Rocky becomes "civilized" in "Rocky 3" and loses
his sense of humor in some ways.

The training that ROcky does in this film is epic. Love the training
that he goes through in this film, slamming metal, chasing chickens,
and hopping around with lumber on his shoulders. Rocky really works
hard training in this film, my personal favorite of his films in how he
trains.

No film is perfect though. The "Gonna FLy Now" song is not the same as
it is in the first film. It is not sung by the same people who sang it
is the first film so it is not nearly as good. However this song is
only used when Rocky is running, not when he is doing his other
training. They use the "Going the Distance" song when he is doing his
training outside of his running which is fine.

Also the fight at the end of the film is not nearly as good as the
fight in the first film. It is mainly just Rocky getting pounded
relentlessly and having to overcome a superior athlete. Not like in the
first film where it is an even fight for the most part.

A great sequel that is funny, further expands the story and characters,
and has some really great and memorable moments. A must see and easily
the second best film of the series.
<|_=00=_|>

Sure, Apollo was pointlessly painted 
as the bad guy early in the film, but this 
a sequel. While it is not as good as the 
first film, it still embodies many of the 
themes and hopes which made the first 
film so powerful. This time, the audience 
got what it wanted, a win for a guy who 
had been kicked down for so long. With 
more money, the film felt more lucid and 
better put together, which made it a whole 
new experience in itself. I especially enjoyed 
the scene where the kids are chasing Rocky, 
certainly one of the most complicated and 
time consuming shots of all time, considering 
all of the extras the various sequences 
needed. Better than an average sequel, it 
still pales a shade below the original film.
<|_=00=_|>
Our story begins right before our last one left off: Rocky Balboa and
Apollo Creed in a grueling boxing match. Blood and sweat flew all over
the place. Then with a few final jabs, Rocky laid out Creed and the
fight was his! Shortly after, Rocky is rushed to the hospital. His
manager, Mickey, friend Paulie, and girlfriend Adrian, follow. Rocky is
badly injured from his fight and not too coherent. Apollo Creed is
there too and he demands a rematch. He felt the fight was unjust. Well,
after some time, Rocky healed and was out of the hospital with a few
fading bruises and minimal damage to his brain. He quickly proposed to
Adrian in his own unique way and they were married. Rocky also decided
to live the high life with his winnings from the match: $37,000. He
bought a shiny new car, even though he didn't know how to drive, furs,
new clothes, Rolexes, even a roomy new townhouse! Plus, Rocky discovers
that he is about to become a father! Life was going great for the
Italian Stallion, while life for Apollo Creed was terrible. He was
looked down upon by his fans and wanted a rematch with Rocky badly!

Rocky meanwhile, had spent all of his winnings and needed a job. He
wanted a nice, cushy office job, but couldn't get one. He tried making
commercials, but was unsuccessful due to dyslexia. The only job he
could find was a job Paulie got him at the meat processing plant. Rocky
found the job inquisitive as he wrapped the meat and loaded it into
trucks. The meat he used to box (punch). But then one day, due to cut
backs and union regulations, Rocky was fired. It seems the one thing
Rocky could ever do was fight, so he wanted to get back in the game. He
went to see Mickey to help train him again, but Mickey knew if Rock
tried to fight again he'd suffer permanent and even fatal damage, due
to his now bad eye; Apollo Creed printed incriminating newspaper
articles about Rocky and taunted him on television to get him to fight.
Mickey saw one and jumped right in to train Rocky. Unfortunately the
Itallian Stallion train really half-arsed. Then one fateful day, Rocky
received news that Adrian collapsed at work and was rushed to the
hospital. Rocky and Paulie race to the hospital. Adrian had the baby
prematurely, but she had sunk into a coma. Rocky was devastated. He
wouldn't leave Adrian's side. He even went to the chapel to prey for
her. Mickey joined him. After several emotional, gut-wrenching days,
Adrian came to. She and Rocky saw their new baby boy together. They
name it Rocky Jr. After that, Rocky decided to buckle down and train
most vigorously. He'd run every morning. He'd do more sit-ups, more
push-ups, even more throw- ups. He pummeled the punching bag, he
punched the pummel bag, he ran up and down those famous steps with
everyone in town cheering him on. Finally, after months of rough,
grueling training, the Italian Stallion was buffed up, charged up, and
ready to step up...To that evil Apollo Creed!

The night of the fight soon arrived. It was held at the Philadelphia
Spectrum. Apollo Creed was all jazzed up and raring to get at it and
smash Rocky's skull. Rocky felt a bit nervous. The fight commenced. In
Round 1, Apollo knocked the wind out of Rocky. Round 2, he knocked the
wind back in to Rocky then knocked it out again. Apollo had the
advantage for the first 9 rounds, jabbing and punching and pummeling
Rocky non-stop, but in Round 10, Rocky laid out Apollo with a few quick
blows. Well it was anybody's fight for the next few rounds. Apollo was
in dominant position. Finally, the 15th and final round came. Rocky
disdained many bruises and swollen eyes and Apollo had many bruises and
scars. Their faces decorated with blood and sweat. Rocky and Apollo
jabbed and punched at each other like there was no tomorrow. Rocky
delivered a few swift blows to Apollo's gut, Apollo countered with
rigorous blows to Rocky's face. Soon, both men were down. But Rocky
managed to get up so he won!! Rocky Balboa was the new Heavyweight
Champion of the World! Mickey and all his fans were so proud of him.
Apollo Creed was even proud of him. At long last, Rocky Balboa, the
Italian Stallion, had obtained the title he so richly deserved.

Well, I think Rocky II was just as good as the 1976 original! If not
better. Sylvester Stallone reprises his role as Rocky Balboa. Burgess
Meredith, God bless him, his back as Mickey Goldmill! Burt Young is
back as Paulie, Talia Shire is back as Adrian and Joe Spinell is back
as Tony Gazzo. This film had the same great drama as the first film
with much light comedy mixed in, like when Rocky was doing the TV
commercial and all. This movie is followed by Rocky III where he goes
up against Mr. T! I pity the fool that don't see that match. Then Rocky
IV and Rocky V. Instead of Rocky VI, Sylvester Stallone started a new
reality TV series, "The Contender". I've never see it though. So
anyway, if you saw the first Rocky movie and want to see what happens
next to our hapless, southpaw hero, then check out Rocky II today!
Sylvester Stallone wrote, directed and starred in this movie. That's a
lot of work for one man. Billy Bob Thornton does that too. Rocky Balboa
vs. Billy Bob Thornton? Maybe. Anyway, see Rocky II today! Two times
the fun. Two times the action. Two times the Rock! I recommend it.

-
<|_=00=_|>
Rocky II is the second installment in the Rocky series. One of my
friends told me that I have to see the Rocky movies because they are
very good and every movie fan should just see them. I'm also just
interested in seeing what the hype was about. I actually was very
surprised on how much I enjoyed the first Rocky. It had entertainment
and was very inspirational.

Rocky II dove a little more into what Rocky himself is all about.
Obviously, from the first Rocky movie, he was just a punk off the
streets who just got "lucky" according to Apollo, his competitor. In
Rocky II, he and Apollo decide they want a rematch to see who is the
real winner and fighter of the world since it was a draw match from the
first Rocky. Also, Rocky marries Adrien and has a son with her. I did
enjoy Rocky II, and I'm very much looking forward to the third one. I
heard Mr. T is the star! :D 

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Officially a sequel is most a rehash but happens to be a nice second
chapter about Rocky saga with intimate Stallone . Two-bit fighter Rocky
now retired lives from records but our hero returns to face off a
daring Apollo . Although he is homaged as one of the greatest boxing
champions in the history also is panned as a down-and-out fighter ,
being nicknamed as the Chicken Stallion . But Rocky comes out from
retirement for fame and self-respect to combat strongest, youngest and
faster contender , again champion Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers)through a
rematch. Apollo after being dethroned by obnoxious Rocky seeks vendetta
. While Rocky attempts to prove himself and his family , his wife
(Talia Shire), brother-in-law (Burt Young) and his recent born son.
Then he's trained again by the veteran , feisty coach (Burguess
Meredith who repeats efficiently his series role).

This agreeable predictable entertainment displays splendidly the
'formula Rocky'. The movie works at usual manner, fitting appropriately
to franchise , even though we know the plot the film works . This
soaper on the ring is developed in gentleness, dignity , feel-good
style such as the initial outing. Spectacular and climatic final bout
including slow-moving images. Writer-director-actor Stallone new entry
is surprisingly entertaining and packs good feeling. Usual and
nostalgic musical score by Bill Conti and atmospheric cinematography
Bill Butler. The motion picture is lavishly financed by the producers
complete saga, Robert Chartoff and Irwin Winkler and well directed by
Stallone who along with John G Avildsen made the six Rocky.

While here the opponent is an invincible young boxer,champ of the
world, in subsequent entries the contenders were the following : Rocky
III against corpulent Mr T from A Team; Rocky IV against a massive
Russian boxer played by Dolph Lundgren; and Rock 5 against an ingrate
young fighter who he trained played by Tommy Morrison and Rocky Balboa
proving his estranged young son Milo Ventiglimia who still can fight.
Rating : Good , being impossible to dislike ,the result is deliciously
corny agreeable and predictable amusement . Although we've seen it all
before , Sylvester manages to make it work one more time and it works
every way even better than subsequents Rockys.
<|_=00=_|>
Imperfect, but highly entertaining sequel picks up right where the
original left off. Having suffered heavy brain damage as a result of
his brutal battle with the hard-hitting champion, Balboa decides to
call it quits and dedicate his life to his newfound love Adrian
(Shire). However the intense media hype, public mockery from the
champion Creed, and a discovery that 'normal' life isn't all that it's
cracked up to be draw him back into the ring for a highly publicized
rematch. You have to be patient this time around as the film is slow
going at first, and lacks the emotional punch of the original, but an
exciting, edge of your seat climax makes it worth the wait. A good
follow-up considering the impact of its predecessor. **½
