

Arnold "is back" as "Julius"; the result of a secret genetic experiment to
help create a better human being. He has lived a sheltered life on a distant
tropical island and has no real practical experience with real life issues;
especially with dangerous situations involving criminal activity. He has
matured into a kind of naive innocent not unlike anyone you may have found
in the proverbial "Garden of Eden". His desire to trace his roots leads him
to the big city where he soon discovers he has a "twin" brother named
"Vincent" (expertly played by Danny De Vito). Vincent was raised in an
orphanage and subsequently has led a life of crime; he seems to favor car
theft as his main source of income. These two soon meet and the antics from
then on are nothing but hilarious. Arnold attaches himself to Danny like a
puppy dog and is very determined to help and protect him. Together, they
seek their birth mother as well as get into all sorts of amusing and
sometimes potentially dangerous situations. But don't worry fans; with
Ah-nold around what could possibly go wrong? Just remember to add this VERY
funny movie to your collection of comedies on DVD and remember to pay (or
avoid altogether) those parking tickets! Or get a bicycle! Or a scooter!
Just don't forget the pop corn!
<|_=00=_|>

Twins is a hilarious film and one of DeVito and Schwarzenegger's best films
of all. Schwarzenegger is the kind of actor that can act in serious movies
and funny movies. He certainly proves he can do that in this movie. And
DeVito is just perfect for his role. From start to finish, Twins is a
hilarious movie that makes your sides ache with laughter.
<|_=00=_|>

The mismatched duo of Schwarzenegger and DeVito work to perfection in this
hilarious comedy. Arnold is great as Julius, the one who always looks at
the
bright side, and DeVito is fantastic as Vincent, the greedy, dull, and
depressed one. Marshall Bell is also a formidable bad guy. Sit back and
enjoy. 3/4
<|_=00=_|>

Part of a genetic experiment and separated at birth, twins Arnold
Schwarzenegger and Danny DeVito meet at last some 30 years later and
hilarious situations follow. A sophomoric idea turns out to work
beautifully
due to the performances of the film's two leads. Just enough suspense is
created as the two look for their long lost mother and DeVito gets into
hot
water when he steals a car that has some very valuable cargo in the trunk.
A
nice little entertaining film that serves its purpose well. 4 stars out of
5.
<|_=00=_|>
The idea of Arnold Schwarzenegger being in a comedy sounds like a
recipe for disaster. But his stiff delivery actually works in his
favour for this film, and he makes a great double-act with Danny
DeVito.

Arnie plays Julius Benedict, and is the result of a top secret
government experiment to create the world's most physically and
mentally enhanced human being. Six men who were model citizens, like
athletes and scientists were chosen to contribute a sample of genetic
material. Mary-Ann Benedict was chosen to carry the baby. But instead
of giving birth to one baby, she had twins.

Julius was taken to a tropical island in the South Pacific where he was
educated and cared for. By the time he was 35, he can speak up to
twelve languages, holds degrees in biology, chemistry and physics, and
is an expert in the martial arts. When he is told he has a twin
brother, Vincent, he decides to leave the seclusion of the island to
find him.

Vincent (Danny DeVito) had a completely different upbringing than
Julius. He was taken to an orphanage in Los Angeles, where he
eventually ran away. By the time he was 35, he is up to his eyes in
debt, loan sharks are after him, and he is now in jail.

When they finally meet, they are both shocked that they look nothing
alike, and are almost completely different in every way. Julius is very
naive, and has a big heart. Vincent is a selfish hustler, who has as
much taste for women as he does for money. Despite their differences,
they try to track down their mother, and learn more about each other in
the process.

Arnie and DeVito have a terrific chemistry, and director Ivan Reitman
made the wise choice of putting the two of them together. Its clear in
their scenes together that they enjoyed working with each other. Scenes
such as Julius saving Vince from a loan shark, and Vince teaching
Julius how to dance are definite highlights.

Reitman adds more into the film with a subplot about a stolen engine
Vince wants to sell. Honestly this doesn't contribute anything to the
film, and the most interesting things are Julius and Vince's exploits.

Arnie manages to be convincingly awkward as he deals with the outside
world for the first time. DeVito is perfectly cast too, and he shows
what a great actor he is by being dramatic as well as sarcastic.
Interestingly, when Reitman paired them up again in Junior, the magic
wasn't the same.

Although not on the same level with Reitman's Ghostbusters or
Evolution, Twins is very entertaining, and is carried almost
single-handed by Arnie and DeVito.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a quietly amusing film which I enjoyed more than I
expected.

While Schwarzenegger is the "star" of the movie, this is really de Vito's
film.  He dominates every scene he is in, and maintains a manic character
who actually shows some change as the film progresses without losing the
basic energy of his persona.

While the plot is a little tenuous at times and there are only one or two
real belly laughs I enjoyed the film, even on the small screen.  Worth
watching, but probably not worth buying.
<|_=00=_|>

Funny film and convincing acting from both De Vito and Schwarzenegger. The
story itself seems a bit far-fetched although this is compensated by lots of
hilarious moments and situations. The fun comes mainly from De Vito, he's at
his best here. And if you don't like Schwarzenegger's action films - try
this comedy! You'll sort of like him!
<|_=00=_|>
Now, I was only 3 when this movie was released, so obviously I couldn't
see it in the theater, it never really got brought up in my house, I
don't even know anyone who has seen this movie. But I watched I love
the 80's one time and they brought up this movie and it looked pretty
funny. It had some really nice comedic moments with both Arnold and
Danny, they were both so naturally funny and clicked so well together,
you'd almost believe they were related, they were so in sync.

It's about Arnold and Danny being separated at birth, it was meant for
only Arnold to be born and just turn into the perfect human being, he
pretty much is, he's kind, sensitive, funny, and disciplined. But there
was a side effect and all the badness was born into Danny, Arnold
learns he has a brother and flies to New York to see him. Arnold is
more obvious as the one who wants a family while Danny is just trying
to get his way out of debt with the Mafia.

Twins is a fun little comedy that I think anyone could enjoy. Although,
it's not my favorite comedy with either Danny or Arnold, they still had
so much fun that you couldn't resist this film. Especially how Arnold
sings "That good ol' rock -n- roll", just hilarious! 

6/10
<|_=00=_|>

What happens when you put two of the most popular actors with
the
opposite physical characteristics together in a hilarious Ivan
Reitman comedy , the result is "Twins". starring Arnold
Schwarzenegger
and Danny Devito.

The film is about twins  whose birth was involved with
a science experiment . They are separated at birth due to a simple
lie.
But when Julius , the well structured twin is told that he actually
has
a brother , he leaves his tropical island ,and heads out to find his
brother
, Vincent. On the other hand ,Vincent , the short and defensless one is
exactly opposite of Julius , he is a criminal , and car crook who is now
involved with the Klane brothers , the three deadly mobsters. Well , they
reunite , and later become good friends . With two beautiful girls and a
secret that could get vincent rich , they set out to find their birth
mother.

Also a great supporting cast with Kelly Preston and Chloe Webb as
the
girl twins who fall in love with Vincent and Julius and inbarge on
their
trip to find their mother. And Maury Chaykin , Tom McCleister , and Davin
Efron as the deadly Klane brothers , besides Arnold and Danny ,
Maury Chaykin (the chubby Canadian with a familiar face) also gives the
audience some amusement.
<|_=00=_|>
Odd, but entertaining comedy finds Scwarzenegger on a tropical island
where he's lived and been educated his entire life without interaction
from the outside world. He learns that he's the result of a
sophisticated experiment and that he and reckless con man DeVito are in
fact twin brothers who were separated at birth. They finally meet and
are dumbfounded to learn how alike they are, despite their physical
dissimilarities and their drastically different upbringing. Initial
ingredients of this comedy seem far-fetched and desperately protracted,
but the film is enthusiastically performed and laugh-out loud funny,
with a good sense of family values. It goes without saying that DeVito
and Schwarzenegger are an awkward casting choice, yet they connect and
only add to the film's overall enjoyment. ***
