

A remake of Henri-George Cluzot's 1953 film The Wages of Fear (also on
DVD in a lovely Criterion Disc), this William Friedkin film stars Roy
Scheider (at his weary, doomed finest) as one of four men exiled to an
unnamed South American country by their mistakes and crimes. Trapped in
squalor (and it's damn convincing looking squalor, too, far beyond the
sunbaked black-and-white compositions of Wages of Fear; this film looks
like it's leaving mud on your shoes), unable to return to the lives
they abandoned, they're driven by circumstance to accept a normally
unthinkable job. They have to drive old, unstable dynamite from its
storage site hundreds of miles over mountain terrain and washed-out
roads to the location of an oil well fire so the blaze can be snuffed
out. The pay is exorbitant -- but it's commiserate to the danger. The
risks are colossal ... and they ultimately have no choice. 

Sorcerer is tense, suspenseful film-making at its finest; you become
physically uncomfortably during this film thanks to the incredible
sense that at any minute our heroes would literally be blown to hell.
(I mean, we all walk around with the philosophical knowledge we could
die at any moment, but talk about your concrete metaphors ... )
Friedkin creates a palpable sense of place, and Scheider is immensely
powerful as a man whose every move suggests that he knows he's doomed.
Taut with suspense, completely convincing and breathtakingly human,
Sorcerer is an unfairly maligned film that delivers in every way. 

And the Score is unique and nightmarish. A new DVD would be welcome to
many happy fans.

<|_=00=_|>

Sorcerer is a unique, brutal, brilliant film burdened underneath a
terrible,
wholly unappropriate title. Watching this film, it is not only easy to see
why the film was both a huge financial and commercial disaster, it is
downright obvious. This is the most un-american/ hollywood/ commercial
film
backed by a major studio I have ever seen.
It is a tough, gruelling 126 minutes that goes nowhere fast, yet holds you
firm in its tight grip and beats you senseless throughout. I was exhausted
when the film finally arrived at it's rather downbeat ending. The
multi-national cast is faultless. Scheider is magnificent. This is an
exceptionally demanding, difficult role and he hits it head on, creating
an
anti-hero who is very, very real: desperate, frightened and desructable.
Taking this role, at the height of his fame, was either very brave or very
stupid. I'm going with brave. His performance here is a million miles away
from his work on Jaws and Jaws 2, yet equally compelling. The photography
is
in a league of it's own (I only wish the DVD came with an original 2:35:1
print, assuming there is one, as the current disc is presented in a 4:3
full
frame), and the music from Tangerine Dream complements the vision
perfectly.
This is a brilliant piece of film making from the most daring decade of
cinema, made by one of cinema's true unpredictable's. Tense, dazzling,
dark
and fresh, this is an underated film that deserves to be
re-evaluated.
<|_=00=_|>

After _The French Connection_ and _The Exorcist_, William Friedkin made it
three masterpieces in a row with this remake of the French classic _Wages
of
Fear_.  As an exercise in pure cinematic storytelling, _Sorcerer_ may be
the
best film of the three Friedkin greats.

Structurally similar to the other two of his films, and working from a
tough, bare-bones Walon Green script, Friedkin gives us all the back story
we need in the first reel.  Once the characters are brought together in
the
South American jungle, the film grabs you and doesn't let go until the
final
frame.  The viewing experience is supremely visceral.  You literally feel
the tension as the four major characters and their two trucks loaded with
nitro encounter and attempt to overcome the elements and some very rough
terrain.  Each scene is its own brilliant set piece.  The film would work
well as a silent movie, but the sound design and Tangerine Dream's musical
score in themselves are among the film's towering achievements right along
with the direction, cinematography and production design.

I'm perhaps the only one not put off by the film's allegedly inappropriate
title.  On the contrary, I think the title adds an element of mystery to
the
story -- as if trouble is being concocted by an unseen force acting upon
the
film's morally dubious main characters.  It gives a demonic personality to
the confluence of fate and dumb luck.  The title also serves to give the
film some added distance from the very fine Clouzot original.

The performances are all first-rate, if economic, and Roy Scheider stands
out with some real tough-guy charisma.  He also gets to wear the coolest
hat
this side of Gene Hackman's porkpie derby in _The French
Connection_.
<|_=00=_|>
Friedkin claims this was the toughest film to make of his career, and
it isn't hard to see why. The balance of this film takes place in some
woe begotten Latin American country. You can just feel the poverty and
desperation in the air as the only work is for an oil drilling firm who
doesn't exactly seem bent on worker safety. The elements are
intentionally brutal and they only add to the tension. And thats even
before this story really gets going.

Early on, we are introduced to four characters who are all guilty of
doing something terrible in one corner of the world or another. Roughly
a half hour into the film, all four find themselves in a tiny
impoverished Latin American village trying to eek out a living and
forget the troubles they left behind. Not only is the local economy
weak, but the place is socially on the verge of revolution. It's
amazing the kind of jobs men will volunteer for to get out of these
circumstances. Anyway, these four men are given the chance of
transporting some highly explosive dynamite through rugged terrain in
crappy old trucks so it can be used to put out a massive oil fire some
200 miles away. It is noted by one of the men that more than enough
explosives are being transported. Obviously, at least one of the trucks
is not expected to make it! Not only do you have an explosive cargo
with unreliable trucks, but also there are armed rebels along the way
who probably won't just let you pass right on through. Still, the
reward for completing this job is just too much to pass on.

The film is very, very good. In fact the skill that it took to make the
film is responsible for most of the stars I'm giving it. The story
itself is often just not believable. The journey these four men take is
ludicrously perilous. They drive their vehicles over rickety bridges
that nobody in real life would have tried to get over in those trucks.
Like in other Friedken films, no character is completely likable, but
that only makes it tougher to figure out who will live and who will
die. There are a few nice twists here and there, right up to the very
end to keep you guessing. The acting is exceptional. Scheider was
Friedkin's fourth or fifth choice for the main character. Steve McQueen
originally wanted it badly, but he demanded a part included for then
wife Ali McGraw. Friedkin balked at this and then later regretted the
decision. He later stated that he never thought Scheider was a good
enough leading man. This is an error, however. Scheider is a terrific
actor and his performance here is outstanding.

The film bombed badly at the box office. Heck, if you weren't in line
to see Star Wars that year, you were in line to see Smokey and the
Bandit! This is definitely one of Friedkin's best, and it has somehow
almost been completely forgotten. The film apparently got a PG rating
but it is filled with violence and all manner of evil goings on. You'll
have to suspend your disbelief for some of the scenes, but you'll be
glad you did. I'll give it 8 of 10 stars.

The Hound.

Added Feb 14, 2008: RIP Roy Scheider!
<|_=00=_|>
Here's one exception to the general rule or opinion that re-makes are
not as good as the originals. This is even better than the 1953 "The
Wages Of Fear."

"Sorcerer" (a better title might have helped in the status of this
film) is divided into three segments. The first part deals with the
various criminal acts committed by the four principal characters in
their particular part of the world.

The second part shows the seedy life these criminals must now endure in
a poor South American town after they are forced to flee their
respective countries.

The third segment is the major part of the story. An oil well fire
rages out of control and these men are selected to do something that
can solve the problem, in exchange for enough money to get them out of
that hellhole. The job: transport cans of extremely-volatile
nitroglycerin in a truck in a harrowing 218-mile trek through jungle
terrain to the site of the disaster.

This long segment is one of the most suspenseful and well-photographed
scenes I've ever seen on film. This is good stuff, particularly for the
first-time viewer. There are some amazing scenes that just about wear
you out.

Added to the no-nonsense story directed by one of the best, William
Friedkin, is some unique electronic music by "Tangerine Dream." If you
are thinking of the kids watching, there is no sex and very little
profanity but some of the violence is very bloody.
<|_=00=_|>

Being a huge fan of Friedkin,i wanted to see "sorcerer" for a long
time;after several months of researches,at last,i could on an
old
videotape and ,immediately,it emerged as one of the best movies
i've
ever seen.I must be one of the rare who don't consider it's title
so
inapropriate,even it's been chosen for obvious commercial reasons
(the
exorcist/the sorcerer).The sorcerer,it's this fate which gathers 4
men
of 4 different countries together;they have nothing in common but
will
be obliged to collaborate for the same reason;it's too an evil
nature
which,a little bit like in "deliverance",seems to make everything it cans
to
make the mission fail.There's a subtext ,"man vs nature",which,
from Friedkin's words,was wanted from the beginning,and that,to my
mind,
considerably enhances the film.
The systematic comparisons between the 52's version and this one
don't
appear to me valuables;i prefer seeing it more as a second
adaptation
of Arnaud's novel than as a remake.In fact,it's much more close to
"the
treasure of the sierra madre": the painful irony of the ending and
Scheider
with his hat looks exactly like Bogart.According to me,even it's a good
flick,the original version is very-too much?-faithful to the novel and
so,quite easy to foresee (for instance,before the mission,
one of the truck is sabotaged so we're sure it's gonna explode at a moment
or another).
One said,including Friedkin,it bombed the box-office because was no star
like Steve mc Queen to attract the audience,but nothing is less sure;first
of all,it's unfair for Roy Scheider who previously starred
in "the french connection" and "jaws" and was quite famous and,then,it's
above all a question of concept:the audience of 77 didn't want to see that
kind of movie anymore,-pessimistic,ironic,with an all-male cast and
unhappy
ending,-and was rather ready to enjoy Lucas and
Spielberg's movies.
I could speak highly of its qualities for hours: cast and crew,the work
on
the sound,the Tangerine dream's score,the sequence of the bridge,the
surreal
atmosphere of the last scenes,but it's already been
described in other comments;let's say it's a very special,precious
and
unforgettable film to me.Hoping now there will have in next months a
beautiful dvd edition like those of "to live and die in L.A.",and
a
serious rehearsal.It deserves it.


<|_=00=_|>

An underrated film with a typically stellar Roy Scheider performance, an
eerie Tangerine Dream soundtrack, and brilliant visuals.  This film's
reputation suffers from its inexplicable title and unfavorable comparisons
to the original.  But it's useless to compare since this film is an
altogether different beast.  Friedkin gives it his usual
nihilist/fatalist/existential stamp, making it a much darker film than the
French version.  Very suspenseful and well-made.  Made by Friedkin at the
height of his powers.  His third best film after Exorcist and French
Connection.  
<|_=00=_|>
The Story goes that when Sorcerer was released it was at a theatre
where Star Wars was having an incredible Run selling out every night.
When this movie was released there was lines around the block to see it
and then in it's second week NOTHING! The movie died a horrible death
at the box office and was alway relocated to the Heaven's Gate
Orphanage for lost movies. Such a shame. Sorcerer is a mind blowing
ride into desperation and horror. The Story is this four men who
committed large crimes ranging from Fraud to armed robbery and outright
terrorist attacks to cold blooded murder flee to a small south America
country once there they struggle to survive. When an oil well explodes
and the fire runs out of control the only option is dynamite to cap the
well. But the dynamite is old and the nitro is leaking out making
transport hard but not impossible. No one wants the job so they recruit
4 men our heroes in an manner of speaking take the job for a incredible
amount of money They are given two trucks to repair and overhaul the
trucks become main characters as well according to the movie novel they
were abandoned army trucks left after WW2 and superstitious natives
named them SORCERER and LAZLO . When the trucks are ready the journey
itself proves to be the road to hell. one of the most famous scenes is
where the Sorcerer truck is trying to cross the swing rope bridge
during a harsh storm and the sorcerer almost does not make it that
scene in it's entire sequence is a incredible feat of film making.
Right to the end the suspense and the fear are kept up and Friedkin a
master of this knows how to do this. The Story is excellent so is the
acting all of whom should be more then proud to put this film on their
resumes. Outstanding work by all.
<|_=00=_|>

Friedkin's unacknowledged masterpiece is clearly superior in the 1st and
2nd
acts as he gives superb backdrops into the individual stories of the main
protagonists.  When we see them in the 2nd act, amidst the grit and grime
of
a backwater Latin American nation, we understand the desperation that
would
have led them to such a place.

The seering reality of the depravity they now live in was much more
effective in Friedkin's movie.  You don't expect to see a gorgeous hooker
in
this environment, unlike the unrealistic Wages of Fear.  Oddly enough,
Wages of Fear is actually much more Holly-wood like in its storytelling
than
Sorcerer.

Mind you, I do like Wages of Fear and actually thought it was a great
movie,
but I have to revise my opinion after seeing a movie that actually does it
right.

Congrats, Friedkin.

<|_=00=_|>
Firstly this is a great film, I've always thought that, even though the
original Wages of Fear is my all time favourite film. Roy Scheider is
at his best in Sorcerer, totally believable at all times, if ever a man
deserved a gong it was Roy.

A question: 1.How many versions of this film are there? I've seen at
least two: the US DVD (sadly just full frame and panned and scanned),
and a perhaps longer TV version that was shown on UK TV circa 1981-82.
The DVD starts with a close up of a stone statue, the TV version with a
long helicopter shot over the jungle with Tangerine Dream's excellent
score. The group are credited at the beginning in red titles. The TV
version also has one of the oil bosses describe the area as the
'Devil's Asshole!' the endings are different as well (I won't mention
what happens in either just in case you haven't seen the movie) Perhaps
one day Billy Friedkin will re-release this film in a package that it
deserves and Mark Kermode will have something to talk about apart from
the Excorcist :)
