
I've been annoyed at most of the bad reviews I read of this movie,
because none of them understand what it's all about. It's true; the
script is not actually that great. What makes it great is how
everything is delivered. The cast is fantastic in playing each part as
a cliché, even when the lines are far from it. Curry plays the role
with so much ham that it's understood why the script is like this. This
is a play, not a movie. I can understand not being in the mood for this
film. But I can't understand not appreciating these fantastic
performances. Another person pointed out that this film needs to be
seen in widescreen. This is correct-the movie reaches another level of
greatness by seeing it in proper aspect-ratio. And I've never seen
Colleen Camp looking this fantastic.
<|_=00=_|>
This is easily Tim Curry's best role (yes, even better than Frank from
RHPS). He is dry and quick to a level that I have never seen topped,
and with an all star cast to support him, this is easily my favorite
pun filled, fast paced comedy. The beginning of the story begins slow
and exponentially increases til the very end. The speed at which the
actors are delivering their lines is staggering at some points, and
goes to the technical grace of the actors like Christopher Lloyd and
Leslie Ann Warren. Also, the late great Madeline Kahn produces a
hilarious Ms. White who shall be remembered as her second greatest role
(under Young Frankenstein). I cannot say enough about this movie, the
script and its wonderful actors.
<|_=00=_|>
How fantastic was this film??? It was made three years after i was born
but the first time i saw it, about 7 year old i think... i fell in
love. After mentioning to everyone i knew about this film nobody seemed
to have heard of it... i get the same reaction now... all i can say is
i feel real pity for the people that have never seen this film. One of
the best films i have ever seen... not many people can watch films 4
times in one day but if you had the DVD you'd understand... watching
all three random endings and then the film with all three!! Fantastic
and you find yourself laughing just as much as you did the first time
you watched it. All of the actors where brilliant and so incredibly
funny, but i have to make a special mention to Tim Curry... OMG no
matter what he does he's amazing but Wadsworth can turn the coldest
heart, even when he's naughty ;) Tim Curry, we love you hun and you get
better with age... It's all good babe!!!
<|_=00=_|>

Like Clockwise, this is just a movie I've always found very funny.  Superbly
casting some superlative film talents into the board game roles of Colonel
Mustard et al, this throws the greatest over-actor of them all in as the
butler and lets rip.  The murders start to pile up, getting sillier and
sillier (three cheers for the Singing Telegram Girl!)  The pace picks up, so
that about half an hour before the end the butler starts to exposit and
virtually never stops.  Oh, and there are three endings, just for good
measure.  And the last line is an all-time classic.
<|_=00=_|>

Clue" (the movie), features just about every great comedy actor of the
day. From Leslie Ann Warren to Michael McKean to Eileen Brennan to
Howard Hessman to the priceless Tim Curry, they're all here! -- If you
are familiar with the board game, just picture a film version of the
search for "whodunit". This laugh-a-minute fun fest is loaded with
outrageous, silly slapstick, superbly acted out by the great cast.

You'll be amazed at how many of the lines and gags get stuck in your
head. I'll never be able to forget the flustered looks of Mrs. Peacock,
the wit and charm of Wadsworth or the subtle facial expressions of Mrs.
White. The picture in this WIDE SCREEN VERSION is the best yet of this
film since it's initial release.

The soundtrack is kept in it's original mono, still I'd greatly enjoy
hearing a stero or, even better, a surround sound version in the
future. Now you have the option of really not knowing who did it until
the final scenes play bringing surprise into the untold repeat viewings
that are sure to occur.

<|_=00=_|>
CLUE has been one of our family's favorites for years. It's one of
those irresistibly zany comedy-mysteries that, even though I have a
copy of the film, I'm happy to watch it if I stumble across it on TV
(don't touch that dial! :-)). Despite a few groaners among the gags
(how many times did they need to sniff for doggie-doo in the
beginning?), there are enough witty lines ("Communism was just a red
herring!" and "Flames...on the side of my face...", among others, are
frequently quoted in our home) delivered sparklingly by the top-notch
cast amid enough madcap scampering about to make CLUE very watchable on
a lazy afternoon, or even a not-so-lazy one, for that matter. Tim Curry
(who deserves to be in more good movies) steals the show, particularly
when he reenacts the entire movie in about 15 minutes during the
climax, accompanied by John Morris's rollicking music. The film was
released with three different endings, each of which has been shown on
cable--the one that recalls MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS is my
favorite. Give CLUE a shot...in your living room...with the DVD player!
<|_=00=_|>

Clue is a laugh riot from start to finish. The cast is great with the
obvious star being Tim Curry. The plot is well thought out and is rather
original. Clue is the perfect mixture of comedy and mystery. The best treat
is that this movie has three completely different and hilarious endings.
This is a must see.
<|_=00=_|>
Films based on videogames are commonplace nowadays, but one thing I've
never seen before is a film based on a board game! Clue is a murder
mystery that takes its ideas from the popular game of Cluedo. I cant
say I'm a fan of that board game (although I sometimes play it on the
quiz machine in pub), but I am a fan of murder mystery - and while this
film is more of a joke than anything, it generally plays it's cards
right and what we have here is a very entertaining little flick, that
really does deserve your time! The film shows it's experimental edge by
having three endings (which can be played at random on the DVD), and
throughout we are treated to a film that has it's audience in mind. Tim
Curry is the big name on the cast list, and he plays butler Wadsworth.
He's in charge of a house whose master has invited six guests to his
home. Naturally, those guests are given the names of the people in
Cluedo, and include the likes of Colonel Mustard, Mrs White and Miss
Scarlet etc. We are then treated to a night of mystery, as we try to
uncover who murdered the host...and why! 

One criticism I could easily make of this film is that it doesn't
really have a lot of plot. The mystery is very shallow, and is over
very quickly. This is only a shame because of the fact that I would
have liked to see this go on for longer, however, as the energy that
the cast brings to the table is priceless, and really makes for a good
time viewing. Tim Curry takes the lead role, and does what he does
best. Curry is famous for campy performances in camp films like this,
and his role as Wadsworth really does his reputation proud! The film
does a very good job of keeping itself wide open, and by the end it
really could have been any of the characters behind the murder. This is
good because it allows writer-director Jonathon Lynn complete freedom
over who committed the murder; but it harms the film, as the audience
doesn't really get enough info to have a stab at it themselves. The
style of the film suits the mood very well, with old-fashioned clothes
and decor giving it that classic mystery feel. Now don't get me wrong;
this isn't exactly a great film, but it's a lot of fun and I can't see
why anyone wouldn't enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those movies that I would watch repeatedly and still
holds up as a great source of entertainment for me. 

Based on the board game of the same name by Parker Brothers, six
guests, Colonel Mustard, Mrs. White, Mr. Green, Mrs. Peacock, Professor
Plum and Miss Scarlet are invited to a Victorian mansion for a dinner
party. The host later reveals they are all being blackmailed and wanted
to get everybody together to confront the perpetrator, the alleged Mr.
Boddy, who later is murdered by one of the guests. What follows is an
exciting and intriguing series of events of finger-pointing, revealing
secrets, and motives - all leading to the thrilling investigation of
the entire house for clues and Butler Wadsworth's reenactment of the
night's events. 

All the characters gave a memorable performance, each in his/her own
unique flavor. The plot and story by Jonathan Lynn and John Landis,
with solid direction by Lynn, are fast-paced and exciting, as this
movie constantly reminds you that there is a murderer on the loose and
there are obvious suspects on screen for you to decipher! In addition,
I think John Morris' terrific music score enhances the mysterious feel
of a murder mystery movie. 

The humor is great, with Miss Scarlet's acid wit being my favorite.
This is also one of those movies that you will find something new every
time you watch it. Some downsides, I believe, were that some of the
rooms like the Conservatory, Ball Room and Billiard Rooms weren't used
enough and Mr. Green's character was a little too melodramatic. But
overall, a fun comedy that never gets old.

Grade A-
<|_=00=_|>

A hysterical spoof of the well known board game Cluedo, known as Clue

in America. One of the best comic castings ever. Tim Curry as the
Butler- brilliantly wild eyed, OTT and campy. Any fan

of The Rocky Horror Picture Show will simply adore his performance in

this film. And Michael McKean as Mr.Green- After This Is Spinal Tap, he

gives his best performance in Clue. The cast really does not have any

weak spots who are all supported by a very funny script. John Landis at

his mid eighties best. The only downer is the different endings use
similar script which does

get a little tiresome, but apart from that a flawless comedy. Now go

and see it!

