
I saw this film on crappy pan and scan VHS when I was about 12 and I
didn't really understand it and I wasn't really up on Ridley Scott's
work. As a result, the impact of the film was somewhat lost on me. I
was expecting an action film instead of a character drama with lots of
police procedure. But now, older and wiser and with a brand new Blu Ray
of the movie, I am finally able to appreciate how clever the film is.

The story unfortunately IS riddled with 80s Cop Movie clichés and goes
through quite a lot of familiar motions. But if you see past that
you'll appreciate the immense atmosphere and mood that Ridley Scott
piles on. Simply put, Michael Douglas is Nick Conklin, a bad cop
(pretty much the exact same character in Basic Instinct) who drag races
on his superbike to pay alimony and pinches drug money instead of
turning it in for evidence. Enjoying lunch with partner Charlie (Andy
Garcia) in a steakhouse in New York's meat-packing district, they just
happen to witness a Yakuza execution by wanted Japanese criminal Sato
(Yusaku Matsuda, who was dying of cancer during filming and didn't tell
anyone). After a quick punch-up and shoot-out they find themselves
chaperoning Sato back to Osaka. But when they arrive there he manages
to escape, leaving them embarrassed with lots of questions to answer.

Nick and Charlie find themselves in a very foreign and intolerant world
and recapturing Sato proves to be difficult in many ways. Not the least
of which is Japan's alienating culture (from an NYPD point of view) and
rigid rules. Nonetheless, Nick is determined to catch Sato and restore
his honor.

Like I said, the atmosphere of the film is overwhelming, which is
really all the film needs. The clichés and stereotypes don't matter so
much when you are involved this much. Hans Zimmer (his first film with
Ridley Scott) provides a deeply emotional and very melodic score
that'll be rattling around in your head for days. It's a shame it's
never had a comprehensive CD release, as it's one of Zimmer's most
impressive efforts.

You could call it a pretty 80s movies, but I still do feel that it
holds up pretty well today. As one of Ridley Scott's more forgotten
works, it's well worth checking out.
<|_=00=_|>
Black Rain is hands down the best cop movie ever made! And I'm not
saying that just because I like it. The cinematography and even the
costumes were phenomenal and couldn't have been any better. Whoever did
the casting for this movie earned their pay and then some. You couldn't
have found better actors anywhere in the world. This is Michael Douglas
at his best as New York Detective Nick Conklin, a macho yet streetwise
cop after a coldblooded Yakuza killer all the way from the back alleys
of Manhattan to the streets of Japan. Andy Garcia also gives a
tour-de-force performance as Douglas's partner Charley Vincent and
gives the movie some extra humor. There some great one liners here. I
even like Kate Capshaw as Conklin's friend and love interest. Sato
Kogei, the bad guy, is played brilliantly and almost effortlessly by
Yusako Matsuda. Why haven't I ever seen this guy in anything else?
Definitely one of my top ten best villains to grace the silver screen.
Also look for Ken Takakura as Masahiro Matsamodo the stubborn and by
the book police officer who befriends Douglas and Garcia and helps them
chase Matsuda (Takakura was also in Mr. Baseball). Sato's rival Sugai
Kenyo gives a stunningly great performance as well as the old time
crime boss. Anyways if you haven't seen this film go out and get it
like I did and make it part of your collection. Its great viewing,
timeless and worth every penny. You won't regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
Ridley Scott tends to give his films a very potent visual energy (see
"Alien" and "Blade Runner" for further evidence), and here he takes a
story that's been around since films began and dresses it up with his
customary pictorial trimmings. Black Rain is another fish-out-of-water
yarn in which a cop leaves his usual patch to track down a criminal in
an unfamiliar place (see also Brannigan, French Connection II, No
Mercy, Beverly Hills Cop, etc. for other versions of what is virtually
the same story). The unoriginality of it all is a bit disappointing in
all honesty, but Black Rain compensates for its over-familiarity by
excelling in other areas.

Reckless New York cop Nick Conklin (Michael Douglas - looking more like
his father Kirk than ever) and his partner Charlie Vincent (Andy
Garcia) catch a Japanese gangster named Sato (Yasuka Matsuda) in their
city. They are assigned to escort Sato back to Japan and hand him over
to the Japanese police. However, almost immediately upon their arrival
Sato escapes with the aid of some of his underworld friends, cunningly
disguised as cops. Nick and Charlie are left with egg on their face,
and endeavour to help the Japanese police to recapture their man. They
join Japanese cop Masahiro (Ken Takakura), but police methods in Japan
prove very different to what the Americans are accustomed to, and soon
differences in approach boil over into frustration and violence.

Scott paints the night-time streets of Osaka as some kind of neon-lit,
nightmarish maze. It becomes easy to relate to Nick and Charlie's
bewilderment, and the viewer is left glad NOT to be sharing their
experiences in the seedy, dangerous environment of this seemingly
hostile city. There are some attempts to explore the different codes of
honour by which the American and Japanese law enforcers measure their
success. Also, the film establishes and sustains an edgy atmosphere
(one scene, in which a key character is lured into a trap and beheaded,
is especially tense).

Black Rain is a mix of effective and not-so-effective elements. The
visuals, the atmosphere and the cultural alienation of the main
character are very interesting, while the plotting and dialogue are
disappointingly familiar. It's definitely a film worth catching, though
it probably won't be remembered as fondly fifty years from now as some
of the director's other films.
<|_=00=_|>
Micheal Douglas has always been, at least for me, one of the better
actors to portray a cop on screen. Very believable, very real, he just
has a natural feel for this type of role. I think its due to the fact
he starred as one on TV in "The Streets of San Francisco". Everything
blends in this cop thriller. It oozes style and panache. It also has an
underlying emotional core that I think gets underrated by critics.
Douglas as Nick Conklin has some fine moments playing off the
characters played by Andy Garcia, Kate Capshaw and especially Ken
Takakura. This movie combines excellent acting, gorgeous
cinematography, great atmosphere, along with some solid action set
pieces...and gets it right. Director Ridley Scott brings all his
cinematic guns to bear and spins these elements into a definitive
police action thriller. I loved this flick when I saw it in 1989 and I
still do. It may not be as audacious as when it premiered, time has
seen to that(ex.action scenes have really gone virtual reality)but it's
still a respectable addition to your DVD library. And of that fact
there is no gray area!
<|_=00=_|>

Black Rain is an absolutely gorgeous movie to look at. And for the most part
it's highly entertaining and well acted - the guy playing Sato is
brilliantly menacing. But occasionally, very occasionally, it descends into
either complete predictability or downright cheesiness. A motorbike chase,
well, that's a surprise! And that award ceremony right near the end - why?
It's totally irrelevant, feel good factor nonsense - the sort of stuff you
get with bog standard action movies. And this is not bog standard, and not
really an action movie. Certainly underrated and deserving of a better
audience than it has received, but ultimately let down by a few lapses in
quality.
<|_=00=_|>

Black Rain (1989) Starring Michael Douglas and Andy Garcia.

Running Time: 125 min.  Rated R

Black Rain stars Michael Douglas(Wall Street, Falling Down) and Andy
Garcia(The Untouchables, Desperate Measures) as Detectives Nick Conklin and
Charlie Vincent.  One day while eating lunch at a local diner, they witness
a horrific mob killing.  The twist is that the killer is a dangerous
gangster named Sato(Yusaku Matsuda) from Japan who is also wanted their for
various other crimes.  Soon after, a chase ensues and Sato is captured.  The
police tell Nick and Charlie that he must be returned to Japan in order to
be prosecuted.  When they finally get to Japan, the police there are very
generous in accepting Sato, only they're not the police, they're Sato's
thugs in disguise.  So Nick and Charlie must go after him, but because they
are foreigners, no one will help them in their investigation and they must
also accept a new partner (Ken Takakura).

Filmed on location in Tokyo, Japan, Ridley Scott, who also directed
Alien(1979), Blade Runner(1982) and Gladiator(2000) sets up a really dark
tone for, much as he does in most of his films.

It's also surprising how low the rating is for this movie.  It's a classic
like so many other of Scott's films.

10/10 
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

If you want a narrative review, skip this, I am going to give you a
philosophical review. I love the movie because it is honest about the
flaws of both cultures; the Japanese collectivist society above the
individual and the American individualism who cares how it effects
anyone else. Each one learns from the other. Each sheds a bit of his
indigenous culture. My favorite scene is when Masa explains to Nick
that he shames himself and his group by stealing. The way he does it is
very gentle and understanding. Yet, Nick teaches Mas to stand up for
himself against the suits and go it alone when there is no other
choice. Ridley always has great depth in his movies. Charlie's murder
pushes Nick over the edge and there is no coming back. The movie was
made when the Japanese economy was really booming and there was great
anxiety in America that they were going to buy us out. The hostility is
realistically depicted coming both directions. The only scene I
disliked was the Hiroshima lecture which forgot to mention that tiny
historical fact of Pearl Harbor; they attacked us first. We could talk
about the 200 men that took days to suffocate trapped in the bottom of
the Arizona in Pearl Harbor. That scene, the lecture about Hiroshima,
was undoubtedly the price paid for the Japenese locations and actors
participation. It reminded me of that awful revisionist Midway where we
have Japanese Naval Officers weeping over shooting our pilots down,
please. 

The movie works well as a straight crime drama. There is a counterfeit
ring going on being run by a Japanese nationalist who wants to bankrupt
our country. I know, young people, it sounds so silly now, back then
the Japanese were buying up tons of our stuff every day there was this
great anxiety in the country. Garcia gets killed early; he is the comic
relief and once he goes the film darkens. Capshaw is gorgeous to look
at, unfortunately if you saw Indy and The Temple Of Doom, you already
know she cannot act one scene. The movie changes from just a crime
drama into more of a revenge picture after Sato murders Charlie right
in front of Nick who is trapped behind a chain link fence. I love the
movie because on the whole it has real depth of studying two
antithetical cultures and modeling a great piece of wisdom.

Nick and Masahiro each take something from the other. Each emerges a
stronger, wiser individual by being together and absorbing the other's
culture. Believe me, a film that teaches people that each culture has
elements that are good and bad. The wise individual sheds his religious
devotion to his indigenous culture, which always contains negative
elements, and takes the cultural treasure from each culture he meets. I
love the above scene that highlights the beauty of Japanese culture but
I also love when Nick snaps at Mas and says,"And yes, if one of you
guys had an original idea, you couldn't pull it out of you tight A's."
This is the balance of the movie, except for the Hiroshima lecture,
there is a fair equilibrium of both cultures looking, unabashedly, at
each other. The movie opens to a great song that contains Conklin's
being: I'll be holding on. A ruthless individualist on the take cop who
is tough, cold and mean. 

By the end of the movie, watch for the existential changes in both men.
Mas goes it alone with Conklin, risking everything to bring Sato into
custody. Nick's lone wolf individualism rubs off on Mas. Nick returns
the counterfeit plates to Mas in a funny way but the point is made.
Nick teases Mas into thinking he is going to make off with them and
sell them for money. Look at the relief on Mas' face when they are
under a goodbye shirt. A great little movie. Not Ridley's Best But Not
Prometheus Either.
<|_=00=_|>
This solid thriller deals about a down-home cop(Michael Douglas)accused
of corruption and his young partner(Andy Garcia). They witness a grisly
killing by a Japonese murderer named Sato(Matsuda). They pursuit him
and barely escape with their life, but get detain him. They're assigned
to protect him but with painful results when the mobster is transported
to Osaka. Then they are assigned to upright Inspector(Ken Takatura) and
forced into action against Yazuka. Thus starts a clash of culture and a
cobweb of intrigue which keep the spectators on the edge of their
seats.

This is a superb, though predictable at times, blending of tough
American police genre and Japanese gangsters by means an organization
called Yazuka, a kind of oriental Mafia .Michael Douglas as
down-and-out police and Ken Takatura are honorable Inspector are very
fine . Good secondaries actors such as Andy Garcia and Kate Capshaw,
Spileberg's wife. Appear uncredited John Spencer as the chief official
and Luis Guzman. This first rate suspenseful action pic benefits from
intelligent screenplay and visual dynamics, however is overlong, two
hours and some. This special buddy-movie is full of neon lights from
Osaka with a videoclip and advertisement spots style . The motion
picture is glamorously directed by Ridley Scott as stylish as ever ,
similarly his previous film(Someone to watch over me) and others(Blade
runner,Duelists , Legend) in which his visual style is impressive.
<|_=00=_|>
I grew up watching many crime action flicks. Heat, The Untouchables,
The Lethal Weapons, Die Hard, you name it. Black Rain is among them.
There are so many levels about this film that I love: the story, the
acting, the action sequences, the cinematography, the music—to name a
few.

The story is simple; Nick Conklin (Michael Douglas) is a New York cop
who is under investigation by Internal Affairs for corruption. When
eating lunch, Nick and his partner (Andy Garcia) witness a bloody
double homicide. They catch the perpetrator, but because he is Japanese
and a wanted criminal in Japan, he must be taken back to his home
country for trial. Reluctantly, Nick and his partner take him home but
lose him in their custody. They then team up with the Japanese law
enforcement to catch the criminal. 

The film really explores the different styles of cop work from New York
and Japan. Nick is a hardass who breaks the rules to get the job done.
In contrast, the Japanese law enforcement does everything by the book,
which provides no help, particularly with the Japanese cop (named Masa)
Nick and his partner are assigned to (played wonderfully by Ken
Takakura). Not only do the two cops buttheads, but when the film's plot
takes a dark turn, Nick and Masa learn to tolerant their differences
and work together. As a result, both also learn some important lessons
from each other. 

Critics have always said that Michael Douglas's best role is his 1988
Oscar winner for Gordon Gekko in Wall Street. I beg to differ. Douglas
as Nick Conklin is his best performance. Why? Unlike Gordon, Nick goes
on a journey that ultimately changes his character. There is a strong
sense of ambivalence in his character as he teams up with the Japanese
law enforcement to catch the Yakuza boss. As mentioned above, Nick is a
jerk at first, but as the film progresses, he learns some important
lessons in Japan and likewise with the Japanese cop. This is what I
love about Douglas's performance. He should have received a nomination
for this film.

Andy Garcia is perfect as Nick's partner; he supplies the comic
relief—fulfilling as the good cop. Ken Yakuza as Masa is another great
addition to the film. I wish I had seen him in more movies. The actor
who plays the villain (I can't remember his name) is perfect. He
carries both the demeanor and facial expressions of a natural-born
psycho. It is sad that he was dying of bladder cancer when he was
filming this movie—he would have had quite a career. Another aspect
worth noting is Jan De Bont's cinematography. He captures a very Blade
Runner look: dim lighting; smoke filled rooms and streets, and
skyscraper vistas. His work is truly breathtaking—capturing Tokyo at
the rise of its peak in the late 1980s. Hans Zimmer's score is
flawless. He incorporates oriental instruments to accommodate the
Japanese atmosphere, as well as includes synthesis, brooding drums, and
electric guitar to reflect the two Americans in Japan—a West meets East
feeling, I love it! 

People do not talk much about this film, perhaps because it has fallen
under as just another crime action flick. Yes, there is plenty of
action, including a big shootout at the end, following a sweet
motorcycle chase, and a brutal hand-to-hand fight between the good guy
and bad guy. However, there are so many levels to this film that I feel
most people overlook. It has action, but there is more than it. Black
Rain has it all: drama, some light humor, brilliant performances, an
interesting plot, and a tour-de-force in the filmmaking aspects,
specifically in direction, cinematography, and music.

My rating (obvious) **** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
It's been said this is the movie Ridley thought he was going to make
when he was given Blade Runner. Whether there's truth in that hardly
matters: the movies share a lot, especially in terms of the stark thick
imagery.

Word has it the DVD rendition is terrible, which is a shame as this
movie offers so much visually.

But Black Rain is more than an aesthetic visual experience: it's a
morality play, and what the morale is supposed to be might be difficult
to articulate, but it's there.

The supporting cast is excellent, as is Douglas, but especially
impressive are the Japanese stars Ken Takakura and the legendary Yusaku
Matsuda. Takakura, a star in his home country, is eminently
sympathetic, and Matsuda's way of playing his role - with a touch of
smart aleck snooty adolescence - is nothing short of brilliant.

This was Douglas's project; perhaps he had something in mind. It's
interesting with respect to the title, what that title means, and the
fact that a documentary on the subject (and with the same name in
Japanese) came out the same year.

Matsuda succumbed to bladder cancer a month after the premiere. He'd
known about it for a year but didn't think it fatal. He'd been on his
way to making a new film with Sean Connery. Matsuda is a legend in his
home country, and was so before his illness.

The movie is largely about the Douglas and Takakura characters, but as
always when Hans Zimmer has a hand in production, the music really
takes off. Zimmer is perhaps the most effective film composer today if
not of all time. He's done wonders with movies that might otherwise
have not come to people's attention. And this is another great score.
The title song with lyrics by Will Jennings is a knock-out.

And let's not forget Lady Kate Capshaw.

This one is bloody and violent, and that might not be your cup of tea
and it certainly isn't mine, but just like with Leon there is a kind of
quiet subtle poetry that emerges, gore or not.

Three days after seeing it again and the music and scenes are still
playing in my mind. It's that strong.

And it's a definite keeper.
