
I've probably seen this film five or six times over the years, from its
initial U.S. "art-house" run in the late 1980s (I can still vividly
remember my experience seeing it in the Coconut Grove theater near
where I was going to university) to last night. It's been one of my
most consistent 10s. Although my ratings tend to fluctuate on multiple
viewings for many films, I don't believe that I've ever thought The
Gods Must be Crazy was lower than a 10.

The film works so well because of its odd confluence of styles, which
gradually merge. You could almost say the structure is Hegelian, with a
thesis, two antitheses, and something of a synthesis at the end. The
common thread throughout is a very tongue-in-cheek critique, in the
mode of a parable, of both culture/society/civilization and views about
culture/society/civilization, including politics, religion, mores, and
so on.

The film begins with the story of Xixo, or just "Xi" (N!xau, in one of
the many spellings of this actor's name) and his fellow bushmen, who
live in the Kalahari Desert. A narrator (Paddy O'Byrne) tells us about
their lifestyle. Before long, this is contrasted with footage of life
in the big city in Johannesburg. The narration continues with the same
tone, as if we're unfamiliar with modern, western culture. We meet Kate
Thompson (Sandra Prinsloo), who is getting fed up with her white-collar
existence. We move back to the bushmen. A man in a passing small
aircraft nonchalantly tosses a Coke bottle out the window. It lands
close to Xi, who has never seen anything like it before. Eventually it
causes all kinds of problems and Xi tries to get rid of it. We are also
introduced to a thread about Sam Boga (Louw Verwey), who is leading
rebels in Burundi. We see them try to assassinate the President. After
this, they're pursued by the Burundian military. Meanwhile, Kate has
decided to go to Botswana to be a teacher, and there she meets Andrew
Styne (Marius Weyers). Eventually, all of these threads come together.

The plot may sound like a mess, and it probably would be under lesser
hands, but producer/writer/editor/director Jamie Uys keeps the
disparate threads remarkably focused and coherent. His timing for each
and for the transitions between threads is impeccable, and the way they
move together is nothing short of ingenious.

There has been no shortage of ink spilled in (often-negative) criticism
of The Gods Must be Crazy. Unfortunately, a lot of the criticism is
ridiculous and profoundly misconceived. Many see the film as racist. A
lot of people who can't comprehend the fact/fiction distinction have
criticized the film for inaccurate portrayals of bushmen and other
characters. Uys' humor and social critiques are frequently
misunderstood.

It's significant that O'Byrne's narrative tone is very similar to Peter
Jones' narrative tone for "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy".
Whether this was a direct influence on Uys is not as important as the
contextual clues it provides (the Hitchhiker's Guide mini-series
featuring Jones was not completed until 1981, but the BBC radio show,
which was the original format for Hitchhiker's Guide and which also
featured Jones' narration, aired in 1978). The narration is extremely
tongue-in-cheek and sarcastic. Uys is spoofing bushmen, civilization,
and also some of the misconceptions about bushmen. The narration is
also meant as a kind of distancing technique. Modern western
civilization is explained to us as if we're aliens learning about this
world.

This is all in service of a much more serious, different kind of point.
The bushmen are shown as they are to enable a Lord of the Flies (1963 &
1990, based on William Golding's 1954 book)-like examination of
civilization. The bushmen are the schoolboys of Lord of the Flies in
their initial shipwrecked state. The Coke bottle symbolizes the
entrance of civilization in that "virgin" culture, and we see the havoc
the new concepts cause. The Johannesburg and Burundi material both
exist in the film to give us a "flash forward" to what that
introduction of civilization can lead to. In the case of Burundi, it's
a direct extension of the fighting over possessions, including land. In
the case of Johannesburg, it's a spiraling web of miserableness. It's
not a coincidence that the bushmen learn both violence and unhappiness
when civilization appears, and it's not an accident that we initially
examine these things from an "alien" perspective. Uys wants us to look
at where we stand as a civilization and reassess it--an especially
poignant message coming from a South African in the late 1970s/early
1980s. Don't forget that Xi is a hero here--he's the most authentic
character in the film, and he's the one who enables the resolution of
the dilemma in the climax.

The material in Botswana, especially as the threads merge, suggests a
kind of solution, a kind of balance, although it's significant that the
solution is far from perfect, and to an extent, parties go their
separate ways again. Uys seems to be saying that even if there is a
solution to civilization's woes, it's going to be complex and probably
less than perfect.

Easing up on the analysis for a minute, all you may need to know is
that The Gods Must be Crazy is a very funny but poignant film. The
humor ranges from subtle and intellectual to crazy slapstick
(especially whenever Weyers is around--he's very gifted at slapstick).
Uys delivers beautifully filmed exotic locations, a maybe surprising
amount of violence in the Sam Boga segments (although somewhat
cartoonish and funny violence--these segments often resemble Woody
Allen's 1971 film, Bananas), a lot of adventure, a fair amount of
suspense, and even a charming romance.

Do not let the ridiculous, negative ideological criticism dissuade you.
This is a classic--a masterpiece--that presents both surface
entertainment and complex, "deep" themes and subtexts. If you haven't
seen it yet you must.
<|_=00=_|>
A unique film with a brilliant combination of slapstick, subtle humour,
wonderful music, brilliant wildlife and scenic shots, all beautifully
woven into a piece in an almost "road-style" movie around the
adventures of a bushman. 

Like any story, there are some aspects which are slightly unbelievable
if you stop to think - but the skill of the film is that it is
sufficiently convincing to suspend such unbelief whilst you watch.

The message of the film is brilliantly presented, subtly challenging
the belief that white civilization has all the answers, gently poking
fun at many of our western assumptions (no idea why anyone thinks it's
racist - it may be the opposite)! 

Some of the high points for me personally were the scenery, the
wildlife, and the African huts, children and music. Having lived in
Africa for 3 years it was absolutely true to life, and brought back
fond memories. This is a classic that will bear watching time and time
again, and so different from the run of the mill films generally
churned out.

A classic - 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't be put off by the talk of poor production values, bad dubbing,
goofy Benny Hill-esque slapstick, and questionable acting. Once you get
a look at the enormous smile on Xi's face, you'll forget all of that.
This is one of the most gentle, pleasant, and likable movies I've seen
in a long time (all of that in a good way).

I'd always heard about it, but somehow managed to miss it over the
years. Finally saw it this weekend, and it's a real gem. 

For you DVD viewers, there's a documentary with interview footage of
Xi. The only problem--no subtitles! Some bozo obviously blew it on the
transfer, making it possibly the most frustrating doc ever
produced...Be warned!
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is not a big budget action film, this movie is not an emotional
soap opera, or a tearjerker, this is a simple little film about the simple
things in life.  This South African produced film has proven to be one of
the best I have seen in quite a long time.  N!xau, a native bushman plays a
bushman in this movie.  A coke bottle has destroyed his villages life as it
has been proven to be an excellent tool, but everyone wants it.  So the
young Bushman is told by the village elders to throw the ‘evil thing' off
the ends of the earth.

On his long and perilous journey he runs into all kinds of different people,
some terrorists, a man studying animals, an uptight urban teacher, and some
trouble along the way, obviously.  The movie is just so funny, the film is
told from the point of view of the bushman, and is poignant as well.  The
movie manages to be very different, and extremely unconventional, at least
by American standards.  

I have to admit I am glad I got to see this movie. A lot of great foreign
films do not make it over to America, and that is sad, but this movie is
excellent, it is funny, sweet, and all around one of the best movies I have
seen.  The writing is congruent and sharp, the performances do not at all
seemed forced and the ensemble here manage to come off appropriately
hilarious without taking away from the plot.

There are some political overtones here as well, as the movie takes a few
shots at apartheid, when it was still around.  Also in my mind the movie is
extremely satirical of the instability that the region faces.  The funniest
part of the movie were the terrorists.  They were so incredibly inept and
silly I couldn't help laugh at them.  If they weren't tripping over closing
doors they were tripping over themselves.

Marius Weyers as the biologist who is clumsy but well meaning also steals
the show, and his assistant, played by Louw Verway is excellent, but the
real star of the show is N!Xau, who makes such an excellent lead and does
wonderful here.  What amazes me about him was he was about forty when he did
this film.  There is no way for him to know when he was born, but the man
looks so youthful, it is incredible, I thought he was a teenager!  Shows you
how much I know.  Anyway see this incredible film, it is more than worth it.
 
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know that I've ever seen a movie that had such innocent joy -
I'm not sure if any other movie I've seen had any innocent joy, for
that matter.

Perhaps what true joy I've seen in movies is civilized and therefore
self-conscious.

Anyway, you can look at the crazy civilized world through the eyes of
these innocents and have joy about it instead of cynicism. Can ordinary
pain relievers do that?

The premise is how one empty Coke bottle in the garden of Eden could
corrupt it. They do a totally believable job of it, too.

Lots of laughs, kids loved it. I saw it in the theaters in the mid-80's
and am glad I saw it again. You'll like it. It will lighten your heart.
<|_=00=_|>

This is not a great movie but it uses the differences between the civilized
white man against the uncivilized Bushman and with that simple tool it
becomes hilarious. Civilized in the white man's eyes, I must add to that.
This is one of those movies where every gag works, no matter how simple and
silly it is. Most of the time the movie is slapstick comedy the way we see
it in Chaplin- or Laurel & Hardy-shorts. We even have the fast forward
sequence where people are running away from something.

The movie opens with a look on the Bushmen and a narrator (Paddy O'Byrne)
tells us what kind of people they are; friendly and without any knowledge
about the world not that far from their Kalahari desert. When they see a
plane they think it is a strange bird or even a god. One day a pilot throws
a glass bottle out of his airplane and the thing is found by the Bushmen.
They have never seen anything that is a smooth and hard as this object and
they find it very useful. They think it is a gift from the gods. The problem
is that the gods have given only one object and for the first time they have
to share something that is very hard to share. For the first time they feel
emotions such as anger and jealousy. It is decided that the thing is an Evil
Thing and must be thrown of the earth and Xixo (N!xau, a real Bushman) is
the one to do that. These early scenes give a very funny view on how the
civilized white man has become what he is today.

In the meanwhile we have met Andrew Steyn (Marius Weyers) who does field
research not far from the Bushman and Kate Thompson (Sandra Prinsloo) who
was tired of her job and now wants to do something with children in
Botswana. Steyn must pick up Kate and bring her to the village and this is
where the slapstick begins. Steyn is a man who gets very nervous when is
around women and with Kate he must be the most clumsy guy there is. We have
also met Sam Boga (Louw Verwey) who wants to do a coup but fails and he is
now running for the police. We know how all these stories will come together
but that is not  a bad thing. It only uses the story to show us differences
between people, to show that the white man is not necessarily the civilized
man and it does this with great comedy. 

‘The Gods Must Be Crazy' with its simple humor works a lot better then most
of the modern comedies. The way the Bushmen talk is funny enough to like
this movie. Fortunately there is so much more including a little
message.
<|_=00=_|>

I remember the first 5 times I saw this movie I was laughing so much that
tears rolled down my face. This movie was very well done and I have
nothing
bad to say about this movie. I definetly recommend this movie to anyone
who
wants to laugh.... and if it doesn't make you laugh then you better check
your pulse.
<|_=00=_|>

What starts out as a simple tale of the bush turns into a wild adventure
with a coke bottle, revolutionaries, a dis-enchanted office worker turned
teacher, and a scientist who studies animal dung with no skills around
women. Add a smart-tongued mechanic and a 4x4 called the antichrist, and
you
have one of the funniest movies ever to come out of South Africa. You laugh
as much at the ludicrous nature of some of the situations as much as what
they want you to laugh at. You may never look at Africa the same
again.
<|_=00=_|>

It seemed simplistic, yet it was so brilliant in 
its execution that it ranks as one of the more 
interesting films of the last century. Unique and 
different, this film showed a different side of 
Africa and introduced one of the few genuine 
characters in the African Bushman. Highly 
recommended for anyone who has not seen 
this film. If you can find it, rent it.
<|_=00=_|>

Crazy, goofy, and silly are the three most operative words to describe "The
Gods Must Be Crazy". But the movie is also very original. It's appropriate
that the word crazy is in the title because this is the craziest movie I've
ever seen. "The Gods Must Be Crazy" is a South African made comedy that was
made back in the early 1980s but didn't get released until 3-4 years after
shooting was completed. It became a surprise hit in the U.S. after it was
released in 1984, and it did very well in other countries too. "The Gods
Must Be Crazy" features three separate stories that get tied together
towards the end. One story is about a bushman who goes on a journey to
return a Coke bottle that he found to the Gods after the bottle starts
causing harm to some of his family members. Another story revolves around a
war that breaks out in Central Africa. And the other story centers around a
clumsy scientist who tries to take a pretty South African woman to her new
job as a schoolteacher in a small African village, and does everything
wrong. This is my favorite part of the movie. The scientist is played by
Marius Weyers, and he gives an inspired slapstick comedy performance. Some
of the things that he does in the film had me exploding in laughter. The
scenes with the jeep that he drives are priceless. Sandra Prinsloo is a good
foil as the schoolteacher who unfortuneitly has no choice but to put up with
his clumsiness. When Weyers and Prinsloo are on screen, "The Gods Must Be
Crazy" is at its funniest. The other two stories are good, but not great.
Nevertheless, there are some unusual scenes in these parts of the movie too.
But the scenes involving the scientist and the schoolteacher are the best
parts of "The Gods Must Be Crazy". It's too bad that they didn't turn up in
the dull sequel. I think these parts of the movie alone is enough for me to
recommend "The Gods Must Be Crazy". 

*** (out of four)

