

As a former video store employee, I am proud to say of all the films I ever
recommended, LADYHAWKE came back with all favorable reviews, and not once
did anyone I rented it to take me up on my "money-back" guarantee.

No surprises there. Despite the production's troubled history between two
studios (Fox and Warner's) and endless rewrites by an army of scribes, it
still finds everyone involved at the top of their game, and early into most
of their careers!

Rutger Hauer's bad guys were always more interesting and charismatic than
his good ones, but his role as Captain Etienne Navarre was the noteable
exception. In the best shape of his career both physically and artistically
(with the exception of BLADE RUNNER'S Roy Batty), he painted the perfect
portrait of noble hubris, tinged with the ache of unfulfilled love for his
fair maiden, and the sorrow of an eternal curse that could never  be lifted.
Even Errol Flynn would've been envious.

Michelle Pfeiffer has been many things in her career: earthy, sensual,
campy, courageous, but she would never achieve the combination of radiant
strength and vulnerability that she did as Isabeau D'Anjou. There have been
other actresses who have looked better and given deeper, more nuanced
performances since hers...but it's a REAL short list.

When I saw the previews, I was pretty sure that the main thing I would like
the least about this movie was Matthew Broderick, whose Philippe "The Mouse"
Gaston was a character I was pretty sure would grate on my nerves. And for
the first part of the film, he definitely does. Credit it to Matthew's
likeability and talent that before the film's end, though, you're rooting
for him as much as for the two leads.

And let's not forget an extremely impressive supporting cast: John Wood (WAR
GAMES and JUMPING JACK FLASH), Leo McKern (the OMEN films and PBS' "Rumpole
of the Bailey"), Alfred Molina (PRICK UP YOUR EARS, RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK
and the TV series THE LADIES' MAN) and a wicked turn by Ken Hutchison as
Navarre's nemesis. 

For the couple, the friends or the family who want action AND romance, too,
you can't do better, (and can always do worse.) And as far as the "music"
controversy is concerned, I am a longtime fan of Andrew Powell's work back
from his early days with Alan Parsons, and later with The Project, and I
thought that the juxtaposition of the contemporary music with the medieval
setting worked perfectly. This is, after all, a fantasy, not a historical
record of true events! Enjoy it for what it is!
<|_=00=_|>

Rutegar Hauer shines as Captain Etienne Navarre, a medieval knight and his
petite l'amour Michelle Pfeiffer as Isabeau his wonderful Lady Hawk.  John
Wood plays an utterly nasty Bishop of Aquila. With Mathew Broderick as the
little thief and Leo McKern the priest who betrays the two lovers.

This movie stands out for music score, knights and fair ladies in distress,
and characters that you can fall in love with.  It will have you rooting for
the good guys and yelling at the screen for them to vanquish their enemies.

This romantic fantasy is an escape for the real world to a place where love,
honor, and courage are rewarded.  Where true love is possible, and two
people love each other more than life itself.  A love like this is almost
impossible today.

I adored this film so much that I have three copies of the movie and two of
the soundtrack by Alan Parsons Project.  I think the background music goes
so well with what is happening on the screen.  Each of the main characters
has their own musical composition, and will make you cheer or cry.


<|_=00=_|>
Ever since I was a kid, I loved fantasy movies. As a matter of fact,
anything with sword fights was great in my book. And since I grew up in
the days before Lord of the Rings came along, my favourites were always
mid-to-late-eighties fantasy epics like The Princess Bride, Willow, and
Ladyhawke.

It's all about an outcast knight and his lover, who have been cursed by
an evil bishop to become animals during night and day, so they're never
together in human form. He becomes a wolf and she becomes a hawk (hence
the title). The knight enlists the help of a young thief to break into
the cathedral and take his revenge on the bishop. Aside from the basic
premise, it's more of a historical movie than a fantasy movie. There's
no magic other than the curse, and no trolls or giants or anything,
which was partly the reason I enjoyed it so much.

I've also always loved this movie for it's great storyline and
interesting characters. Philipe's conversations with God still amuse
me, as does the drunken monk played by Leo McKern ... It comes from
director Richard Donner, who of course brought us Superman I & II, the
Lethal Weapon movies and so on. This is essentially a well-directed
movie, although a lot of people have issues with the choice of
soundtrack. It's kind of a techno-poppy thing, which I blame
NeverEnding Story for. A lot of eighties fantasy movies went with the
same idea, but it works with Ladyhawke better than it works with most
others, although I would of course prefer a more conventional and less
intrusive score. On the whole, the sets and the props are pretty
convincing, although some of the fight sequences aren't particularly
great.

Here we have an early Matthew Broderick performance which shows how
little his acting skills have developed since. Not that he's a bad
actor, just an early bloomer I guess. Cult icon Rutger Hauer, of whom I
have always been a huge fan (Blade Runner, The Hitcher, The 10th
Kingdom) gives a fantastic performance as the outcast knight, and as we
all know it's never a bad idea to have Michelle Pfeiffer in a movie.

You should definitely see this movie if you're a fan of the genre, or
of any of the actors involved. It's a wonderful fantasy adventure for
all ages.
<|_=00=_|>
What a great story. This has been one of my favorite movies since it
first came out. (I saw it with my best friend, who had a crush on
Matthew Broderick.) Anyway, it's a very stirring, timeless (except for
the music) story of love, heartache, hope and redemption. Wonderful.

Rutger Hauer is amazing. Strong, even frightening at times, but still
tender and vulnerable. Of course Michelle Pfeiffer is at her absolute
most beautiful. She really does seem to possess "the face of love" as
Phillipe says. But Matthew Broderick really makes the movie. He's more
than just comic relief (although he is hilarious); he keeps the story
grounded. Without the character of Philippe the movie would be too
ethereal, untethered. Philippe is the everyman--our connection to the
magical beauty of Navarre and Isabeau.

I've heard that the story is based on a medieval legend, but I haven't
been able to find it. If anyone has a link, please post it as a review
on this site; I'd love to read more about it. Thanks!!
<|_=00=_|>

Rutger Hauer and Michelle Pfieffer stunned me with their beauty when I first
saw "Ladyhawke", a poignant vision of medieval love and longing. This
visually-beautiful tale's cinematographers had filmed their hands, hair, and
skin through dappled sunlight and shadows to emphasize their unearthly
beauty. Matthew Broderick and Leo MacKern gave this magical story its
humanity. Some reviewers have disparaged its musical score by Vangelis. I've
always felt that it fit the mood and setting of the film. Rousing sword
fights. One of my favorite movies of all time.
<|_=00=_|>
I found this to be one of more likable medieval (13th century) fantasy
movies I've ever seen. It works because of the great mixture of action,
beautiful photography, likable lead characters, humor, touching
romance, suspense and no offensive language. Yes, here is an adult film
that everyone can watch, and that' no cliché.

Rutger Hauer and Michelle Pfeiffer are handsome leads but Matthew
Broderick, as "Phillipe Gaston," is the star of the show. He provides
the humor and is involved in almost every scene. 

There is a lot of "religion" in here, both shown positively and
negatively. Broderick's character acknowledges God and constantly talks
to Him. Hauer refers to Him, too, but Broderick is the talker. However,
here is yet another case of a French Catholic clergyman being the evil
"bad guy." (Is one ever shown in a positive light?) John Wood
effectively plays the nasty " Bishop of Aqulia."

This is a "curse" story about two humans who turn into hawk (Pfeiffer)
and wolf (Hauer) by day/night never seeming to be human at the same
time so they can be lovers and live happily ever after.

It's interesting all the way, with my only suggestion that it could
have been a "10" had it been chopped about 15-20 minutes in length.

Overall, though, a solid film and one that has been enjoyed by everyone
I know who has seen it.
<|_=00=_|>
I think this film is a classic. Based on an old, European legend, this
movie is one of the best films ever made. The music was a bit
distracting and annoying, but the actors were superb. John Wood once
again delivers another wonderful villainous performance, while Rutger
Hauer and Michelle Pfeifer play the 'seperated lovers'. Matthew
Broderick gives a convincing performance as the Mouse.

It's a great flick that has both romance and action. It's a wonderful
movie that both men and women will enjoy. Easy to follow and good
special effects (for the '80's).

This movie is one to own!

Bishop: "I believe in miracles, Marquet. It's part of my job."
<|_=00=_|>
Richard Donner's 'Ladyhawke' tells a fascinating tale of cursed love
that separates two lovers like day and night (quite literally). What I
loved about this film is that even though it's a wonderful mixture of
action, adventure, romance and comedy, it is a simple film. The
execution is solid and it shows that Donner and his cast and crew have
put a lot of heart in the making of the film.

The score is kind of funny. At times there's a beautiful symphony that
expresses the beauty of the settings and then, during the action
scenes, there's the typical 80's hip track which brings a smile as it
nostalgically reminds me of that wild decade. 'Ladyhawke' is indeed
very beautiful to look at. The cinematography is superb as it gives a
very spacious view and the composition of the shots are very well
arranged.

No CGI has been used and that marvelously stands out as it gives the
film a purer look and only reminds one of the days before CGI was
overused, when cinema looked pure and authentic. 'Ladyhawke' is a fine
example of movies that can look great and sometimes even better and
more effective without CGI (other examples being the Star Wars trilogy
(80's version), Indiana Jones etc).

The performances are topnotch. A radiant Michelle Pfeiffer completely
owns the title role. Her understated performance and quiet yet strong
presence (like a hawk) brilliantly contrasts Rutger Hauer's wolfish
character. Hauer too does a fine job. An evil Alfred Molino is barely
recognizable and Leo McKern wears the menacing look very well. John
Wood provides some great comic relief. However, it is Matthew Broderick
who stands out. He performs naturally as the vivacious, energetic,
deceitful thief who loses his heart to Ladyhawke and at the same time
he is determined to reunite the lovers and rescue them from the wrath
of the curse.

Overall, 'Ladyhawke' is a beautiful movie that satisfied my filmviewing
experience. It gives that nostalgic feel, it amuses, it fascinates and
it feels enchanting. No wonder it still feels fresh after more than two
decades.
<|_=00=_|>

It's funny - my two clearest memories of this film were off the mark in
completely opposite ways. I remembered Matthew Broderick being deeply
annoying; as it turns out he's just mildly irritating. And I remembered the
soundtrack being bad; but good God, it's *appalling*. Whoever decided that a
tragic, touching supernatural romance would be best accompanied by funky 70s
synthesisers (I don't think they're fitting enough to even be classed as
80s) should be forced to eat their own afro. Yes, all of it. I can honestly
say I have never heard a less appropriate musical score in my entire life.
It's not that it's bad, exactly - it'd probably work pretty well if the lead
character was, say, Shaft.

Still, when the crazy disco beats aren't violating the atmosphere, there's
some good stuff going on. Richard Donner already had serious directing
experience under his belt in 1985, and Ladyhawke is beautifully shot and
paced with some gorgeous scenery to take in. There's just enough action
(they give it some proper welly in those swordfights), John Wood provides a
proper boo-hiss malicious villain, the dialogue never quite slips into
melodrama despite teetering on the edge occasionally, and it's always a
pleasure to watch Rutger Hauer in one of his few good roles before he
degenerated into self-parody. (Well, if we're being honest it's a pleasure
to watch him in his godawful recent stuff as well, but for different
reasons.) Above all the film's got heart, which is more than you can say for
95% of the cack that Hollywood churns out, and it deserves some small credit
for that at least.
<|_=00=_|>

The leads are physically beautiful almost beyond film comparison. Their
moral-spiritual characters match, which should make the film corny.  The
plot is preposterous, but the main characters, Isabeau and Gaston, prosecute
their roles with such unfailing intensity you can't help but accept the
nonsense. What is Ferris Bueller doing in medieval France, though?  Perhaps
the film needs some salty leavening, and at least he makes the plot work a
little more efficiently.  Overall, I don't have a rational judgement to make
but a purely emotional one: I can never forget this film.  It has haunted me
since the first time I saw it.  And that is all down to the pure intensity
of Hauer and Pfeiffer.
