

"Glory" is a modern film classic that highlights a little-known chapter
of the Civil War.

I recently purchased the DVD, and was just as moved (if not more so) as
the first time I saw it.

Broderick, Freeman, and Washington, along with a stellar cast play it
faultlessly. I still remember the brouhaha over the casting of Matthew
Broderick as Shaw, and I see that even now some IMDb posters single him
out for fault in "Glory." Sorry, but I disagree. One should remember
that the real Col. Shaw was a young man in his mid-20s - hardly a
grizzled old veteran - despite his high rank. Broderick actually does
bear a resemblance to Shaw, and shouldn't be criticized for his boyish
looks. I felt every nuance of the burden he carried, and thought
Broderick did a wonderful job.

Denzel Washington's powerful acting may never again have a showcase
like it did in "Glory." His beauty, rage, and pride scream in every
frame. His Oscar for this break-out role was highly deserved. Trip's
character is really the distillation of what this film is all about:
the black man's heart-rending battle for worth, recognition, and
dignity. As far as I'm concerned no one BUT Washington could have
played Trip. Thank God for Denzel!

Morgan Freeman is the film's human core. His quiet compassion and
leadership keeps the soldiers focused. His one angry confrontation with
Trip proves he has the goods to back up a field promotion to Sergeant
Major.

Freeman (an appropriate reminder of where surnames come from) is the
father figure the regiment desperately needs in a time of death and
crisis. The men look to him for his calming wisdom and reasonable, fair
demeanor.

Films like "Saving Private Ryan" raised the technical bar for battle
scenes.

The fighting scenes in "Glory" are, unfortunately, it's weakest
element. The staging and choreography are mediocre at best. And other
than a scene where the 54th Massachusetts is given a hero's flanking
onto the battlefield beaches of South Carolina, these shots don't
emotionally engage the viewer. Still, in the end, "Glory" isn't about
big, noisy battles. It's about the transcendence of the human spirit in
the face of bigotry, bad treatment, and almost certain death. It's
about a watershed moment in our bloody history that elevated us all and
must never be forgotten.

"Glory" is, indeed, glorious.

<|_=00=_|>

Easily the best Civil War movie ever produced, and among the front rank of
all war movies. Filled with memorable and moving scenes - the look of sheer
defiance on Trip's (Denzel Washington) face as his already scarred back is
whipped, the men of the 54th telling their stories around the campfire on
the eve of battle, Shaw (Matthew Broderick) turning loose his horse on the
beach before Ft. Wagner. History is brought to life more vividly in this
film than in any big-budget all-star cast epic I can recall. Most often ,
those films only succeed in collapsing under their own weight and leaving
audiences more turned off about history. Glory brings the issues of the time
- slavery, freedom and sacrifice - down to human scale. We can understand
why the men of the 54th were willing to take up arms, and how tragic it was
that they had to sacrifice their lives in order to be considered
men. 
<|_=00=_|>

With one of the best ensemble casts of 
all time, this ranks as one of the best war 
films of all time. With a collection of great black 
actors like no other, everything seemed to work 
well in this film, from the cinematography to 
the acting. Edward Zwick created a masterpiece, 
which, in any other year, would have swept 
most of the major awards. Sadly, this did not 
even make the AFI Top 100 so inferior movies 
could squeeze in. In my opinion, the likes of 
Born on the Fourth of July and Driving Miss 
Daisy were vastly inferior to this film during the 
1990 Academy Awards. I mean, how the heck 
were films like Dead Poets Society and My Left 
Foot nominated for best picture when  this one 
wasn't? (sure they were good films, but c'mon)

Matthew Broderick completely surprised me 
with his performance, as well as Cary Elwes. And 
one cannot forget the likes of Denzel Washington, 
and Morgan Freeman giving great performances 
as soldiers weary of being the Union's lackeys. 
While the historical accuracy may not be perfect, 
as least this was a tribute to those who helped 
emancipate the slaves during the Civil War. 
<|_=00=_|>

My favorite movies to watch are probably war movies.  I've seen many great
films.  From the Vietnam war (Platoon, Full Metal Jacket, Hamburger Hill,
The Deer Hunter) to World War II (Saving Private Ryan, When Trumpets Fade,
The Thin Red Line).  But the best war film comes from the Civil War.  Glory
is an incredible film.  It's about the 54th regiment for the Union, the
first all black regiment.  Matthew Broderick (Ferris Bueller's Day Off,
Godzilla) stars as Robert Shaw, a white man in command of the regiment.
Cary Elwes (The Princess Bride, Kiss the Girls) is his second in command.
Denzel Washington (The Siege, Courage Under Fire) is magnificent as a
runaway slave in the 54th.  The always-great Morgan Freeman (Seven, Deep
Impact) is superb as a spiritual leader of the soldiers.  In my mind, the
film has no faults.  Broderick has been the main criticism by some people.
I have to disagree.  Broderick (though a bit young-looking) gives a
wonderful performance.  Cary Elwes has been an underrated actor his whole
career.  The same goes for Glory because his great supporting performance
was widely ignored.  James Horner delivers a haunting score which adds so
much to the movie.  A must see.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie falls into the "must see" category for historical dramas.  Much
like the films Saving Private Ryan and Last of the Mohicans, Glory stands
as
the war film to beat for its time period.

Glory arguably contains the most technically realistic and memorable Civil
War reenactment scenes ever shot.  Who didn't wince and watch in horror
when
Shaw and his regiment were blown to bits during the Antietam scene (which
I
would guess it was the West Woods portion of the Antietam battle??)?  Who
didn't feel uplifted when the 54th cuts down the Confederate cavalry
charge
which foolishly thought it would be no problem to break the lines of an
inexperienced -and black- regiment?  And finally, who didn't watch with
solemn pride the dramatic climax of the Fort Wagner assault.

This movie shows that even though the men were treated as (even below)
second class citizens by their own country and army, they still had the
integrity and honor to fight the best they could for the Union - and
eachother.  That's why those men in the 54th and every other black
regiment
stood out from the rest.  They must have known of America's potential even
before America did and fought to develop that and win black people the
dignity and respect they always deserved but never got.  Glory puts that
struggle on film for us to experience - and doesn't disappoint.
<|_=00=_|>

This is an ambitious film and is successful in everything it sets out
to accomplish. Glory does not rely on the visual aspects to accomplish
its perfection, but rather it relies on the emotional to convey its
message and humanity. This is a film that managed to get some of the
best actors of our time, as well as, withdraw from these actors their
best abilities. While the film does show the realities and horror of
war, especially when it involves good people thrown in, it captures the
viewers attention by making us empathetic, as opposed to simply
sympathetic. The score of the film is done by the brilliant James
Horner, which compliments the film, but at times envelops the film
completely. Director Zwick shows the various levels of humanity, one
scene can display the blunt bravery of these men, and yet the next
scene reminds us how scared and how human these men are. I wish I could
write a paragraph on each actor, but I must mention Matthew Broderick,
Morgan Freeman, Denzel Washingtion, Andre Braugher, Cary Elwes, and
Jihmi Kennedy. The characters of this film are wonderfully
well-developed and the relationships between these men adds a dimension
that is rarely seen in modern films. Each performance is Oscar-calibur,
overall, this is a film that should now be ranked as a classic for all
time. Simply amazing.

<|_=00=_|>
To be quite honest, I had low expectations for "Glory." It was just
another boring day at school sitting in my history class drawing random
drawings in my notebook. Suddenly my teacher says we're going to watch
a movie. I wake up from my dreamy state and I decide I'll give it a
chance. He loads the VCR tape into the machine and I fix my eyes upon
the screen.

I will put "Glory" into a few words--this is what every war movie
strives to be and beyond. Glory tells the story of a Civil War colonel
(Matthew Broderick) who leads the war's first all-black volunteer
regimen into battles and discovers along the way he has to confront the
moral question of racial prejudice within, and outside of, his regimen.

So as I'm sitting in history class watching "Glory," I immediately
begin to perk up. From the explosive first scene, I was fully awake. My
luck skyrocketed when I discovered two of my all-time favorite actors
in the film, Morgan Freeman and Denzel Washington. The movie progressed
and I found myself becoming yet more and more drawn into the film--not
just watching it, but actually EXPERIENCING every ounce of war,
prejudice, and moral questions that face the characters in the movie.

What's even more, is that you find yourself becoming attached to ALL of
the characters--every single black soldier--in some strange way, so
strange, that when these men fall in battle you feel a jolt of power
inside of you that is converted to emotional sadness in your mind.

The final scenes in Glory are mesmerizing. No, more than that--utterly
spectacular. The final battle scene at Fort Wagner is so amazingly shot
you will think you're actually there fighting along with the black
regimen. You're not in your seat watching the film--you feel like
you're there! The final battle scene is so spectacular, it will easily
remain one of the most memorable battle scenes I've ever witnessed in
all of film. After watching Glory, you will find yourself truly moved
in all ways possible. You will almost feel like a new person.

All of this paired with a beautiful score by James Horner, Glory is
simply one of the best war movies of all-time. Anyone who misses this
film is missing out one of the most powerful, moving, and memorable
experiences a movie can bring you.

I'm so glad I found myself in history this year.
<|_=00=_|>
There are few military films which allow us, the viewer, to explore our
feelings and emotions on the total war experience. Glory, Patton, The
Longest Day, explore and create great emotional value. Many more try to
cash in on our emotional appeal as a commodity. Yeah, we'll watch
Braveheart, Saving Private Ryan, The Patriot, Black Hawk Down, etc.,,
and i hate to blasphemy these good, visually effective movies, but
Glory is not out to exploit those senses. I love a good blow up movie,
except not the actual movie BlowUP. Regards to Antonioni.

Now take two anti-scenes as i like to call them. Denzel getting
whipped. Kills me every time, those eyes of his, staring at Col. Shaw.
Hate filled. The other "colored" soldiers are standing around watching
not in acceptance as soldiers, but in acceptance as a sort of slave to
the union. And we're wondering, will they be upset. Will the black
soldiers try to leave again. Will they rise up in anger. There is a not
only misunderstanding between the officers and the enlisted, but an
absolute distrust. The officers are equal to the slave owners. 

My anit-scene is much later in the film. The soldiers have gathered
around a fire and are praying to God, before battle. No imagery, just
total emotion. Praising the Lord they know. Asking and praying, But not
a single dissent about serving in the white man's army now. The have
formed a proud military unit. Something most of us will never
understand. And there is my emotional experience. Something i never
imagined was part of the Civil War. The truth is I am compelled to feel
too many emotions while watching this film. I would recommend this to
anyone. and especially to those in the south.
<|_=00=_|>
If you think about it, most war movies are about WWII and there aren't
as many movies about the Civil War. I haven't seen Gettysburg, but I
did see Gods and Generals, and believe me that wasn't all that great.
The best Civil War movie I've ever seen is Glory. The movie has an
excellent cast which includes Mathew Broderick(only three years after
he was in Ferris Buellers Day Off), Denzel Washington, and Morgan
Freeman.

I first saw this in my eight grade history class when we were learning
about the Civil War. This movie has a great score and it really
captures the feel of the Civil War through its battle scenes. For those
of you who only watch war movies to see people getting their heads
blown off, this is the wrong movie for you. This movie focuses on the
characters and what they're going through. Despite having a long
running time, the result of this movie is an entertaining and well made
war movie.

You should only buy this movie if you really like it, because it gets a
little bit slow the second time you see it. Either way, I'd say you
should watch this movie to see what quality war films are all about.
<|_=00=_|>
There seem to be a great many comments listed arguing whether

Mathew Broderick was a good choice to play Col. Robert Shaw or

not. All I can say is that he makes the film work for me. Whether

Broderick under played the part or not, I couldn't imagine any other

actor being more appropriate for the part. Not only were his looks

and age ideal for the individual he was recreating, but his

performance gave Gould the personality he needed; as someone

who was idealistic, young and somewhat callow, yet ultimately

displayed great maturity and fantastic courage. 

While Denzel Washington's performance was far more forceful

(and aptly so), I honestly found Broderick's character the most

compelling in the movie.

By the climactic battle, I felt great empathy for each of the

characters, especially Col. Shaw. I guess I feel that by playing

Shaw as a quiet rather than grand presence, Broderick is able to

more successfully highlight the extraordinary bravery and moral

fibre the man showed in his willingness to sacrifice everything for

his men and their cause. Though you could clearly see that he

dreaded his duty, he carried it out unflinchingly. Thats what

leadership is all about. I like heroes who show their humanity

infinitely more than those hollywoodised cutouts that actors like

Bruce Willis often play. I've never actually seen Ferris Bueller's day
out. A lot of people who

write about Glory say that its hard not to see that character

wherever Broderick goes. I'll be interested to see Ferris Bueller

now that I've established Broderick in my mind as a Civil war

officer. I'll be happy to here anyones comments on the subject.
