

Great action comedy adventure from the mid 80's starring Michael Douglas,
Kathleen Turner and Danny De Vito. Douglas and De Vito are great but to me
the film belongs to Kathleen Turner, she's fantastic and looks absolutely
stunning. Its also very well directed from the future director of Back to
the Future and Forrest Gump amongst others. Its often mentioned as a rip off
of Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom but I don't really think it is that
apparent, the scenes in the Jungle at the start of the film are really good
especially when they find the crashed plane "There's nothing like a good
fire"!!!. Danny De Vito is really funny as the comic relief and his cousin
has some funny lines "Look at them snappers, would ya". My only small
complaint is the romantic stuff is a little corny but I suppose thats for
the female audience. They followed this up with "Jewel of the Nile" just a
year later! Sadly like most sequels it wasn't nearly as good as this,
actually its not really worth bothering about unfortunately, Douglas, Turner
and De Vito also teamed up again in another film "War of the Roses" but that
film has no connection with this or Jewel of the Nile. So if you haven't
seen Romancing the Stone look out for it, it's excellent.
<|_=00=_|>

I love this movie.  I'm sure that it's in my top-ten somewhere, because ever
since I was a kid, I've never gotten sick of watching it.  The premise is
one of those that's just so damn crazy it actually works.  It starts with a
successful romance novelist, Joan Wilder, who has just finished her last
book, but lacks the sort of love-life that she writes about.  When she
learns that her sister has been kidnapped and is being held hostage, she
takes off to South America to help her out.  It seems that the kidnappers
want a treasure map that is in Joan's possession.  Joan is very much a city
girl and doesn't fully realize the bind that she and her sis have gotten
themselves into.  Once in South America, she takes the wrong bus, which
breaks down in the South American jungle.  When she's held up by a corrupt
Police Chief, a very rugged, unshaven, shot-gun toting, Michael Douglas
(Jack Colton) shows up and kicks some ass.  See, Jack is a bird-trapper who
wants nothing more than enough cash to buy himself a yacht.  Realizing that
Joan is lost in the jungle and fully incapable of surviving on her own, Jack
agrees to take her to the nearest town for $300 in travellers' checks, so
off they go.  By now, we've learned that besides the two goons who've
kidnapped Joan's sister (one of which is Danny DeVito in one of his funniest
roles EVER) the South American police are after the map as well.  Everyone
wants what's at the end of the map.  What follows for the next hour and a
half is one of the most exciting and funny action/adventure movies ever
filmed.  Michael Douglas is absolutely perfect in the role of Jack Colton
and delivers some of the funniest one-liners I've ever heard.  Kathleen
Turner is equally great as the naive romantic and, as always, she looks
great.  A great script is brougth to life perfectly by Robert Zemeckis and
his direction is air-tight.  Please go watch this movie, even if you've seen
it a hundred times already......"Oh YEAH!!!! Now that's a campfire!!!! 

<|_=00=_|>

"Romancing the Stone" is argubly my favorite adventure movie of all-time.
Yep, in my opinion it surpasses all three movies in the "Indiana Jones"
trilogy (which are right behind in terms of greatness). This movie has
action, adventure, comedy, drama, and romance all rolled up into one great
motion picture. Kathleen Turner stars as Joan Wilder, a romance novelist who
flies to the South American country of Colombia to rescue her kidnapped
sister. She's ordered by the kidnappers to bring a treasure map that she
received in the mail with her to the Colombian city of Cartegna. Ms. Wilder
ends up getting on the wrong bus that ends up taking her deep into the
jungle where she meets a fortune hunter who saves her life in more ways than
one. He also seems to resemble the hero in her books. Jack Colton, the
fortune hunter, is played by Michael Douglas (who also produced the film)
and he talks her into using the map to find the treasure. But they're not
the only ones who are dying to get their hands on the treasure. A couple of
bad guys are in hot pursuit of the two adventurers. There's Zolo (Manuel
Ojeda), an evil colonel who's on to Ms. Wilder (and is the real nasty bad
guy of the bunch); Ira (Zack Norman), one of the crazed kidnappers who's
obsessed with crocodiles (he's always saying "Look at those snappers!"); and
Ralph (Danny DeVito), Ira's bumbling cousin who goes to the airport to pick
up Ms. Wilder, see's at the last second that she got on the wrong bus, and
is forced to go into the jungle to find her. Even Ralph and Ira know that
Zolo is bad news. There are also minor supporting characters in the film.
There's Gloria (Holland Taylor from TV's "The Practice"), Ms. Wilder's
publisher; Elaine (Mary Ellen Trainor), Ms. Wilder's sister; and Juan
(Alfonso Arau), a Colombian native who actually turns out to be a huge fan
of Ms. Wilder. In one very funny scene, Ms. Wilder and Mr. Colton go to the
house of this man and ask him if they can borrow his car. The Colombian
tells them to get lost, until he finds out that the woman is actually Joan
Wilder the novelist, and admits that he's one of her biggest fans who has
read every one of her books. He proceeds to help the two get out of a jam.
"Romancing the Stone" has plenty of exhilarating action scenes, and a load
of big laughs. This was director Robert Zemeckis' first hit movie (which he
made before the original "Back to the Future"), and I still think this is
his best film. Zemeckis is one of our best directors working today, and
rarely (like Steven Spielberg and James Cameron) does he make a bad film.
"Romancing the Stone" is a great movie. Turner is splendid as the novelist
up to her neck in trouble; Douglas is terrific as her sidekick; and Norman
and Arau are hilarious in smaller roles. But the one who provides the
biggest laughs in the movie is Danny DeVito. He is literally a scream in
"Romancing the Stone". I kept falling down on my side because he had me
laughing so hard. This is one movie that's a must-see for people who like a
mix of action, suspense, adventure, romance, thrills, and lots of comedy.
One of the '80s best. Followed by the very good sequel "Jewel of the
Nile".

**** (out of four)

<|_=00=_|>
It's been a while since Kathleen Turner and Michael Douglas have done
something fun, even separately. We'll have to settle for this classic,
which has plenty of positive elements.

Romance novelist Joan Wilder is determined to find her kidnapped
sister; the strongest, most important plot point that a lot may not
realize. By chance, she meets Jack Colton in Colombia. Jack is an
American wanderer with profit on his mind, and even expected it from
her.

Douglas and Turner act very well together, and Danny DeVito was one of
the funniest actors around, showing his comedy skills here in all their
glory. Plus, if you think that movies like "She's All That" or
"Princess Diaries" started the reclusive frumpy girl who transforms
into a beautiful open minded woman concept, then you never saw Joan
Wilder's transformation! Whoo!

When you toss in several great chase and action scenes, a nasty corrupt
cop-villain, and flawless comedy, the end result is a living (for lack
of a better adjective) romance novel. Now, I've never read one myself,
but it wouldn't surprise me if Robert Zemeckis and the writers did.
<|_=00=_|>
A lot of great adventure movies came out of the 80's like the Star Wars
sequels, Indiana Jones, The Goonies, etc. Romancing the Stone is one of
those little gems, no pun intended, that somehow gets lost when we
think of a great adventure movie. I just adore this movie, ever since I
was a little girl I just wanted to live this movie. Kathleen Turner and
Michael Douglas had this amazing chemistry that made you wonder how the
heck they were not a real couple in life. Though like Kate Winslet and
Leonardo DiCaprio, their friendship shows so well on screen as well as
off that you're grateful they could bounce off each other so well.
Romancing the Stone is such a fun film that shows off DeVito, Turner
and Douglas' talent so well that we saw them all again in War of the
Roses. Romancing came first though and what a great movie.

Joan Wilder is a lonely New York romance novelist who receives a
treasure map mailed to her by sister, Elaine who calls Joan and begs
her to come to Cartagena, Colombia, because Elaine has been kidnapped
by bumbling antiquities smugglers Ira and Ralph, and the map is to be
the ransom. Hastily flying to Colombia, Joan is detoured from the
rendezvous with Ralph by Colonel Zolo, the man who killed Elaine's
husband. Joan ends up in the jungle and is almost killed by Zolo, but
is saved by the swashbuckling American exporter Jack T. Colton. For
getting her to Cartagena, Joan promises to pay Jack for getting her to
Cartagena so she can save her sister. But she ends up living one of her
romance novels as her and Jack grow closer as they discover the map
holds a stone that they will romance.

Romancing the Stone is a perfect mixture of adventure, romance and
humor. It is literally like a romance novel, but one that even the guys
could get into. I really like how Kathleen's character Joan goes from
this anti-social caterpillar into a woman of the world by the end. It
had such a great story arch for her. Michael Douglas as Jack, couldn't
have been a more perfect choice, like his daddy, he reminds me of one
of those old Hollywood actors who has been doing it for years. He's
handsome, charismatic, funny and strong, so perfect for the role. Danny
DeVito was so funny, I nearly died laughing when his cousin was leaving
him to take the fall and Danny screams "When will you come back" his
cousin screams "Soon!" he asks "How soon?!" and the cousin replies with
"very soon!", how sweet to do that to your family, right? The villains
are great and very scary. Everything about this film is just a ton of
fun, I guarantee there will be something that you can connect with in
this film. Wither it's the action, the romance or the humor, Romancing
the Stone is a film not to be missed.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

"Romancing the Stone" came out just 3 years after "Raiders..." and in my
mind is cemented as one of the great "watchable" movies. The on-screen
chemistry between Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner is wonderful, both
playing their parts flawlessly. It is most likely the movie that made
Douglas a big star. I can't tell you how many times, with my children, I
watched this movie, and still when I catch it on TV I enjoy it almost like
it was the first time.  I want to own it when it comes out on DVD. For me
it
is a "9", only because I rate "Raiders..." better and it is a
"10".
<|_=00=_|>

Truth be told:  I came a little late to the party when it comes to having
seen "Romancing The Stone".  I didn't see it for the first time until the
Fall of 1993, but had seen it's sequel, "Jewel of the Nile" numerous times
since its initial theatrical release in 1985.  Normally when it comes to
seeing sequels, I almost always prefer the original to the sequel--but for
many years I absolutely loved "Jewel of the Nile" not knowing about
"Romancing the Stone".

When I finally did see "Romancing the Stone" nine solid years after its
theatrical release on some premium cable channel, I was blown away by it.
All those years spent raving about "Jewel" should have been spent raving
about "Romancing the Stone".  The original is leaps and bounds superior to
the sequel  (even though "Jewel of the Nile" does have its own charms--to a
degree upon reflection) and contains what is arguably Kathleen Turner's
best
on-screen performance.  Have we ever seen her better in anything else?
Maybe in "Peggy Sue Got Married" or in "Prizzi's Honor" perhaps even in
"Body Heat", but, it's safe to say that without her enormously captivating,
thoroughly fabulous performance as Joan Wilder opposite Michael Douglas'
career best comic performance as Jack Coltin, the movie wouldn't be such
the
modern-day classic it is and always will be.

As far as I'm concerned, Turner was robbed of the Oscar for Best Actress in
1984 for this film.  So often the Academy favors dramatic performances over
comedic performances when everyone worth their Screen Actors Guild card
knows comedy is infinitely trickier to pull off convincingly than drama.
How many actresses could have been as perfect as Turner is as Wilder? Only
Susan Sarandon comes to immediate mind--she would have been magnificent
come
to think of it.

Also, there hasn't been a successful romantic adventure film made since
that
even comes close to comparing with "Romancing the Stone" I believe.  And,
I've looked long and hard to find one even compatible to this and have
failed.  There may be many knock-offs but no real diamonds in the rough.

Danny DeVito as always was a hoot to watch and Holland Taylor as Joan's
book
editor, Gloria, is simply sensational in a brief but memorable turn at the
beginning and tail-end of the movie.  It's a mystery why she's never really
been a bigger star before now, with her groundbreaking, Emmy Award-winning
work on "The Practice" at least giving us a taste on what we've been
denying
ourselves by not making a big noise in support of her landing bigger,
juicier starring roles.

So 16 years later, "Romancing the Stone" is still unequivocally the best of
its genre and makes you wish the Turner would get the chance to work far
more than she's been in recent times.  The woman is a comic genius and we
need to let the powers that be in Hollywood know that we want more of her
and quickly.

One suggestion:  If Turner, Douglas and DeVito ever do reteam--let it not
be
in a second sequel.  "Romancing" is just too perfect to capitalize on any
further.  They couldn't do a sequel to "The War of the Roses" for obvious
reasons (if you've seen the movie you already know why).  Just imagine how
great they would have been in "Primary Colors" as Jack and Susan Stantin.
John Travolta (on target for sure) and especially Emma Thompson (in a
surprisingly weak performance) take note.  It's a shame the film's writer,
Diane Thomas didn't live long enough to have written any other films of
this
magnitude.  This one produced gem of hers has given millions of people the
world over countless hours of fun-filled escapist delight.  A true classic
in every sense.

GRADE: A
<|_=00=_|>

This was highly entertaining with humour, danger, romance & likeable leads.
Danny De Vito put in a great performance as Ralph and deserved more screen
time. The hero and heroine had the right chemistry and were good to watch.
The jungle locations were breathtaking and I liked the soundtrack. Never a
dull moment. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Kathleen Turner stars as a romance novelist who receives a mysterious map
from her murdered brother in law and then must go to Columbia to save her
kidnapped sister by giving up the map for ransom.

After getting on the wrong bus she meets up with Michael Douglas and the
adventure begins..as Douglas seeks the treasure also..

A fast paced adventure that features great chemistry between Douglas and
Turner (they would make two more movies at least after this...including a
sequel "jewel of the nile").  On a scale of one to ten...8
<|_=00=_|>

This is an adventure flick that's one hair away from being a chick
flick--but a better genre-straddler you may never find. It's lifted out of
pure romantic comedy rut by a young and feisty Michael Douglas playing a
hard-bitten, coarse adventurer by name of Jack Colton and young, sultry
Kathleen Turner playing naive New York romance novelist Joan Wilder. When
Joan is stranded in the middle of the Columbian rainforest with a greedy
and
ruthless military leader, Colton chases him off, accidently playing the
role
of Joan's romance hero, Jessie. Chased across the country by thieves and
corrupt government officials, Joan comes into her own, often getting out
of
sticky situations with her own talent for words when reluctant hero Jack
would have shot his way out of things. Great movie... far better than any
romance I've ever had the misfortune to read. Danny DeVito lends the film
some of its funniest moments. One of my favorite films!
