
Wasn't feeling the very best today, but had to get on with it anyway,
as you do, you know, and, when I finally got a chance to sit down in my
own living room this afternoon who should come bursting thru the door
but my 6 year old son and about 7 of his friends... JUST as this movie,
which I've always adored, came on one of The SKY movie channels. I
closed the living room curtains for cinematic effect and we all sat
down and watched it. They were all entranced by it, even tho' some of
them had seen it already. 

I've seen "The Adventures of Baron von Munchausen" myself many times
and it never fails to fascinate me. It goes a very long way to explain
many things that are omnipresent in life (war, sex romance, childhood
innocence, adult disillusionment) by illustrating, and somehow making
real, well-known classical myths and fairy tales. Oliver Reed deserved
some sort of award for his portrayal of the god Vulcan. I read that
Sean Connery was slated for the part of King of The Moon but it HAD to
be Robin Williams. Mork calling Orson indeed.... 

This is my first review in this forum and, therefore, I will not go on
at great length except to say that viewing this movie again made me
determined to state that my favourite movies are movies like "The
Adventures of Baron von Munchausen", "Pirates of the Caribbean" and
"Yellow Submarine". May you all develop a talent for living happily
ever after!
<|_=00=_|>
This is NOT a movie for everyone. This is not a movie for people who
want a fantasy plot... according to the rules of fantasy movies. This
is a movie which has one great ambition and has ABSOLUTELY, TOTALLY,
UTTERLY, FULLY, UNQUESTIONABLY fulfilled: to present the story of Baron
Munchausen as the real one would have seen it. This is a great piece of
visualization of the culture of 18th-century Enlightenment (did you
notice that the bad guys all wore uniforms from the Napoleonic age - as
a sign of when this great period of human cultural achievement
finished?). It is a movie in which the sets and costumes are THE
ESSENCE - the mechanical giant fish, Venus getting out of the pearl,
the small amours with the pink garlands, the pinkish clouds, the
two-dimensional buildings on the Moon, the separation of the head from
the body, the exoticising of the "Grand Turk" - these are all correct
reproductions of both the imagery from, and the topics relevant for,
the Baroque period. IT IS success.
<|_=00=_|>
The Adventures of Baron Munchausen is one of those films that you
either love or hate. You may hate it because the inner child in you has
not been released. You may love it because the inner child in you have
full reign and want a wonderful fairy tale. This film has all the
elements, flying ships (A balloon made of ladies knickers), monsters (A
gigantic whale that looks like an island), and a little girl observing
all the fantastical adventures. A city is under siege and a theater
troupe is trying to perform a play during all of this. In comes an
elderly man (The wonderful John Neville)who claims that the troupe has
it all wrong and that he, himself, is the real Baron and wants to tell
the story straight. From there, his adventure really takes off. He and
Sally (The cute as a button Sarah Polley)go off in search of his
friends to help save the city: Berthold (Clever Eric Idle), the fastest
man around; Albrecht, the strongest man in the world; Adolphus, the man
with the sharpest sight around and Gustavus, the man with the keen
hearing and breath that can blow elephants off their feet. The gangs
adventures bring them to the Moon, where the King (Wild as ever Robin
Williams)has trouble holding on to his head, to the Underworld, where
Venus (Beautiful Uma Thurman)drives her hubby Vulcan (The wonderful
Oliver Reed) insane with jealousy. The story and the visuals
(Especially the Moon) are beautiful and the ending is interesting. You
get so caught up in the story that the viewer gets lost in what is real
and what is not. Great for teens and up. Kids may get scared at some of
the scenes.
<|_=00=_|>
A young Sarah Polly is swept on a grand storybook adventure when her
father's theater is visited by the source of its drama; the real Baron
himself (perfectly played by John Neville). The town is under siege by
the Turks and only Munchausen and his band of curious adventurers can
save it, so long as Death or a doctor doesn't catch him.

Terry Gilliam, having hit his stride with the 1984-and-a-half classic
Brazil, went on to fulfill his ultimate fantasy film with a great cast
of actors (Jonathan Price included), beautifully detailed sets and
costumes, and a very strange yarn of a tale indeed. Bit parts are
filled out by Robin Williams, the late Oliver Reed (seen most recently
as Proximo in Gladiator) serving up a fiery Vulcan - husband to a young
(not to mention stunning) Uma Thurman as Venus.

A great deal of the magic that sparkled in Brazil seems to have been
rekindled here, and while it may have been panned at the time of its
release, time has treated it well. The effects have that pre-cg feeling
that makes me warm and fuzzy inside, and while its a little slow to get
started, it surprises around every turn. 

Fans of Gilliam's work (and those who still possess that curious inner
child) will find much to enjoy here - even if it is nothing more than
wonderful nonsense.
<|_=00=_|>

A magical film about the power and importance of story telling and
imagination. The creation of the ever fecund mind of Terry Gilliam, this may
very well be my favorite movie (ah, but it is so very hard to choose).
Filled with a spirit of adventure, and a deftness far too rare these days,
it is the delightful tale of the adventurous life of Baron Munchausen. He is
a hero of the grand old sort, a kind of 17th century James Bond.

Baron Munchausen has a knowledge of fine wines, is popular with the ladies,
and is the finest soldier in the kingdom. He has a band of sidekicks (the
fastest man, the strongest, one with amazing sight, another with amazing
lungs and hearing) who assist him in fighting the Turks; traveling to meet
the King of the Moon; falling into the center of the earth to meet Vulcan
and
Aphrodite; and playing cards with the Grim reaper, after being swallowed by
an enormous monster-fish the size of an island.

Along the way Gilliam's wit skewers rationalism, science, realism,
practicality and pragmatics. As much an explication of faith as a depiction
of what makes life truly worth living, and what is worth dying for, I rent
this again and again. It is only my own foolishness that has prevented me
from purchasing a copy. Literally wonderful.

Watch for fabulous cameos from a whole host of unexpected people, including
Robin Williams and Sting.


<|_=00=_|>

I've only known one other person who has even heard of this movie(also
the only other one who's heard of and liked Mel Brooks' the Twelve
Chairs). This is certainly one of the most bizarre and unique movies
I've ever seen but the more times I see it, the more I like it. Robin
Williams and Eric Idle are great of course, but Neville does a good job
too. The story is truly unique, leaving you wondering where fiction
ends and reality begins. In fact, it's much like "Adaptation" in that
respect, come to think of it. While not on par with Monty Python and
the Holy Grail, this is a good piece of work. My advice: let your brain
take a vacation for a couple of hours and just absorb it. You'll
appreciate it better if you try not to make too much sense of it. If it
really confuses you, read the book. Yes, there is a book and there
really was a man who called himself Baron Munchausen. The book is
called <u>The Adventures of Baron Munchausen</u> and the edition I had
explained his whole story. Terry Gilliam did a great job of bringing
this man to screen and I highly recommend it if you're tired of the
usual Hollywood fluff.

<|_=00=_|>

Yet another wild, whacked out fantasy from Terry Gilliam, the only
American born member of the Monty Python comedy troupe. 

This is the story of Baron Munchausen (Neville), an old man still being
chased by an Arabian king because after winning a bet Munchausen took
too much money out of the king's vaults and now the king and his army
are apparently attacking a colony because Munchausen's there. With the
help of toothy little girl (Sarah Polley before she grew up to do the
remake of "Dawn of the Dead") and rounding up his old comrades (among
them Eric Idle, the "third tallest member of Monty Python"). All sorts
of wild insanity ensues. 

This was the last of Gilliam's "trilogy of the imagination", the other
two entries in this so called trilogy being "Time Bandits" and
"Brazil". If Terry Gilliam has a flaw with his fantasies, it may very
well be that he drags out some gags too long, even if its a really good
gag. Though I'm not entirely sure I enjoy his work, I must say I admire
Gilliam and the recklessness of his projects, because at least he's got
the balls to try to do things differently. To this day, he still ranks
as being one of the most off the wall, unconventional director chaps
out there.

All in all, I think I liked this one better than either "Time Bandits"
or "Brazil" (though "Brazil" probably has the most racy commentary of
Gilliam's so called trilogy). 

Best line: "We're out of virgins." - Jonathan Pryce

<|_=00=_|>
In the late Eighteenth Century, a European town is under siege of the
Turkish army. Meanwhile, the theater company owned by Henry Salt (Bill
Paterson) entertains the dwellers with the production of "The
Adventures of Baron Munchausen". Out of the blue, an old man interrupts
the presentation claiming that he is Hieronymus Karl Frederick Baron
von Munchausen (John Neville) and he tells that he is the one to be
blamed by the Turkish attack. 

The Baron Munchausen tells how he had won a bet against the Sultan
(Petter Jeffrey) with the abilities of his servants Berthold (Eric
Idle); Adolphus (Charles McKeown}; Albrecht (Winston Dennis); and
Gustavus (Jack Purvis) and earned his treasure. Further, he offers to
help the locals against the Turks and builds a balloon to seek out his
missing servants.

During his journey, he finds the girl Sally (Sarah Polley) hidden in
the balloon and they travel to the moon, where they meet the deranged
King of the Moon Roger (Robin Williams) with his detachable head, and
his wife, the Queen of the Moon Ariadne (Valentina Cortese) that has a
crush on the Baron. They are arrested by the jealous Roger and find
Berthold in the cage, but Ariadne releases them. When they escape from
the moon, they meet Adolphus working to Vulcan (Oliver Reed) inside a
volcano. The Baron Munchausen seduces the gorgeous Vulcan's wife Venus
(Uma Thurman) and the jealous god throws them in a whirlpool. They are
swallowed by a monster and they meet Albrecht and Gustavus in a ship
inside the monster. They escape and return to the town to help the
people against the invaders. But they are very old and their abilities
are gone.

"The Adventures of Baron Munchausen" is one of the most delightful,
non- sense and visually stunning fantasies of cinema history. "The
Adventures of Baron Munchausen" is also among my favorite books of my
childhood and I first saw this film in the late 80's and then on VHS. I
have just bought the imported DVD that surprisingly has Portuguese
subtitles and today I have seen this film again. 

Terry Gilliam directs with his peculiar surrealistic and ironic style
and uses magnificent special effects for a 1988 film. It is amazing to
realize that twenty-three years have passed since this film was
released. The sweet Sarah Polley shows her talent with a great
performance in one lead role. Uma Thurman is in the top of her eternal
beauty. Robin Williams is an unknown actor and uncredited in the role
of Roger, The King of the Moon. My vote is nine.

Title (Brazil): "As Aventuras do Barão de Münchausen" ("The Adventures
of Baron Munchausen")
<|_=00=_|>
This has to be one of my favourite films ever, I'll admit it's not the
greatest work of art ever made and to be honest it never tries to be. I
get very annoyed with these armchair film experts who think just
because they've sat on their backsides for twenty years, neglecting
everything except their expanding waist lines feel they have a god
given right to pass judgement on a great film maker's hard work. I've
made films and let me tell you EXPERTS out their it's the hardest thing
you could ever undertake, harder even than getting off your butts and
getting some exercise.

Baron Munchausen is in my opinion a visionary masterpiece, like Brazil
and Time Bandits its pure escapism, but intelligent python-Esq
escapism. I sat down recently and watched all three films with my
girlfriend, (not in one night) and was dismayed when she started
yawning and checking her watch every five minutes. I think I've come to
a conclusion why......

Munchausen is a film that people with an imagination will enjoy, but if
sadly your a member of the Ally Mcbeal, lets go shopping watch American
Pie and wear what every other moron wears generation, you won't get
this film. Mainly because Gilliam is far more intelligent than you,
both in his use of visual metaphors and sexual innuendo but also in the
fact as a director he thinks of things even Tim Burton would be jealous
of.

Okay the film tales off towards the end, but after to been subjected to
such a rich bombardment of visual genius can you blame Terry for being
tired.

9 out of 10 And my favourite bit is when Eric Idle chases the
bullet!!!!! GENIUS!!!
<|_=00=_|>

My kids, who are great Monty Python fans found this movie at the
library. Thinking that I knew about all the successful Monty Python
related movies I figured that this movie must have been a sleeper. I
was greatly surprised by the movie.

In my opinion this movie was much better than Time Bandits. Time
Bandits was weak mainly because of the weak (or non-existent) ending.
This movie had a much better conclusion. Plus, this movie also had a
very strong thread running through the movie, without hitting you over
the head with it.

I also enjoyed the literary references and Robin Williams as the king
of the Moon. My favorite reference was when Venus came out of the giant
clam. It reminded me of Kilgore Trout's "Venus on the Half Shell."
(Kurt Vonegut). That was a very nice touch.

