
"As far back as I can remember, I've always wanted to be a gangster."
-- Henry Hill, Brooklyn, N.Y. 1955.

Gangsters are all around us. Everyone knows it, not everyone wants to
accept it. "Goodfellas"--based on true events--explores the lives of
gangsters, chronicling the events through the eyes of Henry Hill (Ray
Liotta), who gets involved with the Mafia at a young age and continues
his "career" throughout the film.

As he gets older, he marries and has children, but still works for the
organized crime family, under mob boss Paulie (Paul Sorvino); and he is
friends with Jimmy (Robert De Niro), a calm, steady gangster; and Tommy
(Joe Pesci), a wild man with serious mental problems. 

Eventually Henry's life goes down the gutter, leading to drug abuse and
paranoia, that leads to other unfortunate incidents that will be ruined
if I type any more about them.

"Goodfellas" is one of the best films I have ever seen. It's a tour de
force of breathtaking images, witty scriptwriting, superb acting and
realistic violence.

Robert De Niro gives one of his best performances -- ever -- as Jimmy,
even if he's not in the film as much as you might be lead to believe
from the front cover.

Joe Pesci is in this movie about as much as De Niro, maybe a bit more
or less. But when he's on screen there's no doubting he's on
screen--he's very hard to miss. A short, deranged, loud-mouthed man
with something wrong in his head. Someone makes an insult toward him
and he shoots them, and then laughs. It's quite disturbing. I am a huge
fan of Pesci, and I tend to love his characters, but he really makes
you feel sick towards his character in "Goodfellas," while at the same
time taking a strange liking to him. That just goes to show how good of
an actor Pesci is.

Ray Liotta is perfect as Henry Hill. I can't think of a better actor to
play him. He captures a sense of innocence yet at the same time a
feeling of violence. I love the scene where he walks over to a man's
house with a regular expression on his face. "What do you want, f&*^&?"
the man asks. Liotta continues walking, takes out a gun, and starts to
continually beat the man in the skull with the butt of his gun. As
Henry walks back to his car, his face is disturbing and his expression
stays with you for a long, long time.

Martin Scorsese is a brilliant director and his work here is fabulous;
it's been recreated by other directors (namely Paul Thomas Anderson in
"Boogie Nights") and there's a reason: it's great stuff. He totally
deserved to receive Best Director in 1990, but of course he didn't.
(Rumor has it the Academy frowns on Scorsese's use of racial slurs in
his work. Oh boo hoo, get over it.)

The movie is based on the true-crime memoirs of the real-life Henry
Hill, whose novel with Nicholas Pileggi -- "Wiseguys" -- was adapted
into a screenplay by Pileggi and Scorsese. The book itself was
fantastic and insightful; the screenplay is even better. The dialogue
is incredible.

Anyway, "Goodfellas" has to be one of the best films I've ever seen--a
true modern classic that will be remembered for what it is: One of the
greatest tales told on screen. It's an offer you can't refuse!
<|_=00=_|>
If there was one word that I could use to describe Martin Scorsese's
"Goodfellas": it'd be priceless.

A surreal and deeply fascinating take on life of Henry Hill who was
involved in the Mob for three decades and his rise throughout the time
span (and Nicholas Pileggi's book "Wiseguy").

There isn't a single moment in the movie where it doesn't miss a beat,
you could only tell by the atmosphere of the time period and it seems
so real.

The performances in this film simply make it even more memorable and
how the characters are portrayed here especially by Ray Liotta, Robert
De Niro, Joe Pesci (who won an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor), and
Paul Sorvino are believable and easy to understand that they were a
family, very close and tightly knit to the core. Also, how director
Martin Scorsese lets the movie pace itself and keeps the viewer off
guard in what happens deserves a lot of credit.
<|_=00=_|>
Amazing is the one and only word to say for this film. I have always
thought that Goodfellas was one of the greatest films ever made and set
a landmark in the 90's or even in movie history. I bought Goodfellas
last week and I got to watch the film a couple days ago. I really just
couldn't lay my eyes off the film and everything about it was just
simply worth watching. The acting was excellent, Ray Liotta, Robert
DeNiro, Joe Pesci, Lorraine Bracco, and other actors did great and
almost all of the characters they portrayed were 100% accurate. The
camera-work also was brilliant and Martin Scorsese does a beautiful job
by putting excellent camera shots in his films and I give him high
credit for that. The soundtrack too is one of the best soundtracks ever
made and the song "Layla," put chills down my spine of how great this
song fitted the film. Overall, Martin Scorsese made his best film in my
opinion and him and Nicholas Pileggi made an excellent and sharp script
that made this, the greatest mob film still today.

Hedeen's Outlook: 10/10!! **** A+
<|_=00=_|>
Needs to be seen to be believed; in one word: perfection. Every frame,
every voice-over, every song - it all comes together at the exact right
moment to create the perfect film experience. This film makes you
really understand and feel what makes the American mafia so compelling;
in the eyes of a kid, who was unfortunate enough to grow up in a tough
neighborhood, those gangsters are rock stars. Live fast, die young -
but when you die, it ain't gonna be of a glamorous suicide or drug
overdose - the ending will be brutal, ugly and sad. And it may very
well be one of your best friends that will blow your brains out.

I'll never get tired of watching Goodfellas; the entertainment value of
this film is just amazing. It doesn't happen very often that every
person involved in the process of making a film is at the peak of
his/her game. And rarely do art and entertainment come together the way
they did here. Storytelling with impeccable pacing, this is what it's
like when a master composer conducts his masterpiece. All hail the
king; the most versatile and talented filmmaker of his generation:
Martin Scorsese.

My vote: 10 out of 10

Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/

Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/

Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/

In an ideal world, movies would be made without the aim for a certain
rating. This article sums up why this is so important:

www.the-fanboy-perspective.com/the-importance-of-the-r-rating.html
<|_=00=_|>
Scorcese & Pileggi's masterpiece on the life of Henry Hill as a
Brooklyn NY mob wise-guy. 

As much as the true events of Henry's life have more than likely been
dramatised and glamourised to a certain extent, the essence of this
film IMO is that it is still a brilliantly damning portrayal of the
characters and lifestyle of mobsters.

The sham of the mafiosi is exposed - preaching loyalty, respect &
principles - but when it comes down to it they are just two-bit
criminals that'll stab each other in the back for money or power over
others. Each of them has an inflated sense of self-worth and stature
that comes with being a "wiseguy", breeding with it paranoia that
others are not giving them the respect they deserve.

An example is De Niro's portrayal of Jimmy Conway. His outward persona
is that of a calm and reasonable nature. But really he is a paranoid
killer who at the drop of a hat would kill even his closest associates
for money. I use associates rather than friends, as their relationships
are of tolerance rather than kinship. Distrust, hate and jealousy
through the forced smiles. 

Interesting that given this, certain people envy their life-style and
would have loved to have been a wiseguy. I personally couldn't think of
anything worse that being tied for life with having to keep the likes
of Tommy company, but whatever rocks your boat. Some people have
actually paid to see The Dukes of Hazzard film, so I shouldn't be
surprised.
<|_=00=_|>

"GoodFellas" may be the most important film of the 1990s in the fact that
its incredible success led to some of the other great movies of the decade. 
Films like "The Silence of the Lambs", "The Crying Game", "Pulp Fiction",
"The Usual Suspects", "Fargo", and "L.A. Confidential" would have likely
never been made as well as they were without the influence of Scorsese's
"GoodFellas".  The film is an intense study of a Mafia family over a 30-year
stretch.  Ray Liotta plays the half-Irish, half-Sicilian kid from Brooklyn
whose only dream is to be a gangster.  Although Liotta's story is at the
heart of "GoodFellas", it is the supporting cast that is the film's calling
card.  Robert DeNiro gives one of his greatest performances, Paul Sorvino is
quietly effective, and Lorraine Bracco (in an Oscar-nominated role) does the
best work of her career.  However, it is Joe Pesci (in his well-deserved
Oscar-winning turn) who steals every scene as the one who does the "dirty
work".  This is probably the definitive film in a decade that produced many
film-noir styled classics.  5 stars out of 5.    
<|_=00=_|>

This is the gangster film at its finest. Scorsese is on top form as are
Pesci and De Niro. Liotta has never bettered the performance he gives
here.
The film starts as it means to go on - violent, full of profanity, fast
paced and very stylish. The story follows Liotta's character from boy to
man
as he climbs his way up through the ranks of organised crime. We see all
the
highs and lows of his life and meet a host of very believable and very
undesirable characters along the way. It's a film full of memorable scenes
whilst remaining much more than the sum of its individual parts at the same
time.
This is what all movies should be like. It draws you in and won't let you
out of its grasp at any point. When it finishes you feel exhausted and
exhilarated at the same time. If ever the word 'masterpiece' was meant to
be
used, it was for this film.
<|_=00=_|>

'Goodfellas' is a masterpiece, pure and simple. While not my favourite
Martin Scorsese movie it is a stunning achievement, and one of his very best
movies. The film is stunning technically. The consistently fine acting by
the large ensemble cast (both known and unknown), the cinematography,
editing, dialogue, brilliant use of music, it's all breathtaking. But
Scorsese and co-writer Mitch Pileggi never lose lose sight of their main
goal - to tell a story. And in that it's really hard to beat this movie. As
to the actors De Niro is on top form, Ray Liotta is the best he's ever been,
and this is Joe Pesci's definitive performance. Plus you have Lorraine
Bracco, Paul Sorvino, Michael Imperioli, and lots of well known faces in
small but important roles (Debi Mazar, Samuel L. Jackson, Illeana Douglas,
Kevin Corrigan), plus dozens of unfamiliar actors (and non-actors) who are
all so good it seems unfair just to single out the "stars". (Also keep an
eye out for Vincent Gallo in a few scenes. He has no lines, but looks
cool!). 'Goodfellas' is (to date) Scorsese's last Great Movie, and one of
the very best films of the 1990s. Absolutely essential viewing for any movie
fan, this tremendous film is not to be missed! Highly recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
This is one hell of a film about the mobsters, based on a true story
and coming from one of the great directors of all time. This is about
Henry Hill, the narrator of the story, an Irish simple person who gets
involved with the Mafia at a very young age and continues his life
through it. There is no major plot in this film, just isolated
incidents one of which was the turning point of Hill's life. Scorsese,
as brilliant as he ever was, shows violence, sex and drugs etc in his
own trademark style. And his actors helps him to make this film one of
the classics.

Robert DeNiro is not present in much of the film, nor his acting leaves
too much impression. The three actors who really did their best job
here are Ray Liotta, Joe Pesci and Lorraine Bracco. I hate to say that
most youngsters today don't know too much about Liotta or how talented
he was. I asked my younger brother about him and he said, "The man who
did the voice on GTA: Vice City?". This is partly because Liotta did
not get too many big roles after that, especially in recent years. But
here he is just brilliant as Hill. It's Pesci's one of the best too.
Playing a mad mobster with dark sense of humor wasn't his usual type.
And Lorraine Bracco becomes the perfect lead female in such type of
films.

The film's got smart screenplay and excellent cinematography. And I
don't know how many times Scorsese will be denied his Academy
recognition. I hate to see a lifetime achievement award as his first
Oscar. But things are going like that.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the best Mafia movies I've ever seen. This and The Godfather are
movies I must recommend if you like gangsters, wise guys, etc. This
movie is actually based on a true story. The real Henry Hill, who is
the main star of this movie, actually said it was at least 90% true. He
than said it was probably 98% accurate. This movie expresses a lot of
the gangster ways and how they really did things.

Summary: This is pretty much a biography on Henry Hill, who as a kid
always wanted to be a gangster, and he actually worked for them. It
shows how a young kid grew up helping the mafia and becoming a mobster
himself. This is a true story and really shows what being a wise guy is
all about.

Overall: Definitely a 10/10 movie. Really makes me want to be a
wiseguy.
