

I first saw "Testament" when it came out in 1983. At the time, I was 30
years old and the mother of a two year-old son. As a child of the Cold
War years, I have always been interested in films about that most
unthinkable event: the detonation of a nuclear bomb or bombs somewhere
on our fragile planet. If you are, too, you must watch "Testament" (and
another small gem of a slightly earlier era called "Fail-Safe.")

This is a wonderful film that slowly, unbearably reveals what happens
in the small, idyllic town of Hamlin after a full-scale nuclear
exchange between the superpowers wipes out a large part of America. The
town and its citizens, including the Weatherly family, escape initial
destruction. But slowly the bonds that hold western societies together
(electricity, communication, fresh food, medical help) begin to fray
and ravel. There is no television. Batteries to power transistor radios
suddenly become more valuable than $20 bills in a town where, suddenly,
there's nothing left to buy.

The story and scenes are permeated with a sense of enormous loss. A
family loses its husband and father who simply walked out the door,
waving a breezy goodbye one morning, and disappeared into the
holocaust. All his wife, Carol, and two children have left of him are
their memories and some flickering images on home movies, glimpses not
just of a lost loved one, but of a lost -- and loved -- world. 

A school play about the Pied Piper was in rehearsal before catastrophe
hit, and, desperate to recapture some normalcy and to divert the
children's attention from a reality to horrible to contemplate, the
town decides to go on with the show.In the earlier rehearsal scenes,
life was normal, the future shone brightly in the children's faces.
Now, as the parents watch the performance, they see no future for these
beautiful innocents. To me, this is the key scene of the film: the
contrast between what these people once had and what has been lost is
staggering. It makes you want to go outside, smell the air, marvel at
the full supermarket shelves and the working telephone lines. (This is
a gift that the movie gives its audience which goes far beyond
entertainment and approaches enlightenment.)

Beyond the wonderful writing, direction and performances, I love the
tiny touches in the story. For example, there's the foreshadowing, the
implicit warning contained in the presence of a minor character, a
little Japanese boy with Down Syndrome who is cared for by the town
after his father dies. The child's name is Hiroshi. Pay attention, the
script commands us in a whisper: Hiroshima happened once, but it can
happen again, and it can happen to you as well as "them." 

In the end, the movie is a testament to this undeniable fact, a
testament to the stupidity of men who continue building ever-larger,
more lethal means of mass destruction, and finally, a testament to the
strength of mothers like the character of Carol Weatherly who have no
choice but to love and protect their children no matter what comes.

<|_=00=_|>
It's been TWENTY YEARS (!) since I've seen this movie in a theatre, and
I've never yet forgotten it. If any movie can be said to be
life-changing, this is it. TESTAMENT was first shown in theatres, and
the film's power became front page headlines for quite some time.
People were crying in theatres, and article after article told of how
this extremely powerful film affected people. This was not hype; the
emotional strength of this movie is genuinely powerful. 

For myself, I held back as best I could from crying in the theatre (me
being a 23 year old guy seeing it with two (married) friends). But the
effect on me was apparently visible immediately: when I walked out of
the theatre and passed thru the line of people waiting for the next
showing, a woman, who was laughing with her friends, happened to look
at me and her face went completely serious. I very nearly hugged her
right there, this stranger. When I got home, I cried for about two
hours. The film's themes affected my, at the time, concerns about love,
relationships, and such like. 

One scene I'll never EVER forget, the most devastating: the 13-ish year
old daughter asks her mother, "What's it like?" MOTHER: "What's what
like?" DAUGHTER: "Making love." The mother (Jane Alexander -- my God,
what a performance!) tells her in a very frank and beautiful speech,
and the daughter caps off that scene with a devastating remark that
just kills you and got my tears flowing (I probably couldn't hold back
at that point).

Before making TESTAMENT, director Lynne Littman had made only
documentaries, so maybe that "realism" style added to the power and
believability of this movie. One of my all time favorite supporting
actors is in this film, and he does a fantastic job: Mako. He and the
young retarded (Down Syndrome?) boy who plays his son make a phenomenal
team. They're my favorite characters: so full of innocence, father so
full of love, strength and pain. Agh... my god my god... what a movie.
Whew.
<|_=00=_|>

This small film from 1983 might actually be more emotionally devastating
than "Schindler's List" because it presents us with a horrific "what-if"
scenario that I imagine scared the be-jesus out of viewers in the Cold War
era that it was made and will send shivers down the spine of anyone who
watches it today.  The threat of nuclear holocaust may not be so looming
now, but the threat of bio-terrorism or any other level of terrorist attack
or all out war is very real in the post 9/11 era.  This film is so stark and
intimate that it really doesn't matter what these people are dying from (it
could just as easily be biological warfare as it is nuclear fallout).  I was
so deeply effected by this film's portrayal or one family in one small
California town getting cut off from the rest of civilization (which we can
only assume is in the midst of WWIII) and slowly falling apart while one by
one loved ones succumb to nuclear radiation that I couldn't watch it all.  I
had to flip the channels to watch a few minutes of "The Simpsons" before I
turned back to watch the end.  This is possibly the most depressing film
ever made.  Jane Alexander running frantically around the house searching
for her youngest son's favorite stuffed animal and refusing to bury his body
(wrapped in bedsheets) in the backyard until she found it is so
heartbreaking that it made me sick.  As such, this is the film that every
politician the world over should watch before declaring any kind of war. 
War is not about winning or losing or politics or doing what it right, war
is about the death of our children.  Everyone needs to be reminded of that
before making the war cry.  In the end we all die.
<|_=00=_|>

There was "The Day After," a U.S. production about as subtle as someone
hitting you over the head with a bat going "Nuclear war is BAD! BAD BAD
BAD!"

Then there was "Threads," the BBC answer to Day After. Gripping, yes. Also
unrelentingly graphic, violent and disturbing with little in terms of
acting.

Then you have "Testament," a quiet little American Playhouse production
that, quite simply, runs circles around the other two. No mushroom clouds,
no graphic scenes of mass destruction and death incarnate. Just simple,
raw
human emotion. "Testament" handles its subject manner with a surprising
gentle touch, understated, yet effective. The film is the best of the
three
because of its subtlety. A small Californian town isn't hit by the blast,
but rather the aftermath.

It works. At first, the town manages to hold together fairly well, even
proceeding with the elementary school play. But then the children begin
dying, then the grownups. And the film rapidly becomes a story about
surviving as best you can, rather than rebuilding and going on. I won't
spoil the film by revealing plot details, but there are several twists
that
are both subtle and heartbreaking.

This film relies on its emotions to tell the story, and the actors are up
to
the task. Jane Alexander is, in a word, brilliant (how she didn't win the
Oscar she got nominated for is beyond me), but she's not the only one. Her
children, particularly Lukas Haas and Roxanna Zal (in their movie debuts),
are stunning as well, while some of the bit players make the most of what
they have.

In the end, it's the gradual NON-appearance of the actors that make the
point. Life will go on, yes, but for how long? "Testament" relies on the
loss of those we learn to love to make its point in the best way possible:
by letting us get it on our own.
<|_=00=_|>

1983..The cold war was in full swing and the fear of nuclear armageddon hung
over all our heads.  ABC released "The Day After", (which I have already
commented on) but in all the furor around that, "Testament" was released.
This is THE 1980's nuclear war film.  It doesn't deal with the effects on an
entire community, but rather on one small, close knit family in California.
Jane Alexander's performance was one of legend, and is possibly one of the
classic dramatic performances of all time.  The day begins innocently
enough, dad heads off to work, the kids watch "Sesame Street"..then the
Emergency Broadcast System cuts in and the world stops.  Ignore all the Y2K
mumbo-jumbo and put yourself back in 1983 (most of us know where we were)
and watch this film.  You may not be "entertained", but you will appreciate
what you have just a bit more.
<|_=00=_|>
I never thought a film about nuclear war could be more moving than "The
Day After" or "Threads". Now that I've viewed "Testament", I know I was
wrong.

Frankly, I thought the film would seem mild in comparison with the
former two, which are very graphic and horrific. In fact, it was even
more disturbing and difficult to watch. Several times I considered
shutting the film off, thinking "What good is it doing me to watch this
depressing movie?" But each time I convinced myself to stick it out,
and I'm glad I did.

I don't know what it was; the strength of Jane Alexander's performance,
the combined performances by the younger actors playing her children,
the excellent and artistic (yet remarkably matter-of-fact)
cinematography, the haunting beauty of James Horner's score, or all of
the above, but "Testament" just got into me and tore my very soul
apart. There's no graphic "ground zero" scenes like in the other two
films, just the story of a family struggling to survive, trying to stay
hopeful beyond all hope.

The scene that I think will stick with me forever is the shot of Jane
Alexander tearing apart bedsheets. That's all I'll say about this scene
for now since I don't want to give anything away, but watch the film
and you'll know what I'm talking about.

As other reviews have alluded to, "The Day After" and "Testament" both
came out around the same time, yet "Testament" is far less known and
remembered among the two films, even though most consider it the better
of the two. I think the reason for this is that "The Day After" was
presented on television, while "Testament", though originally made for
public television, was instead released to theaters. With a movie like
this, I think it's easier to just watch it on TV than to bring yourself
to actually go out to a theater to experience this type of film.

"Testament" is one of those films like "The Hours". It's beautiful,
breathtaking, unforgettable... and so heartrending I'm not sure I can
ever bring myself to watch it again. But if you haven't seen it, you
should. Trust me, it will be worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
Forget Freddie and Jason, if you want a real horror film then I
recommend this because I think it will keep most normal people awake
long into the night. This film doesn't rely on gore or violence to get
its message across; instead it takes the very familiar scene of a
loving young family living in a close-knit town and dumps them into the
harsh, harrowing realities of nuclear war where there is no mercy for
either the good or the innocent.

'Testament' is a tale of what would happen if a nuclear strike
devastated America and how average people, who have no military
training or the like, would cope. There is no computer virus to fix
things nor is there some hunky, muscular hero to save the day; people
are left to fend for themselves in a world forever changed, in
conditions that are unforgiving and demoralising. The film revolves
mainly around the Wetherly family, made up by parents- Carol and Tom -
and their three children, fourteen-year-old Mary Liz, twelve-year-old
Brad and six-year-old Scottie and it packs no punches for the fate of
this little group.

For a film that couldn't have had a massive budget, not only is the
script of good quality but so was the acting. Jane Alexander was
excellent as a Carol, a mother striving to see her family through this
disaster, watching as the town around her dwindles as people die of
radiation poisoning or flee for safer pastors. But Ross Harris
definitely deserves recognition for his part as young Brad. Through
him, we are able to see how a child would deal with such an event and
how the innocence of childhood is brought to a sharp end as Brad is
forced to take the role of an adult for the sake of his family.

After seeing 'Testament', I don't think I'll ever really stop pondering
the issues it raised and how it is vitally important that the
governments of all countries do anything and everything to ensure we
never have to deal with such an event in real life. It is very
thought-provoking and terrifying in a way no horror flick can be. And
if you want to add to your trauma, I recommend checking out 'Threads'
(the same situation only set in England and so chilling that it makes
this film out to be a bag of laughs) and 'The Day After'.
<|_=00=_|>

All of the comments i have read about this film focus on it's bleakness, on
it's difficultly - due to subject matter, and many of them also quite
rightly applaud the performance of Jane Alexander in the Central
role.
What none of them mention, and what seems so clear to me, is that this is a
film that could only have been made by women.

There is no BIG EVENT here. No mass hysteria, violence, rape, disfigurement
or any of those other factors that are paraded as horrifying in the majority
of Nuclear War films - I am thinking specifically of Threads and The Day
After Here.

In Testament we actually see humanity. We see how one family, one community
copes with the devastation of just that - their family and their
community.

This is what is so tragic, compelling and ultimately horrifying about this
film. It is not a panache, it is not a broad canvas.
It is about people not about issues and as such the humanity shines
through.

I am not saying the other films aren't powerful in their way. They are - and
both Threads and The Day After gave me nightmares. But Testament was so far
beyond them in terms of simple courage and purpose. There was no grandiose,
no glamour or tacked on love story. This was not hollywood, was life or the
end of it, and all the more frightening for it.

Testament is one of the main reasons why we should see more women making
politic films - and perhaps running a few more countries.

<|_=00=_|>

Pretty much all of the positive reviews listed here echo my opinion of this
film (subtle, powerful, honest, depressing), so I won't beat the dead horse
and describe how terrific of a film this is.

I just wanted to add that James Horner's score, one of his first, is
downright brilliant and deserves an official release on CD.  Listen to it
and treat it as the foundation for most of his future "dramatic" scores,
such as "Titanic" and "Apollo 13."

James Horner is one of the few composers that can make me cry with his music
alone, and I believe it is because I am reminded of this film when I hear
it.

*****SPOILER*****

The scene in which the young japanese boy (a remarkable performance,
considering he is mentally handicapped in real life and surprisingly never
mentioned in any of these reviews) finds the missing toy bear caused
possibly the most emotional response from me that I have ever experienced
while watching a movie.

Testament, as of this date, is most definately the saddest film I have ever
seen.  I have never been more emotionally drained.  It's ending ranks up
there with the original "Resurrection" as one of the most haunting endings I
have ever seen.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those films that is very draining to watch, but worth
it. It is a slightly more tame approach to the subject matter, but
excellently done.

It is often compared with "Threads", which many people think is too
graphic. Regardless, I like both films. I have to say that "Testament"
will look more realistic to rural people, who may just die slowly as
the characters in this film do, rather than be subjected to the
immediate effects of the attack.

Rebecca De Mornay's appearance in this film, which I only saw after
seeing "By Dawn's Early Light", makes a connection between these two
films. Everyone should see both films at least once, as well. Excellent
performances from Rossie Harris and Mako make this film stand out even
further.

Having seen "The Day After" now, I prefer "Testament" but find both
films excellent.
