

*** 1/2 out of ****

After so many years The Road Warrior still remains one of the most
exhilarating action films to ever grace the screen.  The car chases are as
excitingly pulse-pounding as ever and no film has yet to surpass the final
chase as the best in movie history.  Yes, in terms of pure action, not many
films have been able to equal The Road Warrior's thrills.

The film takes place presumably years after the conclusion of Mad Max.  The
world has been devastated by a third world war and has suffered a setback by
he rarity of gasoline. The loner, Max Rockatansky (Mel Gibson) is still
wandering around the Australian wasteland, thousands of miles from
civilization, in search of gasoline.  He comes across a gyro-pilot (Bruce
Spence), who tells him of a compound that's producing fuel.

Max brings the pilot along with him and studies the compound from atop a
cliff.  It seems a large gang also wants the gasoline and has been besieging
the refinery for a long time now.  They are a pack of madmen, led by the
Humungus, a hugely muscular man who wears a hockey mask to cover his face.
An attempt is made by the people inside the compound to find a rig large
enough to haul the fuel but the effort is brought down when Humungus' men
take down all the cars.

Max, finding a perfect moment to strike a bargain, makes a deal with one of
the survivors and makes it to the compound.  Eventually, he makes another
deal there, as he tells the people inside that in return for as much
gasoline as he can carry, he'll bring the rig to them.  What follows is
classic edge-of-the-seat action entertainment.

Having inspired dozens of rip-offs, The Road Warrior still remains the best
of the bunch due to the great lead performance from Mel Gibson and the
unrivalled car chases, which are very much worth mentioning.  The movie
begins with a rousing commentary over the events that led to the destruction
of government.  What follows next is a short and exciting car chase.  True,
the following half-hour does move by a bit slowly, but it all builds up to a
lightning paced final 45 minutes.

The final chase, in particular, is an exercise in action craftsmanship.
Director George Miller has staged one of the most brilliant and downright
exciting action scenes ever.  So many spectacular stunts and on-road carnage
occur during this sequence, to describe it simply wouldn't do it justice.

Miller's cinematography is decidedly Un-Hollywood.  He gives us many
breathtaking camera angles, some of which are sometimes a bit shaky, which
serves to make the action even more involving.  Looking back at the film
now, it might not appeal to a wide range of viewers.  The odd characters
(mainly the villains), ultra-violence, dark tone, and the sparse dialogue
may seem a little too offbeat for some people.

Mel Gibson remains the only world-renowned actor in the whole film.  He does
a terrific job as the character Max, one of his best and most interesting
characters.  The development of Max is another intriguing component of The
Road Warrior, and serves the film by giving it a human edge by featuring
Max's slow transformation from loner to savior.  Not only that, Gibson also
creates a great action hero.  There's not a moment in the film when we
aren't rooting for Max to smash Humungus and his gang. Bruce Spence as the
gyro-pilot is decent in his role and offers the film's few humorous moments.

Virginia Hey is also pretty good as the Warrior Woman, and though the script
doesn't exactly give her a lot to do, she plays the part well.  Mike Preston
also shows a lot of honor as the compound's leader.

On the other side of the equation are the actors who portray the villains.
Surprisingly enough, though the characters are outlandish, no one ever goes
over-the-top.  Vernon Wells and Kjell Nilson are absolutely menacing and
frightening as the lead villains, Wez and Humungus.  They personify evil
itself, creating characters who we truly grow to despise.

To be honest, I am a little surprised that the critics enjoyed this every
bit as much as I did.  The film doesn't delve very deeply into philosophical
issues and doesn't exactly have a lot of grand things to say.  I suppose
with the acclaim this film received goes to show that critics do truly watch
movies primarily for entertainment.

As I mentioned before, the film was the benchmark of a genre that grew in
popularity.  The premise of a loner helping a group of people in need has
been used a bit too much now.  Most notably is the big-budget flop,
Waterworld (which is a good movie I recommend), though none have yet to
match the outright intensity of The Road Warrior.  
<|_=00=_|>
After the enormous success of "Mad Max" in 1979, it was predictable
that a sequel would follow. In fact, two sequels followed, and the
first of these is "Mad Max 2: The Road Warrior".

Released in the U.S. simply as "The Road Warrior", "Mad Max 2" begins
with a narration re-introducing us to wandering ex-cop Max (Gibson) ...
and then we're off. In post-apocalyptic Australia, Max wanders the
nuclear waste lands in search of Earth's most precious resource:
gasoline. When he discovers a band of people guarding a large deposit
of fuel, he lends his services as a driver to help them escape from a
vicious group of bandits intent on taking the gas for themselves.

"Mad Max 2" is one of the best sequels ever. It's everything the
original was and more. Mel Gibson is great, and the cast performs very
well. Brian May's skills as a composer have improved, and he gives a
very fast-paced score. George Miller's directing skills have also
improved, and he deals us out some intense car sequences that have yet
to be rivaled.

This film is special because, although it was very popular when
released and is even more popular now, it is unique in that it is not
afraid to be just that. If that confused you, let me put it this way:
George Miller has created a film that, while trying to improve the
flaws from past films, is not afraid to be original and un-Hollywood.
And I must say, Mr. Miller pulls it off excellently.

I love "The Road Warrior" as well as the rest of the "Mad Max" series.
I would say that "Mad Max 2" is quite possibly the greatest film to
come out of Australia. It is one of Mel Gibson's best and one of the
best sci-fi films ever. "Mad Max 2" is essential.
<|_=00=_|>

Now I give this movie a 10 out of 10.  I used to only give it an 8.  Why the
change?  Easy.  I watched the little things.

Those of you who haven't seen it, stop reading now.  But for those of you
who have...

The first 8 of that ten comes from spectacular action sequences.  Anyone can
see those.  What the other 2 points comes from is the subtle things that
director George Miller slipped in there that you would only notice the
second time you watch.

Missed by almost everyone else's comments is that "The Road Warrior" is
simply a locked room puzzle.  The good guys have the gas and want to escape
from their compound to "the coast."  But if they try to leave, they will
surely be killed by the savages waiting outside who only want their gas.
Their solution is completely unexpected, yet when you watch it again, it is
telegraphed the entire movie.

For instance, when Pappagallo is giving an inspirational speech to the good
guys about how "that vehicle" is going to haul their gas to the coast, the
vehicle in the background is NOT the tanker, as it should be, but instead
the school bus that eventually takes them, and the gas, to
freedom.

And what will the tanker be hauling?  Notice the day before the escape when
Pappagallo talks about driving the tanker with Max.  He stares blankly into
an hourglass, filled with SAND.  He already knows he's not coming back, as
his diversionary tactic will surely get him killed.

Anyone who claims "The Road Warrior" is merely a testosterone-laden guy
flick should watch it again.  What it REALLY is is the tightest, smartest,
pure-action movie ever made.  No moment is without significance.  No moment
is wasted.  It is a testament that every post-apocalyptic movie is referred
to as "The-Road-Warrior-on-'x'."  The next time you watch it, REALLY watch
it.  You'll find there's more there than you ever thought there was
before.
<|_=00=_|>
The first time I saw this at a friends recommendation was in 1985 on
our brand new VHS vcr. I was absolutely blown away by it at the age of
16 and I still watch every few months on DVD now.I would give anything
to see this on a big screen. This movie started a real trend for a lot
of real crappy B movies to follow unfortunately and Mel Gibson has
called this movie with an apologetic shrug 'classy B-grade trash' which
is sad because it would prove to be his best movie by far. What I truly
liked about this film was its lack of dialogue and how it was smart
enough to let its settings, action and costumes do the talking. Perhaps
this is why Gibson didn't have much praise for it because he is merely
a representation of the Western gunslinger in the film. I liked how
there was a sketchy explanation of how the world got into such an
apocalyptic mess and lets the viewer make their own conclusion to that
end. It's not important anyways. The lack of ammunition is indicated
quickly through the Wez's use of a wrist-strapped crossbow, the very
preciousness of gasoline is established quickly as well by Max's
anxious mopping up of it and capturing it in a few make-shift items
including a dusty soldier's helmet.

The original Mad Max had too much dialogue and proved problematic for
the 18 year old Gibson to convey the emotion of losing his family and
best friend. It had it's moments but in the end it lost it's impact due
to it's own clumsy attempt at trying to establish the family-man Max.
The Road Warrior didn't try to attempt any deep characterizations, the
pain and suffering was quick and obvious, the need to just survive in
this stark world conveyed through a few spoken words and violent
actions. George Miller got it right with this one, unfortunately he had
to make Mad Max first to get to Mad MaxII and horribly had to make Mad
MaxIII.
<|_=00=_|>
But most of all, I remember the Road Warrior. By this time, many people
have forgotten that this set the standard for kinetic action on the
roadways. The memories fade as the years go by, new action films are
released, such as "Speed"(94), which seem to set new standards. But,
it's not really the case. The Road Warrior has yet to be bested, and no
amount of money, computer technology or loud noises will ever
accomplish the deed. Nothing will ever capture the apocalyptic
intensity or, most of all, the sheer elegance of combat on the roads,
as depicted here. "Raiders of the Lost Ark"(81), for example, captured
a more frenetic goofy-style action, also relentless, but not with the
level of tension. It's exciting, sure, but it doesn't tie your stomach
up in knots, leaving you drained yet begging for more.

The sequel to "Mad Max"(79) - also a unique, tense experience - begins
with an unusual prologue, giving the viewers a historical background on
only half the screen. We are set up for a bombastic adventure, created
as a new mythology for our perusal. Iconic figures abound, beginning
with Max (Gibson) himself, of course. Here is the quintessential
wandering loner hero/cowboy/samurai: he is striking - damaged both
physically & mentally - but an ultimate survivor. Here are his foes: a
scarred, massively-muscled atomic-age conqueror and his dogs, garbed in
battle-dress for instant death and destruction. Here is his conscience:
the last vestiges of civilization grouped in a makeshift fort for a
final gasp of decency. When these three factions clash, it's the end of
the world as we know it. Welcome to the new world of The Road Warrior.

The Road Warrior influenced the sub-genre of post-holocaust science
fiction throughout the eighties. There were numerous imitators, mostly
low-budget efforts, and none of them came close to succeeding at this
level. I hope not too many people continue to forget where it all began
for this thrilling corner of the sci-fi adventure genre. It is to our
downfall and regret that we forget.
<|_=00=_|>
Studio executives today could use a film like this one, or its
predecessor right about now. The Mad Max films were thrown together
with great skill on absolutely shoestring budgets and made a king's
ransom in profits. Nowadays we just seem to get one big-budget failure
after another, as the box office slump now extends into its fourteenth
week.

Mad Max 2 (or The Road Warrior, as it is commonly called here in the
USA) is an extraordinary sight to behold. The story centers on a loner
(Mel Gibson) who roams the post-apocalyptic wasteland of Australia in
search of gasoline so he can... I guess just keep driving. He is a man
who lost his wife and child to a murderous gang of bikers in the
previous film. He seems to be without a soul, or any feeling for his
fellow man. One day he corners a man who tells him about a refining
community besieged by a gang of ruthless outlaws. Thirsty for the large
amount of fuel this community has, Max barters his way inside. To his
dismay, the community has no plans to let him just take the fuel and
run. They use him to provide them with a vehicle "big enough to haul
that fat tank of gas", and by the climax of the film, he is driving the
fuel through a gang of about fifty or more savages looking to take it
for themselves. Max never really endears himself to anyone, but you can
feel the humanity within him as he volunteers to drive the tanker.
After just surviving a horrendous accident he can barely walk, but he
knows he's their only chance.

This film is absolutely breathtaking. The characters we meet inside the
walls of the refining community are stubborn and resourceful, but just
not strong enough to deal with "that vermin on machines" waiting
outside for them. The vicious gang holding the community hostage are a
motley crew of desperadoes. Many are dressed like WWE combatants. Some
are even dressed in MFP uniforms similar to what Max and his fellow
officers wore in part one. Are they former cops gone bad, or did they
murder the cops to get the uniforms? We are never told. The script
refers to these men as "GAYBOY BERSERKERS". The various motorcycles,
hot rods, and trucks used in the film have to be seen to be believed.
Maybe more fuel-efficient vehicles would be a better idea for a world
so short on fuel! But these souped-up vehicles make for some great
chase scenes! You have to hand it to the stunt men who worked on this
film. With no CGI to do the work for them, many of them were putting
their lives at risk each day. Both stunt team leaders Max Aspin and Guy
Norris were severely injured during filming. Aspin was driving the car
that went airborne after we see the driver shot in the back with the
four-way arrow gun. I believe he suffered a concussion when it landed
just short of the fortress wall. Norris shattered his ankle after being
launched off a motorcycle and sent flying through the air in one
spectacular shot during the final chase scene.

The film has a great soundtrack, as well by Brian May. (Not the guy
from Queen) Not too many lines are spoken throughout the film, but so
what? This is a film about action, and it's a treat to watch it any
time. The Hound will give it 10 of 10 stars. What a way to introduce
American moviegoers to Mel Gibson!!
<|_=00=_|>

My life fades. The vision dims.  All that remains are memories.  I remember
a time of chaos.  Ruined dreams.  This wasted land.  But most of all, I
remember the Road Warrior...

What can be said that hasn't already?  The Road Warrior is undoubtedly one
of the most spectacular action films ever made.  It's very rare that I grant
the score of 10 for a movie, but this one gets it and deserves
it.
From the opening imagery and narration, it almost seems like we're watching
an alternate reality rather than a future sci-fi film, much unlike Mad Max's
"A FEW YEARS FROM NOW..." prologue.  This was a film that inspired countless
ripoffs and wannabes; perhaps imitation is the most sincere form of flattery
(I was secretly hoping the Y2K computer bug would destroy society so that I
could put on my black leather jacket, get a pair [or half-pair] of football
shoulder pads, and a sawed-off shotgun so I could drive around the desert
and kill people for their gasoline).  

  I've always loved movies presenting larger-than-life heroes.  Indiana
Jones, Conan, Dirty Harry, Flash Gordon, James Bond, Luke Skywalker,
Robocop, whoever Jackie Chan or Bruce Lee play, John McClain ...  the list
goes on and on.  But Mel Gibson's Mad Max is #1 on my list of the greatest
action movie protagonists of all-time.      
<|_=00=_|>
Iam a big action move fan and have seen mostly all the best and worst
Hollywood action films ever.But for some reason i still don't know why
i kept ignoring this movie for years in spite of hearing so many good
things about. sure, i like Mel Gibson, I've seen all the lethal weapon
movies.My dad always told me that the first 2 mad max movies are great
but i kept ignoring these movies and man i was SO wrong.This weekend i
had nothing great to rent and i rented the first 2 mad max films and
yes i was blown away. These movies are light years ahead of all the
modern action movies, the camera work the setting sound effects
,editing everything is just superb. mad max 2 is a legendary action
film for me and I am going to add this to my collection.It's not filled
up with unnecessary action but when it starts it blows u away. Mel
Gibson was great . Now I am interested in watching all George miller
movies , i don't know how many else he has made. If u r looking for a
great action movie, pick this one. U will love it.

8 on 10.
<|_=00=_|>

I have to admit that at first viewing, I wasn't the greatest fan of this
film and preferred the original 1979 classic. However, on more recent
viewings, I have grown to admire director George Miller's signature style,
which matured from MAD MAX into the bigger budget and riskier MAD MAX 2 (THE
ROAD WARRIOR)
Utilising the oil strikes of the 70's and transposing them into a futuristic
context, Miller builds a sense of desperation into the road movie structure
and wisely incorporates the successful elements of the original MAD MAX into
a broader canvas. The dialogue is sharper, the action more defined and
Vernon Wells is a far greater villain than the Toecutter in MAD MAX. The
hero-as-saviour is another clear motif throughout the film and Mel Gibson
thankfully uses his charisma to disguise his limited use of
dialogue.
A true classic as time goes on....
<|_=00=_|>

I think this may be the greatest 'car movie' ever made. The chase scenes
are
gritty and thrilling, and quite realistic. None of that 'car falls over
cliff and blows up' crap.

In the fighting/war scenes, it plays a perfect balance between hidden
action
and open action, never overselling the gore nor underselling the
violence.

The plot is an excuse to have a long highway battle, but I'm not
complaining. It's vaguely feasible enough that you don't worry much about
it, just accept it as a needed background to hang the fun stuff on. Oh, to
be a stunt driver in this movie! Or even to be a mechanic! That would be a
story to tell your children.

This is every driving fantasy I've ever had, and played perfectly. I know
that certainly flavors my review, but tell me that movies which are
cathartic for you haven't affected YOU that way?

Bottom line: thin plot, heavy action, decent characterization. Symbolism
absent, directness the rule of the day. Jump on this bandwagon and ram
something. Fun all the way.
