
I think I liked Child's Play 2 more than most people, given the reviews
that I've read and the movie's low voter rating on the IMDb. A cute
kid's doll is once again the unlikely home of Charles Lee Ray,
notorious serial killer, again feeding off of the surrealism created by
seeing a kid's doll screw it's face into expressions of the purest rage
and spouting all manner of profanities. By now, Ray is becoming more
and more desperate to get out of the body of the doll, because as we
were informed in the first film, if he spends too much time in that
body he'll gradually become more and more human until one day he'll be
stuck in it forever. Needless to say, Ray's a lot more interested in
starting life over as a 6-year-old (and who wouldn't?) rather than
spending the rest of his life as a plastic doll.

Although, given that he becomes more human the longer he is in that
body, how human will he eventually become? Will he ever reach full
human-hood? My guess is that he'll gradually approach being a real
human being in a sort of half life, where he gets closer and closer and
closer but never actually gets there, kind of like computer generated
actors. There is currently much talk about how close computers can ever
get to animating convincingly real people into the movies, and the
leading theory seems to be something akin to my theory of Chucky
turning human. He'll always get closer but he'll never get all the way
there.

At any rate, Andy's mother has landed in a mental institution and Andy
has been taken in by a foster family with appropriate mental vacuity to
be a horror movie surrogate family. When Andy becomes frightened and
runs through the house, his foster father grabs him and says, 'Rule #1,
no running in the house!' OK, 'dad,' but not even when I open a closet
and find myself confronted by the doll that landed my mom in the
nuthouse and almost cost me my life and my very soul? My God, man, what
the hell is this guy doing with a Good Guys doll in the house in the
first place? It's difficult enough trying to figure out why it's even
there WITHOUT having to watch this mental giant grab Andy by the arm
and ask him what on earth is the matter.

There are some funny moments in the film, such as when Chucky smashes
the head of the innocent Good Guys doll, buries it, and takes its place
in the house, and my favorite, when Chucky is later addressed by a
doting adult, Chucky responds by saying in his cute doll voice, 'Hi!
I'm.Tommy!'

The stockholders in the Play Pal corporation are distressed over the
suffering that the company has endured due to the negative publicity of
the events of the first movie provide the premise for the movie's
rather impressive finale. In order to generate a more positive image
for the company and the doll, they have decided to reintroduce it into
the market. The original Chucky doll was collected by the company and
examined by toy-makers, who decided that there really was nothing truly
wrong with it, it was not really a demon-possessed toy, so they decided
to melt it down and remake it. Why they didn't just throw it away I'm
not really sure, but who cares. Waste not, want not, I guess.

At any rate, Chucky comes back in a fresh plastic body (too bad he
can't be transferred to a human as easily as he can be transferred from
one doll body to another), and once again resumes his quest for Andy's
soul. I've heard complaints about why Chucky had to go after Andy and
couldn't just find a bum on the street or something, but you'll
remember in the first movie, the conditions of his plastic entrapment
stated that he could only transfer into the body of the first person
that he revealed his identity to once he was inside the Chucky doll.

Jarrett Friend, writing for HorrorWatch, made the above suggestion
having forgotten that little stipulation, but also smartly suggested
that the plot should have involved a huge number of Chucky dolls, since
the original doll was melted down and whose plastic conceivably should
have infected much more dolls than just the one that we saw in this
movie. This would have made the movie much more interesting and added
another level of originality; my guess is they just didn't have the
budget for something that big.

Nevertheless, even though the first sequel in the Child's play series
comes dangerously close to falling into that sophomore sequel chasm of
falling flat because of obviously feeding off the success of its
predecessor without having much of anything to add to the story,
Child's Play 2 escapes into the world of moderately acceptable horror
sequels, kind of like Psycho II, which had no hope of matching its
predecessor but at least was able to justify its own existence. 

I think it's easy to be put off by the conclusion of Child's Play 2,
but I was pretty impressed with the toy factory setting, if only
because it created such a great atmosphere for Chucky to make his hunt
and Andy and his foster sister Kyle to try vainly to escape. There was
some pretty clever stuff in the final act of the film, not including,
however, the scene where Kyle and Andy run around completely lost,
making the factory seem like a maze by editing together a lot of clips
of them clearly running around the same corner half a dozen times or
so. A bit trite, but nothing compared to my biggest gripe of the film,
which is the final scene, one of the goofier things that I've seen on
an otherwise at least moderately competent horror movie. 

Odd for a movie to try so hard to live up to its expectations and then
belittle itself with something like what I'll just call the air hose
scene. I do, however, think that the movie was successful and good
enough to deserve a better DVD than it got. I can't stand it when the
only extra features on the DVD for a successful film are nothing but
some foreign audio tracks and cast and crew history that is nothing
more than a brief biography and a list of film credits. What do you
think the IMDb is for?
<|_=00=_|>
Universal must have realized the potential this franchise had and
quickly snapped up the rights from MGM after the first movie came out.
Writer Don Mancini also must have figured out that his creation of a
foul-mouthed killer doll was too good for just one film. The Chucky
series would seriously evolve and change over the years but even in
this first sequel things are already looking quite different, even if
it suffers from Deja Vu a little bit.

Now that the cat is out of the bag and we know that Chucky really is
alive and it isn't just Andy's imagination, our killer doll gets much
more screen time and his wicked personality has more time to develop.
The animatronics have improved and a lot of Chucky's character comes
through in his wild facial expressions.

Director John Lafia shoots the film with a bright, playroom color
pallet with most of the location footage done in Los Angeles with only
a few key shots done in Chicago (as if the Windy City was ever this
sunny). Despite the autumn setting it does feel like a rather Xmas-y
film. He's also fully aware of how silly the killer doll concept is and
seizes the opportunity for some of the self-aware sarcastic humor seen
in the later films. 

Graeme Revell usually does the most generic horror scores, especially
in recent years, but surprisingly he gives Child's Play 2 the best
score of the series with a full orchestra at his disposal, he doesn't
hold back on the action cues and even delivers a couple of pretty good
themes. So much better than the rotten score to the first film and
probably one of the best horror scores of the 90s, or even of all time.
It really is that good, and elevates this sequel to a higher level than
most snobby critics would consider it deserves.

There isn't much of a story to Child's Play 2 however. It's just the
same as the first, with Chucky going after Andy, who is now staying
with a foster family, once more. The body count is higher and there are
some good kills, but I wish that the running time wasn't so anorexic
and that it held back on the "lurking in the dark" scenes.

The slick quality and silly nature of Child's Play 2 is probably what
prompted Universal to stick with the franchise for good and 23 years
later the Chucky films are still coming out. To think that if MGM held
on to the rights, we may never have had them.
<|_=00=_|>
Child's Play 2 picks up not long after where its infamous predecessor
left off, and straight into the film, the original Good Guy doll
housing the spirit of the Lakeshore Strangler is being fixed up and
Good Guys are back in action. While unfortunately, Chris Sarandon and
Catherine Hicks do not return, they are at least mentioned, and given
plausible reasons as to why they could not be in the movie. Innocent
Andt Barclay (Alex Vincent) however returns, and is once again at the
mercy of Chucky (voiced by the classic Brad Douriff) when Chucky traces
Andy down to where he is living in foster care. From there, the typical
mayhem follows, with plenty of doll-style murders, witty lines from
Chucky and a great finale at the Good Guy doll factory.

While the original Child's Play is a terrifying classic, part 2 is
somewhat of a step down, only because one knows what to expect, for the
most part. However, the cast are a great asset to the film. Alex
Vincent is right on the mark in his role as Andy, Christine Elise is
terrific as his foster sister Kyle, and Jenny Agutter adds a touch of
class as their foster mother Joanne Simpson. Gerrit Graham plays her
strict husband, and Grace Zabriskie is good in her role as the career
at the orphanage. Beth Grant steals the moment in her small role as Mrs
Kettlewell however. Overall, a fun sequel to the original, with a well
rounded cast and plenty of thrills to keep one entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
It's difficult to accept the numerous poor reviews this movie garnered,
particularly those from bona fide horror buffs. Of all the films within
major horror series stretching from the late '70s to the '90s -- Friday
the 13th, A Nightmare on Elm Street and Halloween among them --
"Child's Play 2" deserves a place very close to the top.

This sequel picks up two years after the original in which young Andy
Barclay (Alex Vincent) was tormented by Chucky, the killer-possessed
doll trying to transfer his soul into the child's body. With his mother
traumatized, Andy is sent to live with a foster family. Trouble is,
there's a certain rebuilt Good Guy brand doll all too eager to get
reacquainted.

"Child's Play 2" is solid horror fare. It has legitimate thrills as the
seemingly innocent doll plunges to murderous life in the blink of an
eye. It has a smart, unpredictable storyline. Its strongest asset,
however, is an exciting finale at the Good Guy doll factory in which
Chucky, piece by piece, meets his maker. First he's forced to amputate
his own hand (he replaces it with a knife blade). Then his legs are
torn off in an unsuccessful maiming. Next he's showered in gallons of
steaming hot doll plastic before finally having an electrical cord
stuffed in his mouth, exploding his head into a thousand gooey pieces.
Where do they come up with this stuff?

There are plenty of other things to like about this picture. Its budget
is much higher than that of the original, a fact that shows up in leaps
and bounds on the screen. With the origin storyline out of the way, the
sequel is able to focus solely on the excitement without getting bogged
down in too many details. And Brad Dourif outdoes himself as the
creepily frightening voice of the homicidal doll.

"Child's Play 2" established Chucky as a legitimate horror icon. Simply
put, the series never again reached this high a caliber and probably
never will.
<|_=00=_|>

"Child's Play 2" is the first sequel to the popular 1988 original. The first
film was a very entertaining horror film. The second movie in the series
isn't as good, but it's not real bad either. However, the filmmakers took
the gory route for this one. All the graphic violence makes it less
effective. The first movie worked so well because it kept the violence down
to a minimal. Oh the first film was violent, but not as violent as this one.
But it's stylish look somehow makes it watchable. And, like the original,
it's entertaining to watch. Young Alex Vincent reprises his role from the
original as Andy Barclay, the boy who in this movie goes to live with foster
parents while his mother seeks psychiatric help (from the events in "Child's
Play"). Andy himself still isn't all together, and when Chucky the killer
doll re-enters his life again, watch out! "Child's Play 2" may not be as
good as "Child's Play", but it sure is better than the next movie in the
series, "Child's Play 3" (which I thought was awful). I haven't seen the
fourth movie yet ("Bride of Chucky"), so I can't voice my opinion on that
one at the moment.

**1/2 (out of four)
<|_=00=_|>
Chucky is one of those dolls that can't stay dead, still inhabited by
an evil spirit. The little boy he turned into an orphan is leaving the
clinic now that he's over the traumatic situation (or so the head of
the clinic tells his adoptive parents). His adoptive parents take him
home and you know things aren't going to settle down when a Chucky doll
drops from the top shelf of a closet he's exploring.

The evil Chucky doll finds his way to the household, switches places
with the toy doll and buries it, setting the stage for things to come.
Credibility really is strained by the time we get to the schoolroom
scene where Chucky has followed the boy to school, lands magically in
his classroom and manages to start trouble between the boy and the
teacher, who subsequently gets killed by Chucky after the boy has
climbed out a window. Takes quite an imagination to think of these plot
lines, but when the imagination runs wild plausibility begins to
suffer. 

Following the schoolhouse segment, the bizarre incidents keep piling up
as Chucky gets away with more and more havoc and no one believes the
boy is telling the truth--just as in the original.

None of the incidents are as startling or as well staged as in CHILD'S
PLAY, but it still manages to hold the interest with some original
touches tinged with fright and a weird sense of humor. Especially good
are the effects toward the end when Chucky holds the spunky adopted
girl and boy captive as the story speeds toward an ending in the toy
factory. The factory sequence has some grotesque chills as one of the
workers gets caught up in the doll machinery and Chucky himself suffers
quite a few "happenings" at the toy factory before he's liquidated by
the boy.

Entertaining nonsense despite the strain on credibility.
<|_=00=_|>
Incredible 1990's Sequel Into The Child's Play Series. Chucky returns
as a doll again possessed by the soul of a serial killer. He goes after
Andy to take over his soul. Chucky destroys everyone who stands in his
way of his plan.

Another amazing performance by Alex Vincent who starred as Andy. He did
great in this sequel and it was great seeing him on screen again. He
brought on a incredible performance going against Chucky once again.
Also Brad Dourif did great playing the Voice of Chucky. Chucky was
funny and dangerous this time around again. Also great acting by
Christine Elise and the entire cast.

I recommend Child's Play 2 and The Child's Play Series To Everyone.
Looking forward In Seeing More Created. PHENOMENAL HORROR CLASSIC!
<|_=00=_|>
Since his mum has been committed, Andy Barclay finds himself being
placed with a foster family Phil and Joanne Simpson. To get an idea of
what had happened with their doll; Play Pal toys decide to rebuild
Chucky to prove there's nothing wrong with it. Although a freak
electrical current kills one of their employees and revives the doll.
Knowing that he has to get out this body, Chucky goes about trying to
locate Andy, so he can transfer his soul into his body.

The lovable, foul-mouthed good guy doll is back at it again in this far
from surprising sequel spawned by the original's success. Old habits
die young in this basically unnecessary no frills retread of the
original film. Actually, the horrifying thing is that I don't mind this
effort. It's still my favourite sequel of the series, just ahead of
"Bride of Chucky". Directing his debut feature with plenty of verve and
focus happens to be John Lafia (co-writer of the screenplay for Child's
Play), who ups the ante in mostly every department. There's more
hectically nervy mayhem, spur of the moment thrills and rather a mean
spirited vibe worked in. Chucky's one sadistic little monster here and
it seems to exploit its premise for the sheer of it. Popping up are
many amusing moments that are plain rib tickling and a few unexpected
splashes of suspense. The nastily inspired and glaring death scenes are
well thought out. Time breezes by because of tight pacing and crisp
editing. The silliness of the concept is simply taken to the extreme
with constant use of smarting one-liners and devilish puns. The tongue
is heavily planted in cheek within its jest-like tone.

Written again by original creator Don Mancini. The straightforward
script nicely rounds off what had happened to the major players of the
first film and how Chucky was resurrected. After that it goes for a
basic stalk and slash formula with more blood and violence to cover up
systematic gimmick. Instead of the icy cold Chicago downtown setting
this time Mancini decides to go suburbia on this foray. While, it's
cliché bound and everything about this one looks plastic. It's
commendably made production with a glossily bright tinge to the set
designs (like the surreal-like toy factory). The slick photography by
Stefan Czapsky is lithely orchestrated and Graham Revell's ominous
sounding music score hits all the right chords. Kevin Yagher's
animatronics creation of Chucky has advanced a little more with refined
detail and zeal developments. The face and body movements seem a bit
more flexible.

Who gave this doll life was the ultra-cool and memorably wicked vocal
performance of Brad Dourif as Chucky. It became Dourif's definite
trademark role. Alex Vincent returns and isn't particularly that
convincing in a stiff performance as Andy. Gladly it doesn't do any
damage, but only enhances the traumatic angle they are going for.
Having the same person playing the role added some continuity though.
Adding a professional touch to this b-grade fluff were the likes of the
always elegantly classy Jenny Agutter and ripely formal Gerrit Graham
were likable as the foster parents Joanne and Phil Simpson. Christine
Elise is fittingly strong as the delinquent teen Kyle. Also there are
minor, but decent performances by Grace Zabriskie, Beth Grant and Greg
Germann.

The novelty isn't a complete waste, but if you take the unbelievably
illogical premise and the unpleasant nature with a grain of salt.
There's sure entertainment amongst this nonsense that doesn't pretend
to be anything else.
<|_=00=_|>

It's been a few days since the last romp with Chucky, the killer
doll.
Chucky's been completely burnt up, but the company that made
the
Good Guy dolls, Play Pals, found the doll and are rebuilding it!
The
production is headed by a little weasel and an adulterer, Matson.

The president of the company, Mr. Sullivan, stops by and witnesses
a
technician being electrocuted when inserting Chucky's eyes.
Matson
reported that Andy is at a children's crisis center and Karen is
under
psychiatric observation. He said they're the only two who claim
the
doll was alive. Aren't we forgetting Detective Mike Norris
from
the first Child's Play? He also believed the story about Chucky.
What
happened to him? Was he committed or did he deny the story? What
a
creep! 
         Andy is going to be adopted by the Simpsons. Not the
Homer
Simpsons! The Phil and Joanne Simpsons! Phil is a jerk. He thinks
Andy
is nuts, but not Joanne. At the house, Andy adapts nicely. He even
meets
a teenage refugee named Kyle. She's been in foster homes for a
long
time. Andy likes his new toy filled bedroom, but it contains
a
Good Guy doll! Tommy. Meanwhile, Chucky tracks down his prey
and
breaks one of Joanne's glass statues. The family blames Andy
and/or
Kyle. I can tell right off they were blaming Andy. 
        The next day, Andy goes to school. Chucky follows him!
While
Andy is at recess, Chucky writes a terrible, and hilarious
message
on Andy's paper. The first word begins with F and rhymes with Luck.

Second word is You and third word is Bitch. The teacher, Miss
Kettlewell
(Beth Grant, who's simply in everything and is annoying in
everything!)
She blames Andy for the message and locks him in the classroom
while
telephoning the Simpsons. I see, so teachers are allowed to lock

students in their classrooms now? I never heard of that.

        That night, Andy goes searching for Chucky with a turkey
carving
electric knife. He meets up with Chucky. Phil goes to investigate.
Chucky kills him and Andy is blamed. Andy goes back to the Center
and
Chucky takes Kyle hostage and they go to retrieve Andy. Chucky has
to
transfer Andy's soul into him or be doomed to be a plastic (or is
it
rubber?) doll forever. They end up going to the Play Pals factory!

Kyle and Andy run all over the machines which demonstrates how
the
dolls are made. There's a hilarious as well as gruesome moment
when
a technician has a run-in with the plastic eye inserting machine.

Let's just say he now has two plastic eyes shoved where his old
ones
used to be. Chucky get's quit a few scars and a few appendages
removed,
and soon is blown to pieces. Kyle and Andy walk home. Wherever that
is.
        This film is the best in the series. Second best is Bride
of
Chucky. 3rd was terrible. 1st had a good beginning but the rest
just
blew like the wind. So I recommend you see this film! Brad Dourif
has
a great evil voice!
-
<|_=00=_|>
The not-so-innocent movie about a child's doll continues with Andy
Barkley (Alex Vincent) being sent to live in a foster care home while
his mom is recovering from a mental hospital. Nobody believes Andy's
story about Chucky the killer doll, but that soon changes when the doll
returns, possessed once again by serial killer Charles Lee Ray. It goes
on another rampage, this time trying to free his evil soul from the
doll and transfer into Andy's body.

The plot's pacing, script, and music score work fine in this movie,
with a some good humor and suspense, and some creepy moments. The
acting was pretty good for the most part - especially enjoyed the
characters of Andy and Kyle. Vincent portrayed Andy with innocence but
determination and Christine Elise gave a rebellious yet tender-hearted
and strong portrayal of foster teenager Kyle. Brad Dourif gave another
sinister, dark, and sarcastically funny portrayal of Chucky.

The overall horror elements may seem tame by more recent standards, but
it's still a rather entertaining horror sequel.

Grade B
