
A rundown cop who's always on the drink named Ben Shockley is assigned
to accompany a foul-mouthed prostitute in Las Vegas to a protection
program across the country in Phoenix to testify against highly placed
authority figure, although first they have to get through a gauntlet of
bad cops and the mob who actually want them both dead. So now the odds
aren't in their favour, but Shockley is determine to do his job, no
matter how big the odds are against them.

Classic Eastwood is on show here people. Although, it's not one of his
greatest nor particularly original. But this reasonably familiar cop /
action film delivers what it intended to do by giving us a taut little
road movie across baron landscapes with a tremendous amount of brutally
fast-paced shootouts and grand chase scenes. I mean a lot! To sum it
up, shootouts, shootouts and even more shootouts. Watch things go boom
with a lot going on at such a furious pace! What more could you want? 

So you ask, why is this nothing out of the ordinary? Because this kind
of thing wasn't particularly new within this era of films. There were
definite shades of Dirty Harry; Eastwood's character Shockley was the
exact opposite to Harry though. The one thing you'll notice is that
there is no real excuse or depth behind the plot, but to stage one
chaotic and stretched out shootout after another. Sometimes they feel
like they go on forever! Nonetheless, they might be far-fetched and
fail logic, but they're rather well set-up by director Eastwood. Giving
us a sudden burst around each corner and because of that there's hardly
a mundane moment… uh, maybe Eastwood did overkill certain shootouts,
but it did get the blood pumping! So, when the "exaggerated" climax
hits the screen - at least the film was consistent in that aspect. 

The performances were top-notch, with Eastwood's persona making any
film his in watchable. He gives a stellar performance. Sondra Locke as
Gus Mally was perfect. The chemistry between the leads was outstanding.
The scathing and rough dialogue amongst them was a treat with great use
of sarcasm and offbeat humour. The biting conversations truly built on
the paranoia at hand with many top one-liners. This gives the film a
buddy type of feel. Other key factors are the soothing blues
soundtrack, well established camera shots that capture a beautiful
landscape, but also the panic of the situation they face. While, there
might be underlining themes running throughout the plot, I just didn't
read too much into it. 

Just leave your brain at the door and enjoy the total chaos and
destruction that follows with your screen being sprayed with bullets!
Definitely recommended for fans of Eastwood and gritty action films.
<|_=00=_|>
The challenge of playing the cop, Ben Shockley, in "The Gauntlet" was
that the character was virtually the opposite of Harry Callaghan: he's
a loser, a man resigned to doing twenty years in the force and then
looking forward to collecting his pension… His car is full of empty
whiskey bottles, his life is a shambles, he's never even been given a
big case let alone solved one… He is sent from Phoenix to Las Vegas to
'bring back a nothing witness for a nothing trial'.

The 'nothing' witness, Gus Mally, is not the man he expects; in the
first place she's a woman, Augusta Mally, secondly she's a hooker,
thirdly, despite her non-stop profanities, she's a graduate of Finch
College and lastly – and hereby hangs the tale – she's not a 'nothing
witness'. The mob who are to be tried will do anything to prevent her
testifying… 

The dangers inherent in their journey together only slow1y become
apparent to Shockley despite the fact that the Vegas police literally
raze to the ground the couple's initial hideaway, while they remain
inside almost to the last moment…

Within the turbulent situation, Shockley and Mally manage to transform
their original dislike for each other and each other's way of life into
a love of sorts, in the 'African Queen type tradition.' As the couple
begins to understand each other, they realize how their relationship
could serve each other… She would no longer need to be a whore… He
could regain his self-esteem as a policeman… Shortly before the final
showdown Mally telephones her mother to say she has found her man; from
then on there is an added imperative that they survive in order to give
their love and their relationship a chance to work out…

Sondra Locke achieved the improbably-written transformation from hooker
to sociologist convincingly… But in this film, more than ever, Eastwood
wasn't trying for any praise or approval from the critics; probably the
reverse… The overkill is part of the entertainment' he claimed.' You
just have to accept it on an outrageous level.' There were those who
didn't… 

But these comments only served to inform Eastwood that at least he had
been excessive enough to upset some people… It would be awful to think
you're being outrageous and to outrage nobody… But Eastwood knew just
how far he could take an audience with him… By surviving the
unsurvivable, Eastwood proved to himself once more that the mass
audience will suspend all sensible disbelief – as they do in the best
of the Bond films – providing the action carries them and their
fantasies along…

In the context of many of his other films, "The Gauntlet" is hardly one
of Eastwood's most substantial works… The appeal of an unlikely love
affair between opposites, fertilized by an unceasing barrage of gunfire
was undoubted1y considerable… But as a whole, the film tended to
operate rather as an exercise in special effects than as any more
considered piece of social statement of the kind that gave such
strength to "Dirty Harry."
<|_=00=_|>

This baroque and utterly implausible action drama subscribes to the
over-the-top theory of movie making. Huge quantities of bullets, bikers and
bad apples are unleashed on Mr.Eastwood, Ms. Locke, his remand witness, and
us, the audience. Eastwood executes the gauntlet with great resolve and
resourcefulness: he even knows how to fortify a bus with armored plates.
Clint is in peak form and Locke will never again reach the heights that she
does here. Clearly, the two have wonderful screen chemistry and would remain
together as a couple for more than a decade. Watching the film today, I
think there is a scene that went missing--or was cut. It occurred at the
beginning of the movie and involved the sadistic police commissioner and
Locke's prostitute. The scene is later described in great detail by Locke
when she and Clint are on the lam in a desert cave. So where is it? My dad
took me to see this "R" rated film on a bitterly cold night in early
February '78--it was released in late '77. I think he was unaware of the
rating because I did get an eyeful that night. Make sure you see this movie
letterboxed in order to absorb all the destructive power and subtle artistry
on display.
<|_=00=_|>
How many rounds of ammunition can you fire into a house before it will
collapse? Or maybe you'd like to see how many rounds you can fire into
a bus before it will stop running. If you're interested, or if you just
like Clint Eastwood, then The Gauntlet is for you! Our film centers
around Clint playing a sloppy policeman from Phoenix who is assigned to
transport a sassy hooker (Sondra Locke) from Las Vegas back to his
jurisdiction. This will not be an easy task. First of all, this
Eastwood character is no Dirty Harry. His Ben Shocklee is an alcoholic,
and barely capable of doing his job. The hooker's testimony could
potentially bring down some important figures, so the cops and mafia
also don't want them to return to Phoenix. In addition to all that, the
woman is such a bitch that even a trip across town with her would be
almost too much to bear. The two are put in one harrowing situation
after another as Clint proves that he has the moxy to simply "get the
job done".

This film, if made by or starring inferior talent, would be nothing
short of ridiculous. Several situations that arise in this film seem
improbable at best, and often ludicrous. Eastwood's charm, and the
razor-sharp dialog keep it moving along. You end up almost believing it
could happen. Clint Eastwood is that talented. His acting and direction
are as good as ever.

The film has plenty of memorable scenes. Along with the shootouts, we
get some very amusing and often very funny situations. One of my
favorites is when Eastwood single-handedly talks an entire motorcycle
gang into surrendering one of their bikes or facing the consequences of
his pistol. And what would an Eastwood/Locke film be without a scene
where she is sexually assaulted? Though disturbing, the scene has a
hilarious conclusion. Another scene belongs to Locke, herself. In it,
she puts a foul-mouthed police flunky in his place using some very
sexually explicit words.

That a film which would seemingly be quite ridiculous on paper is made
into such a fine product is a testimony to the genius of Clint
Eastwood. He is without a doubt my favorite actor of all time.

9 of 10 stars for The Gauntlet.

The Hound.
<|_=00=_|>

Theatre of the absurd -- Clint-style.  This fast-paced, mindless, often
silly film always remains true to itself, and
thus succeeds on its terms.  Excessive violence is used repeatedly as a
metaphor for absurdity.  William Prince and his protege who plays
Federspiel
are two of the most memorable malevolent bureaucrats in film history.
Supporting cast members are all in on the joke, and play it for all its
worth -- even the usually uptight Sondra Locke scores wonderfully in this
one.  I usually abhor excessive violence, but this film really uses it for
laughs.  A guilty pleasure.
<|_=00=_|>

In the 1970s films became more violent. No doubt about it. And The
Gauntlet is unquestionably a violent film. Buildings are reduced to
rubble, vehicles are shot to pieces, people are pumped full of lead,
and plenty of blood is spilled.... all in the name of entertainment!
This noisy Clint Eastwood vehicle is good fun, with lots of exciting
sequences, though thoroughly unbelievable pretty much from the start.

Honest, hard-working Phoenix cop Ben Shockley (Eastwood) is sent by
Comissioner Blakelock (William Prince) to bring in a prostitute who may
be able to provide key testimony in a high profile trial. But from the
moment Shockley meets Gus Malley (Sondra Locke), he suddenly finds
himself in the firing line.... and it's not the usual bad guys who are
after him, but the cops. Seems Malley's testimony could implicate a
major police figure in sleaze and scandal, and the man in question is
none other than Shockley's boss Comissioner Blakelock. Shockley
attempts to get his witness back to Phoenix, despite the fact that
every cop on the force has been ordered by Blakelock to gun the pair of
them down.

The climactic sequence, in which Eastwood and Locke head for Phoenix
City Hall in an armour-plated bus while sharp-shooters try to blast the
living hell out of the vehicle, is truly astounding. As a destructive
set piece not many sequences can rival it even to this day. The film
contains many similarly noisy, destructive, memorable scenes.
Admittedly, there are times when believability is markedly lacking (e.g
the bit where Clint and Sondra are pursued by a helicopter while aboard
a motorbike - and the sniper aboard the helicopter repeatedly fails to
gun them down). However, on the whole The Gauntlet is good fun. Switch
your brain down a gear or two and enjoy....

<|_=00=_|>
Hands down, Sondra Lockes best performance.So then,why does this film
need all the over the top violence? It does so because most men won't
want to admit they like a love story, or go to the movies to see one.
This movie is a top rate love story, from beginning to end. What
possibly could this movie have in common with Fight Club,,or even As
Good as it Gets? In Fight Club, Ed Norton meets a girl that he
obviously can not handle , so he reinvents himself. Same with Ben
Shockley. He meets his match, so he must act quickly, making up a story
about snakes at the cave. He then thinks on his feet, and acquires
himself a bike, impressing the girl and cementing their alliance. Jack
Nicholson breaks down to Helen Hunt and claims "You make me want to be
a better man".Estwood starts saying please, and and emotes a deep trust
in his counterpart; He realizes he must soften up a little to keep the
lady around.He does. Shockley isn't some phony Top Gun hero who loses
the girl, he's a loser who does what he has to get the woman in love
with him, and it works, this is his only chance at love.

This is Lockes best film. Is it because of the acting or is this Lockes
personality? She does it well enough where you honestly believe she is
ad libbing at least half of her lines, pulling them off the top of her
tongue. She sizzles, oozing sex in the back seat of the cop car. You
honestly believe she is so used to verbal abuse that she sits there and
takes the insults. She is just playing possum, lying in wait. She takes
her turn, and delivers a knockout counter-punch to the
constable,forcing his mind to admit that he is just a sleazeball
flunkie. What is best, is that nothing but honesty and cold reality
come out of her mouth. Eastwood accepts the truth, and lives. The
constable refuses, and dies. Locke is the anti-feminazi. She saves her
mans life, and immediately wants to go back to being a real woman, in
his arms.This movie deserves a ten, because the action scenes are just
there so people can handle all of the raw truth in the movie. A must
buy.
<|_=00=_|>
Possible spoiler - As the bus drives through Phoenix, police line up on
either side of the street to empty thousands of rounds into the bus.
Literally dozens of policemen are in the line of fire (across the
street from each other) and nobody seems to notice. 

Also, at the courthouse, as they're again surrounded by dozens of
police on ALL sides, Clint gets shot by the bad guy (police standing
next to & behind everybody) and NOBODY flinches - apparently certain
that bullets at close range don't go through people. Finally, as
everybody is lying there bleeding (but not dead) not ONE policeman
offers assistance or bothers to start taking all the guns away. Could
be the dumbest &^%$%#$#ing movie ever.
<|_=00=_|>
In Phoenix, the alcoholic and mediocre detective Ben Shockley (Clint
Eastwood) is assigned by the Chief Commissary Blakelock (William
Prince) to bring the witness Gus Mally (Sondra Locke) from Las Vegas
for a minor trial. Shockley travels to Vegas and finds that Gus Malley
is an aggressive and intelligent prostitute with college degree and she
tells him that the odds are against her showing up in court. 

Shockley learns that she will actually testify against a powerful
mobster and the mafia is chasing them trying to kill them both. He
calls Blakelock and request a police escort from Phoenix to protect
them. But soon he discovers that someone is betraying him in the police
department. Now, Shockley and Malley hijack a bus and Shockley welds
thick steel plates and transforms the cabin in an armored bus trying to
reach the Forum. But they will need to drive through a gauntlet of
police officers armed with heavy weapons.

"The Gauntlet" is a highly entertaining movie with a flawed and absurd
story. There is no press representative or judge from the tribunal to
question the reason for the shooting to stop the bus. The helicopter
chasing the motorcycle with the sniper failing in his shots is funny.
The situation of the gauntlet in Phoenix is hilarious and the police
force is incapable to shoot the bus tires or engine to stop the
vehicle. Sondra Locke is very beautiful in the role of a smart
prostitute and this is the type of movie that the viewer must shut down
his or her brain and have lots of fun. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Rota Suicida" ("Suicide Route")
<|_=00=_|>
The entire police forces from two separate states come out to fire
thousands of gun shots at a dimwitted, but well intentioned cop and a
college educated, hyperactive hooker because said hooker is going to
testify in court that she saw the new police commissioner masturbating.
And it gets better.

What do you do when every gangster and peace officer in Arizona and Las
Vegas have orders to shoot you on site? First, of course, you increase
your list of enemies by unnecessarily agitating a gang of fifty large
bikers, then you hijack a bus in broad daylight and spend a half hour
unloading luggage, at gunpoint, in full view of hundreds of people,
then you provide the people who want to kill you with a written trip
syllabus so they know when and where to expect you, and then you drive
your bus right into the six hundred cops who are firing non-stop
machine guns at you.

And it still gets better. After spending ten minutes firing thousands
of shots at a fellow officer and his courtesan friend, on the orders of
the new, clearly psychotic commissioner, six hundred heavily armed cops
stand and watch, without blinking, as said commissioner is gunned down
in the middle of the street by said hooker. And of course, after having
more shots fired at them than the population of Iraq, our hapless hero
and his hardy harlot humbly hobble away, relatively unscathed.

When Joel Mcrea and Veronica Lake chased a freight train, it defined
movie magic. When Charles Grodin and Bobby De Niro chased a freight
train, it was a moment to treasure. When Sandra Locke and Clint
Eastwood chased a freight train, you might as well have been watching a
bad Heckle and Jeckle cartoon. Comparing THE GAUNTLET to past and
future Eastwood directorial efforts, like PLAY MISTY FOR ME, MYSTIC
RIVER, and UNFORGIVEN is like saying THE GODFATHER in the same breath
as GIGLI.
