
I have heard of Bachelor Party a couple times, once on VH1's I love the
80's and also in Clerks 2 there was a small reference. The weird thing
is, I'm more used to a dramatic Tom Hanks, other than Big and A League
of Their Own, I've never seen him in a raw comedy movie, so it was a
little weird to think of Tom Hanks as this very funny male lead in a
movie. But I decided to go ahead and give the movie a look, I have to
tell you, I haven't laughed so hard and so out loud in a movie like
this in a long time. Then I check out the rating on IMDb, 5.7?! Are you
kidding me?! This movie is just so beyond funny, I know that it is
cliché'd eighties, but come on! I just couldn't believe that anyone
else would not find this to be a funny film. If you're telling me you
did not find Brad to be funny, you have got to get your funny bone
checked because Bachelor Party is non stop laughs from beginning to
end.

Rick is about to get married to beautiful Debbie, his friends who live
to party are throwing him the biggest bachelor party they can have.
Debbie's rich and snobby family definitely don't want Rick to be apart
of their lives, so Debbie's dad will do anything, including her
ex-boyfriend, Cole, who wants her back, to split them up. But the
bachelor party night has arrived, and things are going more crazy than
the boys have expected.

Bachelor Party is seriously funny, it's predictable and silly,
especially the end, but it's all in good fun. This is perfect 80's
humor, it's the humor I miss and I'm sure others do too, because it's
raunchy but doesn't over do it and just has fun with the audience. This
cast looked like they had an ultimate blast and Tom Hanks was just
brilliant, his character could be a jerk, but such a great guy at the
same time, so he's real and likable. This is just a funny movie that I
would recommend, it's a lot of fun and the rating on IMDb is just too
harsh. Come on, let's get this rating up.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, if you are thinking that this will be some wonderful,
well thought out, well crafted artwork starring Tom Hanks, put the
movie down and back away from the rack. Now flash back to 1984, when
movies were inane and entertaining--solely for entertaining!!! As far
as raunchy 80's humor goes, you won't find anything better that
Bachelor Party. Yes, the humor is predictable. Yes, the sight gags are
predictable. But this movie does it better than anyone else in it's
genre (that would be raunchy comedy). Good girl falls for bad boy, plan
to get married, but first the guys must be guys. "Let's have a party
with liquor and drugs and guns and hookers and cops!" and they do.
Don't ask for more than this movie can deliver, yet appreciate it for
what it is!
<|_=00=_|>

Tom Hanks' career began in comedy, and this film is a shining example of
his
comedic talents.  Hanks delivers a satisfying and enjoyable performance as
groom-to-be Rick Gassko, and his supporting cast couldn't have been better
selected.  Many of the film's co-stars had worked with Hanks in the past,
most notably on TV's Bosom Buddies.  The chemistry is apparent here, as
the
actors are all very comfortable in their roles, as the dialogue is
executed
with a smooth, yet expedient wit.  The jokes all work in this film -
outlandish as some of them may be.  There is never a dull moment in
Bachelor
Party, as each scene is well-constructed to deliver an inevitable laugh,
without the premeditated one-liners that seem so forced in today's trash
comedies. The events of the film were based on Producer Bob Israel's real
life bachelor party experience, and the realism of the story can be felt
in
the film, as the viewer rarely has to suspend disbelief.  This movie can
best be appreciated by the movie fan who enjoys witty, smirk-inducing
comedies such as Porky's, Animal House, Police Academy, Summer School, and
Weekend At Bernie's.

<|_=00=_|>

  I've read, someone has written "not worth of watching". That's all
blah-blah-blah. I looked it through this evening, and I can't even say how
many times I've already seen it.  None of the modern US comedies could be
compared to "Bachelor Party". They are all uninteresting and pure in humour.
It makes me think how free were american movie-makers in 80's - they could
do and allowed to say everything they wanted. I'm not American and the
modern comedies for teens I watch now forced me to believe that as a genre
comedy is dead in US.
  That's why I advise you to watch this movie, old but full of jokes about
sex, crazy parties and true love, that means keeping promises.
<|_=00=_|>

I think this is one of the funniest movies in the history of comedy.
Tom Hanks was a phenomenal comedian at one point in his career, and I
would watch this over any of his other movies (even Mazes & Monsters).
I don't know what I can say about this movie other than as long as you
don't try to take it seriously, it will leave you in stitches for 2
hours, and if you are going to plan a bachelor party, this is your
handbook.

The general plot line is Tom Hanks is a blue collar worker (school bus
driver for a Catholic School) as are most of his friends, but he falls
in love with the rich girl, whose parent's can't stand there daughter
dating an uneducated slob. Many of you will say that this plot has been
seen numerous times, but this was the original comedy that did it, and
did it best. If you haven't seen this movie, take the time to watch it,
you don't know what you have been missing.

<|_=00=_|>
"Bachelor Party" is very much like other films of its genre except that
it is one of Tom Hanks' very early efforts and, as a result, is more
fondly remembered than it probably would be without Hanks.

Yes, before Hanks turned into Forrest Gump and an Oscar-winning
heavyweight actor, he desperately starred in a 1984 teen sex comedy not
unlike "Porky's," "The Last American Virgin" or "American Pie."
"Splash" had been a success by now so the marketers could rely upon his
newly-created status to promote "Bachelor Party," and it paid off --
this movie was an unexpected hit when it came out (albeit a small one).

Tom Hanks is a fine actor but I have to say that he had a certain charm
about his acting that made many mediocre '80s comedies -- including
"Turner and Hooch," "The 'burbs" and of course "Bachelor Party" --
immensely likable despite their flaws.

Yes, this is a crude, lewd, rude movie but it has its fair share of
embarrassing moments, laugh-out-loud segments and cheesy (but fun)
segments. Good entertainment for a Friday or Saturday night, and a good
glimpse at a much younger, thinner, more comedic (and slapstick) Tom
Hanks before he got all weepy-eyed and serious on us.
<|_=00=_|>

Bachelor Party has few redeeming features, but it does have one big one:
it's funny. Tom Hanks is about to get married, and his friends throw him one
big bachelor party. Naked women, large amounts of drinking and a donkey
getting high all follow.

Of course, someone wants to ruin the fun, in the form of Hank's bride-to-be
father. Naturally, all of his plans to ruin the party are foiled by the
motley crew.

Most of the gags in Bachelor Party are tasteless, but that's half of the
fun. Not really recommended to devout Christians, but those with open minds
will either find this film infectiously silly, or just stupid. It's a nice
reminder of what film makers could get away with in the 80's, though.
American Pie, it's nearest competitor, is too glossy and slick to be a
proper Hollywood soft porn flick. It also has too much of a heart. Bachelor
Party just piles on the dirtiness, and throws in a moral at the end, which
is the way all 'Porky's' copies should be made (although Party is more fun
than Porkys.)

(Comedy, 1984)
<|_=00=_|>

While I can appreciate the fun 80s movie vibe trying to be achieved in
Bachelor Party, it just doesn't cut. The movie is more loud and obnoxious
then funny, and while the cast is allowed to over act, they over act just
a
little too much. Sorry Tom but this character and plot device just aren't
good enough.  
<|_=00=_|>
When a goofy Care-Free bus driver named Rick (Two Time Oscar-Winner:Tom
Hanks), who decides to get married with a rich nice young woman named
Debbie (Tawny Kitaen). Rick's friends (Adrian Zmed, William Tepper,
Barry Diamond, Gary Grossman, Gradford Bancroft & Michael Dudikoff)
decides to give Rick, an wild all-out Bachelor Party. While Rick's
nemesis, a scumbag named Cole (Robert Prescott) tries to ruined the
party of Rick and also trying to framed him as well. Since he's still
crazy about his ex-girlfriend:Debbie.

Directed by Neal Isreal (Suft Ninjas) made an amusing comedy, which it
was in the heights of Tom Hanks' career. Which he had another hit in
1984, which it was "Splash". Hanks is fun, so is the entire cast. This
has some memorable funny scenes and clever gags as well. This has
becomes an Camp Classic. Fans of his early work, should enjoy this as
well.

DVD has an fine anamorphic Widescreen (1.85:1) transfer and an
good-Dolby Digital 4.0 Surround Sound. DVD also vintage behind the
scenes vignettes and short interviews with the actors as well. Fans of
wild 1980's sex comedies will have a blast. (****/*****).
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those typical silly early '80's comedies, that features
lots of immature teenage type of lame humor and nudity and sex jokes.

No, this by no means is a great movie and it also is hardly the best
the genre has to offer but it's a movie that simply serves its purpose
and brings some good entertainment.

The movie features dozens of silly and over-the-top characters, who are
the main reason why this movie is such a maintaining and silly
entertaining one to watch. It features Tom Hanks in an early comical
movie role and it actually is sort of a shame he doesn't do movies like
this anymore, since he certainly was very talented at it. Not that I
mind the movies that he does now days of course but it at the same time
is also a waste of his comical talent.

The movie also tries to feature some more serious elements, that
concentrated on what it means to be married. Not that this works out
horrible for the movie but it of course is also distracting a bit from
what the movie is really truly about; simple immature comedy. Further
more there is very little story actually and it simply features on the
events during and around a bachelor party.

The movie is so silly, simplistic and immature that you just can't help
being entertained by it all. No matter how bad and cheesy it all gets,
you can't help laughing at this movie. Some comical moments are just
plain great.

A real enjoyable silly '80's comedy, starring a young Tom Hanks.

7/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
