

Stanley Kubrick's Full Metal Jacket
seems like an uncompleted film, but to
me that's poetic justice to one of
America's uncompleted wars. The film
is harsh and doesn't turn a blind eye
to the atrocities of Vietnam. Kubrick
is the true master of atmosphere in
film. He makes you feel like you are
there. Friends of mine have commented
that they only like the first half of
the film and that the second half
falls apart. I believe Kubrick sets up
the first half to be an understandable
reflection of the terror that would
eventually enter the lives of these
soldiers during war. It is easy to
identify with being picked on because
we all have in some way. Not all of
us, on the other hand, have fought in
war. Kubrick is the master.  
<|_=00=_|>
NO SPOILERS! This is a review, not a synopsis. 

First of all I love Kubrick's work, so I came into this with a bias.
However I have seen a lot of action and war films, and this one, to an
individual who never went to war, seems the most true-to-life, taken as
a whole. This IS how you have to look at this film, incidentally;
trying to break it down into two or three parts and say which was
better is missing the point of the film, I think. 

In the same way that "Trainspotting" was an anti-drug film that did not
gloss over anything, "Full Metal Jacket" is (for me) an anti-war film
that stares straight at the ugliness of war and the potential for
violence within almost all people, especially those trained,
conditioned, even twisted, into military roles, without preaching even
a single time. Less allegory and more applicability! Wonderful! 

The camera work was superb. I felt like I was walking through the movie
with the Marines, from the barracks to the battlefield scenes.

I have seen others criticize this film for the voice over, but I felt
that it was used sparingly, and was helpful, not overdone. The narrator
doesn't say anything that seems out-of-place.

Others have commented on the music, the acting, and so on, so I won't
add my repetitive comments, except that the drill sergeant is perfect!

The combination of the demented treatment the recruits receive in boot
camp with the combined "hours of boredom, seconds of terror" feel of
the Vietnam scenes is intense and not for everyone, but feels REAL.

10 out of 10, perfect.
<|_=00=_|>

I like Kubrick's stuff. Generally any movie he directed was several
notches,
in quality terms, above any other director (particularly those working
nowdays). Does `Full Metal Jacket' continue to show the mastermind behind
`2001', `The Shining' and `Dr. Strangelove'? Yup, it does.

As plots go. there isn't much here. I don't particularly care because the
script makes up for it. `Full Metal Jacket' is very much a movie of two
halves - the first half dealing with a group of conscripts in training at
military camp and the hardships they endure under their `hard-as-nails'
instructor. The second half is about their exploits in Vietnam itself.
Fights? In 'Nam? Haven't we seen all that before? Yes, but rarely with
such
an experienced hand at work. And it's the camp scenes that are so
wonderful.

Gustav Hasford et. Al. have produced an excellent script, particularly for
the opening hour. There's barely a moment's pause before you're thrown
into
the screaming face of Sergeant Hartman. He's hurling abuse at his new
recruits with lines so forceful and sharp they'll have you gasping in
shock
while simultaneously laughing in incredulity. It's the way the script runs
in without a pause for breath that helps so wonderfully - and the fact
that
it's so powerful. It's never just about one-liners from a sergeant, it's
also telling a story about how humans work under these conditions. The
first
half is about how they suffer under their own at home (and very well told
it
is too), the second half about the human condition under the duress of
war.
It's an interesting comparison, and a tale well told. The battle may lack
some sort of overall context or resolution, but then I feel that's in
keeping with the movie - it's about the individual, and not the war, and
such elements cannot be easily quantified.

All the characters have a grounded `real world' feel to them, due to both
the material and the versatility of the actors. R. Lee Emery is viciously
delightful as the manic Sergeant Hartman, while managing to add occasional
touches of humanity and a `this is for your own good' attitude through
subtle gestures. Matthew Modine is the amiable lead, Private Joker, and as
such balances the hard and soft edges admirably (if not spectacularly).
The
other stand out though is Vincent D'Onofrio as Private Gomer Pyle, the
recruit picked upon by Hartman and the other cadets. There's a wonderful
innocence about him in the beginning, which transforms into a frightening
hardening of his soul later on. The evil/beyond-hope look he gives later
on
(anyone who has seen the movie will know the one I mean), remains as the
most frightening look I've ever seen depicted onscreen. All in all the
cast
accredit themselves well here.

And so to the direction. It's Kubrick. It's good. Once more there's
excellent cinematography - check out the haunting, almost claustrophobic
landscapes of Vietnam. There's some lovely use of filters (that haunting
blue). There's a brilliant subtle score, that's eerie when used, but never
intrusive. There's a very good command of pace - the viewer is never left
idle or bored, and the story (particularly in the tremendous first half)
flows along smoothly. Great touches abound throughout - check out the many
examples, such as the opening scene of Hartman marching right up to the
recruits (and to the camera), spitting and screaming vindictive comments,
almost as if at the viewer. Some may criticise the almost disconnected
feeling you have in the battle scenes towards the end, but I found their
stillness, their quietness, and raw power, far more effective than the
flash-bang wizardry employed in tripe such as `We Were Heroes'. I can
blather on about Kubrick for ages. so I'll stop now.

Is `Full Metal Jacket' perfect? Not quite because of the `two halves'
syndrome. Although they do contrast and complement one another, the first
half is very much the stronger half. The second feels weaker against it.
In
and of itself the second half would normally be regarded well, but it
doesn't have the visceral power that the first does. I love both bits, but
I
do love one bit more. This makes the movie suffer just a little. There's
so
much to like here though that I can't criticise too much - and so much to
cherish (especially in the lines delved out). Once more the main man
succeeds. Definetely worth seeing. 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Legendary Stanley Kubrick - probably the most ingenious film-maker of our
time - directed only two movies in the 80's. Someone could thoughtlessly
claim that it was a very bad and a slow decade for him but on the contrary:
the films happened to be "The Shining" (1980) - the darkest, the greatest
and most frightening, superb and impressive horror movie ever made - and
"Full Metal Jacket" (1987) the finest war movie in the history of motion
picture. The fact that he directed the most beloved classics of two
completely different genre is simply unbelievable.

First half of "Full Metal Jacket" is spectacular. Lee Ermey's Drill
Instructor Hartman ("I do not look down on niggers, kikes, wops or greasers.
Here you are all equally worthless") is probably the most hateful,
forbidding and repulsive character in the history of Kubrick's movies. Jack
Nicholson in "The Shining" was like a kitten compared to him. The fact that
he is so overdone and the dialogue written to him is so sarcastic, biting
and clever makes him also the funniest part of "Full Metal Jacket". Even
though this is one of the most pressuring Kubrick movies first half can also
be seen as an extremely dark comedy.

Rest of the cast is just as excellent. Matthew Modine in the leading role as
Private Joker is simply fabulous but I guess most of the sympathies goes to
Vincent D'Onofrio's unforgettable Private Pyle. Audience really feels sorry
for him because he's the most regrettable victim of the training period that
turns perfectly ordinary nice blokes into merciless killers. Actually I'm
not sure if this is the greatest war movie ever made. I've always had my
difficulties of choosing between "Full Metal Jacket" and Francis Ford
Coppola's outstanding "Apocalypse. Now." Both of these films really shows
what war is really about. War is never justified, war is never good.
Therefore I think war movie should never glorify war but rather show it as
what it really is: nightmarish hell. Second half of "Full Metal Jacket" does
it. That makes it probably the most pacifistic war movie I've ever
seen.

Interesting fact: at the end of "Full Metal Jacket" soldiers walk on the
battlefield and sing an absurd and silly Mickey Mouse marching song.
Childish and senseless marching songs of the first half were very comical.
This one should be rather funny too but at this time the audience has
already seen way too much. This kind of humor no longer amuses and makes you
laugh. Song is the final crown of "Full Metal Jacket". It gives the last
touch to all this irrationality and I'm positive that was also Kubrick's
intention. I'm pretty sure that this is Stanley Kubrick's greatest movie
right after excellent "A Clockwork Orange". Magnificent Masterpiece with a
capital M. 10 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Though I've read only a couple of dozen of the nearly 500 comments on
this film, I didn't see any from ex-Marines who'd had the Parris Island
experience. I went through PI in 1957. The time period in the picture
would have been about 1967, since the in-country sequence includes the
'68 Tet Offensive. Little had changed in those 10 years except the
switch from M1s to M16s. 

For the most part Kubrick got Parris Island right on the money. And why
shouldn't he have, since his screen DI, Lee Ermey was in fact a real DI
before he started acting (he played another DI in "The Boys of Company
C," an earlier and lesser Vietnam flick)? He had a built- in technical
adviser. The screams and insults and profanity and physical punishment
were all part of the DIs armamentarium. When you're facing up to 75
young strangers you need to immediately establish absolute authority
and hang on to it for 13 weeks. Furthermore, you want to break the
breakable as soon as you can. My platoon had its Private Pyles and
though none ended up as he does in "Full Metal Jacket," I remember that
they simply disappeared from our ranks, never to be heard from again.
Nothing Ermey as Sgt. Hartman does is exaggerated.

Kubrick, however, does exaggerate. Speaking of Pyle's ending, it's
almost impossible for me to imagine that a recruit could manage to
sneak a clip of live rounds away from the rifle range. Every shooter at
the range has his own rifle coach, and every single round is very
carefully accounted for. Kubrick started the killing one scene too
early.

I've read that DIs nowadays are forbidden to use the time-honored
f-word, and are not allowed to lay hands on recruits. I don't know if
that's good or bad for training (I had my face slapped hard my first
day of boot camp and that was just for openers), but then all of us
old-timers like to brag about how tough it useta be!

A final note: It's interesting to compare "Full Metal Jacket" to
another attempt at a portrayal of Parris Island, Jack Webb's "The DI,"
made around '55 or '56. Webb tries for authenticity, but as I was to
learn a year or so later, his PI was a boy scout camp.
<|_=00=_|>
"Full Metal Jacket" is one of the legends of any service person in
basic training. As a young recruit in the Army, we talked about it, and
we talked about it further and it is one of those movies that you
always find something new to say about. The beginning, the young men
come to be trained as "killers." And it is at this point where you may
realize later that not everyone is meant to be in the military,
example, Leonard (Pyle.) He is a nice kid with probably a good sense of
humor, probably liked among for his sense of humor and would have done
better in college, but instead is in the Marine Corp where he does not
fit in well. Then you have Hartman (excellent portrayal by Gunny Ermy)
who has the heartless job of making killers out of these young men. It
is here that you question if he is truly mean spirited or is doing what
he knows he has to do by being as hard as he can so that these young
men will survive the horrors of war. This is a point that I think is
sometimes missed. Joker, a rather smart young man, attempts to take
Leonard under his wing and the two become friends until Leonard messes
up and is given a "blanket party" by the rest of the platoon. Hartman
is the reason for this, but behind this hides another reason; he has to
make them tough and solid so that they will work as a team and have
each other's backs in combat. He knows this to be true, but no one else
does. This sends Leonard into a psychotic break and for a while,
Hartman begins to show interest in Leonard due to his progress. Joker,
noticing the change in Leonard, does not bring this to anyone's
attention and thus begins his journey through his own private war
because he believes from his inaction, he may have been the cause for
the aftermath of the confrontation of Leonard and Hartman and the
eventual fate of Leonard.

After that, the movie shifts and they are in Vietnam and only then does
Joker begin to see why Hartman was so mean as he sees his friends
become more like Leonard and may be destined to share his fate. When
the young sniper is shot is when a part of humanity returns to Joker
and we are left to guess at what follows.

The performances by Ermy, Modine and D'Onofrio were remarkable,
especially D'Onofrio. I often wonder what went on behind the scenes,
especially with a seasoned Marine war vet such as R. Lee Ermy on the
set. I often wonder how much he contributed to the movie as an actual
adviser.

By the way, I am a Gulf War I Army Veteran and I am female, so it could
be that I may be looking at this differently. Females usually were not
in combat situations, but some were. I do wish the movie would have
shown that a little, but as far as making you think, I think the movie
did what it was suppose to do.
<|_=00=_|>

Stanley Kubrick always managed to bring 
something new to his palate whenever he 
made a film. He brought dark comedy to the 
screen with Dr. Stranglove, an epic story with 
Spartacus, and a film more important for its 
efforts than box office potential in the film 
Paths of Glory. This is what makes Full Metal 
Jacket so entertaining.

Humor, horror and political commentary are 
the themes which shape Full Metal Jacket. 
From the overbearing drill sergeant to the war 
loving soldiers. It all seems to make sense 
within this film, never overstepping its bounds 
or being to subtle. Kubrick may have alienated 
some his hardcore fans with such a 
mainstream-type story, but then again, he
 helped mainstream movies take a bold step. 
What doesn't the current cinema owe Kubrick?

<|_=00=_|>
One of the greatest war movies ever, a statement very few will dispute.
I will therefore not illustrate this point : thousands have done it
before me, often brilliantly.I'd rather lay the stress on Kubrick's
modernity in "Full Metal Jacket". Indeed the USA being once again at
war, it is interesting to compare the way they wage war these days with
the way they did back in the sixties. And the comparison is edifying.
Just apply the following statements to Iraq and you will realize
NOTHING HAS CHANGED : - the marines are trained to become killing
machines without being taught minimum knowledge about the people they
come to defend. - the boys know nothing about the Vietnamese and reason
according to American standards : for instance "Cow-Boy" complains
half-jokingly half-seriously that there are no horses in Vietnam.
Another example is the soldiers singing the Mickey Mouse Club hymn
after fighting, which strikes as particularly out of place. - they try
in vain to impose democracy through gruesome violence and destruction.
Such similarities abound and testify to the film's absolute - and
unfortunate - modernity. I wish Kubrick was still with us. I also wish
George Bush and his advisers had seen this masterpiece and - most of
all - understood its message. They would have avoided another bloody
war doomed to fail.
<|_=00=_|>
The first third of Stanley Kubrick's take on the Vietnam War is as
powerful and shocking as any film ever made about the military 

In the film's opening shots, we see close-ups of new Marine recruits
getting their heads shaved at a military training post The next shot
follows Hartman (R. Lee Ermey) as he strides through a barracks and
completes the first stage of the young men's intimidating
indoctrination into the Marine Corps The scene also establishes the
measured pace that Kubrick maintains throughout 

Booming, gloriously profane, and imaginative, Sgt. Hartman is a force
of nature that will mold these boys into killing machines At that
point, most war films would turn to the young men, sketch out their
pasts and then show their transformation into a cohesive unit These
kids are names and archetypes who will react differently to Hartman's
approach

Kubrick makes Ermey such a mesmerizing force that one key early element
is easy to overlook From the first moment we see him in the barber's
chair, before we even know his name, it is abundantly clear that
Leonard is mad He has that familiar vacant, smiling, dull-eyed
expression of evil that Kubrick also uses to define Little Alex in "A
Clockwork Orange" and Jack Torrance in "The Shining." The other
characters do not see it, and so the inevitable confrontation between
Hartman and Leonard is all the more horrifying

The middle section of the film establishes Joker's role as a war
reporter, working behind the lines during the Tet Offensive of 1968,
and his desire for some "trigger time" with his old pals from basic
That's where Kubrick shapes his view of the Vietnam war 

In the third part, a new sociopath named Animal Mother (Adam Baldwin)
is introduced, and the focus shifts to a patrol searching through the
bombed out city of Hue to root out a sniper That is where the
filmmakers comment most pointedly on the war itself They see it as a
dead-end that serve no purpose That's certainly a valid artistic
interpretation of history Many other films have made the same points,
often more eloquently But Kubrick isn't interested in eloquence,
either

The three sections are unmistakably separated from each other The
first stands on its own though key elements are stated again at the
end

For the viewer expecting a "traditional" war film, the result is
disconcerting, frustrating, and somehow unfinished Most Kubrick fans
will admit that "Paths of Glory" and "Dr. Strangelove" are more
enjoyable, but even if their man is not in top form, "Full Metal
Jacket" is challenging, and repeated viewings reveal more details and
connections
<|_=00=_|>
"With flowers and my love both never to come back ... It's not easy
facing up when your whole world is black". So sings the man whose
throbbing song marks the film's end, merciless lyrics to describe
thematically a story that is as wrenching as it is mesmerizing.

There are no villains in this film, only heroic victims. The villains
are all off-screen, comfy behind mahogany desks, or dressed for success
and giving shrill speeches about how maintaining peace requires war.
Strange logic.

First it's boot camp, a dreary prospect at best, for an ordinary group
of young American men. Here, a sadistic drill Sargent, in colorful
language, barks out orders and insults straight from Hades. It's do or
die, almost literally, for our greenhorns. It's an ordeal of blackness
from which some may never recover. Still, the grunts learn a valuable
lesson; namely, that life is mostly physical, not mental. It's a lesson
some ivory tower college professors never learn.

But then it's on to an even blacker black ... Vietnam. Combat scenes
are rendered believable by effective visuals and terrific sound
effects: pounding percussion, amplified sounds of equipment and
footsteps across explosive debris, and an always present,
ever-so-subtle ... echo. Potent and torturous, these scenes convey a
Zen-like immediacy, an impending sense of doom. And then at film's end,
those lyrics ...

Composed of two, barely overlapping, parts, the script's structure is a
bit unorthodox. But the film works, owing to an intensity that never
lets up. R. Lee Ermey is of course terrific as the harsh drillmaster.
Casting of the young lions is okay, though a tad weak in one or two
cases. Insertion of pop songs of the era works well, to amplify the
cultural disconnect between a war-torn Vietnam and an indifferent
America.

Like reading a history book, watching an occasional war movie is good
for the soul. It puts one's problems in perspective. For that reason,
this particular war movie is better than most. It's riveting, intense.
And the sense of impending blackness hovers ever present over the
story's heroic victims, like the sword of Damocles.
