

The Right Stuff is terrific: exciting, complex, funny, crammed with
memorable scenes, unforgettable lines, and wonderful actors (many of whom
went on to become big stars).

A classic shot shows a test pilot on horseback coming over a ridge
stopping
to look at a new rocket-plane, steadying his nervous horse as it edges
past
the flames coming out the back. The test pilot is the twentieth century's
cowboy: tough, laconic, independent, fearless.

The Right Stuff tells two parallel stories: the (often fatal) exploits of
the early test pilots and Mercury astronauts, with intersecting
storylines.
The movie never takes itself too seriously. Witness general crawling on
the
floor to plug in the projector, the sounds of the locusts when the press
surrounds the astronauts (Yeager called them locusts initially), the
Halleluiah Chorus during the press conference, the enema scene, Sheppard
needing to take a leak in the suit, Johnson trying to deal with a
housewife.
Yet underneath all the fun that is poked at the astronauts we see respect
for real men doing a scary, important job.

This film has all the excitement of Top Gun, but is longer, better, just
as
high-tech exciting, and much funnier. (A washroom scene rivals Meg Ryan's
famous restaurant scene...the audience laughed so hard we all missed
Cooper's next line!).

And some wonderful lines: Cooper's response to "Who's the best pilot you
ever saw?", "O.K. You can be Gus", "The Military owes me", "Read'em and
weep", "Hey Ridley, you got any Beemans?", "I go to church too.",
"Everything is A-OK", "Our Germans are better than their Germans", "What
are
you two pudknockers going to have?", and, said with regret and frustration
"test pilots!"

To those who have seen it, here's a challenge that will enable you to
appreciate the excellent writing, the workmanship and planning that went
into the script. View the movie again and see how many times the
screenwriter and director took the trouble to set up a later event or
comment with an earlier reference. Here are three examples: Cooper
dropping
a tiny toy space capsule into Grissum's drink (foreshadowing), Copper
reading Life magazine before the publisher enters the movie (to make sure
we
viewers know that Life magazine exits), Yeager bumping his elbow on a limb
of a cactus tree as he walks into Pancho's at the beginning of the movie
(I
never noticed this the first few times I watched the movie, but surely
this
tiny action was deliberate.) I count a dozen more examples. Send me ones
you
find.

If you haven't seen The Right Stuff, I strongly recommend you rent the
DVD.
-RS

<|_=00=_|>

 I have to correct "mrbsico" for not paying attention to the very things he
comments on.
 It's not that he turned down the opportunity to apply to be an astronaut,
it's that Chuck Yeager wasn't allowed to apply. When seraching for
astronauts Harry Shearer's character praises Yeager as the ace of aces, but
goes on to say that he "doesn't fit the profile" of the type of man
Washington is looking for because he never went to college. This was a true
pre-requisite which the Mercury Program had.
 Also, the scene at the end where Yeager crashes his NF-104 doesn't bring
him down, it glorifies him. Gordo Cooper even comments that he gets on the
cover of magazines, gets a free car, free lunches all across America, a free
home with all the furnishings and loads of money and "I ain't even been up
there yet". He's famous because he's an astronaut alone - not because of
anything he's done.
 Kaufman cuts back and forth between the scene where Cooper is with Yeager's
flight in the desert for reason. Yeager's almost alone with no media around,
out in the desert attempting a record which won't put him on Life Magazine's
cover. He's trying to set a record because that's what he's made of. He has
The Right Stuff; which is something Cooper reazlies as we cut back to the
reception and Gordo is asked by the reporters who the best pilot he ever saw
was.
 Yeager may have crashed his plane in his last flight of the movie, but he
emerges as a fearless man ever up for the challenge. And that he's not doing
any of it for fame or fortune (although in real life the real Yeager cashed
in with TV ads and a best-selling autobiography after both the book and the
movie were released!!).
 That's what's rare about this movie for Hollywood to have made. Films are
almost never about measuring a man's inner desires, but rather his being
able to win the fight at the end. Yeager in contrast doesn't win the flight
record at the film's end, but he is still the hero. This is because he dares
to do what we never would. And even after his plane crashes he walks out of
the gulf of fire and smoke with a severely burned face as if he will be
back; you can't keep him down.
 This is why as the rescuer driving the ambulance as he sees Yeager's figure
walking out of the fire in the distance asks, "Is that a man?", Jack Ridley
replies, "You're damn right it is!". Ridley isn't merely remarking that it's
a man over there, he is commenting that in our world Yeager is one of the
few true "men".
 This film is not about the space program. That is merely a pretext to
explore the type of men who have what it takes to volunteer for dangerous
missions - even in times of peace. It's about men who have The Right Stuff -
and of all those men whom we see in the movie it is Yeager who shines about
all others.
<|_=00=_|>

'The Right Stuff' is one of the most glorious adventure films ever made, a
story of incredible heroism, poignant romance, gripping drama, and broad
humor...and amazingly, it has actually happened within our
lifetimes!

This is a tale of test pilots, 'pushing the envelope', proving the sound
barrier couldn't constrain mankind's reach for space. Leading the way is
plain-speaking Chuck Yeager (portrayed by Sam Shepard with Gary Cooper-like
charm), a Beeman's gum-chewing cowboy with a passion for his feisty wife
(the beautiful Barbara Hershey), and hot planes. Not even a broken rib could
hold him back when an opportunity to fly the X-1 was offered. His
record-breaking flight could fill a movie by itself...and this is just the
BEGINNING of the story!

Jumping ahead a few years, Yeager is joined by a new breed of test pilots,
whose total love of flight challenges their relationships, and is the true
measure of how they define themselves. Among them are 'Gordo' Cooper (Dennis
Quaid), a hot dog jet jockey with an unhappy wife (Pamela Reed, giving an
exceptional performance); and Gus Grissom (Fred Ward, in his breakthrough
role), coarse and direct, and anxious for his shot at the fastest
jets.

The entire world changes when the Russians launch Sputnik, in 1957. As the
American space program struggles to 'catch up', the government realizes that
American men will have to go into space, and President Eisenhower wants
'educated' test pilots to fill this role. Yeager is out (he never completed
college), but Cooper and Grissom, and many others, compete for spots in the
New Frontier.

These pilots, from all services, are weeded down to seven men, dubbed
'Astronauts', and the Mercury Space Program is born! Along with Cooper and
Grissom, the story focuses on Navy pilot Alan Shepard (Scott Glenn), laconic
and prone to ethnic humor; and Marine John Glenn (perfectly cast Ed Harris),
a 'boy scout' of unimpeachable morals, who loyally supports an impaired wife
(sensitively portrayed by Mary Jo Deschanel). Working under the glare of the
world press, the seven gradually come to respect one another, and embark on
an epic adventure, full of triumph and tragedy!

Meanwhile, Chuck Yeager, snubbed by NASA, continues to test new generations
of jets, pushing the 'envelope', until, in a climactic scene, he achieves
the threshold of space, himself. The flight is a near disaster, resulting in
a horrendous crash, but the image of the burned but undefeated pilot,
walking proudly away from the wreckage, is an unforgettable image of
courage, and truly defines 'The Right Stuff'!

This is a REMARKABLE film in every way, and is director Philip Kaufman's
masterpiece. Lushly scored by Tom Conti (who won an Oscar for the
Tchaikovsky-inspired music), the film soars, both on earth and in
space!

If you believe the Age of Heroes is past, watch 'The Right Stuff', and you
might change your mind! This is a film to treasure! 


<|_=00=_|>
Outstanding film from 1983 that was honored with four Academy Awards
and is often called the second-best film of the 1980s behind only
Scorsese's "Raging Bull". The movie is a 190-plus minute extravaganza
which honors the U.S. Mercury 7 Astronauts. The all-star cast includes
Sam Shepard (as Chuck Yeager in an Oscar-nominated role of a lifetime),
Ed Harris (John Glenn), Scott Glenn (Alan Shepard), Fred Ward (Gus
Grissom), Lance Henriksen (Walter Schirra), Dennis Quaid (Gordon
Cooper), and Donald Moffat (Lyndon Baines Johnson). The film is solid
in so many respects. It is meticulous and tries to go for drama and
humor and succeeds in everything it wants to do. Veronica Cartwright,
Barbara Hershey, Pamela Reed, Kathy Baker, and Mary Jo Deschanel are
also along for the ride as several of the wives who attempt to keep
their heads about them while they fear that their husbands are losing
theirs. "The Right Stuff" is a historical lesson told in a way that is
so clever and convincing that few will find fault with anything when it
comes to the story-telling. Writer-director Philip Kaufman easily does
the best work of his career with this masterpiece. Look for Cincinnati
Bengal Hall-of-Famer Anthony Munoz in a cameo appearance. Arguably the
best film of the 1980s and should have been the Best Picture Oscar
winner over "Terms of Endearment" in 1983. 5 stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>

I always loved anything connected to science fact and science fiction
and this movie is no exception.

I already owned the Laserdisc version of it, but the DVD is even
better.

I love this movie, but I must consider the interest of the public and I
honestly cannot say that this is one for the vast public.

The theme alone is a difficult one and deals with the history of the
Space Age, as it began from an American perspective, and by telling the
story of the astronauts involved in the Mercury project.

Being very long, it might not fit the modern view of a quick-fix movie.
This one has to be watched as if your were watching "JFK" or
"Gettysburg", therefore with the outmost attention.

It has spectacular recreations of the actual launches, combined with
more private moments, involving the astronauts, their loved ones and
those who trained them.

This is not Science Fiction and it is not an Adventure movie, this is
truly a history lesson about how the Space Race got started, how, with
whom and why.

It is a very thoroughly researched movie, although it is not to be
confused with a documentary. It is an intelligent movie, with good
dialogues, good character recreations, with humor and moments of
sadness and tragedy. The heroism of the first astronauts is not
represented by their fabulous deeds, but rather by the sacrifices they
had to make, in order to be successful.

If you can bare to sit in front of your TV for 3 hours and 15 minutes
without unnecessary interruptions, then this documentation may make it
clear why men and women risk so much in going "where no one has gone
before".

But, as I stated before, this is not an easy going movie and is
reserved for all those who want to enjoy a good movie in peace.

I would recommend its showing in every school of the United States, and
why not, also throughout the world. Many children would then really
appreciate what the conquest of space is all about.

<|_=00=_|>
An interesting insight into the United States' space program, beginning
with the exploits of fighter pilot Chuck Yeager (Sam Shephard) and
concluding with the dramatic flights of the first astronauts.

Those astronauts - the Mercury 7 pilots - are a varied group of
aviators and they are all pretty interesting guys. John Glenn (Ed
Harris) gets favorable treatment in here among the group. Gordon Cooper
might be the wildest with the cocky and humorous Dennis Quaid playing
him. Overall, it's a good cast including not just the fliers but their
wives. I also enjoyed Scott Glenn as Alan Shepard and Barbara Hershey
as Yeager's wife.

Yeager's feats were perhaps the most interesting and they set a fast
tone to this 3-hour film as we witness him breaking several
sound-barrier records prior to the formation of the astronaut team.
Then we are treated to a long-but-interesting segment of how those
first astronauts were trained.

The only unnecessary and ludicrous parts of this film were the ones on
Lyndon Johnson, where they made him into a total fool. It was as if the
screen writers had a personal vendetta against him, to make him look
almost like a cartoon figure. And the bit with the Australian
Aborigines smacks too much of Hollywood's love affair with tribal
religions. I sincerely doubt some sparks from a fire on earth could be
seen miles and miles above in space.

At any rate, this was an informative look at a period in our history
than came-and-went way too fast. Sad to say, most people know very
little about those first astronauts, who were true heroes. At least
this film gives them their due, as well as to Yeager, who deserved this
tribute, too
<|_=00=_|>
The Right Stuff takes place during the Cold War when America was trying
its hardest in technological advancements to beat the Russians. The
movie first starts out with Chuck Yeager(Sam Shepard) attempting to
break the sound barrier. The movie continues with other story lines as
professional pilots desperately try to get into the NASA space program,
become the first Americans into space, and try to break some kind of
record that will beat what the Russians had. The other real life people
that this movie follows are Alan Shepard(Scott Glenn), Gordon
Cooper(Dennis Quaid), John Glenn(Ed Harris), Gus Grissom(Fred Ward),
and of course, their families.

The running time is very long at 3 hours plus, but it goes by very
quickly. The first couple of hours go by as if they were 25 minutes,
and the last hour is thrilling, as well as inspiring. There are several
plot elements that really make this movie phenomenal. There is plenty
of excitement as you see what the skilled pilots try to accomplish,
there is plenty of humor, the cast is nearly perfect, and the score
adds plenty of effect to the film. The result is a phenomenal, nearly
perfect film, being one of the best films of the 1980's.

The plot is very interesting, as you see the lives of the pilots, the
status of the American Government desperately trying to overcome the
Russians with advanced technology, and the difficulties in trying to
accomplish these difficulties. This is well worth your time, and it is
a great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
An incredibly under-rated director, Philip Kaufman adapted Tom Wolfe's
best-selling tale of the Mercury astronauts in 1983 and, since that
time, he has been unable to top himself (he came very very close with
Unbearable... and Quills, but The Right Stuff is very much out of their
league).

Why? The Right Stuff is a perfect blend of intelligence and wit and
action. At just three hours long, it occasionally feels too short. The
audience comes to know the characters through terrific performances by
Ed Harris, Dennis Quaid, Sam Shepard, and Fred Willard and Kaufman's
deft pen (which, no doubt, Wolfe's novel helped guide). We are sad when
the story ends; we want more. It's rare that a movie creates such an
inviting and intriguing world that, after three hours, we still do not
want to leave.

This movie is absolutely one of a kind. Its critical patriotism shows
that films can show their love of country without wandering into
nationalistic or jingoistic propaganda. It is very rare that a film
this indebted to America and American history can be so ambivalent.

That, in my mind, is a positive rather than a negative. The filmmaker
and actors understand that the Space Race was not a simple process;
they understand that heroes have a dark side.

They all refuse to let the heroism cover the unsavory aspects of a
person's life and, simultaneously, they do not let those aspects darken
their contribution to mankind.

The Right Stuff is really an amazing filmic experience. It's an expert
adaptation, an expert recreation of the early US Space Program, and an
expert entertainment. Apollo 13 wanted so very much to be the Right
Stuff. It's not; nothing will ever beat the Right Stuff.
<|_=00=_|>

Following the breaking of the sound barrier by pilot Chuck Yeager, the next
barrier was space.  With the Russians and America in a race to see who can
get there first and be highest, quickest and longest in space, a group of
pilots are selected to become the first men in space for
America.

I have had this film for many years and have only seen it twice now – I
always get put off by having to find three + hours free to watch it! 
However I am a fool as whenever I do watch it the time flies by easily. 
Such is the appeal of the film that everything works and only the odd scene
at the end drags a little.  The story skips through the space programme
focusing as much on the flights as it does on the men and their families. 
It also manages to be very light hearted and good humoured, which succeeds
in making it easy and fun to watch.  The history being told may not be well
known by all (I'm too young to remember and am also in the UK), but it is
well told and becomes more a story of the men whose courage made it happen
rather than a history lesson.

Given that so much hinges on the men being interesting and likeable
characters it was important to have a good cast, and the ensemble assembled
here really put in good work to bring the names to life (although how close
to their real personalities they are I cannot say).  Taking one as an
example, Fred Ward manages to be funny but also has to convey the more
difficult side as he is forced to live with blame for the outcome of his
mission.  Shepard represents the `unsung' pilots left behind in the sky who
put the space programme in motion in the first place, and he does it well
with a real sense that he has a lot of men behind him.  Glenn, Harris, Quaid
Henriksen, Frank and Paulin all do sterling work to varying degrees. 
However even minor roles are played by faces who do well – Hershey is good
and carries the role of `the women behind the men' really well.  Moffat is
funny as Lyndon Johnson and Goldblum and Shearer are hilarious with their
running jokes.

The film is very flag waving – but the good humour stopped that aspect of it
sticking in my throat. It is a very enjoyable and accomplished film.  Not
only does it manage to inform and entertain but it also paints a very good
picture of the men who started and ran the space programme and the effect
the risks had on them and their families.  All this and it still makes me
laugh out loud!  Three hours simply flies by.
<|_=00=_|>

`The Right Stuff' is the story of the original Mercury 7 astronauts and
their journey through the fledgling NASA program and eventually into space. 
It is well-written and well-acted, featuring a veritable `Who's Who' of then
slightly unknown actors such as Ed Harris, Dennis Quaid, Sam Shepard, Scott
Glenn and Lance Henriksen.  While it had an over three hour running time,
and I actually had to get up to turn over the DVD because of its length, the
pacing was such that I never once considered that any particular scene
should have been shortened.  One thing I particularly enjoyed about the film
was the introduction of Chuck Yeager (Shepard) and his contribution to
history by breaking the sound barrier, and then the periodic simultaneous
comparison of the accomplishments of the astronauts and the Air Force and
civilian test pilots, as well as exhibiting their eventual mutual
respect.

If I had to point out any kind of glaring fault, it would have to be that
they focused on some astronauts more than others – obviously concentrating
heavily on the bigger names, and glossing over the `lesser-known' ones.  An
example would be Walter Schirra (Henriksen) – his name is mentioned a couple
of times, and he probably had a tenth of the screen time of the others. 
Plainly, with an already three hour running time not everyone could have
equal time, so this is certainly a mild criticism.  `The Right Stuff' isn't
profound or exceptional, but it is certainly a good and interesting
film.

--Shelly

