

They Live. Where to begin? Yes, it is goofy. Yes the production value is
very low. Yes the action is standard. The guns never empty. The fights are
poorly choreographed at times. But that, my friends, is not the
point.

This film was an attack on the Regan era. An attack on the rampant
consumerism of the 80's. But open your mind. Saying that it's just an attack
on the 80's is merely shutting your eyes. Telling yourself that things have
gotten better. Sorry to disapoint you, but they haven't.

Rowdy Roddy Piper puts on some sunglasses. The world changes. Billboards now
say Obey or Sleep. Or Marry and Reproduce. Magazines no longer have articles
or advertisements. They are blank white pages with said phrases upon them.
Money now are white pieces of paper that say This is Your God. Boy oh boy
are they right.

So watch They Live. Grab some beer and score some corn. Enjoy the cheese.
Enjoy the great one-liners. But also pay attention to the lines that sum up
the truth. Remember the point of the film. Then go outside. Re-enter the
corporate world outside your door. 

You won't need special glasses to see the truth.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say something here. This movie is actually very good. It was
a mixture of sci-fi and political and sociological imagery. I thought
the fact that the turncoat working with the aliens that were
brainwashing the public was employed in the media was a brilliant way
of showing how the media moguls consider us to be sheeple and use their
power to persuade any way they see fit. This movie was actually quite
well down, considering it did not have a blockbuster budget.

I would rather watch this than waste my time on the Matrix, which I
think is a complete waste of time. The main plot of the movie was Nada
discovering a worldwide conspiracy that used subliminal messages to
"herd the sheep". Is this not a metaphor of what we see ever day? The
media, commercials, billboards, etc, use subliminal messaging to
encourage the actions of the public at large.

John Carpenter did a wonderful job. Roddy Piper's acting abilities were
definitely above average, which is a lot more that I will ever to be
able to say about anything Keanu Reeves has ever done. As usual, Keith
David turned in a great performance. The reason this a cult classic is
because it is a very good movie that requires the watcher to think.
<|_=00=_|>
WARNING: The author of this review loves challenging films.

They Live is based on a pulp sci-fi story about aliens who live among
us and manipulate us through subliminal advertising, other mind control
techniques, and sometimes, guns and bulldozers. Like most Carpenter
films, its artistic, fun, intelligent and does not take itself too
seriously.

As usual, Carpenter's casting is brilliant. Roddy Piper plays the
good-hearted but not very bright construction worker who is both the
hero and protagonist of the film. Keith David, whose character is just
a little bit brighter, is his unwilling sidekick. Piper's character
sees some strange goings-on in a local church, hears some weird
paranoid ramblings from a street preacher, and becomes especially
curious when the church is raided by 30-40 police officers and the
vagrant camp where he lives is bulldozed one night. Soon after, he
finds a pair of sunglasses in the now abandoned church, that literally
changes his view of the world around him. The fight scene between David
and Piper, while straight out of TV wrestling, is one of the most
jarring and bizarre scenes in the movie - it goes on for a very long
time - which nicely and subtly points out its significance in moving
the plot forward. When Piper finally gets the sunglasses on David's
face, he is vindicated and the last shred of doubt about his sanity
disappears. From that point forward, they are both committed to saving
the world from the alien menace. Further description of the plot would
approach a spoiler so I won't go any further. 

Both of the main characters succeed in dominating the screen, to the
point that it is hard to even notice the contributions of the rest of
the cast. Both actors are surprisingly good, though understandably
typecast (these are, after all, two very big guys) but - who the hell
is Keith David? look him up here on IMDb.com and I'm sure you'll be as
surprised at I was. He's quite an accomplished character actor. 

Raymond St Jacques, for all of his five or so minutes of screen time,
makes a lasting impression, and Meg Foster is perfect for her
ambiguity. Overall, the character development in this film is quite
excellent despite the difficulty of pulling it off in a decidedly B
sci-fi genre.

From an artistic and technical point of view, the film must be judged
against Carpenter's other works. Carpenter has practically created his
own film genre, and each of his films bears his mark very clearly.
Carpenter's camera work is remarkable for its unremarkableness. He
chooses not to use gimmicks and allows his cameras to tell the story
without embellishing it. Like his version of The Thing, this technique
fits very well in this film, as it helps the viewer suspend disbelief
in what would otherwise seem as ludicrous as an episode of the X-Files. 

Carpenter often makes his own soundtracks. Of these, the soundtrack for
this film is very good, but terribly repetitive and, after a while, a
bit grating. Nevertheless, its goofy redundancy helps to lend a comic
edge to the film. 

Is there a point?

I would argue that there is. Carpenter is always more interested in fun
than poignancy, but he doesn't shy away from recognizing the value of
the material he brings to the screen. Of all of his films, They Live is
one of the most overtly political - as it carries some very clever
messages about capitalism, conformity, poverty and the horror that
everyday life can be for some people. This is all done, however, with a
good sense of humor and an almost teenage sense of rebelliousness, all
very typically Carpenter. 

A great film for B-movie fans, intelligent sci-fi fans and those who
enjoy film as an art form.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is not so much about aliens who are hiding among us, but
instead it taps into the deeply submerged suspicion held by most of us
that we are being manipulated and taken advantage of by the elite of
American society, by our leaders, by the rich, etc. Also, we sometimes
feel that we are manipulated and programmed (in a subtle way) to
respect hierarchical authority ( e.g., the "OBEY" subliminal command
from the movie). 

Some leftist thinkers might say that human societies are in a way being
parasitized by the elite of their societies, and that the elite operate
as a parasitic sub-society, living off of the lower classes. America
might be said to be operated more in such a fashion (i.e., parasitized
by the elite) than are the countries of western Europe. Obvious
examples of this parasitic behavior are the "golden handshakes" and
backscratching exchanged between corporate CEO's and the Boards of
Directors of their companies. But it is far more pervasive than just
that.

_They_Live_ uses the invisible alien elite as a proxy for our
suspicions about how we are all being exploited by the elite of our
real-life society, and how these elite are subtly programming us to
accept this exploitation.

So, the major theme of the movie is not, as another poster correctly
pointed out, about being manipulated to be good little consumers in a
crassly commercial world. No, it is far more profound than that.
Instead, it is more about how the working class Americans in _They
Live_ are being exploited by the elite upper crust, who, in the movie,
happen to be aliens, but who, in the real world, are a subsociety that
use their collective power to exploit the rest of us.

Unfortunately, this movie sometimes has an unintentionally comic air to
it. Still, the exploration of that theme is so rare in pop culture, and
that theme is so profound, and reaches so far into what American
society is, was, and is becoming, that this movie is a Must-See for
anyone with an interest in politics and sociology.
<|_=00=_|>
An unemployed man in the 80s (of the WWF variety, complete with
Mel-mullet) shows up in the big city looking for work, American Dream
intact. He finds a "Hooverville"-like (perhaps Reaganville!) community
that takes him in and finds work in construction. He notices that
several of the providers are ostensibly up to no good and hold meetings
at the local church. He stumbles upon a secret door and finds a stash
of...80s sunglasses! After the community is destroyed by the police,
our baffled working-class hero pops on a pair of the glasses, which
allows him see the world as it really is, and wake up out of his
sleeeepy false consciousness! Was Carpenter reading up on his Marx?
Maybe! Either way, this sci-fi/action flick is fantastic, cheesy, and
clever. "They Live" was obviously influenced by the excess of the 80s,
but doesn't come across as dated and actually seems very relevant to
the current cultural climate in the US. There are various flaws
(namely, the creepy-in-a-bad-way Meg Foster and her character), but
overall this is an excellent, amusing, and entertaining film. My
Rating: 9.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
John Nada (Roddy Piper) comes to L.A. to search for a Job. On the same
working place, when he finds a job. John meets Frank (Keith David),
Frank asks John to come along. Where Frank stays with poor people and a
place to rest. Once he gets there, John watches television and sees
some subliminal reporting by a scientist. The scientist is trying to
get an important message on television by using frequency. John knows,
there is something unusual going on at a house nearby. After a small
band of cops are beating these poor people trying to find, where does
that frequency is coming from. The next day, John goes to the house
nearby and he finds one thing an open box. That box was hidden in the
wall and when John open that box. He finds nothing but sunglasses. When
he takes one of them, John sees a whole different world. A Bizarre look
of L.A. in black & white with images full of subliminal advertising
messages are visible though special glasses. Then he notice the only
purpose of these glasses are the civilians are mixed with aliens
population amongst them! 

Directed by John Carpenter (Assault on Precient 13, Ghosts of Mars, The
Thing-1982) made a extremely well made film mixed with action/sci-fi
elements and a refreshing scene of humor. Piper is good here, he has
some memorable scenes with some funny dialogue. The film's best line
from Piper is "I come here to chew bubble gum and kick ass but i'm all
out of bubble gum". There is also an unforgettable scene with Piper and
David, when Piper asks David to put the glasses on. When David refuses
to put them on. Piper and David get into a very funny fistfight scene
that turned into a classic scene. The film might have a few flaws, only
depending a matter of personal taste. The Alien Make-Up effects are
extremely awful but intentionally funny. The film ends with a great
pay-off. The film is hilarious at times and always fun to watch. Since
this film like most Carpenter's works become a Cult Classic.

DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.35:1) transfer and an
good-Dolby Surround 2.0 Sound. Too Bad, Universal didn't release a
Special Edition of this landmark independent film. The DVD from Europe,
Carpenter and Piper recorded an running commentary track for this film
in a two disc special edition. When in the U.S. get out Special Edition
? DVD doesn't have no features. This is a amusing satiric sci-fi
adventure. Underrated to be sure, the film ages well despite awful
alien make-up. Based on a Short Story by Ray Faraday Nelson titled
"Three O'Clock in the Morning". Screenwriter "Frank Armitage" is
actually director Carpenter. Panavision. (****/*****).
<|_=00=_|>

  "They Live" is one of the most original and underrated sci-fi action
movies i've ever seen. Eventhough the acting isn't spectacular, and by the
end turns into a down right urban action movie, "They Live" is one of the
most entertaining ever.

  The plot is quite simple, Nada(Roddy Piper) a homeless drifter stumbles
upon a pair of sunglasses through which you can see the world for what it
really is, a communist type environment controlled by aliens, and then joins
up with his buddy Frank(Keith David) to stop them. In the middle of all this
there a lot of great one liners, a lot of harebrained action and one of the
longest, and best, fist fights ever filmed. 

  The way John Carpenter directs really makes the film work. Everything
seems downbeat and realistic. The acting of ex-pro wrestler Roddy Piper is
better than expected but not too spectacular and Keith David isn't at all
convincing. But none of that matters, the real reason to see this movie is
just to be entertained and on that level is suceeds.
My Rating is 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This film has a commentary as relevant today as in the 80s. Upper class
people are actually aliens corrupting America. And the only way to see
them is to wear special sunglasses that our hero, Nada, stumbles upon.
This film has some cool ideas: the way all magazines and signs have
subliminal messages, the paranoia, and the
B-movie-on-purpose-so-it-feels-like-a-B-movie feel. It also has some
really great cheesy one liners which I don't wish to spoil. Let it be
known though, by the end of the movie you might just see a little of
Ash from Evil Dead in Nada. The film also has a fight scene around the
middle that is particularly funny to watch because it keeps going
forever.

Definitely a fun flick to watch if you are light hearted and can enjoy
the B-movie vibe it gives off.
<|_=00=_|>
... And of course very well made, because it's from Carpenter from his
good ole days (actually I haven't seen his recent films, from the
nineties or so, so I cannot say how good his "days" are now; They might
be good also). The plot is bravely "stupid" (if you look the surface),
but also "secretly" intelligent and deep, just the same thing as in
very many scifi, horror, and even action movies: You have to look at
them with open eyes to get the messages. I think this movie is much
more interesting, and much more realistic and intellectual, than let's
say some french art movie (Farthenheit 951 or something). This is real
art. It's from this world, not from some artificial art movie
marshmallow fantasy-world. Of course it's very funny film also. You may
see the main actor (he's some pro-wrestler?) as some kind of a walking
joke. But actually he is perfect for this role. He is like some
mythological hero, just like Schwarzenegger or so. He is a symbol. The
movie is filled with really good jokes and one-liners that you'll never
forget. For example, when the main character comes to a bank, in his
intent to kill some "aliens", he shouts: "I'm here to chew bubblegum
and kick ass! And I'm all outta bubblegum..." And another comment from
him, after he has had a ten-minute long fight with somebody: "Ain't
love great!" This is a great cult movie. I'm sure there are many people
who watch this regularly, with or without friends, and remember all (at
least the good) lines. Perfect entertainment. Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember first seeing They Live when I was 10 and I totally fell in
love with this film. How could a ten year old not? There's wrestlers,
aliens and a plot to take over the world. My friends and I quoted this
film for weeks on end with the Bubble gum and kicking @$$ line being a
favourite among all. The only real complaint that I have about the film
is that the aliens when finally revealed are far too human. They
basically look like a skeleton with bug eyes. Not a whole lot of energy
seemed to go into their design. While They Live will never be
remembered as a film that redefined the way films were made, it still
to this day holds a place in my heart as one of the films that just
defines your youth. It is fun, action packed and has just enough cool
storyline to keep you interested from start to finish.
