

Wow.  What can one say?  Boorman went from Deliverance to this?  Okay, in
addition to being completely hilarious, this is also the most pretentious
movie ever made, (aside from The Matrix Reloaded).  Good thing Burstyn
sat
out for this turkey.  Please tell me that I didn't see James Earl Jones
in a
big locust suit.  Please tell me that I didn't see Oscar Winner Louise
Fletcher being groped by a matted Linda Blair stand in and moaning (I am
not
making this up) in such a way that would make Ron Jeremy take notice.
And
what in the name of all things good and holy is a "Synchronizer" and what
does it have to do with anything at all?  Why is Africa made of
fiber-glass?
Why is Richard Burton made of stone?  Oh, God.  They couldn't have made
this worse if they had scripted it so.  Oh, wait...they did.  Well, for
all
its faults at least it's not a desperate attempt by a major studio to
milk
whatever money they can out of a pre-existing hit by combining a-list
actors, and a controversial visualist director, with a hastily prepared
screenplay that shares little of the spirit and intelligence of its
predecessor, producing a boring, although often laughably pious
bastardization of something far, far greater.  Oh wait....it is.  If
you're
a fan of bad movies, you have reached Zen here.  If you're a fan of the
original Exorcist, run, just run and don't look back.  Run with your arms
flailing into the night as the preview audiences surely did in
1977.
<|_=00=_|>

Inside this terrible film is an excellent film screaming to get out.
There
are moments of real power and and frightening beauty, but they are
drowning
in sludge.  One wonders if this mixture is a result of conflict amongst
those making the film, or of Boorman simply not being able to keep his
grasp
of a vision.
<|_=00=_|>
Do I recommend seeing the Exorcist II? You bet I do! It's so
ridiculously bad, you're sure to enjoy yourself. You will laugh out
loud at the hypnotism scene. Your sides will hurt at the priest's
attempts to put out a fire with a crutch. And was Richard Burton
possessed by William Shatner for this movie? One of the best bad movies
ever. Someday they'll make a movie about this movie, I'm sure of it.
The director didn't like the original Exorcist! Who hires a director
for a sequel when he disliked the original? And this was the most
expensive movie produced by Warner Bros. at the time? Where did it all
go?
<|_=00=_|>
I liked this when it came out and I still do. The bad press on it began
immediately, and all the reviewers jumped on the bandwagon; only one of
the reviews seemed to correlate with what showed on the screen. I think
the time was wrong for mysticism, and maybe for religion: the sixties
had ended, and the mode of fantasy then in favor was space fantasy,
full of technical detail. A couple of decades later, the climate is
different: "Stigmata", which has a story not unlike that of "Exorcist
II," and looks and feels so much like it that it might almost be the
same film with different actors morphed in, didn't get good reviews but
wasn't laughed out of theatres either. 

Most of the people who like "Exorcist II" tend not to have liked
"Exorcist I" much, and vice versa. Blatty himself said in one interview
that it didn't work because the director was a Protestant, and in
another interview that it was because he wasn't a believer. To me the
second film shows more spiritual feeling than the first, but no
interest at all in the Church, and maybe in some minds that equates to
unreligiousness. 

The first "Exorcist" purported to be about possession, but most of its
imagery was of a young girl being raped: by her mother's party guests,
by doctors, by priests, by a crucifix. "Exorcist II" actually is about
possession, among other things, and culminates in the interesting idea
(excised after release but later restored on video and DVD) that people
who have been possessed and purged of evil can go forth to heal all the
others who are similarly afflicted. I happen to think that's an
inspiring idea for a story. 

But then I like mystical thrillers, and apparently most filmgoers
don't--or didn't then. The first "Exorcist" was not one; this is. The
images in the first film, when they don't involve repulsive bodily
detail, have no metaphysical resonance; they're relentlessly physical,
often sexual, and when the demon itself appears, it's in the form of
the actual, literal statue. By contrast the images in "Exorcist II"
have deliberate metaphysical implications. I doubt that they were
worked out thoroughly; it's more as if Boorman were playing with them,
in the same way he lets the light play through the stylized sets and
behind the actors. The scenes of possession capture the sense of
historical accounts of the phenomenon more than those in the first
film, which is too much distracted by physical threat and sexual
aberration.

Like "Exorcist II" or no, take it seriously or no, I was and am puzzled
why more people were unable to enjoy its appeal to the eye and the ear
(the music was pretty too), let alone to the imagination. I think
perhaps they couldn't allow themselves to enjoy it: that they had to
deride it and be seen to deride it because what it said, or the way in
which it was said, was something that they had just learned to reject
or that contradicted something they had just learned to believe. 

It must be admitted that the film is unsatisfactory dramatically. The
fantastic incidents of the first film, besides being reduced to the
most prosaic physical terms, were fitted within a sequence of
conventional, punchy, easily playable scenes; one cared about Ellen
Burstyn's problems in a movieish way, and through her Linda Blair's. In
the sequel Blair doesn't have the scenes to play, and her inexperience
as an actress keeps one from feeling involved with her; Burton is
better, but his dialogue doesn't communicate the spiritual dilemma he's
undergoing. The excitements of the narrative tend rather to distract
from this also. But I found them fun in their own right, and the film
as well, apart from the occasional gratuitous shock for shock's sake:
fun for the mind and the fancy.
<|_=00=_|>

Some people say this movie is horrible, though I actually found it
quite entertaining. I think the problem is the high expectations. The
expectations for the movie were so great that there was just no way
that it could be achieved. People habitually compare Exorcist II to the
original exorcist movie, but as it's own movie, it is actually better
than most horrors out there.

The scientific part was actually quite interesting to me, and the
metaphor was excellent foreshadowing. Linda Blair has grown since the
first exorcist, and was very good as an actress.

While not as scary as the original, this movie was filled with mystery
and suspense. I recommend this movie to most fans.

7/10 ~*StaRz*~

<|_=00=_|>
I don't think anyone knew what hit them when The Exorcist was released
in the theaters in 1973. Still to this day it remains one of the most
terrifying movies of all time and is also incredibly popular. But when
it was released, I'm sure a lot of people were a little curious what
would happen to Chris and Regan after the exorcism and what really did
happen to Father Merrin in that bedroom. However some questions are
better left unanswered because we got a lot of the answers in Exorcist
2: The Herotic, one of the weirdest movies ever released. Also when I
say answers, I mean the garbled up, taken by aliens, experimented on,
thrown back up by the aliens onto Earth mixed in with some acid and put
onto the silver screen where it was booed out of theaters. It was
immediately removed and edited like crazy and still there was no way
the audience was going to ever give this film a chance.

Lamont is assigned by the Cardinal to investigate the death of Father
Merrin, who had been killed four years prior in the course of
exorcising the demon Pazuzu from Regan MacNeil. Regan, although now
seemingly normal and staying with guardian Sharon Spencer in New York,
continues to be monitored at a psychiatric institute by Dr. Gene
Tuskin. Regan claims she remembers nothing about her plight in
Washington, D.C., but Tuskin believes her memories are only buried or
repressed. Father Lamont visits the institute but his attempts to
question Regan about the circumstances of Father Merrin's death are
rebuffed by Dr. Tuskin. In an attempt to plumb her memories of the
exorcism, specifically the circumstances in which Merrin died, Dr.
Tuskin hypnotizes the girl, to whom she is linked by a "synchronizer",
a biofeedback device used by two people to synchronize their
brainwaves. We see what really happened to Merrin and the times that he
did face the demon prior to Regan.

Exorcist 2 certainly is a bad movie, however, I must give some credit
as it's a really interesting story. It's just made with the wrong
people and was directed by a man who hated the first film. I think
that's why it's a bad movie in some sense, it seemed to disrespect the
original. Also them repeating the demon's name "Pazuzu" was just
annoying and makes the demon sound less frightening. One of the things
I loved about the original is that the demon that possessed Regan was
kept a secret and left up to interpretation, she says she's the devil
but Kerris brings up the point where that's like saying you're Napoleon
Bonaparte. Then Merrin brought up that the demon is a liar, so we could
deny that she's the devil himself. But giving the name Pazuzu just
didn't work, well at least when you say it more than a dozen times.
James Earl Jones and the locust costume was just way too funny and the
funny thing is this movie was released the same year as Star Wars,
wouldn't it be hilarious if he got off the set and went to do the voice
work as Darth Vader in that costume?! Exorcist 2 is not the worst movie
of all time, it had tremendous potential with the story, but due to the
people that were working on it, it just was doomed to not hold a candle
to the original. I would say that this movie is a skip, if you want to
see this movie I recommend just taking acid and watching the first
film.

3/10
<|_=00=_|>
Poor John Boorman. He has all these great ideas, but whenever he tries
to put them to the screen, the result is so damn goofy you can't tell
whether you're watching a metaphysical drama or a slapstick comedy (for
more on this, see "Zardoz"). His "Exorcist" sequel is miles below the
original if you're looking for scares, but miles above it in terms of
actual storytelling, plot, character development, etc. It's full of
interesting ideas (the most interesting being the idea of pure goodness
as a magnet for evil), and Regan turns into an angelic heroine out to
stop the demon that once possessed her. But Boorman's wacko imagery,
while fascinating in places (the doves, the locusts), tends to get a
little TOO wacko, to the point where you can't help laughing (the
hypnosis machine, Richard Burton putting out a fire with a wooden
crutch, James Earl Jones spitting up a tomato).

If you can accept the fact that this is a completely different movie
than the original, you might find that it's a pretty good movie on its
own. Fantastic acting from Burton, a wonderful score, and some truly
gorgeous visuals, especially the climactic scene in the house, make it
one of the most underrated movies of all time. Even if some scenes
leave you falling over with laughter.
<|_=00=_|>

As the most of the commentators argued here, this film has some serious
flaws which make it very hard to comprehend. The story line is
inconsistent,
the acting disjointed and inadequate, not to mention that it represents a
new conceptual whole, essentially detached from its predecessor. Still,
it
has certain qualities - some original visual effects, photography, great
atmosphere (especially the scenes in Africa).

Also, put in a broader context, this film manages to capture a part of
intellectual ambiance of the late seventies, introducing ideas and
concepts
that were then considered pseudo-scientific and fanciful, only to become
legitimate subject matter of serious research, two decades later. The
collapse of humanity into one group mind (obvious references to de
Chardin's
notion of noosphere, drawn by father Lamont), the parallels between
insect
(locust) and human society regarding the spread
of destructive/violent behavior (check mass psychology, research on swarm
intelligence, the popularity of Steven Johnson's 'Emergence'
etc.)

So, for those of you expecting horror movie chills and thrills - you
should
skip this one. But for those of you interested in how quirky scientific
ideas inspire pop-culture pieces like 'The Heretic' - it is highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
OK so maybe this movie wasn't as good as the original, but honestly ask
yourself Is it possible to create a movie as good as The Exorcist
without recreating it? I think not. It had in my opinion a very good
plot. I thought it was very cool how they went into detail about the
past of Father Merrin while still focusing on what Regan is going
through, and I'm glad they didn't do the same monster. I really liked
how they set Father Lemont up to have to choose between the angelic
Regan and the sinful Regan,and speaking of Regan Linda Blair was
awesome. Going back to the end, I love how even though they looked the
same and were dressed the same she managed to make the costume work,
and make it look like an innocent sort of dress for one, yet at the
same time the evil Regan looked sexy in the same dress!All in all I
thought it was a darn good sequel and give it a 7/10!
<|_=00=_|>
"Exorcist II: The Heretic" was an A-list effort at every stage of
production and no expense was spared by the studio in making not just a
sequel but an event. Director John Boorman sought to create a vast
tapestry of science & mysticism so large it would not only expand "the
Exorcist" mythology but engulf it entirely. And despite some flaws, he
succeeded brilliantly with a superlative cast and state-of-the-art
special effects. This was one of the most ambitious and antiscipated
films of 1977 and on its' 30th anniversary feels as fresh and relevant
as the day of its' release, with themes of redemption, sacrifice, the
triumph of good over evil and the importance of spirituality in the
shared human consciousness. From the surreal African landscapes to the
dizzying heights of ultra-modern New York, from the present and into
the past you will journey with director Boorman as you unlock the
mystery behind demonic possession in order to glimpse the future and
what lies in store for humankind because of the exorcist.
