

Richard Chamberlain is David Burton, a tax lawyer living in Sydney,
Australia who is drawn into a murder trial defending five Aboriginal men
accused of murdering a fellow native in Peter Weir's apocalyptic 1977
thriller The Last Wave. Taking up where Picnic at Hanging Rock left off, the
film goes deeper into exploring the unknown and, in the process, shows the
gulf between two cultures who live side by side but lack understanding of
each others culture and traditions. Weir shows how white society considers
the native beliefs to be primitive superstitions and believes that since
they are living in the cities and have been "domesticated", their tribal
laws and culture no longer apply. 

From the start, Burton is drawn deeper and deeper into a strange web of
visions and symbols where the line between real time and "dream time"
evaporates. Water plays an important symbolic role in the film from the
opening sequence in which a sudden thunder and hailstorm interrupts a
peaceful school recess to Burton's discovery that his bathtub is overflowing
and water is pouring down his steps.  As violent and unusual weather
continue with episodes of black rain and mud falling from the sky, the
contrast between the facile scientific explanations of the phenomenon and
the intuitive understanding of the natives is made clear. Burton and his
wife Annie (Olivia Hamnet) study books about the Aborigines and learn about
the role of dreams in the tribal traditions. When he invites one of his
clients Chris Lee (David Gulpilil) to his home for dinner, he is disturbed
to find that he is the subject of an inquiry by Chris and his friend Charlie
(Nadjiwarra Amagula), an enigmatic Aborigine sorcerer involved with the
defendants. As Burton's investigation continues, his clients make his work
difficult by refusing to disclose the true events surrounding the murder.

After Chris starts to appear in his dreams, Burton is convinced that the
Aborigine was killed in a tribal ritual because "he saw too much", though
Chris refuses to acknowledge this in court. Burton, becoming more and more
troubled by a mystery he cannot unravel, says to his stepfather priest, "Why
didn't you tell me there were mysteries?" This is a legitimate question but,
according to the reverend, the Church answers all mysteries. Burton knows
now that he must discover the truth for himself and enters the tribal
underground caves. Though we do not know for certain what is real and what
is a dream, he comes face to face with his deepest fears in a haunting
climax that will leave you pondering its meaning into the wee hours of the
morning.

In this period of history in which native Hopi and Mayan prophecies predict
the "end of history" and the purification of man leading to the Fifth World,
The Last Wave, though 25 years old, is still timely. The Aborigines are
portrayed as a vibrant culture, not one completely subjugated by the white
man, yet I am troubled by the gnawing feeling that we are looking in but not
quite seeing. Weir has opened our eyes to the mystery that lies beyond our
consensual view of reality, but he perpetuates the doom-orientation that
sees possibility only in terms of fear, showing nature as a dark and
uncontrollable power without a hint of the spiritual beauty that lives on
both sides of time.

<|_=00=_|>

"Pretentious" seems a popular word amongst reviewers of this
thought-provoking film. HOW I wonder would "they" have made it, given the
opportunity? I am saved from further contemplation along these lines by
the
fact that Peter Weir made it.....and rather well, I hasten to
add.

A worthy successor to PICNIC AT HANGING ROCK in as much as the viewer is
left with his or her own interpretation of what they have just seen.
Events
occuring in an everyday environment but where the line between fantasy and
reality is so blurred, no lens can be found to bring up a sharp focus. It
is
a disturbing film which highlights and pays homage to the Aboriginal
dreamtime.

Chamberlain, in one of his best roles (made even better when you reminisce
about the celluloid embarrassments BELLS, KING SOLOMON'S MINES and NIGHT
OF
THE HUNTER) plays a hot-shot Australian attorney (complete with DR KILDARE
accent) who is called upon to defend a small group of Tribal Aborigines on
what appears to be an "open and shut case" murder charge. Initially he
finds
his clients anything but co-operative and seemingly disinterested by the
threat of the white man's legal system. Aspects of the case begin to
disturb
him and he is drawn into a world of ancient beliefs, symbolic half-lives,
a
very dimension that causes him to question his own comfortable existence
and
purpose.
Central to his dreams is one of the Defendants (brilliantly played by
Australian actor David Gulpilil) who appears existentially, perhaps a
disembodied spirit (?), holding out to him a sacred stone with ancient
cabalistic markings. He learns that the aboriginal man who was killed was
the victim of tribal law and that he must not, cannot, intervene.

The nightmare spills over into real-time...black rain, (we have already
witnessed hailstones crashing into a tiny outback school from cloudless
skies!) water prophetically leaking through his roof and cascading down
the
stairs. Visions of a great flood. He becomes obssessed with seeking the
truth, not only of what is going on around him, but who he is? The scene
where he confronts the Head Tribal Elder in his inner city squat is
totally
chilling. The viewer's own close and comfortable existence is challenged
and
put up for re-evaluation here.

Eventually and too late of course, he stumbles across the truth. But IS
it?
Has he been played for a fool?  Has the audience? Much was made at the
time
of the film's release, that the final scenes were a total cop-out. I even
thought as much myself at the opening night. Amazing what a almost a
quarter
of a century's personal development and insight can do for you. Like 2001:
A
SPACE ODYSSEY, this film needs to be seen at different stages of your life
to appreciate what Peter Weir knew and was trying to say in 1977.

<|_=00=_|>

I am a big fan of this film and may not be able to make a coherent case for
it, especially after reading some of the lukewarm comments some of the
viewers offer.  I agree that some of the themes could have been developed
better, and think that the ending smacks of a "Planet of the Apes" solution
to a mystery, yet this film is superb for its relentless atmosphere of
otherworldly possibility.

Perhaps I associate this film with the strangeness of the 1970's, when
Pyramid Power, UFO cults, and interest in occult phenomena occupied much of
popular culture.  Weir plays on the apocalyptic feelings of many in that
decade with his shots of mud falling from the skies and other phenomena. 
One of my all time favorite scenes is when Charlie the shaman visits the
urbane upper-middle class household of Richard Chamberlain et al. and asks
to see the family photo album.  I still get chills up my spine thinking of
that one.

An element that I enjoyed is the counter-intuitive idea that "there are no
tribal aborigines" living in Australian cities...they are all assimilated
into the European worldview.  This opinion, asserted by the most prominent
aborigine in the movie, is subverted bit by bit until the very structure of
European logic (as represented by the lawyer Chamberlain) is completely
undermined by the end of the movie.  Another amazing touch is the
juxtaposition of the aboriginal sacred cave complex and what the Europeans
are using it for, and Chamberlains descent into all that
darkness.

Don't try viewing this one on a commercial channel, it will make very little
sense broken up in pieces.  Rent it, suspend disbelief a little, and
enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Last Wave" is one of those movies that relies heavily on the mind.
The title refers to the Aboriginal doomsday theory: there will be one
last wave that wipes out everything.

David Burton (Richard Chamberlain) is a Sydney lawyer hired to defend
some Aborigines accused of murder. Around this time, there has been
unusually heavy rainfall in Australia. While defending the Aborigines,
David learns the last wave theory, and begins to wonder whether it's
just mythology.

The movie's last sequence is a metaphor for descending into the depths
of one's mind. Peter Weir created a perplexing, but thought-provoking,
movie. Aboriginal actor David Gulpilil (whom you may have seen in
"Walkabout", "Crocodile Dundee" and "Rabbit-Proof Fence") provides an
interesting supporting role as one of the defendants.

If you get a chance, watch the "making of" feature on the DVD. Peter
Weir explains some of the film's undertones, some of which relate to
Richard Chamberlain's background.
<|_=00=_|>
This supernatural Peter Weir thriller is truly one of the most haunting
and fascinating movies ever seen. Richard Chamberlain does his best
performance here as the Australian lawyer who defends a group of young
Aborigins accused of murder. As he gets closer on the case, he
discovers more about the main defendant, Chris, and not least about
himself. Chris tells him that he is a Mulkurul, which appear to be a
race of supernatural beings that lived in Australia thousands of years
ago. At the same time, extraordinary high rainfall seems to confirm the
Aboriginal prophecy of the coming of the LAST WAVE, the one that will
drown the world.

The dream sequences and the supernatural effects enhance this movie and
make it a spectacular experience. Olivia Hamnett and David Gulpilil are
solid in the supporting roles, as well as the chap with the difficult
name who plays Charlie, the old Aborigin who can turn into an owl. The
climax and the ending don't disappoint, in contrast to many other
supernatural thrillers who fall flat after a promising hour or so.
However, this can not be called a pure thriller. It is a drama as well
and talks about spirituality and spiritual identity in the modern
world. A masterful work by Peter Weir, the master of visually stunning
dramas.
<|_=00=_|>
Peter Weir's first international success, THE LAST WAVE is an effective
chiller with a fascinating back story based on Aboriginal myth. Richard
Chamberlain is quite good as a defense lawyer whose life becomes
increasingly unmoored from reality as he delves into a murder case
involving Aboriginal tribal rivalries. David Gulpilil plays one of the
suspects, who does his best to guide Chamberlain thru the realm of
'Dreamtime', an alternate reality/timeline central to native Australian
history and tribal custom. Heavy on atmosphere, deliberately ambiguous
in plotting, the film builds to an unsettling finale which is somewhat
diminished by poor effects, probably due to budgetary limitations.
Nevertheless an intriguing film whose overall impression of mystery and
dread lurking just below the surface of what we perceive as 'reality'
will stay with you.
<|_=00=_|>

I notice a lot of viewers are trying to 'understand' The Last Wave.
Sometimes...understanding is 'the booby prize'. In an age of in-your-face
special effects and fast action that negates thinkiing at all, this film
is
brilliant. Peter Weir is truly a remarkable film maker. He does something
so
few director's do anymore. He allows us to be involved with the story...to
think for ouselves. Same as with Picnic At Hanging Rock, which I have to
watch at least once a year, The Last Wave allows ME to think for
myself.
<|_=00=_|>
'The Last Wave' is far more than the sum of its parts. It's not merely
a disaster film, not simply an exploration into Australian Aboriginal
spirituality, and certainly more than a simple court drama.
Writer/Director Peter Weir manages to take these elements to the next
level to produce a truly effective and thought-provoking film with the
same eerie atmosphere he gave to 'Picnic At Hanging Rock' two years
earlier, that you will continue to remember years later.

When lawyer David Burton (Chamberlain) is called to defend Chris Lee
(Gulpilil) over the death of an Aboriginal for which he may or may not
be directly responsible, he finds himself not merely struggling to get
the truth from Lee, but making sense of what he hears when it does
come. As with the Aboriginal belief that there are two worlds - the
everyday and the Dreamtime, the truth exists on two completely
different levels, with ramifications more disastrous than Burton could
ever have imagined.

No doubt the reason why 'Picnic At Hanging Rock' is better remembered
is because of its enduring mystery. We are led along the same path but
forced to find answers for ourselves. In 'The Last Wave', we can piece
everything together by the end of the film. However, even with all the
information, we have to choose how much of it we want to believe,
because the film takes us beyond the borders of our normal realities.

On the production side, Weir uses his budget to great effect,
progressively building a sense of doom in everything from soft
lighting, to heavy rain, to good use of sound. The incidental music is
unobtrusive, never trying to be grandiose. Richard Chamberlain manages
to convey the bafflement the audience would doubtless feel as he tries
to unravel the mystery. David Gulpilil excellently portrays a man
trapped between two worlds, wanting to do the right thing, but afraid
because he already knows the ending.

Put all these things together, and you have a perfect example of why
David Weir is a familiar name in cinema thirty years on. Strongly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Peter Weir's early films were devoted to uniquely Australian themes
which he tried to make universal. Without a clear understanding of the
aboriginal culture some of the strange things which happen in this
film, fall truly into the horror genre a la Steven King,and that is
unfortunate. A wealthy Australian tax lawyer, born in South America,
with a uniquely American accent (played very well by Richard
Chamberlain), watches as his world slowly falls apart. 

His day of reckoning begins when he has to defend six aboriginal
defendants accused of killing another man after a disagreement in a
bar. Not normally responsible for court trails, Chamberlain fights
court, his own counsel (in Aussie trials there are usually two lawyers
involved in the defense) and even his family, Chamberlain's dreams, the
unnatural weather and the eventual discovery of tribal secrets the men
tried to protect...leads Chamberlain to his eventual downfall...

He is to the tribe, a bridge, a man from the East....(across the water
from Sydney who can and does live in the dream world these aboriginals
believe in...) Chamberlain's dreams came true as a child...and now he
sees time and time again....Sydney.. under water....

There is here a clash of cultures....As one lawyer mentions..we all but
obliterated the Aboriginal presence in the city...there are no tribes
left...and in the end...Weir sides with the native...earlier
culture...in a sense trying to revive it ...by filming an Aboriginal
myth come to life....and so at least in the dream
world....Chamberlain's life ends....when the last wave...a huge tidal
wave crashes against the shore....With that perhaps as a symbol.. the
culture of these few tribesmen and those who understand them...begins
and ends with the fate of Chamberlain...

I liked the film....but its not an easy one to understand...nor is it
Weir's best effort....Gallipoli, Witness and the Trueman Show are all
better and deal with the theme of mystic communication so much better..
But this film was an Australian Right of passage and a mourning of the
loss of Aboriginal culture...well acted and superbly written. 8 of 10
<|_=00=_|>

While to most people watching the movie, this will be of little interest,
but out of the many hundreds of movies dealing with magic and the occult in
one form or another, this one is probably the best in many
ways.

From The Golem to The Craft the subject seems to be of endless interest to
the movie industry.  The majority of movies which touch on it in any way do
so childishly (for example "Witchboard", a true piece of utter garbage in
every way) either taking the transcendental elements as cheap excuses for
cheesy special effects or cardboard cutout villians (cf "Warlock").  More
frequently the subject comes up in an hysterical religious context (in the
various Revelations-oriented movies, the antichrist is inevitably an
advocate of some kind of new-age style practice).  Rarely, a movie seems to
show at least some passing experience with magic as it is practiced in real
life, but the presentation of the occult in such movies can at best be
described as allegorical and not literal, or symbolic, or ... just not quite
right.

I watched this movie again after many years tonight.  I had seen it before
on VHS;  it is a dark, moody piece, and after watching it on DVD, I would
say if you have any intention to watch this movie, watch it on DVD, don't
watch it on VHS.

The darkness and moodiness are overpowering in VHS but in DVD the movie
takes on a very different tone.  I think Weir pushed the dark aspects
intentionally for style, but when the movie is converted to the lower color
medium of VHS this goes over the edge.  DVD brings the movie to life again
and I saw it differently.

Anyway, seeing it as if for the first time, I realized that the treatment of
magic is extremely good in this movie.  It's difficult to go into all the
reasons why, I don't care to take the time to do so.

For anybody who's curious, anyway, if you want to see what it is like in
real life, this movie is just very right on countless levels.

And for anybody who isn't, you really wasted a lot of time reading to this
point.
