
I liked this better than Dangerous Liaisons which came out at about the
same time. Of course Dangerous Liaisons was very good, and John
Malkovich, who played Vicomte de Valmont, is an actor of power, and
Glenn Close, who played the Marquise de Merteuil, is highly
accomplished, but I preferred the charm of Colin Firth in this film to
the brutality of Malkovich, and I thought Annette Bening was just
delightful. She played Merteuil with exquisite timing and an ironic
witchery and warmth that I shall not soon forget. I preferred her
playful, sly wit to Close's cool cynicism.

The story comes from a novel by Choderlos de Laclos set in 18th century
France that was made into a stage play by Christopher Hampton. It is a
cynical satire on human sexuality as well as a very subtle examination
of sexual hypocrisy and desire, a kind of oh so sophisticated laugh at
bourgeois morality that would have delighted Voltaire and Moliere and
greatly amused Shakespeare. It is a tale of elaborate lechery and
revenge that backfires because it seems that anybody, even the most
jagged rake can fall in love, and thereby become the victim. The
central assumption here is the same as that of the Cavalier poets,
namely that marriage kills love. As Merteuil says, "You don't marry
your lover."

Meg Tilly played Madame de Tourvel with subtlety and a riveting
passion. One of the great sequences in the movie occurs after she has
fallen madly in love with Valmont against her will. She stands outside
his doorway in the rain for hours looking adoringly and forlornly up at
his window. And then she is allowed to enter and receive a cool
reception. Valmont says, "Do you want me to lie to you?" and she
replies desperately, "Yes," and then it is her passion that overwhelms
him, leading to a beautifully ironic twist. Shortly afterward he sees
Merteuil, who has become more like a sister than an ex-lover, and says,
"I feel awful." She replies, "Are you surprised? (Pause) You are an
awful man." Hanging his head he continues, "Do you think a man can
change?" "Yes. (Pause) For the worse."

This theme, that it is the beloved who has the power and that once you
fall in love you lose all power, is repeated several times in the
movie. Valmont pursues women, the harder to get the better, with a
relentless and maniacal passion, but once he has them, he immediately
loses interest. His making love absentmindedly to Cecile de Volanges
(played with wide-eyed innocence and girlish charm by Fairuza Balk) was
an incredible irony when we consider what she would cost Gercourt,
played with his rather substantial nose in the air by Jeffrey Jones,
whom you may recall as the pratfalling principal in Ferris Bueller's
Day Off (1986).

There is some insidious philosophy here, some sardonic observations on
human nature worth mentioning. One is that the man beloved of women
gets most of the reproductive tries, and regardless of his rakishness,
is still beloved. Another is that duplicity is the accepted, even
required, standard of behavior in society, and that when it comes to
sex, one must, perforce, always lie. 

Milos Forman's direction was invisible and therefore a work of art. The
incidental scenes and backdrops depicting the color, squalor and
decadence of pre-revolutionary France added just the right amount of
atmosphere. The costumes were stunning and much cleaner than they would
have been in reality. The elegance and beauty of all the titled people
merrily contrasted with the crude ugliness of the common people,
rightly reflecting the effete snobbery of the aristocracy before the
time of the guillotine.

(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut
to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it
at Amazon!)
<|_=00=_|>

I notice a bit of a war going on between partisans of this and "Dangerous
Liaisons" (the Glenn Close/John Malkovich/Stephen Frears vehicle).  I'm not
entirely sure why, but I find "Valmont" so much better.  I think it's
because:
 A) Milos Forman is unquestionably a better director than Frears, especially
when he can call on the photographic talents of a cinematographer like
Miroslav Ondricek;
 B) "Valmont" takes the time to develop some of the relationships between
characters on screen, while the other simply injects the viewers into
preexisting relationships;
 C) Colin Firth and Annette Benning are quite simply sexier than Glenn Close
and John Malkovich; "Dangerous Liaisons" is too intellectual, while
"Valmont" works at the hormonal level too.
 D) Fairuza Balk is far more believable as a virgin than Uma Thurman (can
anyone say differently?!?).
I certainly acknowledge "Dangerous Liaisons" as a well-made, well-acted
film, but in the end I find it nearly unwatchable compared to "Valmont",
which I can (and have) enjoyed over and over.
<|_=00=_|>

I just watched "Valmont" just now actually, and what can I say, I was
really
impressed with the film... I've seen "Dangerous Liason" so many times
before, and it's always been one of my favorites, so maybe that's why I was
a bit skeptical about "Valmont" as it started (for me it was overshadowed
by
"Dangerous Liason", but it was quick for me to be proven wrong...) The film
was great, very interesting, because it provided different insight into the
the story. Colin Firth (who I've fallen in love with ever since I watched
"Bridget Jones' Diary, because he is one charming brit!) was dazzling as
Valmont, and he managed to display another kind of Valmont, which John
Malkovich wasn't, but he was great as well. Firth's Valmont was very
charming and he has a passion and charisma to him that Malkovich lacked (he
was overall rather "cool"), and what can i say? He just took my breath away
again once again. Annette Bening (is that how u spell her name?) was also
brilliant, and in the begining I was tricked into thinking that she was too
nice for the part, but nope, she was evil as well, and maybe to some extent
more evil that Glenn Close's portryal, because beneath all the nice and
sweetness, beining was evil indeed! and Henry Thomas, he was extroidinary,
and he did a great job! His potrayal of his character was so much better
than Keanu Reeves (who can't act), and he made the movie interesting
indeed.
it was sad to see his innocence lost at the end though, what really
disturbed me, because before he was such a loyal lover! sad, the loss of
innocence, once it's gone, it never comes back...maybe "Valmont" is lacking
in the sense that it failed to illustrate the importance of Madame de
Tourvel, like "Dangerous Liason" did, but otherwise, Valmont is
magnificent.
passionate, fun, and definetly keeps you going!
<|_=00=_|>
Milos Forman's version of 'Dangerous Liasons' was relegated to the
second tier at the time of its release, which occurred close on the
heels of Stephen Frears' version starring Glenn Close and John
Malkovitch. I saw them both in the theatre when they were released and
from the start enjoyed Forman's film far more than Frears'.

Annette Beining is a wonderful Madame de Mertueil, beautiful,
intelligent, ruthless and in the end tragic. Glenn Close is pretty
two-dimensional by comparison for Frears. And Colin Firth is more the
laughing cavalier, with a heart, than was John Malkovitch for Frears,
who mostly grimaces smugly and is highly distasteful and ego-centric. I
liked Firth's sense of humor about himself, it makes the ending more
poignant.

On paper some of the casting of Forman's version seems questionable,
but all, except one, work very well. Most surprising was Henry Thomas's
young lover. Thomas can be a dull actor but his reticent performance is
apt for the gauche young man learning the ropes of 18th century
Parisian society. Fairuza Bulk is delightful and funny as the virginal
Céline. The supporting cast, notably Fabia Drake's dotty old Madame de
Rosemond, are excellent. Siân Philips and Jeffrey Jones provide some
very funny moments, though their characters are anything but "funny".

Only Meg Tilly falls short. Her American accent and modern delivery of
the lines is disappointing. But she is a good actress and manages to
convince in the end, though a more "Frenchified" performer would have
served the story more effectively.

The music, cinematography and choreography are superb. The settings are
very beautiful.

Forman's 'Valmont' deserves to be reconsidered by those critics who
found it lacking when it first appeared.
<|_=00=_|>

Annette Bening has proved again what a versatile actress she is. She
positively emanates cruelty and perverseness in this film, but she is
the epitome of sweetness in "American President" and fragility in
"American Beauty." The pleasure her character takes in causing others'
pain makes one easily imagine her reincarnated as a Gestapo torturer.
Colin Firth is, as usual, handsome, charming, and believable. Fairuza
Balk completely captures the confusion, excitement, and naiveté one
would expect of a girl reentering the world after years in a convent.
Meg Tilly shows a depth that I hadn't expected and Fabia Drake is
wonderful as the hard-of-hearing, elderly, but wise, matron. The
costumes and sets were exquisite and evoked the period completely. I
highly recommend this for the performances and the ambiance.

<|_=00=_|>

I think I've seen all the variations on a theme of this story, which, in
turn, is a variation on the Don Juan legend.  Of all of them, I like this
one best.

Colin Firth is a marvelous Valmont.  Firth is a VERY subtle actor. Early in
the film, he pretends to be helpless in the water, unable to swim in order
to elicite a response from his victim,(Tilly), but when his actions do not
receive the response he expected, his face changes immediately.  He is no
longer the smiling, charmer, but a man furious that his plan was thwarted. 
These changes in expression happen in an instant.  The alteration of his
features is absolutely chilling.

It is, to me, far more effective to have the villian of the piece LOOK like
an angel, than to look like what he really is (Malkovitch).

Annette Benning, with her delicate beauty and dimple certainly doesn't  look
like the scheming, sexual predator that she really is.

There is one scene in which Firth really does a virtuoso performance.  He
dances with four women in turn.  First, he dances with his elderly Aunt. 
This lady still loves to flirt.  He is graceful and charming and flatters
her outrageously.  Next he dances with his 15 year old prey.  Here he
cappers like a 15 year old, which delights and disarmes her.  Next, Valmont
dances with Benning, his former lover.  Here he is remote and aloof.  It is
SHE who flirts with him!  He withholds what she knows should be hers.  THEN
he dances with the woman he has fallen in love with.  He has a bet with
Benning that he can bed this married, pious lady.  In this dance he is
sensual and genuine.  SHE reacts with the most rapturous expressions and
movements I have ever seen on screen.  Meg Tilly and Colin Firth dancing in
this sequence are breathtaking to behold.

Because all of the feelings of the characters in Valmont are so beautifully
acted, Firth, Benning, Tilly and Balk are all believable and because you
believe in them you also feel their pain.

Each character suffers because of decisions they have made, over and above
the seductions that do take place.

A marvelous film that I recommend to those over 18.  There are some
explicite scenes in this film that are too hot for young
people.
<|_=00=_|>

I must confess that the first time I saw that movie, few years after it's
release, I couldn't help, but find it a pale version of Stefan Freirs
"Dangerous Liaison".
Recently I have seen both movies and I must say that my opinion is quite
the
opposite now. In "Valmont" everything is subtle and I think this is why
most
people didn't get it.  You can destroy someone's life without having
written
"I'm Bad!" on your forehead. With her slow-velvet voice Annette Bening is a
snake under a rock:she is terrifying. As for Colin Firth's Valmont he is
charming, he flies like a butterfly, but he knows exactly what he is doing.
We believe in his seduction not because we are told to but because we are
seduced ourselves.  People have been saying that Valmont was too light, too
boyish.  There is nothing boyish in the way he says at Mme de Tourvelle "Is
that what you want?" You see at that point how his hight-pitched voice,
that
goes with his voice and smile, is only a mask, as powder was John
Malkovitch's mask.
Colin Firth said that Milos Forman was too subtle for his own good and I
think this is why some people can still find "Dangerous Liaisons" more
powerful. As for "Valmont" even if the end is a bit weak, I wouldn't
hesitate to say that it is from far the best version of the two movies. For
those who go by the book, as I once did, you might be puzzled by the
differences  with the original story but for its deep sensitivity, its
wonderful cast and this art of subtlety, it's really worth every moment of
it.
<|_=00=_|>

Since discovering this film, it has since become one of my all-time
favorite
period pieces. There is a
unique combination of lightness and frivolity on one hand, and the very
darkest side of love,
deception and manipulation on the other. Foreman's "Amadeus" also was an
elegant period-piece
which brought the extremes of comedy and drama together
brilliantly.
The highlights of this film, for me, must begin with Annette Bening. After
all is said and done this is
her movie. She is absolutely radiant. There is a remarkable breadth in her
character. . . she displays
a sweet sensitivity towards Cecile's innocence and you sense that she
longs
to return to that kind of
experience in love. And yet she has turned cold, bitter, and resentful
through her real life experiences
with love.
There is much more to be said. . . Colin Firth as Valmont is funny,
charming, and very sly. His 'old
aunt' is a treasure. Fairuza Balk (who I loved in her debut 'Return to
Oz')
well portrays the anxiety,
anticipation and awkwardness of all teenagers starting to embrace love.
The
locations and costumes
are lucious.
There are the inevitable comparisons to 'Dangerous Liaisons,' also a very
entertaining film.
Personally, I think there's no need to compare them. They're both
excellently written and acted.
However, since 'Valmont' was missed by many, it needs to be brought to the
attention of those who
haven't yet had 
<|_=00=_|>

Valmont is a very entertaining romance set in the upper classes of 17th
century France. Valmont, the title character, is a rogue and womanizer. He
is very likable, but has a terrible flaw; he can't love, and that is his
ultimate undoing.

Milos Forman and his crew expertly recreate the world of baroque France. The
actors are excellent especially Colin Firth as Valmont. The pacing is
lively, as Valmont's world unravels, or at least gets away from him. Lots
could be written on the psychology of Valmont, and its relationship to that
of the modern Western man. And the movie works on that intellectual level,
but it also works as a period-piece costume romance. I recommend
it.

<|_=00=_|>

i only saw the movie tonight, more than 10 years after it is made. That's
a
real pity. This is such a beautiful film, attractive actors, regal
costumes,
lavish settings.... seductive, funny... good combo of everything... i
would
recommend this film to everyone!!! 
