

One of Wes Craven's best, "Serpent and the Rainbow" is as much a
psychological thriller as a horror movie.  Some horror fans may find it too
slow (it takes its sweet time to come to a climax) but it's worth it... the
journey is entertaining and interesting.  This is a polished, professionally
filmed movie with higher production values than the average for its
genre.

I've never seen a film before that went quite so in-depth into the subject
of voodoo.  Filmed on location in Haiti, this movie goes into a lot of
detail about various voodoo practices and introduces the voodoo versions of
the good and evil magician, the houngon and the bocor.  If you have any
interest at all in this subject matter (or the supernatural in general), I
recommend the movie on that basis alone.

Acting is uniformly solid throughout, if nothing really outstanding.  We do
not come to care very deeply about these characters, so their trials,
tribulations and deaths do not bother us much... but Craven's attention to
detail really shows, and there isn't a moment of this movie that lacks
entertainment value.  7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Wes Craven's "The Serpent and the Rainbow" is one of the more original
and ambitious horror movies to come out of the '80s. Not only does it
seek to reconnect cinematic zombies with their voodoo roots, ala
classics like "White Zombie", but it also uses the creation of zombies
as a political allegory. The film is set in Haiti during the last days
of the dictatorship of "Baby Doc" Duvalier.

Based - very loosely one surmises - on a true story, the plot follows
Dr. Dennis Alan (Bill Pullman) as he investigates a powder that is said
to turn people into zombies. He is aided in his quest by Dr. Marielle
Duchamp (Cathy Tyson), who he quickly falls for, and Louie Mozart
(Brent Jennings) an expert in voodoo. Dargent Peytraud (the chilling
Zakes Mokae) is the snarling villain of the piece, a man with sinister
powers both government-sanctioned and supernatural.

The film abounds with creatively gruesome imagery - a man is buried
alive, screaming, in a coffin as it fills with blood, a fiendish hand
reaches out from a bowl of soup - this is one of those rare films that
genuinely makes your skin crawl. Horror fans should not miss it. It's a
shame that the film runs just a little longer than it should and
becomes disappointingly routine in its final moments.

There is a sense that this movie was aiming a bit higher than it ending
up reaching. I can't quite hold that against it.
<|_=00=_|>

The story of a chemist who is investigating a rumoured drug that brings
people back from the dead. This is a great movie which keeps you in suspense
right through. Not a horror movie but more of a suspense type movie that
enters the world of black magic and voodoo. Very underrated movie and well
worth watching, great plot and the story works.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember watching "The Serpent and the Rainbow" in a cinema when it
opened 12 years ago, and although it did not strike me as a
masterpiece, I never forgot it. I had always had a memory of it as a
good horror film, but tonight I saw it again on television and I was
impressed about how good it is. One may associate Wes Craven with
"Scream" or "A Nightmare on Elm Street", but this one is certainly one
of his best films. I still see it as an adventure film with horror
elements, but this time I found it full of style -a touch of
documentary approach, clever use of colorful locations, good handling
of massive scenes with many unprofessional extras, attractive ethnic
art direction, a bit of grand guignol in some performances (mainly
Zakes Mokae), humor and a sensitive and sympathetic approach to a
different culture. Many times one sees American films dealing with
others' cultural aspects -such as political affairs and religion-,
without any respect or concern. It is true that "The Serpent and the
Rainbow" is not a serious drama about people's revolt, or a tract on
synchretic religions (such as Cuban santería, Haitian voodoo or
Brazilian candomblé), but both aspects are not just décors, but
elements well integrated to the story in its own terms -that is, in a
low budget feature, whose main objective is to entertain and scare the
audience. The so-called "South" is such an exotic locale for most First
World filmgoers, that cultural "details" often pass unnoticed, because
these persons seem to be too obsessed with their own "cinematic
hedonism". Craven knows it, and that is why he makes foreign tourists
applaud when they have seen a real possession, thinking it is just part
of Paul Winfield's show. One of the reasons that this film is good is
the script. Someone mentions in another comment how cleverly it
introduces more than one level in a single scene: for example, when
Dennis and Marielle are looking for Christophe in a cemetery, they not
only meet grave robbers for scaring effect, but they also discuss about
the possibility that Marielle is using Dennis to obtain funds for her
hospital, and the scene fulfills its expectation: they find Christophe,
who tells them about the mysterious 'powder'. What turns off some
viewers -and myself, in a way- is the cinematic forms that take all the
things dealing with energy and human capacity for evil. They are
sometimes too gross, others just plain funny or ridiculous; but this is
a Craven film, and they did not detract me from the main objective I
mentioned earlier. Besides, there are other things I enjoyed watching
the film again. First, to see once again the Bill Pullman whom I used
to enjoy so much (remember the dumb blond in "Ruthless People"?) when
he was beautiful and had not turned into the dull American president of
"Independence Day." I also recognized elements I've witnessed. A lot of
the things that you see and hear in this film are not just fiction
(after all it is based on a "true" story): they are all part of many
Caribbean cultures -from the sensuality of the islanders, to the rite
in the river, or the powder itself. And believe me: the powders work!
Not only for making zombies, but also for many other things. Don't ask
me how, I do not know how they do it, but I have seen them work (in
Cuba -no joke intended)! So beware.
<|_=00=_|>

The best thing about "The Serpent and the Rainbow" is probably the
topic it covers: Not known to the general public (including me, until I
watched the film and researched the subject a little more afterwards),
the so-called zombies, which legend has it that they are people who
were condemned by sorcerers to become living deads, are in fact nothing
more than the victims of a special powder thrown to them, whose active
ingredient is a substance which is now well-known by scientists
worldwide. This substance has the effect of rendering the person in a
dead-like state (no ostensible breathing, moving, etc.), while his
brain is still lively (which means that the horrified person is even
able to understand what surrounds him, without being able to do
anything about it); in such cases, an inexperienced doctor claims the
person deceased, and he is then put into a grave. When the effect of
this substance starts to diminish after 12-24 hours, the sorcerer is
usually there to undig the completely shocked and shattered person,
convincing him that he is now his zombie-slave.

The movie is based on a true story by a scientist (Pullman) who went to
Haiti, a country were such practices were rife, in order to get his
hands on this substance and provide it to his employer, a
pharmaceutical company, in order to analyze it and use it as an
anaesthetic. In his quest he was assisted by a female local
psychiatrist (Tyson), who treated several "zombified" people. However,
he soon realized that things were much more complicated than that, as
the police chief (Mokae), who used this zombie-trick as one of his
suppression tools, was quite unhappy with this intrusion.

Although based on a very interesting story, the movie goes a bit far
and becomes a typical horror film, full of black magic, terrifying
visions, etc. In my opinion, it would be much better if the plot
sticked to the basics, as from some point onwards everything (and
especially the ending) becomes too unconvincing.

The cast does a fair job, despite the fact that it includes actors not
widely known. The make-up and scenery produce and impressive
atmosphere, traveling the viewer to the mystifying secrets of Haiti.

Grade: 7/10.

<|_=00=_|>

Much to my surprise, this film was actually an excellent horror flick, one
that I plan to watch again some day. I am glad a friend of
mine
recommended the movie to me, I am just hoping others will find the time to
look into it.

Even more, if the story actually is based on a "true story", I will shudder
at the thought of it...

<|_=00=_|>

First I have to mention that while the book (The Serpent and the Rainbow by
Wade Davis) is infinitely better and deeper than the movie that shares its
name, comparing the two is unfair.  The audience is informed that the movie
was "inspired" by the content of the book, for whatever interpretation you
give inspired.  What makes the book more interesting, aside from it being a
true documentary, is how it balances light and shadow in much the way the
Vodoun religion balances both.  This film may leave you thinking that Haiti
is a horrible place filled with monsters and boogeymen, and I don't think
that's a fair estimation.

The film confuses many things and ideas which I feel should have been
explained.  Not everyone is an ethnoreligionist, after all.  Totems,
houngans, hounfours, mambos, bokors, le Bon Dieu, and the Amazon shaman are
just mentioned in passing as if this is everyday vocabulary to the
audience.
The character of Marielle is presented as a dedicant of the goddess (loa)
Erzulie.  Well, this is a nice touch, but what of Damballah and his consort
Aida-Wedo--the original serpent and the rainbow?  And what about the man
dressed as a skeleton in an obvious tribute to Baron Samedi--yet the Baron
is never mentioned.  What really made me chuckle is how Alan's totem saves
the end, a totem we had only seen in glimpses without the concept of a
power
animal ever being explained.

Through in the confusion of the collapse of the Duvalier government and we
have the perfect recipe for movie mayhem.  Oh, come on...you just knew the
overthrow of Duvalier had to work itself in here somewhere, right?  We must
have the obligatory "I am an American citizen--you cannot touch me" scene
when dealing with the so-called Third World.

Bill Pullman was entirely wrong as the protagonist.  I just found it
unbelievable that this man could find his way out of a Happy Meal box let
alone 200 miles of Amazon rainforest.  He is abrasive and unpolite, two
things which are professional suicide for anybody dealing in international
cultures.  All right, one can allow for a certain degree of cynicism on his
part, but I find it difficult to believe that a man of his caliber and
academic background would be fool enough to shoot his mouth off as he
does.

Watch this film with an acrostic eye.  It isn't a bad film, in spite of the
faults I personally found with it.  Just watch it cautiously.  If it whets
your interest, definitely go check out the Davis book.
<|_=00=_|>

Bill Pullman is an anthropologist who on a previous visit to Haiti
experienced the power of black voodoo,filling his mind with evil dreams
and
eventuating in the murder of his pilot. His Jaguar spirit leads him to
safety. Upon returning to America he is asked by a drug company to return
to
Haiti and investigate the process of "Zombification" as proof of a man
being
brought back from the dead has been discovered and the Americans of course
would love to know how it is done.

In Haiti Dr Allen meets a beautiful female psychiatrist and together they
become embroiled in a world of good vs evil voodoo style in search of this
miracle which is in the form of a powder.

However, their is evil at work in the form of a very nasty voodoo
witchdoctor, who unfortunately also happens to be Chief of Police in the
very much oppressed Haiti.

This was a great film. I only just purchased and watched it for the first
time on DVD for $6.95 AU, at that price I wasn't expecting much - Reviews
I
have read regarding this film dubbed it dissapointing, but I found it to
be
highly entertaining.

The film is eerie, the acting is excellent. I have found in most reviews
that people have complained that the film is far-fetched and doesn't make
sense. Well, in my opinion - that is the nature of voodoo -it is
un-explainable and to a skeptical mind is silly, but there have been many
accounts in real life of voodoo magic and it's power and this film was
based
on some such accounts.

The film starts of a little slow and can be described as a bit messy.
However, as the plot unfolds, not only are we watching an eerie film about
the supernatural, we are also watching an action packed political
thriller.
This is a very unusual film. There is just enough blood and gore to
entertain the slasher fans, but not too much discourage the general film
appreciating public.

As opposed to common belief, I found the story-line of this film to be
tight, different and utterly engaging.


<|_=00=_|>
The best, most realistic movie featuring zombies and the darker aspects
of the Haitian way of life ever made! While this movie was billed as a
"true story," one must remember it was "BASED ON" a true story. The
story surrounding the actual facts, well, that is up to the viewer to
decide. That not withstanding, this was a purely entertaining endeavor
with some of the best elements of voodoo mysticism I've ever seen.

This movie was extremely disturbing for me on many levels. The story
was compelling, the acting was exceptional, the dialog was believable
to those who are enlightened, the sets and scenery was breathtakingly
realistic, and this production was even greater than the sum of its
marvelous parts.

It was frightening, suspenseful, intriguing, and thrilling. We were
horrified, dismayed and thoroughly entertained by this endeavor. The
explanation of zombies and their origins, as Haitian lore is indeed the
birthplace of these creatures, was wonderfully told and brilliantly
presented.

Don't bury me! I'm not dead! Absolutely wonderful.

It rates an 8.8/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1985, after a successful research in Amazonas, Dr. Dennis Alan (Bill
Pullman) from Harvard is invited by the president of a Boston
pharmaceutics industry, Andrew Cassedy (Paul Guilfoyle), to travel to
Haiti to investigate the case of a man named Christophe (Conrad
Roberts) that died in 1978 and has apparently returned to life. Andrew
wants samples of the voodoo drug that was used in Christophe to be
tested with the intention of producing a powerful anesthetic. Dr. Alan
travels to meet Dr. Marielle Duchamp (Cathy Tyson) that is treating
Christophe and arrives in Haiti in a period of revolution. Soon Alan is
threatened by the chief of the feared Tonton Macuse Dargent Peytraud
(Zakes Mokae), who is a torturer and powerful witch. Alan learns that
death is not the end in the beginning of his journey to hell.

"The Serpent and the Rainbow" is one of the creepiest and most
originals zombie movie ever produced. Directed by Wes Craven, the story
uses the background of political environment of Haiti and entwines
horror and politics. Bill Pullman has good performance and Cathy "Mona
Lisa" Tyson completes the romantic pair of the story. But Zakes Mokae
"steals" the movie with a scary performance in the role of the wicked
Peytraud. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "A Maldição dos Mortos-Vivos" ("The Curse of the Living
Dead")
