

Classic Eastwood and great fun from mid-'80s as produced and directed by the
fine man himself. I have to say this is an ideal role for Clint, like Dirty
Harry Callahan in the army. I truly love his exaggerated macho-characters
because they're so amusing and provide so much fun for a Clint-fan like
myself. In here he's a real monster: unpitying, blunt, tough and almost
sadistic but like most of Eastwood's characters he isn't all that cold, even
Sergeant Tom Highway has his sensitive side. In this case he reads women's
magazines and tries to reconcile with his ex-wife.

Script is filled with obscene language and lots of hilarious, legendary
one-liners that kept me laughing pretty hard. Of course I understand why
critics don't necessarily like "Heartbreak Ridge". We don't have to watch
and wait far to find out what the flick is all about, first scene tells it
all. This movie is shameless and far from being intelligent but that doesn't
mean it's boring. What the hell, it entertains and finally that's what
counts. Quote from the film: "You can rob me, you can starve me...and you
can beat me and you can kill me. Just don't bore me."
<|_=00=_|>

Among my husband and his buddies, this movie is like Shakespeare -- they
quote from it often and well, so often and well, in fact, that the quotes
are just part of their vocabulary and the source is forgotten.  It does have
more than its share of witty quips, even for me, a lowly female
;).

I really do like this movie.  It makes me miss the 80's, when it was still
considered acceptable to be a patriotic American, and movies that glorified
America and the military could be made without the felt need to apologize
left and right.  And of course Clint Eastwood is clever and attractive as
always, as the hardcore Marine lifer who's trying to discover his tender
side in time to reunite with his ex when he retires.
<|_=00=_|>
Watching Clint Eastwood work his magic on the big screen is something
for a movie lover like myself to treasure and in "Heartbreak Ridge",
Eastwood really unleashes it here.

Eastwood stars (and directed) the film as Thomas "Gunny" Highway, a
very seasoned and highly decorated, but a troublesome U.S. Marine
gunnery sergeant. Highway begins what may be his last tour of duty and
along the way, he deals with a rowdy and undisciplined bunch of
recruits (Mario Van Peebles being the most sarcastic and cocky one
among the bunch) and turns them into reliable soldiers, Major Powers
(Everett McGill), a higher-ranking officer who totally dislikes
Highway, and tries to revive his relationship with Aggie (Marsha
Mason), his ex-wife who isn't afraid to tell him about the misery that
she has suffered.

The film runs at a brisk pace and Eastwood saves the best scenes for
last when he guides the squad into Grenada to find a medical school
where the students (mostly Americans) are held captive and the
shootouts are well-done. Plus, the humor in this film is sharp and very
witty although some of it may be offensive.

"Heartbreak Ridge" does remind me of the one film that I've seen made
by the late Samuel Fuller - "The Big Red One". There are a few
differences that seem notable, but both films bear a strong resemblance
and appeal.
<|_=00=_|>

Clint Eastwood is at his best in the role of "Gunny Highway." This is
mostly
a really excellent flick about patriotic values, military camaraderie and
old grizzled military veterans. Gunny Highway comes across as the exact
fellow you would want covering your ass in any tough situation you could
possibly imagine. And Eastwood plays him perfectly with steely resolve,
devotion, humor and a healthy touch of irreverence. Its great to see the
transformation of Highway's squad, as well as the final moment of judgment
for the totally hateful, obnoxious and bureaucratic Maj. Powers. (Oh, if
only such b*****ds would get their deserved comeuppance in real life in
such
a manner, what a beautiful world it would be!)

The only real fault is the attempt to compare a minor police action in
Grenada with Vietnam and Korea, "I guess we're not 0, 1 and 1 anymore." I
mean, give me a break, Korea and Vietnam went on for years and killed
millions! Grenada involved a couple of hundred casualties over a couple of
days. Please! But I suppose in 1986 the American people were desperate for
some kind of heroes. Its just that that kind of jingoism would have been
much more appropriate after Desert Storm than Grenada. That being said,
its
still a very good movie with a fundamental message about values, loyalty
and
comradeship that we could easily have more of these days, besides, Clint
is
just great!
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say that I really enjoyed watching this movie.

The grizzled, maverick war veteran, Sgt. Tom 'Gunny' Highway must be
one of Clint Eastwood's more comedic roles (apart from the 'every which
way' films) He had me bursting out laughing every time he even opened
his mouth. One particular line that had me in stitches was when he was
telling a cadet to put his Kevlar helmet back on by 1900 hours 'or he
wouldn't have a head to wear it on'-pure class!! I've always liked
Clint for his tough no-nonsense roles. This one is no exception! As a
matter of fact, there were plenty of 'laugh-out-loud moments in this
film to keep everyone happy-like the smart-ass remarks from the punk
cadets.

The showdown between Highway and 'The Swede' was highly enjoyable, too.

'Heartbrake Ridge' is certainly a lot more lighter and easier to
swallow than the similarly-themed 'Full Metal Jacket'.

This film certainly passes as perfectly adequate, undemanding popcorn
viewing.
<|_=00=_|>

I had forgotten how funny this film really is. Shown on British TV last
night, I found myself laughing like a loon all the way through it. Being a
big fan of Eastwood, it's been quite a while since re-viewing this mini
classic. And although it does take a drastic turn at the end, with a
slightly misjudged comment on war, this is by far his funniest
movie.

I also found that his character is his most interesting. A hard, no-nonsense
gunnery sergeant who looks for advice in women's magazine is a dream
characterization. And the one-liners are perfectly attacked.

I did find Mario Van Peebles character a little annoying, but then I suppose
that was the whole point, and it's always good to see Marsha Mason, who I
think is totally underrated as a screen actress.

But this is Eastwood's movie, through and through and a real delight. See
it, but don't take the ending too seriously.
<|_=00=_|>
"The de facto role of the United States Armed Forces will be to keep
the world safe for our economy and open to our cultural assault. To
those ends, we will do a fair amount of killing." - Lt. Colonel Ralph
Peters 

"The weaker and poorer a country is, the more dangerous it is as an
example. If Grenada can succeed in bringing about a better life for its
people, some other place that has more resources will eventually ask,
'why not us?'" - Chomsky 

Clint Eastwood stars in and directs "Heartbreak Ridge", a dumb
propaganda film about US military actions in Grenada. Made with
Pentagon support and constructed in the mould of 1950s war films
(particularly "Take the High Ground" and "Sands of Iwo Jima"), most of
which saw tough-guy Sergeants (John Wayne, Richard Whitmark) grooming
misfits for war, the film stars Clint Eastwood as Gunnery Sergeant
Highway, a no-nonsense warrior who takes a band of delinquents and
builds them up into hard-as-nails killers.

All the genre's clichés are here: Highway is the tough daddy
disciplinarian whom the group slowly learn to love, his grunts are all
rebels and misfits who learn to "heroically" do their duty, and high
ranking military men outside of Highway are presented as being inept
goof-balls. As is the case with all these films, the very
non-conformity of Highway and his boys – their supposed dissidence and
"individuality" in the face of state ideology – disguises/facilitates
their absolute conformity.

"Ridge" climaxes with Operation Urgent Fury, the 1983 US invasion of
Grenada. Before this the film shamelessly parrots the line of Pentagon
spin-doctors. Eastwood and his grunts do not invade the tiny island of
Grenada, instead they "go to Grenada to rescue US tourists, school kids
and students" from "evil soldiers". One must remember that the official
pretext for invading Grenada back in the 1980s was "the protection of
American lives", specifically 800 students at the US run St George's
University of Medicine. In reality none of the students were in danger,
none wanted to leave and the invasion was actually designed to oust
Maurice Bishop, the people's revolutionary who rallied the islands few
thousand inhabitants against Prime Minister Erich Gairy. Within months
Bishop had put in place policies which irked Carter and Reagan, who
were all at the time busy overthrowing/assassinating similar
democratically elected leaders and/or left-wing movements in Africa,
the Middle East, Asia and Latin America.

Bishop achieved more in a few months than anyone expected, Grenada
reaching a 9 percent cumulative growth rate, unemployment dropping from
50 to 14 percent, agriculture diversified, cooperatives developed,
imports dropping from 40 to 25 percent as a result of sustainability
measures, literacy rates jumping to 98 percent, a free education and
health system being established, the number of schools tripling and
various industrial programs set in motion.

At the time, Grenada's turn-around was praised by the World Bank. But
Carter would adopt an adversarial attitude and put in place a program
to assassinate Bishop and isolate the tiny Caribbean island. And so the
UN Mission in Grenada is bugged, Bishop's party is infiltrated by the
CIA, Western media begins to spread propaganda with the aim of
discouraging tourists, the CIA begins a destabilisation program and
rumours are spread about Soviet submarine, missile and air bases being
present on the island. As far as the public is concerned, the tiny
island of Grenada is a rouge, terrorist state. When all these rumours
are debunked by journalists leading up to the invasion, the major news
chains refuse to air retractions. Meanwhile the CIA begins planting
bombs at local rallies, inadvertently kills several civilians and sets
about trying to weaken the island's economy. This goes on for roughly 4
years.

Prior to the invasion, The CIA begins to sew discord in Bishop's Party.
Bernard Coard, Bishop's childhood friend and co-revolutionary, begins
to break away from Bishop. Coard stages a coup and arrests Bishop, but
Bishop is set free by a crowd of some 10,000 Grenadians, all staunch
supporters. In response Coard's men apparently massacred Bishop and his
closest followers. To this date no one knows where the orders came from
and who committed the murders. Coard blames the CIA, the CIA blames
Coard. Coard is a free man today. Gairy was given diplomatic immunity
in the US. Coard's actions were used as a pretext to invade the island;
these plans were drawn up years earlier.

To facilitate the invasion the US constructs an unbelievable hoax in
which it is stated that the Organizaton of Eastern Caribbean States had
asked the US to invade the backwater island in order to "protect other
Caribbean islands from Grenadian aggression". The invasion takes place,
its date of execution designed to distract the public from American
casualties and failed US policy in Lebanon (250 US troops dead days
earlier). Declassified documents would reveal that US bombing runs
systematically targeted Grenadian factories; one of the first targets
was a canning plant which helped Grenadians can their own food (rather
than relying on foreign companies).

The Pentagon claims that "weapons of mass destruction were found",
which are years later revealed to be rifles manufactured in the 1870s
and two Bren guns circa 1950. The US puts in place an interim
government, rigged courts and tribunals are set up to assign blame,
lawyers and judges are paid hush money, neoliberal polices are put in
place to favour foreign investment, state enterprises are given over to
foreign private interests and modern consumer capitalism is officially
brought to Grenada. In 1991 the Inter-American Commission on Human
Rights find that throughout this pantomime the US Government under
Carter and Reagan had violated a slew of laws and articles. The report
was released when US F16s were bombing Baghdad.

4/10 – Worth one viewing for the always-cool Clint Eastwood. See
instead "Full Metal Jacket" and Cox's "Walker".
<|_=00=_|>
Disappointed with this movie. I wouldn't put this on my top 200 list.
The plot is thin. The storyline is so unrealistic. The result is a bit
sophomoric. I expected better and unfortunately, didn't get it. I got
tired of Clint Eastwood's gravely throat talk after the first 10
minutes. The script seems to be made up of a combination of terse,
smart-ass and cute one-liners all strung together. I'm not sure what
Marine Corps is being depicted here, but it sure isn't anything
manufactured in the United States. I can't believe that the U.S. Marine
Corps seriously considered using this movie as a promo for Toys for
Tots (until they heard the language). I suppose it's worth remembering
that this was produced in 1986. The only thing that Mario Van Peebles
was missing were the perfunctory warm-up leggings when he was singing
on stage. (Or maybe I just missed them.)
<|_=00=_|>

This is an enjoyable, if somewhat cartoonish, adventure. Eastwood plays
Gunnery Sergeant Tom Highway, a career United States Marine who won the
Medal of Honor at Heartbreak Ridge in Korea. As he approaches retirement,
Gunny Highway takes on the task of transforming a bunch of misfits into a
tough Reconnaissance Platoon in time for the 1983 invasion of Granada.  The
film is uneven, with some moments that are brilliant and others that are
embarrassingly bad.  The film does not contain an accurate portrayal of
Marine Recon, but it does deliver excitement and a good dose of humor.
Besides, Clint Eastwood as a salty old Gunny is something that had to
happen!
<|_=00=_|>

When I first started to watch Heartbreak Ridge, I expected another Clint
Eastwood kicking but in some war movie.  I was right, but I was wrong
expecting this to be bad.  Clint Eastwood is great as Tom Highway, a gunnery
who must train troops and prepare for Grenada.  He gives an excellent
performance and he shows who his character really is and how good it is. 
Mario Van Peebles does really good as Stitch Jones.  He shows his character
well and I enjoyed it.  The war part, which came mainly at the end, was cool
enough.  The directing was really good and all of the other actors were
good.

Overall this movie is very cool and I recommend it to any Clint Eastwood
fans.  Rating 10 out of 10.
