

Believe me RAMBO FIRST BLOOD PART 2 took some swallowing but the opening ten
minutes of RAMBO 3 caused me to fall out of my chair in shock . John Rambo
does prize fighting to earn his keep in a Buddhist commune ! I mean that`s a
bit like having a film where the hero`s an environmentalist who goes around
blowing oil rigs to save the Alaskan wilderness . Oh wait a minute didn`t
Steven Seagal ....

Despite this incredible and vain attempt at character development there
follows much dialogue that accurately reflects what is going on in
Afghanistan in the mid 1980s . The Soviet - Afghan war actually intensified
when Mikhail Gorbachev came to power and by that time over one million
Afghans had died in the conflict while as many as five million had been
forced over the border into Iran and Pakistan as what analysts at the time
called " Migratory genocide " , a euphemism that people nowadays would
describe as " Ethnic cleansing " . There`s other parts of the film that
points out that screenwriter Sheldon Lettich has done his homework on the
conflict with factual things like Soviet conscripts defecting to the
Mujahedeen , of the red army planting mines and booby traps disguised as
toys to blow off the limbs of children and of the Soviets use of chemical
weapons which almost certainly proves that the sloppy script of FIRST BLOOD
PART 2 was mainly down to James Cameron than Stallone , but as you`d expect
in this type of action adventure movie the script rapidly degenerates into a
series of set pieces of an all American superman blowing up a bunch of nasty
commies who can`t shoot straight . Ah well at least the main commie isn`t
played by a British actor unlike in the last film . Oh and congratulations
to Peter McDonald for at least trying to make a Puma helicopter look like a
Soviet helicopter gunship . The previous director was under the impression
that the Soviets and Viet Cong use American Hueys 

Setting the record straight : A lot of people prove how ignorant they are of
the Soviet - Afghan war by confusing the Mujahedeen with the Taliban . The
Mujahedeen ( Translated " The soldiers of God " )  and the Taliban (
Translated " The students of God " ) are entirely seperate things . The
Taliban were created in Pakistan in the early 1990s , took over Afghanistan
in 1995 and were led by Mullah Omar . The Mujahedeen were split into several
different groups and were led by different leaders ( None of them called Bin
Laden ) most of them forming a coalition against the Taliban called the
Northern Alliance in 1995/96 . Their overall leader was the legendary
guerilla leader Ahmad Shah Massoud who was murdered in a suicide bombing by
Al Qai`da terrorists in September 2001 . It was the Northern Alliance who
fought side by side with the Western coalition during their campaign to
overthrow the Taliban government in 2001 to the present day 

<|_=00=_|>
I don't really understand what the disappointment is all about? This
movie falls under the genre of action and thats what it delivers from
top to bottom. Were people perhaps expecting a drama? And people can
also tell me how often do you get to see the Russians and spetsnaz
special forces in realistic action? Sure they were vilified, mowed down
easily by Rambo, mostly missed him but as the evil villains, they were
highly effective in that role. Don't get me wrong, I've nothing but
admiration for the Russian military. The main villain (Russian
commander) was also a freaking brilliant actor. The movie did'nt use
real Russian helicopter gunships, (they used French ones modified
instead) but they were still effective. All in all, this is an utterly
brilliant and unique film and I give it 10 stars. Best in the Rambo
series.
<|_=00=_|>

With the highest budget of the three movies, the movie certainly looks
expensive, with an epic scope at times. But you never quite get the feeling
that the movie settles into a comfortable groove. Though the action
sequences have plenty of gunshots and explosions, the way they are filmed -
and edited - doesn't have the right impact or flow, like the action
sequences in the second installment. 

In another comparison to the second installment, the story - while as sparse
as this one - certainly kept moving. Here there are a number of segments
that move very slowly and/or don't seem to have much purpose. The movie
should have gotten down to business. The uneven flow of the movie also
suffers near the end, as if the movie all of a sudden decides it needs to
wrap things up in a few minutes, making the final battle almost come out of
nowhere. 

(In fairness to the director, it should be pointed out that he was a sudden
replacement after original director Russell Mulcahy was fired, and had only
ONE DAY to prepare to helm the rest of the movie.)

Like the previous installment, there is some dumb dialogue, but this time
around it's not delivered in a slight tongue-in-cheek manner. If they had
been willing to show this time around that they weren't taking things so
seriously, it would have helped. You might say that the actor playing the
Russian commander is not playing things seriously, but he goes SO over the
top that he's embarrassing.

It's watchable, but disappointing - they had the chance to make a kick-ass
action movie here.

By the way, the Afghans that Rambo helps in this movie are *NOT* the
Taliban. People seem to forget that Afghanistan is made up of a number of
different tribes. You can tell these particular Afghans are not the Taliban,
because (among other things), the women are not completely covered, and the
men play the traditional Afghan game with horses and a goat's skin
(forbidden by the Taliban.) 
<|_=00=_|>

Above average Holywood type action movie that is very under rated because it
is very mis-understood.This movie is not to be taken too seriously.If one
understands comic book action,that person will dig this movie.The hardware
and action sequences here are very top notch.The subject matter is also a
good illustration of the Afghan situation at that time.The approach of the
movie was on the unrealistic side due to a marketing mainstream "quick cash"
decition by the producers of this movie.But compared to other movies of the
same genre and category (Holywood Formula Military Action Drama),this one is
on a higher level in quality.This one is the worst of all the Rambo movies
but still,if you ,like the above mentioned genre,you will enjoy this
one........    
<|_=00=_|>
After 'First Blood', I assumed Stallone would have won an Oscar for his
portrayal of troubled Vietnam veteran John 'Break Out The Knives'
Rambo, and I supposed the fact he didn't was probably down to an
oversight on behalf of the Academy or something.

When he again failed to pick up the 'Best Actor' statuette after 'Rambo
-First Blood, Part II', my suspicions began to rise ... but still I
dismissed it as an unfortunate mistake.

So imagine my fury when, after Rambo had not only saved imprisoned
Vietnam veterans from years of incarceration at the bloodthirsty hands
of the Vietcong, but also liberated the proud Afghans from the yoke of
Communist oppression, he STILL did not receive the award that was
rightfully his? Is this how America treats its war heroes? Because if
it is, it's a bloody outrage. Not only did John Stallone liberate an
entire country from the iron grip of the Great Bear, but he also found
time to win the title of Heavyweight Champion of the World - not once,
but THREE bloody times.

If I was Sylvester Balboa, I would blow up planet Earth as punishment
for being so damned ungrateful.
<|_=00=_|>
Rambo III is a action film as simple as that. a hero that does nearly
impossible things and thats the attraction of a action hero he's not a
real person it's a movie. movies like this just want to entertain you
for 90mins. to 2hrs. and no matter how impossible or unrealistic things
are you take it for what it is. that's the idea of wild action films
they take you to another place, as a film lover i try not to have such
high hopes for things, i want to see it with just a open mind . some
things you will like and some you don't. rambo III is one i like.
people talk about plot and what this film does and does not do . this
film gives you just what you think it will.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the Best Action movie of all times; nothing can go beyond that;
nothing can come after that! 

Rambo 3 (Spoilers******) 

Directed by Peter MacDonald marks the biggest chapter of John J Rambo,
the character created by novelist David Morrell. From the acclaimed
1982 original movie 'First Blood' followed with the 1985 sequel 'Rambo
II', this current final part really cuts the true face of Rambo.

In the path of Salvation it has been a long time Vietnam vet Rambo
living a peaceful life in Thailand. But his mentor-best friend Col.
Samuel Trautman needs his help for a mission in Afghanistan. John
rejects the request making Col. to leave Afghanistan for the military
operation. Things went wrong when Russian soldiers capture Colonel.

Now Rambo must go to Afghanistan, but the problem is will the One Man
Army can win the WAR? Scripted by Sheldon Lettich and Sylvester
Stallone himself, tells the most dominant part of Rambo franchise. The
story, the screenplay, was really well written and the way it was
treated into the cinematic means was just Extreme. All the credit goes
to the principal photographic team under John Stanier and the well
talented second unit directors Douglas Dean, Jeff Jensen and Nikolas
Korda. Together they created such a wide canvas that was over the Top
in every means.

Plus the soul of Rambo formed by the legendary Jerry Goldsmith makes
this movie the most memorable one. His theme and action cues really
immerse us in the movie. This is one of his best works, I like the
opening club fighting sequence, huh really the score raises my
adrenaline; and STALLONE HAS MORE DEFINITION THAN THE FAT PIG ARNOLD.

A great action movie with the exotic backdrop of Afghanistan with a
cutting edge storyline. Stallone really lived in that character,
especially in those smashing action scenes and in emotional parts. I
wish to have such body like him one Day. This is extreme! This is the
last type of movie with high-quality action spectrums that disappeared
with the 1990's. A must see movie for ALL ACTION FILM FANS.

"I gave this movie 10 thumbs up out of 10 stars !"
<|_=00=_|>

For myself, Rambo - First blood part 3 is one of the best action movies
ever. In fact the story is a little bit poor, once again the typical one
vs
an army-story we know already from Rambo 2. Everyone, who does not think
about a stupid story and
the "Evil-Russians-topic" gets an explosive and very bloody action movie
without long periods of boredom.
In his original uncut version the movie is banned in Germany
and
this has good reasons. The film is absolutely nothing for
kids.
In my opinion the Littleton-massacre a few weeks ago was a direct
consequence of films like Rambo. If you're old enough,
watch it !
The final fight starts with the following dialog:
"John,what're you thinking ?" Rambo:" F**k'em!"

<|_=00=_|>

I think this film was judged too much on subject matter and not as an
excellently shot action film.  Each action sequence is done with immense
skill and quality.  Sure the script is dodgy, USA v USSR so what! 

Its time to turn your brain off and enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
Third entry directed by Peter MacDonald with lots of frenetic action
and plenty of blood and violence . Thrilling and moving Rambo episode
in which he goes to Afghanistan to rescue his former Vietnam superior
commandant , Colonel Samuel Trautman , Richard Crenna . The famous
trilogy was subsequently completed by the recent ¨ John Rambo¨ , a
definitive improvement and directed by the same Stallone in which Rambo
fights enemies in Thailand ; nevertheless the best considered is the
original . Violent movie with Rambo character who started in ¨First
Blood¨ and launched Stallone career going on his successful Rambo
episodes . Sylvester Stallone as brawny hero Rambo is top-notch , he
was a previous Green Beret , now retired and living a pacific existence
in a Buddist temple (itself was a real temple in Thailand undergoing
renovation at the time of filming , also many of the Monk extras were
in fact real Monks from that very temple who were paid to appear as
extras) . We see Rambo's scars from First Blood (the scar on his right
arm, caused by the fall through the trees) and Rambo: First Blood Part
II (the small scar right above his left cheek, caused by the heated
knife scraped by his eye). He has retreated to a easy life in a rural
Thai location , taking part a stick fighting match , and in
construction site of a Buddhist temple . Here Rambo again has his usual
enemies , the Russians , who control a particular sector of Afghanistan
battling Afghan rebels , the Mujahideen, who are fighting the Soviets
in the Soviet-Afghan War . Rambo goes behind Russian-dominated enemy
lines too rescue his former colonel from jail , he had been taken while
delivering Stingers ; the problems that the Russian forces faced with
American Stinger missiles, as described in this movie, were very real,
and accounted for hundreds of Russian helicopters during the real war .
As John Rambo joins a warrior named Masoud (Sasson Gabai , whose
character is a reference to a real-life leader of the Afghani
resistance against the Russian occupation) and a kid to venture behind
enemy lines where Trautman (Richard Crenna) was abducted by the
ruthless Russian general (Marc De Jonge) . He then frees the prisoner
but the cruel General and his soldiers set off in pursuit and carry out
a brutal massacre and Rambo leads his pursuers into all kinds of booby
snares , puts dangerous traps in the desert and mountains . Rambo
appears threatening , lurking and harassing to his enemies pursuers
escaping the innumerable risks and dangers .

From the beginning to the end the comic-book action-packed and extreme
violence is continued and it's fast movement ; for that reason the
picture is pretty amusing ; furthermore contains lots of explosions and
some of the best action scenes ever made , including an impressive
machine-gun attack , spectacular scenes with helicopters and impressive
ending battle between a tank driven by Rambo and a Mi-24 Hind-A
helicopter . Stallone is enormous as the tough and rebel one army man ,
however here is no female role in the main cast, and few women appear
in the film . With its $63m budget, this was the most expensive film
ever made at the time of its release . The outdoors are spectaculars ,
the landscapes have been filmed on location in Bangkok ,Chiang Mai ,
Buddhist Monestary, Thailand , Tel Aviv , Eilat, Israel ,Fort Yuma
Indian Reservation, Yuma, Arizona, USA . Awesome and exceptional
cinematography by the cameraman John Stanier . Splendid and rousing
musical score by Jerry Goldsmith , series' usual , though composed by
means of synthesizer . This nail-biting film was well played and
produced by the great Silvester Stallone along with Carolco : Mario
Kassar and Andrew G Vajna ; being professionally realized by Peter
Donald who subsequently directed another vehicle for Jean Claude Van
Damme , Soldier of fortune . Original director Russell Mulcahy was
replaced after two weeks of filming due to creative differences and
three cinematographers also succeeded .

The motion picture was preceded by the original ¨First blood¨ by Ted
Kotcheff with Richard Crenna , David Caruso and Brian Dennehy, in which
Rambo is falsely accused as vagrant and wrongfully imprisoned and he
pulls off the break-out ; Rambo II by George Pan Cosmatos with Martin
Kove, Steven Berkoff and Julia Nickson, in which he's forced to go
Cambodia in search of American POWs , and this ¨Rambo III¨ with
Kurtwood Smith and Spiros Focas , and the ultimate ¨John Rambo¨
directed and starred by Stallone with Julie Benz and Matthew Mardsen .
The film will appeal to action enthusiast and Stallone fans . It's a
movie for adrenaline lovers and frantic thrillers buffs . Rating :
Good, entertaining but violent , two thumbs up . Although the movie has
some aspects a little tough to take , this exciting film still has its
magnificent moments . This large-scale and lavishly produced pic
attempts a peculiar atmosphere with acceptable results . well worth
seeing .
