

"The Concorde--Airport '79" is truly one of the worst films ever made.  It
is tacky, imbecilic, and inept, with some of the most inane plotting ever
committed to celluloid.  It comes complete with what is probably the worst
script ever by an Academy Award Winner (Eric Roth of "Forrest Gump" fame).
It is so dumb it is laughable.  It is stupid.  In fact, it is so bad they
advertised it as a comedy!

The plot is inane:  wealthy weapons manufacturer (Robert Wagner) is
confronted by television anchorwoman/girlfriend (Susan Blakely), who tells
him she has evidence that he is selling secrets to the Russians and is
going
to expose him.  Does he kill her then?  No.  Since she has been assigned
to
cover the inaugural flight of the Concorde (Washington, D.C. to Paris to
Moscow), he decides to shoot down the plane with the anchorwoman in it.
So
when the plane takes off with the usual "Hollywood Squares" cast of
television has-beens as passengers, and the two most unlikely pilots in
the
business (Alain Delon as Capt. Marquand and George Kennedy as Capt. Joe
Patroni--that's right, airline mechanic turned executive turned Concorde
pilot), he tries to shoot it down with a wayward missile, which he could
conveniently blame on equipment failure.  After the pilots elude the
missile
by flipping the plane over a half-dozen times and firing a flare out the
window while flying at mach 2 (!!), they survey the damage and decide to
fly
on to Paris, since noone is hurt and structural damage evidently not a
concern.  Then they get to Paris, where they are attacked by a couple of
fighter jets, which they manage to elude.  They then crash land (in one of
the most cheesy uses of obvious miniatures I have ever seen in a
supposedly
big-budget film--even the trees are obviously plastic) and disembark.
That's the end, right?  Wrong.  The movie is only half over, so after an
overnight layover, in which the cast couples as if the Concorde is Noah's
Ark, everyone reboards the plane to go on to Moscow, even though they know
someone is trying to bring it down.

Anyway, let's just say the second leg of the trip ends even worse, with
the
plane crashing into a snowdrift without a single passenger or crew
fatality.
So what does our wealthy weapons manufacturer do?  He shoots himself in
the
head.  Fade to Black.

Where do I start?  Obviously this is absolutely ridiculous from start to
finish.  And then there are the actors:  soft-core porn star Sylvia
Kristel
as a stewardess, Jimmie "J.J." Walker a saxophonist, Mercedes McCambridge
looking ridiculous as a Russian gym coach, Andre Marcovicci as a gymnast
who
appears to be six feet tall, John Davidson as a TV reporter, Bibi
Andersson
a prostitute, Eddie Albert the idiot Concorde owner and Sybil Danning his
trophy wife, David Warner the flight engineer, etc. etc.  There's even a
cameo by Charo (yes, Charo) as a passenger who tries to smuggle a
chihuahua
onto the plane by pretending to be blind and saying it's her "seeing eye
Chihuahua."  And, sadly, we're treated to the sight of the great
African-American actress Cicely Tyson, reduced to picking up a paycheck as
the mother of a heart-transplant recipient who's accompanying the heart to
Paris where her son waits.  (In the late '70's, the two most highly
regarded
TV performances of the decade were Sally Field in "Sybil" and Cicely Tyson
in "The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman."  Field was rewarded for her
performance with a film career that was capped by two Oscars.  Tyson
disappeared after appearing in this travesty.  How sad.)

Yep, the stupidity runs rampant:  Kennedy and Andersson make love by a
fire.
Kennedy tells stewardess Kristel: "They don't call it the cockpit for
nothing, honey," a line that would get you fired in a second nowadays.
Albert says upon disembarking in Paris: "Nobody is keeping us from going
on
the Moscow!"  Martha Raye adds unfunny comic relief as an old lady with
weak
bowels.  When she's nervous, she runs to the bathroom.  She spends the
entire film in the bahtroom.  (Ho! Ho!) And no one even mentions lawsuit
once, even after the plane turns upside down.  And the cast?  Dreadful.
All
the way down the line.  Paychecks, paychecks, paychecks.  That's all
anyone
was after on this one.

Incidentally, the "director" of this mess was yet another television hack,
David Lowell Rich, who may as well be named Ed Wood.  But he's the least
of
the problems.  No, the problem is a studio that insisted on dumping
cheapjack product like this on an undemanding public instead of taking the
time to hire truly talented visionaries who could come up with a decent
premise, or better yet, not make the darned film in the first place.  The
only good thing about "The Concorde--Airport '79"?  Released at the same
time as "Beyond the Poseidon Adventure" and the year before "When Time Ran
Out...," it delivered strike two in the at bat that mercifully ended the
disaster craze of the '70's.  And not a moment too soon.  no stars (out of
*****)


<|_=00=_|>

There are bad movies, movies that are horrible, and then there's a tiny,
rarified body of movies that are so horribly bad that, even after seeing
them just once, the sheer awfulness makes it impossible to forget them even
decades later. This is exactly such a movie, and it's hard to believe that
the original film in this series was actually quite good. Let's see, George
Kennedy, the cigar chomping "tough guy" mechanic of the original has somehow
been promoted to airline captain, and, after the Concorde comes under
missile attack (don't ask), he resorts to stunts like shooting a flare gun
out the cockpit window despite (presumably) flying at Mach 2, all the while
doing the sort of wild high-G evasive maneuvers that would have ripped the
wings off any real airliner, never mind the effect of the passengers! But
the absolute worst part of the film, at least to dedicated airplane buffs
like myself, is that this atrocity "starred" one of the coolest, sexiest,
and most technologically remarkable planes ever to fly. The Concorde (or,
just plain "Concorde" as its pilots refer to it) deserved far better, this
abomination is the equivalent of taking a high class beauty like Audrey
Hepburn and putting her in a "Porky's" sequel. Thankfully, the release of
the ever hilarious "Airplane!" the following year brought the whole
"Airport" franchise to a well deserved halt, as anyone even contemplating a
fifth installment would have been laughed to death by studios and movie fans
alike. 

1/10
<|_=00=_|>
The original Airport (1970) was a classic of its kind, and the first
two B-movie follow-ups (Airport 1975; Airport '77) were watchable fun
at best, amusing camp at worst; but this crass and inept final entry
lacks any entertainment value and displays a shocking contempt for its
audience. It's unendurable and not even good for laughs. 

All of the three "Airport" sequels were theatrical releases made by
Universal's television wing but this one is beneath even the modest
standards of a TV movie of its day, with cheapjack production,
grotesque casting, visual ugliness and tasteless, unfunny "comedy". The
project was clearly doomed by the "creative" efforts of Universal
executive Jennings Lang who personally produced and is given a "story"
credit.

Everyone starts somewhere, and writer Eric Roth (Forrest Gump) might
have provided an element of self-burlesque, as had the previous films
(especially the notorious Airport 1975), but there is nothing worth
spoofing in Roth's turgid, incoherent script and even the comedy
Airplane! left this crud untouched.

What makes The Concorde: Airport '79 particularly offensive is its
insulting misuse of professionals. The worst victim is the supremely
gifted Cicily Tyson (Sounder; The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman),
pitilessly reduced to a vomitous subplot involving her escorting a
frozen heart transplant on the unfortunate flight. 

A special kick to the groin is reserved for the wonderful George
Kennedy, who is the true lead despite being buried in the cast list.
The official mascot of the "Airport" series and the only actor to
appear in all four movies, Kennedy had more than earned the starring
role and his turn in the Captain's seat would have been the only
possible reason for this entry other than the squeezing of one last
buck. Kennedy provides the only warmth and real humor in this
mechanical muckup, briefly putting aside the bravura machismo and
revealing a genuinely sweet and tender side to himself, and his lovable
and heroic character of "Joe Patroni". Unfortunately we are never
allowed to forget how fat and old and over-the-hill Kennedy is, and
overage pretty-boy Alain Delon relentlessly calls him "Porky Pig" as
part of a buddy-bonding that falls completely flat. Even Kennedy's
Parisian romance, the only humane part of this plane-wreck, turns out
to be merely a set-up for a hateful joke at Patroni's, Kennedy's, and
the viewer's expense.
<|_=00=_|>
All the Airport movies are stinkers, but this one is the biggest turkey
of them all. The formula was different for this one because it focused
on TWO disastrous flights and a lot of plot occurring on the ground,
while the other movies focused on just one disastrous flight and less
plot on the ground. The stunts with the Concorde are worth watching for
the laughs, although the special effects aren't as terrible as I'd
expect for a movie of this quality made in 1979. George Kennedy's
sexist remarks are disgusting and his rendezvous with a prostitute in
Paris is totally unnecessary (and made me gag a little). Poor Martha
Raye was relegated to a role where she did nothing but relieve her
bowel over and over in the Concorde's bathroom. There are no big stars
in this movie compared to the previous films, giving you one more
reason not to watch this one.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is scary at times, perhaps no more so than when a naked
George Kennedy tells his hooker girlfriend he wants a little more
sugar. Thankfully his nakedness is covered by a blanket, but the image
is still more horrifying than anything you're likely to find in, for
example, Schindler's List.

The dialog in this film was inspiring; it inspired me to watch another
movie. In one scene, when a stewardess remarks about male pilots,
Kennedy asks, "Why do you think it's called a 'cock' pit?" Charming.

And yes, contrary to what some have written, this film is very, very
bad.
<|_=00=_|>
In the beginning, there was "Airport", an A-list, ultra-slick
adaptation of a best-selling book, nominated for multiple Oscars
(including Best Picture!) Then came "Airport 1975" with too much humor
(intentional and unintentional) and Karen Black flying a damaged 747.
"Airport '77" had a private plane sinking beneath the ocean while rich
passengers dropped like flies. In an inane attempt to continue the
exploitation of the original film (and cash in on the notoriety of the
then-new Concorde, the fastest commercial plane ever), this film came
along and ended the series for good. A year later, "Airplane!" would
slam the coffin lid and seal it with it's hysterical sending up of the
many clichés of the air-disaster genre. Here, Wagner is a high-powered
industrialist who's been selling arms to enemies of the U.S. When his
reporter mistress Blakely is informed of this, he tries kill her. After
she boards the Concorde en route to Moscow, he (ludicrously) decides to
pull out every stop in the book to demolish the aircraft, even though
it is full of Olympians, TV journalists, music legends, human organs
and little old ladies who can't stay out of the bathroom! The entire
film is both stagnant and simultaneously uproarious at the same time.
The director, writer, editor and the actors can't seem to get ANYTHING
right! (See Blakely's ridiculously unconvincing newscast in which she
never once looks into the camera and in which clips from events AS THEY
ARE HAPPENING IN REAL TIME parade across the screen.) It also contains
some of the most abominable blue-screen and model special effects ever
to be seen in a major studio film. The cast of the film is huge and
full of names, though most of them are given, literally, nothing to do
but embarrass themselves. Wagner looks very tired and hardly bothers to
vary his facial expressions. Blakely works hard but is defeated by the
stupidity of the character and the script. Kennedy (the one actor who
was in all four films) is promoted to Captain this time, but is reduced
to cracking crude sexual jokes and (in the film's most celebratedly
lunatic scene) cracking open the cockpit window and shooting off a
flare! Haggard, former screen-god Delon as another pilot tries to beat
preposterous dialogue like, "Your hair is my french fries" in his
affair with sex kitten stewardess Kristel (whose calf-length uniform
has a split up to her thigh!) Other oddities include McCambridge
spouting a dreadful Russian accent and flouncing around in curtain-like
tops as a gymnastics coach, Walker as a pot-smoking sax player, Lewis
as a jazz legend (!) who feels she may be losing it, Schreiber as a
Russian coach with a deaf daughter (at least she can't hear Lewis
singing!) and Raye as a grandma with a bladder control problem (first
dentures and now this?! What? Did June Allyson turn the part down?)
Special mention must be given to the side-splitting appearance of Tyson
as a mother escorting (!) a frozen heart to her dying son. (Since when
do parents go off and collect organs while their kid is expiring
somewhere else??) In an apparent attempt to disappear from this rancid
film, she hides her face under every imaginable object. Already buried
under Victoria Principal's fright wig from "Earthquake", she uses
hankies, a clutch purse, blankets, ANYTHING to obscure her face from
being seen, eventually turning away from the camera entirely! The
endless cast list also contains Albert as the airline owner and Danning
as his trophy wife, Davidson as a reporter, Charo as a pushy passenger
attempting to stowaway a Chihuahua and Marcovicci who gets another
special mention. Unbelievably, she plays a 24 year-old gymnast (!)
going for her third gold medal, which is crazy enough except that she
was 31 in real life! Just one more nutty aspect of this thoroughly
retarded film. Perhaps the most bizarre of all is the fact that the
plane goes through several traumas, spinning violently and nearly
crashing, yet after a layover in Paris, virtually every single
passenger GETS BACK ON! As if things weren't bad enough, the Olympics
that were pushed so heavily in this movie wound up being boycotted that
year by the U.S., so the whole film was outdated before it was even
released anyway! Good for a few laughs, but worthless as drama.
<|_=00=_|>
The real star of the last of the Airport films is that big supersonic
carrier the French created called The Concorde. If you bear in mind
that the whole film is dedicated to showing what that needle nosed
plane could do in the sky, than the whole film kind of makes sense.

But if you're expecting some serious drama here, than by all means take
some of the evasive action the Concorde shows here when some nasty
folks try to shoot her down.

Susan Blakely plays a television news reporter who also happens to be
the mistress of military industrial tycoon Robert Wagner. One of
Wagner's aides just happens to bring her information on some of
Wagner's dirty business dealings, selling arms to folks not friendly to
the USA. When the source, Macon McCalman, is killed in front of her and
she's nearly done in by a hit-man whom she escapes from of course she
confronts Wagner with the information. And of course he denies it. But
right before Blakely boards The Concorde, McCalman's widow Kathleen
Maguire hands her the necessary documents. 

But on the way to Moscow with a stop in Paris, Wagner and his minions
try to put the big bird down. But the fearless crew of Alain Delon,
David Warner, and George Kennedy is up to all their tricks. It's quite
a bag full as you'll see if you want to watch the film.

If you're an aviation enthusiast, you absolutely won't care about the
plot. It's like the film Le Mans with Steve McQueen which has a legion
of auto racing fans who have made it a cult item. Maybe Le Mans is
better at that because they just didn't bother with any kind of story.

Among the passengers is a pot smoking saxophonist played by Jimmie
Walker, a distraught mother accompanying a new heart for her child,
played by Cicely Tyson and Martha Raye a woman with a weak bladder who
spends the entire trip from Washington to Paris in the loo. She's
actually the best one here.

Robert Wagner must have been psychic though because I'm sure on the
strength of this film he got the part of Doctor Evil's number two in
the Austin Powers series.

I'm sure all concerned got a big pay day out of this film, but it seems
to have killed the Airport saga of movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Some slack might be cut this movie due to the fact that it was made in
1979. That much said, it really is pretty dire.

Never mind the laughable back-projection or the awful, awful
camera-tracking of supposed "in-flight" objects, it's the stunts that
the Concorde pulls off that will have you blinking in disbelief at the
absurdity. Barrel-rolls, loop-the-loops and violent "evasive" maneuvers
left me wondering why the Air-Forces of the world didn't just fly
Concordes as their main fighters.

So, here are the important lessons I learned from this celluloid
cheese-fest: 

1. The Concorde is at least as agile as a Phantom 4 jet-fighter.

2. You can fire a flare gun at Mach 2 simply by opening the cockpit
window and sticking your arm out.

3. If the flare gun fails to discharge, do not drop it, as it may then
go off.

4. The Concorde can dodge up to two Sidewinder missiles fired at it at
once.

5. A flare will distract a heat-seeking missile every time.

6. Switching off your jet-engines is a sure-fire way of throwing
heat-seeking missiles off track if 5 (above) fails.

7. When performing a crash-landing in the Concorde, it is apparently
impossible to jettison your fuel beforehand.

8. Concorde pilots are all combat-trained veterans.

As you might imagine, this film is not very realistic. The effects are
primitive by today's standards and that, coupled with the nonsense
acrobatics the Concorde performs, makes this a movie deserving of
little but scorn.

Not recommended. Not recommended at all!
<|_=00=_|>
Have you ever watched unintentional comedy? Well, this is it. There are
so many absurdities, I couldn't keep track. The best scenes are when
Robert Wagner decides to shoot down the plane with missiles and pass it
off as a mechanical failure, Charo tries to smuggle a Chichiauah on the
plane and, when it's discovered, claims it's her seeing eye dog, John
Davidson's hair stays in place when the plane flies upside down, when a
missile gets close to the plane, pilot George Kennedy rolls down the
pilot's seat window (at the speed of sound) to shoot at it, Jimmy
Walker smokes weed in the bathroom stall, and when stewardess Sylvia
Crystal says seductively "You pilots are such men!", Kennedy replies,
"They don't call it a cock-pit for nothing!" What floors me is that
after the first disaster, the plane takes off for another flight and
the passengers get back on! If I were a passenger, no way would I board
that plane! All this is backed up by special effects that wouldn't pass
for an episode of "Bewitched." If you can find this movie in the 99
cent section, I recommend it. I laughed more than I had laughed in
weeks. It's great entertainment in the worst way possible.
<|_=00=_|>
Ordered the complete AIRPORT movie set recently. Always been a fan of
the Airport series. First three, Airport (70), '75, '77, I've seen
numerous times and always liked all three. For some reason I've never
seen Airport '79 though. Ladies and gentleman, this has to be the all
time hokeyest movie I have ever seen in my 50 years of life! Bad
acting. Bad writing. Bad plot. Stupid plot. Bad special affects, even
for 1979. Just bad everything. Honestly, after the first 15-20 minutes
I was ready to turn it off. I was like, when is this movie going to get
going. I cannot believe all the well known actors in this movie
actually consented to being apart of this joke of a movie. I don't
think there is one movie I have ever not said you have to see at least
once until I viewed this one. I would NEVER recommend this movie to
anyone even as a joke and I will never watch it again.
