
An almost forgotten gem. I really liked the eery atmosphere in this
one; great actors, great music - and really outstanding cinematography.
I've never seen New York portrayed as grim and terrifying - and yet as
beautiful - as in this film. I wouldn't call this a werewolf movie and
it's certainly not your usual horror film either; although it does have
many characteristics of a genre movie (even some pre-Predator style
distorted camera effects), it is very much its own beast. There are no
fancy transformations, no groundbreaking visual effects from the likes
of Rick Baker, Rob Bottin or Stan Winston - but there are superb
visuals of another kind. And there's tension, suspense and a
fascinating story that gripped me right from the start. There are also
some very graphic, gory moments, but they are few and far between.
Director Michael Wadleigh has an interesting background: he was the
dude who made history in 1969 by making Woodstock happen. He took
Strieber's werewolf novel and brought something personal to it. Call it
a mythical eco-horror thriller if you will, it's certainly something
special. 7 out of 10 from me.

Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/

Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/

Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/
<|_=00=_|>
"They can hear a cloud pass overhead, the rhythm of your blood. They
can track you by yesterday's shadow. And they can tear the scream from
your throat. There is no defense." I love it when you can tell a movie
is gonna be great just from it's tagline. Wolfen is one of the most
thoroughly underrated films of the 80's if not film history. From
moment one with it's dreamy, monochromatic, animalistic tracking shots
Wolfen sets itself up as a different kind of werewolf film. With Wolfen
you get three movies in one a Dirty Harry-esquire cop investigation
movie with Albert Finney and Gregory Harrison turning in fine
performances as the ones investigating. A graphically intense horror
film, with a menacingly sadistic, creepily cool performance from Edward
James Olmos and of course the barely there "Wolfen" creatures. Lastly
you get a statement on environmental issues and the hierarchy of
society. Tom Noonan in his pre-Manhunter existence gives the movie a
touch of class as an animal lover who wants to study the "Wolfen." If
you're expecting a comedic werewolf movie such as "The Howling" or "An
American Werewolf in London" this film isn't for you. But if you want a
great suspense mystery, with dazzling visuals and one of the greatest
endings in history check Wolfen out.
<|_=00=_|>

Wolfen is something different to the many monster films floating around.
If
you watch this film expecting to see the usual mix of no brain slash and
gore then you will perhaps be disappointed or as was in my case pleasantly
surprised. Reading from other comments on this film it is easy to see that
it has been widely misunderstood.

Wolfen is not a Werewolf/Horror film although at times it does attempt to
be
so, which is where the confusion arises for the viewer. On one side we
have
the Wolfen portrayed as highly evolved beings merely protecting their
environment yet on the other side they shown to be remorseless killers as
and where the plot dictates. However do not let this paradox put you off a
film that is both scary and genuinely thought provoking.

The scenes set in and around areas of urban decay, particularly that of
the
church, are chilling and suspenseful. Whilst the Wolfen POV camera work is
groundbreaking and still effective by today's standards. Wolfen on the
whole
is a well made film, excellent use of music (or lack of it)to generate
suspense and quality actors and acting help bring you into the story
behind
the Wolfen.

For those that wish to critisise the beach scene when Edward James Olmos
dances naked across the sand as demeaning to Indians, well I think they're
rather missing the point. Surely the film is trying to show the prejudices
of Albert Finney's character rather than belittle any Indian
custom.

In summary a film with a message that chooses to show intelligence and
reason in its horrors.

<|_=00=_|>
The vicious, bloody homicide of a prominent businessman, his wife, and
bodyguard in New York's Battery Park brings shaggy detective Dewey
Wilson out to investigate. The three victims were partially
dismembered, and forensics finds non-human evidence on the bodies and
body parts. From that captivating start, Michael Wadleigh's 1981
mystery-thriller, "Wolfen," holds viewer interest throughout. Other
corpses surface during the course of the investigation, and,
mysteriously, while some body parts seem to have been gnawed or eaten,
diseased or cancerous organs were rejected. While rarely straying off
course, this engrossing film adds a dose of Native American mysticism
and lore to unraveling the series of murders. Although Wilson is not a
particularly demanding role, Albert Finney brings a weary depth of
character that enhances what could have been a stock character. Diane
Venora is adequate as Rebecca Neff, Wilson's co-worker and love
interest, but Gregory Hines is excellent as the forensics expert, and
Tom Noonan brightens his few scenes as a wolf enthusiast.

Based on a novel by Whitley Strieber, Wadleigh, who also co-wrote the
script with David Eyre, alludes to the killers' identity, but wisely
keeps them off screen throughout most of the film. When only a pair of
evil red eyes peer through the darkness, the imagination creates the
horror. The killings and victims are subjectively seen through the
killers's eyes with cinematographer Gerry Fisher's striking use of
thermographic images, which add a surreal element. However, Fisher's
non-thermographic photography is equally beautiful and turns the empty
shells of churches and apartment buildings in the South Bronx into an
otherworldly landscape consistent with the supernatural aspects of the
story.

Unfortunately, the eerie buildup and savagery of the murders create
expectations that the final revelation cannot meet. However, despite a
climax that brings the story to a soft-landing, "Wolfen" delivers for
most of its running time. With a fine understated performance by
Finney, evocative photography by Fisher, and a taut script by Wadleigh
and Eyre, "Wolfen" is a gem from the early 1980's that deserves to be
rediscovered.
<|_=00=_|>
After years of reading and watching all the werewolf stuff I can get my
hands on, I finally got around to reading and then watching Wolfen, and
I was blown away by the gorgeous, chilling cinematography. You may take
me at my word that I have seldom seen a film that was able to build the
tension of what you don't see, and reward you when you finally do see
it: I have never seen real wolves used so well, or shot so beautifully.
As in the book, the Wolfen are both terrifying and yet somehow noble,
and you respect the antagonism between them and the human characters
(played very well by Albert Finney and co.), and while the ending is
somewhat anticlimactic as opposed to its book counterpart, I was still
quite pleased with the film as a whole. The introduction of the Native
American element into the movie's version of the story made sense and
was enjoyable (though E.J. Olmos's nudity was a little much), and I
should also mention that the shots of New York were atmospheric and
gorgeous as well, and when combined with the werewolf element, make a
truly one-of-a-kind horror film. A must for werewolf fans, though
they're not werewolves in the strictest sense, but a creatures as
unique as their film: The Wolfen.
<|_=00=_|>
A New York cop (Albert Finney) investigates a series of brutal deaths
that resemble animal attacks. Tom Noonan and his beard guest star in a
key role.

The film is known for its early use of an in-camera effect to portray
the subjective point of view of a wolf. Similar to thermography, the
technique was later adopted by other horror films such as the
"Predator" film series.

Although considered a modern werewolf classic, Roger Ebert asserted
Wolfen "is not about werewolves but is about the possibility that
Indians and wolves can exchange souls." Well, yeah, that is true... but
it is still werewolves, even if not in the traditional sense.

Where is the proper release? This is what people want to know.
Apparently the director has a preferred cut, but instead all we get is
a bare bones Blu-ray with nothing more than a trailer. Surely there is
much more that could be done.
<|_=00=_|>
Wolfen is absolutely a classic of the horror genre. Released in
succession after the likes of Altered States, The Howling and An
American Werewolf in London it actually provides more tension than the
rest because it doesn't overdo the creature effects. The Howling is
probably the most famous of the three films yet after purchasing and
watching the blu-ray I realized something 33 years later... It's just
not scary. The transformations are graphic but feel too long and drawn
out now. As an adult I find that werewolves just are no longer scary.
Neither is Dracula. At least American Werewolf was funny and had a
charismatic lead. Where Wolfen exceeds it's genre roots is in it's
attention to plot details and character development. Albert Finney is
believable as a burned out cop and Gregory Hines is a treat as his co-
star/sidekick the coroner. There are scenes in this film that work on a
suspense level that few others can muster and the abandoned tenements
provide a creepy location for their two man reconnaissance. As far as
80's horror goes this is essential viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
When a famous tycoon, his wife, and his bodyguard are brutally murdered
in Battery Park, a cynical detective (Albert Finney) is assigned to the
case. With help from a police psychologist (Diane Venora), a colorful
coroner (Gregory Hines), and a weirdo zoologist (Tom Noonan), his
investigation leads him to suspect a Native American connection to the
killings. 

A great thriller with horror overtones that's a different kind of
werewolf film than any other (certainly at the time of release). Many
argue it isn't really a werewolf film at all. I can see why they'd say
that but I think it obviously counts as one. The film is directed by
Michael Wadleigh, whose only other directorial effort was the Woodstock
documentary. It's a shame he didn't do more because he does show a good
deal of talent here. Predator fans will notice this movie uses a
similar visual technique for the wolves' point of view, including
similar sound effects, years before the first Predator movie. The cast
is excellent and the script is pretty good, if a little packed. Nice
cinematography from Gerry Fisher and use of actual Bronx locations
helps in creating a fine atmosphere. It's a very interesting film that
tackles a number of subjects (probably too many). Monster movie fans
might balk at the lack of any "wolf men," but the strength of the movie
is not in its special effects or gore, but in its story and how it's
presented. Keep an open mind and give it a shot and I'm sure you'll
find something to like about Wolfen. I've seen it a few times now and
each time it gets better.
<|_=00=_|>
Highly stylised account of territorial beings protecting their heritage
from would be developers. Director Wadleigh offers a surreal,
suspenseful tale where mysticism and folklore conjure a modern day
nightmare for the residents of a New York city development precinct.

Finney is ideally cast as an unassuming police detective assigned to
investigate the apparent ritual slayings of a billionaire developer,
his wife and bodyguard in a New York park. Pulsating synthesisers and
point-of-view audio-visual cinematography add a sophisticated dimension
to this one of a kind movie, that benefits from an unusual cast who
excel in their offbeat characterisations.

Perfectly cast is future "Manhunter" (Red Dragon) Tom Noonan as the
over-protective zoologist, dancer Gregory Hines as the hip coroner, and
Edward James Olmos as the misplaced American Indian whose mystical
incantations reveal the true identity of the killer. Reginald Vel
Johnson (of "Die Hard" fame) also features in an hilarious bit part as
a morgue attendant.

The manufacturers of prosthetic, severed hands make a killing in this
movie which revels in its measured use of black comedic undertones. But
don't be fooled; this is still a thoughtful, sometimes graphic motion
picture that entertains on many levels. The often poetic dialogue and
haunting score should keep you curious about this movie enough to want
to see it again and again. A real sleeper.
<|_=00=_|>
Unusual film that takes a very different path from the traditional
werewolf movie. Low budget in feel, which is good, this starts
incredibly well with horror, gore and bewilderment. The use of the
negative image when we see through the eyes of the wolves is great, its
less plastic than ordinary SFX and far more realistic than CGI, its
also cheap (I've used it myself!) but the best thing about it is that
it is literally an inversion of reality, which is just what you want
here. Finney is fine but maybe should have been encouraged to put a
little more effort in. As for his co-star, Diane Venora, in her first
film, her lack of presence is worrying. I guess first time director
(apart from Woodstock work) Michael Wadleigh was not used to getting
the best out of his actors and indeed never made another film. Not to
take away from this little gem though, not perfect by any means but
different enough and occasionally startling enough to make at least one
viewing essential.
