
When you compare what Brian De Palma was doing in the 80's to what
passes for entertainment today, his films keep looking better and
better. "Dressed To Kill, "Blow Out", "Body Double", "Scarface" and
"Carlito's Way" are all superb works of a cinematic craftsman at the
peak of his powers. The guy had a long run of better than average
films. This is pure Hitchcock with an 80's dash of lurid perversion, an
affectionately told tale of lust and murder with plenty of twists, huge
helpings of style, a stunning Pino Donaggio score, and a trashy,
giallo-inspired plot. De Palma's love of complex camera-work and
luscious, blood-smudged visuals helps overcome the logical holes while
the terrific performances of Dennis Franz, Keith Gordon (a good
director in his own right), Nancy Allen (De Palma's wife at the time)
and Michael Caine make every scene special. Let the virtuoso take you
on a surreal, scary, erotically charged odyssey and you'll enjoy every
frame of "Dressed To Kill".
<|_=00=_|>
Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho may be one of the most influential movies
ever-for a start it was at least partially responsible for the whole
subgenre of 'slasher' movies and the shower scene has inspired more
homages than you can count. Brian De Palma's thriller Dressed To Kill
is basically a semi remake of Psycho,right from the structure of it's
story to it's villain right down to certain specific scenes. It's also
an absolutely stunning piece of audience manipulation and perhaps more
importantly a cracking thriller. Watch this film knowing about the
Psycho element and as long as you don't mind some graphic sex and
violence you should have a whale of a time. In fact,to a modern
audience it may very well be more effective than Psycho {and this is
coming from a big Hitckcock fan}.

De Palma's intentions are apparent right from the beginning,which shows
a naked woman, played by Angie Dickinson 'enjoying herself' in a
shower,with huge close ups of her breasts {not Angie Dickinson's
though}. A man suddenly surprises and assaults her. Than we cut to
Angie and her husband having loveless sex on a bed. This whole opening
sequence has it all-the Psycho reference,the slight twisting of that
reference,the dreamy eroticism,the sudden shock,the surprise. It shows
De Palma,more than anything else,playing with his audience,manipulating
them like puppets on strings. Yes,like Hitckcock,but sometimes going
further. Basically,if you like this opening sequence,you will enjoy the
rest of the film.

While there definitely IS a plot {quite a familiar one,but you should
know this by now},it is Dressed To Kill's set pieces that stand
out,that show De Palma's brilliance. There's a dreamlike and subtly
erotic sequence in an art gallery where Dickinson is picked up by a
stranger,an incredible murder in a lift which is shocking without
showing THAT much blood,a thrilling chase in an underground train
station where the heroine is pursued not just by the killer but for a
while by a gang of youths,a very scary ending about which I won't go
into {except that it features another shower scene!}but where the
tension is ramped up to an incredible degree. Here,De Palma is BETTER
than Hitchcock.

Although the best scenes are those without dialogue,where De Palma just
lets Pino Donnaggio's lush,darkly beautiful score take over the
sound,there is quite a bit of fun to be had in the often deliberately
humorous dialogue,and the really rather cute relationship between nerdy
Keith Gordon and tough as nails Nancy Allen,who make a great team. The
identity of the killer is not exactly hard to spot,perhaps more work
could have been done here,but going by the cheeky attitude of the film
in general this may have been intentional. 

When Dressed To Kill originally came out it was heavily criticised for
being misogynist,especially with the first third of the film {just in
case you HAVEN'T seen Psycho,I won't go into detail}. I've always
believed that this part of the film is about the possible dangers of
indulging one's fantasies. De Palma is NOT a misogynist anyway
really,think of the many memorable heroines of his films. Even if you
disagree, see Dressed to Kill to see an oft criticised but occasionally
brilliant director at the height of his powers.
<|_=00=_|>
Kate Miller (Angie Dickinson) is having problems in her marriage and
otherwise--enough to see a psychologist. When her promiscuity gets her
into trouble, it also involves a bystander, Liz Blake (Nancy Allen),
who becomes wrapped up in an investigation to discover the identity of
a psycho killer.

Dressed to Kill is somewhat important historically. It is one of the
earlier examples of a contemporary style of thriller that as of this
writing has extensions all the way through Hide and Seek (2005). It's
odd then that director Brian De Palma was basically trying to crib
Hitchcock. For example, De Palma literally lifts parts of Vertigo
(1958) for Dressed to Kill's infamous museum scene. Dressed to Kill's
shower scenes, as well as its villain and method of death have
similarities to Psycho (1960). De Palma also employs a prominent score
with recurrent motifs in the style of Hitchcock's favorite composer
Bernard Herrmann. The similarities do not end there.

But De Palma, whether by accident or skill, manages to make an oblique
turn from, or perhaps transcend, his influence, with Dressed to Kill
having an attitude, structure and flow that has been influential. Maybe
partially because of this influence, Dressed to Kill is also deeply
flawed when viewed at this point in time. Countless subsequent
directors have taken their Hitchcock-like De Palma and honed it,
improving nearly every element, so that watched now, after 25 years'
worth of influenced thrillers, much of Dressed to Kill seems
agonizingly paced, structurally clunky and plot-wise inept.

One aspect of the film that unfortunately hasn't been improved is
Dressed to Kill's sex and nudity scenes. Both Dickinson and Allen treat
us to full frontal nudity (Allen's being from a very skewed angle), and
De Palma has lingering shots of Dickinson's breasts, strongly implicit
masturbation, and more visceral sex scenes than are usually found in
contemporary films. Quite a few scenes approach soft-core porn. I'm no
fan of prudishness--quite the opposite. Our culture's puritanical,
monogamistic, sheltered attitude towards sex and nudity is disturbing
to me. So from my perspective, it's lamentable that Dressed to Kill's
emphasis on flesh and its pleasures is one of the few aspects in which
others have not strongly followed suit or trumped the film. Perhaps it
has been desired, but they have not been allowed to follow suit because
of cultural controls from conservative stuffed shirts.

De Palma's direction of cinematography and the staging of some scenes
are also good enough that it is difficult to do something in the same
style better than De Palma does it. He has an odd, characteristic
approach to close-ups, and he's fond of shots from interesting angles,
such as overhead views and James Whale-like tracking across distant
cutaways in the sets. Of course later directors have been flashier, but
it's difficult to say that they've been better. Viewed for film-making
prowess, at least, the museum scene is remarkable in its ability to
build very subtle tension over a dropped glove and a glance or two
while following Kate through the intricately nested cubes of the
Metropolitan Museum of Art.

On the other hand, from a point of view caring about the story, and
especially if one is expecting to watch a thriller, everything through
the museum scene and slightly beyond might seem too slow and silly.
Because of its removal from the main genre of the film and its primary
concern with directorial panache (as well as cultural facts external to
the film), the opening seems like a not very well integrated attempt to
titillate and be risqué. Once the first murder occurs, things improve,
but because of the film's eventual influence, much of the improvement
now seems a bit clichéd and occasionally hokey.

The performances are mostly good, although Michael Caine is underused,
and Dickinson has to exit sooner than we'd like (but the exit is
necessary and very effective). Dressed to Kill is at least likely to
hold your interest until the end, but because of facts not contained in
the picture itself, hasn't exactly aged well. At this point it is
perhaps best to watch the film primarily as a historical relic and as
an example--but not the best, even for that era--of some of De Palma's
directorial flair.
<|_=00=_|>
A great suspense movie with terrific slow camera-work adding to the
dramatics makes this a treat to watch and enjoy. Director-writer Brian
de Palma does a super Hitchcock-imitation (many called it a "ripoff")
with this film and the 2.35:1 widescreen DVD is a must to fully
appreciate the camera-work (and several scenes with people hiding on
each side which are lost on formatted-for-TV tapes).

The downside of the movie, at least to anyone that has some kind of
moral standard, is the general sleaziness of all the characters,
including the policeman played by a pre-NYPD Dennis Franz (who has hair
here!). 

The opening scene is still shocking with a fairly long shower scene of
Angie Dickinson that is quite explicit, even 25 years after its
release. The film has several erotic scenes in it as Dickinson (if that
is really her on the closeups) and Nancy Allen are not shy about
showing their bodies.

There is not much dialog in the first 20 minutes and no bad language
until Franz enters the picture after the murder. The first 36 minutes
are riveting and even though it's apparent who the killer is, it's
still very good suspense and fun to watch all the way through,
particularly for males ogling the naked women.
<|_=00=_|>

'Dressed To Kill' was Brian De Palma's third Hitchcockian thriller, and his
most successful. I don't necessarily mean artistically successful, but it
still remains one of his best known movies, and is the one on which his
reputation as "that Hitchcock" guy mainly rests on. De Palma has made all
kinds of movies in his long career but it says a lot for the impact 'Dressed
To Kill' had on audiences for him to be stereotyped like that by many movie
lovers. In 'Sisters' De Palma paid tribute to 'Rear Window', in his
underrated 'Obsession' it was 'Vertigo', and this time around 'Psycho' is
the major inspiration. Some critics of De Palma complain he is more
interested in style over substance, and in 'Dressed To Kill' there is some
truth in that. You will probably guess the murderer after the first 20-25
minutes, then think to yourself "no, that's just a red herring and there
will be an unexpected twist later on". You might then be a bit let down when
the your initial guess turns out to be correct after all, but there are
enough thrills and dazzling sequences throughout to keep most thriller fans
happy. Michael Caine and Angie Dickinson are both pretty good in their
respective roles, but Nancy Allen ('RoboCop') gives the real outstanding
performance in the picture. De Palma would subsequently give her another
good role in 'Blow Out' opposite John Travolta. Also strong are Keith Gordon
(who went on to star in John Carpenter's 'Christine') and Dennis Franz
('NYPD Blue') in supporting roles. Personally I don't think 'Dressed To
Kill' is as good as 'Sisters', but I still think it's first rate
exploitation thriller and definitely worth watching. Not De Palma's most
interesting movie by a long shot, but still one of his most
watchable.
<|_=00=_|>

"Dressed To Kill", is one of the best thrillers ever made.  Its dealings
with sex and violence make this a film for adults.  Brian De Palma, once
again, proves why no other director can match his use of the camera to tell
a story.  He directs many scenes without dialog, and he tells much of his
story, strictly through the use of his visuals, and Pino Donnagio's
brilliant score.  Filmed in Panavision, the film MUST be seen in widescreen,
as De Palma uses the entire width of the film to tell his story.  Cropped,
on video, "Dressed To Kill", is barely the same movie.  Solid performances
from its cast, superb direction, and, perhaps, the finest film score ever
written, make "Dressed To Kill" a must see.

<|_=00=_|>
In France, it's considered polite from French critics to genuflect to
the apparently cohesive chain of films Brian De Palma left behind him.
However, a good proportion of his films are marred by bombastic effects
"Carrie" (1976), "the Fury" (1978) "Scarface" (1983) without mentioning
his borrowings from Hitchcock. Here, in "Dressed to Kill", it's
impossible not to think of "Vertigo" (1958) for the long sequence in
the museum while the key moment in the lift makes inevitably think of
the shower anthology sequence in "Psycho" (1960). About our involved
film, I don't want to revive the old debate: does De Palma rip off
Hitchcock? Instead, i would tend to be generous and to classify
"Dressed to Kill" in the category of De Palma's winners alongside
"Sisters" (1973) and "Obssession" (1976). With however some
reservations and they're the ones I previously enumerated which fuel
the bickering between De Palma's rabid fans and his detractors.

If there's one sure thing in "Dressed to Kill" which can generate
general agreement among film-lovers, it's De Palma's virtuosity in
directing. He wields his camera just like a filmmaker expert is
supposed to do. His sophisticated camera work brilliantly fuels the
suspense which entails a rise of the tension and a discomforting aura.
The audience is easily glued in front of the screen. This is helped by
the use of several long silent sequences during which everything
depends on looks and gestures. By the way, in "Psycho", there were also
long silent, suspenseful parts...

But the main drawback in De Palma's 1980 vintage is that the quality of
the plot can't be found wanting and appears to be a rehash of many
formulaic, corny ingredients pertaining to an incalculable number of
murder stories. The prostitute is the sole witness of the crime. Then,
she's suspected by the police and has to act on her own (with a little
help from the victim's son from the scene in the subway onwards)) to
track down the murderer and to prove her innocence. Apart from the fact
that De Palma uses a type of character who for once isn't demeaned at
all, it's a menu which smells the reheated. And the filmmaker ends his
film on a sequence that echoes to the opening one. Yes, it's superbly
filmed but when one discovers its real function, one figures: "it's
almost gratuitous filler". Perhaps De Palma wanted to stretch his film
beyond one hour and a half when at this time the viewer knows (and even
before) who the killer is.

The two central mainsprings in De Palma's set of themes articulate
hinges on manipulation and voyeurism. The latter theme is well present
in "Dressed to Kill" from the first scene onwards which makes the film
almost look like a soft porn movie. And the filmmaker isn't afraid to
film his main actress and wife Nancy Allen in her underwear. I find his
approach about this theme rather doubtful. But maybe the first sequence
was conceived to be a mirror of the viewer and De Palma wanted to stir
his peeping tom side.

I don't want to demean at all De Palma's work. His prestigious work in
directing which entails a communicative treat to film redeems the
global weakness of the story and its doubtful aspects. Twenty six years
after, the controversy he aroused amid movie-goers isn't ready to
subside.
<|_=00=_|>
"Dressed to Kill" is an intense, dreamy, erotically charged thriller,
and clearly another of filmmaker Brian De Palma's homages to the works
of Alfred Hitchcock. It manages the neat trick of being fairly classy
and rather trashy at the same time, as De Palma brings all of his
directing skill to bear. This may not be his best but it's certainly
one of his most well known, thanks in no small part to the excellent
star trio of Michael Caine, Angie Dickinson, and Nancy Allen; Allen, of
course, was married to De Palma at the time.

Caine plays an eminent psychiatrist, Dr. Robert Elliott, and Dickinson
portrays Kate Miller, one of his patients who's not getting any sexual
fulfillment in her life. Unfortunately, once she is able to experience
an afternoon of passion the satisfaction is short lived, as a tall,
cold looking blonde woman in sunglasses and trenchcoat slashes her to
death with a straight razor. (This has to rank as one of the scariest
ever elevator rides captured on film.) A witness on the scene is high
priced call girl Liz Blake (Allen), who's accused of the crime after
stupidly picking up the murder weapon. So she ends up working with
Kate's son Peter (Keith Gordon) to try to identify the woman, who Liz
and Peter guess to be another of Elliott's patients.

In the opening minutes of his film De Palma shows you what you're going
to be in for, showing Dickinson pleasuring herself in the shower
(intercutting shots of Dickinson with those of a body double) until a
male stranger materializes behinds her and starts forcing himself on
her. The combination of sex and danger is always stressed in this
movie; as we will learn our killer has some severe psycho sexual
problems. There are some highly memorable sequences, such as an
extended seduction taking place inside an art museum, that being
followed by a steamy coupling in the back of a cab. Other aspects that
make it effective are Jerry Greenberg's editing (this was the man that
cut "The French Connection", after all), Ralf Bode's widescreen
cinematography, and Pino Donaggio's haunting music.

The actors each get an impressive showcase; both Dickinson and Allen
look amazing to boot. Included in the cast are Dennis Franz as the
investigating detective, David Margulies as the psychiatrist who
explains everything for us in the end in case we didn't already get it,
William Finley who does some uncredited voice work, and Brandon Maggart
in a brief bit as a john.

Overall, the film has a definite ability to get under one's skin. It's
often genuinely spooky and could easily shock more sensitive viewers
due to the level of sexual frankness on display. While subtlety may be
in short supply, it's hard to deny the ability of "Dressed to Kill" to
manipulate us into a state of excitement and expectation.

Eight out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Brian De Palma's early films all portrayed little gender wars. Along
these lines we had sororicide in "Sisters", in which Feminized and
Masculinized twins jostle for control, and incest and matricide in
"Obsession", in which a father usurps his wife to be with his daughter.
Next came "Carrie", in which telekinesis becomes a little girl's means
of fighting off various groups of monogamists, nymphomaniacs, romantics
and repressed fundamentalists, all in an attempt to assert her own
sexual independence. De Palma then released "The Fury", in which the
guilt-ridden narrator of "Carrie" (Amy Irving) represents the
monstrosity of adolescence, of potentiality. That film ended with the
return of the Repressed, and the ridiculously orgasmic destruction
(John Cassavetes becomes a raging erection who explodes at Irving's
new-found whims) of the conservators of an inhibitory adult order.

Even De Palma's first features, "Greetings" and "Wedding Party",
portrayed gender as being a performance and white male heterosexuality
as needing to be rigorously, continuously reenacted in order to be
maintained with any coherence, often by repeatedly destroying that
which it defines itself against (homosexuality, femininity, the Other
etc).

De Palma's sleazy "Dressed to Kill" continues this obsession with
gender construction. Here Michael Caine plays Robert Elliot, a
trans-gender who is psychically possessed by a feminine personality
(anima), a possession which causes him to kill women in order to
prevent his masculine personality (animus) from being aroused.
Thematically, the film's reference point is Alfred Hitchcock's
"Psycho". Visually, it's "Vertigo" and "North by Northwest" on cocaine.

In post-McCarthyist America, the rigid enforcement of anti-communism
frequently meant the assertion of a masculine totalitarianism, which
often targeted "sexual deviants" and posited "them" as sexually
perverted bogeymen out to destroy society/family. These fears
eventually gave way to a post 1960s resistance directed against
centralised power and the pressures of conformity. Released in 1960,
"Psycho's" Norman Bates (the name's a pun: "nor man", "norma" and
"normal") – a transsexual who identifies his Mother/the Feminine as the
source of the phallus – was essentially made murderous through the
interior colonisation of the American subject by pseudo-Freudian
beliefs in essentialization and the medicalization of gender and
sexuality (medical understandings of the gay/transsexual have relied on
a collapsing of sex and gender, viewing both as "the same thing").
Norman's "rebellion" against masculine power was crazy, but the
dominant order itself emerged as being insane.

"Dressed" continues this cultural unease with traditional gender
alignments, but focuses on a post 1960s trend amongst transsexuals and
certain strains of feminism to essentialize gender. Here, Elliot's male
body is literally possessed by Bobbi, a feminine personality which
desires a sex reassignment operation so that Elliot may become a
"woman" with "the right body". In other words, transsexuals are victims
of a society which equates the genitalia with gender behaviour and
confuses the organ with the signifier; ridding themselves of the organ
they can thus supposedly be rid of the signifier which divides them.
"Dressed" then enters "Scarface" territory. Rather than accepting the
status of symbolic subject, the transsexual, like the "normal" subject,
searches for illusory wholeness which he/she believes will be attained
by altering the body in order to possess "it", the "it" which in
American society is invested with the meaning of the subject's whole
being. Unsurprisingly, in real life, transsexuals more frequently wish
to be "girls" rather than "women"; an attempt to ward of
self-fragmentation and to establish a pre-social self. The incapability
of achieving discursive mastery is itself a common De Palma theme, the
subject continually floundering in the dark to sustain his identity.
For De Palma, traditional male subjectivity is predicated on the notion
of male wholeness and feminine lack, whilst "Woman" serves as the Other
for the male subject, a place where he projects and disavows his
castration. As inadequacy continually "feminizes" the male subject, the
cycle must be continually repeated (partially why action movies start
looking "gay", camp or homo-erotic after a couple years).

Though deemed misogynistic, "Dressed" really highlights how individuals
are "bent" by a larger cultural discourse. Bobbi has been "trained" to
equate the male body with negative dominant and violent behaviour. She
represents a strand of feminism which reduces gender roles to the same
binary logic they had always been subjected to (only reversing them:
male=bad; female=good). In her desire to make herself the politically
correct sex/gender ("riding between cars is prohibited", a cunningly
placed sign states, referring to Bobbie's refusal to allow for gender
ambiguity), Bobbie then emerges as the vulgar, dark side of late 1970s
feminism, man-hating, repressive, murderous and essential-minded. By
essentializing gender roles, certain feminists, like transsexuals,
replicate hegemonic ideas.

Bobbi then targets Kate Miller, a woman whom she murders with a phallic
shaving knife. Kate's a figure of sexual independence, capable of her
own desires/fantasies. Bobbi kills Kate to silence feminine desire,
eradicating all who complicate traditional, bio-cultural gender roles.
Supporting her is Detective Marino, a foul-mouthed, sexist, aggressive
cop. In her way is Peter, the only positive male character in the film,
a sensitive, accepting male. Kate's iconic "courtship" ritual in a
museum (see "Vertigo", De Palma's Bible), with a man named Warren, is
itself an intricately staged game of shifting power, Kate wavering
between masculine aggressiveness/overt sexuality and feminine
respectability/passivity in this sequence; pursing and pursued, pushed
and pushing, spectator and object.

Another character, Liz, ignores telecasts which mention "individuals
with penises being supposed to develop masculine identities". She
understands that gender is a masquerade, a position one assumes, and is
seen discussing her stock-market investments (traditionally masculine)
and dressing in both masculine and feminine clothes. She has moved
beyond the essentialist logic of Elliott/Bobbi. 

8.5/10 - With its baroque visuals and flamboyant camera work, "Dressed
To Kill" remains a De Palma classic. Worth multiple viewings.
<|_=00=_|>
"Dressed To Kill" is a visually impressive psychological thriller which
contains moments of suspense, humour and violence and also numerous
twists and bizarre developments. Its story is delivered in a way which
is extremely elegant, fluid and well paced and also features enough
unexpected elements to keep even the most demanding viewer fully
engaged throughout.

Director Brian de Palma is generally recognised as a disciple of Alfred
Hitchcock and this movie is clearly influenced by "Psycho". There are
numerous direct similarities including the style of the murder, the
type of weapon used and Angie Dickinson's role fulfilling the same
function as Janet Leigh's. It's also interesting, however, that the
Hitchcock influences don't stop there. The choice of the back of a taxi
as the location for a steamy encounter involving Angie Dickinson's
character and a stranger is undoubtedly inspired by one of Hitchcock's
widely quoted anecdotes which related to his preference for leading
ladies who might initially appear to be cool or remote. The amount of
audience manipulation used is also a characteristic of Hitchcock's
work.

Brian de Palma is so technically adept that his work on this movie
ensures that it never becomes mere pastiche. An extended segment of the
story which is told without dialogue is immensely impressive and the
split screen sequences are also very effective.

Kate Miller (Angie Dickinson) is a frustrated middle aged housewife who
discusses her problems with her psychiatrist, Dr Robert Elliott
(Michael Caine) and in the course of their conversation comes on to
him. He resists and later she goes on to have a fling with a complete
stranger before being brutally murdered. The only witness to the crime
is a high class call girl called Liz Blake (Nancy Allen) whose story
isn't believed by the police and she becomes their main suspect and
also the killer's next target. She then sets off to find the real
murderer and joins forces with Kate's teenage son Peter (Keith Gordon)
who is an inventor with a precocious talent which he puts to good use
in trying to ascertain the identity of the killer.

The quality of the acting is consistently high with Angie Dickinson
being particularly good at conveying her feelings during the sequence
which had no dialogue and Nancy Allen being equally successful at
portraying her character's streetwise attitude and vulnerability.
Dennis Franz is also amusing in his support role as the crude and
insensitive Detective Marino.

The exceptionally beautiful score by Pino Donaggio is haunting and
absolutely perfect for this particular movie.
