

Mickey Rourke has to be one of the greatest, yet most under-rated,

American actors alive today.  This film proves it.  He plays this

character with layers and a depth few could accomplish or would

even dare.  Unfortunately, most people regard his personal life

(and abrasive personality itself) with such disdain that they refuse

to fairly judge his professional accomplishments.

Rourke plays a grotesquely facially disfigured man who's life of

ridicule, non-existent home-life, and resultant self-guilt have led

him to a life of crime.  Nothing original there, I'll admit.  But one

must watch Rourke's subtle portrayal to see not a man of rage, as

most actors would give, and be expected of, from the audience, but

a man quietly locked into his world of pain.  The way he holds his

cigarette from the top, so as to cover part of his face; the downward

tilt of his head, eyes averted from anyone's gaze; or the curt, quiet

speaking so as not to draw too much attention.  The example of

speech is in itself remarkable.  Not only does Rourke affect a

severe speech impediment as the disfigured Johnny Handsome,

but he then takes on a new one as a man who is now capable of

proper diction, but who is completely unused to being able to

speak properly.  And he is constant in his portrayal throughout.

The story is simple but good, driven with excellent visual editing,

and a wonderful sound track (provided by Ry Cooder), that really

sets the pacing.  The cast is largely wonderful, as well, with quite a

few recognizable "stars".  Forest Whitaker as the sympathetic but

driven and demanding doctor, Lance Henrikson and Ellen Barkin

in amazing performances as two completely greedy "scum-bags",

and Morgan Freeman, in a real role reversal, as a rotten, taunting

parole officer.  Probably the only weak link in the cast is Elizabeth

McGovern, who's attempted Louisiana accent never holds up and

over-all acting just suffices.

This film remains a favorite of mine that I watch every now and

again, always enjoying it both for the excitingly building tension of

the story, and the great performances (and performers) littered

throughout the film.  If you like this film, I also suggest "The

Elephant Man", by David Lynch (for the life-with-disfigurement

aspects), or "The Warriors", by Walter Hill, as a great, early

example of this same director's work.

8/10  Mickey Rourke at his best!
<|_=00=_|>
"Johnny Handsome" is a flawed but fascinating work from Walter Hill.
Mickey Rourke is great as a deformed criminal who returns to avenge the
people (Ellen Barkin and Lance Henriksen) who wronged him. The conceit
of the premise is that Johnny's enemies will not see him coming with
his new face, a face rebuilt after his ugly one was cut to pieces.
Unfortunately, this potentially rich premise is quickly discarded and
the film becomes a more standard crime yarn with a pointless love story
thrown in. Johnny's love interest, Elizabeth McGovern, who was great in
a similar role in "Racing With The Moon", is wasted and just doesn't
belong in this material.

Lance Henriksen and Ellen Barkin are great as two of the oiliest
lowlifes to impact with a movie screen in years. Barkin's pronunciation
of the word "geek", when referring to Rourke's character, is hilarious,
as is the crime couple's incessant badgering of each other. If the film
had focused more on this duo and less on McGovern and another subplot
involving Forest Whitaker, who is saddled with a dreadfully written
role as a doctor who tries to help Johnny, it would have been a true
contender.

The opening robbery scene is classic Hill -- brutal and economical --
and sets high expectations for the mayhem to come. Ry Cooder's slide
guitar score is mesmerizing, and Mathew F. Leonetti's cinematography is
moody and beguiling.

Ultimately, the film is a gritty pulp crime novel compromised by studio
concessions. Which is such a crying shame.
<|_=00=_|>

Mickey Rourke gives an astonishing performance as John Sedley a deformed
thug who gets a chance at a normal life when a kind Doctor (Forrest
Whitaker) asks to do plastic surgery on Sedley. Sedley accepts and is torn
between going straight or getting revenge on the two(Lance Henriksen and
Ellen Barkin) that killed his friend Mikey (Scott Wilson)in this
compelling
yet slightly long drama.  Some very exciting actionscenes and a good ear
for
dialog make Johnny Handsome stand out from other revenge flicks in the
genre.
<|_=00=_|>
It is rare that a movie with a premise as far-fetched as Johnny
Handsome could wind up being so memorable. It helps when a top notch
action director is assisted by an outstanding ensemble cast firing on
all cylinders to make this story believable.

Johnny Handsome hit theaters in the fall of '89. It bombed, largely due
to a weak promotional campaign by Tri-Star pictures. 19 years later, it
is still unavailable on DVD. The excellent cast includes Ellen Barkin,
Scott Wilson, and future Oscar winners Morgan Freeman and Forrest
Whittaker. However, it is Mickey Rourke in the title role and Lance
Henriksen as his arch-nemesis who truly hit grand slams with their
performances. The heartbreaking original score by Ry Cooder and the
rich atmosphere of the New Orleans setting also elevate this material
considerably. This is not your typical revenge action picture.

The movie can best be described as a gritty, noir-ish crime drama with
a sci-fi twist that maintains plausibility instead of running off the
rails into comedic territory as with 1997's Face/Off. The film moves at
a brisk pace, which is fine, but this fact ultimately winds up being
the only flaw with Johnny Handsome. One almost gets the impression more
was filmed but the studio demanded a 90 minute cut. A Special Edition
director's cut DVD is warranted. A longer run time allowing for more
scenes to flesh out the characters portrayed by the great supporting
cast would have made this already outstanding film a true classic.

It would really be nice to see Walter Hill direct another action film
one of these days. Hill and Peckinpah were the real deals. Other
filmmakers (such as John Woo) strive to match the perfection of these
two, but have yet to achieve it.
<|_=00=_|>
The ratings at IMDb are generally pretty accurate; if a film is rated
8, it's good, if it's rated 6 it's not so good, and if it's rated 4,
you shouldn't waste your time. This is the first time I can remember
being really baffled by a rating - this film really deserves to be
rated much higher.

The plot is simple enough. Johnny Handsome has been given an ironic
name because of his hideous disfigurement which makes him repulsive to
everyone he meets. In the circumstances, he doesn't have much choice
but to turn to crime, and when he's betrayed by his accomplices, he
ends up in jail. There he meets a brilliant surgeon, who fixes his face
and makes him look like - well, like Mickey Rourke. Released on parole
he finds a job and a girlfriend, but he can't escape his grim past and
his need for vengeance.

Now I'm not saying the film is perfect by any means. There are plot
holes a-go-go, and the whole thing falls apart a bit in the last twenty
minutes or so - the ending is especially disappointing. But come on,
it's better than 5.6, with good performances from Rourke, Forest
Whitaker and a turn of twinkly eyed cynicism from Morgan Freeman, who
effortlessly steals every scene he appears in. And let's not forget a
deliciously over the top effort from Ellen Barkin as the baddest girl
ever to walk the earth.

It isn't Shakespeare, but it's directed in typically robust style by
Walter Hill, and to my surprise I found myself caring about Johnny and
hoping it all worked out for him. I won't say whether it does or not,
because it's worth seeing this one to find out for yourself. Just get a
big bucket of popcorn and don't think too much, and you'll have a great
time.
<|_=00=_|>

This is an engrosssing,pulse pounding thriller. It has depth not often
found in many Hollywood movies in its characters. Even though it was made
in
1989, this is classic Film-Noir. It has that dark, edgy, disturbing feel
that is typically found only in Detective Movies of the 30s and 40s. It
reaches down into the dark recesses of the soul and displays them for the
audience. The way it plays out is much more in the style of Old Movies. It
displays the powerful extremes that come in the nature of Good and Evil.
This movie isn't just a simple thrill-ride of a movie, it is powerful,
gripping entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
Having seen the trailer multiple times as well as seeing 2 other Walter
Hill films (Red Heat and Trespass), I had come across this underrated
gem at Borders for $15. And I decided, why not? For me, the movie was
$15 well spent.

Mickey Rourke plays John Sedley, a small-time hood whose deformation
has given him the nickname, "Johnny Handsome", who is in the midst of
planning a robbery with his friend, Mikey Chalmette (Played by Scott
Wilson) and 2 other criminals, Rafe and Sunny (Played by the always
great Lance Henriksen and Ellen Barkin.) In the middle of the robbery,
John and Mikey are double-crossed by Sunny and Rafe. Mikey ends up
killed and Johnny is arrested. While in jail, Lt. Drones (Played by
Morgan Freeman) offers Johnny a chance to participate in a rehab
program. Johnny accepts the offer and while at the rehab, Johnny is
stabbed and taken to a hospital. At the hospital, the sympathetic Dr.
Steven Fisher (Played by Forest Whitaker) gives Johnny a new face, a
new identity (Johnny is given the name Johnny Mitchell), and a new shot
at life. Johnny is eventually granted parole and gets a job at a plant.
Going straight isn't all that easy, however. What Johnny really intends
to do is get even with Rafe and Sunny.

I found the film to be an intense and underrated revenge noir that
really deserves more attention than it already has. The score by Ry
Cooder (Also responsible for the equally good score for Trespass) fits
the film well too. The only thing that I did not like about the film
was the ending, which was pretty sad. Nevertheless, it's a fun film
that will hopefully, get more recognition in the future.

Highly recommended.

DVD Extras: The movie is presented in a crisp 1.33:3 full frame format,
although I really don't know why Artisan decided against showing the
film in it's original 1.85 aspect ratio, but it's still a good
presentation. It's also VHS sourced, as if you watch the film all the
way to the end, you'll see the I.V.E. logo.
<|_=00=_|>
Well renowned action director Walter Hill tackles a more moody,
character driven crime drama in the shape of "Johnny Handsome" and it
would have to be one of his under-the-radar productions. The story
follows that of a deformed criminal John who stages a heist, however
there's a double-cross which sees his best friend killed and him going
to prison. There he is asked to take part in a rehabilitation program,
where they clear him of his deformity while also getting him parole.
Hoping now that he can start a new life, however John is still burning
inside for vengeance. 

Presenting an ideal cast, Hill really does cast a spell over his
audience with solid (even if it does feel a bit underdone)
story-telling backed up by credibly good performances from leading man
Mickey Rourke (within the peak of his career) and equally so support by
Morgan Freeman, Ellen Barkin Lance Henrikson, Elizabeth McGovern and
Forest Whitaker. Everybody chips in, adding their own stamp to
proceedings and establishing gripping character rapports or
confrontations (e.g. between Freeman's detective and Whitaker's
doctor).

Hill's cruise-like direction is crisp and tidy, engineering some
intense passages and some well-oiled, edgy action set-pieces, although
they are low-key (still violent) but this really does belong to its
cast and the interestingly, smart story (that was adapted off John
Godey's novel "The Three Worlds of Johnny Handsome"). The ambitious
plot does have a lot going on and it might not all come together, but
how it does play out stays constantly interesting and rather unpleasant
in its details. Rourke's character Johnny is given a chance to start
over and go straight, from this physical change brings much needed
confidence but the hunger inside for revenge can't simply be cured or
forgotten. Someone he cared for, who saw beyond his deformity deserved
payback. Johnny would deliver it. So he carefully plans out the
revenge, wanting to tease before actually ending it and things get even
more suspenseful when the situation starts to go off the rails. Lance
Henrikson and Ellen Barkin really do nail down their explosively sly
parts of the two crooks who betrayed Johnny. The ever-reliable, Hill
regular Ry Cooder adds a smoking touch to the music score.

One of those films I didn't know all that much of, but came away
pleasantly surprised.
<|_=00=_|>
Johnny Handsome is directed by Walter Hill and adapted to screenplay by
Ken Friedman from the novel "The Three Worlds of Johnny Handsome"
written by John Godey. It stars Mickey Rourke, Ellen Barkin, Elizabeth
McGovern, Lance Henriksen, Forest Whitaker, Morgan Freeman and Scott
Wilson. Music is by Ry Cooder and cinematography by Matthew F.
Leonetti.

John Sedley (Rourke), AKA: Johnny Handsome, has a severely disfigured
face, when he and his only real friend are double-crossed by two
accomplices during a robbery, Johnny is sent to prison and his life
reaches a new low. However, hope springs in the form of Dr. Steven
Fisher (Whitaker), a pioneering plastic surgeon who offers to give
Johnny surgery that would give him a normal face as he attempts to
integrate back into society. With a new face making him unrecognisable,
there is scope to enact revenge on the two people who killed his best
friend and had him put in prison...

Walter Hill knows his film noir, anyone who has seen The Driver knows
this. Here for Johnny Handsome, Hill takes a lot of the fantastical
elements of noir and dresses it up admirably as a violent revenge
thriller. A box office flop and something of a kicking post for big
hitting critics of the late 1980s, it's a film that now can be seen as
being very much in tune with its influences.

The charges of it being too bonkers, too violent and too much of a "B"
movie homage just don't add up, because what is on offer is good solid
meaty neo-noir cinema. A protagonist with an affliction, medical
shenanigans, hyper femme fatale, over the top villain and a stoic and
sarcastic gumshoe type copper. All of which operate in a sweaty and
luridly coloured New Orleans. Add in Hill's eye for aggressive action
sequences and it's neo a go-go.

Hill gets strong performances from his cast, ensuring emotional bonds
are not over egged and a clamour for sympathy and understanding kept to
a bearable level by the actors playing the "good" guys "n" dolls. While
giving Henriksen and Barkin licence to sizzle with sinister glee is
astute and perfectly in tune with the material on the page. Leonetti's
photography has the requisite pulpy noirishness to it, and the familiar
twangs of Ry Cooder are never a bad thing in a Walter Hill movie.

It's not perfect by any stretch of the imagination, but those
complaining about missed opportunities regarding rehabilitation - or
that the liberal doctor turns out to be clinically wrong in his reform
beliefs - really are missing the point or unaware of the world where
something like Johnny Handsome lives. From the kinetic misery at film's
start, to the "ever so in tune with film noir" finale, Johnny Handsome
is well worth a look by anyone interested in noir's updated version.
7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Johnny Handsome (Mickey Rooker) is a deformed gangster who planned a
successful robbery with a friend of him Mikey Chalmette (Scott Wilson)
and the couple Sunny Boid (Ellen Barkin) and Rafe Garrett (Lance
Henriksen). After the heist, Johnny and Mikey are double-crossed by
Sunny and Rafe, being Mikey killed and Johnny sent to prison. A few
years later, Johnny is invited to a rehabilitation program, where Dr.
Steven Fischer (Forest Whitaker) rebuilds Johnny's face and obtains his
parole. Johnny starts working in a shipyard, where he meets Donna
McCarty (Elizabeth McGovern) and starts a romance. Lt. A.Z. Drones
(Morgan Freeman) is a detective who does not believe in the
rehabilitation of Johnny. Johnny's new life is consumed by the desire
of pay-back. 

The photography of this Walter Hill's movie is very dark, like most of
the characters. The excellent cast, supported by a great direction and
a wonderful soundtrack of Ry Cooder makes this film a great dramatic
and violent movie. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Um Rosto Sem Passado" ("A Face Without Past")
