

Possibly this isn't Michael Mann's best - or even next to next to best
- movie, but I make no apologies for liking it quite a lot. In fact, my
chief complaint about this movie is that it has never been released on
DVD so that the full texture and sense of this piece could be better
experienced and appreciated. It is a travesty with all the tripe that
leaps from the undergrossing screen to overblown DVD these days, that
no studio has had the stones to release THE KEEP on DVD. 

In a weird, connect the dots fashion, I consider this film to be a
critical milestone in Mann's directorial evolution. In and of itself,
this makes the film entirely watchable, if not "important". The movie
should be indispensable to Mann's devotees, and I find it surprising
that it is not. As much as Manhunter (one of my all time favorites) and
Heat (right up there with them) are ranked by most as very good films,
THE KEEP, if for no other reason than its novelty should be accorded
more respect than it gets.

Read the other reviews here and you can more or less understand the
story line. The salient facts are there. I differ on several points,
however.

First, I don't consider THE KEEP to be a 'horror movie' or even sci-fi,
although it certainly has elements of both. I have no recollection of
how the film was billed when it opened in '83 (in fact, I didn't see it
until it appeared on Showtime, significantly later), but if you are
looking for a 'horror' or 'sci-fi' flick, THE KEEP will leave you
short. It is more of a 'thriller' if you had to pigeon-hole it, but
even that doesn't really work, and this is what I think what confuses
many who have seen and subsequently slammed this movie. To those who
want a nifty tight film with all the proper cinematic and artistic "T"s
crossed and "I"s dotted, you won't find it here and you will be
eternally frustrated. What you will find is a unique, visionary
realization of an essentially often told story of conflict between
ultimate good and ultimate evil, spun in an arguably overly symbolic
context. 

Second, much apparently has been said about the lameness of the sets
and special effects and accents and soundtrack and costumes, etc etc. I
can't ever know for sure, but I don't think that Mann, with all his
individual sense of style (remember, his visions and realizations
virtually defined a substantial part of the 80s -- whether you liked
them or not) was all that concerned about the impact of the trappings,
but more on what they allowed the story to play against. The interplay
of color (or lack thereof), background, character and music all create
an enjoyable tapestry, best viewed from several feet away. If you get
hung up on the minutae of this film, you've lost the message. In my
personal opinion, this isn't a movie that should be watched critically
- because it will fail in many ways, as others have already observed.
Rather, you should suspend not only your disbelief but your
pretentiousness and just let the movie sort of flow around you. It's a
bit like drift diving in Cozumel - the warm current moves you along to
the degree that details can get lost and fuzzy, but you eventually
realize that's what makes the experience different and wonderful.

The music certainly isn't appropriate to the period (1941 Nazi-occupied
Romania) but then this isn't a period piece. Quite the contrary, the
Tangerine Dream soundtrack adds to the gauzy, dreamlike quality which
to me is what makes this movie so compelling and different. The acting
isn't the best and in places, yes, the audio is pretty bad, but when
considered as a whole, I believe the movie succeeds. My VHS copy of THE
KEEP is now getting threadworn from overplay and I hope that someone,
somewhere, will bring it out on DVD.

A strong 8 out of 10.

<|_=00=_|>

I wish that Mann had been a more experienced director when he tackled this
really bizarre film, but all things considered it is really a damn fine
movie.  The soundtrack has some problems, but the dialogue and acting are
so
interesting that the faults of the film are balanced out.  I especially
enjoyed the conversations between Byrne's SS Major and Prochnow's German
Army Captain.  In fact, I almost wish that the majority of the film had
dealt with this rather than the bizarre supernatural stuff.  I really do
advise this film to anyone that is interested in strange cinema.  If you
can
get past the unfortunate flaws of the film, I think you will notice that it
is actually a kind of fascinating little movie.  I have seen it many times
(first back in '85) and still find it a good watch (although most of my
friends do not).  In other words, this movie is not for everyone, but I
thought it is quite interesting.
<|_=00=_|>

The Keep is weird. It has extraordinary visuals and some powerful sequences,
but a bit too much of the action is tricky to follow because the scripting
is muddled and some of the dialogue is delivered in an  inexpressive and
unclear manner. The film is based on a book by F. Paul Wilson, which is one
of my all-time favourite novels.

The action revolves around a forbidding Romanian fortress set in a hillside.
It is occupied by German soldiers during WWII, but the soldiers are foolish
enough to disturb some of the glowing crosses embedded into the walls. From
within the keep, an ancient and powerful evil force is unleashed, and only a
mysterious drifter called Glaeken (Scott Glenn) knows what it is and how to
destroy it.

The scene in which the evil is released is brilliant. Two soldiers venture
into the inner depths of the keep, and one is mutilated by the unseen power.
Another terrifc scene involves old cripple Ian McKellen being given a new
lease of youth by the evil force. There's also a beautiful and erotic love
scene between Glenn and Alberta Watson. Other aspects of the film aren't so
good. As mentioned, there's a lack of clarity in the story telling. Also,
the final conflict between Glenn and the evil force is hasty and
under-developed. The pace of the film suffers from a slow and rather
uninspiring opening half-hour. However, genreally speaking, The Keep is
worth watching, especially if you're a fan of the book.
<|_=00=_|>

Some people mention movies like LORD OF THE RINGS and BLACK HAWK DOWN as
being extremely poor stories saved by their technical truimphs and
watching
THE KEEP I can understand where they`re coming from . This is a visually
striking atmospheric movie with a rather confused and under developed
script

All the best aspects of THE KEEP are mainly to do with what`s on screen .
Alex Thomson`s cinematography is awesome , check out the scene of the
fishing boat sailing into the rising sun , or the full moon shining out
from
behind the clouds or that fantastic scene where Lutz looks into the cavern
as the camera pans back for almost a full minute . Michael Mann brings an
unspeakably doomladen atmosphere to the movie and manages a quite
remarkable
image featuring the initial appearance of Molasar . Considering the budget
is only 6 million dollars the special effects are quite good for this
scene
featuring an image of smoke , light and a haunting soundtrack . Mind you
this one of the very few instances where Tangerine Dreams synth soundtrack
is successful , elsewhere in the movie it`s very inappropiate . The acting
too is a mixed bag . Most of the cast are merely okay while Gabriel Byrne
plays just about the most blood chilling and convincing Nazi I`ve ever
seen
in a movie , but Scott Glen is wooden and Ian McKellen gives an awful
performance as Dr Cuza , a Jewish intellectual who seems to have all the
speech patterns and mannerisms of a Hollywood producer . Having said that
it
is interesting to see McKellen play someone who goes through a character
arc
similar to the one Frodo goes through in THE LORD OF THE RINGS

Michael Mann`s treatment of the screenplay is far less successful than his
directing . A gestapo death squad battle against a monster , er so who are
we supposed to root for ? During the war even some hardened Waffen SS men
despised these murder squads and this is echoed by the character
interaction
between Captain Woermann and Major Kaempffer . However it turns out
Woermann
has profoundly anti fascist ideals in a conversation with Dr Cuza which
means he stops being a character and becomes a cliche . Was everyone in
Germany at this time either a Nazi or an anti Nazi with no in between ? I
just wish Mann had blurred the lines a little . It should also be pointed
out that Woermann`s first words of dialogue actually do sound like they
come
from a Nazi stormtrooper which indicates Mann has written inconsistently
for
the character . Another serious error with the screenplay is that it`s
never
really explained who Glaeken and Molasar are . Some people have described
Molasar as a Golem , but he`s not . A Golem is basically a clay statue
from
Jewish folklore not as is Molasar an ethereal being of great power . Of
course it could be that because Molasar needs Cuza`s help he appears to
Cuza
as a Golem but once again this seems to confused a lot of people due to
the
script , and I`m puzzled as to how Glaeken fits into all this . When
adapting a screenplay everything should be made clear on screen to
everybody
, not just to people who have read the source novel

I gave THE KEEP seven out of ten mainly due to the technical achievements
(
Remember this only cost $6 million ) but a word of warning only watch this
if it`s in a widescreen letterbox format . I saw this on Sky movies the
other night and a poor quality scanned version was used which meant the
visual impact was totally absent         
<|_=00=_|>
This is really Michael Mann's "The Keep", not F. Paul Wilson's. It is
an interpretation of Wilson's novel, certainly not a slavish
adaptation. Mann dispenses with much of Wilson's exposition, and has
drastically rewritten scenes in order for them to exist solely as eye
and ear candy. He is aided and abetted by Tangerine Dream, who deliver
a hypnotic and surreal score.

The movie does not hold together narratively or dramatically, and the
love story is forced and awful. Alex Thomson's cinematography, however,
is mind-blowing -- worth singling out are the boat sequence, the scene
in which the Molasar (the imprisoned evil) visits Dr. Cuza (Ian
McKellen), and Scott Glenn's motorcycle ride through the forest. Mann
is expert at creating powerful, transcendent visuals, and sometimes he
even gets the drama right, too ("Heat", for example), but in "The
Keep", he is overwhelmed by the material.

The film flopped badly when released, not surprisingly, but it is well
worth seeing for its audacious set pieces and European visual style. A
solid rewrite may have ironed out the confusion and strengthened the
strained, awkward relationships between the characters.

Recommended with reservations.
<|_=00=_|>
This exciting movie is set during WW2 , when a detachment of the German
army (commanded by Jurgen Prochnow) is sent to guard a mysterious
Rumanian keep located on a strategic mountain pass in Carpathian Alps .
The Nazis ignore villagers' warnings and of a Ortodox monk (Robert
Prosky)about a weird presence inside. But one of the soldiers
unwittingly releases an unknown spirit trapped within the walls. As the
soldiers are mysteriously killed , the SS (Gabriel Byrne) arrives to
deal with that is thought to be partisan activity . What the SS
encounters, however, is an evil force trapped within the citadel, a
menace that will do anything to flee. With no way of combating the
force, the Nazis have no option but to seek the aid of a Jewish man
(Ian McKellen) and his daughter (Alberta Watson), who are both
knowledge about the keep and who can translate signs vital to combating
the rare menace . Meanwhile appears a strange man (Scott Glenn) with
supernatural power, an angel exterminator named Glaeken.

This fantastic movie packs action, violence, terror, suspense with
creepy and eerie scenarios. The film is based on Paul Wilson novel ,
also screenwriter along with Michael Mann. Some versions include
different endings and additional footage. The star-studded cast is well
headed by Jurgen Prochnow, Scott Glenn and Ian McKellen and excellent
plethora of secondaries as Gabriel Byrne, Robert Prosky, William Morgan
Sheppard and a very secondary role by Bruce Payne and Roselie
Crutchley. Impressive production design with breathtaking scenarios by
John Box. Colorful cinematography with flog and fume and plenty of
lights and dark by Alex Thomson. Eerie musical composed by means of
synthesizer is made by Tangerine Dream (Christopher Frank, among
others). The motion picture is professionally directed by Michael Mann,
a successful director and usual screenwriter from the 80s with several
hits (Manhunter,The last Mohican, Heat,Insider, Ali, Miami vice). The
story will appeal to terror genre fans and WWII buffs.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film years ago and have searched for it over and over again.
I have been a lover of Lovecraft for a long time and to me this film
encapsulates the very best aspects of a Lovecraft story. No, by the
way, it isn't one. But The Keep brings out the nature of the minds of
men and the horror that anyone can possess inside. I agree with the
last review that this film should not be viewed as horror or sci-fi
though as a follower of both genres I have to say it holds my taste
well. What I remember and am haunted by with this film is the overall
aura, the bleak greyness, the compulsion 'it' draws out of those near
it, and the question it ultimately asks of the viewer as well as the
characters. There are many films out there like this one that have been
pushed to the back burner and left obscure and to be honest and maybe a
bit rude I think it is because they ask so much of the viewer. Movies
such as The Last Wave, The Quiet Earth and such demand that you stop
and become engulfed within your own mind. There are plenty of people
out there like me that are smart and interested in the fringes of
sanity and the crux of good vs evil. The other titles I listed have
managed to make it onto DVD and yet this title has not. Maybe with more
and more of Lovecrafts work making into the DVD viewing world there
will be a place for more films like this one on the shelf again soon. I
can only hope.
<|_=00=_|>
A group of German soldiers led by Captain Klaus Woermann are sent to
take guard at a Keep near a Romanian pass. One of the soldiers believes
that a cross-embedded in the wall is made of silver and digs it out.
Only to release an evil presence, known as Molasar. It knocks off a
couple of soldiers every night. Sturmbahnfuhrer Kaempffer and his SS
patrol arrive in town to stop the problem. They believe it's simply
partisan activity, but they soon find out its far from it. So they get
the help of a Jewish man, Dr Theodore Cuza (along with his daughter
Eva) who knows a bit about this Keep. Meanwhile, a mysterious man,
Glaeken Trismegatus is on his way to stop this evil.

Wow! But huh? Yeah, after spending a long time trying to see this
hybrid movie. I finally got the chance and it was a very flawed, but
reasonable effort by director / writer Michael Mann. I remember reading
the quite interesting and extremely unique premise and being totally
compelled by the idea of it. I guess not reading F. Paul Wilson's novel
is a bittersweet thing, as I came in with very little expectations, but
on the on other hand I was left clueless about certain disjointed sub-
plots. Anyhow It's Mann's vision we got. The material is terribly
mangled, jadedly rushed and comes across as pure pulp. However it's
Mann's surreal direction, Alex Thomson's arresting photography and the
moody electronic music score by Tangerine Dream that clicks in this
atmospheric combination of fantasy, war and horror. 

Sure, there was interference by the studio in the final product (with a
a lot of scenes hitting the cutting room floor), but Mann seemed more
preoccupied with his visuals than with the plot and characters. They
became nothing more than forgettable background features. The storyline
was all over the ship with forced details (like the creation of evil
entity) and a script riddled with confusing holes. There's an odd
assortment of performances. Those who stood out were the humane German
captain played by Jurgen Prochnow and Gabriel Byrne as the tyrant SS
officer. Alberta Watson as Eva felt awkward and Ian McKellen was fine.
However Glenn Scott looked as if he was somewhere else in a very
laboured role as Glaeken Trismegatus. An intriguing character that had
VERY little to do and was hard to understand. 

Visually there are plenty of potently dreamy images that spontaneously
pop up. There's sharp craftsmanship in depicting certain sequences that
just stick in your mind. Like when Byrne's character encounters
Molasar. Worked into this is a very effective score that works the
emotions thoroughly and creates a very out-of-this-world vibe. What
captures this layout beautifully is Thomson's photography. His always
in the right spot to get that impressive shot and original angle that
just lingers on screen. The special effects is a big (if over-extended)
light show that has style and the monster design can look a bit
rubbery, but eventually the monster design by Nick Maley does come off.
Mann knows how to stage a visually powerful scene, but if your looking
for suspense. There are very few build-ups and little scares at all.
The pace is slow, but the eerie setting holds up tightly and has a huge
impact in the overall feel. 

It isn't perfect, but it's a really unusual and hypnotic good vs. evil
opus by Mann.
<|_=00=_|>
A few of a detachment of German Army soldiers are mysteriously murdered
in a Romanian citadel - 1942. The SS arrives to investigate and put a
stop to the killings. However, there is an evil force at work within
the Keep which will do anything to escape.

The Keep is a high concept yarn. The initial find set up and shooting
of the villagers are stand out moments. The visuals and effects are
stylistic, strong lighting, wind machines, optical layers are very much
of there day. The special make-up has a startling 'cool' look to it,
the 'Molasar' and Trismegestus designs are particularly well executed.
Notably are the cast which includes the likes of Gabriel Byrne and
Robert Prosky. Jürgen Prochnow is on fine form as Captain Klaus
Woermann, Scott Glenn is intense and Ian McKellen is memorable as Dr.
Theodore Cuza. The sets are well crafted, the on location shoot adds
credence to the WWII setting and costumes add to the believability.

Nevertheless, rather than being intriguing with a slow pace The Keep
plods along without building any real tension or suspense. The editing
is a little jumbled, it appears to be a mixture of good and bad takes
leaving it somewhat disjointed especially in the final reel, it may
have benefited from only using those 'good' takes with a shorter
running time. Tangerine Dream's score is of its time but doesn't
compliment the scenes, it's highly intrusive and takes away much of the
atmosphere, subtlety and eeriness. 

Even with director Michael Mann at the helm and given the excellent
story based on F. Paul Wilson's novel and Mann's adequate screenplay it
never gels together. It's not sure whether it wants to be an art house,
MTV video piece or gritty supernatural. Should Mann had attempted this
recently he may have been able to fuse it together satisfyingly. I
suppose retrospect is a fine thing. Curiously, Mann's workprint ran for
3 hours, after the studio saw what he had they wanted it cut to no
longer than 90 minutes and assigned it second-level advertising. Mann
has since distanced himself from the film.

Through all its disjointedness The Keep is an interesting film with a
strong mythical good versus evil theme that plays on old religious
fables. Molasar (Michael Carter) is the most menacing evil entity/being
ever committed to celluloid and it's a shame that this has fallen into
obscurity robbing the character and The Keep of even cult status.
<|_=00=_|>
Very interesting story line and special effects. The kind of movie you
don't mind seeing over again (if you like spooky stuff). Good
performances by all actors, some of whom have gone on to bigger and
better things like Ian McClellan. Twists in the plot are unexpected and
the mix of genre makes it interesting also: Nazis fighting other world
type of creature. You also are never quite sure who is good and who is
evil. Although the ending is somewhat predictable, the preparation for
the battle of good and evil is interesting. This is the kind of movie
that you initially do not expect much from, but are pleasantly
surprised. Not sure why it is not on DVD.
