

Steven Speilberg once asked a friend of mine, "Why didn't anyone like this
movie?" Well, I think that I can answer that - "1941" is a gigantic
in-joke.
The people who are in on the joke are people who, like myself, have an
oversized love and knowledge of the city of Los Angeles and it's history. I
think that in the vast, world-wide movie-going public, this group probably
comprises 1%. For that group, "1941" has a wonderful nostalgia value. And
for the people in that 1% that have a twisted sense of humor and enjoy
seeing nostalgic L.A. blown to bits, this movie really delivers. By the
way,
the folks with that twisted sense of humor probably account for about 1% of
the original 1%.

I don't know why, but having grown up in L.A. and being an aficionado of
it's history, I find it funny to see planes in a dogfight over Hollywood
Blvd, the ferris wheel rolling off the end of Santa Monica Pier, and
aircraft crashing into the La Brea Tarpits. But for non-locals and people
unfamiliar with the paranoia that gripped Southern California in the wake
of
Pearl Harbor, this movie will likely seem confusing and silly. To the
history buff with a twisted sense of humor (like me, proud member of the 1%
of the 1%), the movie is not only amusing, but sometimes surprisingly
accurate, historically. Robert Stack plays General Joseph Stillwell - a
very
real historical figure in L.A. history. Stack even bears a striking
resemblance to the real General Stillwell. The whole movie is based upon a
few real-life incidents of panicky anti-aircraft fire that occurred over
L.A. in 1941/1942, as well as a Japanese sub that actually shelled an oil
refinery near Santa Barbara. Like "Chinatown" (a film mistakenly thought to
be an accurate account of L.A. water politics in the 1930s), "1941" borrows
from real-life history and distorts it into pure fabrication. The
difference
is that while "Chinatown" is a noir drama,  "1941" is an over-the-top
comedy. Both films appeal to the historian, but as it is often said, comedy
is much harder to pull off than drama. You either love "1941", or sit
though
it, saying, "huh?".
<|_=00=_|>

You can't have lofty aspirations all the time.

Even the director of such powerful films as "Jaws", "Close Encounters of the
Third Kind", "ET" and "Schindler's List" has to take a break from all the
serious issues in his films and play dumb at least once. 

Just look at "1941".

With a plotline straight out of The Three Stooges and special effects
befitting a WWII epic, "1941" abandons all pretense by parodying the opening
of "Jaws" right off the bat and hitting every slapstick point from there on
in.  Spielberg knew that even if this turned out be a flop, it would be a
good-natured one.

Just look at this cast!  Not only are Aykroyd and Belushi at the helm, but
there's talent like Matheson, Allen, Oates, Williams, Beatty, Gary (Roy
Scheider's wife from the "Jaws" films), Candy, Flaherty, Stack (in his first
comedic turn before "Airplane!"), Lee, Pickens, Deezen (a comic genius if
ever there was one), Sperber and a whole herd of other I probably missed. 
All of them in the midst of the hugest battlefield of comic carnage ever
seen.

And no wonder.  "1941" was co-written by Robert Zemeckis and Bob Gale,
Spielberg protogees who went on to further success with the "Back to the
Future" films, "Who Framed Roger Rabbit", "Used Cars", (all with climaxes as
wild as the entire running time of "1941") and the vastly under-appreciated
"Death Becomes Her".  Even John Milius (director/co-writer of "Conan the
Barbarian") lends his pen hand.  

In the end, you'll be dazzled, breathless, stunned and amazed, but by no
means bored.  And, with any luck, amused.

"1941" - it was a very good year.

Nine stars.  And don't worry: it's all for the good of the war
effort.
<|_=00=_|>
1941 is considered to be Steven Spileberg's folly, a screwball farce
about the Japanese invading America after pearl harbour, starring some
of the greatest actors and comedians that ever lived. Some people hate
it, I love it. Sorry for all you haters, but I guess the things I like
are the things you dislike, but for the life of me, I can't understand
why this movie is considered Spielberg's worst movie. For one, it's
watchable, and for another, it's not full of Spielberg Schmaltz, (the
thing i hate most about Senior Speilbergo's later movies, i.e Hook,
Always, AI).

Treat Williams is an a$$hole but no-one plays a$$holes better (see;
things to do in Denver when your dead), Robert Stack crying while
watching Dumbo when a full scale dogfight rages outside the theatre,
Ned Beatty destroying his house in an attempt to fight the Japanese,
Slim Pickens faking doing a sh!t while Toshiro Mifune and Christopher
Lee wait to find out if he's passed a compass. I'm sorry but but those
are all comedic gems. Okay, so Belushi is wasted and is seemingly in
this move for no reason, but Belushi in a cockpit without a bottle
opener is funnier than anything with Sean William Scott in it. For me
this movie hits all the right notes, and on reflection makes some very
good points (the two numbskull's who mistakenly think Belushi's plane
is a German fighter...the paranoia of anyone living in a coastal town
after pearl harbour).

Give it another chance, then watch Jaws if you still don't like it.
<|_=00=_|>

Those who can't find humor in "1941" need to loosen up. This is one of
the
few movies I have ever purchased for my own personal collection. The
Ferris
wheel scene alone is an all-time classic. This is the type of picture
that
is fun to watch after a hard day at work. Open up a beer and enjoy.

<|_=00=_|>
1941 is a unique movie. 1 part of it is animal house-esque lowbrow
humor, 1 part is B-movie love story, and 1 part stoic war movie, and 2
parts insane hilarity.

It is a weird mix to say the least.

First, the problems: 1. The first half of the movie is slow. It grinds
on making you wonder why you're watching this movie.

2. The "Love story" subplot is poorly executed for what this movie is
trying to do.

3. many of the actors are not used to their fullest potential
(especially Dan Akroyd and John Candy) while others receive excessive
screen time. (see: The slow moving love story sub-plot) But then there
are the good aspects: 1. John Belushi is hilarious. He would have been
funnier had he interacted with more characters rather than appearing in
many solo shots, but he was funny.

2. The "Epic Battle" was great. It had me laughing as my sides hurt.

3. Slim Pickens: His appearance in the movie was truly where the movie
stopped being slow, and the fun really started. He was great in his
scenes and between the dialogue and his visual scenes, you can't help
but laugh.

There's more, but in short, if you don't mind sitting through a slow
build up, the payoff is worth the wait.

It's not the best movie ever, but in the barren entertainment landscape
that is Weekend Television: Finding this movie can be like an oasis in
the desert. It's solid Saturday afternoon fun.
<|_=00=_|>
I vividly recall the (packed) audience's reaction at the end of 1941:
eerie stunned silence... then some guy yelled "what the hell WAS that?"
and laughter erupted. I'm a huge Spielberg fan, but 1941 is just
wretched excess. It's loud, destructive, unfunny and plot less (it's
strictly situational). It's also a bit painful to watch all the now
deceased wasted talent (Murray Hamilton, Lionel Stander, Wendy Jo
Sperber, Belushi, The great Slim Pickens, Toshiro Mifune, Samuel
Fuller, Bob Stack & others...). The film's uncredited cameos are
strange (Penny Marshall? James Caan? Lenny & Squiggy from Penny's
series??? C'mon...) This was a monumental waste of time, talent & piles
of money. (1) unfunny star/10.
<|_=00=_|>

I'll keep this short; read msa0510's review for a more in-depth review.  The
best part in this movie is Slim Pickens.  Just thinking about his scenes
makes me start laughing again.

It was nice having the "Making of 1941" on the dvd and seeing the remarks by
Spielberg; I knew this movie had been panned by the critics but I hadn't
known that it was popular in Europe.  I can't understand why we Americans
don't find it funny; it's hysterically funny to me.

It's a perfect 10 in my book; so few comedies these days are so over-the-top
funny as this movie is.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

First, look at this cast, please. Toshiro Mifune, Warren Oates, Robert
Stack, Christopher Lee and my favorite old actor the immortal Slim
Pickens. Even with probably one of the best group of actors since MAD
MAD WORLD which by the way is the movie this film aspires to be; it is
an unmitigated disaster. First big problem, the action scenes in LA
with the phony air raid are forever, drawn out seem like days. It did
not help the effects were awful even for 1979. It is the worst
rendition of the city which looks like they spent ten dollars on the
models of the city. John Belushi does real damage to the picture;
Steven evidently loved ANIMAL HOUSE, I did not, the man was always an
overrated, obnoxious slob. Here he wrecks scene after scene as the
camera zooms in on him for his supposed non verbal abilities. BORING,
BORING.

How about the dance scene from the USO that seems to last for days. Did
the poster say see a jitterbug contest until you cry for mercy? The
scene is so drawn out and boring and brings the pace of the film to a
screeching halt. It also suffers from the deadly: too many characters
problem. Look, I love MAD MAD WORLD it is light-years above this piece
of crap but even it suffered from just too many characters all going a
hundred different directions. It becomes impossible to follow and ends
up generating boredom. Count the stories that Steven has going all at
once here. This is not to say that there aren't a few drop dead
hilarious scenes in this movie. 

My favorite is all the scenes with Slim Pickens. Do not think he is a
great comedic actor? Watch Dr. Strangelove and imagine someone else as
Major Kong. His scenes with Mifune and the Japanese are the highlight
of the movie. Everyone was laughing in my cinema at these in 1979. The
man was one of the best comedic actors that ever lived bringing the
only levity to the dreadful RANCHO DELUXE. It is worth suffering
through the picture to see these but do not buy the movie; no way. The
only other scenes are with Ned Beatty showing us why you do not give
civilians artillery at their houses. It is very short but very, very
funny. Eddie Deezen is great on the ferris wheel, you will feel empathy
for poor Murray Hamilton, the evil mayor from JAWS. 

These simply add up to not more than twenty minutes in an over two hour
movie. The rest of the film is just awful. The eternal dance contest,
the terrible air raid from Hell that lasts for years, featuring the
worst special effects you have ever seen. The unfunny and weird story
of Nancy Allan and her plane fixation that somebody thought was
amusing. What an unmitigated disaster. I am forced to remind everyone
that Steven's films are not aging well; his group of overrated films
are currently sinking like stones. Only JAWS and SCHINDLER'S LIST will
survive him, the rest will fade forever. They were always congruent
with the zeitgeist of the 1980s; I will not bore my readers with a
philosophical analysis of their fitting perfectly with the Reagan Era
of narcissistic yuppies. You can deduce the rest by yourself. This was
not an anomaly I am sorry; it was so viewed in the 1980s when Steven
was being worshiped. It is quite typical Spielberg;.full of sound and
fury signifying nothing.
<|_=00=_|>
First off I have to mention all of the wonderful actors that did such a
great job; Lucille Benson (reprising a role from DUEL), Slim Pickens,
Susan Backlinie (reprising her role from JAWS), Ned Beatty, Dan
Aykroyd, John Belushi, Murray Hamilton, Robert Stack, Christopher Lee,
John Candy, Toshiro Mifone, Warren Oates, Elisha Cook, Jr, Eddie
Deezen, Dub Taylor, Joe Flaherty, Don Calfa, Dick Miller and small
roles and cameos for people like James Caan, Samuel Fuller, John
Landis, Mickey Rourke (in his film debut), Michael McKean and David
Lander together but not as Lenny and Squiggy, also from Laverne &
Shirley we have Penny Marshall, and of course in my opinion the movies
true star was Bobby Dicicco.

Actors I didn't like but I will include are Tim Matheson and Nancy
Allen as well as Treat Williams. I normally like Treat but he was awful
in this film.

This movie is basically a lighthearted spoof of events that actually
did happen at various times during the early 40's. The Japanese did try
to invade LA, and airplanes were shot at thinking it was a Japanese
raid. Zoot suiters did battle it out with USO boys and many events here
are all true just put together for this movie.

As far as the plot to the movie, its basically about the Japanese along
with a Nazi comrade trying to invade Los Angelas. The great General
Stillwell is in town and trying to watch a movie, his soldiers are at a
USO party. One soldier is trying to get a girl, but another kid named
Wally wants her more. Another soldier is flying a plane trying to get a
woman to sleep with him because she loves planes. There is a lot of
weird things going on in here that should make it interesting, but it
doesn't. Just random events that all connect to the threat of an
invasion.

Spielberg directed this movie and its considered his biggest flop, with
good reasoning. It offers nothing, its a mess, its very sloppy. I only
laughed once and that was at the Slim Pickens part and director Brian
DePalma actually contributed that section. Pickens also spoofs his own
self from DR. STRANGELOVE. The movie opens with a spoof of JAWS with
the original woman playing her part.

awe what to say...the movie was a mess, I hated the score by John
Williams, the direction offered nothing, actors were many, but
characters were few, the screenplay was silly and the scenes were
flawed...

I wouldn't recommend it to a single person...it was really bad 1/10
stars
<|_=00=_|>

Any movie that features the following....:

1. The Geek from "I Wanna Hold Your Hand" torturing The Mayor from
"Jaws"
2. A bunch of Japanese soldiers disguised as walking Christmas
Trees
3. A hilarious USO dance sequence that boils over into an inter-service
street fight
4. the film debut of Mickey Rourke and the big film debut of John
Candy

and last but not least

5. Tough guy Robert Stack crying and singing along to songs from the Disney
classic "Dumbo".....

CANNOT BE ALL BAD!!!!!
