

Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 (1985) was the second film in the Freddy
Krueger series.  This time his main target is
the son of a man who just but the Elm Street house.  Freddy preys on this
sexually confused kid and forces him to do
his bidding and uses him to serve his twisted needs.  Can poor Jesse over
come the strong willpower of Freddy?  Will he be 
able to discover his true self?  Watch and find out, you'll be surprised! 
Strange stuff.

What I liked about this film was the filmmakers tried to do something
different, and it almost killed the series.  The plot 
and storyline was too complex and byzantine for you average horror film. 
Much of the film's hidden context and meaning 
would go over the heads of most horror film fans.  If Sigmund Freud were
alive today he would've had a field day trying to 
figure out this one.  Sadly underrated and unfairly neglected..

Strongly recommended


<|_=00=_|>
The first of the Elm Street sequels is a bit different than the other
films of the series, but it's not nearly as bad as some critics say.

Young man (whose family has moved into the Elm Street house) is
terrorized by chuckling Freddy, who wants to use him to do his dirty
work.

'Elm Street 2 is a fairly entertaining sequel directed by B movie maker
Jack Sholder. The movie's possession theme is solidly played out with
some tight direction. Sholder gives this movie some well-done moments
of shock and dark humor. The opening sequence on the bus is a memorable
thrill ride. The film boasts some bloody FX. Charles Bernstein's theme
music is missed, but Bing Crosby's song 'Did You Ever See A Dream'
makes for a nice touch. Many say that this movie has homosexual themes
and granted star Mark Patton does spend much of the movie semi-naked,
but the theme is a bit of a stretch.

Robert Englund makes a welcomed return as Freddy, while the rest of the
cast does decent performances.

All around, a good sequel that hasn't really gotten critical justice.

Followed by the superior Nightmare on Elm Street 3: Dream Warriors
(1987).

*** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>

ALL MY REVIEWS HAVE SPOILERS.  EVERY ONE OF THEM.

This is the type of movie that was 80's back when it was the 80's.  Let's
start off with the movie's hero, Jesse-- androgynously played by Mark "I
Have Yet To Make Another Movie" Patton.  How did this guy get the lead in a
flick?  Just look at him.  And how 'bout that Oscar winning bedroom dance
number he did.  Take special note of the part where he closes his dresser
drawer with his butt.  I was laughing so hard, no sound was coming out my
body.  "How do you like THAT, Dad!"  I guess he told him.  This scene alone
sealed the film in my opinion as an instant cinematic classic. 

I first saw this movie in theaters when I was just a fetus, and I thought it
was bad.  Now I'm watching it 20 years later and boy, was I wrong.  It's
horrible.  Let's start with the credits, which read "Special Appearance by
Clu Gulager;"  the same man who happens to be in every scene of the movie. 
Our main character, Jesse wakes up screaming from a nightmare and sounds a
lot like a woman; but this dream is nothing compared to his "gym teacher"
nightmare.  Note the end of this dream, where Jesse looks at his hand and
sees he is wearing the famous razor glove.  When he screams, oh my god.  I
must have rewound the scream about 12 times.  I think Fay Wray's voice was
dubbed over his, because he shrills like the classic women of the 30's. 
This may very well be the movie's finest hour.     

Was this scene even in the original version?  For some reason, I don't
remember Killer Basketballs when I saw this in the theater.  Was I watching
a director's cut or something?  This couldn't have been in theaters, could
it?  I must be slipping in my old age, because I would have been laughing
too hard to forget a scene like Killer Basketballs.  This scene is second
place only to the unbeatable Killer Braces scene in Poltergeist 2.

Midway through Freddy's Revenge, Alfred Hitchcock takes over and directs a
cool "When Parrots Attack" scene.  The scene comes out of nowhere, but the
sudden shifting of gears is welcomed in this movie.  The parrot destroys his
lovebird partner, and for some reason, Jesse lets the Cujo of birds out of
his cage.  The bird then begins to terrorize the family and by this time,
the scene is going great.  Easily comparable to the great shower scene of
Psycho, or when Michael Corleone kisses Fredo.  The director then gets tired
of this sequence and decides to end it by having the bird explode into thin
air.  What a disappointment!!  They could have dropped Freddy and expounded
with this bird concept for the rest of the movie!  I was having a ball.  It
was clearly the only well thought-out scene of the movie.  Hollywood just
doesn't make enough Attack Bird movies.  That's exactly what this industry
needs!  More Attack Bird movies!  If Titanic had an Attack Bird scene, I
guarantee you nobody would have complained about the 7 hour running time. 
The possibilities are endless when it comes to movies about disgruntled
birds.  

Freddy's Revenge is directed by some guy named Jack Sholder.  Now I don't
know who this guy is, and I have a theory as to why we've never heard of him
again:  Once he got famous, he eventually changed his name to Joel
Schumacher.  Laugh if you must, but I am convinced the two men are one and
the same.  Jack Sholder is as queer as a 3 dollar bill.  Not that I am gay
bashing, but I do like my slasher flicks more scary and less Rocky Horror. 
How gay was Freddy's Revenge," let me count the ways:

1.) A slasher movie starring a man is unheard of.  We want breasts,
Hollywood!
2.) Our freakishly feminine hero, has the unisexual name
"Jesse."
3.) More locker room and shower scenes than you can shake a stick at.  Get
it-- shake a stick at?
4.) Plenty of bare ass shots of men.
5.) What's up with Jesse having that dream at the Blue Oyster bar?  Then the
dream evolves into a bondage S&M concept; which is truly a nightmare-- more
frightening than anything Freddy could ever do. 

Oh yeah, that reminds me.  There is also this guy named Freddy who goes
around killing people or something.  I don't know, who cares?  This movie
has an Attack Bird scene!!!  

* * * * * out of 5.

<|_=00=_|>

A Nightmare on Elm Street part 2 Freddy's revenge

May contain `spoilers'

`Mommy, why can't Jesse wake up like everyone else ?'

Firstly I'd like to say that I believe this to be the most underrated
film
in the series. Aside from the first film this is the only other from the
series that I still like. As has been mentioned by other people, I think
Freddy developed too much of a personality after this film, dispatching
victims with comedic one-liners and more stylised, effects based death
sequences. In this film his remains pretty much as he was in the first.
In
fact, probably a little darker.

One of the main problems People seem to have with this film is the
implied
bisexuality of its main character. I personally think it gives the film
an
Unusual twist. To quote Robert Englund (Freddy Krueger) `Nightmare 2 is a
very creepy, very kinky film. It reverses the first one - instead of
having
a teenage girl in jeopardy, we have a bisexual male, and this factor is
exploited by Freddy. There's a lot of stuff implied with the S & M bar,
stringing up the coach in the shower room bondage situation, and going to
his boyfriends house for protection, the two of them take their clothes
off
as often as possible. All that adolescent mad teenage hormone stuff is
explored, which of course Freddy is privy to'.

I like the nightmare sequences in this film. To me they have a quality
that
rings truer to real nightmares than that of the ones in the other
sequels.
When Jesse (Mark Patton) first spies Freddy lurking in the back yard and
then the basement being a prime example. The school bus at the start is
also
a classic and another that springs to mind is when Jesse awakes in his
room
to find it's become so hot that things around it like a vinyl record have
begun to melt.

The score is my personal favourite of the entire series. Christopher
Young
creates something very unusual using such bizarre sounds as whale calls
to
good effect. It is a complete departure from the cheesy synth score of
the
original and because it lacks that familiar piano motif that's heard in
all
the films, sets it apart much like the film itself.

There's also some nice camera work in there to, the shot that follows
Jesse
as he arrives at school the morning after the murder of the coach is
good.
Though my favourite has to be the shot that takes us up from the basement
(albeit rather poorly cut as you go through the basement door) swerving
up
the stairs and into Jesse's little sisters room. Freddy's face is never
fully visible unlike in the other sequels. Which I always thought was the
way it should be kept. We only ever really see his face in a neat shot
behind the flames of the broken Barbeque during the pool party
scene.

The acting from all concerned is solid, Patton and Meryl Streep
look-a-like
Kim Myers (Lisa) the two leads being particularly good.

The film does have plenty of flaws, certain effects shots are very badly
rendered. Witness the budgie exploding for a prime example and the awful
creatures in the boiler room towards the end of the film for others.
There's
a lot of plot holes and the ending is decidedly weak but over all I
really
like the film. A lot of people say it's the worst of the series but in my
opinion if you prefer number's 5 or 6 to this you are missing the point.
I'll go out on a limb and say it's my personal favourite.

7 ½ / 10


<|_=00=_|>
When the Walsh's move to the Elm Street, the teenager Jesse Walsh (Mark
Patton) has a creepy nightmare with a burned man wearing a glove with
blades called Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) that tells him that Jesse
has the body and he has the brain. Jesse becomes close to Lisa Webber
(Kim Myers), who also has a crush on him, and befriends his school mate
Ron Grady (Robert Rusler), who tells him that his house had remained
closed for five years since the former dweller Nancy Thompson that went
to a mental institution after witnessing the death of her boyfriend on
the other side of the street and her mother in the living room. Lisa
finds the diary of Nancy hidden in a locker while Jesse is possessed by
Freddy Krueger that uses him to kill his victims.

This sequel to the classic "A Nightmare on Elm Street" is underrated in
IMDb. The story about possession is more romantic with the love of Lisa
for Jesse, has plot holes but is also entertaining, with the use of
great special effects. This movie is also the debut of Kim Myers, who
has an impressive resemblance with Meryl Streep, in the cinema in a
lead role. Again there is an open conclusion to give a sequel to the
saga of Freddy Krueger. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "A Hora do Pesadelo 2 – A Vingança de Freddy " ("The
Hour of the Nightmare 2 – The Revenge of Freddy")
<|_=00=_|>

What they are missing are the campy little details that are hinted
through-out the saga. Everything from the stretching tongue to the the
exploding bird. You can't deny the fun watching Jesse Walsh shrieking like
a
scared little schoolgirl when he finds Freddy's glove on his hand. All
this
and after Jesse's girlfriend comes up to his room and says, "I thought I'd
help you unpack." In her sexy voice, moving him toward the bed, they
ACTUALLY start unpacking! None of the gags in Freddy's Dead is THAT
funny!!!
<|_=00=_|>

The opening scenes of this film are very promising.  The title music has a
very sinister, menacingly calm quality to it and there is an excellently
nightmarish sequence in a school bus which is driven by
Freddy.

But generally the film is a might-have-been.  True, it has its moments,
such
as the discovery of Nancy's diary and the scene at the party, but things
are
pretty tame compared to the first film.  Jesse is the new teenager living
in
Nancy's old house and haunted by nightmares, but apart from the opening
sequence there are very few dreamlike effects.  There are some nightmarish
animals but they are too briefly seen and are in such total darkness that
they're barely visible.  The film is more of a cliched haunted house yarn
than a story about nightmares.  There are some interesting homosexual
undertones but they are never really developed properly.  There are also
gaping plot-holes.  After Freddy tears his way out of Jesse's body, the
remains somehow return to life.  The next time Freddy appears Jesse seems
to
be inside him.  Can anyone work out what's going on?

What really lets this film down is its weak ending.  Freddy and his boiler
room suddenly burst into flames because Jesse's girlfriend tells him she
loves him.  Utterly feeble.  Surely the script-writers could have come up
with a better ending than this.

Not an unwatchable film by any means, but just not the sequel it should
have
been.
<|_=00=_|>

Now that Nightmare is up to seven or eight sequels, while Friday The 13th
is
up to ten (and counting), it must be hard to look back on the days when
horror films tried to be vaguely original or even different. With all the
Screams and I Know What Your Breasts Did Last Summers, making Freddy's
Revenge in these "enlightened" days would be just about
impossible.

But culture, and particularly youth culture, in the 1980s was
considerably
different, certainly far less conservative and anti-creative. In those
days,
The Cure were a big thing, and even the most basic of pop sludge was far
more creative than what we have today. Not to mention that it was far
easier
to make dodgy films and get them released theatrically.

A Nightmare On Elm Street Part 2 picks up five years after the original,
although it was a rush-job filmed less than a year after said original
was
out of the theatre. The film company, at that time the independent
startup
known as New Line, saw a quick and easy meal ticket that only required
them
to convince Robert Englund to submerge himself in what looks like three
tons
of multi-coloured latex. So the idea of a decent script, decent actors,
or
decent photography, went right out the window.

Which is kind of sad, really, when you consider that this is the only
Freddy
film in which an original premise is used. You might want to skip the
rest
of this paragraph if you have yet to see it. In it, a young man (whose
behaviour is consistent with repressed homosexuality, in one of those
hilarious plot coincidences) has just moved into the house from which
Nancy
originally dealt with Freddy. With the help of the sort of girlfriend any
other male (and even some females) of this age would want to climb atop
of
at every opportunity, our hero attempts to fight off Freddy (and his own
gayness), which in turn creates some very interesting plot devices. The
moment when our heroine is holding up a carving knife at Freddy, who
gives
her a graphic and terrifying demonstration of the fact that she'll kill
her
(confused) lover if she kills Freddy, could have been one of the most
horrific moments in the entire series. I am not quite convinced that it
isn't, given that the only other episode in the series that was vaugely
adult after this point was Part 3.

Unfortunately, the actors hired for these roles cannot act their way out
of
a wet paper bag. The only cast member with acting skills that even
compare
to Robert Englund's would be Marshall Bell. I am convinced that his turn
here as the (gay) gym teacher was what got him hired to be in Total
Recall
and StarShip Troopers. Mark Patton (no relation to the Mike Patton who
leads
Mr. Bungle or the Mike Patton who was an early cast member in You Can't
Do
That On Television) is terrible - his only talent, as such, is to scream
like a seventy-year-old woman. The actors who play his family look as if
they belong on a cheap knock-off of Family Ties. The best actor in the
whole
piece was the budgie, who seemed to decide he would rather explode than
be
in this idiotic film a second longer.

When all is said and done, Robert Louis Stevenson said it much better in
The
Frightening Tale Of Doctor Jekyll And Mister Hyde (although there are no
shortage of adaptations to that work which suck more than this).
Normally, I
would give this effort a three out of ten, but it gets two bonus points
because it is like no other episode in the Nightmare canon, and that is a
damned good thing when you put it alongside episodes four through
seven.
<|_=00=_|>
Freddy's revenge is a good movie. don't let all the bad reviews cloud
your judgment. while i will admit, it is a BIG step down from the
masterpiece that is the original but it is still a good movie with a
few flaws. first of all the direction they took the story was a strange
one. the writers chose to abandon the whole dream demon idea (which in
my opinion it wasn't necessarily a bad decision because of how early in
the franchise it was. but it also wasn't a good decision either because
id much prefer the dream demon premise) and have Freddy trying to
possess a kid named Jesse's body to kill in the real world again.
Robert Englund brings another terrifying performance to the screen as
Freddy Krueger. remember folks.. Freddy is still scary in this one, and
the pool party massacre scene is fun to watch! the atmosphere is very
dark but loses so much of it's power due to the absence of the dream
sequences and all the possibilities that could have been utilized. in
the FX department the film does alright. now something else i should
include in the review is the obvious homosexual aspects included in the
film. i am not gay (so this is not biased), but i can honestly say it
adds a uniqueness to the film. in the fist film Nancy's secondary
struggle was her parent's separation and her mother's alcoholism, in
this film Jesse's secondary struggle is his own sexuality. as i said
this doesn't ruin the film what so ever. it simply adds a uniqueness to
the film. there are definitely some flaws with this film though. Mark
Patton leaves a little something to be desired here with his
performance in the lead role. there is no doubt he suites the role it's
just the fact that he reeks of inexperience. there are also a few
scenes that are very misplaced and strange to say the least. but for me
i choose to either ignore or overlook them in favour of all of the
positives here. we get a great performance from Robert englund, some
good atmosphere and genuine scares, good FX, and a unique and strange
experience. check this one out its a fun little film that deserves more
respect than it gets. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
this movie was on youtube a few months ago. i swear this movie was
probably the worst sequel ever, next to Friday the 13th Part 7 and 8.
the acting was pretty awful. Robert englund was the only thing that
kept this movie going. but there were some points in the film where he
just disappeared and we got to see the weird days in the life of Jesse
. that scene with the bird going crazy was kind of cool, but the dad's
explanations and theories about the bird were just unbelievably stupid.
the worst thing about this film was probably it's plot. even though
this movie has the highest body count in the series, the movie's plot
is so dumb! this movie is about Freddy, so we wanna see FREDDY kill
people, not some weirdo kid who's sometimes Freddy and sometimes
himself or some stuff like that. i think a really dumb scene was during
the pool party. after Freddy destroyed half of the backyard and killed
about six people, everything and everyone turns quiet, and some dumba**
kid walks up and says to Freddy "it's alright, no one's gonna hurt
you." this guy quickly gets the fate every dumb-a** teen in a horror
flick deserves. when the words 'no one's gonna hurt you" were spit out,
i was convinced that this teen would break out into singing "kumbaya"
to Freddy and giving him a hug. speaking of stupid and weird
characters, WHAT THE HECK was up with that gym teacher?! it's like he
wanted to abduct Jesse or something, like some weird child predator.
now we move onto Jesse again. No matter what happens, Jesse never has a
reaction that looks like what it's supposed to be. when he's angry, he
looks like he just sh** himself. when he's scared, he's calm at first
and then just screams out of nowhere. the only things that make this
movie watchable are Robert englund (freddy) Christopher young (music)
and Kevin yagher (special effects)

Overall; this movie was really bad, and i don't recommend it to any
fans of 80s horror flicks at all. how this movie managed to be the #1
horror film of 1985, i'll never know. if you wanna see a good Nightmare
movie, watch 1,3,4,New Nightmare, and FVJ. Stay away from 2,5 and 6.
that is all.

2/10
