

The Australian Broadcasting Commission recently treated its Saturday night
audience to a director's cut showing of Ray Lawrence's semi-classic to
coincide with the release of Lawrences's next film, made a mere 15 years
later, `Lantana'. Unlike `Lantana', adapted from Andrew Bovell's play,
`Bliss' is derived from Peter Carey's novel, yet is a very cinematic piece.
Both Lawrence and Carey laboured long in the advertising world and clearly
enjoy sending up the foibles of the hucksters. 

The protagonist, Harry Joy, teller of tales (especially to policemen), can
sell almost any campaign to his morally challenged clients. He drives a
Jaguar and lives in a splendid large house in the leafiest part of Sydney's
North Shore. Unfortunately Harry is felled by a heart attack after a long
(family) lunch and wakes up in what appears to be Hell, which strangely
enough seems to be just like his life on earth. He finds his wife
shamelessly carrying on with a particularly vulgar American colleague, his
nerdy Young Liberal son trading cocaine to his sister in return for sex, and
his biggest client frantically trying to conceal the fact that their
artificial sweetner causes cancer. Harry storms out to hole up in a luxury
hotel where he orders in a girl, Honey Barbara. She turns out to be an
alternative society person earning a bit of money for her north coast
community. Naturally Harry falls deeply in love, but their romance is rudely
interrupted by Harry being carted off to a mental hospital (at whose behest
is not clear). Harry gets out, and sets off to find his honey flower girl.

You could describe the style here as early Australian magic realism (the
fish dropping from Harry's wife's vagina as she lies about her affair, for
example). Some of it is surreal, like the opening sequence when Harry's
mother stands in the rain like some religious figure in a small boat outside
a flooded church (a similar shot showed up in `Oscar and Lucinda' a couple
of years later). The soaring camera beautifully captures Harry's out-of-body
experience following his heart attack, and the scenes shot in the rainforest
are appropriately lyrical. 

Barry Otto as Harry gives us a decent if somewhat self-centred man
confronted with the futility of the fatuous lifestyle that he has so
effectively promoted to others. Even as he goes to pieces we can see him
looking for a way out – even hell must have an escape hatch or service
tunnel somewhere – and we are not surprised when he finds it. Lynette Curran
as Harry's tough bitch wife carries off what could be a repellent role with
great panache, particularly in her final scene. Miles Buchanan (scarcely
seen since), with a fantastic 30s brylcream hairstyle, is particularly
effective as the young fogey dope-dealing son (`I'm just a businessman').
Jon Ewing does an amusingly campy number as a haughty restauranteur who
despises most of his diners and Bryan Marshall is very effective as Harry's
befuddled client. Gia Carides as Harry's daughter Lucy, is fairly
unremarkable here but has gone on to an active movie and TV
career.

Although this is a film on its own terms the essential quirkiness of the
book is retained. The message on one level is stark; our consumer society
values are f**ked and we better get back to nature fast, yet somehow
Lawrence and Carey don't beat us over the head with it – humour takes
precedence over anger.  And, of course there are dangers in nature also, as
the ending shows. 

<|_=00=_|>

When I saw the first trailer for American Beauty a couple of years ago, I
said, "Hmm.  Looks like an American version of 'Bliss'."  Which it was,
only
not as good and not as brave.

"Harry Joy was a man who liked to tell stories," says the narrator, and
this
film is full of stories: Histories told through incident, Realities
literally warped by perception, Fantasies anchored in Truth,
etc.
"In New York, there are towers of glass, and the Devil himself drives a
big
Cadillac Limousine right down Fifth Avenue."

Surreal and enervating, informed by Dante's Inferno and with an ending
you
never saw coming, this has been one of my very favorite films for sixteen
years.  It's where I got the name "Mister Joy" ("No, you are NOT Harry
Joy,
you are MISter Joy.").

Too bad Lester Burnham didn't see it when he was a younger
man.
<|_=00=_|>

If Lawrence had cut out a third of the film it would have been better. 
Within reason, I think he could have got rid of ANY third.  A third of the
storyline could have gone (the beginning, the middle, the end, or fragments
throughout), or a sixth of the storyline plus a sixth of the character
development, or a third of the quirkiness, or a third of the odd devices
(straight-to-the-camera narrative could have stayed on condition the dream
sequences went, or vice versa, or some such).  It's like the plate of an
overly ambitious diner at a banquet, with quail eggs, a potato dumpling,
salad, a banana fritter, baked trout, a small slice of quiche, a strawberry,
eggplant, satayed parsnip with brown rice, two roast chestnuts and four
kinds of cheese.  Thankfully, the elements are positioned so as not to ruin
one another's flavour, but there's just too many of them.

But at least this is a fault on the right side.

It's as if "Bliss" were a repository, or a central font, of all of the
offbeat black humour, all the odd characters, and all the quirky local
colour, to have appeared in every Australian film made since.  This isn't a
bad thing.  (My earlier complaint is that its ferociously luxuriant growth
could have been cut back by a third and it would STILL have contained all
the offbeat black humour, etc.)  What makes it great is that it's more
sincere than any of its imitators.  A mere seventeen years old, it seems to
date from a magical, all-but-forgotten pre-digital age, when we REALLY made
films, and didn't just play at doing so.

On reflection:  I don't care if there IS too much here.  So much of it is so
good, like the prim, fascist manager of the lunatic ward, the scene in which
the cancer map is unveiled (Lawrence makes much out of a mere conversation
in a hotel room), and the "love letter" to Honey Barbara.  The strength
which flows through the film's limbs is probably inherited from the era in
which it was made.  This decade (from a few years into the 1980s until a few
years into the 1990s) saw Australian society at its most optimistic,
tolerant and decent.  We've come a long way downhill in the short time
since.
<|_=00=_|>

Ray Lawrence's adaptation of Peter Carey's novel is one of those rare birds
- a perfect screen adaptation of a great book.

Harry Joy, an advertising executive, has a near-fatal heart attack - but
when he recovers he is convinced he is in hell. And why not? His bitchy wife
is having a torrid affair right under his nose, his son is trading drugs for
sex with his own sister, and his ad agency represents the most destructive
and polluting companies in town. Harry's life spirals out of control until
he breaks away from his awful family and finds redemption in his love for
the beautiful Honey Barbara.

Filled with extraordinary images, the film captures the surreal mood, the
sense of hidden menace and the outrageous black humour of Carey's book, and
brings the characters vividly to life.

Barry Otto, one of Australia's greatest actors, is perfect as Harry and he
is brilliantly supported by an outstanding cast, including Lynette Curran as
his horrible wife, Miles Buchanan as his evil and depraved son, Gia Carides
as the daughter, and especially Helen Jones as his hippy 'innamorata', Honey
Barbara.

If you can find it, the longer "director's cut" version is a must-see, for
the amazing police-station scene - inexplicably removed from the initial
release version - where Harry, under arrest after a series of bizarre and
hilarious incidents, transfixes the cops with one of his famous stories.
Barry Otto delivers an electrifying monologue, in one long, unedited scene,
with the camera gradually pulling closer and closer to an extreme closeup of
his face.

"Bliss" is director Ray Lawrence's only feature film to date - but one
perfect film is better than ten duds!
<|_=00=_|>

Not just a film, but also an experience. A man dies from a heart attack and
is bought back to life. He is however convinced he is in hell. Feeling
confused and scared by the strangeness of his family and the world around
him, he starts to have a breakdown. It seems his only salvation lies in the
arms of a prostitute, but can you find love in hell?

This is a truly beautiful movie, at times scary, at times befuddling. Like
the world Harry Bliss lives in, like the world we live
in.
<|_=00=_|>

The film "American Beauty" has so many similarities to Bliss that the
resemblence is surely more than coincidental.  Both are great films but
Bliss is more cerebral and overall a superior film.

Enjoy it.  A must see.
<|_=00=_|>

Ray Lawrence, the director of "Bliss," and Paul Murphy, its
cinematographer,
were both first-time feature filmmakers when they made "Bliss."  I believe
the movie swept the Australian "Oscars" in '85, and in my humble opinion,
deservedly so.

The tone is somewhat dark, the genre surrealist comedy, the performances
deliciously eccentric, and the storytelling masterful.  "Bliss" reminds me
more of some of my favorite novels than it does any other films.  Peter
Carey's novel and adaptation have some of the feeling of John Irving's
earlier works, but it's not derivative.  The cinematography is gorgeous
and
understated.  It has a surprisingly romantic core beneath a fairly jaded
surface, which I think is a tough combination to pull off.

It isn't appropriate for kids (it has sophisticated, adult themes and, at
moments, a very frank approach to sex) and it has an unexpectedly epic,
languorous feel toward the end (so don't watch it when you're sleepy), but
if you're serious about appreciating movies, you owe it to yourself to
give
this one a chance.  Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>

Barry Otto should have won the Academy Award for his acting in this film.
His transitions and quirkiness and humanness are beautifully crafted;
everyone else is great too, the actors playing his wife, kids and 'Honey
Barbara' are creative and colorful.  This movie makes you laugh and cry
and
shudder with deep feelings!!  My favorite all around film of all time.
Deep
and Funny!!
<|_=00=_|>
There's an awful lot going on in "Bliss". I've never seen a film that
takes so many directions and so many plot turns and twists while still
maintaining a general coherence of purpose. It manages this only
because it means what it says. Unlike a lot of similarly abstract
films, there's not really an agenda to be weird just because it's
possible. The direction and cinematography surprisingly doesn't go for
the shocking. Instead, the look of the film is natural. Real lighting,
normal colours. So all the fantastical stuff stands out all the more.

Barry Otto plays a man with a lot of personal conflict, and a strange
sort of charisma. He's a storyteller above all, and that's what "Bliss"
is also most interested in. Creating real people first, then putting
them into the plot. Everyone is developed as much as they need to be,
fleshed out to surprising degrees. Barry Otto is very good as the
storyteller, but the really surprising bit is the performance of Helen
Jones.

There's certainly flaws to the film as a whole. It goes too far down
certain trails, gives too much importance to some events that don't
necessarily lead forward. But the best parts are amongst the best bits
of any film of this style, so the missteps can be forgiven. If you like
slightly messy, mostly brilliant, mostly forgotten films, "Bliss" is
perfect for you.
<|_=00=_|>
In all my years of movie watching, there are not many movies out there
that I can honestly say, really entertained me as much as this movie,
granted when I first watched Bliss, I was fourteen years old.

Some might think, that at that age, such a movie would be out with the
emotional grasp of person that age, these days I would say exactly just
the same thing, however, even back then I always found myself watching
more independently made movies than big blockbusters, such is still the
case to this day.

Ask me why I like this movie, all I can say is this, it contains a
certain dark charm that even now I still find seriously overwhelming.
Having never read the book written by Peter Carey, the big screen
adaptation was was littered with some great acting performances, the
main plus point being Barry Otto excelling as Harry Joy, the man who
believes he has it all, until that day he happens to die.

As to how faithful the movie is to the book, I cannot say, but various
scenes that follow, truly walk a perverse line, Harry's son's sexual
feelings toward his sister being one of many disturbing plot strands.

As to how you would categorise this movie, some might say it's a horror
movie, some might say that it's a romantic movie, the underlying theme
suggests horrific themes, lack of faith, adultery(Harry's wife cheating
on Harry behind his back, with his business partner)but the
overwhelming aspect is that of Romance, as Harry retells the tale of
the longest love story ever told to a young lady, of how he first met
the woman who changed his life, the one and only Honey Barbara.

Filled with many scenes of surreal imagery, I highly recommend this
movie to anyone who loves firstly Australian cinema, this movie along
with Philipe Mora's Death Of A Soldier rank as to of the best examples
of Australian cinema and also to those who love unconventional
storytelling.

Because this movie is simply the best! Without Hesitation this movie
gets 10/10
