

I recently had the pleasure of watching this movie with three kids who had
(to my shock and dismay) never seen it before.  It turned out to be as good,
if not better, as I remembered.  The story is reminescent of the original,
printed page (very dark) Grimm fairy tales.  The special effects are still
special, and the characters are unforgettable.  Seriously, don't miss it. 

This is one of the very few childrens' movies that is smarter and better
than what has unfortunately become "normal" for the genera.  The reverse
evolution in childrens' films is heartbreaking, as kids don't deserve to be
talked down to so often in movies.  I grew up on films like "Labyrinth",
"the Neverending Story", and "the Secret of NIMH", and I still count them
among my favorites.  In the 80's they gave us cinematic filet mignon, and
today's kids are getting Spam.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a classic fantasy film from Jim Henson, in collaboration with George
Lucas. There really is a magic about the film and that has helped it last as
a firm family favourite all these years. As with many films aimed at younger
audiences there are messages that the writers, in this case Henson himself,
have tried to convey, such as `be careful what you wish for (as in the heat
of the moment we are not always sure what is best for us) and also about not
taking things for granted. These lessons not only relate to the major target
audience of young children but also teenagers and adults alike. The film
also has values and attitudes about growing up, the central character Sarah
is in the awkward stage between child and womanhood, the stage of
adolescence. She acts like a child in her self importance and possessiveness
but she is perhaps starting to grow out of her young imagination. She does
not want to, her room full of inanimate companions, dreams and fantasies,
she feels are slipping away.

Labyrinth is about Sarah keeping her imagination alive, her fantasies and
dreams, and these help her figure out what she is doing wrong, it helps her
realise how her attitude is wrong and causes her to be depressed. There is
certainly intelligence to this film if analysed deeply. There is depth to
the script, and clear attitudes and values that Jim Henson conveys. Henson
is in a way telling not just kids, but also adults, that our subconscious,
which includes our dreams and imaginative side (in terms of taking yourself
to another place, more than imagination in creating something like a piece
of music for instance.) can be as affective a guide to where and when your
live is going wrong as your conscious. Sometimes we don't realise things we
have said or done until we dream. How many times have you said something,
that every teen must have to their parents, for instance `I wish you were
dead', very cruel but it is said. I have in the past and realised the full
implication in a bad dream, a dream is the most effective doorway to imagine
something outside of it really happening. 

What is fantastic about the way the film opens and closes as that it really
hints to the fact that Sarah has been through the same dream before, and
that she needs these imaginative friends, and dreams to help her see the
light as it were. She says for instance at the close that every now and
again she needs Hoggle and company.
The opening of the film sees Sarah reciting from a book to herself, she is
addressing the Goblin king and the characters of this book and her room are
the cast of a play inside her mind, they are special to her and meaningful,
in a way we might have a favourite song that speaks to us in some way. At
the start of the film when we are first in her room there is clever use of
visual hints that you wouldn't pick up on until watching a film the second
time. Look around her room and you see the characters everywhere, Hoggle,
Ludo even a little replica of a maze. There is also a clipping of Sarah's
mother, who we do not know whether she is still alive, but in any case is
not around, but she is with a man who is the likeness of the Goblin King.
The man in the photo probably a figure of blame for the loss (however large)
of Sarah's mother. What is also interesting is Sarah being a young girl at
the start of puberty has a certain fascination and perhaps crush on the
Goblin King, perhaps a combination of the character from the book and the
likeness of which she has created this character in her head. Certainly on a
visual and script basis there are some clever touches when you consider this
is a kids film. 

The film itself is much like the Wizard of Oz in terms of story (intentional
maybe as it could represent something that Sarah finds special and perhaps
inspirational). What I really love about the film is, that before the days
of CGI, inside the Goblin world, which accounts for 90% of the film,
everything is 100% set work, there must be well over a hundred sets and they
are all imaginative an create the enchanting atmosphere of the film, these
sets combined with some fantastic matte paintings from ILM that give even
more of a scale to the film.

I do really like this film, the look, the cheesy feel good 80's music, the
characters, it is all great. There is some good humour and of course the odd
piece of very childish low brow humour but that is to be expected. It is
movie magic no question. David Bowie is good as the Goblin King and all the
puppeted characters are fantastically brought to life in there movements and
voicing as you would expect from a Henson film. A very youthful Jennifer
Connelly before the days when many a website was devoted to her ample bosom,
has a charm to her, she has to hold the movie together and win the audience,
especially after being very bratty and effectively wishing her baby brother
into the clutches of Goblins. She does manage to win the audience though and
enchant them with her green eyes and youthful innocence.

This film is great, it is what makes, or made fantasy films of this time
really enchanting. Real artistry was involved, there was exuberance and
charm to it and it has lasted a long time. It is a firm fans favourite and
still gains new young fans. I can still to this day sit down and enjoy the
film because I remember what Jim Henson tries to teach us. `Keep the inner
child alive inside you sometimes he/she actually knows best'. Perhaps
certain events in recent years may have panned out differently had this been
heeded by more people, but that is all just hear say.

Overall this is a classic fantasy film with much artistry and charm to
appreciate, certainly Henson had a skill in all his fields in the industry.
**** 

<|_=00=_|>

Cool film! Way too good for children. Jim Henson, as ever, is the absolute
master of every kind of puppetry known to man or muppet.Particularly
adorable is the little punk worm who invites Sarah to "Come inside and meet
the missus"... very cute. The plot has all the essential elements of a good
fairy tale with the added bonus of a heroine who manages to get through all
her trials and tribulations without squealing feebly or fainting into the
arms of any poxy bloke. David Bowie is wonderfully sexy (despite the fright
wig) and his natural humour shines through although his character does a
pretty good job of being spiteful and menacing. I get the feeling the he
really enjoyed making this film. The soundtrack is excellent and "As the
World Falls Down" is quite hauntingly beautiful ('though I have to agree
with an earlier reviewer that the ballroom sequence in which it was played
did slow the action down a little - but it was a visual
feast).

All in all, a beautiful film with a wonderful cast of creatures and humans.
Makes me miss Jim Henson's talents lots but at least we've still got Brian
(his son). My friend's three year old now has a crush on the Goblin King (I
dread to think how that's gonna shape her life!).
<|_=00=_|>

The first time I saw this movie was two years ago.  Don't ask me how I
managed to miss it as a child but I did.

It is obvious that this movie was made for the kiddies but I don't think it
can just be enjoyed by the younger crowd.  I think perhaps if I had seen
this as a child instead of a teenager I would have enjoyed it more but I
didn't and I still enjoyed never the less.  There is something magical about
watching Labyrinth.  You just feel the happiness that rubs off from this
movie.  It almost makes you wish you were a kid again.  I admit seeing it
now I have to say some parts are beyond corny but I think that's just part
of it, I mean that was the 80's right?  I am not even a David Bowie fan but
I can't help but smile whenever he starts singing (which is quite often).  I
recently showed this to my 4 year old cousin and he couldn't get enough of
it.  It was so great to watch him turn his head back to look at me with a
giant smile to make sure I saw the puppets doing whatever they were doing at
that moment.  He really loved it so I bought him the dvd for X-mas this year
along with myself a copy.  This is really just one of those movies you have
to see at least once in your life, just because there isn't another like it.
 Sure the story isn't much when it comes to plot but try to watch this film
all the way through without smiling once, I dare you!

A great movie for the kids or kids at heart! 8 out of 10
stars.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh dear, Jim Henson, you are sorely missed. Not necessarily because you
went before your time, or even in somewhat rotten circumstances. No, it
is because unlike the purveyors of so-called family entertainment these
days, your work was actually entertaining to the whole family. When I
was a lad, I used to think these films were childish and patronising.
By comparison to what is being aimed at the children of my cousins, it
is MENSA material, and I realise now that it was far more brilliant
than I had previously given it credit for. Indeed, compared to the
"you're not good if you don't have good feelings" rubbish that the
likes of B'Harni fill the heads of children with, Henson productions
deserve a medal.

At its heart, Labyrinth is a simple fable about how much we miss
something once it is gone. A young girl wishes that her annoying
stepbrother would disappear, only to find when he is gone that she
misses him. Enter the Goblin King, played with a great malice by David
Bowie. The challenge the Goblin King sets almost sounds like a video
game. Indeed, one popular Commodore 64 game of the time set the
challenge of collecting the pieces to solve a key puzzle to save the
world in a certain time period. Labyrinth was even adapted into a game
for the Commodore 64. In Labyrinth the film, this young woman named
Sarah, played with a certain kind of brilliance by a young Jennifer
Connelly, is challenged to navigate a massive labyrinth in less than
thirteen hours, lest her brother become one of the Goblins.

It sounds like a very simple idea, and it is. What makes Labyrinth the
under-appreciated classic that it is is in the details. As previously
indicated, the leads are absolutely brilliant. While David Bowie chews
scenery like there is no tomorrow, Jennifer Connelly gets so into her
character that she makes it seem perfectly natural when she is
interacting with some of Jim Henson's most ludicrous creations. The
scene in which she rescues a giant yeti-like thing called Ludo is one
of the most superbly-made things in the history of children's film. It
is also worth noting that in contrast to the aforementioned normalism
of B'Harni and his ilk, Henson's creations taught the valuable lesson
that appearances are not the sum total of a living creature's
character. Ludo looks like he could tear apart our protagonist, but his
manner and speech show him as one of the most gentle and lovable
characters ever depicted in film.

As you might guess from this film featuring David Bowie as the
top-billed star, there are also a few song and dance numbers. Some of
them, such as the magic dance number, are immortally embarrassing. Or
at least, they would be, if not for two things. First, the suspension
of disbelief that Henson so admirably achieves with his puppets is a
real pleasure. Second, Bowie's golden voice could charm the paint off
walls. When he sings "I saw my baby, crying hard as babe could cry", it
stands out like a stark reminder of why this man used to be able to
sign record deals worth tens of millions of dollars. It may even bring
tears to your eyes.

If Labyrinth does have a weakness, it is in the closing reels. The
final song from Bowie stretches the scene beyond its welcome, but it
recovers nicely once Sarah returns to the real world. The compositing
work in the Firey sequence is rather lousy, and the story seems to
grind to a halt when they do their song and dance number. On the other
hand, their song and dance number is still incredibly amusing to
behold.

In all, I gave Labyrinth an eight out of ten. It is not perfect. In
fact, I wonder if whomever designed Bowie's costume was not playing an
elaborate joke upon him. But for all of its problems, Labyrinth is an
underrated classic. One of the few films that is advertised as being
for all ages, and can entertain audiences of that description. A great
light went out in our world when Jim Henson passed away.
<|_=00=_|>
Growing up as a child in 1980's New York, I remember being inspired by
many fantasy and science fiction films, that eventually led me to start
writing short stories myself (from there to my current occupation of
journalism the road was quite short, BTW). Titles like The Neverending
Story, Flight of the Navigator and Who Framed Roger Rabbit? captured my
imagination and filled me with aw, and with time found their way to my
ever growing DVD collection, as did Jim Henson's Labyrinth, the latest
addition to my nostalgic bundle of joy.

The saddest thing about all this is that no one seems to make films
like Labyrinth anymore. Viewing it again at the age of 25 just made me
appreciate it even more, for all of it's breathtaking imaginative
figures, rich scenery and original plot; especially when some of the
scenes seem somewhat dated while the essence and heart of the film
remain in tact, even twenty years down the road.

In short, Labyrinth is one of Jim Henson's last attempts at creating
cross-age entertainment through his world famous puppets, after
bringing life to the eternal beloved characters of The Muppets and
Sesame Street, and before his sudden and premature death. The story
presents us 16 year old Sarah (a very young Academy Award winner
Jennifer Connelly, A Beautiful Mind), who has an extremely vivid
imagination she uses to escape her everyday worries... or so it seems.
After asked to take care of her baby stepbrother, Toby, Sarah finds
herself dealing with a screaming infant, instead of wondering away in
her thoughts to a world filled with Goblins, Yeti-like creatures, and a
King Atrhur-ish talking dog. After several lacking attempts at calming
the baby down, she wishes Toby to the evil Goblin King Jareth. Fantasy
and fiction clash when Jareth (the one and only rock singer David
Bowie, who appears on screen with an extravagant 80's outfit and some
cute yet unnecessary songs) actually takes Toby away to his evil
kingdom, where he threatens to transform the baby into a Goblin, if
Sarah won't find a way to cross a tricky and mystical Labyrinth on the
way to his kingdom. Determined to save her brother, Sarah makes her way
through the Labyrinth, meeting helpful friends along the way, whilst
magical fantasy happenings occur around her...

This is a true 1980's gem. Treat it with care, and enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
The movie takes you to a wonderful world where nothing is what it
seems. I was about 10 years old the first time I saw it and it made
such an impact on me that I ended up ordering it from Germany just 12
years old. The setting is fantastic; it's just scary enough without
making scares in a young boy's soul. Bowie acts in a trilling way, and
his unique and magical voice brings it all together. If you like
fantasy you will love this film. All the Quotes make Bowie as Jareth
"the Goblin King" the perfect villain. At times you almost despise him
but as I wrote in my first sentence, nothing is like it seems. And as I
grow older I sympathized with him, you may even say that he tries to
help Sarah. If you decide to see that aspect of it that is. All in all
I wish you all a lovely experience watching this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
By today's standards "Labyrinth" may look dated and cheap but there's
something about it that makes it special. 

David Bowie makes it a stand alone movie in the weird ranking. The man
is crazy but his performance is excellent!

Jennifer Connely (being 16 at the time) delivers a solid and tender
performance. She was very, very cute and her performance totally gained
the audience's love. 

The tale is fantastic and keeps you interested from the beginning to
the end. The musical moments are also great! The f/x were great for
it's time and I wonder how they came out with the idea for creating
such original characters. 

The thing that I liked the most about the movie is it's art direction.
The world that is created is taken directly from everyone's fantasy
world idea. Colorful and dark at the same time.

Better than the "Neverending Story" movies, "Labyrinth" should be
watched for lovers of sci-fi.
<|_=00=_|>
A Fantastical Quest Through the Labyrinth of Time. This Henson/Lucas
production isn't quite what you'd expect from these legendary
directors. Somehow, it's better.

The genius of Henson and Lucas shines brightly as Jennifer Connelly and
David Bowie perpetuate this wonderful tale of fantasy written by Dennis
Lee and Jim Henson. Henson's son, Brian (now the head of the Henson
Empire), even gets in on the act as the voice of Hoggle.

The story opens in the present, this world, this plane. Sarah
(Connelly) is a spoiled rotten little drama queen who thinks she is the
center of the universe and the sun around which the world revolves.

In a brattish fit of colossal immaturity, she stumbles upon the correct
words to summon Jareth the Goblin King (Bowie) to take her little
brother to the Goblin Realm.

Once done; however, she realizes how angry her parents will be and
decides that it's more prudent to go "rescue" Toby rather than allow
his assimilation into the Goblin fold.

Jareth gives her 13 hours in which to find her way through an
impossible labyrinth, fight her way through the Goblin City, and puzzle
out the staircases of the Goblin Castle and save her half-brother.

She is punished for arrogance, beguiled in her naivety, confused in her
indecision and imprisoned for her quick, thoughtless decisions. "That's
not FAIR!" is one of her most used and best delivered lines; used again
and again, until it FINALLY sinks in that life just isn't fair.

It is a warm, funny and enriching tale, once started. It's about
growing up, accepting responsibility for your actions and choices and
making them more wisely in the beginning, rather than cleaning up your
messes as you go along.

In the end, Sarah realizes all the infantile tantrums and childish toys
are nothing but detritial remains of her otherwise out-lived childhood.
She begins to stumble upon the reality that the important things are
family, friends, and the responsibility that comes with making mature
decisions. She throws away her immaturity and child-like selfishness to
save her brother and thereby sets her feet back on the right path to
adulthood and maturity.

It's a wonderful "coming of age" movie, and perfect for its target
audience: girls 9-13. But I must say that children and adults alike
love this movie, worldwide. It's not ONLY for girls, but for anyone who
loves fantasy. This movie is far superior to what most consider to be
your standard "Muppet Movie." It's one of my favorites. 

This movie gets an 8.4/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
Jennifer Connelly is Sarah, an immature spoiled narcissistic bratty
teen whom after wishing her baby brother, Toby, away to the Goblin King
(a great David Bowie, who's a highlight of the film) and has to
traverse a complex labyrinth to get him back learning to be a lot less
selfish in the process. Bowie's songs highlight and punctuate a magical
film that is sure to appeal to both the young and young at heart.
Better then Jim Hanson's other more mature film of the 80's "The Dark
Crystal", because it's a tad more humane and more easily to relate to,
but both these films are fun to watch. Loving this film from when I was
a kid myself might have shading my opinion of it a bit, yet re-watching
it just now, I still find it very enjoyable.

My Grade: B+ 

Collector's Edition DVD Extras: "Inside the Labyrinth" 56 minute
making-of featurette; Four photo galleries; posters gallery;
Filmographies; Storyboards; Theatrical trailer; and trailer for "The
Dark Crystal box set" 

Random Notes: Comes packed with animation cell/scene composite card and
postcards
