

 When Back to The Future was initially conceived, director and writer Robert
Zemeckis and writer Bob Gale had no idea how much notoriety it would
eventually achieve, nor of the big box office records it would break.  They
were happy just to see their project come to fruition. When they wrote the
original film, the ending they had written was supposed to be the end of it.
Because of it's success, however, and Hollywood being Hollywood, there had
to be the inevitable sequels.  The problem was that with the original
ending, they had painted themselves into a corner as to where they could go
with the sequel.  What they finally came up with in Part II, is a film that
is every bit as whimsical as the original, yet moves along at a pace that
will leave you breathless.

 For part II the cast is pretty much intact from the original film.  The
exceptions are Crispin Glover as George McFly has been replaced by Jeffrey
Weisman and Claudia Wells has been replaced by Elizabeth Shue as Marty's
girlfriend Jennifer.  George McFly's role in the sequel is more talked about
by other characters than his actual on screen time, and Jennifer's time on
screen is quick and brief also (although she has one great scene that takes
place in the future)so neither casting change is of any consequence.

 The original film dealt with how Marty had threatened his own existence
because of changes he had accidentally initiated in the year 1955.  For Part
II, we learn what happens when the interference is of a much larger scale
and consequence. As you recall, the original film ended with Doc
Brown(Christopher Lloyd)whisking Marty (Michael J. Fox)and Jennifer away
with him to the year 2015 to straighten out their kids.  For all his harping
about messing with historical events, Doc is not above initiating a bit of
interference himself.  In their attempt to rescue Marty's future offspring,
an aged but still obnoxious Biff Tannen (Thomas F. Wilson), steals the
Delorean to transport himself into the past and to bestow upon himself a
Sports Almanac book that contains the results of sporting events for years
to come.  Shortly thereafter, Doc and Marty return to 1985, only to find
that not only is Hill Valley not what it used to be, their own lives are in
pretty sad shape and far different than what they had been before.  And the
changes aren't good ones, or as Doc puts it "I can't imagine Hell being much
worse."

 What makes the Back To The Future series so terrific, is that Zemeckis and
Gale took the time travel concept, applied a little originality to it, then
let their imaginations run wild. In BTTFII, we get a story that moves along
like a runaway freight train.  Not content to give us what the year 2015 may
be truly like, since making such predictions are usually wrong anyway, they
decide to let it all hang loose and just have fun with it.  There are
holographic theaters, Cafe 80's shops, antique stores that sell dustbusters
and other things, skateboards that hover, paying for cab rides with
thumbprints, etc. etc.  Yet, for all the glossy, multi-colored stores and
goofy concepts, we still recognize it as the same old Hill Valley.
Something else Zemeckis and Gale do is to take some events from the first
film, and replay them in 2015 Hill Valley.  Usually, things like this would
be seen as the lack of an idea, but in this case its simply Zemeckis having
a little fun and letting us in on it.  It works perfectly.

 Likewise, the alternative version of 1985 Hill Valley is an exercise in how
far one's imagination can go.  Instead of a quaint peaceful town and
suburbs, Zemeckis and Gale do everything in their power to give us the
equivalent of an opposite. To go into too much detail here would undermine
your own viewing experience and give away a bit too much of the plot.

 Then to add fuel to the fire, we once again revisit Hill Valley in 1955,
where things really go berserk what with two Marty's and two Docs inhabiting
the same year.  Zemeckis does a great job of cutting new scenes into footage
from the original film with different angles and different perspectives of
previous seen activities.

 As for the cast, Fox and Lloyd keep their characters of Marty and Doc on
the same entertaining level as before.  Fox is also given the chore of
playing his nerdy son of the future, Marty as a middle aged man and even his
daughter of the future.  He is pretty much successful except I do think
playing his daughter was a bit much.  Lea Thompson, again has the difficult
chore of bringing Lorraine Mcfly to us in three different characterizations,
and as before handles it admirably.  Her 1955 Lorraine will always be her
most memorable characterization in these films, but the others are equally
well done.  As for Thomas F. Wilson as Biff, Biff is biff, no matter how
old, how young, or how powerful he may be, and his consistence of
performance is also noteworthy.

 Some have complained about being able to follow Zemeckis and Gale's
storyline.  If you have seen the first film, you'll have no trouble in that
regard.  I sure didn't, and for me it was one heck of a comedic thrill ride
from beginning to end.  If you don't have fun watching Back To The Part II,
then the only thing I can think of is that your as much of a curmudgeon as
old Biff from 2015.  It's not often that a sequel can live up to it's
predecessor, but when it does, and introduces some originality along the way
you get my grade, which for Back To The Future is an A.


<|_=00=_|>
As a huge BTTF fan, I have to admit that this is the best BTTF flick
ever made. It has all the ingredients to please all audience of any
age. I personally like the 50's stuff in it, but I am also a huge 80's
fan (the present in the movie) and the future is just hilarious. Of
course...it has been almost two decades since this movie came out, and
now we know that the future that is shown in BTTF 2 is a bit funny, but
hey...do you remember Total Recall? Now THAT is also a future that
would never see daylight, but at least the BTTF 2 future is amusing.

I have seen this movie over a dozen times, and I tried to find things
that don't match, movie mistakes etc. (yes..I am a pain in the ..)but
the thing is, I KNOW that there are mistakes (like reflections in
window glass) but this movie keeps your mind drifting away, enchanted
by the great story and great moments. Of course Spielberg never
intended to have more ingredients then the past (50's), the present and
the future. But almost 20 years later...it is also a (another) great
movie to see what the 80's were all about. (so another great moment for
people of my age, born in the late 70's)

I recommend this movie to ANYONE, but watch BTTF(the first movie)
first, because you can't watch part 2 or 3 without watching it in the
right sequence.

Have fun! (I recommend the trilogy box, you can purchase it anywhere)
<|_=00=_|>

Marty McFly is back, and this time he has to travel back to 1955 after an
unfortunate incident which took place in 2015 so that he can prevent the
destruction of the peaceful society of Hill Valley (what a great fictional
name!). The film provides two hours of absolutely wonderful and fun
entertainment. 

Every paradox and logical problem of time-travel is explained very well in
the film itself, and those that are left out are easily overlooked due to
the creativeness of the rest of the film. Who cares that if Marty leaves
1985 in a time machine to 2015, there would be no Marty left in 1985 to grow
to up into the 47 year old Marty in 2015? This movie is so much fun that
things like this are gladly forgotten about in order to accept the huge
amount of satisfaction delivered by the film. 

The Back To The Future trilogy is a perfect example of the need to be
willing to abandon at least a tiny bit of logic in order to fully enjoy a
movie. This suspension of disbelief is necessary for a person to be able to
truly experience the effectiveness of all three Back To The Future films,
and this experience truly is a great one. 

It is so rare that a film or a series of films comes along that is so well
written and perfectly acted and directed as the Back To The Future movies
are. Although I realize that another sequel would probably be disastrous to
the credibility of the series as a whole, I have to admit that I have always
been disappointed that they stopped at the third film. All three are so much
fun that they leave you wishing that the story left room for a few more
sequels.
<|_=00=_|>
It's funny that the plot of 'Back to the Future II' should be based on
altering Marty McFly's future. Wasn't Doc the one who was so staunchly
opposed to knowing too much about their future, preferring instead to
let things take a natural course? 'Destiny!' he called it. But that is
exactly what the sequel is all about, Doc's proposal to altar the
future. And this leads not only to bad news for Doc Brown and Marty,
but for the your Density? I mean, Destiny? (flashback humor).

The story focuses on Marty McFly's future. Picking up right where we
left off in the first movie, Doc informs Marty that in the year 2015,
Marty's son partakes in some unfortunate activities with Griff (Biff's
grandson) that lead to his arrest and incarceration. While in the
future to fix up that little mishap (again, messing with 'Destiny'),
Marty picks up a sports Almanac to take back with him. The Almanac
contains all sports scores since something like 1955 (why it is only
the size of a magazine, I don't know, considering it covers major
college and pro sporting event for a whole lot of years). 

The Doc, in disgust at Marty's foolish get-rich-quick desires, throws
the magazine out (while still in 2015). Unfortunately, Biff, now an old
man, gets hold of both the magazine and the Delorian and travels to his
young self in 1955. This sets off a change of events in the past so
that when Marty and the Doc, now in the future, are ready to go back to
1985, suddenly find themselves in an unfamiliar hell. With Biff
changing the past, he also changed the future, creating a desolate,
alternate 1985. One where Biff is the richest man in Hill Valley,
though still the sleaziest. And where a lot of other things have
changed as well. Now, Marty and the Doc have to go back to 1955 and get
the magazine from Biff if they expect to restore the future and erase
the alternative 1985.

This is a great sequel to a great movie. You get the 1989 version of
the future (I don't know that 2015 will make the kind of progress we
see in the movie with cool flying cars and dehydrating pizzas and
hoverboards). This is the special effects and visual beauty of the
second, whereas in the first one, it was recreating the past. Marty had
to once adapt to 1955, now he has to do the same for 2015, even if only
for a moment. 

But, it also ties in another creative aspect: when Marty and the Doc
must return to 1955, they only know the whereabouts of Biff based on
where they last saw him in that year--the school dance and all of that
which took place in the first movie. Going back to that past means that
a Marty "Calvin Klein" McFly is already there, and the events are
taking place again just as we saw them in the first movie. And now, the
Marty and the Doc from the future are intermingling once again with
their past versions of themselves. So, in essence, the filmmakers had
to recreate some of the scenes from the old movie, from different
angles, and the actors had to play dual roles (which they do often
throughout the trilogy) by being added into those scenes. It was a
great special effects/visionary project to undertake, and what makes
the series so damned creative and really a fun idea. And here, too, the
goal is to avoid running into your past self because, yes, it could
altar events once again. I wonder how the future changed since Marty
and Doc's intervention in 2015? 

So, prepare yourself for what may arguably be the best movie out of the
trilogy (probably because you get to see the future and past and
everything in between; although, I'm still torn between rating the
first or the second as my absolute favorite). It is the continuation of
a fun first movie, and keeps up the creativity and novelty. I think
that was the reason most responsible for its success: the ability to
keep offering something new (although some things, are obviously
repeated, like the running gag of Marty blacking out and waking up to
some version of his mother informing him of what year it is after he
tells her what an awful dream he had).

So, sit back and let the Delorean be your guide.
<|_=00=_|>
Back to the Future Part II (1989) was green lighted after the success
of the first film. The film follows the further adventures of Marty and
Doc Brown. This film and the third installment were filmed back to
back. However the complexity of the storyline turned off many of the
fans of the original. But this is what I enjoyed about this movie.
Instead of being the same old run-of-the-mill by the numbers sequel,
the film makers decided to do something different and make this a brain
twister film. The beauty of this movie is that you have to pay close
attention to it.

The film takes place right after the events of part one. Doc Brown
comes back from the future to help Marty get his kid out of trouble.
Instead of leaving well enough alone, all three of them head off to the
future to try and change events. They managed to pull it off but
unfortunately they tore a fabric in time due to Marty being greedy and
the nosy efforts of Doc Brown. Can Doc and Marty safely restore the
space and time continuum before the universe collapses upon itself?

A fun sequel with a few cast changes (Elizabeth Shue now portrays
Marty's girlfriend whilst Crispin Glover is no longer with in the film
except in stock footage). Most of the original players return to
reprise their original roles. Michael J. Fox stretches his acting
abilities by playing his son and daughter as well as his older self. If
you enjoyed the first film then you'll really want to watch this one
(if you haven't already).

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm one lucky girl, I rented all three Back to the Future films, so I
could watch them all in a row, I didn't have to wait year after year,
well I was kinda born in 1985, so it's all good. But anyways, I just
saw the Back to the Future trilogy tonite and after it seeming like I
was the only person who didn't see these movies, I did it! Part two was
a very good sequel, while it isn't quite up to par with the first Back
to the Future, it was cool, it was kinda like Deja Vu with a different
story that worked.

Marty and Jennifer start off where the first left off, Doc takes them
to the year 2015(which is funny that it is only 8 years away), and Doc
tells Marty to fix a situation with his future son. Biff overhears an
idea later brought up to Doc about possibly giving himself tips to win
big money for the future as soon as they go back, but Doc talks him out
of it, but Biff has different plans and takes the book and the De
Lauren and goes back to 1955 and makes himself the richest man alive in
1985, so Marty and The Doc must go back and alter the future back to
it's old ways.

Part two is definitely worth a look for those Back to the Future fans,
not to mention, it's just good to see where these stories go. Like I
said, it's not as good as the first, but it is a good movie and
actually a little better than a 7.1, if you ask me. But that's just me,
so just give this movie a chance, you just might find yourself enjoying
it.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Continuing a movie as perfect as "Back To The Future" must have been a
really tough job. What made it even harder was that the writers Robert
Zemeckis and Bob Gale had to ignore an important character from part
one. Because Crispin Glover asked for too much money, his character
George McFly, Marty's wacky Dad, hardly appears in the sequels, which
constricted the storyline a lot beforehand.

Still, "Back To The Future II" turned out to be a huge success,
commercially and artistically. The movie is every bit as clever and
delightful as part one. I think most viewers don't realize how
extremely complex this story is, because it's so enjoyable to watch.
Gale & Zemeckis wrote a screenplay that takes place in three different
periods of time, changes storyline more than once, has characters
interacting with themselves all the time, but never seems overdone or
confusing. The most original trick the two Bobs pulled was to virtually
return to part one and have the main character interfere with the
original storyline. I don't think that has ever been done before or
since.

No, the movie isn't flawless in a sense that everything can be
explained logically. Bob Gale admitted himself that Marty and Doc
shouldn't be able to visit their future selves in the first place.
There are a lot of impossible time travels in part two (you can read
about them in detail here: http://mjyoung.net/time/back2.html).
"Mistakes" like that don't take away any of the fun, though, and I
still think that the "Back To The Future" trilogy incorporates the
logics of time traveling better than any other movie ever did.

Besides the perfect script the trilogy's success is due to Zemeckis
ever so beautiful direction and his eye for detail, and of course the
great cast. Michael J. Fox, Christopher Lloyd, Thomas F. Wilson and Lea
Thompson, all shamelessly underrated actors, are once again brilliant.
It's a REAL pity that Crispin Glover didn't return for the sequels, but
as I've said before, Gale & Zemeckis did a great job writing their way
around his memorable character. The only other actress that didn't come
back was Claudia Wells, who played Jennifer in part one and was
appropriately replaced by Elisabeth Shue here.

Summing up, "Back To The Future II" is a more than worthy follow-up to
one of the best movies of all time. In fact, I think it's the best
sequel ever made, only rivaled by "Terminator 2: Judgement Day". But
that's a different story...
<|_=00=_|>

Marty (Michael J Fox) is glad to be back to 1985. A much better 1985 with a
much happier family, because back in 1955 something good happens and that
changes the future. While he's about to relax with his girlfriend, Jennifer
(Elisabeth Shue), Doc Emmet Brown (Christopher Lloyd) comes back from 2015
with his DeLorean time machine and asks Marty to go back to the future to
save his children. While doing their job, Marty buys a sports almanac of the
20th century and unfortunately, when Doc seriously asks him to throw it
away, Biff (Thomas F Wilson), a long-time nemesis, overhears their
conversation, takes the book from the waste bin, steals the time machine and
gives the almanac to his younger self back in 1955.

When Doc and Marty get back to 1985, they realise that things have changed.
Hill Valley has turned into hell, governed by the wealthy, powerful and
devilish Biff Tannen. Marty's father has long been dead and his mother is
married to Biff. What went wrong? Finally Doc and Marty find out that they
must revisit 1955 and get things right...

This fascinating sequel has some fun and some dark sides in it. The skate
boarding scene is just brilliant. What a deja vu. The 2015 presented in the
film is quite interesting (I wonder if 2015 will look just like that) and we
get to watch once again Marty playing 'Johnny B Goode' and his father
punching Biff. In the end, after getting back in 1985, Marty unintentionally
changes his own future for better again. 

Most sequels are pathetic, but this one is different. It succeeds in
exciting the audience. The whole cast did a good job, Michael J Fox is great
fun playing several characters at the same time. Along with the original and
'Back to the Future Part III', this is for certain one of the best time
travel flicks. Not to be missed!               
<|_=00=_|>
I love the original movie, so don't get me wrong, but I have a special
thing for really cool looking futuristic things. Especially if they're
made out to look really interesting like in this sequel.

The story is still very good, the characters are still lovable and have
some great lines, and the ending is superb even if it leaves you
wanting for a little more. Interchanging between this movie and the
last (even the next) were great twists and turns, probably still the
best achievement i've seen properly executed in a film to date.

While the original is probably an eleven on my scale now, this one used
to be my all time favorite one in the BTTF trilogy. And there's still a
whole lot to love about this movie, even the kids today will probably
appreciate how much fun this movie is even with all the flash and more
advanced CG effects they have in their movies today.
<|_=00=_|>
'Back to the Future Part II' takes off where the first movie left.
Pretty much the essence of the first one is present except this time
Elisabeth Shue has been cast as Marty's girlfriend. Like the first
movie, this one too is non-stop fun. The original plot once again,
brilliantly revolves around the time-travelling paradox but this time
the interference with the time-line has huger repercussions that are
more complicated to solve. It's slightly a little more complex than the
first movie but the energy and entertainment level is the same. I liked
Zemeckis's version of 2015. It has that ultracool look and the
futuristic gadgets and gizmos were quite amusing. The soundtrack is
equally wild. The camera-work and special effects are very well done
considering that the challenge was greater (e.g. showing two Michael J.
Fox on the same screen). Okay, so showing the same actor share the
screen with himself isn't anything new but in most movies/shows it
looks poorly done which is not the case here. With most movies, the
sequel tends to be a let down but 'Back to the Future Part II' is a
great continuation of the first film.
