
I can certainly understand adults not finding this film as funny as
adolescents will. This story of high school buddies trying to
infiltrate a Florida brothel in the 1950s is neither classy nor
sophisticated.

It is, however, quite funny. Just sit back and watch the group of pals
playing tricks on each other and sticking together when things turn
serious. Watching it today brings back memories of some of the stupid
things me and my high school friends did back in the late 1980s and
early 1990s. We all tried to get into strip clubs before we were 18. We
didn't see any trouble with breaking the law as long as nobody got
hurt. We all were out to have a much sex as we possibly could. That's
what a good portion of growing up for us guys is all about! 

That said, the events depicted in this film, such as destroying a night
club and sticking our manhood through a hole in the girls' shower
didn't happen. That's why films are made. They take ideas in our heads
and try to show what would happen if they actually played out.

Only the coldest and stiffest of men couldn't find anything to laugh
about with this movie. It is in no way meant to be taken seriously. It
has been criticized to the point of no return, though. Why? Are some
people unable to laugh at juvenile pranks, or were they on the
receiving end of them when they were in high school?

If you had fun growing up, you will probably like this film. If you
look back at your younger years with regret, then you most likely won't
enjoy it.

8 of 10 stars

And just gotta add 4/4/2007...... RIP Bob Clark. We'll miss you, man!

The Hound will see you on the other side some day!
<|_=00=_|>
Porky's is the original teen sex comedy.

I had the great pleasure of seeing Porky's in a late night showing on
opening day in March 1982 in a theater packed to the gills with 18-25
year olds (although I was 30). I hurt for 3 days from laughing so hard.

There is a portion of the movie, beginning close to the 1 hour mark
that is the absolute funniest 14 minutes ever put on film. This
includes these three hilarious scenes: Coach and Lassie in the boys
locker room (Coach Brackett finds out why they call Miss Honeywell
Lassie), then it segues to the guys peeping through the holes into the
girls shower room, where Beulah Balbricker gets a 'handle' on Tommy's
situation, immediately followed by the scene with Coach Brackett, Coach
Warren and Head Coach Goodenough in Principal Carter's office with
Beulah describing the "incriminating mole". There were people out of
their seats, laying on the floor of the theater screaming with
laughter. I have yet to see another motion picture invoke this kind of
hilarity in a movie theater. I saw it in the theater 2 or 3 times in
it's original theatrical run with the same response. When it became
available, I bought the VHS copy, then the laser disc copy and when I
got the DVD a few month's ago, I watched it for the zillionth time and
I still laugh my butt off when I see those scenes. The acting is great
for a bunch of no-names, there are actually great multiple plot-lines
(in addition to the typical "get laid at any cost" plot) and the
cinematography, editing and sound is above average. They made this
movie in 90 days for less than $4 million and it grossed $7 million
opening weekend and has grossed over $100 million in theaters to date,
most of that in 1982 dollars. The only thing I can say bad about
Porky's is that they should have stopped after the first one. The first
pathetic sequel (The Next Day) lacked humor, the second sequel (Porky's
Revenge) had 30-year-olds playing teenagers and they had long-since
lost their youthful charm.
<|_=00=_|>

I looked at the first two pages (here on the IMDB website) of other comments
and am not at all surprised to find comments ranging from very good to very
bad; this is that kind of movie.

If you haven't seen it, here's my take on it.  People who are stuffy,
proper, sophisticated, and politically correct in a social sense are not
going to care for this movie.  On the other hand, if you are laid back, easy
going, don't have to have an uplifting and moral story line, and appreciate
comedy (often sexy and somewhat raw), you are going to love this movie.  The
producer and director very obviously made this movie for the simple purpose
of providing the audience with a lot of very funny comedy.  And they
succeeded immensely (if you are laid back, easy going, etc.)  The scenes
range from funny to hilarious.

Buy or rent the video.  I've seen this on network TV and it is very
"sanitized".
<|_=00=_|>

All of us have certain films, not well liked by either critics or public,
which nonetheless really strike a chord within us. They're our guilty
pleasures, movies that we never tire of, but don't brag about. "Porky's" is
one of mine. It's insipid, inane, and amateurish. The plot doesn't make much
sense, and the characters don't behave rationally. But I don't care.
"Porky's" is fun, transporting me back to a mythical time in America when it
was great to be a teenager. Life was a lark, issues were black and white,
and all endings are happy. In this regards "Porky's" resembles many of
Disney's movies like "Pollyanna", a haunt of other guilty pleasures. Sheer
fantasy, sheer entertainment. I dig this movie, but that's just my opinion.

<|_=00=_|>

No one goes into a movie like "Porky's" expecting greatness.  But if you get
at least one good laugh, that's good enough.  

Two laughs, even better.  

Three, great.  

Four, fantastic.

I got more laughs than this out of "Porky's", but since I went in expecting
them to reach the lowest common denominator, I got just what I came in
looking for.

Who doesn't know the story, o connoisseurs of lowbrow humor?  What you want
to know is if it's funny.  Of course it is, but this isn't the best movie
for family video night (then again, it depends on the family).

I won't spoil any of the gags for you but I can tell you the biggest ones
depend, separately, on eggs, oversized condoms, holes in the girls' showers
and a prank call to the local diner.
And where, in one instance, you'd keep a driver's license.

Sorry, you'll just have to see the thing.

Eight stars, and beware of moral turpitude.
<|_=00=_|>
Is this what people thought was funny in 1981? Was there some kind of
nuclear meltdown that caused nationwide brain damage? OK, so you're a
half-wit teen and you sneak into this movie at the Drive- In. Fine, you
got a glimpse of some beaver. But after 35 years you come across this
crapfest on cable TV and you think, wow, this is just as hilarious as I
remember it. Depressing. There's nothing original here. Nothing
remotely funny. Well, other than seeing Art Hindle as a tough guy. Doug
Magrath going' even further down the road of Canadian movie crapitude.
Kim Catrall before she turned into a Skank In The City. To compare this
to Animal House is an insult. Nobody in this movie had the acting or
comedic chops to carry John Belushi's dime bag.
<|_=00=_|>
Porky's, the 1981 sex comedy, was popular among teenagers, and maybe
some teens today might like it, who knows? But this movie IS NOT well
made at all. The acting is so- so at best, the script is dull and
poorly put together, and the characters are just stupid annoying teens
who are SEX OBSESSED. I absolutely hated the characters in this movie,
especially the main guy that is trying to lose his virginity. The
amount of nudity and just disgustingly sexual scenes in this movie is
almost shocking. For example, the shower scene where a teenage boy
sticks his **** through a hole in the girls shower room, and the big
female teacher comes and just grabs it! Eww! That wasn't even funny, it
was just gross! That is what porky's suffers from, it's just not funny,
it's just a bunch of horny teens doing nasty things and trying to
outwit some sleazy night club owner. It's boring, dull, and poorly
written. There are some sex comedies that are funny, this is not one of
them. 2/10 for Porky's.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never met anyone in my life who didn't love "Porky's" (in real
life, that is, because on the Internet you always encounter people with
different opinions) and that is probably just because this is an
irresistibly energetic and out-and-out funny 80's teen comedy! The
essence of juvenile & vulgar comedies lies here within this film, and
arguably also "Fast Times at Ridgemont High" and "Animal House", but
definitely not in the lame and uninspired nowadays flicks such as
"American Pie". All the classic gags and politically incorrect jests
are here: small penis jokes, big penis jokes, sticking penises in usual
things, voyeurism through minuscule peepholes, the eternal virgin nerd,
loud-screaming girls, redneck humor and much more. If you ever wondered
where Bart Simpson found the inspiration for his prank calls, well
that's probably because he watched "Porky's" as well! This is the
simplistic tale of a bunch of teenage friends, all of them with
incontrollable raging hormones, attending high school in the 1950's. In
their never ending journey to get laid, they battle against all types
of annoying authorities (read: adults) like gym coaches, parents,
police officers and obnoxious nightclub owners. Particularly this last
group forms a severe obstacle, as the boys are desperately trying to
get into a strip club in a neighboring county but the owner – a fat and
sleazy hillbilly nicknamed Porky – and his gang of local yokels get a
kick out of humiliating and beating up juvenile visitors. In between
all their hectic adventures at school, the group plots the ultimate act
of vengeance against Porky and his whole county of hillbilly freaks.
Personally I don't understand how you could NOT enjoy a movie like
"Porky's", as it is so stimulating, cheerful and harmlessly infantile.
The main characters are delightfully stereotypical high school bastards
(especially the unforgettable Pee Wee) and some of the situations they
find themselves stuck in are indescribably hilarious. A few of the
highlights include an outrageous sex sequence with future "Sex and the
City" starlet Kim Cattrall and the legendary coach Balbricker's quest
to have one of the boys suspended for obscenities in the girls' shower.
Needless to say "Porky's" is a sex comedy chock-full of gratuitous T &
A (and enough wool to knit a sweater with…) and crude insinuations, but
if this movie is too offensive for you already, you better sing up in a
convent straight away. This was the biggest box office hit for the
versatile writer/director Bob Clark, who directed pleasant comedies
like this as well as creepy horror movies like "Black Christmas" and
"Dead of Night". He sadly died in a dramatic car accident in 2007.
Thanks to films like "Porky's", he at least leaves behind a spirited
heritage! Rest in peace, Mr. Clark.
<|_=00=_|>
A group of horny high-school pals visit Porky's, a redneck bar in the
Everglades, where they have heard that they can pay to get laid. After
they are ripped-off by the bar's obese owner and his brother, a corrupt
sheriff, the friends decide to take revenge.

Porky's was one of the first American teenage sex comedies to be a
major hit at the box office, but I find its success rather perplexing.
As a coming-of-age story, I think the film works well enough: the
nostalgic setting and strong sense of camaraderie is certainly
appealing, while the bitter feud between the teens and the Everglades
rednecks, and a subplot that deals realistically with the issues of
racism and family violence adds drama to proceedings. I do, however,
find the film's raunchy antics nowhere near as funny as its characters,
and director Bob Clark, obviously think they are.

The 'Mike Hunt' telephone gag which has the teens in stitches isn't
that hilarious, or original, having been conceived in the mid '70s by
pranksters John Elmo and Jim Davidson; the repeated jokes about penises
soon become very tedious; and as much as I enjoy seeing a young Kim
Cattrall without her kecks on, her 'Lassie' scene is embarrassingly bad
and far too drawn out. Clark seems to think that if his characters roll
around in uncontrollable fits of hysterics for long enough, it'll
eventually have the audience laughing along with them. Not in my case…
I just found it irritating.
<|_=00=_|>
I am proud to say this is one of my favorite comedies, and I normally
don't even like the "American Pie" type of sex comedy. The humor is
raunchy, but in a good-natured way, and all the actors look like
they're having a blast. The odd thing is that there doesn't seem to be
any real reason why it's taking place in the 50's, except maybe to get
across the message that teenagers have always been, and always will be,
horny. Also, to the people who say this is "dated"... you guys do
realize it's taking place 30 years before it was made, right?

It's not the funniest movie you'll ever see, except for a few truly
hysterical scenes, but you have to love the way it captures the fun
irresponsibility of high school. I think a lot of people can relate to
this no matter what generation they're from, making it a definite
classic. My advice is to steer clear of the upcoming remake, which will
undoubtedly be raunchier and ruder, but probably have ten times less
heart.
