

Never did the phrase "a beautiful film" have more relevance than in this
wonderful piece of adult fantasy. Make no mistake, this masterpiece, Ridley
Scott's fourth film (it followed BLADE RUNNER) was never intended for
children. Those who have written it off as a kids' movie totally betray
their limitations and inability to see what is being offered
here.

A youthful Tom Cruise was such a good choice as Jack, the forest dweller
destined to plunge the world into darkness and then have but one opportunity
to restore the light. Mia Sara is the beautiful princess, part Cinderella,
part angel, all virgin! and Tim Curry? well, what a simply staggering
contribution as the Lord of Darkness. Totally unrecognizable both visually
and audibly but what a performance.

All the Ridley Scott trademarks are here, the back-projected blue light, the
filtered scenes of wonderment, central characters in a crisis, the enigma of
life itself. If anything, LEGEND is better now than when it was released. In
'85 it received critical praise - just no-one went to see it! Well that's
not strictly true. I attended the Sydney premiere and sat thru it entranced
as others fidgeted, whispered, and generally brought attention to their
limited attention spans and lowered perceptions! 

Certainly it is a film that on one level children could relate to and even
enjoy but it is a far deeper film with a host of reflective ideas and quite
magical concepts. What really IS the Lord of Darkness? What is the
significance of the Unicorns? What becomes of the innocence we leave behind
in childhood? If none of this interests you, make sure you avoid this
film!
<|_=00=_|>
There's the original version, released in 1986 and on videotape, and
the 2002 Director's Cut, available on DVD. The latter version is one of
my all-time favorite movies. It compares quite favorably with Peter
Jackson's "Lord of the Rings" and is a modern classic.

The theatrical release of 1986, shamefully butchered (chopped up and
badly re-edited) by the mindless suits at Warner, and with its original
Jerry Goldsmith score replaced by the rather trite Tangerine Dream
soundtrack, is the version most people have seen. It was released on
videotape as a children's movie. What it is, and was intended to be, is
a fairy tale for adults. In fact, it's too intense for really young
children.

It's hard to say that the '86 version deserves any more than the "6"
it's rated at on its IMDb main page. It is a disappointment, primarily
because it's now impossible to watch without think how much better it
could be. The feeling and tone of the film were ruined by its
treatment.

The Ridley Scott Director's Cut, released in 2002, is a completely
different movie. If you haven't seen this version, you haven't seen the
movie. It deserves a score of 9 or 10. 

It doesn't look like a movie made 20 years ago. Scenes which are vital
to the tone of the film and the meaning of the story have been
restored. The sumptuous original soundtrack, recorded with a full
orchestra, has also been restored, and this adds more to the film than
can be put into words. 

About the performances: A very young Tom Cruise is excellent as the
hero. Tim Curry as the Lord of Darkness is awesome; his costume and
voice alone are worth the cost of renting or buying the DVD. Mia Sara
is absolutely stunning as Lily. She actually plays two different
versions of her character, both wonderfully. This was her first role, a
risk for Scott on such a big budget film, and she turned in the
performance of her career. She's never been better, or looked more
beautiful, than in this movie. The elves and fairies, both good and
evil, are incredibly real-looking and believable. The costumes are
perfect, and the sets are breathtaking, literally. One of the largest
indoor sets ever constructed - a huge fantasy forest - was built for
this movie.

If you haven't seen this version, rent it. If you have kids, buy it for
them; they'll watch it over and over. My daughter and her friends watch
it repeatedly, she's probably seen it 50 times.
<|_=00=_|>
Ridley Scotts' fallen masterpiece "Legend" has, in it's own rite,
become one of the most infamous, if not fascinating, legacies in
Hollywood. In 1984, Ridley Scott, director of the famed sci-fi "Alien",
set out to tell a defining fairy tale. Once he was joined by writer
William Hjortsberg, the duo started off on a creative journey to
conjure what would become the beloved film "Legend". The film was
further more given the appropriate elements for the general fairy tale.
The Princess, the Hero, the Villain, the Goblins, the Fairies, and the
other magical characters and creatures such as the Unicorns and
Honeythorn Gump. Seeing as the film is intended to be a definitive
fairy tale, this would also mean tracing the modern genre back to its'
roots, Grim style. Indeed, the completed product was pure in it's woven
fables. Just as it is tender, and bright, is it also dark, surreal,
nightmarish, and ultimately entrancing. More of the film deals with the
overshadow of darkness in the magical land. A proper way to show the
sudden switch from light and happy, to dark and fearsome indeed.

In the story, we have the world, happy, beautiful, completely
compelling in its' own nature. The dark truth lies within its' own
reality. Darkness once ruled the world, but has since retreated into
the lower levels of the earth, to groan and complain of times in a
better existence. The world is happy, because the Unicorn, a very dear,
and sacred animal, rules the land. These gorgeous creatures know only
love and laughter, and thusly, protect the world from evil. They are
attracted to one element in man kind, innocence. Princes Lily is pure
at heart, as well as mind and spirit. Her soul friend, Jack, leads her
to the creatures, as a gesture of love and affection. Quite
unfortunately, however, the Lord Darkness has sent his own army after
the creatures too. Once both sides are at the right place, and the
wrong time, the Unicorns are harmed, and the earth, in danger. Thus
begins a journey full of action, adventure, and suspense.

Tom Cruise has only performed well in this one film, for me anyway. He
is actually quite affective, and believable as the hero Jack. He shows
both strength and bravery, to contrast with confusion and fear of the
unknown. Very plausible indeed. Mia Sara is so gorgeous, naive, and
pure as the Princess. Her characteristics consist of a blind ambition,
love stricken playfulness, and of course, Innocence. Never, has this
genre seen such a perfect portrayal. Now, Tim Curry turns in one hell
of a performance. Thanks to modern film-making, Curry is a frightening,
disgusting, and yet sexual portrayal of ultimate Darkness. The three
stars are all mixed together in a real Fairy Tale, with a message at
the end. (note, this message is only seen in the 2002 restored
Directors Cut).

I do not feel the need to bring up the controversy that ensued the
principal photography, as it is well known by fans and film buffs of
all kind. What I can say, is that Ridley Scott was certainly determined
to give us the product of his imagination. That said, he gave us a real
fantasy. he has given us a real story of magic,, love, hate,adventure,
and all kinds of elements that create what a film like this should be.
One thing to truly be mentioned, however, is the late Jerry Goldsmith.
This master at film composition of the musical persuasion, gave us his
ultimate best, and that was being generous and forgetting about getting
stabbed in the back during the processing of "Alien". Again, the great
musician was tricked, and his beautiful score was thrown out the window
from US versions, leaving the film to sugary and sappy. Even worse,
important scenes were cut, leaving much of the film uneven and
seemingly rushed. Sad enough, this kind of treatment happened a year
earlier with 1984's "Supergirl". Fortunately, however, we were given
the true version of the film in mid 2002, and rightly so. The film has
since then, been seen, and loved by fans as myself, who loved it way
back when....as well as now.

The best I can say, is that this movie has a full blown mastermind to
it, and the producers and creators etc finally gave the film justice.
Same happened with "Supergirl" in 2000. Bottom line, this film is
brilliant, and touching, and an ever- glorious masterpiece!
<|_=00=_|>

Legend is one of those movies you either love or hate . It's a fantasy movie
but it doesn't really contain a whole lot of action which is probably why
many people are turned off by it . But the film is visually stunning and
features a good performance by Tim Curry as "Darkness" , Tom Cruise on the
other hand looks a bit confused throughout the movie . Also Rob Bottin's
Make up is just amazing .

Now things weren't helped by the fact that there are so many versions of
this movie and some are vastly better than others . The weakest and shortest
of the all is the US theatrical cut because it misses many scenes and ads a
few that seem tacked on but worst of all it contains a score by Tangerine
Dream instead of the original one by Jerry Goldsmith .

The European cut is better in that it is longer and it features Jerry
Goldsmith's score .

The best version however is the Director's Cut featured on The Ultimate
Edition DVD . It runs alot longer than any of the other cuts and it is the
most coherent cut as well and it features the score by Jerry Goldsmith.
<|_=00=_|>

The Lord of all that is Darkness (Tim Curry) tries to take over the
world by slaying two unicorns. He is distracted by the temptation of
innocence, which comes in the form of pretty little Princess Lily,
played by Mia Sara in her film debut. The Dark Lord decides he would
like to have his way with virgin princess, while her true love Jack
(Tom Cruise) tries to rescue her and save the world. 

Long, dark, murky, loaded with black humor and undeniably well crafted.
A beautiful film to look at that is hopelessly chopped up in the
American version which replaces Jerry Goldsmith's original music with
music by Tangerine Dream. 

Cruise is alright as the hero, as alright as he's ever been anywhere
else. Mia Sara is very lovely as the virgin princess whom this film
revolves around. Curry sounds like he's having fun as the villain.

<|_=00=_|>
As often happens I have again bucked the crowd. A fine director has
given us a charming morality tale for adults. It is lush, sensual,
sweet perhaps naive, certainly it is charming. I am sorry that I did
not ever get to hear the Goldsmith score, but I thought the Tangerine
Dream score was very fitting. The youthful Tom Cruise was perfectly
cast as the forest boy Jack and Mia Sara was just right as the girl.
But the makeup job and prosthetics that made Tim Curry the Lord of
Darkness was outstanding. a film with brownies, fairies, Unicorns,
goblins. What more could a fantasy film deliver, and a a bonus the
plaintive voice of YES front man Jon Anderson singing the song over the
final credits. I am sorry that there so many people that were not
mature enough to enjoy the artistry of this film. I would still like to
get the DVD version to see the cut I missed.
<|_=00=_|>
I will join the chorus... This is a beautiful, and thoroughly enjoyable
fantasy film as long as you watch it in digital widescreen and do not
bother with the 1hr 30min version. The Director's Cut(better known as
the European release) is worthy of an IMDb rating of 8. The American
theatrical release is worthy of a 6.5.

This is a fairly straightforward fantasy conceived and directed by
Ridley Scott, one of the greatest mainstream directors of our time. The
story follows a young man who lives in a forest (Jack, played by Tom
Cruise) and a spirited young princess (Lily - Mia Sara) who is in love
with him. The lord of darkness (Tim Curry) has sent forth his minions
to capture the last two remaining unicorns so that he can banish light
from the world forever. Unicorns are attracted to innocence, and so
they find themselves in Jack and Lily's company just as the dark lord's
play begins to unfold. Before long, Jack and his magical forest friends
must save Lily, the one remaining unicorn and the world from the grasp
of the dark lord at any price.

Even the lengthier director's cut goes by just a little too quickly.
But it's pace is not comparable to the incredibly hasty studio chop-job
of the American release. The story is epic, but the medium is not. All
considered, however, the production team did a great job given the
length limits afforded for the film.

Cruise does pretty well with a role that must have been a little hard
to interpret. Jack must behave as a hero, a young man who has learned
most of his lessons from nature, and a teenager to varying degrees
throughout the film. Mia Sara is delightful a Lily. Tim Curry and David
Bennent (Honeythorn Gump) get pretty close to stealing the show. In
all, the acting is fine, but the star of the film is really the camera.

Scott has often proved his ability to create immersive experiences in
worlds which are somewhat alien (no pun intended) to his audience.
Legend does this perhaps as powerfully as his most far-out films
(Alien, and Bladerunner). The cinematography, editing, and special
effects are exceptionally good, and make the fairly average plot glow.
Each scene is a work of art.

Highly recommended for fantasy fans, Ridley Scott, Tim Curry and Mia
Sara fans and those interested in artfully presented effects.
Recommended for fans of Pan's Labyrinth and Mirrormask. Weakly
recommended for Tom Cruise fans.
<|_=00=_|>

Legend...

I can only say that this film, at least the European version, succeeds into
the creation of a fantasy world that very very few other films have. And
NEVER has a fairytale forest been realised so vividly and fantastically as
here. The production design at Pinewood Studios is truly
outstanding.

Of course, this film was a considerable flop. And looking at it, it isn't
too hard to see why. A film that retains some semblance of morality - in
this case the most basic, good versus evil - will not play to young
audiences of the late 20th century. The tone of the film is perhaps too dark
for young children, the overall theme of the film perhaps too juvenile for
most adults. And so Legend finds itself in a cinematic limbo, a place
without a core audience.

Of course, a cult audience has evolved around this film as it does around
anything that misses its major target, and so Legend is a film that is
either loved or loathed. Either way, Ridley Scott's stunning visual
imaginings are realised with undeniable skill.

In addition to Scott's and his team's visual successes, this film - at least
for European viewers - is embellished with one of the most beautiful scores
ever written. Jerry Goldsmith has, during his transition from traditional to
synthesied orchestra, created one of the richest scores ever bestowed on a
film.

Quite what Warner Bros thought they were doing when they removed this score
and cut chunks out of the film (and re-edited what was left) I will never
understand. The film would and did flop in both versions, but that doesn't
necessarily mean it shouldn't have been made.

If you are knew to this film, do yourself a favour and never watch the
American version, unless it is the revamped widescreen version with the
Goldsmith score back in place.

A visual dream, a beautiful score, a moral tale. Is there any wonder it
flopped?
<|_=00=_|>
I've read a lot of opposing views here and there are valid views on
both sides. I guess it boils down to what your imagination can be
hopefully transfered to film for you enjoyment.

I've seen my fair share of fantasy films in my life and Legend probably
reached to that part of me quicker than any film of that genre than has
been done before and since. Lord of the Rings surpasses it on many
levels...but Legeng still has the ability after all these years to make
me think of pure fantasy, and that's what I believe this film is about.
Good vs evil is what most films are about, but Legend is what fairies
and goblins and a mystical forests are! 

Visually I doubt you can find much better even 20 odd years later! Good
vs evil in a setting that is set in a purer forum. Character
development here are not too strong, but they're not meant to be. They
are strong enough to portray love vs evil vs good and bad, and they do
it well in the context of the story. Tom Cruise did a good Job as the
Nieve and yet courageous Jack, Lily was a the prize of his longing and
it came across as undeniable. Mia Sara as lily is the stuff of youthful
longing.

Tim Curry played the spoiler and he did it to the point of stealing all
of the film. He is the stuff of fantasy. The costume was spectacular,
and his portrayal of the character was commanding...And over the top
cause that what he does well! 

I enjoyed the directors cut film more as it is longer and tells the
story just a little better, but I enjoyed Tangarines Dream's score more
as it captured the mood of fantasy ( for me) as set in a mystical
place! Jerry Goldsmith had some very good moments, but TD for me layed
out a fairytale with my eyes closed better. 

But at the end you either see this for the pure fantasy it is about or
you see it as something deeper that it doesn't pretend to be. It's much
purer in it's view on good vs evil and to my taste it hits on every
level of that platform. And not to mention it's ability to make for a
great dream filled with hope and danger.

Pure fantasy...and should be viewed with that intent.
<|_=00=_|>
As a huge fan of Tangerine Dream and Jon Anderson, I praise the fact
that their music is in the "American" cut of this film; their music has
always sounded like they were trying to do soundtracks to a movie. You
hear a song, you get visual images in your head and make a movie of
your own.

However, ...

I do have to say that the American Version with Tangerine Dream's
soundtrack only makes this movie into a "Cult" film. It could have been
great, but (well, you fill in the blank).

Fortunately, I've seen the way it was SUPPOSED to have been released in
the States (which you can find on the 2-disc DVD, which has both
versions).

The Non-American version has a story which is much fuller, and the
music (with a full symphony orchestra) is much better and adds more
drama and punctuates the mood of each scene more properly.

I do find the American version's end much more climatic musically and
story-wise with Jon Anderson (singer of Yes)'s angelic voice thundering
with Tangerine Dream's score in the background.

So, pick an afternoon when you got about 4 hours to spare and watch
BOTH. Then, take parts of each version and make YOUR OWN wonderous
story.

And another thing, keep in mind that this movie came out a whole 20
years ago. The early 80's. Next year it can buy it's own beer (if it
was a person). So, Tim Curry and a lot of others would have been just
voices over CGI characters instead of being in actual makeup and there
would have been MORE to the story and script if CGI was as available
back then as it is now.

There IS such a thing as knowing limitations, you know.

American Version, good enough to make one wonder what was more.

International Version, done much better and fuller (though I like the
American ending better)

As I said, watch both versions and make your OWN version to enjoy.

Aaaaannnd ... CUT!

That's a wrap.
