

This raw look at small town hoods brutally exposes us to a portion of
society rarely depicted in movies. Souped-up cars and small time heists are
nothing new, but `At Close Range' is really more ‘The Godfather' than
`Bonnie and Clyde'.

Disobedient kids, worthless mom, ineffective stepfather. Every day we hear
tell of it on Montel, Jerry Springer, and Sally. Here, we see it, here we
live it.

James Foley does his best work here, you might think it funny to call a film
with a lot of 4x8 paneling and muscle shirts ‘stylish' but this film has its
own distinctive style, in many ways reminding me of Michael Mann's very
stylish `Thief'

Christopher Walken is nothing short of spectacular. Both the Penn brothers
(Sean and Chris) do very strong turns as sons of this verrry badddd
man.

Great story, powerful performances. All too real. Even a bit of a storybook
ending doesn't tarnish this one.


<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie when it first came out, and it's remained one of the most
memorable films I have seen since. Sean Penn & Christopher Walken especially
produce very powerful, realistic performances. Walken's evil father is a
spot-on echo of a relative of mine - right down to the mustache & body
language. <shudder> Sometimes, though, Walken's low-class accent is so
thick I couldn't make out just what he's saying.

The dialogue is just subtle enough to feel realistic. Although the movie
moves along at a slow, deliberate pace, the plot still feels nice & tight.
And the cinematography is stylish. An instrumental version of the song Live
to Tell, that Madonna turned into a hit, is actually used as the main theme
running under almost every scene. It's not often that a pop song associated
with a film is actually used in the film itself - usually it's just tacked
on at the closing credits. But it was used to great atmospheric effect
here.

<|_=00=_|>

Sean Penn, who has now effectively established himself behind the camera
as
a fine director as well, once expressed that he didn't care that much for
acting. When one reflects on the more brilliant achievements he's made in
his career, and can contemplate how physically and emotionally exhausting
his best and most difficult roles have been, it's not a statement that
comes
across as being that unusual. And nowhere can the toll a role can take on
an
actor be felt more keenly, than in AT CLOSE RANGE, with his portrayal of
ne'er-do-well, small town knockabout Brad Whitewood, Jr.

The chilling poignancy of the film and the events it portrays are even
more
stunning (and depressing) when it is revealed that everything is based on
true events.

The direction, photography, editing, scoring and most of all the acting
work
wonders to convey the ennervating malaise of small-town life in middle
America, and how it can affect and motivate people to act or react in ways
that propel them into situations that people in more metropolitan areas
may
smugly observe that they would never find themselves in.

Brad Whitewood Jr. (Penn) and his little brother, Tommy (Chris Penn in an
amazing early performance) don't have that luxury. Caught in the
inescapable
pull of the dying farming community in which they live, like lost stars
drifting near the event horizon of a black hole, they have nothing better
to
do than cruise the main square, get drunk, get high and get into trouble.

The one bright spot in their ocean of darkness is their frequently
absentee
dad, Brad Whitewood, Sr. (Christopher Walken at his best and most
frightening). Suave, cocksure and charismatic, Brad Sr. represents a world
of fascinating danger and adventure that has his boys enthralled. Brad Sr.
runs a black market ring that deals in stolen equipment parts, amongst
various other unlawful and unsavory activities, and as it is revealed
early
on, when it comes to protecting his bottom line, Brad Sr.'s vicious wrath
recognizes no allegiance to loyalty or kin.

To prove themselves worthy of their dad's attentions, Brad, Tommy and
their
friends (which include future stars John Laughlin, Kiefer Sutherland and
Stephen "Fright Night" Geoffreys), decide to start their own gang, with
disastrous results.  The federal authorities, who have been after Brad Sr.
for a long time, decide to use the boys as leverage to nab him, and
subpoena
them as State witnesses against him. But even they underestimate his
capacity for evil, as he demonstrates in one of the film's most
graphically
shocking setpieces.

Only an actor worth his mettle can hold a scene with Christopher Walken,
let
alone take it away from him, and Penn proves to be more than worthy of the
challenge. You will find both actors doing some of their best, most
gut-wrenching work here. A fun time at the movies this is not, but in
terms
of acting ability, the efforts on display here are damn near flawless, and
should have been recognized at Oscar time.

Also commendable are subtle turns by Millie Perkins as the boys' mom, who
is
adamantly against the idea of having her hooligan estranged husband
influencing her boys, yet isn't beneath accepting his guilt money every
now
and then, and Mary Stuart Masterson, who shines like a beacon as Brad
Jr.'s
inspiration to dream of a better life, even with a menacing threat to her
own from his father, whom she defies, with tragic results.

James Foley's tight direction, the atmospheric and almost surreal lighting
and shadows captured masterfully by DP Juan Ruiz Anchia, Nicholas Kazan's
sure-handed screenplay, Patrick Leonard's haunting score (the basis for
Madonna's hit "Live To Tell"), and as mentioned before, the superb acting,
make for an experience that you may not enjoy, but it will most certainly
stay with you for a very long time...
<|_=00=_|>
This is such a well crafted film in so many ways, I urge you not to
watch it alone. The writer has dipped into Greek mythology as well as
modern newspaper tabloids, and come up with a frightening collection of
kids and adults that you absolutely believe could exist down the street
in a 'lesser' part of town.

I won't go into the plot, except to say that it's centered around kids
need for love from their parents- and what they'll do to get it.

Chris Walken walks away with the film- every time he's on screen, it
lights up and all sense of time stops. I'm not exaggerating! He's
stunning.

The Penn brothers, Sean and Chris, do fine work as well. But I was most
surprised by Chris Penn, he's open and sad and really quite a terrific
actor.

I think this is James Foleys best film, and worth a rent.
<|_=00=_|>

A very good film that I recommend highly if you are in the right frame of
mind to view truly evil subject matter. The acting by Walken, Penn, Penn
and
Masterson is brilliant. Espescially the last few minutes. Sean Penn's
performance is my favourite acting moment of all time. Even writing this
makes me take a deep exhale. 
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is an old favorite. I think this is the one work by Sean Penn
that became the pivotal interest in him for me. He was, as usual in
anything
he does, absolutely convincing.   Same for Christopher Walken. The casting
was perfect, the scenery and soundtrack done beautifully. I've been
recommending this one to friends for ages.  
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Madonna's music video for At Close Range long before I had ever
seen the movie. The movie turned out to be very good. 

'At Close Range'is a riveting and depressing film based on a true
story. The Whitewoods live in a small Philidelphia town that does not
offer much motivation nor much opportunity. When their father, Brad
Whitewood, Sr. (Christopher Walken), suddenly shows up, teenager Brad
Jr. (Sean Penn) wants very much to get to know him and impress him. But
father-son bonding here has its price and Brad Sr. is not as sincere as
his son might hope, despite the lure of a lifestyle that seems to be
paying well and respectably. Brad Sr. and his 'business associates'
recruit his sons Brad Jr. and Tommy (Chris Penn looking very gorgeous
and almost Romanesque), and their friends (including Keifer Sutherland
and Crispin Glover) into their glamorous life of crime. But when a
heist goes wrong to steal tractors from a dealership, Brad Jr. is
arrested and interrogated by the cops.

Though Brad Jr. is very loyal to his father and friends, intent on not
cracking under pressure, Brad Sr. questions his ability to keep quiet
about the group's activities. And even if that means selling out his
sons, Brad Sr. is plans to eliminate any loose ends that might be able
to incriminate him. Everyone. But, someone does live to tell the tale. 

It is a sad story knowing that these dumb kids were hooked into a whole
mess, hoping they could be admired by their father, and likewise, be
proud of him, even if what he was doing was illegal. But in the end,
their old man turned out to be a vicious psycho who turned his back on
everyone to save his own neck. 

I particularly like the visuals and music as it is used in this film,
with constant juxtasposition (of visuals, not sound) used to illustrate
not only simultaneous events and moods, but also the stark differences
between Brad Jr.'s somewhat naive ideals and (mostly) still-innocent
position, as opposed to the cruelty of his father. Sean Penn and
Christopher Walken, as usual, did a fine job, with such stinging
realism of the choppy relationship between father and son. Meanwhile,
the Penn brothers share the screen with their realife mother, Eileen
Ryan. Mary Stuart Masterson also does a fine job as Brad Jr.'s
girlfriend.
<|_=00=_|>

Having recently purchased this movie on DVD and viewed it again, I feel
compelled to amend my prior comments.  On the most recent viewing, I watched
the movie much more carefully than on prior viewings, and can now see the
motivations of the character(s) more clearly, and how the 'situation'
portrayed in the film spiralled out of control (click on my username to read
my prior review for "At Close Range," in which I questioned the actions of
the villain).  On more careful viewing, the whole thing makes a lot more
sense.  

I want to revise my prior comment -- this is a superb film, and I've voted
again and now give this film 9/10.  If you haven't seen it, now's a great
chance.  Great acting by *everyone*, especially Sean Penn and Christopher
Walken (this is one of Walken's best parts ever).

The DVD version of the film just came out (I had it on preorder and received
it yesterday), and I have to say how impressed I am with the transfer. 
Absolutely superlative, clear picture quality, although I can't evaluate the
sound because I have only stereo speakers, no dolby surround.  But the video
transfer itself is one of the best I've seen for a movie this old, looking
like the film might just have been made six months ago.  It appears that
quite a bit of work went into restoration.  If you have a DVD player, you
owe it to yourself to get this film on DVD, although the only 'special
feature' is the original theatrical trailer.  The film is offered in both
widescreen and pan-and-scan formats (two-sided single-layer).

Revised Review: 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

At Close Range(1986) is a powerful story about the conflict between father
and son that leads to tragedy.  The film is loosely based on a true story. 
What happens in the course of the film is enough to exhaust the reactions of
the viewer.  The story is made powerful from the tense moments and strong
emotions.  The director lends some brilliance in creating a tight and
compact crime drama.

Excellent companion to the similarly themed but different storied Out of the
Blue(1980).  Both deal with the angst of the main characters who are big
time misfits.  In At Close Range(1986) and Out of the Blue(1980) the father
is first beloved then despised by the main characters.  The fathers played
by Dennis Hopper and Christopher Walken are selfish jerks who care only
about themselves.  The two films share with each other a bleak and dark
portrait of the family structure.

The main theme song called "Live to Tell" goes well together with most of
the film's motif.  The song represents what the whole story is about. The
masterpiece of James Foley who has done a couple of other terrific films
besides At Close Range(1986).  The relationship between Brad JR and his
girlfriend adds more to the antagonistic relationship between father and
son.  Way better than the lousy Fear(1996) or the horrible The
Corruptor(1999).

Christopher Walken gives one of his top great performances in the role of
Brad Whitewood SR.  He does a convincing job at playing an evil character
with deceptive charm.  Not many  actors can be charming and despicable in
the portait of a character like Christopher Walken.  This is a film where
the talents of Chris Walken are put to good use.  It also helps that he acts
aside another terrific talent in Sean Penn.

Sean Penn brings out the performance of his life in an otherwise
inconsistent acting career.  Despite being a talented actor, Sean Penn
rarely fullfills in some films his capabilities of being a great actor. At
Close Range is one of the few times where the talents of the actor are
filled to the top of the glass.  His character is someone that many can
identify with.  He puts every ounce of emotion into making Brad Whitewood JR
a believable person.

The acting is very good as a total sum.  Mary Stuart Masterson gives a solid
turn in one of her best roles.  Kiefer Sutherland makes a film apprearence
before he became a well known actor.  The other actors contribute with some
believable and solid performances.  The acting makes it worthwhile to see
the film many times.

The father of At Close Range(1986) is an unforgettable villain in 1980s
cinema.  Brad Whitewood SR makes Darth Valder look like Santa Claus by
comparison.  Brad Whitewood SR can be charismatic and evil in the same
breath.  This character is a cowardly and sleezy person who will do anything
to save his own skin.  Only the yakuza father from Fudoh:the New
Generation(1996) surpasses Brad Sr in cold blooded and ruthless behavior
patterns.

The growing conflict between father and son leads to a tense confrontation
towards the end.  The confrontation with Brad SR and Brad Jr are some of the
best acting moments in the careers of Christopher Walken and Sean Penn. 
This moment is tense to the point where everything else in the scene slows
down.  Its sad to see Brad JR our out his soul in anger to a father who
doesn't care about him.  Its the conflict of the two people that the movie
center around.

One of the most emotionally draining film experiences I have been apart of
as a film viewer.  The high engery emotions are brought to live with the
three dimensional acting of the main cast.  A big emotional moment for me is
the confrontation between Brad Jr and Brad Sr.  For a film like At Close
Range(1986) emotional content is a main part of the story. Not many films
today have the heart or feeling of a film like At Close
Range(1986).

In the tradition of films such as In Cold Blood(1968) and The Onion
Fields(1981).  Its too bad that a film like Fear(1996) never reached the
emotional altitude of this picture.  The writing of the story and characters
are deeply realized.  The director, James Foley is excellent in displaying
realistic problems and situations.  At Close Range(1986) is one of those
neglected classics from the 1980s that is worth seeing for the performances
of the main actors.
<|_=00=_|>

Tender yet painful story about a rural Pennsylvania teen, Brad
Whitewood,
Jr. (Sean Penn) who along with his half-brother, Tommy (real-life brother
Chris Penn) finally meet their estranged father, Brad Sr. (Christopher
Walken), decide to join their father's crime network only to discover how
brutal that he can be to them while dodging the feds at any cost.  (Sean)
Penn and Walken are well-cast here and to watch the pair on-screen at the
same time is a delight.  Director James Foley guides the film where it
should go and the script by Nicholas Kazan is made to near perfection in
handling the mood and tension.  It's also a surprise that the film itself
is
based on a true story that took placed in 1978.  A sharp and very
unforgiving tale of betrayl.     
