
The main reason this movie was even made was that they wanted it to be
in theaters at around the same time as the film "Conan the Barbarian"
in 1982. Believe it or not, both films were even released by the same
studio! If the films had been made thirty years earlier, they would
have been released as a double feature. They were part of a wave of
sword fight pictures that included "Excalibur" and "Dragonslayer."
Without a lot of fanfare, "Sword and the Sorcerer" managed to become a
minor hit. One of the cast members was on a talk show and confessed
that the success of the film was a surprise because that person thought
it was not very good. 

I enjoyed the action scenes and some of the humor. It has some good
one-liners. The second half also has generates a fair amount of tension
concerning the whereabouts of the sorcerer mentioned in the title. I
also liked how the forces came together randomly for the climatic
battle scenes. True, the film has many flaws, but it still works for me
as an enjoyable adventure. It is the kind of thing I watch on a Friday
night to ease me into the weekend. 

Add me to the list of those disappointed that the sequel promised in
the closing credits was never made.
<|_=00=_|>

What's not to like?  A great balance among all the elements of what makes
film fun.  Lee Horsley resembles Errol Flynn, and Robert Tessier fills the
screen and steals every scene, as always.  Richard Lynch curls his lip a
lot, the sneering Jay Robinson is on board, and the special effects don't
interfere with the plot, as in today's SFX-o-ramas.  Plenty of gorgeous gals
in great costumes, and without great costumes.  Shakespearean skullduggery
abounds everywhere, buckles get swashed, and people walked out of the
theatre saying "I thought they didn't know how to make them like that
anymore."  (Hey, wait a minute ... we're STILL saying that!)  Highly
recommended!
<|_=00=_|>

This is a wonderfully well-done feature with top marks for its value in
sheer fun. 

If you're not into fantasy, see this anyway as a great swashbuckler a la the
Errol Flynn-as-hero genre. (And Lee Horsley even resembles Errol throughout
this film, which I was fortunate enough to see theatrically at time of
release.)

There are terrific villains galore, rip-roaring adventure, great castles and
dungeons, complicated skullduggery, and comeuppance aplenty, all done with
delicate humor.

This is great screen entertainment with a '40s-'50s look to it, and that's a
compliment. There are no wasted moments. The fast-moving story relies much
more on quality writing, acting and expert direction rather than copping out
with the sort of elaborate special-effects that producers/directors of such
films seem to lean on so heavily now, nearly two decades
later.

I think it's a classic, and a model, of its type.

Highly recommended to all except small children.
<|_=00=_|>

"I have a debt to pay" ... for 15 years of viewing pleasure.  This film is
an absolute joy, untarnished by repeated viewings, sadly  overshadowed by
Schwarzeneger's vastly inferior Conan movies, and unreasonably critically
trashed alongside truly terrible contemporary low budget thud and blunder
efforts.  The script creaks more than the plot, but reigned in from the
curse of camp by director Albert Pyun the actors deliver their lines with a
straight face and leave the the audience to find the comedy themselves. 
Almost a dictionary definition of "ahead of its time", the film is a
blueprint for the success of Sam Raimi's Hercules and Xena, right down to
the use of Australian bit players.  Effects like the demon sorceror's tomb
might be managed better technically today, but no more atmospherically, and
the closing sword battle is a triumph.  The performances are eccentric and
electric, and you could not wish for a more motley crew of cut-throats and
sidekicks.  Richard Lynch eats the scenery with unalloyed zeal, and quite
simply more of Lee Horsley as Talon would have made the movie world a better
place.  
<|_=00=_|>
When this one came out, Hollywood and the networks were shooting out
Sword & Sorcery projects as fast as they could get made, hoping to cash
in on Dungeons and Dragons game and the Conan flick. Well, aside from
DRAGONSLAYER, SWORD AND THE SORCEROR is the best of them all. Where
CONAN was bloated and self-important to the point of pomposity, this
one is a fun ride with nary a slow moment. Even better, it actually has
a plot that makes you think!

Oh, have to disagree with one comment about half-naked women....
Kathleen Beller is COMPLETELY naked when Talon crashes into the harem,
escaping the guards.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie which came out at around the same time as "CONAN THE BARBARIAN"
is the better film. It is a rip-roaring fantasy adventure which has elements
of Harryhausen's "SINBAD" and "JASON" movies,the graphic violence of "CONAN"
and a precursor of the humour and dialogue which would permeate T.V's
"HERCULES" and "XENA". Lee Horsley in a career best role plays the warrior
hero Talon to perfection and it is a shame that the promised sequel never
appeared.The action and fantasy elements are strongly brought to the fore by
a superb and rousingly heroic score by David Whittaker which stands alone as
a great piece of music in its own right.Director Albert Pyun has never
bettered his work here and like everyone involved gives his all to fashion a
brilliant slice of 'B' movie entertainment guaranteed to set the pulses
racing of anyone,old or young,who ever thrilled to the sight and sounds of
swords clashing.Whenever there are kingdoms to be saved,battles to be won
and women to love let's hope that heroes like Talon will re-emerge on our
screens to fight the good fight.All in all,"THE SWORD AND THE SORCERER" is a
thoroughly enjoyable movie....9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll admit right up front that 'Sword And The Sorceror' is NOT a good
film or a classic one. It sets its sights too low for that. "S&S" just
wants to be a good, cheesy, energetic adventure with lotsa Swords and
Sorcery and even more "T&A". And in that sense, it is very successful. 

The lead, Lee Horslee, plays "Talon" with a wry awareness of the
utterly derivative and crappy nature of the material, and he throws all
subtlety to the winds and just goes for it. He smirks and swaggers and
wades his way through a poor man's version of a Robert E. Howard epic,
and looks as if he is having a lot of fun doing so. In fact, everyone
here seems to be having a pretty good time, acting and Oscar
Nominations be damned. And I think that is what makes the film pretty
watchable even today.

Several little touches help distinguish this film from your average
'hero avenges his family and wins the throne' movie. First of all is
that infamous three bladed sword, of course. Second of all, "Talon"
proves to be so doggoned tough that he manages to pull his hands off
the stakes after he's been crucified. Geez, even Conan couldn't do that
in HIS crucifixion scene! 

And thirdly, there's a wonderful moment when Talon's friend and
sidekick makes a rousing speech to the rest of a motley crew urging
them to come with him and attack the castle to rescue Talon. The actor
(Joe Regalbuto,who went on to be in "Raw Deal" and "Murphy Brown")
holds out the heft of a sheathed long sword. It's obvious that the
script (or his improvisation) called for the rest of the gang to put
their hands on the sword in a gesture of solidarity (kind of like an
Eroll Flynn movie). But no one does that. They all just sit there and
look at him. Poor Joe is left hanging, holding out the sword all by
himself, for nearly 40 seconds. He looks like a total dork. It's an
obvious miscue or misfire of some sort....BUT THE DIRECTOR KEPT THE
TAKE!!! That's wonderful! My friends and I reran this scene at least
twice more, laughing our selves silly at the sheer awkwardness of it. 

Since then, Albert Pyun has made a couple of decent films, several
mediocre ones, and some real stinkers, but this little gem buys him a
lot of good will as far as I'm concerned. Watch with an open mind, a
tankard of ale in your hand, and a wench in a leather bikini at your
feet, and you'll have a good time.
<|_=00=_|>
Albert Pyun's minor budgeted sword and sorcery foray is just as amusing
now, as I remembered it to be and one of the better (if not one of the
best) attempts of the over-flooded sub-genre that skyrocketed in the
80s. Never does it cop out on the ingredients that make this type of
b-films fun. The wonderful camp level is high, as blood and flesh
(topless mainly) run freely. Pace stays zippy, and while the pulpy
story has cut and dry outline, it still has personality and a complex
array of schemes to keep it excitingly brash, and not just relying on
set-pieces. Don't go looking for a mythical medieval journey filled
with a variety of beasties, and obstacles on this one though. It's the
standard boy seeks revenge when grown up on the man who killed his
family, and took over his father's thrown. The hacked-up script is
colourfully tacky, but has an agreeable sarcastic edge and
unpretentious novelties streaming off it. Sure there are some untied
plot details, but never does it fault the entertainment. Yes its
entertainment, that's better not to delve too hard in to. Pyun (in his
directorial debut) confidently does a workable job constructing an epic
scale treatment, by using his budget wisely. Enthusiastic set-designs,
and prop work look respectable and are well-integrated. We get bravado
sword fights, busting with adrenaline and guts. It's pure mayhem during
certain stages, but commendably executed. Then there's the potent
make-up FX that holds a vivid imagination, and brutal punch. David
Whittaker spirited score chimes in largely, and overwhelms many
sequences. Lee Horsley makes for a charming, brawn heroine and a lively
Richard Lynch mercifully eats it up as the clichéd villain of the
piece. Kathleen Beller stands tall with her bold performance, and makes
for nice eye-candy. Simon MacCorkindale has a strong showing, and
Richard Boll (in gooey make-up) stands out too in his role as a
monstrous sorcerer. In solid support are George Maharis, Joe Regalbuto
and a formidable Robert Tessier.
<|_=00=_|>
The titular sword is indeed an inventive piece of fantasy-scenery, as
it's a gigantic and three-bladed weapon that fires off daggers to kill
the carrier's enemies from a distance. The sorcerer, however, is just a
little bit of a disappointment since he – Xusia – only appears briefly
in the film. The power mad Prince Cromwell summons this evil sorcerer
to help him conquer the mighty kingdom of Ehdian, yet just before
Cromwell takes over the throne, he destroys Xusia again. Talon, the
youngest son of the present king of Ehdian, is the only royal heir to
survive the bloodbath. Eleven years later he returns as a true warrior
hero to lead the oppressed people of Ehdian in their revolt against the
tyrant Cromwell. "The Sword and the Sorcerer" was Albert Pyun's debut
as a director, and he immediately delivered a vivid and energetic
fantasy tale! The film is clearly inspired by the success of Arnie's
"Conan the Barbarian", but it contains enough original story elements
and exciting special effects to be called a highlight of the
fantasy-sub genre itself. The battle scenes are terrific, the decors
are often breathtaking and the script contains a surprising amount of
humorist situations. When Talon is captured and sentenced to death by
crucifixion, his troops and friends (who until then spend their days
inside a luxury brothel), decide to come to the rescue, yet in the next
shot they're all imprisoned themselves. The film is quite violent and
full of grisly images, most notably during one of the last
swashbuckling scenes at the wedding banquet, where people's faces are
cut in two and heads are crushed with large pieces of meat. Lee Horsley
is an adequate hero, but the show is obviously stolen by the bad
characters here! Richard Moll is excellent (and well-disguised) in his
brief role as sorcerer Xusia and Richard Lynch is sensationally mean as
the bastard Cromwell. His greed is so enormous that he invites all the
rulers of nationhood kingdom at his wedding, only with the intention to
kill them and take over their leadership. What a prick! And when he
develops his little beard, he looks even more sardonic! The early
1980's were the absolute best years for fantasy-cinema. Nowadays, the
genre reverts too much to computer animated graphics, like in, say,
"The Lord of the Rings".
<|_=00=_|>
Lee Horsley (Easily the most likable barbarian warrior) stars as Talon
a mercenary hired to save the brother of a rebel princess, the reward
of course is one night with that said rebel princess and so armed with
a spring loaded sword which shoots out (Also looks heavy as hell) Talon
takes on Titus(Richard Lynch) the man who killed his father much sword
and sorcery action takes place. I proclaimed in one of my reviews (That
dealt with Albert Pyun) that I figured his best movie was Kickboxer 2
or Kickboxer 4, that is until I went and clicked on Albert Pyun's name
and saw that he had gone and directed one of my childhood favorites.
The Sword And Sorcerer is of course a rip off Conan The Barbarian but
this one feels no less epic and Pyun's style seems appropriate provided
he doesn't go crazy with his camera angles. He keeps it under control
here and he brings a real sense of excitement to the action. Sword and
Sorcerer is also helped by Horsley's performance which is build on
humor, intelligence and charisma. Whatever to this guy? So even though
Pyun did direct the movie this is still a must see and I think it is
perfect for anyone who likes the Sword and Sorcery genre. Also there is
tons of gore which I look at as very favorable.

* * * out of 4-(Good)
