

Clive Barker is still the king. He brings us to a world where monsters
have politics, the 5 senses rule, and we sometimes question whether our
pre-notions of pain are as accurate as we think. The Hellraiser series
is a lush, nightmarish, subliminal journey into human desire,
masochism, mythos and madness. Pinhead is not so much the generic, evil
antagtonist as he is a source of comfort and logic sometimes. Clive
Barker has often toyed with our preconceptions that all "monsters" must
be blindly destructive brutes, as opposed to the endearingly rational
and decidedly intelligent Cenobites. Perhaps the fact that I have
Cenobites tattooed makes me biased;) But it's still a unique piece with
gorgeous imagery (to some.) Angels to some, demons to others... If you
haven't seen Hellraiser 1 and 2 (the rest are not so great IMHO)...you
must!

<|_=00=_|>

After the strange events of the first movie,Kirsty is sent to a Institution
for the Mentally Sick, commanded by the mysterious Dr. Channard,a crazed
psychologist who is willing to open the doors of hell by manipulating the
Puzzle Box.In doing so,Channard brings Kirsty's  perverse stepmother Julia
back to life,and consequently he provokes the rage of the dreadful
cenobites,the cruel and evil creatures that give pleasure and pain in the
same measure.Hellbound Hellraiser 2 is an extremely well-done film,thanks
to
the generous budget given to newcomer filmmaker Tony Randel and a
first-rate
production.The special effects are simply terrific (specially considering
the time in which the movie was done,1988) and they create a
bombastic,scary
visual.I never saw a movie with such an incredible scenery and
imagery,except maybe for Dark City.Clive Barker's vision of hell is brought
to life with mastery through the work of Randel and Director of Photography
Robin Vidgeon. The plot sustains the tension and keeps you on the edge of
your seat from start to finish,though the first half hour of Hellbound:
Hellraiser II is a little bit slow and descriptive (but never boring); a
great portion of the action and the terror is concentrated in the last
minutes. The last thirty ones are a realistic and gutsy "tour de force"
through fear,violence and suffering.This is definitively a masterpiece, but
not for the squeamish.Hellbound: Hellraiser II is rated R for extreme
violence and sex scenes,it runs 99 minutes(uncut version released by Anchor
Bay).It stars Clare Higgins as Julia, Ashley Laurence as Kirsty, Imogen
Boorman as Tiffany,William Hope as Kyle McRae and Kenneth Cranham as Dr.
Channard.If you like this movie, you might also enjoy Phenomena and
Suspiria. 
<|_=00=_|>

Thus far and no further is how I view this film - while 'Hellraiser'
was a smooth and well-handled interpretation of 'The Hellbound
Heart', this serves as an interesting extension to that story. OK, the
acting is largly dire -  but is this not a horror movie tradition? The
film excels in its MENTAL imagery, not physical: Tiffany's disturbing  
visions of babies with their mouth's sewn shut as Leviathan plays
with her fears; Channards violent, acid flashback-style memories...
they are all insightful and well-thought out as they deal with that
which cannot be tamed easily - the human psyche. Director Tony
Randall has a lot to live up to following  Clive Barker's '87 epic, but
he takes the reigns of the story with good grace and presents a
slick and progressive tale - although I do agree with the general
consensus that the Cenobites should NOT have been humanised.  

All in all though a great film, fantastic visuals - the fall of Leviathan
at the climax has to be one of the most gripping and explosive
deaths of a movie monster in horror film history - and one which
should have ended the tale. 


<|_=00=_|>
Released just over a year after the original, HELLRAISER II picks up
right where the last one ended. But with Clive Barker releasing a
majority of creative control (he still receives a "story by" credit) to
screenwriter friend Pete Atkins and first time director Tony Randel,
the end result is a film that faithfully echoes Barker's earlier work
yet also undermines it.

The film's biggest problem is the script which relies too much on
coincidence. For example, new character Dr. Channard has a deep and
previously existing interest in the Lament Configuration. And Kirsty's
neighbor in the mental ward just happens to be a mute girl who is
really good at solving puzzles. Things like this exist solely to move
the plot from point A to B and so on, something the original HELLRAISER
lacked in its confined dysfunctional family storyline. To Atkin's
credit, the script does effectively introduce the back story of Pinhead
and features some appropriately bleak dialogue (including perhaps the
series best line: "Your suffering will be legendary, even in hell.").

In their attempt to deliver something bigger and better than the
original, the filmmakers further damage themselves when it comes to
Kirsty's adversaries. The sequel has two great foes for Kirsty to
battle – Julia and Pinhead – but the script makes them secondary and
shifts the focus to the ridiculous Dr. Channard. While in human form he
is a fearsome villain but once he becomes a Cenobite, all that goes out
the window in favor of a guy who delivers one liners ("The
Doctor…is…in!"). At this point in the series, even Pinhead hadn't sunk
that low. On top of all that, Atkins actually has the Cenobite Channard
dispatch the lead Cenobites in a battle that is so trivializing that it
makes you wonder why anyone feared these guys in the first place.

Tony Randel handles the film well visually with his two best sequences
taking place in hell. One is when mute Tiffany experiences her own
surreal vision of hell that includes everything from deranged clowns to
a clever giallo tribute. The other is when Kirsty confronts her Uncle
Frank in a fiery tomb housing floating slabs that carry moaning, bloody
bodies. These visions of hell are certainly unique to the film world
but ultimately the film doesn't have the budget to properly convey
this. Instead of a sweeping landscape, we get characters traveling what
seems to be the same tunnel over and over and a few MC Escher style
matte paintings. Most disappointing is the unveiling of Leviathan as an
amorphous black blur emitting from a large version of the box.

Outside of those uneven effects, the rest of the film's effects work is
really well done. Bob Keen and his crew return from the original film
and deliver an abundant amount of blood, making sure that the standard
of delivering cinematic images beyond belief continues. The bloody
resurrection of Julia and the transformation of Dr. Channard are the
film's FX highlights. Obviously the unrated version is the way to go.
In addition to these striking images, HELLBOUND contains the world's
first male/skinless female kiss.

And for a film with such taboo images, it features some consistently
great acting. Lead Ashley Laurence (was she really in her teens when
this was filmed) is actually better than she was in the first film. New
faces Kenneth Cranham and William Hope are both good as the bad doctor
and good doctor respectively. Doug Bradley, graduating from "Lead
Cenobite" to a full fledged Pinhead, maintains his wicked demeanor as a
hell's no. 1 agent while projecting the right amount of emotion when
reminded of his human form. However, if HELLRAISER II truly belongs to
anyone, it is Claire Higgins as the evil stepmother Julia Cotton. With
a cold manner dipped in extra bitchy-ness, Higgins is almost too good
for the proceedings.

New World's efforts for the low budget follow up paid off with the film
earning just under ($12 million) what the original grossed ($14.5
million). Sadly, the next time Pinhead and his brethren appeared on
screen, they were firmly in the claws of Miramx's Dimension line. This
move resulted in a succession of sequels that, while passable, moved
the series further away from Clive Barker's groundbreaking original.
<|_=00=_|>

Kirsty Collins(Ashley Laurance)lies in a psychiatric hospital,haunted by the
night of unspeakable horror that destroyed her life.Now,only hours later,the
nightmare is beginning again.From the blood-stained matress hidden in his
home,obsessive psychiatrist Dr Channard(Kenneth Cranham)raises the remains
of Kirsty's murderous stepmother,Julia(Clare Higgins).Together,Channard and
Julia unlock the secret of the Lament Configuration puzzle box to release
the unlimited horrors and ultimate pleasures of Hell.For the second
time,Kirsty must return beyond the limits to the Outer Darkness to confront
the darkest desires of Hell and free her father's soul."Hellbound:Hellraiser
2" was obviously influenced by Lucio Fulci's masterpiece of gore and
atmosphere "The Beyond"(1981).The film is very well-made,the acting is
alright and there are some good gross-out gore effects that will certainly
please every splatter freak.Absolutely recommended.Note:Death metal group
from Ohio Necrophagia recorded a song called "Children of the Vortex" on
their brilliant album "Holocausto de la Morte",which is loosely based on
this picture.
<|_=00=_|>
Hellraiser 2 is a startling film. Clive Barkers imagery of hell is
profane, violent, and an oddly erotic movie from the off. The sequel
continues the fantastic story, and builds on the characters we saw,
whilst adding some new ones to the mix. As well as re-introducing the
dead ones! As foul and degrading as newer gore porn flicks are today,
Hellbound walks all over them with style and substance which has been
unmatched ever since. For 1988, Hellraiser 2 is nothing short of
breathtaking, and has not dated one bit. The storyline is intelligent
and despite the incredible sights of hell and its inhabitants,
Hellbound justifies the fantasy with thoughtful dialogue and logic and
a powerful story. It also benefits that the cast in this film are
mostly great actors who do a great job of suspending the viewers
disbelief.

Barker gives credibility to the monster in the movie. Every beast in
this film has a human side and you may even feel warmed to them when
they are faced with dilemmas and dramas which question even their
beliefs. There is a powerful scene in which Pinhead and his minions
learn of their own past from Kirsty, the heroin of the story who is
pursued by the cenobites for opening the puzzle box. Pinhead even
begins to look human at this point showing the "bad guys" in a
different light. Before long the demons actually become the "good
guys", and temporarily co-exist with Kirsty to counter the evil
Doctor's hand over hell.

The violence and gore offered by Hellbound is excessive and delivered
to the viewer in such horrific, profane ways it has definitely had an
impact on its viewing demographic. Barker made a great job of
communicating to the director his view of the film from a novel and
it's a gruesome one. So gruesome it will immediately turn away many
within the opening minutes.

I recommend this movie for anyone who's into horror or those who think
the genre is just Hostel and Saw. Hellbound, as indeed the original,
breathes new life into the horror movie and for every pint of spilled
blood, brings intelligence and style in buckets.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

Even if the story's weak, bringing back the surviving (or not surviving)
cast members of the original, can make a sequel better.  Everyone thinks
crazy old Kirsty Cotton is making up stories of demons from hell (which
happened to be her attic), but we all know better, don't we?  She's now in a
mental institution with a girl with a penchant for solving puzzles, under
the guidance of a sadistic doctor with a penchant for a skinless Julia. 
Part of the story is just a re-hash of the first with different characters
in similar situations.  This time around we go to hell and find that it's
like an Escher painting with a giant "Lament" diamond spinning in the sky. 
Not as good as the first film, but pretty close--a bit gorier and disturbing
(but after "Hellraiser", I was expecting this)  The acting is similar to the
first film, but the special effects are a bit more elaborate this time
around as the budget was bigger due to the success of it's
predecessor.
<|_=00=_|>
The first and only decent sequel to Clive Barkers impressive original
Hellraiser. Hellbound:Hellraiser 2 starts almost immediately after the
event of the original. After a brief recap of Hellraiser up to this
point featuring footage form the original, we see another unsuspecting
victim, Captain Elliot Spencer (Doug Bradley without his Pinhead
special make up effects applied) solve the mystery of the Chinese
puzzle box and is impaled with hooks that tear his skin, razors cut
lines in his head and an unseen thing inserts long pins into his scalp
and thus creating Pinhead (Doug Bradley with the make up), the lead
Cenobite from the Hellraiser films. Kirsty (Ashley Laurence again) is
seen in a hospital room, the police have discovered rotting maggot
infested corpses in Kirstys dads house, like the original in its uncut
version this film is very gory and explicit. A detective named Ronson
(Angus MacInnes) questions Kirsty, she doesn't make much sense to him,
speaking of demons and that her dad is trapped in hell and still
suffering. The detective doesn't believe it and hands her over to Dr
Channard (Kenneth Cranham). Channard uses the information he gets from
Kirsty to re-animate Julia (the returning Clare Higgins). He also uses
a patient under his care named Tiffany (Imogen Boorman) to solve the
puzzle of the box and reopen the door to hell, Pinhead and his Cenobite
friends from the original, the Butterball Cenobite (Simon Bamford), the
Chatterer Cenobite (Nicholas Vince) and the female Cenobite (Barbie
Wilde, who I've met in real life by the way!) also make an appearance
and join the fun. Kirsty discovers what Channard is doing and follows
him into hell to try and save her dad. Frank Cotton (Sean Chapman
another returning cast member from the original) also turns up and soon
after loses his heart and skin at the hands of a vengeful Julia.
Channard gets turned into a Cenobite and all hell starts to break lose.
This time directed by Tony Randel, Hellbound is another impressive
film, it recaptures the dark feel and hellish atmosphere of the
original. Once again the special make up effects are explicit and well
done, people slicing themselves up with straight razors in a very nasty
scene, more skinless people and corpses, slit throats, hand
amputations, brain surgery and all sorts of other bodily mutilation are
presented for our viewing pleasure in the uncut version, which is the
one I'm reviewing here. The script co-written by Barker keeps thing
moving nicely, even though someone should tell them police officers
don't carry guns in the UK, towards the start of the movie a police man
while searching the house from the original gets scared by a corpse
that falls out of a wardrobe and proceeds to shoot it several times, as
I said the police in the UK don't carry guns, I know I've lived here
all my life! A very minor complaint. This time the film is mostly set
in Hell and we get lots of perverse imagery to convince us. I
especially like the juggler who's using his own eyeballs to juggle
with. After this the Hellraiser franchise went down hill, becoming too
Americanized, part 3 for instance was set in an American city and
featured Pinhead and his Cenobites killing lots of teenagers, just like
countless other soulless unoriginal slasher films. Hellbound:Hellraiser
2 in my opinion is the only worthy sequel to the original, its dark and
has the same perverse atmosphere, it features even more blood gore and
mutilation and doesn't feature stupid teenagers been hacked up. A very
entertaining horror film for those with the stomach. I liked this just
as much as the original, high praise. The version I watched was the
recent British special edition DVD from Anchor Bay UK, which is the
uncut version, the only way to watch it as far as I'm concerned.
Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
"Hellbound: Hellraiser II" of 1988 is an almost perfect sequel to one
of the most effective and terrifying achievements ever in Horror
cinema, Clive Barker's 1987 masterpiece "Hellraiser". Director Tony
Randel's sequel keeps up the terrifying atmosphere and genuinely
infernal creepiness of its predecessor and is even considerably gorier
than the (also very gruesome) original. This second entry to the
"Hellraiser" franchise epitomizes pure Horror as its predecessor and
takes the viewer on a terrifying journey into the pits of a Hell from
the mind of Clive Barker.

The film starts off pretty much where the first part ended. After the
horrifying events that took place in part one, survivor Kristy Cotton
(Ashley Laurence) awakes in a mental hospital. One might think that
psychiatrists are not eager to believe stories about Cenobites, demons
from a bizarre, sadomasochistic Hell. The head of the institution, Dr.
Channard (Kenneth Cranham), however, is obsessed with occultism and has
his own plans with his new cognitions about cenobites and resurrection
from Hell...

***Warning! BIG SPOILERS Ahead!*** Kristy's evil stepmother Julia
(Clare Higgins) returns from Hell, and she is not the only one. So do
the Cenobites. The cenobites, especially the iconic Lead Cenobite
(commonly referred to as 'Pinhead', played by Doug Bradley) are some of
the most terrifying creatures the World of Horror has ever brought
forth. My only slight complaint about "Hellbound" is the manner of how
the cenobites are humanized towards the end. It seems to be a common
assumption among makers of Horror-sequels, that they somehow need to
explain how monsters became monsters - which is not always a good idea,
in my opinion. Ever since I first saw the first two Hellraiser parts
many years ago, I have held the view that the Cenobites were most
terrifying in the first part, when they were still utterly mysterious
and their origin was not yet explained. This minor fault is not yet
extreme in this second part, however, and it does not waste its status
as a fascinating sequel. The visions of Hell are extremely creepy and
terrifying and character actor Kenneth Channard brings in a new type of
purely evil villain. The sequel is, once again, filmed excellently, the
settings are sublime and the gore-effects are as gruesome as it gets.
Overall, "Hellbound" is an extraordinary sequel that must not be missed
by Horror fans. After this, the series spiraled downwards. My rating:
8.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Kirsty Cotton (Ashley Laurence) survived the first attack from Hell in
"Hellraiser", but her troubles are far from over. She is now locked up
in a mental ward run by an occult-obsessed doctor (how appropriate) and
her evil stepmother, Julia (Clare Higgins) refuses to stay dead.

This film is incredibly polarizing, I fear, because it has such strong
qualities of both good and bad. The bad include special effects that
really date the movie (though are still superior to much of today's
work) and the introduction of a certain level of silliness that
pervades the later films. The doctor as a cenobite is a bit strange in
form, and opens the door for the even more bizarre creatures in part
three.

There are some plot and continuity issues, such as wondering where
Kirsty's boyfriend from part one went. And while the film seems to try
to explain loose ends from the first film, it creates a whole lot
more... the maze (presumably hell) is not adequately explained, nor is
the role of the giant puzzle box. While some of this is addressed in
later films, it seems that what we learn later tends to contradict what
we see here.

But let us say some good things about this one. First and foremost, the
Julia without skin looks incredible. It is hard to say they topped
Frank without skin (from the original) but I think they did. The way
she comes crawling up out of the bed... her blood-soaked flesh.
Beautiful. "Right to Die" owes a huge debt to the work in this film,
the same way that this film owes a debt to "Bride of Frankenstein" with
its use of thunder and bandages...

We also have to give the gore creators some credit, because the insane
man with the knife was pretty intense... actually, all the asylum
inmates are well-played. For all the flaws this film may have, they
more than made up for it with a couple of memorable scenes. While my
favorite in the series is "Bloodline" (I believe I am in the minority
on this), I think part two may have been the last great addition.
Sequels were not necessary, and obviously everything after part four
just gives the franchise a bad name.

Anchor Bay has released a twentieth anniversary edition, and I would
strongly recommend it. Older features, such as an audio commentary from
2001, are available, as well as a few new featurettes. "The Soul
Patrol" features new interviews with Barbie Wilde, Simon Bamford and
Nicholas Vince. "Outside the Box" features a new interview with
director Tony Randel and "The Doctor is In" features a new interview
with Kenneth Cranham. 

As someone who has met Ashley Laurence, Doug Bradley, Clive Barker and
each of the cenobites, I have a strong personal interest in this film.
I can say that the Anchor Bay edition is easily the best to date and
any "Hellraiser" fan would be making a mistake in getting an older,
inferior edition.
