
What's that you say? Ghostbusters, one of the most financially
successful and over-hyped comedies of the eighties, underrated? Yes.
Precicely because it was so over-hyped and made so much money, there
has been a stigma attached to this film identifying it as a childish FX
piece, when it is nothing of the sort. Most of the lines people
remember("He slimed me," "OK. So? She's a dog," "When someone asks you
if you're a god, you say YES!") are not its funniest or wittiest lines,
which often are missed on first or even second viewing. I laugh every
time I observe a gag or a quip that I somehow missed the other 20 times
I viewed a scene; "Egon, this reminds me of the time you tried to drill
a hole through your head, remember that?" "That would have worked if
you hadn't stopped me", or, to the driver of a van from a loony bin,
"Dropping off or picking up?" Brilliant.

Not only is Ghostbusters funny, it manages to include some truly scary
scenes. And not just lose-your-popcorn moments like the fridge from
Hell, but also scenes of quiet, thoughtful chill, like Egon's retelling
of how the possessed apartment building came into being, or Winston
recalling the Book of Revelation. Which other film has managed to
combine the Marx Brothers with HP Lovecraft?

The special effects hold up well, besides some obvious studio sets and
models, but what really creates this film's world is the stunning
cinematography. Manhattan, perhaps the pinnacle of Gothic architectural
evolution, is brilliantly utilised here to create a sense of menacing
grandeur. After watching "Ghostbusters" I couldn't imagine the realm of
the Old Gods opening into our world from anywhere else. The soundtrack
is great, not the overrated theme (Which was in fact lifted from Huey
Lewis' "I Need a New Drug"), but the wonderfully blusey "Cleaning Up
the Town," the creepy proto-techno chiller "Magic" and also the
wonderful score by the late and much lamented Elmer Bernstein.
<|_=00=_|>

I have special affection for this film. When I was a youngster, growing up
between the ages of four and ten, this was my favorite film. I loved the
whole Ghostbusters thing. I loved the sequel, the cartoon series, I had to
have the toys and merchandise every Christmas, you name it. Strangely, as
I
have gotten older, I find myself appreciating the film more and more. When
I
was a child I loved it for the special effects, the gadgets and the
ghostbusting especially. Nowadays I love it for the same reasons, but now
that I'm older I find myself appreciating the dialog which is some of the
funniest committed to a film, the oddball humor, like Venkman's line about
dogs and cats living together and the in jokes, like Slimer being the
ghost
of John Belushi and Venkman rubbing his hand at glee at the thought of the
money to be made from the merchandising of the ghostbusters brand. Not
only
that, but some 80's hairstyles aside, the film as aged remarkably well. My
cousin who is five years old has developed a love for the whole
Ghostbusters
thing, showing that this is truly worthy of being branded one of the most
successful films ever made.

Unlike many of today's blockbusters which are humorless and pompous
thinking
that they are serious films and forgetting about any sense of fun along
with
the complicated visual effects, Ghostbusters is funny and a fun paranormal
movie. The set pieces are superb as we see the Ghostbusters going up
against
Slimer, Gozer and, undeniably the classic movie moment of the 80's, the
Stay
Puft Marshmallow Man. For a film made in 1984 the climax is very well done
and looks exceedingly realistic, without any hint of clues as to the fact
that it is a special effect. This is what going to the cinema should be
all
about. Fun with a capital F. All the actors get into it with great comedic
aplomb. Bill Murray, one of the finest comedy actors to grace the screen,
is
superb as Peter Venkmen who gets the best lines in the film as well as the
funniest moments. Just check out the "there is no Dana, only Zool" moment.
Murray's priceless reaction to Dana Barrett's possession is one of the
most
side splitting moments I have ever seen. In fact, the casting is pretty
much
spot on. As well as Murray, we have co writers Dan Akyroyd and Harold
Ramis
sharing the spotlight as the fellow Ghostbusters, Sigourney Weaver making
a
wonderful damsel in distress, Rick Moranis is almost scene stealing as her
nerd of a  neighbor who becomes possessed himself, while Ernie Hudson and
Annie Potts both put in wonderfully sardonic supporting roles who get
their
chances to shine.

Add to this one of the best theme tunes and a truly apocalyptic finale, it
is no surprising that this was the biggest film of 1984. A summer
blockbuster with humor, trills, spills and some of the best special
effects
money could buy at the time, this is truly a genuine classic and is one of
the best Hollywood blockbusters ever made.
<|_=00=_|>

Bill Murray is one of the best wise guys in the business.  I was amazed to
find out on the GHOSTBUSTERS 15th Anniversary DVD that Murray had little to
do with the dialogue his classicly blase, fiercely cynical 'Dr. Venkman'
cuts loose throughout this good comedy.  Credit Dan Aykroyd and Harold Ramis
with "getting into Bill's mind" as Ramis puts it and presenting Murray with
a gag-a-second character.  Murray also lends his own comic genius through
his delivery and facial gestures (especially with his classic cross-eyed,
curled-lip look).  Together with a fun premise and above average special
effects, GHOSTBUSTERS will never be a relic of the 80's and should always be
a refreshingly humorous spook show.

Murray rules the screen, mauling his geeky para-psychologist partners and
hitting on a young blonde while conducting shock therapy experiments on her.
 Aykroyd uses his standard machine gun delivery of obscure (or should I say
made up) facts and anecdotes and Ramis is just enough for the ultra-dork
'Egon'.  The funniest element in GHOSTBUSTERS happens to be Rick Moranis in
a splendid role as a small-time accountant who has parties for clients only
and becomes mixed up in some extremely supernatural events.  Along with
Sigourney Weaver, Moranis has the most difficult physical tasks to
topple.

This was a picture I loved when I was a kid.  I must have went some 12 to 15
years before I saw it again and I was alarmingly impressed.  It has endured.
 The special effects are not only good, but they are comedic and add even
more laughs throughout the 'Busters turbulent jobs.  The DVD version has
tons of goodies included and is an essential addition to any Saturday Night
Live fan's movie library.  SNL is the very essence and reason for
GHOSTBUSTERS, where Murray and Aykroyd starred.  Director Ivan Reitman
created his meal ticket here and can pretty much do any comedy he wants now.
 

It is a shame John Belushi was not around to play one of the 'Busters, for
he was originally cast.  The movie is already well-paced and engaging so
just imagine how frenzied the pace would have been with Belushi. 
Regardless, GHOSTBUSTERS is one for the kids, teens, and adults alike.  It
has spanned these phases for me and still works wonderfully. 

RATING: ***
<|_=00=_|>
The first thing that needs to be said is that Ghostbusters (1984) is
possibly the funniest film ever. That's quite the bold statement to
make but with good cause. This film holds up probably more than any
other comedy in existence. You know how there are those movies that you
see that are hysterical the first few times you see them? This one just
keeps on coming. I remember when I was a kid, I wore our copy of
Ghostbusters out. At the time, I thought it was a horror movie (I
wasn't the brightest bulb) so I watched it constantly (Being that I am
a horror buff) never realizing what it truly was. I hadn't yet caught
on to a lot of the humor. About eight years later, I noticed that I
hadn't seen the film for forever and a day. I popped it in and oh my
God...I just about died with laughter.

This movie has something for everyone. Director Ivan Reitman said that
he found a comedic formula for films...it works as follows: There's the
brain, the heart, and the mouth. Ghostbusters scored with all of them.
As the brain of the bunch, Egon Spengler's (Harold Ramis also co-wrote
it) use of witty humor is hilarious. If you have the right mind set,
almost everything Spengler says is laugh out loud funny. At the heart
of the Ghostbusters is Dan Aykroyd's (Who created the idea for the
film) lovable fool, Ray Stantz. Ray has a tenacity for saying simple
minded things and using very little logic and yet somehow the man got a
P.H.D. (Probably through studying habits, despite ignorance.) There's a
line that he says involving a smell in the beginning of the movie that
I am chuckling at just thinking about it. This of course leaves Bill
Murray (He was nominated for a Gloden Globe) as the sarcastic Peter
Venkman (The mouth of the beast.) Peter is likely the one that gets the
most laughs because he, being the mouth that he is, never stops making
fun of everything. It's like Rodney Dangerfield in the party scene in
Caddyshack but a whole lot funnier and continues the rest of the movie.
The film also produces some laughter out of the minor characters as
well. The scatological humor toward the end of the film between Rick
Moranis (In a role intended for John Candy) and Sigourney Weaver is
quite laughter inducing. Ernie Hudson in one of his first big roles has
a few good lines as the other Ghostbuster, Winston Zeddmore (The only
one who's not a doctor) and William Atherton of Die Hard fame plays the
ultimate annoyance as Walter Peck. Not to be forgotten in the mix is
Annie Potts as Janine who has some rather memorable humorous lines, for
instance the one I've written to summarize the movie. Numerous other
well known faces are seen on screen too, which includes John Belushi
(Or rather his continuation of the character Bluto, from Animal House)
as the principal image used for the now famous 'Disgusting Blob,'
Slimer. Like any good comic will tell you, good comedy is generally
about setting up the other guys around you. Well, it just so happens
that the characters all work well with each other to set the great
comedic moments staged in this film.

Not to be forgotten however in all the funny one liners and set ups is
the overall film. Ghostbusters was nominated for numerous awards
including Oscars for best song (Courtesy of Ray Parker Jr.) and special
effects, which are now slightly dated but possibly work even better
with the wacky style being consistent with the rest of the movie. Along
with Parker, there are numerous other great songs including a song by
The Bus Boys that climbed charts and a rather creepy seeming song (But
works well) by Mick Smiley. Another thing that should not be forgotten
is the horror elements of the film. Though purposely outrageous, the
effects do serve as some potential scare moments. Among the most
frightening involve stop motion animated puppets called Terror Dogs.
Though the scares are few, they do work fairly well (They had me
convinced as a youngster) bringing enough threat to the ghosts that
haunt New York City. The story itself is interesting as well, involving
some intriguing mythology of Sommeria among other countries.

Where some films tend to only work a few times, Ghostbusters is
consistent. Although, I've found movies such as CLUE, Dr. Strangelove
or Airplane to be funnier at different times in my life, this one still
makes me laugh even after seeing it hundreds of times. From the opening
scares to the ending credits, it will almost surely reel you in. I've
laughed harder at some moments in other films but it's rare that I find
one that's funnier throughout. Even those films lose their edge after
you see them a few times...this one just doesn't. If you haven't seen
it, do so. You will almost certainly be glad you did. If you have seen
it and didn't like it, try watching it again in a few years. It's
almost sure to grow on you eventually. I dare anyone to sit through
this movie and not laugh once, no matter how many times they've seen
it. If you don't laugh, you're either trying really hard to hold back,
have a very odd sense of humor or are dead! It's just that funny.
Although I don't rate films, I would easily rate this one a five out of
five, placed among the classics. Believe it or not, I think that it
belongs alongside Citizen Kane and Lawrence of Arabia. It also spawned
an entertaining sequel in 1989. Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>

I have a small posse of favorite comedians. Somewhere towards the top of
that list, along with Steve Martin, is Bill Murray. He's been around
since
the early 80s, getting his start on NBC's "Saturday Night Live" after
Chevy
Chase left for his own career in Hollywood. Murray worked live for a few
years before -- like those prior to him him -- gradually making his way
into
the film world.

I like all of the comedians in "Ghostbusters," come to think of it. Dan
Aykroyd is another great subtle comedian, with a great knack for writing
as
well as acting. It was Aykroyd, after all, who is primarily responsible
for
"The Blues Brothers." And Harold Ramis, who later became a director, with
an
impressive resume of such films as "Vacation," "Groundhog Day," and
"Analyze
This."

Then there's also Rick Moranis, a meek nerd character who is very
underrated
and very funny, a sort of Woody Allen Lite. He was Dark Helmet in
"Spaceballs," Barney Coopersmith in "My Blue Heaven," and that wacky
inventor in "Honey I Shrunk the Kids."

Yes, one could say that "Ghostbusters" is built on a firm base, scripted
by
Aykroyd, Ramis and Moranis (who is uncredited) and directed by Ivan
Reitman
("Kindergarten Cop"). It's a clever little story with a simple premise
and
lots of laughs -- a band of failing friends unite to make a hoax
ghost-busting company, but soon real ghosts do show up and they're in
over
their heads.

It starts in New York City. Peter Venkman (Murray), Raymond Stanz
(Aykroyd),
and Egon Spengler (Ramis) are three Columbia University scientists laid
off
after their grant expires with no results from the trio in return. Down
to
nothing, they cook up the brilliant (or crazy) idea to create a
"ghost-busting" company.

But they immediately realize that it won't be as easy as it seems to get
a
little extra cash, because Dana Barrett (Sigourney Weaver) comes to the
men
looking for help. Her apartment is infested with strange happenings, and
her
next-door neighbor, Louis Tully (Rick Moranis), is having problems of his
own.

They pretend to solve the situation and the men suddenly become a
citywide
phenomenon, attracting media attention and constant customers at their
front
door. They become so popular, in fact, that they are joined by Winston
Zeddmore (Ernie Hudson), another down-on-his-luck city guy looking for a
good-paying job.

However, Walter Peck, EPA (William Atherton) doesn't believe that the
Ghostbusters are really ridding any ghosts at all, so he has them thrown
in
jail. But an ethreal baddie named Gozer (Slavitza Jovan) soon appears in
Dana's apartment complex, and weird happenings occur, forcing Peck to
free
the Ghostbusters once and for all so that they can bust the ghost and
send
it back to where it came from.

Sounds corny, huh? It's meant to be. Everything about this movie is campy
and goofy, and that is exactly what Ramis, Aykroyd and Moranis wanted
when
they collaborated. And it is very funny.

I don't know, there's something in me that loves "Saturday Night Live"
humor. Sure, the show has its dry spots, but I love it. Many people I
know
don't find it all that funny, and not as consistent as something such as
"The Simpsons," but I love to watch it, I love the humor, and I love the
actors.

Part of that love, I suppose, is what makes me enjoy "Ghostbusters"
(1984)
so much. However, believe it or not, "Ghostbusters" is not quite as
laugh-out-loud funny as you might expect. It is very funny, but it isn't
always a howler. It's more of an intelligent comedy, which is odd, since
it
is made by a band of guys from "Saturday Night Live" and such
backgrounds.

Murray steals every scene he is in. This, along with `Groundhog Day,' is
the
perfect vehicle for his comedic talents, ranging from the constant wise
cracks to the constant dry ironic humor that I love so much. They key to
his
humor is not that he comes up with it, but the way he does it. Any
comedian
can use the blank glares, but the way he expressionlessly glares at
fellow
actors is a joke in itself. When Stanz admits that his one fear has
always
been the Stay Puff'd man, check out Murray's face. This is classic
stuff.

As much a scene-stealer as Murray may be, he is nearly upstaged by
Aykroyd
and Ramis, who both provide a sort of counter-balance of lunatics and
reason
to Murray's flippant characteristics. The scene that everyone remembers
it
the finale involving the giant marshmallow Stay Puff'd Man, and whenever
I
think of Aykroyd's performance in this film, I think of that
scene.

"Ghostbusters" is a very famous comedy, and for good reason. It's light,
good-hearted, funny, and actually pretty intelligent, built upon a firm
cast
and script, which -- considering the majority of the actors' and writers'
backgrounds of "Saturday Night Live" -- is almost as surprising as the
film
itself.

5/5 stars.

- John Ulmer
<|_=00=_|>
There is no set definition of the word "classic" but I'm sure this film
qualifies as such or will in the near future, since it was so unique
and popular....and remains so today, over 20 years old later. It's just
one of those films that you remember seeing when it came out at the
theaters. I doubt if anyone has forgotten the catchy theme song,
either. 

Despite numerous viewings, I still find this very funny as I suspect
many people do, because it entertains so well. I know the story is
ludicrous and I don't believe for one second in ghosts so I ignore the
"theology" and just laugh at Bill Murray, Dan Ackroyd, Harold Ramis,
Rick Moranis, Annie Potts and Ernie Hudson. 

Murray, as he tends to do, grabs the spotlight more than the rest and
delivers more laughs than any of the cast but my favorite was Moranis
as the nerdy "Louis Tully." I wish his role had been bigger. All the
guys, however, plus Sigourney Weaver, the love interest of the
always-horny Murray, are fun. I even liked the sequel because most of
this cast was included.
<|_=00=_|>

Ghostbusters was an incredibly huge smash hit on its original release back
in `84  and its not hard to see why - its a  funny , exciting  and
imaginative  thrill ride. There is a lot to like about  ghostbusters ,
like
bill Murrays  constant and always funny wise cracks,  the films constant
shift  from a light hearted comedy to  intense ghost busting thriller and
of
course , the technically flawless attack of the marsh mallow man  that is
probably one of my favorite parts of this film.

In this day and age of computer generated  fx wizardry   the completely
analogue special effects  still look  great ( especially the stay puft
marsh
mallow man , its rampage through the city   looks incredibly   real ! )
and
the film it self is still better and more imaginative  than  a lot of event
movies you will find in a cinema near you  today .

And to top it all off  Ghostbusters is one of the few films out there that
actually  had  worthy TV spin off that was the "real Ghostbusters", a
cartoon that  i loved as a kid.

Ghostbusters is a film that truly deserves its iconic status.

The screen dwellers mark (out of 5 ) : * * * *

<|_=00=_|>
Very rarely can you pull off a successful blend of two separate movie
genres,but the makers of Ghostbusters were overwhelmingly so.On the one
hand,you have the comedic charm of Bill Murray and Dan Aykroyd,and on
the other,a genuine ghostly spookiness that makes you want to hide
under a blanket.I recently bought a copy and watched it for the first
time in several years,and it's still just as fresh as it was in it's
initial release in 1984.It has a great supporting cast for Murray and
Aykroyd,including the always great Sigourney Weaver,Rick Moranis,Ernie
Hudson,and Harold Ramis,who is just as talented behind the camera as he
is in front of it.Watch it with your family,but keep an eye on younger
children,as the spookiness may be more than they can handle. Great
stuff.
<|_=00=_|>

For it's time, Ghostbusters would have to be a classic. Visiting such
realms
as the supernatural, is sure not meant to be funny, but this film does
stretch that rule a little. Thankfully it does, as it allows those among
us
(like me), who do not believe in ghost and goblins, to sit back, relax and
enjoy the funny antics of these ghost-busting heroes. Although it might be
a
little dated in the new millennium, 'Ghostbusters' is still one of the
'great comedies of the 1980's' in my view.

When the University downsizes the parapsychology department, Doctors
Venkman, Stantz and Spengler make the leap from scientists to
Ghostbusters,
investigators and exterminators of paranormal pests! When the bewitching
Dana Barrett discovers her refrigerator has become a portal into the
spiritual dimension, our heroes come face to face with an ancient evil
force
with plans to raise hell in Manhattan.

When reviewing a movie, I try to be as fair as I can be. However I feel
that
by only viewing a movie once, we can not comprehend or appreciate the work
that has gone into it, as a lot of work goes into bringing a movie to
'life'. For me that is no more apparent than with this classic hit. The
time
spent doing the script, special effects, production designs all have their
merit and make this movie great. It is not just actors doing their job, as
that is only one small part of the movie.

Most of 'Ghostbusters' success must be given to director Ivan Reitman. He
did a fabulous job directing the Ghostbusters. I am certain that he left
no
stone unturned when it came to getting this film right and I am so glad he
did. What also made this film more unique was that two of its stars wrote
one very very good script. I am of course talking about Dan Akroyd and
Harold Ramis. Their originality and comedy on paper, made watching this
film
a real joy. It is not often that stars write good scripts, but this time
these guys got it right.

The cast that this film has was amazing to say the least. The four
Ghostbuster characters were all different, which made them great to watch.
I
love the way that director Reitman summed up the Ghostbusters. He said of
the three main guys that, Bill Murray was the 'mouth' or the smart ass of
the film, while Dana Barrett says of Dr Venkman, ' you're more like a
game-show host' and I have to agree with that, Dan Akroyd was the 'hands',
meaning the person who was very hands-on when came to the ghostbusting,
and
finally Harold Ramis was the 'Brains' or the smartest one of Ghostbusters.
Add in the cheery Ernie Hudson, who played Winston Zeddemore, making them
the perfect team.

However, the Ghostbusters are a little different when it comes to doing
their job. They have funny facilities, which only they could invent, a car
that is as wild and conspicuous as its owners are, while the tools that
they
use to trap there supernatural phenomenon are weird and crazy. I love the
traps, 'nuclear accelerators' and other bits and pieces they simply refer
to
as 'toys', when they are anything but that.

Then take into consideration the other great roles in this film, as
without
them this film would not be as good. Sigourney Weaver was very 'spiritual'
when came to being the normally delightful Dana Barrett. I really enjoyed
the onscreen chemistry between her and Bill Murray. Rick Moranis played
the
moronic '' as only he can. I always think of him as the man from 'Little
shop of horrors', but there is no doubting his acting talents. Add in the
very 'unusual' and eccentric Receptionist Janine, who was amusingly
portrayed by Annie Potts. I love it when she screams 'we got one'. Yet I
still say my favourite character in the Ghostbusters, over the silly
Venkman
(who is second), is the funny ghost Slimer. While Murray is as insane as
the
ghosts were in this movie, Slimer steals the show in my view. He is wild,
'slimes' people and makes the Ghostbusters all the funnier. Whoever
invented
Slimer is a genius!

There are some very funny scenes and lines in this movie. I love how we
are
introduced to the first ghost in the movie, who is part of the library in
New York, then the mayhem and chaos we see slimmer cause in the Hotel is
classic cinematography. The Venkman line at the end of the scene is
priceless as he says 'we came, we saw, we kicked its ass!' Throw in scenes
with the monsters that run around New York terrorising people, the
unlocking
of ghosts by the Environmental Protection jerk and the Marshmallow Man are
all hilarious parts to a movie that is full on from start to the finish.

I wish I had been old enough to see the opening of 'Ghostbusters' in the
cinema, as I am sure it would have had a huge cinema release. When I
remember the Ghostbusters two things come to mind. One is the hypnotic
tune
'Ghostbusters' written and performed by Ray Parker Jnr., and two is that
my
mother and one of her friends said that they banned their children from
viewing such rot. I certainly missed out on seeing many great facets of
what
the Ghostbusters spawned, such as two ingenious cartoons. I sort of
understand what they were on about, but I would have preferred being
allowed
to watch it and then just forget about it. This film has a lot to like
about, it is funny, crazy and a little bit different. If you are yet to
see
what the great fuss is about the 'Ghostbusters', then please do yourself a
favour and pick up a copy today. Yes, they are ready to believe
you!

CMRS gives 'Ghostbusters': 5 (Brilliant Film)


<|_=00=_|>
Some movies come with a surrounding story that makes it a richer
experience.

This one's enriching story is that it is largely accidental. They had a
different movie in mind, then changed it in a rush, making changes and
inventing every day while shooting. Usually this results in an
incoherent mess, but in this case it became ever so MORE coherent.

The reason is that all the principles are strongest at improvisational
comedy. And they had worked together intensively and knew how to make
each other look good. Its a funny thing about acting, especially
comedic acting in the long form : you almost never can actually make
yourself a success. You have to trust your partners to make you a
success.

I always enjoy this movie. Like "Holy Grail" its charm is in
referencing a mature world of slightly twisted forces, keeping some
constant. Its a familiar place, naturally found. Its that natural
access that makes it so endearing. Nothing is forced; no one is trying
very hard. They go there easily and we do as well.

Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.
