

These are the immortal words spoken by SIXTEEN CANDLES heroine Samantha
Baker (Molly Ringwald) in the ultimate 80's teen comedy.  This movie has
become a classic to those born in the 70's, like myself, and I now
consider
it a "guilty pleasure". Its a movie we all grew up with.  Didn't we all
know
a person like 'Farmer Ted', or a hot queenie like the blonde he
hilariously
gets.  It was every young freshman's fantasy.  This funny flick is also a
relic of the 80's that is not all that dated.

The jokes still work (as long as you see it uncut) and it is neat seeing
things of the not so distant past be on display.  Floppy disks, headgears,
leotards, etc...  Time has not been so good to the featured stars.
Ringwald
and Anthony-Michael Hall, who was born to play this role, and this one
only,
have all but disappeared.  The biggest stars now are blips on the screen
here: Joan (in a headgear) and John (a geek)  Cusack.  The film is like a
toy you can't put away.

Some situations are beat, but at least Paul Dooley adds an extra dimension
to the father.  Too many of John Hughes' teen-angst comedies of the era
feature tissue-thin parental figures.  This was the first and best of the
so-called "brat pack" movies, and will always hold a place in 1980's
filmmaking history.  Girls learned never to lend their underwear to a geek
and we all learned that high school is just a phase, easily forgotten as
time goes on.
<|_=00=_|>
I am shocked to realise this hilarious film is now 30 years old! Films
from 1964 seen in 1988 looked a zillion years apart.....how can a 1980s
film like this one still be so new and play so fresh in 2014? ...Apart
from it being funnier and truly inspired I really now appreciate more
the legacy of John Hughes in his series of films that were released in
that 5 year span 1984-89. Anthony Michael Hall is rightly celebrated
and gorgeous Molly Ringwald deserves her fame in the teen hall of
Stardom. Whatever happened to Michael Schoeffling (Jake)....anyone
know? It seems incongruous that so many future stars got their start in
this film yet he seemed to go nowhere. I am also very surprised it got
a PG rating.......given the swearing and the nudity..but I guess in the
spirit of it all it was a perfect pic for anyone 12 - 112. Very clever
and very funny.
<|_=00=_|>

Films like Sixteen Candles personify what the eighties was all about.  And
if you were a child of the 80s, you will probably identify with this film
a
lot more than the now younger generation.  The story is simple enough, but
it works so well.  Molly Ringwald is particularly likeable in this, and
she
is almost irreplaceable in her part.  There are heaps of familiar faces,
including small parts from many of the present day 'movie stars' ie John
Cusack, Joan Cusack and Jami Gertz.  It's kind of daggy though, and when
you
tell people you watched it their response is usually "Oh My God.  That is
so
OLD."  But that's what I like about it. If you want to watch a film that
reflects the eighties, forget the nostalgia trips of The Wedding Singer
and
Romy and Michelle.  Hire a true eighties product, such as Pretty in Pink,
Sixteen Candles, The Breakfast Club, St Elmo's Fire.... The list goes on
and
on.    
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is one of the most quotable I've ever seen. Everyone who has
ever
seen it knows this is true.  Along with "Ferris Bueller's Day Off" and "The
Breakfast Club", this is the best of the John Hughes 1980's movies.  The
acting is perfection, down to the smallest parts, too.  Standouts are
Blanche Baker as the bride-to-be on too many painkillers, Justin Henry as
the pain-in-the-neck little brother, Michael Schoeffling as hunk-deluxe
Jake
Ryan and last but never least, Anthony Michael Hall as Farmer Fred....I
mean
Ted. 
<|_=00=_|>
The final shot of this film can in some ways mirror the difficulties of
adolescence. We see Molly Ringwald finally getting to kiss the boy
she's been after since the film's outset. However this kiss doesn't
look like it would have been particularly easy for the actors to pull
off. Both Ringwald and Shoeffling are sitting "Indian-style" on a
tabletop facing one another. They both have to lean forward presumably
using their wrists for leverage while their lips meet over the flaming
candles on her birthday cake. A difficult kiss, indeed.

Sixteen Candles is one of the best films John Hughes gave us in the
1980s. The young cast full of so many extraordinary talents gives us
one memorable scene after another. Anthony Michael Hall is particularly
effective as the leader of the nerdiest students on campus. Listen to
his voice crack as he reads many of his lines, and try not to laugh.
Good luck! The plot, as many of us know, centers around a young girl
(Ringwald) whose parents forget about her sixteenth birthday in the
midst of the chaos surrounding her older sister's wedding. At the same
time she tries to win the affection of the most popular guy in school
who happens to be dating the most beautiful girl in school. Ah, the
trials and tribulations of high school.

The film is well-paced, never drags, and has its characters pegged
pretty well. The obnoxious grandparents are particularly well-drawn. Of
course things are eventually resolved in a manner that could never
possibly happen in real life, but that's why we go to the movies.

I miss those destructive house parties!!! 9 of 10 stars.

The Hound.
<|_=00=_|>

 This John Hughes film is one of the best romantic teen comedies in history.
Starring 2 of the Brat Packers, Molly Ringwald, playing the lovesick
Samantha, and Anthony Michael Hall who plays "The Geek", he pratically stole
the entire movie with his one-liners. His friends were the best, it's funny
to see John Cusack as one of his geeky friends, and I just noticed Joan
Cusack makes a small appearance in this as the girl with the neck brace on.
That's funny. I recommend this classic to anyone who likes romantic teen
comedies.  Oh and whoever said that "Sixteen Candles" was perverted, all i
have to say is WHAT? What is perverted about this movie, American Pie was
perverted, this movie is a classic. There was ONE scene of nudity and it
lasted about 3 seconds. I give "Sixteen Candles" 10 out of 10!!!!

<|_=00=_|>
Reading all the comments about how funny and amazing and "true" this
film is, I hope that the world has progressed a LOT since it was made
or that the people who commented didn't actually see the vast majority
of this film. When I first saw it as a child, I thought it was great
too.

I recently had the chance to see it again, and I cannot believe how
awful it actually is. This film is racist, sexist, classist and
homophobic and not in a satirical way. It casually condones and
glorifies rape (yes, having sex with someone who is too drunk to even
know who you are is actually rape).

The only good thing about this film is the soundtrack.
<|_=00=_|>

I had to write about this film after seeing the last 10 minutes of it on TV
last night. I didn't miss much after all cause I had seen the film countless
times when I was younger.  Man I remember how much I enjoyed it.  This has
to be the most 80's character driven film about high school I have ever
seen.  It is just plain out stupid funny and heartwarming.

While Breakfast Club tries to handle the seriousness of social peers, and
Ferris Beuller just solidifies the ultimate 80's experience with some great
performances and total hip coolness, Sixteen Candles is just a crazy fun
romp through the perils of being a teenager.

Ringwald is at her prime as the overburdened teenager, and Michael Hall is
at his greatest as the ultimate schemer-geek.  The party aftermath always
cracks me up everytime I see it, plus so many more things.

Also, there's a scene where the geek gets unloaded out of the trunk of a
car, and i SWEAR it's not a human person but a dummy cause the guy does not
move but stands like a broomstick..  It's just one of those bizarre movie
qwerks I wish someone could explain to me.  And who can forget those
alligator shirts....  I laugh now at the way everyone and the bands look in
these 80's movies.

Alas it seems, Hall and Ringwald got stuck in stereotyped roles that they
never seemed to shed or outgrew them as they became adults, which is to bad
cause Ringwald, and particularly Hall's comedic sense of timing in this film
is just amazing.

Rating 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
movies in the 80's were really cool, nice story lines, very real people
and cute guys too! 80's movies were so musical, full of dance and
laughter, really good acting and good use of props. I wish movies were
like the old classic movies, movies nowadays are somewhat a rip off,
i'm not saying all but most movies made in this era are all
computerized, there's so much plastic surgery happening, drastic diets,
if you look back at the old movies, the ladies are really beautiful
naturally, nice hair, and the spark in those eyes, men were romantic. I
watched Sixteen Candles for the first time, and i enjoyed it. I liked
Pretty in Pink better though. Sixteen candles is a really funny yet in
a sweet romantic sort of way....the geeks and the Duck guy, hilarious!
i enjoy watching classic movies, eg. dirty dancing, ghost, gremlin,
pretty in pink, ghost busters.... I wouldn't recommend this movie to
kids 14+, especially if you don't like watching classic movies. But to
those out there who were teens in the 80s, this might bring back your
high school memories. Truly hilarious, you can predict the ending, the
geeks took the spotlight for me
<|_=00=_|>
The teen comedy to which every teen comedy made for the rest of
eternity will be compared.

"Sixteen Candles" is one of those movies that has entered the
vocabulary of Gen-Xers everywhere. All you have to do is say a line
like: "Oh look, Frank, she's got her boobies"; or "Thanks for lending
me the Donger here, he's totally bitchin'"; or "What's happening', hot
stuff?", to anyone between the ages of 30 and 40, and I guarantee
they'll know what you're talking about.

Molly Ringwald raised teen surliness to Shakespearean heights; Anthony
Michael Hall channeled hormonal distress; and Joan Cusack brought
acceptance to head-gear wearers everywhere, proving that kids with bad
teeth are humans too.

Grade: A+
