

More people telling me their favourite film, have named Excalibur, than
have
chosen any other film.  People tend to feel strongly about this film.  I
can
remember that when it came out, a film magazine reviewed it twice, feeling
that it had to do so, since its two reviewers had such contrasting
opinions.
In short, people who don't adore it, tend to hate it.

Those who hate it have failed to understand something very important: that
it is set in the land of dreams.  Excalibur makes no attempt to be
realistic.  It is the film of a legend, and it tries to create a world of
legend, and it succeeds.  Once one has realised that this is not the real
world, then the film is internally consistent and works splendidly.
Merlin,
towards the end of the film, even says the line "Your love brought me back
to where you are: in the land of dreams."  If anything, this makes the
film
even more tragic, because all of Arthur's sufferings have been not for his
world, but for ours.

The Arthurian legend is probably the world's best legend.  It has been
told
a thousand different ways, but is so strong, that no retelling can harm
it.
The story is familiar, but this telling of it is not.  The screen starts
blank, with the distant drums of Seigfried's Funeral March playing, and
after a few captions, the curtain lifts to reveal a stunning opening
sequence with horses breathing fire-lit breath into the night air, as
Uther's men do battle with those of the Duke of Cornwall.  The armour is
dark, and greenish, and the movements slow, making this seem like a scene
of
battling dinosaurs.  It is brutal and bloody.  These are the dark ages.
This is the time of chaos from which Arthur's kingdom must come.  Into the
scene, in a cloud of swirling fog, comes a figure who will be present
throughout the film, ageless and mysterious, Nicol Williamson's Merlin,
whose voice carries over the din.

I remember how suddenly I found myself immersed in this world when I first
saw the film, and even now the hairs stand up on the back of my neck
thinking about it.  Allow yourself to become  involved with the film, and
you will be rewarded.

The costumes are magnificent.  Special mention must go to the shining
armour, and Morgana's (Helen Mirren) ever-increasingly impressive series
of
outfits.  The music is stirring (it uses "O Fortuna" from Carima Burana
before this had become a cliche).  The acting is theatrical and good.
Each
of these characters is on a stage, to be examined.  This is not a film of
quiet intimate moments.  It is a legend, and legends are
public.

Excalibur distills the Arthurian legends into one film of watchable length
very cleverly.  At several points during it, a clever cut tells the viewer
that several years have passed.  Single characters represent many things.
At one point Sir Percival represents all the questknights, at another
Morgana is all that is evil.  In telling the story quickly, the film uses
simple direct speeches.  In one scene, Arthur visits Guinevere, the woman
he
loved deeply, whom he hasn't seen for many years.  He spends just a minute
in her company and leaves, and yet the speech he delivers to her is so
complete and so moving, that you do not feel robbed.  He says his piece
and
leaves, needing to say no more.

It is true that the film has dated a little.  Some of the hair-styles and
special effects are not quite what they would be today, and the quality of
the dubbing is not first-rate, but this is still stunning.  Everything
seems
to have come together to help this film look and sound good.  The skies
over
the castles are spectacular, the Irish landscape (it was shot there) looks
the part.  The visual imagination and daring to have Camelot as a castle
literally made from silver, and to have Arthur's final battle fought in
fog
with a huge blood red sunset behind it, makes this a feast for the
eye.

I am writing about one of my all-time favourite films.  I cry every time I
see the land burst into blossom as a reborn Arthur gallops through it, and
I
feel the heavy warmth of tragedy as he is carried off towards the sunset
to
the Isle of Avalon.  I am spoiling nothing by telling you that Arthur dies
in the end.  Everyone knows that he dies in the end.  The whole film is
leading to that moment.  When you reach the end of the film, ask yourself
this: where did he go wrong?  What was it he did to lose his wife, his
son,
his sister, his best friend, all his questknights, Merlin, his kingdom,
his
life - everything he held dear?

"The one god of the many comes to drive out the many gods.  The spirits of
wood and stone grow silent.  It is a time for men and their ways."  That's
it.


<|_=00=_|>
Late in the film, King Arthur is about to fight his last battle against
his estranged son Mordred. His kingdom of Camelot is falling. The
knights of the Round Table are disbanding. Guinevere has entered a
convent. In short, Arthur's world is collapsing. He rides to the
nunnery to see Guinevere for the last time. And there, she produces the
ancient timeless object hidden beneath some linen: the sword Excalibur,
still gleaming, still magical, still potent to fight in the battle that
Arthur cannot win. He sheathes Excalibur, and, in full knightly regalia
rides with his remaining loyal knights through the English countryside,
their pennants and banners flying in the wind. The fortissimo chorus of
Carmina Burana accompanies their ride in perfect harmony, chanting the
lyrics from the medieval poem "O Fortuna". This is the stuff of
legend...

Artistic treatments of the Arthurian legends date back to illuminated
codices from the Middle Ages. Thereafter the first, and one of the
greatest, attempts to bring the stories into a novelistic form was
written in the late 1400's by a knight, Sir Thomas Malory, entitled La
Morte d'Arthur ("The Death of Arthur") which is probably the most
famous work of English letters proceeding Chaucer but before
Shakespeare. Even later renditions include T.H. White's "The Once and
Future King". By the 20th century, theatrical adaptations began
appearing as well, including "Knights of the Round Table" (1953),
Disney's "The Sword in the Stone" (1963), and the musical "Camelot" by
Lerner and Lowe which was possibly the most popular rendition of the
story before "Excalibur". These last renditions, although they have
their appeal, cannot measure up to the movie "Excalibur" which was
largely based upon Malory's original tome.

Many here have detailed very well the merits of the film, and since
most people know the story, I will keep this short. The reason why this
is the best of the Arthurian-based films is its imagery and its
dedication to the original Arthurian myths. The entire look of the
film, which I have not seen in a movie since, reeks of Medieval Legend.
The lush forests, the huge castles, and the glittering swords give a
visual and dream-like reality. This is NOT how it was in the Middle
Ages. This is how people in the Middle Ages would have liked it to have
been, which is the entire point of the Arthurian myths. The filmmakers
of Excalibur understood that myth is about dreams.

Several moments in the film are inspired directly from Malory and
earlier Medieval codices. For example, several Medieval illuminated
manuscripts feature the hand of the Lady of the Lake bestowing the
sword Excalibur to Arthur. Strangely this episode, which becomes an
important theme throughout Excalibur, is lacking from other theatrical
versions and yet it is central to the original myth. Another is the
strange rhetoric that Arthur and the land are one, and when Arthur
becomes ill, the land of his kingdom becomes barren. This concept was a
widely held belief in the Middle Ages: that the sovereign was
essentially married to the kingdom.

Another aspect that makes this film outstanding is the portrayal of
Merlin by Nicol Williamson. This was possibly the best Merlin ever to
come to the large screen. Some of the most humorous moments of the film
occur with Merlin. Instead of being the absent-minded wizard of "The
Sword in the Stone", he is the last of the Druids, a race giving way to
Medieval Christians. Worth the price of admission. It is sad that he
obtained very little recognition for this portrayal.

The fact is, a viewer either experiences "aesthetic arrest" with
Excalibur, or he or she doesn't. If the scenes when the knights go
riding through countryside with their pennants flying behind them
doesn't give you the shivers, this is not and will never be your kind
of movie. If Malory had lived to see this film, he would have been awed
and proud. Malory gave Arthur to the world, and Excalibur gave Arthur
back to Malory.
<|_=00=_|>

At different times in his illustrious career, John Boorman has
announced that his intention to make film versions of both The Lord Of The
Rings, and  Wagners "Ring" cycle.Like Scorsese's plans to do film
biographies of Gershwin and Robert Johnson, or Coppola's plans to make
versions of Faust and Pinocchio, these grandiose projects have come to
nothing. Fortunately, in Excalibur, we have something that comes
close..VERY
close. Boorman retells the Arthur legend in a way that evokes both the
mythic power of Tolkien and the operatic splendor of Wagner.. ( Indeed,
the
sound track makes frequent use of Wagner.)Some have criticized Boorman for
making the story of King Arthur too sexy and violent. Well, in their
original , unexpurgated form, the Arthurian legends were just that.
Boorman
also looks at the Druidic and pagan roots of the arthur story, (" The Land
is the King."), and examines the inner conflict between Paganism and
Christianity that gave the myth its original power. A great film, and one
of
my personal favorites. I have not seen Robert Bresson's version of the
Arthur myth, Lancelot Du Lac, but I suspect that it may be the only other
one by a major film-maker that comes close to the eerie, mythic, glorious
heart of Arthurian legend.
<|_=00=_|>

I am an Arthurian buff and a film fan (aspiring to be a novelist and a
screenwriter). EXCALIBUR is a great, great film that holds up very well
after more than 20 years. It is an expert distillation of the essential
Arthurian legend (this from someone who has read and re-read Malory's
original work, Le Morte D'Arthur, on which the movie was based, as well as
Tennyson, White, Steinbeck, and many of the other modern fictional
treatments, as well as a lot of the secondary literature on the history
and
meaning of the Arthur myth). The film is wonderful on many, many levels,
from Boorman's masterful direction and writing (along with Pallenberg, his
screenwriter), to the cinematography, the armor and costumes, the sets and
production design, and the acting (with a great cast too numerous to
mention). The film has violence, sex, myth, drama, intrigue, heroics,
pathos, and aspirations to art, all in the best senses of those terms. The
film probably works best if you already have some sort of sense of the
Arthur legends, but I would recommend it to anyone. Also, listen to
Boorman's director's commentary on the DVD. Perhaps the best and most
lucid
DVD commentary that I have heard on video; interesting and sharp comments
throughout the entire film, and well worth replaying if you aspire to
filmmaking in any way, or just want to hear a smart filmmaker talk about
his
work. I have tried to write Arthurian stories and an Arthurian script, but
all have so far paled in comparison to Boorman and Pallenberg's work. Long
live Boorman and long live EXCALIBUR!
<|_=00=_|>

This is certainly the best version of the Arthur legend there is. The worst
thing about new versions of old British legends are the fact they are often
made by and starring Americans, and they often don't even make an attempt at
a English accent (First Knight, Prince of Thieves etc) and these make them
seem really stupid.

Merlin was a decent enough series, but a little too kiddy and straying from
the works of Mallory.

The acting is rock solid, the effects although poor (it's 1981, let's be
fair) don't really matter since they aren't integral to the story. This is
about a quest and magic and swords and knights, not about special
effects.

I own it on video and watch it now and again, and I hope that if Boorman
ever makes Knight's Castle that he brings back Nicol Williamson as Merlin,
because he's just too good in that role (despite the fact he must be really
getting on by now).

Watch the movie, enjoy the legend!
<|_=00=_|>
Along with Ken Russell, John Boorman can be seen as a key figure in the
modern British cinema... His interest in myth, dream, landscape and
memory may be compared with that of Resnais, Leone, and Roeg...

Boorman's 'Excalibur' is characterized by his use of jealousy and
adultery, sex and sorcery... It is also characterized by fire and fog,
shadow and moonlight, creating an air of mystery that is essential
element in the Arthurian legend...

Boorman's 'Excalibur' is a mythical presentation leading the viewers to
travel with the flow of the legend... It is a magical story with
wonderful exotic sets, and interesting camera-work in the lush green
scenery of Ireland... (The Cinematography won an Academy Award
Nomination).

Boorman's "Excalibur" is both fantasy and philosophy... Love seems to
be a destructive force, lyrically beautiful and bravely realistic...

The film brings to life the fateful story of a solitary hero, his
ascension to the throne, the love triangle of Camelot, the quest for
the Holy Grail, the decline and eventual fall of Arthur and Camelot...
Along for the ride are his indispensable Knights of the Round Table,
particularly Sir Lancelot...

The characters in Boorman's "Excalibur" are extremely well developed...
Arthur is seen as a naive squire, who develops into an idealistic
king... Arthur tries to use Might for the establishment of Right, and
according to his own laws, he puts reason over love...

A prominent figure in the film is Merlin... He lives backwards, which
makes him "a dream to some, a nightmare to others." He defines the cave
of the dragon as a place where all things meet their opposite: "The
future and the past, desire and regret, knowledge and oblivion". But
when Morgana pronounces "love", one would expect Merlin to answer
"hate", but he just says: "O yes."

Morgana knows that Uther and Merlin are responsible for the death of
her father... She dedicates her life to revenge.. Her scenes with
Merlin are full of fire and poison... When she steals the "charm of
making" from Merlin, Morgana gets stronger... We feared her lines when
she affirmed: "I can ease your loneliness."

Lancelot looks at himself as a sinful person who has betrayed a
friend... He stays lonely in the forest, haunted by sorrow and pain...
He dreams of a fight with himself... And when he wakes up naked, he
sees his own sword stuck in his side... The film endures and inspires
because it embodies mankind's deepest yearnings...

Among the many elements that make the movie work is the cast: Nigel
Terry, the rightful King who, accidentally, removes the sword of power
easily, not once, but twice; Helen Mirren, the enchantress Morgana,
Merlin's nemesis and Arthur's treacherous half-sister, who seduces
Merlin, and then encircles him in a stream of vengeance; Nicholas Clay,
persuasively ardent and athletic as the First Knight; Cherie Lunghi,
the damsel in distress who loves her husband with her mind and Lancelot
with her heart; Nicol Williamson, the wily Merlin who would see that
the young Arthur receive the necessary training and guidance to fulfill
his unlikely destiny; Gabriel Byrne, the hot-blooded Uther Pendragon,
who plunges 'Excalibur' deep into a stone rock in one last act of
defiance; Katrine Boorman, the woman taken as by a fully armored King;
Liam Neeson, the knight who dares to accuse the Queen; and Robert
Addie, the 'unholy child' who comes to Camelot to demand the throne of
his father...

One of the more fascinating aspects of the film (and there are many...)
are the differences between Uther and Arthur... King Uther is unable to
master his instincts... His world is confusion, disorder, and unlimited
passion... The characteristic developments of Arthur occur as he faces
the trials of his life... The knowledge of the affair yet his love for
his beautiful wife and best friend wage war inside of his mind... When
he sees Guinevere in the arms of Lancelot, he stuck 'Excalibur' between
them loosing his connection to the extraordinary powers of Merlin and
the Lady of the Lake...

John Boorman's films frequently concern contradictions and polarities,
tensions between nature and civilization, dream and reality... Equally,
his career as a whole swings violently between success and failure,
intelligent ambition and pretentiousness...
<|_=00=_|>
Excalibur is a truly atmospheric film. It has the ability to take you
back to the time it depicts, without using sentimentality or rose
tinted spectacles. Having seen the film numerous times, I still get
more out of it with every viewing. It certainly seemed to start many
careers on the right path and many of the actors are very well known
now. My only sadness is that Paul Geoffrey and Nigel Terry, two of the
main character actors, seem not to have become such household names.
They both stand out in the film and to my mind have made it what it is,
brilliant. Great direction, production, photography and music. King
Arthur himself would have been proud of it.
<|_=00=_|>

I first saw this film back when it came out and I was an usher at a local
theatre (I was in high school). I have seen many films based on King
Arthur,
and for some reason this one always causes a stronger reaction in me. I
think it is because it is so dark as well as intense. Merlin is borderline
looney yet powerful; Arthur starts off as a good-hearted child and then
before your eyes self-destructs under his self-imposed weight of
leadership;
Modred is mocking and disgusting. The fight scenes and the costumes/armor
are disturbing; this is no desensitized movie! I own the VHS and sometimes
I
like to watch up to the point where Guin's deceit with Lancelot takes
place,
and then stop. After that point, until the very end, the movie is about
the
fall of a legend, and I like my legends on their pedestals.
<|_=00=_|>

I have seen the movie Excalibur many times, and I believe it is an
excellant
movie.  Many people say that it was cheezy looking (Yes, Excalibur the
sword
does get a tad flexible at points.)  However, was not The Day the Earth
Stood Still cheezy too, yet it is one of the greatest movies of all times,
most people agree.  And if anyone tries to down the movie by claiming it
was
not true to the legends, I have read many Arthurian texts, and the legend
is
not true to the legends.  John Boorman picked through the haystack, and
found his needle.  Another excellant thing about this movie is for the most
part, the acting is underscored.  Not like in many modern movies, I believe
Nicol Williamson, Helen Mirren, all the actors from the round table, and
Mrs. Boorman did excellant jobs.  The only complaints I had were so minor
they practically do not exist.  So go, see the movie, and be swept
away.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is absolutely tremendous. Held my attention the entire time. I
have seen the others, from the 1950s Knights of the Round Table, to First
Knight, even the recent Mists of Avalon, and this is the best of the bunch.
Brutal at times, then again, the story takes place during the Dark Ages.
Anthropologists don't know too much about the historical Arthur, except from
early English and Welsh texts based on oral legends of a Celtic chieftain
named Arthur, who lived around 600 AD, and who fought a famous battle.

This story delivers great performances, sets and battle scenes. In the scene
in the beginning where Uther becomes king, as witnessed by Merlin, we can
see the look of disgust and pity on his face as knights get their arms
chopped off! Merlin has worked for years to arrange peace in the kingdom and
the moment is at hand, the dawn of a new Golden Age...although it will be
Arthur, not Uther, who ushers this in, and it lasts all too briefly. Merlin
is played by Nicol Williamson in an outstanding performance! He is comic,
wise, and very, very, deadly if you cross his path. The best on-screen
Merlin I have ever seen. Arthur is the true hero whose all too human
capacity for love gets the best of him and threatens to leave the kingdom in
the clutches of the vile Mordred. Morgana, as played by Helen Mirren, is a
stunning combination of beauty and evil. The other cast members round out
this great film: Patrick Stewart, Liam Neeson, Gabriel Byrne. The sets are
astounding, dark foreboding man-made castles contrasted against lush green
forests reflecting a lost time when the forces of nature, not man, dominated
the earth. See this film! Easily John Boorman's best picture to
date.


