

Considered one of the most notorious box-office flops in history (next to
the 'Road to Morocco'-ripoff 'Ishtar' with Dustin Hoffman and Warren
Beatty
the following year), 'Howard the Duck' became the laughing stock of
critics
and movie-goers alike when it was released in theaters in 1986.  If its
executive producer, George Lucas, had his way, he would have canned that
movie for good.  But thanks to the home video boom in the 1980s, 'Howard'
would follow suit and find his way into video stores across America.

Nearly twenty years later, 'Howard' is slowly being pulled from video
store
shelves.  But it is now that a film of such poor quality can be truly
appreciated.

Here's how it all goes down: You are dropped onto a planet from a far-away
universe, where ducks are human-like and are running the world, only to be
pulled out again moments later.  An everyday working-duck by the name of
Howard gets sucked out of his living room on his recliner after returning
to
his apartment after a long, hard day.

After the opening title is shown in the thundering tradition of cinematic
heavyweights like '2001: A Space Odyssey', we see Howard's decent toward
the
planet Earth.  Once he has reluctantly gotten his feet on the ground, he
clashes with the dregs of society and saves the lead singer of an
all-female
punk band named Beverly, (played by 'Back to the Future's Lea Thompson).
She tries to give him a hand, and help him get an explanation as to how he
got sucked out of his living room and landed in Cleveland,
Ohio.

That explanation never actually makes any sense, but that doesn't matter,
because better plot developments hinge upon it.  With the help of a goofy
lab janitor Phil (played by the immortal Tim Robbins in an early comedic
role) and a big time nuclear scientist Dr. Jennings (none other than
Jeffery
Jones), Howard finds out that a giant laser Jennings was using went
haywire,
and pulled Howard down instead.  But going back isn't going to be so easy,
because one of Dark Overlords of Evil hitched a ride on that laser, and
has
plans of planet domination and destruction.  And who better than to save
the
day than the 3'1" (3'2", that is) wise-"quacking" title character, Howard
T.
Duck!

Although George Lucas got ripped apart for having his hands in this one, I
have yet to see a movie that is so awful, so terribly bad that I have been
brought to tears crying at simply recalling scenes from this flick.  The
opening sequences on the duck planet contain countless parodies of
American
pop culture, and Howard's implausible hurtle through space is enough to
make
even the most serious chuckle.

Audiences back in 1986 didn't seem to, however.  But something about
watching this flop nearly two decades later makes all of these scenes so
much funnier.  The way I see it, our teen generation now has a funny
fascination with the decade in which they were born, the 80s, and anything
from it has a distinctive look and sound.  American pop culture was
throwing
away Three's Company for MTV, LPs for tapes, and the Bee Gees for the Brat
Pack.  The youth took yet another step in distancing themselves from their
parents, and although they furthered that schism, they too felt a strong
connection the past few decades.  What was happening when I was in utero?
Taking my first steps?  Saying my first words?

Today's generation has 'Howard the Duck' as one of the most endangered
time
capsules of the 80s.  You've got a one-of-a-kind performance by now
Acadmey
Award Winner Tim Robbins, whose his explanation of duck's evolutionary
scale
is priceless.  George Lucas's own Industrial Light and Magic (ILM) special
effects studio must be embarassed to have itself credited with the
horrendous effects (the Dark Overlord, for one).  You've got a helplessly
catchy theme song, revelling in all of its cheesy 80s pop-synth
glory.

The jokes are terrible, the dialogue sub-par, the plot laughable.  But you
know what, you'll laugh you a$$ off.

Join me in saving Howard from being pulled from video store shelves.
Today's generation will love the waddling fowl more than the angry
movie-goers who saw this dud in the theaters.  Keep him alive!


<|_=00=_|>

HOWARD THE DUCK is one of those movies you have to see to
believe.

A whopping boondoggle of sheer notoriety that replaced HEAVEN'S GATE as The
Most Embarrassing Miscalculation In Hollywood History, this flick
immediately humanized George Lucas; it proved that even he could make a
bomb. And that's one of the things that makes it so fascinating--you just
sit there, wondering what on earth the man was thinking.

I'm not going to write this with any intent of sarcastically ripping it to
shreds, though. I'm going to attempt to both be fair and to express my
opinion of it at the same time, mainly because I know that there *are* some
folks out there who enjoy it for various reasons.

I'll be honest with you, the moment I heard Lucas was doing this film months
in advance (and even then I was convinced the guy telling me was kidding
until I saw an article for it in the paper), I rolled my eyes with disgust
and didn't see it in the theatres. I saw it when a friend later rented it
out of curiosity after it was rushed to video.

So what was it that suddenly possessed me to watch it? Well, I found out
that my cousin was in it. You see, my cousin's name is Debbie Carrington
(a.k.a. Debbie Lee Carrington), who was an Ewok in RETURN OF THE JEDI as
well as a slew of other things, including but not limited to MEN IN BLACK,
CAPTAIN EO, TOTAL RECALL (where she got to get on a table in a blonde wig
and blast people with a machine gun) and on THE DREW CAREY SHOW
("Mini-Mimi"). So, naturally, I wanted to see this one because I learned of
her involvement in it after the fact.

Most people loathe this film, but some like it simply because it's *so*
weird in its badness while others genuinely love it for whatever reason. And
that's okay. Actually, I kind of got a kick out of it and all its silliness
the first time I saw it. We tried to watch it a second time, though, and
were bored by it half the way through.

I just now saw it again for the first time since then.

One of the most bizarre things about this movie is how cheap it looks. For
all the gobs of cash wasted on it (a record sum), HOWARD THE DUCK looks
terrible. And no, I'm not talking about just the duck costume; I'm talking
about the overall film, which looks exactly like a low-budget special made
for television. Seriously, that's exactly how it looks, and I have no clue
as to where the budget went to. I once wondered if it was used to
desperately convince the stars involved to be in it, but I doubt
it.

And meanwhile... speaking of the stars, I've got to hand it to Lea Thompson.
Despite all the oddness here and all the stuff she is asked to do, she
handles it all like a real trooper. In fact, this may be the bravest
performance she's ever done, especially the bed scene. It also apparently
didn't kill her career, thank God. Even though her character isn't at all
fitting for a Big City Punkette, critics have nevertheless pointed out that
she's still appealing here in her role as Beverly, and I agree. Meanwhile,
Jeffery Jones gives quite possibly the strangest performance he's ever done,
which is also an oddly effective one.

The biggest problem with the film is its mechanically coy, self-conscious
script that has commercialized to death all of the original comic's appeal
out of the final result (so what ELSE is new, Hollywood? ;) ). The movie
can't decide whether it wants to follow the original concept or sweeten it
up to supposedly appeal to a wider audience, and it is badly confused as a
result. The movie desperately wants to protect its investment, so much so
that the life has been choked out of it. Also, it has a *huge* amount of
blah, unimaginatively generic lines ("No more Mr. Nice Duck", "You'll never
get away with this", etc.).

But these days, it does have a ridiculous kind of flaky charm, partially
because it's such an unbelievable anti-achievement and because it's so
incredibly Eighties that it serves as a strong time capsule. And for those
reasons and more, HOWARD THE DUCK has earned a place in twentieth century
culture.

<|_=00=_|>
Howard the Duck is a film that I grew up with, I was only a 1 year old
when it was released, but my mom and I would watch it together all the
time. I think that's the reason why this movie is just special to me.
But still I watch this movie and honestly it's not as bad as most
people exaggerate it to be, granted it's not Citizen Kane, but it's
still awesome to watch. I think people take the movie too seriously,
first off look at the title, if you're expecting a duck to deliver an
Oscar worth performance, get your head checked, second people make fun
of the "flirting" between the duck and Lea Thompson, which was meant to
be a joke, not real. Third, the ending, people make fun of it and it's
being over the top, I personally found it to be so funny and still a
ton of fun to watch, how could you not get a kick out of Jeffrey Jones'
performance? He was awesome! If you wanna know what the movie is about,
read on before you see the movie so you can get a good idea and judge
for yourself.

The film begins late at night in "Duckworld," which is a version of
planet Earth, but with talking ducks living there in place of human
beings. As Howard tries to relax, his armchair begins to vibrate
violently, and Howard and the chair are promptly yanked through
outer-space, all the way to Cleveland on planet Earth. After ending up
in an oil drum, Howard hears a fight involving a woman and two thugs
pretending to be her fans. Howard uses his skills of "Quack Fu" to
defend her. Intimidated by a talking duck, the thugs scamper. The
woman, Beverly, thanks Howard and, feeling sorry for him because he has
no warm and dry place to sleep, invites him to her apartment. The next
day, Beverly takes Howard to see Phil Blumburtt , who she believes is a
scientist that can help Howard get back to Duckworld. It turns out Phil
is actually a janitor at a museum and Howard, infuriated with Phil's
charade. A few days later, Dr. Walter Jenning , and Larry who explain
to Howard that they were doing a routine procedure at the lab, only for
the experiment to go out of control, causing the laser to hit Howard's
planet instead. Howard suggests he can be sent back to Duckworld if the
laser can be put into reverse. He is taken to the Dynatechnics lab
alongside Beverly, only to find out on arrival that the laser is
seriously damaged due to another explosion. The explosion brings down a
"Dark Overlord" who is not seen by the audience at the time, and takes
over Jenning's body. Howard and Beverly see Dr. Jenning, but he is in
the process of being taken over by the Dark Overlord. With Howard and
Beverly both unaware of this, they escape in Jenning's car onto the
freeway with him driving dangerously due to his worsening possession.
They stop outside a diner just before he is fully taken over. Inside
the Diner, the Overlord explains his attempts to call forth his fellow
aliens from the Nexus of Sominus so that they may take over the world.

Honestly, yeah the plot is a bit much to grasp, but cut the movie some
slack, it's about a duck for goodness' sake! For me, it still makes me
laugh and I have a ton of fun watching it. I loved seeing Tim Robbins
and Howard trying to get to the factory to destroy Jeffrey Jones before
he could take over the world, Tim was absolutely hilarious! Yes there
are a few things about this movie that are over the top but I still
think that this movie is just mindless entertainment. Hey how many
movies do we have where a duck saves Planet Earth? Hmm, I guess this is
the only one; but give the movie a fair chance, it's a cute one.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

At a time when most of Marvel Comics' characters were stuck in low
budget TV and straight-to-video productions, Steve Gerber's relatively
obscure Howard the Duck got the big budget treatment with none other
than George Lucas as producer. The film was written by Willard Huyck
and Gloria Katz, who co-wrote "American Graffiti" and "Indiana Jones
and the Temple of Doom", and directed by Huyck, with special effects by
ILM. What could go wrong?

A lot, apparently. "Howard" was a critical and financial failure that
deep-sixed the careers of Huyck and Katz and led to the cancellation of
the duck's magazine. If the film had a moderately priced budget, it
might have been forgotten as just another lightweight, trashy 1980s
comedy and even turned a profit. Instead, the budget somehow ballooned
to a then staggering $37,000,000 (almost as much as the entire "Star
Wars" trilogy cost to make). Although other films lost more money and
got worse reviews, the name "Howard the Duck" is still synonymous with
"expensive turkey".

That said, the movie itself isn't as bad as it's reputation suggests.
The plot revolves around the title character (voice by Chip Zien,
played by various midgets in animatronic duck suits), a sarcastic
talking duck from a planet a lot like Earth, except ducks evolved into
the dominant life form. Howard is brought to Cleveland, Ohio when an
experimental laser beam opens an interdimensional portal. There he
befriends an aspiring rock singer (Leah Thompson) and a kooky lab
assistant (Tim Robbins), and comes into conflict with various lowlifes,
the police, and an evil demon that has possessed the body of a helpful
scientist (Jeffrey Jones), all the while trying to get back home.

Gerber's original comic book series and a subsequent adult-oriented
magazine weren't kids' stuff. They juxtaposed a funny animal character
with bizarre villains and action more typical of Marvel's super-hero
books, usually parodying comics, politics, and popular culture in the
process. A sexual relationship between Howard and his human girlfriend
Beverly was more than just implied. The "Howard the Duck" movie could
have either toned down the more adult situations to create a
family-friendly action-comedy, or gone straight for ribald satire and
gotten an "R" rating. Instead, the filmmakers sought an uncomfortable
middle ground that pleases no one. The script is not witty enough for
adults and it is too sleazy and scary for young children. The endless
duck puns become tiresome. There are, however, a few truly funny
moments, such as Howard's shock at being served eggs, or his
observation that "If God intended ducks to fly, he wouldn't have taken
away our wings."

The direction is uneven. The reaction of several characters to meeting
a talking alien duck seems muted given the circumstances. The special
effects are also hit and miss. The animatronic duck suit cost millions,
but the actors inside it add little personality. They could have at
least waddled when they walked. The demonic Dark Lords of the Universe
at the end of the film are portrayed with stop motion animation that is
jerky and unrealistic even for the time (perhaps this was intentional,
though, to provide a B-movie feel). However, while a bad movie all
around, "Howard the Duck" at least stands out for its unique premise.
Amidst a sea of formulaic mediocrity, an original idea, even if it's
poorly developed, counts for something.

** out ****

<|_=00=_|>

There are certain movies you cannot die happy without having seen them at
least once.  "Casablanca", "The Wizard of OZ", the "Star Wars"
Trilogy...

And, if you are a connoisseur of bad movies as I am, you must add to the
above list the one, the only, "Howard the Duck".

Now this is, hands down, one of the stupidest ducking (groan) movies ever
made.  On the other hand, if you have a soft spot for bad movies, it
doesn't
get much better than this.  It is absolutely insane.  And it isn't nearly
as
bad as "Theodore Rex"!
<|_=00=_|>
When I was in college, I regularly laughed my butt off reading S. Clay
Wilson's "The Checkered Demon" comics. You see, there was this demon
who wore checkered pants, and he got involved in all sorts of gross
situations, mostly involving scatological humor, severed limbs and
organs, and sexual acts.

Doesn't translate very well, does it? The same thing must have happened
when Lucas (or whoever) went to screenwriters Huyck and Katz and asked
them to do a treatment of Gerber's "Howard the Duck" strip. H & K
apparently had no idea of the type of humor the strip used, or at what
demographic it was pitched. The result is a kiddie move that tries hard
to be adult in all the wrong ways. The satire and keen observation of
the original strip disappear completely. I keep expecting The Goonies
to wander in at any moment.

A VERY bad movie, though probably made with good intentions.
<|_=00=_|>
The best "continuing story" comic strip of the past 20 years was, in my
opinion, Howard the Duck. This brooding film noir-type comic had us
sneaking outside work every day at 3:30 for the Washington Evening Star
just for this 3-panel strip. Howard just was not happy to find himself
trapped on Earth, in Cleveland, living in a slum and interacting with
his sexually useless (being human rather than fowl) girl friend
Beverly. Like Groucho Marx with a bad hangover, Howard's continual
rants about his rotten situation made a great comic strip. Along comes
executive producer George Lucas, who strips away every single thing
that provided Howard with character, and makes him nice; worse he makes
him cute. Gag! If that weren't bad enough, the film has Howard and the
Lea Thompson character engaging in post-sex afterglow --- thus
advocating human with animal sex and spitting on the Judeo Christian
ethic, for the sake of an unfunny site gag. This film is now George
Lucas' dirty-little-secret; a part of his legacy; and worse than any of
the last 3 Star Wars movies. Boo! Hiss!
<|_=00=_|>
I've often pondered what is the worst movie of all time. It's easy to
point at low budget disasters like CAT WOMEN OF THE MOON and TEENAGERS
FROM OUTER SPACE, but those movies did what they could with no money
and no talent. The fact that they were made at all is something of an
achievement.

To really be fair, one has to take into consideration the budget and
the talent involved to truly interpret just how bad a movie is. With
this criteria in mind, I continually come back to HOWARD THE DUCK.
Until I can be convinced otherwise, I have come to the conclusion that
this pile of hippopotamus vomit is THE worst movie EVER.

In fact, HOWARD THE DUCK is so godawful, it almost seems intentionally
so. Not like ATTACK OF THE KILLER TOMATOES, which was a good-natured
parody of bad B-movies, but more as a "f*** you" to the audience. I
have no idea what producer George Lucas or anyone else involved in this
movie could have been so enraged about in order to feel the need to
unleash this form of torture on the public, but it must have really hit
a nerve.

The movie looks great. It's well-shot and the special effects
(especially toward the end) are terrific; from a technical standpoint,
there's not a lot to complain about. Even the actors seem to be
genuinely trying their best to please, so the blame can't be laid at
their feet either. Who, then, can we point at for this abomination? The
obvious party is George Lucas himself. He had everything in 1986.
Several blockbusters under his belt, his own independent multi-million
dollar production company and an entire staff of effects artists at his
fingertips, ready to bring anything that popped into his head to life.
Maybe his ego got too big too fast, and he thought he could pull off
this ill-advised project. Maybe he thought anything with the Lucasfilm
logo on it automatically turned to gold. Boy was he ever wrong. He must
have known so, as his name doesn't appear ANYWHERE in the on screen
credits of the movie. Even "Lucasfilm" is buried inconspicuously in the
end credits.

But the real culprits are the writer-producer-director team of Willard
Huyck and Gloria Katz. After writing a serviceable-at-best screenplay
for INDIANA JONES AND THE TEMPLE OF DOOM, their buddy Lucas gave them
Carte Blanche to create a mega-epic to end all others. It didn't quite
work out that way.

The screenplay is mind-bogglingly awful. Even worse, Huyck and Katz
seem to think their dialog and characters are really funny and quirky,
which only causes the script to get more and more awful as it lumbers
along. Add to that Huyck's clueless direction and Katz's overblown
production and you've got a movie for which there are not enough
derogatory words.

I can sum up HOWARD THE DUCK using ten such words: STUPID, POINTLESS,
OBNOXIOUS, DULL, EXCESSIVE, ANNOYING, INSULTING, INEPT, REPUGNANT and
DISASTROUS. And those are just off the top of my head.

Unless you want to feel the overwhelming urge to kick in your TV
screen, never, NEVER watch HOWARD THE DUCK.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't even know how to properly express my anguish. I suppose it
would be fair to admit that I am, usually, an avid lover of terrible
movies. "The Room" was a work of brilliance, and it really doesn't get
much better than "Birdemic: Shock and Terror". 

"Howard the Duck" was crossing the line. 

This transcended the threshold of "so bad it's good". It wasn't bad in
a "Ghost Rider" way. It wasn't even bad in a "Dogma" sort of way. This
movie has put to question what terrible cinema truly is, at its core.
I'm honestly disgusted with myself after having seen this movie. 

Crusaders in its defense have united in a joyful cry of Howard's
"originality" and "playfulness". Pray tell, what exactly about it is
unique? Aside the fact that our main protagonist is a space- duck...
what else? The story itself is deeply wanting in creativity, as are the
painfully wooden characters, and campy, repulsive dialogue. 

The special effects, while acceptable, were not mind blowing.
Especially Howard himself. The "good guy" should never give you
nightmares. Howard was trollish and creepy. Not to mention, seriously
flawed in his character. What a jerk. 

I'd also like to address the idea that this movie was some sort of
B-movie phenomenon. This movie, believe it or not, was made in a very
serious way. I think the mere fact that George Lucas was somehow
attached to this project ought to demonstrate that. That in
consideration, there really is no excuse for how vile this movie was.
This wasn't a movie that was parading its own flaws, that wasn't
"egotistical" or "vain", and it certainly wasn't aiming to please the
cult crowd. The sorry truth of the matter is, Howard the Duck was
spawned in the same ambitious way as Star Wars. THIS was supposed to be
an epic. 

That's just unacceptable. This whole movie is unacceptable. I feel
betrayed.
<|_=00=_|>

Unfortunately the adult content in this movie makes it entirely unsuitable
for the under fives. The only possible audience who might otherwise derive
some enjoyment from it.

There are so many fantastic stories that demand a movie, so many actors
dying for an opportunity, so many talented directors without the opportunity
so how the hell did they end up with this?

Anyone associated with the making of this movie should hang their head in
shame. It does not have a single redeeming quality.


