
I'm a 59 yr old man who watched this movie with his grandkids. We all
enjoyed it immensely.

It had everything it should have for a movie that was based on
fantastic events. A little girl who had super natural powers, a sea
captain ( her father) who was the king of a cannibal tribe, a horse who
to some extent could talk, at least well enough that Pipi could
umderstand him.

There was also a flying motorcycle, and a flying machine that Pipi
powered by twirling around with a broom.

I wouldn't have enjoyed it near as much, had my grand kids not been
there to ooh, ahh, and giggle, at what was taking place. It was a very
enjoyable movie, and well worth spending my time watching. If you have
kids to watch it with, it will be that much more enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>

It's funny I see adults come in and rip a movie like this.  They rip kids
cartoons, and kids movies as being "unrealistic and insane and cheesy",
well
HELLO it's for freaking kids!  They didn't make it for some 25 or older
person who wants to complain about every kids movie!  I watched this movie
when I was 12 and I REALLY enjoyed it!  The different "magical" stunts
they
did, the music (I loved the music) and the likes.  Still a good movie for
kids of today.  As long as you're 12 or under you'll enjoy this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>

This movies is great fun for kids considering some of the garbage that is on
tv these days.  The kids love Pippi's outlook on life and her dream in
believing that you can do what you set your heart on.  She is a girl who
believes in herself and looks for the good in others.  Kids could do
worse.

<|_=00=_|>

I'll be the first to admit that this film is light-hearted and often
silly.
After all, the Pippi books are silly and light-hearted, so why shouldn't a
movie version be? The character of Pippi is a great character study for
kids: She is imaginative, creative, confident and above all, a good-willed
and courteous child. Anyone who expects her and the stories she stars in
to
be methodical depictions of the serious side of life should re-examine
his/her life and priorities. Maybe then the detractors will realize that
life can be fun, at all ages.
<|_=00=_|>
It seems like I'm one of the few Americans who read translations of the
Pippi Longstocking books, AND saw this movie as a kid. At this point, I
can't remember what came first for me, the books or the movies, but I
will say that as a child, I enjoyed both.

Pippi is a GREAT character in literature, I could consider her arguably
one of the greatest female characters ever created.

She's strong, she's independent, she's fun, intelligent and gifted.

What girl WOULDN'T want to be like Pippi? I know that reading about her
as a little girl, I was endlessly jealous of Tommy and Annika who got
Pippi as a playmate. I wished she'd move next door to me.

This movie doesn't do such a great job of translating the Pippi
character. She seems less creative and imaginative, and more crazy and
dim. There's something about the character of Pippi that is lacking in
the movie and the movie loses a lot because of that.

But Pippi aside, the movie isn't ALL bad. It's a late 80's kids movie
with cheesy special effects, poor acting, and a silly story. But
through all this, it is still enjoyable. The situations that Pippi and
Tommy and Annika get in are still fun, and it's a good movie for young
kids. If you do show this movie to your kids though, be sure to buy
them the books afterwards and show them what Pippi is REALLY like. This
movie is a good starting point to get kids introduced to the great
character of Pippi.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie contains all the necessary elements that make up a great movie.
The storyline - it's about Pippi!, that's enough! The Americans succeeded
not only in translating Astrid's wonderful creation, but made changes and
improvements also. Since I never heard of Astrid objecting, we can assume
that she was in agreement. Fine acting, most notably Branscombe Ricmond
who,
according to my sources, was given a starring role in the hit TV series
"Renegade" largely because of the skills he demonstrated in this Pippi
movie. Special Effects - Though never elaborated upon, Pippi is possessed
of
superhuman physical powers. She can, for example, lift persons and horses
that outweigh her in multiples, dry herself and fly by some sort of self
induced centrifugal force! Fine directing - Mr Annakin seems to keep things
on track. There's even innuendos, Pippi proclaims that she "...loves men in
uniforms, but policemen are the best!" Fine music - catchy tunes throughout
the movie which have often been emulated in other movies. It has been said
that Tami Erin could have sang the title song as Inger had in the original
Pippi movies, but the powers that were wanted her to concentrate solely
upon
her acting role, except for shorter tunes which did not require as much
diversion. And finally mystery - Tami Erin, our star, for reasons still
unknown, was never heard from again. This movie is worth watching over and
over again.
<|_=00=_|>
Most Pippi diehards, critics and Americans, in general, did not accept
this film generally, but I have adored Pippi Longstocking for many
years and I would like to say it was a worthy effort. This is the first
(and maybe) last American adaptation of the red-headed girl. And like
most movies based on books, it ain't going to be perfect or accurate.
First and foremost, Pippi is supposed to be 9. Tami Erin (Who has
seemed to fall off the face of this planet after this), was a budding,
svelt, and supple piece of jailbait for years when this was filmed.
With that age barrier, she still does duplicate that trademark Pippi
buoyancy. Another lasting memory of this film is the incredibly
wonderful songs! They make most Disney songs sound amateurish. If any
one who grew up with this film, I bet you recall the title song ("Pippi
Longstocking is coming into your town..."). One tidbit about that that
it's sung by an Austrailan children's chorus. So, it's good to watch
once in awhile, not like every day or something. This is a rather weird
production, seemingly: * casting an uncomfortably nubile 24-yo for the
title role; * bizarre gymnastic stunts with tinkling fairy-dust sound
effects (just in case you missed the "Magic"; * funky-pop musical
numbers that are as supremely catchy as they are well-written; *
cardboard characterization, choppy editing, hammy acting; * Scooby
doo-like voice-unders for the horse and the monkey; * added
uncharacteristic weakness and insecurity, detracting from Lindgren's
strong, supremely self-confident Pippi.

On the whole, it's pretty okay for the 6-10 yo girl set. I vet all
movies before presenting to my 7 yo, and though this one has its good
and bad points, except for the slaughter of several sheep and a goat
(offscreen) it's mostly harmless. Recommended.

Actually the best acting is by the girl who plays Annika, who is
sincere, refreshingly unforced, and seems to have had a good time in
the production. Pippi Longstocking is so cool and she's better than all
these modern kid's characters like the Teleflubbies. The theme tune to
those repugnant muppet rip-offs is sublime too! Ooh please someone out
there sell me a British version of their video! I could go on and on
about Pipi but I've already been sad enough so just buy it!
<|_=00=_|>

I highly recommend this film for any family with children. This is a top
quality production that is great for the whole family to watch!  Anyone
who
I have ever met who has seen this movie loves it, and children who have it
on VHS or DVD watch it over and over again.  I only wish it was
re-released
theatrically, so that this generation of children could have the
opportunity
to see it and embrace it the way I did when I was a child.
<|_=00=_|>
Kiddy movie about a spirited redhead named Pippi Longstocking who's
separated from her sea captain father in a storm and comes to live in a
small town. There she introduces the kids to her madcap ways while
dealing with stuffy adults and some thieves. Okay this is meant for
kids and only kids, so let's keep that in mind before ripping it apart.
I know it's corny and cheesy and I can't say that I enjoyed it very
much, but I think I might have if I had seen it when I was a child. I
am old enough to have seen this when it was first released but, for
some reason, I didn't. Truth is I forgot this movie even existed until
recently catching it on TV. The cast all does fine, particularly Tami
Erin as Pippi. Not recognizing her, I looked at her other roles and saw
this was the biggest part in her limited acting career. I also saw that
she did a sex tape a few years ago. I can only imagine that is either
deeply disturbing or extremely exciting to people who were fans of her
back in the day. Aside from Tami, there's some solid support from vets
like Eileen Brennan, Dick Van Patten, and John Schuck. There are also
many songs in this but none is more catchy than the theme song that's
repeated throughout the movie. I want to warn you in advance, this song
will find a corner of your brain to inhabit and it will be impossible
to get it out. Overall, it's a fun little movie that will play better
to pre-teen girls than anybody else. Just be prepared that it's pretty
sugary and corny. Oh, and that theme song will stay in your brain
forever.
<|_=00=_|>
After her father's ship is carried off by a sudden storm, the spunky
Pippi Longstocking is stranded with her horse, Alfonso, and monkey, Mr.
Nilsson, and takes up residence in the old family home, which is
thought by neighborhood children to be haunted. Soon, two children,
Tommy and Annika, venture into the house only to meet up with Pippi.
The three soon become friends and get into various adventures together,
including cleaning the floor with scrubbing shoes, dodging the
"splunks", going down a river in barrels, and helping Pippi with the
problem of having to go to a children's home. Older children will
probably get the most out of this movie.
