

Dead Calm is directed by Australian film maker Philip Noyce (Patriot Games,
Clear and Present Danger) and he is very talented director. This film stars
young Nicole Kidman (21-22 years old in this film!) as a wife to Sam Neill
and they have lost their son in a horrible car accident. They want to get
over it and so they go to the sea with their boat and spend several weeks
there. All is going fine and they are going to get over the loss of their
son, but soon they discover an abandoned looking ship in the horizon and a
man (Billy Zane) paddling desperately towards them. The man reaches the ship
and the couple helps him on the board. He is little confusing and suspicious
and soon his real nature is revealed...

This is extremely pleasant thriller and reminds me of films written by Eric
Red (The Hitcher, Near Dark, Blue Steel) and these four films are very
similar. The atmosphere in Dead Calm is very haunting and incredibly
restrained. The atmosphere is also very similar to David Lynch and Lost
Highway and Twin Peaks. The music is very important element in Dead Calm (as
is in The Hitcher and Near Dark, too) and the overall feeling is very
threatening and ominous. There are many exciting and breath taking scenes
such as the one in which Sam Neill is trapped in a boat that is sinking and
filling with water. With music, the photography is great and there are
definitely no technical flaws in this great and surprisingly effective
flick.

The young Nicole Kidman is so talented and acts perfectly. No one can say
she can't act. Just look at her face and expressions: she is the main
character in here and she is almost in every scene and she does nothing
wrong or never acts over the top. The other actor's are also great, Sam
Neill and Bill Zane, even though Zane goes little too far in couple of
scenes and is not too believable. But overall, because there are so many
great elements here, these little flaws and illogical plot turns can be
forgiven.

Philip Noyce is worth watching director and he has done also other effective
thrillers, but I think this will be one of his greatest achievements. Dead
Calm is highly recommended.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

A terrific thriller set on the sea with three fine actors portraying
characters of control, resurrection, and unbalance.  Sam Neil portrays the
fearless, in control naval captain.  His abilities combined with the
institution of marriage display a refine existence.  Compare Neil's
abilities with Billy Zane's self induced party boy image who survives by the
primitive nature of man and you will see structure verses chaos.  Zane's
character is sexy and alluring therefore irresistible to sexual stimuli. 
Nicole Kidman is faced with recovering from the loss of her child; shown, in
the start of the film, being thrown out of the front of a car windshield.
There, in the dead calm of an open sea, she must resurrect her abilities of
courage and strength.  She faces off the unbalanced nature of Zane's
character using her sexual allure as well but in a very different capacity. 
It is all about survival using the tools given to you and the tools you
acquire.  A brilliant thriller set in one location.  Directed with sexual
tension.  ***
<|_=00=_|>
After reading the plot for Dead Calm I was expecting an
edge-of-your-seat boat massacre thriller, and in a sense that's exactly
what Dead Calm is. I was always on the edge of my seat, anxious to know
what would happen next and terrified for the characters in their
respective situations, but there was much less violence than I was
expecting. And I'm not complaining. Most of the violence is implied
rather than shown, and the movie not only deals with physical abuse but
emotional and mental abuse as well. The story is basically that this
couple goes out to sea on a getaway to forget about a recent tragedy,
and while they're out in the middle of the ocean they encounter a
strange boat and a strange man who claims that his crew was killed by
food poisoning. The way the pieces come together is very satisfying,
especially when the truth slowly reveals itself and both the husband
and wife are going through equally scary dilemmas as this stranger is
roaming freely around their boat.

The acting is really what sells this movie. A boat movie with only
three characters can get boring quickly, but thanks to the cast, I was
totally in it. Sam Neil is separated from the others for a good amount
of the film, but when he needs to shine, he does. The anchors of this
movie are Nicole Kidman and Billy Zane. Kidman is excellent as the
emotionally distraught wife who is doing everything she can to keep it
together while desperately trying outsmart the stranger. Billy Zane had
me worried for a bit - I could tell he was acting, and at times he was
a bit cartoonish, but by the end you come to realize that the character
is an absolute nutcase so his erratic acting makes sense. You're not
sure if he's just a guy who had a rough week, or a sympathetic victim
of circumstance, or a straight up maniacal psychopath. This uncertainty
helps keep the thriller afloat (yeah) and keeps you anxious to see
whatever happens next.

The only real complaint I have about Dead Calm is that it does get a
little slow at times. It's very atmospheric and moody for a majority of
the film and there's no problem with that, but I couldn't help but be
distracted during some of the longer quiet moments. Regardless, it all
builds up to the movie's exciting climax which doesn't disappoint. The
music is great as well - haunting and subtle. Keep in mind Dead Calm is
not a jump-scare type of horror thriller. It's slow-paced, grounded and
completely plausible, which for me is the scariest kind.
<|_=00=_|>

This great suspense, thriller will have you gripping your seat in every
scene. I'm serious. It is one of those that never lets its pace slow down.
The realistic plot keeps you thinking, What if that happened to me?, also
its not far fetched at all, every scene is acted and directed in a very
realistic way, unlike other suspense films which like to stray from reality.
The excellent acting, direction and the nail-biting music score keep you
tangled up in the suspense filled story, you look past it's minor flaws. It
is one of those movies you don't forget. Definitely a must see. Grab onto the
arm-rest of your couch before you fall overboard, it's
intense.
***1/2 out of ****

<|_=00=_|>

I absolutely love 'Dead Calm'.  It is among my favorite movies, and I've
probably watched it 5 or 6 times over the years.

'Lost at sea' stories have always appealed to me and this one is, in my
opinion, one of the best ever filmed.  The plot and characters are original
and quirky, which sets 'Dead Calm' apart from the stacks of other sea tales.
 This is a truly intense thriller -- packed with so many twists and turns
that it's totally compelling from beginning to end.

Nicole Kidman is positively stunning as Rae Ingram, a strong and invincible
young woman who is determined to rescue her husband, John (Sam Neill). 
Billy Zane is incredibly good as the villain, Hughie Warriner.  He is so
convincing and scary that, to this day, I find it difficult to watch Zane in
other films without thinking of Hughie.

'Dead Calm' delivers an engrossing story that is well performed and very
unique.
<|_=00=_|>

Dead Calm is one of those rare thrillers with good acting, suspense and
great setting. The ocean setting really makes this film, as well as the 2
boats. Kidman is a realistic and resourceful character and because the film
had only 3 main characters throughout the whole movie, you go through the
same emotions the actors do in the film. The ending seemed tacked on, but
because the whole film is so good, the ending doesn't hurt nor help the
film. Well paced, acted and overall great movie. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe I have seen too many movies. I get tired of seeing people do the
most absurd things to keep the story going, like the teen-age girl who
continues into a house at night after a human head has just rolled out
the front door and stopped at her feet.

This time, we have a man, understandably concerned about his wife's
frail mental/emotional state, leaving her on a boat with a guy he
doesn't know and has every reason to suspect might be unbalanced or at
least very strange. Who would do such a thing? 'Course, he did lock the
guy in a room with a 79-cent door bolt. And, on it goes.

The film is technically superb, well acted and directed, etc., but the
story has some major holes. Good film if you are good at suspending
logical thinking or at least willing to forgive very unlikely behavior.
<|_=00=_|>

I think this movie stands up very well.  As when I first saw it, I think the
extra thrill ending is tacked on, unnecessary.  Otherwise, pacing, music,
acting all combine for solid thriller.  Nicole looks different, but almost
more fabulous then.  Revell's music is superb.  Zane is great villain. 
Sailing knowledge seems first-rate.  Tense, taut, highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

I've seen this several times over the years, and I must say this is a really
good thriller. It always keeps me interested. Also, since I'm interested in
the sea and ships, that's probably part of the reason why I like the movie
so much.

A young Nicole Kidman plays Rae, the wife of John Ingram (Sam Neill), who
are taking a sailing trip in the Pacific after losing their only son in an
automobile accident. They are having fun sailing through the ocean when they
come to a sinking schooner with a man paddling frantically towards their
boat in a lifeboat. The man, Hughie Warriner (Billy Zane), turns out to be a
crazed lunatic, and when John goes off to check the schooner, Hughie kidnaps
his wife and his ship. They are in the fight of their life.

Nicole Kidman is both beautiful and talented. She doesn't say much in the
movie, but her expressions and actions are well portrayed. Billy Zane is a
convincing psychopath and Sam Neill is a good actor also. The cinematography
is great and the scenery is really beautiful. The only real problem with the
movie is the plot.

The movie's conflict could've easily been resolved had it not been for
stupid mistakes. The script relies too heavily on these stupid mistakes.
Nicole's character gets numerous chances to kill the psychopath, but she
never takes them. And anyone in their right mind wouldn't leave their wife
with a stranger to check out a strange ship. The characters' lack of common
sense is really what keeps the story moving.

But, these plot holes can be forgiven. The acting is great, the direction is
great, the cinematography is great. The script could've used more work, but
that is forgivable. If you enjoy thrillers or are interested in the sea and
ships, I suggest you check this movie out. You won't be
disappointed.

Rating: 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

I really felt in suspense throughout Dead Calm. Sam Neill as the everyman
and Nicole Kidman as his recovering wife were wholly believable as grieving
parents taking a vacation to move past their tragedies. Billy Zane as the
disturbed third wheel (see Titanic, Head Above Water) in the relationship
was also very effective in his role. The suspense builds throughout and
leads to a very memorable climax. Recommended, 7/10.
