

The best thing about "Gymkata" is that it takes itself very seriously.
Actual men and women worked on this film with no intention of creating a
hysterically abominable failure.  Yet, despite a premise that fails to
produce anything beyond derisive laughter, the project somehow landed
financing.

Highlights include: The Khan of Parmistan, a man who looks like Albert
Einstein with Carl Levin's comb-over.  "The Town of the Crazies," a
village
of criminally insane people.  A man who severs his own hand for no
apparent
reason in the aforementioned town.  A man (also in that town) who wears a
cloak with the back cut out to reveal his buttocks.  The oft-repeated
location, "Karabal, on the Caspian Sea."  The title card that lets us
know
when we've arrived at "Karabal, on the Caspian Sea."  Princess Rubali and
her odd fascination with cutlery.  A man named "Thorg," who has been
admired
by the hero "since Munich."  An actual line of dialogue that refers to "a
nightmare in hell."  The five punch/kick sound effects that get recycled
beyond believability.  A character who presumably fell to his death in a
gaping, barren canyon only to have his fall "broken by some trees."  The
random placement of gymnastics apparatuses.  The complete lack of
resolution
to numerous dangling plot points.  Kurt Thomas's wardrobe and haircut.
The
men working at "The Salt Mines," who just poke a large pile of refined
salt
with hoes.  Also, we get the privilege of seeing a shadowy government
agent
push away a gymnastics groupie who tries to get too close to a
post-dismount
Kurt Thomas.

If you happen across this movie, you must watch it.  "Gymkata" stands as
an
example of what happens when no one offers a dissenting opinion anywhere
in
the filmmaking process.  This is a technique that was later revealed in
Joel
Schumacher's "Batman & Robin."

"Gymkata" fulfills every expectation you may have of a film combining
gymnastics and ninjitsu.  Plenty of gymnastics, plenty of ninjitsu.  See
it
with a friend and enjoy its many failures.  All hail "Gymkata!"


<|_=00=_|>

I met Kurt Thomas at a gymnastics even in 1992. First thing I said to him
was "Gymkata?" It is probably not difficult to imagine the look that came
over the poor man's face at that point.

But I love Gymkata. We used to watch it for its tremendous entertainment
value as an all-time great "bad" movie. My own personal favorite parts are
the pommel horse in the medieval lunatic asylum, the guy saying "there is
some anti-American sentiment going around here" immediately before being
shot with an arrow, and of course the "Yak-MALLA!" war cry of "Parmistan."
Oh, yeah, the four or five repetitions of "Karabal, on the Caspian Sea"
before the place is shown with just that as the caption on the
screen.

Yak-MALLA indeed!

JP Marat
L'Ami du Peuple
<|_=00=_|>

Seriously, this movie is completely under appreciated as a mid-80's cult
classic.  It's absurd plot and wooden performances are what make the film
so
likeable.  If you watch "Gymkata" expecting to see a solid performance by
an
Olympic gymnast, then you are missing the allure this film has on so many
28-35 year old men that secretly rent this title at least once a year ...
for a good laugh.  The movie is funny because it's so bad and takes itself
so seriously.  Enjoy it.  Stop analyzing it as of it were ever intended to
be a cinematic masterpiece.  Bad movies deserve good ratings because they
are so unintentionally funny.  So, rent Gymkata, Glitter, and any movie
with
Julia Stiles, sit back, relax, and marvel at the unintentional
comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
The average rating of 2.9 out of 10 for this film is a travesty.
Anybody who watches this film and gives it less than 3 out of 10 is a
fool who has completely missed the point. Let me explain: The
acting...is not great. The plot...could be deeper. The direction and
cinematography...second to many. However, all of those things (and
probably many more) take a sideline when you watch the film. This is
due entirely to the sheer fun of it all. It is not meant to be a
serious work of art (at least I hope not), it is meant to be a fast
paced, entertaining vehicle for showing off Kurt Thomas's ample
gymnastic abilities in the most contrived situations imaginable (spot
the high bar (and chalk) between two buildings). And in this capacity,
the film really delivers as we follow Thomas (aka Jonathan Cabott)
through a life or death race - that some people bizarrely seem to have
volunteered for - across some very inhospitable ground with a bunch of
well armed, evil looking locals on his tail. Sure, if you're a movie
critic who has watched every film ever released since 1896, you'll
probably think this is puerile rubbish. That is why I am so pleased not
to be a movie critic, because I can sit down and watch a simple film
and derive a simple pleasure from it. Simple as that.
<|_=00=_|>

How this movie escaped the wrath of MST3K I'll never know.  "Gymkata" is a
ridiculous action movie, filled (or is that empty?) with paper-thin plots,
dumb characters, and preposterous situations.  But take it from me, if you
enjoy watching poor, yet goofy, movies, you will enjoy "Gymkata" a great
deal.

The action centers around a gymnast who is chosen by government agents (at
least I think they were government agents) to become a spy.  You see his dad
was another quasi-government agent, who has gone missing competing in this
game, called, eloquently, "The Game."  So the gymnast (played blandly by
Kurt Thomas) trains to compete in this game and find out what happened to
his lost dad.

Sounds promising doesn't it?  Okay, so it doesn't but still, that bare bones
plot sypnopsis doesn't begin to describe the joys of this movie.  They can
be found in the movie's strange details.  Like the gymnast's mysterious
Asian girlfriend, who doesn't speak for the first half hour of the movie,
then all of a sudden begins to talk, and doesn't shut up for the rest of the
time!  Or the really tough shirtless bad guy who likes to make and break
"The Game"'s non-existent rules whenever he so pleases.  And of course
there's our hero's delightful romp through the "Village of The Crazies"
(Evidently that's the place's real name!).  Nice place to visit, but I
wouldn't want to live there.

But where this movie really shines is the action scenes.  Since our
protagonist is a gymnast, the director thought it wise to stick gymnastic
equipment into the back alleys and town squares of Middle Eastern cities, so
that our Gymkata master would be better able to use his gymnast skills to
fight the scourge of evil on parallel bars and pummel horses.  It has to be
seen to be believed.

One interesting thing of note.  A lot, I'd say about half the cast, dies
from being shot with an arrow.  Interesting because the arrows are the only
believable effects or action in the entire movie.  If these were indeed
effects, my one major note of compliment to whoever devised these very
realistic arrows wounds.  More likely, this was the film's way of not paying
extras.  Nevertheless, "Gymkata" deserves a look if you can see it without
paying and are looking for some silliness that is an easy target for
riffing.


<|_=00=_|>

Mullet Wars at its best man.  As expressed numerous times, anyone that
loves
laughing at movies, who appreciates camp value, mullets, bad acting,
extremely poorly acted sequences, bad fight scenes, indiscernible plot
configurations, and yes THE MULLET, you will love this
movie.

Everyone around here is giving such glowing remarks about the camp value
of
the film maybe its high time we talk about just why this movie is BAD.  If
you're in the mood for an epic adventure action movie, do NOT see this one
with hopes of coming out with your testosterone cravings sated.  Such is
the
curse of bad kung fu movies without genuine kung fu artists.  Why did this
movie fail dismally at its objective?  Well I can think of a few reasons
off
the top of my head.  First off, as alluded to, this is an action-epic type
of movie with definite parallels to Enter the Dragon.  Martial Artist
chosen
by government to go to some isolated little known area of the world to
help
the United States' cause by outwardly competing in some kind of
competition/game.

So given its obvious reaching for Enter the Dragon memories, you would
think
Clouse would have made an attempt to grab some good actors, the kind of
martial artists that could easily impress the audience with their moves.
So
who did they get?  All white guys, including an olympic gold medalist in
gymnastics, Kurt Thomas.  So where in the martial arts action epic genre
some directors sacrifice acting talent and bad english for superb martial
arts (Ninja 3: The Domination, a bad movie with some pretty good martial
arts), and other directors sacrifice superb martial arts for well spoken
english, boyish charms, and great acting ability (David Carradine and Jeff
Cooper in Circle of Iron, a must-see if you love martial arts genre whacky
movies) Clouse has in this case sacrificed "acting ability" of all
variations for bad english and *horrible* martial arts
sequences.

Why else is this movie an utter failure at its objective?  Well, part of
the
magic of Enter the Dragon was its theme of Shaolin martial arts.  This,
especially at the time, was kind of a popular mystical topic that few
understood, but most everyone thought was "cool".  In this way, anything
Eastern involving mysticism or fighting is a veritable well of immediate
movie value (hence the 80's ninja craze).  The problem with this movie is
it
gave the feel of a popular mystic subject without using any of the popular
mysticism that gives this type of movie instant entertainment value to
movie-goers regardless of accuracy.  The biggest attempt at this might be
the name "gymkata" because it sounds kind of Eastern, and the premise of
mixing western and eastern styles.  But in actuality this premise is
little
better than a line in the movie, because there is NOTHING else in the
movie
to support it.

Why else?  Bad sequences, choreography, and directing.  When I think about
this movie and Enter the Dragon, I can't help but think that Clouse truly
just was not trying with this movie.  Its the only way to explain his
complete inept job of directing this movie.  The subplots are bare and
underdeveloped.  The premise of the movie surrounds a "game" whose rules
and
dynamics are completely indescernible, baffling, and plain dumb.  As
previously expounded upon, the coincidences in this movie are terrible
such
as the infamous pommel-horse town of the crazies scene.  My honest guess
is
that after Kurt Thomas won the gold medal, some money grubbing crazy
producer (the kind responsible for making 7th sequels and whatnot) decided
to capitalize on gold medal fame by starring a gymnast in a martial arts
movie, then proceeding to blackmail Robert Clouse into directing such a
film, and Clouse in his attempt to get back at his blackmailer, sabotaged
his own film by putting a bunch of bad-acting white guys who can't fight
in
a martial arts genre movie, sticking in poorly developed subplots such as
the love story between the princess and the gymnast, and overall making a
movie that any director would sit back, watch on the big screen, take the
ONLY copy of the film, lock it in an iron chest, and bury deep within the
earth's core.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow! This one has been stuck way in the back webs of my mind. Almost
erased until I stumbled across it on the IMDb! As soon as I saw the
title I immediately remembered the movie as if it were last week. I can
see why many would consider this to be a bad movie, but oh well,
opinions are like #*$holes, everyone has one. So be it. I liked it. The
cheesy element made it work in a weird way. The locations were
authentic from what I remember and the action was pretty good. 

The scenes that stick in my mind are the crazies in the village, very
funny, but almost creepy. I remember when he entered there were creepy
noises, I was 11 yrs. old in '85. Also, the flagmen, dressed in
colorful uniforms pointing the way to the next obstacle. I liked this
movie and I remember it as a late night classic on HBO/Cinemax in the
80s. I hope cable brings it back with this release. If not, I will
purchase it.

"Call me Snake"
<|_=00=_|>
I first saw this movie with three friends at a theater in Norman,
Oklahoma when it first came out. Aside from the four of us, the usher
was in the theater, and the projectionist too. They should've gotten
combat pay.

The US government goes to a gymnast to get him to train for and
participate in The Game, a decathlon cum obstacle course held each year
in the tiny country of Parmistan (the four of us immediately decided
its major export was Parmesan cheese...). The Khan of Parmistan grants
each winner a favor, and the US wants our hero to ask pretty please to
let the US put some kind of radar installation in Parmistan to support
SDI. Our hero agrees--after all, his dad mysteriously disappeared in
Parmistan.

Our hero gets some help from the Khan's daughter, who turns out to be
the only citizen of Parmistan who looks even vaguely Asian. (_Gymkata_
was filmed in Zagreb, then in Yugoslavia.) There are people who want to
stop him, though--fortunately, every place our hero is in danger, there
happens to be a convenient piece of gymnastic equipment that he can
leap onto and kick some enemy behind. (It even comes pre-powdered so
his hands won't slip--they think of everything!)

A high point of the film is the Khan himself, and his pronouncements
from the balcony. We in the theater swore up and down that Mel Brooks
was playing the Khan... He always uttered some non-English interjection
that we promptly forgot (UPDATE: it's "yakmalla!"), replacing with
"Uff- da!" when imitating him during and after the film, and followed
it up with "My people!"

I recommend this in a double feature with _Phenomenal and the Mask of
Tutankhamen_. Think you need an Abdomenizer? Nope--just watch these two
movies.
<|_=00=_|>
You can track me down, find me, insult me or even kill me but to
me,this is a classic (well after Cyborg with Vand Damme); why? Imagine
you were between 7-13 years old, then while your dad just finished
watching his boring news, you finally get one of those huge black
remote control from the 80s, with no time to waste, you turn to channel
4, damn, you missed the opening credits of Gymkata and Joseph, your
lazy neighbor'd bet he was going to watch it for the 100st time while
you never had a chance to see it all.

But you don't complain, because the fight is on and you are so taken
away because the good guy, all the way in the movie wont be landing his
feet, thats right,he uses his hands to stay on the ground while his
feet is kicking all the weird people from this weird village. classic
and goodnight.
<|_=00=_|>
American champion gymnast Jonathan Cabot (woodenly played by handsome
and muscular real-life Olympic champion gymnast Kurt Thomas) travels to
the remote country of Parmiston to participate in a deadly competition
that hasn't been won by an outsider in 900 years.

Director Robert Clouse, working from Charles Robert Carner's patently
absurd script, treats the laughably ridiculous premise with utmost
misguided seriousness, stages the martial arts fights with aplomb, and
keeps the enjoyably inane story moving along at a snappy pace.
Moreover, this film offers a wondrous wealth of gut-busting howlers:
Bad guys don't bleed despite getting pumped full of bullets by machine
guns, both an iron bar and a pommel horse just happen to be exactly
right where they are needed for key action set pieces, a mist-shrouded
town populated by colorful, yet dangerous crazies, and so on. Tetchie
Agrayani looks positively ravishing as the feisty Princess Rubali,
Richard Norton snarls it up nicely as the evil Zamir, Bob Schott cuts
an intimidating figure as hulking brute Thorg, and a hilariously
miscast Buck Kartalian serves as a prime source of sidesplitting
unintentional humor as a pompous king who resembles an old Jewish
vaudevillian. Alfi Kabiljo's rousing score and Godfrey A. Godar's slick
cinematography are both up to par. A real wacky'n'tacky hoot.
