

I was nine years old when I first saw 'Breaking Away', and I think the
book
adaptation may have been the first more-or-less novel-length thing I ever
read. My wild enthusiasm after leaving the theatre was similar at the
time
to my previous reaction to 'Star Wars', a fact that I attribute to the
natural electrical charge of the endings of both films.

Of course, a nine-year-old lacks the world experience to empirically
understand the central messages of this film, and at the time my primary
devotion to it was centered around Dave Stoller's orange Masi racing
bike, a
thing that I coveted with the passions of a kid on Christmas Eve.

The movie made me mad with bicycle lust, and I frowned on every Huffy I
saw
at school. I used to draw pictures of Masi, Bianchi and Olmo bikes all
the
time after seeing this, and I shamelessly begged my parents for an
Italian-made, Campagnolo-equipped racer - a futile thing to do, as my
parents knew not to purchase something that expensive for a boy who would
physically out-grow a pair of Levis within a school year. Ultimately, I
was
propelled into the worship of Eddy Merckx while all my classmates were
digging into their Terry Bradshaw Topps cards, unaware - as I'm positive
they still are - of who the hell Eddy Merckx even is.

BUT...'Breaking Away' is not just a bicycle film - not by a long-shot,
and I
knew it then too, but that just wasn't very important to me at a time
when
bicycles were all-important.

Despite my youthful energies, I never did pursue bicycle racing,(although
I
am definitely a touring enthusiast whose passion for Italian-made
bicycles
has finally seen fruition) but 'Breaking Away' never left me. It was the
REST of the film that eventually got to me - and somewhat later in life -
when my emotions and experiences with the world ran deeper.

In short, this film explores many strands: the aimlessness of youth
colliding with the responsibilities of adulthood; the often heartbreaking
romantic fantasies of people who wish they could be something else; lying
and cheating and the false nature of gains made through them; the
importance
of strong family relations and friendships; and life in small-town
America -
and it does all this with extraordinary craft, honesty and sensitivity.
It's
beautiful, and more importantly, it is soulful and original. Although
certainly dated in appearance, I'll even toss in the cliche that it is
*timeless*, because the themes and characters are so.

The characters themselves are all wonderfully brought out by the  perfect
casting - it's been said here, but the fact that Dennis Christopher never
achieved star-status is truly a shame and a waste of a potentially
amazing
talent. He played the lead role with a believable intensity and a really
quite perfect understanding of his character. Dave Stoller's painful
self-realization after the Cinzano race was as memorable a job of acting
as
I can think of. Paul Dooley and Barbara Barry were also wonderful, as
were
Quaid, Stern and Haley - every one of them created a personality for
their
characters, both in dialogue and physical reaction. The rest of the cast
was
likewise fine, each actor doing the best they could with what were
sometimes
stock roles (the college kids, for example, including Robyn Douglas, the
female romantic role)

The direction, story and, most especially, the dialogue were great as
well.

I also picked up a love of Mendelssohn and Rossini when I was just a kid
after seeing this - the film score was superb, all the while taking the
Stanley Kubrick/Woody Allen approach by choosing some choice compositions
of
a time long past, rather than belabor the audience with the refried
horrors
so typical of modern film-score composition.

I hope this movie doesn't become a relic - it seems its own sleeper
status
has kept it shelved over the years. Mention it to just about any American
born before 1975, and they'll know what it is, but only in the way I did
when I was nine: they'll usually say something like, "oh yeah, the
bicycle
film! I remember that one", and then they'll likely have little else to
say
about it, which is a shame. I still whole-heartedly place this movie
among
my very favorites every time, and I trumpet it whenever I get into
discussions with other people about the movies I love.
<|_=00=_|>

In a bicycle race, "breaking away" describes the often-desperate solo move a
rider makes in a bid to win the race.  Most riders are bunched together for
shared protection against the wind, and to keep an eye on their rivals--a
group is always more efficient than an individual.  But in moments of
confusion, a single rider might just get a jump on the group and, with
superhuman effort, beat the odds against going it alone and emerge
victorious. 

In "Breaking Away" we follow the exploits of four misfits just out of high
school who contentedly contemplate a future as dead-enders.  They aren't
particularly smart, athletic, or good-looking, and they lack any sense of
direction in their lives.  Moreover, as townies, or "cutters" in a college
town, they wear a spell of invisibility in their dealings with the
students--the differences are painfully obvious.  When they hang out on
campus or lamely try to chat up the co-eds, they might as well be ghosts
haunting a town they used to inhabit.  Something happened when they
graduated from high school and didn't go on to college:  they became
cutters, no better than servants, in their own confused eyes. 

 
When we meet Dave Stoller (Dennis Christopher) we think, here's a guy who
might be able to break out of his own rut.  He seems to be a kid with a
little more on the ball than the others.  But then we see that he's also the
most confused--by far.  Dave is wrapped up in a fantasy world where he's an
Italian bike racer, a champion of a sport virtually unknown in America at
the time.  That Dave's charming misfits of friends take him and his
delusions in stride shows us the bond of their friendship and shared misery,
and just how far off the map they've all slid.

After a chance encounter with a beautiful sorority girl (Robyn Douglass)
Dave pretends to be an Italian exchange student in an effort to woo a girl
he believes would otherwise be way out of his reach.  He draws on his
obsessive knowledge of Italian culture and his own quirky charm to fool the
girl into seeing him as someone fresh and new, an outsider, but not a
misfit.  The romance seems to be going somewhere, and Dave feels he's
finally breaking away.

While Dave is conducting his fraudulent personal life he also has an
opportunity to race with the Italian bike racers he had worshiped from afar.
 It's his chance to get recognition from the masters of the sport.  He may
not have much going as a cutter, but he's certain the Italians will see his
racing ability and welcome him as one of their own.  But when he shows that
he can keep up with them in the race, naively hoping for their approval,
they throw him into a ditch.  Dave's fantasy world comes crashing
down.

When Dave realizes that the Italians will fight to protect their turf just
as much as the Americans he resents, his first reaction is to give
up--"everybody cheats" he says resignedly.  And he rejects the friends who
had looked to him for something more--his three chums and their own
struggles, and the sorority girl, who had seen in him something
special.

Only Dave can save Dave, but it is his father's hard words that prompt him
into action.  To Dave and his friends, a "cutter" is someone who doesn't
measure up to the college kids who are going somewhere in their lives.  They
affect being misfits because a misfit is one rung on the ladder above how
they see themselves, which is as losers.  But Dave's father points out that
"cutters" were the original stonecutters who built the grand buildings on
the campus.  They may not be college-educated, Dave's father says, but to
them "cutter" is a badge of honor for the hard-working men who built
something real out of the flat earth.  Dave will never be a "cutter", he
says, meaning a man of accomplishment, unless he finds something equally
real to do with his own life.

The Indiana Little 500 is a bike race the university holds that is taken
very seriously by the groups that participate.  At the time, it was the
largest race in America, and fraternities counted some of the best American
bike racers on their squads.  But to Dave and his friends who are invited to
race, it is a chance to prove to the students (and themselves) that their
lives so far weren't just wasted time.

Yes, Dave is a gifted bike racer, but we already knew that.  But the Little
500 (and life) requires that one rely upon not just inner strength, but the
creative use of the strengths of others.  It is a team race.  What Dave
learns when testing himself against these college students that he never
felt would give him the time of day, is that the biggest obstacle to his own
success was himself.  

"Breaking Away"  is a rich visual tapestry of life lived outside the
spotlight.  The characters are not fancy or sophisticated, and their life
goals are simple and well within reach.  It is themselves they struggle
with, and their perceptions of themselves.  "Breaking Away" is the story of
kids who had let their own self-image degrade to the point that a fantasy
world, and a life of bitter resentment, seemed like their best option.    

 
<|_=00=_|>

Breaking Away is a picture that is better than the sum of its parts.  Oh,
its parts are wonderful.  The writing is sharp, observant, and funny (It won
an Oscar!), the acting is superb (how Paul Dooley was nixed a nomination
never mind the award I'll never know), and it is a well shot film.  But its
charms go even deeper.  It is the story of four young men in their late
teens, who are staring adulthood in the face after a year of leisure in the
"small town" of Bloomington, Indiana, and how they deal with watching
successful college kids pass them by.  It is also about a young man in
search of an identity (including that of a Italian bicycle racer), and of a
family that is loving and supportive, almost in spite of itself.  All these
add up to a richly enjoyable, deeply moving family picture that gives us
many moments to treasure (a large number include Paul Dooley as the
frustrated and confused, but eventually loving father).  Like other sports
movies (the lead character races bicycles), it has a contest at the end, and
like many much poorer ones, it ends with triumph.  But we cheer not only for
these immensely likeable "cutters," but for ourselves, for being treated to
this bittersweet, touching, and wonderful movie.
<|_=00=_|>

I went to see this movie when it first came out.  We had decided to go to a
double feature of two movies that we had never heard of, knowing that in
that day and age, a double feature meant that at least one, if not both
movies, had to be pretty awful.  The first film was Starting Over with Burt
Reynolds, and it was fairly good.  So my friends were sure that the other
would have to be terrible, but we had nothing better to do, so I convinced
them to stay.  Before three lines of dialogue I was absolutely hooked.  I
have seen it at least twenty times and the witty dialogue and rapport of
the
characters gets me every time.  The music accents the film beautifully.
The
cinematography is gorgeous.  But the story is what really matters. Four
guys
finding there way in a place where they feel little hope for the future,
one a dreamer whose dreams are crushed, but he finds the spirit to pick up
and start dreaming again.  Delightful all the way around.

<|_=00=_|>

Do you remember that time in your life when you were no longer a teenager
but not yet an adult? That time in your life when, for the very first time,
you had to begin to make decisions that could affect the outcome of your
life. There is no movie that captures this time, the transition from
teenager to adulthood, quite as well as Peter Yates' superb film Breaking
Away.

The story takes place in Bloomington, Indiana,  (home to Indiana
University)
one of the bigger college towns in America. It concerns the rivalry between
the rich, snobbish college kids and the local townies (called cutters
because there fathers cut limestone in the local quarries to build the
college, among other things.) The cutters are played superbly by Dennis
Christopher, Dennis Quaid, Daniel Stern and Jackie Earle Haley. There is
not
a false note in any of their performances with Quaid and Christopher
special
stand-outs. It is interesting to note that of the four, only Quaid and
Stern
went on to bigger and better things.

What really carries this movie though, are the universal themes that
everyone can relate to. We can all relate to at least one of the stars,
everyone has gone through what they are going through. Most people realize
it as one of the more difficult times in their life (as it is for the
characters portrayed in the movie.) What carries them through is their
friendship with one another, and the support that that gives them. The
movie
also touches upon family and how hard it is sometimes to communicate with
parents, who always (hopefully) love but sometimes just don't understand.
Special mention must be made of Paul Dooley (who plays the father of Dennis
Christopher), how he did not receive an oscar nomination much less win the
coveted statue, for his performance, remains a mystery to this day. Barbara
Barrie is also excellent as the mother.

The story follows the cutters as they try to prove to the college kids that
they are real human beings, not outcasts to be looked down upon. As one of
the cutters is a champion bike rider, the climax of the film and the
contest
to prove their worthiness, comes down to the Little 500 Bike Race. This is
an annual bike race that is still held at IU and is one of the seminal
sporting events of the college year (the screenwriter Steve Tesich, who won
an oscar for his screenplay, actually won the Little 500). It is the
perfect
ending for this remarkable and uplifting film.

Praise must be given to everyone involved with the production, there is not
a false note throughout the movie. Peter Yates did a superb job of taking
relatively unknown actors coupled with tough subject matter and turning it
into a minor classic.


<|_=00=_|>

This film was a pleasant surprise.  No sex, no violence, no special effects.
 Just an incredibly literate and humorous script (which won an Oscar for
Steve Tesich) and fantastic performances by the four leads.  This is a film
for those who still believe that good cinema requires meaningful dialogue
and acting that is achingly real in its sincerity.  Don't get me wrong: sex
and violence have a very real and justifiable place in film; but this movie
would have suffered from such a gratuitous inclusion.  Peter Yates, the
director, has done a fantastic job of pacing the film, and the score,
consisting mostly of Rossini overtures, and excerpts from Mendelssohn's
"Italian" Symphony (#4 in A Major, Op. 90), is an inspired touch, adding
precisely the right atmosphere.  This is the kind of low-budget triumph that
the film community constantly extols for P.R. purposes, yet never supports
with actual awards.
<|_=00=_|>

Dennis Christopher stars as a local cutter in a small college town. He and
his friends enter a crucial bike race that can make them or break them. This
film offers great insight into its characters. Christopher is exceptional,
and has never been better. He is supported by a first rate cast, especially
Barbara Barrie and Paul Dooley as his mom and dad. Brillantley directed,
edited, and scored, plus the film makes very effective use of its beautiful
cinmeatography. The ending will have you on the edge of your seat. Now this
is what movies are all about,

    This moving drama is on my top ten favorite films of all time. And it
should have won the best picture Oscar in 1979, instead of Kramer vs.
Kramer. Rating: A PERFECT 10 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

How could anyone not like this movie?  It's one of the few realistic
coming
of age stories.  The characters are really likeable and the acting is
great
too.  What is so bad about being a "cutter"?  To me it seems kinda cool.
"Don't forget to punch the clock shorty!"
<|_=00=_|>
...and unsure of your future. Other reviewers have given good
summaries of
the film, so I won't go into it. It's interesting though that of the four
principle actors, only Dennis Quaid had any kind of career after this,
which
is very surprising since they were all such strong performances.
"Breaking Away" really captures that limbo period right after high school
when you're not sure what the future holds. I identified strongly with
Dennis Christopher's character - I though I was going to just pump gas or
flip burgers for a year before my mom pushed me to go to college. In other
words, this is a realistic, character-driven movie - you'll probably find
a
bit of yourself in one, or several, of the characters.
There's also real chemistry here between all the actors. And the
photography
really captures the beauty of the Midwest (some of you, no doubt, are
scratching your heads after reading that).
This is a gem - don't pass it up at the video store or when it appears
next
on TV.
<|_=00=_|>

   This movie is a wonderful depiction of four Indiana men who try to grow
 up and make decisions about their futures.  They all have their own
 problems to deal with but all need each other in dealing with their
 situations.  Being outcasts in town, they turn to each other for hope and
 understanding.  Being "less privileged" than others their age, they learn
 to make the best of what they have...each other.  This is a great movie
 about growing up and how everyone deals differently with the obstacles they
 are dealt with.  Dennis Christopher leads this all-star cast in a movie
 that should be watched by the young and old.  It is a compelling saga of
 how these young men conquer the everpresent problem of trying to fit in.

