

One "reviewer" here wrote (I presume) in all seriousness "Like a bad dream -
impossible to understand!" That being the case, I can only describe his
subsequent attempt to compile a review as "gutsy" in the extreme.

I believe JACOB'S LADDER is one of the 10 best films ever made. It is NOT
impossible to understand...you merely have to listen and interpret! For
those without the ability to effect the latter...just listen! Danny Aiello's
character, Louis the chiropracter lays it out for you - word for word. I
think it is the best part Aiello ever had, small one though it is in terms
of screen time. Integral to a collective grasp of this great and disturbing
film however is the need to tie-in the relationship between Jacob the
individual, the biblical "Jacob's Ladder" itself and the relevance of "The
Ladder" as explained (and seemingly forgotten by most everybody) by the
runty chemical weapons boffin at the near conclusion of the
film.

To those who view the ending as "rushed," "unsatisfying," "obscure" even
"dumb" as I recall, I would merely suggest you watch it again and take into
account the likelihood is, that it is in fact YOU that has missed what has
been so cleverly set out for you. SIGNS was equally misunderstood by the
majority of people that even liked it - there never WERE any
aliens!

JACOB'S LADDER is Robbins' greatest film - Lyne's too. The last few minutes
are amongst the most emotional and uplifting scenes I have ever seen since
the "star child" in 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY. Culkin was the perfect
choice!

I saw this movie in a near deserted theater in Times Square the week it came
out. At the conclusion of this particular late show I noticed an old man
sitting some two rows away to my left, absorbed in his thoughts. Having to
walk past him to gain the exit I noticed tears in his eyes. He looked up as
I approached. After studying me for a moment all he said to me was "You
understood didn't you?"  I said, "Yes I understood!" He replied
softly..."You're very lucky!"
<|_=00=_|>
The film begins with Jacob Singer (Tim Robbins) and his platoon in
Vietnam. When they're suddenly attacked, it's chaos, and the platoon
appear to be the victims of some kind of chemical warfare. Jacob is
stabbed in the stomach with a bayonet. Suddenly, without explanation,
we see Jacob back in New York City. He's returned home from the war and
he's trying to get his life back on track, but he keeps having odd
experiences, seeing odd, frightening people, and having close calls
with death. He cannot tell "dreams" from reality. What happened to him
in Vietnam? 

Jacob's Ladder is the grandfather of the "rubber reality" films that
became so popular throughout the 1990s and into the 2000s. The films
with the most direct influence from Jacob's Ladder have appeared more
recently-- Memento (2000), Mulholland Dr. (2001), The I Inside (2003),
and The Butterfly Effect (2004). Less obvious, but also strongly
influenced are films such as Abre los ojos (1997)/Vanilla Sky (2001),
eXistenZ (1999), The Thirteenth Floor (1999) and The Matrix (1999), as
well as films where the "rubber reality" is usually played more
straight, such as The Sixth Sense (1999) and The Others (2001).

Of course, like any artwork, Jacob's Ladder has its precursors, too,
such as the short story by Ambrose Bierce called "An Occurrence at Owl
Creek Bridge", which was originally published in 1891 and later used as
a basis of a silent film called The Spy (1929), and then a French short
entitled La Riviere du hibou (literally "The River of the Owl"), the
latter also airing as an episode of "The Twilight Zone" (1959). There
is a very strong religious/mythical allegory running throughout the
film--seen in everything from the Judeo/Christian nature of the
character's names and the title of the film itself to character
interests, as Jacob begins extensively studying demonology, the occult
and so forth in an attempt to figure out what is happening to him. We
are also treated to subtle connections with other works, such as
philosopher Albert Camus' novel L'Etranger ("The Stranger"), which
Jacob is reading in the film when we first see him on the subway, and
there are many at least subtle stylistic and content precursors, such
as Altered States (1980).

In light of the subsequent instantiations of the film's brand of
rubberizing reality, as well as the more purely stylistic elements that
have been used to often excellent effect in later films, such as the
hyper kinetic figural motion that found its way into William Malone's
films House on Haunted Hill (1999) and Fear dot Com (2002), Jacob's
Ladder may seem relatively transparent or even tame. It's certainly
easier to reach an interpretation for this than for a film like
Mulholland Dr., where director David Lynch is purposefully obfuscatory.
Still, Jacob's Ladder is one of the better films of its kind. Director
Adrian Lyne achieved a continually offsetting creepiness that is rarely
matched, and some scenes--such as the gurney journey through the
increasingly dilapidated hospital corridors, could not possibly be
topped.

Seen in the context of Lyne's other films Jacob's Ladder is all the
more surprising, as the bulk of his career has been focused on hyper
sensual and sexy dramas and thrillers--such as 9 1/2 Weeks (1986),
Fatal Attraction (1987), Indecent Proposal (1993), Lolita (1997) and
Unfaithful (2002). Jacob's Ladder has its share of eroticism, however,
mostly through the gorgeous and impassioned Jezebel (Elizabeth Pena),
even though her most heated moment has her appropriately fraternizing
with a demon.

Lyne's relatively straightforward approach to the film's elastic
ontology, especially in conjunction with his tendency to be forthcoming
and thorough in explaining his view of the plot (a predilection shared
by scriptwriter Bruce Joel Rubin) may be unfortunate in that there is
an interpretation of Jacob's Ladder accepted by a vast majority as the
"right answer". That's a shame because there are countless possible
readings of this material; differing views on everything from the
general crux to the smallest minutiae. Part of the inherent beauty of
the film is that any scene or set of scenes may equally be taken as the
"real events", and any of the dialogue may be taken as providing clues
to your preferred interpretation.

Robbins' performance is important to the film in that he is the focal
point of almost every scene and has to convincingly play a vast range
of emotions; he does so with finesse. The rest of the cast is
noteworthy, even though their questionable nature gives them a lot of
leeway in terms of verisimilitude and consistency.

But the real driving force that makes Jacob's Ladder such a success is
its eeriness. This is a horror film after all, both on psychological
and more apparent supernatural levels. Lyne continually and
disconcertingly pulls the rug from beneath not only Jacob, but the
audience as well, yet manages to never make a viewer feel lost, instead
producing an eagerness to solve the "mystery" while you root for Jacob.
<|_=00=_|>
Jacobs Ladder is one of those rare films that throws you and your mind
about like a ragdoll before giving you a bitter conclusion that turns
everything upside down again. Forget Donnie Darko, that was mere childs
play, this film is something else. Jacobs Ladder provides an experience
so intimidating, brutal, wonderful and beautiful unparalleled to this
day. This is something you have never seen or experienced before in
film, and will probably never experience again.

Jacob Singer is a postal worker, who, through the brutal effects of
Vietnam, mentally breaks down, and starts seeing demons following him,
killing his friends, raping his wife...... Make no mistake, Jacobs
Ladder is a grim film but behind its dark mask lies an uplifting
message of hope, freedom and mental release. I wont say anymore,
because spoiling the plot for you would be extremely horrible of me,
who am i to take away the magic of seeing the film from you.

I'm not going to say that this is accessible to everyone, its not in
the least. If your favourite film is American Pie than turn away, this
is REAL film making. A lot of people will not like this, because they
will expect, like with most films, to have all the answers served to
them on a plate. Jacobs Ladder requires the viewer to do the thinking,
letting them have their own perceptions of the film rather then being
fed that of the directors. If you do choose to go on Jacobs journey
with him be warned, it wont always be pretty, but you will come out of
it gratified that for once in film you have the freedom to think for
yourself.
<|_=00=_|>

After reading several reviews on this film I thought I would add my two
cents. This remains one of my favorite movies and I never hesitate to take
in another viewing. A lot of people seem to be noting the loose script and
story elements as the film's weaknesses, going so far as to call it messy
and incoherent. The fact that even after seeing it several times there's
still some mystery in it, still some ambiguity as to the possible meanings
to all of the things that go on with Jacob, is what I find most appealing.
It's not a film like the Sixth Sense where all of the pieces fall into place
at just the right time and you know exactly where you stand. It's something
rather that is left to the imagination of the viewer, a rare thing when
audiences en mass want clear cut explanations and easy answers (hence the
success of Sixth Sense, a great film in it's own right, but the complete
opposite of this one).

 The visuals are incredible and highly influential. The techniques used in
this film have since been overused and distilled throughout various horror
movies and music videos, but without ever coming close to the power of the
original, which presents some of the most psychologically terrifying images
ever to appear on screen. I think it's hard to come to this movie for the
first time today and experience it the way you could have eleven years ago,
when these type of images had yet to be seen and were exposed to completely
unsuspecting audiences. The best way to see this movie is with absolutely no
knowledge of it beforehand.

 The mood is perfect. The acting is great, the dialogue is outstanding.
Danny Aielo explaining to Jacob about angels and demons still moves me to
this date and the two simple words suddenly spoken to a disbelieving Jacob
from some unseen source while in the Asylum scene still terrify like no
other movie can. Also this may be the Home Alone kid's best film.

The extra scenes on the DVD range from average to terrifying, including the
omitted "antidote" scene, something I'm glad I didn't see when I was younger
because it might have scarred me for life :). Also there is a perplexing and
scary scene omitted at the end where Jacob confronts Jezebel. There is alot
of digital grain in some of the shots. I would like to see a better quality
DVD put out for this one, but I'll take what I can get with the added
scenes.

 See this movie then see it again and then see it three years later. Don't
over-analyze and worry if some of it doesn't make sense, after all it's not
all supposed to.


<|_=00=_|>

This is easily one of Adrian Lyne's best films.  Tim Robbins is excellent
and the visual affects were just awesome.  I saw this movie for the first
time in the theatre and it blew me away.  I've seen it many times after
that, purely for the visuals that were done so well.  The plot twists and
turns as it spirals downward slowly revealing the truth and keeps you
guessing all the way to the surprising ending.  This is a dark, violent,
beautiful movie that I recommend to all people who love horror, and just a
smart story that will keep you in suspense until the very end.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a superbly crafted film that transcends mere entertainment and
becomes an experience much greater than the sum of its parts. When you
watch this movie, you are unleashing a very powerful force that
short-circuits your natural ability to remain in control. It is like
hypnotism, you have no choice...you are unable to think, act, or even
believe apart from the intense feelings Jacob's Ladder inspires.

Tim Robbins is Jacob Singer, a warm and genuinely likable Vietnam
veteran who, in spite of earning a doctoral degree, chooses to find
employment working for the U.S. Postal Service. We learn in bits and
pieces as the plot unfolds that his service in Vietnam included a very
frightening battle, and the events set in motion on that fateful day
parallel what could be his descent into madness.

Jacob's life suddenly begins to resemble Hell. He is literally chased
by confusion, fear, and death, he sees unbelievably terrifying images,
has horrific experiences that whether real or imagined are too
frightening to bear alone. His only comfort comes in the form of the
woman he lives with, Jezzie (Elizabeth Pena), and his chiropractor,
Louis (Danny Aiello). Each of these people's relationships with Jacob
represent more than just the roles they fulfill in his life, they are
absolute forces at battle for his sanity, and possibly even his soul.

His torment begins to include the past as well, the undeniable love he
still has for his ex-wife and painful memories of his son Gabe, who
died tragically in an accident (played by a young and virtually
undiscovered Macauley Culkin). As all these elements of the past,
present and future collide in shocking hallucinations, Jacob slowly
begins to suspect he could be the victim of a secret Army drug
experiment gone terribly wrong.

With a haunted desperation, he embarks on a journey to find out what on
earth happened to him - only his visions / flashbacks / flashforwards
have become so delusional that reality and fantasy are hopelessly
interwoven and nothing is as it seems. All that is decipherable is good
and evil, life and death. And at the end of his nightmare, all he has
to do is choose.

That's all I will share of the story. I'm not going to do you the
disservice of spoiling the experience this movie is. Suffice it to say,
there is much more to know, and nothing left to tell.

Meanwhile, there is not enough that can be said of Robbins'
performance...although he has had better roles, never before or since
has he portrayed his own emotions so nakedly. This is director Adrian
Lyne's best by far, and by the way he's no slouch (Fatal Attraction, 9
1/2 Weeks).

This is not a horror movie as some may think, it is human drama
masterfully disguised as a supernatural thriller. The basic elements of
Jacob's Ladder have been plundered several times in recent years. We
have been suckered by flashy films with clever plot twists that cheat
us on story, characters, and technical excellence. This film delivers
all that and more. Movies like this are set apart from the rest of the
pack because you don't just watch stuff like this, you feel it too.
<|_=00=_|>

Jacob's Ladder is a masterpiece. Nothing less.

It has a highly intelligent plot though not difficult or artsy and is void
of cliches. It therefore confuses and aggravates many viewers and
professional reviewers always wanting a standard has-it-all Hollywood
outpouring.

It is so few films that leaves room for independent thoughts. Jacob's Ladder
tumbles your mind the same way a dream of your own does. I have never felt
this effect in a film so strong before. The images comes pouring in and your
brain tries to make sense of it. Whenever you think you have a grasp it
slides away again.

The brilliance of the progression of the story, twists and turns, and the
final explanation, so obvious but elusive as real dreams are, makes it on
par with the best of Kubrick.

<|_=00=_|>

I've always felt that this film has never gotten the credit or attention it
deserves. Along with the similary underappreciated Angel Heart, this film
creates a sense of dread and foreboding atmosphere that never lets up and
comes close to overwhelming the viewer at times.

Tim Robbins deliver possibly one of the best performances of his career and
all of the other cast is fantastic as well. The editing and especially the
cinematography are top notch and contribute greatly to the overall feel of
the film.

i won't go into any plot details since any revelations could ruin the film
for someone who hasn't seen it. but if you want to see a movie that will
genuinely freak you out and have you sleeping with the lights on, you can't
go wrong with this great film.

rating:9  
<|_=00=_|>
I remember viewing this movie a couple years back and I did not get a
lot out of it, I thought it was just too weird. In fact, I even wrote a
review of the film on here. I'm glad I gave it another try because I
really got a lot more out of it after the second viewing. Maybe it was
because my expectations of the film were lower or I have matured in
past few years. Anyway, this is a highly fascinating and entertaining
thriller about a Vietnam veteran who always feels like there is
somebody or something "out to get him". He feels this way because he
keeps seeing strange images and many people in which he comes in
contact with appear to have horns growing out of their heads and
whatnot. Him and his war buddies believe that these strange occurrences
are the result of something that happened during the war. The best
element of this film is its atmosphere and paranormal feel which will
really give you the creeps as well as have you guessing what the cause
of the strange occurrences that are affecting Jacob really are. Well
worth viewing, and if it doesn't grab you on the first viewing, don't
hesitate to try it again, you may enjoy it more. 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>

For several years, there's a very trendy cinematographic genre. This is the
"psychological fantastic". This genre is very successful as the movies: "the
sixth sense" (1999), "what lies beneath" (2000) or "unbreakable" (2000)
showed. All these movies must have been influenced by "Jacob's ladder". In
this way, you can regard Adrian Lyne's movie as a precursory and innovative
movie. Lyne achieved a masterstroke in an absolutely new genre for him. It
means that you're very far from the atmosphere of "9 weeks and a half" or
"fatal attraction".

"Jacob's ladder" is based on an outstanding screenplay including numerous
weird details that increase the spectator's curiosity. It's precisely with
the spectator that Lyne and Bruce Joel Robin, the scriptwriter play with.
They take a malicious pleasure in getting the spectator lost in a real maze
where seem to border dream and reality. Like Tim Robbins, you look for the
clue to the mystery. This clue may be the chemist which Jacob's meeting at
the refreshment bar truck. This chemist will lead the plot towards an
amazing conclusion.

In Adrian Lyne's movie, there's also a part of the fantastic genre that is
very well exploited: at first common and normal living conditions but that
are little by little overcome by the unreal, the strange and the
fear.

The movie also enjoys an outstanding performance to begin with Tim Robbins.
A brilliant success and a movie that deserves to rank among the ten best
fantastic movies of the nineties
