

Maybe I'm just stupid, but I love this movie.  I still remember when it came
out and maybe it's just nostalgia because I watched it so many times when I
was nine years old, but I still enjoy watching it.  It does a pretty good
job at catching the look and feel of the late 80s.  All the hairstyles and
clothing are pretty dated but to me, that's all part of the fun. 

It all starts when our guys, Richard and Larry, discover a $2 million
insurance fraud scam in their company.  When they report it to their boss,
Bernie (Terry Kiser) he seems grateful and invites them to his beach house
for labor day weekend.  As it turns out, Bernie is the one doing the
scamming and has hired a mob hitman to take them out.  Little does Bernie
know, that the mob has decided that Bernie has been a little too careless
and they have decided to take him out instead.  So, by the time Richard and
Larry reach the island, they discover that Bernie is dead from what looks
like a drug-overdose.  Instead of calling the cops, the less than bright
Larry, decides it better to pretend that he didn't die.  This will work
since all of the island partyers are pretty self-absorbed and clueless. 
This is where it starts getting funny.

Since the hitman is still on the island, he keeps seeing Bernie, who he
thought he killed and keeps re-killing him. It's hilarious, because the boys
really don't have a clue that the hitman is even around.  Watching them lug
a dead corpse around, making him look alive, is one of the highlights.  The
fact that all of the islanders believe he's alive is even funnier.  One of
my favorite parts of the movie was Andrew McCarthy's performance as Larry. 
His slacker part killed me and he has some really funny lines.  What ever
happened to him?  Jonathan Silverman also does a great job with an
underwritten part.  He plays the ulcer-bound Richard who SO tries to be the
moral center of the situation.  Terry Kiser is incredible, as always and he
plays a dead guy VERY well.  Some of the stuff that he has to do, I really
can't see anyone else pulling off as well.  My favorite scenes came when
Bernie was alive.  The guy is such an unbelievable jerk, he's actually fun
to hate.  

Ignore the other comments on here, and go get this one.  It's great for some
laughs and I STILL get a lot out of it everytime I watch it.  A great
semi-black comedy.  Go pick it up and look for the sequel.  I enjoyed it as
well, although not quite as much.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the funniest films ever made. Sure, it's stupid, and it
could
never really happen, but it is hilarious. The 3 main actors are great,
esp.
Terry Kiser (Bernie). The boat scene is the best. Anyone with a sense of
humor will love this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Weekend at Bernies! Sure it is dumb. But the comedy is so smartly done
that
it makes it hilarious. I for one laugh my butt off every time I watch this
movie. It is one of those movies that cheers you up if you are having a
bad
day. The duo of McCarthy and Silverman is almost flawless. They are
wonderful to watch. Together they almost remind me of classic pairs like
Laurel & Hardy or Abbot & Costello. If you just sit back and relax this
movie can really tickle your funny bone. It even might make you `drop dead
from laughing'. Oh.was that to corny.sorry. But honestly, this is a good
film. Give it a try someday when you have nothing else to do or are having
a
party. (But beware just rent this one. The second one, although it has its
moments, doesn't meet up to the original)
<|_=00=_|>

Many will say Weekend at Bernie's is a comedy, but is it really?  This
review will contain SPOILERS, so discontinue reading if you do not wish to
know the story.

The tragic anti-hero is Bernie, a man who seemingly has it all.  He has a
great NYC apartment, a house at the beach, a boat, a high-priced sports car,
women falling at his feet, and a great toupee.  He is the symbol of 1980s
material success.  Any of us would love to be in his position,
right?

Perhaps not, for all great tragedies possess a fall from grace.  Bernie is
successful because of his involvement in the NYC organized crime
underground.  This combined with his lack of self-control in regards to the
Don's girlfriend results in his untimely end.

The tragedy is this: in death, no one notices.  Bernie's supposed "friends"
continue to use his boat, party at his house, drink his booze, and yet no
one realizes he is dead.  The woman who indirectly caused his death defiles
and molests his corpse without noticing. This is an insult not only to his
person, but his sexual prowess as well.  It would seem Bernie lacked any
real emotional attachments.  Instead, he plunged himself into the seedy
world of 1980s materialism.  It was this world that would not only cause his
death, but would also insult his humanity through the implication that his
life was irrelevant.

Indeed, Bernie became in death what he could not attain in life, a hero. 
While dead, Bernie's corpse protects two losers from meeting their own
untimely ends at the hands of both the New York mafia and Neptune's realm. 
In death, Bernie was able to give pleasure to all those around him through
his possessions and, in the case of his girlfriend, his body.  However
philanthropy and necrophilia aside, all of these redeeming acts are
meaningless because when those around him find out that he is really dead,
some do not believe while others express shock.  However the shock is not
from losing a dear friend, but from the realization that they were too
absorbed in their material lifestyle to take notice of the recently
departed.

The tale of Bernie is a tragic one.  A man unloved in life and death, let
his story guide you.  For it is not the material success that brings one
happiness and love, rather it is the depth of friendship.
<|_=00=_|>

Hilarious, totally off the wall black comedy about two buddies (Andrew
McCarthy and Jonathan Silverman) whose boss, Bernie, has been bumped off
by
gangsters but whose death goes unrecognized the entire weekend by his
self-centered beach friends. Utterly tasteless, goofy, ridiculous,
wonderfully funny movie with loads of quirky characters. Andrew McCarthy
at
his most charmingly loopy and Jonathan Silverman terrific as his straight
arrow buddy. Great turn by Terry Kiser as  Bernie, who will not go away or
play dead. Ridiculous situations that are just plain fun to watch. A movie
to remember with delight and to enjoy at a repeat viewing.

<|_=00=_|>

"Weekend at Bernie's" is a hilarious film about two losers (Jonathan
Silverman and Andrew McCarthy) who stumble onto a plan by some unknown
person in their company to steal from the corporation.  They tell the boss,
Bernie Lomax (Terry Kiser), and it turns out that he is the culprit.  Now he
wants the two of them killed, but his wandering eyes make him the target of
the assassin.  Bernie invites the two losers out to his beach-house in the
hopes of them being eliminated.  However, he is killed instead and when
Silverman and McCarthy discover his body they pretend like he is still alive
so they can get the great weekend that their late boss promised them.  A
truly original idea carries this film which is sick in one sense, but
amazingly funny in another.  Silverman and McCarthy make a surprisingly
effective comedy team.  However it is Terry Kiser, in one of the most
under-rated roles ever seen during the history of the cinema, that makes the
film work as well as it can.  His uncanny ability to play a stiff corpse for
nearly the whole film is truly revolutionary.  If there was ever a
performance that was overlooked by the Academy, it may be Kiser's role here
(do not laugh).  Overall the film over-achieves and is well-worth watching
at least once.  3.5 out of 5 stars.         
<|_=00=_|>

This is a great "black humour" comedy - I gave it 9 out of 10. Judging
by the low rating most of the people here are giving it - they "can't
handle the truth". Maybe that's because most of the people are
constantly brained washed by Hollywood type comedies - sweet and
romantic or alternatively rude and full of body parts
/smells/sounds/etc. But wait - those comedies also have to "educate"
us, always at the end of the movie, with a "deeper message" - the
meaning of life, love, god, peace and happiness to all the world, blah,
blah, blah... So for those of you that have to have a deeper meaning -
did you noticed how many real friends, one that will noticed that he is
dead, for instance, Bernie had? Maybe life in the fast lane is not as
glamorous as it seems...

<|_=00=_|>

This movie is great from start to finish.
The characters are well developed and Andrew McCarthy(The Joy Luck
Club) and Jonathan Silverman(The Single Guy) play wonderfully off of each
other. The Dialogue was better then that of any modern made comedy I have
seen. This is a dark comedy but for the family which is something I have
never seen done before. This movie is unique and over the head of anyone
who
didn't like it. 
<|_=00=_|>

I first saw this film at about 2:00am one morning and knew that I had to
have it. Okay, so it's a one joke movie, but hey it is still incredibly
funny. It is a film that encapsulates the eighties and the two lead roles
are perfect. The actor who played Bernie's corpse deserves an oscar as
although he doesn't say a single word it honestly seems he is dead!!
Classic
moments include Bernie waterskiing and Bernie making love to his
girlfriend
(he is of course dead in both scenes.) A must for anyone who wants a good
laugh.
<|_=00=_|>

Lotta fun with McCarthy and Silverman as two guys who uncover a scam in
the
office.  They present the info to their boss who's so grateful he invites
them to his kick ass house for Labor Day weekend.  When they show up they
find him dead and decide it would benefit both of them to let the parties
go
on with everyone thinking Kiser is still kickin'.  Contrary to what most
say, the core of this film is not the dead body antics.  The real
attraction
here is the rappor between McCarthy and Silverman, who play very well off
each other because their characters are such opposites.  And occasionally
Kiser is thrown into the mix and the three make one of the more odder
comdey
teams.  When they do drag him along, its pretty good stuff, with them
trying
to fake everyone out that hes walking or waving.  And then the battering
of
the body, which is hard to not laugh at.  When Bernies being dragged or
bounced or dropped its perfectly silly.  Even before the main action
starts,
theres some good stuff in the beginning dealing with Silvermans love life
and McCarthys constant annoyance of him about it.  So at almost every
point
in the film theres usually something to laugh at.  
