
The eighties, the decade of ugly clothes and hairstyles, bad music and
easily forgettable movies. But there is one positive aspect about that
decade and that is Michael J. Fox. He's probably one of the few actors
who started his movie career at those days who I still admire. He's
still nice to watch, especially in light weighted comedies like this
one.

In fact, the title "The Secret of My Succe$s" already says enough about
what you can expect from this movie (also notice the little dollar sign
in the title), but I'll give a short resume anyway. It shows how
Brantley Foster, a talented and well-educated young man coming from
rural Kansas, goes to New York to find a suiting job and a nice
girlfriend. But he isn't very successful, no company wants to hire him,
because he doesn't have any experience. Before leaving Kansas for the
Big Apple, his father had bought him a return ticket home and his
mother gave him the address of his in New York living uncle, Howard
Prescott, just in case when he should need some help. But what Foster
didn't know is that his uncle runs a multi-million-dollar company. When
he pays him a visit, he gets a job ... in the mail room. But then he
meets Christy Wills, who happens to be one of the top executives.
Believing that the best way to win her over is by posing as an
executive, Brantley decides to take a position under the name Carlton
Whitfield and of course things soon start to get completely out of
hand...

I admit that this movie is as 'eighties' as you can get them. I'm
pretty sure that no-one of todays directors would be able to make it
exactly the way it looks, because they don't write scripts like that
anymore and there are no more actors like Fox. The man that comes
closest for this kind of role is probably Jim Carrey, but even then you
would get a completely different kind of movie. It's probably thanks to
Michael J. Fox, who is really very nice in this movie, that I forgot
about most of its flaws. Once again he's the boyish, sweet guy and
that's probably the best thing this movie has to offer. If it hadn't
been for him, almost no-one would ever have seen the movie or would
still remember it because the story isn't special and it's too typical
for that time period. 

All in all this is a fast-paced comedy full of typical eighties
clichés, but it works thanks to Michael J. Fox's performance and that's
why I still give it a 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Except maybe the red lamp on Michael J. Fox's table at his New York
appartement: it's totally Seventies.

This movie is a very light, very enjoyable, a veritable document of the
upbeat economic spirit that created the cesspool we're currently
swimming through. College boy from Kansas arrives at the big city,
loses his job before starting it, and still makes it big whilst
shagging the boss's wife while he's at it. Great use of Yello's Oh Yeah
track. Simply astounding cinematography.

And lots of Texas big hair.

Overall, a flashy, light, entertaining movie. Nuff said.
<|_=00=_|>

Very funny at times, serious at others... "The Secret Of
My
Success" starring Michael J. Fox is one of my all time
favorite
movies! J. Fox's acting is right on, and the other actors
are
great too! Fox plays two characters in this film; Brantley Foster and the
*made up* Carlton Whitfield. Brantley comes
to New York with the hopes of getting a successful business
career. He eventually gets a job  - as a postal boy! From
that
point, LOTSA weird things happen as he makes up an identity
('Carlton Whitfield') to get in touch with the other "SUITS"
(business men), and to find out more about this beautiful
girl
that he saw the other day. The character Melrose (John
Pankow
from TV's "Mad About You") is also very cool. He's Brantley's
co-worker at the post office. The character Vera made me
crack
up a few times too! I think this movie captures the vibe of
New
York. (Where the storyline is going down) If you get into
the
main character, it's almost like you're THERE, ya know? See this movie a few
times and you'll understand what I mean. The
film is backed up by some FANTASTIC music. The Soundtrack
is
really special! Songwriter/Producer David Foster is the music producer in
this picture, and he even made a hard rockin' song
with the American multi-platinum selling rock band Night
Ranger
(who by the way are BACK in the music world with two great
new
studio albums called "Neverland" and "Seven") for this
movie.
The song is called "The Secret Of My Success" and is the
film's
theme. I give this film 10 stars because it's such an enjoyable,
entertaining one!
<|_=00=_|>
Whenever I see groups of people in suits slaving away at their laptops
and wonder what they are doing, I am reminded of this film. The suits
who don't talk to the mailroom staff, whose ties cut off the flow of
blood to their brains, and who cut down the effectiveness of their
company are looked at with a jaundiced eye.

Is it possible for a someone from the mailroom to open up an office,
get himself a secretary, and start operating within the organisation as
a suit? It's ridiculous, of course. Utter fantasy. Or is it? I would
find it unbelievable, had I not witnessed for myself the kind of
conditions that would allow this sort of thing to happen in a large
organisation. I dare say anyone who had the nerve could do it.

Michael J Fox turns in a good performance as the protagonist. Fred
Gwynne is very photogenic, and Margaret Whitton is excellent as the
protagonist's leggy, amorous aunt-in-law.

This film is well worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>

What sets this movie apart from standard sitcom material are the acting
performances, tight scripting, funny sight gags, and great musical
score.

If you liked Michael J. Fox in "Back to the Future," you'll love him in
this
role. Much like BTTF, this is not a film to take seriously, but to enjoy
it
for what it is.

Which is a film that I can watch 100 times and never get bored of
it.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, Michael J. Fox stars as a Midwestern college graduate who moves
to New York City to conquer the business world. He is completely
unprepared as Brantley Foster. He is so desperate that he contacts a
distant cousin, Richard Prescott, for help breaking in to the business
world of New York City. Along the way, he meets his aunt Vera Prescott,
played by the delicious Margaret Whitton who really steals the show in
this role. He also falls in love with Christy Wills who works there and
is played admirably by Helen Slater. John Pankow plays the guy in the
mail room who helps Brantley. The cast is first rate but the writing is
somewhat mediocre material. It's a good entertainment with a first rate
cast and the scenes in the country are quite beautiful.
<|_=00=_|>
Brantley Foster (Michael J,Fox) is from Kansas, wanting to better
himself in the big wide world he hits New York hoping to make it big.
However, landing a job in the big apple isn't as easy as he had
thought. So turning to a tycoon uncle he literally doesn't know, he
lands a job the mail room!. From where Brantley leads a double life as
he creates Carlton Whitfield and sets about bluffing his way to the top
and into the heart of sexy executive Christy Wills (Helen Slater).

Michael J. Fox is on cracking comedy form as the young hero of this
1980s light comedy. It's the sort of 80s film that has managed to break
out of that decade and still be enjoyable in this latest, power driven,
age. The formula is safe and plays out as expected, and the soundtrack,
including notable movie riffs, adds to the high sense of energetic fun
on offer. Wafer thin plot be damned, Fox delivers on the star vehicle
promise and he in turn is backed up by a smashing turn from Margaret
Whitton. Silly, unadulterated fun it be. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

This is a typical role for Michael J. Fox as a young ambitious businessman
who leaves his Kansas farm for the big apple with a job lined up and he has
plans to make it big.  The movie was a big hit for Michael J. Fox and it is
a good movie but it is a formula movie where the good guy wins and you have
the typical misunderstandings, the farcical moments and double entendres
that are typical in such a movie.

It is funny overall but there is little that is laugh out loud funny.  This
is essentially a perfect movie to go along with Michael J. Fox's formula for
success at the time which was his boyish charm and know how on screen to
have the most appeal.  He plays the same character he did in Back to the
Future, but that one was better.  

The acting is as good as can be expected, Helen Slater does a good job as
the key love interest, Margaret Whitton does good as his aunt, John Pankow
is very good as his friend, Gerry Bamman does a nice job as his boss, but
there is one actor I should mention as well.  Richard Jordan was a great
stage actor who did many character parts.  Here he plays the not too nice
boss of the company where Fox works.  

I liked the message of the movie.  In the end you can see that people that
are rich and poor can live together, and you see someone can make it against
odds if they really want to, you also see corporate America in a not too
good light.  But one good message out of the film is that money does not
matter one hundred percent.  

We see this as Fox's character sets out to do nothing but make money and his
priorities change.  Fred Gwynne who many would remember as Herman Munster
has a very small part and should have been in it more.  Nonetheless he was
in a part with less than ten lines and got top billing.  This is a good role
for Fox he does a good job and make the best of at standard
script.
<|_=00=_|>
The Secret of my Success is one of my all time favorite movies. Michael
J. Fox and Helen Slater look very well together and I know no one else
could have played in the movie and looked that good. They played their
parts extremely well and I would recommend this movie to anyone looking
for a (romantic) comedy. I wish that the directors would have done a
sequel because I just couldn't get enough. I absolutely love this movie
and I have to watch it every time I see it on TV. My 6 year old
daughter really gets into the movie as well and says that she
absolutely loves the movie also. It is a great family film. Michael J.
Fox is just a wonderful actor and Helen Slater is great. I wish that
they would have done more films like this one and with these two
specific movie stars.
<|_=00=_|>
I assume it was the proliferation of Yuppies and the Me,Me,Me Age that
was responsible for the numerous 80s movies about the cutthroat
corporate life. 'Baby Boom' and 'Working Girl' are other titles that
come to mind. 

The Secret of My Success is a charming movie, though sometimes not a
very funny one. As one viewer wrote, it is likely Michael J. Fox's
innocent good-natured character that drives what might otherwise be
only a mildly amusing movie. Margaret Whitton and John Pankow (had he
not said 'suits' so many damn times) are pleasing secondary characters
as well, and a much needed counterbalance to the obnoxious characters
that Helen Slater and Richard Jordan portray. 

Brantley Foster (Fox), fresh off the Kansas farm, learns the harsh
reality of a business graduate's life when he travels to New York
expecting to become the next CEO of some company. Nevermind find a job,
he can't even seem to get past the interview stage, with one rejection
after another. And these are some of the funniest lines in the films.
Especially, when Brantley asks his interviewer how he can get
hard-nosed business experience if no one will hire him. "If we hired
you to get experience, you'd take that experience and get a better job.
If you'd joined our training program right out of high school, you
would've had a job today." Brantley asks, curiously, "Why did I go to
college." The interviewer laughs, "You had fun, didn't you?" 

Brantley decides to dial up some unknown uncle Howard, hoping to get a
job with his company in his last resort. And his first impression work,
landing him a job in the mailroom. But Brantely has his sights on
bigger, better things, and uses his newfound position to establish his
plan. That is, he is going to be the new great employee at Prescott's
employee, but as Carlton Whitton, a business mastermind. 

Trying to run one life is hard enough, and many comedic mishaps arise
when Brantley tries to maintain his own life and pose as Carlton
Whitton on a near full-time basis as well. He has trouble separating
the two, when he has to keep hiding Carlton Whitton from his uncle
Howard, who obviously knows who he is. He simultaneously has to hide
his true identity from a fellow coworker that he falls in love with
(Helen Slater). Add to the mix that Howard is having an affair with
Christy (Slater) and asks her to spy on Cartlon Whitton because he
suspects a spy within his company during rumors of a hostile takeover.
Can Brantley keep up with it all? It is the only way to prove to anyone
that he's not some dumb college kid. His success depends on it.

The movie is kind of funny, and pretty dated. Sometimes Fox's character
is too charming. He never seems to get too angry, even after figuring
that some people in the company were trying hard to screw him out of
his job (both as Carlton and as Brantley). But, his charm and some of
those strange mishaps (the sequence with the four characters at the
townhouse sneaking around at night is a nice arrangement) keep the
movie going. Best recommended for 80s fans or Michael J. Fox fans who
would mostly likely be immune to some of the films flaws.
