
I was introduced to Brian De Palma at the rather tender age of 7, when
I watched The Untouchables with my parents. My friend Nicky and I
enjoyed it immensely and found the rousing tale of Elliot Ness et al.
an absolutely brilliant cop v. robber/adventure movie. Until Tim Burton
released Batman in 1989, Untouchables was our game of choice and we
would re-enact the entire movie in my back yard after school.

But I'm supposed to be talking about Body Double... To make a long
story short, since I was 7, I didn't know who Brian De Palma was, nor
did I really care, so I went about my cinephillic youth without
completely immersing myself in his oeuvre. I caught bits and pieces of
it, encountering Scarface as a fourteen-year-old and finding it
laughable, watching Sisters with (how apropos) my sister before I went
off to college and finding it intriguing, and finally seeing Femme
Fatale when it was released a couple years ago and thinking it amazing.

So, as you can see, I grew into De Palma and, since watching Femme
Fatale, I've gone back and watched many of his films (even Phantom of
the Paradise, which was an epiphany - go see it immediately). I
re-watched Scarface, Carrie, Blow-out, Wise Guys, the Untouchables,
etc. and then this week I saw Body Double at the video store. The cover
art, which is horrible, drew me in. I said, Jason, that cover art is so
tacky and the movie is called Body Double, it must be awful. Flipping
the case over, what should I find? De Palma.

Oh my. I scooped it up then and there, went home, and popped it in the
player. How had I not heard of this film? Probably because 2/3 of the
natural world finds it a trashy piece of filth. I find it brilliant.

It is your typical De Palma suspense thriller. Riffs on Hitchcock,
beautifully fluid camera movements, sexual 'dysfunction,' an
exploration of voyeurism, Hollywood satire, a convoluted and
endearingly unbelievable story...

So why watch it? Because unlike most movies Body Double cannot seem to
take itself too seriously. Body Double moves forward with a straight
face but, as evidenced by the Frankie Goes to Hollywood video somehow
slipped into this film and an awful rubber mask, De Palma's tongue is
so firmly in his cheek it's liable to break through the skin. Could a
film that's credits hearken back to the EC Comics font really intend to
be taken seriously? No. Oh, and for you scenesters out there, QT may
have found inspiration for his first film's title in Body Double's
final scene which, you guessed it, contains both a reservoir and dogs.

And yet, although the movie on some level parodies the preposterous
suspense thrillers of yore, it also never condescends to them. De Palma
directs this movie with such glee and exuberance, that you know he
loves those types of movies (well, I mean if Phantom of the Paradise,
Sisters, and Dressed to Kill hadn't let the cat out of the bag
already).

Anyway, if you enjoy maverick directors unafraid of genre-pictures,
fun, and enormous drills, this is a movie for you. However, if you like
Lars Von Trier or other such beings who take themselves and their art
far too seriously at times, go elsewhere.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been a fan of De Palma long time and I just saw this one this
night. To my enjoyment, I had a few smiles, even laughters, intensity,
involving to the storyline, getting that suspense that is needed.

This movie is a perfect example to pull of what Hitchcock has done best
in "Rear Window" and "Vertigo". De Palma set up those two basic ideas
into a story that's really enjoyable and intense same time. Especially
when you are in the knowledge of the movies of the 40s and 50s and the
art of making a thriller you are just going to be pleased.

My guess is that De Palma made this movie out of pure pleasure, doing
all those great stuff with claustrophobia, sexual need, voyeurism,
grotesque murder, and most of all terrifying suspense.

The murder sequence was in my opinion of a well crafted exercise in
suspense. You fear, then you hope, then you try to guess, it goes all
right, then all wrong, the hero comes, it seems at right time, but
still too late, it all goes on and on and you can't believe it
happened. Loved and hated the sequence, for film-making and emotional
purposes.

Not the greatest, but definitely one of De Palmas best.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a terrific murder mystery / comedy / erotic thriller, and Brian
De Palma's next flick after Scarface. Let yourself go along with it for
a really fun ride. The style is tongue in cheek, masterful film-making
including the usual ballet camera work and wonderfully interesting
imaginative staging. It looks like everyone had a lot of fun making
this overlooked gem! The star, a young Craig Wasson gives an Oscar
caliber performance overlooked by all the critics. What gives with
this? Scorsese never won an Oscar for best director either, so the fix
must be in. He carries the entire movie and is in practically every
scene. An unbelievably great performance! This actor never made it big
to the big time, but if you want to see a terrific real actor providing
a stunning display of his chops, you must check this flick. Truly one
of the great murder mysteries of all time. A real find.
<|_=00=_|>

possible spoilers

I'm pretty sure that Body Double is one of the most misunderstood movies of
all time. Many people call it a tribute to Hitchcock, other people call it a
rip-off of Hitchcock, some people think it's a parody.... I think it's more
than any of those things, I think it's an analysis. A humorous, insightful
essay on Hitchcock... Kind of like something Godard might do, which isn't
surprising when you realize that Godard is also a big influence on De
Palma.
 

The distancing techniques employed in the film, the way he hams it up, the
scenes where the internal logic breaks down in obvious ways, like the
kissing scene near the tunnel, where the movie suddenly reenacts the famous
hotel kiss from the second half of vertigo, at a very unexpected time with
almost no set up to make the scene believable... All these things are
intentional, designed to let the audience in on the fact that this is not
just a straight forward movie (although it can be enjoyed that way). De
Palma wants the audience to have some separation from the story so that they
can look at the movie in a more critical way, and think about Hitchcock's
movies from a different perspective. These distancing techniques also allow
de Palma to get away with some pretty harsh/sleazy scenes, and that was
necessary because the analysis wouldn't have worked any other way.

This is basically De Palma saying, "what if Vertigo and Rear Window had a
baby, but the baby was born in the 80's and raised by a prostitute and a
murderous pimp." The result is a fascinating movie that stands up very well,
as long as you understand the intentions. If you take it the right way, it's
one of De Palma's very best movies.

As a big fan of vertigo and rear window (vertigo is my favorite movie of all
time), it was fascinating to me, to see De Palma, rework those story's,
twine them together, and put them in a different context. I really enjoyed
it both times I've watched it, and I'm pretty sure it's one of those movies
that will just keep getting better with repeated viewing.

<|_=00=_|>

I admit when I rented this movie, I did so just to get some cheap thrills.
I
was aware of the negative reviews from uptight critics who dismissed it as
sleaze, and to be honest, that's what I was in the mood for. Besides, my
curiosity was aroused. (No cheap jokes, please!)

To my surprise, this is actually a compelling, well-crafted thriller. Let
me
take it a step further. It's an improvement over DePalma's effective but
overpraised "Dressed to Kill." "Body Double" is actually
better-constructed
and better-paced. Perhaps the extremes of the film's content turned off
some
members of the critical community. And keep in mind that many of these
people loved Dressed.

However, if you can stomach some of the content (it would certainly
warrant
an NC-17 in today's climate), there's much to like here. DePalma's
approach
might be manipulative, but when he does so this effectively, it's hard to
complain. Technically, it's a marvel of film technique. Wasson's
claustrophobic attacks are effectively conveyed to the viewer. When they
hit
him, they hit us just as hard. The very ending, which I wouldn't dream of
giving away, is a work of pure genius. The infamous drill murder is a
terrific setpiece.

One aspect that interested me was its attitude towards porno. So-called
"dirty movies" are not condemned, but treated as simply being another side
of the film industry. It's not considered right or wrong; it's just there.
Such a nonjudgmental outlook is refreshing after hearing the tiresome
rants
of self-appointed "moral watchdogs." Likewise, there is a loving tribute
to
B-movies during the opening and closing credits.

"Body Double" isn't good art by any means, but it's good trash. Watch it,
and you will behold DePalma at his sleazy best. He makes no apologies for
what he does, nor would we want him to do so.

***1/2 (out of ****)

Released by Columbia Pictures


<|_=00=_|>
With Body Double, Brian De Palma has another of his "Hitchcock
rip-offs", but in quotes as it's the easy critical thing that's already
been said by others. The film is really a lot more cunning than that,
and has a level of cunning wit that one could more associate with De
Palma's early comedies that felt very much about skewering the style
being homaged as opposed to incurious methods. If one looks at it as
much as a big wink and a nod to films like Rear Window and especially
Vertigo, with a lot of direct jabs at Hollywood and the whole method of
acting and pretending, there's a lot on the table. It's also tasteless
in its outrageous depictions of sensuality and seduction, not just sex
which gets a lot of wicked moments that veer almost totally into what's
being made fun of, and has a huge "gotcha" ending that works
specifically for its shock value. It's own self-consciousness is a huge
asset, as when De Palma is at his best or at least most assertive, in
this case pushing the taboo of mixing regular dramatic fiction with
soft-core porno to a limit with glee.

It's not even that one can't take it sort of seriously as a work of
kind-of pop-art, as in taking in the outlandish brilliance of a much
better-than-average paperback book, because De Palma is on his toes the
whole time in crafting a melodramatic thriller. There's even an
experiment in tension which starts as an long homage to the 'following'
sequences in Vertigo, but then building to a high crescendo and then to
another. In fact, Body Double is silent for a lot of the time, but as
something that is worked into the main character. Craig Wasson is a
perfect foil for the events that unfold around him as the "witness" to
all that comes before his watchful eye in a befriended man's apartment.
In what is, to be sure, fairly typical material for the director with
the basics of the substance, the story calling back to Hi, Mom and
Sisters especially (hence as well the connection to the knowing dips
into comedy, of which both of those could be considered as), though
this time the 'hero' is a of weakling with panic attacks at the moment
to act, albeit already an actor. A murder is witnessed following a
pivotal plot point and high-flying moment of romance (again, calling
attention to its over-length), then the dive into porno comes around.

It's trashy, sure, but why shouldn't that make it more enjoyable if
one's to get the kidding and sharp sensibility after a while? Wasson,
looking a bit like a double of Bill Maher sometimes, has the expression
of terror in his eyes, and a kind of strange guts needed to pull off a
hilariously flawed pawn. De Palma also intentionally casts to type with
both women and the villains, one for each being more deceptive (i.e.
Henry's Brouchard and Shelton's Gloria, who are very much like "movie"
caricatures from the craftiest and most seductive of film-noir), and
with one 'villain' called the Indian, donning a face that's a riot just
to look at, who at one point engages in a murder including the most
blatant phallic imagery in any murder scene from the filmmaker. But,
again, it all works exceptionally for rhythm and a sort of momentum
build into even the smaller moments. As cheesily 80's as it is, I loved
the whole music video Relax, where occasionally as De Palma almost
makes us forget that a movie is being shot within this scene, the
camera shooting Wasson and Griffith comes into view in a mirror. But
that's just a sly joke, as opposed to the scenes where suspense and
humor get the back and forth treatment, where you aren't sure whether
to laugh or cringe or look at the screen through closed fingers peeking
out.

I can actually understand some of the negative criticisms of Body
Double. I probably wouldn't be so forgiving of it being so proudly
'B-movie' while appearing to be a big Hollywood crime-drama, if I
wasn't at least intrigued on the outset from the sensibility behind it
all. 'Guilty Pleasure' comes to mind as a defense, but I should digress
into what it really comes down to- either you'll go along for a De
Palma atmosphere that is wild and cynical and full of rough-edges, or
you won't. In other instances with the director I've gone for the
latter, but this isn't one of them. One of the best of 1984.
<|_=00=_|>

Sort of a cross between "Rear Window" and "Vertigo" but instead of James
Stewart we get Craig Wasson as a struggling actor mixed in with  some sly
jokes at the film studios, actors, and adult films. Visually very stylish
with hypnotic score.  Bizarre music video sequence is well done to the tune
of "Relax" by Frankie Goes to Hollywood.  If you can look past the plot
holes, it's an entertaining over-the-top effort from De
Palma.
<|_=00=_|>

This has to be one of my favorite films of all-time. I first saw it some ten
years ago and I still cannot get it out of my mind. It was in fact, the muse
for the future great film "Boogie Nights." It centers a masterful story
around the porn industry of Southern California during the early 1980's. It
mixes in excellent cinematogrophy with vivid sets and mind altering music.
It is as fun to watch as it is to listen to. The story grabs you early and
it does not release you till the very end. Mix in comedy, violence, sex and
drama, and of course, if Mr. DePalma is involved, you will have more than a
few twists (there are plenty). Melanie Griffith is hotter than hot! This
movie has it all, I really do love it.

The story involves an out of work actor who is down on his luck. He soon
becomes infatuated with a beautiful woman that he sees brutally killed by a
rather disfigured Indian character. Ahh, but things are not what they appear
to be. To give away anymore would deny you the fun and excitement that comes
with watching this brilliant film. Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
I am a Brian DePalma's fan. I love his style, his visual uniqueness,
his ability to grab me from the very opening of his films and not let
me take my eyes off the screen until the very last moment and even
after that keep me a captive of his dangerous yet seductive worlds. I
liked a lot every De Palma's film I've seen: The Black Dahlia (2006),
Femme Fatale (2002), Snake Eyes (1998), Mission: Impossible (1996),
Carlito's Way (1993), The Bonfire of the Vanities (1990), Casualties of
War (1989), The Untouchables (1987), Scarface (1983), Dressed to Kill
(1980), and Carrie (1976).

As with all his films, you either love "Body Double" and let its
typical De Palma's over-the-top charm, his mesmerizing beautiful camera
movements, his 20 minutes long, dialog-free pursuit sequence, his
intense interest in exploration of sexual "dysfunction," his constantly
present obsession with voyeurism, his satire on making cheap horror and
adult movies, and his loving yet humorous homage to several Alfred
Hitchcock's films overwhelm you or you just dismiss it scornfully for
its most impossible and unbelievable story, for the plentiful
coincidences and the holes in the plot, for the excessive violence, and
for its sensationalism and exploitation. I found "Body Double"
shocking, poignant, satirical, often hilarious, and always highly
entertaining. Once again, De Palma did not disappoint me. I figured
from the beginning where the story of a struggling B-movie actor (Craig
Wasson) with many problems (claustrophobia that cost him a part in a
horror movie, break-up with a cheating girlfriend, witnessing a
gruesome murder and becoming a possible suspect) would lead. It did not
stop me from enjoying the film and admiring De Palma's ability to trick
me not just once but many times by making me see what he only wanted me
to see, yet never hiding the whole picture and using to perfection his
magic camera that "lies all the time; lies 24 times/second". I believe
that De Palma himself has provided the keys to better understanding and
enjoying his films when he said, "My films deal with a stylized,
expressionistic world that has a kind of grotesque beauty about it."
All we have to do - to recognize the beauty behind the grotesque.

P.S. Melanie Griffith gave her best performance and stole all her
scenes as a hot blond smart porn star with "a head for business and a
bod for sin" who might help Jack to solve the mystery of the brutal
murder he had witnessed.

P.P.S. After I finished watching "Body Double", I added to my rental
list "Blow Out" (1981) and "Sisters" (1973). Exploration of De Palma's
worlds continues.
<|_=00=_|>
Brian De Palma's "Body Double" is an extremely entertaining thriller
which reflects the decade in which it was released by being full of
excess and completely over the top. The 1980s was a time when it was
often said that "if something's worth doing, it's worth overdoing" and
on the evidence of this movie, De Palma was clearly on message. The
plot contains numerous enjoyable twists and involves murder, voyeurism
and duplicity. It also, however, tests the boundaries of good taste in
the passages where it becomes particularly lurid and prurient.

Jake Scully (Craig Wasson) is a claustrophobic actor who loses his job
on a vampire movie because of his affliction and then returns home to
find his unfaithful girlfriend in flagrante delicto. This leaves him
without a roof over his head, but not for long, because soon another
actor offers him a house-sitting job. His friend also helpfully points
out an apartment close by where a beautiful woman performs a striptease
routine in front of her window every night at the same time. Jake
watches the nightly performances by Gloria Revelle (Deborah Shelton)
and after he witnesses her murder, becomes a suspect.

Jake soon realises that he's been set up and his attempts to find the
real perpetrator bring him into contact with a porn star called Holly
Body (Melanie Griffith) who has the information he needs to confirm the
killer's identity.

Brian De Palma is an exceptional talent who creates great visual
moments and skilfully constructs long sequences without dialogue which
brilliantly generate atmosphere whilst also moving the story forward.
His frequent use of Hitchcockian influences is well recognised and
"Body Double" is no exception. The plot has elements which are
reminiscent of "Vertigo", "Rear Window" and also to a lesser extent
"Psycho". The presence of doubles, disguises, women in danger, confused
identities, black humour and a significant amount of audience
manipulation are also additional influences from the same source.
Hitchcock's fear of being buried alive inspires a couple of scenes and
the inclusion of Melanie Griffith in the cast is an additional link to
the great director as she is the daughter of one of Hitchcock's leading
ladies (Tippi Hedren).

Criag Wasson is good as the confused and creepy Scully and Deborah
Shelton has a remoteness which fits in well with the dreaminess of some
of her scenes. Melanie Griffith is also bubbly and amusing in the
movie's strongest performance as she successfully brings to life the
full range of Holly's qualities.
