

This is one of my favorite movies.  I saw it years ago when it first came
out.

So many scenes and feelings from it have lingered on with me to this day.

Jon Voight gives us one of his most magical performances.  It is such a
shame we don't see him as much as we once did.  This is an actor who you
can
live through every emotion...and you know it is genuinely felt without
ever
falling below a level of human tenderness into anything
less.

I was particularly captivated by Marie-Christine Barrault and Roxana
Zal's
performances.    Robby Keger always made me smile - he played his
character
with such joy and love.  Son Huang Bui did not have enough to do but you
could see that he might have done well with an expanded
part.

Richard Crenna and Millie Perkins contributed their wonderful range to
round
out this wonderful cast.

I recommend this to anyone, without reservation.
<|_=00=_|>
If you've never seen, or even heard of this movie before you must give
it a chance. I saw this movie when it was new and I have never
forgotten how it touched me. It is a little dated now, but you forget
when you get into the characters and the plot of the story. Without
spoiling anything I must say that there is one scene where Mr. Voight
absolutely rivets you to your seat with emotion and it is very
memorable. Gets me every time. Richard Crenna has a most difficult role
as the husband of Jon Voight's ex-wife. You want to keep your sympathy
with Voight, but you understand Crenna's point of view as well.. I am
not aware if Mr. Voight was ever nominated for any award from his
performance this picture, but if not he surly should have been. This is
my favorite Jon Voight movie!
<|_=00=_|>

You'll miss the point if you dismiss this as another Lifetime soaper. There
is authentic truth, feeling and heart in this film if you watch it from the
top and stick with it.  Table for Five is an intelligently paced and
structured story both men and women will relate to.  A failed divorced
father (Jon Voight) has been replaced  in the lives of his ex-wife and
children by a more well-heeled step dad (Richard Crenna). The biological
father (Voight) is allowed to take a two week Mediterranean cruise with his
three pre-adolescent kids - the first time he's spent an extended period
with them in four years. His failings as a father soon become apparent days
into the cruise, but tragic events transpire that challenge him to ante up
for his kids in ways he could never emotionally risk before.

A powerful film about fathering, Table for Five contains two of the ten
best
hours of Jon Voigt ever released on film - an outstandingly nuanced
performance. The kids, especially Roxana Zal and Robbie Kiger are
precociously honest actors. And dig the talent on the other side of the
lens. Vilmos Zsigmond (Deer Hunter etc) is director of photography, Michael
Kahn (editor on almost all Spielberg pix since Close Encounters) did the
cut. The screenplay by David Seltzer (Lucas) gives the actors and the
audience everything they could want from each character. Robert Leiberman's
patient blocking and direction allows all the principal actors time to
develop each scene. Professional all the way. A 9.5 out of 10, with only a
half point deducted for a few somewhat slick TV-ish shortcuts in the
production and a hammy helicopter dolly up. But, make no mistake. This one
is not to be missed. Enjoy!


<|_=00=_|>

John Voigt is at his best in his role as a divorced Father who all but
abandoned his children.  A lovely Mediterranean cruise is a short
reunion but fate enters the story.  The children are excellent actors
and Richard Crenna as the stepfather married to John Voigt's ex
wife plays a sympathetic role.  A part time girlfriend of Voigt's fills
out this character study of people in crises trying to handle it well.

It is a touching, well crafted and well acted movie and not dated at
all in spite of l983  production.  I give it an 8.
<|_=00=_|>
Jon Voight is an actor whom I have never quite decided about. And, in
this film he demonstrates why. There are occasional scenes I just don't
buy, and other scenes where I think he is quite remarkable. This film
and "Conrack" are my two favorite Voight performances, and I think it's
because in both he plays against the character we usually think of him
being.

I enjoyed this film when I first saw it back in 1983, and was pleased
to see it out in Blu Ray now (in 2017) from Kino-Lorber Video. However,
the film suffers a bit from deterioration, and it is particularly
noticeable in the most dramatic sequence in the film. That is not to
say that you shouldn't buy or watch the film...it is still very
enjoyable...but you may find it a bit distracting.

In this film a "part-time father" (Voight) decides to take his 3
children (2 are biologically his, the third is adopted) on a trip to
Egypt and other places via a cruise ship. He learns (once again) that
maybe he doesn't have what is needed to be a real father. During the
cruise he learns that the children's mother (his former wife) has died
in a car accident. Should the children go back to their step-father
(who loves them; played by Richard Crenna), or should he try to gain
custody of them? Key here are the performances, particularly of the
children. Ronana Zal as the daughter is superb. As is Roby Kiger as the
young son, who suffers from a learning handicap. Son Hoang Bui is the
adopted son, and he seemed a little stiff here. Richard Crenna, who was
generally quite a good character actor in his more mature years, wasn't
as impressive here as I have sometimes seen him. However, it's a very
controlled performance and he manages to not come across as the heavy.
French actress Marie-Christine Barrault as a sort of combination
love-interest and friend-life-coach does nicely.

I still like this film, just as I remembered liking it 34 years ago.
Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Table for Five is a sweet, nuanced melodrama that flies under the radar
and offers a heartfelt depiction of a man who is trying to set his life
straight in the eyes of his children. Some people may dismiss this film
as another Lifetime film, while others may find this to be a moving
tear-jerker. I seem to be in the latter category. The film is edited
and written well, thus making for a good, intelligent film. 

This film is about a father named J.P who is seen more as the friendly
uncle. In order to change that view, he gets the permission from his
ex- wife to take his three kids on a Mediterranean cruise where he
finds out if this will be the best thing to happen to him.....or the
worst thing to happen to him. 

Jon Voight delivers a heartfelt performance as J.P as the father who
means well, but doesn't live up to expectations of his family. Richard
Crenna delivers a good performance as J.P ex-wife's new husband. I also
like the performances out of the children whom as first-time actors,
were actually worth rooting for. 

Overall, Table for Five may not be the best drama film you'll see, but
it still is a powerful piece of work that rings a true message about
change and love. Like the movie itself, all the performances are
heartfelt and meaningful. This may not be everyone's cup of tea, but
it's certainly a film that flew under the radar and one that needs to
go over the radar. 

My Grade: A-
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed this movie overall. It took a while to really get into the
flow of the story but it represented well what absent parents endure as
children become distant and alienated. Especially if you've ever been
unfortunate enough to experience a heartbreaking divorce you should pay
close attention to the pyramid scene where John Voight speaks to the
children about what causes families to break apart. And if you've also
lost regular contact with your kids the pyramid scene as well as
several other scenes will likely bring tears to your eyes. But it's not
all about sadness and a broken home; it's also about how one can
restore relationships through determination and should never give up
hope.
<|_=00=_|>
I first saw this movie when I was 15, and just saw it again over 20
years later. The movie still resonates with me after all this time.
Children of a divorce who are trying to get to know their distant
parent, and parents trying to get to know their children can appreciate
the emotions each character is going through. I can also appreciate
that the father is trying to be a good father but doesn't know how. His
intentions are well meaning. The relationships between he and his
children are realistic.

For those of you who rent from Netflix and read that the co-star is
Kevin Costner, you will either be disappointed or happy to see that he
has only an extra part, barely recognizable today! I recommend this as
a good family film, especially for divorced families.
<|_=00=_|>

While this may not initially seem like a movie that would draw audiences
(the one liner/high concept of an absentee divorced father left to care for
his children after his ex-wife is tragically killed sounds like a downer),
the versatile David Seltzer has written a poignant, compelling, dynamic and
very real film.

Everything about the film seems credible and Voight really turns in a
fantastic performance, as does the supporting cast.
<|_=00=_|>

I liked the way this movie showed a father's love. And the kids were great
actors, It showed Jon Voight in his good looking days and the countries
that
they went to were awesome. But no offense but the movie is a little bit
two
long and it might want to make you want to watch something else.. I had to
watch it in 2 parts on Showtime.. but it is a good movie nonetheless. and
the ending? well i'm not going to spoil it for you but you have to see for
yourself why i comment on it so.
my rating for this movie I give it a 6.. it would have gotten an 8 but it
is
kind of slow.. 
