

This film is the work of the auteur Wynorski who has a distinctive visual
style that is a favorite of the academy.  Eye Candy Hall of Fame inductee
Traci Lords plays a live-in nurse to an eccentric millionaire with a rare
blood disorder.  However, this recluse is actually an alien scientist
intent
on saving his dying planet by harvesting human blood.  It is up to our
heroine to uncover the truth and save mankind while wearing a bikini.  Ms.
Lords is the first inductee to be honored for actually wearing something
(that wonderful blue bikini).  This must cap Ms. Lords film career; she
began as a Porn star legend, became of legal drinking age, quit that biz,
and became a B-movie actress.  The auteur Wynorski does have two brief au
naturel scenes of Ms. Lords but we still harp on that bikini.  In the
Wynorski style he does provide some other actresses to show their ample
talents such as Becky LeBeau, Roxanne Kernohan, and Ava Cadell.  While not
a
classic, it does have a few "eye candy" moments worthy of our mention.

<|_=00=_|>
'Not of This Earth' is a quickly made, low budget, R rated, sci-fi
movie. It's made very much in the style of the B movies of the 50s and
60s except for the R rating. The R rating comes from several scenes of
topless women and some sexual activity. The star of the film is Traci
Lords in her first role in a non-porno film. It is also supposedly the
last time she appears topless in any film. I'm sure this is one of the
big attractions of the movie to a lot of viewers. She did surprise me
though by her acting. It really wasn't bad. There are several scenes
that were put in the film of other topless, big breasted actresses.
These scenes weren't really necessary to the plot but I doubt that many
of the male viewers will voice an objection to them. At the beginning
of the film while showing the opening credits, there are a lot of
exciting scenes shown quickly. These are not in the movie. Don't expect
to see them again. Although this is not made clear or pointed out, they
are from other films. It still is an interesting and fun movie and has
some pretty good scenes of it's own. The film has plenty of mistakes
and bloopers to look for that were left in due to the low budget. I saw
this on a DVD that also had a version with commentary going through the
film with you. I found it very interesting and recommend that you watch
this commentary version after watching the movie. 'Not of This Earth'
is a fun movie that combines some light comedy, horror and sci-fi. The
movie is not meant to be taken too seriously. It's best viewed by a non
critical eye with the intent of just having a good time. This can be a
really enjoyable and fun modern B movie if watched in the right frame
of mind.
<|_=00=_|>

Truly stunning how such a cheap & rubbish plot can provide such a good &
entertaining movie!
The answer to this lies in the great performances of all main actors
involved: Arthur Roberts, Traci Lords and Lenny Juliano. Each of them
adapting very well to the sinister touch of this movie, each of them
contributing to it. Their performances get extra depth by the down-to-earth
play by Ace Mask (doctor) and Roger Lodge (policeman). Also added are a
touch of sex and humor (birthday girl).
As I said, the overall result is downright good. More so, 'Not from this
earth' is a great B-movie.

<|_=00=_|>
An alien race, dying from radiation in their blood, send an emissary to
Earth to find out if transfusions of human plasma might be a cure for
their affliction; if the plan is a success, the aliens intend to launch
a full scale invasion and harvest the human race for their life giving
juices.

As I have stated before, Jim Wynorksi might not be much of a director,
but he sure knows his stuff when it comes to bimbos, and wisely opts to
fill his films with busty babes. In Not Of This Earth, a trashy remake
of Roger Corman's 1957 sci-fi classic, good old Jim surpasses himself
by giving my favourite adult movie star Traci Lords her first non-porn
role as a nurse employed by the alien to perform regular blood
transfusions; with her scorching, curvaceous bod, magnificent pout, and
surprisingly decent acting skills, blonde sexpot Lords turns an
otherwise very humdrum sci-fi flick into an eminently watchable affair.

Of course, this being a Wynorski feature, which really is only a step
up from porn anyway, Traci still gets to regularly show us her goods:
she gets nekkid for a bathroom scene, saunters round a pool in a teeny
blue bikini, wears several other very revealing outfits, and indulges
in a spot of (non explicit) rumpy pumpy. Also adding to the T&A tally
are Rebecca Perle as a big breasted alien, Becky LeBeau as a big
breasted strippogram, and Roxanne Kernohan, Ava Cadell and Cynthia
Thompson as big breasted hookers. Big breasted B-movie scream queens
Monique Gabrielle and Kelli Maroney also make brief appearances, but
both keep their tops on.

In addition to all the boobs, there is some hokey sci-fi action
featuring cheapo special effects, a little bit of poorly executed
murder and mystery, and some unintentionally funny extraterrestrial
dialogue, but honestly, who really gives a damn about any of that
rubbish with all that quality skin on show?

4 out of 10 for the film, plus 3 more points for a naked Traci.
<|_=00=_|>

this is a really fun flick-very funny and sexy and chockablock with busty
babes and bad gags. good old fashioned sleazy entertainment! the kind of
goofy nudie that cormans cohorts used to make all the time-shameless
swiping
of other flicks and making sure nekkidness is the norm. including the last
time traci lords was nude in a film! also check out ava and becky's cameos.
a must see for all pc hating heteros!
<|_=00=_|>
Never trust movies that show clips and fragments of exciting gory
killings and slimy monster action during the opening credits. It
certainly won't mean that you're about to witness this, or any other
exhilarating gore, footage in the main feature. This is just another
shameless gimmicky trick of the legendary B-movie producer Roger Corman
to promote his other work. The credits contain footage of classic
Corman produced trash, like "Humanoids from the Deep" and "Forbidden
World", but furthermore there's no added value to it. "Not of this
Earth", the first of two remakes of Roger Corman's own late 50's
quickie with the same title, is a fairly charming Sci-Fi flick that
completely exploits (and I'm very grateful for it) the ravishing body
curves of former adult film star Traci Lords. Sleazy perverts as they
are; producers Roger Corman and director Jim Wynorski grab every
possible opportunity to slide the camera down Mrs. Lords' tantalizing
body and obviously there are numerous completely gratuitous nudity
sequences of herself as well as of others voluptuous soft-core starlets
like Rebecca LeBeau, Roxanne Kernohan and Ava Cadell. Traci stars as a
lurid private nurse giving blood transfusions to the mysteriously
behaving Mr. Johnson. He turns out to be an alien scout on a mission to
collect earthly beings – preferably prostitutes and stripper girls with
massive racks – and send their blood through to another dimension in
five different phases, or something like that. Admittedly I wasn't
continuously paying full attention to the plot, but I blame Traci
Lords' revealing outfits for that. "Not of this Earth" is an
insignificant 80's Sci-Fi film, but nonetheless charming and cheesy
enough to entertain fans of the genre.
<|_=00=_|>
Remakes can't be all that bad… as in 1957 Roger Corman brought us the
b/w low-budget sci-fi classic "Not of this Earth". Director / writer
Jim Wynorski would convince Corman to allow him remake it (and just
under a decade later another remake of this tale came on the scene).
Where the film would gain much attention for and eventually become a
cult favourite would be the bold casting of the highly delectable Traci
Lords in her first major feature film. Don't let it fool you that she
started off in porn films (and infamously being underage too), because
even here she shows how much of a talented "actress" she was. Truly
committed to the material (despite the daft nature), but Wynorski also
took advantage of her risqué image to show off her titillating body and
she wasn't shy of it either. She truly played it up for the camera.
Lords is excellent in her portrayal as headstrong nurse Nadine Story
who's hired by the very strange Mr. Johnson to perform his blood
transfusions. There's something that's not quite right, so Nadine
begins to investigate as secretly her boss is a space being looking to
see if his dying race could survive while harvesting off the fresh
blood of the human race.

This snappy, sexy contemporary late-night b-flick revamp is a complete
blast from start to finish. Even though its low-budget restraints show
up, it doesn't get in its way and director Wynorski keeps it
economical, without losing any of the old-fashion enthusiasm (just
listen to that spaced-out music score). Even with its sleazy jabs
(leering topless female shots) and jarring jolts (some ghastly attack
scenes with some slasher traits to them), beneath (just remember what
decade it was made) it still had the spirit and atmosphere of those
old-school sci-fi horror outings Corman was churning out early in his
career. Special effects are cheap, but crisply done for its minimal
approach and so were the optical effects. The silly material keeps it
rather tongue-in-cheek, plenty of wisecracks with biting dialogues and
some amusingly noticeable in-jokes especially regarding Lord's porn
past. The acting fairs up. Arthur Roberts is effortlessly good as the
expressionless Mr. Johnston --- with those glowing blue eyes under the
shades and the sensitive hearing. Lenny Juliano, Ace Mask and Robert
Lodge are amusingly acceptable. Other than Lords, there's plenty of
buxom ladies showing up; Monique Gabrielle, Ava Cadell, Cynthia
Thompson and Rebecca Perle. Also the perky Becky LeBeau is quite
memorable and furthermore looking good in a nurse outfit is Kelli
Maroney.

I was amused by the oddly placed collection of clips from Corman
produced features that showed up in the film's opening intro.

Gimmicky, but fast-moving and campy b-fun.
<|_=00=_|>

This was a cheesy remake of the cheesy original "Not Of This Earth".
They seem to have kept the plot and most of the dialogue intact while
throwing in a lot of large-busted topless nudity. All that made it
memorable
for me was Traci Lords starting a "legitimate" film career after fooling a
lot of people for a long time. While she's no Meryl Streep, she has talent
and an undeniable screen presence. I think her previous career has limited
her opportunities....but without it, how many opportunities would she have
had? Back to the movie...I think they had fun making it, and left in some
bloopers for viewers to find. Look for the scene where a car door is shut
and you can see one of the crew, holding a boom mike, reflected in the
shiny
metal.
<|_=00=_|>
Alien(Arthur Roberts), from a nuclear devastated planet, needs blood
not only to keep himself strong, but for his people from home as war
ravishes there. He brings in nurse Nadine(Traci Lords) to apply
transfusions often so that his strength will remain. His eyes glow so
he has to keep a pair of shades on unless retrieving the life force of
victims..he also uses mind control over the inferior humans who are
weak against his power. He has a blonde servant, known for his criminal
activities, named Jeremy(Lenny Juliano). Nadine's boss, Dr.
Rochelle(Ace Mask)is a mind control victim of the alien's and does as
he wishes. If anyone even mentions his name as a possible suspect in
the rash of crimes taking place, where corpses are being drained of
blood, Rochelle will not implicate him. Various bimbos become victims
as Nadine, her cop boyfriend Harry(Roger Lodge), & Jeremy begin to
suspect their wealthy employer, Mr. Johnson being his disguised earth
name, may be..Not of This Earth.

Johnson keeps a gateway housed in his study which works as both a
portal between worlds and a telecommunications device to his leader.
Soon Johnson discovers that he'll possibly not be able to return home
when a female alien passes through the portal to earth informing him
that a bimbo he sent was crushed during the travel. Needing blood, the
female alien is accidentally given blood, through a transfusion
conducted by Johnson, infected with rabies that sends her into a
violent frenzy wiping out a group of punks and hunting/executing an
innocent woman. The discovery of the female(..coupled with Nadine and
Jeremy's snooping) could lead to the revealing of Johnson's true
identity.

To be honest, my true recommendation towards others is seeing Traci
Lords in various states of undress or wearing dresses and/or skimpy,
scantily-clad clothing that reveals her magnificent body. She's
undeniably a sexy woman who does a capable job in the starring role
opposite the stone-faced Roberts as an emotion-less alien killing
machine, while Juliano as the slimy Jeremy, with a thing for
Nadine(..who could fault him for that?)is a hoot. The special effects
sequences at the front are really not needed and rather detract from
the rest of the film which has nothing to do with those images of
various alien monsters terrorizing. There are a number of spirited
weirdos who often frequent director Wynorski's trashy pictures. But,
Lords is the film's highlight, ESPECIALLY in that blue bikini. As
Lodge's cop Harry pronounces as she walks away from him.."Phew, have
mercy." Have mercy is right!
<|_=00=_|>

Not of this Earth is actually a really good b-movie.  Im not a movie
critic,
so i dont know what actually constitutes a good movie by their standards
but
I do enjoy watching movies and telling about them.  This movie is
guaranteed
to keep you entertained.  the acting is really quite good, as well as,
Traci
Lords is super hott and has a great body.  I think i like her better in
actual movies.  plus Lenny Juliano plays a good part in this flick.  In my
opinion he is a great character actor, he brings just enough comedy to
every
movie to keep you paying attention to him.  I believe this is one of Jim
Wynorski's best movies.  but this is definetely not a movie for children.
Its not scary or gruesome but there is a good bit of nudity and sex
scenes.
I rate this movie at least a 7 out of 10. 
