

Oh Lord, did I enjoy myself watching this film!  Gary Busey plays a guy
who
apparently cannot be harmed by bullets, or by much of anything, although
he's just some guy with no immortal powers.  He falls off haylofts, gets
chained to giant wheels and rolls down hills, runs a very comfy looking
army
tank, and plays the tenor saxophone.  Too much goes on to list, but the
world's greatest and most enigmatic insult, "butt-horn", is coined, making
this easily the most important film of the century.  I insist that you
purchase it.
<|_=00=_|>
This film may be full of plot holes, and it may be cheesy, but as an
80s action flick, it sure is entertaining.

First, you have Gary Busey, fresh from his role as Joshua on Lethal
Weapon. A one-man army (Can you say Rambo?), he manages to avoid the
fire of numerous machine guns and win with his six shooter. He even
faces a Russian General in one of those big bad helicopters that Rambo
faced in Rambo II.

Also featuring Henry Silva, a man I love to hate in a movie.

But, the best of all, Danny Trejo. I would watch him paint a room. Too
bad he doesn't last long.

Also featured was Lydie Denier, winner of a "Miss Legs International"
pageant, but we didn't get to see those legs in her bathtub scene. We
had to settle for the top half of Lydie. But, not to worry, she shows
them later.

Bulletproof (Busey) heads to Mexico to rescue a prototype tank with the
help of the last woman that wants to see him - Devon (Darlanne
Fluegel). Of course, they make up. They whip the terrorists, the
Mexicans, and the Russians. All in a day's work.
<|_=00=_|>

This film quite literally has every single action movie cliche and all of
them work to its advantage.
Straight from Lethal Weapon Gary Busey wisecracks, shoots and chuckles
through this film with such reckless abandonment it can't help but amuse
and entertain.
There are tanks, helicopters, machine gun battles, grenades and ice cream
vans and if they aren't good enough reasons to watch this film then how
about the best one...Danny Trejo. And if you don't know who Danny Trejo is
then you probably won't like this film. 
<|_=00=_|>
"Improbable Odds. Unstoppable Force." I know it might seem hard to
believe, but there once was a time when Gary Busey had a boyish charm
and could have been an action star and wasn't known as a crazy guy and
late-night comedian punchline. To witness this prime Busey, simply
check out "Bulletproof" (not to be confused with the 1996 film where
Adam Sandler shoots people).

Busey plays Frank "Bulletproof" McBain, a rogue, but lovable cop on the
edge. He's teamed up with the original Blacula himself, Thalmus
Rasulala. One of McBain's talents is he is able to withstand being
shot, and he saves all the bullets he's been shot with in a jar in his
bathroom. Meanwhile, somewhere in Mexico, a terrorist network of
"Mexicans, Nicaraguans and A-rabs" are all working in collusion to take
over the world using a supertank called the NBT-90 Thunderblast.

The evil Colonel Kartiff (Silva) and General Brogado (Rene Enriquez)
are heading up the operation, so Special Ops Military Adviser Sgt.
O'Rourke (Jones) and army officer Devon Shepard (Darlanne Fluegel) go
south of the border to investigate. They, along with some of their army
buddies and a group of priests and nuns are kidnapped and held hostage
by the evildoers. Only one man can save his compatriots (and Devon, his
long-lost love)...MCBAIN of course! And did we mention there are also
evil Russians McBain has to stop? In the 80's, you couldn't be the hero
in an action movie and not be wisecracking. Most of Busey's lines are
snappy one-liners, such as "what's this Tonka toy?", "I'm a one-man
suicide squad!", and he even pioneered his own insult - the immortal
"Butthorn". He inexplicably says this word THREE times during the
movie. I guess it didn't catch on.

There are some sensitive flashbacks, and Devon even says to him "you
may be bulletproof but you're not love proof". The movie on the whole
is fun, upbeat and there is plenty of humor. Henry Silva plays an
Islamic extremist, and the enemies are "communist-inspired terrorists".
I guess it was pretty ahead of its time.

Surely this was one of the only times Fred Olen Ray (who wrote the
story) got a movie released by a major studio. What would the world be
like today if all his movies were? A movie highlight is when Busey is
tied to a big circular thing that looks like a huge cheese wheel. Watch
out for this scene. So if you want to see a movie where Gary Busey is a
lovable supercop and ladies man, and before he was crazy (well, really
crazy) in a movie with plenty of heart, sax solos and blow-ups, and a
mixed bag of world villains, this is the movie for you.

For more insanity, please visit: comeuppancereviews.com
<|_=00=_|>
Frank "Bulletproof" McBain, a "one man suicide squad", is needed by his
country, an LA Cop reinstated into the military to take on a most
dangerous mission..to recapture a commandeered supertank equipped with
impressive armor and weaponry, not to mention rescue his former
girlfriend, Captain Devon Shepard(Darlanne Fluegel, pretty awful, but
also rather amusing in how she sneers and spits venom at arch-nemesis
Silva).

With Henry Silva and William Smith as two of many B-movie heavies Gary
Busey will have to encounter if he is to succeed in his mission. This
is the kind of action film I enjoy wholeheartedly. It has a ridiculous
premise where one man, in this case the awesome, one and only, Gary
Busey, is able to infiltrate enemy lines(in this movie, Mexico)and
eventually get his hands on the Thunderblast(the boy in me grinned ear
to ear when I first heard what they named the tank)which, sufficed to
say, does some serious damage to the terrorists. 

I would love to know the body count for this movie, because McBain
certainly leaves quite a many scumbag Commies dead before all is said
and done. You also have a delightfully slimy René Enríquez as General
Brogado, Silva's superior, and Juan Fernández as Pantaro, the
executioner who relishes gunning down American soldiers, under the
command of LQ Jones(as Sgt. O'Rourke), in cold blood. RG Armstrong even
shows up as Miles Blackburn, the one responsible for forcing McBain
back into action. 

If you are gonna start an action film, I prefer the way BULLETPROOF
does, with Busey, and his poor partner(who just wants to call back
up)halting a gun smuggling operation in progress with plenty of gunfire
erupting, leading to an ice cream truck(used to carry the smuggled
weapons!)tipping over and exploding. As you expect, done in flashback
of course, Busey is haunted by a partner's accidental death, at the
hand of Smith. Danny Trejo has a small part as one of the gun smugglers
who attempts to stop Busey from arresting him, by firing a machine gun
out the back of the ice cream truck at him while he was in hot pursuit. 

I'm a strong supporter in opening a loud, dumb action flick with a
reckless cop(with a death wish, it seems)exchanging rounds of
ammunition with criminals resulting in dead bodies and explosions. You
get the hilarious, but so stupendously radical, scene where Busey is
bound to a wheel which is sent turning down a hill thanks to a grenade
triggered by Fluegel, saving him from being Juan Fernández's target
practice. Or, the town showdown as Brogado's militia, with something
like four tanks and an endless supply of Arabs, against the
Thunderblast which decimates everything in sight. Silva and Fluegel
have spirited spats with one another(you gotta love Silva who snarls as
well as any hissable villain)with the Captain getting even with him
towards the end(he rapes her, determined to prove his point that all
women are to respect him). 

But, it's all about Busey..who gets to slide into the "one man army"
role, and this fan, for one, had a grand old time seeing Gary at play.
Busey sure seems to be having a ball as the hero, more often than not
he's the one as a villain, not vice versa. 

Hilarious how the Thunderblast can withstand not only four tanks and
constant missiles, but also a Russian helicopter(a Soviet Mi-24 as
mentioned by Busey while the Thunderblast is under assault by the
aircraft machine) as well..we sure made one hell of a really impressive
machine, this supertank. The plot and characters are silly, so if one
enters BULLETPROOF expecting anything other than goofy action fare with
tons of violence, you best stay as far away from this flick as
possible. An 80's action movie after my own heart, it defies logic
almost at every turn..as these movies are supposed to do, when Silva
and company have Busey right where they want him, instead of shooting
him immediately, they postpone which leads to his inevitable freedom
from their clutches.
<|_=00=_|>

Here's another 80's, one man army action film's, and this one's just as
entertaining as the other's.  It start's off like LETHAL WEAPON, with Busey
and his by-the-book black partner on a steakout at a warehouse, and then
turns into another RAMBO style film with Busey being assigned to save
hostages from commie bad guys in Mexico.  Of course, Henry Silva plays the
villain, and does his usual good job at it, and there are many familiar
faces in this movie and you'll have fun recognizing the actor's in this you
have seen elsewhere.  This is a pretty dumb movie, but it's also fun and
enjoyable and I recommend it to fans of one man army action movies. 
3/5
<|_=00=_|>

Move over, Rambo, there's a new one-man-army in town... and he knows how
to
play the sax. That makes him a real deadly enemy!

Gary Busey, one of my favorite B-squad actors, is Frank "Bulletproof"
McBain, an ex-CIA agent who can't be harmed by bullets and likes to give
his
foes weird names like "Butthorn" (I guess that's a softer version of the
word a##-hole!). He uses big guns, plays the saxaphone, and really whups
the
crap out of his enemies. Oh, and he gets the chicks, too. I know, this
film
sounds really derivative and ridiculous at first, but if you have the
right
patience, you could wind up enjoying this film. Busey is a great actor
because he's the kind that can portray any character. For example, in
"Lethal Weapon", he's a sleazy villain, and in "Bulletproof", he's an
all-out, gung ho hero. His ability to play any man is what really
impresses
me the most. If you want to see Busey as a dirtbag or a psycho, watch
"Lethal Weapon" or "Under Siege", or if you like to see him as a
womanizing
or wisecracking good guy, either "Bulletproof", or "Point Break" are your
choices. 
<|_=00=_|>
Lame brain story and messily energetic plotting, but "Bulletproof" is
so much fun absurdly so. Forget the nonsensical narrative; watch it
for the mayhem, explosions, gunfire and Gary Busey going about his
business while calling his enemies a "butt-horn". Yes that's right,
"Bird season's over butt-horn"! Dynamic and noisy from the get-go and
what a way to introduce Busey's unstoppably grizzled character Frank
"Bulleproof" McBain. Watch him remove bullets from his wounds and then
add them to a jar. Hey its no action masterpiece and it predictably
recycles itself, but this crackling rough b-action joint delivers the
over-the-top goods and director Steve Carver (who directed two great
Chuck Norris' ventures; "Eye for An Eye" & "Lone Wolf McQuade") just
knows how to capably package it all up. Tough exchanges, sharp, if
pulpy dialogues, grungy setting with cheap looking props (the rolling
wheel scene involving great dummy work was side-splitting, so was
Silva's reaction to it) and a frenetic pace that never lets up. Even
there's time out for some heartfelt flashbacks; Busy and a saxophone.
Simply smooth in presenting a broken man. 

While the names and faces of familiarity do show up. How can you go
wrong when you have Henry Silva, Juan Fernandez, William Smith and Rene
Enriquez adding spice and maliciousness to their villainous roles. You
got Cuban, Libyan and Russian terrorists all rolled into one. Talk
about an aimless bunch though I lost count how many times they had a
chance to take out their man even with an onslaught of ammunition. Who
to save the day; "Bulletproof" McBain with Busey's charisma on
overload. His mission; make his way to an Mexican village near the
Texan border to retrieve a stolen American top secret attack vehicle
code named Thunderblast (truly a space-age looking piece of machinery),
which is just as bulletproof as McBain. Silva cheerily hams it up, but
it's Smith that packs the venom despite the short time he spends on
screen. Typical textbook bad guys, doing the bad guy shtick. Also
popping up is the beautifully impulsive Darlanne Fluegel whose
character shares a past with "Bulletproof" McBain. L.Q Jones, R.G
Armstrong, Luke Askew, Lincoln Kilpatrick and Mills Watson make up
solid cast. In very small parts are genre favourites Danny Trejo and
Cary -Hiroyuki Tagawa. Another interesting name to find itself attached
to the credits; low-budget film-maker Fred Olen Ray put pen to paper to
co-write the story. 

"You might be bulletproof, but I'm just human".
<|_=00=_|>

I had such high hopes for this movie when I discovered it. Not only
does it star my favorite actor of all time (Henry Silva), but it serves
as the vehicle for Gary Busey's ill-fated and misguided debut as an
action star! Unfortunately, I was pretty let down by the time the end
credits rolled. The only redeeming aspect of this dated movie is the
first half-hour, which is a pathetic attempt to mimic Lethal
Weapon-styled buddy cop movies. Like many other action flicks starring
big ego second-tier stars (Steven Seagal being our number one offender
here), they really try to build up the main character as a
devil-may-care indestructible ex-CIA supercop who all the bad guys know
about. Notice during the ice cream truck chase when the villains have
this exchange after they pound Busey's car with bullets:

Villain 1: I think we blew him off! Villain 2: You don't blow up a dude
like McBain!

The story is pretty lame once it gets going. McBain is hired by the
army to retrieve a tank named "Thunderblast" (!) that seems to be some
armored afterbirth of the Reagan-era military buildup. Henry Silva's
role is pretty wasted as a Libyan colonel who is working alongside the
Commies. Aside from the hilariously bad first half hour and the
introduction of the word "butthorn" into popular lexicon, Bulletproof
is pretty much a waste of time.

<|_=00=_|>
There's uber cheesy 1980s action nonsense and then there's
"Bulletproof". This thing is so utterly daft it may lead one to believe
that the filmmakers had their tongues in their cheeks to some degree.
It's cheerfully dumb fun that should have viewers busting a gut, or
shaking their heads at the ridiculousness of it all. The good guy is a
seemingly indestructible goof ball and the villains are all pure one
dimensional scum - not that that's a bad thing. In movies like
"Bulletproof", that's what you hope for. There's plenty of explosions
and plenty of gunfire; this may be stupid, but it sure as hell ain't
boring.

A lively, hilarious Gary Busey is cop Frank "Bulletproof" McBain, so
nicknamed because of the amount of bullets that his body has taken (39
and counting). He keeps these souvenirs in a mason jar in his bathroom.
He's forcibly pressed back into service by the military after they've
*deliberately* allowed a super duper tank of theirs to be snatched up
by terrorists. McBain, almost a one man show, takes on all comers,
including a Mexican creep named Brogado (Rene Enriquez of 'Hill Street
Blues'), a Libyan goon named Kartiff (a priceless Henry Silva), and a
Russian thug played by the eternally bad ass William Smith.

Director Steve Carver ("Big Bad Mama", "Lone Wolf McQuade") was an old
hand at action by this point, and he keeps this patently absurd story
moving right along. The cast is full of familiar faces, so buffs can
have a good time playing Spot the Character Actor; Thalmus Rasulala
("Blacula"), L.Q. Jones ("The Wild Bunch"), Mills Watson ("Cujo"), R.G.
Armstrong ("Race with the Devil"), Luke Askew ("Rolling Thunder"),
Lincoln Kilpatrick ("The Omega Man"), delectable Lydie Denier ("Satan's
Princess"), Juan Fernandez ("The Collector"), Redmond Gleeson
("Dreamscape"), and the great Danny Trejo all turn up as well. Smith
and Silva are delicious in their roles; one has to hand it to Silva for
having his swarthy villain act down pat after so many years of
practice. "In my country, women have RESPECT!" Lovely Darlanne Fluegel
plays McBains' former flame, one of the Army personnel who've been
captured along with the tank.

One need never worry about having to tax their brains when it comes to
entertainment such as "Bulletproof". It's an absolute hoot from
beginning to end.

Eight out of 10.
