
Okay, the plot sounds ludicrous, doesn't it? A giant killer pig?
Despite the apparent ridiculousness of the plot, this movie is better
than one might expect.

Beth Winters, a Canadian reporter, has come to the small Australian
Outback town of Gamulla to shoot a story about the local dog food
packing plant, which uses the meat of poached kangaroos in its product.
When Beth disappears one night, her husband Carl arrives to find out
what happened. Beth apparently ran afoul of the psychotic Baker
brothers, who work in the plant. But crusty old Jake Cullen soon learns
that Beth was a victim of a giant razorback, the same one that carried
off his grandson years before and which he has been hunting ever since. 

The Australian Outback becomes an almost alien world - desolate,
strange and scary where any form of undiscovered life might exist. You
don't get to see much of the giant pig, admittedly, but then they
didn't have CGI back in the early 80's. The real menace of this movie
lies with the kangaroo poachers, two brothers who reek of malevolence
and filth all the way through the film. They were truly terrifying, and
the insane laughter of David Argue (playing younger and more dangerous
brother Dicko) still haunts me to this day. 

Worth watching at least once.
<|_=00=_|>
Razorback is one of the best Australian horror/action movies ever made.
The direction is dazzling, the cinematography is truly remarkable and
the cast is brimming with quality actors. Mysteriously, no one seems to
care.

There is no denying that Razorback's basic plot premise is pretty
ridiculous. In short, a giant boar (a Razorback) goes on a killing
spree in a small outback town. This is about as unlikely as a giant
shark terrorising swimmers ("Jaws") or a wet Japanese woman climbing
out of a television set ("The Ring"). My point is that even the most
ludicrous storyline can be overcome by excellent film-making and this
is certainly the case with Razorback.

Razorback was the film that launched Russell Mulcahy's film career
after making a name for himself directing music video clips for AC/DC,
Queen and Duran Duran. Razorback reflects the same sensibilities that
Mulcahy brought to his best video clips: frenetic pacing, flashy camera
angles and stylish visuals. These qualities are almost disorientating
during the film's action and horror sequences, making them all the more
suspenseful and eerie.

Mulcahy's dizzying direction combines brilliantly with Dean Semler's
superb cinematography. Semler seems to thrive on barren landscapes and
he captures the harsh beauty of the Australian outback magnificently.
The scene with the wooden horse bobbing up and down on the salt flat is
mesmerising, as is the entire sequence of Carl hallucinating in the
desert. Put simply, Razorback is one of the most beautiful horror films
not made by an Italian giallo master.

The cast is equally accomplished, offering a smorgasbord of excellent
Australian character actors. Judy Morris ("Phar Lap") does well as
Beth, not being hampered too greatly by an American accent. Bill Kerr
("Gallipoli") seems to have appeared in every second Australian movie.
He has one of his best roles as Jake. Chris Haywood ("Muriel's
Wedding") is also memorable as the ultra vile Benny. American import,
Gregory Harrison, does respectably as Carl and the late Arkie Whiteley
is sweet as Sarah, a woman who inexplicably monitors boar movements in
the middle of nowhere.

The special effects still hold up reasonably well and the creature
effects for the Razorback are great. I love the close-up of its eye in
the finale. There is not much gore, but what the film lacks in blood,
it more than makes up for with constant action. Razorback begins with
an action sequence and simply never lets up. There are car chases,
kangaroo shootings, beatings, home demolitions and that just covers the
first half of the film. Razorback is not a particularly scary film, but
it compensates for this with eerie atmospherics and relentless tension.

In addition to the fine film-making, I also enjoy Razorback for its
political incorrectness. The outback characters are arch stereotypes
and just about every animal in town comes to a violent end. Benny and
Dicko even run over Jake's dog for fun, which would be unimaginable in
a film made today. Furthermore, the irony of an animal rights activist
being eaten by a giant boar was not lost on me.

Razorback is an excellent genre film that deserves much wider
recognition. I wish the Australian film industry would make more films
like this. If Russell Mulcahy's upcoming "Resident Evil" instalment
does well, he should consider making the long overdue sequel to
Razorback.
<|_=00=_|>

Judging by the external reviews, quite a few people appear to hate this
film. I can see
why, but I think they're coming at it from the wrong angle.

I see it as - intentionally - trying to send up the whole genre of
vengeful
animals horror
flicks. In truth, neither sharks nor grizzlies, and certainly not
razorback
hogs, are smart
enough to conceptualize, let alone carry out, acts of vengeance on
humankind. The film
simply takes the "rules" of this particular genre and applies them to a
ludicrously unfit
vehicle: a giant pig. And there are some pretty funny scenes, notably one
where the
monster eats a nasty watchdog that's chained to the side of a house;
naturally, the
corner of the house to which the chain is attached comes off and Joe Couch
Potato is left
sitting in a wall-less abode, staring quizzically as his television
disappears into the
outback.

Treat it as comedy, and the film makes a lot more sense.
<|_=00=_|>

Call me stupid, but this is actually one of my favorite horror flicks.
The
story's about a giant wild boar munching on Aussies in the outback. Our
hero
goes in search of his wife...she's missing out there.
Many interesting ideas come forth in this movie. I especially like the
kangaroo killing brothers Benny and Dicko (hehe). The way the movie
portrays
them is interesting, contrasting the life of the outback trash to the
much
more civilized life of Bill, the hero. I also enjoyed the use of weird
settings(the desert with that "horse") to create atmosphere.
Overall, I enjoyed this flick a lot, and I think most horror fans would
if
they look beneath the seemingly ridiculous plot.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those film that I decided to track down and buy because
it was such a hoot. Great atmospheric scenes, a bit of gore and plenty
of humour. I love it and I only paid £4.32 incl postage !

There's a lot of tricky night-time filming and very realistic killer
pigs - if that hasn't hooked you then I doubt this film is for you. If
you liked American Werewolf in London, get this and you won't go wrong.

I don't want to be accused of padding but do an internet seach and you
will always find great ratings for this film - it just seems to slip
beneath the radar for most reviewers which is a shame because it
deserves to become a classic for all the right reasons. Please add your
comments if you agree - but remember to make it at least 10 lines OK
<|_=00=_|>
Razorback marks one of Australia's only successful forays into the
horror genre, but it's certainly not without it's critics. It's
negative reaction isn't unfounded, as Razorback is badly acted, has a
trite script, utilises any number of clichés and has an overall 'deja
vu' sort of feeling; but in spite of this, it still succeeds in being a
fine piece of entertainment. A wild boar isn't the first animal you
would think of to star in it's very own creature feature; but the idea
actually works quite well, and it makes a nice change from the usual
barrage of sharks, crocodiles and whatnot. This feature is also notable
for it's special effects, which certainly aren't groundbreaking - but
it ain't half bad either. In films such as this, it's usually shabby
effects that end up letting it down; but the creature in this movie is
surprisingly realistic! The plot is a familiar one, and it basically
follows a gigantic wild boar that's on the loose somewhere in
Australia. It's not exactly intelligent stuff, but it's a lovely
premise for a fun ride.

The film is directed by Russell Mulcahy, and it was made a year before
he would have his big hit with Highlander. His direction is solid
enough, and it's notable for the way that he captures the locations
within the Australian outback. Some of the shots are truly
breathtaking, especially the atmosphere ones that are filled with
smoke. One thing you will notice about the plotting of this movie is
the way that it swaps through different characters for it's main
protagonist on numerous occasions. This is both a help and a hindrance
to the movie as, on one hand, it ensures that the film stays lively and
exciting; it also restricts the viewer from placing their confidence in
the character as we don't get to spend a lot of time with them, which
hinders it when it comes to the tension building sequences. This also
makes the plotting of the movie inconsistent, which certainly isn't a
good thing. One thing I love about Australian cinema is the way that it
captures the accents and dialect, and this film is no exception to that
trend. It's a lovely tongue to listen to, and that helps to make this
movie more of a pleasure. On the whole, this film won't win any awards;
but there's worse ways to spend ninety minutes of your life.
<|_=00=_|>
One striking shot follows the next in this monster B-movie, and the
overall tone of the visuals is beautiful, I think. And there is some
thick, intense atmosphere. In those departments it's so stunning that
the many flaws can't ruin the film. The acting is OK all in all but
there are some moments that make you want to put your head through the
next wall. The action scenes and especially the ones with the
razorback, a huge boar, are more or less comprehensible in that you get
the basic idea of what's going on but all the crucial scenes happen
between cuts, so the editing is jumpy, kind of like a TV edit. The
worst example is the movie's finale and the destruction of the monster,
which after an exhaustingly loud, dark, monotonous battle between man
and monster plot-wise also ends on a ridiculous and schmaltzy note and
so the film leaves you with a bad aftertaste. But those visuals, man,
those visuals... It's kinda like a more extreme 'Alien³'. Worse plot,
more stunning visuals. What else could I do but consider this a new
B-movie favorite?
<|_=00=_|>
"Razorback" perfectly captures the dirty, malevolent underbelly of
outback Australia by mixing "Jaws" (on land) with "The Texas Chainsaw
Massacre". After a Canadian reporter (Judy Morris) is slaughtered, her
husband (Gregory Harrison) arrives in Oz to search for her killer. No
points for guessing that her killer is a giant, mutated boar who has
also, quite recently, dragged the grandson of a local kangaroo shooter
into the night. Although the sweaty boar is a considerable threat, he
pales in comparison to the threat presented by two deviant locals
(David Argue and Chris Haywood). The boys, who are brothers, work in a
hellish pet food factory which resembles the subterranean underworld
depicted in Tobe Hooper's "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2". These
colorful miscreants/part time Roo shooters live to rape, kill, and
abuse two-legged and four-legged creatures, and provide "Razorback"
with a welcome spine of pitch black humor. Directed by rock video ace
Russell Mulcahy (his feature debut), this is a B-grade winner that
boasts some of the best photography (courtesy of Dean Semler) ever seen
in a horror flick. The giant pig (by "Brain Dead"'s Bob McCarron) is
seen intermittently and is not always totally believable, but the
film's pacing and bloody surrealism more than compensate for this
deficit. The score by Iva Davies is superb and the bloody attack
sequences, especially in the uncut version, hit the bullseye.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked the fast pace of this movie, and the grim atmosphere, greatly
enhanced by the stunning photography: the world down under reduced to
it's most barren and desolate face, soaked in weird colors and ghastly
mists that seem to hide all kinds of unearthly terrors.

The acting is a bit uneven, the ladies are just adequate, the two
sinister brothers are tremendous and the leading male (Gregory
Harrison) is like a math teacher turned into a hero despite himself.
But somehow Harrison pulls it of, he actually has enough charisma to
stay believable unto the orgiastic and a bit over-the-hill ending,
which is an achievement in it's own right.

On my DVD there was a bonus feature with a very interesting
audio-interview with Harrison, who gave some fascinating insights on
the making-of and on his becoming involved in the project, as well as
on his own career. But why on earth not a VIDEO-interview, or an actual
comment-track along with (parts of) the movie, now one has to listen
for half an hour to a voice while watching an empty screen, that seemed
like such a waste!! I would have liked to see what Harrison looked like
nowadays (he sure was good-looking back in 1984, and I bet he still
is!). 

Anyway, in this movie he did a great job, very physical indeed, for
instance the whole section of him wandering endlessly through a
sun-baked wasteland on bare feet, or falling out off a wind-mill into
shallow water while (real) razorbacks crowded in on him, or personally
fighting the monster on some kind of assembly-belt. According to his
own words he suffered multiple minor injuries during the shooting and I
can easily believe that. When in the end he has destroyed the beast and
he stands up victoriously soaked in blood, it must have felt like a
victory to himself too.

And what about the ferocious monster, the giant razorback?? Well, as
long as it stays in the distance, or stampedes through the image so
that the camera hardly catches up with it, it's convincing enough: big
and ugly and menacing. But when at last the close-ups can't be avoided
anymore, it quickly looses it's credibility, as in so many pre-CGI
movies, it then comes mainly down to a big hairy flip-flapping jaw and
rolling eyes. To me that diminished a bit the supposed horror of the
otherwise breathtaking climax.

All in all this movie is great entertainment, with many very memorable
scenes. I rank it 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
In a small outback town a child is carried off by a massive wild boar,
but the grandfather who was looking after the boy gets accused of
killing the youngster. He tells that of a gigantic wild boar killed his
grandson, but naturally the town's folk won't hear any off it. But in
the trail there wasn't enough evidence to convict him so he's
acquitted. Next a American female reporter who's an animal rights
activist goes down under to get some interviews with some kangaroo
hunters, but instead she comes face to face with the rampaging boar and
disappears. The locals believe that she must have fallen down a mine
shaft, but her husband Carl thinks otherwise and heads to Australia to
dig up any dirt to what really happen.

Da Da.. Da Da dadada... Get out of the water! Oops, wrong film. Sorry
about that as I just couldn't get that Jaws theme out of my head.
"Razorback" is what you can call Australia's answer to "Jaws", but
instead this one is on land and we get one angry looking boar
terrorising locals and out-of-town visitors. The two films do share
some similar characteristics, but while "Jaws" plays it mostly serious
I found "Razorback" the opposite. Well, it would be hard to get anyone
to take the story seriously because of how ridiculously stupid it is,
but that doesn't stop this stylishly, grim shocker from being
entertaining. Well, actually that wasn't the case on my first viewing
of this flick as I wasn't particularly smitten over it. Maybe I was in
a grumpy mood at the time, but on this occasion I enjoyed the silly
experience far more. 

The premise might cross into "Jaws", but the beginning also adds to the
story - Australia's most infamous case of the baby that was taken by
dingo, which still causes controversy today. The fella who penned this
particular film Everett D Roche is probably Australian's most prominent
screenwriter in the genre with such films like Patrick, Harlequin and
Road Games under his belt. While, the story might be highly derivative
there's enough imagination and excitement in spots to keep it from
being uneventful. But there's one thing I can say about this production
is that the thick style is all over thin substance. Who you can thank
for that is a music video director making his debut in films - Russell
Mulcahy (Highlander, The Shadow). He brought to the table an atmosphere
that was visually stunning with its sprawling, desolate backdrop that
has never been so eerily caught. Well lately, "Wolf Creek" did a good
job on that aspect. But here there's a surreal quality about it with
it's vibrant colour scheme and blanket of mist. The lighting
composition is well staged with a visual goldmine exploding on screen
with the spectacular shots of the horizon. The vacant outback simply
spills off the screen that you just think that it's such a great
backdrop for a horror flick. The expansive camera-work is swift in it's
movement by capturing every frame with a certain amount of panache and
the odd inventive angle and POV shot. The electronic score is
effectively worked into the piece along with hissing sound effects that
added even more to the unsteady, dreamlike texture. 

Since there is not much in the way of surprises, director Mulcahy ups
the thrills and action in such an unyielding fashion to set the film
alight. While, the gore might be lacking, the deaths are unpleasant and
also thrown in some animal cruelty. What was surprising is that the
since the spot light is basically on the mechanical boar - it doesn't
look too bad, well towards the end it might lose some of the effect it
created early on. But I have seen far worse. 

The performances are tolerable enough even with some eccentric yahoos
who generated some agreeable humour. The script is purely senseless
dribble, but there's some dry sarcasm, thick slang and a laid back
attitude that works its way in because of the culture. Gregory Harrison
is passable as Carl Winters. Bill Kerr is excellent as the stubborn
boar hunter Jake Cullan who has a chip on his shoulder and who's
crusade is to get the giant pig. Arkie Whiteley is lovely Sarah Cameron
and Judy Morris is decent as Beth Winters. But the most memorable
performances is the cheerful maniac brothers Benny and Dicko who are
marvellously played by Chris Haywood and David Argue that add the wild
and wacky feel to the flick.

A highly spirited and trashy Australian knock-off that goes down well
with a few cold ones.
