

Leviathan is one of those underwater scifi-movies wich were made
1989.
Abyss was a success with all that fantasy it included, but Leviathan and
for
example Deepstar six never made it to the stars. It just wasn't the right
moment. Leviathan was made with good budget, average actors(Peter Weller,
Richard Crenna and so on) and with professional director(George
P.Cosmatos,
who made wonderful job in Tombstone 1993).
So what went wrong?
Personally I liked the movie, because it had a good plot, lots of action
and
little humour there and there. I liked it, let's see if you like it!

<|_=00=_|>
This movie is always going to be compared to Deep Star Six and The
Abyss, because all three films came out at the same time. It is an
underwater "Alien" movie, but it doesn't rip off The Abyss, which came
out third of the three and none of them did any real business.

Anyway, this movie was one of those films that is engrossing in the
theater and transfers very poorly to television and video. I would
venture a guess that a wide-screen DVD version may be able to pick-up
most of the considerable detail that was placed into this film. The
acting is not awful and the story is well-paced, which is a step ahead
of the other two 1989 underwater movies. This isn't Shakespere folks,
so don't expect it. A little more polish to the script would have
helped this movie greatly, but it is a fairly B horror flick so it was
expected.

The cast is Weller, Hudson, Crenna, and Pays doing their things. They
don't exactly phone it in, but they aren't expected to deliver that
many lines convincingly anyway. Whatever happened to Amanada Pays?
After seeing this I thought she had a chance to break through, but
instead she disappeared.

The setting and special effects are the keys to this one, though.
Visually, it is as tough as they come. Like I wrote before, stick to
the DVD version, because I already know the VHS version stinks because
it is so cloudy and out of focus. Watch the DVD and I can almost
guarantee that you will find this movie to be better than you have been
lead to believe by others.
<|_=00=_|>

The first half of "Leviathan" is competently made and surprisingly
absorbing, with strongly drawn characters and good acting all around. In
the
second half, the film degenerates into an "Alien" rip-off (and later on, it
even steals a classic scene from "Jaws"), with derivative special effects
and too many familiar elements. But it is saved (and gets 6/10) by
Cosmatos'
professionalism; he certainly redeems himself here for making the
absolutely
terrible "Cobra" three years earlier.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is an obvious Alien copy, only that it's settings have
changed from outer space to under water.

In my opinion, '80s was the decade of low for good sci-fi movies. There
were many really bad B sci-fi made during that time. But this is one of
the few well made movies from that era.

If you're going to be cooped up in a small area, you might as well be
with sexy good looking people like they did in this movie. 

I liked the scene where "doc" just went right into the shower stall
where Bowman was taking the shower, just saying "Bowman, it's doc".
Doctor's privilege ?

I don't have much bad things to say about this movie except that in my
opinion, they spoiled the movie at the last scene where the creature
comes to the surface. The creature looked so fake that I think it
destroyed the good image of the movie.

So asides from the ending, the movie was very well made, and was
entertaining to watch.
<|_=00=_|>

Spoilers...

The crew of an underwater research lab fall victim to a mysterious genetic
mutation 
after two of its members drink a tainted bottle of liquor taken from a
russian shipwreck.  
One by one, the crew are "contaminated" when they encounter the ever
mutating 
monster derived from improperly disposed of bodies of the original two
infected crew 
members.  Once a member of the crew is attacked, they become part of the
monster.

Perhaps ironically, the film itself is a bit of a hybrid mutation, borrowing
story elements 
from the Alien film and its genre, as well as "The Thing", especially John
Carpenter's 
version.  Like Alien, the creature stalks those inside the underwater
complex through its 
maze of dimly lit, high-tech looking corridors, crawl spaces and labs.  When
the crew 
learns of a bogus cover story about their supposed deaths in the news, they
realize the 
corporation they work for has lied to them about a rescue (the good doctor
has supplied 
them with enough info) and struggle to survive while look for a way out.

The characters are believable enough, especially Richard Crenna who does a
good job 
playing the role of crew doctor who begins to unravel what's going on.  The
creature 
effects are very well done and they're shown just enough (until the
laughably predictable 
ending with its [intentionally?] humorous borrowing from Jaws ) to build
terror.  There is 
a sub-genre of underwater movies just like this one, but for some reason
none seem as 
tightly wound and enjoyable as Leviathan.  Perhaps because of the cast (and
there are 
two beautiful actresses in this one) or the sfx, none linger in the mind
like this one did.  
A fun rental for a rainy day.

<|_=00=_|>

Honestly, that's the line that seems to be running through Richard Crenna's
mind throughout this flick. As if he can't imagine why he is in this
pic.

Basically, Leviathan is probably the best of the '89 glut of
aqua-horror-action movies. It's made on a decent budget (unlike DeepStar
Six) and doesn't have bloated pretensions of greatness (unlike The Abyss).
It's got a decent cast (hey, Hector Elizondo is a class act!) who seem to
know they're not making a classic here, but are willing to give it their all
for what is basically a cheesy horror flick.

The plot also seems to at least bother to explain itself (unlike DeepStar
Six, there' s an explanation for the monster). The cast is likeable (Peter
Weller's another can't-miss sort of actor). I wouldn't give it high marks,
but it's competently done.
<|_=00=_|>

Leviathan is one of those films that has "rip-off" written all over it. 

Alot of it you've seen before in better films.  The most obvious comparisons
being Alien ( several isolated crew members, the dubious doctor, the suits
etc.) and of course The Thing (a gooey monster spawned from human beings, it
getting to the blood supply).  
I've viewed this one a few times and although it is an inferior movie it
does have some pretty neat special effects, a recognizable cast and a decent
music score by Jerry Goldsmith.

Not a total wet squib - it certainly has its moments.
I'd give it 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember watching some talk show where the host and another character
went deep sea diving and mentioned a movie that had deep sea diving
where they all die at the end. I recalled it as The Deep, so I saw that
movie at Wal-Mart for 10 bucks, so I bought it and found a rather dull
wreck-diving movie. So I asked my dad "What's the movie where they all
die at the end?" he said "Leviathan I think." So years went by, I am
once again at Wal-Mart and saw this film for 6 bucks and it immediately
reminded me of that conversation. So I read the synopsis, saw that it
had Peter Weller and Ernie Hudson, directed by George P. Cosmatos who
directed one of the greatest westerns ever made; Tombstone. As well as
this being a deep sea horror film, very few of those exist so I was
intrigued.

What I got was a movie that was so blatantly ripping off 3 other movies
it was nearly insulting. I can forgive a movie that has lame special
effects because it's old, but this was made in 1989, that's not that
old! The first creature we see, is seen scuttling across the floor,
however it's 8 legs didn't move at all. Alien was made 10 years before
and it's special effects still stand up against most of today's films!
The movie takes most of its "inspiration" from Alien, including some
almost frame for frame identical shots. They even have the only black
character as the mechanic. (Yaphet Kotto as Parker anyone?)Lets see who
else we can compare to...Peter Weller as Tom Skerrit's character
Dallas. Richard Crenna as Ian Holm's mysterious scientist character
Ash, also combined with A. Wilford Brimley's character from The Thing
in terms of cutting off the crew from being rescued...the list goes on.
There's the flamethrowers of course, from both movies yet they do
almost nothing against a SEA creature that's soaking wet! MY GOD! Who'd
a thunk it!? Not to mention the flamethrowers "jam" when sticking it
directly under pouring water to shoot the creature. The creature
gestates inside people (alien) but then takes over and molds their
cells together (The Thing) The one thing that impressed me is that at
the very end of the film the last 3 survivors (it was obvious at that
point that this movie was already too predictable and I knew my dad was
mistaken and they wouldn't all die) One of the survivors was Ernie
Hudson! I thought to myself "My god! Out of all the clichés in the
movie, they didn't buy into one of the most common ones, the token
black guy getting killed!" Then of course in the last 2 minutes of the
movie the creature comes out of the water and instead of swimming
towards the helicopter that landed in the water to rescue them, Ernie
Hudson swims TOWARDS the creature in order to allow the others time to
escape! The movie's one redeeming feature was flushed down the toilet.

If you haven't seen any of the aforementioned movies (The Abyss, Alien,
The Thing) you might enjoy this movie. I understand that not all movies
can have the budget or script strength of those films, but...there
could at least be effort. All in all, I'm not angry I bought it for 6
bucks but it won't be one I'll watch again any time soon.
<|_=00=_|>
This science fiction horror film has what it takes to be a top notch
monster movie. Like Frankenstein and Jurassic Park the moral of the
story is that it's not nice to tamper with mother nature,and those who
do so will have to face the terrible consequences. Not by any means an
original story,but more like a takeoff on Alien or John Carpenter's The
Thing. The big difference however being that it takes place below the
ocean depths at a silver mine.

Still it has it everything to be a good thriller,suspenseful moments
and good special effects along with some memorable characters. Highly
recommended for late night entertainment with friends. Guaranteed to be
scary enough for the kids. I give this film an 8.
<|_=00=_|>
Leviathan is directed by George P. Cosmatos and then screenplay is
written by David Webb Peoples & Jeb Stuart from Peoples' own story. It
stars Peter Weller, Richard Crenna, Amanda Pays, Daniel Stern, Ernie
Hudson, Michael Carmine, Lisa Eilbacher, Hector Elizondo & Meg Foster.

Let me start off by saying that the rating I have given is purely for
personal reasons, I love daft creature features and rate them
accordingly. Artistically the film scores about the average mark of
5/10, the acting, story and effects really don't demand much better
unless you have got a soft spot for the genre. Tagged as Alien
underwater, the film was always going to struggle to live up to that
particular tag for sure, but yes, in structure that is what we get. A
group of deep-sea miners come across a wrecked soviet ship and after
plundering what they can they end up with more than they bargained for.
Enter the plot of deep-sea miners under attack from a very bad and
creepy monster. Will they survive? How did it happen? And on it goes to
a joyously (unintentionally) funny finale. The film crams as many
creature feature clichés in as it can get away with, and sure enough
the boo jump scare moments are not in short supply.

The cast are all in on the joke (I'm pretty sure they are), so all in
all you get a flipping great genre entry that isn't demanding much of
the viewer, that is if you are so inclined to check the brain at the
door first. So enjoy a B lister that has no pretensions other than to
homage and entertain those of a certain persuasion. Quite a cast of pro
actors assembled as well. 7/10
