

There seem to be two types of folks who detest "Cry-Baby;"  those who
think
Waters sold out by making anything that cost more than $500 and didn't
include coprophagy,  and those who insist that all movies be Art with a
capital A.

I was well into my 20's when the movie first came out, not a fan of 21
Jump
Street, and no stranger to movies, including masterpieces and early John
Waters, but I LOVED it, and have caught the uncut version on USA network
quite a few times.

Cry-Baby is no Citizen Kane, and it's no Pink Flamingos, but, at risk of
being pretentious, I will say that its full of something that makes art:
Truth.  Even in incredibly silly scenes, the movie is based in real and
true
emotions. John Waters' love for the fun parts of the 50's, (and hatred of
the status quo that obviously made his teen years a living hell) is all
over
this film.

Yes, scenes such as the orphanage are silly, but the cynicism of the
orphanage workers and the angst of the mother are as real as can be.  The
silliness works because the John Waters BELIEVES in what he is saying, and
makes damn sure that his actors are with him!

All of the actors, from Johnny Depp who (as with all of his roles)
*becomes*
the character to Joe Dallesandro who barely can get his lines out, believe
in their characters.

"Cry-Baby" parodies 50's "Teen Rebel" musicals such as "Rock Around the
Clock" and "Don't Knock the Rock", but with obvious affection.

Yes, it's a musical.  If you're one of those cynics who says things like
"But people DON'T just start singing in real life" don't see
it.
Movies exist to give us a break from real life while mirroring it enough
to
be cathartic.  Musicals and parodies take it one step further.
They're not diaries, they're not reality, they're MOVIES!

"Cry-Baby" is a lot of fun, and the soundtrack is terrific (and
"Hairspray"'s is even better!).

If you liked "Cry-Baby", I recommend "Hairspray" (not quite so silly, just
as sweet.) and "But I'm A Cheerleader," which is definitely
Waters-inspired,
from its use of pink to its incredibly true emotions within very silly
situations.

If you didn't like Cry-Baby, how sad. You obviously missed
something.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a film that John Waters created as a loving send up of 1950's teen
and juvenile delinquent films. It tells the story of Cry-Baby (Depp) a
teenage orphan with the ability to make women swoon by shedding a single
tear. It's a good natured, never mean musical based in a world where a song
can make jail prisoners dance and riot or make someone fall in love with you
despite being from different worlds. 

A cast that includes Iggy Pop, Traci Lords, Waters regular Rikki Lake and a
few other pleasant treats and cameos. The actors appear to be having as much
fun with the subject matter as the film is. Borrowing for value from films
such as Grease, Jail-house Rock, High School Hellcats, Rebel without a cause
and a zillion others from the genre this film is a self-aware campy comedy
that is very well crafted.

Clean and ridiculous warmhearted fun with more than a hint of trash. As of
the date I re-watched this film (April 2004 10 years later) this film is
still out of print. The reason for that is inexplicable to me as it's one of
Johnny Depp's funniest performances and one of the better musicals that
comes to mind. Oh yeah, don't blink or you'll miss Willem Defoe as the
prison guard. "God bless Dwight D. Eisenhower, God bless Roy
Cohn..."

Come for the comedy, stay for the great songs. 
<|_=00=_|>

If you're a fan of the rockabilly fashion of the 50's and of John Waters,
you will like this movie. Personally, I was a big fan of it. It's one of my
favorite movies.

This movie involves two groups: the "squares" and the "greasers". While most
teen movies set in the 50's involve typical preppy high school students,
this one was on the side of the greasers. This is what I found fun and
interesting. The world in which the greasers live is fun and colorful. The
characters are all social outcasts or "delinquents" as they call them in the
movie. This is what is so particular. Maybe this isn't what life in the 50's
was really about, but it gives the illusions that you're seeing an aspect of
life during that time that you normally don't see. 

It was a pleasant and fun to watch movie. It was also very cartoony, which
is something I like in a movie very much. The imagery is very pleasant.
However, it's not a movie for everyone. It can easily be seen as cheesy. And
if you're expecting a typical 50's musical like Grease, there's a good
chance you won't like this one, since it makes you root so much for the
social outcasts. This movie doesn't show the typical "clean" 50's that
people enjoy so much. 

This movie also makes fun of the typical "bad boy" image of the 50's. But
doesn't it also poke fun at the image that Johnny Depp had at the time? In
several interviews done after the release of this movie, Depp mentioned that
he enjoyed playing that role because it was a satire of the image he had and
that he also disliked very much. 

I think this is the type of movie that can easily become someone's favorite
but that can be hated by a lot of viewers. Maybe the dancing and the singing
isn't as good as in Grease. But you have to remember that this is a light
and fun movie that doesn't take itself seriously. It can also be seen as a
satire of typical musicals. I would definitely recommend
it.
<|_=00=_|>

I admit, on first hearing about this film even I (the major Johnny Depp
fan)
was a bit skeptical to view it. But, I figured, hey, it's JD, why not?
And,
I now must say, that is goes down as one of my favorite movies. Why?
because
it's an amazing spoof my John Waters. As a lover of old musicals from the
50s and 60s, it's just amusing to watch a spoof of them, especially one
done
so well as this. My fav scene (don't worry..no spoilers..) is one where
Crybaby (JD) performs a song in a comedic Elvis Presley fashion, which
shows
how dynamic JD is as an actor. what else makes this movie great? The
music.
There's not one boring song where you feel like it'll never end, because
you
don't want it to end. (yes, i own the soundtrack..i'm pathetic, i know).
It's just a great movie..well, if you like a musical that spoofs other
musicals.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie "Cry Baby" is about a young boy and girl from opposite sides
of the track falling in love. Wade "Cry baby" Walker (Johnny Depp) is
considered a drape and a juvenile delinquent, and Alison (Amy Locane)
is considered a square and a perfect angel. In their time Drapes and
Squares were not seen together. Cry Baby fights with all his heart
going up against an ex-boyfriend, a concerned grandmother, and even
jail to keep his love with Alison.

Baldwin (Stephen Mailer), Alison's ex-boyfriend, does everything in his
power to keep Alison to himself and away from Cry Baby. He picks fights
and gets his gang together to vandalize the drapes property.

Alison's grandma (Polly Bergen) is like the leader of the squares and
in the beginning worries that Cry Baby will be the downfall of her
grandchild. Since she is left with Alison's care, she is over
protective; but she wants Alison happy more than anything. In the end
she comes around and tells Alison to choose the man her heart loves.

I believe director John Waters made a new twist to Shakespeare's Romeo
and Juliet, and this provides a happy ending. Through his movie, Waters
tells us that love happens when it happens and that no matter what
background we come from, we should fight for love with all our hearts.

I love this movie. The first time I saw this movie as a four year old
girl, I said I was going to marry Cry Baby. I recommend this movie to
everyone. It has action for men and romance for women. I think that it
transports us back in time and helps us see the conferences of the two
social classes and feeds our belief that love really can conquer it
all. I have probably watched this movie a thousand times and will
probably watch it a thousand more. It definitely is worth the
eighty-five minutes it takes to watch.
<|_=00=_|>

There's really nothing wrong with this film. It's funny, it's fun, and
it's got a cameo of Willem Dafoe. With Johnny Depp as the star, what
else could you want? Apart from being a satire, it's an entertaining
and hysterical, relatable satire. It takes a lot of skill to take a
concept that could so easily teeter from funny to ridiculous, and while
certain parts of the film seem to be heading towards that thin barrier,
they always save face at the last minute. The movie doesn't just ride
on Johnny Depp's talent, either. Every member of the cast displays a
genuine understanding of the somewhat SNL-esque humour required to make
everything work. I've yet to meet someone face to face that has not
seen this movie and truly enjoyed it for what it is: something
wonderful.

<|_=00=_|>
Don't expect to watch a movie in the style of "Grease" when you watch
"Cry-Baby." This is a John Waters musical-comedy, and it's full of his
style and humor. John Waters has his own style of directing, and his
own style for writing dialogue. The dialogue and acting are usually out
of the mainstream norm, and viewers who are not familiar with John
Waters may not enjoy his films unless they open their minds to
possibilities of silly, ridiculous, vulgar, and campy humor. "Cry-Baby"
is set in the 1950's, and it's mainly about two groups of people who
don't accept each other: The drapes and the squares. The drapes don't
have a lot of money, are more accepting to different types of people,
and listen to the hep sounds of rhythm and blues and rockabilly. Some
of them get involved with crime, and are juvenile delinquents. The
squares are very conservative, have more money, more attitude, and
listen to "your hit parade" music. The drapes will hang out with anyone
as long as there's a good time to be had, and the squares only
socialize with other squares. There is friction and disgust whenever
the two types meet. Within this is a love story concerning Cry-Baby and
Allison. Cry-Baby is a drape, and Allison is a square tired of being so
conservative. Cry-Baby and Allison are attracted to each other, and
Allison decides to associate with the drapes. Conflicts emerge, and
drapes and squares clash. That sounds clichéd, but the movie has a lot
of humor and atmosphere. It's also full of color, spirit, and fun
music. The locations and sets create a 1950's atmosphere of small town
and rural America. The cars, clothing, and hairstyles are also
effective. Sometimes clothes, hairstyles, props, and sets are
exaggerated and outrageous, but these are trademarks of John Waters'
style and sense of humor. "Cry-Baby" has its charm, and is effective as
both a comedy and a musical. The musical numbers are fun and lively,
and a lot of care went into making the songs sound authentic to the
period. They are also well choreographed. Some of the musical numbers
were written for the movie, and a few songs were originally 1950's hits
newly recorded for "Cry-Baby" (such as the song that opens the movie,
Allison singing "Teenage Prayer," etc.) There are also original vintage
recordings throughout the movie (my favorite is "Jungle Drums," by Earl
Bostic, which really gives a summer feeling to the Turkey Point
location.) The background score is also well done, and professionally
orchestrated. This is a John Waters film, and you have to expect
unusual characters, and unusual acting and dialogue delivery. The
casting of the movie is an interesting mix of performers (another
Waters' trademark), and very much a delight. The cast is terrific!
Johnny Depp and Amy Locane are wonderful as the teenagers who are
attracted to each other, but live in different worlds. Their pairing
brings out a believable chemistry, and a sense of fun. Polly Bergen's
performance is excellent as the extremely conservative matriarch who
finally learns how to have a good time with people who are different.
Susan Tyrrell is as offbeat as she can be (see her in the bizarre
musical-comedy "Forbidden Zone"), and Iggy Pop is interesting in his
role. Ricki Lake returns in her second John Waters movie as Cry-Baby's
pregnant sister. Kim McGuire, Darren E. Burrows, and Traci Lords create
fun characters who are in Cry-Baby's gang and music group. Kim McGuire
has a knack for creating a character who's kookie and bold, and yet
deserves sympathy at times. Traci Lords is very good at comedy, and it
would be nice to see her in more comedies. She does a great job with
her mostly-cranky, tough-girl character. Stephen Mailer does a fine job
of creating a character you really learn to loathe. "Cry-Baby" also
features small parts played by noted stars such as Troy Donahue, Joe
Dallesandro, Joey Heatherton, David Nelson, Willem Dafoe, and John
Waters regular Mink Stole. Patricia Hearst Makes her feature film
debut, and is very amusing as the naive mother of a drape daughter.
"Cry-Baby" was a lot of fun to watch on the big screen, and I'm again
enjoying it since it's been released on DVD (with added scenes that
were cut for its theatrical release.) "Cry-Baby" is a snazzy and fun
musical-comedy that seems to be pleasing people who are not regular
John Waters fans! By the way, I was a scrape (part square, part drape)
in high school, but that's a different story from a different era.
<|_=00=_|>

I first saw this movie on TV and then just HAD to get it on video. It's a
brilliant send-up of the Grease story and Johnny Depp is perfectly cast in
the James Dean-type role as a juvinile dilinquent who falls for a square.
It's very funny and all the songs are great! Turn up the volume especially
on 'Cry Baby'!
<|_=00=_|>
John Waters' movies are perhaps acquired taste (read: first class
TRASH!), but "Cry-Baby" is a fairly accessible and comical romp,
complete with great music, very likable performances and a moody 50's
atmosphere. Obviously mocking "Grease", the story is set in a Baltimore
high school where teen idol Johnny Depp leads the "Drapes" thug gang
versus the chic and fancy "Squares". The hormones work at maximum power
and Depp's character inevitably falls for the most popular square-girl
in school. Arguments like these can only be settled with rough fights
anddance contests! Johnny Depp and Amy Locane are both great in their
lead roles, but it's the supportive cast that impresses the most. More
particularly ex-porn star Traci Lords, Kim McGuire as Hatchet-Face (you
can't but stare at her grimaces), Iggy Pop and Ricky Lake (as Depp's
wild sister in a constant state of pregnancy). The gags are more
tasteful than usual but all John Waters' trademarks are still present.
"Cry-Baby" is a strangely sexy film that'll definitely bring a smile on
your face. Recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
No doubt you well know that John Waters does everything possible to
trash the rules in his movies. And he sure does here! "Cry-Baby" has a
familiar plot - a good girl attracted to a hoodlum boy - but everything
about the movie is a hoot. Johnny Depp once again shows himself to be
possibly the greatest actor of his generation as Wade "Cry-Baby"
Walker, a "drape" who falls for "square" Allison Vernon-Williams (Amy
Locane). Naturally, her conservative family and acquaintances don't
approve of this one bit, so trouble ensues.

Probably the funniest scenes in the movie are as follows: an air-head
mother (Patty Hearst) tells her daughter to stop and look both ways
before crossing the street - this to a girl who prefers to hang out
with the "drapes"; at a "square" party, some boys sing the most
mind-numbing, idiotic song imaginable (it just goes to show what dorks
they are); and the scene in jail, where a cop (Willem Dafoe) makes
everyone repeat "God bless Dwight Eisenhower! God bless Roy Cohn! God
bless Richard Nixon!" - in case anyone had any doubts as to which side
the police were on.

All in all, this is a movie that's impossible not to like. The truth
is, I've never seen a John Waters movie that I didn't like. Just great.
