

I really don't understand how this movie could have such a low score at
this
site. Perhaps the European atmosphere doesn't appeal as much to Americans
as
it does to Europeans.....just like most french top-films never made it to
the US.

Nevertheless, Roman Polanski is terribly underrated as a master of
suspence.
In fact, looking back at Hitchcock's movies (which is unfair, since
they've
been made in a completely different era) I don't think he ever made movies
written this well.

For some reason most of the time film making starts with putting the
director together with some of the best or most popular actors of that
period. But this one certainly doesn't....
It shows that Polanski wrote this himself, with his close friend and
film-writing-partner, because he really knows what this story is about -
he
knows where to be funny, where to make it tense, where to make things kind
of 'sensual'.

The weird thing is, that looking at all the things that happen in this
movie, it's still so relatively shot, and doesn't feel at all too paced,
or
rushed. No, it rather feels like you are watching a 4 hour
movie.

Anyway, those who have ever lost track of someone (for a short moment) in
a
strange, big city or those who have ever tried to find out something in
France, will know and recognize exactly what Harrison Ford's character is
going through - people not taking you seriously, people who don't care,
people who refuse (or aren't able) to help you in your own language. All
these things are put in this movie, so well, that -at least for me- it is
really very realistic.

Most writers and directors nowadays seem to ruin most great
movies/thrillers
by not being able to make a good ending to the developing story. At one
point our main character has got to find out what is happening....and how
to
do that, without taking away the suspence is incredibly
difficult.
Roman Polanski has done this very well, by not making this story too
complicated and slowly unraveling a -looking back- simple mistery. There
is
no need to glue parts of the story together to make it all fit, or just
skip
parts to make it easier for him/you.

No, this is the first movie I've seen where when someone looses his shoes
on
a roof, he has to walk barefoot the next day. Most movies just ignore
these
little facts, but Roman makes it always difficult for himself in order to
make it more easy (or, more easy to believe) for us.

There are no things that make me wonder 'how this is possible' - no, if
you
are a well known surgeon, many other surgeons from all over the world will
know you. And if you will go to a convention in Paris, it's not at all
unrealistic that you will run into a few of your friends...even when it's
such a big city.
Having problems with luggage when you're flying, isn't unrealistic
too...nor
is the story of this movie, the reason why what happened,
happened.

Although I've never understood why our friend wanted his own wife back,
instead of staying with the beautifull french girl ;) Again, that's what
most people would do in real life....

Bart


<|_=00=_|>
"Frantic" is the most Hitchcock-influenced movie of Roman Polanski. The
director has touched almost every cinematic genre, although always with
a special taste for mysteries and disturbing elements. That's his
trademark.

"Frantic" is a more conventional movie in Polanski filmography, but
it's very well done and the sensation of something disquieting –typical
of his films- is always there. An American doctor (Harrison Ford) goes
to Paris for a medical congress with his wife. In their hotel the woman
disappears without explanations and Harrison Ford begins a nightmarish
research throughout the city…

The film reminds us of the Alfred Hitchcock thriller "North by
Northwest" (1959) –in that movie a misunderstanding is the motor of the
story, here it's something similar but more enigmatic, because we don't
know who kidnapped doctor's wife.

This is the first cinematic collaboration between the Polish-French
director and his future wife, actress Emmanuelle Seigner –she's the
girl who helps Harrison Ford in this adventure.

Intriguing and exciting: these are the words for "Frantic". Perhaps
it's not considered among Polanski's most important movies, but it
still looks fresh and entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>

Richard and Sondra Walker return to Paris for the first time since
their honeymoon for him to attend a medical conference. While Richard
is in the shower, Sondra leaves the hotel and vanishes. Unsure of where
she has gone or if she left under duress or not, Richard begins a
search that quickly reveals that she has gone missing. A mix-up with
luggage and a smuggled substance lead him into the life of the
mysterious Michelle who is more mixed up with his wife's disappearance
than she lets on.

I have seen this film several times and I think the fact that it isn't
a spectacularly gimmicky film is a big part of the reason why it
doesn't really stick in my mind over the years. For this reason I
watched it again yesterday as I'd forgotten most of the plot and felt
it would be like seeing it all over again for the first time. The film
takes the simple plot and uses the 'object' as a McGuffin of sorts of
quite a big chunk of the film – we don't need to know why his wife
has been kidnapped, only that Richard is desperate to get her back and
is sucked into a situation he knows nothing of. In this regard the film
really works well and manages to keep the pace up even if some of the
characters are difficult to fit into the narrative. As a story it lacks
fireworks and has a rather understated feel but it still works really
well and I enjoyed the simplicity of the story combined with the ease
with which it involved me.

The cast are good but it is Ford's film and he leads it really well. He
convinces as the man becoming increasingly 'frantic' and he manages to
involve humour as his character becomes savvier about what is happening
and also appears to be seedier and less professional as a result!
Seigner is good even if her character is easier to play; she is a fun
character and her performance is good. Outside of these two, few are
memorable and it is to their credit (mostly Ford's) that the film is
still strong regardless. Other familiar faces include Pinon, Weeks and
Huddleston.

Overall this is a solid little thriller that is rather old fashioned in
it's telling. It relies on good set pieces within a good mystery plot
rather than explosions or car chases and is much more satisfying as a
result. Small bits of it don't totally come together but the overall
effect is one of a simple film that is delivered with style and is
enjoyable to watch.

<|_=00=_|>

The title does not 100 percent reflect the atmosphere of the film. Yes, as
Ford's character rummages through a strange city looking for his kidnapped
wife he does become "frantic", it is in a very quiet fashion. No screaming
or fits of hysterics, but you can sense it in Ford's acting. Speaking of
acting, this film is almost all Ford and Emmanuelle Seigner, very few of the
supporting characters make much of a mark here. For me, the most intriguing
part is the almost total lack of chemistry between those two characters.
Though they are in most of the second half of the film together, neither one
cares a rip about the other's wish (him=to get his wife back, her=to get her
money). But if you think about it, how much would a young, drug-pushing
European girl and a middle-aged, successful American doctor have in common
anyway? Theirs is an inspired pairing, and a very good movie is the result.
Watch this one. 
<|_=00=_|>
Roman Polanski has an interesting way of returning to tell the story of
a simple person whose surroundings, while completely familiar, suddenly
become alien and even dangerous. With ROSEMARY'S BABY, neighbors
plotted against misguided Mia Farrow; in REPULSION, Catherine Deneuve
lost her mind; in THE TENANT, another apartment became the center of
some odd occurrences. Even in THE PIANIST, the main character, played
by Adrien Brody, slowly gets the rug pulled off his feet as his
surroundings become the setting for the horrific Holocaust.

FRANTIC came out in 1988 to critical acclaim but little notice but has
since then enjoyed an interesting life on HBO who keeps playing it over
and over again. A movie that tells the story of an American couple
(played by Harrison Ford and Betty Buckley) who get caught in a web of
intrigue while vacationing in Paris, France, FRANTIC is an exceptional
and overlooked thriller that evolves slowly, but not too slowly --
deliberately -- and gives its main characters ample time to evolve from
how we first see them to full blooded people in a nasty, alien, deadly
situation.

Harrison Ford gives yet another of his powerful, masculine performances
as Dr. Richard Walker, who is at the center of this intrigue, and his
is a performance equally comparable to that of James Stewart in VERTIGO
and THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH. As a tourist searching for his missing
wife, Ford displays an amazing amount of control over his character who
is virtually in every scene in the movie: we see how he goes from
loving husband, to befuddled, to angry at the apparent nonchalance of
the Parisian authorities, to flat-out taking matters to his hands,
while thankfully not being overblown to the status of an indestructible
male god wielding phallic guns that shoot endlessly for the plot's
convenience and who not only gets his wife back but a sexy girl in tow.
Watch for a quiet moment when he is talking to his daughter over the
phone. We never cut to the daughter -- that would have ruined the
sequence -- but the camera stays on his face as he speaks to her,
listening to the haunting Grace Jones song that pops up ominously, and
something she says gives us a hint he and his wife may have gone
through rough patches, which tells layers of the Walker's dynamics
together even though they're only seen together for the first 10
minutes. The restraint in his face is so intense that it's a wonder he
doesn't explode in tears of rage and impotence, because he has to hide
the fact that no, he isn't having a swell time in Paris, but also,
Mom's gone missing, and no one seems to know what to do, and he is
feeling like the world's closed in on him in this alien place.

A lesser movie would have had more exposition of the facts and used a
more conventional approach. Polanski has always been a master of
subtlety: the scene when Sondra Parker disappears is the best scene in
the entire film because it's done without intrusiveness, which makes
her disappearance the more troubling and even though Buckley only has
several minutes of screen time, she is all we think about; the plot
revolves around her. Never do we see flash-cuts; it's all left to us.
Never do we see sudden red-herrings that lead nowhere -- here, like in
the aforementioned Hitchcock movies, they build upon the story. Never
do we see high officials closing in from all around -- this is a
resolution that involves the players and only them. Music is kept to a
low-key presence, scenes of violence only occur sporadically, which is
uncommon for a thriller. Scenes are played out so we don't get too much
information as to what exactly is happening, but not so little that
allows for those pesky "surprise" endings. This only makes us go
through what Ford is going through right to the end.

Interestingly enough, there is an extremely subtle comedy (also a
Hitchcock trademark) interspersed throughout: scenes of emotional
tension are followed by an almost casual references to humor, and much
of it comes from Seigner who plays the tough cookie who only wants her
10,000 francs and even sprays mace on the faces of two Embassy
officials (one of them played by John Mahoney) who don't give much help
and also casually steals a wallet from a cab driver because, as she
practically states, "He won't be needing it anymore." This is a great
move -- to make this movie so totally dramatic would have made it feel
longer than its 120 minutes.

FRANTIC is a stand-alone thriller from the 80s that feels anything but
a product from that decade.
<|_=00=_|>
...is that they are thoroughly unlike those standard Hollywood flicks
where the endings are happy, the baddies get punished or die, and no
animals ever get harmed during production: despite all the "Hollywood
Babylon" clichés, the stench of moralistic fiction rising from its
Studios is normally unbearable.

Not here. Has anyone noticed the regret in Harrison Ford's eyes, just
before the movie's end? He hugs his dutifully rescued bland wife, and
fighting back his tears he whispers "I love you baby". Alas, not to
her: to the soul of the fragile, exciting, dangerous, scandalous little
drifter who died in his arms; and to the brief dash of "walking on the
wild side" that, for a few precious days, brought excitement - and
guilt feelings, given the circumstances - in an otherwise very
respectable and utterly boring life. Those who can't connect with that,
can always watch Harrison Ford in films directed by Steven Spielberg.
<|_=00=_|>

I highly recommend this film to this site members and visitors so that
they
can appreciate an excellent drama-thriller combination from director Roman
Polanski.
This film shows one of Harrison Ford's best, if not his best performance
ever, and the introduction of Emmanuelle Seigner, whose character plays
the
most important role in the movie. Though the story takes place in a
beautiful city, Polanski takes you to Paris' ordinary dark streets and
alleys, and also gives us a realistic view of how good or dangerous people
can be.
Up to this day, I really don't know why this movie has not been that
popular
in the U.S. and even less why it didn't get nominated for any major awards
when it was well done. Now that Polanski is popular again, I hope movie
collectors take the chance to see why he is one of the greatest of all
time.
<|_=00=_|>
Frantic is a movie that bears, like Hitchock's films, repeated viewing.
At first sight it might appear a Hollywood thriller of the genre that
has been too prevalent lately with violence, thrills and miracle
rescues. This film is much more than that. The scene where the wife
tries to speak to her showering husband and he can't hear, has ominous
suggestion, and echoes Hitchcock's 'silent exposition' scenes form Torn
Curtain and Rear Window. It is not a copy, because Polanski has taken
the idea and made it fit an entirely new scenario. The humour flits
along with the tension. The scene where the husband is kicked to the
ground wearing nothing but a teddy bear is a welcome relief, and the
scene on the roof, like the unlikely teaser in Vertigo stands up well,
despite having been imitated so many times by so many other directors.
Frantic has many moments of honest acting that could almost count as
cinema verite moments. At the end of the film, these moments and
characters stay with you. You have been emotionally challenged. If
Hitchcock had lived into the 1980s and been given this script, he would
probably have done the film in a way not altogether dissimilar. A
triumph for 1980s Hollywood. -Phil Kafcaloudes
<|_=00=_|>
Frantic, a film by Roman Polanski is largely unnoticed. He is credited
for pictures such as Chinatown and The Pianist, but certainly his best
action-adventure flick is this one.

The film stars Harrison Ford, who plays a idiotic doctor who cannot
figure out his way through Paris, where he has lost his wife to a
conspiracy. The film is entirely shot in France, and the scenery, use
of backgrounds is phenomenal. Polanski has a way with the camera that
mimics Hitchcock in some sense, but it is entirely his own style. 

The film is wrought with the oddest of humor, almost slapstick at
times, but at its core it is a solid action film surrounding a
kidnapping, terrorist threats and formulaic Hollywood-esquire twists.
It rises above the normal thriller that is plagued with senseless
violence, characters we could care less about, and bald-faced innuendo.
Frantic is the kind of movie that shouldn't be missed.

An interesting thing about Frantic is that it combines European and
American sensibilities and humor all at once – this is certainly not an
easy task, but Polanski pulls it off very effectively. 

RATING: 9/10

Man on Phone: What number are you calling from? Richard Walker: How
should I know? I... I'm in a café, the Paris Midi. Man on Phone: How do
you spell that? Richard Walker: How do you... with an "S" for shithead!
<|_=00=_|>

An excellent film from start to finish. The plot is somewhat simple, but
the
acting of Harrison Ford (Walker) and Emmanuelle Seigner (Michelle)
throughout make it an unmissable movie. At times it seemed as if Walker
and
Michelle would 'get it on', especially in the dance scene in The Touch of
Class Club. However Walker didn't let his mind slip for one minute,
totally
focused on rescuing his wife. 
