

'This Is Spinal Tap' has been part of my life for so many years that it's
hard to remember a time when I hadn't seen it. Having recently bought it on
DVD and rewatched it for the nth time I was once again struck and just how
clever and amusing this movie is. Christopher Guest and friends are not only
very talented comedians with an amazing ability to improvise, but they know
their music, and this is the real strength of the movie. Even though I have
almost memorized every scene and joke it's STILL funny to me no matter how
many times I watch it. Not only is the movie itself a classic, but the DVD
is one of the best buys around with plenty of extras, deleted scenes, many
as good as those chosen, and best of all a hilarious commentary by Tufnel,
St Hubbins and Smalls which is even funnier than the movie itself. In fact
it's the most entertaining DVD commentary track I've heard to date. This
movie is a comedy classic, and easily the sharpest rock'n'roll parody ever
made. If you haven't seen it before you're in for a treat! Absolutely
essential viewing for all rock'n'roll fans, metal or otherwise!
<|_=00=_|>
The gritty, unpretty reality of rock music is on display in director
Marty DiBergi's unsparing rockumentary "This Is Spinal Tap," which
chronicles the British metal band's tour through the United States in
the latter part of 1982.

Cold sores, drugs, late-night debauchery, and the brutal snubbing of a
Sinatra-loving chauffeur are just some of the antics on display, in
what could be the most penetrating and uncensored examination of the
rock n' roll lifestyle since "Gimme Shelter." Whereas that movie
features one grainy, out-of-focus killing, this film actually shows the
band's drummer spontaneously combusting on stage! And apparently this
was the second time that happened (or maybe I'm thinking of the drummer
they lost to an unexplained gardening accident, I'm a little unclear.)

DiBergi hasn't made a movie since "Spinal Tap," which is a shame. No
chance he'll make a sequel though. In the 2000-issue DVD, band members
Nigel Tufnel, David St. Hubbins, and Derek Smalls make clear that they
feel betrayed by DiBergi's work, calling it "a hatchet job" and hinting
that his jealousy about not being the sixth band member caused him to
show only the band's bad side. For example, we see in the movie Spinal
Tap backstage at Cleveland's legendary Xanadu Star Theater wandering
fruitlessly through a warren of back corridors trying to find their way
onto the stage. Nine times out of ten the band found their way on stage
without problem, as they point out on the commentary track, but DiBergi
has to show the one time they don't.

Murphy's Law seems to predominate elsewhere, too, like when Nigel's
back gives out in the middle of a blistering solo, or Derek is trapped
in a giant peapod prop for an entire song. Viewers of a particularly
cruel disposition may even find some cause for amusement when a
misunderstanding in Austin, Texas leads to the band performing their
legendary number "Stonehenge" in front of a model of the ancient
monument that barely comes up to the drummer's kit. Maybe they could
have gotten away with it if they didn't let the dwarfs come onstage and
dance alongside it, but the result, as St. Hubbins notes, is almost "a
comedy number, and I didn't bloody appreciate being part of the
comedy."

The band struggles on, and perceptive viewers may detect a slight note
of friction between Tufnel and Jeanine, St. Hubbins's girlfriend, for
example when Tufnel throws his guitar down on stage, stares at Jeanine
accusingly for a minute, and then quits the band. Misogynists will say
Jeanine is the kind of rock wife that 'puts the yoke in Yoko,' but they
shallowly ignore her tambourine-playing, or her fearless use of red
satin as a pant fabric.

Admittedly, Jeanine is less on point as a manager, as an early gig
under her control at an amusement park finds them billed under their
opening act. 'If I told them once, I told them a thousand times,' she
muses. 'Put the band's name first, puppet show after.'

But the band soldiers on, and by the end, you will be glad you stuck
around, too, rough as it is to see the harshness on screen. It's the
kind of documentary that demands periods of quiet reflection to take it
all in, to register the pain, sweat, and unpleasant odors behind the
entertainment we too often take for granted on the radio.

Sadly, the film doesn't feature a complete version of Spinal Tap
standards 'Hell Hole' or the big-in-Japan 'Sex Farm.' We do get a
full-throated version of the classic 'Big Bottom,' a power ballad which
examines the seat of female beauty with a wry Steely Dan-type lyrical
subtlety: 'Big Bottom/Big Bottom/Talk about mud flaps/My girl's got
'em.'

Why don't they make songs like that any more? I give this film a 9 out
of 10, but with the DVD commentary, you gotta boost that to 11. Rock
on, Tap!
<|_=00=_|>

Spinal Tap has been called one of the funniest movies ever made by many
people over the years. I had always been familiar with it. I was very
familiar with almost 70% of the scenes: the amplifier that goes to 11, the
Stonehenge dance, the inability to find the way onstage in Cleveland. Plus,
when it was first released on VHS, I had rented and loved Fear of a Black
Hat, a mockumentary about a rap group which more or less rips off every
scene of This Is Spinal Tap. After finally sitting down with This Is Spinal
Tap, I am still a fan of Fear of a Black Hat (and I recommend it to anyone
who hasn't heard of it), but it can not come close to touching the genius of
the collective vision of Rob Reiner, Christopher Guest, Micheal McKean and
Harry Shearer. I laughed pretty much constantly, and belly laughs, all
through the film. It does kind of slow down nearer the end with the bands
falling apart (i.e., the plot gets in the way of the documentary), but there
was never a scene in the film that didn't have something hilarious. I have
to give this film 10/10. This Is Spinal Tarp, er, um, I mean Tap is one of
the funniest comedies ever made.
<|_=00=_|>

   The humor of "This is Spinal Tap" has a special time-release formula.  I
didn't find myself rolling on the floor laughing the first time I saw this
but as the day went on my friends and I couldn't stop recalling the
dialogue.  This movie is a legend.  

   "See Spinal Tap" should be written in the dictionary next to satire. 
Lately satire has come to mean a simple mockery of pop-culture instead of
"human vice or folly attacked through irony, derision or wit".  Movies like
"Scary Movie" claim to be parodies or satire without even trying to be
witty.  They just imitate something as opposed to commenting on it.  True
satire takes a bit more work by the writers and will make you laugh much
harder.

   Spinal Tap gives you the absurdity of the rock and roll world, yet still
respects the music.  I understood this when I saw a clip of the movie for
the first time at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.  It was the scene with
amps that go to "11".  I couldn't stop thinking about that scene until I
finally saw the movie.  Every aspect of the music world is lampooned;
arrogance, absurdity, backstage crybabies, has-beenism, volume, even the
Beatles.  This movie is quoted like the Simpsons, which isn't always good
but certainly proof of legendary movie.  It's dry, deadpan humor and it may
take a day to sink in but this movie is hilarious.  

<|_=00=_|>
THIS IS SPINAL TAP (1984) **** Rob Reiner, Christopher Guest, Michael
McKean, Harry Shearer (Cameos: Billy Crystal, Dana Carvey, Fran
Drescher, Paul Shaffer, Howard Hesseman, Ed Begley, Jr., Fred Willard,
Angelica Huston {note spelling!} ).

Hysterically funny and dead-on "rockumentary" spoof of absurd
documentaries and lame so-called rock groups with wicked satirical
approach and clever camera shots as well. Directed by Reiner (his
debut) with accurate depiction of super-inflated egos, pompous
hangers-on and hilarious intimate moments with great dialogue thanks to
the improvisations of the trio who reportedly worked from no
screenplay. Best moment: Spinal Tap trying to find the stage. And I
personally agree with the keyboardist's philosophy of "Have a good
time, all the time".
<|_=00=_|>

Spinal Tap seemed funny the first time I saw it, but I never got all the
jokes.  Now though, I saw it through and through and I loved it even more
(especially on DVD where the extras are hilarious).  Nearly every gag in the
movie is dead pan funny, from the cover of "Smell the Glove" (just the
description will make you laugh) to all the others including the three piece
guitar solo, the animal costumes ("this is what you'll look like as a crab"
is the funniest line of the 80's next to "Frank, they're not here for you,
Weird Al is on the plane" in Naked Gun), the backstage food, (of course) the
amp that goes to 11 and the 18 inch stonehenge.  Satire at one of it's best,
and it's excellent.  Cameos include Bruno Kirby, Billy Crystal, Dana Carvey,
Paul Schaffer and Anjelica Houston.  Other best line: you can not do free
flow jazz odyssey in front of a festival crowd!  A+
<|_=00=_|>
Not too long ago, my classmates and I were allowed to bring in a DVD of
our choice as it was nearing the end of the school term. Knowing that
these pop culturists wouldn't be too happy to watch one of my 'arty
cult films', I didn't give a shite and brought in 'This is Spinal Tap'.
They quite happily agreed to put it on after I told them it was funny
and had swearing in it. But soon, boredom started to sink in with the
class. "Crap", they labelled it. "Boring", they yelled. After less than
ten minutes, my teacher was changing the disk to, wait for it 'The
Others'. One of my chums, being a fan of the film, dismissed them as
idiots. However, I told him it was all a matter of taste and that they
would be much happier settling down to watch their 40-year-old virgins
and American pies than this more subtly-coloured tin of paint. So as I
walked over to the front of the classroom, tail between my legs, to
pick up my DVD my teacher leaned over and said, "Don't worry, I liked
it. You have to be cultured to enjoy this sort of thing." And you know
what, she's right.

To be quite frank, 'Spinal Tap' is just like marmite. You'll either
love everything about it or hate every frame of it. Some people say
it's like watching wet paint dry, others say it was so funny it gave
them a hernia. I definitely fall into that latter category. After the
umpteenth viewing, I still find it painfully hilarious!

But that's not the only reason for seeing it. It's also a totally
accurate, observational and witty deconstruction of rock's strutting
pretensions. If you're someone who thinks rock bands take themselves
far too seriously, you need this movie. If, on the other hand, you feel
like rock stars should forever be treated like gods and worshipped on a
regular basis, you might just want to avoid this. After all, when
Aerosmith's Steven Tyler had finished watching it he said he just felt
like he wanted to throw himself off a cliff! It reveals the utter
shallowness of rock 'n' roll without even flinching!

If you're also a lover of in-your-face laugh-out-loud
got-it-straight-away humour, just stay away. Far, far away. This is
intellectual stuff. You have to possess intelligence to enjoy it. I've
never met any stupid people who did enjoy this film. 

Director Rob Reiner really shows how broad his range is with this (his
best in my opinion!), bringing every authentic detail, no matter how
seemingly minor, to the screen effortlessly with a wonderfully sharp
cast. Its still a challenge to get my head around the fact that this is
from the same tubby Santa Claus look-alike who made 'The Princess
Bride' and 'Stand By Me'! Reiner has always been a man with
extraordinarily wide horizons and always will be, constantly
entertaining cinema-goers with so many different stories!

The film's fly-on-the-wall mockumentary style works wonders, getting
some beautiful performances from its actors (namely Michael McKean and
Christopher Guest) and adding to its 'natural' feel. Many films, mainly
British ones, have imitated this style ever since. Even one of the
film's actors and co-writers has stuck to the hip of this film for the
most part of his career, coming up with new and even more outlandish
'mockumentaries' to entertain and sate his legion of followers. 

On each viewing, you'll erupt into laughter at the discovery of a new
joke. Then for weeks on end, you'll be quoting it to your friends and
everyone you know. It's like a treasure trove without a bottom!

To finish this not-so-critical analysis, I can never find any fault or
flaw even after the innumerable viewings I've had. I never get bored of
it either. I think the reason I like this so much is, honestly, because
it was made for people like me!
<|_=00=_|>

This is FANTASTIC! Writers Christopher Guest, Michael McKean and Harry
Shearer in collaboration with director Rob Reiner have created a satire so
dead-on its target that it might be scary if it wasn't so
hilarious.

Filmmaker Marty DiBergi, taking a break from dog food commercials, is
determined to capture the sights, sounds and smells of his favorite rock
group, the legendary Spinal Tap, on their latest U.S. tour. They're a
20-year old heavy metal outfit from England centering around lead singer
David St. Hubbins (McKean), lead guitarist Nigel Tufnel (Guest) and bass
guitarist Derek Smalls (Shearer).  The rest of the band is a revolving
door
of personnel including a series of unlucky drummers who have met with
bizarre demises. The new tour is the first the band has made of America in
years, and unfortunately the they seem to have lost about as many fans as
they've lost brain cells. When asked if the smaller venues that the band
is
playing on this tour means they are losing popularity, manager Ian Faith
(Tony Hendra) quickly dismisses the idea. The band's fans are just
becoming
more "selective," he says.

Still, the group is received well at their initial shows--that is if the
gig
hasn't been canceled, if their balky stage props don't malfunction, and if
the band can find its way to the stage from their dressing rooms. But the
tour is one disaster following another. Fans don't show up for autograph
sessions at record stores. Radio stations play their oldies and ask,
"where
are they now?" To top things off, David's girlfriend Jeanine (June
Chadwick), the band's Yoko Ono, arrives. She soon starts contributing her
ideas, such as having the band dress in fantasy creature costumes and
recording their music "in Dubly."

Even with all this trouble, the band feels things will pick up if they can
just get their new album released. But Polymer Records refuses to
distribute
"Smell the Glove" with its lurid cover art. Eventually it's released with
a
solid black record sleeve, with nary a word or picture on it. This turns
out
to be a reverse image of the Beatles' white album in appearance, artistic
success and sales. The band sinks so low as to be billed second to a
puppet
show at a theme park. The pressures are just too much and as the tour
limps
to a close the long life of Spinal Tap seems at an end. But rock & roll is
a
funny business...

Throughout we're treated to the band's rock & roll wisdom and philosophy.
For instance, Nigel lets Marty in on one of the reasons for their
success--loud amplifiers. While the volume settings on other bands'
equipment might just go to 10, theirs goes to 11! Asked if there's really
a
difference, Nigel replies, "Yeah, well it's like... one louder,
innit?"

There are tons of cameos by all sorts of people, including some funny
portrayals of PR flacks by Fran Drescher and Paul Shaffer. This is a
brilliant comedy that, despite all the parody, loves its subject. Treat
yourself to it.     
<|_=00=_|>

In 1982 the world's loudest band is about to undertake it's comeback tour
of
America to coincide with the release of the new album.  The group, Spinal
Tap, is accompanied by documentary filmmaker Marti DeBergi on what turns
out
to be a fateful chapter in the band's colourful history.

Despite what anyone else tells you, this is easily one of the most
quotable
movies made and is just as funny today as it was when it was made, unless
you are so out of touch with the world that it affectionately spoofs.  The
film is almost a tragedy so well does it chronicle the absurd collapse of
the band.  However, regardless of the hows and whats, the comedy is in the
characters and the sharp dialogue.  While most of the specific action is
really funny, it is best during the backstage arguments and the candid
interviews.

The dialogue is fantastic from start to finish and is made better by a
superb cast delivering absurd lines with a straight face!  McKean, Guest
and
Shearer are the strongest of the cast have most of the best lines.  The
support cast is also crammed with cameos from such people as Bruno Kirby,
Billy Crystal, Begley Jnr, Macnee, Paul Shaffer, Anjelica Huston and
others.
Reiner excels as director, writer and documentarian, the film has his
hands
all over it.

Overall this is a great film, so much has been said about it that I won't
go
on any longer.  While it is not an out and out spoof like Naked Gun, this
film is wittier as the comedy comes from the dialogue and the sheer
imagination of the writing!
<|_=00=_|>
By many seen as the favorite cult classic (together with 'The Rocky
Horror Picture Show') 'This is Spinal Tap' is truly a comedy
masterpiece. The rockumentary about fake band Spinal Tap seems so
honest and serious that the slightest joke gets a huge laugh. We follow
the band together with a documentary filmmaker, played by director Rob
Reiner, on a tour that must make sure they will have a comeback. We see
some of their shows where things go wrong, we see how they argue about
the cover of their album, and we see how a girlfriend almost destroys
the band.

The movie handles all these events as serious as possible, presenting
itself as a real documentary about a real band. The fact that the band
members are not too bright makes it funny. Especially the scene where
the lead singer talks about an amplifier that goes to eleven instead of
ten and therefore produces louder sounds is hilarious. The scene where
the band plays on a Stonehenge stage is a classic, very memorable.

Writer Christopher Guest recently wrote and starred in 'Best in Show'
(2000) and 'A Mighty Wind' (2003), two hilarious and terrific fake
documentaries, the so-called mockumentaries, but 'This is Spinal Tap'
stays the classic example. He and his co-writers, including director
Reiner, have created the ultimate cult classic.
