

There are people who have seen this movie that have not been
stoked by it (see some user comments). Personally I can't
understand this. I know that there are people who have different
tastes, and maybe some younger viewers will not be able to relate
to it, or appreciate it. However, at the risk of sounding like a dick, I
can confidently say that those are people I would not want to know
anyways. This is a film that does what great films are supposed to
do; that is to transcend our daily lives and bring us joy. There are a
few films that can be called masterpieces because all the different
film elements that are brought together have a unique quality and
vision and the final result is something more special than the sum
of the elements themselves. In a nutshell, this is a simple story
about a young Italian Brooklyn man, Tony Manero, from humble
roots with a gift for dancing who dreams of something better
against all odds. He escapes from it all out on the dance floor,
basking in the glow of the disco ball, and the frivolous, moving
dance music. He meets another young woman at the danceclub,
Stephanie Modano, played by an underrated Karen Lynn-Gorney,
who is equal to him in dance ability, and, more importantly, in
desiring a better life. The two struggle together, and against each
other, in their pursuit of winning a dance contest that may spur on
their dreams.

A simple story yes. One you've seen before yes. But after that, there
is no other film that can touch it. John Travolta, as Tony, was in his
prime, giving a performance that is so likeable because he is so
normal. Who can't relate to a character who is so honest, so cool,
so goofy, so conflicted; who has talent but doesn't get recognized
by the people who should recognize him, like his family, only by his
friends whom he knows deep down are all creeps? This is all of
us!

The soundtrack features some of the best disco music ever made,
in terms of making you feel joyous, and impervious to the world's
problems. Mostly contributed by The Bee Gees, as well as others,
it is the essential element that makes the whole thing
work.

John Badham's direction is even; giving the audience plenty of
music and show stopping musical bits, yet unafraid to lure you
back to the grim reality of what our hero is always up against. But
it's never heavy handed. The story is equal parts dramatic,
comedic, exhilirating, and pensive, and moves along just as
rhythmically as the music.

In the end, literally as well as figuratively, Tony is more alone and
unsure than ever in his ever changing world. And so it makes
sense that he reaches out to Stephanie for love and support;
someone that has at least a little understanding of who he really
is, even if they can't be lovers. Simple, realistic, beautiful.
The 70's was the true golden age of American cinema. It was the
era of the auteur. Great minds like Scorsese, Coppola, Lucas,
Spielberg, Badham, and so forth had for a decade or so, the ability
to make truly visionary films; in the sense that they had a lot of
creative power to express themselves devoid of studio pressure,
political correctness, marketing tie-ins, and big budget, sensory
offending, special effects. They laid it on the line. And we get to
enjoy it for eternity.

Attention younger viewers, don't let the distorted lingering
stereotype fool you. This isn't a "cheesy film" with John Travolta
dancing like a clown to music that "sucks". It is as good a film as
you'll see, if you can allow yourself to appreciate it as a real film.
Disco music was once cutting edge before it "sucked". John
Travolta was actually a good dancer and actor, and the story really
does have depth.
<|_=00=_|>

I love this movie.

I love the way it focuses on dancing, yet it isn't about dancing at all.
Yes, long amounts of time are given to showing John Travolta light up the
dance floor, but the story's fundamental point is the most subtle: Trying to
escape from your boring daily routine, even if it is just for an hour.

That's exactly what Tony Manero does. He saves up his weekly earnings from
where he works in downtown Brooklyn at a crummy hardware store, then blows
it all in one day at the local disco joint, where he reigns as king. His
female dance partner calls him a walking cliché. In a sad sort of way, it's
true.

But this is Tony's dream. I quote an aspiring comedian named Rupert Pupkin:
"Better to be king for a night than a schmuck for a lifetime." "Saturday
Night Fever" is based entirely on this idea. In an odd sort of way, Rupert
Pupkin is a lot like Tony Manero. He just has a different dream. We all
do.

"Saturday Night Live's" theme tune, "Staying Alive" (the title of the
horrendous Sylvester Stallone-directed sequel), speaks as much truth about
life as the film itself. "I'm goin' nowhere, somebody help me, I'm goin'
nowhere, somebody help me yeah" chants a voice in the Bee Gee's universally
known disco hit. As I listen to it right now, I realize just how perfect it
is for the movie. It's a legendary song, and for good reason.

I didn't grow up during the disco generation. But "Saturday Night Fever"
makes me feel as if I had--and that is one of the fundamental keys to a film
so incredibly outdated and yet still poignant in our memories. It was the
film that solidified John Travolta as an icon, and the film that eventually
led to him being regarded as the King of Cinema Disco. (In the Travolta film
"Get Shorty," a criminal threatens a producer by saying that, if he doesn't
pay up, he'll be "dead as disco." Ironic.)

Travolta is in his prime spotlight as Manero, a Brooklyn kid aiming to make
it big on the dance floor. There isn't much to the movie other than the need
for fame--as brief as it may be--and the most obvious theme of the film,
which is learning to treat women as something more than just sex
objects.

Tony and his pals all join together at 2001 Odyssey, a crummy disco club
with dizzying strobe lights and a constantly-waxed dance floor where Tony is
often encouraged to let loose and show everyone his moves. When he's not
doing that, he's sitting at the bar watching a topless stripper do her
thing. And he's only 19.

Part of this movie is learning to grow up, and treat women as something more
than Tony is used to treating them. But that's one of two primary plots--the
other is, of course, trying to break away from a boring life. Tony comes
from an Italian background, and he lives in a bad area of town. His mother
is proud of her eldest son, who became a priest, and she's discouraged by
the fact that her other son doesn't seem to care about making anything out
of his life. We get the feeling that Tony's parents once had the same
outlook as their son, and fear he may be going down their own path. After
Tony gets a raise from $3 to $4, his father tells him that $4 can't even buy
$3. His son swears at him and storms away.

Some of my favorite scenes in "Saturday Night Live" are the human ones, such
as when Tony stares in his bedroom mirror, bare-chested, and combs his hair
forever, looking over himself with the same pride that Travis Bickle
displayed in the famous "You talkin' to me?" scene in "Taxi Driver,"
released a year earlier. In the background of the shot are posters of Al
Pacino from "Serpico" and Sylvester Stallone as Rocky Balboa. (Just think,
Sly directed the sequel and did a cameo, yet he was, in a way, in the first
film, too.) 

I also like when Tony is interacting with his dysfunctional family. He's
nice to his little sister when he walks through the door after work, but
after working for quite some time on his now-out-of-date hairstyle, he barks
at his father when he is slapped during dinner (in one of the rare scenes
that made me laugh). He yells at him: "Would you just watch the hair? I work
a long time on my hair, and you hit it!" I know that scene has been quoted
before, but I quoted it again since it made me laugh so
hard.

In one of the finest scenes in the entire movie, and certainly one of the
most touching, Tony has lunch with an older girl (who later becomes his
dance partner) and tries to impress her by acting mature. But his immaturity
shines through--he doesn't have a clue what he's talking about half the
time, and when he tries to act smart she counters his moves with true
brainpower. In a way, this is the first time Tony realizes that women aren't
as dumb as he thought they were.

This is one of my favorite guilty pleasures for all the right and wrong
reasons. The wrong reasons include the dance floor numbers--I love them, and
I probably shouldn't. As for the right reasons...I think we already know
what they are. It's all about dreams. Everyone has some. Whether it's
dancing or whatever, we all have dreams. And that's why I think "Saturday
Night Fever" relates to so many different people on so many different
levels.
<|_=00=_|>
I am 31 so I was 3 when this movie came out. The first time I saw
Saturday Night Fever was the "Edited For Television" version probably
when I was 6 or 7 years old. At that point, it was about the music, the
dance scenes and the clothes.

It wouldn't be until years later that I understood what a great story
this is. It's a coming of age movie. It's a modern day tragedy. It's a
love story.

The first thing that people think about when they hear Saturday Night
Fever is disco and bell bottoms, but the story is timeless. Travolta
plays Tony Manero, a loser in a nowhere job who only feels alive when
he is on the dance floor at the local disco. There he is adored by his
friends, by women and by strangers. There he is king. Everywhere else
he is nobody. Even at home.

Tony becomes infatuated with a woman named Stephanie. On the surface
Stephanie appears to be much better off than Tony. For the most part
Stephanie is a big talker, but Tony is bothered by her observations.

"Let me guess. You work all week long at some dead end job and then you
go and blow it at all at 2001 (the disco) on the weekends. You're a
cliché. You're no one, going nowhere." As much as Tony is upset by her
words he can't argue with them. Soon Tony becomes frustrated with his
"station in life" and tells Stephanie he wants out (of Brooklyn).

What makes Saturday Night Fever work so much for me is Tony is very
typical of a lot of males who would rather have a good time and party
now than build something toward the future. Bars are full of guys like
Tony. Guys who are super stars in their local drinking establishments,
but have no life outside of the night life.

And of course there's the superb dance scenes that most people remember
Saturday Night Fever for. The soundtrack is also one of the best out
there.

For whatever reason, Saturday Night Fever also has my favorite closing
shot of all time. It's really nothing special, but I get choked up
every time I see it.

Saturday Night Fever is also a snapshot of a period in recent American
history. The movie took place in 1977. The country was a mess after the
Vitenam war ended and before Reagan stormed Washington and once again
instilled a sense of pride in Americans. There was no longer a war to
protest, but the average American didn't have much faith in our
country. I think Saturday Night Fever does an excellent job of
capturing what was probably a common attitude among young adults during
the late 70's. Live for the moment because the future is pretty bleak.
<|_=00=_|>
Although it may seem dated and cheesy to some viewers today Saturday
Night Fever remains one of the most underrated examples of '70s
pop-culture. It is undoubtedly the quintessential dance flick and
remains one of the most entertaining films of all-time. Yet, behind all
the music and entertaining aura you are actually viewing a drama
studying the American class system and young rebellion. Though at times
it is slightly exaggerated, it still manages to capture a vast amount
of authenticity and ultimately the sights and sounds of the time.

Saturday Night Fever follows self-proclaimed "dance king" Tony Manero
(John Travolta) and his love of dancing and the trials and tribulations
of his life in the Bronx. He soon meets an arrogant fellow dancer named
Stephanie Mangano (Karen Lynn Gorney). Quickly becoming attracted and
influenced by the women he starts questioning the way he lives his
life.

The film is not always upbeat and at times can be depressing,
particularly the scenes depicting peer-pressure. Although both have
their differences, both are very alike and ultimately want to be
something "big". There are also the elements of jealously, rivalry,
religion, rebellion, respect and racism added into the film. This
captures the realism of the time and with more accuracy and honesty
than a lot of films. Just take a look at the brief scene where Tony is
on the tube, this is an oddly poignant, effecting and compelling scene
presenting Tony's confused emotions.

Saturday Night Fever still carries the vibe, rhythm and atmosphere it
did back in '77. It remains one of the most influential films for both
the film-world and pop-culture. Infamously holding some of the greatest
dance sequences ever committed film; you can feel the energy, emotions,
time and determination that were spent perfecting the dance scenes to
the finest detail. The lighting is perfect at creating the "disco
world", the set-piece of the 2001 Disco is one of the film's many
iconic highlights.

John Travolta dedicates himself to his dancing and character, fitting
the role with a graceful ease. The film goes into depth at studying
characters too, it shows how desperate everyone is to fit in and be
able to make an impressive image. The fantastic shots on character's
feet show the "strut" in their walk, representing their desire to
maintain their reputation of being "cool". All the characters want to
be something, while a lot of them will never add up to anything due to
their working-class backgrounds. There are a fair amount of American
social-comments scattered throughout the film and retaining a
surprising amount of intelligent value.

The gloriously groovy and funky soundtrack is possibly the film's
finest element. The music accompanies the dance sequences with an
amazing amount of memorably robust imagery. The use of The Bee Gees'
music is wonderful to listen to and also for helping to create an
ambiguous atmosphere of love, drugs and sex. The shooting techniques in
the disco are magnificent for filming the dance scenes and fit
perfectly alongside the other technical elements.

Saturday Night Fever is a far more professional film than one might
expect, it has intelligence as well as entertainment, which is
something that makes a more than just admirable achievement. It is a
truly remarkable triumph and a film that deserves more appreciation
than it gets.
<|_=00=_|>

Watched Saturday Night Fever again last night. It's one of those movies I
watch everytime it's on & never get bored by it. This movie perfectly
captures the feeling of everyday life in a Blue Collar neighborhood, & the
frustration that goes with it. Your caught in the middle not rich by any
means, but just getting by & the feeling that your never going to get
beyond
it. Just existing and getting by is an everyday struggle & in this movie
it
shows how disco is an outlet. I remember 2001 Odyessy was a real club in
Brooklyn. Saturday Night Fever is one of those rare movies you can watch &
just enjoy yourself. How can you get tired of watching John Travolta
walking
down the street with a paint can? That opening captured your attention
right
from the start. You know where these characters are coming from. Tony's
friends have basically given up on doing any better & have accepted there
fate. Tony & Stephanie know there's something more out there for them &
their going for it the best way they can. By the end of the movie I'm
rooting for them to "make it big".  Being a big John Travolta fan I am a
little bit biased. I'll watch anything he's in.
'
<|_=00=_|>

An uneducated Brooklyn teen (John Travolta, in an Oscar-nominated role)
lives in a dream world over the weekends as the king of a disco dance floor.
Disillusioned, quietly upset with where his life is, Travolta finds solace
by dancing in public to Bee Gee's music and finds love with his newest dance
partner (Karen Lynn Gorney). The duo practice for an upcoming contest that
could mean total success at last for Travolta and the opportunity to get
discovered doing what he really loves. Travolta and his friends seem
destined to go down a path of destruction though as a soap opera develops
for all the key people found within. "Saturday Night Fever" is a total
over-achiever as it could have fallen to exploitation tactics of the 1970s,
but becomes one of those iconic films that still stands the test of time.
Travolta is a revelation in arguably his greatest role. The other players
are adequate and the screenplay is deceptively smarter than it appears on
the surface. The movie also works as a time capsule to a part of
contemporary American history where discos and bell-bottoms were all the
rage. Still one of the finer films of the time period. 4.5 out of 5 stars.

<|_=00=_|>

Last night, I saw "Saturday Night Fever" on TV. It brought back memories of
my own disco days in the mid- to late 1970s. Sad to say, the film perfectly
captures the emptiness and superficiality of that era, and its negative
impact on people's lives, then and since.

Back then, it was all about how you looked and how you dressed, how you
danced and whether you scored. Who knew that the slim, sleek, svelte
Travolta would balloon like Elvis Presley - just as all of us were fated to
age, lose our hair and expand our waists. The disco culture of the 70s was
youth-oriented, but in a brain-dead way, unlike the politically aware late
1960s anti-war youth culture.

"Saturday Night Fever" sends mixed messages. Its soundtrack of BeeGees hits
is a siren song of longing and romance, yet the screenplay tells a different
story. Tony Manero (John Travolta) rejects poor Annette (Donna Pescow)
because she's short and dumpy and not good enough for him. Upwardly mobile
Stephanie (Karen Lynn Gorney) spurns him in turn, offering only the
possibility of platonic friendship. Tony's friend Bobby gets his girlfriend
pregnant, but is too young and immature to assume his responsibilities. And
all Tony's other friends care about is humping virtual strangers for ten
minutes in the back seat of a car.

Saturday night fever gives them nothing but Sunday morning hangover -
without any Sunday morning spirituality to fill the void in their lives.
Religion gets short shrift in this film. Tony's brother Frank leaves the
priesthood, not because he struggles with his faith, but because he can't
live up to his vow of celibacy. Even he has sex on the
brain.

Sex was the be-all and end-all of disco culture - witness the soft-core
shots of Travolta in nothing but low-rise briefs - and we have inherited its
legacy. I say "we" because I too am a child of the 70s. For the next 25
years, I lived according to the values I had learned on the dance floor. I
worshipped at the shrine of youth and beauty and sex - and it left me as
empty as the characters in the film. Like Tony Manero, I found that the only
cure for "Saturday Night Fever" was to escape that world and that life, and
leave all the "beautiful losers" behind.

<|_=00=_|>

Saturday Night Fever is thoughtful, engaging, and sometimes brilliant. 
While some might call it one of the greatest films ever, I must disagree. 
But along the lines of a groundbreaker, yes it is.  The film does for disco
what Suburbia did for punk.  And the film gives John Travolta, the cool
Italian guy from Engelwood, NJ a good break.  He plays a paint guy who at
nights (and sometimes days) has a love for dancing, which he is absolutely
excellent at (those dance scenes are quite memorable).  Not always on the
money, but when it is, it delivers the goods.  Bee Gees provide songs here
that everybody likes (I would have to assume from Wayne Campbell's statement
in Wayne's World).  A-
<|_=00=_|>

While the movie is more apt to be recalled for its impact on American pop
culture, few who watch the movie will ever see beyond the admittedly
fantastic dance sequences.  As a result, many people might never recognize
Saturday Night Fever as perhaps one of the best movies ever made about class
struggles among white ethnics.  

While his quick study under Denny Terrio for those dance sequences showed a
great deal of determination, Travolta's Tony Manero shines in so many other
way.  The looks of embarrassment and exasperation that his character
expresses when confronted with the possibility of working in a Bay Ridge
paint store all of his life, or the prejudice and regional chauvinism of his
friends, or the behavior of his friends at White Castle or his initial
inability to express himself to Stephanie in any way that might impress her,
all of these and more contribute to a fully realized character. 

While Tony's friends idolize him, the movie never really does, but it does
allow empathy for his plight, because even Tony realizes that he is
virtually trapped by the current conditions of his existence.  While much
might be made of the homophobia, racism, and misogyny of the protagonist and
his friends, these things are never excused and the movie goes to some
lengths to express Tony's own recognition that these are shortcomings in not
only his character, but those borne of a provincial mentality which he
desperately longs to escape.

Forget those who call this a musical.  While the music is an intricate part
of the film and setting, Travolta's performance is what sets this film
apart.

<|_=00=_|>
Saturday NIGHT FEVER (1977) **** John Travolta, Karen Lynn Gorney,
Joseph Cali, Barry Miller, Julie Bovasso, Val Bosoglio, Donna Pescow.
Quintessential film about the Seventies' disco craze that made Travolta
an American icon (Best Actor nominee) and superstar as Brooklynite Tony
Manero, a free-wheelin' Italian kid who loves to dance but doesn't know
what he wants from life despite his talent and some eye-opening advice
from dance partner Gorney. Directed on location with gritty realism by
John Badham this blockbuster features songs by the ultimate trio The
Bee Gees.(My favorite: "How Deep Is Your Love?"). Look for Fran
Drescher and Denny Dillon in the dance sequences. For the film vault: a
snake-hipped, lupine Travolta cutting loose to "You Should Be Dancing."
