
This film is nearly 20 years old, but still rates as one of the best
movies I've ever seen.

Following the title sequence which sets the violent scene of car crime
which forms the backdrop for this film, Peter Werner opens the film
with a fairly protracted scene featuring the central character
(22-year-old rookie cop, Benjy) in his home environment. This marks the
start of some brilliant characterisation which underpins the whole
film, causing the viewer not to perceive that there is a "villain of
the piece". As an enviable friendship between Bengy and the police
target, suspected ringleader and businessman, Ted Varrick (Charlie
Sheen) develops, the viewer yearns to be in ether's shoes, as Ted
welcomes Bengy to his world of the "rich and aimless". This envy is
part based on the complex hedonistic and idealistic relationships
between all the characters that evolves, but ultimately everything
relies for its roots on Bengy and Teds crime sprees, something that
ultimately must end.

The deterioration is palpable, and when ultimately the reckoning comes,
it does so in series of twists that drive the two friends together
(something very much cunningly engineered by Ted himself). The end
represents a self fulfilling prophesy that left me craving for more,
yet knowing there could be no sequel.

The contrast between the pair is very much a focal point, the only
commonality being their devotion to their own goals - goals which for
Bengy at least become very blurred, as Ted gives him the Porsche and
the lifestyle that form the focus of his own existence. The domestic
opening scene is a stark contrast for the remote, empty but undeniabley
plush and palacial house that Ted "visits" rather than truly lives in,
with its stunning view from the hills over the city. 

The film is bolstered by some spectacular car chase sequences that are
plausible in a way that modern sequences rarely are. They all involve
Porsche 911's and if there is ever any incredulity it comes from these
sequences only. Could an Oldsmobile ever keep pace with a works
Porsche? How could an Iroc Z ever hope to keep up, and if it did, and
crashed into the lightweight Porsche, how on earth does it fail to
leave a scratch?

Romantic interest is enticingly present as Ted encourages the
relationship between Bengy and his own sister Anne (Lara Harris) but it
never manages to rival, nor is intended to rival the strength of the
bond between Ted and Bengy. 

Utterly brilliant for the most part, I've now watched this film 8
times.

Thoroughly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
In a way, having a Porsche in a city like Los Angeles is a clear
invitation for car thieves to take them, as demonstrated in "No Man's
Land", the 1987 film that has a look of a movie made for television.
It's no wonder since its director and writer, Peter Werner and Dick
Wolf, are veterans of the medium. Ron Howard is listed as a producer.

"No Man's Land" is worth a look because in spite of its flaws, because
it shows an interesting aspect of the complex relationship between a
police undercover cop and the young man who is the master mind in the
car stealing robberies plaguing the city. The interaction between these
two opposites is well played by the two leading actors, B. D. Sweeney,
and Charlie Sheen.

Charlie Sheen, gives a restrained performance here. In fact, this actor
tends to go for intensity without the proper guidance of a good
director. As the slick Ted Varrick, Mr. Sheen shows a subtle side that
we don't see too often. B.D. Sweeney is also effective as the
undercover man who falls for Ann, who happens to be Ted's sister. Mr.
Sweeney has that clean look about him that makes him perfectly suited
for the good natured Bill, the mechanic he pretends to be.

Others faces in the film includes Lara Harris who plays Ann, the woman
in love with the man hunting her own brother. Randy Quaid is seen
briefly as Lt. Bracey, who is responsible for getting one of his men
infiltrate the car stealing ring.

"No Man's Land" has the ubiquitous car chases and visual effects of
pictures of this genre. The cinematography of Hiro Narita shows us a
lot of Los Angeles shopping malls and high priced stores where the car
thieves love to steal the Porsches.
<|_=00=_|>
The eighties might be considered a fairly relaxed era for movies. So
many classic films come out of the eighties and they are ripe with sex,
materialistic lust, violence, bad language, and the ultimate in cool.
No Man's Land, despite a rather dull title, is exactly what the
eighties genre is all about. Sleek cars (the Porsche) fast women, cool
guys, guns, suits, and basically chock full of testosterone. This film
is exactly what Fast and The Furious or Gone In Sixty Seconds was years
later. Although No Man's Land has a fairly stereotypical storyline, the
cop goes undercover to bust a car thieving ring and becomes entranced
with the sweet lifestyle, something makes this different. It might be
the cast who all work really well together without really giving any
truly outstanding performances, it's a fast paced action film with an
incredible car chase scene right at the climax and it's just a good
time. It's not that will rake in the Oscars but at the same time you'll
just feel pumped up watching it.

Charlie Sheen...king of The Brat Pack, some might say. He was at the
top of his game going into No Man's Land following Platoon and shortly
thereafter Wall Street and Young Guns, and Major League. The guy was
big in his day. In this film he plays bad guy, smooth talking
businessman Ted Varrick. Varrick is so cool that you barely notice his
illegal activities. Sheen is slick and easy to watch and commands a
screen presence for his young age. And he's actually playing a grown up
which is always a good move for a young actor trying to break into
adult roles. He is very good as Varrick. D.B. Sweeney plays undercover
rookie cop Benjy Taylor. Now Sweeney has done a bit of character acting
although he was fairly new out of the gate when he filmed this one but
I didn't think he was quite as good as someone stronger could have been
in the role but he does alright. He tries to come across as the bad boy
and never quite gets there. He's too soft but still he's likable and
you can relate to him as the hero who gets too deep in with Varrick.
Sheen and Sweeney do share some decent chemistry on screen together,
which makes for some truly likable scenes and a killer ending. Lara
Harris is Sweeney's love interest and Varrick's younger sister. She
does a decent job although a little quiet for her role and her and
Sheen seem to have too much sexual chemistry to be brother and sister
which comes across as creepy at times but she also has decent chemistry
with Sweeney although again he's not much of a bad boy like they try to
portray him. Randy Quaid plays a small role as Sweeney's boss who sends
him undercover. Quaid plays a tough as nails Lieutenant who seems to
only yell and scream most of the time which is unfortunate because
Quaid could have added a lot to the cast.

As I mentioned before one of the absolute highlights of the film is the
car chase scenes, one in particular at the height of the film. Sweeney
behind the wheel, Sheen in the car with him and rival mobsters on their
heels but there is plenty of action surrounding that chase. Gun fights,
violent beatings and an intriguing underworld look at the parties, the
women, the drugs and the stealing of the cars. I can't believe this
film doesn't get more credit for being a classic eighties film because
it truly is very entertaining and I only happened to come across it in
my local video store and I thought it looked a little like a buddy cop
film so I went for it and at times it does have that feel despite being
on the other side of the law. Sheen and Sweeney hold their own and hold
your attention and a decent story to go along with it. Moonlighting
director Peter Werner establishes a deep friendship between them making
the climax all the more thrilling. This one is a sure fire eighties
hit!! 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I hate to praise Charlie Sheen, but I must.He played this role so
perfectly, that I forgot I was watching a movie. I know that's a cliché
by now, but it applies.

You know the plot from the other reviews. Boyish undercover cop
infiltrates a mechanic shop and befriends the owner, whom he is
assigned to tail. That's because he is a suspected car thief and
murderer.

Think "Point Break" here, only 4 years earlier. A charismatic bad boy,
sucks a peer into his criminal world, and the peer is actually in law
enforcement.

If you love 80s movies set amidst the glitz of 80s L.A., with fancy
cars and classic obscure 80s dance tunes thrown in, you will love this
one.

I couldn't help envying the adventure that the D.B. Sweeney character
was having. Nothing exciting ever happens to me. He gets introduced to
the world of "the rich and aimless," gets a brother-like best friend
who gives him money and lavish gifts, and he falls in love with a
beautiful rich girl.

There were a couple of authenticity problems I have to mention. The
Sweeney character was supposed to be a 22 year old rookie, yet he was
working undercover. Wouldn't that be a bit advanced for him? He was not
a detective. But I guess they had to use him, because of his mechanical
acumen with Porsches.

Also, in order to get hired as a Porsche mechanic, wouldn't he have to
show that he passed certification classes? Having just worked on some
old cars in his driveway, would he really be skilled enough to work
with professional foreign car mechanics, without taking any courses?

The Randy Quaid character was a little comic-bookie, or over-the-top
angry, but I guess they had to establish the tension between him and
the rookie.

The final showdown will again remind you of "Point Break." Enjoy it.
This is definitely a guy's movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Charlie Sheen and Little known actor DB Sweeney star in this excellent
thriller about a cop who is sent undercover at a chop shop to find out
who murdered another undercover officer.

DB Sweeney is not bad as the cop who ends up blurring the line and
whose loyalties become divided. Benjy (DB Sweeney) gets in way over his
head when he falls for the prime suspects sister(Lara Harris), and
becomes buddy's with the suspect.

Charlie Sheen is at his super smooth and sleek best as the extremely
affable but ultimately very cunning Ted Varrick. A well respected guy
who has cops on the payroll, steals Porsche's and still has time for
lavish party's at his home. As Sheen tell's Sweeney "Welcome to the
lifestyles of the rich and aimless" ! There is a lot to like about this
film. The performances range from excellent (Charlie Sheen & Randy
Quaid as Sweeney's boss) to good (DB Sweeney) to not so good (Lara
Harris). The Car Chases are well filmed and exciting as well as pretty
believable as is the storyline and the actions of the characters. The
Tension between Sweeney & Sheen and the ending are well handled and
leaves you satisfied at the end.

I was surprised that Character actor George Dzundza was uncredited as
Benjy's Uncle Mike and he is not even listed on IMDb (I have sent a
cast update to IMDb).

I highly recommend this film and would rate it 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I will preface this by saying I am an '88 Porsche 930 Turbo owner here.
That's the silver car in the chase scene with the Camaro. Biased
opinion I'll admit. I think this movie pretty much holds it's own as
far as the story line goes. I love it, being a Porsche fanatic.

D.B. Sweeney is perfect in this role. Outside of Platoon, I think this
is the best Charlie Sheen. 

But, let's face it. The star of this movie is the drop dead sexy
Porsche 911! 

"The Fast And The Furious" completely stole from this movie. They
substituted hopped up Hondas and Mazdas for the Porsches.

If you are looking for my opinion, watch this movie. If you want a good
story line, great driving scenes, this is your movie.

If you are a Porsche fan, you probably have already watched this 100
times like me!
<|_=00=_|>
Once again I've got to say thank you to my Netflix 'recommended' queue,
because thus far it's let me to several great movies that I never knew
existed, including this one. 

This was a truly good movie, with a fantastic storyline, great acting
and a lot of style. Charlie Sheen turns in a terrific, understated
performance, which makes you sadly recall that at one time he was a
gifted young actor with a promising future ahead of him, and not an out
of control bipolar freak of nature. This movie actually fell right in
the middle of his golden period; shortly after 'Platoon' and just
before 'Wall Street' and 'Young Guns'. He was pretty clearly at the top
of his game. 

The rest of the cast did wonderfully as well, especially D.B. Sweeney
who handled the lead role admirably, and the incredibly beautiful and
talented Lara Harris, who deserves far more work in Hollywood than
she's gotten. The only character who seemed out of place was Randy
Quaid as the no-nonsense lieutenant, but that's only because I've
become so used to seeing him in goofball roles that it's now a bit
jarring when he's serious.

I definitely enjoyed this film, and any fan of the police/thriller
genre will surely enjoy it as well, as will fans of the time period in
general. I'm glad I didn't pass this one over.
<|_=00=_|>

In No Man's Land, Charlie Sheen returns for another action flick about
high-stakes car theives, having previously co-starred in Clint Eastwood's
high action thriller, 'The Rookie.' But, whereas before he was a cop, here
he plays one the primary villain, a wealthy Porsche thief who proves to go
too far to protect his interests. 

A young D.B. Sweeny is Billy Isle, a rookie cop hired by a Lieutenant (Randy
Quaid) to work undercover at a suspected chop shop that deals exclusively in
Porsches. His assignement is to track Ted Varrick (Sheen), the wealthy hot
shot behind the business, who the Lieutenant suspects is guilty of murdering
a cop. However, Billy, after befirending Varrick and often forgetting he is
a cop as he embraces the fast times of Porsche stealing and wealthy parties
and carefree lifestyle Varrick introduces him to, clouding his judgment of
Varrick, who he claims could not possibly be responsible for the cop's
death, let alone anyone else's. 

But Billy begans to realize Varrick places no limits on how far he's willing
to go to protect himself when the undercover operation is jeopardized,
exposing high-level police corruption. And after Varrick gets wind of it,
the body count starts mounting. Billy's trust of Varrick is tested when he
becomes Varrick's next target. Billy's just got to wake up and get real when
it comes to Ted.   

It is a pretty good story, though initially slow moving. That is, until the
Ted Varrick character enters the scene. D.B. Sweeny does a good job with the
lead as the impressionable young cop, and Sheen plays his usually monotonous
toned hot shot. Often, it is the lengthy big-action car chase scenes that
propels through the repetition. Good stuff highly recommended for 80s action
fans. 
<|_=00=_|>
Benjy Taylor is a rookie cop who goes undercover to nab a gang of car
thieves led by Ted Varrick.

Taylor becomes too involved and starts to enjoy the thrill and
lifestyle of the car thieves, and falls in love with Varrick's sister
Ann....

It's the same old story isn't it? you get approached in a bar by Randy
quaid with a mullet, and the next thing, you're working for Mac from
Predator, who asks you to pick up Topper Harley!! Surely....you must be
'winning'....

It's one of those films that were made in the late eighties, that was
all style and no substance, and the story is as old as the hills.

Cop goes undercover, becomes best friends with the main guy, falls in
love with someone close to the main guy, lets his new life take over
him.......hold on....Doesn't that sound like Point Break?? it does
sound a lot like the Swayze classic, but believe me, this is far
inferior than that movie.

Sheen looks like he cannot be bothered to mess up his hair, and Sweeney
looks like he is fighting a losing battle, he knows in every scene he
is being overshadowed by Sheen.

It leads to nowhere, there isn't going on in the films narrative, and
the final third is as predictable as Saturday going into Sunday.

Mundane at best.
<|_=00=_|>
I agree with most of the positive comments on this film. I also waited
ages to see this. My wife was an extra in one of the mall parking lot
scenes and I was with her on the shoot (She was also in Less than Zero,
ah those were the days). I never bought the video as I was waiting for
a widescreen version which never came out. Then I happened to catch in
on MGM HD on directTV recently. It surely has stood the test of time.
It's like a well stored vintage wine, more tasty for having been locked
away. 

Sheen as a Dean-like forerunner of his over the top real life and TV
sitcom persona, is excellent. Sweeney is like Duchovny, brilliant in
his understatedness. Even the listless sister adds to the increasing
and uneasy chemistry that develops between the 3. I bought it.

Needless to say, the action is tight and gripping. I've cruised
Mulholland in a Porsche, and take out of town relatives there to
sightsee so I may be biased, heheh... 

The HD transfer was luminous and film-like perfection. A plus was the
80's soundtrack featuring a live appearance by The Untouchables, an
early Ska local band! 

What more can I say? Yes the movie does has Law and Order written all
over it,but ah, what a episode! 

If you enjoy the slower paced movies of the golden era, this one won't
disappoint.
