
I love this film, and, as far as I'm concerned, it's the best of the
series. "Friday the 13th: A New Beginning" is vastly underrated by all
the crybabies out there. "Oh, boo hoo, where's Jason?!" He's not here,
so get the hell over it already. Too many sequels that try to shake
things up a little get shat all over for daring to not be a clone of
what's come before. It's sad.

I love the halfway house setting. It's a unique idea that naturally
lends itself to some offbeat slasher fodder. I also find the area in
which the film was shot surprisingly atmospheric. Along with the killer
being unseen for the first time since the original, it helps to make
this a creepier entry in franchise. This is probably the most bizarre
film in the series, too, which only makes it more endearing to me. The
characters are great. From the quirky halfway house residents to the
crazed backwoods hicks, to the wacky Demon, this film's characters are
very entertaining, and on many occasions, quite amusing. I also love
the direction in which they take the character of Tommy Jarvis, having
all these mental problems thanks to Mr. Voorhees. His hallucinations
are actually rather eerie, to boot. It's a damn shame they didn't
continue the idea in Jason Lives, which I consider to be one of the
weakest entries in the series (but that's another story for another
review board).

I think the kills in this film are some of the most original in the
series. A leather strap crushing someone's head against a tree, a road
flare to the mouth, a cleaver decapitation while riding a motorcycle,
among others, aren't your typical slasher kills. I also love the fact
that the killer is copycat, Roy. It's a nice, refreshing take. I always
see people whine about Jason not being the killer here, but I say it's
better that way. I think having chocolate bar boy be his son was a nice
twist. Funny how he kills everyone but his son's killer, but I'm sure
he couldn't get to him with the authorities taking him into custody.

I could go on and on about how enjoyable this film is. It has a real
charm to it, and it's a shame that so many consider it one of the low
points of the series, even the worst. I was disappointed to see this
film on the IMDb bottom 100 a good while back. It's no longer on the
list, so that's cool.

And remember, "Y-ya don't s-set a place for a dead person!"
<|_=00=_|>
This is the best Jason to watch drunk, it's almost like a Friday the
13th blooper reel. I love the singing on the crapper part, the mod
chick doing the robot, the "just wanna earn a meal" guy, Crazy Ethel
and Junior, Billy and Llana, that kid from Diff'rent Strokes, the
stupid arse ending, and the excessive nudity.

It's a time capsule of sorts, it captures all the bad 80's slasher
films in a hour and a half. Bad acting? GOT IT! Ridiculous costumes?
GOT IT! Lot's of big haired women topless? GOT IT! No name stars
obviously coked out of they're mind? OH THIS MOVIE HAS GOT PLENTY OF
THAT! Watch it and laugh, preferably with some friends
<|_=00=_|>
The status of Friday The 13th Part V: A New Beginning as the least
popular film in the series has always frustrated and perplexed me.
Masterfully directed by Danny Steinmann, it is a supremely entertaining
exploitation slasher film. The most common reasons given seem to be:
(a) there's not enough gore (b) the story is stupid/the acting isn't
very good (c) Jason isn't in the movie. Of course, none of these
explanations is valid. First of all, if gore alone is your litmus test
to determine whether or not a film is enjoyable, you should probably
steer clear of the entire Friday The 13th series, as well as any movie
that has been subjected to the wacky ratings system and experienced a
wide theatrical release. Go watch I don't know a Guinea Pig film. A
New Beginning has as much gore as any of the Friday films. If a strong
plot and acting of the highest caliber is important to you well, let's
be honest, criticizing A New Beginning for its silly plot is like
dismissing Van Gogh because you don't like the color yellow. You're
missing the point. Yes, I sort of understand the complaint that Jason
isn't in the movie, as he is my favorite of the classic maniacs.
(Cropsy, Marty, Michael Meyers, and Angela round out the top five.) But
his absence alone shouldn't ruin the whole movie for you. I'd rather
watch an entertaining movie that alludes to, yet doesn't feature the
actual Jason, as opposed to a boring movie that completely screws up
his mythology. (Here's a clue. It comes after VIII and before X.)

Friday The 13th Part V: A New Beginning works because it takes the
elements that make a good slasher film and completely exaggerates them.
All irony aside, A New Beginning is a trashy, sleazy, exploitative
masterpiece. The very premise of having "Jason" hack up a group of
mentally-ill teens, which includes two nymphomaniacs, an angry
sociopath, a chocolate loving man child, a new-wave goth who likes to
dance, and a stutterer, is indicative of the sick-minded, oozy
greatness of this movie. Jesus, I haven't even touched upon the
mother-son hillbilly biker duo or Demon! This movie has more great
characters than the entire Halloween series combined! Are you not
entertained by Demon in his "sh*tbox" singing "Oooh, Oooh, Baby. Oooh,
Oooh, Baby" to his sexy girlfriend before being impaled? How could this
be? Are you made of stone? Are you? Do you not enjoy watching Violet,
who is the most uniquely attractive female in the entire Friday series,
do the robot to Pseudo Echo before being killed? I love her with all my
heart. What about Ethel and Junior, the most vile, hate-filled, "loony"
hating hicks to ever interact with a stained voyeur-drifter? Junior's
decapitation, after being pummeled by Tommy following a prank which
consisted of shining a light in his eyes, is a fitting end for the
angry dullard. Oh, and Vic? The greatest red herring in slasher
history. He violently kills Joey after the overweight stereotype
accuses him of being "out of line." Harsh words from a strange man! 

The number of kills in this movie dwarf the previous Friday record.
(Subsequent sequels had more, but, with the exception of Jason X
another unjustly maligned classic not by much.) The fact that most of
these kills are peripheral to the story, unnecessary, and hilarious
only adds to their quality. Case in point, the hideously obnoxious,
cocaine-addicted mental health worker Billy who picks up Lana the
waitress at the diner. She who proceeds to get naked while saying "It's
showtime!" to herself in the mirror. You don't see the entertainment
value in that, my friends? Following this odd display, a cat bafflingly
drops from above and bounces clumsily and hard off a booth. It was a
cheap shock and laugh at the same time! Shortly thereafter, Billy and
Lana are both killed with enough blood to make it all worthwhile. That
entire scene is mesmerizing. And let's not forget the two jerks with
the broken down car who appear earlier in the film. They're greasers!
Greasers! 

I watch slasher films not for genuine scares or insightful twists, but
to be entertained. And I am usually entertained by their exploitative
depths, bloody action, nudity, uniquely stupid characters, and the
basest nihilism of it all. I simply cannot see how anyone could argue A
New Beginning doesn't contain every single one of these qualities in
excess. It's a sleazy, vicious, offensive slasher that epitomizes
everything that makes the genre popular. The time has come to
re-evaluate this amazing film and give Steinmann the credit he
deserves.
<|_=00=_|>

Friday the 13th is the best film of the series by far.
But then when it comes to a choice of the best sequel, I say that Friday
the
13th part 5 is the joint best sequel of the series.Part 4 the so called
final chapter is equally as good.

I take a look at other peoples comments about this film and it seems to me
that I am one of the only people who likes this film.

It has everything that the other sequels failed to capture.
It had real suspense, as to who the killer was, I mean we all know it was
not Jason, he "was" dead.

It had a lot of different death scenes,and it was all in all a good
film.
it had the 3 rules for making a successful sequel.....
1)Body count is always bigger
2)The death scenes are more elaborate
3) Never ever ......... oh sorry back to the comments
.....Thinking about it, the ending was kind of like a Scooby Doo ending,
as
to why he did it.

The man responsible had a perfectly simple and plain motive, revenge.I`m
not
going to say what he wanted revenge for or who he was not it was
simple.

I kind of figured it out that the killer was not Jason, when he gets hurt
by
many objects you can hear him moan in pain, Jason is a member of the
Living
Dead Club, which means he is the living dead. And he don`t really feel
pain.

Tommy Jarvis returns in the film.Corey Feldman is also in it as well, but
he
has a sort of cameo role.
I do not understand why Tommy is in a mental Institute, I mean he is still
freaked out by the murder of his mother and friends at the hands of Jason
Voorhees.

So if you want to find out who killer is and why he did it, then rent out
this film or if you`re a horror fan like me, buy it and add it to your
horror collection.

I give this movie a 8 out of 10.Because of the Crazy "new beginning". well
it has not really got a new beginning but it is a Pun ........get
it????

Do Not worry.
<|_=00=_|>
There are a few "Friday" fans out there that can actually enjoy this
film for what it is instead of complaining about what it's not.

Yes, the plot is a big departure from the previous films, but once you
get over it, it's a pretty fun '80s slasher film with plenty of
creative kills and some great chase sequences.

The acting is surprisingly solid for a series' fifth entry as well. I
really never understood the complaints about the acting in these films,
as to me it's always been passable and certainly above most of the
slasher rip-offs the decade was littered with.

This time, the action takes place at a halfway house in the sticks
where Tommy Jarvis, survivor of the previous bloodbath, comes to stay
after an undetermined amount of time in a mental hospital. But Tommy
can't seem to catch a break, as the bodies of the troubled kids soon
begin piling up after his arrival. Is it Jason? Tommy? One of the
locals who has a grudge against the disturbed kids? I won't spoil that
here.

This film has the highest body count in the series, with barely enough
time to breathe before the next murder is set up. Thankfully, the
series retains its creative flair when it comes to dispatching the
victims. Some highlights include a head crushed against a tree with a
leather strap, a road flare being improperly used, and a death in an
outhouse. There's also a nice moment you can only get in '80s horror
involving a girl doing the Robot dance in her bedroom to Pseudo Echo's
catchy song "His Eyes." Terrific.

If there's anything that sets this sequel apart from its brothers and
sisters, it's the overall tone of the film, which is much darker this
time around. This can be good or bad, depending on what you prefer: a
fun slasher sequel like part 3, this is not.

The final 20 minutes really get the action going as well. Fans of
nudity will also rejoice, as this has the most pair of breasts shown in
a "Friday the 13th" film to date.

I found this better than part four, which I realize puts me on a
chopping block with other fans. But I call it like I see it.
<|_=00=_|>
This is another fine sequel in the Friday the 13th franchise. This has
a good body count and some gory and graphic scenes. The film takes
place some years after Friday the 13th: The Final Chapter and now Tommy
is 18 but since he killed Jason he's been traumatised by it all and is
sent to a mental hospital just outside of a small town, this one is
different since they are free to roam around as they please. Tommy
keeps seeing Jason and remembering what happened, soon after the kid
gets axed the murders begin by a mysterious man wearing a boiler,
hockey mask and carrying a machete. The police believe that it's Jason
by the mayor thinks over wise since Jason cremated but of course he
isn't, soon more people are being killed off by the killer and after
each murder we keep seeing Tommy lying in his bed covered in sweat
making us think that he could be the killer since he keeps seeing
Jason.

The killings soon take place inside the mental hospital and Tommy is
nowhere to be seen, Reggie and Pam are the only ones there and find
themselves being chased by the killer who could be Tommy or the real
Jason or maybe someone else.

Friday the 13th: A New Beginning is a great sequel to the franchise.
Check it out. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Friday the 13th Part V: A New Beginning. This sequel is actually one of
the best in my opinion, except for the lousy ending. Friday the 13th
Part V: A New Beginning does everything correctly, through the first
three quarters of the movie. We start off with the plot of Tommy Jarvis
being sent to a halfway house for troubled teens, and there he is
plagued by visions of Jason Voorhees. So we now have a fresh twist that
the movie isn't to be set about cabins in the woods again, which is a
breath of fresh air. Then, we have the absolutely fantastic array of
characters, all of which are rememberal and great to watch. Ethel and
Junior provide comical relief as the hillbilly mother and son, we feel
sympathy for Jake, Violet and Robin, who are all great people to watch
interact. The characters are all interesting, and all have their own
personal traits which makes them work, instead of them all just wanting
to party, drink, smoke and have sex, so this is also a step in a new
direction. Out of all of the Friday the 13th instalments, Friday the
13th Part V: A New Beginning probably has the most memorable
characters, and some fantastic scenes with them, for example when Anita
and Demon sing whilst he is on the toilet, or when Violet is dancing
the robot. Friday the 13th does have some very memorable and inventive
death scenes as well, although plot holes and continuity issues do fall
through think and fast. There is some nudity as well, mainly from
Debbie Sue Voorhees, which is very enjoyable. The script can get very
lame, for instance the conversations between Billy and Lana. However
the twist ending is that Jason Voorhees wasn't behind these murders,
but it was instead a copycat who was killing off the teens after his
estranged son was hacked up at that very same halfway house. This is
quite a let down, but seriously, don't let this put you completely off.
Jason takes a vacation, but this filler still delivers the goods.
<|_=00=_|>
This takes place about 10 years after "The Final (right) Chapter"
(which places it in the mid 1990s!). Tommy Jarvis (John Shepherd) is
basically mentally disturbed and is being sent to an institution called
Pinehurst. As soon as he arrives there people start getting murdered by
Jason--but Jason was cremated after he was killed. Is it Tommy finally
being driven crazy or is it somebody else? 

This actually differs from the other sequels--it actually has a story!
Also it has an astronomical body count--20! Most of them were cut down
by the MPAA to get an R rating however. For those curious--14 men are
killed and 6 women.

This has all the same problems as earlier movies and then some--there
are continuity errors left and right; some truly terrible acting
(Melanie Kinnaman as Pam was the worst); bad dialogue; Jason being able
to seemingly teleport to magically appear wherever he wants; gratuitous
female nudity; two extremely annoying hillbillies and characters so
stupid you want them dead! But it has some good points--this is the
first Friday the 13th to have black characters; it's never boring;
there are very few character scenes (considering how bad they were in
the past this is a very good thing) and there is actually some good
acting from Shavar Ross, Jerry Pavlon and John Shepherd. The sequence
where Shepherd single-handedly knocks the hillbilly cold is a
highlight.

A lot of fans hate this--it's dismissed as "the film without Jason" and
considered (along with part 3) as the worst of the series. I disagree.
It's no masterpiece by any means but I was always entertained. I give
it a 7.
<|_=00=_|>
OK lets get it all out that annoys people the most about this movie.
Jason Voorhees is not the killer. In the film Tommy Jarvis (from the
last film) is sent to a new place to get back to his own self like
before the events of the Final Chapter. As he stays he and keeps going
into fits of rage and having hallucinations of Jason, as this goes on
real murders are happening all over the area by some unknown killer. I
don't want to ruin it for people who haven't seen it but honestly
behind Part 2 and 4 this is one of my favorite squeals. Many people
bash this movie because Jason is not the killer which i think is
ridiculous. People honestly don't think, in the original, Pamela
Voorhees was the killer not Jason, Originally it was to be an only
film, NO Jason, NO nothing. But many people liked it and wanted more.
after Jason's death in Final chapter, they wanted to show he was really
dead, by bringing in a new killer. I thought that was smart then keep
bringing Jason back again. My main point is, Give it a watch! its
extremely entertaining, there is a high body count and amazing score.
Yes it has its week moments but overall its a lot of fun to watch. Any
true Friday the 13th fan must watch!
<|_=00=_|>
We know from the start that there is no way for it to really end well.
I like it enough, but I don't think it's great or all that really good.
I will never understand the hate for this movie. Still haunted by his
gruesome past, Tommy Jarvis - the boy who killed Jason Voorhees -
wonders if somehow he is connected to brutal slayings occurring in and
around the secluded halfway house where he now lives. This is a story
about a place most people might not be able to conceive. Fortunately
the director lets the actors breathe and the music lets the atmosphere
live. In the end, the audience gets a casserole of film elements. My
final rating is 7/10. ( I am not saying the film is a classic, but it
was pleasant.)
