

i have seen this movie so many times and it is still hilarious.
regardless
of what others have said i think this movie is great.  the plot is not
that
well written but who cares this movie wants to make u laugh and it
succeeds
admirably.  I think that this movie is great and is one of my favorite all
time movies.  It is absolutely hilarious.  Many think that Tom Hanks is a
dramatic actor, but his roots are in comedy.  This movie proves that, he
is
absolutely perfect and hillarious.  Shelley Long although not great, is
the
best she has ever been in a movie.  Her timing and emotions are well fit
for
this movie.  You will laugh and be touched, please vote afterwards and
make
this rating go up.
<|_=00=_|>
I know, the critics ripped at "The Money Pit" when it got released.
They apparently didn't realize that it wasn't pretending to be a
masterpiece; it was a big excuse to be funny, and they succeed. Some of
the gags her seem to forecast the equally funny "Mousehunt".
Personally, I think that Tom Hanks needs to act in some more comedies,
and Shelley Long needs to get more roles in movies. My favorite scene?
Well, I get the giggles whenever I think of the whole chain reaction.
Just the kinds of things about which anyone should worry when moving
into a new house (although my family didn't have such experiences when
we moved into our house).

All in all, it shows that Richard Benjamin is as great a director as he
is an actor. My generation ought to give him the recognition that my
parents' generation gave him. Also starring Alexander Godunov (one of
the Amish guys in "Witness"), Maureen Stapleton, Joe Mantegna and Josh
Mostel.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie. Granted, I was a teen when I first saw it, but even
so, I laughed often and that is my standard of judgment. Shelley Long
is as good as she was in Cheers (which is gooood). Tom Hanks shows off
the early "Bosom Buddies" hopes of physical comedy genius here in a way
that he never did again. The bee-attack scene to the flight of the
Bumblebee violin solo is fabulous. the whole "We're Sitting on a Dream"
sequence with the stairs and doorbell and raccoon and the bathtub is
hilarious but PEOPLE. Come on. The entire collapsing stairs bit is the
best, capped off by Hanks sweet little blown kiss at the end ... slayed
me. My brother and I still reference it whenever everything is more
crap than bearable, and we always will. I think this is an overlooked
gem and will always have it in my video catalogue. Finally, a quote:
Paint. Don't tickle. Alexander Gudonow will be missed.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the rarest of the rare: a one-joke comedy where the one-joke is
able to sustain the whole film. It all begins when Hanks and Long buy a
big, grand, dream house in the New York countryside. It is, of course,
too good to be true, after the sob-story old lady has sold it to them
it begins to crumble into disaster. But because there are so many
angles for the filmmakers to come from---collapse of stairs, wild
animals lurking, bad wiring---it manages to hold itself together for
around ninety minutes. A big credit goes to Hanks, who's facial
expressions are priceless at times. Such as when he accidentally
hammers his thumb. Too stunned to curse, he does what we all do, as he
begins to beat the hell out of the object he was hammering. Even his
charm in the earlier scenes, like dealing with a bratty kid-star, are
funny. Long is good as his sort of straight-(wo)man, but Godunov steals
all his scenes as her self-absorbed ex husband. Bosco is great as the
grandfather of the entire construction crew, and even the
sub-sub-characters are engaging as everyone always has a goofy line to
chime in with, i.e. the infamous "Two weeks". But the coup de gras of
the entire thing is a slapstick set-piece that brings down the house,
literally. All I'll say is that involves Hanks going on a proverbial
roller-coaster ride in and around the house for a good two minutes. The
choreography and timing, starting with Hanks and going all the way down
the extras, is amazing. Even if you aren't into the film, at least stay
until that moment. There's an extra-marital subplot, that usually in a
comedy, never fits. But because we like Hanks and Long so much, we get
into it. And it leads to one of Hanks' funnier line readings ever. To
the longtime fans of the movie: "YOU WH*RE!"
<|_=00=_|>
This film when it first came out was not given credit, it fell into the
categories with the "Ghostbusters sequel" and other silly 80's movies.
But, if you watch it again, it may have you laughing.

Shelley Long, while not a favorite, is good, and Tom Hanks, as a young
couple finally buying that country mansion dream house every American
should want. Maureen Stapleton is selling it; she is classic.

Joe Mantegna as Art Shirk, one of the many contractors and plumbers who
take the young couple for a ride. Richard Benjamin has done a good job
directing (You may want to watch "Goodbye, Columbus" again; he was
excellent in that film).

The story is predictable, but will lighten your mood; it is not just a
romantic comedy with a ridiculous premise. Anyone who has ever had to
deal with house repairs and contractors will find this to be a good
tonic. 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>

It continually amazes me that Tom hanks will go down as one of the best
dramatic actors of our generation and little will be spoken of how good a
physical comedian he was before "Philadelphia" changed his career. Hanks
made a string of movies in the 80s relying on his physical comedy ability,
most notable "Big", "the burbs", "dragnet", "turner & hooch" etc. But I
think that with the POSSIBLE exception of "Big" - "The Money Pit" is his
best. Some of the scenes involving Hanks in this movie made me laugh so hard
I couldn't breathe. This movie is intended to be a farce and it succeeds
totally. The rest of the cast is not very strong - I have never, and I
assume never will be, a Shelley Long fan - she doesn't do anything but
provide a sounding board for Hanks anyway. But then again, she really
doesn't need to. 

This movie is definitely worth taking a look at if you haven't seen it - the
first time you watch it, it is genuinely hilarious. I just watched it again
after about three years without seeing it and found it to still  hold up.
The scene when the chimney falls apart is my favorite. I wish hanks would do
another comedy, but he's all serious now. oh well.
<|_=00=_|>
This is truly the era when Tom Hanks was a comedian. He really made me
laugh in this movie. Especially when the bath tub falls through the
flooring. The best parts happen when something goes wrong. Tom Hanks
has moved on since this time period to make Oscar winning movies such
as Forrest Gump and the Green Mile, but this is truly when he was at
his best. I have to admit, I never thought that Tom Hanks could be
funny until I saw this film. I inspire anyone to give this movie a try.
I guarantee that it will make you laugh at least once or twice. So go
on and try the Money Pit. It is when Tom Hanks was not in it for the
awards.
<|_=00=_|>
Another film, I love from 86, sees Hanks, again impressing us, with
great comic timing, and soon to be wife, Shelly Long (always good in
any role) buy the lemon from hell. There are laughs here and there, but
the fun is in just watching this place come apart and crumble. Not
sounding morbid or dastardly here. Here, anything and everything comes
apart, you have to ask yourself, "How the hell did they stage all of
the faults". It must of taken hours. Some of the defects are bloody
dangerous to watch, mostly concerning wires blowing apart and power
outlets. Poor Hanks getting sucked in through a hole in the second
story floor, was one of the fun moments. No other actor could fit this
role, and I wouldn't want to see any other actor in this role. Joe
Mantegna as a randy carpenter who makes the moves on Long, I liked.
Shelly's ex-Alexander Gordonuv provided a likable character of flair,
despite being shallow, and narcissistic. After not seeing this film in
a very long time, I still enjoyed it today as I did then. By the way,
in the house is amazingly, revamped, where in the end, for first home
buyers, hope is possible. Lets face it, at the start, this crumbling
house made the one in Emoh Ruo, look like a dream, it's faults, coming
in small pittance.
<|_=00=_|>
Tom Hanks and Shelley Long star in this hilarious film about a couple
who buy a million dollar home for $200,000 - only to find out it's
going to cost close to a million to repair it! Wood rot, raccoons in
the dumbwaiter, a bad roof, bad plumbing, bad electricity - you name
it, this house has it. Hard to choose the funniest scene - the
staircase collapse or Hanks getting dumped in cement.

The entire cast is excellent, from Maureen Stapleton, the former
homeowner whose boyfriend is being deported, Hanks' clients (he's an
entertainment attorney), the many workers who populate the house, or
Douglass Watson, Hanks' embezzler father who now lives in Rio.

It would also be hard to choose the funniest line, but for anyone who
has owned a home, probably the Shirks Brothers line when their team
comes to repair the house - "Your name came up in a drawing - we work
today!"
<|_=00=_|>
I have lost count of the amount of times I have watched this film. It's
one of those films you put on when you need cheering up. So many scenes
were funny to watch, love the one where Tom Hanks gets his fingers
stepped on, because the stairs is "out"!!!!

You really feel for them, as everything they touch falls apart...and
the saying: how long will this take to finish? TWO WEEKS, TWO WEEKS!!
Yeh...right the job to mend/repair the house lasts months.

There are so many funny scenes...which I love, Tom Hanks is a legend,
what a talent, funny or sad he's magic. Loved Shelley Long in this
film, she's very good doing comedy.

Great movie xxx xx
