

What is all this yap about Michael Keaton as Batman? Yes, he was Batman, and
he was a GREAT Batman. He pulled off every aspect of the role perfectly – he
was better than Val Kilmer, better than George Clooney, better than
everyone. He portrayed the mysterious charm of the winged crusader just as
well as he captured the cool and collected character of Bruce Wayne. Michael
Keaton is a huge part of the reason that this film was such a huge success,
the other main portion having come from the tremendous contribution from
Jack Nicholson as the Joker. Gotham City is created in incredibly detailed
comic-book style, which adds to the overall quality of the
movie.

Director Tim Burton does an amazing job bringing this unreal world to
reality, and Kim Basinger is excellent as Vicky Vale, the film's main female
presence. The script is particularly brilliant. The role of the Joker seems
to have been written specifically for Jack Nicholson, which would not be
surprising because of how well he pulled off the role with lines like `Why
didn't anyone tell me he had one of those…things?!' and `Remember me? When
you dropped me into that vat of chemicals? That wasn't easy to get over, and
don't think that I didn't try.' And, of course, my favorite, `…we'll be like
Beauty and the Beast. Of course, if anyone else ever calls you beast, I'll
rip their lungs out.' 

Everything, from the setting in Gotham City to the characters costumes to
the actual dialogue, gives the unreal feeling of a comic book, but the
characters are developed enough so that we understand their problems and we
care about what happens. The movie is a thrill ride from the beginning to
the end, and is enjoyable for all ages. If anyone is going to complain about
who was chosen to play Batman, there is much more room for complaint among
the film's several sequels. Keaton did a spectacular job that no one has
ever even come close to. 
<|_=00=_|>
Tim Burton takes a darker twist to a cheesy over the top silly TV show
that was loved by everyone. Batman is now played by Michael Keaton.
Michael as Batman was perfect, he had the look, humor, and mystery that
is Batman. Playing Batman for him, he became the role and I will always
stand by that. For me, he is the best Batman, no one besides the
original Adam West can touch his performance.

Jack Nicholson is now the Joker. Who could ask for a better Joker? He
has the look and dirty scary side to him that makes you fear but want
to enjoy his presence on screen. He has such charisma and appeal, his
lines were perfectly delivered and every scene, he stole. He and
Michael were terrific together. They played off each other so well, it
makes you go crazy almost. The Dark Knight vs. The Joker, the perfect
super hero and villain. Jack stole my heart with his killer, no pun
intended, performance.

Kim Bassigner was also fantastic. She plays Vicki Vale, the love
interest of Bruce Wayne/Batman. She is a photo journalist who is
looking for the true identity of Batman, which leads to the question of
if Batman can trust another being with his darkest secret? She was
absolutely beautiful and charming. No other woman could've done a
better job.

Like I said, Tim Burton, he takes a different turn on this "Batman",
but it's very appealing. Everyone loves this movie, and I can't blame
them. Batman is the best super hero of all comic book hero's in my
opinion. You see Spider-man can fly with webs, Super Man has super
strength and can fly, but Batman just needs himself. He kicks butt by
himself. :) The only thing you miss in the movie is Robin, his faithful
sidekick, but I don't blame Tim for not adding him for this Batman. It
wasn't needed. With a cool soundtrack by Prince and and awesome
setting, please watch "Batman", it's a true classic.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw this movie in the theater back in '89, I was just a kid - a
kid paralyzed by the looks and the charisma of the super-hero ever! I
didn't know much about directors those times, so I gave all the credit
to Michael Keaton and Jack Nicholson. Years later I understood that Tim
Burton -leading as my favorite director- was all behind this, making
Gotham City darker and wicked, taking Batman to a fearsome -unlike that
horrible TV show!- and heroic level as he should have been. As Michael
Keaton was born to fulfill his destiny as Batman, I don't think anyone
else could handle the Joker except Jack Nicholson. I have never seen
any character more suitable than these pair of super actors as super
heroes. I don't know whether I should be happy or sad for the first two
movie was shot by Tim Burton, for the following ones was not as good as
the ones shot by him. The third one was not as bad as the fourth. But
the "Batman and Robin" was the final humiliation ever made to me (I
really don't know what Joel Schumacher was thinking). I bet everyone
involved in the first two was crying their eyes out at the end of the
movie. Anyway, Tim, Michael, Jack and Kim was the best crew for a
movie, and they made it worth watching it over and over again. "Batman"
is amongst the best movies I've ever seen.
<|_=00=_|>
No radioactive spider bites or guys turning green or supermodels
painted blue here. Campy television series aside, Batman has always
seemed the most serious, the most grounded, the most real of all the
comic book sagas. Our hero has no magical, mystical superpowers...he's
just a guy in a suit. But where does he get those wonderful toys? In
this film Tim Burton does a very good job of bringing the Dark Knight
to life while also seemingly giving the dark, foreboding city of Gotham
a life of its own. Gotham is dark, gloomy, and dreary...almost
oppressively so. The city is almost a character unto itself in the
film...dark, mysterious and somehow quite real. The brilliantly
conceived, stunning visuals are the perfect backdrop for the story
which will unfold.

The story follows our Caped Crusader in his quest to clean up Gotham
which is in the midst of a frightening crime wave. There was much
unnecessary angst when comic actor Michael Keaton landed the title role
with fans feeling that was a sure sign the film would lean towards the
campy style evident in the famous television series. Nothing could have
been further from the truth. Batman would be a serious film (well, as
serious as a comic book movie can be) and Keaton was perfect in the
Bruce Wayne/Batman role. Keaton's Wayne comes across as an ordinary guy
doing extraordinary things. Keaton brings all the required seriousness
to the role but also can add a little comic touch when necessary.
Inspired casting pays off big time.

Good as he is Keaton is actually overshadowed in the film. Who else but
Jack Nicholson could cause the actor playing Batman to get second
billing in a movie titled Batman? Nicholson's performance as the Joker
is simply terrific. Maybe a little over the top at times but, hey, it's
the Joker...he's supposed to be over the top. Nicholson livens up every
scene he's in, he simply owns the screen. With two terrific actors
doing outstanding work bringing our hero and villain to life the film
can hardly go wrong. It's certainly entertaining enough but the film as
a whole doesn't quite match the brilliance of the two lead
performances. The supporting cast, led by Kim Basinger as the requisite
love interest, doesn't add much. Instead of leaving well enough alone
with a fantastic Danny Elfman score the whole movie comes to a
screeching halt a couple of times while we're forced to listen to some
inane Prince songs. And the story just seems to lack a certain zest. We
want to see the conflict between Batman and the Joker, these two great
characters played by two great actors. And for too much of the film
that conflict simply isn't there. But all in all, Batman is certainly a
worthy effort. Some top-notch acting, stunning visuals and a story that
does just enough to draw you in and hold your attention throughout. To
call this film great might be a stretch but one could say it is very,
very good. Certainly good enough to be worth your while.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1989, Tim Burton created the very first Batman movie with great
stars like Michael Keaton and Jack Nicholson. The Joker is definitely
one of Hollywood's best villains on screen. Jack Nicholson was born for
the role, with his psychotic and sick look. Michael Keaton is also
great as Batman and is pretty good as Bruce Wayne. Kim Basinger is kind
of annoying at times, but she's not the worst damsel in distress ever
seen on screen.

Tim Burton has a unique way of doing Batman, and I think most people
can agree that it fits the characters and the story. To bad Warner
Bros. got rid of him after the 2nd film.
<|_=00=_|>
If you were around in summer 1989 then you'll remember that Bat-fever
was EV-ER-Y-WHERE! You couldn't look anywhere without seeing the Bat
Logo in some incarnation. The film was a mega-hit. People were queueing
up around the block for hours (the literal meaning of a blockbuster). 

The marketing team at Warner had to saturate the minds of the public
with the big-screen coming of the Dark Knight. Up until this point the
Batman series from the 1960s is how people regarded the Batman
character and universe. Tim Burton corrected all that by giving us a
dark, sinister and Gothic world with rich production design and a great
score by Danny Elfman (who has made a career out of recycling the same
old generic cues in nearly every movie he has scored). The original
material is respected (to a degree), and the characters are deep
instead of just campy.

Michael Keaton is the best Bruce Wayne in my opinion. When he plays
both Bruce Wayne and Batman you have to watch what he doesn't say and
doesn't do. He's a rich, socio-phobic megalomaniac who has more money
than sense. This is very different from Adam West's turtleneck playboy.

Jack Nicholson is a great Joker too, not quite as intimidating or as
iconic as Heath Ledger's take on the character, but still a role that
has defined his career in a way. Nicholson's Joker isn't much more than
an attention-seeking lunatic. But it's still nothing like Caesar
Romero's campy, hopping-skipping-and-jumping villain.

Anton Furst's Oscar-winning design of Gotham City is very original and
unique, and is very much in the style of the Comic book. The
smoke-blackened, cramped and claustrophobic 1920s buildings look and
create a very oppressive atmosphere. This is definitely GOTHam City.
Not LA like the TV series.

They didn't even make any attempt with that show did they? In fact the
Batcave in the TV series was like the set of a mad scientists lab from
a 1950s movie. But the REAL Batcave in this movie is a monstrous cavern
filled with stalagmites and it actually HAS bats in it. And there's no
fireman's pole leading into it. 

With Christopher Nolan's reboot of the franchise currently the only
Batman worth considering for most fans, it'd be a shame if you were to
let this go ignored. It may not be as mature as Nolan's work but it has
an edge that no other recent comic-book movie has.

It's NOT an origin story. There's no 60 precious minutes on a build-up,
it just goes straight to the action. Why can't more comic-book movies
do this?
<|_=00=_|>
Dark, foreboding and vastly entertaining, BATMAN changed superhero
movies forever. Gone are the days of happy-go-lucky heroes arriving
just in time to save the day. Director Tim Burton's Caped Crusader is a
vengeful creature of the night preying on criminals who would turn his
city into their personal playground.

BATMAN is one stylish, thrilling and one helluva ride. While he's not
generally associated with action, Burton proves it to be his forte as
the Dark Knight Detective swoops out of the shadows, crashes through
windows and employs a host of what his nemesis calls "wonderful toys,"
such as grappling hook guns and the amazingly versatile Batmobile. And
man on man, this Batman kicks some ass, at one point daring an armed
henchman with a "come here" finger gesture.

BATMAN wouldn't have worked nearly as well as it does without the right
casting ingredients. The hiring of Michael Keaton in the lead role drew
plenty of snickers, but the underrated actor showed up his detractors
with a suitably mysterious performance. We know his heart is in the
right place, but we're never quite sure what we should make of him.
Jack Nicholson's famous performance as the villainous Joker is every
bit as good as they say. Nicholson is equal parts amusing and sadistic
beneath the white face paint and green hair. Sexy Kim Basinger, as
reporter Vicki Vale, also makes the most out of her screen time.

BATMAN is one of those films whose obvious flaws are so easily
overlooked. The worst sin a movie can commit is to be dull, and that's
something BATMAN never does.
<|_=00=_|>

This is truly a Fantasy/Comic movie-masterpiece. First of all- the
excellent
cast- Jack Nicholson shines in the role of the manic and crazy Jocker.
Nicholsons character is truly amazing- like a mixture of his former
roles/characters in "Chinatown" (Jake Gittes), "One Flew Over the
Cuchoo`s
Nest" (Randle McMurphy), "Prizzie` s honor" (C.Partanna), "the Witches of
Eastwick" (Daryl Van Horn) and of course "The Shining" (Jack Torrance)-
but
(the character) still keeps his own style. Michael Keaton also proves to
be
the ideal type for Burtons`s Batman. He reminds on the dark Batman from
the
"Dark Knight" Batman comics, and is the exact opposite of Batman
introduced
by Adam West in the 70`s. Second, Tim Burton created a unique
athmosphere,
exactly matching to the characters. Some people say that this movie is to
dark, but I wouldn`t agree.
I must not forget to mention the exciting Batman Theme composed by Danny
Elfmann.
Burton`s Batman, differnt from all the other Comic-hero movies, like
Spiderman, Superman, Flash or Hulk, provides a refreshing character
dimension.

One of the best movies in the 80`s.   
<|_=00=_|>

In a Gotham City overrun by crime a new menace exists.  In the shadows and
rooftops a giant bat is terrorising the criminals who live in the night. 
Elsewhere crime boss Grissom's right hand man Jack Napier is trapped in a
chemical factory by police.  With Batman's intervention Napier is
accidentally dropped into a vat of chemical.  Considered dead he later turns
up, scarred and twisted with a new sense of humour.  Calling himself the
Joker he takes over the city's gangs and begins to terrorise the city. 
Millionaire Bruce Wayne begins  relationship with reporter Vicky Vale and
finds himself personally drawn into conflict with the Joker as both himself
and his alter-ego.

This was very much a huge blockbuster and had a great deal riding on it in
terms of merchandising and a possible franchise.  As such Burton always
seemed like a risk - although his dark toned work and complex characters
probably made him a great choice.  The film starts promisingly, many
questions are asked - is Wayne totally balanced?  What drives him to become
the bat? etc - and the tone of the movie is darker than a friendly
blockbuster.  This is continued by the investigation by reporters Vale and
Knox, but starts to wane (pardon the pun) with the development of Vale as a
love interest and the hamming of The Joker.  At some point the film loses
the character complexities and decides to become a straight up good v's evil
with plenty of effects and gadgets.  That said it's still very dark and the
set pieces are well handled.  In fact it's the best of the Batman franchise
so far.

The problem is that it lacks a bite for Batman fans.  I've always felt that
Batman was always a few steps away from the criminals he's chasing, surely
he can't be totally balanced and right in the head?  Here these questions
are half touched but never developed.

Keaton is an unlikely Batman, but is the best so far.  He deals well with
Wayne's past when it is brought up, but is an unlikely action hero. 
Nicholson is pure ham, but is good for it.  He hogs all the best lines and
is clearly enjoying himself - the only downside being that he regularly
eclipses Keaton's Batman.  Basinger's Vale is built up far too much and
should have been cut out of the story rather than become a key part of it. 
The rest of the cast are good and I always like to see Tracey Walters in a
big screen film!

Overall this is a good stab at the Batman legend.  It's dark tone gives it
the feel of the comics without the characterisation, but at the end of the
day it comes down to good guy v's bad guy.
<|_=00=_|>
Tim Burton (Beetlejuice, Edward Scissorhands, The Nightmare Before
Christmas, Sleepy Hollow, Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet
Street) is definitely one of my favourite film directors, this film is
definitely one that comes to mind most from his career. This live
action story of the comic book hero, the caped crusader, is excellent.
Gotham City is high on crime, and recently people have sited an unknown
creature, or maybe a man, that calls itself Batman. Michael Keaton's
Batman/Bruce Wayne is the main focus. He also has really good gadgets
from the Bat Cave including the Batwing and of course, the Bat Mobile.
The one who steals the show is the brilliantly cast BAFTA and Golden
Globe nominated Jack Nicholson who falls into acid and becomes the evil
Joker. The Joker is causing psychopathic incidents, such as making news
reporters laugh to death. He plans to turn the city into a laughing
smiling city so he and his gang can take over. Also starring Kim
Basinger as Vicki Vale, Michael Gough as Alfred, Pat Hingle as
Comissioner Gordon and Jack Palance as Grissom. It won the Oscar for
Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, and it was nominated the BAFTAs for
Best Costume Design, Best Make Up Artist, Best Production Design, Best
Sound and Best Special Effects. Jack Nicholson was number 6 on The 100
Greatest Movie Stars, Nicholson was number 63, and Kim Basinger number
32 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and Nicholson was number 7 on The
World's Greatest Actor, Batman was number 84, Nicholson number 71, and
Prince number 68 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, and Batman was
number 46 (Hero) and The Joker number 45 (Villain) on 100 Years, 100
Heroes and Villains. Outstanding!
