

Thank God.

All bets were off when the five credited screenwriters decided, hey the
monster
can kill a ten year old kid, and it can be fun.

This wise remake (re-imaging) based on the old Steve McQueen
solid
drive-in hit delievers the horror/suspense goods in spades. And
rather
than make a retread, they dropped a little 'explaination' into the frey
and
not only does it work, it enhances the original.

Kevin and Shawnee prove they can hold their own in the leading man
and
woman roles. It's odd that this really marks Kevin's biggest
contribution
to the entertainment world. Perhaps he looks too much like his
brother.

In any event, chills and spills in this wacked out story abound. I
mean,
who of us wouldn't be scared of a thing without a face -- a thing that
just
eats everything in sight.

Catch it.
<|_=00=_|>

If you're reading the comments to decide whether you should see this movie,
you've already overthought it. This is not the type of film you think about.
It's the type you watch by accident. But the good news is, it's a happy
accident.

"The Blob" is the very essence of a B movie, and that's meant as a
compliment. Equal parts ham and cheese, this flick aspires only to deliver
schlocky fun. And boy does it succeed.

Kevin Dillon overplays the snarky rebel with tongue-in-cheek glee. Shawnee
Smith, who will never be mistaken for Meryl Streep, glides through the
proceedings with an I-can't-act obliviousness that actually enhances the
film. I can't decide if this is her best or worst performance ever. It may
be both. 

If you enjoy campy B-movies, camp here for 85 minutes. It might be a Blob,
but it ain't a mess. 
<|_=00=_|>
One night, just outside of a quiet and small town, a bizarre meteor
crashes. A man who goes to investigate finds a weird glop that jumps on
his arm and puts him into a state of frenzy. Some young people take him
to the hospital and we soon see that the weird substance has eaten most
of him and it is still hungry...

The result is a very entertaining monster flick with a very unusual
monster - an amorphous blob. After films like Alien, Predator, The
Thing, and others thinking of a good monster idea can be tough. Even
John Carpenter's well crafted The Thing is a remake, but that didn't
stop the film from becoming one of his best due to a good visceral
interpretation of the story. The same goes for this film - a remake of
an old movie with a very visceral and gory style. Featuring top-notch
aesthetic and even some obviously aged, but nonetheless fun, old
computer effects it is more of a thorough re-imagination like The Thing
was.

However, the film falls a bit on its face when it comes to creating
suspense. Many scenes with the title monster are tense and the action
good and the gore first-rate, but the connective scenes between them
surprisingly lack in tension. With material ripe for an eerie
atmosphere it is a shame to see this horror element not fully developed
in the film. The result is a fun movie, but it could have been much
better. Also the mad scientist/cold war element is a bit stale by
today's standards.

But, overall it is a fun little flick featuring a truly merciless
monster that gobbles up just about anyone (even kids!). Horror/sci-fi
fans will definitely want to check this flick out. 7/10

Rated R: violence, horror images, and profanity
<|_=00=_|>

A meteor falls near a small town in the USA.  A homeless man goes to see
what's in it and a jelly-like substance "attacks" him and starts eating away
at him.  He's discovered by local tough kid Kevin Dillon and (with pretty
Shawnee Smith and prettier Donovan Leitch) drive him to the hospital.  There
he's eaten alive while waiting for the doctor and the blob is loose--eating
anything in its path. But, in no time flat, a bunch of scientists and
military men arrive to help...or are they?

I HATED the original one...and I don't care if it was Steve McQueen's first
film (he was always a lousy actor anyways).  It was slow, stupid with
terrible special effects and a VERY slow-moving blob.  This one has a very
funny script that never takes itself too seriously; it moves very quickly;
this blob moves like lightning (I was actually getting scared when it chased
Smith and Dillon in the diner--you see it following them on the ceiling--and
GAINING!); has some great, scary special effects (and no crummy CGI);
proudly gives us an R rated horror film (today it would have been cut to a
PG-13) and has mostly great acting.  Also the taboo about killing kids in a
horror film is surprisingly ignored!

Smith (who I thought was hopeless in "The Desperate Hours") is surprisingly
very good here; Leitch is good too (and prettier than her) but disappears
early on; and there's a great supporting cast of good actors with especially
nice turns by Candy Clark and Jeffrey DeMunn.  Only Dillon disappoints--he's
pretty wooden in his role.  And I REALLY hated the "origin" given for the
blob--it was totally unnecessary.  And the very end was silly (and an
obvious setup for the sequel that never was made).  This was a big hit with
horror fans--but didn't do much at the box office.  Too bad.  Maybe it will
be rediscovered one of these days.

A quick, fast, funny, scary film with great special effects.  Well worth
catching.  I'm giving it an 8.  

  
<|_=00=_|>
The Blob (1988) was a bloody and nasty update to the fifties "classic"
horror/science fiction film THE BLOB. I actually prefer the remake (one
of the few times you'll hear me say that) because it covered ground
that the original failed to cover and the Blob looked meaner and
nastier than the original pile of goo. Kevin Dillion stars as the
reluctant hero. The story to the remake is very much the same (except
for the expected eighties additions and themes). No hokey pokey stuff
here folks. If you like the original then you probably wont enjoy this
update. More horror than science fiction and the gore level is real
high.

I hope they don't try and remake this movie again. I felt that once is
enough. Kevin Dillion was enjoyable as the rapscallion who does good
and Shawnee Smith is in hot mode, Bill Mosley, Donavan Leitch, Art La
Fleur and Candy Clark co-star as well.

Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

THE BLOB (1988) *** Kevin Dillon, Shawnee Smith, Donovan Leitch, Joe
Seneca,
Candy Clark.
Excellent remake of the sci-fi camp classic with rebel Dillon and
cheerleader Smith battling the excessively growing man-eating organism
wreaking havoc on their small town community.  Gooey grotesque special
effects are the true star thanks to director Chuck Russell.  Look sharply
for Erika Eleniak as a victim as she's about to be felt up on a date
(lucky
blob!)

<|_=00=_|>
In the 1980s there were 3 remakes of Popular 1950s Horror films, first
there was THE THING (1982) then THE FLY (1986) And in (1988) We got THE
BLOB, which is often overlooked and considered to be the lesser of the
3 remakes, and to me that's really sad because THE BLOB is in my
opinion is Just as good as the other two remakes from the 80s, The
1950s version of The Blob is a classic B-Movie worth watching for a
good laugh, as for the Remake it is a truly scary film, the suspense is
there, the special effects are incredible to this day, the only effects
that are dated are the green screen effects which don't show up until
the latter of the film and there's only a few of them.

The Plot is the same as the original but with a slight twist, Like in
the original, A meteorite hits earth and a strange blob creature oozes
out of it and starts to devour anything and anyone in its path, the
film has 2 heroes played by (Kevin Dillon and Shawnee Smith) who both
do a good job with their roles, and the supporting cast is good also.

The film succeeds as being a good remake because it gives you something
old and something new, it pays homage to the original without
completely ripping off the original, In fact there are only 2 major
scenes that are lifted from the original, but they are Done in good
taste, unlike many remakes today where they just add an overabundance
of scenes from the original making feel like a total repeat of the
original and not add anything new, But the real show stealer is the
Blob itself, the biggest improvement being the special effects, the
blob has never looked more threatening or scarier.

Overall: The 1988 remake of THE BLOB is a classic but sadly overlooked
Horror/Sci-Fi film, The Only problem with it is some cheesy dialog and
maybe the new twist on the plot is not the best, but the biggest
problem is, WHEN WILL WE GET A SPECIAL EDITION DVD/BLU RAY? It would be
good to see some bonus features as well as some remastering, they could
surely Polish up some of the bad green screen moments. But overall the
film is a lot of fun, Highly recommended for Horror/Sci-Fi Buffs.

8/10 4/5
<|_=00=_|>
Remakes are often frowned upon by film fans, and for good reason, but
Chuck Russell's take on the silly fifties Sci-Fi flick of the same name
certainly doesn't disappoint! The film has the fifties plot structure
and ideas, but it's been updated to the eighties - which means
gratuitous amounts of special effects, a trashy atmosphere and lots and
lots of gore! This remake has sentimental value for me personally, as
it's the only film in history to make me physically sick. I would have
been about seven at the time, and watching this film over breakfast
isn't recommended for seven-year-old kids! However, I did, of course,
get the day off school. I've grown up a bit since then, but upon
watching The Blob again; I've got to say that it's lost none of it's
charm, only I managed to hold back on being sick this time. The plot
follows an asteroid that comes down from space. Upon inspecting it, a
lowly bum finds himself with a strange organism stuck to his hand! The
Blob also takes advantage of the eighties teen comedy craze, and after
a couple of kids find the tramp on the road, they take him to the
hospital, and that's where the fun really starts 

The special effects are often silly, but nevertheless; very effective!
The sequences are very imaginative, and take advantage of the eighties
style humour that make eighties horror films what they are. The way
that the blob consumes people is always disgusting, and seeing the
half-melted outlines of people inside the creature is lots of fun and
makes for some really good horror. Because it was made in the eighties;
many of the scenes focus on raunchy kids, and this gives The Blob lots
of room to manoeuvre the central monster into all kinds of hilarious
situations. The acting, as you would expect, is nothing to write home
about; but the cast approach their roles with gusto, and the fun
performances help to make the film what it is. Chuck Russell does a
great job of creating the right sort of atmosphere for the film and the
screenplay is better than you would expect for a trashy eighties horror
flick. Some will notice that the script was co-written by one Frank
Darabont, who would, of course, go on to write and direct one of the
'best films of the nineties'. Personally, I'd rather this watch this
film!
<|_=00=_|>

Given the 30 years gap between the two films....it certainly isn't "thirty
years better"..... just 30 years different!

Certainly a good attempt at a remake but not within a bull's roar of John
Carpenter's THE THING which blew the original out of the water! (Why, so
many climed on its back I could never fathom!)

Dillon does an exemplarary job in an "I'm angry with everyone" McQueen
reprise. Part LOST BOYS part EASY RIDER, Dillon handles the Blob pretty
well. Lots of people die, some you might not expect but hey, like ET its the
Government's fault again isn't it?  Anyway, all the bad guys get their
come-uppance, so no problem! Neat little ending too. Shame no movie producer
has capitalised on it!
<|_=00=_|>
(70%) Along with "The fly", and "The thing", this is a member of a trio
of fine remade 1950's B-movies that did a great job of recreating some
pretty gross ideas by adding some 80's style gore, yet still keeping
the basic premise, as well as maintaining some of the better ideas
roughly the same. This is the lesser of the three movies, but the other
two are fantastic, while this is just plain good. The plot is well told
with enough time on the main characters, but not too much to ruin the
pacing, and the effects are really well done throughout with great gore
and creature based attacks. Overall though it's just a very
entertaining movie to watch that I'd recommend to all horror fans.
