
Look Who's Talking is such a great classic, one of my great memories of
childhood, every weekend when I would go to my grandparent's place,
they would let me pick a movie and we would watch it together, very
often I would pick Look Who's Talking or Look Who's Talking Too, they
were just such fun movies to watch and laugh at. When I grew up, I
realized I hadn't seen the movie in so many years, but it was on TV the
other day and I figured I would have a little blast from the past and
watch it. You know what's strange about this movie? It's actually more
for adults rather than the kids, but this became such a family friendly
movie, but that's why many people say they don't make them like they
used too, because writing where it is more aimed at the adults but it
ends up being something that every age can enjoy is clever and this is
one of the most fun movies of the 90's.

Mollie Jensen is an accountant living and working in New York City. The
latest client she has been assigned by her firm is a
charmingly-handsome but shallow womanizing executive named Albert who
seduces her and although married embarks on an affair with Mollie,
promising to leave his wife for her. Mollie becomes pregnant with his
child. After realizing she is pregnant she informs Albert who takes the
news well and again promises to leave his wife and raise the baby with
her. Mollie continues her relationship with Albert as the pregnancy
develops, however he's seeing another woman. Later when Mollie and her
best friend Rona are shopping Mollie finds Albert in a clinch with the
other woman. Angry and upset, a heart-broken Mollie storms off in a
rage while the fight causes her to suddenly go into labor. When she
hails a cab the driver James Ubriacco realizes the seriousness of the
situation and speeds off to the hospital. Upon reaching the hospital,
the nurses' confuse him for being the father of Mollie's baby and he
feels inclined to stay. Mollie gives birth to a son she names Michael.
A few days after "Mikey" is brought home, Mollie receives a visit from
James, where he returns the purse she left behind in his taxi. James
meets Mikey, and they seem to enjoy each others company. Mollie starts
dating again, but quickly realizes that none of the men she has been
seeing are good enough for Mikey and one night she lets her guard down
and almost sleeps with James; however after imagining what life would
be like if she married him, she asks him to leave, despite James
telling her he loves both her and Mikey.

Look Who's Talking is a charming movie that I'm sure won't disappoint
you, it's cute, romantic, funny, and has a great cast. It's a realistic
look at what happens with unplanned pregnancy and John Travolta's
character, James, becomes the ultimate and unexpected hero of the
movie. I hope that I meet a guy like James one day, he was just so
lovable. I also adored Bruce Willis' voice, he was a perfect fit for
Mikey. Kristy Alley, she plays the crazy mother, but you see all that
her character goes through and you just feel awful for her. This is
such a great movie, I highly recommend it if you get the chance to see
it, it's a great classic.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
This film has always been a family favourite in our household, and
being one when it was first released, I ended up growing up on this
film, and I can safely say, 16 years later, I still love it.

I don't know anyone who can say that the children that played Mikey
were not adorable, because they were seriously the cutest kids ever. I
think the script was very well written, and even though I don't like
him, Bruce Willis does really bring the character of Mikey to life.

John Travolta and Kirstie Alley and both outstanding actors, and this
movie is no exception. I laugh, I cry, and I watch it over and over
again. It is brilliant. The sequels are getting as much a cult watching
with me as this original did, too.
<|_=00=_|>

Smart little comedy that expresses what a young baby is thinking (voiced
by
Bruce Willis) throughout its running time. Likeable performances from
Kirstie Alley, John Travolta, George Segal and Olympia Dukakis add to the
sometimes mediocre screenplay and unsteady direction. The clever idea
though, which is very original, carries the film and makes it a funny and
entertaining experience. 3.5 out of 5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

Life from a baby's point of view.  How thoughtful!  I think this is one
of
the most innovative and delightful movies ever made... though I may be a
little biased since, though I don't have any of my own, I love
babies.

The only problem I had was the second "Molly, I'm gonna burst if I don't
kiss you soon..." "Tough!" scene.  Unnecessary and catches you off
guard.

But overall... this is just darling if you love babies.

I originally got it when I traded another film with my brother when I
was
younger... not really realizing just how sweet it was until I got to my
late
teens and started thinking about babysitting and being a mother,
etc.

I'm glad I have it in my collection.  What else can I say?
:o)
<|_=00=_|>

Good scenario isn't it: baby observes the world as an adult would with
sarcastic quips and anecdotes. And the movie itself is also quite good.
Although it has the neccessary light touch, it's also rather adulty. Films
of this calibre wouldn't usually have quite so much innuendo and sex-talk in
them. This doesn't take away from the overall enjoyment of the movie, but it
certainly is surprising.

There's a good cast to back this up. Kirstie Alley is ideal as the sexy
single mother. John Travolta repeats his character in Saturday Night Fever
to a certain degree, which isn't a bad thing. Bruce Willis steals the show
as the voice of the baby though. 

The result is a pleasing and enjoyable little comedy so I recommend "Look
Who's Talking". My IMDb rating: 6.7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
This is certainly not my sort of film, but after my girlfriend began
complaining we always watch my movies, I prepared myself for 90 minutes
of fake laughter and smiling to keep her happy, after all who else was
I gonna take to see the new 'Clint' movie out.

However the opening scene with the tadpoles set the way for 90 minutes
of top notch comedy, not exactly a laugh a second sort of comedy like
Scary Movie or The Naked Gun, but a more all round sort of comedy where
most gags hit the mark, certainly a major difference to Scary Movie!
The casting is spot on, one of the major differences to the sequel.
Bruce Willis is a great choice to play the voice of Mikey, and John
Travolta is fantastic. But for me it was George Segal who stole the
show for me, playing Mikey's real father, who in his words is going
through a 'selfish phase'.

Sadly the sequels are simply terrible, but this movie is one of the
best comedies I've seen in a long time, and I gave it 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>

The concept of woman-with-child-meets-man-and-falls-in-love has been done to
death in the movie industry.  The only thing that can save a movie from
being lost in the existing hash is a gimmick that makes it unique.
Fortunately, "Look Who's Talking" gives a fresh perspective on an otherwise
trite situation by demonstrating it from the baby's point of view.  Even
this could become annoying were it not for the fact that, rather than having
a child actor flesh out the character, the clever, snappy dialogue is
delivered by Bruce Willis in his most likeable role since "Moonlighting".
Had they used a child's voice, lines such as "Let's get some apple juice
down here!" would be merely cute; with Willis' smoky growl, they are
hysterically funny.
<|_=00=_|>
As any engineer will tell you, bumblebees are not aerodynamically
sound, they should not be able to fly. But they do.

This film is a single-premise, hi-concept, logline: the smartest person
in the room is the newborn, and he "talks" to the audience.

The reason why this is a classic (yes it is!) is the talent: Amy
Heckerling, at her peak, when she was the "next big thing." Kirstie
Alley, also at her peak, before she disappeared from theatrical
releases and reappeared as a spokesperson for Weight Watchers Travolta
at the peak of his "first career" (he had a second career 5 years later
with Pulp Fiction, a second career that carried him into the next
century, literally) And -- my fave -- Bruce Willis just before he
exploded onto the big screen. If you do the "Hollywood math" (inside
joke) you will conclude that this deal was cut and signed before the
box office results of Die Hard were known. Die Hard of course sent him
into the stratosphere and voice work would be secondary for him from
this point on, EVEN THOUGH HE WAS GREAT AT IT. In fact one of my top
films of all time, OVER THE HEDGE (2006) has Bruce in it.

Fun flick. Much better than it sounds. MUCH
<|_=00=_|>
Sure there may be some predictabilities in the story and one or two
rushed scenes, but Look Who's Talking is a very charming and funny film
and significantly better than its sequels. It looks very nice, has a
good soundtrack and has some likable characters too. The script also
has a lot of funny and somewhat quotable parts too.

The direction is fine, as is the acting. Bruce Willis is perfect as the
voice of Mikey, while John Travolta is equally wonderful with a great
smile. And George Seagal comes very close to stealing the show as his
character goes through a selfish phase.

Overall, charming and funny. Nothing outstanding, but it was great to
watch and I enjoyed it very much. 8/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
"Look Who's Talking" is an enjoyable and entertaining comedy whose best
achievement is to tackle very adult subjects with never falling in the
trap of crude and unreasonably vulgar humor, the material contains very
explicit sexual undertones, yet from beginning to end, it's still an
original, a daring and endearing film, and yes  maybe one of the best
comedies of the 80's.

I might be biased by using the word 'best' since the movie has always
been one of my favorite as a child, and one of the few that I could
recite line by line, scene by scene, but I trust my maturity even as a
10-year old kid, I have an alibi, I didn't like the sequel even at that
time, so I know I loved the film not just because it was featuring
sexual material or a kid talking like an adult, it was a funny, warm
and entertaining story. And to understand why this film is great on so
many levels, you just need to watch the sequels.

In fact, the whole "Look Who's Talking" premise, which is about hearing
the kid's thoughts, spoken by an adult voice, Bruce Willis, as original
and clever as it is, would have been pointless if the film wasn't
driven by a real story that could appeal to the parents who'd come with
their kids in the theater. If the baby was the focus, it would have
been a cute but forgettable film just like "Baby's Day Out", something
funny but without substance, or worse, a cult oddity à la "Howard the
Duck", but Amy Heckerling's film was about a mother looking for a
fatherly figure to raise her son. 

And even this synopsis could have lead to a lesser film, if it wasn't
for a nice touch of casting with Kirstie Alley as Mollie, and John
Travolta as James, the first come-back before "Pulp Fiction". There's
something so natural growing between these two actors, who were not big
stars at that time, and maybe that contributed not to distract the film
from its simplicity. In a way, this is what makes the film slightly
better, or more appealing than "When Harry Met Sally", because it
doesn't look marketed to touch hearts, simple actors, a cast of
honorable supporting stars, George Segal, Olympia Dukakis, Abe Vigoda,
no big stars, but a great story  although, for the movie's defense, I
think it should have garnered some Golden Globe nominations in the
Comedy/Musical category, if only for the lead roles.

What makes the Alley-Travolta duo work, beyond the well-written script,
is the great chemistry both have together, something that takes its
time to become a reality, but when it happens, we know we're not
watching cinematic clichés but real people. There's also another
element, which is the genuine and authentic love both have for Mikey,
the baby. Mollie doesn't play a mother, she's a real mother, as tough,
vulnerable, hysterical or passionate as any other, and the complicity
between James and Mikey is one of the things that I think touched me
the most as a kid. James was more than a baby-sitter, he was a buddy
for Mikey, and isn't this the true cement of a father-and-son
relationship, being best friends?

Again, the film deals with these subjects without flirting with
stereotypes, it has the guts to evoke artificial insemination, to
feature a hilarious scene of fecundation with spermatozoa riding their
way to the targeted ovule following the "Get Around" Beach Boys' song,
and it's always fun and charming because the material is treated with
the level of humor that doesn't make you feel guilty to appreciate what
you watch. That way, the movie is worth many Sex Ed programs: indeed,
my little brother never had to ask how we 'made babies' after this. The
movie also features some borderlines lines as when the mother says that
the artificial insemination "is the kind of thing a girl does if she's
very ugly or a lesbian." Offensive? Maybe  but wouldn't a mother talk
like that to her daughter? 

This is the film's strength, every character speaks truly, the way we
would expect and all these realistic interactions with the baby Mikey
as the sentimental core, provides a great comedy film and so many
memorable moments, among which my favorite, is the great dance sequence
between John Travolta and the baby with "I'm Walkin' on the Sunshine".
There is one part where Travolta holds Mikey in his arms and a smile of
joy which in no way, looks acted, I know the "Pulp Fiction" dance
sequence will forever be revered as one of the greatest Travolta's
moments but this one will always come as a close second in my memories.

"Look Who's Talking" is a charming little film, with 'little' as a
compliment, it never tries to exceed the limits of its ambitions, and
is short enough not to drag on some parts, the music, the writing, the
characterization, everything contributes to create this enjoyable
feeling. And to end on an anecdote, I watched the film videotaped and
for some reason, my dad stopped the recording right when the ending
credits started, so I never saw the scene where they visit Mollie with
her newborn baby Julie, the scene announcing the second opus. 

Apparently, Heckerling was already planning to make a sequel, but when
"Look Who's Talking" was over, when we knew who'd be Mikey's father,
when we heard his cute little voice, and saw what a movie where we
could hear the voice of baby would look like, then what was the purpose
of a sequel? How could have it been as original or appealing? I would
have asked 'why' myself if I saw this, and this is why I failed to
appreciate the sequel as a kid, and even more as an adult.
