
Today when I was at my house alone, looking through my DVDs, trying to
figure out which movie I should see for entertainment. I saw E.T and I
hadn't seen it for nearly 3-4 years ago. I seen the film ever since I
was 4 years old, so I wondering if I would still enjoy it when I'm an
adult. As I was watching the film, I had this rush of nostalgia running
through me, I was remembering the times when I was a kid with my
family. The film didn't at all feel to childish to me, I was actually
having a lot of fun, like I used to when I was a kid. This film has not
aged at all since 30 years ago. This film is a truly timeless film, and
will always be remembered. This is one of the best Steven Spielberg
films. (And that is no easy task) A Timeless Classic 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
E.T. is one of my all time favorite movies. This movie blew me out of
my seat as a kid, and still kills me every time I watch it. Only four
or five movies have made me cry, much less sob uncontrollably. When I
returned from seeing E.T. for the first time, I couldn't talk for the
rest of the day. I laid in my bed and cried for about five hours.

The movie still makes tears well up in my eyes and gives me a lump in
my throat. I still find it profoundly moving. It's heart-breakingly
sad, yet phenomenally uplifting at the same time. I had no idea a movie
could be so powerful when I saw this in the movies for the first time
when I was eleven.

What I think makes E.T. so powerful for me now is the heart-wrenching
way it has of making me long to be a kid again. I refuse to ever
completely grow up, and my memories are my own, but man does this movie
make me wish I was eleven again, when riding my bike was a pleasure,
Matchbox cars were the greatest thing in the world, Halloween was a
night of mystery and creepy fun I looked forward to all year, going to
the movies was an adventure, and looking up at the stars could be a
mind-blowing experience.

E.T. keeps those feeling alive for me. So do a lot of other things, but
E.T. is the champ. As much as my cynical adult side may want to slap
Steven Spielberg around sometimes, I would happily give him a hug for
his timeless gift to the world, E.T. THE EXTRA TERRESTRIAL.
<|_=00=_|>

The first time I saw E.T was at the age of 12 and I cried.  Really cried.
Six years later, I still cry at it.  The ability of this film to pull
emotions out of you is unlike most films we see today.

As many of the users have said, this is a film made for children and it
achieves this brilliantly.

I do feel as well that it targets adults, returnign them to their
innocence.
The time of our lives when mothing was impossible and everything had
goodness in it.  In modern times it is all too often seen that children
are
desperate to become adults and lose their innocence far too quickly.
This
story in which S.S developed helps adults to return to that
time.

I would give this film 11/10.  Anyone who feels that it is not heart
warming
and emotional, I think have been watching a totally different
film!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>

Everyone gets lost in nostalgia from time to time.  Many of us vividly
recall the days when the most important thing you had to do that afternoon
was find a place to stay cool or to make sure that all of your friends
were
willing to go on whatever adventure you wanted to embark on.  For me,
those
days were the years between 1980 and 1987.  At this time I was between the
ages of 8 and 15.  This was a time when some of the greatest movies were
ever made for a teenaged boy.  The genesis of film was started in my life
with films like First Blood, Raiders of the Lost Ark, Star Wars,
Ghostbusters, The Goonies, Back To The Future and of course E.T.

Being that movies were such an intricate part of my young life and these
experiences shaped me into the man that I am today, it is easy to recall
with reverence the entire experience that went with those films.  E.T. is
a
rare film however, because it is an experience that just gets better with
age.

There was a theater in Windsor Ontario, where I spent my youth called the
Vanity, located on Oullette Street, right near Wyandotte.  This one
theater
was the place to be when the blockbsuters arrived.  It was a one celled
theater that managed to flourish in a time which pre-dated multi plexes
with
arcades and Pizza Hut's.

When the sequel to Star Wars arrived, the Vanity proudly played it.  Same
with Raiders and it's sequels and of course E.T.  E.T. was a film that me
and my best friend Gary had to see because it was Spielberg.  Even though
we
were ten years old, we knew that Spielberg had given us great films like
Jaws, Close Encounters and Raiders of the Lost Ark.  I am not sure if it
is
normal at the age of ten but we rushed out to see E.T. because we knew who
directed it.  What a phenom this tiny film turned out to be and what a
life
changing experience the whole film was.

When you are ten and you see a movie with your best friend who watches the
A-Team and Conan the Barbarian with you, you expect a certain reaction
from
him.  After all, this same friend enjoys playing football at lunch and
enjoys inflicting pain in a barbaric pasttime called the "The Tripping
Game", therefore you don't expect a film to affect you and your macho
friend
the way E.T. did.  When you are ten, you go to the movies to see things
like
lightsabre duels and heroes with bullwhips being lowered into the Well of
the Souls and maybe the occasional breast shot.  What you don't expect is
a
film to manipulate your emotional realm thh way E.T. did and still does.
Most of my friends who saw E.T. bawled their eyes out at the age of ten.
I,
for some unexplainable reason did not.  I loved the film but it wouldn't
be
for another six years that I cried in my first film.  That was She's
Having
A Baby when Kate Bush sang Woman's Work and made me sob uncontrollably as
I
watched Kevin Bacon lose his unborn child.  Some things can't be
explained.

E.T. became one of my favourite films and I saw it again on its re-release
in 1985, bought the poster, purchased the movie on VHS and told everyone
who
would listen that E.T. got robbed at the 82 Oscars when it lost every
major
category to (snicker snicker) Gandhi.  There have been some Oscar
travesties
but this ( along with Annie Hall defeating Star Wars and Cuckoo's Nest
beating Jaws ) had to be up there as one of the most ridiculous snubs
ever.
I was peeved.  What a joke.  But all of the cranky and derelict academy
members seethed with contempt and jealousy because they couldn't accept
the
fact that a man this young could really be this much of a genius.  In fact
he made the rest of the folks in Hollywood look young compared to
himself.

As the years passed I became a film lover, a movie buff and I tried to see
any and every film out there.  And I did.  It's not that E.T. became an
after-thought, it's just that it became one of those films that just sat
it
my collection and wasn't utilized often enough.  When I made my revised
top
25 list, E.T. would always hover around number 20.  That is not an
indictment of the quality of E.T., it's just that my tastes became more
garnered to horror films and the sheer brilliance of E.T. was stored in
the
catacombs of my mind.  That all changed on March 24th, 2002.  This is
ironic
because my wife and I had the whole day planned.  We were going to see
E.T.
at the theater and then come home and watch the 24 hour Oscar-a-thon.  And
in a year when an inferior film like A Beautiful Mind takes top honours
from
the much more ambitious and deserving Lord of the Rings, it reminded me of
20 years ago.  I guess the more things change, the more they stay the
same.

Seeing E.T. after a 17 year hiatus was nothing short of uplifting.  My
excitement was gushing and when John Williams' ever recognizable score
reverberated over the sound system, I was hooked and it felt like I was
ten
all over again.  I also noticed that the audience was an eclectic mix of
young kids, 30 somethings like myself and the elderly.  All of us were
there
because we either wanted to experience it for the first time or because we
wanted to feel what it was like that first time we saw it 20 years
ago.

I think I liked E.T. when I was ten but this time around I developed a
deep
level of respect for it.  E.T. is simply one of the finest films ever made
and if you have not seen the film in the theater then you have no idea
what
you are missing.  Everything about this film is perfect, and there really
aren't many films around I can say that about.  Even some of my personal
favourites have moments of weakness but not E.T.  There has never really
been another movie that has offered the experience that E.T. does.  And
when
I said that I didn't shed a tear while watching E.T., that has all
changed.
I think there were about five moments in E.T. that had me holding back the
tears.  You can analyze the film, psychologically deconstruct it and tell
me
that the reason the film works so well is because of the feeling of
loneliness and comradery and I will agree with you.  But I don't really
care
about that.  What it comes down to is that E.T. is a film that will touch
you in a way that no other film before could do and no other film after it
can.  1982 was a different time for film and it was a different time as a
civilization.  And E.T. encompassed all of that.  If I had to make my
revised top 25 list, E.T. would be number 2, right behind Jaws and ahead
of
JFK, Halloween, American Beauty and Raiders of the Lost
Ark.

If you have not seen E.T. at the theaters since 1985, please I urge you,
go
see it again.  It is a film experience that is indefeasible.  It is also a
film that should be looked upon as a paradigm for which all movies should
try to emulate.  There is a reason that films like E.T. and Star Wars and
Raiders make the money they do.  And there is also a reason they stay
firmly
planted in our memories.  That is because they mean something and they
stand
for something.  Those are the qualities in film that transcend time and
they
transcend the generations.

10 out of 10----What more can be said?
<|_=00=_|>
E.T. THE EXTRA TERRESTRIAL, in my opinion, is a very touching movie
about a special friendship for all ages that will warm your heart and
make you cry. I really loved the magic that E.T. performed. If I could
have, I would have helped him get to safety myself. The only problem is
how I would get him to safety, since I can't drive. The score was good,
the costumes were perfectly designed, everyone was cast perfectly, and
the direction was flawless. In conclusion, I highly recommend this very
touching movie about a special friendship for all ages to anyone who
hasn't seen it. You're in for a real treat and a good time, so go to
the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with someone close to
you, and watch it. I guarantee you you'll thoroughly enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
The classic of family classics, 'E.T.' is a wonderful and heartfelt
portrait of childhood exploring the friendship between Elliot, a young
boy living in California, and an extra-terrestrial who gets
accidentally left behind by his spaceship. From the multiple viewings
during my childhood to the nostalgic sense of warmth I get from
watching it nowadays, there is no way I can fault this science fiction
masterpiece. One of Spielberg's greatest films, 'E.T.' is a
compassionate and emotionally-driven tale packed with clever
storytelling, bold direction and state-of-the-art visual effects.. oh
and it also features one of the most iconic images in cinema history. A
remarkable adventure that acts as both a touching family drama and an
exciting sci-fi flick, and one that needs to be seen by all.
<|_=00=_|>
This is Spielberg at his best. That is all I can say about E.T. IT's
gripping, intelligent story mixed with its incredible symbolism makes
it one of the best films ever made. E.T. is a story about friendship,
loyalty, and family. But most of all it is about love, and how powerful
love is. The brilliantly innovative shots mixed with John William's
epic score makes for a masterpiece, which E.T. certainly is. The
underlying theme of science vs. religion is also what makes the film
great. All of these things mesh together to form the film that "touched
millions of people around the world." Everything about this film is
great. Steven Spielberg pulls off some legendary shots, and the acting
from the children is excellent. It makes the film truly real. Henry
Thomas as Elliot is great. Drew Barrymoore is so cute throughout he
whole film and she captures the audience every time she appears on
screen. Peter Coyote does great with the minimal screen time they chose
to give him. The relationship between E.T. and Elliot can be marked as
one of the greatest friendships in Hollywood history, and if you have
not seen this film I urge you to rent it or see it somehow as soon as
possible. If you want to see why everyone raves about Spielberg being
the greatest director of all time see this film. It truly shows him at
his best. It will not only make you laugh and make you smile, but it
will touch your heart deeper than any movie has touched you before.
E.T. will go down as one of the greatest films as all time. Its
timelessness is one of a kind. Forget what you hear about it being
overrated. See it for yourself and understand why this film is apart of
a small collection of films that will stay in our hearts forever and
ever.
<|_=00=_|>

Spielberg's powerful and remarkable film about a boy and his unusual
befriendment of an extra terrestrial. Possibly his finest film, E.T.
captures a piece of childhood, and reminds the rest of us of a time long
since past. It excites a story adults often forget, and a powerful
remembrance of a childhood friendship during difficult periods of
development. Adult criticism of the movie loses its youthful bond, and
fails
to appreciate growing up in the 80's. This is the pinnacle of Spielberg's
childhood movies. Few other films capture as powerful a message of
childhood
emotion. Other films which attempt to do so dive so deep into childhood
memories they lose their connection with adults, and degrade to brief
interludes of "dumb" comic relief to keep grown ups from falling asleep.
The
closest runner up is likely Goonies (a film written by Spielberg). A very
personal film for Spielberg; as he explores atypical friendships after the
separation of his father; he should be commended for achieving such a
remarkable success and for sharing it with the rest of us. I was five when
I
first saw the movie, and although it frightened me at the time, it still
makes me cry. An unparalleled film in its class, it is easy to see why it
remains the fourth all time grossing film (adjusted for inflation, third
otherwise) seventeen years after its release. Cheers to Spielberg for not
ruining the movie by attempting a sequel.

<|_=00=_|>
There are those times when all the forces at work come together and you
have a masterpiece. This, of course, is a kids' movie. Obviously, it is
so much more. It is a story of love and heart and character. To begin
with, as a middle school teacher, I can attest to the wonderful casting
and writing. It doesn't insult us. It shows us how a person who knows
the heart of humanity (and that extends to the alien nation) can
transcend cliché and put forth a beautiful story--but not a lightweight
one by any means. The adults make up the periphery. The childlike
quality of the lovable alien could only be appreciated and cared for by
those who have not become as jaded as they. As soon as those adult
figures show up, everyone is in trouble. Yet, for the most part, they
have good intentions. The government agents are another issue. They
bring force and death.

Who hasn't seen this. There are series of episodes that have become
part of our cultural landscape. Words have been brought into our
language. We speak along with Elliot and ET. Halloween, phoning home,
frogs all over the lab, hiding in the closet among the stuffed animals,
the bike ride where the bikes suddenly leave the ground, the touching
of the finger and the heart. It's just magical. Sometimes when one sees
a movie, one begins to say, "If only they had done this or that." I
can't think of anything in this film. Why write this review. Just to
include my two cents' worth.
<|_=00=_|>

   Back in 1982 when ET first came out a patron of the library I work at
told me that I HAD TO SEE THIS MOVIE,and to take a box of tissues with me.
Bear in mind that this gentleman was a very urbane,if somewhat cynical
college professor. Not the type I would have expected to recommend a film so
highly.  I took his advise. THANK YOU HOWARD.
 Next to "The day the earth stood still" ET ranks as my favorite sci-fi film
of all time. The newly inhanced version is excellent too.  Henry Thomas is
delightful and the middle child ,Elliott who find and befriends ET. He is
not "too cute",but gives a terrific performance,especially when ET
telepathically makes him drunk.The end of the movie still makes me cry,maybe
not a whole box of tissues worth by now,but there is just something about ET
and Elliott's good bye that tears me up.The two principle adults, Dee
Wallace(Stone) and Peter Coyote are good too.  Coyote, who is only known as
"Keys" is in some respects almost as innocent as Elliott, and you wish that
he had been able to have more contact with ET.  Although the scenes where
the house is being sealed off is frightening, it still works. The scene
where Elliot and his brother steal the van is priceless when older brother
comes out with the memorable line "I've never driven forward
before!"
 I am planning to buy this on DVD as soon as possible.  ET,you can phone my
home or visit any time
