
The debut film of B movie director Jack Sholder, and one of the first
films from New Line Cinema, is this highly entertaining and strikingly
intelligent little thriller.

When the power fails in a New Jersey community, four murderously insane
men walk out of a mental facility and head for the home of their new
doctor!

Although it was lost among the numerous slasher films of the early
80's, Alone in the Dark is one of the smartest killer thrillers of the
genre. Sholder delivers an above-average story all the way. He has one
especially bizarre opening sequence, then follows with a plot that
grows more intense through out. The film builds to a great
claustrophobic climax, and then a memorable (and some what humorous)
conclusion. The story packs some solid suspense, heated violence, and
the occasional good jolt. One thing that really sets this tale above
that of the average slasher flick is the fact that the films characters
are believably well-rounded and even quirky at times. Yet another
unique element of this story is the fact that it has a splendid kind of
dark humor toward the idea of 'mental health'. It's almost a satire on
the subject. Sholder's direction is quite good, giving some tight
action sequences and well-timed shocks. Also good is the unique music
score of Renato Serio.

Another thing that sets this film above the norm is the wonderful cast
which includes a number of veteran actors. Jack Palance is excellent in
his role as the leader of the crazed villains. Donald Pleasence is a
welcomed trip as a 'different' kind of psychologist. Martin Landau
makes for a perfectly creepy madman. The supporting cast, namely Dwight
Schultz, are great as well.

Alone in the Dark is an outstanding slasher-thriller. For those seeking
a slasher movie with a brain, it's a perfect choice.

*** 1/2 out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
"Alone in the Dark" centers on a small New Jersey community, where Dr.
Dan Potter is assigned to work as a new doctor at "The Haven", a mental
institution outside of town, run by Dr. Leo Bain (Donald Pleasance).
The third floor of the institution homes a group of very insane,
murderous men, who are under careful watch. But when a blackout occurs
and the entire area loses it's electricity, the electrical powering
that keeps the men behind closed doors is of no help. The murderous men
escape from the Haven, and head towards town, where they begin a
murderous rampage before reaching Dr. Potter's new home.

Not to be confused with the 2005 creature horror flick of the same
name, "Alone in the Dark" boasts a fairly unique premise that hasn't
been used (town crazies let loose to wreak havoc on the city after an
electrical shortage). If you ask me, I thought this was a fairly
original idea for a horror movie, and a clever one at that; taking into
consideration the time this film was made, this was a fresh idea. The
problem here is that the film lags quite a bit, and really for no good
reason really; one would think character development would fall in
place here, but not really. It plods around aimlessly for about 45
minutes before really kicking in, which was a bit of a disappointment,
because, if written better, this could have been a much more
frightening movie. The idea of lunatics sieging a local house during a
blackout is terrifying - it's too bad this film wasn't.

Aside from that, it does have some positives. For one, the acting is
quite good. Donald "Dr. Loomis" Pleasance plays the lead doctor of the
institution perfectly, in a role that is similar to his in the
"Halloween" series, but a bit different. Martin Landau and Jack Palance
play a couple of the town psychos flawlessly - they're menacing but
strangely funny as well, and this balance works. There are a couple of
nice scare sequences (including the babysitter and her boyfriend in the
bed ordeal), and above all, this film does manage to be fairly
entertaining despite its dragging feet. The ending is also quite
quirky, but it flows with the rest of the film's tone and was a nice
little laugh to end on.

Overall, "Alone in the Dark" is a slightly above-average
horror/thriller that is worth seeing at least once. It may not be
everyone's cup of tea, but the premise, quirky campiness, and decent
acting make it a watchable horror movie. It's not your usual slasher
flick, and for that I have to give it some credit. Not bad, not great,
but just above the usual, if not a little different from. Worth a
rental, you may enjoy it. 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>

I don't know why I hesitated with this one. I guess I just always said I
would rent it and didn't. Finally, a few nights ago, I just got it. And I
must say, I liked it.

Set in New Jersey, my lovely state, a power outage in town releases four
psychotic inmates of a mental institution, held in their own floor by
electricity-controlled doors. Interesting twist. Before that, they had
formed a grudge against their new doctor, Dan Potter, who they have
convinced themselves as the killer of their old, beloved doctor, who has
actually just transferred to somewhere else.

Also, Dan's slightly wacky younger sister Toni comes to stay with the
family, and had recently recovered from a breakdown. Nonetheless, she is
quite an interesting character, and joins the Potter family as the innocents
in the attack towards the end of the movie.

The movie has a good setup, and some very creepy moments, especially when
the child victimizer shows up at the home and pretends to be the daughter,
Layla's, babysitter. Later on, of course, the real babysitter, Bunky, shows
up, as does her boyfriend, and are taken out in some quite suspenseful
scenes.

The best part of the movie, though, is when the psychopaths show up and
attack the Potter home, and all inside. This includes a detective, Dan and
his wife Nell, Toni and Layla, and a man Toni and Nell met at a protest and
invited to stay for dinner. There is a very scary jump-out-of-your-seat
moment, where some of Toni's old "ghosts" from her past haunt her once
again. And, in one very good scene, is a scene of retaliation of the family,
and shows a very interesting scene where Nell is struggling to get herself
to stab the attacking killer, while Dan hollers at her, "Stab him!" Not to
mention the fact that Nell has a really great scream. And she isn't the
scream queen type. But her scream is perfect.

I don't want to give away too much, but see this movie. All the performances
are good, and the characters are likable. A fun movie, too, especially
towards the last quarter of the movie, during the attack. I recommend not
hesitating like I did and getting this.


<|_=00=_|>
That is an actual quote by Jack Palance in this film when he's chatting
with Dwight Schultz. First off, this movie is underrated. No way does
it deserve a bomb like it got from Leonard Maltin. Since it's low
budget and focuses on nuts escaping from an asylum, it automatically
gets stereotyped as being without credence. Forget all that. You'll be
surprised how intelligent the dialouge is in this movie, especially the
first half hour where Schultz and Donald Pleasance talk about
psychiatry and how to treat insane people. Watching Pleasance after all
these years just reminds me once again what a great actor this he was.
I always enjoyed listening to him talk. It didn't matter what he would
say, just listening to him sounded melancholy and nostalgic. As
expected, there are a few plot holes and the movie is not really that
frightening, except for the a few scenes towards the end. It's
interesting watching Schultz play such a normal character because most
of us remember him from THE A-TEAM as a kooked out Vietnam vet playing
alongside Mr. T All in all, it's a decent early 80's horror flick with
a good cast that has a neat surprise ending. Check it out just for
curiosities sake.

Score, 6 out of 10 Stars
<|_=00=_|>
Four dangerous patients from a mental institution escape one evening
and go after their doctor in "Alone in the Dark". Dr. Dan Potter is
just starting his job at an high security/high-tech asylum, run by
Donald Pleasence's character Dr. Bain. He is assigned to four of the
most dangerous men at the asylum; "the preacher" who sets fires to
churches with people in them, "the bleeder" who gets nosebleeds after
each time he kills someone, "Fatty" who is a child molester and an
interesting fellow named Frank Hawkes. They believe that Dan Potter
murdered their old doctor, someone they trusted and valued very much.
So they set out to murder Dan and anyone that gets in their way
including his wife, sister and daughter. A city wide blackout gives the
four men a perfect escape as they trap the Potter family inside of
their new house in this early eighties chiller.

I thoroughly enjoyed 'Alone in the Dark'. It is like a slasher film,
but has a lot of smarts to it as well as a good story. There is tons of
character development in this on as well, which only makes the viewers
feel for the characters and want them to survive. Each character has
their own personality, and the actors play it very well. Donald
Pleasence plays the doctor who runs the asylum, but he appears to be
just as deranged as some of the patients. It has a "Don't Look in the
Basement" feel to it. The character Toni (Dan's sister) spent time in
an institution recently, so it doesn't do her any good going through
this attack by the escaped patients. 

Martin Landau, Jack Palance and Erland Van Lidth give brilliant
performances as the patients. I also thought Deborah Hedwall (who
played Dan's wife) was superb in the supporting role as well. There is
also a subplot going on throughout the film; who and where is "the
bleeder"? When the four men escape, he takes off from the group leaving
us to wonder where he went. Well let me tell you, we find out all about
the bleeder in one terrifying scene that left me shocked! Overall,
'Alone in the Dark' is a creepy little eighties horror flick with some
good scares and interesting twists/turns. Check this out!

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
That high concept title tells you a lot of what you need to know about
this film.

Alone in the Dark has a great cast that's strangely underused, and its
derivativeness and slight lack of spark make it an eternal underling to
much better films, but it's still worth seeing for many reasons.

Donald Pleasance--the one of three stellar cast members who is almost
not underused--turns in a typically, wonderfully goofy performance as a
famed psychiatrist. He's heading an asylum, he's a bit crazy himself,
he's fond of smoking weed, and he has experimental techniques, which
turn out to be dangerous considering that he has a criminally insane
ward. The two very underused actors are Martin Landau and especially
Jack Palance, who are both members of the aforementioned ward.

Problems begin when the New Jersey town that houses the asylum
experiences a blackout, allowing the patients to escape--if Donald
Pleasance as a psychiatrist isn't strong enough to suggest a Halloween
film, this scene of escaping loonies certainly is. This leads to the
Night of the Living Dead-styled scenes, which are a lot of fun.

I suppose I can see how someone would find this film a mess--it does
change gears frequently and doesn't worry very much about continuity or
even coherence, but anyone who is a fan of these actors, or asylum
films, or any of the many horror films referenced (including some
playful jabs at the Friday the 13th films) should get a lot of
enjoyment out of Alone in the Dark. There's a high camp factor
throughout, including the scenes of going to a club to see a band
called The Sick F*cks.

In some ways, it almost feels like producer Robert Shaye and director
Jack Sholder--the same team that brought us A Nightmare on Elm Street 2
a couple years later--got a hold of this cast, some money and some time
and just started making things up on the spot, seeing how much fun they
could have and how crazy they could get while still producing a
marketable horror/thriller film. While that's not likely to produce a
masterpiece, and it certainly didn't, it did result in a film that's a
hoot to watch, especially late at night or on a lazy Sunday afternoon.
<|_=00=_|>
The story = Dan Potter (Dwight Shultz) is a new doctor at an asylum run
by the wacky Dr. Leo Bain (Donald Pleasence). Inmates Hawkes (Jack
Palance), Preacher (Martin Landau), Fatty ( the late Erland van Lidth),
and the Bleeder (Phil Clark) believe Potter killed their old doctor and
vow revenge. The gang escapes when a massive blackout strikes New
Jersey. As the Potter family prepare for a quiet candle lit dinner with
friends, the psychopaths move in for the kill.

In Alone In The Dark the director Jack Sholder creates a great deal of
suspense, tension and action in this slightly odd slasher, All of the
characters are either oddballs, lunatics, or both. The script (written
by Sholder, Robert Shaye, and Mike Harpster) is filled with funny
dialogue and a few twists.

The incredible cast contributes a large portion of the goofy charm
surrounding this slasher. Most of the acting is completely over the
top, but Palance and Landau still manage to bring menace to their
characters. One wonders if Pleasence is really acting in his scenes
involving a pipe and "exotic herbs". Slasher fans won't mistake Dr.
Bain for Dr. Loomis. Dwight Schultz, who later became famous as a
member of the A-Team, is good as the young doctor who learns violence
is the only way to deal with some threats.

All in all Alone In The Dark is a definite must see for any Slasher
fans with an interesting storyline great actors such as horror veteran
Donald Pleasence and Jack Palance and gripping scenes that will keep
you hooked all the way through.
<|_=00=_|>
Jack Palance, Donald Pleasence, Martin Landau, Dwight Schultz, Erland
Van Lidth and Phillip Clark star in this 1982 horror film. Schultz
plays Dan Potter, a doctor who comes to work at a mental hospital with
Dr. Leo Bain (Pleasence) and gets to know his unbalanced patients,
Frank Hawkes (Palance), Byron 'Preacher' Sutcliff (Landau) and Ronald
'Fatty' Elster (Van Lidth). Soon, the 3 patients escape during a power
blackout that occurs all over town and go after Potter because they
think he got rid of their former doctor. Potter learns of their deadly
intentions and tries to protect his family when they arrive at his
house. Clark plays Tom Smith who is revealed to be other escaped
patient, Skaggs. This isn't a bad horror flick with a good cast I
recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
Jack Sholder constructed this ambitious addition to the slasher genre
with such a wonderfully demented sense of humor by combining off-beat
dialog with the standard body count formula. Donald Pleasence runs a
liberal home for the insane where the patients are "free" to walk about
with very little restraint except for the walls and doors themselves.
Dr. Dan Potter (Dwight Shultz) is a new doctor who's hired as a
replacement for the last head-shrinker who moved to Philadelphia. The
patients of the 3rd floor (Martin Landau in a hilarious performance as
Boyd The Preacher, who set fire to churches, Jack Palance as a paranoid
schizophrenic ex-colonel, and Erland van Lidth as an obese child
molester), believe that Potter murdered his predecessor, and after a
full-scale power-outage ensues, the wackos take advantage of their
opportunity to escape and launch an assault on Potter's family. 

The first half of this twisted tale is played out for laughs as we're
introduced to the patients at the institute by Donald Pleasence (who's
character is as crazy as they are). Landau, Palance and Lidth are great
as the murderous band of nut cases, but then this becomes just another
"trapped-in-the-house" slasher film that effortlessly lags, at least
until the power comes back on, and then the film meets an unsatisfying
and abrupt cut-off ending. Nonetheless, this is funny and entertaining
for genre fans as well as Landau and Palance completists.
<|_=00=_|>
This here is one more American horror movie that reflects social issues
and behavior patterns of a certain era (a truly interesting genre), in
this case the early nineteen eighties. The main ‚target' is a small
young family in New Jersey. The father is a psychiatrist, who just
started working at a lunatic asylum. He is some kind of bleeding heart
liberal, down to driving a vintage Swedish SAAB model. The head of the
asylum is even more ‚liberal', he does not want to put the really
dangerous cases in his custody behind bars. They can't help it being
dangerous, they are not insane, but voyagers, is his credo.

Due to an incident in a nearby nuclear power station the wife and
sister of the psychiatrist protested against (finding themselves
promptly behind bars), the four most dangerous inmates can escape from
the asylum. They get after the psychiatrist, because they think he
killed his predecessor. Why? Just because they are insane. They set
siege to his house, and from there the movie resembles Assault on
Precinct 13.

The story may sound simple and dumb, but it works very well. This is
not least due to the first rate cast with many venerable thespians.
Alone in the Dark is definitely a must-see for fans of Martin Landau.
Here he found one of the only too rare occasions to show off his range
as an actor. He plays a mad preacher with rolling eyes, swinging around
a burning jacket or wielding a sharp instrument. At one point he
appears at the doorstep of the psychiatrist's house with a mailman's
cap on his head, saying he wants to deliver a telegram. His facial
expression just conveys sheer insanity, an unforgettable moment.

Basically, Alone in the Dark is a comedy or a social satire. There are
some moments of gore, the suspense aspect is handled very well and in a
rather parodic way. The movie and has a good rhythm of tension and
subsequent relaxation. It contains a message which is pretty direct and
comes through nicely: Some people are just dangerous and have to be
kept away. It's OK to search for the reasons of their condition and
find possible ways for a cure, but they have to be kept away first.
