

All kids should watch this - between the ages of 6 and 13. I saw this when
it came out on video - I was 8 - don't know how I missed it at the cinema -
it couldn't have had a big release in the UK.
I loved the detail and imagination within this movie - like the one dream
that the three boys all share, the sphere they create from their computer,
the guard dog they give bubble gum to, the amusement ride seat they turn
into their spaceship, with windows made from the fronts of washing-machines
and TVs. And our three heroes make a great team. They are all very different
in character, yet share that same dream of escape and adventure.
Ethan Hawke is the main hero - the one that most viewers will relate to -
the average 80's kid hooked on television, daydreaming during school lessons
and a huge crush on the girl next door.
River Phoenix is his nerdy computer-whiz friend with an Einstein-like crazy
father (played by James Cromwell) and Jason Presson is the mature, yet weird
kid with a troubled home-life.
The magic of this movie is in its innocence and the dreams that the kids are
able to turn into reality. The first half is pure 80's kids' adventure
movie. The second half becomes pure "Dante", as it dives into 50's-style
B-movie sci-fi - exactly what Dante is referencing and sending up, yet
paying homage to at the same time.
What our heroes find out in space is certainly not what they expect or what
we expect. They feel let down by their discovery and in some way, we do
too.
But there are so many great scenes in this film - the chemistry between the
3 main actors is great - they really bond well together and we get drawn
into the film because of Dante's attention to detail in these characters.
It's a funny combination of child adventure and B-movie sci-fi but kids will
love it, and as you grow up, you learn to see (like many great kids' films)
many new details that pass you by as a kid but keep you entertained all over
again from a different perspective.
A highly overlooked 80's adventure movie, almost as good as The Goonies, but
far less commercial, due to Dante's unique approach.
Go and see it now, or see it again or watch it with your kids - you will all
love it.

<|_=00=_|>
Watching Explorers as a kid, sparked all the things I loved about
freedom, and adventure. I was always into space, sci-fi, computers, and
aliens even at a young age, and this film does a great job geeking any
kid out when it comes to science, space, and adventure. I love how one
of the kids had a dream about designing a circuit board, and after
creating it realizes it creates a spherical force field that has
virtually no speed limit, and is impossible to slow down (blasting
through an entire stack of books with ease, leaving a perfect hole).

Although, once the kids get through the testing phase of the force
field, and build the ship from old carnival rides (tea-cup
thingie)--the movie takes another turn. Although still fun, the writer
and/or director seem to lose track of the original flare, and the movie
begins to wander off into a more childish, meaningless Hollywood
push-out.

Over all, the film is very entertaining. I just Netflixed it so that my
girlfriend could see it, and I could reminisce. It is one of my
favorite childhood movies (along side the original Neverending Story).

--MR
<|_=00=_|>

This film really has nothing to do with E.T...people seem to think it was  a
'reaction' to it...I say that maybe it made a wonderful film gem like this,
a sci-fi for and starring kids, possible.

Funny and inspiring. Probably the first film I ever saw with both of these
qualities. I was 6 when it came out, and though it stars 3 boys, the tomboy
in me came out...even as an adult (I watched it recently again) I become
awed by the scenes of the boys constructing the 'scapeship'. The writer and
Dante were good about packing in little extra details, like the "talking"
mouse, Wolfgang's strange family, the kids using walkie-talkies, the dog who
chews gum, the drive-in movie, Ben writing a will, one of the kids living in
a trailer, etc. Without being hokey, these tidbits add more depth and charm
to a story that could've been called a Mickey Mouse approach to E.T. These
kids are older than Elliott and smarter and the film doesn't go for
tearjerking scenes; EVER.  Some of the direction reminds me of Spielberg,
**however... instead of this film being a kid's approach to space-travel,
it's a space-travel approach to a kid's film.

Then there are the aliens. Well, we feel the way the kids do about them;
disappointed. But that is the point. What would you expect to see? It is
kind of like the mataphorical satire of the grass being greener on the other
side. 

I tried not to get too emotional when reading the viewer comments on this
film. I do not consider myself a Yank-I like to use the term American-but
being 1st generation -born here, I still consider myself part-European, and
the fact that the film did better in Europe than in the States, and from
what I hear- Joe Dante's apology for the film- makes me sad. This film
started my fascination toward the unknown and the general sciences. I happen
to be one "Yank" who really enjoyed this movie!
<|_=00=_|>

This Sci-fi adventure movie has a strikingly similar plot and theme to a
movie which came out the same year, The Goonies. But Explorers lacks The
Goonies popularity. Explorers is about a group of three misfit boys who
build a homemade spaceship and travel into space. Although very far-fetched,
the movie does bring out the sense of childhood adventure. This can best be
seen when the main character (Played by Ethan Hawk) tries to persuade his
two friends to explore the unknown. Sci-fi buffs should be sure to take note
of the various scenes in which footage from the 1953 Science Fiction
Classic, the War Of The Worlds, is shown. I think anyone who loves The
Goonies will like this movie.    
<|_=00=_|>
I seriously have to wonder about this movie. It had elements of genius
in it before they met the aliens. I especially liked River Phoenix's (I
didn't know who he was back then, and to this day it's s surprise he
played the super dork scientist) German family of scientists who had
the little kid who always showed up at the breakfast table wearing
Halloween masks, despite it being nowhere near Halloween. There were
some odd, quirky but fantastic minds behind that movie.

So why, oh why did they wreck it? I was 10 years old when that movie
was released, and even at that early age I knew something was terribly
wrong. Wait, What? All this build up so we can learn that the aliens
are moronic kids who are obsessed with American Earth TV? At the start,
this is an intelligent, wonderful film about a group of misfit kids,
drawn together by a shared dream, who pull their talents and resources
together to build a spaceship because they were contacted by some
advanced alien intelligence. Inherent in the film was the idea of
idealistic innocence culminating in the desire to explore, to discover
and to see what was out there. All addressed in a mature, even thought
provoking way. A rare feat even among the excess of quality kid's
movies made in '85.

And then, KABLAMO! All that is thrown away. Even at 10 years old I
personally felt my intelligence insulted. You're telling me that after
all this build up, the first contact with Aliens these kids have is
some big goofy looking Muppet that says "Hello, I'm Mr. Ed!??!?" "It's
not fair!" I thought to myself. "How do they expect me to believe that
these mentally challenged alien children were able to send interstellar
messages containing highly technical schematics for building an
airtight force field which could be piloted in any direction, even
outer space? And for what? So they could impress the kids with their
stupid imitations of American television pop-culture? NO. I WILL NOT
ACCEPT THIS." At least The Goonies made 1985 worthwhile.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a fun little story about a group of kids who are inspired by alien
transmissions to build a spaceship from old junk parts.  It features some
of
the early performances by Ethan Hawke and River Phoenix, back when they
were
young and enthusiastic performers.  I'm actually totally green with envy at
River Phoenix's role; it's the sort I always imagined playing as a
kid.

The climax is very similar to a classic Star Trek episode called 'The
Squire
of Gothos', and the effects and showmanship of this story is very cool.  A
great piece of entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>

wow. i love this film. i saw it when i was pretty young and
absolutely loved it, as i do much of Dante's flicks from this time -
The Burbs, Gremlins, InnerSpace - and i still love it to this very day.
in fact, i understand the ending a little better now. i remember the
ending being quite disappointing in some senses - the aliens just
dont live up to the majesty that proceeds them - but this is exactly
how the main character played by Ethan Hawke feels. So in some
senses this could be seen as truly amazing film-making. But
maybe i am being a little silly through my love of the film, which
also i must add, has one of the best themes. A theme which only
arrives half way through the film, when their craft is almost finished
in its building. I love this film, but i can understand that some
people may not enjoy it or even find it to be that good a film. I of
course dont agree with this in any way - and less than 6/10?
Outrageous. it deserves at least 7 anyway. But nevertheless,
people have their opinions, and in mine i shall give it
8.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>

i watched this movie yesterday because i'm a good fan of Joe Dante and i
had
not seen this flick yet, and i loved it. it projects the same feelings that
E.T. and The Goonies gave me, that's one thing i love about 80's movies
they
use to have new and exciting stories of materials used or nor used before
with a unique style, the kids were wonderful in the movie and special
effects very good for the time it was made, i love how River Phoenix refers
to Poltergeist when he imitates the little girl by saying.."They're
Here"...just rent it and you'll see for yourself what i mean when i say
80's
hollywood fantasy at best!.  
<|_=00=_|>
A great movie, the sci-fi Goonies, if you will. Maybe it's because
"Explorers" only sports three main characters, and "The Goonies" has
seven (plus Sloth) ... but I'd hold this movie up with that one any
day.

The humor comes from strange places, and truly lands in bizarro world
during the last act, but it captured my imagination seamlessly when I
first saw it at the age of eleven. I'm older now, so maybe it's just
nostalgia, but if you're into the whole 1980's retro thing, this
belongs in your collection with the rest of the Disney-ish buddy
movies. Clever idea, and one of the last good movies Joe Dante made.
Having a cast like that, though, sure doesn't hurt.
<|_=00=_|>
The '80s yielded a number of movies about kids going on adventures, but
"Explorers" was something else. On the surface, it seems like any other
movie, but the aliens aren't what anyone is expecting. Mostly, the
movie is about Ben Crandall (Ethan Hawke), Wolfgang Muller (River
Phoenix) and Darren Woods (Jason Presson), and their fantasies.

And then there are director Joe Dante's touches. Dick Miller - whom
Dante always casts - plays a cop who discovers the boys' spaceship.
Robert Picardo (another frequent Dante player) voices one of the
aliens. And of course Dante has many allusions to '50s B-movies. Maybe
"Explorers" isn't anything special, but it's still pretty fascinating.
