

There are certain films that get under your skin, never to come out. They
change your life, subtly altering your perceptions of reality, almost always
for the better.

Dead Poets Society is one of those few films.

I saw the movie back when I was in High School. I had a teacher who told us
that we really needed to watch it; in fact, it was our "homework" for the
day. We didn't need to bring back a report, or talk about it in class. All
he asked from us was to watch it, make up our own mind about it, and that
was it. As you can imagine, many friends of mine didn't watch it at all; I
did. And yes, I feel I changed a bit from there on.

Back when you are young, you never really stop to think what in the world
you are doing with your life. You simply live for the day, hope your grades
will be enough to pass, and that's it. Long term thinking involves maybe
flirting with a girl. Nothing more. What this film showed me was that we
have the responsability and the joy of being alive in this planet. That we
are dust, and we will go back to it, so we have precious little time to make
a difference. That we have a moral obligation to "seize the day, and make
our lives extraordinary" (my favorite quote in all movie history). That the
world, basically is ours. That the only limitations are within ourselves,
and that we owe it to us to fight, to rebel against conformity, to change
what we hate and keep what we love. That living in this world is a beautiful
responsability, and that only cowards dare not to change it for the
better.

The fact that the cast was basically my age, and was passing through the
same dilemmas and situations I was facing made it all so much more
powerful.

So here I sit, 12 years from that day. I still don't think I have seized the
day completely. But I keep on trying; I always will. I wonder how many
people were transformed by this gem of a movie; I hope
many.

10 out of 10. A definitive masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, this is movie is my all-time favorite, out of all the
hundreds of films I have seen. However, every time I mention this film,
I have to answer most people's quizzical looks with "It's a beautiful
little 80s film that stayed in the 80s." After seeing it for the 24th
time since I first saw it 5 years ago, on my 13th birthday, I can
gladly say that this movie went far and beyond the 80s, and the power
and inspiration of the message can be felt every day.

Dead Poets Society is a most underrated film by a most underrated
director whose inspiring, uplifting and moral tales firmly grounded in
reality are not nearly as appreciated as they should be. Here, we see
one of his very personal and cradled projects, and he shows the visual
style and concentration on characters in which he is so affluent. His
control of the camera and the characters are very strong and very
smooth. The cinematography is near perfect, with every shot, along with
the editing, seamless. Also very compelling are the color-tones in
every scene, perfectly matching the mood and events of the scene. Could
you say this is art? Absolutely.

Then we have the performances. Robin Williams continues in stride as
one who has to-date remained the most touching, heart-wrenching,
awe-inspiring comedians with inarguable acting talent (he still remains
my most favorite performer on the film screen). His Professor John
Keating is a man who embodies every professor who you thought was cool
and respectable, every person who taught or enlightened you in
something out of the ordinary. In fact - dare I say it? - he teaches
something EXTRAORDINARY! We have the tragically underrated Robert Sean
Leonard in his role as the free-thinking catalyst student Neil. Why is
this man not a household name/Hollywood heavyweight? His roles are
always full of inspiration, energy, and tragic emotion that never fail
to move an audience. His role in this movie is fresh, unhindered, and
never pretentious as the cautionary tale of the movie. And then we have
Ethan Hawke in one of his earliest roles as the point-of-view
character. The entire supporting cast is very strong, also, providing
the foundation and serve as the various emotional ties that further
involve us in the story. Josh Charles's role as Knox Overstreet is a
role that almost all guys can relate to wholeheartedly. And of course,
all the actors who are in that Dead Poets Society do a fine job.

And lastly, the story. I won't summarize it since it's been summarized
many times here, but I will say that it is one of the best coming of
age stories for not only adolescents, but anyone. I have personally
heard from nine-to-fivers who were inspired by this movie to change the
situations of their jobs, careers, relationships for the better. I
first saw this movie when I was 13, and immediately stamped, crowned
and elevated this movie as my all-time favorite. Now that I am 18 and
living on my own, with very different concerns than back then, I turn
back to this movie over and over again, to find inspiration, solace and
of course, entertainment. It is still my all-time favorite, and it
still inspires me to seize the day and make my life extraordinary.
<|_=00=_|>

Not only will this movie touch your heart and bring tears, it will inspire
you to be a better teacher to others and to follow your dreams no matter
what the boundaries may be.  It is truly poetry on the screen... a great
story and a touching social commentary on humanity and life's greatest
challenges.  If you haven't seen it yet, rent it now.  It has taken my love
of poetry to an entirely new level!
<|_=00=_|>

The film Dead Poets Society is a film that explores the idea of "Carpe Diem"
(seize the day) from the viewpoint of a classroom of young men at an all
boys boarding school. Their teacher Mr. Keating (played by Robin
Williams)helps them stretch their minds, and exercise their right to defiant
acts of love for life and poetry, rebuttlng society. The director Peter Weir
treats you with eye candy by using various camera shots of beautiful
scenary, and neat techniques. Weir takes you on a roller coaster that leaves
you gripping your seat, enjoying life, and thinking "Carpe Diem" in your own
life. There are
some very depressing scenes, but they are very artful, and teach you of
appreciation for those brave members of society that dare stand up for their
beliefs, and rights to wrestling around with life. I thought Ethan Hawke
(Todd Anderson) gave a true life twist to the film, Robin Williams (Mr.
Keating or also known as Captain my captain) added an element of excitement,
and Robert Sean Leonard (Neil Perry)added passion that leaves you
mesmerized. I just saw this film in English class, but I immediatly fell in
love with it, as I know you will. 
<|_=00=_|>
Dead Poets Society is, to use a cliché, a cinematic masterpiece. I can
watch it over and over, absorbing more nuances of meaning every time.
As a former teacher myself (albeit of science), I view it as a tribute
to the profession at its best...teaching not merely the subject but
also the person, and having a lifelong impact on students' lives.

The setting is Weldon Academy, a very traditional New England boys'
prep school in 1959. If I can find one flaw with the movie...and there
certainly aren't many...it's the underlying premise that seems to
worship free thought and implies that ALL tradition is of necessity
undesirable and thus to be avoided. Frankly, compared to modern
classrooms which are bastions of free expression, I found the Weldon
students' respectful treatment of their teachers rather refreshing.
(But perhaps that's just the ex-teacher in me coming out!) Some of
Weldon's ideals, generally referred to in mocking tones, are actually
qualities to which parents rightfully DO hope their offspring will
aspire.

Robin Williams plays Mr. Keating, the English teacher we all wish we'd
had. He brings warmth, passion, and an endearing quiet humor to the
role as he fosters individualism in a school environment of total
conformity, endeavoring to teach these young men both the beauty of the
English language and the importance of living life to the full, of
"seizing the day". How many of us mentally revolted at the dissection
of poetry when we were in school? Many a viewer will both chortle and
rejoice when Mr. Keating has his class rip out the methodical,
emotionless "Introduction to Poetry" from the time honored Pritchard
textbook! 

The "Dead Poets Society", and the boys on which Mr. Keating has such a
profound impact, include an interesting mix of characters...Neil Perry
(the passionate young man at odds with his father's clearly defined
expectations for his son's life), Todd Anderson (the classic shy
adolescent, through whose eyes we view the unfolding drama), Charlie
Dalton (the quintessential rebel), Knox Overstreet (the teen with whom
most viewers can identify, deep in the throes of first love), and
Richard Cameron (the mindless conformist).

Ethan Hawke gives a moving performance as Todd, the younger brother of
a former Weldon valedictorian and my personal favorite, who undergoes a
character transformation as the plot unfolds. In a sense, this movie is
really Todd's story. As another reviewer has wisely pointed out, his
best scenes are sometimes when he has no dialogue at all. Your heart
will ache for him. The sub-plot of young Overstreet's romance with a
girl from a nearby school may not be brilliant, but it provides some
light, entertaining relief from the main drama. 

Needless to say, Mr. Keating's unorthodox approach meets with
obstacles...from his fellow teachers, from the school's ultra
traditional Headmaster, from Neil's overbearing father and the other
parents, who are depicted as a conservative, status conscious lot. His
encouragement of adolescent individualism leads to dramatic
consequences for one student in particular, triggering a dramatic
scenario that engulfs most of his classmates. I don't want to give the
plot away, but Dead Poets Society has the most powerful ending I've
experienced in the cinematic world. I could watch it over and over, and
tears would either come to my eyes or virtually stream down my cheeks
every time.

It's an intelligent film, both gripping to watch and thought provoking
afterward. Engaging plot, memorable characters, meaningful theme,
wonderfully done scenes and atmosphere...Dead Poets Society has it all.
A special tip of my hat to the cinematography; clearly, it should have
won an Oscar for the final scene alone.

This is a must-see movie, especially if you're a high school student
who hates English. It might just change your view of the subject, even
if your actual teacher doesn't quite measure up to Mr. Keating. And for
everyone...not only "Carpe Diem", but a certain phrase from a Walt
Whitman poem will take on incredible meaning and be remembered forever.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie today for about 15-th time. I'm never bored with
it. A few hours ago I felt lonely and depressed.I decided to watch it
without the scenes that evoke sadness.And even though I watched it so
many times before I found it restorative and heart lifting. There are
many good films.Also there are probably many better than this one;cause
it's not flawless. But if you believe that a movie can change your
life, I have no doubts that this one can influence you as no other. If
you have not watched it yet, WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR? Go to the video
rentals and buy it.Yes, don't rent it but buy it.It's a movie that you
will watch many times.Perhaps it will even save you..As it had saved
me..
<|_=00=_|>

I have no need to summarize this movie seeing as how most people tend to do
that anyway so, therefore, any addition of such would simply be frivilous. 
However, I am somewhat disappointed to see how people tend to misinterprate
this film by proclaiming that the movie's message of carpe deium is derailed
by the fact that those who apply it end up losing.  This could not be
further from the truth.  In the beginning, when the young men are first
introduced to this idea of sucking the marrow out of life it is applied by
the students when its results prove to be fun and joyous.  The point really
driven home by the movie though is to stand up for one's beliefs throughout
all of life no matter how hard it may prove.  Now, while the character of
Neil, does try to do what he feels he must without regard to his father, in
the end, he doesn't stand up at all, but simply accepts his father's
authority.  Some may not like it but his story serves to prove just how
important it is to stand one's ground no matter how hard it may be.  It's
not only his character, but in fact every character in the film that does
not fully understand Mr. Keating's message until the very end by finally
doing what they feel is right now matter how much the opposing forces deny
this basic truth.  

I urge everyone to give this movie a chance and to see it for what it really
is.  It may just change your life.
<|_=00=_|>

Dead Poets Society is a thoroughly moving, and inspiring film from Peter
Weir, who is definitely one of the most under rated directors around. This
movie is in the same vein as "A Separate Peace", in the sense of setting,
and in the general coming of age story line. The basic message is to "suck
the marrow out of life", as the passage for the society reads, or to live
every moment to the fullest. It is inspiring and uplifting for the first
hour and 15 minutes or so, before changing stride altogether to a somewhat
depressing but remarkable conclusion. This is a must see.
<|_=00=_|>

There's so much good about this movie. The first time I saw it I watched it
solely for plot and I loved it. Now I've seen it again and watched Peter
Weir's filming and timing which is also great. Robin Williams is a terrific
actor when he's serious. He proved it in Good Will Hunting but he proved it
first here. If you liked that movie and your liking it had something to do
with Williams than you will like this one. The plot is about a number of
students who are taught by Williams about life. They are taught how to enjoy
themselves. This ends up causing great controversy among the heads of the
school. The students are terrific and even the dialogue is great. This is a
movie that I can't imagine anyone not liking. It is good in every
way.
<|_=00=_|>
Dead Poets Scoiety. I suppose if you were in High School sometime
between 1990-2008, one of your teachers thought I'd be a good idea to
watch this movie and I still remember my reaction and the ones of our
fellow classmates: Yeah, probably a boring movie that will try to make
the school look better and encourage us to do our homework and study
for our tests. I couldn't have been more wrong. This movie definitely
changed my way of thinking to a certain extent and there are very few
films who have moved and touched me like this one.

The movie plays in 1959 and centers around a private academy somewhere
in New England. The curriculum is extremely difficult and the teachers
have no humor and are very strict. The new English teacher though, Mr
John Keating (Robin Williams), who graduated from the very same school,
uses unorthodox, but quite effective methods to teach the students
about literature, and poetry. During their first lesson, he tells them
that they can either call him Mr. Keating or "Oh Captain, my Captain",
based on a quote by Walt Whitman. He encourages them to come out of
themselves, use their energy to make their lives worth living and
beautiful - Carpe Diem, Seize the Day! The plot also centers around two
students: Neil (Robert Sean Leonard), who is funny and popular, but
fails to gain his fathers pride, because of his wish to become an
actor, and Todd (Ethan Hawke), who is very shy and unsure of himself,
and is inspired by Keating to use his imagination and eventually we
find out that he is very talented when it comes to poetry. After they
find out about a club Keating was a member of while he was a student,
the Dead Poets Society, which was forbidden by the school, they decide
to reestablish it, what ultimately gets them into a lot of trouble.

There are several key factors, that make this movie as brilliant as it
is. First of all there is the acting. Robin Williams, who I really like
as a Comedian, really proves that he is a great actor, who can get deep
into a character and play him with such passion and energy that you
will forget he's an actor. Keating, whose teaching methods are indeed
unusual and will probably make you laugh a couple of times, is a very
interesting role, the teacher we all would have wanted, but not because
he doesn't give homework or makes up very easy, open-book tests. No,
because Keating shows us that we have to come out of ourselves, make
the best of our lives and especially that there is a poet in everyone
of us. Then there is the terribly under-appreciated Robert Sean
Leonard, who also gives a very moving performance as a student, who is
kept back by his father, and therefore fails to make his dreams come
true. In my opinion he is very underused as an actor, and should have
gotten a lot more leading roles. As for Ethan Hawke, he definitely was
the best choice for the character he plays. We can literally feel his
fear and shyness when he stands in front of the class and gets no word
out, because he's so embarrassed.

Peter Weir, who is probably most known for his recent movie "Master and
Commander" shows what a great director he is with this film and it
definitely deserved the Oscar for Best Original Screenplay, and the
nominations for Best Picture, Director and Leading Actor for Robin
Williams.

Some of you may have heard about Roger Ebert absolutely negative review
of this movie and that "he wanted to throw up at the end of the film".
I can understand why people might not like the ending (I won't put any
spoilers), but I think it just adds to the the beauty and drama of this
film, a film that should definitely be on the IMDb Top 250 Movies. This
is a movie, you must have seen!!
