

Most cinematic depictions of Christ show a perfect being, a one-dimensional
person who is overly self confident and almost egotistical. I can never
relate to those films, so they aren't believable. The Last Temptation of
Christ is totally different. It was banned by intolerant Christians who
didn't even see it because they have conflicting viewpoints, which is one
hell of a paradox. I use to say that Christ was described as a demi-god in
the Bible because He is half-man and half-god, but I was told that He is
really all-man and all-god. If the latter thesis is correct, than he most
have all the perfections of god as well as all the faults of man. In the
movie, Jesus is not perfect. He sins, or at least, He confesses sins. He is
haunted by visions and sounds almost to where He goes on the brink of
insanity. He is tempted by Satan over and over again into thinking that he
is just a man. When He cures a person of blindness, He does not smile, he
frowns in pain because for every man he cures, he knows it brings him
closer
to the cross. The characterization in this  movie is excellent. This script
is Schrader's best, although it was rewritten. The music is the best I've
ever heard in any films. Scorsese's direction was absolutely superb. Willem
Dafoe and Harvey Keitel were excellent as well. And the movie leads you to
the most haunting portayal of the crucifixion in cinematic
history.

It is a must for any person to see, especially if you were outraged by the
fact that Jesus is displayed as imperfect. You cannot do the film justice
if
you don't watch the whole film. You may be offended throughout the entire
film, but it all comes together in the end and all is well. Seriously, I
give the film five stars.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a beautiful film. It is one of the most powerful and ultimately
one of the greatest films ever made, without a doubt. The performances,
especially by Willem Dafoe as Jesus, are amazing; the sets and costumes
are realistic and never feel forced, glossy, or stylized (and were
based on extensive archaeological and philological research); Peter
Gabriel's score is absolutely unbelievable...I cannot possibly praise
this film enough, as well as Mr. Scorcese's courage in making such a
bold and beautiful work of art in the face of considerable opposition.

It is really best to avoid religious and theological arguments about
this film - it is simply a portrait of Christ coming to terms with who
he is and what he must do. If it occasionally portrays Jesus in a
manner that is somewhat at odds with that of scripture, try to keep in
mind that it is merely another take on a story that has no absolute and
authoritative telling. That Jesus has difficulty coming to terms with
the role he must play is something that scripture does not rule out.

Consider it this way: this is the sort of film that has the power to
convince the irreligious or non-Christians out there (of which I am
one) of the importance, beauty, depth, and truth of Jesus' vision of a
world filled with love and compassion. Give this movie a chance. You
will not be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Has there ever been a more misunderstood film than Martin Scorcese's
The Last Temptation Of Christ? Released amid great controversy and
accused of being an offensive and unholy film, the truth of the matter
is that it is a deeply reverent work which has the courage to ask
challenging questions about the pressures and doubts Jesus must have
experienced as the appointed Messiah. It also shows the violence of the
times in graphic detail. If viewers consider it blasphemous to explore
on film the immense burden of duty that Jesus bore through his life,
then they are narrow-minded and ignorant. If people feel that to show
the brutality and harshness of life in Roman times is tasteless and
inappropriate, then they are guilty of glorifying difficult but factual
truths. There is NOTHING offensive about this film. There is, however,
much that is challenging.

Jesus (Willem Dafoe), an honest carpenter, saves Mary Magdalene
(Barbara Hershey) from a stoning. Already dimly aware that he is
destined to lead an extraordinary life, he soon finds himself being
drawn into the role of a religious figurehead. But Jesus finds it hard
to accept that he is a Messiah, and as his reputation and following
grows he constantly questions if he is a strong enough man to handle
the burden of being God's son. After isolating himself in the desert,
where he experiences several hallucinations in which he is confronted
by visual manifestations of good and evil, Jesus finally concludes that
he IS the true son of God and whole-heartedly sets about imparting his
love and wisdom to all who'll listen. Later betrayed to the disgruntled
Romans by his friend Judas Iscariot (Harvey Keitel), Jesus is
crucified. While on the cross, he imagines what his life would have
turned out like if he had shied away from his duty as the Messiah and
lived life like a mere mortal.

It is this final section of the film that has provoked the most
vociferous outrage. The sequence shows Jesus as he slowly dies on the
cross, dreaming of an alternative life in which he sins and copulates
and hates like all normal people. Many people have criticised the film
on the grounds that these scenes are blasphemous. Such claims are
nonsense - the film is not saying that Jesus was a sinner, nor that he
gave in to temptation of the flesh, nor still that he was a man filled
with hate. The film is merely saying that, in such great pain and so
close to death while still just a young man, he might - just maybe -
have wondered if it was all worth it. At the end of the film, we see
Jesus accept his role knowing that his death is the ultimate act of
unselfish love, so the film actually is totally in agreement with what
all Christians believe. If the film had come to the conclusion that
Jesus's whole life was a waste, his death too, then maybe the
detractors would've had cause to complain. But how can they possibly be
offended by the film as it stands? For goodness sake, it's a film about
absolute faith!!! In truth, The Last Temptation Of Christ is an
excellent movie. Compellingly acted, beautifully shot on Moroccan
locations, and full of telling ideas, it is a work of real depth and
power. The accents are sometimes distracting and some of the dialogue
occasionally betrays ill-suited modernisms, but apart from these minor
drawbacks it is one of the most important and thought-provoking films
ever made.
<|_=00=_|>

I thought this movie was an excellent piece of film making. A fabulous score
 and stunning cinematography take us through the inner struggle of Jesus in
 accepting his role and his duty. It tells how he faced temptation, ridicule
, torture and triumph. Before you burn my name in effigy for liking this
 movie, be open minded and just experience a good film. The "disclaimer" at
 the beginning of the movie says it all. It is not necessarily based on
 events in the Bible. Just as Jesus used parables as a way of teaching, this
 movie tells a story of a man's life and events that we can all somehow
 personally relate to. By the way, the portrayal of Satan was the best I've
 seen yet. 
<|_=00=_|>
Condemned by Fundamentalists upon release, delayed by outcries from
hypocrites and liars, and boycotted in any city where it played "The
Last Temptation of Christ" is one of the most controversial movies ever
made. Instead of showing Christ as a fearless and perfect person, "The
Last Temptation" depicts Him as a person who fought his destiny and
wished to be just another mortal human being. Religious groups who
couldn't (and still can't) accept the fact that Jesus was human were
shocked by such ideas and refused to see the film or read the landmark
novel on which it was based. They'll never know that they attacked one
of the most honest and loving depictions of Christ.

The Christ we see in the film is not based on the teachings of the
Gospels, or any scripture for that matter. Instead we get a portrait of
Christ the man, not Christ the Savior. We get to see his faults, his
fears and anxieties. Then, we get to see him overcome those and find
the strength to fulfill his destiny. The Last Temptation of Christ is
not afraid to say that Jesus was weak before he became the Savior, and
that makes the film all the more satisfying. This is a tale of
redemption, courage, and love like no other.

There is no reason to miss this film. Not everyone will like it, but at
the very least it will let you see another perspective of the story.
And even if you can't accept the story, you won't be able to deny the
greatness of Scorsese's direction. From the epic crowd scenes, to the
intimate one-on-one conversations, to the stunning final shot (which
was actually caused by an overexposed section of film, but is beautiful
nonetheless), you will be awed by Scorsese's work here.

Also stunning is the work of the two leads. Willem Dafoe inhabits the
role of Christ perfectly, bringing perfectly controlled emotion to each
and every scene. Harvey Keitel as Judas has been the subject of debate
because of his NYC accent. That was on purpose (Scorsese used accents
to denote the descent of characters. American accent = Israelite;
British accent = Roman), but it doesn't even matter. Keitel is
brilliant no matter what his accent is.

Honest, human, loving, and unafraid, "The Last Temptation of Christ" is
one of the great cinematic achievements of all time. Martin Scorsese
crafted with this film his most personal masterpiece, and perhaps his
greatest masterpiece ever.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the greatest movies I have ever seen! I was amazed with all
of the performances. This is certainly one of Martin Scorsese's great
accomplishments in his extensive and highly acclaimed carrier. This movie
was very important to Scorsese and he would put it off several times because
he felt he wasn't ready to do it. I think that the wait was worth it,
because this was an outstanding movie. 

This is one of those movies that you either really liked, or really didn't
like. Most of the people who didn't like this found it to be a mockery of
the Gospels and Christ himself. I liked it because it did follow the Bible
very closely, it was a fantastic telling of Jesus Christ's last days and his
greatest accomplishments, and because the acting was very good.

I thought Willem Defoe was spell binding as Jesus Christ. Some people will
say that he wasn't enough like Jesus, but you do have to realize that this
is probably the hardest character to play and I think that Defoe did the
best job that anyone could have done at playing Christ. Harvey Keitel did an
equally excellent job at playing Judas, Jesus's best friend, who eventually
betrays Him so the world can be saved. This may be Keitel's best performance
(if not, it is one of the three). Barbara Hershey was also a great
supporting roll as Mary Magdalene.

This movie is certainly not for everyone. Many people with very strong
religious convictions will see this movie as offensive, simply because
Christ is portrayed a frightened man who sees his fate as a burdon through
'half' of the film, and I implicate the word 'half' for a reason. For
everyone else, I say go rent this, because this is a powerful and
magnificent version of the final months of Christ. When you watch this, you
just might have to wonder (I know I did), what will be the last temptation
of Christ? 10/10  

<|_=00=_|>

Despite what its critics say (most of whom haven't even
seen
the movie), "The Last Temptation of Christ" is one of the
most
deeply religious movies I have ever seen.  What makes it
so
powerful is that it does not portray Jesus as an all-righteous,
preachy figure; it portrays Him as a man.  He was the son
of
God, but more importantly He was human.  He could hurt,
love,
feel pain and joy, and He could make mistakes just like any
of
us.  He had to overcome temptation.  Martin Scorsese, for
whom
this was a long labor of love, directs a beautiful movie
with
all around excellent performances, particularly Harvey Keitel
as
Judas and Willem Defoe as Jesus.  The "Last Temptation"
segment
which draws most of the movie's criticism, is the most important
part
of all because it shows how close God truly is to us, if
only
those critics would watch the movie before judging it,
they
might realize that.
<|_=00=_|>
Martin Scorsese directs one of his finest achievements in a career of
directing finest achievements. He takes on a subject close to his heart
and close to his faith. Nikos Kazantzakis wrote an extraordinary piece
of work on the life of Jesus of Nazareth. The last temptation takes
place while Jesus is on the cross, but before that we watch Jesus
(William Dafoe) try to overcome temptation as an everyday man. That's
what Kazantzakis focuses on. While Christ is on the cross the pain and
sacrifice wouldn't be the same if he didn't feel it and showing Jesus
in the form of an everyday man may offend some devout Christians, but
if they're offended then they're missing the point. God sent his son
down to this earth to die for mans sins. That's what scriptures tell
us, but Kazantzakis takes us down an intriguing road as the son of God
battles the temptations of the everyday man, yet without sin. We watch
Jesus struggle with acceptance that he is the messiah, but eventually
he accepts his role. We watch Jesus tempted by evil, but he resists.
When some hit's him, he turns the other cheek. He has love and he has
love for everyone and everything. He doesn't have hate, he doesn't have
sin, Jesus is a perfect creature in a man's body sent to do God's work.
Martin Scorsese depicts him no differently than he's imagined or
believed to have been.

The final act is the greatest part of the film (maybe the most
controversial). It shows Jesus taken down, off the cross, by his
guardian angel- something that didn't happen according scriptures. As
you watch this and if you know the story and haven't read the novel,
you become baffled. You don't know what to think or how to interpret
it. We see Jesus doing things he never did, like having sex, having
children, and living out the rest of his life as an everyday man;
living a good, humble life, old and tired. Only until the final moment
and the final shot of the film, does the entire third act make complete
sense, which makes the final statement by Jesus all that more powerful;
"It is accomplished!" It isn't done in a negative manner. Kazantzakis
and Scorsese aren't showing Jesus full of sin for no good reason.
Showing the hallucination and showing Satan tempting Christ in his
weakest moment is what makes Jesus' sacrifice even more powerful. Not
only did he die for the sin of man, but he died for the sin of man
while being tempted to live a normal and happy life as a man by Satan
in the form of a beautiful guardian angel. There would be no torture;
no death; no pain; no sacrifice, but here, Jesus fights his temptations
and accepts his role and the path God sent him on. He dies on the cross
in agony with temptation from Satan at his weakest moment. He's
triumphant in a way that is hard to see triumph, but not only does he
accept the sins of man, and not only does he sacrifice his life, but he
defeats Satan and conquers temptation... as a man. Jesus is a powerful
figure without sin and neither Scorsese nor Kazantzakis show him as
anything less than the Lord and Savior. The film should leave you
questioning your ability to resist temptation as Jesus did. As a devout
Christian, one would think, you'd be more appreciative of the depiction
in this film than any other film ever made on this subject. "The Last
Temptation of Christ" is a powerful film done without sensation,
without hate, but with taste, respect, love and appreciation for his
sacrifices and his ability to resist temptation and go on with the plan
when, as a man, Jesus could have taken the easy way out. He didn't. He
sacrificed his life and went through the pain and suffering as a man.
Not as a God, where he knows there is no pain and he'll born again in
three days, but as a man that can feel all the things we feel and
resist all things we don't resist.

Personally I have serious doubts about every word that I've come
across, or every biblical story I've ever heard. I am not a Christian.
I'm not atheist. I'm nothing more than a skeptic, but this film did
something that I would never think possible; I had a religious
experience and almost, for a second, became a believer. This is one of
the most profound and powerful films ever made even though it has some
serious flaws. You don't have to believe in God or Christianity to
enjoy this film, simply an opened mind.
<|_=00=_|>

This retelling of Christ's life features Jesus begging Judas to betray him
(only to be called a traitor in return), Jesus building crosses for the
Romans to crucify fellow Jews, and British actors and voices *all* playing
evil characters. Scorsese's The Last Temptation of Christ is, despite and
because of these things, a brilliant film, one that approaches closest to
Christianity's core obsessions and problems. It also serves as a perfect
palette cleanser for those who had the distinct misfortune of watching Mel
Gibson's processing of Jesus Christ through the Hollywood meat-grinder for
(deeply disturbing personal reasons and) money.

But Gibson's dementia aside. Martin Scorsese's film is profoundly quiet and
thought-provoking. Is it blasphemous? Or rather, is the controversy it
stirred justified? I'd say so. Paul Shrader, the writer of the film, himself
admits that on a certain level the film is blasphemy. But not literally. It
uses God as a conceit for man's condition and struggle to understand God.
And this desire to comprehend which pervades the film renders its blasphemy
a noble one. Or forgivable one. The film, after all, explores the
relationship between the human and finite with the divine and infinite with
a passion present in all aspects of it. The Last Temptation is about the
struggle of those two, particularly in the face of destiny and death. In
that sense, it is a very existential film. Dafoe's Jesus at first doubts he
is even God's son. He doesn't know - he searches. He reaches false
conclusions and true ones. The beauty of his struggle lies precisely in not
always knowing the answers. He is, after all, human.

And then again, he is not. However, on its own, this statement means very
little. The film probes the relationship of the Jesus of Nazareth who sins
like the rest of us, with Christ, the son of God who is sacrificed for our
sins. It explores the nature and meaning of that sacrifice. The segment that
I would imagine caused the greatest amount of controversy, namely (not
surprisingly) Christ's last temptation, provides the bridge between Christ
and pre-Christ, Jesus of Nazareth. It asks us to imagine Jesus being saved
from death. And through this theoretical contemplation we see the necessity
of the sacrifice, its binding nature. Judas, in fact, summarizes this
perfectly by saying: "The life of a man is not for you. Your place is on the
cross" (I am paraphrasing, but the point is there). Jesus' struggle,
throughout the film, ends exactly at this point, at this realization which
allows him to say on the cross "It is accomplished." The fact that this
struggle is made real and accessible to us is what makes this a phenomenal
film.

The film's brilliance shines on pretty much all levels. Scorsese's direction
is atmospheric, extremely compassionate and restrained (as opposed to the
orgiastic explosion of [unnecessary?] violence in Gibson's film). The
performances are great. Hershey's Mary Magdalene is amazing. Dafoe's Jesus
and even more so Keitel's Judas are brilliant. In fact, Judas in this film
is almost as much a central character as Jesus. In The Last Temptation Judas
isn't the evil traitor who gets himself killed over a maggot-ridden corpse
like in Gibson's tale, but a character so full of love he *agrees* to betray
Christ. The act of betrayal here is one of coming to terms with fate very
much on the same level as Jesus' acceptance of his self-sacrifice. Judas
must betray Christ even though he has grown to love him.

There are many reasons to see this film. It is a deeply spiritual
examination of Christ the man and Christ the Son of God and the transition
from one to the other. In some way, it is a perfect portrait of a man's
search for answers and for God - it is spiritual existentialism, uncannily
similar to Kierkegaard. It is the exact opposite of The Passion of the
Christ and it should be celebrated.
<|_=00=_|>
This adaptation of Nikos Kazantzakis's novel, directed by Martin
Scorsese, caused quite a stir on its initial release, accused of
blasphemy and of causing offence to the Christian religion.

However, in its depiction of Jesus Christ as a human being rather than
a man divine, it gets to the core of his story. This is a man who makes
the choice of self-sacrifice for the good of his fellow men, despite
the temptations of an alternative life - shown in this film by a life
with Mary Magdelene rather than dying at the Crucifixion.

Played by Willem Dafoe with great sensitivity, this Christ performs
miracles and discusses the intricacies of life and death with his
disciples. Harvey Keitel is Judas, a rough man who fails to understand
the significance of being the chosen Son of God; while Barbara Hershey
is an effective Magdelene. David Bowie makes a short appearance as
Pontius Pilate and is surprisingly good.

'The Last Temptation of Christ' is not one of Scorsese's best films but
it certainly sparks questions and leaves food for thought. Some of the
imagery is superb and the script is coherent and of a high standard.
