

Mike Brody appears to be totally over the events that struck his family
in his youth and now works in Florida's newest underwater attraction –
Seaworld. His brother, Sean is less sure and never goes in the water –
although a visit to see Mike and a new girlfriend help him confront his
fear if not get over it. Meanwhile, something is picking off staff and
swimmers getting Mike and the staff out on a shark hunt. They capture a
small great white and take it into captivity, only for it to die when
it is put in too small a tank. They think their problems are over until
an examination of the bite marks on some bodies and they realize that
the shark that did the killing is much, much bigger than the one they
caught.

I saw this film as a child but couldn't remember if it was any good or
not – my childish fears may have made it scary even if the film was
poor, so I decided to give it a go again recently. The first thing that
struck me was the sheer rubbishness of the effects. In the original
Jaws, Spielberg had hidden the shark as much as he could because the
effects didn't work (and also therefore upping the tension); however
here the makers just decide to show anything – a poorly superimposed
image, a rubber shark, fake severed arms and so on – none of them are
concealed, they are all shown up in all their rubbish glory. I could
forgive it this due to its age but two other films had already managed
to handle this issue before this film so I don't see why they went this
route when it so clearly didn't work. Some shots are so bad that they
could have been mistaken for being a spoof (witness the shark swimming
towards the control room).

Of course, after the poor effects the second thing that hits you is the
laughable plot. True it is not as bad as part 4 in terms of
plausibility but it is still pretty thin. No attempt is made to really
give the characters any sort of, well, character and the very basic sea
world plot just about manages to give the shark enough high profile
feeding scenes to keep the film moving – just don't hold your breath
for any logic or sense. In fact, the opposite is true and this film
does deliver some moments that make you wonder what the writers were
thinking when they conceived some of this stuff! The manner of Jaws'
death here would be hilarious if it wasn't so darn pathetic. Even with
the plot being poor the film should still have had at least a few
moment of fear and tension – many of us fear being eaten alive so it
isn't hard to draw on that, but this fails to have any tension or
excitement to speak of. The effects suck a lot of this out – but a
director who's name is listed in the dictionary alongside the work
'workmanlike' didn't do anything to stop the rot either.

Without characters the cast are set adrift with nothing to do – how
Quaid must have envied Roy Schnieder in the first films, at least he
was a good character. Quaid runs around the place, Armstrong screams,
Putch broods, Thompson screams and Gossett tries to act tough in the
middle of a script that gives him nothing to do. I don't blame the cast
but I am disappointed that nobody mention how very bad taste it was to
make a happy ending out of the dolphins surviving while so many other
people had not!

Overall this is just a bad film. I'm not a big one for lists so I'll
not play that game here but it is pretty much without any value at all.
The plot is poor, the effects are rubbish, the direction is weak, the
script just a load of nonsense and there is a total lack of tension,
thrills or excitement. The original is a classic and this film is
further proof that sometimes classics should be just left alone.

<|_=00=_|>

I actually like this Jaws ok.  I don't think it is a masterpiece or
anything, but it is good if not taken to seriously.  This one focuses on the
Brodie boys who really went through a growth spurt.  One (Dennis Quaid)
works at a sea amusement park and this is where the shark attacks take place
(this should alone tell you not to take the film to seriously).  I actually
saw this one at the theater too, so that helps to enjoy the film more as it
was rather cool in 3-D and it is the only 3-D movie I have ever seen at the
theater so maybe that is why I will always somewhat enjoy it.  The plot is
at a sea park like I said and first the team goes after this one shark that
was rather puny, then you find out there is a bigger one out there.  There
are a couple of pretty good shark attack scenes and I loved the subplot of
the people stuck in that pod underwater.  This film isn't for everyone
though seeing as how it is ranked as one of the worst so read other people's
reviews before deciding to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, the movie fails mainly due to the 3D effects (sorry for
my English, I'm a Spaniard!) 'cause they wanna be more than they're.
Sometimes, they look laughable, but the physical effects are awesome
(the great great white). I appreciate this movie 'cause this is a movie
of my childhood. I saw and recorded it on TV, and I grew with Mike and
Kathryn, my right heroes!!!.

Now, I'm conscious about the film's mistakes, but, for a third
installment, the result ins't so bad. The plot couldn't innovate the
genre, but the idea of a baby shark and his angry mother is... so
childish and imaginative. Otherwise the idea of a shark attack in a
aquatic park is fabulous. I think that if they made this movie without
the 3D effect it looked better. Sometimes, the scales don't agree, and
the "lake" looks deeper than it is, for example. The ending, with the
mother breaking the control room's glass is... funny (and ridiculous)
...

The characters are well performed, but I saw this film on the Spanish
version, so the "dubbing actors" could act better than the original
actors. Because of that, I don't understand why Louis Gosset Jr. was
nominated for a Razzie award ¿?. The relationship of Mike-Kathryn and
Sean-Kelly are convincing.

This movie is far for being the worst of the series. it's clearly
weaker than the first ones, but...worthy and entertaining. If the
effects weren't 3D, the movie was totally fabulous. But, furthermore
there was the 80s. It doesn't look so bad for being 80s. Isn't it?
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this one in all its 3D glory in the theater back in 1983, and it
really scared the heck out of me. (I was ten) This film furthers the
saga of the Brody family as sons Sean and Mike are now fully grown and
moved away from Amity Island. Sean does something in Colorado if I
recall, and Mike is (heh, heh, heh,) an underwater welder who just
finished construction of an undersea kingdom at Sea World in Florida.
Just when the park is about to have a grand opening, some uninvited
guests show up. They being a 35-foot great white shark and her
offspring. Needless to say, some people get eaten.

This film was originally going to be made as spoof of the previous two
films. I'm not sure if any type of a finished script to that effect
exists, but it would be worth a look. Jaws 3D ends up being another
serious monster movie with a disaster movie subplot. Not only does the
shark eat a bunch of people, it also traps several others in the
underwater part of the park. The race is on to save the people and kill
the mother shark. Her baby dies midway through after it is captured and
hastily put on display in the park. The conclusion is fairly exciting,
and full of bloody carnage.

The cast is one of the stronger points of the film. Dennis Quaid is the
fearless Mike Brody. Bess Armstrong plays the park's head biologist and
Quaid's love interest. (The real sparks were apparently flying between
Quaid and Lea Thompson off camera, though!) Thompson plays a water
skier at the park, and John Putch plays Sean Brody who falls for her.
Simon MacCorkindale and P.H. Moriarity play a couple of Aussies who
show up and help battle the sharks. By far the best performance is
turned in by Louis Gossett Jr., fresh off his Oscar for An Officer and
a Gentleman. He plays the owner/manager/president (I'm really not sure
which) of the park. He has a terrific moment as he addresses the park
guests in the underwater tunnels over the p.a. system. He turns on the
fake executive public relations charm and asks them all to calmly exit
the park just as the giant shark is bearing down on them.

The individuals who play Dan and Liz left a lot to be desired. Since no
other film credits are listed for them, one would have to conclude that
they actually worked at Sea World and were given these roles since this
is what they do on a daily basis. Maybe they still work there. Anyone
know? The sharks look pretty good in most of the scenes. Except at the
very end when the shark is lodged into the control room and its tail is
sticking out. That looked incredibly fake. In addition, sharks must
always stay moving in the water or they'll die. They can't just lay low
in huge underwater structures waiting to pounce on their victims. They
usually strike from directly underneath their victims in most attack
scenarios. The big shark in this film also has the ability to growl and
roar, but not as loudly as the one in part IV! The 3D effect looked
very good in the theater, but films like this lose quite a bit of their
luster on the TV screen. You're only left with a bunch of gag shots
that were supposed to scare viewers in the theater, but now look
ludicrous and forced.

This film made some pretty decent $ in its theatrical run, and is still
shown regularly on television. If nothing else is on, and you find
yourself in front of a TV for an extended period, give this film a try.
But be forewarned: Part IV is perhaps the worst film ever made. Don't
waste your time on that one! 5 of 10 stars.

The Hound.
<|_=00=_|>

I had avoided seeing this film for fifteen years because of it's bad
reputation and because I love the first Jaws as one of the greatest movies
ever made.  Having survived the horror of "Jaws: The Revenge" once, I
decided to see if I could brave this one, though.

About the only thing that surprised me was that the premise wasn't quite as
dumb as "Jaws: The Revenge" is.  And while there is a reference to the
events of "Jaws 2" at least they don't insult our intelligence with a shark
pursuing one family etc. of any "Brody curse." 

What sinks this film though is that it's dull in every sense.  The FX are
cheap and terrible and too often it's hard to figure out what's going on
here.  Scenes that could have been suspenseful with a competent director
just plod along in a muddled fashion.  In the end, Jaws 3 comes off more as
a glorified made for TV type disaster movie with none of the high quality
that elevates the original Jaws above such fare. 

<|_=00=_|>
Those poor Brody boys, no matter where they go or what they do they
always run into a mammoth, flesh hungry shark that they literally have
to put their life on the line to try & destroy. Set some fourteen years
after the events of JAWS 2, Mike Brody now works as a marine biologist
at Sea World, where a baby great white shark has managed to find it's
way into the park through an open gate, where it subsequently dies.
However as it turns out, this baby shark is not alone, as it's 35 foot
mother has also entered through the gate & begins wrecking havoc on the
guests attending the park.

JAWS 3-D was the third instalment in the popular moneymaking JAWS
series. Throughout the years JAWS 3-D has been given mostly a bad rap
by fans, but in my opinion it's nowhere near as bad as many are saying.
While far from a perfect film, JAWS 3-D does manage to be a fairly
watchable & enjoyable time passer if you are in the right frame of
mind. It's not the original, nor does it try to be & I think that is
why I tend to see more in this sequel than most fans in the series do.
It's a fun little movie, nothing more, nothing less. The plot for the
most part is pretty fun & is the only sequel in the series that
attempts to do something new with the plot rather than just have
another shark on the shores of Amity Long Island run amok & it's also
the only movie in the franchise where virtually none of the cast
members of the first two return. The direction by JOE ALVES was pretty
good, as he manages to capture the action at all the right angles &
delivers several cool shots, in fact this would remain his only film,
afterwards he went directly back into production designing, which is
odd, since he was seemingly obsessed with having a directing career
back in the late seventies/early eighties & when the baby sharks mother
gets into the park & wrecks havoc, it's well worth the wait.

On the downside however I will admit the film does have a few problems.
While I did enjoy the direction by first & only time helmer JOE ALVES,
he clearly isn't to polished when it comes to building up much tension
or suspense in the film, in fact the film is severely lacking in the
suspense & tension department & things aren't helped to much by the
films 3D effects that are utterly lame, in fact even some of the
corniest of 3D movies released during the 3D "Birthquake" that briefly
re-visited screens back in the early 80's, at least took the time to
create some interesting 3D images, even if they weren't very original.
JAWS 3-D's effects are very poorly done, surprisingly so, considering
the fact it was a big budget movie, released by a major studio. In fact
the 3-D effects look utterly fake & are not very well done at all.
Other 3D movies released during the era, at least took careful steps to
separate the actors or objects from the backgrounds, because otherwise
there is no real 3D, everything would just look like a cardboard cut
out & that's precisely what's wrong with the effects work here! the
objects being floated in front of the screen look like pieces of
cardboard floating pass the screen or towards the audience (not much
fun there) the films interesting plot about a shark getting past the
gate & into Sea World is ripe with possibilities for endless shark
carnage, but due to the films PG rating, the film never really does
anything with it's interesting premise & the threat is never felt even,
especially when things are supposed to pick up. Even the lower budgeted
JAWS knock-off PIRANHA (1978) did far better things with the intended
carnage on the innocent, by schools of deadly fish, both at a summer
camp & at the grand opening of a new resort, where dozens of unaware
visitors fell prey to deadly fish & the hero's of the story attempting
to stop them. No terror ever really breaks loose resulting in an utter
waste of something that would have really enlivened the film. Most of
the characterization isn't fully fleshed out & the film wastes to much
time on Sean Brody & a potential love interest in Lea Thompson, that
does nothing for the story & goes absolutely nowhere, in fact I could
have done without Mike's younger brother & Thompson's character, take
them both out & you would still have a movie! & the film is practically
over by the time the baby sharks mother breaks loose & wrecks havoc on
the parks participants. A lot the the optical shots look silly & many
of the 3D gags just don't work.

All in all, I will admit that while JAWS 3-D may not be in & of itself
a great movie, or even a good one, I don't hate it, at least not
compared to some other reviewers who have heaped an unending amount of
venom on the film. In fact it's actually my favourite sequel after the
original (Yes I admit I'm probably one of five people walking this
earth who thinks so & one of ten who actually enjoys this movie as a
whole) maybe it's nostalgia talking here, since it was actually the
very first JAWS movie I ever saw when I was really young & still
remember the night my family rented it on VHS back in the mid 80's, I
was terrified & it still holds a special place in my heart & instantly
takes me back to that special night, making this film in an odd ball
sort of way, like a time capsule every time I pop it in to watch it.
Recommended! . Followed by JAWS: THE REVENGE 

***1/2 stars
<|_=00=_|>
Jaws 3 is a sequel with the return of the dreaded great white shark
that sneaks into a water park after it's baby swims into the park and
dies. I saw the film and yeah, the special affects are crap but the
film was originally in 3-D. You can totally tell when they used the 3-D
affects,after the shark explodes it's teeth coming flying at the
viewer, the great white comes right at the audience even though it's
not moving, times like that. Now I'm not saying this film is great, it
lacks a lot. For one thing, Brody's kids grew up pretty fast!There's a
lot of cool deaths, this one diver gets snapped and chewed whole only
to have his hand holding a grenade out to a person to pull it's ring,
two animal thieves get pulled underwater after they have a funny
conversation, this one gate inspector gets mauled pretty badly and so
on. So come on, give this film a break. It's not that bad of a film and
you might enjoy a little of it. This gets the big 6, not good but not
bad.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm certain if you read the screenplay for this third entry in the Jaws
franchise you'd think it could amount to a solid sequel. There's
nothing fundamentally wrong with the idea, it at least adds many new
elements to the Jaws formula. Where it all goes wrong is in the
execution. The acting, direction, and production values are way, way
below what they should have been. The 3-D effects are ridiculous. They
bring to mind a SCTV parody of 3-D films, with exaggerated tricks that
add nothing to someone watching this in regular format. Compare this to
something like The Creature From The Black Lagoon, or It Came From
Outer Space- those films were 3-D but play perfectly well as flat
films. But those were made by people with talent, this film is not.

There's also the weird idea of using the Sea World park, but making it
a fictitious one located near the ocean with completely different
attractions- it's a strange bit of promotional advertising. The real
Sea World is quite different, and yet it's shown with all these
fantastic elements that are pure fantasy. A better idea would have been
to name the marine attraction something original. The scenes somehow
come off way more corny and trite than the actual theme park was at the
time. The use of the dolphins is a great idea that is staged horribly.
The old Flipper show had better shark vs. dolphin scenes.

The effects are wretched. In fact, had they worked it would have helped
save the whole film from being a waste, but they are totally
amateurish, below that of a Roger Corman exploitation film from the 50s
or 60s. One expects more from a major studio mounting a sequel to a
mega-hit.

The actors offer nothing here. Dennis Quaid and Louis Gosset have shown
remarkable talent, but none of it is on display here. Bess Armstrong
and Lea Thompson are both very attractive, but again they don't really
add anything, and Thompson seems especially vapid here. Luckily all
these actors are in a film so filled with incompetence that the music,
effects, editing and overall storytelling distract from their work.
<|_=00=_|>

*SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*

Jaws invades an underwater park. The idea was great.  The problem is the
special effects were terrible. I missed it when it came out in theaters so I
never got to experience the 3-D phenomenon.  Maybe that would have made a
difference but I doubt it.

A giant shark attacking a Sea World like park was a great starting point.
But it's hard to get scared of Jaws when he looks like the shark at
Universal Studios.  I mean he was one plastic shark. I need to believe Jaws
is a real shark inflicting terror.  This time, I didn't.  He was definitely
a big toy floating in the water.  The climax scene was the worst of
all.

SPOILER ON ENDING

Jaws goes headfirst through the window of the control room. In 3-D, this
might have been cool.  In the tape I saw, it looked awful.

Although the effects were rotten, I still find myself enjoying this flick.
Face it, all the Jaws sequels have a very high bar set for them.  They are
not going to even get close to the original "Jaws". For a B giant shark
flick, it was pretty good.  Comparing it to "Jaws" is unfair but also
unavoidable. Even though I know the effects were bad, I still liked it.  It
was the best "Jaws" sequel.  
<|_=00=_|>
When a series that starts out on top greatly declines in quality by the
first or second sequel it's really too bad. In the early 1980s the 3-D
gimmick was used for a few third installments in popular franchises,
the first being 1982s 'Friday the 13th part 3.' In the case of this
film it worked and it is liked by many fans. Not that the film is a
contender for winning an Oscar, but it's very good for what it is.
However in some cases it turned out that the 3-D thing was used to fill
up the seats and bring in the bucks. Such is the case with the third
'Jaws' movie, which was preceded by a classic film and an above average
first sequel. By this point it seemed that Universal and the makers of
the film didn't care about quality because even on it's own 'Jaws 3' is
a loser. It's a case of a decent concept poorly executed and the result
is a film best forgotten.

Pros: A great new setting. Nice underwater photography. Cast does a
decent job. Moves at an OK pace. The film finally comes to life in the
last third with some action packed moments.

Cons: Poor screenplay. Lousy special effects. Mediocre score except for
the use of John Williams' theme. Apart from one scene in the first
half, the rest of the film lacks the tension of it's predecessors.
Looks like a made for TV movie thanks to Joe Alves bland direction. The
first two films have human drama too, but here it's poorly written and
directed and just bogs the film down.

Final thoughts: Let's face it, we didn't need even one sequel to the
first film, let alone more. The first film stands on it's own and is
truly the best of the killer shark films. 'Jaws 2' is an unnecessary
sequel, but the talent involved make it worth a look. This installment
isn't even a guilty pleasure, it's just a waste of time. A shame
because the water park setting had potential and in the right hands
this could have been a treat. Unfortunately the studio didn't learn
their lesson with this one and had to sink the series even further.

My rating: 2/5
