
With the advancement of movie technology today, I am awaiting a re-make
of this film as I can see the enhancement of the Armageddon-like
atmosphere of this movie.

Even though this film came out on the heels of Star Wars I feel that
for its time and its budget it was awesome and very much overlooked. I
think in this case, being a Disney film, didn't help its image either.
As a kid this movie scared the pants off of me. It was dark and
menacing and there was the big black hole staring me in the face the
whole movie. (I can still recall the extent of the willies this movie
game me).

While flawed I see this movie as an artistic and hard core science
fiction classic. It uses many of what I see as key elements in science
fiction - known science, theoretical science, possible futures, and our
fear of the unknown (I personally think even with what we know, we
still know very little about black holes).

This movie was made in the feel of 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea and
Moby Dick, with the mad, yet brilliant captain, sailing a state of the
art ship, knowingly, into certain and utter doom in the name of some
idealistic obsession. And as it usually goes you have your idealistic
yet rational unwilling passengers who want to get off the ship and
survive the mad man's nightmarish dreams.

The robots, while used in a highly symbolic fashion, were original in
their concept and design. I particularly liked the way V.I.N.C.E.N.T.
and B.O.B. were constructed as the "avatars" of humanity - completely
man-made with human-like eyes and a "soul", that only allowed them to
see the "right" side of things - as we see them. While on the other
hand Maximilian was brilliant as the epitome of evil and twisted
humanity in this movie - a man silently trapped and condemned to an
inhuman fate as part of a mechanical nightmare.

Lastly, I feel that the space backdrops and the internal renderings of
the space ship, which I feel have somewhat of an impressionistic flair,
are awesome and were very well done for the period. If you passed on
this movie the first time I recommend giving it a second chance. Take
in the movie - see its symbolism, its social commentaries and far
reaching vision. I think some of the issues the movie quietly addresses
are still relative today.
<|_=00=_|>

Back in 1979, when this first came out, this could be seen coming down Main
Street as a "Star Wars" cash-in.  Even I could see that (being 14 at the
time).

At the time, it was being hailed by everyone whom had not seen it as a
return to cerebral, thought-provoking space opera, with the same kind of
reverberations as "2001".  

Now, let me tell you the truth about "The Black Hole".

From a technical standpoint, the movie is impressive (moreso when you
consider that Harrison and Peter Ellenshaw, virtuosos in matte paintings,
did the background FX work).  The ships all fly as they should, you can
BARELY see the robots flying about on their strings and the wonder and
mystery of what a black hole really is (physically as well as
metaphorically) are explored satisfactorily.

But if the FX are exemplary, the flesh and blood on display are not.  Each
actor supplies their own black hole; empty, dark voids where there once was
talent but now serve only to suck away all the life and energy surrounding
it.  A shame, since actors like Forster, Mimieux, Schell, Perkins and even
Roddy McDowell (in voice only) have all done good deeds on film prior and
since.  In the acting sense, at least, this movie matches
"2001".

But in the end, you see a movie like "The Black Hole" for the story itself. 
Is it worth watching?  In that respect, I think so.  What are the limits to
which mankind can play God?  Are the mysteries of the universe for Man to
explore?  Do black holes lead to anything?  We are left to draw our own
conclusions, but at least the ending here allows us to think seriously about
what really is out there.

Eight stars.  Not a classic, but not that vacuous.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie in the theater when I was 6 years old. So you have to
remember that frame of reference when you read these comments. 

I saw The Black Hole when I was six years old and, of course, I loved
it. Although what I remember the most about that experience was my
first glimpse of Maximilian, the giant killer red robot. Maximilian
terrified me. And he ended up being the first movie character to ever
really scare the crap out of me.

If you were 6 years old kid in 1980, you would remember this film.
Because even though it's silly to make the comparison today, at one
time the Black Hole held a special place in the hearts of kids
everywhere, mainly because it featured a character who was even scarier
than Darth Vader. 

That's right, Star Wars came 2 years earlier than the Black Hole, and
Star Wars had a frightening guy in a black mask named Darth Vader. But
let me tell you that to a kid growing up in 1980, Darth Vader was
NOTHING compared to Maximilian. Darth Vader was a pansy compared to
Maximilian, and I'm not just joking around. If you were a little kid in
1980, you knew about this movie. And you knew who Maximilian was. And
you spoke about him in terms of reverence. Because you don't mock the
robot who haunts your nightmares every single night.

That's how big a deal Maximilan was at the time.

Yes, The Black Hole has flaws. Yes, the rest of the robots are comical.
And yes, the science fiction in the movie makes no sense. And sure, I'd
agree that the sight of Ernest Borgnine in a tight turtleneck is
disturbing and I never want to see it again. But none of that really
matters to me. All I care about is that this movie features Maxmilian
the bleeping killer red robot. And from a pop culture/movie history
perspective, that makes this movie a classic.

Personally, I think that the Black Hole is a pretty lame movie. But in
1980 I would have ranked it alongside Star Wars as the coolest thing I
had ever seen in my life. And of course, that is almost solely because
of Maximilian. So don't make fun of this movie. Just remember that it
cause a lot of nightmares in kids from the 70's and early 80's. And
please give it props for featuring a villain that (at one time) was
cooler and scarier than a guy named Darth Vader.

So here's to you, Maximilian.

Please don't Cuisinart me through a book.

Mario's Movie Rating: 5 out of 10 (at least it's somewhat entertaining) 

Mario's Maximilian Rating: 10 of 10
<|_=00=_|>

Not only is The Black Hole beautifully made from a technical aspect, it has
 marvelous performances. Robert Forester (Jackie Brown), Anthony Perkins 
(Psycho), Ernest Borgnine, Maximillian Schell. It does get a little campy
 but it is a Disney movie after all and it can be forgiven its attempts at
 comic relief. This is a very unlikely sort of film for Disney, were it made
 today it would have been made under the Miramax header rather than Disney,
 and like another unlikely Disney film, Tron, it is tragically underrated.
 The special effects and set design are breathtaking, but it is the script
 which is the best part. The ending is one of the most surreal and haunting
 in any science fiction film (and especially bold for a Disney film) The
 characterizations are wonderful and the robots, especially Maximillian (in
 my book the greatest cinematic robotic villain to date), are unforgettable.
 
<|_=00=_|>
"Haunting" is exactly the term for it. I know others have knocked the
silly robots and laser guns.

But I have always felt The Black Hole's spooky emotional impact,
through the visuals and music. Although the visuals are now dated, what
they were aiming for strikes true. It's a vision of the future that
strikes a chord in me: dark uncaring space, the black hole a crushing
force more powerful than the sun, ego and insane genius, science and
what's beyond science, the horror of the old crew's fate. The music
with its heavy repeated theme is like the crushing presence of the
black hole itself: relentless. A new God if ever there was one.

In my opinion it has more emotional impact than Solaris, which threw in
too much "murder mystery" and sort of confused me. The Black Hole is
simple: it is clearly beyond knowledge and all the spookier for it.

If you get a thrill from the idea of scientific discovery, give this
underrated film a chance. You won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

This movie features the worst acting performances of an entire group of
talented actors. I would hold up on getting in line for Disney's Star
Wars. This was released with the Motionless Picture and it was neck and
neck for which one would stink it up the most. The movie was gone from
all the theaters in three weeks including the drive ins. Each actor had
a great movie in his career: Borgnine: The Poseidon Adventure, Perkins:
Psycho and Bottoms: The Paper Chase. Disney director Gary Nelson gets
the worst acting you will see in a movie from the entire decade of the
1970s. The rumors, after the movie bombed, were that he was intimidated
by the cast and would not do more than one or two takes. Even the
legendary Maximillian Schell gives his worst performance. The film
mimics the Motionless Picture in the long, slow, loving camera tour of
the Cygnus that you could bake a cake during. Do you enjoy long angle
shots of a poorly glued model with a rotating Blue Hole in the
background? I know, apparently, the effects team never read the title
of the movie. Once aboard the ghost ship Cygnus, we get a bad rendition
of Captain Ahab; The Black Hole years, with his pet robot whom we can
clearly see the wires he is dangling from the crane with. 

The Eastgate opened this in their 550, within a week it was moved to
the 220 and finally the 110. By the third week, it was gone. The bad
acting is equaled by the boredom. A cheap attempt to rip off the Crell
tour of Forbidden Planet that will make you miss Walter Pidgeon. The
highlight is a shooting contest between our Porty potty with Mcdowell's
voice and S.T.A.R. Boring! Want to know how bad it is? Slim Pickens who
played another Porty potty had his name taken off the credits for a
reason. He was embarrassed to be associated with one of the worst
science fictions in the history of film. Disney has a meteor right next
to the cast on fire and nobody told the geniuses that they would have
burst into flame, what until you see it. That was the director, Gary
Nelson, what a genius! The cast finds out that the captain killed
everybody and tries to escape except Perkins who has fallen in love
with Ahab. The pet robot on wires activates his margarita mixer and so
much for Perkins. The bulk of the movie is the crew creeping around the
empty ship like they are looking for the restroom. It is slow, boring
and badly written and acted.

The ending is still being debated to this day. It is really not that
hard to decipher. Disney wanted to give every group their own ending
and blended them, like a retard, all together. Heaven and Hell; for the
religious, A white hole; for the scientific and a rotating image
spinning until you will puke to convey nebulosity. Sorry, pick an
ending dummies. See, after people sat for two hours waiting for the
resolution; they get postal if you give them three endings and say:
pick one. Young people, do not buy this movie. It is boring beyond
belief. If you want to see them spend a half an hour creeping around
the Cygnus with nothing happening: go ahead, I warned you. Want to know
what the most frequent evaluation was heard as we were filing out? WHAT
A PIECE OF CRAP THAT WAS!! It was then and it still is.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this new in the theater when I was a little kid, and revisited it
last night with my wife. 

She still isn't speaking to me, and has taken control of the Netflix
queue for the foreseeable future. Her last words to me were to the
effect that I have lost any right to criticize her cinematic
selections, for eternity. 

I think that's a reasonable response on her part, actually.

I suggest a new, improved tagline: "There is a force in the universe
that sucks harder than anything else known to man... It is The Black
Hole!!! (the movie, that is!)"

(spoilers follow)

Okay, first the good: In its time, it was found to be visually
impressive. It definitely hasn't held up like 2001, Star Wars, or even
the first Star Trek movie, though. I do remember being pretty
overwhelmed as a tyke watching this, back in the day. The end is still
vertigo-inducing, looking suspiciously like a ride at Disneyland. Did
they plan to build a spin off (very literally, in this case) ride based
on the anticipated success of this film? "I know! Let's have their
seats all spin around inside the spaceship when they enter the hole!"
Why the hell the seats in a spaceship would be designed to spin madly
is never addressed... 

Sorry, more good: Maximilian is a badass looking robot. I am suddenly
seized with a desire for a good model of him, because he is the very
archetype of droid evil. His immobility just adds to the menace.

The opening and closing credits score (not the lame "overture") is
pretty creepy cool, too. 

On to the bad: The rest of the film. Script, acting, direction, plot,
dialogue... By any reasonable measure of a movie's worth, this is a
total failure. There are so many ridiculous, embarrassing moments, that
this is a great choice for those compulsive smartasses who enjoy
mocking a movie nonstop, MST 3000 style. 

Nothing in this movie makes any sense. The "science" of this fiction is
beyond wrong, the design of the spaceships is absurd, (gigantic formal
dining room with huge crystal chandelier wtf?) the characters have no
motivation, and the ending... Ouch.

Most of the dialogue is risible, and all of it is delivered woodenly at
best. "The gravity is at maximum!" Uhh, what? 

The ugly: There are two disturbing eviscerations in this film, which
somehow takes it from a silly space opera for children into more
serious territory. They should have kept it light and g-rated, or made
a film worthy of adults.

My disbelief failed to suspend in the face of such a ham-fisted
production. Why would anybody design an enormous empty gallery through
the middle of a spaceship? Oh, right, so a giant flaming meteor could
roll through it later in the film, gotcha. Why is the meteor flaming
and red hot? Because it's in proximity to a black hole, silly! And
everybody knows that the most powerful force in the universe is...
Gravity! Uh, no, actually; gravity is the weakest force known. Those of
you at home can play "Spot the Glaring Errors"! 

Worst of all is the ending. Oh, the awfulness! On the "other side" of a
black hole (which is portrayed here as a whirlpool in a tub in a
gravity well, oddly enough) is... A Judeo-Christian morality play!
Surprise, surprise. But nominative determinism wins the day, with
Maximilian Schell ending up in Maximilian's shell, in hell. Choose your
child's name carefully, folks!

If you're a film effects historian, you should probably see this film,
as it was a landmark and the last big Disney studio-system effects
extravaganza. The results obtained may explain why they changed the
system, actually... 

If you want to prove your worth and brilliance by ridiculing a silly,
terminally confused movie, you have found your victim. Beer, popcorn,
irony!

If you are looking for a trip down nostalgia lane like I was, jump on
board! Maybe without the wife, though. 

But if you are looking for a film that is satisfying as a film, burn
your main engines at full power to escape the lethal suck of... The
Black Hole!
<|_=00=_|>

The Black Hole is probably the only Disney live-action movie (with the
possible exception of Cool Runnings) that is even watchable. So the fact
that it's incredibly fun just makes it all the more odd.

Perhaps it's the overabundance of mediocre effects (even by 1979's
standards, considering it was preceded by Star Wars (2 years) and 2001: A
Space Odyssey (11 years)), or it could be the overall impossibility of the
robot VINCENT, but I am hooked on this movie.

Plotwise, there's some new stuff here for science fiction. In general, the
black hole had never really been looked into, so combining that with the
crazed genius (Maximillian Schell) just creates a story worth watching,
despite some obvious speaking errors ("habitable life in outer space") and
some scientific errors (the astronauts are exposed to the vacuum of space
and nothing happens...).

All in all, the fighting, the story, and the utterly bizarre 1970s sets and
costumes make this one of my closet favorites. If you are even vaguely
interested, buy the video today, because it took 20 years to see it come out
to the mainstream. Don't miss this!
<|_=00=_|>

   I first saw the Black Hole when I was in college and I remembered just
enough to know that I liked it.  Others here have commented on the movie in
great enough detail, I can only say,"Lighten Up!"  Sure the effects are not
perfect but they really are pretty good. The acting is acceptable, not oscar
level but then neither is the script that they were given to work with. 
Many of the events depicted are not plausible, but how many movies really
are? (Even non SF ones)
   The Black Hole is in some ways Captain Nemo in space.  The Elizabethan
structure of the ship in particular.  Also Reinhart and Nemo are similar
characters.  However, Nemo is not truly a villain.  His crew is composed of
volunteers and they are very loyal to him whereas Reinhart must lobotomize
his crew to retain their services.  Reinhart cares for no one but himself,
but Nemo was concerned, though grudgingly, for the welfare of even his
prisoners.  In short, Nemo is a sympathetic character, Reinhart is
not.
   This brings me to the point of my review.  The mood of this movie is what
really makes or breaks it.  I must credit my sister for defining it for me
because I could not find the right word.  The word is CREEPY!
There is a feeling of forboding that builds untill the action sequences are
finished and our heroes enter the black hole.  After that it is just
intensely weird and CREEPY.
   Having not seen this movie for twenty years and remembering only the cool
effects and robots I allowed my 5 year old to watch it. Big mistake!  He was
afraid to go to sleep, and it bothered him for about a week.  This kid has
handled action and SF movies OK before, although I do not let him watch the
more violent or intense stuff.  This movie is intense!  Star wars did not
bother him at all, but the Black Hole . . .
   Parents of small children beware!  The Black Hole is
CREEPY!
<|_=00=_|>
A team of space travelers locates a long lost, massive spacecraft, the
U.S.S. Cygnus, perched in space near an imposing black hole. They meet
its commander, the mad genius Dr. Hans Reinhardt (Maximilian Schell),
who's created an army of obedient robot slaves and who fully intends to
explore this black hole and see what might lay beyond it. It doesn't
take our heroes too long to realize that they should get out while the
getting is good.

"The Black Hole" came along at a very interesting time during the reign
of Disney Studios, when they took some unusual chances with their
projects and dipped their toes into genres like fantasy, sci-fi, and
horror. Also of note during this time are "The Watcher in the Woods",
"Tron", and "Something Wicked This Way Comes". The result is a very
dark and highly operatic piece of work that offers great fun, although
it will have more appeal to older kids and adults than the very young
due to its themes, plot details, and suggestion of violence. (As a
matter of fact, some pretty nasty violence is suggested at one point,
not that we ever see any blood or gore.) It does play as reminiscent of
earlier works - Disney's own production of "20,000 Leagues Under the
Sea", "Forbidden Planet", "2001: A Space Odyssey", and "Star Wars".

Some of the visual effects may show their age now, 37 years later, but
overall, the movie is quite agreeable as eye candy, and looks
especially nice in its intended 2.35:1 aspect ratio. John Barry's music
score is somewhat repetitive, but also utterly thunderous and ominous,
perfectly suiting the material.

The human cast is steadfast and reliable, with Schell making the most
of his madman role. It's hard to go too wrong with a group of actors
including Anthony Perkins, Robert Forster, Joseph Bottoms, Ernest
Borgnine, and the lovely Yvette Mimieux. As was the case with "Star
Wars", the cute robot characters tend to steal the show, V.I.N.CENT
(voiced by Roddy McDowall) and B.O.B. (voiced by Slim Pickens). The
towering red robot thug Maximillian leaves quite the impression as
well. Director Gary Nelson cameos as the drone whose mask is removed.

Great fun overall, which is made all the more memorable by its truly
haunting ending.

Eight out of 10.
