

Mel as a psychiatrist?  That's crazy!

But it's funny.

And so is "High Anxiety", a spoof of everything Hitchcock, with a few
touches of Mel's own creativity dashed here and there.

As head psychiatrist for the Institute for the Very, VERY Nervous, Mel finds
strange goings-on involving kidnapping, murder, double-crossing and Harvery
Korman in leather.

Nearly every big Hitchcock scene is clobbered as the story progresses: the
shower scene in "Psycho", the jungle gym scene in "The Birds", the shooting
in "North by Northwest", the climax of "Vertigo"....  The list goes on and
on.

Mel does too, God bless him.  Laugh after laugh after laugh is produced, and
Mel and his writers seem to have an inexhaustable supply of sight gags,
one-liners and word plays.  And they all work.

Suffice it to say, this isn't as funny as "Blazing Saddles", but it's prime
Mel and if you're like me, almost any Mel is good Mel.

Eight stars.  And he has a lovely singing voice, too.
<|_=00=_|>

Mel Brooks' delirious comedy/thriller is a delight even if you're not
already an Alfred Hitchcock fan--but if you *are,* you'll love it even more
as you peg specific spoofs/references to such Hitch classics as SPELLBOUND,
VERTIGO, THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH '56 (Brooks' piano bar rendition of the
title song is the movie's highlight) and THE BIRDS. While Gene Wilder
would've been perfect casting as acrophobic psychiatrist Dr. Richard
H(arpo). Thorndyke, Brooks is nevertheless as irresistable as he is
irrepressible, with Madeline Kahn a fine match for him as the flakiest
mysterious blonde this side of Kim Novak. Brooks' stock company of Harvey
Korman, Cloris Leachman, Ron Carey, and Howard Morris (as Professor
Little-Old-Man, er, Lillolman) are in fine form. Like all of Brooks' best
movies, the plot would work just fine as a straight thriller, and the
spoofing is as affectionate as it is hilarious. It's a comedy to go crazy
over!
<|_=00=_|>
HIGH ANXIETY suffers only by comparison to Mel's YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN,
but it stands by itself as a frisky, very funny screwball spoof of the
works of Alfred Hitchcock.

I do agree with others who complain that Mel should have given the Dr.
Thorndyke role to someone like Gene Wilder since Brooks does lack the
charisma needed to carry this sort of thing. But the other pros in the
cast more than made up for this handicap--especially HARVEY KORMAN,
CLORIS LEACHMAN, MADELINE KAHN and HOWARD MORRIS.

Cloris Leachman is hilarious as Nurse Diesel (practically repeating her
formidable character in YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN) and Madeline Kahn is
equally funny as the blonde femme fatale who finds herself in one ditzy
situation after another as she tries to reach her father inside the
asylum--here called "Psychoneurotic Institute for the Very, Very
Nervous." Nothing subtle here. The gags are touch and go, some funny,
some painfully unfunny--so it's strictly a mixed bag.

But if you know MEL BROOKS and his kind of satire, this has enough gags
to keep you satisfied. Just don't expect anything on the level of YOUNG
FRANKENSTEIN.
<|_=00=_|>
Mel Brooks is a very funny man, and though sometimes I think his comedy
is a little on the low side, "High Anxiety" has some truly hilarious
moments. Mel riffs on Hitchcock, right down to Madeline Kahn's gray
suit a la Kim Novak in Vertigo. He combines scenes from "Spellbound,"
"Vertigo," "Foreign Correspondent," "The Birds," "Psycho," "Dial M for
Murder," and "North by Northwest" in this story of a man taking over as
the head of a mental sanitarium, replacing a man who is murd - uh,
dead. Kahn is the Hitchcock blonde whose father is in the asylum. To
give you an idea of this place where the lunatics have definitely taken
over - Cloris Leachman plays a nurse who's into S&M with Harvey Korman.
Both of them are a riot. Mel plays it straight which makes him even
funnier.

I have two favorite scenes - the first is Mel, doing a perfect
imitation of Sinatra's style, singing "High Anxiety" to Kahn. He's
fabulous, and the look on Kahn's face is delicious. My other favorite
scene is when Brooks and Kahn disguise themselves as elderly people to
get through airport security. Psychiatric expert Brooks thinks the more
noise you make, the less people notice you. The two of them do a
fabulous skit which is priceless.

We really lost a treasure when we lost Madeline Kahn, one of the
all-time great talents. It's wonderful to see this and remember her. I
do believe that because of the humor, the film can be enjoyed without
having seen the Hitchcock films spoofed, but of course, it's all the
better if you have. A delightful film.
<|_=00=_|>

Though often overlooked in favor of Blazing Saddles or Young Frankenstein, I
believe this to be the pick of Brooks' parodies.  Whether you share this
opinion would depend on your familiarity with all things Hitchcockian. 

It is not only Vertigo, as the title suggests, that gets the Brooks
treatment here, but The Birds, Spellbound and Psycho are all parodied to
various degrees of subtlety.  Many of these films key scenes are simply
re-enacted with comic touches, whilst the Hitchcock formalae is very much in
evidence.  The style is particularly amusing in its parody.  Highlights
include a probing camera becoming all too literally intrusive when it
crashes through a pane of glass in the window, and a dramatic sound
composition turning out to be merely the didactic passing bus load of a
touring philamonic orchestra.

Resisting the out and out farce of his earlier effort, Blazing Saddles, and
managing not to evolve into simply being a one joke movie such as the
tendency of his recent efforts, High Anxiety is Brooks at his most clever. 
The cast, mainly consisting of Brooks regulars, all display splendidly
entertaining and aptly silly impersonations of recognisible Hitchcock
stereotypes.  It is Brooks' finest hour however, with not only directing,
writing, and acting to his credit but singing as well!!!
<|_=00=_|>
At the beginning of "High Anxiety", Mel Brooks arrives at Los Angeles
Airport and is lead into the men's restroom by a man who turns out to
be a lisping flasher (an excruciating moment). Later in a cocktail
lounge, he snaps a microphone cord like a whip and makes Madeline Kahn
hyperventilate with passion. Brooks thinks he is so cute, both women
AND men want him! It's this kind of egomania that drives "Anxiety" into
the ground. The picture might have worked (it's a wacky spoof of
Hitchcock moments), but not with this cornball script--nor with Brooks
in the lead as a vertigo-prone psychiatrist. He flashes his overbite,
mugs like a rubber man, and as the lead writer manages to give himself
the final word on everything ("What a dramatic airport!"). The film is
offensive visually and verbally--what happened to the style he gave
pictures like "Young Frankenstein" and "Blazing Saddles"? This looks
like a failed TV pilot. ** from ****
<|_=00=_|>
Mel Brooks, if nothing else, is spectacular at collecting up the
clichés, the stereotypes, the conventions, the seriousness, and at the
same time the joy and entertainment that comes in the different works
he has made fun of over his career (countless westerns with Blazing
Saddles, historical epics with History of the World part 1, the sci-fi
boom of Star Wars/Trek with Spaceballs, silent films with Silent
Movie). Here is no exception, as he tackles squarely the unmistakable
catalog of Sir Alfred Hitchcock. All of the hits are here, and
transfused into a story that is kooky, predictable, but all the while
giving some very good belly laughs. Even if it doesn't always strike
where the iron is unexpectedly hot like with Saddles or the Producers,
it still makes its mark with uncanny ability in making the film
watchable while being often unrelenting (whether everything works
gag-wise or not) with the spoofs.

Mel Brooks stars as Dr. Richard Thorndyke, a psychiatrist with his own
problem- a fear of heights (Vertigo, anyone). In the midst of this a
murder takes place (it's an usual one, by the way, involving a scene in
a car that's unsettling while hilarious). The major set-pieces take
place at a hotel Dr. Thorndyke stays at for a conference, where the
plot seems to thicken even tighter. At times one wonders if the film
maybe should take itself a little more seriously to work, like with
Young Frankenstein. But by also not letting up with the silliness and
over-the-top gags, there are at least a few that stand-out in the
overall Brooks oeuvre. One or two are just plain dumb funny, like a
wolf-man imitation ala Harvey Korman to a patient afraid of werewolves
during a session with Brooks. More often than not in the film, the gags
are very expected, getting right to the point as it were.

The chief examples lie in two scenes that work great, and one that
works OK. The first involves a particular bellhop not too fond of
getting order for a newspaper (played by a young Barry Levinson), which
leads to an all too obvious but shamelessly funny Psycho spoof. Or, of
course, the scene in the park with the birds of THE Birds, which
remains a truly disgusting scene in some respects (even if the laughs
wear down towards the end, its a brilliantly constructed set-up). One
that doesn't quite go up to snuff is a near-murder scene by a telephone
booth. Madeline Kahn's character is on the other end, and the scene is
maybe a little too familiar, even as a Hitchcock parody. Towards the
end its funny, but only after the fact. It's not totally that the
timing is off, maybe just something else that's hard to say. It might
be funnier to others.

Still, its the glee thats put forth in the performances, and the little
running gags (i.e. "I'll get it, I'll get it...I don't get it"), to
make it a notable entry in Brooks' body of work. If you've seen
Hitchcock's films and not Brooks' I'd still recommend it at least once,
if only out of curiosity, as just from a film buff stand-point its kind
of fascinating how a satirist like Brooks takes on Hitchcock's style,
which often had its own morbid sense of humor (Psycho, in some ways, is
more of a pitch-black comedy than a horror film). For me, the merging
worked well, if not for a great overall comedy. And, at the least,
there's another catchy title song by Brooks himself, leading to a sweet
nightclub scene.
<|_=00=_|>
Mel Brooks arrives at the "Institute" to find suspicious goings on, and
tries to find out what's going on and who is behind it. Cloris Leachman
and Harvy Korman are fellow doctors at the asylum, and watch over the
institute when Mel must attend a conference. Watch for Barry Levinson
(writer, director, producer) as he plays the bellboy. Ron Carey from
Barny Miller plays the chauffeur who tries to help Mel when he runs
into trouble with the always funny Madeline Kahn. The references to all
of Hitchcocks films are many and great, and Mel even sings a song in
the movie. His speech given for fellow doctors at the conference goes
on a little long, but can be forgiven as it is offset by the quick
action for most of the movie. Cloris Leachman is hilarious as Nurse
Diesel, and her manner is a funny as her costume. Half the jokes in
this movie are things as simple as camera angles, facial expressions,
and what people are wearing.
<|_=00=_|>

Mel Brooks has had his stinkers, some much worse than this (Dracula: Dead
and Loving it being by far his lowest point), but this came at the end of an
era of great comedic successes for him. It's only four years after Young
Frankenstein, for instance, which is one of the funniest films I've ever
seen. And the concept of this film, a spoof of Hitchcock films, seems like
gold. There's more than a dozen well known films and a hundred well known
sequences that Brooks could have parodied. For some reason, he forgets to do
it through a good 75% of the film, only parodying Vertigo, Psycho, the
Birds, and Marnie with one or two throw-aways to North by Northwest. They
are all from late Hitchcock, and the only one I may be missing is the Jimmy
Stewart version of The Man Who Knew Too Much, probably the only major Hitch
film I haven't seen. But these films are only mentioned a little, besides
Vertigo, which is, more or less, the basis for 90% of all the parody.
There's a take off of Psycho's shower scene, some pigeons poo on Brooks, and
there is a flashback near the end that seems to be parodying Marnie. None of
those parodies work. Almost none of the rest of the jokes work, either.
Cloris Leachman is the only person on screen who ever gets a single laugh,
as Nurse Diesel, the wack-job, manly, conniving, dominatrix, but she's
trying so hard that she only managed to make me laugh a couple of times. I
don't even know what Madelaine Kahn is doing here, although the phone
booth/obscene phone call scene was one of the couple of scenes that made me
laugh. I hope Hitchcock never actually saw this. I wouldn't be so mean as to
call it an insult to his films, but it certainly stands as a major
embarrassment to Mel Brooks who can't even demonstrate in his direction that
he understands WHY Alfred Hitchcock is "the master of suspense," as he calls
him in the kindly dedication. 5/10.

<|_=00=_|>
Dr Richard H. Thorndyke is a psychiatry professor appointed to run a
prestigious mental hospital in California after his predecessor dies in
shady circumstances. Once there he starts to suspect foul play and is
contacted by the daughter of a patient who insists her father is being
held against his will ...

This is a truly wonderful, lovingly crafted satire of the films of
Alfred Hitchcock, filled with sly references, dazzling recreations of
famous scenes, themes and characters from his suspense classics,
chiefly The 39 Steps, Spellbound, Vertigo and Psycho, although there
are nods to many others (The Birds gag is wonderful). Some of the
pastiche is broad but some is also very subtle; for example, the shower
scene from Psycho is a riot, with one of the funniest punchlines in any
movie, but did you spot that the montage of shots of Van Patten driving
through the rain with oncoming headlights glaring at him also comes
from Psycho ? The comedy is both beautifully staged and beautifully
played - everyone is good, but the late great Kahn in particular is
simply wonderful. She really could be a Hitchcock blonde - she's
Madeleine Carroll / Kim Novak / Eva Marie Saint - and she plays cool,
elegant, neurotic, scared with fearless hilarity. Best of all, even if
you haven't seen any Hitchcock films, the movie is still hilarious in
its own right, with a wonderfully harebrained plot, some great schtick
(the lounge-lizard act, the cocky-doody psychiatry convention
discussion, the Yiddish airport security double-act) and more than
enough hilarious moments to keep you smiling throughout. My personal
favourite gag is the beautifully-framed tracking shot into the French
doors of the dining-room; only Brooks could come up with such an
inspired moment. Also unforgettable is the fabulously romantic string
score by John Morris, which is simply irresistible movie music and
drives the film so much higher. Written by Brooks, Clark (the neck-pain
/ werewolf patient), DeLuca (the teeth-braces killer) and Levinson (the
psychotic bellboy), this is a wonderful satirical but easy-going comedy
classic, not to be missed.
