

I first saw this movie as a child and it has always stayed in my memory as
an enjoyable experience. I just watched it recently as an adult and found
it
every bit as enjoyable as before. It's directed by Noel Marshall who spent
a
decade making this film. What really works the best is the fantastic music
score. Unlike some films today, "Roar" doesn't drag on for hours and has
no
shallow character's or bad CGI. This is the way films should be made. Real
lions and tigers involved in this amusing story of a family arriving at
the
wrong time to be greeted by the local wildlife. I don't understand the
other
reviewer and their negative comments. Watch this for yourself. It's not
spineless garbage but a passionate and thoughtful film. Thank you for
reading.
<|_=00=_|>

There's nothing fake about this film.  It's shot beautifully, on real
locations.  Tippi Hedren and Melanie Griffith head a talented and fearless
cast, who literally throw themselves in the jaws of the beasts over and
over
again.  The picture has a terrific rhythm and is fun to watch but I
couldn't
help dwelling upon how dangerous a film it must have been to make.
Although
there were some poignant and funny moments like the scenes where dauntless
John Marshall tries to pull his boat away from the shore but the lion
keeps
pulling it back or when he hides in a barrel filled with water and the
lions
begin to drink from it.  The story seems simplistic in structure but is
really quite profound in the way Marshall draws sympathy for the animals,
brilliantly shot by John De Bont.  The closeups of the dying beasts will
bring tears to your eyes.  This is must see for anyone who believes that
filmmaking is artificial and safe.  
<|_=00=_|>

Although it is no Disney classic, Roar is a tale of adventure well
worth watching. I am a huge fan of films that take me to the far
reaches of the world, and, in that regard, this is a movie that
delivers. The lions are incredible and the filmmakers exhibit a
thorough understanding of who the real stars of the show are. The
lions take center stage and shine. The performances by the cast
are competent, but I am an animal lover and for me, that is the true
draw of the film.  
<|_=00=_|>
You know what? Sometimes words really aren't enough to do justice to
something.

Roar has to be without a doubt the most insanely unsafe cinematic
undertaking I have ever had the pleasure of watching. The unbelievably
high level of danger is quite frankly there for everyone to see up on
the screen as we watch a group of actors interact with over one hundred
big cats with no protection whatsoever! It was inspired by the success
of the lion drama Born Free (1966). And you might make the observation
that there is fifteen years between these two movies and think this
strange, well that's because this flick took eleven years from start to
finish! Its production met with all manner of set-backs such as fire,
flood and disease; each of which put the film's schedule back. But more
to the point, it was as dangerous to work on as it looks on screen. The
opening credits state that no animals were hurt in the making of the
film, what they could not say with as much confidence was that there
were no humans hurt! As it was, seventy cast and crew were injured,
including cinematographer Jan de Bont who was partially scalped, Tippi
Hedren had her neck bitten, Melanie Griffiths almost lost an eye, Jerry
and John Marshall both required extensive stitches, while Noel Marshall
was attacked so often it took years for him to recover from his
injuries. When you watch Noel in action in this film it is not exactly
hard to see why! In fact some of the injuries can be seen happening on
screen. It is madness, pure and utter madness.

But because of this, it makes for highly entertaining and bizarre
viewing. Unfortunately, the public back in 1981 didn't seem to agree
and Roar was a box office disaster. To be honest, this is not entirely
surprising as this feels far more like a cult movie than blockbuster
material, given its utter strangeness. For a start it doesn't really
have a plot and it boils down to a few events that bring our human cast
into contact with the big cats. The story barely makes sense if you
think about it very long. But who needs a story when you've got this
insanity on screen? The madness and health and safety black hole that
the events on screen represent mean that a story needs be no more than
an afterthought. For what it's worth, Noel Marshall - wrote, starred,
directed and financed it and his wife Tippi Hedren, who was a wildlife
activist who campaigned for the protection of big cats, was the big
name draw. Hedren, of course, was previously most well-known for her
starring role in The Birds (1963) where she was famously mauled and
scratched by an assortment of flying fiends. Well, all I can say is
that what she experiences on Roar makes the actions of the birds in
Alfred Hitchcock's classic seem positively reticent by comparison.

The actors are all splendidly game and deserve huge amounts of credit
for their nerve but the real stars of Roar are the big cats and
rampaging elephants. This is the ultimate wet dream for any lover of
the big cats in particular and we have the very strange scenario of
seeing lions, cheetahs, panthers, leopards and tigers interacting with
each other. Watching them violently wrestle is a pretty nerve shredding
thing, except if you are Noel Marshall that is, he usually runs in to
join them! But on the whole, while there are a few continuity errors
and the editing is full-on and sporadic, this is exciting stuff that
could never in a million years be described as boring. It truly defines
the term 'one of a kind'. With health and safety legislation what it is
now, there is no way in hell there will ever be another film like Roar.
It's truly unique and I sure lapped it up.
<|_=00=_|>
It turns out that birds aren't the only critters to have given actress
Tippi Hedren a rough time on screen! In "Roar" (1981), a film that
Tippi and her then-husband Noel Marshall--along with sons John and
Jerry and daughter Melanie Griffith--star in (Tippi and Noel also
wrote, produced and directed), all manner of wild animals turn up to
give the actress some fairly tense moments. In this virtually plot less
film, a mother and her three kids go to Africa to visit their scientist
husband/father after an absence of three years. Dad's not at home when
they arrive, but around 30 large cats--lions, tigers, jaguars,
etc.--are, and proceed to chase the family all around the abode. These
animals are never shown in a bad light, however; this is very much a
pro-conservation film that espouses all wildlife causes. That is all
well and good, but the film's primary appeal, it must be said, is the
Marshalls' fearless interaction with the big cats. Seeing Noel dive
into a group of fighting lions and come out bloodied but happily
beaming is really quite remarkable. Tippi reveals herself to be quite
an extraordinary stuntwoman, too; just watch her get tossed about by an
elephant, fall off a tipping ladder into a pond, climb down a
waterwheel, and roll around with the lions! We are told at the
picture's beginning that no animals were harmed during its (11-year!)
filming; I for one could use a further reassurance about the movie's
humans! Siegfried & Roy, eat your hearts out; no lion tamer act will
ever seem impressive after one sees what Noel and family do during the
course of this film! "How did they ever make this thing?" is the
question that springs to mind constantly during a viewing of "Roar";
the human-animal interactions shown are like nothing you have ever
seen. In that, it is a completely sui generis experience, and, despite
a few genuinely scary moments, perfectly suitable for watching with the
kiddies. Very highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie dubbed in German in 1984 and thought it was incredible
how
lions were used in the movie. The plot, though simple, is interesting
which
makes the movie enjoyable for a wide audience. The writers did a good job
in
keeping the humor light. Kudos go to the lead characters in the movie,
supposedly some of whom got injured in the filming. 
<|_=00=_|>

Roar is an interesting look at how a man must fight to keep his ideals and
his family.  As a man must decide how to face a world taken over by animals,
he must face his worst fears.  That of deciding between cats and his family.
While his family fights for their lives.


<|_=00=_|>
This film is about a persons attempt to understand 'big' cats and to
dispel the myth that they are dangerous. It is a very funny and
poignant film, filled with excellent photography and music. A must for
anyone who has a domestic cat, (and a wife)? The story is one of a
domestic nature, and their attempt to make the marriage work. A man
absorbed in his chosen profession, at the expense of his wife and
family. This is a last attempt to resolve the issues between himself
and his family, with catastrophic and hilarious consequences. The
photography is one of the major aspect of this film, as it shows the
gentleness of the 'big' cats and the hierarchy of the various prides.
An outstanding piece of cinematic work, which led Tippi Hedren to
continue her work for the 'big' cats after filming was completed (and
still carries on her work).
<|_=00=_|>

Having both seen the film & visited the amazing home of the star, Tippie
Hedren, to see the wonderful animals, I can't recommend the film highly
enough.  Cats of different species living together in the beautiful
setting
of Roar is stunning to see.  Ms. Hedren shares her home at Shambala with
as
many as 80 great cats of all varieties, & provides a permanent home for
them.  The Roar film project taught Ms. Hedren & her family the importance
of protecting these "wild ones" & she shares this with the public by
opening
her home twice a month to visitors over 18 years of age.  I have
experienced
being up close & personal with the "wild ones" at Shambala twice & was
able
to, in a very special way, live "Roar".
See the film & visit Shambala, you will be very happy you did.

<|_=00=_|>

While this movie is certainly incredible in terms of its live action
sequences with the lions, I would actually like to draw some attention to
the soundtrack, which is not only unique, but powerful, exciting and
highly
eclectic.

The two most notable figures involved in its production are Terence P.
Minogue, who composed and conducted the symphonic contributions, and
Robert
Hawk, who wrote and sang the bulk of the songs.

The symphonic score is grand and melodic, while the songs in the movie
contain some brilliant and sincere pop moments. Who are these two people
and
have they done any other soundtrack work before or since Roar? (I've
searched the web in vain!) The impression one gets in watching the movie
is
that Robert Hawk, at least, was part of the extended Marshall circle of
family and/or friends, as Noel professes his liking for Robert's music in
one scene in the movie (to Mativo).
