
Wargames was a movie that was way ahead of its time. No one was making
films about hacking into computer systems. The only computers used in
movies were on space ships. No home computer has ever really been
brought to the big screen. Wargames broke from the normal studio sci fi
norm of either Earth being visited by aliens (E.T) or battles of Good
and Evil in space (Star Wars, Star Trek). With the raise in hacker
crime rate now, and seeing how Dependant we've become on computers,
Wargames was a movie with it the eye on the future. Imaginative story,
great cast (who, despite other reviews, do not phone it in) Wargames is
a true gem, as it was recently listed by AFI as one of the top 100 sci
fi movies of all time. Broderick was perfect as a slacker teen, and
Ally Sheedy turns in one of her best performance, making the most of an
under developed character. Dabney Coleman showed why he was one of the
busiest actors in the 1980's (though he always better cast as a
villain), and Barry Corbin could play almost anything convincingly.
while the special effects may be dated by todays standard, Wargames
helped shape the way people think and speak. Backdoors, hacking, were
not common terms like they are today. Without a doubt, much in
agreement with AFI, Wargames remains one of the most important films
ever made.
<|_=00=_|>

Cyberthrillers may not have started with "WarGames," but it was here the
form achieved an early peak. As more filmmakers follow its example of
portraying a high-tech faceoff between man and machine, "WarGames" remains
a
standard to be measured against. While it's not a film classic, it's a
very,
very good popcorn thriller of uncommon craft, charm, and
humanity.

Seattle high schooler David Lightman (Matthew Broderick) has only a few
hours to undo what he thought was a sneak preview of an upcoming computer
game but what instead got him tinkering with the U.S. Air Force's WOPR
(War
Operation Planned Response) computer system in such a way as to trigger a
countdown to World War III. The FBI thinks he's a Soviet spy, while
classmate Jennifer Mack (Ally Sheedy) is wondering if this isn't all
really
about a rejiggered biology grade.

Broderick is solid, and Sheedy even better, but what really sells this
film
is everything else. Start with the excellent supporting performances. John
Wood as a reclusive professor and Barry Corbin as a tobacco-chewing
general
get much of the kudos, and rightly, but there's a whole deep bench of
quality work beyond that, like Kent Williams as a curt White House
advisor,
William Bogert and Susan Davis as David's out-of-it parents, Alan
Blumenfeld
as the swaggering bully of a biology teacher, and Juanin Clay as a
beautiful
but underappreciated assistant (even by herself as she uses her own mouth
as
an ashcan for her boss's discarded gum.) You know the casting people
behind
this movie were on the ball when the opening sequence features two very
recognizable faces, those of Michael Madsen and John Spencer, in what were
film debuts for both.

That sequence with Madsen and Spencer as missile men point up another
quality of "WarGames," the way the movie works in terms of setting up
expectations and developing pace. The harrowing business between the two
of
them is mercilessly presented ("Turn your key, sir!") and then effectively
abandoned so as to work in the central storyline, the replacement of these
men with computers. We get a macro-view where Dabney Coleman as a
tunnel-visioned warroom executive effectively makes the case for "taking
the
men out of the loop" and then zoom back into what seems a totally
unrelated
story, that of slacker teen David Lightman and his high school
travails.

The film could have just started with Lightman, and worked its way out to
the business with the WOPR. But the early peek behind the curtain is a
clever way of raising the stakes with the audience before the protagonist
realizes what's up.

The set design, cinematography, lighting, and editing all work wonders as
well. The NORAD warroom is really a character onto itself, the ultimate
source of reality in this film (and better for my money than the warroom
in
`Dr. Strangelove,' an obvious inspiration.) The way the cameras dart
around
from terminal to terminal as uniformed USAF technicians follow the
progress
of an apparent Soviet attack, lighting onto one of them just before he or
she relays an important piece of information, is highly addictive and
entertaining.

There's some sloppiness in the movie. Madsen and Spencer's talk about this
great pot Spencer's character has scored strains credulity in the
high-security setting they are in, and its blindingly obvious that the two
men we see exiting a helicopter and entering a jeep during the credits are
not the same two men getting out of the jeep moments later. The musical
score is terrible, except for the elegiac tune at the end by which time
it's
too late. And there's no real examination of the morality of Lightman's
serial lawbreaking.

But this is a funny, exciting, consciousness-raising movie that is as
entertaining now with the Cold War more than a decade behind us as it was
all those years ago. For all the technical innovation on display, it's
ironically appropriate we remember it for showing us how to butter an ear
of
corn, because it's the human side of the equation `WarGames' keeps in its
sights at all times.

[The DVD features a terrific, candid commentary from director John Badham
and writers Lawrence Lasker and Walter Parkes that gives one a real
appreciation for the value of creative license as well as factual
diligence
in making a film of this kind work.]

<|_=00=_|>
If you want to see a film with the most real style of hacking, forget
Swordfish, The Net and all these other films where "hackers" work in
graphically superb programs and can hack government server in few
seconds. Broderick, working in his text-only mode, using
social-engineering and having good abilities handling primitive
electric devices is nearest the real world's "hacking", at least in his
period. 

As thought that the film sometimes lacks tension, especially in the
middle, it has its very strong moments. To be honest, I got most
excited on the very beginning, I really loved it. 

The performances are good, but I disliked and didn't believe the
performance of the man, who should have played the wooden-head general.
It seemed to be too overacted. He himself lowered my rating by one. 

This film might not be so interesting for people, who aren't interested
in computers, because, as I mentioned upper, the plot lacks some deeper
crisis, but I thing that everyone else will like it, so if you match
the upper criterion I can recommend you only one thing: Go and get it!
<|_=00=_|>

WarGames remains the definitive "hacker" movie, surpassing the raunch of
Swordfish and the idio-parody of AntiTrust.  Historically-speaking, there
are two movies that have shaped public opinion about computers: 2001 and
WarGames.  With 2001, there is the question of "What happens when an
automated computer system makes decisions on its own?"  In today's world of
automatic Windows updates and random error messages for no reason, it seems
very prophetic.  WarGames poses the question of "Who uses the computer and
what do they do?"  The consequences, as one can easily guess, are enormous. 
Even when hardware ages, the ethics remain.

WarGames isn't perfect.  There are plenty of logic problems in the script,
but it still presents its topic with a naive fascination.  What the writers
don't know, they pretend they do.  Matthew Broederick is, once again, the
nerdy teen with social problems (Ferris Bueller had a different problem,
though).  Aside from Glory, he won't be able to shake that image even now in
his 40s.

I saw this movie when I was eight and had to admit that if someone didn't
understand the 80s "Red paranoia", then the whole movie was a misfire.  I
will admit, it fascinated me with computers and military hardware, changing
my life forever in a subtle fashion.

Overall, an interesting movie that becomes more real every year.  In today's
world of identity theft, cyber-terrorism, MicroSoft, and broadband, some
elements are undoubtedly lost on someone who can't remember or understand
the Cold War.  3.5 out of 5 stars
<|_=00=_|>
One important piece of reality in this movie is when David Lightman
looks for the computer game company, and stumbles across WOPR, by using
a program that automatically calls every number in an area looking for
a carrier. Such a program was called, after this movie came out, a
"Wargames dialer" or a "Wardialer". And today, as well as old fashioned
wardialing, we have wardriving, warstrolling, warchalking... war
everything else, because of this movie. And have you heard of the
annual hacker convention, held in Las Vegas, called.... Defcon? There
are, of course, factual problems with this movie, some of which one
just accepts as necessary to the ploy. When David plugs the speech
synthesizer into his computer, he explains that the computer isn't
really speaking, just interpreting the text that's coming in. We can't
have an entire movie just looking at a video screen, so we accept that.
But then at the end, Joshua speaks the climactic lines of the movie in
the same voice, which makes no sense at all. The way that Joshua could
find one character at a time of the password never did wash. And the
paper clip method could only make a local call.

The nuclear freeze movement was certainly quite strong in the '80s,
more so than many today realize. I hope you understand what "freeze"
means, because it's not the same as disarmament. It means: lets just
stop throwing money down this black hole by stopping the nuclear arms
race where it is. Who cares if they can reduce us fine powder and we
can only reduce them to sand. Ronald Reagan outmaneuvered the freeze
movement with all that SDI nonsense, which was just another excuse to
waste money and extend the arms race into space. With Reagan, it's hard
to tell, of course: maybe he really thought it was a "purely defensive"
system, that could "make nuclear weapons obsolete". When the Soviet
Union finally collapsed, there was talk of a "peace dividend", in which
the obscene amount of money previously spent on the arms race could
actually help people at home. There ain't too much talk about that now,
with the "War on Terror", which is a war about as much as the War on
Drugs or the War on Poverty, and just about as successful.
<|_=00=_|>
This was an old favorite for many younger baby-boomers, who were
teenagers and in their twenties at the dawn of the personal computer
age.

This one was a bit more than amusing, though. It opened many eyes to
both the potential and the dangers we faced while coming into the
computer age. The government had these marvelous machines and the
internet by which they communicated for decades before the public was
given access from these ancient Commodore 64's, Amigas, and Atari home
computers via phone line, back in the late 1970's.

While this work is entertaining, it also bears a valid warning, even
today.

Broderick and Ally Sheedy both were 21, playing 17 year olds,
competently.

It rates a 7.6/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
In Seattle, the teenager David (Matthew Broderick) is a lazy but bright
student that prefers to hack and change his grades in the high-school
computer than study. One day, David's best friend Jennifer (Ally
Sheedy) is with him and he decides to hack the toy company Protovision
seeking new games and he accidentally connects the War Operation Plan
Response system in a computer located at the North American Aerospace
(NORAD) at Birmingham using the password Joshua that was the name of
the son of its creator, the deceased scientist Stephen Falken (John
Wood). 

David challenges the computer to play a Global Thermonuclear War game
between USA and the Soviet Union. Sooner he realizes that the computer
is playing for real and the United States of America is changing its
condition to DEFCON 1 in a game with no winners. 

"Wargames" is one of my favorite films of the 80's and despite the Cold
War, it is nostalgic to watch again a period with little violence in
the world and how life was easier, flying in a plane is just as one
good example that we can see in this film. Hollywood still was able to
make good movies based on great original stories. Matthew Broderick was
an amazing promising actor with "Ladyhawke" and "Ferris Bueller's Day
Off" and the hacker David is ahead of time. Ally Sheedy shows her
charm, lovely smile and a great chemistry with Broderick. 

"Wargame" has a witty and funny story with a magnificent message in
times of Cold War that is highlighted in the very end: "The Only
Winning Move (in a nuclear war) Is not to Play". Fortunately most of
the Powers that Be of the world has finally understood this message
with the end of the Cold War. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Jogos de Guerra" ("War Games")
<|_=00=_|>

I enjoyed this movie quite a bit. Matthew Broderick is the teenager computer
nerd who hacks into a military database through a "back door" and starts to
unintentionally play games--which are, quite surprisingly, not games after
all. He's really controlling the military! With WWIII nearing, the movie
takes some twists and turns and it's all good fun.

Broderick is well-cast and this is probably one of the roles, along with
Ferris Bueller, that stereotyped him as a continual teenager--which makes it
hard for him to get adult roles nowadays. (He's in the upcoming remake of
"The Producers"--yay!)

Ally Sheedy and Dabney Coleman both have supporting roles.

I thoroughly enjoyed this film and rate it a solid "4" of five
stars.

Trivia note: Sheedy and Broderick both appeared in separate movies by John
Hughes: "Ferris Bueller's Day Off" and "The Breakfast Club."
<|_=00=_|>
WarGames is a film which in some ways seems hopelessly dated and in
other ways seems to have been way ahead of its time. There's the Cold
War angle, the United States and the Soviet Union gearing up for the
seemingly inevitable World War III and the nuclear holocaust that would
go along with it. It's a 1980s storyline which doesn't play as well all
these years later with the Soviet Union long having been consigned to
the dustbin of history. Nowadays the threat comes not from one
communist superpower but from...well, pretty much anywhere it seems.
But then again this movie, made in 1983, is at its heart really about a
computer hacker. Who, in 1983, even knew there was such a thing as a
computer hacker? Ahead of its time this movie is.

While certain aspects of the story may seem less relevant today there
is no denying that WarGames is an effective, entertaining thriller.
There may be some flaws in the movie's logic now and again, not
everything we see seems entirely plausible. But the movie works. The
story centers around Seattle high school student David Lightman, who is
not doing particularly well in school. But it's not because he isn't
bright, he certainly is. He just seems unmotivated and perhaps
distracted by his obsession with computers. That obsession plays itself
out as he attempts to hack into a video game manufacturer's
computer...and instead unknowingly hacks into a Defense Department
computer. In playing the "games" on that computer he almost starts
World War III. Whoops.

Matthew Broderick plays David and his performance is excellent as he
portrays a young teen who finds himself caught up in a situation behind
his imagination. Ally Sheedy plays his friend Jennifer, a character who
seems a tad bit underdeveloped. It often seems that Jennifer's just
along for the ride rather than having any real purpose in the plot. But
Sheedy does well with what she has to work with. Our young hero and
heroine are very much the focus of the story, at times to detrimental
effect. All the adults in the story seem rather one-dimensional. Some
of them have very important roles to play in the story yet we never
know much of anything about them. Besides David and Jennifer there's
really only one other character for whom there is any kind of character
development going on and that character doesn't even show up until
rather late in the proceedings. But this is a movie which will
definitely hold your attention. It's a tense, taut thriller which also
has some heart to it. And it often looks spectacular, most notably in
the scenes which take place inside the NORAD war room, a movie set
which was stunningly impressive for its time and actually would still
be stunningly impressive today. All in all WarGames is a well-made,
suspenseful, enjoyable film. It has its flaws but it is still a film
well worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
It was with much interest to me to revisit this early 80s hacker piece
armed with the knowledge of just how the advent of change in the
computer world had evolved. With that in mind the film could quite
easily be classed as a bit clunky due to the now almost Neanderthal
toys, games and computers used in the movie, but casting aside the
nostalgia feelings I had with it, it still hits the spot as both a
poignant piece of interest, and a dam good thriller as well.

Matthew Broderick is David Lightman, a young computer gamer geek who is
something of a whizz kid on the PC. He can change his school grades and
hack into various sites he shouldn't be even looking at. During one
eventful sitting he hacks into a computer called Joshua and plays a
game called Global Thermonuclear War, he harmlessly chooses to be The
Soviet Union and proceeds to launch a nuclear attack on his own
country, the U.S.A. Trouble is is that the game is for real and the
wheels are in motion for World War III!.

It helps to remember the time this film was made {for those old enough
of course}, for it was the time of the ever worrying cloud of the Cold
War, a time when nuclear war was more than a hearsay threat. I really
think that in this day and age where computers literally do run our
lives, this film stands up really well not only as a warning piece
about messing with technology, but also as a gentle poke in the ribs
about defence systems and the people we trust to run them. Tho the film
is a kind of watered down and accessible 2001: A Space Odyssey for the
80s set, it impacts well and only really suffers from a pointless
romantic plot strand involving the sprightly Ally Sheedy (could they
not just have been pals?) and the aforementioned dated gadgets. The
ending to the film is excellent as the tension builds up nicely and we
are left chewing our nails watching a game of Tic-Tac-Toe, sounds
simple doesn't it? Not so.

Good honest and intelligent entertainment. 7.5/10.
