
This film is a taut thriller and has a very good pairing of Kevin
Costner and Gene Hackman in a story of a cover-up and murder. Sean
Young is the tragic figure who falls for Costner and sets in motion the
wheels that make this picture one of the best of its type. Plot twists
and suspense are highlighted by great acting, and as the cover-up
unravels, Costner finds himself in increasing danger in the halls of
the Pentagon. Will Patton and George Dzunda are solid in support of the
leads although Patton is a bit over the top as Hackman's attack dog.
This fine film is marred by an ending that doesn't connect with the
film's plot or pulse and gives the picture an awkward, unsatisfying
conclusion. Costner is the hero but it is Hackman who makes this
picture as good as it is.
<|_=00=_|>

"No Way Out" is one of the most original, suspenseful, tightly-knit
thrillers ever made, comparable to John Frankenheimer's "Seven Days in May".
Set in the Cold War era, Gene Hackman plays the Secretary of Defense, a
married man obsessed with his mistress, the exquisitely beautiful Sean
Young...as is her other secret lover, Costner, a Naval Admiral who is the
C.I.A.'s Liaison.   When Hackman accidentally kills Young in a jealous rage,
a cover-up begins to find the notorious, never-seen Russian mole "Yuri" who
works within the Pentagon, and to frame him for the murder.  Costner is
commanded to oversee the operation, and the action begins...and is sustained
with the intensity of a race on the Autobahn.  The amazing all-star cast
also features Will Patton, George Dzunda, Iman and David Paymer.  Costner
delivers what is perhaps his most subtle performance.  What distinguishes
"No Way Out" is its brilliant plotting, tautness, and constant
surprises...with the ending being the most deliriously mind-blowing surprise
of all.

<|_=00=_|>
There are only a fistful movies I gave 9 points. This is one them.
After watching it I immediately had an itch to watch a sequel
(regrettably impossible due to the story line). Didn't actually want it
to stop and was sad that it ended. (True for just a few other movies,
like for example Dr. Zhivago or 12 Monkeys) When I checked the IMDb -
rating composition to find out why this movie is so grotesquely
underrated, I asserted that the IMDb Staff gave 8 points, anyway.
(Phew!) One of the very few US-thrillers, the end of which I wasn't
able to predict. Gene Hackman and Kevin Costner are habitually
brilliant, Will Patton deserves an Oscar as the best supporting actor
in my book.
<|_=00=_|>

Kevin Costner stars in this stylish remake of THE BIG CLOCK, a 1948 film
noir that starred Ray Milland and Charles Laughton. The setting has been
changed from a publishing house to the Pentagon and the time period updated.
Some extra plot twists have been added and it all adds up to riveting
entertainment after a slow start.

Costner romances Sean Young after a brief flirtation and then discovers she
is the mistress of the U.S. Secretary of Defense (Gene Hackman). In a fit of
jealousy, Hackman accidentally kills Young and then must concoct a plot to
keep his identity as her lover a secret. He assigns Costner to lead the
investigation and this leads to a suspenseful turn of events that has
Costner caught in a net from which he has a hard time escaping. A series of
suspenseful chases take place with some excellent camerawork following the
chase by car and on foot. 

Only weakness here is the rather contrived ending which seems to have been
added on for a final twist that is never quite convincing.

Kevin Costner, looking spiffy in his smart Navy white uniform, does an
excellent job as a desperate man realizing he must keep his own affair with
the victim a secret. Gene Hackman is excellent too but it is Will Patton as
his loyal henchman and protector who gives the film's most penetrating
performance, especially when his diabolical nature is revealed.

The first twenty-five minutes are much too slow in getting the story off the
ground but once it does you'll want to stay tuned until the final
denouement. One of the best thrillers produced in the '80s.
<|_=00=_|>

	No Way Out is a suspense movie set during the cold war.  Political intrigue
within the US government is the focus of the film.  The politically powerful
Brice accidentally kills his mistress.  Things get out of hand and he
decides to frame her other lover as a spy.  He knows that she is seeing
someone else but has no idea who.  Farrel, her other lover, is the man
assigned to her case.  He realizes that the investigation will eventually
expose him, and when the investigators begin using a computer to restore a
partially developed polaroid of Farrel found in the dead girlÕs things he
has a good idea of how much time he has.  There are some tense moments as
Farrel trys to expose Brice before he is caught.  Also there are a string of
neat twists at the end, which succeed in not being corny.

	This is worth your time.  I definitely recommend it for fans of military
suspense or cold war movies.
<|_=00=_|>
In Washington, the Defense Secretary David Brice (Gene Hackman) has a
political dispute with Senator William 'Billy' Duvall (Howard Duff)
about the project of a submarine. He asks his adviser Scott Pritchard
(Will Patton) to invite the Navy Lieutenant Commander Tom Farrell
(Kevin Costner), who has become a national hero after rescuing a sailor
during a storm, to join his team. Farrell meets Susan Atwell (Sean
Young) in a party and they have a torrid love affair. Farrell learns
that Susan is Brice's mistress but he falls in love with her. They
spend a weekend together and when they return to Susan's apartment,
Brice rings the bell. The upset Farrell leaves the apartment and sees
Brice waiting for Susan. Brice has an argument with Susan and pushes
her from the balcony. She falls on a glass table and dies. Brice panics
and reports the accident to Pritchard. However, the Machiavellian chief
of staff accuses the imaginary Soviet mole Yuri of murdering Susan.
Farrell is assigned to lead the investigations to find the identity of
Yuri, and gets in serious situation with the presence of witnesses of
his weekend with Susan and the regeneration of a Polaroid photo that
was found in Susan's apartment. 

"No Way Out" is an excellent thriller of the 80's even when you see it
for the fourth time. The impact of course is reduced, since the plot
has one of the most unexpected conclusions, with a twist in the very
end that was the motive of several discussions with friends, but it is
still a great film. This is one of the best roles of Kevin Costner and
Sean Young is incredibly beautiful and sensual. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Sem Saída" ("No Way Out")
<|_=00=_|>
Having lived around the outskirts of Washington, D.C. myself, it's
always a nice treat to watch a film that literally takes place right
where I have stood, at one time or another. It's just very fun to know
that a famous movie was shot where you once walked. (Although I now
regret visiting the set of "101 Dalmations" in London--that's one story
I don't often tell people with a smile on my face.)

At the beginning of "No Way Out," we get to see Washington from above
as the camera glides through the air, swerving and going around in
circles, until we land inside a small interrogation room housing a
convicted murderer (Kevin Costner), who is in fact innocent and has
been framed. "When's he coming out?" he asks as he walks over to a
one-way mirror and looks through the glass. Right as we start to think,
"Whom is he talking to?" (Or "Does he mean Hackman?" if you've read
anything about the film), we fall backwards in time and land in the
same place some number of months earlier.

"No Way Out" is a government thriller about an officer wrongly accused
of murder--when the Secretary of State himself is the culprit trying to
avoid a scandal by launching a top-secret cover-up. Costner is the
officer, and Gene Hackman is the Secretary of State. After meeting a
beautiful young woman (Sean Young) at a party, Costner takes her into a
limo and they have a quickie--before they even know each other's names. 

What's this got to do with anything? Why is my review so choppy and
linear-challenged? We'll get there.

The relationship between the two turns into a big romance until Costner
is sent out to sea, where he saves a sailor from falling overboard and
is praised in all the papers--where his girlfriend back home sees his
face and is reminded of him. (Now she's the mistress of Hackman, by the
way--that complicates matters quite a bit.)

When he arrives back home, they go on a romantic getaway--but Hackman
finds out and accidentally murders the girl while trying to get her to
tell him the name of her lover. Ready to turn himself in, Hackman is
persuaded by his gay friend to cover everything up and blame someone
else. The gay man even goes and gets rid of the evidence himself--with
pride, I might add. (It's like Mr. Burns and Smithers from "The
Simpsons"--the latter loves the former, but the former is too powerful
and naive to ever notice.)

The clever twist in "No Way Out" is that Costner knows Hackman killed
Young, but Hackman doesn't know that he knows that. (Get it?) As he
runs around the Pentagon and other government establishments, the
evidence starts to pile up against him--the negative off the back of a
Polaroid camera, a few eyewitnesses who claim they saw a man outside
Young's apartment the night of her murder, etc.

The great thing about "No Way Out," and another factor that separates
it from the rest of its kind, is something that's hard to explain to
someone who hasn't seen the film. Essentially, no one knows who killed
the girl--and Costner isn't placed under arrest straight away because
no one has uncovered any evidence pointing towards him. As the negative
off the back of the Polaroid is scanned through a computer and
painstakingly altered to reveal the man's face on the photo, Costner
runs around trying to eliminate evidence before anyone finds out. The
photo will eventually reveal his own face, yes, but he has a number of
hours until then to find the true evidence that convicts Hackman.

This is a smart thriller with a few pleasant twists, particularly the
very end. It's not a great movie by any means, but it's well-acted and
solidly directed by Roger Donaldson, who also made last year's "The
Recruit" with Al Pacino and Colin Farrell. The guy obviously likes
government thrillers. This one is a lot more plausible than "The
Recruit," too.

4/5 stars.

- John Ulmer
<|_=00=_|>
I remember being in the theater with my friend, and she turned to me
and said about Costner "He is just so good in this film" and I replied
"He will be somebody someday." This was that kind of film. You felt the
performances in your bones.

The film had that type of chemistry between all the major players. The
plot would just seem like it was going to lag and then you get twisted
around again. Three years later I went out and bought the script with a
month's worth of money from my first job. I still have that script on
my bookshelf. I also have had a copy of this film in my collection for
the last 10 years.

Sean Young was still at her peak and the limousine scene is
unforgettable. It is also proof that you can add sex in a movie without
making the audience think they will be taking time away from the theme
and plot of the movie. Will Patton of Remember the Titans was also
starting his movie career and played his character of a "protect the
Director at any cost" to a "T". Gene Hackman was Brice in this movie.

George Dzundza as the loyal friend, Iman as the South African caught in
the middle of her friend's indiscretion and Chris D. as one of the
"Contras" helped round out the supporting cast.

Roger Donaldson's direction really helped you feel the tense pace and
the closed in feelings in the Pentagon.

I gave this film a 9 because it may be seen as outdated due to some
cold war references.
<|_=00=_|>

Tom Farrell is offered a job within the Defence department under Brice,
the
secretary of defence.  When the two begin seeing the same woman, Farrell
is
forced to do so quietly so that Brice doesn't know.  When Brice finds that
Susan is seeing another woman he accidentally kills her.  In order to
cover
up Brice's involvement, his aide Pritchard engineers a theory that the
"other man" in Susan's life was the one that killed her and that he is a
legendary Russian spy.  In order to keep control of the investigation,
Farrell is put in charge of the investigation and is faced with clues that
he knows will eventually lead to him.  With the set-up closing in on him
he
must race against time to find a way out.

This is a remake of The Big Clock, with a modern political set-up.  The
story is well set-up with only some misgivings in the first 30 minutes
where
the roots for the story are developed.  Once the real story starts it is
very good and it moves with a real thrilling pace, building to two endings
one very powerful and with a feeling of being trapped, and the second
being
a clever if not totally convincing twist.  The feeling of being trapped
and
closed in on is very palatable and is very well conveyed for most of the
film.

Costner is excellent here (a long time before his bubble burst) and
Hackman
brings his usual class.  The standout role is Patton's smarmy, spin doctor
homosexual Pritchard, he is truly excellent and manages to bring a sense
of
menace to a quite feminine role.

Overall an excellent thriller that is slow to start and has a low-key
ending.  The only problems are the slightly stretched plot and some of the
action being unexplained (why do the covert-ops guys keep chasing Costner?
I
understood why for one of the chases but other ones just seem to happen
for
no reason).  But 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I've just hauled this off the shelf and watched it for the umpteenth
time. Flawed though it is, I love it. The controversy amid reviewers is
surprising to me; but perhaps I don't watch sufficient "thrillers" to
have a list of expectations--which several folks seem to have found
unfulfilled. 

Spoilers: "No Way Out" is composed of one surprise after another...a
series of surprises, if you will. From learning that Tom and Susan's
original meeting was contrived by others to the shock of her murder, to
the reappearance of the forgotten Polaroid negative, to the murder of
the IT man and the final scene, with its suspense-filled last scene,
I--as a repeat viewer--was constantly aware of Tom's reaction to every
incident in the light of what the ending revealed to us....as well as
what it did not. The last line, "let him go. He'll be back. He has
nowhere else to go" is so poignant.

This is very early Costner. The work of a business administration major
who suddenly decided he wanted to act. The subtleties in what I
understand was only his second performance are astonishing. If you
didn't like it, forget it. but if you did, I strongly recommend
watching it at least three times.
