

"Die Hard" is the prototype type for the modern action film.  Since it's
also one of the best action films ever made, that happens to be a very
good
thing.  "Die Hard" is lean, mean, and doesn't contain a single second of
wasted screen time. The direction, the action, the story, the acting . . .
every aspect of this film comes close to big-budget action movie
perfection.
Since "Die Hard" was first released in 1988, it's difficult to think of a
blockbuster action film that doesn't follow the basic structure and format
of "Die Hard" . . . or, for that matter, is better than "Die Hard".

"Die Hard" is about John McClane (Bruce Willis, in one of his all-time
best
film performances), a basically good, honest New York cop with a penchant
for annoying authority figures.   Traveling to Los Angeles in a last ditch
attempt to patch things up with his estranged wife Holly (Bonnie Bedelia),
John McClane suddenly finds himself involved in a hostage situation.
Terrorists, led by the enigmatic Hans Gruber (Alan Rickman), have taken
over
the office building in which Holly is working, and with Gruber holding the
upper hand over the LAPD and FBI forces in Los Angeles, it's up to John
McClane to save the day . . . .

Kudos should be given to both director John McTiernan and screenwriters
Jeb
Stuart and Steven DeSouza -- the film is tight, electrifying, and clever,
which is something few action films can ever claim.  The story isn't
completely believable, but it's believable enough, and it manages to move
along at a quick enough pace to where the most glaring plotholes can
easily
be glossed over.  There's also enough twists and wrinkles thrown into the
story to keep the audience guessing as to what's going to happen next . .
.
and the surprises don't come out of left field, but are actually clever
and
well thought-out.  (The fact that McClane often relies on his brains
instead
of his bullets to get out of his predicaments is also a big plus.) Simply
put, "Die Hard" is one of the smartest and savviest action screenplays
ever
written.  McTiernan holds up his end of the film admirably as well -- he
uses the claustrophobic nature of the office building to great effect
(particularly in any scene involving an elevator shaft), and he keeps the
film rolling at a rollercoaster pace, building up the anticipation of the
audience before unleashing the action.  A lot of recent action films just
fly along at a mindless, breakneck pace, without ever allowing the story
to
breathe or the suspense to build . . . unlike those films, "Die Hard"
knows
how to maximize the impact of each and every scene, and that's why it
stands
out so clearly from them all.  With "Die Hard", John McTiernan puts on a
perfect clinic as to how to pace an action movie.

As for the acting, it's darn near close to perfect.  Bruce Willis is
awesome
as John McClane.  As played by Willis, McClane's a smartass with a
distinct
disdain for being given orders . . . but McClane's also clever, and knows
how to keep cool under pressure.  There's more to McClane than the
stereotypical tough guy hero.  Fortunately, the role was given to Bruce
Willis, who infuses McClane with the perfect mix of cocky arrogance and
stone-cold heroism.  The fact that Willis plays McClane as a man often in
disbelief of his own situation, and who struggles in his fight against bad
guys instead of just killing bad guys with ease, like most stereotypical
action heroes -- well, not only does it make the character much more
believable, it's darn brilliant.  (The fact that Willis also knows how to
deliver a deadpan one-liner better than anybody else in Hollywood makes
the
character all the better.)  There's only a handful of movies where both
character and actor are a completely perfect match; Bruce Willis as John
McClane is one such perfect match.

Also worthy of mention is Alan Rickman's performance as the villain Hans
Gruber.  The Machiavellian Gruber would've been an easy villain to turn
into
little more than a scenery-chewing Bond villain . . . fortunately, Rickman
doesn't travel the easy route.  Gruber, as played by Rickman, is cold and
calculating, and actually acts smart, instead of merely claiming to be
smart
and then being thoroughly outwitted by the hero.  He always appears to
have
an ace hidden up his sleeve, and is so convincing at giving this
impression,
it's hard to tell throughout the film whether he or McClane truly have the
upper hand.  Other actors probably could've played Gruber fairly well, but
Rickman makes Gruber one of the all-time great villains.  As for the rest
of
the cast, they're all pretty good.  Bonnie Bedelia does a nice job as
John's
soon-to-be-ex-wife Holly -- she plays her with enough smarts and
feistiness
to break the usual "damsel in distress" mold.  It's also worth mentioning
that Paul Gleason, who plays the obstinate police chief Robinson, pretty
much sets up the modern action movie stereotype of the authority figure
who
refuses to heed the advice of the maverick hero.  The character is stupid
to
a fault, and he's wonderful because of it.

"Die Hard" is a terrific example of what happens when all the pieces of a
film fall together perfectly.  There simply are no weak spots or dull
moments in the film.  Is "Die Hard" one of the best overall movies ever
made?  Probably not.  But it's undeniably one of the best action movies
ever
made, and it just might well be the perfect modern action film.  Grade:
A

<|_=00=_|>
One could claim that 1988's "Die Hard" is one of the most influential
action movies ever made because it basically revolutionized one of the
most copied (but never matched, at least in terms of quality) formulas:
a loner, by some unique twist of fate, battles it out with an "x"
number of terrorists in an enclosed environment.

By the time that "Die Hard" was released, the action movies were most
often dominated by the likes of Arnold Schwarzenegger, Sylvester
Stallone, and Chuck Norris. Star Bruce Willis, whose only notable
credits at the time were television's "Moonlighting" and 1987's "Blind
Date," which was released the year before, was the unlikeliest of them
all.

Willis was a wild card - an unlikely choice for the role of our hero
"John McClane" - since he didn't have any action credits on his resume'
and let's face it: Bruce Willis just didn't have the bulging biceps
required for a role like this. But that's the beauty of his performance
in this movie: he's an everyday guy, caught in a not-so-everyday
situation.

On Christmas, McClane's estranged wife Holly (Bonnie Bedelia) invites
him from New York all the way out to Los Angeles to spend the holidays
with the family. But it requires him to make a stop at the Nakatomi
offices, which is having an after-hours Christmas party. Riding for the
first time in a limo, he's introduced to the suave driver, Argyle
(De'voreaux White), who gives him some pretty useful advice on trying
to win over the wife.

At Nakatomi, things of course get off to a rough start for McClane, as
he gets into an argument with the wife and is left to wallow in his
misery. However, those problems are about to take a backseat to the
real "party" - twelve terrorists, led by Hans Gruber (all-purpose bad
guy Alan Rickman, perfectly cast) - seize control of the building and
proceed to rob the Nakatomi building of its assets, most of which
include negotiable bonds and other valuables. But they didn't count on
the "fly in the ointment" (pain in the a**) to make things hell for
these so-called party crashers.

Certainly one of the best known action movies ever, "Die Hard" did
receive the scorn of critics upon its 1988 summer release, but the
audiences sung a completely different tune.

The film was most often praised for the production, with the brand-new
Fox Plaza office tower serving as the fictional Nakatomi building. It
was also praised for the energetic and skillful direction of John
McTiernan, whose most notable credit was the action-sci-fi thriller
"Predator," which was released the year before and starred Arnold
Schwarzenegger.

Bruce Willis was the perfect actor for this performance, since he
brings the wit and vulnerability to a role like this one. If Stallone
or Schwarzenegger were in this movie, I'm sure the effect would have
been a lot different.

Personally, I think "Die Hard" is one of the greatest action movies
ever, up there close to my favorite action movie of all time, "Raiders
of the Lost Ark." Like Indiana Jones in that film, "Die Hard" had an
Everyman cast in the role; McClane, like Indiana Jones, wasn't a
larger-than-life musclebound grotesque: he was a real guy that you
cared about, who got hurt, and had real feelings.

That's why I think both of these movies have sort of stood the test of
time as becoming what they are best known for today: action classics,
and they're here to stay, ladies and gentlemen.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Seeing 'Die Hard' for the first time as a teenager was a one-of-a-kind
experience. This level of raw, "edge-of-your-seat" action was unknown
to me prior to this film; it made my head spin and the intensity of it
was nearly unbearable. When it was over, I could only think of one
word: Wow!

For a long time - at least in western cinema - the only "true" action
movies (by that I mean films that were all about the action and you
went to see them because of the action) were the 'James Bond' movies.
They had the most unreal stunts and crazy, over the top action
sequences that you could imagine at the time, and they were (and still
are) great fun. However, they usually lacked three vital ingredients:

1. A sense of realism (meaning: the hero is only human and can get
hurt)

2. Grit (messy, unpolished action, dirty people and LOTS of swearing)

3. R-rated violence (showing the audience what real weapons do to the
human body)

Well, it took John McTiernan to bring those three key elements together
in 'Die Hard' - and thus the modern action film was born (it had a good
run through the late eighties until the end of the nineties – then the
studios figured out they could maximise the box-office by taming down
the swearing, violence and sex and thus, alas, the contemporary,
toothless PG-13 action film was born). Sure, there have been a couple
of others before McTiernan's masterpiece ('First Blood', 'Terminator',
'Predator' - which was also by McTiernan - or 'Lethal Weapon' and
probably some more), but those films could have fallen into any number
of other categories as well ('Adventure-/Survival-/War-', 'Sci- Fi',
'Horror-' or 'Buddy-movie') – and I can't think of another film that
was just such a relentless, pure-action-from-the-beginning-to-the-end
film as was 'Die Hard'. To me, it's the ultimate thrill ride. The
formula has since been repeated so many times, but the original still
sets the standard by which I judge an action film. Should be seen every
Christmas. 10 stars out of 10.

Favorite Films: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054200841/

Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/

Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/
<|_=00=_|>

Quite possibly the best modern action movie since the classic "Dirty
Harry",
"Die Hard" simply rocks. Based on the interesting novel "Nothing Lasts
Forever" by Roderick Thorp, "Die Hard" made headlines for its combination
of
a terrific cast, excellent script, amazing action sequences and superb
direction.  Headed up by screen favorite Bruce Willis (The Sixth Sense),
"Die Hard" also features the talented Alan Rickman (Galaxy Quest) and
Bonnie
Bedelia (Needful Things).  Directed by action veteran John McTiernan, the
mastermind behind such action spectaculars as "Predator", "The Hunt For Red
October", "The Thomas Crown Affair" (1999), and "Die Hard With A
Vengeance".

In the role that shot him to stardom, Willis plays Detective John McClane,
a
hard-hitting cop from New York on Christmas Vacation in LA.  He is there to
visit his wife (whom he is separated from), Holly Gennaro, who recently got
a great job working for the Nakatomi corporation and has permanently moved
to Los Angeles with their two children.  John arrives at Nakatomi Plaza
expecting a fun Christmas party and a relaxing night.  Man was he wrong!  A
few minutes after getting settled, twelve gun-toting Eastern Europeans take
the entire 30th floor hostage.  The supposed terrorists are headed up by
the
brilliant megalomaniac Hans Gruber (Rickman), who actually wants the $640
million dollars inside the floor's vault.  Somehow, McClane escapes
upstairs
armed only with a handgun and starts causing a ruckus, slowly hunting down
each well-equipped thug.

"Die Hard" succeeds is because it presents every challenge McClane has to
face realistically and clearly.  As the tension mounts, the ordeals for
John
become increasingly harder.  First, it's just a terrorist.  Then a whole
slew of them.  Later, it's the NYPD and even the FBI!  Director McTiernan
gives the film a good pace and makes the film work by showing that John
isn't superhuman; he only uses his brain more than his gun.  Also,
screenwriters Jeb Stuart (The Fugitive) & Steven E. De Souza (48 Hrs.) add
touches of humor that lighten up the viewer and classic one-liners
("Yippy-Ki-Yay, !@#$") that ignite the screen.  Their subplots actually add
to the story instead of overcomplicating it, especially one featuring good
cop Sgt. Al Powell (Rejinald VelJohnson of TV's "Family
Matters").

Overall, this movie was awesome.  Willis is very believable and has
significant screen presence.  Character development is superb, and even
though Stuart and De Souza leave some loose ends untied - like how  a man
gets hung with a chain and still comes back for more - the film remains to
be an action classic.  Note to Parents: the nudity, drug use, continual
profanity, and extreme violence would make this a bad choice for kids under
13.  Otherwise, see "Die Hard" ASAP!
Overall Rating:   *** Worth 9 out of 10 dollars ***
<|_=00=_|>
In the Sixties, author Roderick Thorp wrote a novel, The Detective,
which was turned into a movie, starring Frank Sinatra in the title role
of Joe Leland. A sequel was written, in which Joe becomes trapped in
the Claxxon Oil Corporation skyscraper after it is taken over by German
terrorists and he has to rescue his daughter and grandchildren. Two
decades later, the skyscraper becomes Nakatomi, the daughter becomes
the wife, Leland becomes John McClane and the title becomes Die Hard.

To say that Die Hard sets new standards for action movies is like
calling Bill Gates well off. The movie was so innovative and
groundbreaking that dozens of rip-offs followed - Passenger 57, Under
Siege, Cliffhanger, Sudden Death, et al. Hostage/terrorist movies were
all the rage in the early Nineties.

Very few came close, because Die Hard had so many strong points, not
least of which was Alan Rickman's marvellous performance, as Hans
Gruber - also the name of the villain in Our Man Flint - the
classically educated, smartly dressed terrorist leader. This is not
some hammy guy in a chain-mail shirt with spikes on his gloves
(Commando). Gruber would have been well at home on Wall Street.

His plan is to break into the vault on the 30th floor of the Nakatomi
Plaza and take away $640million in negotiable bearer bonds. When he and
his 12 European henchmen round up the office workers, who are enjoying
a Christmas Eve party, one man slips away unnoticed. He is John
McClane, a New York cop who has come to LA to settle down with his
estranged wife, Holly (Bonnie Bedelia). The odds are against him. But
that's just the way he likes it.

The terrorists even have names. And we remember them. Most action
movies these days have unidentified heavies, played by stunt men, who
are lined up and knocked over.

In his battle to save his Holly, McClane is scorched, torched, beaten
and blown up. He jumps off the roof and falls through air ducts. He
uncovers deception and double-cross and picks broken glass out of his
bare feet. No help comes from the naive and incompetent police, who are
unable to get inside, and even less from the FBI.

McClane is not a supercop. He is an ordinary guy, who doesn't want a
fight. When he is shot, he bleeds. He hurts. All he has are his pants,
his vest, his gun - which runs out of ammo. This is the first realistic
connection the audience has. When you don't want to be in McClane's
position, it makes for much excitement.

John McTiernan, who's only previous mainstream movie was Predator, uses
awesome photography and technical skills to give the film a truly
polished and sophisticated look - it was nominated for four technical
Academy Awards. He also allows for enough time for decent character
development, most of which comes between McClane and a cop (Reginald
Veljohnson) he makes friends with on a CB radio.

Die Hard manages to be heart-pounding and teeth-gritting every single
time. And if you are one of those many people who have only ever been
able to watch it on TV then now is definitely the time to rediscover a
cool, classic and creative action picture.
<|_=00=_|>
So many things made this movie great.

This movie made Bruce Willis immortal. He soaks up this character so
well, it was him. The wise cracking cop who is entertaining because he
is sarcastically funny not uttering stupid catch phrases. He is a cop
who looks like a normal guy, middle age, loosing some hair with wife
problems. (no faked up pretty face with shaved chest and oiled
muscles). He is cool without pretending to be cool. He manages to
thwart the bad guys while barefoot, man that is a great twist.

The plot is great because it does not fall perfectly in line for the
hero. He stumbles, gets stuck and survives only by last minute
thinking. It has plenty of action without getting ridiculous.

And the bad guys are great, smart sinister and well acted.

It is one of those movies that could play every weekend and would still
be watched. Is one of those top 10 movies every guy should own.

Die hard 2 was OK but not as good as the original, I wish they would
have stopped after 2. Die Hard 3 is poor.
<|_=00=_|>

Every so often,a film comes along that resets the standard for
it's
genre.Die Hard did just that very thing for action films.Any film
that
inspires copycats and wannabes really does it's job well.Bruce
Willis
made a very successful transition from the small screen to the big screen as
the everyday Joe forced into being the hero.This film has
all
the necessary ingredients to qualify it as a great action film.All
you
have to do is see it for yourself.Particularly well done is the performance
of Alan Rickman as the chief villain,Hans Gruber.You can come up with good
arguments for many action films as to which is the
best all time,and this one is no exception.Well done.
<|_=00=_|>

Bruce Willis gives a amazing performance in perhaps one of the best movies
of the 1980s. This is an action/adventure movie for the ages. There are a
lot of great scenes, including the scene where Bruce Willis leaps off the
rooftop and crashes trough the window. I never thought it would be so good
when I first saw it, but I was wrong. Don't miss one of Willis' best films
of all time.
<|_=00=_|>

Prepare yourselves for one of the most action packed thrill rides starring
one of the best action stars in Hollywood. Bruce Willis is stirring up
trouble for the bad guys in "Die Hard." In the first of three awesome
films,
he stars as Lt. John McClane, a New York police officer, who has been
invited to the wrong Christmas party.

This is an action film for future actors and directors to watch and use as
a
model because it describes what an action film should contain. I have seen
many action films in my life, but this ranks at the top of my list because
it has all the right components. Action packed sequences, explosions,
special effects and most of all superb performances with excellent
dialogue.

"Die Hard" is a movie I will not soon forget because the story is so well
crafted. Though there are no twists or curves thrown at the audience, the
audience can be assured they will be treated to two hours of non-stop
action
from beginning to end.

"Die Hard" did not only produce great action and explosions but future
stars
as well. I am talking about Clarence Gilyard Jr. who now stars in Walker,
Texas Ranger and Reginald VelJohnson who starred in the series Family
Matters. These two actors were pivotal to this film in their respective
roles.

Two other names to keep in mind while thinking of key performers are
Bonnie
Bedelia and Alan Rickman. I was blown away when I saw the impact they had
on
this film. It is as if they came in and said 'Okay boys, watch out I'm
taking over." They certainly did that; however, nobody could have done
better than the impact performer himself Bruce Willis.

On a scale of 1-10; "Die Hard" is given a 100 by yours truly. My only
regret
would be that the movie ended. I wish there was more to see in this film.
I
CAN'T WAIT TO SEE "DIE HARD" AGAIN.


<|_=00=_|>
This movie is one action-packed ride. Bruce Willis (John McClane) is a
New York cop coming to see his wife who has moved to L.A. with their
children, hoping for a relaxing Xmas vacation. Instead, he gets a bunch
of bad guys who have taken over the Nakatomi building which he and his
wife are located in. He hides out, and takes out the bad guys one by
one, all while trying to get police attention from the outside world.
This movie is tense and full of action. Bruce Willis and Alan Rickman
put in outstanding performances. Willis manages to kill all of the bad
guys and throw Rickman off the building. If you haven't seen it yet for
whatever reason, now is the time to do so.
