
In the wake of Halloween and Friday the 13th, many similar films were
released, most of which had little or no distinguishing features. One
of the most effective and atmospheric was My Bloody Valentine.

Shot in Canada and very infamous for it's brutal battle with the MPAA,
My Bloody Valentine is a surprising success, and a wonderful addition
to the slasher genre. The acting is good, which comes as quite a shock
for any slasher lover. The deaths, while obviously edited, are very
effective and intense, especially the laundry room sequence. The image
of the killer, dressed in a full miner's garb, smashing the lights
along an already dark mine shaft, while a group of victims try to
escape is terrifying.

The setting is quite interesting. Most Canadian films try to disguise
the fact that it's Canadian. Well, this movie doesn't, which makes it
very neat.

I'd say that it's lush photography, good acting, frightening set pieces
and killer, and brutal deaths make this is one of the most impressive
slashers of the 80's, maybe of all time.
<|_=00=_|>
My Bloody Valentine is one of the best and most well-made slasher
flicks of the 80's. It's also one of the better holiday themed horror
movies around!

A crazed miner is determined to stop the celebration of Valentine's day
in a small Nova Scotia town, with the help of a trusty pick ax that is. 

* minor (or miner, I'm not funny.) spoilers *

While the film doesn't re-invent the wheel for slasher movies, it still
manages to stand out well from the rest of it's kind. The climax in the
mine creates some great suspense in an atmospheric and claustrophobic
setting. The cast is quite likable and good, even though there's not a
known name in sight. And the gore hounds should enjoy the happenings,
cutting out hearts and pick ax murders, even a nasty death-by-dryer and
a face scalded in a boiling pot. It's still gory despite cuts made by
the MPAA. There's also the occasional touch of colorful dark humor.

The direction, while simple, is well done with some good shock cuts.
The music score is a nicely moody one, even beautiful in a way. Over
all, the film holds together well.

Seek it out slasher fans! This is one enjoyable cult film that is not
to be missed!

*** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>

Notorious for being the slasher film most tortured by the censors upon
release, MY BLOODY VALENTINE has become something of a cult classic with
legions of adoring fans. The only available version of this movie is missing
over 9 minutes of gore, but thankfully producer John Dunning has located all
of the absent footage and a battle rages on with copyright owners Paramount
for a fully restored release. The movie itself nestles nicely with
ROSEMARY'S KILLER as the two best non-franchise splatter flicks of 1981.

From the outset, we're introduced to the small mining town of Valentine
Bluffs, which hides beneath its fun loving exterior a best-forgotten secret.
Twenty years ago the supervisors at the mine were so eager to get to the
annual Valentine dance that they didn't bother to check the levels of the
methane gas. There was a massive explosion and five workers were trapped
underneath the rubble and debris. The only survivor was one Harry Warden,
who never mentally recovered from the accident. Exactly a year later he
returned and brutally killed the two who were responsible for the tragic
mishap. He cut out their hearts, stuck them in candy boxes and sent them to
the authorities. Fortunately he was caught before he carried out any more
killings and was put into Eastfield Asylum for the insane.
Now in 1981 the happy go lucky residents of the usually tranquil town are
preparing themselves for the first Valentine dance to be held since that
fateful night two decades ago. Memories of Warden's murders have passed and
a group of fun loving kids are thinking about nothing else but the
anticipated party. However the night before the event the town mayor
receives a blooded heart in a candy box with a poetic warning. It seems
Harry has returned…

MY BLOODY VALENTINE is certainly a fine example of eighties splatter at it's
best. Although the acting isn't remarkable, I found that the three leads
were competent enough and the script gave us enough time to get to know
them. There's an interesting sub-plot that builds between T.J. (Kelman),
Axel (Affleck) and Sarah (Hallier). Apparently T.J. was with Sarah before he
went away for a while without telling anyone where he was going. Now he's
returned and his buddy Axel is with his old flame. Cue the flying sparks!
The rest of the wacky cast members are so cheery and carefree that you just
know something dreadful is going to happen to them! There's a practical
joker (who surprisingly isn't the fat guy), a couple of overly randy teens
and even a hammy old guy who tells the kids that they're doomed just like
Ralph over at Camp Crystal Lake! 

Credit has to be given for the effort from all involved. The movie began
filming in September 1980, but the set designer took the time to make sure
that everything was decked out in hearts and banners and they made things
look like it actually was Valentine's Day. Mihalka makes good use of the
spooky mine as a setting and most of the murders are imaginative and well
thought out. In one scene a victim is trapped in a room where miner's
uniforms are dropping from rails and surrounding her. In panic she tries to
find a way out of the claustrophobic and threatening setting (all courtesy
of the killer), before bumping into a costume that actually has the murderer
in it!  If that isn't bad enough, he kills her in a most gruesome fashion!
His disguise is arguably one of the best of the eighties and the gas mask
sure helps make the traditional ‘heavy breathing' - sound much scarier.
There are also one or two jumps that'll probably get you if you haven't seen
this before and it's all accompanied with a satisfactory score from Paul
Zaza.  

The plot is actually pretty smart for a slasher film. I wont go into too
much detail because I can't say anything without spoiling it all for you,
but watch how they manage to keep you guessing toward the end. It's also
worth noting that James Mangold borrowed that classic body (or in his case,
head) in a tumble dryer scene for his part-slasher, IDENTITY in 2003. In
2001 George Mihalka went to Paramount with a script for MY BLOODY VALENTINE
2 but they turned him down because the original didn't do brilliantly at the
box office. Just proves how annoying they really are doesn't it! They've
already said that they'd have no interest in seeing the director's cut of
this movie released, even though fans around the world are begging for it.
Recently the company asked people to give them ten films that we want to see
unleashed and apparently one of those ten was MY BLOODY VALENTINE UNCUT; so
we'll just have to wait and see if they come round to our way of thinking.
Just imagine if they gave us the full works: The first four FRIDAY THE 13THs
and this movie all uncut on special edition discs with commentaries where
available and all the trimmings. If Raimi can do it for EVIL DEAD then
someone can do it for us! Come on Paramount, lighten up and get on the
case!

All in all this is a great little horror movie. It's smartly directed with a
likeable cast and a really tense finale. The only problem lies with the
shameful editing in the kill scenes where 9 minutes was savagely removed.
I'm beginning to think that old Harry Warden should take a trip to the
Paramount office, pickaxe in hand, to get revenge on these brutal
spoilsports. Still, a few niggles aside, this is a decent little movie from
Canada that deserves to be remembered, as one of the best of it's kind. And
that's a sure fire compliment!

<|_=00=_|>
More than just a guilty pleasure -- this one's actually good!

By the time 1981 had rolled around, the horror genre had gained much
momentum with holiday-themed slasher flicks such as "Halloween" and
"Friday The 13th." Never ones to shy away from a good cash-cow,
Paramount (the same company to bring you "Friday The 13th") hired
George Mihalka to direct the Valentine's Day themed "My Bloody
Valentine." Pre-dating much of the camp and excess of the 80's, "My
Bloody Valentine" is a pretty innocent film in it's own right, a
glimpse into a time before the genre was completely saturated with
masked killers and dumbed-down teenagers. It's simply a well-paced,
well-oiled little horror movie. It's got a surprising amount of
suspense, matched only by the outrageous and often over-the-top visual
effects which -- thanks to a newly restored print of the film on DVD --
have finally seen the light of day.

With his film, Mihalka injects a good dosage of suspense, as well as
some subtle stylishness. The grimy and grungy setting -- a dumpy mining
town in Canada -- gives the film an unmistakably realistic look and
feel, which only helps to drive home the authenticity. Sure, the film
has it's fair share of clichés; in fact, some of the dialogue and
plot-points appear to be ripped straight out of the original "Friday
The 13th." The story of a deranged killer returning home years later to
exact his revenge on a town is hardly re-inventing the wheel. But when
stacked up against it's competition, "My Bloody Valentine" holds it's
own. It's one of the few films from the much maligned (and yet,
enjoyable) era to actually hold up to today's standards (for the most
part). Truth be told, even if you are viewing the heavily edited
theatrical cut, the film works just as well without the heavy special
effects, which is a testament to the overall quality of a film that was
conceived, created and released in under half a year's time.

Sure, it's got it's flaws, but nothing fatal. If you can stomach bad
characters, even worse actors and a few clichés here and there, it's a
pretty satisfying experience. At the very least, it pre-dates a lot of
more successful films and has had a subtle influence on the genre as a
whole. Fans of the genre should be aware of it not just as a fun way to
kill time -- which it is -- but also as a perfect example of a slasher
done right. With a remake currently in theaters and a DVD that treats
the film right, "My Bloody Valentine" is finally having it's day in the
sun. Even if you've "seen it all," you'll still have a good time with
it.
<|_=00=_|>
I've enjoyed this low-budget flick since childhood. I like it so much
that I make sure to see it at least once every year in the month of
February. Though it suffers from a restricted budget, a cast of
unknowns, and a serious case of over-editing, this is still worth a
look for horror buffs.

The story centers around a crazed miner who returns to haunt a small
mining town in Canada twenty years after an accident on Valentine's Day
nearly killed him. It seems he and a few others were trapped in a coal
mine while the rest of the town was attending a big Valentine's Day
dance which had been a tradition for over 100 years. The town is called
Valentine Bluffs, for Pete's sake! Anyway, this miner known as "Harry
Warden" was buried in the mine for six weeks following an explosion
caused by the failure of two supervisors to check the methane gas
levels in the mine shaft. It seems the supervisors were a little too
anxious to get to that dance and forgot to make sure Harry and the
others were safely out. Harry Warden was the only survivor and
apparently had to feast on the dead bodies of the other miners until he
was rescued.

Needless to say after that ordeal, Harry had to be committed to a
mental hospital. But one year later, on Valentine's Day, Harry Warden
broke out of the looney bin and came back to Valentine Bluffs to seek
some revenge. He killed the two supervisors and stuffed their hearts in
heart-shaped candy boxes and left them at the dance with a warning
attached. Valentine Bluffs must never hold another Valentine's Day
dance again!!!! Now how about THAT for a set-up???? As our movie
begins, we find twenty years have passed, and the town is ready to hold
another big dance on Feb. 14th. Do you think Harry Warden would let
that happen? Certainly not! Corpses begin piling up and more
heart-stuffed candy boxes are sent to the police chief warning him to
cancel the dance. He does so, but a bunch of young miners still throw a
party: You guessed it- AT THE MINE!!!! That sets up a dramatic showdown
with the killer and his new crop of victims.

This film has a number of strengths. A man dressed in full mining gear
is in fact quite scary. The gas mask he wears also gives his breathing
a Darth Vader kind of effect. A pick ax is one hell of a weapon, too.
There are some very funny characters that make up this town. The mayor
and the police chief are so serious it's almost laughable. The young
men who work in the mine are a rowdy bunch who love to drink Moosehead
beer. It's my guess that Moosehead beer donated a good chunk of change
to this movie due to how much you see of their product. The bartender
at their local hangout is a real hoot, as well. He's pretty much the
crazy old man who warns the youngsters that they're doomed like the old
guy from the Friday the 13th movies.

Oh, and Lori Hallier who plays the lead female is an incredibly
beautiful woman. Just had to mention that.

There is some good camera work. I especially like the shot from inside
a mine elevator as it plunges deep into the mine. The camera stays
focused on the top of the shaft, and spooky music plays as the cage
sinks deeper and deeper into the mine. Love that little folk song
during the end credits, too! There are some faults, though. This film
appears to have had much of the gore trimmed from it. That can be a big
mistake for a horror film. Also, it isn't hard to figure out that Harry
Warden is not the killer and that one of the two male leads definitely
is.

A perfect romantic evening would include a six-pack of Moosehead, this
film, and a heart-stuffed candy box. I promise your girlfriend will
never forget it.

8 of 10 stars So sayeth the Hound.
<|_=00=_|>
i had seen this film a couple of times back in the day and had always
thought it was a alright 80's slasher but was disappointed by some
acting and the gore value, well recently they had released a special
edition extended cut of the movie so i picked it up just cause i
collect old school horror and thought it would be an alright piece to
my collection, well little did i know i was right, there is so much
gore that was taken out of this film i was in shock and dumbfounded to
know that for 30 years no one has actually really seen this movie. the
gore in this is so well done for an 81 film you can definitely tell
they were all thinking they had to one up the first Friday the 13th.
its a shame the mpaa are such bastards it makes you wonder how many
movies you've seen that they butchered like this one. and you leave
that movie thinking it was crap when really it was a classic horror
that was just heavily edited. well thank god for DVD so if you see the
special edition at your store i suggest buying it if your a old school
gore fan there is some sick ass special effects that im sure most of
the budget of the film was spent on.
<|_=00=_|>
In the wake of the successes of "Black Christmas" (1974), "Halloween"
(1978) and "Friday the 13th" (1980), there seemed to be a craze not
only for slasher flicks, but for holiday-themed slasher flicks. There
were many imitators, many slasher flicks that lacked distinction or
anything of redeeming value. Still, one of the best, not to mention
criminally underrated, was "My Bloody Valentine" from 1981.

Set against the backdrop of Valentine's Day in a small Nova Scotian
mining town, a Valentine's Day dance, once the most celebrated holiday
function in town, has been put off for 20 years due to a tragedy at the
local mine. Five miners were trapped underground by an explosion,
because the two supervisors who were supposed to be on-duty had failed
to check the methane levels because they were in a hurry to get to the
dance. Six weeks later, we're told, only one of the miners survived,
Harry Warden, who survived by eating the flesh of his dead comrades and
was committed to a mental institution shortly thereafter. One year
later, he killed the two supervisors responsible for the disaster and
later vowed vengeance upon the town if they were to ever celebrate
another Valentine's Day.

20 years later, a group of hormonally-charged young people ("young
people," not teenagers) who work in the local mine are eager to have
another Valentine's Day festivity, despite the warnings of the town's
elders not to do so. Pretty soon, the mayor receives an eerie warning
and a heart-shaped candy box filled with a real human heart, and not
long after young people left and right start dying in increasingly
horrific and creative fashions - a laundry machine, a nail gun, a
shower head, ropes, hot dogs (yes, hot dogs!), and the killer's
trademark pick-axe figure into some of the most gruesome ways the
characters in this movie are dispatched.

"My Bloody Valentine" was directed by George Mihalka, and his direction
and production design are what is largely responsible for making this
an above average slasher flick. This movie is all of well-acted,
well-made, and has a fantastic and creepy story. Like in "Halloween"
and "Friday the 13th," the viewer is many times party to the slaughter
of young people because of the fact that the film is often shot from
the point-of-view of the killer; so we often hear his deep breaths from
behind a gas mask as he stalks and slaughters his victims.

The second half of the film is set largely underground, in a real mine
in Nova Scotia, Canada. These underground scenes are generally very
creepy and claustrophobic, dimly-lit and you get the feeling that every
time someone strays from the group or wanders down a dark tunnel alone,
something could jump out of the darkness to dispatch them; these creepy
and claustrophobic scenes of darkness remind one of the underground
scenery in the recent British horror movie classic "The Descent" (2005)
- which is also one of my all-time favorite horror movies.

In terms of pure slasher movie goodness, "My Bloody Valentine" doesn't
disappoint. The movie abides by almost every slasher movie cliché
imaginable (the virgin survives, sex = death, don't say "I'll be right
back," because you won't, etc. - see Randy in "Scream" for further
details). But surprisingly, even with its hormonally-charged young
people and plenty of sex and innuendo, there is no actual on-screen
nudity. (Huh???) Strange but true, people die in some incredibly
gruesome ways in this picture, but there's no gratuitous nudity
anywhere - they aren't really sex scenes, but actually they're more
like make-out scenes and the most "skin" we see is a girl in her bra
and panties - so "My Bloody Valentine" gets bonus points from me for
that.

Lastly, "My Bloody Valentine" has also been the source of much
controversy in the 28 years since it was released, largely due to the
fact that at least five minutes of on-screen gore were cut from the
film (additionally, none of this lost footage contains any extra sex or
nudity); virtually every death scene in the movie was trimmed in some
fashion by the MPAA. This lost footage was restored in the recently
released extended cut of the film. If this movie were released today, I
seriously doubt that these cuts would be enforced by the MPAA, but I
guess one can understand why they were made back in '81; they are quite
nasty and will surely please gore-hounds, but with this new extended
cut of the film you get the feeling that you're watching the complete
movie, one that is finally free of the ugly influence of censorship.

I'm glad to say that now, especially since I saw "Drag Me to Hell"
yesterday, I have yet another summer horror movie to add to my list of
movies to watch during the Halloween season - "My Bloody Valentine."

P.S.: "My Bloody Valentine" was remade earlier this year as a 3-D
movie.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
This early 80's horror flick is one of the best of the slasher genre.
It has a great setting in a small Canadian mining town - which has it's
streets and buildings drenched with red and pink valentine decorations
- which is a surreal contrast to the cold and sombre setting that
foreshadows the real pumpers that eventually pop up in crimson heart
shaped candy boxes.

The scenes filmed in an actual mine - where the protagonists are
trapped with the killer lurking around with a sharpened pickaxe - are
expertly filmed with plenty of style and a menacing atmosphere. The
acting is decent and although some of the characters act like jerks
they are likable and human enough for the viewer to care about them.
They are all working class stiffs and just want a good time and relief
from the reality of their everyday situation. You want them to have
their valentine party that has been denied them for obvious reasons.

Notorious for being one of the most censored films by the MPAA at the
time of release to avoid an 'X' rating, it is now available in an uncut
form on Lionsgate DVD. The death scenes are much more detailed and
graphic, but either version is worth watching for the flourish that the
director and his cast and crew have imbued into this little horror gem.
<|_=00=_|>
Twenty years ago, Harry Warden went nuts and slaughtered a bunch of
people on Valentine's Day. The mining town he hailed from canceled
subsequent V-Day dances, but when they try setting one up again, Warden
seemingly returns with his pickax, ready to hack the local kids up and
leave his mark. Things can only go bad from here.

Director George Mihalka brings us another holiday-themed slasher,
riding the success of "Black Christmas", "Halloween" and "Friday the
13th"... and paving the way for "April Fools Day". But George is a nice
guy and I don't want to say he's just one among the crowd. There were
hundreds of 80s slashers, but only a few stand out today. "Bloody
Valentine" is, of course, one of them.

Even in its original, neutered glory (anywhere from three to nine
minutes were cut) the film stands as a good film. Without any really
notable actors or actresses (okay, so Neil Affleck had a brief role in
"Scanners"), and being Mihalka's one big mark, the film carries itself
on story, acting and blood. The blood, while lacking a times, comes
gushing through in others. And like any good slasher, the killer's
identity is not revealed until the end... leaving us guessing until the
last twist of the knife (or ax).

Slasher fans need to pick up the Lions Gate special edition. While the
double-disc with "April Fools Day" is cheap and still worth watching,
you don't really know this film until you've seen it uncut. The gore,
oh my, the gore! It's actually a shame that it took so long for a
company to come along and save this film because it was even better
than we once assumed... Mihalka could have been one of the 80s greats
(and, in my mind, he still is).

If you've been a horror fan and avoided this one, please see it. Sure,
it's mostly mindless fun -- kids drinking and making out, getting
hacked up -- but I can watch variations of this formula dozens, scores
or hundreds of times. There's something fun about a simple stalking
film that you can't always get from other films that try too hard to be
clever. And I like thinking films, but a night with buddies and
booze... you need a slasher. And this is the one you should pick.
<|_=00=_|>
The 1980's was and remains one of the most controversial time periods
in the history of the horror genre. On one hand; it saw the birth of
several of the genre's greatest films and many of the most entertaining
films that still have historical significance. On the other, the genre
was dominated by the slasher genre so much that the cycle became old
virtually overnight, leading some to gloss over some worthwhile films
and for bad films to get elevated to classic status in later years.

'My Bloody Valentine' may not be a masterpiece, but it has enough
distinguishing elements to make it a nice hidden gem of it's sub-genre.
It's proved to be a delight for many a insomnia-stricken devotee of
obscure horror films searching for a nice late-night horror film to
divert ourselves with, and this is perfect. The film could be summed up
as a mix of 'Screaming Mimi', 'Halloween' and 'The Legend of Sleepy
Hollow'.

The setting is a dismal Canadian mining town(filled with the kind of
accents later parodied to death on 'South Park') known as Valentine
bluffs, overshadowed by the Hanniger mines, both supposedly haunted by
a vengeful miner who was wronged by lazy foremen who were attending a
valentine's dance and following an unforgettable, almost dreamlike
sequence dripping with bizarre sexual subtext and macabre humor that
opens the film; the film's tone is set with an introduction to the
leads emerging from a mine shaft as one miner remarks that any day the
entire mine is gonna blow, but no one heeds his warning and races off
laughing to country music while the clouds close over the town
ominously, as if the cheerfulness is about to be swallowed up by an
encroaching evil. It's not much, but it beats just about every other
'80's slasher film at establishing mood.

None of the actors could seriously be called great, but they do their
jobs well enough to establish the usual paper-thin characters with
personality. Not too much, but enough for the viewer to feel that a
life has been taken, and not that they just witnessed some lame FX
showcase; a particularly memorable scene involves the girlfriend of the
comedy-relief character going into shock upon finding his corpse as the
killer is approaching. A scene that's hard to forget anytime soon. Even
the obligatory helpless adults seemed genuinely concerned and use
common sense; with the Sheriff being a !GASP! likable character!
Corrupt cops can be funny, but it's refreshing to see a competent one
in these films. The two protagonist's of the film who are caught in a
love triangle with the heroine also overcome weak dialog and minimal
characterization through sheer emotion; enough so that both work as red
herring characters, but still have good points and bad points that
would make it believable if either was the killer. A nice touch lost in
the remake, where the character who functions as the hero is very
unlikeable and the character revealed as the killer engenders viewer
sympathy.

About the killer, the image of a madman in a mining suit with a pickax
as a weapon is definitely an unforgettable visual, leading to several
memorable 'bus' sequences. The back story behind the original killer is
also quite creative. It would work well enough to carry a film on it's
own or serve as an EC. comic plot.

The final scene where the second killer wanders off into the mine
spouting some of the most convincingly psychotic dialog I've ever heard
while uttering a laugh guaranteed to freeze your blood, while
simultaneously a country ballad begins to play over the credits is
fairly sublime. Whether he returns or not, he will end up just like the
original killer; a legend lost in the mists of time: 'And no one will
knowww, as the years come and goooo, of the horror, from long time
agoooo'. Brilliant.

Go in with fairly limited expectations, a sense of humor, and 'My
Bloody Valentine' will prove a fun experience, certainly more
satisfying than the more famous 'Friday the 13th' films. The remake
doesn't have much to recommend except for it's now useless 3-D gimmick;
but watch that in a similar frame of mind, and you may enjoy that as
well, despite having a disappointing climax and an awful
Shamaylan-style cheat. When the 14th draws near, watch this film on a
double feature with the 'Poetic Justice' segment from Francis's 'Tales
from the Crypt'(1972), and the remake if you enjoy that, throw the god
awful 2001 film 'Valentine' in the fireplace to keep warm, curl up with
some caramels and you'll find this film the perfect alternative to one
of the world's sh*ttiest holidays. I can guarantee you a good time.
