

I have a problem with a lot of people's review of "Manhunter".  Every
single
bad review that criticizes Cox or Noonan invariably mentions the movie
"Red
Dragon" in the same breath.  How about being a little objective?

On its own as the original Hannibal Lecter movie, Manhunter is a good
movie.
Cox plays Lecter convincingly, and you can read from other reviewers who
praised his work shows that with a little objectivity we can see an
alternative representation of Lecter.  It is true, as one other reviewer
says, Hopkins acts Lecter, Cox *IS* Lecter.  Cox never seems to be
acting,
he really plays the part with mystery and ambiguity not like the
distinctly
maniacal Lecter that Hopkins portrays.

Cox plays a true psychopath - one devoid of feelings, and yet a
consummate
actor.  Some of the world's best actors are in fact psychopaths.  A
psychopath is not necessarily a killer - a psychopath is simply someone
who
does not feel for other human beings, which is often why the psychopath
killers of this world were in fact convincing actors - for example
Geoffrey
Dahmer and Charles Manson.

So when we analyze the profiles of true psychopathic serial killers, we
can
quite clearly see that Cox plays the better Lecter than Hopkins.  We can
see
Cox is devoid of compassion, and yet acts like a normal person.  Hopkins
on
the other hand, never passes the creepy stage - he is too creepy and
doesn't
have the "acting" ability of a true psychopath to mask that image from
the
public eye.  Cox shows that he could blend into normality without being
caught.

And therein lies the problem with the negative reviews.  We read
countless
negative reviews of this movie bemoaning the fact that Cox is not as
creepy
as Hopkins - but my dears, that is exactly why Cox plays the better
Lecter!
<|_=00=_|>

This will no doubt elicit howls of outrage, but I have always thought that
Mr. Cox's portrayal of Hannibal Lector to be far superior to that of Mr
Hopkins'.  Mr Cox portrays Lector as someone coldly intellectual, almost
reptilian and inhuman, while Mr Hopkins gives a performance that always
brings to mind that of Ernest Thesiger as Dr. Pretorius in Bride of
Frankenstein".  Mind you, I really enjoy Ernest Thesiger as Dr. Pretorius;
I'm just saying that the charming, witty and OH! so urbane serial killer has
been done to death, and had been even when "Silence Of The Lambs" came
out.
Rent this video if you want to see how it's supposed to be
done.
<|_=00=_|>

How many times have we heard "The film isn't as good as the book"? Let's
face it. What film IS?! Red Dragon was a masterpiece and so is
Manhunter.

To appreciate that there are two issues. Firstly, the film was created in
1986. It's stylised and looks slightly dated. The soundtrack is excellent
but again very 1980's. Secondly, Red Dragon was not an easy book to write
a
screenplay for. There is way too much information that made the book so
enthralling to squeeze in to 2 hours.

The cinematography, in particular the clever use of light and colours, is
breathtaking. The choice of locations was also very deliberate. The scene
where Will is running out of the building after speaking to Hannibal
Lecter.
They chose a building with a long spiral ramp down. The ramp is white,
clinical. Running down the ramp is like those dreams where the bad man is
chasing you and you can't get away. Will runs his heart out but doesn't
get
very far.

I agree that Cox plays a different Lecter but then the book wasn't about
Lecter. There was some mention made but Lecter in this film is very much a
Cameo appearance. The way in which Will goes about catching the killer is
every bit as clever as Starling's methods, if not more so. In addition, we
are treated to the thoughts, the inner monologue, the frustration and
triumph of a hunter.

Make no mistake, if you expect an up-to-date movie as good in every
respect
as the book, you'll be disappointed. If you're sensible and expect nothing
more than 2 hours quality entertainment you'll enjoy this
one.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm starting to think that I may be one of the only people who saw this film
when it was originally theatrically released! Years after that, as a
freshman in college, I was managing a video store when a woman came in
looking for the recently released `Silence of the Lambs.' She said she knew
William Petersen from childhood and told me that he was in THE first
Hannibal the Cannibal movie. Having not read the novel or seen the movie for
a while, I never related the two before that. But I specifically remembered
`Manhunter' for its creepy killer, spectacular use of Iron Butterfly, and
the strange & frightening notion (for then) of FBI profiling. These three
details alone speak volumes for the film's acting, style and writing. The
irony of forcing oneself to share the same maniacal thoughts as a killer in
order to catch them is the stuff of nightmares. Since reconnecting with
`Manhunter' back then, I've remained a constant fan of the
film.

But the film suffers today in several ways. First off, any comparison to
`Silence of the Lambs' is going to come up short. `Silence' is simply a
better film – a classic of the highest caliber that will continue to sustain
itself with the passage of time. Those already acquainted with Jonathan
Demme's world will probably have a hard time accepting `Manhunter.' But
audiences should judge the film on its own merits, and recognize that unlike
`Red Dragon' it was not designed to resemble an established world of a
classic movie – which is both a curse and an advantage for both films. I
recently saw `Red Dragon,' by the way, and loved it. Walking out, I found
myself asking whether I liked it better than `Manhunter.' These comparisons
can get very silly because not only am I basing my impressions on a book,
but also a previously filmed version and a closely related `sequel.' Best
method: let each stand alone, THEN decide if either was successful. Both
films succeed for similar and different reasons. 

The approach of  `Manhunter' is much more cold and observational than `Red
Dragon.' This style (often concerned with widely symmetrical composition),
like Kubrick's, can greatly benefit the story if used properly. I really
liked it here. The neatness and sterility of the 80s décor also works
perfectly in this format, providing a nice contrast to the horrors sometimes
contained within its walls. 

As for the music, it has not aged well. The synthesized stuff in the first
hour is effective at times (especially when it's just a single, sustained
note a la John Carpenter, or those bits that sound like `Blade Runner'), and
the inclusion of In-a-Gadda-da-Vida is inspired, but the electronic balladry
during Dolarhyde's romance is simply awful and detract from the scenes.
Obviously, the danger of using such modern music is that it can become
outdated and cheesy very quick.  Is it just me, or does this especially seem
true of 80s music? Given Michael Mann's career, he clearly wouldn't agree. I
guess one never knows. The Tangerine Dream score for `Risky Business' or
Phillip Glass' for `Thin Blue Line,' for example, still hold up remarkably
well from this period. 

The performances, however, are still wonderful. Petersen (whom I've heard
didn't like the job he did) reaches just the right blend of seeming haunted,
detached, morose, and as Dolarhyde describes him, purposeful. Dennis Farina,
himself a former Chicago cop, exudes realistic authority as Jack Crawford.
Tom Noonan obtains a disturbing childlike innocence and deliberation in his
terror. And Brian Cox…poor guy, will always be compared to Anthony Hopkins.
It's unfair because he gives us a Lecter that is different, to be sure, but
intelligent in a way that, to me, is more realistic, intriguing and
ultimately frightening. Hopkins' Hannibal is so supremely horrible that he's
practically supernatural at this point, not unlike Dracula or the Wolfman. I
enjoy all of that too, but just on a different level. 

8/10

<|_=00=_|>
I can only surmise that the detractors of this film are under 25, the
new generation of cinema-goers who need all the ultra-violence and gore
to make a film "complete". This is quite simply, one of the best films
of all time. Tom Noonan is amazing and absolutely masterful in his
portrayal of Dollarhyde, and even comes across as sensual, when he is
obviously deriving sexual satisfaction watching Reba fondle the
sleeping tiger. One of the sexiest scenes ever, by the way. This is
what I think people who don't "get" this film are missing, the little
nuances, such as his look of sexual ecstasy watching Reba with the
tiger, you can see he is imagining himself in the tigers position,
being the recipient of loving caresses. And his awkwardness when Reba
finally makes love to him, its all these things that you actually have
to engage your brain to understand, thats where people just don't
understand this film. The music is incredible, especially Shriekbacks
"This Big Hush", where Dollarhyde is in bed with Reba, is just
inspired. William Petersen was born to play Will Graham, the tormented
retired forensic cop, brought out of retirement by the Tooth Fairy's
slayings of whole families. Brian Cox's portrayal of LECKTOR is superb,
playing the "straight man" to Hopkins "over the top" campness. I cant
understand why Cox didn't play the proper Lecktor role in the
subsequent films. But thats what people don't get-its not about
Lecktor. Its not about Red Dragon. It is BASED on the novel Red Dragon,
which is why it doesn't follow the book ad verbatim. Don't watch this
as a prequel or sequel, watch it on its own merit as one of the best
films ever made.
<|_=00=_|>
Besides the fact that it was released without much hoopla in 1986, and
that it was recently remade(the same exact movie except for the end) as
Red Dragon, Manhunter is undoubtedly the most overlooked movie of the
past 20 years. The plot is tremendous, Mann's direction is outstanding,
and the acting(especially Noonan) is equally amazing. What Mann
realized while making this film is that a thriller was not just meant
to shock and disgust the audience but to develop the characters
carefully so that there is an even greater sense of anticipation for
the climax of the movie than there otherwise would be. Recent thrillers
are clearly lacking in the character development that made movies like
Manhunter and Silence of the Lambs so good. Its a shame that Red Dragon
had to be made, since it is basically a strait ripoff of Manhunter
except for a different ending which is much worse than the original and
way too predictable. Anyone who thinks Red Dragon was a good movie
should watch Manhunter and compare the two. If you try this you'll see
that there is no comparison. Tom Noonan's performance alone is worth
the watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Retired FBI specialist Will Graham is lured back into action to track a
serial killer who is killing families, seemingly linked into the lunar
cycle. In the process it opens up some old mental wounds that were born
out during his last action out in the field...

Before the gargantuan success of Silence of the Lambs, where the name
Hannibal the Cannibal moved into pop culture, and before director
Michael Mann became a named auteur often referenced with relish by
hungry film students; there was Manhunter, Michael Mann's brilliant
adaptation of Thomas Harris' equally brilliant psychological thriller,
Red Dragon. It feels a bit redundant now, years later, writing about
Mann's use of styles to bear out mood and psychological states, his
framing devices, his commitment to his craft, but after revisiting the
film on Blu-ray, I find myself once again simultaneously invigorated
and unnerved by the magnificence of Manhunter. Visually, thematically
and narratively it remains a clinical piece of cinema, a probing study
of madness that dares to put a serial killer and the man hunting him in
the same psychological body, asking us, as well as William Petersen's
FBI agent Will Graham, to empathise with Tom Noonan's troubled Tooth
Fairy killer. Here's a thing, too, Francis Dolarhyde (The Tooth Fairy)
is a functioning member of society, he is quite frankly a man who could
be working in a shop near you! This is no reclusive psychopath such as,
well, Buffalo Bill, Dolarhyde is presented to us in such a way as we
are given insight into this damaged mind, he is fleshed out as a
person, we get to know him and his motivational problems.

Dream much, Will?

Mann and his team are not about over the top or camp performances, gore
is kept to a premium, the real horror is shown in aftermath sequences,
conversations and harmless photographs, but still it's a nightmarish
world. Suspense is wrung out slowly by way of the characterisations.
Will has to become the killer, and it's dangerous, he knows so because
he has done it before, when capturing Dr. Hannibal Lecktor. Needing to
pick up the scent again, to recover the mindset, Will has to go see the
good doctor who has a penchant for fine wines and human offal. These
scenes showcase Mann at his deadliest, a bright white cell filmed off
kilter, each frame switch showing either Lecktor or Graham behind bars,
they are one. When Lecktor taunts Will about them being alike, Mann
understands this and visually brings it out. Dolarhyde's living abode
is murky in colour tones and furnished garishly, and with mirrors,
paintings and a lunar landscape, yet when Dolarhyde is accompanied by
Joan Allen's blind Reba, where he feels he is finally finding
acceptance, this house is seen at ease because of the
characterisations. Switch to the finale and it's a walled monstrosity
matching that of a killer tipped back over the edge. Brilliant stuff.

If one does what God does enough times, one will become as God is.

Lecktor, soon to be back as the source material Lecter in the film
versions that follow, is actually not in the film that much. Brian Cox
(chilling, calculating, frightening and intelligent) as Lecktor gets
under ten minutes of screen time, but that's enough, the character's
presence is felt throughout the picture in a number of ways. The
Lecktor angle is very relative to film's success, but very much it's
one strand of a compelling whole, I realise now that Mann has
deliberately kept us wanting more of him visually. Noonan is truly
scary, he lived away from the rest of the cast during filming, with
Mann's joyous encouragement, the end result is one of the best and most
complex serial killer characterisations ever. Lang scores high as
weasel paparazzi, Allen is heart achingly effective without patronising
blind people and Farina is a huge presence as Jack Crawford, Will's
friend and boss who coaxes Will back into the fray knowing full well
that Will's mind might not make it back with him. But it's Petersen's
movie all the way. His subsequent non film career has given ammunition
to his knockers that he is no great actor. Rubbish, with this and To
Live and Die in L.A. he gave two of the best crime film portrayals of
the 80s. He immerses himself in Will Graham, so much so he wasn't able
to shake the character off long after filming had wrapped. There's a
scene in a supermarket where Will is explaining to his son about his
dark place, where "the ugliest thoughts in the world" live, a stunning
sequence of acting and a showcase for Petersen's undoubted talents.

Newcomers to the film and Mann's work in general, could do no worse
than spend the ten minutes it takes to watch the Dante Spinotti feature
on the disc. Apart from saving me the time to write about Mann's visual
flourishes, it gives one an idea of just how key a director and
cinematographer partnership is in a film such as this. The audio is
crisp, which keeps alive the perfect in tone soundtrack and eerie
scoring strains of Rubini and The Reds. Some say that the music of
Manhunter is dated? I say that if it sits at one with the tonal shifts
and thematics of a story then that surely can never be viewed as dated.
And that's the case here in Manhunter. The director's cut is included
as part of the package but the transfer is appalling, and for the sake
of one cut scene that happens post the Dolarhyde/Graham face off,
there's really not much to the DC version anyway. The theatrical cut is
perfect, brilliantly realised on Blu-ray to birth a true visual
neo-noir masterpiece. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I've read 'Red Dragon' many, many times, and it is one of my favorite
novels ever...and, as is, is virtually unfilmable. The centerpiece of
the book is a long, detailed flashback detailing the motives (and
practically the entire life) of the killer; it's the kind of thing you
can get away with in print, but in a movie it'd stop the story dead.
And so, alas, it's completely absent here. Too much background material
is jettisoned in the translation and too much time is spent on Will
Graham, the policeman in pursuit, for this to come close to the
brilliant novel it's based on, but it's honestly about as good a movie
as could have been made from this material.

The best thing about this is the acting: William Petersen is
occasionally a little wooden as Graham (and no one, really, could stand
there and talk to himself in lines that were silent thoughts in the
book) but appropriately haggard and obsessed. Kim Griest, one of the
best near-forgotten actresses of the eighties, captures the character
of Graham's wife perfectly, and Tom Noonan is fascinating and
frightening in equal measures as the Red Dragon (no mean feat, when we
never really find out why he's doing what he's doing). Joan Allen does
a good turn as a blind woman he falls in love with, in a relationship
so obviously doomed that it causes suspense just by existing. Dennis
Farina is his usual solid self as Petersen's superior. Altogether, the
cast does its best to convey characterizations with the minimum of
information the film actually has, and do very well.

The film itself is about as stylish and eighties-era as you'd expect
from Michael Mann, and in the 'Miami Vice' style leans on using songs
(rather than a score) for some big moments, but while it's dated it's
not gratuitous, and everything fits pretty well. It's a bit low-budget,
but at times this makes it harsher and more frightening than it might
have been; now that this has been remade as a more expensive, slicker
production, it's easier to see that sometimes less is more. Don't look
for nearly as compelling or rich a story as in the novel, but if pure
atmosphere does it for you, this will do it for you.
<|_=00=_|>

As I watched Manhunter the first time I kept thinking something about it
seemed familiar. From the credits I discovered it was from Red Dragon by
Thomas Harris, a book I had read.

William Peterson plays the enigmatic FBI agent Will Graham, who has left
the
job after almost being killed by Hannibal Lechter, but who is now coaxed
back to help catch a killer who is murdering whole families in different
locations in the United States.

I enjoyed Brian Cox as Lechter. He displays the "normal" quality of
Lechter
which allowed him to go undetected for so long before being arrested and
receiving the moniker, "Hannibal the Cannibal". Perhaps because I saw
Manhunter before Silence of the Lambs, I prefer Cox to Anthony Hopkins in
the role.

The Freddy Lounds character is the stereotypical reporter you love to
hate.
He's in Graham's face and as obnoxious as they come. You almost root for
something bad to happen to him.

Tom Noonan is delightful as the quiet Francis Dolarhyde. He's the loner
that
no one notices. I pitied him, then I feared him.

I recommend this film for those who enjoy suspense with a bit of a horror
twist. It's not a horror film, but some of the elements are there. There
is
also a good soundtrack.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is basically the prequel to "Silence of the Lambs". It received
nowhere near as much attention, nor any Academy Awards, but nonetheless, as
a purely scary movie, it is the better of the two. Hannibal Lecter isn't as
memorable, nor as well acted, but he's more real, more frightening. Unlike
in SOTL, he is a direct threat to the principal good guy, in that he nearly
killed FBI agent Will Graham and drove him to near madness. Graham is the
man responsible for capturing Lecter, but to do so, he had to get further
inside Lecter's head than is safe for sane humans, and throughout the film
we fear that he, in pursuit of a new serial killer, is in grave danger of
losing his sanity in the process. 

To add to the terror, Lecter is playing his mind games, while supposedly
helping Graham, he is also secretly in cahoots with the killer, known only
as the "tooth fairy". Aside from dealing with the physical and psychological
dangers presented by Lecter, Graham must also try to reconstruct the mindset
of the killer, and this provides the real drama of this film. He is a man on
the edge, he's been through psychological hell thanks to Lecter and wants
nothing more than to live in peace with his wife and son, but when his old
boss Jack Crawford enlists his help, showing him photos of the murdered
families, he cannot refuse. And throughout the entire film we are drawn into
his struggle, the battle between his unique genius for seeing into the minds
of psychotic serial killers versus his desire to maintain his sanity,
protect his family, and simply lead a normal life. As such, Graham is a far
more compelling character than was Jodie Foster's Agent Starling. Although
this movie has its flaws (chiefly, a "Miami Vice" like reliance on its music
soundtrack) it is a genuinely frightening psychological thriller that is
definitely more scary than its more famous and critically acclaimed
successor. 
