

And that's saying a lot. Rent this if you want to be staggered by oddness,
blown away by one of the most bizarre scripts, direction, and casting in the
history of films. I'm staggered. I can't believe I watched it. I'm a big
Bernadette Peters fan, normally- but this tested my resolve. Don't read any
more reviews here, it's best if you know nothing about the plot. Just rent
it. You won't believe what you're seeing.......
<|_=00=_|>

Before "Bicentenial Man"... there was a group of robots...

 I watched this movie one time, 20 years ago, but I still remember it
fondly. I have always thought of it as an allegory, centered around two
robots who "grow up" through their wild, teenage years, have a child and
face crises together. They finally discover the meaning of love, in a way
that is deeper than just being fond of each other, as they sacrifice for
each other.

 I was so impressed with this movie that I can still recall much of the
dialog. I remember the jokes and plot twists. The movie is light-hearted,
funny and insightful and is even poignant at times.  
<|_=00=_|>

Andy Kaufman went on David Letterman and apologized for this movie.  He
said
he wanted to give everyone their money back if they had seen the movie.
I'm
not sure he was entirely joking.  It's bad enough that you might want your
money back, but it's stupid enough to keep you interested in watching
it.

I tortured my friends by showing them this movie.  They enjoyed the psycho
malfunctioning cop robot.  Years later they still bring it
up.

I would put this movie on the same level as SuperFuzz.
<|_=00=_|>
The film had NO help at all, promotion-wise: if there was an
advertising promo on TV or radio, I didn't see/hear it. The only
newspaper ad I saw was on it's opening weekend: a dingy, sludgy B & W
head-shot photo of Andy as Val-Com, behind jail bars, with headline:
"WANTED! Runaway Robot!" ( which was also the poster in front of the 3
movie theaters I saw it at --NOT the nice little color poster on this
site, with headshots of all the cast, and cartoon of Crimebuster
--which really wasn't THAT good--they OUGHT to have used an action
scene from the film itself--didn't they have an onset photographer? A
poster is supposed to HELP a prospective audience decide if they want
to SEE the movie--there were SO many people who couldn't get into their
sold-out choice, and wanted to know WHAT Heartbeeps was about--and that
poster didn't help! That dingy pic, and the only other photos supplied
to papers were so indistinguishable in B & W that they were worthless.
) There was NO trailer for the film: only a slide at one theater,
consisting of the word "Heartbeeps" inside a heart-shape, with a
Cupid's arrow through it, and one that was a totally black picture:
just Andy and Bernadette's voices saying "Val-Com! My pleasure center
is malfunctioning!" "So is mine; do you think we ought to tell our
owners?" THAT is no help to people who hadn't been aware of the movie.

During the filming, Andy told reporters that he couldn't eat, once his
plastic lips were applied, so he would "load up on breakfast, and fast"
during the day's shoot. I don't know WHAT Bernadette did: but at the
time, I'd wondered why they didn't just sip protein drinks through long
straws, or eat astronaut-style puréed food via tubes? 

Phil-Co, the baby robot, seemed to have been the pre-curser to Short
Circuit's Johnny-Five, with the same eyes, similar face. I've been
trying to find if they had the same designer, but no help. I have
vintage magazine articles about the film, and the design team was
immensely proud of their work, and were going for a special award for
their innovative device to create stenchless "smoke" for Catskill's
cigars. Just shortly thereafter, LucasFilm did NOT use that device,
though they OUGHT to have, for Return of the Jedi's scenes with Jabba
the Hut: a man created "steam" around Jabba, by blowing cigar smoke
into a tube, joking that all he needed was a glass of brandy, and he'd
be a happy man. I thought that LucasFilm's using of real tobacco
products was insensitive to people who were upset by smoke. 

John Williams, who had then recently succeeded the late, great Arthur
Fielder as the maestro of the Boston Pops ( which was THEN a ratings
hit--but it never recovered from Fielder's death, and is now a shadow
of it's former glory ), was using the show to promote films with which
he supplied the music. He'd premiered "The Empire Strikes Back" score
there; and you would think he'd have helped Heartbeeps along, by
playing a few numbers there? The one thing that critics had liked of
this film was Williams' score--yet it was NOT available for purchase! I
saw one vinyl album, in 1982, with half Heartbeeps, half another
film--but it disappeared. I only just tonight saw the CD listed on THIS
site, and have ordered it. If I can ever get a scanner, and time to
type out the articles, I'd like to create a Heartbeeps tribute site. I
liked the movie, and don't care what dissenters say! 

The only trouble with the film, was, that near the end, it was messed
up, logic-wise: the robots ran away from the factory to have the
freedom to decide their own fate, make their own choices; yet, when the
junkyard owners tell them that Phil needs to go TO the factory, to have
a "purpose" programmed into him, they don't even question it; they just
glance meaningfully at each other, and they go. Along the way, each of
the adults lose battery power, and "die." They aren't REALLY dead, as
they are robots, and only need new batteries, yet it is treated as
"death," with little Phil crying over them, and rolling away. So, what
was the POINT of this? Phil never gets back to the factory, and gets "a
purpose!" AND of course, the junkyard owners COULD'VE driven them, or
given them all battery recharges, with back-up batteries; but the real
point was to have this poignant scene, where the robots all wore down,
and Phil is left to cry. 

At the end, Val-Com is a golf instructor, and Aqua-Com is --I'm not
sure what. Catskill is an ENTERTAINER--what ELSE is HE supposed to be?
I'm not sure that they made it clear. The junkyard owners seem to be
taking it easy, lying on chaise lounges, drinking lemonade from Phil,
their "bartender." Val's and Aqua's new "daughter," Philsia--I think
the name is--maybe it's Sylvania--doesn't seem to be much more than a
table lamp. 

There is missing footage, which is sad--from photos I surmise that the
stuff missing includes a sweet scene, where Phil is having a Christmas,
with Val gifting him with a car's steering wheel; Aqua is supplying a
horn; Catskill has taken the firefighter helmet to give to Phil, as we
saw; and they have Christmas trees. I don't know if any missing footage
supplies better logic, or if the writers just couldn't think of a
better crisis/resolution. The film was trimmed to 72-75 minutes, to
pair it with other failing films. No other reason than that. For a DVD,
I would LOVE to be in on creating, as I want to see interviews with the
cast/crew and John Williams, and the Merv Griffin interview. The
making-of footage; and reediting and restoring the missing footage to
make it better.
<|_=00=_|>

If you like bad movies, this one's a real treat. Kaufman & Peters stagger
around in robot costumes, escape slavery only to wander aimlessly, and
find
true robot love. I believe this is the first movie that ever made me
consider walking out. I should note I was 12, and could be entertained by
shiny objects.
<|_=00=_|>
If you have witnessed Andy Kaufman's slant on comedy, you may
understand why I avoided this movie of his for years. Actually, for
most of that time, I couldn't see it even if I wanted to - video stores
in my area didn't stock it, and it never appeared on TV. I had to rent
it online when recently I finally got the courage to give it a try.

My heart sank during the first few seconds of the movie. The comedy in
this opening is both very familiar and unfunny, and the movie manages
to sink further and further as it goes on. There's barely a story here,
with the bulk of the movie consisting of the robots wandering around...
and around... and around until you want to scream. It doesn't help that
the robot characters are a turn-off. They don't have much of a
personality (they seem very stupid - why should we care about stupid
characters?), and their voices are very annoying to the ear.

The makeup is good, I'll admit. But it seems odd that they spent time
for the makeup when not bothering to present the rest of this world as
a futuristic world (the vehicles of this world, for one thing, are
present-day gas-powered vehicles.) It's even more odd to consider that
no one involved with this movie realized along the way that this
project was a train wreck.
<|_=00=_|>

Best Robot Romantic Comedy Ever, using the robots as the romantic
characters, which leaves Short Circuit out of this category.  This was Andy
Kaufman's best effort.  Bernadette Peters shows her versatility here with an
amazing performance.  While not a great movie in many areas, I'll award it a
9 on guts and quirkiness.
<|_=00=_|>
HEARTBEEPS is a movie about a pair of malfunctioning companion androids
returned to the factory for repairs. A simple conversation about mutual
shared functions progresses to a trip to the woods with a 'Catskill'
comedy unit (that has a vocal patterned after Rodney Dangerfield). They
determine that stealing a UPS P-600 type truck. They assemble another
small child-minded robot 'child' to tote spare parts and begin to
slowly treat it as their son. Meanwhile the inventory staff notice the
robots were missing and begin a search, however, the overheard
conversation with the factory boss unknowingly gives a malfunctioning
'Crimebuster Deluxe' robot the purpose to hunt down and return the 3
missing robots. The factory inventory employees are also now tasked
with locating and retrieving the missing androids, but their paths do
not cross with the overactive Crimebuster unit. During the story, both
androids slowly discover their love for each other and the desire to
make the best life possible for the child they built together. When the
android duo deduce that their child will need to have some sort of
purpose or it will be discarded or destroyed by the humans, the kindly
scrapyard owners note that they should take their child to the factory
to give the child a purpose. The android family now begins slow walk
back to the robot factory, but their power packs are now running very
low.

The plot itself is fairly charming if you are not too impatient about
the slow pace or the overly redundant dialog. This isn't an action
movie or even a sexy romance flick, but just a simple lightly romantic
science-fiction movie with rather good makeup and nice special effects
(but the effects are not plot-mover item for the story as is common
with the movies these days). It aims for a charming fanciful mindset
and achieves it, but the pacing is too slow and the story dialog so
thin that it really does not have enough "oomph" to give an emotional
investment from the audience. HEARTBEEPS is a slow yet charming movie
with sadly not enough script or philosophy to fill out the movie
runtime. I find I rather like it for what it wanted to be, but many
people will not appreciate that and be disappointed. I think this could
be remade today (now that audiences are more accepting of science
fiction in general) with a similar budget and a complex conceptually
expanded script and succeed as a charming sci-fi family movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I really wanted to like this movie, but the pacing was just way too
slow.

It was a nice story, but it was really like watching a slug race.

The movie would have been better served, if it had some more action. I
don't mean anything grand, but at least something in the background.

It could have also been helped by songs that set the tone/mood of the
more lengthy periods that were absent of dialogue.

It's been about 10 years since I've seen it, so I may have to give it
another chance.

3/10 or *1/2(out of four)
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, consider that this was the only motion picture Andy
Kaufman made before he died. He was quite sick when he made it and he
never defined himself as a comedian; he always defined himself as a
"song and dance man." It was the rest of the world who kept trying to
shove him into the comedy can. Andy was perhaps the most misunderstood
performer of all time and undoubtedly a genius. At the time this movie
was made, Kaufman's break-out TV series, Taxi, had just been cancelled
and he had just been diagnosed with a rare large cell carcinoma in his
lungs. He wanted to get away from the disastrous "Inter-Gender
Wrestling" gig he started that caused his popularity to fall flat and
got him banned from Saturday Night Live. Bernadette Peters had just
come off playing a cupie-doll airhead against Steve Martin's moron in
"The Jerk" and Heartbeeps seemed like a good follow-up role. It's
nuances you need to watch for in this film. The unlikely allies of the
robots, Val, Aqua and the Catskill Performer, while being pursued by a
crazed police robot, makes for a simplistic, yet classic tale of good
vs. evil and good wins (spoiler alert!). Much of Kaufman's performance
reminds me of the innocent, yet poignant Latka from Taxi. Thank you
very much!
