

Snake Plissken is the classic anti-hero, ala Clint Eastwood's
Man-with-no-name.  Plissken is an ex-soldier turned criminal,
recruited/blackmailed into rescuing a hostage president from the prison
of
New York City.  Plissken is a walking ball of anger and a survival
machine.
He fought for his country but had everything taken from him, so he
started
taking back.  Now, he has to rescue a man he doesn't care about, if only
to
survive long enough to take his revenge on Hauk and the
government.

John Carpenter's film is a masterpiece of dark humor, suspense, and great
characters.  The film channels the anger and distrust of the
post-Vietnam/Watergate era, as well as the then-current Iranian Hostage
crisis.  Plissken represents, in a fashion, the Vietnam vets who did
their
job, even if they didn't agree with or understand their war, but came
back
to nothing.  The film's novelization explores these themes better than
the
movie, but it is hinted at in Hauk's briefing.  It also depicts a fascist
police state, one that some would say is not too far from
reality.

Kurt Russell is excellent in what was a breakout performance for him.  Up
to
this point, Russell had been stuck in low budget comedies, following the
end
of his Disney days.  This performance, coupled with another collaboration
with Carpenter, Elvis, led to bigger and better roles.  Russell channels
Clint Eastwood to give Snake a menacing, if laconic quality.  Much like a
real serpent, Snake watches and strikes when he is ready; with speed and
impact. Russell is able to say a lot with little dialogue, through his
body
language and facial expressions.

The supporting cast is wonderful.  Adrienne Barbeau is the beautiful, but
deadly Maggie.  She is partnered with the intelligent, but slimy Brain.
Their's is a symbiotic relationship; each provides something the other
needs.  Harry Dean Stanton, a great character actor, presents a Brain
that
is smart, but ruthless, and more than a bit cowardly.
Isaac Hayes is The Duke, ruler of the prison.  Hayes is a bit uneven, as
he
wasn't an experienced actor (he had at least one movie before this) but
he
is a charismatic performer and ultra-cool.  Donald Pleasance is the
consummate politician, a big man in his controlled environment, but lost
in
a world outside his; one he had a hand in creating. Ernest Borgnine is
tremendous as Cabby, the answer man and link between Snake and the rest
of
the cast, as well as to the past of New York.  Finally, Lee Van Cleef
brings
some of that Angel Eyes magic as Hauk, the prison Warden.  Hauk is an
ex-soldier and identifies with Snake.  The difference is, Snake rebelled
against the system that betrayed him; Hauk joined it.  This was Van
Cleef's
last good role, before he was saddled with mediocrity in his tv series,
the
Master, and became the butt of jokes on MST3K.

The film moves at a brisk pace and the dark lighting carries the sense of
mystery, isolation, and destruction.  Carpenter is able to convincingly
hide
the fact that he shot this film in St. Louis and LA, and make you believe
it
is New York.  Although there are gaps in logic and missing information,
the
pace doesn't let you dwell on it.  There is a constant feeling of the
race
against time.  If there is any complaint, it's that the budget sometimes
holds back some of the action, but characterization makes up for it.
Also,
the dark lighting is sometimes too dark, and details are
obscured.

The new special edition dvd brings a treat to long-time fans:  the
deleted
opening bank robbery and capture of Snake Plissken.  Since I had read the
novelization before seeing the film, I had long wondered what this
sequence
had looked like.  Although it does explain why Plissken is on his way to
the
prison when Hauk intercepts him, it doesn't really work in context with
the
rest of the film.  The sequence worked well in the book because of
Snake's
inner monologue and memories of his mission in Leningrad and the loss of
his
parents to government action.  We understand Snake's hatred of the
government and his nihilistic nature.  In the sequence, as shot, we don't
really get a sense of who Plissken is; just that he has apparently
committed
a crime and is on the run.  We don't really get a feel for his
relationship
with his partner, which affects the emotional impact at the end of the
sequence.  Ultimately, the film works better without this
footage.

A note on the commentary track:  Ox Baker was not seven feet tall.  He is
probably closer to the 6'6" to 6'7" range, although he was over 300
pounds.
His bulk makes him appear larger than he really is, especially in a
wrestling ring.

One used to wonder what this film would have looked like with a bigger
budget.  Carpenter sort of answered that with the sequel, Escape from LA.
It was essentially the same film, with better effects and a West Coast
sensibility; but, it doesn't hold a candle to the original.  The lower
budget caused the cast and crew to be more creative and they succeeded
far
better here.  It would be good to see Snake again, but in a new
environment,
with a different plot.  Russell's age could be an asset, as Carpenter
could
examine an older Snake, who must rely more on cunning than physical
skills.
<|_=00=_|>

"Escape From New York" is a solid action noir by John Carpenter, although it
lacks the punch of Carpenter's other three previous features ("The Fog",
"Halloween", "Assault on Precinct 13").  Kurt Russell became famous for his
Snake Plissken, and rightfully so, although the character seems to be only a
more gritty version of Napoeleon Wilson in "Assault".  What makes this film
the cult classic it is is Carpenter's very apocalyptic and brash story. 
This is a very dark film, and it holds up especially well today when shown
against the countless fluff films that Hollywood seems to be churning
out.

Carpenter made the most out of his meeger budget and created a very
convincing New York City.  Not only is the set design fantastic, but so are
the typically strong performances.  Russell, Hayes, Barbeau, Pleasence,
Stanton, Atkins, Cyphers and Borgnine are all cult legends, and seeing them
all work together makes Robert Altman's casts look feeble in
comparison.

What limits this film from greatness is surprisingly lax direction by
Carpenter.  The film is not as tight as it should have been, and really
fails to generate any sort of suspense during the action.  Deaths just
happen out of nowhere, with little to no build up, which is a shame.  This
movie could have really been amazing.  The ending is perfect though, and
easily makes up for the film's faults.  See it for Kurt Russell and the
great ending and you will come away a happy viewer.  Watch "Escape From LA"
though to see what this movie should have been.
<|_=00=_|>
On his way to an important conference that will determine the fate of 
America, Air Force One is crashed into Manhattan island - leaving the 
President and vital information trapped within the single largest 
prison in the world. With very little time and no way to mount a full 
on attack, Chief Hauk forces the newly captured ex-war hero Snake 
Plisskin to launch a covert rescue mission - adding the extra incentive 
of timed bombs implanted in his body. Snake, with little other choice, 
accepts the mission to save his own neck (literally).

If the remake had any value, hopefully it's value was in bringing a new 
audience to the original film and watching it for the first time. The 
film opens with that very distinctive electronic theme music that gives 
it such a cool feel from the very getgo. This is followed up by a great 
rough energy as we are introduced to this future (which is now the 
past!). This story continues quite well but, once all the main players 
have been introduced, the film falls back on the expected series of 
'running away' and fighting. This is not to say that it still isn't 
quite fun and cool because it is.

The effects, music and even the use of tapes make this film feel very 
old and dated but it actually goes hand in hand with the very rough 
feel that Carpenter gave to several of his films at the time (whether 
deliberately or budget influenced I don't know). The plot is full of 
silly moments and sheer gaps in logic but, if you buy into the mood of 
the film, you can get by these and enjoy it - though I define you to 
call this a 'great' film, maybe good.

The casting of Kurt Russell is a major thing. He is iconicly cool and 
his performance and his character are the two main things that have 
kept this film well known down the years. He looks tough and talks 
tough and is a great homage to the Clint Eastwood character from the 
old westerns (a fact made clearer in the sequel). Cleef is a good foil 
for him as he is tough too but lacks screen time for the majority. It is 
very clear what Barbeau brings to the party - and the costume selected 
for her makes no secret of it! I am a man and I'm not proud of it, but 
she is very easy on the eye here - just a shame that that's all I 
remember about her performance. Borgnine and Stanton are both good and, 
along with Hayes, all serve to increase the cult appeal of the film to 
this day.

Overall this is a cult film that looks cheap, has dated effects and a 
plot that starts to crumble after the first half. However it is cool 
fun with some great tough dialogue. However, beyond all this it is the 
iconic character of Snake and the great performance from Russell that 
will mean that this film continues to get cool points with new 
audiences.
<|_=00=_|>

'Escape from New York' ties with 'Assault On Precinct 13' as my second
favourite John Carpenter movie (#1 being 'The Thing'. Of course.) I find it
hard to be objective about this movie. Like 'The Omega Man' you either love
it or you don't. Kurt Russell rocks as Snake Plissken, a cross between Roger
Zelazny's Hell Tanner and Clint Eastwood's Man With No Name. He is one cool
dude. Spaghetti western favourite Lee Van Cleef is well cast as Snake's
nemesis, and b-grade fave Tom Atkins ('Maniac Cop') and Carpenter
semi-regular Charles Cyphers ('The Fog') are excellent as his sidekicks. The
rest of the cast is equally impressive, and includes cult legend Harry Dean
Stanton ('Repo Man'), veterans Ernest Borgnine ('The Wild Bunch') and Donald
Pleasance ('Halloween'), soul singer Isaac Hayes, and the buxom Adrienne
Barbeau ('Two Evil Eyes') to name a few. 'Escape from New York' is an SF
action classic from an era when ideas and character were more important than
big budget FX. Personally I'd take this over the Star Wars series any day of
the week. Beware the sequel though, it's a major disappointment...
<|_=00=_|>

First things first, Kurt Russel is just plain cool.  That said, on to the
review.  Escape From New York is a classic action movie with a great horror
cast, including Donald Pleasence, Tom Atkins, Charles Cyphers, and who could
forget Buck Flower.  Buck, who has one of the best scenes in the movie
("Sure, I'm the president!"), is hilarious.  John Carpenter proves that he
is a versatile director and can make a hell of a film outside the horror
genre.  In Carpenter's classic, Kurt Russell plays the immortal Snake
Plissken, New York has become a prison state, and the president has just
crash landed there.  Enter Snake Plissken.  Freshly captured and about to be
incarcerated in New York, he must save the President (Pleasence, who isn't
even American but pulls it off well) from the clutches of Isaac Hayes in
order to regain his freedom.  It's all great stuff and you can't stop
watching as Snake fights his way from one famous landmark to another (he
even has to wrestle Ox Baker).  But it leaves me with one unanswered
question:  What did happen to Fresno Bob?

Note:  A couple of the Duke's cronies are credited as Romero and Cronenberg.
 Also, Jamie Lee Curtis does the opening computer dialogue.
<|_=00=_|>
It's 1997 and Manhattan Island is a walled off prison, during the
flight of Air Force One, the president's plane is taken over by a
terrorist and the president ejects out in the safety pod. Sadly for him
he lands right in the middle of Manhattan Island, when an armed unit
lands inside the walls they are told that the president has been taken
hostage and they must get out of their prison ASAP. At a loss what to
do, the authorities decide to send one man in alone, ex war hero turned
criminal, Snake Plissken, not only does he have to contend with
surviving the incredibly hostile prison, he also has a time bomb
implanted in his body that, should he not get the president out safely
within 24 hours, will explode and mean no more Snake Plissken!.

Made in 1981 and set in 1997, it's safe to say John Carpenter is not
the best predictor of the future around. However his vision of a future
where America has thrown all it's criminals on one island, where they
create their own society out of harms way, has to rank as an incredibly
adroit piece of work. This place is grim and deadly, the flotsam and
jetsam of society thrust together in this bleak and desolate place of
class separation. What Carpenter has achieved with his usual minimal
budget allowance is a smouldering sci-fi classic that may be as daft as
they come, but it pulses with cool and cheekily slaps you round the
face with its cheeky satirical edginess. I must give kudos at this
point to the great production design from Joe Alves, who along with
Carpenter has crafted this brilliantly dirty netherworld of crime.

Our anti-hero of the piece, Snake Plissken, is superbly played by Kurt
Russell, the original choice interestingly was Tommy Lee Jones, but
Russell fuels Plissken's mantra to make him one of the eighties coolest
grumpy bastards!, and his work here is first class in terms of the
films apocalyptic structure. Surroundning Russell is a wealth of
quality performers each adding their personal bits to this tick-tock
stew, Lee Van Cleef, Ernest Borgnine, Donald Pleasance, Harry Dean
Stanton, Adrienne Barbeau and Isaac Hayes all earn their money and
flesh out the story to the end.

Calling Escape From New York an action picture would be setting first
time viewers up for a real let down, what action there is is minimal
but highly effective, the machismo flourishes acting more as a point of
reference to the pictures time bomb urgency. I like to think of the
film as more a sci-fi adventure yarn laced with darkly comic humour,
with of course machismo thrown in as a side salad to accentuate the
bleakness of it all, wonderful. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Nearly 25 years and an endless amount of viewings later, John
Carpenter's "Escape from NY" still ranks high among the chosen few,
quintessential cult films of the 80's. This is, simply put, one of the
coolest productions ever with legendary characters, ingenious plot and
pitch-black humor. Kurt Russell, with eye patch and nihilistic
'you-don't-like-it-go-to-hell' attitude, plays the role of his life as
anti-hero Snake Plissken, recruited by his authority-nemesis Bob Hauk
to bring back the American president who crashed with his plane in New
York. One problem though; ever since crime rose with 400% in 1987, New
York has become one giant and demarcated prison where criminals
determine their own "civilization". Offered no other choice, Snake
infiltrates NY for his mission and for a personal race against the
clock. Especially the first sixty minutes of this movie are terrific,
since there constantly is the introduction of new and imaginative
characters. Class-A actors play all these utterly cool characters,
which makes it even more memorable! Apart from Kurt Russell, "Escape
from New York" also stars icons like Lee Van Cleef ("The Good, the Bad
and the Ugly"), Isaac Hayes ("Truck Turner"), Donald Pleasance
("Halloween") and Harry Dean Stanton ("Repo Man"). Even the smaller
supportive roles are well distributed, with the underrated Tom Atkins
as Van Cleef's sidekick and Adrienne Barbeau in a very sexy part. The
downfall of America's number one city is atmospherically portrayed and
Carpenter's own music score creates an excellent mood of despair. The
action sequences are impressively photographed and John Capenter
professionally camouflages that his film is, in fact, and independent
production. My only slightly negative remark is that the story should
have had a better, more explosive climax. Particularly because the
first hour is so great, the ending seems quite tame. But, what the
hell, this movie is a must for every film lover! In 1996, Carpenter
also made "Escape from L.A." and even though it's good entertainment,
it can't compete with "NY".
<|_=00=_|>

Although not as fast-paced or well-lit as its sequel, Escape from LA, this
movie works on the level that it is futuristic, without being TOO
futuristic, and the main character is likeable, while being tough at the
same time. Whether you like Kurt Russell or not, it seems that he was made
for the part of Snake Plissken. One of its highest points is its theme
song.
It really gets your adrenaline going, and that is one of the most
important
factors of movies. Available on DVD. Sequel, Escape from LA, filmed 15
years
after the original also available on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
Many fans of Kurt Russell were extremely surprised he emerged from his
years as a child actor to evolve into a believable, hard hitting,
action hero. True, he was traditionally recognized to many for his
whimsical, good-looks and high school persona. Thus when movie-goers
saw him in this film, many stood aghast at his mature tenor. This
futuristic story begins with the President's plane being high-jacked by
rebel extremists and flown into the island city of New York which has
been transformed into a maximum prison. The plane with the president
(Donald Pleasence) on board crashes into the prison and it falls to the
warden/Police Commissioner, one, Bob Hauk, (Lee Van Cleef) to rescue
the chief executive. His plan? To send in a new convict, an experienced
ex-soldier and special ops veteran, named, Snake Plissken (Kurt
Russell) with the promise of a presidential pardon if he can return him
alive. To insure the clever criminal does not take the opportunity to
escape, he is given a lethal injection which can only be removed by the
commissioner's medical staff. Thus, begins a timely drama which means
life or death for the hero, the president and ultimately the world. The
success of this film owes much to the film's other characters like the
talkative Cabbie (Ernest Borgnine, terrific acting), Harold ' Brain'
Helman (Harry Dean Stanton), his 'squeeze' Maggie (Adrienne Barbeau)
and Isaac Hayes, who plays the heavy, The Duke of New York. This a
groundbreaking film for Russell and as expected, he carries it to it's
rave conclusion with action to spare. ****
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Watch the documentary that comes with the blu ray. Carpenter had a very
tiny budget; slightly more than he had with HALLOWEEN. Look what he did
with it? The sets and the script are the stars here along with a great
cast. Van Cleef, Borgnine, Harry Dean Stanton and the Carpenter regular
Donald Plescence who steals the movie. The scene where he machine guns
the Duke, reciting back the slogan Duke made him memorize is why
Carpenter used him so much in his movies. The film is dark, depressing
and creepy. Russell gives a great performance not even pretending to be
partly heroic with nothing but contempt for all of 'the establishment.'
The scenes in the city are cleverly shot to conceal the fact that they
were in a lousy part of St. Louis. 

Snake is not depicted as a kung fu expert like he would be today. He
makes plenty of mistakes, like going down Broadway, and barely escapes.
He often has to be bailed out by other people like Maggie, Brain's
squeeze and Carpenter's real life girlfriend. She is much better here
than in THE FOG where she is on screen too much. Her acting was always
a bit shaky. The tyrannical, lying government does not seem too far off
from where we are today. Ironically, while made in the late 70s this
movie has aged very well and seems more prescient today then when it
was released. 

The film itself is well acted, moves quickly, and is dark, depressing
and brooding. Snake is no hero nor does he want to be. Snake was really
the template that Riddick was based on. He is not invincible like
Riddick yet this is an improvement. Snake is much more realistic less
of a cartoon figure. Watch for Ernest Borgnine in a very small role; he
was always such a great actor and he captures every scene he is in. If
you really want to appreciate what a gem this is watch the big budget
overblown awful sequel ESCAPE FROM LA. It shows that money is no
guarantor of quality; ironically, Carpenter's smallest movies were the
best: HALLOWEEN, ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK and THEY LIVE. It is a great
film; one of his very best.
