
When we think about aliens in the movies, I guess everybody immediately
thinks about the series of "Alien" - movies, but there are some other
fine examples and "The Abyss" may well be the best alternative I can
come up with. Even though this was made by James Cameron, the same
director who gave us "Aliens", both movies are very hard to compare.

When an American nuclear submarine is attacked during the cold war and
crashes, the navy is convinced that it was the work of the Russians.
They want to salvage the wreckage as soon as possible, because a storm
is coming, but they aren't able to send a diving crew of their own that
quickly. That's why they contact a group of workers of a nearby
underwater oil rig, who reluctantly accept the job. They are joined by
some navy SEALS who will help them to locate and investigate the cause
of the crash. But they do not only find the crashed sub, they also find
out that there is more down there in the deep than what they had ever
expected to see.

What I liked so much about this movie was that this time the aliens
didn't feel threatening at all. It was something completely different
from what we were used to see and it worked perfectly. This was a
beautiful, well-crafted movie with some very fine acting and with some
excellent special effects. Even though this movie was created in 1989,
the computer animations were still marvelous and breathtaking. In fact,
this entire movie is breathtaking. It is very touching and powerful at
the same time and I'm sure that many people will have a lot of
difficulties not to show any emotions while watching it. I give this
movie an 8/10. It sure doesn't deserve any less.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is extremely well made.  Make sure you get the original
director's cut, or Special Edition as they are calling it on the DVD.  It
includes the real ending, along with more than 20 minutes of additional
footage.  The morons from the studio in Hollywood decided that the public
wouldn't want to see a nearly 3-hour underwater adventure, and forced James
Cameron to cut it down and change the ending.  The ending the studios
insisted on is your typical boring old done-a-million-times happy ending,
and does not work.  It betrays the message of the film, and makes it
nothing
more than a good underwater shoot-em-up.  This movie is much more than
that.
See the REAL ending to understand why it is so important to this film.  As
opposed to the canned studio ending, the REAL one makes you think.  Well,
what did you expect?  Hollywood executives make movies for the common herd,
they dumb them down to make sure every patron goes away feeling happy.  God
forbid that anyone actually may have to think a little.  At the time,
despite a few solid hits (such as the original Terminator), James Cameron
wasn't enough of a power in La-La land to force the studios to release the
movie as he wanted it to be.  After Titanic, they will do whatever he says,
so we can now expect some great Cameron films to look forward to, rather
than having to wait for the REAL movie to come out years later on a Special
Edition DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
Though I prefer The Terminator and Aliens, this film is James Camerons
most artistic film. The visual imagery of this film is stunning, with
no half measures taken, it is such a pleasure to watch. The aliens look
as beautiful as an alien can do and the underwater scenery is so
picturesque that I just wish I could be there.

The special effects are stunning. As with a lot of Cameron's hits, this
was an innovator in special effects. If it wasn't for this film, films
such as The Matrix and Lord of the Rings would not be here or at least
would not have been able to express themselves in a visual sense.

Cameron is the ultimate director. Although he is a pain to work with,
he gets his image across and proves why he is such a hit machine. No
one compares to him when it comes to picking a cast. Even though most
of this cast were, and still are, unknown, the performances in this are
fantastic. I know I always praise him but Michael Biehn as Coffey is
one of the best acting performances I have ever seen and the fact that
Biehn was not even Oscar nominated is a travesty! He is great to watch
as the maniac who is irate and just plain horrible. Ed Harris is on par
with his good performances in The Rock and Apollo 13. You just want to
be his mate in this movie despite the fact he is another pain (see Rock
out takes) which is why him and Cameron have not spoken a word since
this film. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio was a bit of a fad. She didn't
last very long being in good films but she is good as the hard nosed
estranged wife who near the end, becomes wonderfully vulnerable and
loving.

Cameron is a great writer and The Abyss, along with The Terminator and
Strange Days, shows off his talent to a great extent. As with all of
Cameron's Sci-Fi screenplays, behind the technology lies a
distinctively human element. This enables The Abyss, despite the extra
terrestrial goings on, to approach the audience on their level and suck
viewers in to the film. The character of Coffey is a great obstacle
character because he is losing his mind and is getting engulfed by
paranoia to the point where he can not trust anyone. The way Cameron
uses Coffey to build up suspense is very effective and the culmination
of this is one of the most frantic underwater chases there will ever
be. Spectacular is the only word that comes to mind. The ending of this
film has been heavily criticised but this is unfair as it carries a
decent message regarding humanity and fits the mood of the film. It may
have been slightly rushed but the best bits of the film are all under
water anyway.

Anyone who likes their special effects, a great story and terrific
acting need look no further than The Abyss. The contrast of the
breathtaking beauty of the ocean between the claustrophobia of a vessel
should be enough to captivate most audiences. A fantastic visionary
piece.
<|_=00=_|>

James Cameron is mostly known for his blockbuster hits like The
Terminator(1984), Aliens(1986), Terminator 2:Judgement Day(1991), True
Lies(1994), and Titanic(1997).  Those films contained fast paced action as
well as tense moments of human emotions.  One film by Cameron that doesn't
seem to get the same kudos as the films mentioned above is the beautifully
crafted, The Abyss(1989).  A more character driven and humanistic film than
any of the blockbuster features of James Cameron.  Seeing it in the Special
Edition version is the best way because situations and people become filled
with more depth.  Low Key epic picture that is driven by the excellent
acting of its cast.  Certain scenes like the reviving and "Bud"'s
commuication with aliens moments make the film into an interesting
constructed vision of human nature.  In some ways The Abyss(1989) follows
some ideas that echos The Day the Earth Stood Still(1950).  Especially true
in the film's message about the dangers of nuclear weapons.  Michael Biehn
perfects his sterotype persona in The Abyss(1989) as the battle and take
charged obsessed Lt. Coffey.  Maybe the finest directed feature film James
Cameron has put forth.  The Abyss(1989) is way better than the overrated and
less than average Titanic(1997).  Minor weakness is that the film at times
drags towards the end.  Ed Harris produces a performance of human depth and
quality as Virgil Brigman.  Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio as Lindsey Brigman
is the perfect counterpart to Ed Harris's Virgil Brigman(which is why the
two characters make a good couple).  The Abyss(1989) is a very good Scifi
film from the 1980s that is a pleasure both emotionally and visually to
experience.
<|_=00=_|>
The Abyss is one of the best sci-fi action/adventure movies ever made.
Besides the "usual" ingredients of excitement, characterization and
great narrative technique, the movie really scores on the wonder
factor. The amazing, jellyfish-like aliens and their manipulation of
water... A superb story incorporating the use of a then-recent SFX
breakthrough to absolute perfection. A timeless story with great
actors, great characters, great emotional substance.

The story is fabulous. It is about the very survival of humanity,
drawing on that time-honored science fiction trope: will we be so
stupid and disorganized that we cause our own destruction, or will love
and reason prevail, inaugurating a great and harmonious future for our
species? In thinly veiled symbol terms, this movie demonstrates how we
will reach the brink of destruction due to our own folly, but can be
redeemed if we rediscover the love and wonder that we once lost.

My rating: A clear 10 out of 10.

P.S. Coffey's first name is... Hiram?!?! BWAAAH-HA-HA-HA!!!!
<|_=00=_|>

I like short reviews so I will try to keep this short!

Let me begin to tell you this movie is original! Not to many movies are
being made that have an underwater setting.

The movie is about a drilling team who operate a high tech underwater
drilling station deep under the sea. As soon as they become cut off from
the
surface in a storm near an underwater crevice things are getting a
weird.

Strange in a way that the movie slowly shows that something scary and
silent
is there with them on the ocean floor. It builds suspension gradually
until
it ends within a climatic ending of the movie which I really liked (but
some
people have other opinions about that!)

Acting is great and the story very original with just enough
action!

**** out of five!
<|_=00=_|>
James Cameron as a director is a bit of a mixed bag. He has created
some of the most phenomenal action showcases cinema has ever seen. His
movies make loads of money and create spectacle like no other. He has
been part of the Alien quadrilogy, Terminator, and there was that
little movie that could about a couple of lovers on a sinking boat. For
that little picture he even won an Oscar. However, as a writer he has
also given us some patently ridiculous dialogue. It's like he can
create some pretty interesting story concepts, generate a great deal of
tension between characters and pull of amazing action, but when it gets
to finding the heart and soul of a character he pulls out the cheese.
It is interesting then that my favorite Cameron movie would be so
character driven with only a few moments of grandiose action.

The Abyss came out in 1989 with a trimmed down 146 run time. Later when
the movie came to video Cameron released his directors adding a
significant amount of footage and bringing the time to 171 minutes.
Most of this extra footage comes in at the end of the film and stands
to clear up some major confusion wrought in the theatrical version. It
seems that there are some creates living at the bottom of the ocean and
are rather perturbed at humanities prevalence for violence. It seems
these creatures (aliens?) can manipulate water and have forced giant
tidal waves to start approaching every major port. Humanity is saved
when the creatures see the true love between the two main characters.
It reminded me of the quote from Genesis where God agrees to save Sodom
and Gomorrah if He can find just 10 righteous people. In their case He
didn't, and the cities were destroyed by sulfur and fire, but in
Cameron's tale it seems that the rekindling of love between Ed Harris
and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio does save humanity.

What Cameron does extremely well in this picture is create tension.
From the claustrophobic setting of an underwater oil rig to the
potential nuclear meltdown each scene slowly tightens the screws of
suspense. The cold war plot raging outside of the main action reminded
me a lot of 2010. In both pictures the main characters are isolated on
vessels (a spaceship on 2010, an underwater oil well in the Abyss)
while the USA and Russia bring conflict close to nuclear war back on
earth (or above water). In both movies this helps to add tension as it
also dates the movies since the cold war is now over.

One of my favorite scenes involves the flooding of parts of the rig.
Water comes rushing into the rig and several of the characters scurry
to make it to safety and close off the doors to isolate the flooding.
Ed Harris is saved by his wedding ring. One of the doors automatically
starts to close and Harris sticks his hand in to stop the door, which
normally would have crushed his hand, but because he still wears the
ring his the door does not fully close. This give him enough time to be
saved from the flooding waters. There was an earlier scene in which his
wife asks him why he still wears the ring since they have separated.
When I chose my own wedding ring I opted for a titanium band known for
its extra strength. I can't help but think of that scene every time I
look at my own ring.

Much of the dialogue in the Abyss is of the heavy handed, clichéd
variety that Cameron brings to pretty much all of his movies. Some of
the extemporaneous characters bring little to the overall movie and
help distract the viewer from the main plot. I think Cameron has done a
very good job with the two main characters though. Ed Harris does a
remarkable job playing his role as 'boss' on the rig while still
hackling with his wife. Mastrantonio also does a fine job of portraying
the tough as nails "Lindsay" while still remaining feminine and
sympathetic.

The directors cut ending is much debated in the online world. While it
serves to clarify what was a rather abrupt and confusing ending in the
original it also becomes quite preachy and is at a loss for any type of
subtlety. Cameron attacks his anti-war message like Ripley against an
Alien.

Even with some awful dialogue and a preachy ending the Abyss has still
managed to be one of my favorite sci-fi movies. James Cameron creates a
tension like a master auteur and creates two of his best characters to
date.
<|_=00=_|>
Towards the end of the Cold War the USS Montana, a nuclear submarine
runs straight into an underwater cliff after an encounter with what
they believe was a new beyond state-of-the-art Russian submersible. The
Navy dispatches a SEAL team (lead by Michael Biehn) to record and
survey the situation and to find some answers. The commission a nearby
(or is it hijack?) deep sea oil drilling platform run by the estranged
Brigman's, Bud and Linsey (Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio).
During their mission things aren't quite as they seem as they discover
that they are not alone deep in "The Abyss". On the verge of war
topside and below with themselves the SEAL and workers struggle to come
to terms with an unbelievable situation that could lead them to a
nuclear confrontation.

"The Abyss" is a richly constructed story that puts well thought up and
executed characters into a situation that looks to be a schmaltzy, love
story set under the sea. The aliens or NTI's pretty much take a
backseat to the human element and our old conflicting ways, these NTI's
are non-violent and they want to teach us the error of our ways and
they mean business (especially in the Special Edition cut). The whole
cast does a wonderful job and most of the leads give Oscar-caliber
performances. Harris and Mastrantonio do it so well you think their
actually married. James Cameron establishes his love for the ocean in
"The Abyss" will fully succeeds on all the technical levels. The
production design is amazing with the full-size Deep Core set that was
submerged at the bottom of an unused nuclear reactor building. Cameron
shows his affinity for technology as the "pseudo pod "soon championed
in the new wave of computer generated imagery. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

THE ABYSS : DIRECTOR'S CUT (1989) **** Ed Harris, Mary Elizabeth
Mastrantonio, Michael Biehn, Todd Graff, John Bedford Lloyd, Leo Burmester,
Kimberly Scott, Chris Elliott.  Director James Cameron's best work (bar
none) and his most complex piece of filmmaking about an oil rig crew led by
gruff yet vulnerable Harris and his estranged wife Mastrantonio to head a
Navy SEAL expedition to unearth a sunken nuclear sub with some unusual
otherworldly presence deep beneath the ocean.   Great ensemble,
state-of-the-art special effects (early morphing of the "sea alien" prior to
"T2") and unexpected emotional turmoil.  Harris and Mastrantonio are top
notch in Tracy/Hepburn mode as is Biehn as the crazed SEAL out to start WW
III.  In this extended version the aliens show Harris their plan of action
and global warning for Earth to cool it with all the hostility.  ---
Personal note: I actually cried during the resuscitation sequence of
unabashed love sacrifice by Mastrantonio.
<|_=00=_|>
The Abyss was a movie of destiny. First off, this movie either began or
was the result of a lifetime obsession James Cameron has the ocean (see
later Titanic and his IMAX deep sea movies). The Abyss is also full of
echos of claustrophobic thriller/adventure movie Alien, in which
Cameron directed the sequel. So combining one of Cameron's old movies
with his new obsession, we get The Abyss, a solid sci-fi thriller
starring Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio. Ed Harris plays
Bud, the head of an undersea oil rig where very little actually happens
and the people on the rig are only there in case something goes wrong.
Well, wouldn't you know it, but an American nuclear submarine
patrolling the US coast near the oil rig suddenly sinks, killing the
sailors on board. The Americans suspect it's the Soviets, but we know
better. Something pink and glowing does something to the submarine
causing it to sink. A team of Navy seals, ferried down to the rig by
Bud's ex-wife Lindsey (Mastrantonio), boards the oil rig and uses it as
a command base for their mission to recover the submarine. And that is
when the fun begins. Of course a hurricane has to enter into the plot,
in movies like this, there is always a hurricane, but beyond, The Abyss
is a solid sci-fi thriller, where the oil rig becomes a character in
the movie. Much like the Nostromo in Alien or The Discovery in 2001,
the tight spaces adds flavor to the movie, bringing the setting in as
another character of the movie. The special effects were groundbreaking
at the time and hold up well today. The scene of a column of water
snaking its way through the oil rig still creeps me out to this day.
