

Men who've answered personal ads in the lonely hearts column featuring
poetry are being found naked, face down on their beds. There are cigarette
butts with lipstick on them in their ashtrays. Detective Frank Keller (Al
Pacino), along with his sidekick Sherman (John Goodman), decide to enter
their own ad in the lonely hearts column, and try to match the killer's
fingerprints.

A great premise that definitely justifies making yet another police
procedural, this Al Pacino vehicle won this reviewer over, which is hard to
do these days with cop thrillers - once you see enough they all start to
look the same.

But here we've got a great script, with some terrific wisecracking cop
lines, great actors, especially Pacino, Goodman and sexy Ellen Barkin -
which make for a very enjoyable ride. Sure the score is a little 80's, and
Ellen Barkin may look back and regret that hair-do, but otherwise this is a
very successful piece of film.

This is largely due to the terrific screen presence of Al Pacino - he's such
a firecracker! And the hugely enjoyable chemistry between partners Pacino
and John Goodman. They play off each other so well. The dating scenes are
particularly fun - personal highlights for me. And, of course, Ellen Barkin
exudes sensuality. Its incredible.

The title may sound pulpy and cheap - but its for good cause. We find out in
the first few minutes that its the name of the song the killer was playing
when the first murder of the film occured. Its also ironic - the
crime-ridden world of this film is anything but a sea of
love.

7/10. Must-see for Pacino fans and fans of cop thrillers. For everyone else,
not essential, but great saturday night fair.
<|_=00=_|>

I remember seeing Sea of Love at the theater in 1989 and left saying to
myself I had just seen one of the best thrillers made. Sea of Love is just
one of those movies that kept me in great suspense and excitement I really
felt surprised in the end when the killer was revealed. Since then I have
caught Sea of Love about a dozen times on cable and still to this day enjoy
the thrilling drama. The story is just great with the legend Al Pacino as
Detective Frank Keller who tries to catch and bait a lonely hearts killer.
Pacino is helped in his search by Detective Sherman played great by the very
funny John Goodman this was one of the better performances from Goodman.
Then the search takes a good but yet a bad turn when Pacino (Detective Frank
Keller) finds an interesting friend a very sexy and erotic type looking
female played marvelously by the attractive Ellen Barkin. I must say that
with the stunning performance Ellen gave with this role she should have
gotten any work she wanted to in films. I will not say nothing to any of you
who haven't seen the film I will let you enjoy the surprise like I did the
first time I saw Sea of Love. Sea of Love doesn't get the respect it
deserves still it airs on cable but watch this on a dark and rainy night
alone or day for that matter and feel the thrills and suspense of this
steaming thriller you would see it's one of the best films around I don't
see who would or could dislike this so take a swim in the sea of
love!
<|_=00=_|>

Great screenplay, acting and settings combine to make a dynamite film.
The
constant tension between the police investigation and Pacino's love
interest
keep the suspense going strong, and the chemistry between Barkin and
Pacino
is fabulous.  John Goodman is excellent as always, the sex/death themes
add
to the tension, and the ending will throw most for a loop... this film
delivers.  Try it, you'll like it.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I've watched it many times and never get tired of it. "Sea of Love" is
one of few films where Al Pacino is very sexy, and it is adds to the
film's many pleasures. The rest of them are - well constructed story of
a New York Homicide cop (Pacino) attracted to a mysterious blond woman
with a charming crooked grin (Ellen Barkin - talented, sexy and
underrated actress) who may or may not be a serial killer. The
chemistry between Pacino and Barkin is powerful and undeniable and the
love scenes between them are among the best and most memorable ever
filmed. John Goodman is very good as Pacino's partner and friend and
yes I love the soundtrack and the title song.
<|_=00=_|>
Al Pacino is excellent as the lonely and alcoholic Frank Keller, a
veteran New York City cop, hot on the trail of a serial killer. In
addition to Keller, and his tough-minded romantic interest, Helen,
played well by Ellen Barkin, a third major character is the city
wherein the story takes place. Ronnie Taylor's noirish cinematography
and Trevor Jones' appropriately downbeat score paint rather a lonely
picture of nighttime Manhattan, with all that colorful and flashy neon
and the dreary rain. The overall effect is a sense of psychological
isolation, alienation, and ... danger.

It's a perfect setting for a story about a series of murders, seemingly
tied together by oldies-but-goodies songs. Keller searches for a killer
who seems normal, but on the inside is a smoldering volcano. As a
murder mystery, "Sea Of Love" works, because of its focus, and because
of its restrictive narration. The viewer knows what Frank Keller knows,
but nothing more. Clues are very subtle, and lie more in what is not
said, than what is said. The ending was a surprise to me. I did not see
it coming.

I have a couple of problems with the film, neither of which is serious.
First, there are several plot segments that seem unnecessary, and could
have been edited out. Second, certain scenes involving the victims are
confusing.

"Sea Of Love" is a mystery/thriller that I recommend highly. It is
psychologically intense, and it has an atmosphere that is suitably
sinister. The acting, the music, the cinematography, the script, and
the production design are all credible. And I could listen all day to
that oldies-but-goodies song by Phil Phillips, from 1959.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one great movie, not only a thriller which it is also.
Sometimes a movie will come out so that watching it will be like
reading a good book. This is one of few. Excellent script, great acting
and directing and photo – and the additional point in introducing
Barkin's character far into the film makes for a much more convincing
narrative. Both Pacina and Barkin have always been great actors, and
here they are at their best, perhaps because of a certain tension
between them – one cannot decide if they are friends personally or hate
each other, or perhaps they create the ambivalence just because they
are superb actors. Anyway, I don't know if this one got any major
awards, but it sure should have. Besides Barkin is one hell of a woman,
and I supposed that Pacino is one hell of a man.
<|_=00=_|>
Within a kind of light and shadow there's almost a trademark
photography for a film noir movie, and "Sea of Love" is a film that
takes place in the shadows… 

Al Pacino plays Frank Teller, a self-conscious detective—in search of a
serial killer—drawn into a torrid sexual relationship with an
attractive young woman he met in a super market when all the good
citizens of the city are asleep and the people who are walking around
are the ones who are leading the most solitary lives… 

Helen Barkin is just so right for the part… You can believe her when
you see her dressed in her red leather jacket and tight jeans… She's a
lady of the night, sexy as hell, and a woman who can take care of
herself… Between her and Pacino, there were enough attraction that's
deep but also there were feelings of vulnerability and suspicion…
<|_=00=_|>
Al Pacino and Ellen Barkin sizzle in this murder-mystery/love-story.
For all those guys out there that are forced to watch 'chick flicks'
and for the ladies that sit through over violent action thrillers, here
is a movie both will enjoy. Pacino has made a career at attracting both
men and women in his movies and you will be hard pressed to find a more
beautiful woman than Barkin in this movie. John Goodman is a Detective
and Pacino's partner reminiscent of another very good Ellen Barkin
Love-Thriller 'The Big Easy' with Dennis Quaid. In 'Sea Of Love' the
passionate love making combined with several possible endings in
classic 'who-done-it?' style, will keep your attention and mood in
check. Light candles and break out the wine you won't be sorry.
<|_=00=_|>
In Manhattan, Detective Frank Keller (Al Pacino) is an efficient and
veteran cop with twenty years on the force, who is lonely and misses
his ex-wife Denise. She left him to live with his colleague from the
same precinct Gruber (Richard Jenkins). When a killer kills his victim
with a shot on the neck and leaves a single playing "Sea of Love",
Frank is in charge of the investigation. Detective Sherman, from a
district outside Manhattan, joins Frank when a second victim is killed
in the same MO. They find that both victims have written poetry in the
lonely hearts column of the single magazine "New York Weekly". When
there is a third case, Frank convinces his chief to write for the
magazine and work undercover investigating the women that reply the
advertisement. Frank fall in love for the prime suspect, the manager of
a shoe store Helen Cruger (Ellen Barkin), jeopardizing his
investigation.

"Sea of Love" is one of the best and most underrated thrillers ever. I
do not know how many times I have seen this movie since the release in
the movie theaters, then on VHS and now on DVD. The classy story is a
film-noir perfectly developed, and shows one of the most erotic love
scenes of the cinema history. Al Pacino is simply perfect, showing a
perfect chemistry with the sexy Ellen Barkin, who is in the top of her
career, and also with John Goodman. The soundtrack is also one of the
most beautiful of the cinema, and the CD with eleven songs is
fantastic. Samuel L Jackson, in the beginning of career, plays a
criminal in the story with a minor participation. My vote is nine.

Title(Brazil): "Vítimas de uma Paixão" ("Victims of a Passion")
<|_=00=_|>
Some of my friends thought this is one of those films that is great the
first time you see it, but diminishes after that because the heavy
suspense questions have been answered. However, Al Pacino, Ellen Barkin
and John Goodman are all so entertaining to watch that I've always
enjoyed this film no matter how many times I've seen it.

The suspense is what this film is all about, but I am fascinated with
these actors, including supporting performances by Michael Rooker and
William Hickey. Although her looks are a little hard and her mouth way
too profane for my tastes, Barkin never looked better and sexier. That
Pacino's character, "Detective Frank Keller" would fall for her is
understandable, especially know what part of his anatomy is doing the
"talking." However, adultery, once again is excused in this film along
with other not-so-moral acts so this isn't a film you want to show to
your church group. All three of the leads are very weak,
ethically-speaking.

The fact that this film can go on for almost two hours with very little
action and still keep you riveted to your seat speaks highly of its
entertainment value. Why critics knocked it so much, I don't know. Hey,
it's good entertainment. What more do you want?
