

I I still love this movie after 24 years. This show was to take place
during Viet Nam era. I would say this is a movie for guys. Good looking
muscle cars throughout the show. Hey they even cruise the burger joint
!!!!! Good Motown music throughout. This show is the ultimate in high
school pranks. Great cast of actors. Unbelievable what teenagers can
get into when they're away from home.

There are some very good moments of "growing up" in this film. Some one
leaving to go to Viet Nam not sure if he'll come back to see his
friends, so he hangs out with them the night before he leaves. The
usual boy falls in love with girl ,then girl leaves for college stuff.
Some good street drag scenes. A high school initiation quest. There are
a lot more stories in this very well scripted film that are all TOO
real. 

If you ever wondered what your parents did in the sixties then you need
to watch the fun they had. It really did look like a blast. This is a
must see!

MY FAVORITE CHARACTER: Newbomb Turk

<|_=00=_|>

If you're looking for a fun way to spend an hour and a half, plug this
movie
in, kick back and be prepared to laugh yourself silly. This film basically
has no plot save for the fact that Tubby's Drive-in is shutting down and
the
Hollywood Knights converge there for one last hurrah. Most of their
hijinks
take place elsewhere however, but Tubby's is their hangout. The movie is a
series of comedy sketches rather than a straightforward progression. The
cast plays their roles to the hilt led by the frenetic stylings of Robert
Wuhl (Newbomb). Also outstanding are Stuart Pankin as Dudley (the
much-maligned honor student), and Gailard Sartain and Sandy Helberg as
Officers Bimbeau and Clark.   One point I notice in other reviews and
which
I have to agree wholeheartedly with is that the subplots featuring Tony
Danza/Michelle Pfeiffer and Jimmy Shine/Vietnam both contrive to slow the
film down. This can be excused though, thanks to such gems as Newbomb's
rendition of Volare, the one-armed violinist and the catered reception.
Bottom line: it's a lewd and crude laugh-riot!!! 
<|_=00=_|>

I remember first catching this movie on HBO back in 82 when I was 12. I
thought it was one of the funniest movies I had ever seen. I would put The
Hollywood Knights up against any sophmoric crude comedy out there. I am
sure
if you saw it you would definetley rank it in the top ten. This movie is
right up there with Porky's, Animal House, Revenge of the Nerds, American
Graffiti. You definetely would not get it if you saw this on regular
broadcast television. This R comedy has to be seen uncut and unedited. I
would always look for this at video stores but never could find it. I
recently went over a friends house and noticed he had a VHS copy. It is
one
of those things that if someone knows about Hollywood Knights there is an
instant conection to them. Now after all these years it is out on DVD. I
can't wait to get my copy.
<|_=00=_|>
We first saw this little opus on cable, and rushed out to get a blank
tape right away. The first major film for Tony Danza, Michelle
Pfieffer, and Robert Wuhl, "The Hollywood Knights" is funny, gross,
bawdy, and nostalgic all at the same time. Is it a rip-off of "American
Graffiti"? Um, yeah, but it's still a very funny film in its own right.
Is it gross and lewd in spots? Well. . .yeah, but we can think of more
egregious examples, like "Porky's". Does it deserve an "R" rating? Not
when you consider some of the other dreck that's been put in the can.
Undoubtedly the most memorable scene is Newbomb's rendition of
"Volare'" in the school gym; a masterpiece of lowbrow humor, but
funnier than. . .well, you can fill in the blank. Bottom line: a
small-budget gem, if you can take it. If you're easily offended,
lighten up. After all, there's LOTS worse out there!
<|_=00=_|>
Folks, this is not a movie to be judged or rated by ordinary or serious
standards as you would "I Am Legend" or "Gone With The Wind."
Admittedly, this is a typical early 1980s (set in the 1960s) teen trash
and laugh fests crudely mixed together from "Animal House" and
"American Graffiti." No real plot, a thousand different things happen
at once to group of wild teenagers (played by numerous soon-to-be's)
who pull crazy pranks on Halloween Night 1965.

However, if you are not of the overly-sensitive politically correct
crowd or watching this with (very) young children, this film is FUNNY!
The gaseus rendition of "Volare", wild catch-phrases (his pants fit him
like a glove, Lawrence, Lawrence of Arabia, et. al) and senseless
raunch makes this ideal for firing up the DVD player while your buddies
are over for beer and pizza. Don't expect to find the meaning of life
in this one.
<|_=00=_|>

Trashy, sophomoric, offensive and very, very funny!  I keep a watch for
this
film as it shows up on Cinemax every so often.  I love the two cops and
the
whole bit about spiking the punch. Robert Wuhl's rendition of "Volare" in
the gym is a gas!

Truly one of the most hilarious movies ever made.   
<|_=00=_|>
In reality it is a poor movie. The acting is Luke warm. B U T . . It is
a great movie too! The plot is thin and the stories were cut short. Too
bad the cutting room floor clips weren't available for the DVD.

The Cobra vs Project X race is incredible. Even though MSD electronic
ignition and electric thin profile fans weren't available yet in '65.
The Cobra still would have smoked the '57 and the T-Bucket. The
hair-dos are more of the late '70s than the mid '60s.

I have it on VHS & DVD as well as a couple of original posters and it
ranks as one of my favorite movies. The cars are great to see.

KNIGHTS RULE
<|_=00=_|>
By rights, this movie should get a 2. It is badly acted, there are any
number of continuity goofs (like Moosie Dreier being in two places at
once) and there are many racist and sexist jokes. However, if you want
to laugh and forget the real world for a few minutes, then this film is
for you. This movie launched the careers of Tony Danza, Bob Wuhl, Joyce
Heyser, Gailhard Sartain, Stuart Pankin, and Michelle Pfifer. There
were great cars and there was great music, although some of the music
was post 1965. The California surf-and-drag culture was very appealing.
I grew up in the Midwest and went to catholic schools during cold
winters, and I can imagine was CA must have been like. Another favorite
movie of mine is also set in 1965, Heaven Help Us. The contrast is
extreme. To kids who were swimming bare in cold pools and getting the
paddle in gym class, the prospect of endless sunshine and girls in
bikinis would have been otherworldly. And no teachers to worry about,
just two dumb cops who were easy to outwit. And what I would not have
given to be a student at Beverly Hills High!
<|_=00=_|>
Whether you like good comedy or like movies that bring memories of a
long-gone era, this is the guilty pleasure for you. The setting in 1965
with the Vietnam conflict, changes in race relations and music gaining
momentum, makes for a perfect setting for a group of fun-loving senior
high students who gather their car club together on Halloween night for
an evening at the local drive-in burger joint nobody will forget. Big
names--before they were big--like Robert Wuhl, Tony Danza and Fran
Dresher, add to the fun. Everybody knows or has known a Newbomb Turk,
guys will enjoy the cars and antics, and gals will like the nostalgia
and the love story between Danza and Michelle Pfeiffer. Sure there are
juvenile pranks (actually a lot of them), but all in good fun. If
you're looking for something different in comedy, check this movie out.
<|_=00=_|>

I first saw this movie when it premiered on HBO in the early 80's. Having
recently purchased a VHS (not Betamax!) videocassette recorder, I
immediately taped it. Of the many movies I recorded at the time, The
Hollywood Knights was the one I came back to over and over again, until one
of my friends "borrowed" my cherished copy, never to see it again. But the
one-liners and the jokes remained fresh in my mind for all these years, and
now it is available ( finally, after 20 years !! ) on VHS and DVD. I must
admit the R-rated jokes are not for the easily-offended, but they are FUNNY,
and that's what being young in the early-mid 60's was all about... hot rods,
music, women, and just having a good time. Years after I saw it for the
first time, many of the actors kept appearing in new roles and I asked
myself: Hey, wasn't he (or she) in the Hollywood Knights cast ? This is one
of the few movies I can remember in which this happened several times
(Pfeiffer, Danza, Pankin, Dresher, Wuhl, Helberg and Graham ). Every time I
hear Domenico Modugno or Bobby Rydell sing "Volare", Newbomb's cover version
pops in my mind. For all the one -liners, the practical jokes, the cast, the
cars, and the music, it is a great movie to enjoy for years to come ... and
yes, don't drink the punch !
