
This was another sequel that was fashionable to knock when it came out.
It got panned because it couldn't live up to the first Ghostbusters.
Well, what could? The first one was so original, so enormously popular
than any sequel was bound to fail as far as matching it.

This second Ghostbusters was just fine, very entertaining and it was
nice to see all the main characters back. It had a little nicer feel to
it and was more family-friendly language-wise, so it even had some
things going for it the first one didn't have.

The other major different in this sequel was watching Peter MacNichol,
who reprized his "Renfield"-type character from Mel Brooks' "Dead: And
Loving It" comedy with Leslie Nielsen. Here, MacNichol plays "Janosz
Poha," another wacko with a thick Eastern European accent. He is
hilarious, and elevates the enjoyment of this film. Otherwise, the rest
of the cast plays and acts just as they did in the first film, which
means you'll get a lot of laughs out of them The story just isn't as
intense, that's all. No, it can't equal the original, but.....

The bottom line is this: Don't try to compare the two films. If you
enjoyed the first, you'll like this.....period.
<|_=00=_|>

I say that one line summary not in the meaning you should watch this film in
widescreen, but in that this film isn't as bad as some people say.  Sure it
might not have the ultimate originality of the 1st (of course), but it is
still entertaining, one of the best of 1989.  This time, we see 5 years
later where the Ghostbusters parted ways (Venkman to a Talk show, Spengler
to a child psychologist and Stanz as a book store owner) but are put back
together because of new activity in the paranormal that could end the world
(courtesy of a painting named Vigo).  Then, comedy ensues with great visual
effects to match.  Still pretty funny (the talk show scene with Chloe Webb
is utterly hilarious), but maybe just a tad lesser than the first. 
A-
<|_=00=_|>

Ghostbusters 2 is a fair sequel that finds the boys in grey five years
later, not doing too good.  Of course, it's not long before evil spirits
pop
up again in Manhattan and they're back doing what they do best.  What makes
this one work as well as the first is the relationship between the main
characters.  Bill Murray gets the great one liners again, and his scenes
with Sigourney Weaver are just as goods as the first film.  Dan Aykroyd and
Harold Ramis provide enough silly techno jargon and odd references to slime
and ghosts to keep you smiling.  Still, you can't beat a 100 foot
marshmallow man in Manhattan.
<|_=00=_|>
I could lie and say I think "Ghostbusters II" is an inferior sequel to
the original 1984 "Ghostbusters," but "Ghostbusters II" is an
entertaining film in its own right. Nothing can come close to the
gleaming perfection of the first film but damn it, the sequel works in
most places. It's chiefly because the movie is just so damn
entertaining! It's still mostly watchable despite its flaws and
misjudgments about what the filmmakers may have seen as an apparent
mean-spiritedness in a lot of people during the late '80s.

True, comedian and star Bill Murray still steals the show whenever he
gets the chance and he also gets some of the best lines, and he's just
so gosh-darn funny as a leading man. Screenwriter team/co-stars Dan
Aykroyd and Harold Ramis are also in top form, and it shows in their
wily and hilarious script. Unlike the first picture, though, it seems
like they took the family-friendly route and didn't feel like building
up to the oh-so-apocalyptic tone of the first film (even though
"Ghostbusters" was still pretty funny aside from the occasional dark
tone).

And also, director Ivan Reitman knows their material and it looks like
the filmmakers made the wise decision of bringing back everybody from
the original film, including Sigourney Weaver and Rick Moranis. It's
been five years since the first film (a title card confirms it), and it
seems that most of New York City doesn't even remember who the
Ghostbusters are and what they did for the city. Everyone in the city
is miserable and the opening moments confirm that as well. After being
almost bankrupted by countless lawsuits and being unable to practice
their trade because of a judicial restraining order, the boys are
reduced to moonlighting in other fields, such as catering to the needs
of spoiled yuppie children at their birthday parties, a task that
neither Ray Stanz (Aykroyd) or Winston Zeddemore (Ernie Hudson) take
pride in.

Egon Spengler (Ramis) is the only one of the original Ghostbusters who
seems to have actually moved on with his life. Peter Venkman (Murray)
hosts a television show called "The World of the Psychic," a show that
apparently draws in modest ratings but no respected psychic will appear
on his show because they think he's a fraud. Anyway, things get
underway when the boys discover that nasty pink slime of supernatural
origin is discovered building up underneath the city, something that
old friend and Venkman's old flame Dana Barrett (Weaver) realizes first
hand when the slime attacks her infant son, and it's an investigation
they have to do on the down-low because of their current legal
situation.

This slime, they learn, feeds off the misery and stress of a
downtrodden New York City, and it's only getting stronger as the
holidays are approaching. But because no one believes in ghosts
anymore, their task is even more difficult. Well, after ghost-busting
the two ghouls that crash in on their trial hearing, we have no choice
but to be ready to believe them. They're back in business, all right -
with cynical Janine Melnitz (Annie Potts) answering the phones and
Louis Tully (Moranis) on the books - tracing the source of their
ghost-busting investigations to a 17th-century Moldavian tyrant named
Vigo the Carpathian who wants in on the 20th century, and has possessed
museum curator Janosz Poha (a hilarious Peter MacNicol) to go out and
kidnap Dana's son so he can have a body so he can live again.

One thing "Ghostbusters II" provides for the viewer is solid
entertainment, which is what any good sequel should do. It would be
impossible for this movie to any way live up to the original, so you
can't blame the filmmakers for at least trying (trying is italicized).
It would be pointless to say that the acting is good from our players,
but my God, they're good and again in top form. The special effects are
still pretty impressive, even from their early ghost-busting capers, to
a finale where the boys are actually able to walk down the streets of
the city in an animated - yes, animated! - Statue of Liberty (yes, Lady
Liberty has sprung to life, and good thing she's on our side!). And
even the R.M.S. Titanic (don't ask, just watch) pops up too.

"Ghostbusters II" hasn't been particularly well-received, even despite
its more family-friendly tone and message about the folly of
mean-spiritedness. But it's just a good sequel, nonetheless, not bad,
not superior to the original, maybe on par with the original, but it's
just really good fun.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

In this 1989 sequel to the original blockbuster, the storyline picks up 5
years later as Dana Barrett (Sigourney Weaver) is trying to move on with
her
life and her new baby.  Soon, ghostly forces are at work to attack her and
her baby, and once again she enlists the help of the Ghostbusters.  The
film
is a strong sequel and is almost as fun as the original, but some plot
holes
and loose ends make this not nearly as good.  The romance of Annie Potts'
Janine and Rick Moranis' Louis is funny, but there is no explanation of
what
happened with her romance with Egon from the first one.  A lot of the story
and humor is recycled from the original, but fans of the first film will
definitely enjoy this above-average sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
All the principal characters and then some have been reunited five
years later for Ghostbusters II. If you still have an ectoplasmic
problem in your home or place of work, who you going to call? Why
Ghostbusters II of course.

New York City has a river of ectoplasmic slime running underneath it
and its feeding the sick desires of a long dead Carpathian count with
delusions of grandeur to come back and rule. But first to find a host
body.

Poor Sigourney Weaver, there's something about her that the spirits
just can't resist. In the first Ghostbusters she was the target, now
it's her infant son. Her's and Bill Murray's that is. If the no account
count can get his spirit into the infant, he will be reborn with powers
and abilities far beyond those of mortal men. Or does someone else have
those?

As usual Ghostbusters Bill Murray, Dan Ackroyd, Harold Ramis, and Ernie
Hudson see the problem, but to convince the rest of New York that their
general misanthropic behavior is what the nasty spirit feeds on.

Joining the gang is former victim Rick Moranis. In many ways Moranis is
the funniest one in the film. He and Annie Potts make a delightful
couple and great babysitters for poor Sigourney, especially since she
can't get them to leave.

Ghostbusters II is every bit as funny as the original. And in addition
the second film retains that famous and catchy theme that you won't get
out of your head for weeks after seeing this film.
<|_=00=_|>

This sequel to the successful movie Ghostbusters was itself, pretty
successful.  In the end though it did not do as well and just seemed a
little flat.  The story of the slime was pretty good and it was funny seeing
them do kid's birthday parties (though I doubt a kid at that time would have
watched He-man cartoons).  In the end this movie suffers from the fact that
it follows the basic structure of the first movie so there is nothing really
different about it.  You have them investigating something, you have them
dispatching a ghost, then you have the musical interval, then you have them
locked up (in a loony bin this time), then you have a building taken over by
the head ghost, and finally you have a giant thing walking through New York.
 It just seems to me that with ghosts and other things, you could come up
with a totally original and funny script without having to follow what
worked in the previous chapter.  It is a shame too, that another
Ghostbusters will probably never be made.  It would be interesting to see
it, considering all the advancements in special effects.
<|_=00=_|>

In the movie world there are a lot of movies that have sequels. It is also a
known fact that people talk about a sequel, commenting that it was either
better or worse than its predecessor. However when it comes to the sequel
for ‘one of the biggest films of the 1980's', that being Ghostbusters II,
the fuss was not so big and the talk was not so loud, about it being good or
bad. Although it was made a while ago, Ghostbusters II has many nostalgic
moments, which makes me wonder why it is was not a hit. When Venkman says
‘Sometimes, weird things happen, someone has to deal with it, and who are
you gonna call?!', you know it is time once again to call on the
‘Ghostbusters'.

Five years after waging a war on slime that cost New York City millions, the
Ghostbusters find themselves out of business--until an ancient tyrant,
preparing a return to the Earthly domain through a river of slime under the
city and his portrait at the Manhattan Museum of Art, sets his sights on
Dana Barrett's baby as the new home for his wicked soul! With the help of
the Museum's possessed curator, he plans to turn New York into a really
scary place to live! Now only the Ghostbusters can save New York City, by
turning paranormal pest control into an art form!

The surprising part about this film is that almost every aspect from the
first, returned to do it all a second time. Director Ivan Reitman does a
grand job in directing Ghostbusters II. I am certain that he wanted to make
this film as similar to the first Ghostbusters as he could, considering that
formula seemed to be very popular with many movie fans. The screenplay was
once again written by two of the stars of the movie, that being Dan Akroyd
and Harold Ramis. They certainly put a lot of thought into the humour being
presented, which made this film seem very original and funny. If either of
these areas of Ghostbusters II were a failure, than I am sure that this film
would not have been anywhere near as good, as I thought it
was.

I was glad to see all the cast back for a second time. The way we see the
Ghostbusters five years on is very amusing. With two of them doing parties
and being a joke, one doing a TV talk show and the other being a
psychologist. Bill Murray still added that funny touch to the movie, with
his character of Venkman being outrageous, which made the movie funny to
watch. All the other Ghostbusters characters were good once again. Stantz,
Spengler and Zeddemore are as they were before, smart or as silly as ever.
Breaking up this team would for me seem an injustice.

The supporting cast was also good. Dana Barrett was performed well again by
Sigourney Weaver. Dana is a woman whose life always seems to be troubled by
paranormal pests and a man by the name of Venkman. Joining the cast is ‘Ally
MacBeals' Peter MacNichol, who is the zany character of Janosz Poha, Dana
Barrett's possessed art boss. I also found it clever to have the characters
of Janine (Annie Potts) and Louis (Rick Moranis) return as lovers, as this
adds a bit of spice and variety to the story. Furthermore, Dana's baby Oscar
was a cutie, and by the end of the movie was an integral character to the
makeup of the story. Add in the return of Slimer, which although he was not
as funny as I had hoped he would be, put a smile on my face every time I saw
him.
 

There are some very funny scenes and lines in Ghostbusters II. I like how
the movie starts, with Dana's baby carriage just taking off by itself. Then
you also have the funny courtroom scene, where the Ghostbusters are charged
as guilty of their crime, then in the next instant are tackling ghost in the
courtroom, by the judge's requests! At the end of this scene the guys remark
‘Two in the box, ready to go, we be fast and they be slow'. Yet when we see
a river of slime under the city, which can cause people to turn evil, you
know that the fun has returned again. Then for a cop to exclaim that ‘the
titanic has just arrived', was a very game scene to create in a movie, but
very funny as well. Only the Ghostbusters could get away something like
that. Furthermore, to top the first movies ‘Marshmallow man', the scene with
the ‘Statue of Liberty' was very ingenious and makes for a hilarious time,
as I wanted to see what would happen next.

I can not remember if this was a big movie back when it was released in
1989. I am surprised if it wasn't, as it was everything that you could want
from a sequel, and that little bit more. Although it was not as good as the
original, I still had a fun time watching the Ghostbusters a second time
around and is must-see for fans. With great special effects, funny story and
roles from all involved, Ghostbusters II is not as bad a sequel as some
would have you to believe. What's more, I was reading the other day that
there was talk of Ghostbusters III. Part of me is a little disappointed that
this film never made it off the ground, because just imagine all the fun
that we have missed out on seeing. Be ready to believe them all over
again!

CMRS gives ‘Ghostbusters II': 4 (Very Good Film)

<|_=00=_|>
I guess that usually, we have to wonder why they make sequels. If
nothing else, as long as the sequels aren't boring, obnoxious,
pathetic, embarrassing, insulting, or otherwise bad, then they're
acceptable. "Ghostbusters II" passes. Bill Murray, Dan Aykroyd, Harold
Ramis, Ernie Hudson, Sigourney Weaver, Annie Potts and Rick Moranis
reprise their roles from the original. This one has the title
characters battling a river of hostility-based slime that's possessing
a painting. Peter MacNicol plays the man who brought the painting to
New York, and subsequently gets possessed by it. "Ghostbusters II" is
pretty ridiculous, often gross, but never unpleasant. So who you gonna
call?
<|_=00=_|>

I simply don't understand why so many people have bashed this film lately.
"Ghostbusters II" is an incredible movie; funny, entertaining, and a
perfect
sequel to the original 1984 classic.  In fact, I think it's entirely
possible that this movie might be better than its predecessor.  Anyone who
liked "Ghostbusters" should definitely like "Ghostbusters II", why they
wouldn't is beyond me.  The script is strong and the movie's message is a
great one.  Plus, the movie can be enjoyed be the entire family, even more
so than the original.  There is absolutely nothing wrong with this movie.
After many viewings, it remains fresh and always enjoyable.  This is, in
my
opinion, the best sequel ever.  There is no way that people can say that
this taints the name of the first film, as it is just as good and
enjoyable.
The music in "Ghostbusters II" is great, the comedy non-stop, the
adventure
enough to keep you on the edge of your seat.  There are just not enough
good
things I can say about this movie, and yet it bothers me that people say
this film is garbage.  This film doesn't fall into the typical sequel trap
by not living up to the original, because it is just as great as
"Ghostbusters".  It achieves the rare feat, which only a handful of
sequels
have. ("Back to the Future Part II" and "Toy Story 2" come to mind.)
"Ghostbusters II" does not disappoint in any way, even with the high
expectations the first film set.  If you are not a big fan of the first
one,
I can see why you wouldn't like this movie (I couldn't understand why, but
at least what your reasons are).  However, they don't make movies this
good
anymore.  "Ghostbusters II" is a classic, have the whole family watch it
next New Year's Eve and see how good it makes you all feel.
