

The first time I saw this movie I loved the music and dancing and
appreciated the setting.  I found it strange and couldn't follow it
properly.  I watched it a second and third time, partly to see the dancing
again, and listen to the music, and the plot completely grew on me.  I
absolutely love this movie.  It is complex, and extremely accurate in its
portrayal of the time when gangsters owned stars.  If you love jazz music
and know a little about its history, you will be enraptured by this movie.

The acting is incredible, and highlights the subtle twists in the plot
beautifully.  The cinematography is done in a most expert fashion.  Richard
Gere and Gregory Hines are absolutely charming, and Diane Lane is perfect
is
Vera Cicero.  Lonette McKee has one of the most beautiful voices you will
ever hear, it is no wonder she received a Tony award.  Any viewer will be
surprised by the guest appearances including Nicholas Cage, Bob Hoskins,
Lawrence Fishburne, and on-screen and real-life brother of Gregory, Maurice
Hines.
Not only one of Coppola's best, but one of the best of all
time.
<|_=00=_|>

The Cotton Club is such a well-made movie, you have to wonder why so many
critics and audiences ignored it when it was first released.  Was it because
of the murder case surrounding its production?  Or did some people feel that
a mixture of gangster films and Hollywood musicals didn't mix?  Whatever the
reason, The Cotton Club deserves to be watched again and again, not just for
its music and dancing, but for the great performances, scenery, cars,
costumes...and tommy-guns.  The movie was nominated for two Oscars, but a
third nomination should have gone to Bob Hoskins, for his brilliant
performance as Owney Madden.  Despite his few film credits, James Remar is
brilliant as Dutch Schultz and comes across as the sort of person you
wouldn't want to meet in a dark alley.

There are rumours the film may be re-released with scenes and music that
were cut from the original version.  If this is true, would the film finally
become a hit?  After all, Robert Evans, the film's producer, apparently told
one reporter..."How can it miss?  It's got gangsters, music and girls." 
Well said, Robert.
<|_=00=_|>
Part fictional and part non-fictional, this lavish two-hour Francis
Ford Coppola film spotlights the Cotton Club, the legendary, real-life
Harlem jazz nightclub that flourished in the Prohibition era of the
late 1920s and early 1930s. Richard Gere plays Dixie Dwyer, a young
musician who works for mobsters, in an effort to advance his career.
Dwyer falls in love with Vera Cicero (Diane Lane), the girlfriend of
gangster Dutch Schultz (James Remar). The Dwyer character is based
loosely on real-life jazz trumpet player Bix Beiderbecke.

Throughout the film, various gangsters and bootleggers interact,
sometimes violently, but much of the action centers around the Cotton
Club, an establishment owned in real-life by Owney Madden, played in
the film by actor Bob Hoskins. Madden would bring in Black performers
to entertain a Whites-only clientèle, a truly racist policy, and a
major plot point in the film's story.

The film's plot is somewhat muddled, the result of a less than stellar
screenplay. And, as you would expect, the gangster characters are not
terribly likable. But the film overcomes these script weaknesses with a
captivating visual and musical style that is both tawdry and elegant.
The corruption, the violence, and the implied sleaze are garish and
tawdry to be sure. Yet, the Club's ambiance gushes with a certain
elegance and glamour. It's a strange mix, but one that is entirely
consistent with that era in U.S. history.

The film gets points from me for its lush, period piece costumes and
production design, and adroit lighting, as well as all those jazz
numbers, both sultry and flashy. Gregory Hines together with brother
Maurice Hines provide some snappy tap dancing, some of which is
improvised. Interestingly, their grandmother really did perform at the
Cotton Club during its heyday. Also of interest in the film, viewers
get to watch towering Fred Gwynne, who plays Frenchy, the oh-so-serious
assistant to Owney Madden; the two of them engage in some interesting
dialogue.

Although the script's story and characters are less than ideal, I
enjoyed the film a lot, mostly as a result of the tawdry and elegant
visual style combined with the lavish jazz numbers. If you're
interested in gangster movies or the Prohibition era of American
history, this film is a must-see.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie when it first came out and I thought it was a mess.
Now years later while I have the luxury of sitting in my house watching
the various showings on cable, I like a better. Why because this movie
is IMO 3 different movies going on at once. I Now I am able to
concentrate on one aspect of the movie more then the whole. 

I will start with movie #1... The Cotton club, the nightclub where
everything converges and what is the common denominator that brings ALL
of the characters together. It is almost set up like a Plantation in
Mississippi. The white gangster own the place and the black people work
there and have no say about anything that goes on. Black people were
not even able to go to the club as a customer. All of the women who
worked there were light skin almost passing for white. In the movie
they do show how the set up was but the place was no as large as it was
in the movie and on a side bar. Larry Fishburn who plays a numbers
runner (the same role he played in a later movie, Hoodlum) shows
interest in a brown skin singer performer in the club and her mother is
very upset because she is the first "dark skin" woman working at the
club. I liked that they added that in. I know this because my neighbor
use to play with Louis Armstrong that the women in question is in fact
Louis Amstrongs future wife. A little tidbit. I like the music and the
performances which took place in the club. To me this was the most
enjoying part of the movie. I feel a movie just about the Club without
all the other foolishness it would be very interesting in the right
hands. Which brings me to movie 2

THe gangsters or the white people. Owey Madden was a thug and a very
nasty man. In this movie Bob Hoskin (who was very good) and Fred Gwynn
who I loved played like they were Fred Flintstone and Barney Rubble. In
the right hands we would of seen the real Madden. Remember this is the
man who kept black people out of his club. And did battle with other NY
gangsters. Then we have Dutch Schultz. I wonder why we did not see more
of Lucky Luciano because it was those 2 who were causing havoc in NYC
during the 20's with Luciano winning. I think James Remer did the best
portrayal of Schulz. Years later Tim Roth played him in the movie
Hoodlum and he was good, but Remer was scarier. And according to all
reports he was a psychopath. Then we have the George Raft(Dixie Dwyer)
character played by Richard Gere If people are not familiar with the
actor George Raft it was known he hung around the mob and had big time
mob connections..who actually got him a job in movies. Richard Gere
even mentions at one time that he use to be a dancer. I am sure that is
reference and acknowledgment of George Raft, who was a dancer before he
went to Hollywood. George Raft was actually a pretty good actor. Gere
even looks like him. I feel that is the real reason they cast him in
this movie. Look at this movie as Gere playing Raft and not playing
Dixie Dwyer and the part works. 

The last movie is the Harlem story. The Larry Fishburne character was a
real person. He was lifetime criminal who spent most of his life in
jail. He was not the voice of righteousness we see in the movie or the
movie Hoodlum. What was interesting was the scene when he and the woman
who was running the numbers racket in Harlem were offered a deal. I
like they put that in the movie, that was true. The woman who was the
real boss of the numbers racket came from the West Indies and started
the whole thing on her own. A very tough cookie who went to jail
because she would not give in to the mob. The mob was politically
connected and they put her in jail for a long time. I like the the
Hines bothers in the movie. They were feuding in real life and this
movie was a way they starting talking again. They actually showed that
in the movie. ALso the Vonnetta McGee character was interesting. I am a
very light skin black women who could pas for white. WhICH I WOULD
NEVER DO. But I don't know about living back in the early part of the
century. The scene when she and Sandman goes to the hotel and the clerk
tries to deny them a room actually happened to me and a boyfriend of
mine years ago. So that scene really hit me. I would of liked if they
explored Harlem life more, but the movie had too much going on already.

Nicholas Cage...nephew of Cappolla was good playing the violent brother
of the Richard Gere character. I would like to have seen him in more
parts like that instead of the garbage he has been wasting himself in
the last few years. Diane Lane was the miscast. She was playing a real
character too, but she came nowhere near the woman she was playing,
Texas Guinon(I think that was her last name) A big boozy tough blonde.
To me that is the major miscast of the movie. I like her though, but
not in this movie. This is a movie I feel has to be seen around 5 times
to get the whole feeling of it. A good movie but just too messy and too
much.
<|_=00=_|>

Kind of a flat story with unsympathetic characters but it LOOKS fantastic.
Harlem's Cotton Club of the 1920s is beautifully recreated and with Cab
Calloway, Duke Ellington, Charlie Chaplin, James Cagney, etc. hanging out
in
there yet. Great music and dancing too. Check out the haunting "Creole
Love
Call". I had hoped that a fuller, uncensored version would have surfaced
by
now.... especially on dvd. For instance, when Shultz kills Flynn in the
dining room we see him stick a skewer in his neck. Yet 2 seconds later
there
is blood on the walls, dripping from the chandelier, and over just about
everybody in the room. Sure looks like we missed something. This film
could
have been a lot better but for what it is, it's still worth a look. Bob
Hoskins and a very menacing Fred Gwynne excel. Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

inspired by photographs of the legendary Cotton Club in Harlem, some shots
appear exactly as they were (now in colour). I noticed Dutch Schultz's
slumped pose when he is shot is exactly that of the police photograph,
though he died several hours later (see William Burroughs "The Last Words Of
Dutch Schultz"). The actors often play too broad (Diane Lane), and Richard
Gere shows his lazy, grinning acting here too. However, many notable smaller
roles for Gregory Hines (and his brother), Bob Hoskins, Laurence Fishburne
and others who make it well worth watching. It is true that $40 million
could have been used better, but when you consider both Bob Evans and
Coppola's involvement it seems with hindsight that they were asking for
trouble.
 The music deserves special credit, as do the tap sequences (which i gather
were shortened and some cut - what a shame). Mostly Duke Ellington classics.
As i've already suggested the look is a perfect recreation of the time, but
sadly the plot is patchy, some dialogue weak and it has been said before -
there is no chemistry between the romantic leads. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

Forget all the behind the scene's politics; Francis Ford Coppola's
dazzlingly stylish, THE COTTON CLUB is certainly one of his best efforts. A
movie that deserves it's place alongside other Coppola masterpieces such as,
THE GODFATHER and APOCALYPSE NOW.

But the legacy of this film is very strange: The behind the scenes
shenanigans is legendary, it was unjustly panned when it was first released,
and box-office was slight; however, watching this film you can't help but
wonder why?

Everything from the performances to the look of the film is first-rate; with
James Remar particularly good as Dutch Schultz,
and the ending of this film is nicely reminiscent of THE GODFATHER.

So if your looking for what might be considered a buried Coppola classic,
check out THE COTTON CLUB.
<|_=00=_|>
One gets the sense that 'The Cotton Club (1984)' will improve upon
repeat viewings, once you've become accustomed to what director Francis
Ford Coppola was attempting. After all, this is a gangster film from
the man who brought us 'The Godfather (1972)' and its sequels – what
else could we expect but another Corleone saga? The film we're
delivered is nothing of the sort, a testament to the director's
constant willingness to take risks and experiment with new ideas.
Indeed, rather than trying to emulate Coppola's former successes, 'The
Cotton Club' could more accurately be described as a "gangster
musical," a realisation that took me until the film's second half. Do
those two genres even go together? Perhaps taking inspiration from
Herbert Ross' 'Pennies from Heaven (1981)' – and the mini-series on
which it was based – the film blends the ugly brutality and corruption
of the Prohibition- era with the dazzling bright lights of the Cotton
Club, Harlem's premiere night club. It is this deliberate but uneasy
juxtaposition of reality and fantasy that fuels Coppola's vision, an
ambitious undertaking without a dominant focus.

The film's major storyline concerns Dixie Dwyer (Richard Gere), a
comparatively ordinary jazz musician who unexpectedly finds himself
associating with organised crime boss "Dutch" Schultz (James Remar).
Dixie is interesting because, unlike your typical hero consumed by the
allure of amoral riches, he always remains peripheral to the world of
gangsters; he observes, with disapproval, its dishonesty and depravity,
but rarely finds himself a part of it. In fact, the closest he ever
comes to being a gangster is in Hollywood, where he shares the sort of
film roles that made James Cagney and Edward G. Robinson famous.
Coppola might have been offering a commentary on the inherently
romanticised version of reality offered by the movies, but his "real
world" of gangsters is scarcely less stylised. The seedy underbelly of
organised crime is paradoxically depicted as taking place in the
classiest locales in Harlem, where the crime bosses consume the best
alcohol and mix with Hollywood's elite talent (Chaplin, Swanson and
Cagney among the featured patrons). 

Proving further that Coppola wasn't attempting to replicate his
Corleone saga, 'The Cotton Club' also features a rather extraneous
subplot with Maurice and Gregory Hines as African-American tap-dancers
vying for the "big-time" at the Cotton Club, where (in a bizarre
discriminatory switch) only black performers are hired. The regular
cross-cutting between this story and Dixie Dwyer's doesn't quite work,
and, in any case, the taut romance between Dwyer and tough-girl Vera
(an absolutely gorgeous Diane Lane) is much more involving than that
between Sandman Williams (Gregory Hines) and mixed-race dancer Lila
(Lonette McKee). Among the film's impressive supporting performers are
Bob Hoskins and Fred Gwynne as crime associates, Nicholas Cage as an
overly-ambitious young thug, Laurence Fishburne as black crime boss
Bumpy Rhodes, and James Remar, playing a sleazier and less identifiable
version of Dutch Schultz to Dustin Hoffman in 'Billy Bathgate (1991).'
The premiere gangster film of 1984 was Leone's 'Once Upon a Time in
America (1984),' but, despite being runner-up, nobody can accuse
Coppola of playing it safe.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

First, in deference to the detractors, what killed this movie were two
good looking people who were terrible actors: Lane and Gere. We simply
spend too much time on their pants and skirts and who is or isn't going
to blaze on the other. It turned off both audiences, my crowd: gangster
fans and the musical jazz people who loved the music and dancing. One
of the paradoxes of the Other Directed Society is this block-headed
thumbs up or down. Remar is worth owning the movie for, look, I like
Hoffman but his Schultz, in Billy Bathgate, was just terrible. Remar
will really stun you how menacing he is here conveying perfectly the
sociopathic Dutch Schultz. In one horrifying sequence, at a food table,
he grabs a butcher's knife and stabs a rival gangster; he is shaking,
drenched in blood, Madden almost kills him on the spot; Frenchy holds a
gun on him and you can tell Madden is thinking it over. This is my
favorite part of the movie, Coppola knew how to do organized crime;
when the movie focuses upon the Cotton Club, Madden, Luciano, Schultz
it shines brightly. Trust me, I read lots of books on the Mafia, being
part Italian, this is the best depiction of Dutch Schultz in any movie.
It is approached by Roth in Hoodlum, I simply hated the rest of that
movie. Also, while Roth conveys his coldness, there is not quite the
volcanic murderous outbursts Remar does so well here. 

The musical parts are spectacular with the late Hines and his brother
doing fantastic tap dancing; there is a great reunification of the two
estranged brothers near the end that is so well done. What kills the
movie is the romance, which should have been tangential, is center
stage. Yes, they are good looking people but neither one could ever act
one scene. Coppola gets wooden readings out of both of them, for me,
the rest of the movie is good enough to overcome this flaw. Please,
look at the supporting cast: Hoskins, Cage, Gwynne, Garfield,
Fishburne, even old reliable John P. Ryan. If you are going to watch
this, ask yourself what kind of movie you are expecting? The romance is
dreadful, stilted and boring; the gangster and music parts are a nine
star movie. Admittedly, often when you get wrapped up in the music or
gangster parts, off on a tangent we go with Dixie and Vera. The core of
the movie for me is Madden, Dutch with Vincent flying off the handle
and creating a crisis which brings about the eventual demise of Dutch
at Luciano's hands. The etiology of Dutch's demise here is completely
specious; in reality, Dewey was about to indict Dutch and he had the
stupidity to tell Lucky he planned on shooting all thirty five
witnesses to his maleficence. This is why Lucky killed him, no ripples
in the water for the organization.

As a reviewer, this is as pithy as I can distill it, a first rate
gangster and Cotton Club musical interpolated with some cringe worthy
badly acted romantic scenes. These are few enough that I have always
overlooked them, the rest is so good. I cannot emphasize how well done
the music and dance numbers are, you feel like you are there. Hine's
romance actually was done much better than Dixie and Vera. If you are a
pure romance viewer, going into this, it will really annoy you for the
romance is quite background here. You will resent and be bored by the
music and gangster main thrust of Francis Ford Coppola. I never expect
perfection from any movie, the good parts in this are redemptive enough
for me to tolerate parts I dislike. The Vincent part with Frenchy's
kidnapping and Madden's reuniting with him is endearing enough, alone,
to own this old underrated classic. The gangster story being my
favorite, for the musical part to be appreciated by someone who does
not like Jazz tells you how good it is. I can tell you this, you will
never see a better delineation of Dutch Schultz, Remar nails him. The
volcanic, violent psycho he was is right there, what a piece of acting.
An Underrated Movie. Q.E.D.
<|_=00=_|>
Even Francis Ford Coppola couldn't sustain the height of movie-making
he achieved in the 1970s. Raised too high by initial expectations, then
dismissed too brusquely when the critics got to see it, "The Cotton
Club" exists in a kind of neutral zone, a grand spectacle undone by
sloppy scriptwriting and unappealing characters that nevertheless shows
the master with some juice still in his cup.

It's the story of Dixie Dwyer (Richard Gere), a cornet player who one
evening in 1928 almost accidentally saves the life of notorious mob
boss Dutch Schultz (James Remar). Dutch, already a fan of his music, is
appreciative of the extra service and brings Dwyer into his circle,
which brings him into contact with Dutch's girl Vera (Diane Lane).

"If I didn't like you, you'd be dead," is Dutch's way of expressing
friendship.

"It's nice to be liked," Dixie replies.

The film is centered around the nightclub of the title, a fashionable
Harlem nightspot where blacks are welcome only on stage, entertaining
the white customers. Owney Madden (Bob Hoskins) runs things with an eye
for keeping order, especially where the volatile Dutchman is concerned.
Sandman Williams (Gregory Hines) just wants to dance into the arms of
Lila Rose (Lonette McKee), who is torn between the chance for true love
versus the chance to pass for white in a white man's world.

The stacked cast even includes Nicolas Cage as Dixie's mad-dog gangster
brother and Laurence Fishburne in one of his first signature tough-guy
roles. "The white man has left me nothing but the underworld, and that
is where I dance," he tells Sandman. "Where do you dance?" All this
crammed into just over two hours leaves very little room to breathe,
for a director who mastered movies which do exactly that. But with
little useful dialogue except of the expository kind, characters coming
and going all the time, left-field plot twists (Dixie goes to Hollywood
and becomes an instant star), and a central romance between Gere and
Lane that is long on open-mouth kissing but short on story, you need
spectacle to keep your attention.

Remar makes the film worthwhile for me. His bug-eyed tantrums as Dutch
are what stay with me when the film is over, yet he shows range, too,
shy with Vera, henpecked with his wife, and amiable with Dixie in his
guarded way. It's hard not to worry what will happen when he learns
about Dixie and Vera, not only for the lovebirds but for Dutch, too. I
only wish Remar could have played Dutch in the latter film set in the
same milieu, "Billy Bathgate"; Dustin Hoffman is a great actor but was
wrong for that part. Remar here fits into it like a cement overshoe.

The film also boasts great music, including singing from McKee and
tapping from Hines and his brother Maurice that raise the roof and
recall the famous baptism scene in Coppola's first "Godfather". Larry
Marshall does a great Cab Calloway, conked locks whipping across his
forehead.

Nothing is really wrong with "Cotton Club". But what's right doesn't
stay right for long, and the rest doesn't hold together. It's a fun
show, so long as you don't mind being a bit confused when the curtain
comes down.
