
The 1986 film version of the Broadway musical LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS is
an entertaining movie based on the black comedy from the 1960's about a
nerdy milquetoast who raises a man-eating plant that gets totally out
of control. Rick Moranis is perfection as Seymour, the nebbish who is
at a loss at what to do when his own Frankenstein grows too big for him
to control and Ellen Greene (reprising her role in the original
musical) is delightful as Audrey, the object of Seymour's affections.
Moranis and Greene make one of the most engaging screen teams I've seen
in a while. Vincent Gardenia plays the greedy flower shop owner, Mr.
Mushnik and Bill Murray is hysterically funny in one scene as Arthur
Denton, a man who seems to enjoy going to the dentist a little too
much. Tischina Arnold, Tisha Campbell, and Michelle Weeks are awesome
as the Greek Chorus known as "The Urchins" and Steve Martin practically
steals the movie as "Orin Scrivello, DDS". His song "Be a Dentist" is
hysterically funny. The voice of the plant, Audrey II, is provided by
Levar Stubbs of The Four Tops and he is superb. A fun musical comedy
that the whole family can enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

No, not the black & white Roger Corman jewel featuring Jack Nicholson,
though I suppose I'd watch that one again too. I'm talking about the 1986
color musical with Rick Moranis and Audrey II by way of Frank Oz. Like I
tell my friends about  "Babe," I love a film with a Greek chorus. In this
one, the chorus consists of three Motownish women singers, Crystal, Chiffon
and Ronette. I'll watch this film again, just to hear them sing one line:
"TO – TAL – E – CLIPSE – OF – THE – SUN!" This is an all-singing,
all-dancing science fiction black comedy that features human misery, a
sadistic dentist, a masochistic patient, casual murder, girlfriend abuse,
and a blood-sucking alien house plant monster. It's hilarious from beginning
to end. And the music is outstanding. 
<|_=00=_|>
I certainly don't understand the low rating on here for this film - if
you've never seen it before don't let that put you off watching it.

LSOH was my 'family movie' as a kid, introduced to us by our dentist
uncle. Everything about it is just perfect it - is funny, self-aware
and contains too many brilliant scenes to count. The songs are
consistently great and the casting is spot on. I especially love all
the amazing cameos: Bill Murray, John Candy etc.

Whenever I'm ill or feeling down, all I need to do to feel better is
just watch this film. I never trust anyone says they don't like this
film!
<|_=00=_|>

One of the most unappreciated films of the eighties, the songs,
performances, and especially the affectionate screenplay all harken back to
the cheap old days of Roger Corman and his B movie compatriots.  From Steve
Martin's sadistic Elvis-inspired dentist to the early girl-group rock score,
"Little Shop" moves with an appropriately cheesy style that lets you in on
the joke, yet never insults you for loving those poverty row movies.

<|_=00=_|>
Watching this movie currently at 1am at work for the first time in 15
years (watched it when I was a kid) and I enjoyed every part of this
movie. Didn't notice at all that Rick M. can sing. Favorite song is
"Suddenly Seymour", calm to BOOM vocals on both parts, loved Ellen
Greene. People on the discussion forums say her voice is annoying, I
disagree insanely, he voice is the most attractive part of her
character. Okay so great movie, great songs, a decent dark comedy/
musical, a entertaining movie for the family to watch. Though swearing
is some what common but great movie. Enjoy, its worth a once-watch at
least, for all you skeptics out there.
<|_=00=_|>

"Little Shop of Horrors" is so amazingly special and unique, that viewing
it
almost transports you to another world.  It's quite possibly the best film
representation of a stage musical ever made--the sets are perfect, the
casting is perfect, the music is perfect, and everything else about the
film
is perfect.  Rick Moranis, Vincent Gardenia, and Steve Martin are all
wonderful as Seymour Krelborn, Mushnik, and Orin Scrivello, DDS.  However,
my favorite performance in this film is that of Ellen Greene (who reprises
her part from Broadway).  The role of Audrey, Seymour's bubbly, sexy yet
innocent co-worker with low self-esteem was made for her.  I heard that
the
role was first offered to Barbara Striesand (who declined), and I am SO
glad
Ellen ended up getting it!  Maybe the reason why some people, though very
few, don't care for this movie is that there has never really been another
film (that I'm aware of) even remotely like it.  I just hope one day this
film gets re-released into theaters!
<|_=00=_|>
Before they went on to helm one of the biggest resurgences in film
history with Disney's animated musicals in the late 80s-early 90s,
songwriters Howard Ashman and Alan Menken wrote a comedic-musical of a
forgotten Roger Corman horror movie called Little Shop of Horrors. With
lyrics as smart as they are funny, and music as catchy as it is
kitschy, they caught the ears of director Oz. Using his history within
the Muppets factory to bring to cinematic life the darkly colorful
story, he gave us the silver screen adaptation, a wonderful combination
of stage and screen that has brought mischievous smiles to audiences
for 30 years. In it, the blessed Rick Moranis plays a florist trying to
balance his job, an angry boss, an abused love interest, and her
deranged dentist boyfriend. Oh, and a man-eating plant that is the only
thing keeping his life afloat. That creation alone is worth seeing the
movie for. Its size is imposing, its design is detailed, and even
without eyes there is an undeniable life in its puppet form. As for the
story, it's wonderfully simple, letting the songs and silliness reign
supreme. It's weakness may be in its direction, which isn't so much bad
as it is bland, never really moving away from essentially being a
filmed stage production. However, it's hard to really blame Frank Oz,
who dealt with so much studio intervention that he had to completely
change the ending to make it more palatable, and thus weaker.
Thankfully, the director's cut has been subsequently released in recent
years, and now we can more easily appreciate the film in all its mean
green greatness.
<|_=00=_|>
My Take: Definitely one of my favorite musicals of all time. 

The last few months of the year 2008 have not been good to me, but it
has its ups and downs. The limelights? A reunion with an old favorite:
None other than the 80's hit musical LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS. I remember
watching LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS as a kid, and I remembered loving it.
I've been hunting to see this movie for quite sometime. Thankfully, it
caught me in surprise on TV one time, then I went out seeing it
again... and again on DVD, still being fresh each time. It's the best
movie of its kind, even if I don't know exactly what kind of movie it
is.

LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS combines two delightful concepts: A joyous,
old-fashioned musical and a send-off of the campy, low-budget B-movies
of the B&W era. In fact, which you all might know by now, this
brilliant concept all started from one big joke, from Roger Corman no
less. Corman produced the original LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS as a mere
joke that he can make a film with a reused set from another movie and a
limited shooting schedule of two days. The result was a film that was
ignored in its initial release, but earned its cult following
subsequent years later. One of this avid admirers is David Geffen, who
has just come up with a brilliant idea: turn the film into a silly,
bent Broadway musical. Strange, maybe if it wasn't so good. The musical
was a surprise success, even loved by Mr. Corman himself. So it was
inevitable for Geffen to take his brilliant idea one step further: turn
it into a big-budget Hollywood production.

Originally attached to the project is Martin Scorcese and Steven
Spielberg, doing the movie in a very modest budget. But the reigns
eventually went to puppeteer Frank Oz (most remembered as the voice of
Yoda), with the budget exceeding $30 million. Plus the film was also
legendary for flushing out $2 million worth of special effects after
the menacing original ending tested poorly (deemed too dark) on test
audiences, with an improved Hollywood happy ending made to replace it.
Still, despite the expenses and some of the criticism toward the film,
LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS is still one of the best times I had in watching
movies. The movie is a funhouse of endless entertainment packed with
silly laughs, memorable musical numbers, tuneful songs, fine acting and
outrageous special effects (even in this CG era, the Audrey II puppet
created by Lyle Conway is still very convincing).

Rick Moranis stars as a down-on-his-luck slob Seymour Krelborn, who
works in a bankrupt florist shop in the outcast district of Skid Row,
where all the outcasts reside, including his bankrupt boss Mushnick
(Vincent Gardenia) and battered beauty Audrey (Ellen Greene, reprising
her off-off Broadway role). But when he finds a small, potted plant
which he calls Audrey II, his life's about change. He becomes a great
success, with the florist shop and boss right along with him. But
there's a catch: Little Audrey II's hungry for blood, and he's
growing... and growing... and growing. So how does Seymour feed a
giant, singing man-eating vegetable? Nothing big, just chopping-up and
killing people! LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS is quite like the "Springtime
for Hitler" scene from Mel Brook's THE PRODUCERS. It's a little sick
and dark on one hand, with a concept that's totally beyond its league,
but in the end, it's fun, funny and peppered with inspired moments that
never fails to make you smile in every frame. What are you waiting for?
Feed yourself with the oddball delight of the irresistible LITTLE SHOP
OF HORRORS.

Rating: ***** out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
I absolutely LOVED that movie. It contains everything for people like
me; comedy, songs, dance, mystery, and such good actors its'
unbelievable.

From the beginning song to the end I've been carried away on a laugh
and love ride. Steve Martin is hilarious and to see him with black
hair! Just that is worth the movie!

I've been totally carried away with the Skid Row song and dance. This
is the best number I have seen since quite many years. The timing, the
moves, the words, all is perfect and such performances by all that it
blew my mind. I still listen to it on MP3 and see it in my head. Yes,
it influenced me that much.

By the way, usually I prefer the director's cut, but in this case I
prefer the theatre cut, it makes more sense. It flows better. I guess
it will be upon each watcher to make their own decision.

This is still a masterpiece and should be watched by any serious movie
lover, as long as you like song and dance in a movie.
<|_=00=_|>
* spoiler alert*

this movie was an amazing experience. The soundtrack was so catchy and
wonderful that you don't mind you'll be humming them for like a week.
the Ending scene where audrey dies i cried my eyes out. the special
effects for audrey II is amazing for it's time. The romance between
audrey and Seymour is beautiful and sad. The setting and the way they
dress i love since i do personally love the 50s/60s aesthetic. I really
recommend you watch this movie if you love musicals and mild horror
movies. peace out yo!
