
"Porky's II: The Next Day" was a weak and frustratingly tame movie that
couldn't hold a candle to the wayward original; which I personally
consider to be a classic in its own specific league. One of the –
admittedly many – reasons of failure was the absence of the titular
redneck character who was more or less profiled as the teen
protagonists' arch enemy in the first film. Porky Wallace (glorious
role of the late Chuck Mitchell) was a fat and sleazy night club owner
from a neighboring county who humiliated and deceived the oversexed
high school teenagers and prevented them from getting laid in his club.
This led to fantastically comical and vulgar situations, but the first
sequel skipped all this in favor of politically correct humor and
ethically valuable morals. Well, just like the producers of "Halloween"
found out after the disastrous third installment … every franchise also
partly relies on a solid villainous character. The input of Porky's
character in this third and final movie isn't exactly tremendous, but
it definitely helps. The jokes and absurd situations are also a lot
funnier again (albeit not nearly as funny as in the original) because
they all revolve on raging hormones, bizarre sexual fetishes,
embarrassing encounters and plain juvenile delinquency! Few weeks
before graduating high school (about time, as they all appear to be in
their mid-twenties…), the cheerful posse has the chance of realizing
their biggest dream: winning the state championship in basketball. They
face a big – literally – obstacle when it turns out their beloved coach
has unsettled debts with Porky, who now owns a luxurious casino boat.
The only way out is for the team to lose the finale and have Porky cash
in the betting money, but their mind is too strongly set on winning…
This is good old-fashioned and textbook 80's comedy, meaning relaxing
and utterly brainless. Ideal stuff to re-watch after all these years
and revive the spirit of 80's trash.
<|_=00=_|>

Seeing as how Bob Clark didn't participate in this movie, it doesn't
surprise me that the final movie in the Porky's trilogy lacked the energy
that made the first two so funny. The events leading up to the revenge
just
seemed so unnecessary. Ultimately, this so-called revenge seemed more
like
another attempt to make Porky's life miserable. This was an inglorious
way
to end the series which (when it first started) was the first important
teen
movie of the 80s before we were subjected to the legacy of John Hughes
and
the Brat Pack. 
<|_=00=_|>
Porky's Revenge (1985) 

*** (out of 4) 

The third and final film in the series finds the boys of Angel Beach
High School having to deal with Porky once again when their basketball
coach gets into some gambling trouble. Between dealing with Porky the
boys find plenty of time for various sexual acts. Look, you're either a
fan of the PORKY'S trilogy or you're not. I personally love the series
and grew up watching these movies so they certainly are special to me
no matter how silly they are. This third film in the series isn't
nearly as good as the first but I thought it was a step up from the
good, if flawed, second film. I think what works so well here is that
it's just fun seeing the gang back and getting into more trouble.
Again, if you're wanting comedy in the style of Charles Chaplin then
you're not going to find it here but if you enjoy toilet humor, sex
jokes and plenty of nudity then this here really delivers. I thought
the story itself was mildly entertaining for a film like this but it
was certainly a major plus having Porky back in action. After the
events in the first film it's just obvious that he really would want
some revenge so this adds another layer of fun. As with the first two,
there are all sorts of dirty sex jokes and I thought the majority of
them worked. This includes the foreign exchange student, a pool orgy
and the highlight of the film a sequence inside a motel room. The
performances are pretty much what you'd expect from a film like this
but the entire cast fit their roles nicely and deliver a good job.
There's no question that the film has some major flaws throughout but
fans of the series should find this to be a good way to close things
out.
<|_=00=_|>
The last part of the epic "Porky's"-trilogy is undeniably the weakest,
mainly because it feels so straight to video. The production often
seems lazy and cheap, and the director didn't exactly work overtime
ever. Basketball has never looked this lackluster. The screenwriter
tries his best to copy the style of the original, but the way things
are directed makes the raunch look nasty rather than funny. The scene
with Tommy and Balbricker, presumably one of the most hilarious scenes
in the movie, just kinda made me ashamed for watching this. Has it come
to this, I wondered, as Balbricker attempted to pull down his underwear
for minutes straight. The only redeeming factor left are the actors,
that surprisingly still look like they want to be there. Pee Wee is
always entertaining, even if he doesn't get to do much. It's still Pee
Wee. I also appreciate that Porky is back for the occasion, even though
his evil plan makes little sense. And why is he telling people about
it? That's just asking to be stopped. Either way, this is not too bad
for a second sequel, but it's just so clearly not by the original
makers.
<|_=00=_|>

The final film of the Porky's trilogy is clearly the better of the two
sequels. It ignores the next day plot of the second film and goes back to
direct raunchiness that made the first film so successful. However, the
story should have put them in a different setting such as college, since
the
actors portraying the high school seniors were well into the late 20's
early
30's by the time the third film was made. Overall, it is good comedy
compared to the other films that were made in the mid 80's ** out of
****
<|_=00=_|>

That Porky; just when you count him out - here he comes with the whole Angel
Beach High gang to strike one final blow against a series that degenerated
so far down the tubes that even Bob Clark wouldn't have anything to do with
it.

Now, THAT is bad.

"Porky's Revenge", directed as it is by James Komack (yes, THAT James
Komack, from "The Courtship of Eddie's Father"), tries to ape the original
as much as possible in looks but just doesn't get it right; the material
never finds the right tone of raunchiness nor one single scene that has as
many belly laughs as the original (if you've seen the first one, you know
what I mean).

And the "kids" in this one look just a hair shy on the ear lobe of
collecting social security.  Someone should have gotten a better makeup
artist on the set, ya think?  Jeez, guys; at least wear girdles or
something!

But then there's Porky himself.  Ah yes, Chuck Mitchell returns and is just
as mean, nasty and... well, PORKY, as we remember.  And when his little girl
Blossom (Wendy Feign) falls for good old Meat (Tony Gainos), it's time for
Pee-Wee (Dan Monahan) and the rest of the crew to kick into high gear and
save their buddy from a fate worse than death - marriage.

Problem is, so much attention is paid to the plot (!!!) that there's no time
for laughs, sight gags or even decent use of the foreign exchange student
(Kim Evenson).  What a disappointment; she even had a cute Swedish
accent.

All in all, a big let-down, even from part II in the series (which was no
great shakes itself, but at least kept Clark at the helm).  This is one
"Revenge" that just beats out Montezuma's for general discomfort.

Two stars.  Hey, had to give them credit for the eventual fate of Miss
Balbricker (Nancy Parsons).  What do you know; those kids had a conscience
after all.
<|_=00=_|>


Porky's Revenge, is simply the best end to this trillogy hands down.! This
is one smart way to finish the series, although ignoring the next day
senario of Porky's 2.

All the gang is back, just scheming away, with their usual tricks. With a
chain of events that lead to the most outragously funny climaxs of cinema.

Porkys and Porkys Revenge are the movie viewings, with stacks of goodies
on
a lame movie night, this will certainly provide some spark.

10/10: This and Porkys should become classics.
<|_=00=_|>
so the third installment of the porky's trilogy, should be the worst,
but it's actually a big improvement on the second installment. the gang
are back minus a couple of characters, but like i said in my review of
the second movie, there were simply too many characters to write for,
hence the movie not being as funny as the first. don't worry though,
the movie is much funnier, and raunchier, and is much more in spirit
with the original than the second one was. the set pieces are bigger,
the laughs better, and even though it loses 2 of the characters from
the first 2, it really doesn't matter, because it makes the movie
funnier, porkys 3 is another must see movie, that delivers everything
the second movie should of, i highly recommend this movie to fans of
the original
<|_=00=_|>
i am a huge fan of the porky's movies, and this was not a let down. the
greatest of the series will always be the first, but 2 & 3 are still
really worth seeing. the movie is clever, funny and creative. the group
devises new pranks and new consequences. somehow, the whole group
manages to graduate...and go out with...style. but before all that,
they manage to face expulsion, blackmail for athletic eligibility and
save their coach by making a deal with their arch nemesis: porky. when
they don't follow through with their agreement, they have to defeat
porky once and for all or else ol' meat gonna have to marry little
blossom!
<|_=00=_|>
Like the REVENGE OF THE NERDS series, PORKY'S kind of lost its edge as
other sequels emerged even though the characters remained likable
enough(if too old)to spend 90 minutes with. I just felt as I was
watching PORKY'S REVENGE that the laughs were few and far between
although there were attempts to reestablish the raunch that appealed to
audiences who loved the first film. I think it would've been more ideal
to have this cast in college instead of in their senior year of high
school as the stars simply look too old at this point to portray 18
year olds. That said there are some inspired moments here and there
such as Pee Wee's flashing the parents attending the graduation
ceremony on accident(he was tricked into getting nude underneath his
robe by the gang)or when the boys have broken into the apartment of a
hot biology teacher trying to find a test exam so that Meat(Tony
Ganios)could cheat to pass so he could play in the State Basketball
Championship, instead catching her in a bit of sexual rollplaying with
another teacher. Nancy Parsons returns as Ms. Balbricker and the gang
decide to find her lost love which is kind of a nice way to send her
character off as she's often the butt of jokes(her hotel scene with
Wyatt Knight's Tommy Turner is a laugh as both were expecting to meet
other people, this arranged as a practical joke by the gang, although
Pee Wee was the intended target for Balbricker). In this sequel,
Porky(Chuck Mitchell)now operates an illegal casino on board a
riverboat and has negotiated a deal with the boys regarding throwing
the basketball championship so that their coach could be exonerated of
the gambling debts he owes. Of course the boys plan to screw Porky and
when fatso kidnaps Meat(he supposedly got Porky's ugly daughter
pregnant after the two "went all the way")during prom night they will
have to orchestrate a rescue. The result isn't kind to Porky's boat!
Mitchell is as repugnant and bullying as ever, the perfect foil for our
high school heroes who once again get the best of him. This film
features "the big game" as Angel Beach's basketball team go on a tear
when Meat suddenly "passes the test" and is allowed to toss around the
opposition like rag dolls(the referees seemed to have gone on a lunch
break, I guess). A constant gag that I didn't really find all that
funny has the principal questioning when Billy(Mark Herrier)is gonna
set up a period where they can watch a certain "art film"(it's
pornography and Balbricker told on them to the principal). Kaki Hunter
is Tommy's girlfriend, Wendy, but she's essentially "one of the guys"
always hanging out with them. Surprising amount of nudity in this
sequel; mostly boobs. While a far cry from the first film, which had me
laughing out loud quite a bit, PORKY'S REVENGE does come from a great
period in the 80s when filmmakers were willing to go anywhere to get a
giggle or make the viewer blush.
