
There are very few horror films that are like Halloween ( the first one
) and Nightmare on Elm Street ( the first one ). That is, horror films
that not only scare, but have a good story and great direction. Steve
Miner is obviously not in the same league as Carpenter and Craven, but
what he does manage to do is make an effective sequel that is much
scarier than the first and next to the final chapter, it is the best
and scariest among all the Fridays.

This film is laughable in parts, especially in terms of continuity with
some of the stories that are told by Chris, but having said that, Steve
Miner makes a very atmospheric and very tense film.

The film starts off the day after part two ended. We know Jason is
still alive because he kills two disgusting people at the beginning
that at least establishes Miner's style to come for the rest of the
movie. The false scares, the open doors with no one there, the strange
noises, the missing props that the character knows she had just a few
seconds ago. The beginning is very well done. But again, the continuity
and stupidity of movie characters is at all an all time high here. ( A
quick example: Harold is about 5'6, rotund and clumsy. His wife calls
out his name when she sees a well built figure standing behind her
sheets at night. This figure is at least 6 feet or more in height and
he looks squared, not pear shaped like her husband Harold. Plus, on the
television is the news about the massacre the night before saying that
the killer has not been caught. DUUUHHH!! Should this not click into
her brain that who she is seeing may be Jason? )

But what is excellent about this film are some of the same elements
that made Halloween good. And that is the use of foreground for false
scares. There are numerous times when the camera scans the for-ground
and you are so sure that Jason is going to show up, and then he doesn't
until whammo, someone loses an eye or their life. It is very effective.
There are also numerous shots of Jason in the background waiting for
his next victim to turn around to see him. And when we see him standing
behind one stoner guy, his pure size really makes him menacing. And
that mask....

How he gets the mask is one of the great trivia questions in Friday the
13th folklore.

Steve Miner did a masterful job of directing and why he decided to hand
the reins over to Joseph Zito for the final chapter is a mystery

As Fridays go, this is one that you can't go wrong with. It also has (
I believe ) one of the five most gruesome and painful deaths in the
series. Watch for Andy walking on his hands, it will make you cringe
for quite a while.

Edit: The new remastered edition in 3-D is worth seeing. I found the
3-D to be entertaining in some parts and lacklustre in others, but
there is some added footage in the deluxe edition. You get to see more
of Fox hanging from the barn and in a truly jaw dropping moment, you
get to see all of Andy, chopped up after he gets split in two walking
on his hands. In the original version, you just see a glimpse of him as
his blood drips onto the magazine, but now, you see his blood, his legs
severed, and much more. I would say this alone makes the purchase worth
it.

Answer to the question: Shelly
<|_=00=_|>
Last night, the Cameo Cinema in Edinburgh, screened an ultra-rare
showing of Friday the 13th Part 3 in all it's gore-splattered 3D glory.
The cinema was packed, the screening sold out and the audience
absolutely loved it. Every scare worked, the 3D effects leaped right
off the screen and lovingly poked us in the eye and when the film was
over it got the longest applause I've ever seen a film get. For those
pretentious cynics who think that the Friday the 13th films are not
great then there's nothing like a 350+ audience to prove you wrong.

Since this film was in 'polarised' 3D (see-thru glasses instead of a
red-blue blur)then it's not possible to transfer the effect to DVD.
Besides, nothing beats seeing this on the big screen with Jason's face
10-feet tall and his massive hands reaching out for you. If there is
EVER a 3D screening of this then you really ought to go see, even if
you have to sell your own grandmother for a ticket.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked this sequel. Yes, it's stupid, but it's a guilty pleasure
thing. 

A van load of stupid twentysomethings head up to Crystal Lake for the
weekend for no other purpose than to smoke pot and screw each other
cross eyed. Among them are the painfully unattractive Shelly who enjoys
immature practical jokes, a newly pregnant girl, a hippie couple who
are constantly ensconced in a cloud of pot smoke and the emotionally
damaged Chris, who loves Crystal Lake but has terrible memories of it.
It seems that, some time ago, Chris was attacked in the woods by a man
with a terribly deformed face. During the attack she passed out and
woke up the next morning, safe in her own bed at home. She is not
entirely convinced that it was all a dream, and so decides that a
weekend at her former haven may just be what she needs to deal with the
past. Unfortunately, it was not a dream, as all of us already knew. The
man who attacked her was Jason Voorhees, and no sooner do the kids
settle in and start partying and screwing than he shows up, ready for
some post-coital killings. First to go is an obnoxious trio of
motorcycle thugs who harassed our heroes. Then Jason gets right down to
what he does best - stabbing, skewering, bisecting and impaling anyone
who is stupid enough to wander off alone and wait for him to approach.

Still, I liked this movie. Jason finally gets to don his signature
hockey mask in this one, and I love the ending, when the rotted remains
of Mother Voorhees rise from the lake in a nod to the first films shock
ending. I'm still not sure how Mother Voorhees got her head back on,
but who cares? This isn't a movie you're supposed to think about too
much. I also love Jason's unmasked face in this one. A friend of mine
succinctly pointed out the fact that he looks like the banjo player
from Deliverance all grown up. A scene at films end when his deranged
piggy face appears in a window is actually rather shocking. Dana Kimmel
does as good a job as she can with the character of Chris, although
Chris is not given a whole hell of a lot to do other than scream, act
like a whiny wimp and run. 

Yeah, this movie is stupid, but its harmless fun. It's not as bad as
some of the sequels that followed it, believe me.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember first viewing this "Friday the 13th" sequel on videotape,
and in the beginning I thought it was stupid. But now, after seeing it
again on DVD, I have changed my mind about the movie. It isn't that
bad.

The film starts with a recap of the last scene from Part 2, where Jason
is seen getting up after he is assumed dead. Then the movie begins,
with a funky and upbeat 80's background song starting the film. Right
after the song ends, Jason begins his killing spree, starting with two
unsuspecting store owners, and then moving on to unsuspecting teens at
a small farm area...

The thing I like about this movie is the fact that Jason first gets his
trademark hockey mask in this movie. The mask is a big improvement over
the sack from part 2, and makes Jason look much scarier.

Another good thing about this movie is Dana Kimmell. Although her lines
& dialog in the film are somewhat cheesy at some points, her character
is very convincing as the teen heroine. And whenever she's frightened,
she screams the cutest scream ever. I loved how she screamed in the
film; she was cute and funny at the same time! 

A bad part of the movie is the fact that the rest of the characters are
unlikable. The teens are generally stupid and naive, and the biker gang
are very mean-spirited. Those characters are so unlikable that you will
really want Jason to kill them all.

Another bad thing: Some viewers might be disappointed that they cannot
see the film in its actual 3D format. I myself would have liked to see
the movie's 3D effects.

Overall, Dana Kimmell and Jason save the movie from being bad. You have
to hear Dana's screams to know how cute she is. And you must watch this
movie in order to know how Jason gets his hockey mask.

I give this movie a 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
"Friday the 13h part III" starts immediately after the events of part
II where at the end, Jason gets macheted in the shoulder.

At dawn, police finds the dead bodies of 8 counselors spread over the
camp, they also give medical attention to the lone survivor Ginny Field
(it's presumed that Jason killed Paul).

After a recap footage of the ending of the previous film, we see a
scene where Jason recovers from the injury and escapes after Ginny and
Paul leave his cabin in the woods. This time Jason leaves Camp Crystal
Lake and heads to an unknown destiny, which later turns to be "Higgins
Haven". On his way to the haven Jason murders Harold and Edna (the
owners / attendants) of a rural K-Mart like store. This time Jason's
unlucky victims include Chris Higgins (owner of the haven), Rick,
Chuck, Chilli, Shelly, Debbie, Andy, Vera, and a gang of motorcycle
bikers: Ali, Fox, Loco. Highlights of the movie: Jason and the bikers,
Chris revealing to Rick about her previous encounter with Jason (not
knowing it was him), Chuck watching Jason thinking it's a
hallucination, Andy's death, and of course , Jason getting his
trademark mask; and at last but not least the great funky groovy
opening theme. This tune added some humor to the tension felt towards
the beginning of the carnage.

"Friday 3" came in the right moment when the slasher genre was at it's
peak. After the box office success of part 2, this sequel was a coming
on. This movie has plenty of gore, suspense, and some good scare
scenes.

The acting is regular, the best performance comes from Dana Kimmell.

Jason looks menacing, big, and surely very angry. Richard Brooker
portrayed Jason in a good way, he knows how to act violent and looks
like he's blood thirsty. This time the teens aren't as smart as in the
previous film, still I liked some of them. Shelly was a good character,
although he was annoying you felt sorry for him at the end. Rick was an
unlikeable character, he seemed tough but in the end he couldn't even
fight Jason. Debbie's pregnancy was overlooked, I guess that Jason
didn't know he killed an unborn. What the heck, even if he knew about
it he would still kill Debbie. Andy's death is by far the best in the
movie, and one of the best s in the series. Chuck and Chilli (who
aren't exactly teens) had potential, but in a 90 minute slasher movie
you can't get much character development. The gang situation was
unnecessary, I mean there was a lot of hype about a possible
confrontation between these guys and Jason. The ending of the movie is
great! The chasing scene is the best in the series (even better than
part 2's). Jason seemed angry and desperate to kill Chris, who wasn't
by no means braver than Ginny but still manged to give some fight to
Jason. Unmasked Jason looked frightening, specially if you consider
that Jason's unmasked look from part 2 wasn't that creepy at all.
Unlike the Jason from part 2 this Jason seems to be invincible, the
producers probably wanted to create a Jason that would impose respect,
and create fear among the other characters.

Miner's direction is still good. This is where part III didn't improve
from the 2nd. movie. Miner's job in part 2 is magnificent, probably the
best (apart from part VI) in the series. Still, Miner shows his talent
in creating a scary, and dark setting.

"Friday the 13th part III:3D" is a good horror movie, the 3rd.
installment in the series is worth a rental for horror fans and if you
are a die hard of the series -like me- then you should buy it even IF
it isn't the uncut version on DVD. I'm sure that this movie is more
effective in the fear factor if you watch it on 3-D. Sadly, it isn't
available in that format.

Give a try to this flick even if you're not a Friday the 13th fan, it's
surely a great slasher flick. Not the best in the series but delivers
some good scares, gore, a cool theme, and a hockey masked Jason!.

4/10 8/10 in the Friday the 13th scale.
<|_=00=_|>
Obviously, no "Friday the 13th" film is going to be Oscar material. You
have to judge a film based on what it set out to do, and decide whether
it met that goal or not. I don't think it's fair to judge these films
by the same criteria as "The Godfather" or something.

If you go into this movie just expecting to have fun, you won't be
disappointed. The story is essentially the same as every other "Friday"
film, with a minor twist: this time it takes place on a little ranch
owned by one of the main characters. Jason, fresh off his killing spree
in part 2, makes his way across the countryside to find a new batch of
hormonal kids vacationing at Crystal Lake. Of course, this time it
looks nothing like the Crystal Lake from the previous two films, seeing
as it was filmed on a ranch in California instead of New Jersey, but oh
well.

The kids are all walking stereotypes--pretty much the only way to give
them any characterization in a 90-minute movie that has to dispatch one
of them every ten minutes. There's a pair of stoners that look older
than the rest of the cast and make you question what they're even doing
there, a hefty practical joker, and a couple expecting a baby of all
things. But they all manage to be likable enough, and thankfully there
is no one irritating enough to make you wish they would die already.
There is no "mean girl" or "jerk"; they all seem to be friends, which
is nice.

Jason gets his hands on the famous hockey mask in this installment,
courtesy of one dead joker. The kills are the most creative in the
series thus far, obviously taking advantage of the original 3D format
this was released in back in 1982: one character's eyeball pops out at
the screen in what must have been a pretty cool gag in 3D, an unlucky
guy doing a handstand gets split in two, and a harpoon gun is put to
deadly use.

The highlight of the film is the chase sequence in the final act. The
"Friday" films are known for some of the most entertaining chase
scenes, and this one is no exception. It starts out in a cabin and goes
all over the place from there, with Jason pursuing our terrified
heroine relentlessly. Jason is actually creepy in this film--some form
of degenerate who runs (not walks) after his victims with something
approaching excitement. Wait until you see him unmasked later in the
film--clearly he is not feeling burdened by his work.

This is a perfect movie to put on with friends. It's entertaining, fun,
and you'll have a blast watching these goof-balls bite it in
interesting ways. You'll laugh at the dialogue, chuckle at some of the
acting, and jump at some of the scares. So order a pizza, grab some
beer, and just sit back and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

dont ask me why, but i really really enjoyed "f13:part3". even though it
can
be cheesy, it also has some great scares and terrifying chills. part 3
doesnt really depend on "on-screen" blood and guts, its more about the
killer watching and waiting and not going around cutting peoples heads
off
and blood splattering on the walls. part 3 is also famous for introducing
jasons hockey mask. to me, part 3 is A MASTERPIECE. ITS THE BEST 3RD
MOVIE
TO EVER BE MADE FOR ANY MOVIE SERIES...
<|_=00=_|>

The last of the scary ones, "Friday the 13th Part 3: 3D" is one of the best
in the series. The plot does have some holes in it and sometimes the acting
leaves a lot to be desired, but the interesting component of the film is its
use of 3-D. Don't let the 3-D aspect fool you into thinking the movie is bad
(as in "Jaws 3-D" & "Amityville 3-D"). The film is great; as far as these
type of slasher flicks go. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Hoping a trip to her old campground will ease her troubled life, a
group of friends arrive at Crystal Lake for a weekend of fun only to
find the homicidal Jason still lurking around and must try to get away
before they're all killed.

This one managed to be one of the more enjoyable sequels in the series,
though there are still some flaws to it. One of the better aspects here
is the exceptionally high body count which generates plenty of gory,
blood-soaked goodness during it's time with a rather wide assortment of
weaponry, delivering with the bloody goods impaling people on staffs,
knifes, and many other sharp objects as to be expected during a film as
this. There's even an all-time favorite in the infamous handstand kill,
which is part of the charm with unique and fantastic kills, as all the
killings are great to a degree and is pretty chilling. As well, the
film manages to get plenty of fun in its traditional slasher moments as
there's a ton of incredibly suspenseful moments in this, from the
barnyard massacre of the biker group as the group continually reaches
another level to find one of their members killed unexpectedly, to the
different stalking tactics against the friends in the house. Those are
incredibly fun, with the lakeside ambush, the attack on the post-coital
couple upstairs hallway and then taking out the remaining group as the
last couple arrives and then parts of the final chase throughout here,
which is a highlight effort of grand style here. it's lengthy, gets in
numerous close encounters and provides the kind of high-quality
stalking, chasing, close-encounters and battling that runs through the
house, out into the woods and back into the barn for one of the best
parts here, though in the end this segment also highlights part of the
film's problems. The fact that, what should be the biggest sequence is
instead merely presented as a tired retread of the other two in the
manner of knocking him down then failing to press the advantage in
order to hide and do it all over again, which makes this one of the
lesser examples of the style. Also problematic is the 3D effects here
are just plain ludicrous, with the examples coming across as just
stupid as the tactic itself geared toward finding the stupidest
possible examples to accomplish the feat as possible, getting yo-yos,
popping popcorn, flung wallets, juggled fruit and more flung towards
the camera that has no bearing on the plot and they all stick out quite
obviously. The last problem here is the film's pacing, which is off and
quite drags at places as the beginning is endlessly overlong with the
massacred couple who are completely unworthy of being focused upon for
way too long, the meeting-the-friends is too short and is over too
quickly, while the middle section is bogged down with the irritating
ploy of her trying to get her past out only to constantly force herself
not to then try again and repeat the process. Once we finally get the
flashback, which was an important part of the movie, was handled very
weirdly as instead of the usual flashback where the character narrates
over the action that is happening on screen, we see a silhouette of her
face over the action, completely blurring the scene which reveals
itself to make no sense in the grand scheme of things, leaving it
utterly tiring quite quickly. These here really lower this one in the
series.

Rated R: Graphic Violence, Brief Nudity, Adult Language and drug use.
<|_=00=_|>

I've seen my share of movies in 3D but they were ok.
"Friday The 13th" in 3D was so cool and when they showed this movie in the
theatre about 3 or 4 yrs. ago well I went to see it and it was so neat to
see it on the big screen.  I wish they would make more movies in 3D because
I liked them so much especially horror movies like this
one.
