
Did it ever happen in your life that you've seen such a beautiful
movie, such a perfect piece of art, such an unbelievable example of
man-made splendor, such a gorgeous masterpiece that it hurt your eyes?
Well, I did. And it wasn't the Schindler's List or the Lord of the
Rings. No, it was the BEST action movie ever made. The BEST
interpretation of the Governator. The BEST explosions. The BEST
one-liners. The BEST plot. And the BEST tag-line. This movie is like
the Art of Japanese gardening. Simple and beautiful. Balanced.
Proportioned. There's just the right amount of everything. And there is
just about everything that should go into an action movie: car chases,
explosions, drug-lords, sex, an invincible hero, sitting-duck-like
enemies, humor, knife duels, fist fights, rocket launchers, blood,
death, bullets, glass, pectorals, muscles, some more muscles,
explosions and more explosions. You need more? It's got Arnold. Need
more? It's got Arnold with a sense of humor. Still more? It's got
Arnold with a sense of humor and a rocket launcher. Put these three
elements together and try to guess what happens. Destruction. On a mass
scale. I won't give away the plot, because it is too intricate and
surprising. Basically it is Arnie on a mission to save his daughter.
That's about it. But what is important is not the fact that Arnie will
save his daughter, but HOW will he save his daughter. Oh, are you
saying that The Matrix is the best action movie of all time? Does The
Matrix have Arnold Schwarzenegger? NO. Does Commando have the Matrix?
YES. JOHN MATRIX, in fact. Oh, so you are saying that Neo dodges
bullets? John Matrix doesn't need to. He is bulletproof. He eats
bullets for breakfast. Need more proof? I thought so... I gave this
Caravaggio painted on celluloid a 10 only because IMDb doesn't go to
11. This movie is so eye-blindingly beautiful I can't find the words to
properly end my commentary and render justice to this cinematic
masterpiece. So I will just use the movie's tag-line: Somewhere...
somehow... someone's going to pay!
<|_=00=_|>
This is by far one of the greatest movies of the century. I can't
believe what an awesome movie it is. It has no morals, no lessons to
teach, no political statements, no coherence, and no sense whatsoever.
When Schwarzeneggar's beloved daughter is kidnapped by a psychotic
dictator, he doesn't try to reason with the bad guys or take
precautions like most action heroes would. He just goes bonkers and
starts killing everyone in sight. The movie is packed with fantastic
scenes such as Arnie crashing a car at about 80 mph, without a
seatbelt, and being perfectly fine, Arnie tearing a phone booth out of
a wall, Arnie punching a guy through a wall, etc. It's gloriously
entertaining.

Also, despite his reputation for bad acting, he delivers all his lines
with perfect comic timing ("Let off some steam, Bennett"). Bennett is
also a great character, but no match for Arnold. You'd have to be
completely devoid of personality to not find this at least slightly
entertaining.

10/10 stars. Seriously.
<|_=00=_|>

"Commando" is undoubtedly Arnie's best.  The movie begins with John
Matrix's
(schwarzenegger) daughter (alyssa milano) getting kidnapped.  Basically
Matrix has a little over 10 hours to save his daughter from an evil
dictator, and in order to get her back, he has to take on a bunch of
hoodlums, corrupt ex-Green Berets, and a small army.

The screenplay, by Steven E. deSouza, is a masterpiece.  Granted, it's not
brilliant along the lines of Shakespeare, but for an action movie, it's
wonderful.  Chock full of wit, deSouza never makes the mistake of having
the
movie take itself to seriously; he maintains an excellent balance of
hardcore action while at the same time creating a lovely spoof of the
action
genre.

The acting is exactly how it should be for a movie of this genre.  I'm a
little bit tired of everyone saying "Arnie can't act"  "he's such a bad
actor" and so on.  Obviously, actors such as Anthony Hopkins and Tom Hanks
are better dramatic actors, but would any of us really want to see Sir
Hopkins kicking the c**p out of almost one hundred people in a movie?  i
think not.  Schwarzenegger plays Matrix wonderfully, delivering his lines
with the right amount of wit and sarcasm, and delivering his punches fairly
realistically.

See "Commando" if you like action movies.  It won't fail to satisfy you.
If, on the other hand, you are not a fan of action movies, don't expect
this
one to win you over.


<|_=00=_|>
Rating: *** 1/2 out of ****

Every time I'm accused by friends of being too tough or too picky on
action movies made for pure entertainment (i.e. the works of Jerry
Bruckheimer), I point back and tell them to look no further than Mark
L. Lester's Commando as the prime example of a pure macho classic and
the standard by which all mindless action cinema should be judged.

In its own simplistic ways, Commando is actually the epitome of Arnold
Schwarzenegger. Whenever we think of the Austrian muscle-bound star's
films; gun battles, fist fights, deadpan one-liners, a total lack of
plot, and a ridiculously high body count come to mind. Commando
represents all this, directed with high energy flair and a great sense
of fun.

Schwarzenegger stars as John Matrix, a former commando who lives in the
mountains with his young daughter (Alyssa Milano). Matrix's former
teammates are being knocked off one-by-one at the orders of a Latino
dictator (Dan Hedaya) who wants Matrix to assassinate a popular South
American leader so that he can be instilled back in power. As
incentive, Matrix's daughter is kidnapped by renegade military, led by
Bennett (Vernon Wells), who was once part of Matrix's team. As soon as
Matrix boards his flight, he kills his escort, leaps off the plane, and
begins his eleven-hour search for his daughter. Inexplicably joining
his search is a flight attendant (Rae Dawn Chong) who gets mixed up in
this whole mess.

Commando is one of those critically berated movies that only concerns
itself with giving its target audience a good time. Running at a
lightning fast ninety minutes, the film is packed to the gunnels with
explosive action sequences and quotable one-liners. In fact, the lines
are so fun, I have a hard time choosing my favorites. Here are a few
examples: "I eat green berets for breakfast and I'm very
hungry,""Remember when I said I'd kill you last? I lied," and "Let off
some steam, Bennett!"

The script is mindless and idiotic, but serves its purpose by providing
just enough plot and enormously entertaining one-liners to keep the
momentum from ebbing. There are also plenty of noticeable continuity
errors (ask yourself how a guy standing behind a railing atop a balcony
could be hit with shotgun pellets without the railing taking the
slightest bit of damage!), but that just adds to the movie's list of
unique charms.

But you don't watch Commando for plot or technical brilliance, you
watch it to see Arnold acting as a one-man army, mowing down scores of
enemy thugs and soldiers. Whether it's through the movie's various
shootouts, fistfights, or chases, the movie delivers thrilling action
one scene after another. The climactic battle sequence, in which he
single-handedly takes on at least a hundred men, will either make or
break the film for you. Me, I had a blast watching Arnold inflict his
brand of justice upon these nasty villains. Unless you don't like
Arnold or over-the-top action films, it's unlikely you'll find Commando
boring.

Schwarzenegger's charismatic and hugely likable screen presence is
undeniable, and his delivery of those classic one-liners is perfect.
Luckily, the movie has an equally strong villain in Vernon Wells, who
delights in chewing the scenery and generally acting as insane as
possible in any given situation. From his manic facial expressions to
his questionable tastes in clothing, Wells makes Bennett one of the few
villains that really stand out in an Arnold flick. You know the movie's
going to boil down to a one-on-one fight between the two, and it's one
of those fight scenes where each one takes his turn beating the crud
out of the other without one ever truly having the upper hand until the
very end (when, obviously, one of them's got to be dead).

For pure mindless mayhem, Commando is a perfect choice for Saturday
night entertainment. I first saw the film on its network broadcast
premiere, and distinctly remember that in the scene where Arnold hides
in the garden house (which is the film's goriest part), the movie is
edited in such a way that it appears only one man approaches the house
instead of six!
<|_=00=_|>
Arnold, what can you say? He was so awful, yet so incredibly lovable in
this terrific action film. Commando is a film I have watched since I
was a little girl, it was actually released the year I was born, so I
feel old now. :D But this film meant a lot to me because it was mine
and my dad's film, of course, he covered my eyes during some certain
unnecessary sex scenes, but we always got a kick out of the great
screen play. The lines and action in Commando makes it a great and fun
film to watch.

It's about a man, Matrix, played by Arnold, his daughter, played by a
very young Alyssa Malono, is kidnapped by terrorists, in particular a
dictator who Matrix managed to keep from destroying a country. They
give Matrix a chance to save his daughter, by killing the leader of the
country the dictator was trying to destroy, since Matrix was so trusted
by their leader, it'll make it more controversial. But Matrix has other
plans and escapes the airplane, he has 17 hours to save his daughter
and kidnaps a sassy flight attendant. But she ends up wanting to help
Matrix once she finds out that his daughter is kidnapped, together they
work to get back to the dictator's house and save his daughter.

The great thing about this film is that Arnold goes though at least 60
extras who are all shooting at him, they miss him and he kills them
all. But it's just fun to watch, as unrealistic as it is. My favorite
line in Commando is when Matrix is about to throw Sully over a cliff
and says "Remember Sully when I said I'd kill you last?" "That's right,
Matrix! You did!" "I lied!" LOL! That was such a great scene. Commando
is a great action film that anyone could at least get a good kick out
of.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Commando is the ultimate in cheesy one-liners.  Throughout this whole
movie
Schwarzenegger is at his utmost best.  The movie brings action at you thru
the whole damn thing.  Bennett is the silliest bad guy to ever grace the
big
screen, not only is he small in stature, but he is the least intimidating
bad guy ever.  Still he makes up for it, as you might guess, in his
one-liners. If you want mindless action and unintentionally laughable
humor,
watch Commando and I GUARANTEE you will enjoy it.  A 5.5 on the votes is
ludicrous, 8.8. NO LESS
<|_=00=_|>

When I was growing up, I had two heroes on the big screen.  One was Rambo
and the other was Indiana Jones.  They were two relentless characters that
would never stop, never give up and their tenacity was stuff that kids or
teens would swear by.  When we were playing adventure games those were the
two characters that always got chosen to play first.  But the same year that
Rambo II came out, a new hero was born.  We all knew who Arnold was, he was
the Terminator.  But when Commando was released, one of my best friends said
to me, " Hey Dan, I think this guy could take Rambo."  After all Matrix says
to Cook, " I eat green berets for breakfast and right now I'm very hungry!" 
I would maybe have to concur.  Matrix was the toughest man alive ( until
MacGyver came out ).  And Commando is one of the best memories that I have
as a young man growing up in the 80's.  Besides it being a damn fine, fun
movie, it also has two other elements that began to teach me about film. 
First a young Bill Paxton was in it and secondly I began to notice the name
Joel Silver.  He is the producer extraordinaire that is the man behind hits
like Die Hard, Predator, Weird Science and more recently The Matrix.  Now I
look for his name in the producers chair and when he is on that poster as
producer, I'll run to that movie.

Commando doesn't pretend to be something that it's not.  The Rambo character
was more into politics and it took itself a little more seriously than
Commando did and that's fine.  But this film is nothing but entertainment. 
It starts fast and violent and it ends hard and violent.  You think Rambo
kills a lot in Rambo, then count the bodies in this one.  But it is so much
fun because not only does Arnold have fun with it, but the script, as cheesy
as it may seem is actually brilliant.  Arnold's one liners are now a staple
of his film persona and I think you can look at this film as the root of
that persona.  For example " Any carry on luggage? " the stewardess asks
Arnold, " Just him," he replies pointing at the thug that is escorting him
onto the plane.  After he beats the hell out of Bill Duke he says, " We'll
take Cooks car, he won't be needing it."  And of course, to Bennett when
they are about to fight mano a mano, "Come on Bennett, let's party!" 
Commando is littered with small moments like that you won't soon forget.  It
has stayed with me for 15 years and me and my friends rent it every now and
again to laugh and cheer.  If this a film that you haven't seen yet, then do
so.  If you haven't seen this film in quite a while, you should treat
yourself to it.  It is fun fun and more fun.  And this is the first film
that Arnold reprises his famous line " I'll be back!"  So what's not to like
about it?  
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of Arnold's best movies, next to Predator and Terminator 2.
Seeing an invincible one man army kill over 100 baddies while intercepting
it with zingy one liners, that's what it's all about! None of this crap
about an "every man" who's family have been taken from him blah blah blah.
But the mountain of muscle from Austria dealing out justice the only way he
knows how - with extreme prejudice and loads of firepower!

On a side note, the character Sully is the other funniest part of this
movie. He's just too cool, and the scene between him and Rae Dawn Chong in
the car-park is unforgettable. I kept watching it over and over bursting
into hysterics when Sully says "You f**ken whore".

Perhaps Arnold is just too old and not physically impressive enough to do
these mindless mayhem movies anymore, but if he's giving them a miss just
to
give his acting "credibility" then what a waste - action movies are
supposed
to be mindless thrill-per-minute blow everything up fests, and in his day
none did them better than Arnie!

There may not be many movies like this, but at least we'll always have
these
classics. Arnold will always be remembered for his "Remember Sully when I
promised to kill you last? I LIED" lines, not for garbage like Collateral
Damage.
<|_=00=_|>
Ridiculous but fun film with Arnold Schwarzenegger as a retired special
agent being pulled back into action when his daughter (well played by
Alyssa Milano) is kidnapped. To get her back he has to kill someone
else.

An 80s action film all the way. It's full of noisy battles, tons of gun
play, loads of fistfights and a grand total of EIGHTY-ONE bloody
on-screen deaths! The film works so well because it has a good, strong
sense of humor and never takes itself seriously. It makes all the blood
and gore seem cartoonish. The plot barrels also full speed and it's
very short (88 min). Also Rae Dawn Chong (whatever happened to...?) is
very good in a supporting role. My only complaint is that the final
battle between Arnie and psycho Vernon Wells (badly overacting) is way
too violent--even for this film. Otherwise, well worth seeing--lots of
fun if you don't mind mindless, violent films (like me). Gotta love any
film where Chong learns to use a rocket launcher in a few seconds by
reading the directions!
<|_=00=_|>

Commando is the greatest movie ever made. This movie aspires to be
nothing more than a great action movie and succeeds in every way. The
director and screenwriter have no delusions about making a think piece
or movie that will move you to a religious experience. They simply
wanted to make a movie about a man, his hot daughter and love of
violence. As in all great action movies we have a man of violence who
has left all of that behind him. He simply wants to live in the
mountains, watch his daughter grow up, and eat ice cream. Of course,
this couldn't happen. It wouldn't be Commando. Anyways, the bad guys
force him out of hiding and instead of enlisting help or trying to find
a peaceful solution to the problem he kills and makes jokes. John
Matrix (Arnold) embarks on a mission of creative killing and funny
one-liners. Enough people have already written on how this movie plays
to Arnold's strengths and describe his various deeds. I think the scene
that really sets this movie apart is the attention to detail. No, not
the part where the porsche gets wrecked and fixed before Arnold pushes
it over. Next time you watch the film, turn the TV up very loud when
Arnold is fighting Cook. When Arnold picks Cook up by his testicles you
can hear the crunch and the air escaping Cook's mouth. Only the
greatest movie of all time would take the time to properly document
that tremendous event. This movie is as close to perfect as it gets. In
the 150 times i have watched Commando the only way I think it could be
improved is if Matrix kills Rae Dawn Chong at the end. That would go
along better with the theme of the movie.

