
Vietnam without a doubt was a dark period in our history.Any comedy
film surrounding Vietnam would indeed have to be done delicately.This
movie pulls it off.What amazes me most about the film is the flawless,
improvisational radio dialog from Robin Williams.This,as most of you
may know,was completely unscripted to allow Williams an opportunity to
work his magic.Also,it had to be timely,for the movie is,of course,set
in 1965.The fact that he was able to do this is nothing short of
amazing.The supporting cast was also incredible,with great performances
by Forrest Whitaker,Bruno Kirby,and the late J.T.Walsh as "Sergeant
Major Dickerson",the man you love to hate.Although some of the horror
that was Vietnam is here,it's only giving you a taste of it,as it
concentrates more on the Williams character's quest to make our beloved
soldiers forget their horror,at least for a while.Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

There never has been, and probably never will be, another film which shows
both sides of Williams to such a great degree.

As the wise-cracking disc-jockey, Williams shows his undisputed wild
comedic
talent, but the bomb scene and scenes of rural Vietnam life, truly allow
Williams to such his dramatic acting ability. They look at the conflict,
without getting in too deep.

A superb cast as well including Bruno Kirby and the late great J.T. Walsh
gives a solid backdrop, and are beautiful foils to Williams.

Overall, a wonderful movie, add it to your collection.

<|_=00=_|>
I just sat through a DVD of this movie,the second(?)time I'd seen this
film. The last time I could recall seeing this,it was on pay-per-view
television in a hotel(the Red Lion I think it was) room,August of
1988,so my memories of this film could use a refreshing. I'm glad I got
refreshed.

In 1965,Airman Adrian Cronauer(Robin Williams,in the first of his four
Academy Award nominations)is brought on to do an Armed Forces Radio
stint in Vietnam. Behind the microphone,Cronauer lets loose,much to the
surprise and delight of many of the troops and servicemen around the
area of combat. His combination of off-the-wall humor,impressions,sound
gags and quick wit,mixed with his love of free-wheeling Rock music of
the era,is pretty much welcomed in the area,save for a few angry sorts:
a Napoleon-complexed intermediate CO named Hauk(Bruno
Kirby,unrecognizable but for the voice) and a stiff-lipped,quietly
vindictive middle commander named Dickerson(J.T.Walsh,so good here it
would seem like this typecast him). As this is going on,Cronauer
becomes smitten with a local girl(Chinatra Sukapatra,spelling?)and
befriends her brother(Tung Thanh Tran),which leads the popular DJ down
a road of self-discovery.

With excellent support from Forrest Whitaker(one of my favorites!he
ends up sort of counter-balancing Williams' manic frenzy with nerdish
normalcy as his buddy/assistant/guide),Richard Edson,Noble
Winnigham,Robert Wuhl and Cu Ba Nguyen(as the oily GI bar
proprietor)among others,this film,directed by Barry Levinson(whose work
hasn't been this good in what feels like forever,certainly not since
Avalon or Rain Man) and written by Mitch Markowitz,it is arguable one
of the deftest films to create and maintain a balance between the
horrors and inhumanity of war and the humor and pathos that are very
much present in it. Robin Williams' fans may get much more out of this
that those who aren't,but I think even many of those who don't consider
themselves fanciers of his talents should be able to appreciate this.
The images were powerful enough that they stuck with me some after the
first time I saw GMV and after a second time I feel like can appreciate
even more out of this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

GOOD MORNING, VIETNAM / (1987) ***1/2 (out of four)

By Blake French:

	Robin Williams is about as good as they come at doing stand up comedy, and
in "Good Morning, Vietnam" director Berry Levinson gives him everything he
needs to make the film go above and beyond the average satire. From his
outgoing sense of humor, to his aggressive personality, and dozens of vocal
effects, he portrays his character with interactive zest. Who can resist the
awakening voice of Williams on the radio yelling "Good Morning Vietnam."
This is a film that conquers the test of time.

	"Good Morning, Vietnam" tells the story of a lively disc jockey who gets a
job on Armed Forced Radio during the Vietnam War. Robin Williams is the
fast-talking Adrian Cronauer, and who better to play the part than he.
Although this character is one-dimensional (we are never informed on his
background, marital status, where he comes from, what he did before we
meet), as the movie continues he gradually begins to change into a deeper,
more meaningful person.

	The story moves along smoothly; the narrative through-line is consistent as
each scene relates to the next. Although little momentum or suspense can be
noticed, the film does have several underlining themes, often viewed upon in
a Stanley Kubrick style: sarcastic and uncompromising. We see how much a
little humor and jazz can greatly enlighten the hard-core atmosphere of the
military during Vietnam, and how it can thoroughly confuse the bleeding
heart officials. 

	The film hangs by the skin of its teeth for active conflict tension. Beyond
people objecting to the actions of Williams' character, there is just not a
lot of tension within the story, and at some points my interest wandered.
"Good Morning, Vietnam" is merely a portrait of Robin Williams releasing his
perennial comedy, and unfortunately that does happen to get old quite
quickly; the majority of an audience can only watch the humor for so long
until it becomes old and somewhat stale.

	"Good Morning, Vietnam" is definitely not a flawless film, but we do
empathize for the main character, the scenes effectively capture the
attitude and mood during the war, and the dialogue and writing feel accurate
and involving. Barry Levinson has directed a marvelous comedy, one that is
not all about making us laugh, but also makes us think.

<|_=00=_|>
"Good Morning, Vietnam" is truly Robin Williams at his best. As
anarchic DJ Adrian Cronauer in 1965 Saigon, he makes sure that you
never stop laughing. I really liked what he did with the tape of
Richard Nixon's speech, and then his comment about the bombing of a
restaurant. Most amazing is that he ad-libbed the whole thing (but hey,
that's Robin Williams). Maybe Cronauer wasn't that wacky in real life,
but every one of Williams' comments makes the movie worthwhile. The
soundtrack even includes his monologues (you'll go crazy over the
imitation of Lyndon Johnson, and the commentary from "Roosevelt E.
Roosevelt"). A comedy classic in every sense.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me be perfectly frank and say right away that I watched this to
experience Robin Williams at his best. That guy has so much comedic
talent, it's unreal. I mostly got what I expected from this movie...
but I found that it also contained some truths about the Vietnam war.
The movie has plenty to offer on both fronts. Any fan of Williams'
comedy will definitely enjoy it, and I think most war-movie buffs will
too... if they can keep an open mind, and accept a slightly different
approach to the genre. The way the seriousness of war is underplayed
for most of the film really works to enhance the effect of it when it
is shoved right in our faces, when we are forced to acknowledge it. We
forget how serious and all-consuming war is, just like Adrian had(not
necessarily the real one, I know nothing of him except of what the film
told me, and as far as I understand, that's not that accurate a
portrayal of him), only to be confronted with it. More effective than
several big war movies. The plot is very good. The pacing is great, the
movie keeps moving pretty much all through the film. The characters are
well-written and credible. The acting is good pretty much all-round,
and Williams proves once again that he can do drama just as well as
comedy. The humor is typical Robin Williams. A very good film, and an
unusual war movie. I recommend this to fans of Robin Williams and war
movies. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Made at a time when films on the Vietnam war were being produced by
America at a healthy rate, Good Morning, Vietnam comes across as the
sort that falls into both 'types' that were being produced at the time.
Platoon got under the skin of Vietnam, telling the events from an
individual's perspective through voiceovers without relying on a lot of
causality, rather the everyday tasks and events that occur. Full Metal
Jacket was an interesting beast in the sense most of its more intense
scenes didn't actually happen in Vietnam but rather at home on the
training ground. But both were in a sensible tradition and took
attention away from the Reaganism inspired 'action' films that were
Rambo: First Blood Part II and the like.

Good Morning, Vietnam falls into both these sorts of Vietnam war films.
On one hand it is a serious film about the war and deals with serious
issues such as morale and how dangerous conflict with the enemy
actually is without doing what Rambo did by turning the war genre into
a sub-division of the action genre. At one point in the film, DJ and
lead character of the film Adrian Cronauer (Williams) finds himself in
a hostile area out in the jungle and you do feel the shift in
atmosphere the film briefly moves into in the sense this guy is not a
soldier but he is in a dangerous position and he isn't equipped with
how to get through it. There is another scene in which a street side
bomb goes off and Adrian is caught up in the middle of it, further
reminding us of the war zone and cleverly shifting the aura.

But the film does fall into the genre of comedy and while it does so,
it never distracts us from the fact this is taking place during a war
unlike First Blood: Part II which could really have been an action film
set amongst any backdrop. Good Morning, Vietnam does not ignore its
comedy roots either and gives us genuinely entertaining disc jockey
rants from Williams who shines with his animation and ad-libbing,
further reminding us of a later film of his, Aladdin, and how he really
was the star of that piece.

The best parts of Good Morning, Vietnam actually raise issues to do
with oppositional reading. As a character, Adrian is one of those
charismatic individuals who is perhaps more focused on entertaining his
audience first but when repercussions to do with that want to entertain
arise, it is an oppositional reading to something that seems innocent
enough. There are a couple of scenes and incidences that deal with this
theme of oppositional reading. One that springs to mind takes place in
a bar in which Adrian has brought a Vietnamese friend whom he teaches
in an English class. The trouble is, it's a G.I. bar and certain
soldiers have an issue with the Vietnamese person being there. It is
Adrian's carefree and relaxed attitude to letting the individual come
with him to the bar that has upset certain others around him, resulting
in an oppositional opinion on whether the Vietnamese person should be
allowed there. One says he can, others say he can't and conflict
erupts.

This battle is constantly going on within the boundaries of the radio
studio and exists between Adrian and the censors who blank out all the
bad news such as deaths and bombings, failing to deliver the real news,
and instead keep morale from going below a certain point. Adrian's
style of giving the people what they should hear in a charismatic style
also rubs off spawning a sub-story revolving around a small school that
teaches Vietnamese people the English language. Before hand, they were
learning very basic words and phrases but after Adrian takes over, New
York City slang or 'jargon' is the name of the game and while you
wouldn't find English as a foreign language classes doing this sort of
thing, Adrian brings his charismatic style to a class, turning it from
formal to informal.

The theme here is that he's giving them exactly what he feels they need
to know, not what the curriculum demand they know. It is the same with
the radio station and the news censorship; giving people what they have
a right to know vs. what a higher power say they should know. The
principal foil for Adrian is Lt. Steven Hauk (Kirby) who is against
Adrian's style of parody and constant joking but when he is put on air,
the best he can do is adopt the voice and role of a Frenchman as he
mocks and plods his way through airtime. It is a battle that the
oppositional readers loose since morale falls drastically after Adrian
is taken off and he is forced to be reinstated because of this.

Good Morning, Vietnam carries a pumping soundtrack which is what you'd
expect for a film about a DJ and an emphasis on radio and its constant
referencing to popular culture, gliding from The Wizard of Oz to
Eleanor Roosevelt makes Williams' scenes consistently fun to watch. But
other than this, it gives some political stances without ever feeling
forced with the 'Wonderful World' montage over wartime action and
juxtaposes James Brown's music over other scenes of wartime action. The
film is a success in comedy and drama, a rarity of sorts given Dr.
Strangelove supposedly set the standards.
<|_=00=_|>
It finally hit me when I watched Good Morning Vietnam what this film
reminded me of. It was the famous Preston Sturges classic, Sullivan's
Travels which coincidentally as it turns out is one of my favorite
films.

Both the real life Adrian Cronauer and Joel McCrea's fictional John L.
Sullivan have to come to the same realization, that what they do
matters a great deal. In Sullivan's Travels it's to the movie going
public in general, in the case of Cronauer it's to the GIs in Vietnam
stuck in a war where no one could ever know who the enemy was. A few
laughs from a comic genius was necessary to get them through the day in
their very cockeyed world.

Adrian Cronauer was a real life person, but if he didn't bear a
resemblance to Robin Williams, he should have. One of the great comic
masters of any era in entertainment, Robin Williams is given full range
for his zany sense of humor to work its magic with Cronauer. He's ably
abetted and assisted by the other staff members of Armed Forces Radio
Forest Whitaker and Robert Wuhl. Bruno Kirby is great as the clueless
lieutenant in charge and so is J.T. Walsh who represents the limits of
the military mind as the sergeant major out to get Williams by hook or
very dirty crook.

Williams himself doesn't understand the complexities of the Vietnam
situation. That fact is brought home to him graphically when he's
betrayed by his own innate decency.

Next to Williams my favorite in the cast is Noble Willingham who plays
the general who has overall charge of Armed Forces Radio there. He's a
tough, but compassionate military man, the exact opposite of J.T. Walsh
whom he has to reign in.

Good Morning Vietnam is a frank portrayal of a war experience told with
humor and irony through the eyes of Robin Williams.

Preston Sturges would have absolutely adored this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Good Morning, Vietnam (1987)

A lighthearted but deadly serious anti-war film, actually. This is of
course a Robin Williams movie so that it is his schtick, brilliant and
inspired, that makes it soar. The best of it, including the famous riff
when he first gets on the air as the new Saigon DJ, is hilarious and
breathtaking. There is a plot, sort of, as he goes through a rise and
fall at the military radio station, but it's more about his shining
moments behind the microphone than anything else.

The "else" in this movie is, however, most of the movie. That is,
Williams has a serious role as an offbeat renegade in a chaotic world
surrounded by a range of sensible and very insensible officers and
colleagues. At the most extreme, when we see a Vietnamese village
firebombed while Louis Armstrong sings "It's a Wonderful World," the
sentiment is so cloying it makes you cry, and you're not sure why
because you know it's just over the top manipulation. Likewise when
Williams is caught in a traffic jam with other military vehicles and he
warms up the soldiers by humanizing everyone and making them feel like
they really should be back home. Which they should be, as we know in
retrospect.

So the movie has another side that's kind of sentimental and
simplistic, whatever its good pacifist intentions. Williams is a decent
actor—I'm not one of those who thinks he's brilliant outside of his
funny roles—and so it holds up pretty well. But the plot line keeps the
movie from really finding pathos, or comedy, or warmth, or tragedy of a
dramatic kind, in the scenes outside the radio station. And I think
that's what it intended.

For those who don't know, it's worth adding that the main character,
Adrian Cronauer, was a real person, and still is—he's a staunch
Republican (Williams was not, to be sure) and an innovator in radio in
Vietnam. He also co-wrote the screenplay, I assume working on the
scenes that he would know best rather than the larger saccharine plot
aspects. A great story, and the real Cronauer deserves credit for
inspiring it, and helping it along. He was, along with most of us,
"Godsmacked" when he heard the news of Williams's death.
<|_=00=_|>
It's been a while since I've seen Good Morning Vietnam but I was
reminded of it with the untimely death of Bruno Kirby earlier this week
of August 2006. While the film is clearly Robin William's vehicle,
Kirby, playing 2nd Lt. Hauck, is the perfect comedic foil. Kirby plays
the uptight Hauck, who can't wait to get his hands on the microphone,
in way that brings many of the laughs and sets Robin Williams up for
more. I continue to use his line "and if you doooooo..." when someone,
e.g. my wife or children, do not seem to be listening to me intently
enough. Kirby does this in a scene where he is giving instructions to
his underlings, who are routinely ignoring him as they comment on
things having nothing to do with his agenda. This is a great movie.
Williams gives one of his best performances, and you already know how I
feel about Bruno Kirby. Another newcomer in the cast is Forest
Whitaker, who would later make his mark in The Crying Game and as the
host of the update TV series "The Twilight Zone."
