

This film is often looked back on as not only the lesser of the two
Gremlins flicks but not a very good movie in general.  I just don't
understand it -- I love this movie!  It successfully continues the
underlying theme of the original (unlike a lot of sequels which seem to
forget their points entirely): "gremlins" are mythical creatures blamed for
mechanical errors (if an appliance is broken, it must have been the work of
gremlins).  In this movie, the gremlins are loose in a totally automated
high-rise office building, already suffering from its own malfunctions,
which serves as the perfect playground for them.  Charles Haas' script is
absolutely hilarious, filled with more movie in-jokes than I can recall
seeing in a single movie, and it even pokes fun at the more serious
original.  In fact, I think many people disliked this film because of its
total irreverence compared to the first; it didn't try to be scary for a
second and Rick Baker's creature effects turned out goofier than Chris
Walas's original creature designs.  Just realize...this is a comedy!
Definitely worth seeing more than once to catch the barrage of jokes and
references...and sit all the way through the credits!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie came out when I was 5 years old. I remember the movie
posters in the streets and the wacky preview for it on TV. I'm now 20
years old, and this is still one of my most favourite movies of all
time. It's even better than the original, I believe. The reason I love
it so much is because it is so damn strange. It really, really is! It's
like a live action "Looney Tunes" episode. The gremlins are wacky,
Gizmo is cute and mysterious, the human actors are all brilliant in
their roles and the New York building setting is well, neat.

The basic premise for this movie picks up a few years after the first
"Gremlins" movie. This time however, it takes place in the busiest city
on the planet, New York.

The movie opens with the death of Gizmo's frail Chinese owner. In
accordance with the owners death, the place where Gizmo is kept is
demolished by a bulldozer and recking ball. Terrified, Gizmo flees from
the building and into an alley where he is plucked up by a scientist
and brought to the "Clamp Cable Network" building. The building belongs
to media mogul Daniel Clamp and contains a vast variety of shops
including: coffee houses, restaurants, dental clinics and science
laboratories.

Coincidentally, Billy and Kate are both working in the same building.
Billy is in the art department and Kate gives guided tours of the
building. It is here that they stumble upon Gizmo and the inevitable
happens.

I won't give anymore of the story line away. If you haven't seen this
movie yet, I urge you to. It may not be brilliant in the eyes of the
"Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences", but it is in my eyes. 10
stars!
<|_=00=_|>
I rate both films exactly the same but for very different reasons, the
first film was an enjoyable romp fusing horror and comedy to great
effect. When I saw that there was to be this sequel 6 years later I was
very pleased indeed. What I hadn't bargained for was the sharpness of
the writing and the satirical structure that director Dante laid out
for audiences to watch.

Focusing very much on the then modern obsessions like tearing things
down to build state of the art monstrous complexes, or the need for a
better world; be it the laboratory testings for better life forms, or
machines to run our lives; Gremlins 2 plays out as a sort of morality
tale that sees the creatures themselves as byproducts of the human
condition. In true classic creature feature fashion, Dante manages to
garner a level of sympathy for the Gremlins. These vile offspring of
the offspring are party animals, they have fun, they like to sing and
go nuts, they are in short, quite like a stag party on the Costa Del
Sol! Throwing in as many film references as it can, Gremlins 2 may have
a satirical slant at it's heart, but sure enough the fun from the first
film segues nicely into this picture to make this one of the better,
and more smarter sequels on the market.

And those darn Gremlins are nastier and uglier than ever as well! 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

To this day my friend and I still refer to the gremiln like he is real. 
When something goes wrong with my computer, it is the gremlin, when my keys
are misplaced and then show up in a spot that you swear you checked before,
it was the gremlin, when something, anything goes wrong, it has to be the
gremlin.  I am actually convinced that Spike has taken on a life of his own
(kinda the way Freddy did in Wes Craven's New Nightmare) and lives to make
my life difficult.  Joe Dante's Gremlin's has had that much of an impact on
my life.  Gremlins was a wonderful film and it was a little more creepy than
it was funny.  But make no mistake about this one, it is one of the funnier
movies that I've seen.  It abandons all that was scary and atmospheric in
the first and just adds comedy a-plenty.  And I would seriously put this
humour up against some of the funnier comdies of the 90's.

This time the adventures of Magwai and Spike reach a skyskraper like
building owned by a guy that has to be a distant cousin of Donald Trump. 
And if you think back to Gremlins, remember how much trouble the little guys
could get into using simple household products (microwave, chimney etc )
well that is nothing compared to what they can do at an office filled with
the latest technology.  

There are also many many inside jokes about Hollywood and such that you have
to watch it several times to pick up on all of them.  What is also great
about the film is the two versions ( one for the theater and one for the VCR
)  I remember when I saw this in the theater I really thought something was
wrong with the projector when it first went all strange.  And I like the
fact that the makers of this had the guts and the gaul to try something new
like that.  It kind of reminds me of Something About Mary when at the end
the entire cast is singing that song.  The movie never stops trying to
entertain, and that is what I got from this film too.  It will do anything
to make you laugh, even throw in a little Hulkamania when he was
cool.

Gremlins 2 is one of the funniest films that you will see.  And I'm just a
little surprised that Joe Dante isn't still active so much in the business
anymore.  He made some great films and I would gladly see anything that he
puts his name on.  

If you haven't seen this film for quite some time, then I highly suggest
that you do see it soon.  I was browsing through Rick Baker's filmography on
the IMDb and I came across Gremlins 2.  I rented it the same night and I was
very glad I did.  Not only did it make me laugh, it brought me back to a
time when films like this and The Goonies and even E.T. were made.  Movies
aren't the same anymore and that is not neccessarily a criticism, it is just
a comment pointing out that in the early 90's and the 80's movies were just
different sometimes.  This is one of the funnier ones, and one of the more
entertaining.  Do you remember a film by Amblin that wasn't?
<|_=00=_|>
When this came out, it was an amazing movie because these Gremlin
creatures looked so lifelike. They still look pretty real. What I like
best about this film is that it took the hard edge off the first one
and made it more of a comedy. To me, this sequel was more entertaining
than the first film and one I would watch a lot more times. 

There are so many jokes and wild scenes in here it would many viewings
to catch them all. For movie buffs, it's especially fun with all the
references to other films in here.

However, it should be pointed out that there are still plenty of scenes
where the gremlins are nasty and attack people, so the film is still
horror-like in that respect. It may be played for comedic purposes, but
these creatures are anything but friendly. In other words, there is
still a bit of a hard edge in here for people who want that.

After three viewings of this film over the years, the only person who
wore thin on me was John Glover's character, "Daniel Clamp," an obvious
Donald Trump-imitation but grossly overacted by Glover. He winds up
just being too silly.

Phoebe Cates and Zach Galligan reprise their roles as the cute,
small-town, wholesome (despite not being married, however) couple who
live together who, of course, know all about these gremlins.

It was nice to see Jackie Joseph (of the original "Little Shop Of
Horrors") again as well as some other well-known characters such as
Christopher Lee, Robert Prosky, Dick Miller and Keye Luke. 

The film just flies by, which tells you it's entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
Fancy some Gremlin Stew? Three underrated sequels came out in 1990.
Predator 2, RoboCop 2, and Gremlins 2. I remember waiting in the lobby
of a cinema in Orlando, Florida before a screening of Back to the
Future 3, looking at the cardboard standees for Gremlins 2 and RoboCop
2 side by side. My 9-year-old self was a HUGE fan of the first movies
and staring at a standee taller than me, featuring wonderful artwork,
for those sequels was big deal for me. I pity kids nowadays who don't
have the attention span to soak up little moments like that.

Dante takes everything that was great about Gremlins and cranks it all
the way up to a zillion. The original movie was a dark xmas comedy
horror with B-movie undertones. The sequel goes so over-the-top it
launches itself into the stratosphere and doesn't come back down until
the very, very end of the credits. It's just wall-to-wall mayhem with
so many in-jokes it'll make your head explode. The movie even attempts
to begin as a Looney Tunes cartoon.

Gizmo, now back with Mr. Wing, escapes the curiosity shop after the old
man dies and is found by a scientist working at Splice of Life, a
laboratory located in the Clamp Premiere Regency Trade Centre and
Retail Concourse (a big skyscraper in Manhattan). Working in the art
department of that skyscraper is Billy Peltzer, hero of the first film.
Billy eventually locates and rescues Gizmo, but he gets wet before
Billy can take him home, spawning a new generation of cute, fluffy,
malevolent Mogwai (Mohawk, Lenny, Edward G. Robinson-lookalike George,
and the absolutely mad Daffy). They eat after midnight at a Yoghurt
stand in the lobby. The following day the Clamp building, and all of
the tenants (from the Archery Channel to the movie print itself,
leading to an amusing cameo from Hulk Hogan) are besieged by a horde of
gremlins intent on mass destruction and good times at any cost.

One can accuse the film of having no story beyond giving the Gremlins a
lively backdrop for their wild antics, but when you're having so much
fun isn't that what matters most? Goldsmith's score (sadly
underrepresented on the 22-year-old Varese Sarabande CD) has a lot more
weight second time around, backed-up by a large orchestra and
string-based action cues. You'll absolutely love it! Chris Columbus
didn't return for this movie, leaving scripting duties to Charlie Haas.
He uses the Gremlins and the location to skewer big city culture and
satirize business tycoons. John Glover is brilliant as the easily
excitable Daniel Clamp, a Donald Trump-like property magnate who has
more money and power than he knows what do with.

It's amazing that a third Gremlins movie was never made. Despite it now
being 22 years since Gremlins 2 and 28 years since the first movie
virtually every kid knows what the Gremlins are and are familiar with
Gizmo (who may well be the cutest thing that ever existed). It's still
a huge cash cow and a recognizable brand, and why Warner never greenlit
Gremlins 3 is puzzling to say the absolute least.

One last thing. Stay with this film until the end of the credits.
<|_=00=_|>
This here is Joe Dante's best film. It's a delightful and absolutely
charming dark comedy. I begged my mom to take me to see this back in
1990 and thankfully I can say I saw this on the big screen.

Years later when I watch it, I can catch all of the little references
and nods to other great films of the past. The Warner Brothers Looney
Tune cartoons have obviously made an impact on the directorial style of
Joe Dante. What's great is the combination of this type of humor
blended with these devious little monsters wrecking havoc in the Clamp
Building. Speaking of Clamp, John Glover was excellent as Daniel Clamp
(a parody of Donald Trump). He's absolutely hilarious!

There are many terrific special effects and sequences in the film. It's
hard to tell you which scene is my favorite because I adore every
moment of the film. I will say one of the scenes that sticks out for me
is when the Bat Gremlin flies out into New York City by day. I just
love those excellent shots of him flying through the sky. Of course,
the Brain Gremlin and the 'New York, New York' number is fantastic as
well. "Is eeeverybody heere?" And who could forget when the Gremlins
got their revenge for Leonard Maltin's lambasting of the first Gremlins
movie?

All this is accompanied by a fantastic Jerry Goldsmith score (which
happens to be one of my favorites of his as well). The collaboration
between Goldsmith and Dante isn't unlike that of Hitchcock and Herrmann
or Spielberg and Williams.

The film abounds with dark jollity and watching it you can tell that
the filmmakers had a fun time making the picture. To include the
audience as part of the goings on, is a real treat.

Out of all the thousands of films I have seen, none have been or ever
will be more entertaining than Gremlins 2.

I LOVE it.
<|_=00=_|>

gremlins 2 is not a horror movie like the original kind of was, but it's
funnier, and more entertaining than the original in my opinion. gremlins 2
is full of movie in-jokes, and all kinds of other goofy stuff. i just
believe this movie provides more entertainment than the original did. i
wish
they'd make a 3rd gremlins movie. all in all gremlins 2 is great fun! i
give
gremlins 2: the new batch *** out of ****

<|_=00=_|>

Gremlins 2 is packed with laughs, special effects, and hundreds of movie
references. Look closely to a lot of the background actions and one liners
that come up in the movie. There are several references to famous movies
that you might not catch the first time. Invasion of the Body Snatchers,
Marathon Man, 42nd Street, Batman, and many others.
The entire movie is one big laugh. A great movie to watch and take nothing
serious.
<|_=00=_|>

"Gremlins 2: The New Batch" is the 1990 sequel to the 1984 box office hit
"Gremlins" which is one of my all-time favorite movies. The sequel is not as
good as the original, but its not bad either. Here the filmakers did
something different. They tried to make this one more of a comedy than the
original. The first film was funny but also scary. "Gremlins 2" plays more
like a Mel Brooks-type movie with some of the jokes that are in it. But its
hardly scary. Plus, it got a little tiresome to watch the gremlins do some
of the exact same things that they did the first time around like drinking,
smoking, etc. Nevertheless, this is for the most part an entertaining movie
that I'd wish had done better at the box office. I think if they had made
this three years after the original instead of six years, it would have done
better. In between the two "Gremlins" flicks there were all those ripoffs
("Critters", "Ghoulies" and their sequels) and by 1990 moviegoers became
tired of it all. But the two "Gremlins" movies are much better than the
"Critters" and "Ghoulies" movies. A good job by director Joe
Dante.

*** (out of four)

