

Aileen Quinn as Annie has everyone beat.  With that darling face, that
beautiful voice, she did a fabulous job creating the character.  Albert
Finney as Daddy Warbucks was wonderful!  He had that stern 'businesslike'
attitude which grew into heartfelt love for this little red-headed orphan
girl.  Carol Burnett was awesome as the lady who ran the orphanage.  She
started out gruff and tumble (and drunk) but as it turns out, she really
has
a love for these orphans.

There is NO comparison to the newest version.  I can't see anyone else
playing these parts better than Quinn, Burnett and Finney.  It just isn't
the same.  If you want a beautiful musical with fun loving attributes,
please see this movie!!!   Your children will love you for it.

Highly Recommended
<|_=00=_|>
How can you not love this movie? It has wonderful, catchy songs, it's a
clean movie, a great storyline, and wonderful actors and actresses!
What more could you ask for?! It's better than most movies today
because it actually has a moral and a plot. It's a great family movie.
It's one of my favorite movies, next to The Sound of Music. Anybody who
doesn't watch this movie is seriously missing out. I'm sure you will
like it. It's a lot better than the Disney remake. Sometimes the
original, older movies are better than the remakes. And this movie is
one of them! If you like musicals, or just want to watch a family
movie, this is one that you really should watch.
<|_=00=_|>

I loved this film as a child and will always hold fond nostalgia for it. 
You definitely have to watch this from the point of view as a child (with so
many "family" films out today, I know this might be hard, when their goal
has been to entertain everyone).  I loved all the performances in it from
Albert Finney to Carol Burnett and Tim Curry.  My most favorite Huston film
is The Misfits, but don't expect that from this film, which I think alot of
people are doing.  As most directors age, they tend to get "soft" in their
filmmaking as their hunger is replaced with complacency, but this film isn't
as bad as some people describe it. It's a musical, it was made in the 80's,
and it's primarily for kids. Compared to other movies made in that time
period, this one is actually quite good.  And although I've only seen parts
of the newer one made by Disney, this one seems alot more mature and
crafted, and not so candy-coated.
<|_=00=_|>
!!!Spoilers!!!

The very first time I watched this film, I was hooked. God only knows
how many times I have seen it since. And every time I have cried at the
bit where Rooster, Lily and Miss Hannigan kidnap her from Daddy
Warbucks.

Carol Burnett, Tim Curry and Albert Finney are all excellent. As is
Aileen Quinn as little orphan Annie. In fact the entire cast are
brilliant. Annie is by far one of the best films I have ever seen. One
of my favourite parts is the bit where they come in from the movies and
Grace and Daddy Warbucks put Annie to bed while she's sleeping. And
another fave is when all the kids from the orphanage go looking for
Daddy Warbucks' house because they know what Rooster, Lily and Miss
Hannigan are up to. Absolute brilliance. One thing I have to say is
never, never, never, never watch the sequel. It is complete rubbish!!
<|_=00=_|>
I thought that this movie was a real spirit-lifter. It is a movie that
I hope everyone who watches it has a change of attitude towards orphans
and homeless children and adults. Sometimes I find myself turning my
back on homeless people. Although I am ashamed to admit it, I do hope
that others will look beyond money and appearance and see what really
matters. This movie, once again, was wonderful. I hope that you keep up
all of the good work and keep producing and directing movies such as
this one. Enjoy all of your comments and all of your hard earned credit
that you are receiving and take the time to really preview all of your
scripts and watch the movie several times to praise all of your good
work. Thank you very much and I will be watching the movies that you
produce no matter how long, or short, they might be.
<|_=00=_|>

I just recently watched this movie, for the first time in my adult life.
It's even better as an adult, because you catch all of these little things
like, "Mr. Warbucks, you're really handsome, for a Republican."  Some
people
bash it for being different than the Broadway show, but so what, they did
a
good job.  It's a fun movie for people of all ages.  It's hilarious,
musical, and touching.  
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot count how many times I have watched this film. As a child I
would watch it almost daily and as an adult I watch it whenever it
comes on the television. That was until my daughter came along and
discovered the beauty that is Annie... so we have watched it time and
time together, so much so I had to buy a new DVD copy as we wore ours
out!

Regardless of this being an old film, it does not disappoint, it can be
enjoyed by all ages and it will be timeless.

These days the story brings me to tears. 

The music and the songs are fantastic, as are the child actors. The
singing, the dancing, the story line have the ability to stir up so
many different emotions. 

And as Daddy Warbucks can vouch, Annie has the ability to win over even
the most unavailable hearts.

As a viewer you will not be disappointed with this film, if you haven't
already, watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on a comic strip original written by Harold Gray.  Annie Soon
became a sensation that turned into a Broadway musical. It was a huge
hit  so Thomas Meehan had the idea to write a book on the musical and
received the tony award for the Best Book of a Musical in 1977.  The
play ran on Broadway for nearly six years opening in 1977.Annie was set
in 1933 during the Great Depression. The Leading cast included Aileen
Quinn as Annie, Albert Finney as "Daddy" Oliver Warbucks, Ann Reinking
as Grace Farrell, Warbucks' assistant. Miss Hannigan, Played by Carol
Burnett and her brother Rooster Hannigan, Tim Curry. Bernadette Peters
 Played by Lily St. Regis, and Geoffrey Holder as Punjab. This movie is
 considered  an adventure comedy because of Annie's search for her
parents and the encounters that she faces throughout the movie.   

Annie  is an eleven year old orphan during the 1930's. She is very
adventurous and tries to escape many times from her orphanage, where
she lives with the other orphan girls.Their caretaker Miss Hannigan, is
very mean and treats the girls badly. One day while the girls are
cleaning the house Annie hides in the laundry basket and is taken
outside to The laundryman who take the sheets and dry cleans them.
While Annie is out in the world she see a dog that some boys are
picking so she goes and helps. While a  Policeman is watching her for a
distance she is caught and brought back to the orphanage. Soon after
Grace Farrell Warbucks assistance comes to the orphanage to take an
orphan to stay with his for a week and she chooses Annie. Annie and Mr.
Warbucks get along very well. Until Warbucks wants to adopt her and she
shows him the locket and note her parents wrote to her saying that they
would come back to get her. Warbucks decides that he will help her find
her parents and reward the parents 50,000 dollars for coming and taking
Annie home. But the people who show up and seem to be her parents turn
everything upside down and and things take a crazy twist. (spoiler
alert)  

The costumes in the movie are good at telling the differences between
social classes in the 1930's. The clothes of the poor at the time were
dirty, old and ripped in some places. When you see Grace Farrell she is
dressed very nice as she comes out of the car in front of the
orphanage, and you are able to see the differences between how rich
people dressed and how poor people were dressed.This shows you  how
hard it was during the great depression.  For lower class people who
had little or no money. The movie's costume designer does a good job
creating images of the hardships that these people went through during
the movie. You really feel connected to the movie through the
characters clothes. 

The set design was very well done. It was very elaborate and had many
details to show the life  of the characters. You were able to tell a
lot about the kids from the orphanage,  where everything was very dirty
and old. It wasn't kept in good conditions because they didn't that the
time or money. You were able to tell that they did not have enough
money and were very poor. Then you have Mr. Warbucks home. It was very
big, beautiful, everything was new and kept very clean and tidy. The
clothes were new and expensive and kept very well. you could tell that
a lot of work was put into the set design so that the audience could
get the full effect  of the movie. It helped them  feel the character's
pain, happiness, sorrow and anger. 

My overall opinion of the film was good. I thought the quality of the
film was well made. The singing and dancing was well rehearsed and you
could tell they put a  lot of time into the choreography and practice.
The acting was believable; when the characters faced a problem in the
movie you felt it also. I recommend that people who have not seen the
movie should see it because it is a classic movie that will make you
laugh and cry.  
<|_=00=_|>
Under John Huston's direction, Annie cannot be accused of manipulating
your heartstrings. But when you consider the storyline, you feel like
it should. Instead, it is a bit understated; some people are moved by
it, and others (who perhaps don't like musicals in the first place) are
left cold. My response was in the middle: Annie is entertaining, but
not moving. 

What's right: All of the acting is excellent, especially Albert Finney
as Daddy Warbucks, who accomplishes the difficult feat of recreating an
ancient cartoon character. If judged by its retaining the character of
the old Little Orphan Annie newspaper cartoon strip, the movie
succeeds. It is generally difficult to bring a modern Broadway musical
to the screen, but Vincent Canby, in his New York Times review, says he
didn't much like the stage version, and the movie is better. The
producer, Ray Stark, didn't like the Broadway version, either. 

I think Aileen Quinn gets it right, not too polished to seem
implausible, but delivers the lovable perkiness the role calls for.
Carol Burnett rises above her television persona to do some real acting
-- sort of. None of these roles calls for naturalistic acting, although
Ann Reinking's performance comes the closest. These are roles that have
their roots in a cartoon strip, not a great novel. As presented, this
works fine in a musical, in part because Huston doesn't overdo it; With
a less subtle director, this could have been a very expensive flop. And
there are some genuinely funny scenes,particularly from Burnette, and
the radio show. 

The limiting factors are the story and the music, which are good but
not great, a point made by Roger Ebert, with whom I often disagree, but
this time his review gets it right: Despite these limitations, the
movie is still pleasantly entertaining.

The movie Annie inevitably gets compared to is Oliver! In some ways
Annie works better as a musical, precisely because it is so rooted in
pure fantasy. You can't help feeling something is lost in Oliver! by
moving the gritty realism of the original Charles Dickens into a cotton
candy fantasy musical. If Annie is cotton candy, well, what else was
the cartoon strip? But in both Oliver! and Annie, the depth of emotion
the stories suggest is missing. 

The message of Annie is surprisingly contemporary to America, 30 years
later, of Annie opening the heart of Daddy Warbucks, of FDR drafting
him to organize his New Deal jobs programs. 

Spoiler alert:

As to the ending, I really wish the Carol Burnett character had been
fired or led off in handcuffs. But I guess Annie, herself, was not
mean- spirited, so forgiveness was more appropriate. We could learn a
lot from Annie, which, I suppose, is the whole point of the story. 

I recommend watching Annie, not only because it is enjoyable, but also
for cultural literacy because there are so many references to it in
other movies. And don't miss the legendary Ray Bolger as the radio
sound effects man tap dancing with his hands!
<|_=00=_|>

Annie is a wonderful movie. It's great for children, particularly young
girls. I have been watching the film since I was very small, and I have
worn
out five VHS copies to boot. Ergo I, as a young child, and still do now
that
I'm older, for reasons all my own, enjoyed this movie. This movie is
superb
for young children, and that's how it should be viewed, not as how poor
the
direction was, because most kids don't even know what a director does. See
the film through a childs eyes, better yet, your childs eyes, and they
will
love it. Plus, it always keeps my cousins relatively quite (they like to
sing) for two hours. 
