

This lovely film was universally trashed and smashed by all the critics. FF
Coppola directed it, but they still smashed it. I don't get that.

The then unknown cast was: Patrick Swayze, Matt Dillon, C. Thomas Howell,
Rob Lowe, Ralph Macchio, Tom Cruise, Emilio Estevez, Diane Lane, and Leif
Garrett. All these actors went on to fame, but the whole movie, the
performances, the writing, were trashed.

I thought the cinematography was exceptionally lovely. The "Nothing Gold Can
Stay" sunrise scene was gorgeous. The camera angles during the hair cutting
scenes were creative and intimate. The music was "epic" sounding, yeah, but
this film had a huge tie in with Gone With The Wind, remember. I thought the
soft lighting and the creamy edging made the film look very much like IT was
filmed in 1939!!!

I don't know. I thought the chracters were very engaging and the
performances excellent. Lots of people loved this film, regular people like
myself, that is.
<|_=00=_|>

A gem from Francis Ford Coppola based on S.E. Hinton's novel. Teenage gang
members in a mid 60's Oklahoma town become involved in murder, leading to
tragic consequences for all concerned. Filmed mostly in Tulsa, Oklahoma,
with a very impressive list of young actors on their way to
stardom.

The cast includes Matt Dillon, Patrick Swayze, Rob Lowe and Tom Cruise. Also
featured are Emilio Estevez, Diane Lane, C. Thomas Howell, Gailard Sartain
and Ralph Macchio.

A coming of age movie that packs a punch. Very much worth your
time.
<|_=00=_|>
I had to read the book in seventh grade and we also watched the movie.
I though both of them were fabulous. Francis Ford Coppola has adapted
almost every detail of the book into this movie. I thought the acting
was great and the plot was good for teenagers, which is the movie's, as
well as the book's, target audience. I was surprised on how many stars
were in this movie (seven) and it was much better than I thought it
would be. It didn't seem cheesy and small but you felt like you were
watching a real film. Even though the Greasers seem to be born into
undesirable lives, watching this movie makes you want to go back to
1967 in the Southwest and be a Greaser, too. Fabulous movie and perfect
for teenagers.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Outsiders" was one of my favorite novels I read in high school,
and the film version is just as powerful. -- Set in a small town in
1963 Oklahoma, two groups of teenagers from opposite sides of the
tracks defend their "turf" and rival for girls. The "Greasers" are
tired of being shown-up by the "Soashes", who drive around in fancy
cars and wear expensive clothes, and when someone calls for a "rumble",
both sides are in for the fight.

The main plot line centers around two of the younger "Greasers" who are
on the run after one of them kills a "Soash", even though it was
clearly self defense. Later the boys are celebrated as heroes when they
rescue children from a burning building. The dying words of the alleged
killer sum up the entire story: The fighting must stop; there are
better ways to communicate other than kill one another. The Stevie
Wonder song "Stay Gold" is a nice finishing touch. I especially
recommend this film for teenagers or young adults; the message is a
powerful one and it hasn't aged over the decades.
<|_=00=_|>
The Outsiders is one of the best movies and books ever written! It was
manatory for me to read it and I got right in with the characters. The
movie is......... I can't describe it, it's that awesome! I personally,
fell in love with it so much that I've read it 5 times and have seen it
45 times. This movie really brings out the book and if you have not
seen it, but you've read it go to your local movie store and rent it!
Or, if you have not even read it go read it! This is a movie that you
will talk about with your friends and will always remember. Both
Coppola and Hinton did a great job with this. This movie included
excellent acting to, Matt Dillon, C. Thomas Howell, Ralph Macchio,
Emilio Estevez, Rob Lowe, Patrick Swayze, and Tom Cruise. This movie
will surly be popular with those who love Drama.
<|_=00=_|>
I think that both the movie and the book were outstanding. The book
sent off an amazing image in my mind in-order for me to picture the
"happenings" included through the lives of these young kids. In the
movie, I thought it sent off a different type of perspective, and yet
it was very well done because of the fact that it was changed a bit,
though, it was basically a better image of the story where you can see
through your eyes, so that you were able to picture and make out with
what you originally were thinking. Very well done! The actors were
placed in very well positions, and each actor really fit each character
the story The Outsiders. =)
<|_=00=_|>
First let me say that this will not be a comment where the author will
be gushing about how "hot" the cast is! Like a lot of people who have
commented on this film I, too, read the book first in school and then
proceeded to seek out the film to see how the story translated to the
screen. I thought esteemed director Francis Ford Coppola (The
Godfather, Apocalypse Now) did a fairly competent job of adapting the
book (there will always be somerevisions and omissions in such an
enterprise). He preserved the essence of the class struggle: the
eternal conflict between those who were better favored by birth and
station (Socs) with those less favored (Greasers). Coppola elicited
more than competent performances from the young up-and-coming cast he
assembled. All in all, a very good coming of age film.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

The header is from formal symbolic logic: A and ~A is a logical
contradiction. The movie depicts a hellish world where two economic
groups fight incessantly. First, this is wrong sociologically for after
WW2, the rich moved far away from downtown way out into the suburbs.
Hence, the term suburbia was born. By the 50s, the putative setting for
the movie, these groups where not mixed together. They had their own
respective drive ins and restaurants. The other problem is the
invisibility of parents. Soda Pop's died in a crash, Johnny's are
spoken of in absentia but all the others are invisible. This is
necessary by Hinton for one can hardly idealize childhood without
removing the most odious aspect: slavery. Yes, those halcyon, golden
days featured the absence of one small word: freedom. Like, ROAD HOUSE,
where apparently Jasper has no law enforcement of any kind, here
children live alone in some childhood, twilight zone fantasy. The movie
is ugly, depressing, slow like molasses and logically contradictory. 

My header refers to in the midst of this Stygian world of eternal
internecine warfare and hatred, with murder, flight, tragedy, cop
execution and resignation we are treated to Robert Frost's poem about
NOTHING GOLD CAN STAY. Even without parents, with this fantasy level of
freedom, is this a world you would like to stay in forever? Then we get
treated to moral relativism: Johnny is both murderer and rescuer good
and evil are predicated on situational tricks of fate. Dallas feels
that because Johnny dies that entitles him to go on a rampage and we
are supposed to pity him. Hinton is a relic of the Progressive Era at
the turn of the 20th century that blamed slums for producing criminals.
Watch the old movie DEAD END, the same identical silliness. Look, I
grew up in a rotten neighborhood and have taken care of my family for
twenty years. Being in a slum no more makes you a criminal than moving
into a space shuttle makes you an astronaut. 

As a film, it is unrelentingly dark, depressing and nihilistic. In the
middle of this hellish reality, get ready for an absolutely moving,
life affirming poem about how we wish we could live forever in this
heavenly paradise? WHAT? The acting is very poor with the exception of
Matt Dillon who does a good job. Johnny and Pony Boy's delivery of
their lines will make you wince. I always have preferred the more
boring but much philosophically deeper RUMBLE FISH. If you enjoy
murder, running away, tragedy, a police execution of a young boy, with
the addition of two groups of people at each other's throats forever;
hey, this is the movie for you. It moves like rocks eroding; I
recommend drinking a pot of coffee first, or several energy drinks.
Their world is not gold; it is another color, dark brown.
<|_=00=_|>
The Outsiders is a great film, well done and well acted, I read the
novel by S.E. Hinton, great book. I am glad they made this movie back
in 1983.

The Outsiders touched on a lot of issues when it came to having money
and not having money, the "greasers" where the poor kids from the north
side of town and the "socs" are the rich kids from the south side of
town. 

Matt Dillon(Over The Edge, The Flamingo Kid) as Dallas Winston, Tom
Cruise(Top Gun, Vanilla Sky, and Minority Report)as Steve, Ralph
Macchio(The Karate Kid Parts I,II,and III) as Johnny Cade, C. Thomas
Howell(The Hitcher, Red Dawn,and Soul Man) as Ponyboy Curtis, Rob
Lowe(About Last Night, St. Elmo's Fire and Wayne's World)as Sodapop
Curtis, Patrick Swayze(Red Dawn, Grandview U.S.A. and Point Break) as
Darrell Curtis. Emilio Estevez(The Breakfast Club, Repo Man, St. Elmo's
Fire and Nightmares) as Two Bit Matthews, Diane Lane(My Dog Skip,
Streets of Fire, and Unfaithful) as Cherry Valance, Darren Dalton(Red
Dawn) as Randy, and former teen heart throb Leif Garrett as Bob
Sheldon, William Smith(Any Which Way You Can, Red Dawn and Conan The
Barbarian) as the stork clerk, Michelle Meyrink(Valley Girl, Real
Genius, and Revenge of the Nerds) as Marcia, make up the great cast for
this awesome film.

The movie really touched me in lots of ways, the story of kids being on
the wrong side of the tracks, like Ponyboy and Johnny, who have a lot
of heart and goodness inside. The movie does show what the true meaning
of friendship and spirituality, especially Ponyboy loving sunsets. The
poem by Robert Frost, "Nothing Gold Can Stay", does have a lot of
meaning about youth and the moments of enjoying things you find
wonderful when you are young, you should always embrace them.

I give this movie 2 thumbs up and 10/10 stars. Francis Ford Coppola did
an excellent job directing the movie.

The song, "Stay Gold", is such a great song, sung really well by Stevie
Wonder.
<|_=00=_|>

When I first read the book, I thought it was excellent. Then after reading
the book, I decided to watch the movie. The first time I watched it I
thought it was horrible, but then I watched it a second time and started
realizing what the director was trying to point out. I thought that
Coppola
left out ALOT of VERY important details, like the first chapter, which
wasn't really important but more then some scenes he put in. I also think
he
could have picked the actors better, not by how they acted (they acted
great, but by how they looked, in the book it said Dally was towheaded
(blonde) and he had dark brown hair in the movie, and it also said he was
ugly and frightening, but I found him pretty good looking, BUT it was
played
by Matt Dillon.

Now I have the movie and have watched it a hundred times, and liking it
more every time I see it. I have also read the book over and over, and
find
it better then the movie. If you are to watch the movie, read the book
first
because then the film will be easier to understand. I would recommend,
both
the movie and book to young adults. It was done wonderfully and the actors
were great, especially Matt Dillon and Rob Lowe, even though he only had a
few lines.

