

It's been almost 20 years and there hasn't been another film like
Desperately Seeking Susan. At times, the movie feels like French New Wave
with its characters and storyline. Even the setting of the crude but
artistic background of New York City, the movie lets off an emotion of
fantasy. The cast which includes Rosanna Arquette, Aidan Quinn, John
Turturro and Madonna create a story like no other. Madonna is both the eye
candy and the punch lines as Arquette gives her best leading lady qualities.
It's hard to believe that this movie cost less than 5 million dollars to
make. A true coming of age drama with moments of comedy and struggle,
Desperately Seeking Susan falls under many genres of film. The independent
style and its outrageous subject matter makes this an interesting and
timeless film. Even though it is full of 80's moments with the clothing and
music, the movie is one of Madonna's and Arquette's best.
<|_=00=_|>

Desperately Seeking Susan is one of those titles in a catalogue of
definitive 80s movies. It is a fantastic little caper directed by the
fantastic Susan Seidleman, and unfortuantely, was one movie that got pitched
around a long time before someone finally picked it up.

Susan (played terrifically by Madonna in her pre-burnout years) is a sassy,
flaky, and often witty young woman who's always looking for a good time,
even when danger is afoot. Enter Roberta Glass (Rosanna Arquette) who could
practically be her alter ego as she is everything Susan is not. She is shy
and judicious and stuck in a boring marriage, looking for an escape. She is
everything Susan is not, and wants to be everything that Susan is. And she
will get her chance.

Roberta reads the personal ads frequently because that is how wordly
traveller Susan reaches her boyfriend, Jimmy (Robert Joy). They place ads
saying hello and telling each where to meet. Roberta is going to tag along
when Susan posts a new ad telling Jimmy to meet her in battery park. This is
where Roberta takes an interest in Susan, but not that in single white
female kind of way, despite the sudden mix up that arises out of all of
this. She follows Susan around the city and so forth. 

Someone else is following Susan, too. A murderer (Patton) looking for a very
expensive earring that was stolen from a museum. He is after Susan because
he knows she has the earring. But, after an accident at the park and Roberta
winding up with amnesia, the murderer is after the wrong Susan. With the
help of Jim's friend Dez (Quinn), Roberta slowly has to figure out who she
is, otherwise the murderer is going to kill her, thinking she has the find.
In the meantime, Susan teams up with Roberta's totally idiotic husband, Gary
(Mark Blum) to find out Roberta's whereabouts. Roberta is going to get
exactly what she wanted: a little fun, a little adventure, and a little
escape, that will have her rethinking her own course. 

Desperately Seeking Susan is really a fun movie that takes place in New York
City. Everybody in it, even Mark Blum as the obnoxious Gary Glass and Laurie
Metcalf as his compulsive and mistrusting sister, Leslie. Rosanna Arquette
is great in nearly everything I've seen her in for her 80s career of movies,
and works perfectly as Roberta in her romance with Dez (Quinn). And, it is
one of the few things that I actually like Madonna in. They tried to
recreate her Susan image (and story) for the movie, Who's That Girl (with
Griffin Dunne), but it just couldn't work as perfectly as it did here.
Seidleman and writer Leora Barish did some good work in producing a fun
film. 

By the way, if you're ever in Greenwhich Village, 'Love Saves the Day' (the
second hand clothing store that Susan goes into to buy boots) still exists.
However, they mostly sell retro novelty toys. 
<|_=00=_|>

I fear I may be going against the grain here...

"Desperately Seeking Susan" was certainly inventive, original, and
oftentimes fun. The acting was actually decent, even from Madonna (whose
acting has won her 6 Razzies). However, I think the movie suffers from
being
labelled a comedy. While a couple lines brought a smile or a chuckle, I
rarely laughed throughout this movie. Not that there were jokes that didn't
work; I couldn't tell what was even supposed to be funny! The whole
situation was amusing, but I wouldn't call it laugh-out-loud funny. Eh,
whatever. I'd still recommend it. 
<|_=00=_|>
yay! madonna actually does have one good movie! (and yes, we are
talking about this one.) she plays susan, who is the definition of a
free-spirit. and rosanna arquette is just as delightful as she always
is, and frankly i would expect nothing less.

the soundtrack is an 80s gem. madonna's song "into the grove" is
proudly featured and really sets the mood in the club scene. and the
80s fashion provides such an effective blast from the past that one
really finds himself back in 1985.

this was overall a really good movie. it was fun and the characters
were likable. i recommend that you rent it for an evening in with the
friends.
<|_=00=_|>

Desperately Seeking Susan (1985 Dir. Susan Seidelman)
"Chicks" love this movie for the feminist, take charge of your life point
of
view, while guys enjoy this movie cuz there are plenty of bra shots.
Madonna
in her first starring (supporting really) role as a street-smart hustler
being chased by some small time hoods. Rosanna Arquette gets mistaken for
the Madonna character and therein lies the plot of this oh so '80s
comedy.

Set in summer in Manhattan, the movie preserves like a time capsule so
much
of the decade: the hair, the clothes, the music. And of course there's
Madonna clanking her balls from start to finish. Ms. Arquette (in the
supposed starring role) had the movie not merely stolen, but ripped out of
her hands by the unstoppable force of the 80s: Madonna!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has 5 great things going for it: Madonna, Rosanna Arquette,
the soundtrack, shot in 1984 and in New York City. Arquette plays
Roberta Glass, a bored and ignored housewife who is obsessed with a
couple she reads about in the personals, Jim and Susan. Roberta reads
that Jim and Susan will meet at Battery Park the following day, and
goes down to watch the two. As Jim and Susan part again for a few days,
Roberta decides to follow Susan (Madonna) though the streets and into a
clothing store, where Susan trades the store-owner her pyramid jacket
for some rhinestone boots. When Susan leaves, Roberta buys the jacket,
goes home and finds a key in one of the pockets. Roberta then puts an
ad in the paper for Susan to meet her at Battery Park to pick up the
key she left in the jacket. As Susan gets to the park, she is arrested
for short-changing the cab driver, just as a thug who is after Susan
mistakes Roberta for her. Roberta knocks herself out cold accidentally
and wakes up believing she is Susan. The rest of the film is non-stop
comedic confusion and madness, played out by some great talents
including Laurie Metcalf as Roberta's sister-in-law, Leslie, and Aidan
Quinn, Robert Joy and Mark Blum as the hapless unfortunate love
interests of our heroines. Directed by Susan Seidelman ("Smithereens").
Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

A wonderful film all around, with good acting, and great humor. This movie
is most certainly not serious, but it is great fun to watch, and one of
the
few movies I have enjoyed seeing multiple times. Madonna is quite good,
playing a character similar to her public persona. Aidan Quinn and Rosanna
Arquette are also terrific. Even the soundtrack is well
done.
<|_=00=_|>
Desperately Seeking Susan (Susan Seidelman, 1985) is an appealing,
unconventional film about a shy, put-upon young married woman (Rosanna
Arquette) who swaps places with a free-spirited man-eater (Madonna)
after a bump on the head. A dated dramatic device, perhaps, but it's
such a sweet, sassy and otherwise well-plotted affair we'll let it
slide. The film inhabits a similar universe - and employs the same neon
aesthetic - as Scorsese's ever-underrated comedy After Hours, but this
is an altogether gentler affair. Sure it plunges its heroine into a
seedy world dominated by shady, peroxide hit men and amorous conjurors,
but it's in many ways preferable to the yuppie nightmare she's been
living with all-time idiot-hole Mark Blum. At least here she's got love
on her side, courtesy of kind-hearted Aidan Quinn (the psychotic
drug-addled baddie in the Richard Dreyfuss-Emilio Estevez buddy movie
Stakeout). Arquette, who played the lead in the classic John Sayles
romcom Baby, It's You, is perfect as the doormat desperately seeking
excitement, and while Madonna isn't a great actress, she's both hugely
charismatic and ideally cast as the manipulative, posing, sex-obsessed
Susan. Also look out for John Turturro in an early role as a nightclub
compere. A little gem from out of left-field, this one, with an
engaging storyline, memorable characters and a disarmingly peculiar
sense of humour.

Trivia note: The new Madonna song on the soundtrack is Into the Groove.
Not one of her best singles of the period, but still pretty damn
decent.
<|_=00=_|>
This was THE defining movie of my coming-to-teenage years. I saw a
rerun on TV the other night and I still knew all the lines by heart.
Thank God for this little gem of a movie, in all its silliness. It
takes me back to a time when everything was still possible, and I
thought I knew everything although I really knew nothing. Well, now
that I know, not everything but a great deal, I still find this movie
really likable. It's strange that it's so old, and it still feels quite
fresh and exciting. Maybe it's the New York atmosphere, or the sense of
excitement that Madonna brings to every one of her scenes. I think
she's good in this film because she doesn't yet take herself too
seriously and isn't trying too hard. She is a natural performer, after
all. How else could you solve the mystery of "the one good movie
Madonna ever made"?
<|_=00=_|>
Everybody is "Desperately Seeking Susan," but nobody realizes they're
not looking for the same person in this 1985 quirky comedy starring
Roseanna Arquette, Madonna, Aidan Quinn, and Laurie Metcalf. The film
was directed by Susan Seidelman from a script by Leora Barish.

In this very clever story, Roberta (Arquette) is a bored housewife with
a rich fantasy life who envies a woman named Susan (Madonna). Susan's
boyfriend is always leaving her notes in the personals column about
where to meet. Before long, Roberta is showing up at the meeting places
and actually starts stalking Susan. When Susan pays for a pair of boots
that she wants with her unique leather jacket, Roberta buys it and
starts wearing it. All this could have been harmless fun except for
three things: 1) Susan is a con artist, and she's stolen Egyptian
artifacts she mistook for earrings from a guy in Atlantic City, who
ended up dead at the bottom of his hotel; 2) Susan was seen (from the
back) wearing her jacket in the hallway of the hotel by a mobster who
wants the artifacts; and 3) Roberta is in an accident, and when she
wakes up, she has amnesia. A friend (Aidan Quinn) of Susan's boyfriend
who came to the meeting place to check on the real Susan as a favor
thinks Roberta is Susan.

This is such a fun movie, with much of the comedy being in the
situation rather than in the dialogue. Not only that, it's totally
'80s, right down to Madonna's leggings, and brought back a lot of great
memories.

The acting is very good, and one wonders why Madonna didn't continue in
this vein rather than trying to become a great dramatic actress. She's
perfect in this off-beat role as well as being beautiful, exotic,
trashy, and sexy. She also would have been excellent as Roxy in
"Chicago" if the film had been made back in the '70s, when it was
originally supposed to be done. She might then have had a very
interesting film career.

Though "Desperately Seeking Susan" was made 23 years ago, Roseanna
Arquette hasn't changed much. She's excellent as the quiet, dying to be
free, fantasy-driven Roberta. Aidan Quinn gives his usual good
performance as a poor sap over his head. He doesn't know how lucky he
is - he could have gotten involved with the real Susan! Highly
recommended, especially if you were a young adult in the '80s.
