

This film, in my opinion, is, despite it's flaws (which I maintain are
*few*), an utter masterpiece and a great and glorious piece of art.

What Mr. Bakshi has done here is to create an utterly beautiful film and
has
shown his immense talent and versatility as a director of animated films.
He
does not receive 1/100th of the credit he deserves for literally saving
the
art of animation for an adult audience. If it were not for Mr. Bakshi, I
don't believe animation would have survived the Disney onslaught. What is
more, with The Lord of the Rings, he has not only created a beautiful
animated film, but he has created an entirely new art form -
unfortunately
one that never quite made it off the ground.

Most people will complain about the use of rotoscoping in the film (the
use
of live action images which are used as background images and often
animated
over using various techniques from what appears to be small amounts of
tinting to full blown animation). But I feel that the people who complain
about it simply cannot accept an art form which is out of the norm. No,
this
is not Disney animation. No it's not live action. No, it's not
"cheating" -
what it is is a new, fascinating, and absolutely wonderful art form.
Something so fresh, and so new that it feels completely at home in such a
fantastic tale as "The Lord of the Rings". Bakshi's pioneering use of
this
technique brings the subtleties of Middle Earth to life is a very dark
and
mysterious way, in particular, the darker of Tolkien's creatures,
particularly the Nazgul, are realized in a way that traditional animation
or
live action have not been able to accomplish.

Peter S. Beagle's screenplay (based very little, as I understand it, on
an
early draft by Chris Conkling) is a very loyal adaptation of Tolkien's
works. Where possible he uses dialogue directly out of the novel and it
feels at home in the world which Bakshi has created. There are many cuts
that were made to fit the first book and 3/4 into a single 2 hour 15
minute
film, but there are very few changes to the storyline. There are a few
holes
which it would have been nice to have filled: The reforging of Narsil,
the
gifts of Galadriel, the Huorns at the battle of the Hornburg, but, again,
with the time limitations he had (already the longest animated feature in
history), these are certainly understandable (though it makes one wonder
how
they could have been explained in a sequel).

Also there is the delightful (one of my favorites) score by Leonard
Rosenman
(who also scored Barry Lyndon and Star Trek IV (the score for which is
clearly based on his LotR work)). It is bombastic and audacious and, dare
I
say, perfect. It stands on it's own as an orchestral triumph, but when
coupled with the images of the film, it enters a whole new world of
symphonic perfection. So far from the typical Hollywoodland fare that it
turns many people off.

The voice actors are wonderful. Of particular note is John Hurt as
Aragorn
who just oozes the essence of Strider.

The character design is also wonderfully unique, though not often to
everyone's taste. But remember that it is the duty of the director of an
adaptation to show you what he/she imagines, not what you might have
imagined, and so Aragorn is realized with a distinctive Native American
feel
and Boromir appears in Viking inspired garb. This is perhaps not what you
imagined, but I can only applaud Mr. Bakshi for showing us what he "saw".
It
also might be noted that he spent a significant amount of time with
Priscilla Tolkien in developing the character outfits for the
film.

One farther word - the Flight to the Ford sequence, in my opinion, is one
of
the most subtlety beautiful sequences ever to be caught on celluloid.
Bakshi
is not afraid to slow down the pace for a moment, and his mastery is
clearly
shown by the incredible tension is able to build. Bakshi's artistic
ability
and Tolkien's incredible work fuse in this sequence to a glorious peak
which
has yet to be equaled.

The recent DVD release (2001) by Warner Brothers, is sorely lacking.
While
we can offer our eternal thanks that the film is finally available in
widescreen format, the package is woefully short of extras. How glorious
it
would have been to have had a director's commentary, been able to see the
20
minutes of extra footage that were removed for the theatrical release.
Another delightful addition could have been the assembled the live action
footage which was later animated over. Also present in the DVD release is
the utterly horrible voiceover at the end of the film which is a
departure
from the simple voiceover which occurred in the very final frames of the
film. This version is plastered and poorly rendered right over the
musical
climax of the score.

Of course, the greatest tragedy of all is that the sequel was never made.
We
will never be able to see Bakshi's interpretation of Gondor, of Shelob,
of
Faramir, of the Cracks of Doom, of Eowyn's battle with the Witch King or
Gandalf's confrontation with him. We will never be graced with Bakshi's
image of Denethor or the Palatir or the Paths of the Dead. It is a shame
beyond all shames that we will, in the end, have to accept Peter
Jackson's
glitz and glitter Hollywood, action film version of these later events in
Tolkien's masterpiece, but, I suppose even that is better than having no
cinematic version at all.

David
<|_=00=_|>
More than twenty years before Peter Jackson's visionary adaptation of
The Lord Of The Rings, there was this 1978 animated effort from
director Ralph Bakshi. An ambitious and reasonably faithful version of
the story, this has sadly been rather over-shadowed by the Jackson
trilogy. Indeed, many reviewers here on the IMDb (mainly those who saw
the newer version first) seem to be fiercely unkind to this version....
but if one applies a little common sense, and takes into consideration
the time when it was made and the technical possibilities that existed
at that time, then they will realise that this is a pretty good film.
Indeed, it was shortly after seeing this animated movie back in the
early '80s that I sought out Tolkien's book and immediately became a
lifelong fan of these richly detailed Middle Earth adventures. So, in
some respects, I owe this film a degree of acknowledgement as the film
which shaped my literary tastes forever.

Sauron, the Dark Lord of Middle Earth, forges an all-powerful ring that
gives him incredible power. Following a great battle during which
Sauron is defeated, the ring falls into possession of a king named
Isildur…. but instead of destroying it he foolishly chooses to keep it.
For centuries the ring passes from hand to hand, eventually coming into
the possession of a hobbit named Frodo Baggins who lives in a
peace-loving community known as The Shire. Frodo learns from a wizard
named Gandalf that his ring is in fact The One Ring, the very same that
was forged by Sauron all those centuries ago, and that its master is
once again searching for it in order to restore his dark power over the
entire land. Frodo embarks on a perilous journey to protect the ring
with three other hobbit companions, but every step of the way they are
hunted by Sauron's ring-wraiths, the Black Riders. There follow many
adventures, during which a company of nine adventurers is formed to
guide the ring to the only place where it can be "unmade" – Mount Doom,
in the land of Mordor. The film concludes with Frodo and his best
friend Sam on the borders of Mordor, closing ever nearer to their
horrifying destination. Meanwhile Gandalf and the other members of the
company fight off a huge army of orcs at the legendary fortress of
Helm's Deep.

This version covers just over half of the original book. A second
instalment was planned to bring the story to an end, but was sadly
never completed. While the ending feels abrupt, it does at least end at
a sensible point in the story. One has to feel a little frustration and
regret that no sequel exists in which we might follow these animated
heroes to their eventual goal. The animation is passable, with a nice
variety of locales and characters presented in interesting detail. The
music by Leonard Rosenman is suitably stirring and fits in
appropriately with the epic narrative. The voice-overs are decent, too,
especially John Hurt as Aragorn and Peter Woodthorpe as Gollum. On the
other hand, Michael Scholes - who provides the voice for Sam - is
rather campy and goofy, which is not well suited to the character. The
Lord Of The Rings is a commendable attempt to visualise the staggering
book on which it is based.
<|_=00=_|>

As an animated film from 1978, this is pretty good--generally well above
the
standard of the days when Disney hadn't done anything good in years (and
Tolkien cared little for Disney anyway).  It gets major points for
innovative and careful camera work, applying cinematic techniques with
relative success.  The much-maligned rotoscoping actually works pretty
well,
especially with the Ringwraiths, and the opening narration.  However, it is
so drastically overused--possibly as a money-saving technique--that it
detracts from the overall effect.  The same technique that makes wraiths
spooky and otherworldly doesn't fare so well in the Prancing
Pony.

As for the adaptation of the story, it's actually quite good. We lose
little
bits here and there, minor details such as the Old Forest and Tom Bombadil,
the Gaffer and the Sackville-Bagginses.  We compress a few characters, such
as revising Legolas as one of Elrond's household and an old friend of
Aragorn's, but that's a rather wise decision for film.  In books you have
room to include the references to the larger world of the Elves and
Middle-Earth's vast history. In film, you trade that for visuals and sound
that convey the same elements in a different way.  Nothing critical is
truly
lost here, and although I have minor quibbles about some of the changes,
I'm
generally pretty happy with it.

If only the dratted writers had managed to remember Saruman's name--he's
frequently referred to as Aruman, a decision probably made to make him more
distinct from similarly-named Sauron; it took me a second viewing before I
was certain I hadn't misheard it.  It's also annoying that Boromir is a
bloody stage viking, and irritable from the start.  However, Gandalf is
excellent, and most of the rest of the voicework is excellent. If only John
Hurt weren't too old to play Aragorn; I love his voice.

Of course, with the film ending at the midpoint of the story, there's a
vast
disappointment built in.  What makes it far, far worse is the altogether
miserable job done by the Rankin & Bass crew on the sequel.  That they were
permitted to do Return of the King after butchering The Hobbit remains a
huge mystery; they seem more interested in bad songs than in proper
storytelling.  For all its faults, this film's heart is solidly in place
and
it tries very hard to accomplish a nearly impossible task. I can only hope
that the upcoming series of films keeps as true to its
vision...
<|_=00=_|>

First of all, the only reason people keep bitching about this film is
because they can't stand a few parts of the  true story being "altered".
Well guess what? Peter Jackson's film wasn't a perfect rendition either.
Well enough ranting. This is a very beautiful film. The backgrounds are
gorgeous and taken from well known Tolkein artists. The film covers about
half the trilogy (Fellowship of the Ring and up to the battle of Helms
Deep
in the Two Towers) and moves at a good pace.
The voice casting is top notch and the most of the characters look
like
I imagined they would. Samwise is a bit too ugly for my tastes, but
Aragorn
looks AWESOME. The film has a great score that completely supports the
movie. If you enjoy good fantasy stories but hate reading (the books are
even better) give this movie a try, keeping in mind it was made 20 odd
years
ago.

Also of particular note: Peter Jackson's adaption of Fellowship follows
almost exactly the same strand as Ralph Bakshi's (Jackson has said many
times how much he admired Bakshi's effort).

<|_=00=_|>
Godard once said a way to criticize a movie is to just make one, and
probably the strongest kind that could be made about Ralph Bakshi's
take on Tolkien's magnum opus the Lord of the Rings, has actually been
made by Peter Jackson. The recent trilogy, to me, aren't even total
masterpieces, but they are given enough room with each book to breath
in all the post-modern techniques crossed with classical storytelling
to make them very good, sweeping entertainments. 

But as one who has not read the books, I end up now looking upon the
two versions, live-action (albeit partly animated in its big visual
effects way) and animated (albeit partly done with actual live action
as the framework) in relation to just the basic story, not even
complete faithfulness to the books. And with Bakshi's version, it's
almost not fair in a way, as what we do see is really not the complete
vision, not what Jackson really had (probably final cut). Robbed of
Return of the King's big climactic rush of the story, and with the
other two parts becoming rushed, I ended up liking it more for what it
did within its limitations, though as such those same limitations make
it disappointing.

What's interesting too, after seeing the Jackson films first- which I
also slightly regret being that I might've reacted to this differently
when I was younger and prior to five years ago- is that the basic
elements of the story never get messed up with. Everything that is
really needed to tell the Fellowship of the Ring story is actually
pretty much intact, and if anything what was probably even more
gigantic and epic in Tolkien's book is given some clarity in this
section. The actors playing the parts of the hobbits and the other
heroes, are more or less adequate for the parts, with a few parts
standing out (John Hurt as Aragorn and William Squire as Gandalf). 

The lack of extra characterization does end up making things seem a
little face-value for those who've not even seen the other films or
read the books and can't put them into context. But there is some level
of interest always with the characters, and here there's a more
old-fashioned sensibility amid the large aura of it being more. This is
not a garden variety Disney adaptation- warts and all, this is a Bakshi
film, with his underground animation roots colliding with the mythical
world of Middle Earth.

And what Bakshi and his animation team bring to the film is one that
ends up giving what is on screen, in all its abbreviated form, its hit
or miss appeal. Along with being not totally complete as a film, or as
stories, the form of the film is an experiment, to see if something can
be entirely rotoscoped. The results end up bringing what seems now to
be retro, but at the time of course was something that was a rough,
crazy inspiration on the part of the filmmakers. Might it have been
better with more traditional drawn animation? In some parts, yeah; it
does become a little noticeable, as was also the case in Bakshi's
American Pop, that the main characters move in such ways that are a
little shaky, like some kind of comic-book form done in a different
way. Still, there's much I admired in what was done. 

The orcs, for example, I found to be really amazing in they're surreal
surroundings. They're maybe the best part of the combination of the
animation on top of the live-action, especially during parts where
there isn't battle footage (that's really the real hit-or-miss section,
as there isn't continuity from the good and bad rotoscoping), and the
chiaroscuro comes through with big shapes on top of horseback. It's
creepy in a good way. And the backgrounds, while also very rough and
sometimes too sketchy, are beautiful with the mixtures and blasts of
colors together. It's almost something for art-film buffs as much as
for the ring-nuts.

So, how would I recommend this animated take on the Lord of the Rings?
I don't know, to tell the truth. It's certainly a good notch above the
other Tolkien animated film I've seen, the Hobbit (and I've yet to see
the animated ROTK), and there is some real artistry going on. There's
also some stilted dialog, an all-too-rushed Two Towers segment with the
most intriguing character Gollum being reduced to maybe two scenes in
all. And seeing something as fragmented like this ends up only
reinforcing the completeness of the more recent films. 

If you're a fan of the books contemplating checking this out, I would
say it's worth a chance, even if it's one of those chances where you
watch for forty minutes and then decide whether to stop it or not. As
for it fitting into Bakshi's other films I've seen it's an impressive
ambitious and spotty achievement, where as with Lynch's Dune it's bound
to draw a dark, mordor-like line in the sand between those who hate it
passionately and those who don't. I don't.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm fond of this film and it vexes me that so many "reviewers" rank it
below the Peter Jackson trilogy. A filmed novel is always interpretive;
in particular an animated film relies on the artist's vision and should
be judged on its own terms. Speaking as a purist, this is a finer
homage to Tolkien than the updated version. While this film has its
flaws it stays truer to the source, especially so far as the characters
are concerned.

In the Jackson version Tolkien's Frodo is barely recognizable: from the
first scenes he is portrayed as a weakling, constantly wavering,
manipulated by forces around him and never standing on his own two feet
(this is physically and metaphorically true.) You wonder why fate chose
this limp biscuit to carry the one ring to the Cracks of Doom. Jackson
unforgivably rewrites Tolkien and robs Frodo of his finest moment when
he allows Arwen to rescue him from the Ringwraiths...Bakshi's version
respects the original, presenting a Frodo who demands the wraiths "Go
back and trouble me no more!" Bakshi sustains Frodo's character as
Tolkien conceived it. We see his decline as the weight of his burden
increases. Frodo is so pivotal to Lord of the Rings you wonder why
Jackson took such liberties (he does so with numerous characters)since
character development propels the plot to its inevitable conclusion.
Bakshi's film better explores the companionship between Legolas and
Gimli in a few judicious scenes that are completely lacking in
Jackson's version. Similarly we see Boromir horsing with Pippin and
Merry, furthering the idea of fellowship. For my liking the camaraderie
is more developed in the animated version than the live action.

Tolkien's poetry is an important ingredient in the novels and Bakshi
makes tribute to this in one of my favorite scenes: when Frodo sings
the "Merry Old Inn" song, minutes before stumbling into Strider. The
cheery tune is chillingly juxtaposed with the darker theme music when
seconds later, invisible to his friends but visible to the wraiths,
Frodo is dangerously exposed. This is one of the most atmospheric
portions of the film and chills me whenever I see it.

The well documented budget/time restrictions limit this film's final
impact but had it been completed it may have resonated with more
viewers. As it is, it's worth a look. Even its detractors admit that
Peter Jackson derived much of his inspiration from this prototype.
<|_=00=_|>

I won't dwell on the purists' outrage over Bakshi's liberties with story
or
characters.  For the most part, they are correct.  I'm certainly not
coming
to the filmmaker's defense, but in the context of the material's density,
animation technology of 1978, et al., this guy really took a swing at
bringing this thing to the silver screen.

Sadly, the film wasn't that good.  Much of the animation was disjointed,
and
most of the backgrounds were crudely drawn and failed to create the
correct
atmosphere that one gets from reading the book.  I will say, though, that
I
have always liked the rotoscoping, in particular that of the orcs.  There
is
something exceedingly frightening about the way they are displayed,
something today's CGI characterizations seems to miss.  Bakshi used this
technique in his other works as well, particularly in Wizards, which is a
better, if different, film than his version of LotR.  But mixing
purely-drawn characters (hobbits) with those that are rotoscoped (orcs)
just
didn't look right here.

I must agree with some others who assert that some of the frame direction
and scene selection is oddly similar to Peter Jackson's version of late.
And if Jackson was influenced by at least SOME of the look of Bakshi's
film,
then what's the harm?

If you want to be dazzled, this version of LotR probably won't rouse you.
There's many more misses than hits.  But it isn't as bad as many would
have
you believe.  If it weren't a Tolkien adaptation, I think it would be
received much better.


<|_=00=_|>
I happened upon this movie as an 8-10 year old on a cold, dark November
afternoon. I was outside playing all day, freezing, and when I came in
around 4pm, I had a cup of hot cocoa and sat down in front of the TV
with a blanket. I was surprised to be watching a cartoon that wasn't
all happy and silly--and was in fact dark, and moralistic. It captured
my imagination. I'm sure it misses the text, and is abbreviated in all
the wrong places for the Tolkien purist. But it still captures the
spirit of the story, the choice to carry a burden for the good of
others, the consequences of selfish, rash decisions, etc. The quality
of animation leaves room for complaint. But the one place where this
movie clearly rises above the new films is the voice characterizations.
John Hurt is great in this. If you don't like how the character is
drawn, look away, and just listen to him. His voice is extraordinary.
I've seen it again many, many times and it always brings me back to
that time, as a kid, thirsty for some magical adventure. It's for this
reason I say 'lucky', the film is nostalgic for me so I overlook its
shortcomings. But between John Hurt, and Tolkien's fantasy, it still
reached me, and still does.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all no adaptation is ever as good as the book, especially when
you're dealing with master writer like Tolkien. This ADAPTATION
wonderfully synthesizes Tolkien's universe with 1970s psychedelia,
aesthetics, and liberal culture. Yes - the animation and background
painting is sometimes a little "rough" in its technical execution but
it's beautiful none the less, and very evocative in terms of giving a
unique "sense of place" to each of the scenes. Beyond the absolute
uniqueness in imagery is the absolutely outstanding voice acting -
acting that's FAR superior to the acting in the new live action movies.
And while the cell animation might not be the most "technically
proficient" animation it superbly captures the expressive bodily and
facial gestures of the acting while at once not forgetting to be subtle
and nuanced. The background paintings vary from traditional "fantasy"
motif to outright abstraction, but the transition to abstracted
settings is always motivated by the narrative and contributes greatly
to the themes of the film. If you're a person who has to have extensive
computer rendering in a film so that everything is visualized for you
then I can see how you might not like this movie but if you enjoy
superior acting, transcendental imagery, and JRR Tolkien then this film
is a must see.
<|_=00=_|>

My friend had the idea of watching the animated LOTR after seeing the
Peter
Jackson Return of The King. So I finally bought it off e-bay, thinking
right
from the start it was going to suck. Actually, it really wasn't as bad as
I
thought it would be. The animation was good for its time, they used a
unique
method of blending live action with animation to create some interesting
effects, and the guy who did the voice for Frodo sounded somewhat like
Elijah Wood.

Not the greatest adaptation of a book, but trust me, I've seen a lot
worse.
It skips quite a lot of things, since both Fellowship and The Two Towers
are
compressed into one two hour movie. Definatley worth a watch, kids might
like, but still, absoutley no comparision with the Peter Jackson
trilogy.

