

The title of this movie is deceiving.  THE VERDICT suggests a courtroom
drama, something like TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD, or INHERIT THE WIND.  It does
have some riveting court scenes, but what happens outside of court and to
Paul Newman is the real attraction here.  The title not only refers to the
inevitable decision of the important case of the film, but also to how the
Newman character is going to live the rest of his life. Should he sell out
and take the easy settlement, or take the highly regarded archdiocese of
Boston to court for real justice.  These are the questions Newman must face
in this profound drama that seems more like a picture of the 70's than an
80's film.

Director Sidney Lumet has dealt with the legal system before in his first
film, 12 ANGRY MEN.  He takes it to a more personal level and Paul Newman,
one of the finest actors of the past 40 years, is the person to do it.  He
is a legend and he bares his soul as attorney Frank Galvin, a lonely,
corrupt drunk whose license to practice law is hanging by a thread.  Jack
Warden plays his trusty assistant who gets him a case that could help Frank
change his life.  Warden, however, has had enough.

Newman plays an excellent drunk, even cracking an egg into an 8am beer to
start his day.  This is a dim looking movie, shot during a cold winter in
Boston.  There are no great shots, or even any emotionally-rousing speeches,
but this is Lumet's style.  It is plodding and we see into the life of a
lawyer on the ropes.  James Mason is perfect as the slimy defense lawyer.
Newman is constantly underestimated because of past failures. He is a drunk,
but he still has some tricks up his sleeve.

NOTE: Look closely at the closing argument given by Newman.  In the
background, you can glimpse a then-unknown Bruce Willis.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Verdict" is simply one of the best legal dramas ever done. Of
course much of what happens in the movie is unrealistic and wouldn't
happen in a real case but the movie isn't a study in courtroom
procedure (watch the fantastic "Anatomy of a Murder" for that) it is a
study about redemption and in that respect it excels.

This movie captures Paul Newman's finest screen performance and that
alone makes it an important movie. The scenes where Newman hardly says
anything show how great an actor he is---his look of self-loathing when
he's thrown out of the funeral home, his palsied hand and lost look
when he's trying to drink his whiskey, his panic when Charlotte
Rampling lambastes him for being a failure. Then throw into that his
terrific courtroom scenes, his arguments with the judge in chambers, it
is just a sensational performance all around.

The level of acting is high all around in this movie. James Mason was
Oscar nominated for playing the silky smooth, totally corrupt defense
attorney. Jack Warden shines as Frank Galvin's world-weary former law
partner. Lindsey Crouse has a small role as a nurse but is given the
most powerful and dramatic moment in the entire movie. Her
cross-examination by James Mason is where the movie really shines and
shows that Paul Newman can keep his ego in check. How many movies give
the most powerful and dramatic moment of the film to one of the
secondary players? How many lead actors would be willing to just sit
there quiet in a chair while a bit player and the second male lead
share the big moment? It was a bold decision by both Newman, director
Sidney Lumet and writer David Mamet and it is unforgettable.

The movie shows the two extremes of the practice of law. James Mason's
win-at-all-costs cheating and Paul Newman getting so emotionally
wrapped up in the case that he is no longer protecting his client's
interests and instead is out to settle his own personal scores. A
great, great movie.
<|_=00=_|>

I have seen this movie, on screen and as a video, many times.  Each time, it
gets better.   This is no doubt the best acting by Paul Newman in his
career.   Why he didn't get the Oscar for this role, but instead got it for
the lackluster "The Color of Money", is beyond me.  The movie is actually
about redemption, or the attempt to be redeemed.

His interpretation of Frank Galvin, a desperate, conniving,
down-to-the-last-case attorney, is fascinating and totally convincing.   And
he has a fantastic supporting cast -- from Jack Warden as his partner,
Charlotte Rampling as his chance for romantic redemption, Milo O'Shea as the
corrupt judge, Lindsay Crouse as his surprising ace-up-his-sleeve, and most
of all, in a landmark supporting actor role, James Mason as the seemingly
distinguished and respected defense attorney.

And I found the direction by Sidney Lumet to be, once again, outstanding.  
Lumet has such a long list of great movies that you wonder why he has never
won an Oscar or been given an AFI Lifetime Achievement award.  

This is a riveting movie -- about the law, but mainly about the flawed
nature of the human beings who are entrusted with it.   Please hear Newman,
as Frank Galvin, on his last, crippled, despairing leg, give the summation
to the case.   It needs to be carved in marble somewhere.
David Mamet, who wrote the screenplay, deserves accolades for how he was
able to hand Paul Newman such a moving summation.  The summation is about
life, not just the law.  It is a masterpiece, worth seeing the entire movie
for.

Most of all, it is Newman's Finest Hour.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw "The Verdict" when it was released in 1982 and just watched it
again. It is amazing what of the film I retained in memory. Most of
what I remembered was the sheer brilliance of Paul Newman. In seeing it
the second time, I'm 24 years older, I've worked for attorneys, I've
had an experience with the justice system. And still, what I take away
from "The Verdict" is the sheer brilliance of Paul Newman. After
Matthew McConnaughey made "A Time to Kill," he asked his agents if he
could meet Paul Newman. I guess someone told him they were similar.
Newman said to him, "This is a time to not take yourself seriously and
your work very seriously." When Matthew McConnaughey has a 50+ year
career, you'll talk (I'll be gone) - but it's evident that Paul Newman
takes his work very seriously indeed.

"The Verdict" is an old story - the drunken attorney who takes a case
-think "The People Against O'Hara" for one - but this one has a
stunning cast which includes Jack Warden, James Mason, Charlotte
Rampling and Lindsay Crouse. And it asks one of life's great questions
- what do you do when losing is just not an option? Drunken,
disillusioned, ambulance-chasing Frank Galvin takes a slam-dunk
hospital negligence case thrown to him by an investigator friend
(Warden). His expert witness tells him he can win. So Galvin doesn't
tell his client about a lowball offer, takes the thing to trial, loses
his star witness, hires a pathetic expert, is reported by his client
for failing to give them the offer they would have happily taken -
simply put, there's no paddle but if he doesn't get down the river, any
hope of reconstituting his life is over. Gone. David Mamet's script
stacks everything against Frank but when you're fighting for your life,
failure is not an option.

Newman is a wonder with his loser posture and hyperventilation and his
desperateness. It's in his voice, it's on his face, it's in his smile,
it's in his shaking hands. He's up against James Mason and his huge law
firm, a smug, well-dressed bunch who will stop at nothing to win. One
might think this type of firm is a cliché; it isn't. One of the
characters says it best - "You have no loyalty to anyone, you don't
care who you hurt. You're all whores." Unfortunately in real life, all
attorneys are pretty much the same, but at least in film we
occasionally are shown a decent one. When this film was made, the
public had not yet been subjected to the Dream Team, the Robert Blake
Case, the Menendez Brothers. But even today, knowing better, you can't
help but buy into Newman's frantic sincerity.

The rest of the cast is uniformly excellent, with top honors going to
Mason's smooth Concannon and Lindsay Crouse, who gives us the most
powerful five minutes of the film with her magnificent performance as
the admission nurse.

Is it a manipulative film? As hell. Is it feel good? You betcha. But
take it from someone who knows an unfortunate truth - that justice is
for the rich who pull in favors and have the money to fight, everyone
lies their teeth off, and the jury system is sad - if I can be swept
away by "The Verdict" and by Paul Newman's performance (another Oscar
he was cheated out of) - you're gonna eat it up.
<|_=00=_|>

I like that this film shows how the criminal justice system, solid though it
is, has cracks that can prevent justice being done, and that the people
participating in it have to have the courage to recognize them.  This film
has turned out to be a seminal one:  legal drama has turned overwhelmingly
to rumination of the moral interstices of the law like the one portrayed
here.  Without "The Verdict," we wouldn't have "The Practice."  Gone are the
days when all of Perry Mason's clients were innocent.

Paul Newman's performance has been justifiably enshrined in the pantheon of
Circumstances When The Academy Dropped The Ball.  But what made the film a
truly emotional performance for me was Lindsay Crouse as the pivotal
witness.  The entire ensemble was flawless, as was the incredible
atmosphere.  "The Verdict" is probably too serious for some movie fans, and
that's OK--no film can please everyone.  But if you like to be given
something to think about by your entertainments, this is the film for
you.
<|_=00=_|>
I've always believed that actors are drawn to courtroom material
because of the inherent conflict within them makes for good drama and
good parts. They're quite a few of them in The Verdict.

This has always been my favorite Paul Newman film, it's the one he
should have won the Oscar for. His Frank Galvin is not the noblest of
creatures, he's a once promising attorney now an alcoholic ambulance
chaser. But the skills are still there and he shows them battling
tremendous odds. Thirty years earlier Frank Capra could easily have
made this the subject of one of his populist dramas.

Newman gets great support from an outstanding cast. James Mason, Jack
Warden, Charlotte Rampling, Joe Seneca deliver some outstanding
performances. The one I particularly liked here was Milo O'Shea as the
corrupt and biased judge. 

Most of the great courtroom dramas have been about criminal cases. The
Verdict was a landmark film that set the stage for the success of other
great films about civil cases, including A Civil Action and Erin
Brockovich. Those I don't think would have been made but for the
critical and popular success of The Verdict.

Paul Newman was never better on screen.
<|_=00=_|>

If Newman hadn't been up against Ghandi, he probably would have.  I think
the Academy realized their error and Newman's win for The Color of Money
was
really for his portrayal of Frank Galvin, in this well-done tale of moral
decrepitude and ultimate redemption.  Writer Mamet and Director Lumet are
into heavy symbolism throughout, with the scene of the developing
Poloroids
of the victim (the case becomes clear in Galvin's mind), to Galvin's
pilfering of a woman's mail to run down a lead on a potential witness.
The
closing statement of Newman's character to the jury is
powerful.
<|_=00=_|>
This one really isn't to be missed, certainly among the best of the
courtroom dramas. 

The acting. Well, first of all, nobody is bad. The most nearly
negligible performance is by Wesley Addy, who at least looks the part
of the elegant doctor and who is a competent actor. The other
principals are outstanding. Charlotte Rampling with that odd face --
sultriness imposed kicking and screaming upon boniness -- is unusually
good and even manages to project a kind of believable guilty remorse,
which has never been her strong suit. James Mason is
(almost)unflappable as Concannon, attorney for the defense. Marvelous,
the way he puts quotation marks around the word "expert" while
questioning the plaintiff's witness. Edward Binns is stolid as the
savvy but moral bishop who wants to wrap things up without making
waves. "What is the truth?", he asks Newman. Jack Warden is plumply
likable, as always. He's seems to have aged more than Binns, with whom
he'd worked a quarter of a century earlier in "Twelve Angry Men."
Lindsay Crouse in a small but crucial role is appealingly Irish. Milo
O'Shea is sliminess itself. I don't know why, perhaps his impish
accent, but there is always something amusing about him, as if unable
to quite shake what Erving Goffman called "role distance," the
knowledge that he's playing a part accompanied by an awareness of the
absurdity of doing so. 

Even Bruce Willis is in this, playing a visitor to the courtroom. I was
an atmosphere person in a Boston courtroom too, in "From the Hip" -- a
far superior movie. (Ask anybody. Ask my mother.) 

And Paul Newman is flawless. Robert Redford was supposed to play
Frankie Galvin, but he wouldn't have been up to the part. The role
requires the compelling anguish that Newman brings to it, and he does
it perfectly. Redford is much too cool for that. I will mention just
one scene of Newman's that is emblematic. He stands in his darkened
office -- Warden watching soundlessly from the background -- and calls
the defendants' law firm about a settlement they have already
withdrawn. He paces around talking into the phone, hardly able to
breathe, congested with not just mucous but self hatred, cajoling them,
pounding on the desk with his knuckles, filled with an empty bravado.
Redford couldn't do it. Practically nobody could do it.

Almost everything fits together perfectly in this film. Sidney Lumet
opens with a shot of Newman alone in silhouette playing a pinball
machine in a Boston bar, drinking beer. The pinball game serves as a
token for the trajectory of his life during the course of the film.
Wardrobe: first-rate. How "New England." Multi-layered dark clothing,
(in Newman's case black), woolly and fussy. Sound: excellent. Little
noises, hardly noticeable, form almost a background score. The old
wooden floors creak when people step on them. An example of one or two
good creaks: the scene in Concannon's office when he is welcoming Laura
back to the law. Twirled-up telephone lines squeak when someone pulls
on them. The tinkling of ice cubes in liquor glasses. The heavy
breathing of nervous or defeated people. The slamming of ancient desk
drawers. Garbage trucks groaning and whining in the city streets at
dawn. 

Production design: as good as it gets. Everything looks old, as if it
has been used and lived in for years, not shabby but burnished with
age, all mahogany wood and scarlet carpets. Lighting and photography:
up there with the best. Most scenes are dark -- it's midwinter in
Boston -- but not too dark, cleverly lighted. The snow in the streets
is literally blue, as if it had just leaped out of an impressionist
landscape. Tree branches glisten with moisture on slick night-time
streets. Tinsel draped along a bar ceiling twinkles with fraudulent
joy. 

The weakness? The movie is so good I hate to mention it, but the script
leaves something to be desired. It almost betrays the characters. I
don't mind the legal absurdities so much. Okay, so things would never
really happen this way. The judge would have to grant a continuance and
so forth. It's not so much that as the motivation and the set speeches
that are bothersome, especially Newman's, and they're critical. The
banter and small talk are fine. 

But Newman's conversion from a drunken, cynical ambulance chaser to a
principled attorney of reawakened morals in the course of two-minute
photo session with a comatose patient is patently unbelievable. Where
did all that conscience (if that's what it is?) suddenly come from? He
flops backwards as if stunned. Why? The script does its best to back up
his epiphany. The images of his patient develop as a real person, not
just a dollar sign, on the Polaroid photos, a mirror image of what's
going on in his mind. 

But as Warden repeatedly points out, his job is to win some money for
his clients so they can leave their comatose sister in good care and
get on with their lives in Tucson. Instead he turns down the church's
offer because he sees a trial as a challenge to his personal pride, as
a "means of redemption". (Is that kind of pride a mortal or a venial
sin?) He loses sight of what the whole legal process is about because
of this self-involvement. It wouldn't be so bad if he realized this but
in fact he never gives it a thought.

Finally, Newman's summation: it sounds as if it had been put together
by some high school kid whose homework assignment was to write an essay
(of at least two hundred words) about "what life means to me." "I
believe there is justice in our hearts," says Newman, more to himself
than to the jury. No kidding.

None of this criticism can subtract from all the other virtues of the
film. It's among the best of its kind.
<|_=00=_|>

I love this film, I own a copy and I watch it at least once a year.  It's
hard to pick a "best work" from Sidney Lumet, Paul Newman or David Mamet,
but this film ranks up there for all three.   And really, when you say those
three names on one film, that says it all, doesn't it?

Newman plays a down and out lawyer, a drunk ambulance chaser whose life
changes when he turns down a pultry settlement offer to try a case that he
can't possibly win.  There are so many great scenes in this film, it's hard
to pick a favorite. Possibly, the very end, the ringing phone Paul Newman
ignores as he sips on some coffee, rather than whiskey, might be one of the
all time greats.  The scene sums up the movie so well. My other favorite is
a long, single shot where Newman is on the phone trying to get another
doctor to testify and Jack Warden paces the room. The camera is at the other
end of the room, on the floor and the scene is about five or six minutes
long, one continuous shot, beautifully done.

I read a book a couple years ago that covered blunders in film regarding
court cases and apparently there were a couple in this one.  But this is a
film that is so great, so well done, I think Godzilla could have trampled
part of Boston and Lumet could have made it believable. Although Cool Hand
Luke is my favorite film of all time, The Verdict is my second favorite
Newman film. See it if you can.
<|_=00=_|>
Although Paul Newman has received MANY accolades for his acting, this
movie, to me, stands out as the best of all his many wonderful
performances. Newman plays an alcoholic has-been lawyer who has pretty
much given up on making a difference. He is an "ambulance chaser" whose
only goal is to arrange a quick settlement--regardless of whether or
not his clients deserve more or nothing at all (a "nuisance lawyer").
He plays this role exceptionally well and the writing and directing
much also be credited.

Out of the blue, he takes a case where the client has a really good
case and deserves a very large judgment. However, Newman is planning on
just making a quick settlement regardless of whether or not it was fair
for anyone. However, over time, for once, he has a hard time living
with himself and eventually decides to fight. However, the archdiocese
being sued hires a team of top-rate lawyers and Newman finally refuses
to back down and take a settlement.

You MUST watch this movie!!!
