
Seagal plays Mason Storm, a Los Angeles homicide detective who is seen
on the dock, one night, with a video camera and a tape recorder, spying
on mystery guys who were plotting to turn a political figure into a
memory...

Once he gets the evidence, Storm shares the information with a buddy,
unaware that two crooked cops, in the next room, are listening in to
their phone conversation...

Later that night, an assassination squad turns their automatic weapons
against Storm and his family... They murder his wife, fail to kill his
young kid, but apparently left him seriously wounded...

After Storm is taken to the hospital, he sank into a deep coma... His
death was faked and his true identity was hidden away by a friend..

Seven years later, Seagal suddenly comes out of his coma, and begins to
remember events that happened while he was conscious... 

When he regains his full consciousness, he asks his beautiful nurse,
Kelly LeBrock, to get him immediately out of the hospital...

In a house-sitting far back from the city, Storm prepares his health
and wellness with Oriental healing traditions, stimulating the flow of
energy within his body, by inserting fine needles into specific points
on his skin...

Once achieving his skills of vitality, he set out to avenge his wife's
murder by tracking down the crooked cops, and of course the ambitious,
cynical politician, who was behind the grand scheme of things...

"Hard to Kill" is full of flying bullets and breaking-glass, with
super-graphic fights and shootouts... Our great hero proves once again
to have a threatening penchant for breaking bad men's arms, legs,
wrists and backs...

Seagal and LeBrock look great together.. Their palpable chemistry is
well translated on the screen... The gorgeous model eventually married
the wonderful man, and they would have three children... However, in
1996 the two divorced and LeBrock began appearing a bit more, taking
part in the feature film 'Wrongfully Accused' (1998), opposite Leslie
Nielsen and Richard Crenna...
<|_=00=_|>
Looking for a no-brainer that is fun to watch, the
standard-but-effective revenge film? Well, this is it. 

As usual, everything is played to the hilt, meaning the bad guys
couldn't be much worse. They not only kill hero Steven Seagal's wife
and kid but are crude and use profanity in every sentence. They are the
low-life scums in every sense of the word. The only problem is one of
them is a U.S. Senator and nobody - nobody - this crude would ever be
in high-class position like that....only in Hollywood where, since the
'60s, authority figures are almost always shown to be the enemy.

Segal's real-life wife, Kelly LeBrock, plays a nurse in here, nursing
her Buddhist he-man back to health after the thugs had left him for
dead in the aforementioned family killing. The rest is simply Segal's
road to recovery and for revenge against those punks...but it's an
interesting road, enough to fill the bill if you're in a
revenge-seeking mood
<|_=00=_|>

Once again, Steven Seagal plays a cop, and this could have been the sequel
to Above The Law(his first film).  
Steven Seagal is Mason Storm, and is gunned down with his family in 1984,
after having taped a famous person discussing murder.  However, Mason
doesn`t die that easily, and he wakes up from his coma 6 years later.  He
escapes from the hospital, falls in love with his nurse, and begins hunting
down the people who killed his family.
The storyline in this movie is pretty basic Seagal-stuff: brotherhood,
revenge etc.
Overall a very entertaining movie, and the fight scenes are well fought by
martial-art master Steven Seagal.
8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Wow. The Seagal movies just keep on coming. Right after I commented on
'Out For Justice', I caught the horrible 'Out for a Kill' on pay TV,
and then 'Hard to Kill' came on after that on free-to-air. With any
luck, the most awesome of all Seagal's movies - 'Under Siege' - will be
on sometime soon, but for now, 'Hard to Kill' was rather awesome.

Seagal plays Mason Storm, a cop investigating links between some
mobsters, crooked cops, and crooked politician, and suddenly everything
turns into a 'Kill Bill' prototype: The bad guys kill Storm's family,
and leave him for dead. After waking up from a seven-year coma, Storm
sets out for vengeance.

'Hard to Kill' is an entertaining action movie. The amount of
limb-snapping may be lower than usual for a Seagal movie, but the fight
scenes are good. An added bonus is the fact that 'Hard to Kill'
features some of Seagal's best lines and moments ("I'm gonna take you
to the bank, Senator Trent. To the blood bank!"). The hide and seek
scene has got to be the best scene Seagal has ever filmed.

'Hard to Kill' rates as one of my favourite Seagal movies, and
certainly much better than anything he's done lately. Seagal fans
should get a kick out of this - 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
A thought came up to me as I was watching Hard to Kill (1990). After I
watched the film, I was reminded of the Kill Bill movies, and I
wondered if Hard to Kill's plot inspired Quentin Tarantino to make the
series. It looks so. Both Hard to Kill, and the two Kill Bill movies
are all revenge pictures, but with two very different characters. Both
characters are shot dead and put into a coma, and both wake up several
years later to exact revenge on their enemies. And while I prefer the
bloody entertaining Kill Bill movies more, I will say that Hard to Kill
is a mildly entertaining action flick.

The film stars Steven Seagal, who plays L.A. cop Mason Storm, who
videotapes a mobster being contracted by thugs to kill someone. Storm
can't get a clear image of the man who has hired the mobster, but
recognizes the voice. But then Storm is caught, and a hit is put on
him. More thugs are sent to his home, where they kill him and his wife
and kid.

But there's a catch. Storm isn't quite dead, but in a coma, and after
seven years, he wakes up in a hospital, where the thugs arrive to
finish him off. How they manage to find out that he's alive and well is
unknown to me. Storm manages to save himself and a cute nurse, Andy
Stewart (Kelly LeBrock), and they decide to take shelter in Andy's
cottage, where Storm heals himself by inserting fine needles into his
skin, and practices his Aikido.

He soon realizes that a corrupt senator (William Sadler) put the hit on
him, and he decides to take him down, along with a crooked cop (Andrew
Bloch) who's involved in the scheme.

Seagal is effective here as the cop-turned-crusader, but his character
is less convincing, than his Nico Toscani in his earlier feature film,
Above the Law (1988). Perhaps, the best fight sequence happens at a
liquor store robbery where Seagal takes on four thugs.

There are some strong performances, from the supporting actors. But
Kelly LeBrock, who gets second billing, needed more in her role as the
nurse, but it is quite obvious that she was placed into the film,
because she was Seagal's wife at the time. We don't get to know much
about her character, and we almost feel like she has a thankless role
here.

William Sadler is hateful in his role as the corrupt senator and
Frederick Coffin is convincing as Seagal's ex-partner who holds
something dear to Seagal. Something I feel I should not reveal.

Hard to Kill is not up to par with the earlier Above the Law, or Under
Siege (1992). Seagal's first two films were good efforts, but then he
shifted down to less enjoyable roles in movies, that considered placing
large amounts of graphic violence and martial arts combat into his
movies, in order for them to become a big hits, like his later film,
Marked for Death (1990).

Hard to Kill works as an entertainment (the martial arts sequences are
convincing), in spite of its preposterous plotting (hero wakes up in a
coma and defeats the bad guys). It's mildly entertaining, but compared
to some of his worst efforts, it's one of Seagal's best.
<|_=00=_|>

Let's not muck about - this film is completely ridiculous. And steven is
the
greatest man in the world of ridicukous. Here then, are the best lines in
this hilarious film. CONTAINS POSSIBLE SPOILERS! Note that everything that
comes out of Steven's mouth is hysterical in any case. For a start his name
is Mason Storm. That just about beats Gino Felino and Nico Toscani.

Scene - some essais randomly attack a convienience store. The owner jumps
out from behind the counter with a baseball bat and says 'I got half a mind
to-'
The lead essai blows him away, and replies,
'Now you only got half a mind!' Imagine the emphasis starting at the
beginning and dwindling neatly away to nothing.

Scene - Steven uses his mystic Chinese healing powers to bring him back to
full strength after 7 years in a coma. He punches a training post so hard
it
flies out of the ground. Kelly leBrock says,
'May-son schtorm'. Exactly like that.

Scene - Steven throws a grenade he has just mysteriously found in his
pocket. There's no line, but his face is a picture.

Scene - Steven is tracking down the baddies in the governor's mansion. The
corrupt cop, nervous at Steven's intrusion, finds Steven has written
'ANTICIPATION OF DEATH IS WORSE THAN DEATH ITSELF' on the wall in massive
letters somehow. The bent copper lifts up the toilet seat in the bathroom
to
find Steven has written 'YOU'RE NEXT' on the underside of the toilet seat.
Oh really, has he. Steven then shouts out,
'HOWDOESITFEELTOKNOWYOURABOUTTODIE?!'
How could he possibly think that was an acceptable way to speak in a
movie?

The best scene in the movie - Steven is tracking the final villain in his
bedroom. He's calling out 'Vernon?' 'Where are you Vernon?' 'Oh, you're so
god at this Vernon' at random intervals. He then says,
'Maybe you're behind this painting'.

For a start, there is no painting on screen. Secondly, how could he
possibly
be hiding behind a painting? You really have to hear this line
to appreciate just how funny it is.

And finally, of course, when Steve-o stabs his wife's killer in the neck
with a piece of snooker cue, it sounds like this:
Baddie: 'Nice moves'.
URRRR!
AAAGGH!
ARRR!
Urrrr.
Steven: That's for my wife, F*** you and die!

This movie utterly rules.
<|_=00=_|>
Steven Seagal, whether you love him or loathe him, he's the martial
arts action hero that just won't go away. That's partially the premise
of "Hard to Kill," the 1990 vehicle obviously meant to throw the
pony-tailed, then-sixth-degree Aikido black belt into the action foray
with Schwarzenegger, Stallone and Norris, but missed a few steps along
the way and it would be another two years after when Seagal would find
success in 1992's "Under Siege."

It's true that Seagal has yet to make a perfect film in his thoroughly
uneven and distinguished career, but "Hard to Kill" certainly ranks as
one of his best and one of my personal favorite pictures of the actor.
Two years after breaking and busting the heads of corrupt CIA agents as
Nico Toscani in his electrifying 1988 debut "Above the Law," Seagal
returns not as the pony-tailed Toscani but as Mason Storm, the most
unstoppable cop SOB that ever lived.

After getting home movie footage of an aspiring political candidate
(Bill Sadler) conspiring with shadowy underworld types on tape, Storm
is tracked down by corrupt cops and nameless and faceless goons and
they shotgun the unstoppable SOB into a seven-year coma while also
wiping out his wife and young son. O'Malley (Frederick Coffin), Storm's
dedicated Internal Affairs friend, whisks him away into a coma-care
unit under the assumed name of "John Doe."

Seven years later, Storm awakens and with the help of gorgeous nurse
Andy Stewart (Seagal's then real-life, lovestruck wife Kelly Le Brock,
who manages to catch peaks at our hero's anatomy), he trains intensely
to regain his strength using the Oriental healing arts, renews his
Aikido skills, and sharpens his eyes with that good ol' police-issue.
All this culminating in some very nasty, neck-breaking, arm-twisting
action.

As somewhat mis-directed by Bruce Malmuth and written by Steven McKay,
"Hard to Kill" is undoubtedly one of the actor's most competently
skilled performances because he's able to rise above the average
material and make it his own. The problem may be with Seagal though. He
snaps a few wrists and what's this? - he throws out one-liners - most
of which are quite corny and fall flat on their face and simply put
aren't Seagal's strong points. His strengths are in the arm-snapping
and finger-breaking.

But still, Seagal's fists of fury are at their best (because that's
what he does best) because this time around, he's mad and it's wise to
not get characters played by Steven Seagal mad. Pretty soon after Storm
has regained his skills and strength, the corrupt cops and goons that
put him into his coma come back to finish the job. And this time, he's
ready.

The action begins to pick up about half-way through and from there on
in it's non-stop, which is true Seagal fashion, if you get my drift.
But with "Hard to Kill," it's the seven-year Storm, and there's no
letting up.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>

"Hard to Kill" is bar-none the best Steven Seagal film by a cosmic mile.
That is not saying that this is a masterpiece, but it works pretty well due
to some really evil bad guys (led by William Sadler) and the fact that
Seagal's character is legitimately out for revenge. Seagal is a cop who has
just learned that Sadler, an ambitious lawyer with political aspirations, is
involved with shady cops and high-class crime syndicates. This information
will lead to an attempt on Seagal's life which will kill his wife, cause
their young son to just barely escape death and cause Seagal to go into a
coma himself. Of course he awakes some eight years later and his only
motivation is to bring all those involved to justice. Works well due to
Seagal's performance more than anything else. 3.5 out of 5 stars.

<|_=00=_|>
This movie is absolutely HILARIOUS.

If people even know who Steven Segal is, they should already know what
they are getting into before they start playing this movie (meaning
that it is FULL of plot holes, jumps in logic, continuity errors,
outrageous stunts, etc).

That having been said, this movie is so much fun to watch it more than
makes up for its shortcomings. Watch this movie with a group of friends
that enjoy laughing at unintentionally ridiculous action and I
guarantee it will deliver in spades - I found it to be a lot funnier
than most comedies.
<|_=00=_|>

Okay, so Die Hard is arguably the best action movie ever filmed. But Hard
to
Kill is arguably the second best action movie ever filmed. Steven Seagal's
character went through so much anguish, seemingly losing everything he
had.
And then he beats the holy crap out of his enemies and nails the scum bag
politician who was responsible for the whole thing. Nothing like sweet,
sweet revenge. Seagal can be cheesy in other movies, but he kicked major
butt in "Hard to Kill". You couldn't help but stand up and
cheer.
