

This film has been described as a "horror film for people who don't like
horror films."  That's an apt description for this underrated
psychological/supernatural thriller from Pittsburgh's master horror
director, George A. Romero.  To date, this is Romero's only studio film, and
he had to make numerous compromises to the finished product.  (The
originally intended ending would have been a killer.)  That said, the film
still comes off as smart and sharp, with some very good casting. (John
Pankow, recognizable from "Mad About You," is really excellent here, and
there are nice early performances from Stephen Root, Stanley Tucci, and
Janine Turner.)  And check out the amazingly good editing in the last 10
minutes.  Overall, while this is not first-tier Romero, it's a terrific
little horror film.
 
<|_=00=_|>


This is not your run-of-the-mill slasher film.  This is a well developed,
well-paced suspense-type horror.  If what you like it lots of blood and
cheap scares punctuated by incidental music, then you should skip this
film.
If you like a horror involving a few good characters, and a really
talented
monkey, then take a look.  The tension builds slowly.  There are a lot of
interesting characters, who are neither "good guys" nor "bad guys" (this
includes the killer).  The acting is not all that great, but the script is
solid.  That the monkey may be the best performer in the b=cast says more
about the monkey than the human castmembers!
<|_=00=_|>
George Romero does an excellent job of swapping Zombies for Monkeys.
This film may sound ridiculous in the most preposterous way. But then
again, we now live in a world of Snakes on a Plane and Burning Bright,
so this is a little easier to swallow. In its genre, it is one of the
best examples, and I'm not just talking about killer animals. I'm also
referring to the stalker/obsessive partner/friend genre. 

What Romero does brilliantly, is to take a number of characters and the
audience on a journey of emotions and self discovery. For example, I
started off wanting one of these monkeys. The relationship built up is
a genuinely loving one. It's really cute, and this could easily be one
of those lifetime inspirational movies. If the monkey wasn't a
genetically modified, telepathic, homicidal, psycho monkey. The well
trained monkey takes us from tragic victim of experiments, to a loving
carer. We get a wonderful cleaning montage, as the monkey helps the
friendship expands. The monkey's obsession grows steadily. It starts
off with a few temper tantrums and escalates into bananas in the
slippers. Soon bananas turn to murder. It's the evolution of all
species.

None of this would work if it wasn't for a dramatic human connection.
Beghe is a law student/athlete that is paralysed. He goes through
acceptance, denial, frustration, which is understandable as his
girlfriend leaves him for his doctor (a sleazy Tucci), he gets a
patronizing nurse, and then his overbearing mother. It's great to see
how the characters react to Beghe's quadriplegia, as it enforces
Beghe's later anger. Beghe also does a terrific job of facial acting,
which is most important as he can't use his body. In a single look he
can convey the embarrassment of his mother having to wash him. 

On the surface, this is a story of a monkey being a bitch to a cripple.
But look deep down, REAAAAAAALLY deep, and you'll see a social
commentary. For a long time, the monkey is the only one that treats
Beghe as an equal. It doesn't throw money at his problem, try and cheer
him up, nor can the monkey do everything for him. 

Romero fills the film with dread, absurdity, and most of all a serious
edge that clearly does the film justice. It's easy to mock this film.
But the truth is, this could actually happen. Monkeys are creepy and
untrustworthy.
<|_=00=_|>

~Spoiler~ 

I'll have my deranged monkey kill your stupid bird.  That's what.  Monkey
Shines flies low on the horror radar.  It's a Romero film that people
normally don't recognize.  It's not as beloved as Night of the Living Dead
or as socially aware as The Crazies, however, I'm going to give it some much
deserved credit.  I love this movie.  Never have I wanted so many people to
die so badly while watching a flick.  I mean, these people get what's coming
to them.  The evil, lazy nurse, the jealous mother, the cheating
ex-girlfriend, and the vindictive doctor.  Take Kathy Bates from Misery and
make her every character.  You want to see this monkey go ape-sh*t and kill
them.  It's great.  It's every young boy's dream to have a killer monkey and
Monkey Shines really brings that to life.  This idea has never quite been
attempted this way and it's suspenseful as hell.  I'd say it succeeded in
doing what it tried to do.  My only peve is that it introduces a few
characters that clearly deserve to die, but don't (the nurse and Stephen
Root).  Other than that, it's a thoroughly enjoyable thriller.  Monkey
Shines, shine on.
<|_=00=_|>

If you're looking for body count, blood, or bogeymen, this film is not for
you. It is more of a psychological thriller than a horror film, though it
was billed as horror, likely because of the pseudo-science gimmick that
provides the basis for the conflict in the plot.

While the film tends to wander a bit (i.e. a sub-plot involving the research
head that gets dropped 3/4 of the way through) it stays fairly well focused
on the main character and his problems. Aside from the lead, the most
effective acting was done by the monkey(s), but the "real" actors do a
pretty good job of carrying their own. It gives you a little insight into
what it's like to be quadriplegic. For a late 80's movie, the style of
filming was well done, there is very little cheese, and the special effects
didn't overreach.

The premise seems a bit farfetched to our currently more sophisticated and
informed sense of what's possible on the genetic engineering front. After
all, this movie was made 15 years ago. If Romero had gone with either a
supernatural cause or a plain animal jealousy angle, it might be less dated,
but then again it might have been a little less believable to begin
with.

Not very horrific, not startling or scary, but worth seeing if you don't
mind a slightly slow-paced thriller. I gave it a higher than average score
(6 out of 10) just because it didn't make me say "oh, please!" too many
times unlike other movies from that time--particularly horror films--are
prone to do. For example, the pivotal moment is fully supported by plausible
input earlier in the film, it's not one of those miraculous developments
pulled out of nowhere in the last few seconds before the
climax.

<|_=00=_|>

Young athletic Allen (Jason Beghe) finds himself paralyzed from the waist
down after a truck hits him. An experimental pet monkey is brought in to
help him out with his daily routines. However, as Allen's anger grows over
his situation he finds out that his pet monkey is going around killing
people and carrying out his dark desires. Thoughtful well made cleverly
directed horror flick has a scary, intense finale. One of George A.
Romero's
better latter day efforts.

Rated R; Nudity, Profanity, Violence.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie's not going to have a fan base larger than Night of the Living
Dead or Dawn of the Dead, but it is another example of Romero's uniqueness
as s film maker.
An original story with an original cast, Romero adds to the horror genre
by
going somewhere where no other film maker has gone before.
Monkey Shines cast includes Christine Forrest who shows her finest
performance as the nurse. Worth checking out, so check it
out.
<|_=00=_|>

"Monkey Shines" is an honorable effort that doesn't quite work. It deserves
credit for originality, but falls short of the mark. 

The concept is interesting, but the execution leaves much to be desired. A
paralyzed man's life is made easier with the help of Ellie, a monkey trained
to help disabled people get by with their daily lives. However, she used to
be a lab animal who has had human brain cells injected in experiments. A
bond forms between the two, and she acts out his violent
desires.

The final act does a good job in delivering the goods, but the film takes
too long to get going, diluting the overall effect. In fact, at times one
almost forgets it's supposed to be a horror movie. When it gets going, it
works, although the very ending is a bit much. 

I'm still not sure the sci-fi gimmick was necessary. Surely they could have
done pretty much the same things without it? Something more supernaturally
orientated perhaps? Still, I admired Romero's willingness to take chances
and try his hand at a more subdued thriller. Jason Beghe does a credible job
in the role, and we are offered a rare glance at the frustrations of the
disabled. A tighter film would have better achieved the director's
goals.

**1/2 (out of ****)

An Orion Pictures release

<|_=00=_|>
It seems that every once and a while, a neat little horror film comes
along that eschews genre conventions and is able to tap into a new vein
to provide its scares. Writer-director George A. Romero, of "Night of
the Living Dead" (1968) and "Dawn of the Dead" (1978) infamy, brings
forth "Monkey Shines," an adaptation of the novel by Michael Stewart.

Romero has always been a director who goes for the throat in delivering
the shocks in his horror pictures. But in the savage gore and mayhem,
he has never lost sight of the human characters, their drama, and their
plight. In "Monkey Shines," Romero seems to have been domesticated
somewhat - dare I say, "tamed" - in that characters and drama are most
essential to the core of the film, and that horror is really the last
thing on his mind.

"Monkey Shines" begins with the Good Day Gone Bad, Really Bad: Allan
Mann (Jason Beghe), is a highly physical law student who goes for a jog
early one morning after spending the night with his girlfriend Linda
(Janine Turner). To avoid a dog on the sidewalk, he unknowingly runs
into the path of an oncoming truck. He wakes up several weeks later in
the hospital, now a quadriplegic, paralyzed, unable to use his body
anywhere below the neck.

Confined to a wheelchair he moves around by working a lever with his
mouth and having to rely on live-in nurse Maryanne (Christine Forrest),
his doting, overbearing mother Dorothy (Joyce Van Patten) and having to
deal with his pompous surgeon Dr. Wiseman (Stanley Tucci) who begins
having an affair with Linda, Allan gives up and tries to commit
suicide. Luckily, Allan's mad-scientist friend Geoffrey (John Pankow)
may have a solution: Ella, an extremely intelligent capuchin monkey who
is being trained by animal specialist Melanie Parker (Kate McNiel) to
be a sort of help-primate for paraplegics and quadriplegics, much like
a seeing-eye dog is used for blind people.

At first, a great weight seems lifted off Allan's shoulders; Ella's the
perfect helper - she can answer the phone, play cassette tapes in the
radio, and even help Allan turn the pages of his books when he reads.
She even raises her hand in class for her turn to be called on. A deep
bond develops between the two that's right out of any made-for-TV movie
about hope and determination to beat the odds. Of course, and this is
where the horror elements begin to kick in, what Allan doesn't know is
that Ella is really Geoffrey's guinea pig in an experiment to create
super-intelligent primates: he's been secretly injecting her with human
brain tissue, which explains her super-intelligence in helping to make
Allan's life a little bit easier. Even more horrifically, Allan has
been having incredibly realistic nightmares in which he has acquired a
monkey's-eye view of the world, and Ella is subconsciously acting out
his deeply-suppressed anger, frustration, hatred, and rage for those
around him. And it soon begins a battle of wits to see who is really
controlling who, which also sees if Charles Darwin was really right all
those years ago.

"Monkey Shines" develops so nicely during its first hour that it's easy
to forget that first and foremost, it's a horror film and not just any
horror film, a George A. Romero-directed horror film. Romero shows
remarkable restraint in combining both the human story with the horror
story, that both elements are given enough screen time to thoroughly
develop and not seem so tacked-on to each other. That atmosphere and
tension of the film's horror-themed second half is pretty intense, even
if things can be forgiven for the haunted house-style climax.

This is easily the best-acted film Romero has ever directed, though
obviously it's not his best; that honor goes to "Dawn of the Dead." All
of the characters turn in fine and realistic performances, including
John Pankow as Allan's drug-addled mad-scientist friend who truly has
his friend's best interests at heart, even if they're morally gray in
the end. But there is one performer who is highly deserving of much
praise, and that is Jason Beghe. Jason Beghe delivers a strong,
controlled central performance that in my opinion, was criminally
overlooked by a great many awards organizations. His performance is one
of the most convincing and sympathetic portrayals of a physically
handicapped protagonist I've ever seen in the movies. Essentially a
prisoner in his own body, he hits every emotive note perfectly, and we
believe and can see where and why his anger and rage at his condition
is one of the most believable performances in the history of Romero's
long and distinguished career as a filmmaker.

"Monkey Shines" is an overlooked career highlight from a highly
distinguished director, George A. Romero. Even more so, Jason Beghe's
criminally underrated performance makes the film even more worthy of
more significant praise.

This is one horror film that isn't monkeying around in the end. It is
really scary.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This film may sound ridiculous in the most preposterous way because
it's a killer monkey movie, but don't monkey around. Go see this movie.
It's not that bad as it seem. It's honestly pretty alright. I have to
say, this isn't your run-of-the-mill cheesy Slasher monkey horror film
like 1990's Shakma & 1995's Congo. This is a pretty smart psychological
thriller that you can go bananas for! Written and directed by George A.
Romero, the film is based on a novel with the same title authored by
Michael Stewart. Monkey Shines: An Experiment in Fear tells the story
of an ex-track athlete, Alan Mann (Jason Beghe), whom became paralyzed
when struck by a truck. Mann fails to adjust to his condition, becoming
suicidal and despondent. To help Alan out, his friend Geoffrey Fischer
(John Pankow) trained a monkey named Ella (Boo the Monkey) to help him
with his paralysis. What he doesn't know is that Geoffrey has been
experimenting with Ella, genetically alter her brain that cause the
little monkey to develop more human-like deep feelings, and rage,
against its new master and her monkey trainer, Melanie Parker (Kate
McNeil). I can understand why, people might overlook this movie. The
little monkey is too cute. Whose idea was it to use a capuchin monkey
as a villain? Why didn't they just use a bigger ape? While, a capuchin
monkey seem silly as a villain. There is a way to portray it, right
like what they did in 1995's Outbreak. They was able to do it, because
that monkey in that movie was carrying a deadly disease that cause its
villains to have violent and gory deaths. This movie didn't have any of
that, fears, because it lacks gore. The movie is a bit laughable as the
small monkey tries to poison and burn fully grown human beings.
Clearly, Boo has no clue, what she was doing. Most of the action in the
film is very unintentionally hilarious. The crash scene involving a
running man, a barking dog and flying bricks is just cheesy. While, I
couldn't see the monkey as a serious threat. I did love, how the movie
portray their relationship. The relationship built up is a genuinely
loving one. It was a deep bond, between the two that's right out of any
kid's animal movie and then it got really bizarre, with Alan picks up
on Ella's primal behavior, and Ella picks up on Allan's feelings of
frustration, rage and revenge. The movie never explain this odd empathy
of two, as both feel increasing in love with each other. It almost
beasty. As if the movie was trying to channel the same themes of horror
in Gothic tales like Beauty and the Beast, Planet of the Apes & the
Island of Doctor Moreau, where no matter, how civilize you can act, you
still have one foot, out of the jungle. I guess, the movie was trying
to say something like a link from man to beast, but it never fully
explained satisfactorily leaving a gaping plot hole that is a wart to
what the film is trying to accomplish. I had actually read Monkey
Shines. It was not a great read, but it's explain the concept, better
than the movie, with the main character taking the same pills intended
to increase the learning ability of his primate companion, but in the
movie, it's never explained. Why and how exactly does Geoffrey's
intelligence-boosting potion wind up linking Ella to Alan psychically?
Who Knows! The movie doesn't bothered with it. The concept of the story
has some interesting aspects. The life of a quadriplegic is an
interesting subject, and you see it, with the great acting from Jason
Beghe. You really see the struggle of it, through his facial expression
and eyes. Kate McNeil is very convincing as the energetic, robust and
beautiful trainer. Together, Beghe and McNeil make a cute couple on
screen, and unlike other viewers, I didn't find the sex scene between
them weird. It's very rare to see how severely handicapped are able to
make love. Their love scene is very sensual, proving that the
handicapped can do most anything. A young Stanley Tucci is a cool look,
as the supporting character, despicable neurosurgeon Dr. John Wiseman.
I really couldn't believe that was him. Most of the rest of the
supporting cast was alright in their roles. Boo the monkey was the star
of the film, big time. Without her, the movie couldn't had work. A lot
of people might hate this movie, due to the fact, that they have a
monkey as a villain. Watching a monkey maim and kill people could be
pretty traumatic for younger and even some older viewers I would
imagine. PETA might jump in, for the very controversial ending. The
ending was so controversial that the film's distributor, Orion
Pictures, forced Romero to add a happy ending to the picture, a plot
device which the director had long avoided in favor of more ambiguous
endings, because they were desperate for a hit, as it was in financial
difficulty. Second, after poor previews, the studio recut the film
without Romero's knowledge to add a "shock" ending. While, there are
tons of alternate endings. It didn't help the film, much. Overall:
Unfortunately, the plotting and scripting is quite weak. The pacing, a
bit too long. The concept is interesting, but the execution leaves much
to be desired. Still, it's worth watching, at least once. Monkey see
monkey do.
