
Yeah, DUNE sure is the runt of the Lynch litter but there are still
aspects of it that I really love, even for all its cockeyed,
club-footed awkwardness. 

I didn't see this movie for approximately a decade because it had the
reputation, still held in most quarters, of being one of the most
infamous bombs of recent memory. However, despite my initial
indifference I caught it - by complete accident - on free-to-air TV one
night and was immediately hooked from the first sight of its memorable,
unexpected future-baroque production design. From that point on, being
led through the strange world of the Emperor and his entourage on
Kaitain, the oddly-garbed Bene Gesserit Sisterhood, and the Guild
Navigator emissaries in all their variously-staged mutated splendour, I
was hopelessly infatuated with all things DUNE. 

Now, I am fully aware that by most conventional definitions DUNE is not
a good film. Actually, since having read all the books in the DUNE saga
I am astonished to think that anybody thought that such a property
could ever be a commercially viable option for mainstream cinema. It
has concepts that tend to demand your full attention, which is mostly
box office poison. However I loved the sheer scope of it, the fact that
I was being bombarded with scores of unfamiliar terms and concepts
which to me had always been the essence of pure science fiction. That
it made for a choppy and often confusing cinematic experience mattered
to me not at all. I was too much in love with the idea of it all and
the weird, alien ambiance which only Lynch could have given the movie.
Atreides, Harkonnens, Mentats, Fremen, Sandworms - I just wanted more,
more, more. Superb cast, alluring music, stunning visuals - all
contributing to an uncommonly arresting, unquestionably unique,
cinematic experience.

For all its failures I can't even imagine what any contemporary of
Lynch might have done with the material. My point is this: David
Lynch's DUNE, warts and all, made me excited enough to want to read all
the books in Herbert's sprawling saga. These volumes had been around
for years. I'd seen them gathering dust in my local public library yet
I felt no compulsion to read them. After seeing DUNE I couldn't wait to
rush down and grab them off the shelves. That's why I'll always defend
the film and why I refuse to write it off as the disastrous failure
that so many regard it to be. In my mind DUNE is a success because it
completely sold me on Frank Herbert's universe - a no more strangely
beautiful, intellectually stimulating nor fascinating one had I ever
seen on film - and compelled me to go ever further into it. I do accept
most of the criticisms that the casual moviegoer has of the film but I
simply can't hate it. 

In short, if you are curious about the film and are familiar with all
the bad and discouraging press it has received over the years, yet
remain a fan of exceptional fantasy or science fiction, do not be
discouraged. You may find that it has elements that may just move you,
bewilder you, or tantalise your imagination. You may come to agree,
like a growing number of us, that it really is not so deserving of the
excoriation that it has suffered at the hands - or pens - of its
harshest critics. If you go into it with a forgiving mindset then you
may be well rewarded. And then - if you haven't already - read the saga
itself. It is formidably great!
<|_=00=_|>

To begin with, I have to say that I saw the movie first, and read the book
years later. This seems to be important: Nearly everybody who read the book
first hates the movie, but most of those who saw the movie first seem to
like it.

Now, why is this so? I cannot really understand it because, in comparition
to other movies based on existing literature, what we have here is a film
which stays very close to the original story and does not add many new
elements.

When I read the book, I could see the movie in front of me in nearly every
chapter. So I really don't understand what Herbert-Fans had expected from
this movie...

I for my part like it a lot. It has a very mystical atmosphere about it and
the story develops nicely. Of course there are some elements which are
simply not explained and are therefore very confusing, but somehow this
seems to be a thing Lynch tends to do in every of his movies, so what? I
like some simple scenes like the opening monologue a whole lot. I LOVE the
music (which played in my mind all the time while I read the book), and I
think the characters are very strong and (for example Letho Atreides)
sometimes full of tragedy.

The part I like the most though is the worm-part. I think the special
effects are not always brilliant, but seeing the scenes with the worms, I am
really awestruck because they are so impressing.

All in all, I think this is one of the more underrated movies in Science
Fiction history. It may be because the director himself was not happy with
it, or because fans expected too much from a simple two hour movie. I always
enjoy watching this film and listening to the soundtrack. And I would love
to see a Director's Cut version. 


<|_=00=_|>

First of all I've read Herberts Dune saga and I loved the first book
(the one the movie is about) and liked the rest.

Second there is a difference between the cinema version (137 min) and
the TV version (190 min often referred also "special edition") which
should also not be confused with the new version from 2000 (Frank
Herbert's Dune). To keep it short the 137 version is great and the 190
min version sucks.

The TV version was split up to fill 2 evenings. For that they added
about an hour of additional material not seen in the original version.
While some of it is quite good like the prologue which went a little
bit deeper into the Dune universe (Butlers Djihad) but most of it just
destroys the atmosphere and the flow of the movie. On the technical
side there is to note that the whole movie was Pan-Scanned which never
is a good idea. Compared to the original version the quality really
blows.

Now to the good one:

The movie is pretty much faithful to the book. There are things that
were cut out from the book or it shows stuff that wasn't there, but
what you see is CLEARLY Herbert's book which I thought is nearly
impossible to translate into a (good) movie. It translates the "feel"
of the book very well to the screen.

The most notable differences is that in the book Paul is at the age of
15 (at least at the beginning) while McLachlan more looks like 20 but I
can live with that. The rest are minor things (like these sound
modules) and some differences in continuity (the navigators needing the
spice to well... navigate is revealed at the beginning).

The all actors give a solid performances. Notable are Kenneth McMillan
(Baron Harkonnen) Patrick "Captain Picard" Steward (Gurney Halleck) and
Sting as Feyd Rautha which really add to the movie.

The special effects range from crappy to good. The movie shines where
it 's most important namely the sand worms which look fairly
convincing. Personally I prefer (well done) miniature shots over those
Episode 1/2 CGI effects which make especially environments look like
plastic.

I think everybody who calls himself a Science-Fiction fan should have
seen this movie which is a jewel under all those mediocre films that
were spawned by Star Wars at that time. All the fans of the book should
see it as what it is: A movie based on Dune. If you want the book word
by word, don't watch the movie and read the book again.

<|_=00=_|>

There are two groups of people who write at IMDb, the pessimists and the
optimists. The pessimists love to complain about something or other in a
film. The optimists try and find something good. DUNE probably ranks as
one
of those that feels like it's going to be good, but leaves a confusing,
lackluster feeling in its wake. In an attempt to be optimistic, I will try
focusing ONLY on the good parts. This might be tough.

I will give David Lynch credit (indeed, as Frank Herbert did when he saw
this) for trying to take an enormous amalgamation of things and ideas from
the novel and trying to turn them into a movie. Lynch's visual style is
very
raw here and everything in the production design seems to be under his
spell.

The sets, costumes, cinematography, and choice of cast is excellent. All
of
them lend a flavor of difference that transcends whatever confusion is on
the screen. (On the side note: I was sick of hearing Kyle MacLachlan
repeating himself over and over) The creature designs by Carlo Rambaldi
are
very Lynch-ien, even though we rarely get to see them.

Overall, a sci-fi epic that requires a lethargic butt, an open mind, and a
copy of Frank Herbert's novel to enjoy. Still, it is far superior to the
TV
miniseries of late (I know saying that is blasphemy to some). I refuse to
rate this with stars or anything else.

<|_=00=_|>

I've talked to quite a few die-hard Herbert fans who insist that this
film is rubbish. Well, I personally feel that this film is one of the
most lavish and elegant science fiction movies ever made. I think it's
wonderful, and am happy to have it in my collection.

The movie itself inspired me to read the next couple of books in the
series.

I do agree however that there are some scenes that need to be added in
a definitive collection. There are a couple of sequences from the Alan
Smithee bootleg version - such as when the water of the Fremen warrior
that Paul defeated in combat is re-absorbed into the collective water
supply - that are absolutely vital to the story. Yet scenes like this
were cut out of the final movie version that we all see on DVD.

<|_=00=_|>

Every time I see this film I like it more, yet can see why people would
dislike this movie, and I can sum up it's shortcoming this
way:

Not close enough to the book to humour the people who have read the book, to
confusing for people who have not. Thus Lynch managed to get a lot of bad
press about this near masterpiece.

It is very difficult to fit the plot of Herbert's masterpiece into 130
minutes, but I think Lynch did a good job, sadly he added som stuff that was
not in the book. Where Lynch does excel is in setting the mood. To help him
he had probably the best possible cast for such a movie and the best musical
score ever. The acting overall is excellent (except possibly Maclachlan and
Jones) and for me who read the book before seeing the film, it is hard not
to see Stewart as Halleck. The timing of the acting and events is almost
perfect.
If Lynch had had help by a better scriptwriter to curb some of his wilder
additions and flesh out the plot a bit and this could have been one of the
best sci-fi movies ever. As is, it is very good, but somewhat
flawed.

<|_=00=_|>

Viewers can be divided into two categories. The first are those who are
looking for flashy expensive over the top graphics with some decent
dialogue and structure. The second group in this case are those of you
out there who love the Dune Series and would rather be in-depth with
the plot then see the flashy over the top Graphics. The casting and
portrayal of characters in this film FAR surpasses the ones who tried
more recently to redo the movie (TV version). I Recommend One Thing if
you do see this movie. WATCH THE 3 hour version. It goes much more
in-depth then the normal version and is much easier to follow. The Film
is worth watching at least once, and for me, its worth watching time
after time.

<|_=00=_|>

Over the years, I have come to the understanding that there are two schools
of though here. Some people absolutely hate this movie and other absolutely
love it. I'm of the latter school, regularly enjoying Lynch's twisted take
on the late Herbert's fantastic story. The story follows the House Atreides
on a planetary move to the spice mining world of Arakis. With it, comes the
power struggle and life and death situations commonly associated with
political struggle. 

Dark and interesting, Lynch has managed to capture all of Herbert's story
and mix it with some of his sick and twisted ideas. A must watch for Lynch
and Herbert fans.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
My review covers both versions of Dune, the 2 hour release and the
extended 3 hour "Smithee" version aired on television. The first cut of
the film was over four hours long, but there was never any intention to
release this, and Lynch himself shot scenes which consolidated the
final product into a more manageable length.

Allen Smithee, a protest pseudonym adopted by Lynch when he
disassociated himself with the 3 hour version of this film, is also
alluded to in Lynch's latest film - Inland Empire. A portion of a film
studio in Inland Empire is "Smithee's Room" - a metaphorical insight
into Lynch's feelings about Dune, and studio-controlled film-making in
general.

Given the tremendous investment made by the studio, Lynch's general
distaste for the final product, the repetitive cliché soundtrack, and
the occasionally bizarre use of voice-over narrative in the TV version,
it seems more a DeLaurentis film than a Lynch film. Although I am very
interested in Lynch's films and other projects, I am evaluating this
solely from my own perspective. Despite the great director's poor
opinion of this film, I enjoyed it and it is one of my favorite sci-fi
films. 

Frank Herbert, author of the novel upon which it is based, approved the
theatrical version, but he had the benefit of knowing what he was going
to see. If you haven't read the book, these films can be somewhat
difficult to understand. And if you come to the experience expecting
something like Star Wars, you should probably find something else to
do.

The soundtrack is repetitive and only interesting the first time you
hear the film's major theme (the Eno composition). The use of rock
orchestration simply does not work in this film. Happily, Lynch learned
from the experience and used rock instrumentation beautifully in later
films (especially Wild at Heart and Lost Highway). The camera work is
generally less inspired than the rest of Lynch's portfolio. There are
occasional visually striking scenes which will remind you of the film's
origin, but there are too many static shots - especially during the
action scenes. The soundtrack is easy to explain - like the inclusion
of Sting in the cast - this is a marketing move by the production
company, not a creative choice of the director. The camera work is much
less easily explained. Perhaps Lynch was asked to avoid doing anything
surreal or bizarre with this film (sort of like asking Groucho Marx to
avoid being funny), or the studio was trying to appeal to fans of Star
Wars by simplifying and sterilizing its story.

The recently released special edition DVD reveals some very interesting
aspects of the production. Lynch's influence, not surprisingly, is best
explored in the short documentary concerning the film's design. As an
artist, Lynch spent a great deal of time and energy envisioning the
material culture – both historical and modern – of each culture
depicted in the film, helping to create a consistent and unique
characterization for each. This spilled over quite naturally into
costume design. The sets and costumes used in this film are really
spectacular. The special effects, often derided by contemporary
viewers, required a great deal more effort that the synthetic art of
today's computerized extravaganzas and, the documentary concerning
their production on the DVD is also appropriately respectful.

What you will see is an intense visualization of several, fully
realized alien cultures whose art, architecture and general heritage
are as well realized, if not more so, than in Herbert's epic novel. To
fully appreciate this, don't just check out the extras on the DVD, turn
down the sound and just watch the sets, costumes, and effects move
through each scenes. There is, as with Lynch's entire portfolio, a
great deal to be seen. And the acting and direction are fine throughout
the film.

The longer version fleshes out the stories, themes and intricate
subplots of Herbert's book more thoroughly, and maintains a much
steadier pace than the cinematic release. Even so, both films, to some
extent, suffer from too much story, overwhelming visualization, and a
un-Lynchian frenetic pace. The later TV mini-series by the sci fi
channel does a better job of telling the story in its entirety, but
runs about 246 minutes and does not compare to the original in terms of
design. Lynch's cinematic release, by contrast, rushes through
components of the book and often feels inconsistent in pace.

PLOT: Dune is the story of Paul "Muad'ib" Atreides, the son of Duke
Leto Atreides the Just and his Bene Jesserat concubine Lady Jessica.
Combining aspects of fantasy, sci-fi and anthropology, the story
follows young Paul through a series of tragedies which find him seeking
redemption for an entire galaxy by leading an adoptive tribal culture
to a revolutionary cleansing of the malignant imperial system from
which he sprung. The plot is exceedingly complex – in both Lynch
versions of the film much is left out of Herbert's original work.
Subplots abound, but, true to form, Lynch avoids short-cuts as much as
possible and attempts to show his audience what is going on rather than
resorting to a great deal of voice-over narrative in the theatrical
release. The TV version, however, attempts to provide even more detail,
and uses voice-over to patch up the areas glossed over by Lynch's
script.

SUMMARY: If you're a Lynch fan and not a big Herbert fan or you don't
have a great deal of patience, see the cinematic release. It is the
class of the lot.

If you haven't read the book, or you are a Herbert purist who will
accept only what was written, choose the Sci-Fi Channel version (review
forthcoming soon) - but be forewarned - it is very long.

If you want something that compromises between story and cinematic
artistry, go for the TV version. The weakest link, but still OK.
<|_=00=_|>
Dune. At first, I only knew it from the games. Then I found out there
were books, and after that, there was a movie. I'm talking 2000 here,
and I've only just recently seen it. More than 20 years after the movie
was made, and seeing it in this era of very cunning special fx and 3D
does make it look dated a bit. Is that necessarily a bad thing? No. The
movie is pretty good actually. But the problem with it is, that you
can't tell the whole Dune-story in just one movie: it should have been
a two or even three-piece like LOTR. People completely unfamiliar with
the Dune-story and world will ask themselves after viewing it: 'what
the hell was that all about?' while I myself say: 'that was quite nice
actually'. The budget was no less than 40 million dollars, huge huge
for 1984. And it shows: the costumes, ships, decors and worm-fx are
great. If it would be made in this year, it would probably be
brilliant. In 1984 it was a bit limited because of technological
limits, not creative ones.

Yes, I liked it, and once more added a new dimension of understanding
for me to the story of Dune. The spice, the houses, the Fremen, the
worms, everything is a bit clearer now. 7 out of 10, just good.
