

This movie might have joined the ranks of the utterly forgettable Z-movies
of the genre had it not been for excellent direction, superb
characterization, and outstanding acting on the part of Liam Neeson, who
played Peyton Westlake/Darkman, and Larry Drake, who played his enemy, the
arch-villain, Durant.  The movie presents the destruction of a man by a
psychopathic monster for utterly trivial reasons -- and makes it clear that
however horrifying the physical damage perpetrated on Peyton Westlake by
Durant's minions might be, the effect on his soul and spirit is far worse.
At the same time, it showed that in spite of what happened to him,
Westlake/Darkman was able to rise above it at least enough to choose the
life of a giver of justice rather than one of evil, as the physically
unscarred drug-lord Durant & Co., the _real_ monsters in this film, had.
This film does _not_ glamorize psychopathic, criminal violence in any way,
but rather shows it for what it really is:  repellant, ugly, and
contemptible, destroying life and everything that supports it without a
qualm for no better reason than cheap thrills or a very minor profit.  This
is _not_ a typical Hollywood film, nor just a cheap garage-flick monster
movie special.  It shows with graphic realism exactly what is left when
conscience, civilization, and the rest of the more delicate mechanisms that
constitute our humanity are stripped away:  pure beastliness, without
glamour and without redemption of any sort. -- And it shows, as well, that
even when everything is taken from a man, he can rise above it, choose to
remain a man, however damaged, rather than sinking down to the level of the
beast.
<|_=00=_|>

Sam Raimi's "Darkman" is a highly entertaining and energetic combination of
science fiction,action and horror!The performances are good,especially Liam
Neeson is really believable as a disfigured doctor Peyton
Westlake/Darkman.It's nice to see also an underrated Larry Drake("Dr
Giggles")as a main villain.There are some huge gaps in logic,but I don't
care.The score by Danny Elfman is fantastic and there are some nice visual
effects!So if you have enough time to waste-check it out.7 out of
10.
<|_=00=_|>
Of all the super-hero movies around, "Darkman" is my favourite. An
original creation from Raimi, and not based on any comics, "Darkman"
follows the story of Dr. Peyton Westlake, a scientist about to make a
breakthrough in synthetic skin. Peyton's girlfriend, Julie Hastings is
a hot-shot lawyer who gets on the wrong side of Robert G. Durant.
Durant and his henchmen destroy Peyton's lab, and leave him for dead.
Horribly burned and scarred beyond recognition, Peyton uses his
uncompleted and synthetic skin to get revenge on those who wronged him
- he becomes Darkman.

Darkman has no real super-powers - apart from some increased strength
and his inability to feel pain - he uses the synthetic skin to assume
the alternate identities, and fights his battles that way. Darkman is
not a real super-hero. He makes no pledge to rid the world of
evil-doers. He is just out for revenge, and every time Darkman acts,
Darkman's dark-side claims just a little bit more of Peyton. 

Others have mentioned the parallels to 'Robocop'. I'd like to mention
the parallels to Sam Raimi's recent efforts with 'Spider-Man' - the two
are very similar style-wise, but Peter Parker/Spider-Man is generally
pretty happy and cheerful, where as Darkman finds sadistic pleasure in
the way he toys with his enemies before finishing them off.
'Spider-Man' is family-friendly, 'Darkman' is not the sort of movie you
would want to show to parents or younger-siblings.

'Darkman' is original, and yet another under-rated classic from Sam
Raimi. Check it out if you like Sam Raimi, but avoid if you enjoy the
family-friendly nature of 'Spider-Man'. Definitely my favourite
super-hero movie, and nearly up there with Tim Burton's 'Batman' and
'Batman Returns', the best super-hero movies ever.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
The parallels to Paul Verhoeven's RoboCop films, the original at least,
are so prevalent that I like to think that they're deliberate homage.
This would not be at all surprising coming from an equally over-the-top
director like Sam Raimi, a cult God for the Evil Dead movies. Which
leads me to wonder why one reviewer on the IMDb thought it would be
cool to rent Darkman as a good date movie. So's you know, Darkman is
NOT a date movie. Not in ANY WAY. It is, you might say, about as much a
date movie as RoboCop is a date movie.

Before I watched Darkman yesterday, I hadn't seen it since I was about
12 years old, which was about 12 years ago, and the only thing that I
remember from it are the bad guy cutting people's fingers off, the
other bad guy getting stuck up through the manhole into traffic, and
Darkman screaming 'JUUUUULIEEEEE!!!' Oh and I remember that my parents
hated hated HATED it. In rewatching the movie, I was expecting to be
confronted with an overly violent and gratuitously gory horror/action
movie, but was surprised at how well made it really is. Then again, my
mom is so scared of sex and violence that the only things she'll watch
are Nightmare Before Christmas, Miracle on 34th Street and Finding
Nemo. 

It is now a little off-putting to see Liam Neeson in such a performance
as he delivers in this movie, with so much screaming and moaning and
face melting and close-ups of his face while watching a good friend
shot in the head. Pretty rough, since he's now so well known as Oskar
Schindler and Qui-Gon Jinn, both such serious and impressive characters
that they're like philosophers. 

So anyway, in Darkman he plays a doctor who is in the final stages of
perfecting synthetic skin, which could either revolutionize cosmetic
surgery or revolutionize special effects. Either way, it was a hell of
a convenient thing to be working on for someone that was about to be
dipped in toxic waste and come out of it much worse off than the Joker
did, although not quite as bad off as Clarence from RoboCop. The
problem is that he can't seem to get the skin to remain stable for more
than 99 minutes, which is great for providing a time crisis for
whenever he creates enough skin for himself to be able to go out in
public.

Thankfully, Raimi does not spend too much time on the time limit of the
skin that Peyton (Neeson) is able to create, focusing instead on such
thrilling things as having Peyton disguise himself as other people in
order to infiltrate the gang that attacked and disfigured him in the
first place. It's a great scene when Peyton accepts a briefcase full of
money as one of the gang members, while the real one is dead asleep,
then the leader, Larry Drake as Durant in another great performance,
comes to the room looking for the money. There's a whole series of
things like that, one of my favorites being when he impersonates Durant
himself. Let's just say that Durant ends up in jail for a crime that he
didn't even have the fun of committing.

In a time when comic book movies are released almost constantly (at the
time of Darkman's release as well as at the time of this writing),
Raimi decides to invent his own character instead. The thing that I
think the movie does especially well is that it doesn't all of a sudden
turn a regular, albeit brilliant, doctor into a superhero, after all
the villains on the street. Even Spiderman, probably the most normal of
all superheroes, is turned from a regular guy ultimately into a
superhero out to rid the streets of crime. Darkman is trying to regain
his own life and get his wife back for the majority of the film. It is
not until the closing shot that he gives himself an anonymous superhero
name, accepts his fate outside everyday humanity, and the brilliant
Bruce Campbell finally shows up.

I also love the way he develops his powers. He was never exposed to
radiation or anything like that, he simply uses the material that he
created in his lab, the synthetic skin, to enable himself to
impersonate other people, and when he was rescued after the attack on
his lab, the doctors cut a vital nerve, cutting off his ability to
experience pain. Some of the rather convenient side-effects, for the
movie at least, are superhuman strength and a tendency toward outbursts
of violent rage. Dishonest carnies beware. 

I can certainly understand why my parents didn't like the movie, it's
not exactly the kind of thing you want your kids watching, but as far
as a good action/horror film, it ranks with the best.
<|_=00=_|>
For a Class-B type movie and feel to it, it's pretty good....better
than I anticipated. I've seen it twice and enjoyed it more the second
time. I had forgotten how stylish-looking it was and it was fun to see.

What I did remember were a couple of wild scenes, such as "Darkman"
(Liam Neeson) being swung around in the sky on the end of a chain from
a helicopter, and the big fire scene early on which turns Neeson's
character into the masked hero.

The villains in the movie are over-the-top, leading with Larry Drake's
character "Durant." There also is some outrageous Rambo action which
stretches way past credibility, such as people shooting from five feet
away and missing our hero!

Overall, not as good as the critics would have you believe, but still
entertaining. At least it has two quality actors in Neeson and Frances
McDormand. Drake went on to play the infamous "Dr. Giggles." If you
liked this crazy film, you'll love that one.
<|_=00=_|>

"Darkman" is one of those action films that succeeds because the characters
remain the primary focus throughout.  Scientist Liam Neeson has been
disfigured in an explosion.  However, he returns with the ability to produce
99-minute masks.  Now he is going out and eliminating those who almost
killed him.  Frances McDormand is excellent as Neeson's love-interest and
Larry Drake makes a great bad guy.  The direction is solid and the
screenplay is surprisingly smart.  4 stars out of 5.  
<|_=00=_|>
I watched Darkman directly after 1999's The Boondock Saints so clearly,
the latter was the better film. However, I had a lot of fun watching
this one. It's a Superhero/Horror hybrid film with a lot going for it
in the way of action and suspense. I don't think that many fans of
either of those genres will be disappointed.

This is in no way Sam Raimi's best and how could it be when the man has
directed such great films as The Evil series and Spider-Man. With that
out of the way, Darkman has a decent story, great special effects, good
acting from Liam Neeson, and some hilariously cheesy lines. Just don't
pay too much for it.

At the end of the day, Darkman is in no way a masterpiece or a film
that will go down in history but it is a popcorn eating good time. I
challenge you to see what you think of this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Sam Raimi, at a definite cross-roads in his career, takes on his first
kind of 'major' project (err, bigger than the other films he made in
the 80's) and by evidence here he was up to the challenge. But those
who come from the Evil Dead films expecting a dark side crossed with
some very sick, amazing gags and over-the-top jokes might wonder where
the latter is at. It's a kind of realized vision of what was both
portrayed on radio in the 40's (the Shadow, Darkman, similar as well as
the side villains) as well as graphic novels of the 80's. It's violent,
and in a Hollywood 'action' mode most of the time with big explosions,
a fairly high body count, and suspense as a man seeks revenge when not
completely whole. It also is the kind of pre-film, which may be dumb to
say as 'pre' gets overused, but one can see the relation to comics like
Spawn, V for Vendetta, and of course the future filmmaker of the solid
Spiderman features. At times though he does really walk the line of
doing something different with the revenge tale of having it over-done
not work. He has the style knacked for it, but as a first time going at
it here and there it does get a bit too much.

That being said, those who are coming to this film after having seen
most of Raimi's other work get a convincingly B-story to go along with
his wild techniques. Liam Neeson stars as a
on-the-brink-of-something-big scientist who gets about as horribly
close to death as possible after ruthless (rather ruthless in as much
comic-book as 80's action-movie) gangsters do "a number" on him and his
lab. Assumed dead, he puts his equipment back together, puts on masks
of his enemies, and little by little gets back at them while trying to
have a connection with his old love (Frances McDormand) connected to
all of this as well. With this as the groundwork, and with the two main
actors up for the roles- Neeson is very good here in a performance
that's got him as tortured leading man ala 30's horror/murder mystery
movie- the set pieces allow for Raimi to be creative in his own ways
with the camera. I loved one scene where Neeson and McDormand are at
the carnival, with the imagery hitting harsh (other freak), and then
his frustration over a game. This is a scene emblematic of what Raimi
is doing, and does more often than not, with his material.

Darkman is ambitious on that level of the visual, of trying to make a
picture that in other hands would be very standard and possibly
wretched in dramatic presentation, because it is both original and
homage, typical in some ways and notable in others. These two sides may
frustrate viewers; I'm inclined almost to say that this is even more
'cult' than Raimi's Evil Dead films. Moments of hilarity do come up
sometimes, and it is with some relief when it does come along, though
sometimes too the subtle black-comic approach doesn't hit. It's worth a
watch though if you're a comic book fan or even just into thrillers
that don't kid themselves too much. Up to par with the rest of the
director's work? It's close enough, if not really great, but then in
its sort of B-movie status, it doesn't need to be as a good time.
<|_=00=_|>
Liam Neeson stars as Peyton Westlake a brilliant scientist who is
trying to create masks for the horribly disfigured. Westlake comes to
break through in his research when he discovers the masks melt because
of the sun. Westlake's life is ruined when Robert Durant a mafia leader
comes to get a document which connects him to Westlake's girlfriend
Julie's boss. Durant burns down Westlake and his lab but Westlake
manages to survive. He is given a bizarre procedure which takes away
all physical pain but amplifies his emotions. Westlake vows to have
revenge on Durant. He uses his research to destroy Durant's mob and his
boss Louis Stack.

It's sad really that this is the definitive Sam Raimi superhero film.
The camera work here is the best of Raimi's career. Liam Neeson starts
off his career as a leading man on an extremely high note. The script
has moments of weakness but our actors manage to hit all the high notes
and achieve greatness. The make-up effects should have taken home the
Oscar
<|_=00=_|>
Peyton Westlake is a scientist who is researching synthetic skin tissue
in order to help scarred victims of accidents. However, the tissue
becomes unstable after 99 minutes. Peyton never has a chance to work on
this, as the shady dealings of a property tycoon result in him being
hideously disfigured when a gang of thugs blow up his lab. Peyton
becomes the subject of an experimental new process being developed in
the hospital (involving the severing of nerves which cause pain).
Escaping the hospital, he starts using his synthetic skin tissue to
create copies of the faces of his enemies, in order to avenge himself
on the villains who turned him into Darkman, a 'Phantom of the
Opera'-like character.

What puts this film above countless other action-thrillers is that it
deals with emotion just as much as violence. I really felt for Peyton
as to struggled to come to terms with his suffering, and the surreal
nightmare sequences are very effective. The film is filled with strong
characters - whether he is being monstrous or emotional, Liam Neeson
dominates his every scene as Darkman. Durant is a genuinely chilling
villain, and the action sequences never become dull due to their often
outlandish qualities. A first-class film.
