
Modest little movie that went almost unnoticed when released in 1988,
it took in just under 1 million dollars in total ticket sales. The
movie "The Boost" is about as powerful in it's message about the
destructive nature of drugs, legal and illegal, as the film "Days of
Wine and Roses" was some 25 years earlier about the evils of
alcoholism. 

Down and out in New York City salesman Lenny Brown, James Woods, gets
his big chance when real-estate tycoon Max Sherman, Steven Hill, takes
notice of his innocent and boyish ability to charm people, that Max's
associates didn't. Giving Lenny him a chance to show his stuff Max
gives him a top job as a salesman for his firm back on the west coast.
Lenny and his wife Linda, Sean Young, leave for L.A with a home and
swimming pool a leased luxury Mercedes and high paying job there
waiting for them. Lenny is easily up to the task in getting clients to
buy Max's real-estate and within a year has worked himself up to become
the most productive salesman in the real-estate business in L.A. It's
then that things begin to go sour and Lenny just isn't up to the task
of facing and dealing with them.

Making most of his sales due to tax shelters and right off the US
Congress unexpectedly votes to close them putting the real-estate
market into a tailspin as well as everyone, like Max & Lenny,behind the
eight ball and in the red. Lenny for his part wasn't that economical
with his money and not only spent it as fast as he earned it he also
went hundred of thousands of dollars in debt expecting his future sales
in real-estate to eventually pay them off. Broke out of a job and with
no money to pay off his bills Lenny, as well as Linda, turn to the only
thing that can make them forget their problems cocaine.

Gripping and disturbing film that doesn't have an happy ending with
Lenny Brown blowing his whole life, and wife, away as he blows and
gulps himself into oblivion on lines of coke and bottles of Quaaludes.

Top-notch performances by both James Woods and Sean Young as a young
yuppie couple who get caught up with the wild and depressing times of
the high flying and spending 1980's and crash from it's excesses in
both money and personal, as well as private, entertainment. The movie
ends with Lenny now totally hooked, and wiped out, on drugs talking to
Ned, John Rothman,a NY Times reporter that he first met at the
beginning of the film in New York City. Spilling his guts out in what
looks more like an opium den then a one room apartment Lenny could only
hope that Ned would write his story and have it published in the Times.
His sad plight may very well help future Lenny's and Linda's from
sharing the same fate.

P.S the film "The Boost" had actress Amanda Blake, who played Kitty on
the 1950's & 60's TV Western "Gunsmoke", as Barbara in it as a washed
up former showgirl and madam who, like Lenny, threw her life career and
savings away by getting addicted to drugs. It turned out to be Amanda's
last appearance as an actress on TV or in the movies as she died less
then a year, on August 16, 1989, after the film was released.
<|_=00=_|>

Another  great performance by Woods, first playing his typical schemer who
this time gets a lucky break to go to LA and be respectable and even rich.
He's now a fast-talking real estate salesman who still has no self esteem,
but for the first time has the money to buy the look that can kind of hide
it.  Unfortunately, the paper reports the tax laws might be changed, so the
incredibly profitable business of selling real estate so people can get a
tax exemption dries up overnight.  Woods is left with no money because he's
p****d it away on planes and other luxuries.  Woods and then his wife Sean
Young become druggies and their life continually spirals down until it
reaches rock bottom with disillusion, no future, and no life beyond the
drugs.  They are left with nothing, but each other, except Woods always knew
she was too good for him, so she is the final domino in his now sad life
that's left to fall.  Woods is the best at making you think he could crack
at any moment.  He's always trying to get ahead, but at the same time you
know he's always on the verge of snapping and totally screwing his life up.
The portrayal of Woods & Young's drug addiction is dark and unsettling, but
that makes it so much more convincing.  
<|_=00=_|>
James Woods plays a high-strung (what else?) corporate real estate nerd
who bends to pressure and develops a nasty cocaine habit, with
predictably tragic consequences. The character is essentially a small
time twerp with major league ambitions, and before you can say "just
say no" he loses his job, his house, his life savings, and his pet dog,
but not before engaging in some of the most embarrassing melodrama ever
written. Sample dialogue, taken verbatim from a tender moment between a
repentant Woods and his forgiving wife (and fellow addict) Sean Young:

Woods, "Don't ever leave me."

Young, "I'll never leave you"

Woods, "Stick with me."

Young, "Till I fall off the Earthmake love to me!" Cue the violins.

Even worse, the anti-drug message is made irrelevant to the people who
need to hear it most; once again the peril is associated strictly with
a high-income bracket, with shots of the unfortunate couple stung out
in their Jacuzzi, and so forth. Woods is too good an actor for such
nonsense, and besides, in his usual intense style he behaves like a
coke fiend even before taking his first snort.
<|_=00=_|>

Most people say James Woods best might be "The Onion Field," or maybe "Once
Upon a Time in America," or possibly "Salvador."  But this gets my vote for
the best work in his career, as he's an absolute powerhouse.  He plays Lenny,
an ambitious businessman who gets his chance to move to L.A., live in a kick
ass house, own great cars, and obviously make amazing money.  But then the
hole falls through his tax shelter venture and he's left with nothing.  But
he finds new life with cocaine, the thing he thinks makes him more aggressive
and will get him back on top.  Instead he and his wife keep heading down,
unbelievably down in utterly convincing, strongly developed scenes.  The
houses get smaller, the money gets scarcer, and Lenny gets more near death.
Woods' best scene ever, in my opinion, occurs in this movie, when he
violently explodes during a business dinner, totally ruining any chances he
had.  The way he so quickly says his lines, is amazing.  He's incredibly
wired throughout the moment and its awesome to watch.  The only downside for
me is the end of the film, which doesn't lead to a redemption for Lenny.
Woods is still as strung out as ever, and has a terrific final moment as he
reads directly into the camera the pain his character is still feeling.  So
despite a downer (no pun) of a finish, this is still great storytelling,
with James Woods at his strongest.
<|_=00=_|>

I appreciated this movie more after the second viewing. Although dark, it
leaves a powerful statement. James Woods is a silver-tongued real estate
salesman that for the first time in his life he is successful and rolling in
money. So much money and so quick, he turns to cocaine to stay in high gear.
His wife (Sean Young)wishes things could stay plain and simple; but after
slipping into the high life, she too needs drugs to remain functional.
Steven Hill is the mentor that suddenly is disgusted with Woods character.
The profitable real estate business dries up leaving Woods ass deep in debt
and no way to support his drug habit. Woods finally clean and sober still
can't repair the damage done to his life and marriage.

John Kapelos and Kelle Kerr are noteworthy in support. Woods is dynamic and
very convincing. Young on the other hand seems quite bland and exhibits
little acting skills. Young however is not afraid to get naked! THE BOOST is
dark, moody and all too realistic.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the Finest Actors of Cinema History, James Woods delivers A Yet
Another Fabulous Performance in 'The Boost'. A dark & depressing flick,
that works mostly because of Woods.

'The Boost' Synopsis: A real-estate hustler & his wife see success,
only to fall deep later-on. 

'The Boost' is more about the side-effects of failure, rather than a
story of drug-addicts. The struggle & the depression its pivotal
characters go through, are very off-putting, as they depict reality. 

Ben Stein & Darryl Ponicsan's Screenplay, though fairly engaging, gets
a bit too serious & disturbing towards the second-hour. Harold Becker's
Direction is proficient.

Woods is the biggest merit of 'The Boost'. He's so good as a suffering
man, that my heart literally went out for him, even after he gives in
to drug-addiction. Woods tops himself in here! 

On the whole, 'The Boost' caters to a niche audience, but if Fine
Acting is what you're looking for, then watching Woods's Masterful
Performance in here, should top your list.
<|_=00=_|>
I once lived in LA in 1987 and a friend of mine was working on the film
The Boost. He asked if I would be interested in being in it, and I took
him up on the offer. I was an extra and can be seen in the background
of the "pool party" scene (my other up close scene was edited out of
the final product). I only worked two nights at a mansion leased for
the film from a professional golfer, and was witness to the
behind-the-scenes antics of Hollywood. The strangest behavior was
actually after the film wrap, when a doll was found hanging on the
doorstep of James Woods' home, along with threats which were linked to
a specific someone working on the film. Just for the record, James
Woods was extremely friendly to all of us on the set. A true gentleman.
<|_=00=_|>
Muddled, episodic rendering of Benjamin Stein's book "Ludes" stars
James Woods as a tax shelters salesman from New York City who is
brought to Hollywood along with wife Sean Young by a wealthy business
contact; soon, the couple are spending lavishly and doing coke-lines on
the coffee table. Cheap-looking, poorly-edited film rests almost
entirely on Woods' performance to carry it...but he fails to give his
hyperactive nebbish-turned-jet-setter the proper nuances (to say the
least). Supporting cast (including Amanda Blake, Grace Zabriskie, and
Steven Hill in a lovely turn as James' sympathetic boss and benefactor)
easily out-acts the mannered leads. *1/2 from ****
<|_=00=_|>
This movie The Boost is a cautionary tale for not just about drug
addiction, but also for everybody who is new in this town called Los
Angeles by following 4 simple rules. First when somebody offers you an
opportunity, don't blow it , Second is manage your money wisely and not
spend it on things and are not worth spending, Third hang around with
people who are trustworthy and want to support you on succeeding, and
not of people who you think you trust is going to suck you dry and
giving you something you should not take. and lastly don't do drugs. 4
simple rules that everybody must follow when you're new to this city.
It has nothing to do whether you're rich or poor, it's about staying
alive and following the right path.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Boost" is not a movie that will give you a boost, being about the
negative effects of drugs on the lives of a married couple played by
James Woods and Sean Young.

Woods turns in his usual bravura performance. He tends to be hyper, we
know, but that shouldn't get in the way of realizing that he handles
this role well. He's playing a loser, a man unsure of himself, an
immature man without much of a mooring, and a man who feels he's not
good enough for his wife and subconsciously is out to prove he will
fail and lose her. But he's also a whiz at selling and comes up with
some good money-making ideas. This was a difficult role, and he didn't
attempt to make his character too sympathetic. He let the negatives
come out, in order to show the negative effects of his cocaine and
ludes use. We see that it's the interaction with his mentality that
works to his disadvantage because his wife, also a sometime user,
manages to get over it.

Amanda Blake is excellent in her one short scene as a fellow drug user.
Steven Hill is suitably paternal as his mentor and backer in real
estate sales, that is, before fate takes a turn against the career of
Woods.

Love is not enough against a number of problems, despite the best hopes
of many, and drugs can be one of those problems. Love, in fact, can
blind one.

You know fairly early on which way this movie is going to go, and it's
a bit nerve-wracking and unpleasant to see it play out that way. It
becomes predictable after awhile. Still, stay with it. Then you will
realize it's simply a cautionary tale.

I'll make the case, which no one else has to my knowledge, for this
film being a neo-noir.

The director of this film, Harold Becker, had done "The Onion Field", a
neo-noir, 9 years earlier. He went on to do several other neo-noirs,
"Sea of Love," "Malice", and "Mercury Rising". He also directed "City
Hall", listed as a neo-noir by Spicer, and "Domestic Disturbance", said
to be aspiring to neo-noir by another critic. In that context, it's
possible to include "The Boost" as a neo-noir, dealing as it does with
a tragedy involving cocaine and having a downbeat ending. In addition,
the lead actor, James Woods, has consistently been involved in neo-noir
projects such as "The Onion Field", "Videodrome", "Against All Odds,"
"Best Seller", "Eyewitness", "True Believer", "Salvador", "Casino",
"Cop", "The Getaway", and "Once Upon a Time in America". His presence
too in this story adds to the neo-noir credentials of this movie.

The photography in this film is not of a uniform dark character as in
some neo-noirs, but this fits the story. There are parts where Woods,
who is a salesman, experiences success in southern California and where
some richness and glitz comes into his life and that of his spouse,
Sean Young. There are darker parts staged in rattier digs where he and
his wife become addicted to cocaine. Amanda Blake has one scene where
she plays an ex-call girl now on drugs; she and Woods are into crack.
The humor in this scene is her counseling him not to mix his drugs, to
stay with coke and get off of downers and ludes.

Woods is a hyper-salesman, a role he assumes with great credibility.
His greatest success has been in attracting a loyal and loving wife in
Sean Young. They struggle in New York, but Woods's sales skills attract
Steven Hill, a real estate salesman who packages limited partnerships
with tax writeoffs. Woods and wife move to L.A., where the rich life
beckons. He's immediately making big money, as the commissions on
limited partnerships are high. Woods soon is emulating his rich
clients. He buys into a nightclub in Mexico, financing it with debt,
because his cash flow is so high. Then the axe falls. Congress is
rumored to be closing down the tax loopholes. The flow of customers
abruptly halts, and Woods is insolvent. It is at this point he succumbs
to the persuasion of a friend to use some cocaine to get a boost. He
then persuades his wife to do the same. The path is rocky from that
point on, even though Woods is presented with two good business
opportunities. By then, the drug is affecting his personality, however,
and his marriage. Hope and a ray of light shine through as he and Young
kick the habit and adopt a modest life with him managing a surf store.
But this is temporary. They are thrown off the track once again when
cocaine-using "friends" appear and temptation a few inches away from
their noses appears with them.

No femme fatale or homme fatale appear here in any classic sense, but
in the neo-noir world, we very often have the protagonist seeking his
own identity. That's the issue with Woods. Insecure in his work and
marriage, lacking a firm connection to anything else, alive mainly when
he is selling, not listening to his wife's counsel, naive about his
success and the handling of money, he's his own worst enemy. His
identity is shaky and his search for stability in it through money and
success has proved to be a failure. He comes to think that all along he
has had a drive to fail, hidden deeply within. The main "fatale" is
himself. The secondary "fatales" are the illusions of cocaine and
money.
