
This is probably one of the most unknown Disney classics.

For the time the movie was quite new and revolutionary and it doesn't
quite fit in with the other movies Disney made in that period., perhaps
that's the reason why it has been forgotten. But "The Great Mouse
Detective" deserves to be known and seen.

The characters are real classics and one of the best to have ever
appeared in a Disney movie. Actually Professor Ratigan (voiced by the
legendary Vincent Price) is quite possibly my favorite movie villain of
all time. No wonder that it was Vincent Price's favorite role. His
style and humor is priceless and it cracks me up every time. But the
other characters are also very memorable. I especially like the
character of doctor Dawson.

The story is good and very pleasant and very mature compared to other
Disney's from that period. But of course the idea of making a story
about the mouse version of Sherlock Holmes alone is already good enough
to make a fun movie about.

One of the other things that makes this movie different compared to
other Disney's from that period are the songs or better said the lack
of it. The movie features only one song (3 if you count the bar song
and the goodbye, so soon song.). But it's not a miss. The surprising
magnificent musical score by famous composer Henry Mancini make up for
this loss.

The movie has a very spectacular final on and in the famous Big Ben.
It's by far my favorite Disney movie ending.

Certainly a fun movie to watch over and over again.

10/10

P.S.: If you're Dutch speaking, I highly recommend that you watch this
movie Dutch spoken. Believe it or not it's even better and more fun
then the English version! Believe me, just give it a shot.

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>

This is, by far, one of the most underappreciated Disney classics of all,
and one of the most developed as far as the character and the story.  Basil
is a perfect portrayal of Basil Rathbone as Sherlock Holmes, and many don't
know that it was based off a book about a mouse who lived the life of his
idol, none other than Sherlock Holmes.

Personally, I love this movie because it has a colorful, developed cast
of characters.

Basil is not your average Disney hero, having no love interest at any point
in the movie; he is also a super-intelligent character and often bursts
into
fits of scientific observation.  His facial expressions are timed well and
are very well done, as well as his general movement.  He is very excitable
and you can tell he adores working on cases.  He doesn't really like
children, as you can see from the way he treats Olivia in the beginning.
You really get a feel for Basil when watching him, and he's not easy to
forget.  Kids may not understand half of the things he's saying, but it's
fun to watch.

Olivia is the little heroine mouse who starts Basil on his case, losing her
father to a mysterious peg-legged bat of whom Basil is aware of.  She is
extremely plain-drawn and has no emphasis on her gender really, save for
the
bow in her hair and her voice, making her very realistic.  She also acts
alot like a realistic little girl, in her laugh, in the way she reacts to
things, even in the way she exclaims "father!" when reunited with her
toymaker father.  Her curiosity is classic, and she has a high adoration
for
Basil, though he doesn't appreciate her at the start of the
story.

Dawson is the elder mouse who finds Olivia looking for Basil of Baker
Street.  He isn't sure of who Basil is, but they end up finding him
together.  Dawson is, of course, Watson in mouse form, and helps Basil in
his first case, being this movie.

Ratigan is the villain played by the late horror film star Vincent Price,
and quite well in my opinion.  He has the likeness of Mr. Price in the way
he moves and acts.  Of course, nothing is weirder than hearing him sing,
but
it happens twice in the movie-- "The World's Greatest Criminal Mind" and
"Goodbye, So Soon" were both written specifically for Price.  He is not one
of the more frightening villains as far as his looks, and is unique in that
up until the climax he uses his intelligence to battle Basil, instead of
the
strength he obviously posesses.  On a special note, Ratigan dislikes being
called a rat for some reason, though I cannot remember why.

Fidget is probably one of the darkest villain henchmen in a Disney movie.
He is frightening to children in appearance and voice, and the music
accompanying him adds a comical aura.  Fidget is by far my favorite Disney
henchman, just because he's funny.  The one thing that bothers me, though,
is that a few times in the movie, his peg leg switches from right to left.
I think it was just for the reuniting scene in which Olivia steps on his
only foot, so it was switched.

The movie has many fast-paced scenes, including "Investigation At The Toy
Shop" and "Big Ben Chase", among others.  My personal favorite is "Big Ben
Chase," because it is one of the longest Disney climaxes and it is a very
unlikely setting.  The movie itself is about Olivia's toymaker father being
kidnapped by Fidget, and her turning to Basil for help.  Basil's nemesis,
Ratigan, is linked to the bat, and Basil, who was reluctant and annoyed by
Olivia's protest at first, jumps at the oppertunity to see if he can
finally
defeat Ratigan.  The movie goes from there with its "many twists and
turns",
to quote Basil.

If you want a fun-filled, unpredictable adventure, The Great Mouse
Detective
is your best bet.  Especially if you're a Sherlockian or Eve Titus fan who
has yet to see this exiciting portrayal of Basil of Baker
Street.
<|_=00=_|>
The Great Mouse Detective is one of my favorite Disney films of all
time, it's also one of the most under rated in my opinion. I think just
because I love the story so much and it always brought up good
memories, this was the funniest Disney animated movie I had seen at the
time. It's just such a cute film, it has fun animation, catchy songs,
and such a touching story that anyone could easily fall in love with.
My parents and I watched this movie together all the time when I was a
child, still to this day, I don't mind sitting down to watch it, it's
just that much fun.

A young little mouse girl and her toy shop father are celebrating her
birthday, but her father is quickly taken away by a rotten gang of mice
who are led by a giant rat, Ratigan, who is planning to over throw the
queen and become leader of the mouse world. Olivia, the daughter, goes
to Basil of Baker Street, he's a mad detective who has been chasing
Ratigan for a long time. Along with the help of an average mouse, Dr.
Dawson, Olivia, and Basil go after Ratigan to make sure that his plan
fails.

The Great Mouse Detective is such a cute film. I'm very sure that
you'll enjoy it, it's one of my personal favorites, I really do think
this is one of the better Disney films and is an under rated treasure.
I just loved Basil, his madness was just so funny and enjoyable to
watch. I also loved Ratigan's song of why he is so great, not to
mention how he thinks he's a mouse is just priceless. This is a fun
family film to watch, I highly recommend it.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

I enjoy this film for one main thing, besides the attention to detail
concerning Victorian England...the performance of Vincent Price as Ratigan
in his scenery-chewing glory. Yes, it's another mice-beneath-your-feet
story, but it's so well done. Holmesians will enjoy it's inside jokes and
references to other works about the famous fictional sleuth.

Fans of "Ducktales" may note that Alan Young, the voice of toymaker Hiram
Flaversham, parlayed his near-perfect Scottish accent into being appointed
the official voice of Scrooge McDuck. 

But it's Vincent Price in what he later called one of his most favorite
roles ever (He even had two original songs written for him!) that draws me
back to this film again and again. He clearly enjoyed this role, and the
exaggerated movements of Ratigan are obviously his.

An oddly gothic cartoon from Disney, and well worth viewing.

<|_=00=_|>
"The Great Mouse Detective" is one of Disney's best films, in my
opinion, because it doesn't pander to children. In this movie, the
characters go to a bar, get into fights, and stripping is alluded to.
However, that's not to say it isn't appropriate for children. I watched
this movie when I was very young and I was so innocent that I didn't
realize what those things meant. Now that I am older, I still enjoy the
film. That's what makes it so great- it's enjoyable for both children
and adults. Vincent Price is amazing in this film playing one of
Disney's best villains. I don't know the other voice actors, but they
were also great, especially the person playing Olivia. Her Scottish
accent was spot-on and so darn cute. Strong characterization is one of
the stronger points in this movie. Although Basil may appear cynical on
the outside, he is really a sucker for Olivia. Dawson is charming and
kind, Fidget is 10 times more hilarious than your average bumbling
sidekick, and as I said already, Ratigan and Olivia are sublime. The
Great Mouse Detective also has great music. It features 3 original
songs, "World's Greatest Criminal Mind" and "Goodbye So Soon" performed
by Vincent Price, and "Let Me Be Good to You" performed by Melissa
Manchester as the white dancer mouse. I am proud to say that LMBGTY is
one of my favorite songs of all time. Also, an excellent original score
is prevalent in this movie- I wish I knew somewhere were I could get my
hands on a soundtrack!! The animation is dark and moody- generally not
what you'd expect from a Disney movie, and the Big Ben scene is
impressive even 20 years later.

I highly recommend this movie for all Disney fans, and even for
non-Disney fans. Great Mouse Detective is a diamond in the rough!!
<|_=00=_|>

Great Mouse Detective is one of the best Disney movies I've seen yet. The
animation is that classic Disney style and (thank Goodness) it lacks all of
those annoying songs. 

As a true Sherlockian, I can only say that this is as good as it gets as far
as Holmes goes. No matter what everyone says, It is still great. Kids may
not get some parts f it, but every Sherlockian knows what's going on. While
Ratigan may be no Moriarty, he's still the perfect example of the classic
Disney villain. 

Vincent Price is a terrific actor, and Alan Young as Flaversham was the
perfect fit. Young Susanne Pollatschek is the perfect Olivia and no one
could do a better Basil than Barrie Ingham. Val Bettin makes a lovable
Dawson. Fidget is the classic evil crony. 

This is absolutely a must see. For all you baby-sitters out there, and I
know from personal experience, take this to your next job and the kids won't
even blink for over an hour. It's one of the most memorable Disney movies of
it's age. Although Beauty and the Beast will always be my favorite, GMD runs
an extremely close second! 

I give it 11/10! It's that good!

I always say when I write these, I loved this movie, but you may not. So how
do you decide if you like it? See it! Form your own opinion! After all, one
man's trash and all like that! Hope you find a good one!
<|_=00=_|>

Having revisited this film on the anniversary of its first release I was
shocked at how good it is. I was also left to wonder why Disney never did
anything with it since its release since its a very good
film.

The plot is simple, Basil of Baker Street helps a young girl find her
kidnapped father who is the clutches of the evil Ratigan. There's more to it
than that but thats a place to start.

Vincent Price, probably having the time of his life, is the foul villain and
he seems to be having a complete ball. What ever joy he was feeling must
have been infectious since the work the animators did carried over and its
fun to watch Price's animated alter ego mug for the camera.

This is the last of the un-politically correct films from The Mouse House.
Characters smoke, which as we all know is now a no no since Disney is now
going back and digitally erasing all trace of that "bad habit" from all of
their earlier films. Characters die. Yes the villain still dies these days,
and perhaps a Mom to get the plot going, but here we have  several
characters die, one simply for insulting the villain.

The final sequence of this film, a battle in and on Big Ben was promoted as
Disney's first major use of computer animation. The sequence is spectacular
and one of the greatest animated pieces I've ever witnessed even today. The
whole thing lasts maybe five minutes but it pushes the art of animation as
far as Disney has ever gone and shows us what a loss the politically
correct, story formula has been in the realm of artistic animation. Disney
learned how to make money but not films that pushed the envelope of what was
possible. What might have happened if they had expanded on this one
sequence?

See this movie. I give it 8 out of 10. Its not perfect but it is funny and
exciting in ways that the films that followed rarely were. The film also
contains several moments that prove that Pixar are not the only ones who can
make movies that reflect the Warner Brothers style. 
<|_=00=_|>
¨The great mouse detective¨ also titled ¨The adventure of the great
mouse detective ¨ is a Walt Disney cartoon feature based on famous
characters created by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle adapted of Eve Titus' book
titled ¨Basil of Baker Street¨ . This amusing cartoon movie deals with
Basil , the rodent Sherlock Holmes who investigates the kidnapping of a
toy-maker and uncovers its link to his archenemy , Professor Ratigan .
It begins when Hiram Flaversham ( voice by Alan Young) , a master
toymaker , is abducted by a peg-legged bat , on his daughter Olivia's
birthday . The nefarious Professor Ratingan (voice by Vincent Price)
kidnapped him for forcing his victim Flaversham to make some diabolical
device . The young mouse has no one to turn to for help , so she
strikes out on her own , looking for the greatest detective in all
mousedom , Basil of Baker Street ( performed with gusto by Barrie
Ingham) . En route , Olivia encounters Dr. David Dawson (voice by
Bettin) , a mouse recently gone back from military duty in Afghanistan
. They manage to encounter his rooms at 221 1/2 Baker Street in the
cellar of a very notorious address , and the mouse himself soon makes
his appearance running around the apartment , ignoring his two hosts ,
in anticipation of bringing his latest case to a successful final with
an experiment in ballistics . Nevertheless , the experiment is a flop ,
and the detective is thrown into a deep depression, still unwilling to
help poor Olivia . But Basil is again galvanized into action . The
Sherlockian mouse matches wits with the nasty Professor Rattingan . The
crime lord Ratigan is planning in the sewers of London nothing less
than the demise of the Queen on the day of her ¨Diamond Jubilee¨ and
his own ascension to the throne . Later on , Basil , Dr. Dawson and
Olivia are submitted a tempestuous trap by Professor Ratingan and are
imprisoned .

This fun animation is set in England's mouse population, who lives not
so different from ours, in the mouse holes and basements of the British
Empire . The funny characters are the following : Basil who is a bundle
of energy , he is played in a clever , broody and impetuous manner
similarly to Holmes-Basil Rathbone . Good Doctor Dawson/Watson is drawn
or played in kindly way , he's the perfect counterpoint to Basil/Holmes
. Ratigan , the arch-nemesis , a Doctor Moriaty-alike is the worst
criminal in London, a veritable Napoleon of Crime . Furthermore , a
sympathetic thug ,an unfortunate peg-legged bat . This agreeable
animation movie contains a lively and enjoyable musical score by the
great Henry Mancini . The motion picture is well realized by Ron
Clemens and John Musker (among others) who subsequently would have
several successes such as ¨The little mermaid¨, ¨Aladdin¨ , ¨Hercules¨,
¨Tresure planet ¨, and ¨The princess and the frog¨ . Rating : Good ,
worthwhile watching and reissued successfully in 1992 .
<|_=00=_|>
The Walt Disney Company's 26th full-length animated feature film, "The
Great Mouse Detective" (1986), was considered one of the better films
made in the period between "The Jungle Book" (1967) and "The Little
Mermaid" (1989). That may not sound like high enough praise seeing that
this period was regarded as one of the company's lowest points with
duds such as "The Black Cauldron" (1985). But trust me when I say that
the praise is well justified in the case of "The Great Mouse
Detective", which gets much of its entertainment value from an awesome
hero and villain. 

A young Scottish mouse named Olivia is searching for a detective in
London who can help search for her kidnapped toymaker father. With the
help of Dr. David Dawson, she searches for a world-famous mouse
detective by the name of Basil of Baker Street. Basil accepts the case
since he is lead to believe that the main suspect of this kidnapping is
his archenemy Professor Ratigan (Vincent Price, giving a fun
performance in this juicy role). Ratigan plans on using Olivia's father
to help build a robot of the Mice Queen, so he can rule all of England.
Will Basil, Olivia, and Dawson be able to stop Ratigan before it's too
late and rescue Olivia's father? 

"The Great Mouse Detective" is basically a kid-friendly version of any
film or TV show based on Sherlock Holmes. As a matter of fact, in the
world of this movie at least, Basil lives in the house of the one and
only Sherlock Holmes. He even uses Sherlock's dog named Toby to help
him solve this case and track down possible clues. There are a few
scary scenes in this film, but they're not quite as dark as the
previous Disney animated feature "The Black Cauldron". One is when we
see Ratigan's henchman bat Fidget for the first time in a frightening
close-up. Another is when we see one of Ratigan's drunken henchmen get
eaten by Ratigan's cat as ordered by Ratigan himself, simply because he
calls his boss a rat much to his intense disapproval. These scenes are
scary, but in a good way. 

And speaking of Ratigan, let's delve further into why I think he's an
awesome Disney villain, shall we? Ratigan has a key personality trait
that any great Disney villain should have. He enjoys being evil,
meaning that he's having the time of his life committing all the unjust
crimes that he does. He loves being bad so much that we sort of like
his character because he's so content with making his victims suffer.
That's one more reason why we like villains in the first place. The
central hero Basil is also worth talking about, too. His impressive
intelligence and ability to solve crimes with ease is one thing, but to
make him charming and fun at the same time is another thing altogether. 

"The Great Mouse Detective" makes for a good evening's entertainment
for both kids and adults. Even if it isn't a groundbreaking film for
Disney, it's at least a film that is confident and very well-told. The
narrative is free of distractions, the animation is good as always, and
the characters especially the hero and the villain still hold up well.
If you're a fan of mysteries and are looking for a way to introduce
young kids to them, then "The Great Mouse Detective" easily ranks as
one of your best bets.
<|_=00=_|>
The Great Mouse Detective is so underrated, it's criminal. How does
nobody know about this?! It has one of the best cast of characters in a
Disney film, one of the best Disney villains ever (voiced by the
amazing Vincent Price, no less), and is packed with fun and adventure.

Brilliant and eccentric detective Basil of Baker Street is given the
case of a lifetime when young Olivia Flavisham comes to his doorstep
for help. Her father, a gifted toymaker, has been abducted by Professor
Ratigan, a notorious criminal whom Basil has been chasing for years.
With the help of the young mouse and the kindly but down-to-earth Dr.
Dawson, Basil sets out to rescue Olivia's father and foil Ratigan's
scheme.

The story seems a bit plain, but the plot isn't what makes TGMD
exciting. It is the characters which bring the movie to life and make
it worth watching. Being based off Sherlock Holmes himself, Basil is
naturally an intelligent badass. He's enthusiastic about his work and
little else at the beginning of the film, and doesn't care much for
Dawson and Olivia upon first meeting them, but as the film progresses
he starts opening up to them, especially Olivia. It's a nice bit of
character development which gives the film heart without becoming
sentimental. Dr. Dawson's warmer and less dramatic personality provides
the perfect foil for Basil, and Olivia is charming and adorable without
being cutesy-cutesy or annoying. But the best character has to be
Ratigan, one of the great unsung Disney villains. He's funny as hell,
gleefully enjoying every bit of evil he engages in and doing so with
larger-than-life style; on the other hand, he can be pretty scary too,
and if he snaps, boy are you screwed. He's voiced brilliantly by
Vincent Price, who you can tell had a lot of fun doing the part.

The animation isn't breathtaking, but it's still good. A lot of the
character animation is done extremely well, in particular facial
expressions. The backgrounds are lovely and dark, perfectly giving the
film the atmosphere of foggy Victorian London.

Though it's not much of a musical, the few songs in TGMD are good. I
especially like "Let Me Be Good to You", which is catchy and, when
viewed in context to the film, very suggestive and adult. Hilarious.
Good characters, good songs, humor, heart, adventureit's all there.
It's no Pinocchio or Beauty and the Beast, but it's still a wonderful
movie. How awful it is that it isn't well-known! It's one of those
Disney films you'll still enjoy even when you're older, and if you
haven't seen it yet, definitely check it out.

8/10
