

Artistically, MIDNIGHT EXPRESS is quite well made... I do recall several
media reports at the time of the film's release that led to contrary
impressions, supporting the deliberate attempt by the filmmakers to do a
hatchet job on the setting of this film. The first was Billy Hayes himself,
when he first arrived on native soil, having pulled off his alleged escape;
he said on TV, "I like the Turks...it's the prison I had a problem with"
Easy to understand; few prisons are a joy ride, regardless of nation of
origin. From this, I gathered he personally didn't have an animosity
against
the Turks, although MIDNIGHT EXPRESS goes out of its way to make everything
negative about the country and culture. Only the "Western" characters are
good and attractive, and the folks selected to play the Turks are corrupt,
physically ugly and basically sub-human. The exterior scenes in Turkey
itself have a grayish tint, implying the land is a hell-hole, and even the
near-universally acclaimed cuisine gets a black eye.

The second thing from the (film's release) period I recall was a discussion
on radio that claimed the prison Billy served time in was relatively
modern,
built in the mid-sixties... and not the Devil's Island PAPILLON setting
depicted in the movie. (A 19th-Century British barracks in Malta was used
for the prison.) Naturally, some artistic leeway is allowed here, since the
movie's purpose is to paint a picture of a living nightmare.

I recall reading the book years ago, and when our hero got his unfair
sentence, naturally he was in despair... but at that moment, he felt an
almost gallant, resigned acceptance. In contrast, when Billy gave his
courtroom speech in the movie (which certainly was a defining moment of the
film's ill-naturedness... to quote part of the speech: "For a nation of
pigs, it sure seems funny that you don't eat them! Jesus Christ forgave the
bastards, but I can't! I hate! I hate you! I hate your nation! And I hate
your people! And I f**k your sons and daughters because they're pigs!
You're
all pigs!"), the three ugly judges actually hung their heads in shame. I
wonder if there's a courtroom in any nation that would permit such a
prolonged and loud outburst.

The August 30th post mistakenly referred to Turkey as an Arab nation.... so
the user must not have seen "Lawrence of Arabia," where the Arabs were the
heroes and the Turks were the villains. It's interesting that in the rare
Hollywood film where Arabs are portrayed "positively," Turks still come
across as barbaric.

A Turkish-American friend has told me, contrary to what others here are
thinking that the film couldn't really prejudice the viewer, that the film
has achieved one of its purposes, to leave a sore, anti-Turkish taste in
mouths. Keeping in mind that Americans are generally ignorant of the ways
of
many foreign nations, this film continues, even today, of being the only
source of information most Americans have about Turkey. As cinematically
effective and wonderfully made this film is, there's a disturbing side to
MIDNIGHT EXPRESS that makes it mildly resemble a contemporary "Jude Suess,"
or THE ETERNAL JEW ("Der Ewige Jude"). 
<|_=00=_|>

I like this movie a lot. I believe it is well done and is a movie that can
be watched several times. However, as a person who has spent time in Turkey
and read the book upon which the film is based, I know that it is a
fictional story. It begins with a caption "a true story" but the only thing
true about this movie is that someone named Billy Hayes was caught trying to
smuggle a lot of hashish out of the country and was sent to jail. The events
that supposedly happened to him in prison are fictional. I'm not saying that
being in a Turkish prison is a good thing but the brutality presented is
just plain fiction. Before you feel sorry for this guy remember that he was
trying to smuggle drugs for re-sale in the US. Before you condemn Turkey
remember that at the time Turkey was being pressured by the world community,
particularly by the US, to do something about the drug flow coming out of
the country. This is one movie that infuriates the Turkish government
whenever it is shown and I believe rightly so because it caters to the
notion that Turkey is some type or barbaric nation with a population that is
incapable of human emotion or decency. Having lived in Turkey I know this to
be totally false. In addition, with the exception of the skyline of Istanbul
in the opening scene, none of the movie was filmed in Turkey. All of the
Turks portrayed in the film, with the exception of the prosecutor, are
Italian actors. The language spoken in the movie is not even Turkish for the
most part. There are some phrases which are indeed Turkish but the majority
of what is spoken is some other language. As I said however, I like this
movie, in the same way that I like Star Trek; a great story but fiction none
the less. 
<|_=00=_|>

I can't believe that so many reviews of Midnight Express have
degenerated into exchanges of opposing political views that skirt over
the film itself. While this may be based on a true story, like any good
filmmaker, the director Alan Parker has shown the shades of gray here.
The film's message, as far as any fair-minded viewer should discern it,
is that the individual and the state (whether one's own or a foreign
country) exist in a fragile state of consent with each other which
requires fair and proportional responses on both sides. Neither side is
totally in the right or the wrong here in Parker's film.

Billy Hayes is not a guiltless, red-blooded hero here and Parker
doesn't portray him as such. Hayes committed what would have been a
crime in any country-- smuggling heroin-- and he was caught and
rightfully prosecuted. He has broken laws and must pay the price.

Just to be on the safe side--

-------------MINOR SPOILERS HERE-----------------------

Hayes is initially handed a sentence by the Turkish court--
approximately 4 years-- that would probably be considered fair in any
civilised society for his activities. The prison is tough (it's not
supposed to be a cakewalk), but Hayes accepts his punishment and
overall stays out of trouble while in the prison. Then, with little
more than two months left in his term, and the prospect of release
dangling before him, a higher Turkish court-- for obscure and
apparently contrived reasons (making someone an example)-- suddenly
comes back basically saying he's going to spend the rest of his life in
prison for his one earlier slip. At this point the moral compass, as it
may be, shifts to Billy. He's done his time, he's behaved, he's
accepted his punishment and it's hardships, and suddenly the rug is
pulled out from under him. 

To all the hot-bloods here who say Hayes was a rich American who
deserved what he got-- have you ever heard of the concept of
proportionality in law? Hayes did not commit a violent crime against
anybody (both in terms of his initial act and up to the time the
appellate court extended his sentence), he did not even commit a
property crime like stealing or burglary. This is what Parker is
saying-- Hayes was in the wrong for smuggling and was justly punished
for those four years, but the arbitrary extension of his sentence close
to his release, and the sheer length of the term (pretty much a lifer),
are grossly disproportionate and unbecoming of a civilised society. In
many if not most countries, even many killers are usually sentenced to
far less than the 30 years that were suddenly tacked onto Hayes's term,
and they don't experience the sort of sadistic torture meted out by the
wardens in the jail in this film. It had the stink of scapegoating, and
the rest of the film shows Hayes's desperate attempts to survive and
escape a system that has become corrupt.

For what it's worth, I'm not an American and I don't in any way harbor
illusions of superiority on the part of the West or East. One might
make similar criticisms of things like the "3 Strikes Law" in the USA
which are also pretty arbitrary. Parker isn't commenting on which
civilization(s) is/are superior-- he's saying that there are some
universal civil liberties that any civilised society should strive to,
and societies both west and east fail when they deny them to the most
vulnerable people, namely those sent to prison and stripped of even the
freedom to mix with the general population. And note, furthermore, that
the Turks in the prison (the vast majority) suffer as much as the
foreigners. (BTW, to the commentators who've stupidly claimed that this
film is merely "American propaganda"-- Alan Parker is British. If
you're going to hurl an accusation like that, at least get such a basic
fact straight.)

BTW I've been to Turkey and I've found the Turks to be among the
world's most generous and kind people, esp to strangers. And sometimes
I do wish that Parker had included more Turkish characters with more
agreeable qualities, which (even in a prison) one would be likely to
find (and I also found the "comparison to pigs" comment in the
courtroom to be inappropriate). But Parker wanted to make this a gritty
film with an air of desperation throughout, and for this reason alone
one should be careful about extending what's seen in this film to the
Turks as a whole.

<|_=00=_|>

It's interesting to note the comments on this movie.  

I saw it on TV last night, not for the first time, and I noticed how the
Turks in the film are all one-dimensional bad people, and physically ugly to
boot.  I also read that many of the scenes are completely fictional.  I am
not one of those people who think that a "true" story must be completely
true; I think that the purpose of movies is to entertain, and this one
certainly does that, if in a harrowing way.  But, given the politics of our
time, if the author of the screenplay wanted to create a demon people for
dramatic effect, perhaps it would have been better to have set the story in
a fictional or unidentified country.  

The other observation I would make is, we are not much better than they are.
 We regularly sentence people to ungodly amounts of prison time for drug
offenses, both on a state and federal level.  Our prisons are no picnic,
either, with many of the same sorts of things that were portrayed in the
movie happening right here at home.  

So, go check "the man in the mirror" before you condemn anyone
else.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow. This was disturbing. I live in Nottingham, I have many Turkish
friends who study here. If I didn't know them, I'd probably think that
there wasn't a single Turk who is nice and pleasant... Some parts were
actually funny. The judge (in Billy's hate monologue scene) was
sounding exactly like Jabba the Hutt! I've heard people speak Turkish
around me, so I knew the language which was supposed to be Turkish in
the movie, wasn't. Come on people... Feels like this movie was made to
make Turks look bad in every way possible. I've read an interview and I
learnt that the real Billy Hayes was truly disappointed with the
portrayal of Turkish people in the film. Anyway, this movie was fun to
watch but would be ignorant to believe. Have a good one
<|_=00=_|>
This movie claims to be based on a true story but just like many other
Hollywood productions, it warps the truth to an unrecognizable mess. If
you want to hear the real story behind the movie, you should see the
interview with the real "Billy Hayes" on YouTube at:

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TweU77cDrgE

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NqPMI6BnINI&mode=related&search

The real "Billy Hayes" even says that he'd like to go back to Turkey to
visit Istanbul. Now that's a slap on the face of the producers of the
movie who have demonized all Turks for their personal gain of a statue.
They would have received more Oscars if they portrayed the events in
realistic terms as "Billy" explains in the interview.

In my opinion, the story of how the real "Billy" made it to the border
after he ran away from the prison, would make a wonderful
action/adventure movie. Of course, that's where the movie ends, having
achieved its purpose of slandering a complete nation. 

Down with Hollywood!! Long live YouTube for giving a voice to the
suppressed truth!
<|_=00=_|>

While this film is entertaining to watch and has its level of suspense at
various points it is not a truly `true story'  much of it according to the
real Billy Hayes never happened and his eventual escape is very different
from what is depicted in this motion picture.  It also tends to demonize the
nation of Turkey and presents a distorted view of its people.  Is it
possible to have sympathy for the main character?  He was fully aware of
what he was doing and knew the consequences should he be caught so sympathy
is on an individual basis. You may have sympathy or may not.

  A number of years ago a public service commercial narrated by actor Hal
Holbrook frequently ran on Television, which told of Americans being held in
foreign prisons.  He spoke of one American held in a Turkish prison. Was it
Billy Hayes? The commercial ends with the line `When you're busted for drugs
over there you're in for the hassle of your life' That's the message this
film was intended to send out irregardless if the events in it were true or
fictionalized for dramatic purposes. As always purchase or rent a copy to
see the uncut unedited version.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't for the life of me, understand those that think the idiocy, the
blatant racism, the retarded angle with which A WHOLE NATION OF 70
MILLION PEOPLE! are portrayed as subhuman pigs in this film would have
anything to do with being "artistic" or "true story" etc... Turkey
takes millions of tourists every year, that go there on their own free
will, again and again, millions and millions of western tourists for
chrissakes! How in the world could this dumb movie have anything to do
with reality?! It is just simply amazing and telling of our times that
this racist filth is taken seriously and rated so high to boot! Well
done idiots!
<|_=00=_|>
Midnight Express tells the story of a young American, Billy Hayes, who
was arrested in 1970 for possession of Hashish in Istanbul Turkey. The
film chronicles Billy's journey into the nightmarish hell of the
Turkish prison. Slowly, the viewer begins to see how Billy's
personality begins to change from a fun-loving individual, to a
decaying vegetable as the justice system betrays him. Originally
sentenced to 4 years and two months, the head prosecutor successfully
appeals the verdict to the Turkish Supreme Court, forcing the trial
court judge to resentence Billy to a minimum of 30 years.

The torture scenes involving Billy getting sadistically beaten by the
prison guard Hamadu are very painful to watch, especially a scene early
on in the film where Billy is strung up by his ankles and beaten on a
rack for taking a blanket without permission. Billy and his inmates
escape plans provide great dramatic tension in a terrific narrative
style. Ultimately, Billy engages in a brutal fight with an inmate named
Rifki, whom everyone hates, especially Billy, because Rifki rats on all
of the prisoners. Rifki likes to make life even more miserable for the
inmates. As punishment, Billy is sent to the prison's Section 13 for
the criminally insane.

Billy is given bribe money by his girlfriend Susan who comes to see him
in a heartbreaking scene. Almost all of Billy's inner-strength is taken
away by the harsh realities of the prison. However, he is able to say
"I love you" through many tears.

The head guard Hamidou refuses to be bought, and takes Billy to the
Sanitarium where he beats him, and tries to have sex with him. Billy
charges the guard, rams the guard's head into a spike on the wall,
killing him. Stealing his uniform, Billy escapes the prison and shortly
afterward we learn that he arrived home with his family 3 weeks later.

I have actually read Billy Hayes' book, Midnight Express. In reality,
Billy did not have any major quarrels with the Turkish people. The film
shows the opposite. There was really only one guard that treated him
badly, but nowhere near what Hamidou did in the movie. In reality,
Billy never was transferred to the insane part of the prison for
fighting. He had one minor altercation with an inmate. The book talks
more about the unsanitary conditions of the prison. (There are many
instances in the book that will make you want to surrender your lunch,
unfortunately.)

The biggest distortion is that in real-life, Billy Hayes never killed
any guard as a part of his escape plan. He simply got out one night and
swam across the boarder into Greece and that was it.

There are differences in how the film was made as well. The Turkish
Government was outraged at how this movie distorted the real Billy
Hayes case and refused to allow the movie to be filmed there. Most of
the film was shot off the island of Malta. A good deal of the language
spoken in the movie is NOT Turkish, but Maltese, which to the untrained
ear, is often mistaken for Turkish dialect.

Nevertheless, I rate the film highly because it is still a very good
movie with great acting, music, and dramatic tension. Amazingly, the
actor who played Billy Hayes, Brad Davis, died of AIDS. He did an
excellent job as the real Billy Hayes. In my view, many scenes had to
be changed for dramatic effect. You will remember this film forever. It
will undoubtedly make you think twice about doing something stupid in a
foreign country! Despite its flaws, when compared to Billy Hayes'
real-life story, Midnight Express is still a very emotional film that
withstands the test of time. It would be a 10/10 if it were closer to
the truth. However, the film is still excellent and is strongly
recommended viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to be fair, the movie does what it's supposed to and that's
giving the audience a horrific thrill ride. You'll spend your time
watching the movie in sheer horror and at the edge of your seat
wondering what's going to happen next. As with all Oliver Stone movies
such as Salvador, Born On The Fourth Of July and Platoon, Midnight
Express is brutal and merciless. Oliver Stone it seems, has made a
habit of making money and getting Oscars from controversial and/or
little known events in history and dramatizing on it to a point of
making the story haunting. The only downside is, for the sake of awards
and "art", a culture was demonized beyond redemption and any limits
over a fictional story (Oliver Stone himself wrote the story for the
movie). *The following is not a spoiler from the movie but points out
an event from the plot* In reality, William Hayes it turns out, was
arrested at the Turkish airport for trying to smuggle packs of drugs
attached on his body into the U.S., and he was held for a time before
being given to the American authorities for deportation. William Hayes
and Oliver Stone themselves it turns out, have already apologized to
the Turkish people for the overly dramatized and fictional parts of the
movie and the book. It's funny actually how a movie can create so much
on a true moment in life to a point of fiction and still call it a true
story. The Turks don't get any breaks in the movie. All their people,
cops, judges, lawyers and inmates are shown in such extreme way as
ugly, merciless, demonic and sadistic people that one who knows nothing
about Turkey would think that its population consists of demons and
ugly merciless sadists. Actually this can be compared to movies which
have been made about the Russians in the past which always seem to show
the Russian women as ugly people with facial hair and nothing
attractive while in reality, Beautiful Russian women dominated the
modeling business in the world. While apologies have been made, the
damage has already been done on the image of the Turkish people. People
who are anti-Turkish love praising this movie and insisting that it's a
true story all the way while the Turks keep getting rightfully
offended. Be aware however, that %80 or some more of this movie is
purely fictional. Even just logic would tell you that at a time where
the U.S. and Turkey had such strong relations during the cold war,
something like what is shown in the movie would have been unthinkable
by the Turkish authorities. For a person who just wants to watch a good
thriller movie and doesn't care nor wants to get involved in any
dramatic flame wars or political discussions on this board or any
other, it's worth watching at least once. If you don't like the movie,
at least you'll see what all this fuss has been about over the years
since the movie was shown in the theaters.

Keep the pop-corns popping' and the good movies rolling' :D
