

Right from the opening credits, this film shows quality.  It stands above
other comedies due to the lack of filler material - every line is
memorable.
The cast is great; the two leads make the most of their characters (both
as
brokers and bums) but never overstep the mark, thanks partly to the tight
editing.  The plot becomes a little bizarre, but by that time you're
already
hooked, and the ending of the film is pure joy.  To my mind, no recent
comedy has been this good; it mixes high and low brow jokes without
resorting to toilet humour, it doesn't pull any punches (spot the social
commentary), the performances are masterful and the script achieves depth
without sacrificing the one-liners or slowing the pace.

<|_=00=_|>
Could this movie honestly have been any more funny? I saw it again, as
I have repeatedly for years, and still laughed. My new son had never
seen it before and liked it as well. Murphy was at the top of his game
back then and Aykroyd is the perfect snob-class elitist. Some of these
jokes are so timeless that I still refer to them from time-to-time and
they STILL get laughs, both from people who have and haven't seen this
film.

Yes, the jokes are a bit dated and somewhat slapstick, but this was a
sign of the times. Most 80s comedies were full of slapstick moments.
Jamie Lee Curtis was at the height of her sexy image and I'd forgotten
how well she'd played her role. The late Don Ameche is so animated that
it played perfectly into the mood of the film.

You can find this film in the bargain bin of most stores these days. I
saw it for sale for only $5.50. It's worth owning.
<|_=00=_|>
I skimmed over the comments to this movie and was heartened to see that
so many people love it like I do. It just doesn't seem to be considered
by the mainstream to be in the same league as, say, "Beverly Hills Cop"
or "Coming to America" when talking about Eddie Murphy's movies, but
the fact is that this is hands down his funniest part ever. And Dan
Ackroyd is equally hilarious as the (at first) repulsively elitist
Louis Winthorpe III. Add the stellar supporting cast, particularly Don
Ameche and Ralph Bellamy as the Dukes, Paul Gleason as the slimy
Clarence Beeks, Jamie Lee Curtis as Ophelia, your standard hooker with
a heart of gold (rarely done as well as here), and Denholm Elliott as
Coleman the butler, and you hit a rich vein of comedy gold.

The plot is a classic farce situation. The Duke brothers, who clearly
feel they are above everybody else, make a bet, for one dollar, over
whether anybody regardless of breeding can, in the right environment,
become an upper-crust gentleman. So as an experiment to see which one
is right, they work circumstances so that the rich Louis Winthorpe III
is turned into a miserly bum, while they have Billy Ray Valentine
(Murphy) take his place. He takes over Louis's job, his house, and his
standing in the community. Realistic? Well, no, not really, but this is
a farce, so it doesn't really have to be. It is, however, hilarious,
which is exactly what a farce should be.

If there's a running theme in this movie, it is duplicity and mistaken
identity. People are constantly being mistaken for something they are
not, or forced into a situation where they become something they are
not. We see this happen not only with the two main characters in the
basic plot, but also with Billy Ray pretending to be a Vietnam veteran,
then a karate master; Louis, who despite all appearances as a wimp,
claims to have stood up to Billy Ray during their earliest encounter in
the movie, when he actually hands Billy Ray his suitcase, setting him
up for an arrest, when he was not actually trying to steal anything;
Ophelia, who for a price pretends to know Louis outside the police
station, further besmirching his name; all three plus Coleman, who each
dresses up as a different hilarious ethnic character to trick Clarence
Beeks; and Beeks, who in a subsequent scene is mistaken for an actual
gorilla because he's wearing a costume (Al Franken and Tom Davis as the
baggage handlers, marveling over how human the "gorilla" appears, are
priceless).

Eventually, Billy Ray finds out what is going on, and gets together
with Louis to turn the tables on the Dukes. Ophelia (who has fallen for
Louis) and Coleman (who feels guilty and used over his part in the
whole ruse) help them out. Do they get their revenge? Watch the movie
and find out. It will be well worth your while. This is easily the
funniest movie either Ackroyd or Murphy have ever done (its only real
competition in this regard is "The Blues Brothers") and to think this
was originally meant as a vehicle for Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor is
odd, because it's hard to imagine either of them in the parts done so
well by Dan Ackroyd and Eddie Murphy. John Landis keeps the pace going
at a nice fast speed, and being a native Philadelphian, the locales and
opening montage (including a scene of the Rocky statue) are a kick. But
of course you'll love this movie even if you're not from Philly.
<|_=00=_|>
This is probably one of the funniest films of the 1980's. It not only
is a play on the classic nature vs. nurture theme, but it is also a
somewhat comedic commentary on the "greed is good" decade of the 80's.
However, it is also a nice bridging of the generations as it features
two of the biggest stars to come from "Saturday Night Live" Eddie
Murphy does a fine job as con man Billy Ray and Dan Ackroyd is great as
Louis. Jamie Lee Curtis is also wonderful as Ophelia. In fact, it was
good to see her do something other than the "scream queen" roles which
she became famous for during the early part of her career. She
definitely shows the comedic timing that she would display later in her
career and would make her one of the finest comedic actresses in film
today. However, the one that really steals it for me is Denholm Elliot
as Coleman. He delivers a very low key performance that is befitting
for that role. This is a real gem.
<|_=00=_|>
Mark Twain's The Prince and the Pauper has seen many incarnations from
Disney to The Simpsons. But none have been as cruel (and funny) and
John Landis' Trading Places, which proves just how funny Dan Ackroyd
and Eddie Murphy used to be.

Louise Winthorpe III is a spoiled, snobby managing director at the Duke
& Duke commodities brokerage. Billy Ray Valentine is a poverty-stricken
street hustler. Randolph Duke makes a wager with his brother Mortimer
that the men can be successfully swapped . The con is on as Valentine
is plucked from the streets and Winthorpe is ungraciously dumped on
them. There's loads of fun watching him hit absolute rock bottom while
Valentine quickly becomes spoiled and snobby himself.

Jamie Lee Curtis is the hugely-boobed hooker with a heart of gold who
takes Winthorpe in while the always brilliant Denholm Elliott is
Coleman, the unwilling butler caught up in the Dukes' evil plan. Once
all four unravel the scam they team-up to destroy the Dukes.

Trading Places is crammed full of hilarious scenes, great dialogue, and
funny cameos. Who cannot resist Eddie Murphy's foreign exchange student
disguise or Ackroyd's Lionel Josef. Even the gorilla in the train is a
brilliant character.

For those of you who love dark, cruel comedies Trading Places is
utterly essential. It may be very 80s, but it never gets old. It's a
must see and must have.
<|_=00=_|>

When it comes to great comic films, nobody recalls the magic between Murphy
and Aykroyd in Trading Places. In the early 80's Eddie Murphy was considered
the funniest black comedian next to Richard Pryor. Dan Aykroyd was one of
the all time great cast members of Saturday Night Live. Both actors started
on SNL and were ready to make their career in films. 
Trading Places is an example of a perfect comedy. It is funny yes, but there
is so much more. With its story, the acting, and the political, racial, and
economical plots in the film add to its greatness. One of the best comedies
to come out of the 1980's, it stands as one of Eddie Murphy's best earlier
films as well as Aykroyd's performances as a character
actor.
A wonderful and somewhat good family film. If you're that kind of family
that is.
<|_=00=_|>

`Trading Places' is one of the best movies and one of the best comedies that
I have had the privilege of viewing and almost every aspect of this movie is
done to the highest excellence and the highest quality. I have always
considered that some of the most entertaining and enjoyable movies came out
during the 1980s and `Trading Places' definitely falls within this
category.

Everything is a success with this movie –the high quality of acting from
both the main actors and the supporting cast, the wonderful humour and
engaging dialogue contained within the script, the development of the plot,
the music selection provided for the various scenes and even the atmosphere
and scenery contained in the movie. Eddie Murphy and Dan Ackroyd are
particularly outstanding in their various roles –and keep the excellent
performances up in their reversal of roles. Ralph Bellamy, Don Ameche and
Denham Elliot also provide their characters with a great amount of depth and
dimension and make what would have already been a wonderful comedy success
even more entertaining. The only very minor criticism is that Jamie Lee
Curtis is meant to portray a prostitute in this movie. Jamie Lee Curtis is
much too high quality of an actress for the role of a prostitute and I think
if the emphasis had been on her character's profession it would have
weakened her contribution to the movie. But thankfully the writers and
producers recognized that she shouldn't be portrayed in a one-dimensional
role and her truly wonderful and highly excellent acting abilities shone
through during the whole movie.

The script flowed naturally and had an edge to it that made it both
entertaining and intriguing. Even though the storyline and outcome was
slightly predictable, the scriptwriters succeeded in keeping you interested
and keeping you entertained as the sequence of events unfolded. The humour
contained in the movie is genuinely entertaining and doesn't sound forced or
strained in the same way that it does in some other movies. Dan Ackroyd and
Eddie Murphy make a thoroughly wonderful team and I hope they someday
consider doing another movie together. I think the 1980s marked the high
point of Eddie Murphy's career and this was one of the movies that cemented
his reputation as a great comedian. 

I couldn't recommend this movie highly enough. A truly great comedy
masterpiece and classic. 

<|_=00=_|>
I couldn't remember much of this movie when I borrowed it from a friend
to watch for the second time... I can't have been very old when I first
saw this, because there were not much more than one scene that I
recognized. Even the title seemed new to me. Furthermore, I don't
recall thinking about the film... about what it meant. This contains a
lot of sad truth. The scenes of Aykroyd's character going from the peak
of America's business life to rock bottom in a disturbingly short
amount of time provide food for thought. Landis presents these events
without pretense or heavy-handedness... he gives us the facts as they
are. No bias. This direct, almost indifferent tone makes it all the
more scary... this is the way it is, and that's accepted. The movie
also has some insight to prove on racism and greed. Paul Gleason, whom
I have only seen in The Breakfast Club(and Not Another Teen Movie,
spoofing his character in aforementioned movie) plays a radically
different role, yet still shows some of the authority he's famous for
as the principal in The Breakfast Club. That was amusing to watch for
someone who enjoyed said film so much. Jamie Lee Curtis bares a lot of
skin, for those in the audience looking for that. Aykroyd and Murphy
are both extraordinary. They get to play with their characters a lot,
to great effect. They create so many funny moments, there are simply
too many to list or for mere words to do justice; you'll just have to
watch the film for itself. If you are a fan of either actor, you won't
be disappointed. The language surprised me, with how uncensored it was,
compared to today's standards. The plot is interesting, and based on an
intelligent idea. The pacing is dynamic. The acting is all top-notch.
The humor is mostly good and tasteful, with few but glaringly obvious
exceptions(the fate of Beeks being an almost offensive one). The film
has more heart than most of its kind... if you watch only one movie of
this type, let this be it. I recommend this to fans of the actors
and/or director, and people intrigued by the general idea. If you are
even considering watching this... take my advice and do so. It is
intelligent without being preachy and funny without trying too hard.
John Landis has yet again created something big. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

One of the best comedies of the 1980's, this stars Eddie Murphy in one of
his best roles alongside Dan Aykroyd. The plot is great, a poor, homeless
man who has resorted to a life of crime (Murphy) and an upper class yuppie
involved in the stock market (Aykroyd) trade places when two devious
brothers (Aykroyd's employees) have a bet. This is a very well written, well
acted, and well executed comedy, that makes you laugh, but also grips you
with a strong plot. Also has a satisfying ending.
<|_=00=_|>
Trading Places, one of the best comedies of all time! I don't even know
where to start on how great this movie is. I've been watching this
movie since I was a kid, know that sounds weird as this is an adult
comedy, but I actually loved it growing up. As an adult it just gets
better and better each time I watch it. It's one of the most
intelligent comedies mixed with some great slap stick and take on our
society. What a great idea, take an educated man, take away everything
he knows and owns and see if he could survive. Then take a man with no
education, given the right encouragement if he would rise to the
occasion. Trading Places isn't just one of the best comedies to come
out of the 80's, but one of the best comedies of all time.

Duke brothers Randolph and Mortimer own Duke & Duke, a successful
commodities brokerage in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Holding opposing
views on the issue of nature versus nurture, they make a wager and
agree to conduct an experiment switching the lives of two people at
opposite sides of the social hierarchy and observing the results. They
witness an encounter between their managing director, educated Louis
Winthorpe III, and a poor street hustler Billy Ray Valentine; Valentine
is arrested at Winthorpe's insistence because of a misunderstanding
robbery attempt. The Dukes decide to use the two men for their
experiment. Take away Winthorpe's fiancé, home, job, money, friends and
respect, frame him on a drug charge, will he bounce back because of his
education and manners? Give uneducated Billy Ray a great job, beautiful
home, respect and encouragement, will he turn hardened criminal into an
upstanding citizen? Trading places, what a great idea if the boys only
knew of the Duke's scheme.

Dan Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy were just way too awesome together and had
amazing chemistry. Their comedic timing is always on key. A mix with
Jamie Lee Curtis and Denholm Elliott added much more to the story and
jokes with their reactions and presence. My favorite scene with Dan was
definitely seeing him exit the prison with his fiancé and Jamie Lee
Curtis has been paid to make it look like he's her lover/drug dealer
and her all over him in front of his fiancé while he's just shocked as
Jamie goes down on him and to add it all he gets a hard slap to the
face! Ouch! But you'll have to pause the scene because you'll die of
laughter. Eddie's best scene is also when he gets excited that he could
go to his low life acquaintances and show off, he throws a party and
they trash his house and he kicks them all out was so funny the way he
did it. What a classic movie, one that I will watch again and again. I
proudly show this movie to my friends when they need a good laugh. This
movie is a treasure to comedies, it's well paced and one of the best
movies of all time. The only change I would have made is that at the
end when they are on their own private island they toast each other on
a job well done and since ironically they ruined the Dukes with orange
juice, it would have been more hilarious if that's what they were
toasting with instead of champagne. But it's still a perfect movie,
highly recommended.

10/10
