

"Day of the Dead" is a film that is an unfortunate sufferer of the "Alien
3
Syndrome". And, no, I don't classify those that are affected by the
syndrome
to be disappointing final entries in a trilogy. To suffer from "Alien 3
Syndrome", you must follow two exceptional films, and the entry that has
preceded you must be so exciting and action-packed that when you dare take
a
grimmer, more deliberately paced approach to your material, you will
become
universally reviled, with many people failing to notice that you have more
than your fair share of merits on your own. In fact, "Day of the Dead" has
a
LOT of merits - even more than the film that its syndrome is based on.
While
it doesn't quite approach the greatness of "Dawn of the Dead", it is still
an intelligent, first-rate horror effort and stands as one of the best
genre
films of the 80s.

In this final entry of George Romero's "Living Dead" trilogy, the walking
dead supposedly outnumber the humans by a ratio of 400,000 to 1. Twelve
people who have devoted themselves to studying and wiping out the zombies
hole up together in an underground missile silo, and for all we know,
these
could be the last twelve living humans on the face of the planet. Most of
these people don't capture our sympathy like the foursome who holed up in
the shopping mall in "Dawn". Half of them are gung-ho soldiers who seem to
take great pleasure in threatening the scientific team, and Romero spends
much of the first half focusing on the bickering and intense conflicts
between these people. In fact, for over an hour, the hordes of living dead
get very little screen time, as the story focuses on the tension between
the
characters, and the efforts of an off-the-wall scientist to train a
captured
zombie named Bub to act human. Compared to its predecessors, this long
section of the film may seem slow and talky, but it is always interesting
and, for the most part, effectively performed by its unknown cast.
Besides,
it all eventually leads up to a corker of finale when the zombies finally
invade the compound, and most of the humans become showcases for the
brilliance of Tom Savini, who outdoes even himself in the gore F/X
department.

While most of this material is very grim, "Day" ironically has the most
hopeful, upbeat conclusion in the trilogy - which, alas, is its only major
shortcoming. The quick transition to the final scene is so abrupt and
unexpected that the audience feels cheated, leaving the impression that
the
production ran out of money before the whole climax could be filmed.
Indeed,
Romero has often expressed his unhappiness about being underfunded for
this
project, which prevented him from creating a truly definitive final
chapter
for the trilogy. But while "Day of the Dead" may not quite be the ultimate
finish to one of the greatest trilogies of all time, it is still a very
satisfying conclusion (at least until Romero gets funding for his
long-rumoured "Twilight of the Dead"). It may not be popular among
everyone,
due to many unfair comparisons to its superior predecessors, but on its
own,
it is about as good as horror films get.
<|_=00=_|>

'Day Of The Dead' is one of the greatest sleepers in the history of horror
movies. A flop when originally released almost twenty years ago, its
reputation has slowly increased over the years, and now is generally
regarded as a classic. I certainly underestimated it for a long time. In my
opinion Romero's 'Night Of The Living Dead' and 'Dawn Of The Dead' are two
of the greatest horror movies ever made, but I always thought that 'Day...'
was a bit of a let down. But after watching it again for the first time in
several years (via the highly recommended double disc "special edition" DVD)
I must humbly eat my words. This is a GREAT movie! Romero and special
effects Tom Savini do wonders on a limited budget, and the movie is full of
suspense, a claustrophobic atmosphere and plenty of gore. It probably
flopped the first time around because it's so bleak, but now that's one of
its strengths. Interestingly Romero features a strong female protagonist
(Lori Cardille) and a strong black supporting character (Terry Alexander),
something not all that common in horror movies. Both actors give good
performances, the soldiers led by Rhodes (Joseph Pilato) are all suitably
ultra macho and deranged, and it was cool to see John Amplas ('Martin') in a
supporting role, but the two stand out performances are by Richard Liberty
('The Crazies') as Dr. Logan (who the soldiers refer to as "Frankenstein"),
and Howard Sherman as Bub, the zombie he has tamed. The sequences between
Logan and Bub are just terrific and add a whole new level of pathos to the
movie. The only negative comment I can make about 'Day Of The Dead' is that
it brings home the depressing fact that George Romero hasn't made a truly
outstanding movie in close to twenty years. I really hope he makes his long
threatened fourth Dead movie 'Dead Reckoning' and that it turns out to be
his masterpiece. But whatever happens he has already carved his name out in
horror history as the creator of three classic zombie movies that just get
better and better as the years go by.
<|_=00=_|>

The third film in George A. Romero's immensely popular "Living Dead"
trilogy is by far the bleakest and most complex film the director has
ever worked on. "Day of the Dead" received a lot of negative press upon
its release in 1985 - people picked apart unsavory characters,
OVER-acting from a no-name cast, and outlandishly gory special effects
that only Tom Savini himself could be proud of.

But none of this makes it a bad experience really, does it? I don't
think so. For the reason that I usually detest zombie flicks, I have
worked up a fondness for the works of Romero and over the last two
weeks have separately watched each film in his trilogy.

"Night of the Living Dead" (1968) virtually defined a new genre of
horror movie-making and basically set the standards for the many zombie
flicks that would follow in its footsteps. Next up to bat was the most
praised film in the trilogy - "Dawn of the Dead" (1978) - which was
more of an action film than a horror movie and was nothing short of
epic. Then came "Day" in 1985, which got the tongue-lashing that I
described earlier.

However those that did like it, praised the Savini effects, its
complex, plot-driven characters, and satire. While "Day" is certainly a
step down from "Night" and "Dawn," "Day" is more of a claustrophobic
horror movie and that allows it to stand on its own as a fitting end to
Romero's trilogy. It's more in sync with the tension of "Night" than it
is with the adrenalin-laced action, zombie-slaughterfest that was
"Dawn."

A team of civilian scientists and a loose army unit clash with each
other's motives after they have taken shelter at an underground
military base from the hordes of living dead that storm the surface
above. The civilian scientists aren't seeking to eradicate the zombies
like the soldiers are hell-bent on doing, but are instead trying to get
to the bottom of what is causing them to be what they are.

In doing so, they need live zombie specimens, which are held captive in
a maze of dark underground tunnels where they're corralled like cattle.
We later get what is one of the most profound and moving experiences in
the entire trilogy with "Day," when we see one zombie, nicknamed "Bub"
by one particularly eccentric scientist, who eventually learns what it
means to be "alive," so to speak.

"Day of the Dead" obviously isn't a perfect movie, but is more or less
a fitting conclusion to one of the most daring film trilogies in the
horror genre. It may be best to not watch "Day" thinking it'll be
anything like "Dawn" just because it has military men blasting away
mercilessly at the living dead. Zombie slaughter is few and far between
and much of the first hour of the film is clashing dialogue between the
characters.

The darkest day in the world - "Day of the Dead."

9/10

<|_=00=_|>

The living have lost the war and now the dead have taken over.A small pocket
of survivors consisting of a military and scientific team staying in a
secure underground bunker doing research,trying to find an answer to why the
dead are walking,and also trying to find any other survivors,but without
much success.The sequence of events that follow ultimately lead to their
self destruction.Plenty of gore including usual gun-shots to the
head,decapitation,amputation,bodies ripped apart,entrails eaten,throat
rippings etc.The special effects by Tom Savini are truly outstanding and
these scenes where Dr Logan(Richard Liberty)tries to train a zombie are
simply amazing.If you love gore you must see "Day of the Dead".Highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1985 this zombie movie virtually went by unnoticed except for many
Romero fans. It was virtually dead a week or two after it hit the
theaters. Many attribute its failings to the other many horror films
released that year including "Re-Animator", "Fright Night", and "Return
of the Living Dead". All these movies were R though and day was not.
Romero stuck to his guns and made a very gory movie. Unfortunately,
when dawn was released there were still many independent theaters, but
by 1985 the chains had taken over and one thing chains do is not show
movies like this. So it went by unnoticed and those that did notice it
usually had nothing good to say about it other than the zombies looked
really good. So suffice to say, I wasn't expecting much when I bought
this movie except the zombies would look good. However, I am happy to
report that I was very pleasantly surprised. Granted, Dawn was still a
better film as it had more likable characters than the ones featured in
this film. This would be the final Dead film George Romero would do
until Land of the Dead was released, but I do not count that one as
part of his original trilogy as they seem to belong together because
Night showed us the humble beginnings of the zombie outbreak, Dawn
showed us the zombies beginning to overrun us and this film shows us a
bleak world where the zombies now outnumber the living 400,000 to one. 

The story has a group at the beginning flying a helicopter in the hopes
of finding some survivors. All they find is the dead and quite frankly,
any survivors out there would be better off keeping their mouth shut as
they do not want to go back to the facility this group belongs to. It
is like a bunker and in it we have scientists who have no clue what
they are doing, army people in a rush to leave said facility even
though there is no indication there are any people left, two civilian
guys just doing their jobs and Bub the most awesome zombie ever!
Tensions are running high in the facility as the army people want to
leave and there is a lot of arguing; however, things take a turn for
the even worse and the zombies that are topside begin to lick their
lips! 

This film has great looking zombies and it does a good job with its
setting. Originally, George wanted to do something much larger in
scope, but could not get the funding so he had to scale back immensely
which is why we sadly on get the one shot topside in the city and get
to see how much the zombies have taken over. Everything in this film is
rather good, except the characters! Seriously, Bub who is a zombie is
the most likable character and then civilian guys. Everyone else just
wants to yell and rant and this film is not a good one to watch when
you have a headache! The good news is that this creates a finale where
you really want to see a few of these guys eaten and suffer, unlike
Dawn where you just kind of get a random motorcycle gang out of
nowhere. 

So this film is good, just not as good as Dawn as this one just does
not have the action of that film and for a good portion of the film the
only thing you have to look forward too in between the shouting matches
between the scientists and evil Bono are the Bub scenes. It does help
build up the finale and like I said, you really want to watch these
guys get eaten, but it also tends to get annoying as no one really
seems right. That is just the way it goes though, mankind is pretty
much lost here and so why worry about trying to cure something that
cannot be cured when you can just try and live out your life the best
you can.
<|_=00=_|>
George Romero's zombie movies have always been standouts in the genre.
Easily the best zombie movies ever, and contenders for the best horror
movies ever. Night of the Living Dead (his first movie) set the ground
work for every single zombie movie to come after it, and Dawn of the
Dead, which came 10 years later in 1978 set the new standard for
splatter and gore flicks. If you ask me, without George Romero's zombie
trilogy, horror movies would have never been the same.

Day of the Dead takes place after the entire Earth has become over-run
with zombies. Every human must either hide, fight, or die. The movie
follows two groups of people: doctors and army men. The army men pose
as the bad guys in this movie (just as Mr. Cooper did in Night of the
Living Dead) and the doctors pose as the good guys (as Ben did in
Night). The groups of people are hiding out in a secluded underground
base. The zombies await outside, while the humans try to come up with a
plan to eliminate the zombie plague. 

Day of the Dead falls at the end of the trilogy. Being made in 1985,
zombie movies were already high on the charts. Since the popularity of
Dawn of the Dead, especially in Europe, a ton of independent film
makers were pushing out these zero-budget zombie flicks faster than you
could watch them. Finally, in 1985, George Romero and Tom Savini
grouped back together to show the kids how it was done. Day of the Dead
fixed all the mistakes that occurred in Dawn of the Dead, and turned
out to be the perfect zombie movie. Day of the Dead IS the best zombie
movie ever made.

The main mistake that was fixed was the way the zombies looked. In
1978, Tom Savini (special makeup effects) was fairly new to the job,
and couldn't take on the very large amount of zombies he had to apply
make-up to. Therefore, he simply painted their faces blue. Here, Tom
Savini had his own team of make up artist. The zombies in Day of the
Dead look far more disgusting and gross. Facial decays and bite marks
were abundant in this movie. Not only that, but every zombie looked
different. No two zombies looked exactly the same, which added a small
shock element every time a zombie appeared on screen. The gore in Day
of the Dead was even more amped up than Dawn of the Dead. It looked
more real, and came in much higher amounts. Day of the Dead ranks up
with some of the goriest movies of all time; only Cannibal Ferox and
Dead-Alive surpass Day of the Dead. For the way the gore looked, Day of
the Dead holds the trophy for the best special effects I've ever seen
in a movie - bar none.

While the special effects have greatly improved, they aren't even the
main reason I favor Day of the Dead over every other zombie movie. The
reason Day of the Dead is, and always will be labeled as my favorite,
is for the extremely serious tone of the movie. The characters in this
movie (with the small exception of the doctor) are extremely serious
and brutal in tone and pose an even bigger threat to the good guys than
the zombies! It's Night of the Living Dead turned up to 11! The
characters in this movie (especially Captain Rhodes) are very, very
well written characters, although I wouldn't hold then as high as the
characters in Dawn of the Dead. 

Day of the Dead is an extremely serious zombie flick with absolutely no
humor whatsoever. It's serious, it's brutal, and has an extremely thick
script with plenty to offer. Remember to bring a barf bag!
<|_=00=_|>

Months after the first dead rose from their graves, the world has
seemingly become overrun. Deep in a storage bunker in Florida, a group
of soldiers and a group of scientists have formed an uneasy alliance in
order to try and discover something that can help reverse their spread.
However Dr Logan is not making the progress that the soldiers require
and Captain Rhodes becomes increasingly impatient and erratic as a
result. Things continue to worsen as the zombies gather above and
Logan's work gets more worrying.

Having seen and enjoyed (if that's the word) the remake of Dawn, I
decided to re-watch the three originals on their own values. While I
had seen the other two before, this was the first time I had seen Day
and assumed that it would be bigger than Dawn was (in the same way as
Dawn extended the ideas from Night). In that regard I was a little
disappointed to find that the film stayed on a rather small scale and
didn't manage to really convince me that the world was actually over on
the surface of the earth. However this is not to say that it is not a
good story in itself, because it is, albeit very different from both
Night and Dawn. To me it lacked the social commentary that was to be
found in Dawn but it is still tense, gory and gripping. The
claustrophobic nature of the bunker and the battling characters means
that tension is easily created even when the zombies are distant and
seemingly pose less of a threat than the humans do to one another. The
film is a little weak at points – the medical experiments are given too
much time and the character of Bub is not clear as to his reasons for
being included as much as he was. I didn't like the idea of Bub, the
film didn't seem to know what to do with him other than using him to
fill out the story – Logan's progress with him seemed such a waste of
time that, even if that was the point, it didn't work.

When the gore comes it is very hard to watch and a little sickening at
times – bodies are ripped into and ripped apart in full bloody colour –
as a horror it succeeds because I was looking a way quite a lot of
times! Even though Shaun of the Dead has made fun of these slow zombies
recently they still manage to be very effective here – I personally
find them scary as they are relentless and simply wish to kill. True,
the fast ones are scarier but these ones are too. The cast are more
than just victims and are reasonably well drawn and acted. They have to
be engaging or else the tension between them wouldn't work and, while
hardly totally real people they still are good enough for a horror
movie and they are not just fodder to rip apart – even if they are
clearly penned as 'goodies' and 'baddies'.

Overall this is not the best of the trilogy but it is still a good
horror film. The tension between the characters creates as much of a
threat as the zombies do – even if some of the plot isn't that good. It
all builds well to a gory finish that really only lacks teeth because
both the film and the actual ending both fail to really show just how
bad things are and never convinces that the world has come to an end in
the way that the whole trilogy suggests it has.

<|_=00=_|>

I saw DAY OF THE DEAD at a drive-in; the second half of the double bill
was
DAWN OF THE DEAD (which I'd seen a dozen times by then, most often at
midnight showings). I was stunned. DAY OF THE DEAD was as tight and as
dramatic and as frightening as anything I'd ever seen. Although I'd
championed Romero's movies in the pages of magazines like Famous Monsters
of
Filmland, Fantastic Films and Fangoria for years, I was totally blown away
by the savvy evinced in DAY OF THE DEAD. No more of the tell-tale
amateurishness of a "regional filmmaker," no more overindulgence: this is
Romero at his very best, and a great movie by any standards. For critics
who
espouse the virtues of DAWN OF THE DEAD over DAY OF THE DEAD, take this
simple test: watch them back to back, as I did the night DAY OF THE DEAD
opened. If you're still not convinced, you may be a zombie yourself...

<|_=00=_|>
Day of the Dead (1985) was the third film in the "Dead" series. For
awhile this was going to be the last chapter until recent events have
changed the mind of the series creator George A. Romero. Whilst it was
going to be a huge budgeted venture for Romero and Laurel Films, a
small budget and a few extras limited the scope of the director's
vision for this film. But like all good film makers he made do with
what he had around him and made a dreary and depressing film.

Society is dead. Zombies have overran the living and the survivors can
only be found in very small numbers. One of these groups are bunkered
inside an old underground bomb shelter. The survivors inside this
subterranean military installation have been divided into three groups:
the soldiers, scientists and civilian employees. Stress, sexual tension
and a dire situation have split the group even further apart. The dead
have been growing in numbers outside and dwindling supplies have made
everyone desperate. But within the base their is some order. But what
will happen with that collapses?

The third film of the series is not as great as the second film but
it's a good film. Performances from the actors may be uneasy and the
tight budget restrains the director's vision but it still succeeds as a
very frightening and depressing horror film. Savini and company have
made the gore more realistic and nauseating. Gone is the cartoonish
blood and cheesy gore effects. State-of-the-art splatter effects have
been included adding a whole new element to this awesome trilogy. I
have to strongly recommend this film. If you love the first two, you'll
definitely enjoy this this installment of the one and only trilogy of
cinema!

Highly recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
I tell you what I'd love... to fill a movie theater with a bunch of
teen kids who love drizzle like "The Perfect Man" and "Step Up" and
that crap, play DAY OF THE DEAD, which looks great in capital letters,
and watch the reaction. They, not knowing the unrelenting glories of
old horror films, who stick to new ones that come out in theaters (e.g.
Underworld, Resident Evil, or not even that, who wouldn't know the
difference between George A. Romero and Wes Craven), would be
absolutely horrified at the intensity of the great film. Man, I'd love
to show those morons that the crap they watch is nothing compared the
greats...

Love to see that.
