

Pirate movies are few and far between.  Its hard to get people to buy off
on
a script containing ~40 minutes of "Arrrr" and "Aye Matie".

However, Pirates is just a great fun romp through being a nasty, dirty,
pirate.  This is one of Walter Matthau's best roles.  He literally becomes
Captain Red.  At no moment do you associate this man w/ any of this other
roles.

Too many jokes and gags to list, but not a comedy in the traditional
sense.
It is an adventure first with humor thrown in.

Less of a comedy and more adventure than Yellowbeard.  Darker, deeper,
better, and less glitzy than Cutthroat Island.  All around, a great
classic
pirate movie and virtually defines the genre.  
<|_=00=_|>

Pirates is one of Roman Polanski's most underrated films along with The
Fearless Vampire Killers and the Tenant. While the latter two films are
masterpieces, Pirates is a very good pirate film that's never received it's
due.

Polanski redefines the pirate film while still paying tribute to the
swashbuckling genre. This film is the perfect companion piece to The
Fearless Vampire Killers. Walter Matthau gives an excellent performance as
the fearless Pirate and the rest of the cast's performances hit all the
right notes. Polanski's direction is masterful as always. The photography
and musical score are also very good. From a purely technical standpoint
this film is excellent. The script is really the only thing that keeps this
film from attaining greatness. 

MGM who now hold the DVD rights (they now own the rights to the entire
Cannon film library) must release this film as soon as possible in it's
uncut, 124 minute widescreen glory (I suggest emailing
MGM).

Film rating: 9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Watch this movie. Walther Matthaus acting is quite superb. People are
talking about Pirates of the Carribean these days, and Depps
performance, which is also quite funny but it is my opinion that
Matthau personifies that which Depp (tries to) plays in PotC. Matthau
is the perfect old-school pirate drunkard and simply hilarious. As an
extra notable performance is Frog (Cris Campion) playing a french
retard which falls in love with the fair Maria-Dolores. This Polanski
film is a gem. I cant call it the best pirate movie ever made because i
haven't seen them all, but i can tell you that its the best I've seen
yet, and i suspect that it will stay that way. Its just a shame that it
never got the credits that it deserved.

Pöetzsch

<|_=00=_|>

Roman Polanski's Pirates, starring Walter Matthau as the avaricious
Captain
Red, is an absolutely hilarious comedy/adventure.  The cast of characters
is
varied and interesting and the sets appear very authentic.  The movie
contains excellent dialogue, good swashbuckling choreography and plenty
of
physical humour which borders on the bawdy at times.  The story is simple
and dynamic and is completely driven by the characters.

I like this movie for its characters.  Each one's desires become the
focus
of fanatical efforts.  Throw in some fascinating (though often
exaggerated)
character quirks, and the cast makes this movie.  The rough, oafish
Captain
Red desires gold.  The handsome, quiet Frog desires Dolores.  The stiff,
foppish Don Alfonso desires power.  In the end, who will get what he
desires?  Most assuredly not EVERYONE.

I only have ONE favorite movie and this is it.  I know it is not for
everyone (my wife hates it).  However, for Matthau fans, or fans of the
historical genre, this movie is a fun night out with plenty of laughs.  I
recommend it strongly.
<|_=00=_|>
This enjoyably foolish romp was apparently a flop, and mauled by the
critics. Why? Good question. I speculate three reasons: lack of an
obviously American lead and presence, an opening set-up that pays off
in the long run but doesn't provide a beginning with a bang, and an
anarchic, politically incorrect, almost amoral tone that was not
digestible to Disneyfied mainstream audiences. These, and the length of
the piece, would have been strengths if this had been released as a
children's book, and I further speculate that it would have been well
received in such a format, as a homage to old stories like Treasure
Island. It could then have been adapted into a hit movie (with more
explosions and an ethically impeccable American hero who does get the
girl in the end).

As it is, there is much to admire, delight and entertain, with
legitimate criticisms being some of the dodgy casting and (lack
of)linguistics (especially as regards the Spanish characters) - Walther
Matthau's gloriously over-the-top performance honourably excepted -
some lapses of logic in the plot (why doesn't the Frog just swim after
the rowboat and bring it back when they get stuck on the chain?), and
the fact that it is slightly too long.

Ripe for a sequel, if, like me, you ever wondered what happened to
Cap'n Red and his beloved throne, and The Frog and his beloved Dolores.
<|_=00=_|>

I have been a near Polanski fan for many years; since seeing Chinatown.
But
after watching Pirates, my suspicions have been confirmed; Polanski's
talents did not wane with his exile from the U.S.  Basically what I'm
trying
to say here is Polanski's talent for genre redefinition is alive and well
in
this wonderfully comedic look at the action-adventure film.  Not only
this,
but he also manages to re-evaluate and comment on the action hero as well
as
the genre as a whole.  It is puzzling, as in most Polanski films, to ask
yourself are the main characters heroes, and if so what kind? and if they
are heroes, then to look at the way the film treats them... and with
Polanski this is always a fresh, beautiful, and rewarding task.

<|_=00=_|>

"Arr, mateys, shiver me timbers!" is what you feel like shouting while
watching this involving modern pirate movie that should become a classic.
Roman Polanski had wanted to make a pirate movie such as this one for a
long
time, starting in the Lodz Film Academy in Poland, and finally did it -
unfortunately, the problems he had affected the movie and made it a
theatrical flop. Quite unfairly, as it has everything a pirate fan might
want - a lovely score, breathtaking scenery, props and settings, a script
that is adventurous and funny, good acting - and plenty of fun and
adventure! And, most importantly, the amazing Walter Matthau as the best
stereotypical pirate cap'n you'll ever see! Matthau performance is
breathtaking - I can see his Cap'n Red standing arm-in-arm with Blackbeard,
Black Bart and Captain Kidd, shouting orders at the "mateys"... Highly
recommended for any fan of swashbuckling adventures - and for everyone
else!
(And while you're out to buy this movie, don't miss the equally underrated,
and also very good, newer "Cutthroat Island" with Frank
Langella).
<|_=00=_|>
When I was a kid growing up I got into this PC game called Sid Meier's
Pirates. I wanted to do everything pirate related. For some reason I
never fully identified with the Errol Flynn pirate. He was always a
good guy, who got caught up in the circumstances and was still trying
to be a good guy. He was always chivalrous, clean and relatively good
looking. Thank the contents of Davey Jones' locker for Roman Polanski.
In all honesty, it was the VHS cover that first attracted me to this
movie : Walter Matthau dressed up as a disheveled looking Captain
Morgan, cutlass drawn and pointed as us.

The movie revolves mainly around the exploits of the stool-legged
Captain Bartholomew Red (Mathau) and his French first mate (who at
times resembles dinner), the Frog. On the heels of their last adventure
(see Boca del Toro), the movie starts out in the middle of the ocean
with our two protagonists on a raft floating around, mad with hunger.
After encountering a Spanish galleon (the Neptune) and performing a
self-rescue, the story shifts into main gear : the Aztec Throne of
Zapotec Anahuak.

This is by far my favorite pirate movie. It has all the right elements
- action, adventure, ship battles, wooden appendages, sword fighting,
humor, barrels of rum, gold, prison, cross dressing, cockney accents,
love, large feathery hats, giant wigs and even the attractive Charlotte
Lewis (remember Eddie's love interest from the Golden Child). Walter
Matthau is clearly the standout character in this movie. His Captain
Red is an amalgamate of various pirates but yet stands on its own
because of Matthau. Red is haughty, greedy, ambitious, inspirational,
conniving, and single-minded when it comes to gold. This is made all
the more apparent by the juxtapose to his highly idealistic first mate.
Where as Captain Jack Sparrow is a bit on the weaselly side, Captain
Red is more like a scraggly wolf. It was also beneficial that Matthau
was a tall 6 foot 3 inches tall, giving Captain Red a larger than life
persona. If not for Keith Richards, I think Captain Red could have been
more than an appropriate inspiration for Mr. Depp.

Roman Polanski does an excellent job in de-glamorizing the pirate
lifestyle. Even Captain Jack Sparrow is a bit on the tame side (Thank
You Disney). If Errol Flynn was the prototype, then Walter Matthau is
the grittier, colorized version. What Polanski did for vampires with
the Fearless Vampire Killers, he does the same for the pirate genre
with this movie. On top of the typical "pirate" behavior, Polanski has
even added commentary on the day. This would include the class
divisions between the officers and crew, the political strife between
the English, Dutch, French and the haughty Spanish (the RIAA of the
day) and the unquenchable lust for gold.

This movie was maligned by the critics when it came out and has since
sunk into anonymity. This should not be so. It contains one of
Matthau's best performances and is the best pirate movie ever made.
Unfortunately, if you don't like pirates or adventure movies, then you
probably will like the English Patient and not this. For everyone else,
I highly recommend the Spanish (manga films) region 2 DVD of this movie
(presented in anamorphic 16x9).

-Celluloid Rehab
<|_=00=_|>

This film is one of Polanski's masterpieces. He did to pirate movies what
Sergio Leone did to western: showing the opposite of the usual sancticised
glamorous movie portrayal of an era, yet achieving an epic effect, and
images you want to see again and again. 

But a difference to Leone, beyond a high dose of irony and situation comic,
is the bittersweet ingredient of the Central-Eastern-European experience, of
lack of success and constant failure, constantly hitting all of our heroes
in the film.

Memories of living under communism might have also played a role in the (for
me) most memorable part of the movie, the failed mutiny followed by the
successful mutiny aboard the Spanish ship: the way the aristocrats have
power over the people, and make Captain Red and The Frog eat the rat. And
then, hilarious juxtaposing, the mutiny is like a parody of a communist
revolution.

But the best thing about the film are the actors. Walter Matthau is at his
best as the grumpy old liar Captain Red, Damien Thomas is terrific as Don
Alfonso the hyper-arrogant Spanish aristocrat who'll never loses his
superiority, Roy Kinnear the embodiment of ugliness as the Dutch, and also
the young no-names Cris Campion (playing The Frog, the naive young Frenchman
at Captain Red's side) and Charlotte Lewis (playing the even more naive
daughter of the governor).
<|_=00=_|>

This is an other world fantasy only Polansky could have invented.
Nothing
offers any foundation we can get a hold of. Except maybe for the slightly
recognizable Matthau nothing in this flick is common movie going
experience.
Polansky uses everything he can from script to sets to actors and acting
to
make us feel a total disconnection from days gone by.  From yummy
hindquarters to yummy rats, from Archibaldo's gout to a lawyer's tongue
not
to mention bathing in a toilet this is a totally bizzare experience.  I
rate
this a must see to anyone interested in seeing direction gone wild.

