

I remember the first time I saw this film.  I had won tickets from a local
radio station and I saw it at a private screening at the Academy of Motion
Picture Arts and Sciences.  I remember as I was watching it that it was one
of the greatest experiences I had in a movie in a long time.  This film is
not only a great sports film, but it is one of the great all around films I
have ever seen.  This film has it all from romance to comedy to witty
dialogue.  Susan Sarandon, Kevin Costner and Tim Robbins all brought Ron
Shelton's script to life and the three of them displayed some of the
greatest chemistry ever captured on film.  This film is a timeless
classic.
<|_=00=_|>
It is nice to see a movie that attracts more than one kind of audience.
This is a comedy, then again a love story. This can be placed in the
baseball genre as well as a coming of age drama. Most movies claim to
be one or the other and sometimes fail to be. Then again, when a good
movie hits a homerun it can not only become a money maker and a box
office smash, it can also become timeless. Before they became giants of
Hollywood, Kevin Costner, Susan Sarandon and Tim Robbins stars in this
great movie as some of the most interesting, yet simple characters.
Costner plays an aging baseball player who meets with rookie, soon to
be great major league pitcher Tim Robbins. Out of the rafters comes
Susan Surandon who, in her own may, is a Muse of the religion of
baseball. Together, the three introduce three different worlds upon the
audience. Each are believable characters even though they are in a way,
fantasy like. A great story with a perfect ending, Bull Durham is one
of those hard to find movies that is a crowd pleaser with just about
every audience out there.
<|_=00=_|>
Crash Davis loves baseball more than it loves him. He believes in the
game. He deserves to be in the show, but he isn't and never will be.
But still he plays on, dutifully and to a certain extent, joyfully.
Better to play crappy A-ball than sell shoes.

That for me is the central theme of this film. It is all summed up when
Crash tells Nuke, the wild young star pitcher "You don't respect
yourself. That's your problem. You don't respect the game. That's my
problem."

Take a player that passionate, and a youngster that annoying, add in a
sexy yet maternal fan and you have great comedy. Bull Durham works
scene after scene, because the film never forgets that baseball is what
binds all the characters together.

Tim Robbins is nothing short of brilliant and Nuke Laloosh, the rising
star youngster who walks 18 batters and strikes out 18 batters in his
first minor league appearance - both league records. But Nuke is caught
up in his fat contract, his Porsche, and his endless parade of women.
Baseball is a sideline. Eventually, Crash's mentoring begins to pay off
until he finally realizes that winning is "like, you know, better than
losing!"

The love triangle between Annie (Susan Sarandon), Crash and Nuke is
wonderful and funny, but it mainly provides us with set up for the
baseball scenes, like when Sarandon convinces Nuke to wear women's
underwear while he pitches. Or my favourite scene, when Annie and Crash
take batting practise together, Annie dressed like she is ready for a
wedding, but determined to correct Crash's swing. Crash is determined
to take Annie home. They flirt and practice batting in one of the best
prolonged foreplay scenes ever filmed.

The ending is satisfying but the real depth of this film is harmony
that the game brings to the characters. **** out of ****.
<|_=00=_|>
(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut
to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it
at Amazon.)

I thought I read the book, or at least I dreamed it, but this is NOT
adapted from something by Larry McMurtry, although it sure seems like
it oughta be. It is one hell of a funny, crafty, too real for life,
kind of movie. The brilliant script, full of clever one-liners, was
written by Ron Shelton (White Men Can't Jump (1992)), who actually
played minor league ball in the Orioles farm system. Shelton also
directed and did a bang-up job. This is a funny movie that is really
funny.

What I recalled (when I found out this wasn't from Larry McMurtry) was
a baseball novel for juniors that I had read when I was a kid about a
crafty, veteran minor league catcher who had once made it to the big
leagues but got beaned and never got over it, always bailing out from
an inside curve ball. (This was in the days before batting helmets.) He
fell back to the minors and went from team to team and town to town,
hitting a ton until somebody figured out that his knees would buckle if
you brushed him back a bit, and then he'd have to move on. Kevin
Costner's part reminds me of that guy (without the beaning phobia). 

Susan Sarandon plays Annie Savoy, a baseball groupie in her sexual
prime who likes to read poetry and give the players hitting advice. She
is just wonderful as she plays sexy mom to the boys, a new one every
summer, just so she can avoid any kind of real relationship or
commitment. And so along comes Crash Davis (Kevin Costner, one of the
more underrated and less flashy stars of our time), playing an
itinerant catcher who has managed to hit nearly 300 minor league home
runs. He is tough and savvy and once made it to the Show for 21 days.
Tim Robbins plays Ebby Calvin "Nuke" "Meat" LaLoosh, a not too bright,
wild-armed phenom who needs more than a little guidance. He gets a lot
from both Crash and Annie, who are intent on schooling him in their
differing expertise. Nuke is just the hunk Annie needs to keep her from
falling in love with Crash, but...well, this is a romantic comedy, so
you can be sure that love will find a way.

The baseball shtick and the interior dialogues of Robbins and Costner
during the games ("Why's he want the heat? I wanna throw the deuce..."
And, "Don't think, ... Get that...woman out of your head--Time out!")
are really funny, and the bit where Robbins shakes him off and Costner,
as an object lesson for his young pitcher, tells the batter what's
coming next allowing the batter to hit it out of the park (or onto the
Bull Durham sign to win a free steak dinner--is this genuine Americana
or what?) are a crack up. But also great are the scenes with Sarandon
as she philosophizes ("I believe in the Church of Baseball") and
wise-cracks her way through the boys of summer, especially the scene
where she ties Nuke up in bed and reads him some Walt Whitman. Now THAT
really tires the boy out! Another great scene is on the bus when Crash
lets the other players know that he once made it to the bigs where
"...you hit white balls for batting practice and the ballparks are like
cathedrals." Beautiful.

Best dead-pan one-liner is when Crash catches Nuke in the locker room
trying to adjust the panty hose girdle that Annie has talked him into
wearing under his uniform: "The rose goes in the front, big guy."

By the way, the great rock and roll soundtrack includes the galvanizing
baseball song, "Brown-Eyed Handsome Man" by John Fogerty of Creedence
Clearwater Revival fame. (Or maybe the title's "In Center Field": "Put
me in coach. I'm ready to play, today, in center field.")

It's a shame that Shelton did not win the Oscar for this script, it's
really that good. (Ronald Bass won for Rain Man.) The characters are
just fascinating and full of life, and not just the three leads. The
bit players are funny too, including the hard-talking, middle-brained
manager, the mindless pattering coaches, the sweet young groupie girl
who makes it with all the players as fast as she can. Even the team
clown is good.

The irreverent characterizations, the sweet story, the realistic
atmosphere of baseball in small town America (only slightly
burlesqued), and some fine acting all rolled together make this one
highly diverting little film, actually one of the best baseball films
ever made. See this with your best babe. She'll like it as much as you.
<|_=00=_|>
First of I have to say i'm from the UK, i've never played baseball seen
a baseball game or have any ideas to the finer rules of baseball but
this will not stop you enjoying this film. This film is about a way of
life and you can enjoy it in the same way as you can watch a film about
a great explorer without ever having left your own country. For Crash,
Nuke, Annie and all the other characters in here baseball is a way of
life not a sport and it is to be respected and in some cases
worshipped. For me the best scene in this movie comes in the pool hall
at the end with three generations of baseball player we know that one
day nuke, will be in crash's position and that crash will eventually be
in the old guys position it's the baseball way of life. Howevever it's
a way of life that's changing and this is shown in the almost forlorn
at times shot's of the ballpark and main characters, like the lady says
you have to respect the ball player who's just trying to finish out the
season.

Direction, script and performances (Costner's best performance ever I
think even over Field of Dreams and the Untouchables) are superb see
this movie you wont regret it. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
"Bull Durham" is one of those engaging sports films that can be enjoyed
no matter if one isn't a fan of the sport in question - in this case,
baseball. There's all the love in the world for this great American
pastime, but there's also some interesting and literate discussions
going on all the time in this smart and witty comedy, as well as some
memorable characters whom we like and find easy to watch.

Kevin Costner plays "Crash" Davis, a veteran minor league catcher who's
hired by the Durham Bulls to act as a mentor to their new pitcher Ebby
LaLoosh (Tim Robbins). Ebby is in need of some direction, as he may be
truly talented but has ego and discipline problems. At the same time,
sexy Annie Savoy (Susan Sarandon), the Bulls' loyal groupie, takes an
interest in Ebby as she makes a habit of hooking up with one young
player every season and helping the man to mature. Naturally, some
sparks fly as the two guys both get attracted to Annie.

Writer / director Ron Shelton truly knows the territory, having been a
minor league baseball player himself, although he doesn't in truth
feature a lot of game action. His dialogue is often very funny and
often very profane. A lot of humour comes from Annies' manipulation of
the naive Ebby, whom she nicknames "Nuke" and has him do things like
wear a garter, thinking this will improve his game. And while the film
does get serious at times, it never becomes too maudlin. As was said
previously, the attraction comes from watching three intriguing
characters and three fine performances. With fine support by Trey
Wilson and Robert Wuhl, Costner, Sarandon, and Robbins make the most of
the material. There's also some endearing goofiness from the real-life
"Clown Prince of Baseball", a man named Max Patkin. And to top it all
off, there are some very sexy scenes in this thing, especially towards
the end. All in all, this likable story has a little something for
everybody, and is well worth a viewing.

Eight out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
You often wonder why certain guys never make it in baseball given the
fact that they have potential. We see this in the film.

Kevin Costner is absolutely wonderful as such a player. An experienced
catcher, he has what it takes, but only lasted in the major leagues for
a brief period. He is resigned to the Durham minor league team where he
meets up with fan and announcer Susan Sarandon who acquires a great
southern accent for her role.

Tim Robbins is the pitcher that Costner is assigned to work with. His
appearances are memorable. Strikeouts and walks are the same high
amount. Watch out when he throws, anyone there is vulnerable. That's
what happens to the film-the vulnerability of the Sarandon-Costner-
Robbins relationship comes into question.
<|_=00=_|>
It's the professional pitching debut of Ebby Calvin 'Nuke' LaLoosh (Tim
Robbins) for the A ball Durham Bulls. He has a million dollar arm and a
five cents head. They bring in veteran catcher Crash Davis (Kevin
Costner) to mentor the young pitcher. Only he's too old for this stuff.
Annie Savoy (Susan Sarandon) is a baseball philosopher and team super
fan. Every year, she picks one player to hook up with and guide. Much
to Crash's dismay, she picks Nuke.

This is a funny and charming baseball movie. It's got Kevin Costner's
great "I believe in..." speech. It's also got all the inside baseball
interior-voice and behind-the-glove fun. It loves baseball both in its
grandness and the little things. It romanticizes the game as well as
its sad lowly grind. It's probably the best comedy movie about
professional baseball.
<|_=00=_|>

A comical story about baseball and sex. How can it miss? The minor league
Durham Bull's have had their share of loses and looney characters. Raw
talent sometimes is more plentiful than brains.
 
Tim Robbins is a young pitcher, "Nuke" LaLoosh, needing a lot of instruction
if he is to make it to the "bigs". Aging catcher, Crash Davis, played by
Kevin Costner, is assigned to the team to whip the youngster into shape. The
team's number one groupie, played by Susan Sarandon, wraps both players
around her little finger.

Hilarious situations and the lighter side of baseball. This movie made me a
Sarandon fan. Robert Wuhl and Trey Wilson provide backup.
<|_=00=_|>

Quite possibly one of the most overrated movies in motion picture history.
As previously stated, this is the only movie I have ever walked out on.
My
memory has faded quite a bit since 1988, but the sheer boredom remains
embedded.  I can't quite pick out why it was so bad...oh did I mention it
was boring.  My buddies and I snuck out and caught Halloween 4 that night
(which can I recommend).  If insomnia is your problem, then take a dose of
Bull Durham.  CURED!

Bottom Line: 1/10! 
