
There are too many reviews of Risky Business for mine to have any
relevance as a movie review. However, this movie is for me a time
capsule of the era I saw it in, and a photograph of the future to come
in American culture. 

I saw this movie when I was 22 in a tiny college theater with a date. I
remember several disconnected things about it: The movie was much more
interesting than my date was, the music by Tangerine Dream was hypnotic
and fit the tone of the film, which struck me as being more depressing
in places than funny (although there are some funny moments in it), and
it gave me a glimpse into a world that I thought was fictional. It
turned out I hadn't experienced the world it was presenting yet. When
Cruise asks his friends what they plan to do with their lives, one's
answer is very simple and focused: "Make money". Another friend adds:
"Make a LOT of money". 

It turns out the movie was precognizant of the next ten to twenty years
of American culture; the absolute obsession with making money through
any means necessary, legally or illegally, regardless of consequences
to yourself or others. Then taking that money and buying the things
that will make you happy: a porsche, a big house, and most importantly,
a hot babe in your bed, that will only be there as long as the money
is. Internally discovered happiness? A quaint notion created by the
poor who can't afford the toys that validate your existence.

I am sure that the filmmaker would be the first to say that the movie
parodies the hollowness of the "American Dream" of acquiring wealth to
buy creature comforts, but too much of the time it feels like it
celebrates them. At the end, the hooker stays Cruise's girlfriend only
as long as he continues to make her money; she even says "I'll be your
girlfriend...for a while". Real loyalty there. But then, she is a
hooker, and is being honest. She in fact is presented as the only
person in the film that is not a hypocrite. She has no illusions that
money & sex make the American world go 'round, and doesn't pretend
herself to be otherwise; unlike Cruise and the rest of his friends. In
the end however, she is still hollow, the values the kids pursue are
hollow (they are only after sex, not love), and the movie feels as deep
and solid as a glossy magazine ad for a Lexus. 

Even over the obsession of greed, however, the film illustrates the
complete alienation of the modern American teenage male: alone,
isolated, judged by his peers with the kind of car his dad lets him
drive, his clothes, and whether he can get laid or not. The emphasis is
on sex, not relationship. There is no rite of passage into adulthood,
no guidance from parents who more often than not are as distant from
their children as the cardboard cutout parents in this film. 

In short, as depressing as this film is when you step back from it, it
paints a frighteningly accurate portrait of how superficial and narrow
a world, yet directionless (except for accumulating superficial wealth)
a young boy's world can be. There are no values taught in this film,
because there are none available as examples. And that is the
environment too many kids are subject to. That is what was so
disturbing to me about the film at the time I saw it, yet it took 20
years to understand why (as I was, like most kids my age, in the same
vacuous and bankrupt culture this kid was in at the time). 

There are 300% more suicides committed by 14 year old boys in America
than any other age group or category. This movie explains why. 

Seven stars, not for humor, but for photographing the beginning of an
era that lasts until this day. The message from Enron, WorldCom, Martha
Stewart and others for American kids will be: Don't get caught. A
message which is slowly becoming the only "moral direction" left in
American culture.
<|_=00=_|>
RISKY BUSINESS is the smart and sexy 1983 teen comedy that brought
intelligence to the genre and made a bonafide movie star out of Tom
Cruise. Cruise is utterly winning as Joel Goodson, a high school senior
excited about the prospect of having the house to himself when his
parents go out of town for a few days; but things go from bad to worse
when Joel crosses paths with a nubile prostitute (Rebecca DeMornay).
This surprise hit brought an element of sophistication that was absent
from a lot of the teen comedies that were populating the screen in the
1980's. This movie boasts a smart screenplay, imaginative direction, a
memorable musical score, and on-target performances from Cruise,
DeMornay, Curtis Armstrong, Joe Pantoliano (memorable as a slimy pimp),
Bronson Pinchot, and Janet Carroll. Tom's sexy underwear dance to "Old
Time Rock and Roll" has become Hollywood folklore. An instant classic
upon release that still holds up over 20 years later.
<|_=00=_|>

When this film was released, it was during the time of the "teen sex comedy"
craze.  Films like Class and Porky's were all about seeing scores of horny
teens in the most raunchy escapades possible.  However, this film and Fast
Times at Ridgemont High can be seen as more being a little more serious than
the others.  Risky Business is definitely a commentary on how greed can
corrupt an individual and what the consequences can be.  Also, the acting in
this film, as well as Fast Times, is light years away from Porky's and all
films like it and it will always be a classic parable.
<|_=00=_|>
Risky Business is a film people unfortunately seem to forget about when
they're listing off great teen movies. Tom Cruise, in his first major
role, is wonderful as Joel Goodson. He's a boy-next-door type whose
life spirals wildly out of control when his parents leave him alone for
a few days. Joel is a decent student looking to spend his time wisely
during his senior year of high school and hopefully get into a good
college. He finds out the hard way that a few bad decisions can lead to
all kinds of problems and possibly ruin your future at that age. The
film has the intelligence of a John Hughes film combined with the
sexual content of a Porky's film. Risky Business is the best of both
worlds, if you look at it that way.

Tom Cruise's Joel Goodson seems to have a lot going for him. He is the
only child living in a nice house in suburban Chicago with his loving
parents. You get the sense that he's never been left alone for any
extended period of time the way they fawn over him before they leave.
After leaving him a decent wad of money and a few instructions about
what to do and what not to do around the house, his parents split, and
Joel is left all alone. Things go downhill fairly quickly. His best
friend (that scene stealing Curtis Armstrong)orders him a prostitute
that will show up right at his front door. Needless to say, the person
who shows up is not what Joel is looking for. In a fit of sexual
frustration, Joels orders the services of the gorgeous, but high-priced
Rebecca De Mornay. After a wild night of sex, she informs him he owes
her $300. That is substantially more money than his parents left him.
Before his dilemma is solved, Joel crashes his father's Porshe in Lake
Michigan, gets suspended from school, has a crazed pimp on his tail,
and winds up turning his home into a brothel for one night to pay for
all the damages he's caused.

This plot could have been crafted into an awful movie. Director Paul
Brickman knows what he's doing, though. He gives each of his main
characters enough dimension that we as the audience actually care what
happens to them. We feel Joel's agony as his future seems in doubt
during the film's final half hour. Rebecca De Morany is given
considerably more depth that you'd think, but we are never allowed to
get close enough to truly trust her. Joe Pantoliano is terrific as her
pimp, also.

Is this film believable? Heavens no. It's plays more like a young man's
sexual fantasy run amok. The first scene of the movie mirrors this
theme. We see Joel dreaming about having sex with a hot young woman in
the shower, then finding himself three hours late for his college
entrance exam. We walk such a fine line between pleasure and big
trouble at that age.....

9 of 10 stars The Hound.
<|_=00=_|>

Rebecca De Mornay at 21 is fabulous as the savvy call girl for any teen boy
to die for -- or for that matter any red blooded male of any age.  She
enters the film gliding silently into the back yard entrance of his parent's
off-the-lake Chicago house, and after speaking only a few words, something
like "are you ready for me Joel", artistically slips off her demure little
slip of a dress, back arched to him, one leg kneeled in the window seat,
presses her bottom into him, silently invites him to take her, and then
turns, melts into him, kissing him in apparent yielding passion.  This is
immediately followed by cut scenes to multiple positions in multiple
locations around the house.  It's a perfect male fantasy of what paid for
wild but romantic sex might be like (however unrealistic).  It's also
undoubtedly Joel's (Cruse's) first time.  What an initiation.

The movie never gets that hot again (although the scene enacting Lana's
"thing about trains" gets close).  But it does become increasingly
interesting as a first rate coming of age flick.  Actually, it's a bit more
than that.  It explores the tension between the self disciplined deferred
gratification he and has friends have all been taught they need for upper
middle class success, versus the let loose sexual and other risk taking he
knows is out there, some other people are doing, and wishes he could get
away with.  How far can a nice upper middle class boy go without throwing it
all away?  That risky business is what the film is all about. 

Tom Cruz is perfect as the dutiful but less than gifted "future enterpriser"
high school senior who's always had to work a little harder and stick more
to the straight and narrow to try to live up to his parents' expectations --
without quite getting there.  Although he was about the same age as De
Mornay when they made the film, Cruz looks and acts a thoroughly convincing
boyish 16 or 17.  De Mornay's Lana is an iconic bad girl hooker of the
naturally toney and perhaps feeling variety -- although about the last we're
never entirely sure.  She remains ultimately an enigma, beyond Cruz's and
our full grasp, but not beyond his connecting with.  Sadly, her first major
role was probably her best -- although certainly not her only good
one.

Cruz may be "on the right track", but it's De Mornay's Lana who knows
everything about sex, life, taking risks, and living on the edge.  She
seduces Cruz into turning his parents' home into a bordello, to tap the
money to be made by mingling his kind of friends with her kind of friends
for a night, while she is hiding out from her "manager", and he has been
left to "act responsibly" while his parents are away on a business trip. 
The scene where the Princeton alumnus interviewer, whom his dad has
contacted to try to help finesse his "not quite Ivy League transcript",
comes to the house to interview Cruz on the night the bordello party is in
full swing, is deliciously funny and at the same time full of nervous
tension.  Cruz's character is on the brink of disaster, and then in fact
clearly has thrown away a good part of his future opportunities -- or has
he?

It's a delicious movie -- especially for males raised in seriously high
academic achievement oriented families.   Every good boy would love to call
a Lana sometime -- and get away with it.

<|_=00=_|>

Most funny comedies aren't very smart. They're funny because of individual
jokes that play by themselves, without relying on the overall plot. Risky
Business is an exception and the reason why it works so well, is because it
tells a simple story that could really happen and would also be a lot of
fun. Youre a high school kid, your parents go on vacation for a week,
leaving you the whole house to yourself. That's the setup. A friend calls up
a call girl, she shows up, and the entertainment begins. This movie is smart
enough to know what kids think about at that age, sex, and it holds nothing
back. It is very clever at times and has a strong character in Joel, played
by a young, energetic Tom Cruise. Another thing that this movie understands
is mood and tempo. Everything hits the right beat. Smart and funny is an
ideal combination and this movie achieves it.
<|_=00=_|>
Risky Business tells the story of Joel Goodsen, portrayed by Tom
Cruise, a young teenager who fantasizes about the usual stuff,
girls,sex,money,having fun and has the usual concerns,please his
parents,getting into college,secure a future.Joel's parents go on a
trip and Joel has the house to himself.One of his friends convinces him
to answer a sex ad.This is how Joel meets Lana, a beautiful young
call-girl to whom he feels immediately attracted to.But Joel is
innocent and naive and Lana,knowing this, takes advantage of him,
staying in his house longer then she was suppose to stay and involving
him in risky situations.The all thing gets quickly out of control which
results in a series of accidents such as Joel's furniture being stolen
and his father's car falling into a river. Now with his parents
returning soon Joel has to juggle between solving the situation and
make sure everything looks like the same it did before his parents
left. Although it has some funny moments that may cause a few laughs, I
wouldn't call Risky Business a comedy.The movie has quite a few
dramatic and tense moments.The soundtrack is great and Tom Cruise did a
great job as Joel Goodsen.Risky Business is a nice movie that in a way
mocks the American dream.With his black wayfarers Cruise oozes style
and charisma,no wonder why this movie has become such a classic and is
seen as a defining point in Cruise's career.

7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>

Tom Cruise stars in this 80's teen flick that was popular for its time and
still has a good message to this very day. Tom playing the innocent Joel
Goodson, a kid that is on his way to making it big and getting into a good
college until he meets up with the call girl Lana(Rebecca De Mornay). This
movie just goes to show you how certain decisions can have different
impacts
on how the overall picture turns out, and Joel sees and realizes just
that.
The show was cast perfectly and the music adds to spice the movie up. This
is a Warner Bros. classic and I think anyone in their right mind should
see
it.
<|_=00=_|>
Underrated (I): Cruise (Joel Goodson) is highly amusing as one of his
most feared "career moves" might become harsh reality: University of
Illinois - here he is! Excellent movie providing an accurate,
contemporary image of the eighties. Well to do family all shook up by
low class intruders of various kinds. Underrated (II): the importance
of the exhilarating music for this movie, providing a perfect match -
between dreamy Techno (Tangerine Dream) and "that old time rock 'n
roll" (Seger, The Police, Phil Collins, Muddy Waters, Bruce
Springsteen). The relationship with De Mornay is amazingly vibrant -
the dialogue sharp and cheerful. Everlasting oneliners everywhere. The
impression this movie made here in Europe (is that what American
highschool life is really about?) can hardly be overrated.
<|_=00=_|>
Risky Business and All The Right Moves are the two films that launched
Tom Cruise's career as brat pack film star. Unlike so many of his
contemporaries from the Eighties, he's proved to have staying power and
will no doubt continue to do so. 

All The Right Moves established Cruise as a dramatic actor, but Risky
Business is a fun comedy about a hormone driven teenager who when the
folks go away from his Chicago suburban home and he's left to play, he
gets himself in all kinds of problems. First dialing up call girl,
Rebecca DeMornay and then not having enough coin of the realm to pay
her. Then getting mom's treasured glass egg stolen. And then getting
the family car driven into Lake Michigan.

But Cruise and DeMornay, who is having trouble with her pimp Joe
Pantoliano, hit on the brilliant idea that there's a market out there
for his group of eager overachievers. And Tom's house becomes quite the
swinging brothel.

Risky Business turns out to be pretty funny business. Best scene in the
film involves Tom with Princeton interviewer Richard Mazur. You've got
to love the way this boy gets into the Ivy League. Second best scene
involves Tom and the family car as it plunges into the lake and then
gets hoisted out.

Tom's definitely proved to have staying power in show business. I can
see his character in Risky Business growing up to be Jerry Maguire.
