
One of the things that really caught my attention about this film was
the brief blurb at the beginning which stated something to the effect
of "All of the surveillance equipment depicted in this film exists and
is in use in the United States." Knowing what I do of technology, I am
not surprised that those capabilities existed back then. However, I
received a powerful demonstration of the stealth technology called
"whisper mode" in the film, a couple of years after seeing it. I live
near a major U.S. Army firing range, and our local airport hosts a
considerable amount of military traffic. At this particular time, I was
renting a house about one kilometer from the airport. I went out for a
walk late one Sunday night, and, shortly after leaving the house, I
heard a noise I could not identify. It was a loud hissing sound, 'which
seemed very close at hand, but I could not locate the source, until I
looked up. Passing overhead at about 200 meters was a Chinook
helicopter, the type with two rotors, and fuselage that looks kind of
like a banana. Normally, the rotor noise on these cargo helicopters
will rattle windows, but this baby was tip-toeing out of town very
quietly. If I had been indoors, I never would have heard it. This made
me completely rethink the sequence where the helicopter was hovering
right outside of a building, and the people inside couldn't hear it! I
took it for artistic license at the time, but the demonstration I
witnessed of "whisper mode" made it seem entirely feasible.

This film appealed to me strongly, for several reasons. I am a techno
freak, to begin with, and I love anything that flies. Also, the
characters in the movie are amazingly human, kooky, (especially the
lead characters wife,) and easy to identify with. And the kind of
shenanigans the Feds were trying to pull seem all too realistic to me,
in light of some of the things that they have been caught doing! And I
loved the response of sending a couple of F-15's armed with missiles
after the renegade, when he is stooging around in downtown Los Angeles.
Missiles are not known for being highly selective when they are of the
heat seeking type, and urban areas are rich with thermal signatures
which can confuse the tiny brain packed into an air-to-air missile. The
filmmakers actually downplayed the havoc that could result from
launching such weapons in a downtown area.

I found the film to be an enjoyable, realistic, thought provoking
experience, which I would recommend to most people. The hardware is not
the star, thanks to the excellent work of Roy Scheider and his
supporting cast, and the dialog is tight and realistic. When informed
that one of the suspects in a liquor store robbery is wearing a Hawiian
shirt and a cowboy hat, Scheider's character says, "What ever happened
to being inconspicuous?"
<|_=00=_|>

I first saw Blue Thunder as a kid at the time of its release and enjoyed it
purely as a slice of action/adventure typical of its time. I could name
many
films from the early 80s of a similar ilk, but this one stuck in my mind as
a real favourite and it was only when I re-watched it recently that I
understood why.

Unlike other films in the genre, Blue Thunder always strikes me as having
been thought about and crafted in a very careful way. In fact I didn't
remember there being as little action as there is. Instead we are given far
more character development than we might be accustomed to, thereby
enhancing
the final aerial drama because we do care about the people
involved.

Roy Scheider(who I must confess is my favourite actor of his era) gives a
standout performance. His portrayal of Murphy with its wry humour & very
human lapses shares more than a little with a certain Chief Brody, but the
use of an aging rebel with little cause as the main character in a
technological thriller is still refreshing now.

Malcolm McDowell gives the sort of OTT villainous performance that only he
can (why has no-one ever cast him as a Bond villain?) and special mention
must go to Warren Oates as Scheider's long-suffering boss.

The helicopter looks awesome with cool gadgets aplenty but it isn't the
star
here, Scheider is. Move over Top Gun, Airwolf, Wings of the Apache, et al;
this is the number 1 fly-boy in town.   
<|_=00=_|>
John Badham is a curious director and I think he gets it right in this
one. After all Roy Scheider never stunk it up in his illustrious career
and he hits all the right notes in this one as Frank Murphy the Vietnam
Vet trying to escape the memories of his war experience. When Malcolm
McDowell shows up (and honestly, who plays an a--hole better than
McDowell in his heyday?) to become Murphy's nemesis. The very
underrated Warren Oates as the crotchety commanding officer and Candy
Clark as Murphy's girlfriend, who is the ultimate heroine of the plot,
turn in solid performances. The helicopter clearly steals the show
though as anyone between the ages of 7 and 21 had to just be glued to
the screen watching that bird strut its stuff. Great action sequences
and rather good photography during the climactic chase scene.

I still have fond memories of this film which I saw in the drive in as
a kid and I think it's what films of this genre should be...a couple of
hours of wild fun!..."Follow My Leader"
<|_=00=_|>
'BLUE THUNDER' Is a cracking leave your brain behind entertainment that
never let's up! 'Roy Scheider' Plays Frank Murphy,A former Vietnam
Veteran,who is a helicopter pilot,for the Los Angeles police
department,who becomes handpicked to pilot the eponymous 'blue thunder'
which is a state of the art chopper designed for supreme law
enforcement, Unfortunately for Murphy the test pilot behind this superb
flying machine is Malcolm Mc Dowell,who also was on duty in Nam with
Scheider, and serves as the film's all too English baddie! A young
Daniel Stern, is a rookie who is assigned with Scheider, together the
pair unravel a deadly conspiracy,involving said helicopter which
climaxes with a superb aerial chase through the packed streets of Los
Angeles,
<|_=00=_|>
I was dying to see this when I was 13 but I was too young to get in at
the pictures. I saw the trailer when I went to see Superman 3. I
finally hired it on video and loved it. I think at the time, it was the
look of the helicopter that I was drawn too. Big bulky and menacing.
(The scene where we first see Blue Thunder with the sun rising behind
it is sheer class.) I've got the DVD and always enjoy watching this
film, I love Roy Scheider in most films he's in and he's excellent in
this one. Also thought Daniel Stern was great as Murphy's observer. The
series was quite cheezy but enjoyable in it's own way. Universal
latched on to the super hi-tech helicopter theme as Airwolf followed
soon afterwards. The helicopter in Airwolf was a Bell 222 whereas Blue
Thunder was a converted Gazelle helicopter that was given a facelift to
make it look bulky and menacing, a little bit like an Apache. Back to
the movie. The plot is quite thin and there are a couple of scenes that
are a bit far fetched but if you're looking for a film with good
helicopter chase sequences in it, they don't come much better than
this. Catch you later.
<|_=00=_|>

A helicopter is developed for police work using full surveillance
technology, stealth modes etc.  Officer Murphy and his partner are trained
to fly it for street tests.  However Murphy suspects that it has more
sinister uses when he finds that the man in charge is Colonel Cochrane – who
he has a history with in Vietnam.  The battle between the two men heads for
a showdown as Murphy gets evidence to back up his suspicions.

Made as a film but turned into an inferior tv show this film is entertaining
but no more than that.  The plot is interesting – with plenty of conspiracy
stuff but the action is sometimes forced.  Because most of the helicopter
shenanigans are save for the climax we are given car chases etc to help fill
the time.  The helicopter itself is very cool and well used and the final
battle above the city is exciting if formulaic.  The morals of a `big
brother' helicopter, able to pry everywhere isn't examined as well as could
have been but it's still interesting.

Scheider is always good to watch and does well, as do Warren Oates and a
young Daniel Stern.  However the show is stolen and the film made by a great
baddie from Malcolm McDowell (catch you later!) who is menace incarnate for
me.

Overall an enjoyable thriller but it really only sticks in the memory due to
the TV series that followed – worth watching for McDowell
though.
<|_=00=_|>
Clearly, Blue Thunder's introduction shows the state of the art in
computer technology at the time. Looked like a Wang computer at work.

I saw this movie for the first time at a drive-in. Those were the
days!! .. before DVD's and when VHS recorders were manually tuned.
Guess you might say that this was the end of an era and the beginning
of video.

My girl and her two boys will remember this movie as long as they live.
The movie that played right after this at the drive-in was Xtro.
Remember when you could have the entire family see two full length
movies for under $10.00? Now, popcorn alone costs $10.00 for one medium
bucket. 

I have the original Blue Thunder VHS tape in my library, played it last
night. My favorite part of the movie is when a heat seeking-missile is
launched into a B-B-Que chicken factory and chickens come raining down
on the street and cars. The suspense that built up to this point made
it funny however tragic for the factory workers.

25 years prior to this movie there was Whirly Birds in black and white
on TV. It is interesting to see the advance in aeronautical technology
from the early Korean War birds to stealth flight in choppers. I
seriously doubt that any helicopter today can achieve or survive
inverted flight as was depicted in the final scenes of Blue Thunder. As
unbelievable as it seemed, it was exciting to watch. 

We still have increased concerns of the privacy of citizens and
terrorist activity. In the days of Blue Thunder it was only fantasy to
think of wire tapping without a warrant .... today? This reader comment
could be intercepted before it makes your review.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Let's get the problems out of the way. First, it was made for the big
screen; when we saw this we were hanging on to the seat handles on that
last helicopter battle. Yes, of course, the non casualty inflicting
battles between the helicopter and the jets is pure Badham fantasy. Why
should you own it? Mcdowell plays the nastiest creep you will ever see
outside of Clockwork Orange. Scheider turns in a great performance; the
movie never really takes itself that seriously except on one axis:
Government surveillance of its citizens. I love when Murphy tells
Lymengood to punch in his name and it says: File Under Repair. What is
so frightening about the movie is that this technology is thirty two
years old. Look, what they could do way back here? The movie moves
well; it starts as the credits come on and never stops until the end.
What a cast! Warren Oates is always a treat; here he plays an extremely
grumpy head cop. The feud between Murphy and Mcdowell is the core that
the story rotates around. Mcdowell tries to kill Murphy all through the
movie even during a test flight where he sabotages his helicopter,
loosening a crucial part. Every remark he makes is punctuated by the
creep mimicking shooting you with his fingers while sneering,"Catch you
later."

You will really love seeing this jerk finally get it. The story at the
core: that the government is using the Olympics and the trouble it is
stirring up in neighborhoods to get a armed surveillance chopper force
over our cities, I found this quite realistic. Yes, the story has
plenty of cringe-worthy I don't think so moments in the battles but the
plans to control the population with armed helicopters that are
equipped with incredible surveillance technology, you will not laugh at
this. Balham moves the narrative quickly; unlike his Stakeout, that had
slow parts, this movie really moves. The front cast Scheider, Oates and
McDowell are excellent. The movie gets deadly serious in the middle to
the end with the Feds killing Lymengood, Scheider's trainee, and
framing Scheider for the killing. The last twenty minutes is an
incredible helicopter battle. It may suffer in downsizing to the
television set but it still is a great piece of work. 

Even if the surveillance stuff doesn't float your boat, it is without a
doubt the best movie John Badham ever made. I love Stakeout but it is
way lower in quality than this one. He made the dreadful Saturday Night
Fever which was his worst effort. The pacing, action and dialog are
excellent with McDowell going down in this movie as one of the nastiest
villains ever in a film. The bigger your set the better this looks. I
recommend Zooming the bars off the screen it wrecks the air effects.
The Blu Ray's 5.1 True Hd surround is excellent with you hearing it
going behind you and swinging in front of you. The music is excellent.
Parents it is quite violent, with some serious nudity at this woman's
house they hover outside of. Yes, it has silly parts but the
surveillance technology this old you will not find funny. Imagine what
they have today? A Good Movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Always liked this one.  Well written and acted, with excellent aerial
action sequences.  It's a shame this was Warren Oate's last role - he was
magnificent.
Other reviewers made a valid point about this film presaging the use of
military hardware against civilians.  We already use airplanes to catch
speeders on the ground - doesn't the aviation fuel cost more than the
amount
of revenue taken in through summonses?

<|_=00=_|>

Having now worked on an attack helicopter program, I was interested in

seeing "Blue Thunder."  I skipped it on its first release.  Good
thing.
"Blue Thunder" is more timely than ever, what with federal abuse of

power with massacres and attempted massacres in Philadelphia (MOVE incident,
Ruby Ridge and Waco.  
Structurally, the film is a mess, taking a fair amount of time introducing
us to "Blue Thunder" an "antiriot" (now call "antiterrorist") helicopter
better equipped for mass murder than
crowd control.  Roy Scheider plays Murphy, a former Vietnam
helicopter
pilot haunted by his memories of 'Nam (this gimmick was getting
tiring
in 1983).  Murphy finds himself the target of a "government
conspiracy"
when he "gets too close" for the REAL intentions of "Blue
Thunder."

Reels of film must have been left on the cutting room floor. 
Certainly
Candy Clark and Warren Oates shine in "nothing" roles, their
"real"
relationships to Scheider remaining pretty obscure.  Malcolm
McDowell
makes an excellent villain, though his "real" relationship
with
Scheider doesn't pay off).

HOWEVER, when "Blue Thunder" works, it really rocks.  See
it.
