

This is one of those surreal experiences that make you wonder whether or not
you laughed at what you saw or what you THOUGHT you had seen.  Of course,
being concocted by Joel and Ethan Coen makes it even more
surreal.

As "repeat offender" H. I. McDonnough, Nicolas Cage creates yet another
strange, offbeat character that gets under your skin for days after.  After
returning to the same prison time after time under the eye of Officer Ed
(Holly Hunter), he goes straight and they get married, planning to have a
big family.  It is only then, he finds that Ed is a "barren, rocky place". 

So, what's a couple to do?

This is where the "Arizona" of the title comes in, when they steal one of
the quintuplets of the Arizona family.  Naturally, the father (Wilson) goes
all out to find the culprits, even enlisting the aid of a "tracker" (Cobb),
who is kind of an existential bounty hunter with a good
nose.

From this deceptively simple story line, the Coens create a dreamscape that
is mesmerizing, serpentine, loaded with all matter of visual input, deft
one-liners and characters that are so off-the-wall that it's hard to forget
them and the situations they get into.

Coen Brother stalwart John Goodman plays yet another flaky loon - this time
an escaped con - who, along with his little brother (Forsythe) complain that
the prison "had no more to offer them".

Of course, the chases, fight scenes and getaway scenes are elaborate,
well-choreographed and exciting, as well as funny.  How could they not be? 
This whole movie is one huge snowball rolling down the side of a mountain,
growing larger and rolling faster as it reaches the end of its
trip.

But to try and explain this movie is an exercise in futility; you'd be
better off explaining Kierkegaard to a room full of second-graders.  You
just have to see it yourself.  If your sense of humor is a bit on the dry
side and you love fancy camera work and Fellini-esque characters, it's your
kind of movie.

Trust me.

Ten stars and a complimentary pack of Huggies for "Raising Arizona", the
best Dadaist head trip film with kidnapped babies, exploding bunnies and
Frances McDormand in the desert you'll ever find...that has a fight in a
trailer.
<|_=00=_|>

I always say that my favourite Coen brothers movie is the last one I
watched. A slight exaggeration, but as they have had very few real misses in
their career it's easy to forget just how great most of their movies are.
For me 'Raising Arizona' ties with 'The Big Lebowski' as their single most
entertaining movie, and Arizona is arguably the funnier of the two if you
are looking at sheer belly laughs. This movie is the Coen's most cartoonish
and shows that they learned a lot from their involvement in Sam Raimi's 'The
Evil Dead' and 'Crimewave'. The movie is full of fun, clever touches and
infectious energy. It just never lets up. Calling a movie "a roller coaster
ride" is a cliche, but it's a perfect description for this. The opening
pre-credit sequence has more packed into it than most movies do in their
complete running time! Nicholas Cage has recently got sidetracked making
dumb action movies but back in the 80s and early 90s he was one of the most
interesting and adventurous leading men in Hollywood, making unusual movies
like 'Birdy', this, 'Vampire's Kiss' and 'Wild At Heart'. 'Adaptation' is a
step back in the right direction for him. I hope he continues in this vein
instead of say, 'Con Air 2'. Cage is just terrific as H.I. and I haven't
enjoyed Holly Hunter as much in any other movie. Together they make one of
the best on screen couples in many a moon. The supporting cast are all
fantastic, especially John Goodman and William Forsythe as H.I.'s prison
buddies. The psycho biker played by "Tex" Cobb is a also a brilliant touch.
There are so many memorable bits in 'Raising Arizona' I could be here all
day pointing them out. Just see for yourself. There were lots of lousy
movies made in the 1980s, the Spielberg/Lucas/Simpson/Bruckheimer/John
Hughes decade that dumbed down mainstream movies forever, but there were
also thankfully some wonderfully inspired ones like this, 'Blue Velvet',
'Brazil', 'RoboCop', 'Repo Man', 'Eating Raoul', 'Beetlejuice', and 'The
King Of Comedy'. 
<|_=00=_|>
There are really few directors that are as consistent as the Coen
brothers. Their strange sense of humour just works in every movie they
make, and it's extremely fun and addictive. With that said, it's
difficult to decide which of their movies is the best, but this one is
a worthy contender. It's incredibly outrageous, wild and crazy, but at
the same time it's close and heart-warming. It has a very surreal look,
yet the emotional scenes still look very genuine, which is quite an
achievement. The characters are also vintage Coen, they're all offbeat
and weird, but that just raises more sympathy for them. It also helps
that they all express themselves through some razor-sharp dialogues. I
could barely make out the lines because I was too busy laughing at the
previous lines, you wonder where these keep coming from. This movie
just isn't like anything I've ever seen. It's astoundingly funny in all
its weirdness.
<|_=00=_|>
A lot of things come together to make this film highly enjoyable;
acting, writing, music, pace, directing... It's over-the-top fun. It
took me several viewings before it sunk in that the film's base story
is about child kidnapping; which is an extraordinarily serious crime.
But this film makes you enjoy every minute so it's easy to forget the
seriousness of the base story.

While I'm not a fan of Nicholas Cage, I thought this was a perfect
vehicle for him. Holly Hunter is always excellent, IMHO. Their
attention to detail in crafting their characters was on point and
thorough.

"Well alright then." :)
<|_=00=_|>
For all the visual flair and deft performances on display in their
films, the Coens' greatest virtue lies in writing In terms of cheerful
stories, witty dialog and the creation of a coherent, plausible fantasy
world peopled by vivid characters, their ability to work original and
entertaining variations on a genre indicates well for the future 

Opening with a brilliant pre-credits monologue, "Raising Arizona" tells
of an incompetent, compulsive petty criminal's love for his prison
warder: married but infertile, the couple kidnap a baby, whose tycoon
father hires a crazed biker to find and kill the culprits A surreal,
slapstick satire, it takes intense pleasure in exciting plotting, showy
and cheap colors, and hilarious screwball characters
<|_=00=_|>

The Coen Brothers first "masterpiece" black comedy was a 1987 surprise hit
that raised the bar in the comedy genre. Future Academy Award winners Cage
and Hunter star in what may be one of the most original stories ever to come
out of Arizona. Goodman shows the world he can be funny as the misunderstood
and somewhat crazy escaped convict. Cage and Hunter have so much love to
give, they steal a baby from Mr. Arizona himself. A modern day (80's)
fantasy that chooses an interesting setting to tell its tale. The hilarious
innocence is non-stop as Raising Arizona showcases relationship, friendship,
vanity, ignorance, and the search for peace and forgiveness. Who
knows....maybe it was Utah? 
<|_=00=_|>
Parentless recidivist H.I. regards prison as his home. No matter it is
a partiality or a revenge in his own words, he robs convenience stores;
he goes to jail; he talks nice to a parole board; the cycle repeats
itself. And finally falls in love with a policewoman, ED. Life goes
easy on them at first. They bask on the folding chairs, dreaming to
have a youth to share their thoughts and feelings.Then the story
abruptly turns sad. ED.is barren. what should they do? 

Tempe is a rock place that bears women deprived of the happiness at
conceiving babies.Their wombs are barren and hard like the rocks in the
desert. Florence,Dot and ED are the victims of the metaphor.One takes
fertility pills,another adopts orphans,the other after being turn down
adoption,steals a baby named Nathan Jr. 

Nothing could be more exciting than a rebirth. The film tells us what a
rebirth is like. Push hard through the saturated mud above your head at
the 99% risk of being stifled to death. One second delay would be too
late. That's Gale and Evelle's narrow escape from the jail. It sounds
surrealist. But that's Coens's wit lies. They twist reality and
exaggeration into knots to spin our noggins.Snatching a packet of
diapers in a convenience store can be a life-or-death chase scene,
without mentioning the leather-clad,bonehead,bounty hunter Biker, who
can browbeat nothing except little animals. 

Troubles arrive in sequence. That's the way the life is. At the end of
the film, H.I. and ED returns the Nathan Jr.to his parents.It doesn't
belong to them and will never be theirs.Why not keep the dream of
having kids go on? If H.I.'s dream of the hellion Biker is not a
phantasm, his dream of being blessed with descendants might come true
some day. 

In despite of the superficially hilarious scenarios, it is a sad story
to the marrow. H.I. and ED's sorrow is not skin-deep and can be felt by
any of us who puts heart into this film.
<|_=00=_|>
This amusing picture concerns about an ex-convict (Nicolas Cage) who
falls in love for a policewoman (Holly Hunter) who takes him a picture
each time he goes to prison . Both of whom wish sons but cannot have
any . Then they decide to abduct one from a couple with five children .
Meanwhile , a pair of ex convicts (John Goodman and William Forshyte)
meddle themselves in their marriage life . Besides , a bounty hunter
(Randall Tex Cobb) called the ¨lone biker of apocalypse¨ sets off in
pursuit the protagonists for obtaining the reward offered by the
child's dad . 

The film blends irony , humor , tongue-in-cheek , chase scenes ,
slapstick and is very amusing and entertaining . It's a splendid comedy
with set pieces cartoon where the action and humor is continuous from
the presentation until the ending . The film was influenced by the
works of Preston Sturges and writers such as William Faulkner and
Flannery O'Connor , known for her southern literature . Enthusiastic
performances by the two main stars , Nicolas Cage is perfectly casted ,
though his relationship with the Coen Brothers wasn't respectful , but
turbulent . When he arrived on-set, and at various other points during
production , Cage offered suggestions to the Coen brothers, which they
ignored . And Holly Hunter is sympathetic , giving an attractive acting
. The movie that was shot in 10 weeks has its moments here and there
and being pretty enjoyable and bemusing . Many crew members who had
worked with the Coen Brothers on Blood simple (1984) returned for this
film , including cinematographer Barry Sonnenfeld , co-producer Mark
Silverman , production designer Jane Musky , associate producer and
assistant director Deborah Reinisch , and film composer Carter Burwell
. Breathtaking cinematography by Barry Sonnenfeld who makes a great
camera work , after becoming a famous director with many smash hits
(Men in black) . Excellent musical score by Carter Burwell (Rob Roy) ,
he's habitual musician of Cohen brothers films . Rating : High
recommendation. Above average . Well worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
"Raising Arizona" is one of what I consider to be the five instantly
classic films by the team of Ethan and Joel Coen, the others being
"Blood Simple", "Fargo", "Oh Brother Where Are Thou", and "The Big
Lebowski". 

But "Raising Arizona" is my personal favorite, and probably the most
quotable films I have ever seen, with some of the best dialogue ever
written for film. 

The story in brief: H.I. (Nicholas Cage) and "Ed" (Holly Hunter, in one
of my favorite roles of hers) portray, respectively, an ex-con and a
cop who meet when he keeps getting arrested for robbing convenience
stores. They fall in love, get married, decide that "there is just too
much love" between them, and they need a "critter to share it with".
Upon finding that "Edwina's insides were a rocky place" where H.I.'s
"seed could find no purchase", they try to adopt, but are turned down
because of H.I.'s record. Then they read in the newspaper about local
unpainted furniture storeowner Nathan Arizona (Trey Wilson), owner of
"Unpainted Arizona", and his wife having quintuplets as a result of
fertility pills, and who joke that "They got more than they can
handle". The couple hatch a plan to take one of the babies and raise it
as their own. 

What results is an ongoing, fast-paced, hilarious set of misadventures,
complicated by the appearance of a ruthless, heartless outlaw named
Leonard Smalls (Randall "Tex" Cobb) Nathan Arizona hires to find the
missing baby, and two felon friends from H.I.'s past (John Goodman and
William Forsythe), who make a childbirth-like escape from prison. Sam
McMurray (the smarmy dad in "Drop Dead Gorgeous") is H.I.'s....smarmy
boss, Glen. Frances McDormand (real-life spouse of Joel Coen, and star
of other Coen films such as "Blood Simple" and "Fargo") is his
excitable wife Dot. M. Emmet Walsh ("Blood Simple") has a
scenery-chewing cameo role as H.I.'s talkative co-worker.

When Ed finally opens up her 5'2" can of Southern-fried whup-ass,
throwing her badge to the dirt, striding towards Leonard Smalls as she
bellows with all her might, "Gimme back that baby, you warthog from
HELL!!!" I always fling my arms up and shout "You go girl! Kick his
ass!" 

And the way Hunter cries is hilarious.

Holly Hunter was great in this role, as one would expect. She's a very
talented actress, in both serious and comedic roles.

Nicholas Cage and Holly Hunter made a great on screen couple, Cage with
his hair standing out in every direction, looking like a hapless,
browbeaten puppy half of the time, and Hunter as his diminutive
firecracker of a wife who loves him and tries to keep him honest (oh
yeah except for that little kidnapping excursion). 

I could go on and on about this film but suffice to say that so far I
haven't met anyone who didn't find "Raising Arizona" hilarious. And as
any great Coen brothers film, it has a certain mythic quality that's
hard to describe, but is present all of of the brothers' best efforts.
When I was single, I often used Coen brothers films as a barometer of
sorts for prospective boyfriends. For instance, I remember seeing
"Fargo" on a first date, and when we came out of the theater, the guy
(whose name I have since forgotten anyway) remarked "Huh, I didn't
think much of that", while I was thinking how blown away I was by the
film! I immediately thought to myself "So much for him! This
relationship won't last long."

For more great Coen comedy, check out "Oh Brother Where Art Thou"
(2000), which is loosely based on Homer's epic poem "The Odyssey".
Another great Coen comedy is "The Big Lebowski" (1998), which also
includes my favorite singer/songwriter Aimee Mann in a brief cameo, and
boasts a cult following that has resulted in an annual "Lebowskifest"
for fans of the film.

"Blood Simple" (1984) is probably my favorite film noir modern-day
classic tale of lust and betrayal, and is my personal second-favorite
Coen brothers film. "Fargo" (1996), which won the Screen writing Oscar,
and an Oscar for Frances McDormand, is another must-see Coen classic.
<|_=00=_|>

Pure lunacy is what Raising Arizona is.  It's got everything you could ask
for in a film; kidnapping, jailbreaks, Hell's Angels, explosions and guns,
guns guns.  Nic Cage is great in the role of a very befuddled conveniance
store robber who falls in love with Holly Hunter's Ed.  Throw in John
Goodman and William Forsythe as a couple of car stealing, bank robbing
brothers and you got yourself scenes that will make you giggle when you
think back about them.  The entire state of Arizona seems trigger happy in
the Coen's eyes.  Clerks, cops, and crooks pull out firearms and let loose
like the finale of the 1812 Overture.  Plus, where else can you hear really
good yodeling?
