

No amount of alcohol can render this film bearable.  I saw Eddie Murphy on
Letterman a few years after this dog was released, talking about why he has
to be careful with which scripts he accepts.  He said, "A few years back I
made a film called Best Defense.  And it was bad.  [looks into camera]  REAL
bad!"

<|_=00=_|>

An ironic aspect of this otherwise indigestible flop is that the final
concept, although created as a desperate, expos facto attempt to inject
life
into the film, might have actually worked, had it been in the plan from
the
beginning.

Although the future plot line (or present, according to how you wish to
perceive it) involving Murphy was filmed later, the concept of one plot
line's actions having a direct result on another in the future could have
been interesting. All it needed was a script, production values, creative
foresight and inspired performances by the actors. This film,
unfortunately,
had none of the above.

Moore is convinced that a device slated to be installed on a tank is
defective in its design, and must try to fix it before it's built and put
into use. Two years in the future, sure enough, Murphy is driving a tank
which uses this very device. Will Moore improve the design in time to save
Murphy's life? Well, it's little confusing to flash back and forth between
these plot lines, but they do manage to culminate into a semi-climactic
moment, but much too late to save the viewer from mindless
boredom.
<|_=00=_|>

I actually had a bit part in this film.  It was filmed in Israel around
1985
in the desert and I got to work with Eddie Murphy. In one scene I appear
(for about 10 seconds)standing in a jeep behind Eddie Murphy's jeep. I
only
mention this because I told my parents to see the film in the theater.  My
biggest regret is that they had to pay FULL PRICE to sit through an awful
experience. I would not recommend this film to anyone.

<|_=00=_|>

A truly terrible film.  The only reason to watch this film all the way
through is to see if it gets any worse. Trust me, it does.
<|_=00=_|>

Dudley Moore and Eddie Murphy are two entirely different looking actors who
have two things in common. They were both hugely popular box office comedy
stars throughout the 1980's and they were both part of the cast of this 1984
Paramount release. If these two comedy titans had any scenes together, that
could've made the film really great but despite that setback, the film is
not a total waste. Two stories are told in the film. One has to do with
technology programmer Wylie Cooper's (Moore) chance encounter with a man
who's on the run from some shady corporate criminals and how Cooper's life
changes for the better and for the worse after the encounter. The other is
set two years later and has to do with American soldier Landry (Murphy) test
driving a faulty experimental tank that Cooper had invented and accidentally
driving it into the middle of a battlefield. That tank (Cooper building it
and Landry using it) is what the two stories have in common. The most major
complaint about this film is its constantly shifting from one story to the
other thus confusing some viewers. I managed to follow along though and if
anybody who's thinking of seeing this one can too, you may find both leading
actors in fine form. Just don't expect the comedy sparks of their far more
successful individually starring vehicles including "Arthur" and "Beverly
Hills Cop."   
<|_=00=_|>
I'll go against the crowd and point out that this much-reviled movie
actually was quite prescient in premise. It anticipated a lot of
History... and a lot of Human Error.

Mayhap it was too 'out there' for audiences in 1984,...and mayhap it
has become an easy target for arm chair critics to despise out-of-hand
without due consideration....

But after Afghanistan and Iraq... After the highly-publicized and
critical defense industry design errors such as the Osprey and basics
such as protective armor in Hummvees and personal protective gear for
troops on the ground.... After the loss of life due to a
'so-what-if-it-works-take-the -$$$-and- we'll-fix -it-later-if-we-have
to' attitude prevalent in the defense manufacturing industry....

Can anyone really throw rocks at the plot line of 'Best Defense'...?

Sure, it could have been executed better... Sure, Dudley Moore was
still under the character-success-type-casting curse of '10'; having to
be a perpetually the befuddled Randy-But-Inept Nice Guy in his every
movie role....

Sure Eddie Murphy was ...well...stuck being 'Eddie Murphy'... (but you
really can't take that away from him, y'know !)

I still maintain that in the cold, hard light of 2014... 'Best Defense'
makes A Lot Of Sense....(sadly, so..SO... sorry to say)
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is yet another in a line of films which bags on the American
defense system. Not that I am opposed to this, after all, it's a free
country, but they were very popular in the eighties, during the peak of
the cold war, showing the F.B.I., the C.I.A., and the American military
as Chaplin-like buffoons unaware of everything. This is another
"Ishtar" and it came out a few years earlier. Two big stars in each
film who were box office draws (Warren Beatty and Dustin Hoffman in
"Ishtar" and Eddie Murphy and Dudley Moore in "Best Defense") and
people getting tricked into thinking each film will be entertaining.
"Best Defense" is based on a great book "Easy and Hard Ways Out" by
Robert Grossbach. The book centers almost entirely on the defense lab
and will also go back and forth to show an overseas jet pilot named
"Buchfarer" about to go on a mission with a new jet plane. In the film,
Eddie Murphy, as "Landry", is the "Buchfarer" character and instead of
a jet, it's a tank. Like the book, the film deals with two time
parallels: the present and the past; the past dealing with the defense
lab technical corporation as they are rushing a component that makes
the "war machine" work so that it can get out quickly - and thus
putting the future unknown soldier who will one day run this machine
("Buchfarer" and then "Landry") in jeopardy. The book does it very well
(and there is a very unhappy ending, unlike the movie); the movie does
it horribly. And in the book, the entire plot centers on the tech
fighting to fix this machine, knowing that it won't work and the
corporation wanting to get it out; meanwhile, the movie has so many
sup-plots that this basic premise of the book is lost. Murphy's scenes
seem contrived and pasted, his talent totally wasted and it showed
folks back in those days, after "48 hours", "Trading Places", and
"Beverly Hills Cop", that he was a mere mortal. Dudley Moore plays the
most unlikeable character I have ever seen on film. All I can say is,
read the book. There are so many classic characters, like a guy who
literally lives in the corporation's bathroom, because he'd been fired
the year before, and other classic situations, kind of a "M*A*S*H" in
America; but the movie, having to make up for time, adds a silly
side-story about the Russians and a stolen floppy disc. This might be
one of the worst movies ever made. It just doesn't flow, it isn't fun
to watch, and there is no point at all. One day maybe they'll do a
faithful remake of the Grossbach novel, which you can find on the
internet (don't be tricked by the fact that the novel is now called
"Best Defense"). Director Willard Huck (I can't spell the man's last
name) has ruined this book like he would turn out ruining a great comic
book character, "Howard the Duck", a few years later. Willard is good
friends with some great filmmakers: Lucas, Spielberg, etc., and is a
good writer, but as a director he, like this film, comes up very, very,
very short.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those few films from my childhood that made a strong
impression on me, mainly for the Eddie Murphy's WAM joke. I remembered
it had something to do with a faulty new tank in the Iraq war and US
engineers at home desperately trying to make something work in it. Oh
the good memories.

But now that I rewatched it, well… Eddie Murphy and the tank take up
only 1/5 of the movie, while everything else is dedicated to a poor
plot about a looser caught up in a spy novel, later dropped and
substituted for poor planning by the ministry of defense.

Besides Murphy tank escapade, only the Russian spy was entertaining to
watch, but he only appeared in a couple of scenes. Everything else was
a chore to watch. The special effects aren't that impressive. The idiot
boss is just intolerably dumb. The portrayal of foreigners were horrid.
And I have no idea why the wife and child subplot was even necessary,
because you could literally replace them with a sealing fan to resolve
the main flaw. Oh… Guess I forgot those parts for a reason.

One of the main problems was the editing of events – the tank was
developed after the main plots got resolved, but the movie was spliced
like it all was happening simultaneously. Unfortunately that meant that
the tank flaws were already resolved, or not, so there was really no
suspense.

Let's just say the best parts of the movie were about 5-10 minutes long
and I would not have missed anything rewatching it. At some points I
even confused Dudley Moore's acting for a Rowan Atkinson impersonation.
That confusion kept me more entertained then the actual movie.

At least some of it is good to riff over.
<|_=00=_|>
i'm not sure how else to say it.the above summary pretty much describes
my feelings on this movie.add to that,lots of crude language for no
apparent reason,and you have the recipe for a bad movie.there is some
language that Christians might be offended by.***possible minor
spoiler***Dudley Moore and Eddie Murphy appear in this movie,but as far
as i know,they don't share any scenes together.at least they didn't
through the forty minutes i was able to watch before quitting.***end of
spoiler***.I found Murphy more annoying than anything,and Moore didn't
really leave much of an impression at all.in all pretty much a waste of
time.pretty close to awful,in fact.for me,Best Defense is a 2/10
<|_=00=_|>

BEST DEFENSE is a desperately unfunny comedy starring Dudley Moore and
Eddie
Murphy.  Moore is an enigineer who is designing a new tank.  Murphy is an
Army soldier who takes the tank into combat in Kuwait.  Dreary acting is
not
the only bad thing that comes out of this sorry turkey.  After a failed
test
run, the filmmakers thought they could save grace by adding Murphy to the
cast, but that only made things worse with plot holes and a nonsense
story,
resulting in one of the biggest mistakes ever.

0 out of 5
