

If there is any Australian that I feel sorrier for, it would have to be
Lindy Chamberlain. Her compelling story is one of the more famous court
cases in Australian history. Also known as ‘A cry in the dark', ‘Evil Angel'
shows how divided the Australian public really were towards this case and
how the media can manipulate a story, by favouring just one side of a story
that they believe is the whole truth. When I hear the cry ‘The dingo's got
my baby', it brings back memories from along time ago.

During a camping trip, an infant disappears from her family's tent. When the
child's mother spies a dingo nearby, authorities launch a frantic search,
but all they find is a torn, bloodied garment. The press, distressed by the
mother's seeming "lack of emotion", and suspicious of her religious beliefs,
begin to accuse her of murdering the baby. The sentiment against her begins
to grow, and soon the whole continent is talking about the case. Despite the
lack of evidence, the woman is imprisoned; although investigators eventually
re-examine her story, the damage is done: the innocent mother's relationship
with her husband has been irreparably destroyed. This is the documentary
style film adaptation of the true story of Lindy and Michael
Chamberlain.

This film has some truly amazing performance in it. Meryl Streep is a
wonderful actress, but in this film she does so much that you just have to
like. She really becomes ‘Lindy' and embodies what she actually went
through. I remember reading that Streep had to have speaking classes, so she
could sound ‘Australian', which she does very well. But it is her persona I
like the most. Streep performance as Chamberlain is so flawless, as she
shows no emotion when she is going in and out of court, which is what the
real Lindy Chamberlain did. It is understandable that the general public
would think that Lindy is guilty of murder, which is again testament to
Streep's masterful performance. However in court Lindy is visibly upset,
when she has to recall the night a dingo took her baby.

The other performance which is most noteworthy is that of Sam Neill. While
Neill has gone on to do many big performances in Hollywood blockbusters such
as ‘Jurassic Park' and the Aussie favourite ‘The Dish', this is one film I
continue to remember him from. I like how we see that Michael is visibly
distressed by the whole court case scenario, with him stumbling through the
interrogation when he is on the stand. It is also most taxing on the
couple's personal life, with Michael the first one to crack.

Yet there are some famous Australian cameos from many actors in ‘Evil
Angel'. Look at these for names; Maurie Fields, Charles ‘Bud' Tingwell, John
Howard, Frankie J. Holden, Mark Little, Mark Mitchell, Glenn Robbins and Kym
Gyngell. All of them are well known personalities in Australian TV, and it
is of great significance to this story to have such great fame among the
cast of this film.

Director/Screenwriter of ‘Evil Angel' Fred Schepisi does justice to this
story in many ways. Firstly, Schepisi and co screenwriter Robert Caswell
stuck very close to the story written by John Bryson. Then Schepisi directs
this film in quite a unique way. He points the story in many ways, showing
the Chamberlain's in one shot, then to the media, then to the general
public. This amount of change gives the film great variety, which is good.
If it was fixated with just the Chamberlains, this movie could have had
major problems. 

I also like the many shots of Australia that this film shows off. Having
this tragedy take place in the Northern territory, certainly gave that state
and its famous attraction Ayers Rock (Uluru) some sort reputation, as this
film does too. Yet there are some excellent shots in Alice Springs, Darwin
and in the Chamberlain's home-town (for some time) of Mt. Isa in Queensland.
This is good work of cinematographer Ian Baker. 

So with all those factors taken into consideration, this film looks deep
into what it must be like to go through the loss of a baby child, taken by a
wild animal. It also a fascinating insight into what the media can do to
turn a story and how merciless people can be towards someone that in all
possibility could be ‘innocent'. Although it is 22 years since this horrible
event has happened, I realise that Chamberlain's lives were, and probably
never will be the same again. Michael and Lindy had to go through the most
painful of divorces, and their children had to go grow up with a large
amount of innuendo attached to their lives. I am thankful that Lindy
Chamberlain was released from prison, after serving three and a half years
of a life imprisonment sentence for a crime which she did not commit.

CMRS gives ‘Evil Angel': 4 (Very Good Film)


<|_=00=_|>

Some movies seem to be made before we are ready for them.  As I watched
this
film, made in 1988, in 1999, I thought I was watching the O.J. Simpson
debacle (although I have very different opinions about the innocence of
the
individuals in each situation).

The Australian news media, if this movie is to be believed, devoured the
case of a possible infanticide and truth was left as an afterthought.  It
was scary to see the scenes of invasive, swarming media hordes, ridiculous
accounts of half-truths and lies and debates over the supposed merits of
the
case by persons at all levels of society.

Equally appalling is the media's depiction as indifferent and
uncomprehending of the technical information in the case.  I do wish more
was made of the issue of religious prejudice in the case (the accused are
Seven-Day Adventists).

Today these circuses have become common but that makes the lesson only
more
important.

Streep is excellent as usual, and this is the best I've ever seen Sam
Neill.
The Aussie accents get a bit thick at times but not
incomprehensible.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an extremely-powerful based-on-a-true story film that can be
infuriating to watch. I say that because how brutal a hounding press
can be to people, in this case an innocent Australian couple charged
with killing their baby.

Meryl Streep received a lot of recognition for her performance when
this film came out but I thought Sam Neill was just as good. Let's just
say they both were excellent but the role was little harder for Streep
because she had to learn an Australian accent. (She learned it so well
I had trouble understanding her in parts.)

Without giving anything away, all I can say is this movie will wear you
out emotionally.
<|_=00=_|>

"A Cry in the Dark" is a masterful piece of cinema, haunting, and
incredibly
though provoking.  The true story of Lindy Chamberland, who, in 1980,
witnessed a horrific sight, seeing her 3-month-old baby being brutally
taken
from their family's tent, while camping on the Austrailian outback.
Azaria
(the baby) was never seen again, and the result of her horrendous
disappearance caused a true life frenzy all around the world.  Meryl
Streep
does immaculate justice to the role of Lindy, as she always does.  But
the
one thing that helps "A Cry in the Dark" never fall flat is the brilliant
direction.  A truly inspired and accurate outlook on this baffeling case,
tears are brought to the eyes.  The concept is nothing less then
terrifying,
and afterwards you are left haunted, but also inspired.

<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw "A Cry in the Dark", I had no idea what the plot was.
But when I saw it, I was shocked at what it portrayed. When I saw it a
second time in an Australian Cinema class, I realized a second point:
communication issues. You see, when a dingo snatched Lindy
Chamberlain's (Meryl Streep) baby, she and her husband Michael (Sam
Neill) were grief-stricken but didn't show it. As Seventh Day
Adventists, they believed that God willed this to happen, and so they
couldn't mourn it. But when people all over Australia saw their lack of
sadness, everyone started believing that Lindy did it herself.

The point is, the wrong message got communicated to the public, and it
turned people against Lindy. Even though this was a pure accident, it
still happened. It may be one of the biggest disasters resulting from
the existence of mass media, regardless of any media outlet's political
views.

As for the performances, Streep does a very good job with an Australian
accent (no surprise there), and Sam Neill is equally great. You will
probably get blown away just by what you see here. Definitely one of
Fred Schepisi's best movies ever.
<|_=00=_|>

Meryl Streep was incredible in this film.  She has an amazing knack for
accents, and she shows incredible skill in this film overall.  I really felt
for her when Lindy was being persecuted.  She was played realistically, too.
 She got cranky, upset, and unpleasant as the media and the government
continued their unrelenting witchhunt.  I didn't expect much from the film
initially, but I really got interested in it, and the movie is based on a
real person and real events.  It turned out to be better than I had
anticipated.  Sam Neill was also outstanding; this is the best work I've
seen from him, and I've really liked him in other movies (The Piano, for
example).  I gave the film a 7, but if I could rate just the acting, I'd
give the it a 9.5, and a perfect 10 for Streep.
<|_=00=_|>

An unqualified "10."  The level of writing and acting in this Australian
movie is reminiscent of the very best of "old" Hollywood.  Sam Neill and
Meryl Streep are very good together.  Neill matches Streep line for line,
and take for take -- it is one of the best showcases yet of his prodigious
acting talent and he is at his sexy and gorgeous best, notwithstanding the
intensity of his role.  This engrossing film is a treat for any movie fan
who loves a gripping courtroom drama, portrayed in the most human but
unsentimental terms.  The movie -- which won several top awards in
Australia
-- boasts not only a superlative cast and director, but wonderful and
authentic Australian locales.  It proves that people are the same the
world
over.  And, after all these years, people still delight in repeating the
famous Streep line, accent and all:  "A dingo ate moy baby!"  Including
that
imp "Elaine Benis" on "Seinfeld." 
<|_=00=_|>

This is a true story of an Australian couple wha are charged with murder
when their infant child disappears. Meryl Streep is excellent, as always,
and manages to hold our interest even though she plays a character who isn't
particularly likable.

The media frenzy that surrounded this case in Australia is reminiscent of
the Sam Sheppard murder case in Ohio during the 50's. These real-life
situations demonstrate that the media in fact can affect how a criminal case
is handled. I well remember the Cleveland Plain Dealer running a huge
headline stating "Why Isn't Sam Sheppard in Jail?". The prosecutor
eventually succumbed to this relentless pressure, and Sheppard was tried and
convicted. Only after years in jail was he exonerated.

I love movies which tell a true story, do it in an interesting way, and make
an important point in the process. This is one of those movies. Other good
movies which tell the story of innocent persons charged with crimes include
"Hurricane", "The Thin Blue Line", and "Breaker Morant". In particular, the
latter is another Australian film which is highly recommended.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
The facts in the case of an Australian couple persecuted by a
headline-hungry press should be familiar to viewers of the CBS news
show 60 Minutes, which aired the story (not coincidentally) just before
this film was released. Both versions recount the disappearance during
a weekend camping trip of Lindy and Michael Chamberlain's infant
daughter, and the subsequent three-ring media circus which led to wild
(and totally fabricated) accusations of cult fanaticism and ritual
sacrifices, and eventually to a murder conviction for the bereaved
mother. But the big screen dramatization has more in mind than just a
strong reprimand for misguided journalism ethics. The reporters
covering the case are shown to be more ferocious than the wild dingo
dog claimed by the Chamberlain's to have killed their child, but the
screenplay wisely implicates public opinion as well, which condemned
Lindy Chamberlain to prison for not having a telegenic personality (the
same trait might also lose her sympathy with moviegoers, despite
another challenging performance by Meryl Streep). Director Fred
Schepisi presents the story as a straightforward, undemonstrative
docudrama, letting the cold-blooded courtroom drama speak for itself,
with a pair of excellent actors (Streep and Sam Neill) taking up the
slack.
<|_=00=_|>
Lindy (Meryl Streep) and her husband Michael (Sam Neill) have just
welcomed a baby girl, Azaria. As Seventh Day Adventists, they live
their beliefs every day and soon have Azaria dedicated to God at their
church, with their two older boys looking on. Michael gets a vacation
and the family decides to head to Ayer's Rock, one of the most
impressive tourist spots in all of Australia. Not being wealthy, the
family camps near the site. After a wonderful first day, Lindy puts
baby Azaria to sleep in one of the tents. Suddenly, she hears Azaria
crying. As Lindy rushes to the tent, a dingo dog is just exiting,
shaking his head. The baby is gone and soon, so is the dingo. Although
the entire camp looks for the baby, she is not found. Concluding she is
dead and that the dingo made off with their beloved child, the
Chamberlains struggle to accept God's decision and go on with their
lives. But, unfortunately, the story gets sensational coverage in the
news media and soon the tale is circulated that Lindy murdered the
baby. She is subsequently arrested and put on trial. How could this
happen? This is a great depiction of real events that shows how "mob
rule" is not a figment of the imagination. The entire country turns
against the Chamberlains, in part because they are seen as odd. Streep
gives her best performance ever as the complex Lindy, whose own
strong-willed demeanor works against her every step of the way. Neill,
likewise, does a wonderful job as the hesitant and confused Michael.
The cast is one of the largest ever, with depictions of folks around
the country getting their digs into Lindy's case. The costumes,
scenery, script, direction and production are all top of the line. If
you have never seen or heard of this film, remedy that straight away.
It is not a far cry from reality to say that this "Cry" should be seen
by all who care about film and about the misused power of the media.
