

The first time I saw this movie I was about 6 or 7. It really scared me, I
remember having nightmares of Mombie for weeks... I also remember rewatching
it week after week. Now 10 years later I've rediscovered it and it's still
chilling. Not because it was meant to be a horror, but because the imagery
and plot is so vivid and captivating I can't help but feel like I'm really
drawn into another world. Very few movies have done that for me... this is
right up there with movies like Willow, Labrynth, and The Neverending Story.
If you like musicals, bright colors and munchkin's dancing around, then stay
away from this one, but if you want to go on a journey of pure imagination
that will leave you breathless on the edge of your seat, rediscover Oz for
yourself!
<|_=00=_|>
After reading about 40 of the other comments here, all of whom say
RETURN TO OZ is dark and disturbing, I will make a different comment.
In the early 80s Disney certainly were off the cash trail with a range
of films, each expertly produced, that were box office disasters. One
may recall SOMETHING WICKED THIS WAY COMES, TRON, THE BLACK CAULDRON,
ONE MAGIC Christmas and a few others that had much to offer any
thinking crowd,and each had special effects that were quite
astonishing. Disney were in a very bleak period and the films,
attempting to reflect perhaps a more mature or even grown up
perspective chose, oh dear I have to say it: a dark and disturbing
theme. At the time of release every critic bleated at the grim and
melancholy tone of RETURN TO OZ, and sadly themselves neglected to
celebrate the original book look, a choice Disney execs applauded
themselves for. One Exec infamously said to us theatre owners: "We're
going for the Frank L Baum book illustrations and nothing like that
1939 vaudeville thing". Oh dear, I thought at the time. You mean the
world's most popular kids film? Well. $27 million dollars later in
production costs returned maybe a quarter in theatre film rentals and
RETURN TO OZ for all its merit and lavish production care and superb
scary special effects....was consigned to the Disney dud bin. At the
time I was irritated by the fixed goony expressions on Jack Pumpkinhead
and the Scarecrow (loved Tik-tok, though, a fascinating and completely
compelling design and movement piece) This time around I didn't mind it
and actually appreciated the fact that they were 'book' expressions.
Viewed 20 years later on a Disney DVD of dubious quality, I have to say
it is a film more suited to these dark and disturbing times and if
released today would certainly get a better reception and better
crits...and possibly make a lot of money. I think the world is tuned
into this type of family film more now than in the Flashdance 80s. The
production values of RETURN TO OZ are simply breathtaking. Scene after
scene perfectly realised: the green walled horror of the psychiatric
asylum in reel one, the amazing claymation of the Gnome King, and
especially the glittering halls of Mombi's castle. One genuinely
screamworthy scene in the hall of Heads with a headless Queen rushing
about in a nightmarish vision is almost only for adults, so intense is
it's genuine horror. The glittering climax of a restored Emerald City
is a triumph of green and silver/gold set design, I defy any viewer not
to rewind it several times just to see each and every part. Yes
nominated for 5 Oscars, it won none and vanished for 20 years. The
no-marquee name Fairuza Balk didn't help the public embrace, no matter
how exquisite she is. At least she wasn't named Soleil Moon Fry. In the
same class as The Dark Crystal and Labyrinth, RETURN TO OZ now deserves
its place there as part of a trilogy of superbly crafted fantasy for
smart kids and astonished adults. That 'vaudeville thing' it certainly
isn't. But not a failure either. The DVD is lacking trailers and
production material that should and could be included. Bad Disney! Good
film! I also defy any viewer not to shriek with laughter at the Gnome
King revealing he is wearing the ruby slippers, a sly joke well
presented.
<|_=00=_|>

As a young kid, The Wizard Of Oz was one of my favourite-est movies in the
world. The movie was bright, colourful, cheerful, happy and undoubtedly
saccharine. And while it was a Box-Office smash and collected millions of Oz
fans worldwide, it displayed nearly none of the points that made the book
series so successful. So when after viewing Return To Oz, I was extremely
happy.

While thousands blasted the film calling it 'dark' and even 'scary', I
thoroughly enjoyed it. New characters, magic powders, creepier witches,
talking chickens and flying couches - what more could an imaginative
youngster want?!

Faruiza Balk portayed Dorothy Gale exceptionally well, and at times, takes
on Judy Garland's version so similair, it's scary! Return To Oz was, I mean,
is, better than the original, because it was more based on the books,
whereas The Wizard Of Oz was a cross between the original book, bittersweet
sets and a symphony orchestra.

While some disagree, I believe that 'Return' was not all a weak sequel, but
more of a non-sequel sequel, which had little to do with the original, and
had an exciting, haunting, script, which worked really
well.

Well it's been about 10 years since I first saw Return To Oz, and I still
think that it's one of the best children's movies ever made (however scary)
and it's in everyone's best interests to rent it out - even if you hated
it's predacessor.
<|_=00=_|>

There have been many people since this film came out who have tried to
compare it to The Wizard of Oz. I don't think you can compare the two films
and neither film is better than the other. They're both
fantastic.

This is an enjoyable movie which can be enjoyed time and time again. Dorothy
returns to Oz and teams up with Tik-Tok (a robot), Jack Pumpkinhead (a
pumpkin man obviously) and the Gump (don't ask)to battle the evil Nome King
and Princess Mombi. There's plenty of fun throughout as Dorothy and friends
battle the likes of the wheelies and all manner of creatures.

The finale is perhaps one of the best ever for a fantasy film. Yes, it
really is that good as Dorothy and friends meet up with the Scarecrow and
battle the evil Nome King and Princess Mombi.

The original Wizard Of Oz was a timeless classic still talked about today.
It is no exaggeration to call Return To Oz a classic movie
either.
<|_=00=_|>

Despite the title, this is not a sequel to the classic film that everyone
loves. This is a different story about Dorothy and OZ that is actually more
faithful to the series of L. Frank Baum books than the Judy Garland film
was. Tik-Tok, Jack Pumpkinhead, Mombi, the gnome king, and the wheelers were
as much a part of the original stories (published in the very early 1900's)
as the scarecrow and tin man were. 
 I understand why some people don't like the movie as I didn't the first
time I saw it. No film that trashes emerald city and has Dorothy recieving
shock treatment is going to make fans of the first film very happy.

However on my second veiwing years later it was nice to get an idea of the
much darker vision that the author of the books had created. He created an
OZ that had a very scary side to it, but ultimately good would always
triumph. Although this isn't a film for kids under 8 years of age, I believe
most kids would probably like it. I do think the special effects could have
been a little better, as this was made in 1985. And I wish that they would
have had Dorothy interact more with the scarecrow, lion and tin
man.

If you only want to see more of the first film then I wouldn't recommend
this, otherwise enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

To truly understand and appreciate "Return to OZ", you've got to know two
things.

First off, this is NOT a follow-up to the classic MGM movie.  This can't be
emphasized enough.  It is actually a synthesis of the first five or so
sequels to the BOOK.  (This isn't a dig at the movie, mind you.  If you
don't like it on some level or other, you can't be human.  It's just that
the movie was based on the book in the respect that the characters in the
movie had the same names as the characters in the book.)

Secondly, L. Frank Baum's original, printed-page OZ is, quite possibly, the
most messed up imaginary universe ever created.  There's a land of beings
who throw their own heads at you as weapons.  There's a land of sentient
vegetables who raise *people* in their gardens (think "Motel Hell" and
you've got the idea).  To top it all off, it turns out that Dorothy's
buddies are really good at killing things; in particular the dear,
heartless
Tin Man who bloodies up his hatchet with unsettling apathy.

What I'm trying to get at here is that "Return to OZ" is an OZ movie that
is
much more faithful to the books.  Much more "THIS is how long you have to
be
alive!" than "We represent the Lullaby League".  I think it goes without
saying that you'd be legally insane to show it to little kids, but fantasy
fans, OZ enthusiasts, and fans of cult movies should hunt it down as soon
as
possible.

By the way, please note that the old-school herky-jerky puppets and
claymation monsters in this movie are scary as all get out.  Compare this
to
the awful remake of "the Haunting" with it's stupid cartoonish CGI
creatures
(and this isn't a dig at computer animation, but since the technique is
inheritely realist, it's not scary).  There is a lesson
here.
<|_=00=_|>
Cherubic Dorothy Gale is catapulted back to the magical world of Oz in
this enchanting, but very atypical Disney Production that got released
46 years after Victor Fleming's original (none of the original
cast-members lived long enough to ever see this sequel!). In the story,
however, only six months have passed since Dorothy was brought to Oz by
a tornado. During some medical tests, performed because she keeps
talking about her unbelievable journey, a mysterious girl helps Dorothy
escape from the hospital and back to Oz for a new adventure! The
screenplay, based on two L. Frank Baum novels at once, introduces a
large amount of imaginative new characters that are either Dorothy's
loyal friendsor malicious new enemies. It soon becomes clear that she
was called back to Oz for a reason, as the evil Nome King has turned
everyone to stone and the mad Princess Mombi is after more human heads
for her collection. Despite the presence of a talking chicken, this is
a frighteningly grim and obscure fantasy tale, perhaps not even
suitable for the typical Disney-target groups. The events and
characters in "Return to Oz" are often quite macabre (decapitation for
a hobby, eerie guys on wheels) and the tone of the film is heavier
since there isn't any singing and dancing going on. Perhaps a little
too scary for the smallest children but "Return to Oz" nonetheless is a
compelling and spontaneous adventure, highly recommended to those who
like their fairy-tales sinister. The special effects are really
terrific, with stunning stop-motion animations and some very engaging
mechanical machinery (Tic-Tok!). The young Fairuza Balk is an
unbelievably convincing follow-up to Judy Garland! The talented Piper
Laurie ("Carrie") is regretfully underused, though. This film, along
with "The Dark Crystal" and "The Neverending Story", was a huge
favorite of mine when I was young and they seemly only got better with
years. Good stuff.
<|_=00=_|>

Return To Oz was the first horror film i ever saw, and i love it today
just
as much as i did when i was 5.  yes, i do believe Return To Oz is a
horror,
but one that children should see.  it is horror just as the brothers Grim
are horror.  it is horror because everything in the eyes of a child can be
very frightening.  and yes, i do believe this horror is better than The
Wizard of Oz, despite what all my contempories might believe.  as a kid, i
could not get over the fact the Judy Garland was too old, that they would
not stop singing and dancing.  come on, this was my childhood, i needed a
good rush, not a bunch of eye-candy and disturbing munchkin voices.
little
dorothy walking down a corridor of decapitated head in ornate display
cases,
afraid that she might wake them, that the decapitated body would come in
search of her in her terrifying gothic splendor-this moment has stayed
with
me, has always frightened me, but i'm glad that i experienced it, it is
healthy for a child to be afraid, humility is something everyone needs to
embrace, and this film with its lush terror and build up to a phenomenal
climax as apocolyptic as anything today still inspires me toward something
the silly set pieces and hammy emotion of Wizard of Oz, cannot do.  Return
to Oz is a lost masterpiece, terrifying, energetic, creative, and
wonderful.
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly I do not know how I am this sane because when I think of my
childhood, one of my favorite movies was Return to Oz. I absolutely
adored this movie, but it scared the heck out of me. I was shopping and
found Return to Oz on DVD and without hesitation bought it, it's always
nice to go down nostalgia lane and I was thinking maybe since I was a
kid I was just easily scared by silly things, nope, I was so wrong.
This is a major mind screw of a movie. However, I cannot believe that I
still adore this movie, I love the risks it took and that it didn't
insult children's intelligence like most movies do. Don Bluth, one of
the greatest animators and story tellers of our time, said that kids
are more resilient than you would think. That's so true and Return to
Oz is a wonderful magical movie that leaves you breathless.

Dorothy Gale has become a melancholic child who cannot stop dreaming of
the people she met in the magical world of Oz, concerning Aunt Em and
Uncle Henry. The two decide to take her to see Doctor Worley, known for
his shock therapy treatments. Before going, Dorothy finds a key she
believes her friends from Oz sent to her on a shooting star. Aunt Em
leaves Dorothy at Dr. Worley's laboratory under the care of Nurse
Wilson. As she is taken to have treatment, the lab has a blackout, and
Dorothy is saved by a mysterious girl who reveals that some patients
have been driven insane by Worley's treatment. The two escape but fall
into a river. The blonde girl vanishes underwater and Dorothy returns
to Oz. Upon awakening, Dorothy finds her chicken who can now talk named
Billina for company. The two discover the ruined Yellow Brick Road,
which leads them to the Emerald City, now in ruins, missing its
emeralds, and all of its citizens including the Tin Woodman and
Cowardly Lion turned to stone. She swears that she will restore Oz with
the help of some new friends while being chased by some disturbing new
villains.

I remember as a kid being terrified by Princess Mumbi, she has this
room full of heads that she can change as she pleases and when Dorothy
has to go to retrieve a potion from her cabinet with the "main head"
she accidentally knocks over a jar and the head screams "Dorothy
Gail!!!" and all the other heads start screaming! God, that scene is
still horrifying to watch! But there is an extremely touching scene
that always gets me in tears, Jack Pumpkinhead who Dorothy meets asks
her if he could call her mom until he finds his real mother, she agrees
with a kind heart and as they are laying on their flying couch called
The Gump, he puts a scarf on her and says "good night, mom". I loved
their relationship, it was beautiful. Also she has a great relationship
with Tik Tok, a robot who was part of the Army of Oz and has to be
wound up in order to work, his personality fits so extremely well with
the group since you have the silliness, you need the intelligence too.
The effects are still outstanding to this day in my opinion, the acting
is very good, the sets, the lighting, the costumes, the characters, I
just love Return to Oz. It's a great movie. Parents today are so afraid
of showing their children movies like Return to Oz because it might
give them nightmares, take advice from me and Mr. Bluth, your kids are
a lot stronger than you think, and I'm perfectly fine and I'm so glad I
have this movie in my collection. It's a wonderful film not to be
missed.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this for the first time when I was under ten and wasn't scared at
all. In fact I loved it, but because it was on television I forgot
about it for a long time. I recently rediscovered the movie and even as
an adult I still love it. Yes, the movie is considerably darker the
Wizard, but in my opinion it is a better and more interesting story. In
light of the violence in movies today I do not think it is out of the
question to allow a ten year old to see it and if you are a teenager or
older I would certainly recommend this film. If you found Wizard of Oz
too cutesy for your taste you may be pleasantly surprised by this
underrated film.
