

I probably never would have seen this movie if my mother hadn't persuaded me
to take my little brother to see it. I enjoyed it a lot the first time, but
it was only when I saw it again a couple of years later on video I realised
just how superb a movie it is.
It's not a clever or complex movie, it's not the kind of film which
works on an adult level as well as on a children's one. However, three
aspects of it make it truly great:

1: The music. 'Under The Sea' richly deserved its Oscar, but 'Part Of Your
World' deserved it even more.

2. The animation. Quite simply, it's absolutely gorgeous. The underwater
scenes in particular take your breath away.

3. The Story. How can you resist a love story that touching?

I urge anyone with even a touch of sentimentality about them to set their
predjudices aside and see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Disney animated films had become somewhat second-rate by 1989 and it
appeared that one of the great genres in the cinema was on life-support.
But
that all changed with "The Little Mermaid". The film is a cinematic
classic
that tells the story of a young mermaid princess who just wants to be
human
so she makes a deal with an evil sea witch to get her wish, but she loses
her beautiful voice in the process and she must be kissed by her true love
to get it back. A really great motion picture that has some really
memorable
songs in it. 5 stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
The Little Mermaid is one of the best Disney films of the 80's! It's
such a wonderful film and is such a tear jerker, lol. The songs, the
story, the animation, the voices, were just so wonderful and perfect.
This is the film that I'm sure will go on for generations to come, I
just showed it to my cousin recently, he's 6, and he just loves it as
well. I remember watching this movie when I was a little girl and I
just wanted a friend like Sebastian, he was so much fun, even though
he's somewhat of a buzz kill, he can really get the party going. Just
the whole story is a blast to watch and is so beautiful.

Ariel is one of the many princesses of King Triton's mighty kingdom
under the sea, but she has a different dream. She goes up constantly to
the shore to collect human items and wonders what it would be like to
be a human instead of a mermaid. One day when she gets into a nasty
fight with her father, Ursella, an evil octopus woman who wants to take
over King Triton's kingdom, grants Ariel's wish, but she can only stay
human if she can get her crush, Eric, to say her name, sounds easy,
right? Well, Ursella takes her voice away, but her intentions are for
Ariel to fail and make sure that she takes over the kingdom.

The Little Mermaid is such a fun Disney film and is a great treasure of
our time. I just love the song "Under the sea", it's so much fun to
sing and dance too, I admit it, I'm a dork, I still sing and dance to
it when I see it. I highly recommend this movie for anyone, it's a true
Disney classic that is so much fun, I guarantee you that you might shed
a tear when Ariel says "Daddy", you'll see what I mean when you watch
it.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Yeah, yeah... It's the little mermaid, the same cute barbie-like character
little girls love so much...
But the movie is great. If you just free yourself from the sissy pink image
of the movie you're in for a treat.

The songs are great, by the same team who gave us Little Shop Of Horrors:
Alan Menken and Howard Ashman who teamed up in Beauty and the Beast and
Aladdin as well. Aladdin was their last project together with Ashman's
untimely death from AIDS in 1991.

The story is funny and romantic, so who cares if it's not following the
original tale? A perfect movie for everyone, not just little
girls.
<|_=00=_|>

I was definitely no kid when I saw "The Little Mermaid"; in fact, I was 20.
I was thoroughly captivated by this movie - one of the last real delights
from Disney's regular animation crews (before they had to get help from
Pixar and Tim Burton) - and the Mouse couldn't have wished for a better
movie to get them back on the proper road, animation-wise. (Of course, after
this, "Aladdin" and "Beauty and the Beast" they've slipped a bit - though
they're still better than DreamWorks.)

Though not exactly loyal to the original story - Hans Christian Andersen was
much more keen on unhappy endings - it's doubtful it would have worked as
well if it had. The movie has just about everything going for it... lush
animation, spirited musical numbers (this started Alan Menken's run of
success for Disney, and he's surely had enough time to refresh himself by
now, and for us all to forget "Pocahontas"), wonderfully evil villain,
likeable supporting players, and my all-time favourite Disney heroine, the
endearing and lovely Ariel (remember the episode of "Cheers" when Norm said
he fancied her? She got a lot of real life guys' hearts - beat that,
Princess Fiona from "Shrek").

And as a plus, the subsequent TV series (set before the movie) even managed
to capture some of the spirit of the movie. But go for the original... a
classic.
<|_=00=_|>

The mermaid herself is charming.  She is animated with real passion - and
voiced with real passion too, by Jodi Benson, who provides a powerful
argument that whoever provides the speaking voice should also provide the
singing voice.  She is an innocent heroine but by no means a colourless one.
 That the prince should fall in love with her, on just seeing her and
hearing her voice, is entirely credible.

The same could not be said for Andersen's original mermaid, who is a very
cold fish indeed, solely concerned with grabbing immortality, considering
the prince as no more than a handy means to it.  It's this (and the high
value placed on Christianity at the expense of decency) that makes
Andersen's ending so insufferable.  Obviously, another ending had to be
found; and while it must be said that the big ending Musker and Clements
came up with is a weak one, it must also be said that it's an
improvement.

Musker and Clements still have a problem with their finales (witness
`Aladdin' and `Hercules'), but they have countervailing strengths, and those
strengths are most apparent here.  The songs are all exceptionally staged
(the well-known `Under the Sea' actually being the least effective), the
comedy is sharp and well-timed, and - more obviously here than anywhere else
- they really believe in what they're doing.  They give credit to Howard
Ashman for this and they could be right; whatever the reason, an air of
innocence and sincerity pervades `The Little Mermaid' which makes it - and
her - utterly irresistible.
<|_=00=_|>

The Little Mermaid is one of Disney's best animated motion pictures. It
tells the classic Hans Christian Anderson story of a mermaid who wishes she
could be human in order to capture the love of a human prince. The animation
is beautiful, in fact I think this is one of Disney's most flawless films.
It features lovable characters: Ariel the little mermaid is one of my
favorite 'Disney girls', Sebastian the crab, Scuttle the wacky seagull,
Flounder the... flounder, Triton Ariel's father the Sea King and of course
prince charming- Eric. And don't think I forgot the most despised octopus of
the oceans- Ursula and her two eels Flotsam and Jetsum. Great beginning and
great ending... and of course a lovable story. The music is beautiful (and
rightfully won the Oscar for best score and best song). The score is by Alan
Menken (who also provided us with the scores of Aladdin and Beauty and the
Beast). Some of the most beautiful Disney songs are in The Little Mermaid-
Part of Your World, Kiss the Girl and for a little bit of dancin' Under the
Sea. A movie for all ages, you will be enchanted by Ariel's world under the
sea, by the wacky characters, the cruel but in a strange way lovable Ursula,
the score, the songs, the story and the animation. I hope everybody has The
Little Mermaid in their video collection to one day show their children and
grandchildren or any youngster (or adult for that matter). You will be
captured by Ariel and want to be part of her (most intriguing) world.

<|_=00=_|>

Ariel is a fiery, independent teenage mermaid who falls in love with a
prince. She literally makes a deal with the devil to get her man. I love
how
sweet Ariel is with Eric, especially when she can't talk! Sebastian,
Scuttle, and Flounder are all very funny, the animation, voice-overs and
music are incredible! Who can resist the urge to sing and dance to "Under
The Sea"? A fun, enjoyable movie that the whole family will love and
treasure.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie when I was very young and I loved it. It had a perfect
fairy-tale ending and totally followed the formula for Disney movies in a
great way. It really got it's message across with catchy tunes and fun
characters.

On the down side, while it had a great message, it didn't stay true to what
Hans Christian Andersen wrote. I hadn't read Andersen's version until very
recently, but I loved it. I thought it had a much better and far more
realistic message than the Disney movie. Andersen said that if you're a
good
person, while you may not get your reward in life, being good is it's own
reward. Disney, on the other hand, said that if you risk everything for the
one you love, things will work out in the end. While that's a nice message
for little kids that is very unrealistic. Good people are hurt all the
time.

I've heard people say that if girls grow up watching this, they will learn
that big breasts, a small waist, and having a man by your side are what's
important in life. This movie was made the year I was born, so naturally, I
grew up on it. I don't hold myself to unrealistic standards or feel like I
must have a man to go on. So, while I don't know about all the other little
girls out there, but Disney didn't corrupt me. 
<|_=00=_|>

It has been ten years since "The Little Mermaid" was released.  Back when
Disney originally released the film, I was both excited and apprehensive.
Excited, because it is one of the best children's stories and one of my
favorites.  Apprehensive, because I knew Disney would change the ending
and
give it a happy ending, which is understandable but still unfortunate.
When
I first saw it, I liked it much more than I thought I would, and after
each
repeated viewing, I have liked it more and more.  I am now convinced this
is
the second best American Animated film, after "Beauty and the Beast".  The
music, story, writing, and animation are superb as others have stated, but
the villainess, Ursula, is also a major factor in the success of the film.
She is the best written and performed of all Disney villains.  She is
purely
evil but totally believable.  Pat Carroll, who I have often noticed but
never really considered, did a fabulous job with Ursula's
characterization.
The music and songs are consistantly very good.  There is no deep thought
to
this one, but "The Little Mermaid" is artfully near-perfect
entainment.
