
Owen loves his Mamma...only he'd love her better six feet under in this
dark, laugh-out-loud comedy that both stars and is directed by Danny
DeVito, with admirable assists from Billy Crystal and Anne Ramsey in
the title role.

"Throw Momma From The Train" is a terrific comedy, even if it isn't a
great film. It's too shallow in parts, and the ending feels less
organic than tacked on. But it's a gut-splitting ride most of the way,
with Crystal and DeVito employing great screen chemistry while working
their own separate comic takes on the essence of being a struggling
writer (DeVito is avid but untalented; Crystal is blocked and bitter).

Crystal's Professor Donner believes his ex-wife stole his book (the
unfortunately titled "Hot Fire") and can't write more than the opening
line of his next book, which doesn't come easy. He teaches a creative
writing class of budding mediocrities, including a middle-aged woman
who writes Tom Clancy-type fiction but doesn't know what that thing is
the submarine captain speaks through; and an upholstery salesman who
wants to write the story of his life. Mr. Pinsky is probably the
funniest character for laughs-per-minutes-on-screen, an ascot-wearing
weirdo who sees literature as an excuse to write his opus: "100 Girls
I'd Like To Pork."

Then there's DeVito's Owen Lift, who calls himself Professor Donner's
"star pupil" even though the teacher won't read his work in class. Owen
is a somewhat unusual character to star in a movie, a man-child in his
late 30s who lives with his overbearing mother, Anne Ramsey, who calls
him "lardass" and other endearing sentiments. In any other movie, we'd
be asked to feel sorry for Owen, but "Throw Momma From The Train" piles
life's cruelties onto this sad sack for laughs and expects us to go
along. That's one big reason why this film probably loses a lot of
people.

For those of us who enjoy the humor of this character, even identifying
with him, and take the rest of what we see here as a lark, it's not as
big a stretch to go along with the bigger gambit this comedy takes,
asking us to watch in amusement while Owen enlists Professor Donner's
help in a plan to kill his mother. Actually, he first goes to Hawaii to
kill Donner's hated ex, then tells the professor it's his turn to kill
Mrs. Lift, "swapping murders" as seen in Hitchcock's "Strangers On A
Train."

As a director, DeVito not only complements his actors' performances
with scene-setting that places the accent on dialogue, he makes some
bold visual statements, throwing in bits of amusing unreality to keep
the audience on its toes (and away from taking things too seriously.)

Also helping matters is writer Stu Silver, who keeps the laughs coming
with his quotable patter. "You got rats the size of Oldsmobiles here."
"She's not a woman...She's the Terminator." "One little murder and I'm
Jack the Ripper." Those are all Crystal's words, but some of the
funniest lines, which work only in context but absolutely kill, are
DeVito's and Ramsey's. Apparently Silver never wrote another screenplay
after this, according to the IMDb, and that's a shame, because he had
real talent for it.

The best scene in this movie, when Crystal meets Ramsey, was actually
used in its entirety as a theatrical 'coming attraction' presentation,
the only time I've seen a movie promoted that way. Owen introduces the
professor to his mother as 'Cousin Patty,' and when Momma says he
doesn't have a Cousin Patty, panicky Owen loses it. 'You lied to me,'
he yells out, slamming the professor's forehead with a pan.

Of course, in reality the professor wouldn't groan out something witty
from the floor, but 'Throw Momma From The Train' works effectively at
such moments, when playing its Looney Tunes vibe for all its worth.
DeVito hasn't disappeared from films, of course, but it's a mystery why
he hasn't really followed up on the directorial promise of this movie.
Maybe it's because, as 'Throw Momma From The Train's lack of mainstream
success shows, his kind of vision isn't to everyone's tastes. That's
too bad for those of us who can watch this over and over, and like it.
<|_=00=_|>
Billy Crystal is Larry, a writer who hasn't written and is suspected of
murder in "Throw Momma from the Train," costarring Danny Devito and
Anne Ramsey. The phrase "black comedy" was invented for this insanity,
which is a take-off on Hitchcock's "Strangers on a Train." In fact,
Owen (Devito) gets the idea of having Larry kill his mother in exchange
for Owen killing Larry's ex from watching that famous film. "I saw the
movie. Criss-cross," Owen tells Larry. Not that Larry knows what he's
talking about until it appears it's too late - just like "Strangers."
Larry, a writing teacher, claims that his ex-wife, played by Kate
Mulgrew, stole his book and put her name on it. She has become a big
celebrity, appearing on "Oprah," where she refers to Larry as "a
beast." Owen is in Larry's class. He lives with an abusive Neanderthal
mother (Ramsey) and has visions of poisoning her, sticking a scissors
in her head - you name it. It's not long after seeing "Strangers on a
Train" that he's in Honolulu, stalking Larry's wife. While she's
leaning over a boat railing trying to get an earring, Owen stands
behind her and creeps up...Soon the police are looking for Larry to
question him, but he's at Owen's where he's being encouraged to live up
to his end of a bargain he had no idea he made. You know,
"criss-cross." There are several scenes copied from "Strangers," which
are hilarious. I especially loved Larry's confession to the sleeping
Mrs. Lift, Owen's mother, similar to when Guy thinks he's talking to
Bruno's stepfather.

Crystal and DeVito are complete masters of comic dialogue and timing
and will leave you laughing, often out loud. Ramsey is repulsively
funny - a totally "out there" performance. Kim Griest and Rob Reiner
also have roles - Griest is Crystal's girlfriend, and Reiner has what
amounts to a cameo.

The ending is very clever, and the whole film will leave you laughing.
<|_=00=_|>

Throw Momma from the Train, could best be described as a newer version of
Hitchcock's "Strangers on a Train". Stu Sliver's script was creative and
very darkly comic. 

Danny DeVito stars (and also directs) as Owen, a sort of dim-witted writing
student who lives with his monstrous mother (Anne Ramsey). Owen's writing
teacher, Larry (Billy Crystal) is having trouble with his writing career
because his wife (Kate Mulgrew) stole his first book and made it her own
bestseller and lives the highlife in Hawaii. After Owen constantly annoys
Larry for days about his first story, he wrote from class, Larry suggests
that Owen see a Hitchcock movie in order to write the perfect murder mystery
novel. Owen then gets the idea from "Strangers on a Train" that he will go
to Hawaii and murder Larry's wife, while Larry will kill his mother. But
Larry has the motive, and with the police coming after him, Larry now has
the opportunity to kill off the meanest old lady, he's ever seen, but
realizes that she is harder to get rid of than both he and Owen thought.

Throw Momma from the Train, I think is a fun comic adventure, both Danny
DeVito and Bill Crystal are funny, while Anne Ramsey's Oscar-nominated role
of Momma is hysterically frightening. There are a lot of laughs in this
film, especially the classic "One Hundred Girls I'd Like to Fork" story. Kim
Griest, Annie Ross and Bruce Kirby also star, with Rob Reiner, Oprah Winfrey
and Danny DeVito's own father in law, Philip Perlman make cameos. This is a
good example of classic black comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
Black comedy isn't always an easy sell. Every now and then you get a
black comedy that is hugely successful, like Fargo, for example. But
usually they don't often find big audiences. People seem to either set
their minds for intellectual comedy, or for serious mayhem. There
doesn't seem to be a big market for a good mixture of both. Throw Momma
From the Train was a fairly decent hit, yet few people seem to remember
much about it in this day and age. Danny DeVito just about hit this one
all the way out of the park back in 1987.

DeVito plays an odd mamma's boy named Owen looking to rid himself of
his outrageously overbearing and unpleasant mother whom he still lives
with. The mother is played by Anne Ramsey, who passed away shortly
after this was released, and she is quite a caricature. She is loud,
ugly, rude, and overbearing. Though Owen hardly seems like he could
take care of himself, he wants desperately to have his mother offed. He
fantasizes about it in some truly weird scenes, but he clearly doesn't
have the guts to actually do it himself. That's where Billy Crystal
comes in. Crystal plays Larry Donner, Owen's creative writing teacher
at a nearby community college. Larry is a paranoid would-be
intellectual novelist who claims his ex-wife stole his novel and made
millions off it. He is currently trying to write a new one, but cannot
even come up with a decent first sentence. "The night was...." Owen
hears Larry wish his ex-wife were dead during an outburst at the school
cafeteria. And borrowing the idea from Strangers on a Train, Owen
decides to travel to Hawai'i and murder Larry's ex-wife. Once it
appears he has done so, he expects Larry to return the favor and kill
his mother. The resulting action is often quite funny, and even
poignant. It's certainly never dull and often full of surprises.

The acting is exceptional, even if Ramsey was a bit over the top.
Crystal is as good as he can be, and DeVito has always been undervalued
as a performer. The film relies on quite a bit of physical comedy which
usually works, often painfully so. The film makes use of some truly
innovative editing techniques in some scenes, and the off-beat tone is
truly refreshing. I have often been critical of the late 1980s as being
a time of artistic malaise and down right lazy film-making. Throw Momma
From the Train takes chances. Both in how its characters are drawn as
well as its general plot. How many comedies revolve around a son having
his mother murdered? The film isn't too long, and it is chock full of
laughs. Writers are apt to find it more interesting than the general
public, but it can still be enjoyed by just about anyone. 9 of 10
stars.

The Hound.
<|_=00=_|>
Throw Momma From The Train is a good black comedy from Danny DeVito...
Billy Crystal is great as Larry, a frustrated writer who wishes his
ex-wife were dead. Danny DeVito plays against type as Owen, a childlike
psychotic who allows his monster of a mother to run his life. Wouldn't
life be simpler is these two could murder the women that make them
miserable?

The first two-thirds of the movie are funny, especially the scenes
involving Larry's writing class. But somewhere along the way it becomes
a frantic nightmare, with Larry fighting for his sanity while a "kooky"
musical score blares incessantly on the soundtrack. And the
inconsistencies of Owen's character are more than a little distracting.

In the end, though, "Throw Momma From The Train" is an entertaining,
original movie with some very funny scenes. It is worth checking out if
you can rent it or see it on cable.

GRADE: B-
<|_=00=_|>

For those that recall those lines, you also know how entertaining this film
was.  

What happens when you take Hitchcock style suspense and paranoia and mix it
in with traditional ,theatrical style comedy.  You get "Throw Mamma From the
train.  

This is the story about two guys with the same problem. 

Larry Donner (played by Billy Crystal) is suffering from severe writters'
block, brought on by the success of the novel that his Ex-wife (Make
Milgrew) stole from him.

Owen Lift (played by Danny DeVito) is suffering from the ability to write
because of his nasty, demanding, over-bearing mother (played by Ann
Ramsey).

Larry, who is Owens' creative writing teacher, tries to advise him on the
the fundamentals on writing a good murder novel.  His one tactic is for Owen
to see a Hitchcock film and understand the importance of motive and alibi. 
Owen takes the advise the wrong way and thinks that Larry wants him to
participate in a criss-cross murder plot for the other. And the mayham
begins.

Billy Crystral does some of his best work in this film as he goes through a
rollercoaster of emotions from all the madness he endures. 

Danny DeVito comes through, not only as the simpathetic Owen (who is quite
distant from his popular Louie DePalma persona) but also as director. 
DeVito uses not only his keen understanding of comedy, but also some clever
camera techniques.  

Ann Ramsey is the quintessential mother from Hell.  She's so mean and nasty
that she makes you want to jump in and squeeze the life out of her yourself.
 

The film is also complimented by the Art Direction of Barry Sonninfeld
(director of the Adams Family films) and a memerable musical score by David
Newman.

"Throw Mamma From the Train" is slap-stick, suspense filled semi-classic
that no fan of these talents should pass up. 
<|_=00=_|>
The college teacher Larry Donner (Billy Cristal) is a blocked writer
since his former wife Margareth (Kate Mulgrew) ruined him, stealing his
novel that became a best-seller. He does not hide his hatred for
Margareth, upsetting his girlfriend Beth Ryan (Kim Greist), who is an
anthropologist teacher in the same college. While giving classes of
Creative Writing, he is stalked by the student Owen (Danny DeVito) that
wants to know his opinion about his crime tale. Larry tells that he did
not like it, and explains that in every mystery tale, the murderer
should eliminate the motive and establish an alibi, otherwise he would
get caught. Further, Larry suggests Owen to watch Hitchcock's movies to
understand the structure of a suspenseful story. Owen, who wants to
kill his detestable mother (Anne Ramsey), watches "Strangers on a
Train" and misunderstands Larry's advice, believing that his teacher
wants to swap murders to eliminate the motive. Owen travels to Hawaii
and while in a ship, Margareth falls overboard vanishing in the sea and
is considered dead. However, Larry does not have an alibi and becomes
the prime suspect, while the deranged Owen presses him to kill his
mother as part of their supposed deal.

"Throw Momma from the Train" is one of the funniest comedies of the
80's and a great tribute to Alfred Hitchcock. The direct reference is
"Strangers on a Train", but there are jokes with "Vertigo" (with the
spinning camera), "Family Plot" (with the car without breaks) and other
movies. The lines are excellent and there is an interesting point when
Larry tells that every great romance or mystery has a train. Anne
Ramsey is amazing in the role of a nasty and abusive dominating mother
and the viewer will certainly feel sorrow and understand the insanity
of Owen. Kim Greist is very beautiful and Kate Mulgrew is the perfect
bitch. Billy Cristal performs an obsessed character with many silly and
unreasonable attitudes but necessary to the plot. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Jogue a Mamãe do Trem" ("Throw Momma from the Train")
<|_=00=_|>
Larry Donner (Billy Crystal) has a crazy life: His wife (Kate Mulgrew)
stole his book and left him, he has a new budding romance with a girl
named Beth (Kim Greist), he doesn't know how to start his book, and his
students of his screen writing class are stranger than most. However,
one student (Danny DeVito) is extra strange. He lives with his evil
Momma (Anne Ramsey) and he can't get up the courage to kill her. So
than he goes to Larry for help, making his life go from normal crazy,
to extra crazy! 

Stu Silver should have done more! The dialog, the characters, the whole
script is near perfect! And Danny DeVito has proved to me he's more
than a great actor: he's a great director! His kid's movie Matilda is
among my favorite family movies and now this is one of my favorite
comedies.

It's a black comedy, most jokes are about murder, but it's damn funny!
All of the actors are doing their full potential, whether they're main
characters (Billy Crystal) or just one-bit minor characters (Olivia
Brown).

If you like comedy (Who doesn't?) than you'll like this! 8/10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

Spoilers herein.

Once again we have a film about writing. That's the first recourse for
writers, and since Devito is a film writer, the book derives from a
Hitchcock film. The mix is rather clever, but the humor is ordinary. What's
different here is the mix. As with many book-films, the story on the screen
becomes the story in the book, but here we have two books of the same
events. One book is serious, the other -- Devito's -- simply comic. The
serious book matches up with the Hitchcock film.

This film is Devito's book. A simple popup -- how better to describe the
humor of Crystal and Ramsey -- with a happy ending.
<|_=00=_|>
A deliciously nasty black comedy about a middle-aged schlub (Danny
DeVito) who wants to bump off his mother and hatches a plan to do so
with a bitter divorcée, who wants to bump off HIS ex-wife. The movie is
completely unapologetic in its cynicism, and gives us no one to like,
but for once that works in the movie's favor rather than as a turn off.

Anne Ramsey, as DeVito's battle axe mom, steals the show in a
grotesquely funny performance. Even though she's a horror, you end up
rooting for her, because it seems like she could kick both DeVito's and
Crystal's asses at the same time with both hands tied behind her back.

Grade: B+
