

Much to my surprise, it was easy to like this film.  All of the primates
did
a great job, and although some scenes were a little hard to believe, the
overall story had a good message and many terrific moments, especially
towards the end.  It was a very funny film at times, but for me, the more
dramatic moments worked the best.  A very enjoyable experience.
<|_=00=_|>

Yes, I agree with all the other positive comments posted on this film; 
it
is a remarkable triumph that not only redeems our emotional
sensibilities but makes us again realise that the unquestioning
acceptance of `intellectualism' as the yardstick by which
everything
must be measured, has made us damn and paralyze one of the
best
parts of our being. With the rise of contemporary secularism, (and,
so
no one should misunderstand me, I write as an atheist), we
have
allowed science to become our replacement religion; seems
like
mankind just has to have something to `worship', but in doing this,
we
have, (just as we did before with religion), sanctioned
diabolical
cruelties against sentient beings, whether human or animal, in
its
name. 

As Bernard Shaw, (and, by default, this movie) reminded us,
the
arguments used to justify vivisection are those which can be used
to
justify ANY atrocity, and PROJECT X rekindles that spark of
humane
compassion that materialism and self-regard have almost
eradicated
from our consciousness with their constant bombardment of
`rational',
dictatorial, and authoritarian notions. `We mustn't be emotional
about
these things' the `intellectual' and the `scientist' will retort, but
why
not?! Why not give animal beings the benefit of the doubt, if for
one
second there actually were any?

PROJECT X is a modern parable in both ethics and attitude; a
powerful
indictment of our misuse of animal beings. Mankind can't have it
both
ways; if, as the scientist argues, evolution is the means, then it is
wrong
to deny the opportunities this process bestows, (and which have
so
benefited us), to other species. If it is not the means, as the
religionist
argues, then it's simply a question of blasphemy, because these
people
assume rights which are actually denied them in Genesis.

A most worthy film which is well worth watching more than once, and
a
reminder that love and compassion can also be powerful agents
of
subversion!
<|_=00=_|>

What are you people thinking with these ratings? This was a super movie
filled with emotions, and finally a decent movie concerning man and monkey.
Matthew Broderick and Helen Hunt do a wonderful job, and the movie touches a
part of your soul.  Great film.
<|_=00=_|>

Ever get that feeling to just watch a movie and bawl your eyes out? I'm one
of those people who feels that it's healthy to really cry once in a while.
This movie will do it to you. Many sad moments during the film--but I must
say the ending is one of those happy tear-jerker endings. Truly, the
personification of the chimps increased the emotional awareness of the
film--you react to the chimps' feelings at least as much as the humans'.
What I think really made the emotions fly out of me was the music. James
Horner's score takes you through the clouds on wondrous flights of melody
and also puts you through torturous periods of mourning and sorrow. His use
of a gorgeous flute instrument combines innocence with a bit of an African
tone. Being a great James Horner fan, collecting scores such as Legends of
the Fall and Titanic, I was very disappointed to find that the score for
Project X is only available on the black market! To this day I can't figure
out why. If you've seen this film and know anything about the soundtrack,
feel free to e-mail me. If you've not seen it, pop it in the VCR and you'll
see what I'm talking about. Just make sure you grab a box of
Kleenex!

<|_=00=_|>
The eighties have to be considered part of the modern movie era. And
already, this is a hidden gem.

The plot is about a government project which uses chimpanzees as guinea
pigs in dangerous experiments, and about a man's change from bureaucrat
to caring individual.

The plot could have been mundane and mushy, but instead was well
crafted.

The film is expertly directed and written. We feel the pains and
struggles. It is very moving, and sure to create a tear among the
hardest hearts in places.
<|_=00=_|>

Well I have just been reading some of the comments, I think the people who
said this film is rubish as no taste, I have watched this film, a couple
of
times and I think it is really good infact I am trying to get the film on
DVD for my grandson, I know he will love it, I think it is really clever
how
they do it with monkey,
well enjoyed, and it that good I will for sure buy a couple of the films
to
give to my other grandchildren who will also enjoy the film, it brings
tears
to your eyes, and it shows rhat people can be cruel  to animals, it does
happen  for real not just acting , maybe this film will show how people
can
be so unkind to animals, 
<|_=00=_|>
The first time I watched this movie was in year 5 at school, and it
left a permanent mark on me as one of my all-time favourite flicks. I
enjoy it today just as much as I did when I was a child.

The storyline is very touching, and delivers a powerful message about
how humans have continued to exploit animals in the name of 'scientific
research'. Viewers are taken on a moving journey from start to end, as
the film visits scenes which are heartfelt, humorous and horrific. You
can't help but get that fuzzy feeling inside as you are introduced to
the chimps on a more personal basis (and each one has its own unique
little personality - from the aggressive attitude of Goliath, to the
raw cheekiness of Goofy) and then shed a tear or two when both you, and
Jimmy Garrett - Matthew Broderick's leading character - realise what
the true intent of all the flying training actually is.

All the actors do a great job in this movie, including Matthew
Broderick who is just as entertaining to watch in a serious role as he
is in a comedic one. A young Helen Hunt also does a fantastic job as
Virgil's loving trainer. Even William Sadler, who plays the
sturdy-faced Dr. Carroll, undoubtedly depicts himself as the "bad guy"
of the story, and does it well - even if in the movie's reality, he is
a man who simply holds a difficult job... one which he intends to do
well at all costs.

Of course the chimpanzees steal the spotlight of this movie, they are
just amazing to watch, and their acting skills and behaviours are very
believable all the way through. You almost forget that they are only
acting in the same sense as their human co-stars.

The orchestral soundtrack by James Horner, to sum up in a single word,
is beautiful. Viewers are taken on an emotional roller-coaster which
effectively tugs at the heartstrings. I challenge anybody who cares
about animals to sit through this entire movie without shedding a
single tear! In fact it's one of the best movie soundtracks I have ever
sat through, everything from harmonica to African wind pipes are
utilised to put the finishing touches on all the scenes. 

Some of these scenes in this movie can be disturbing, especially for a
younger audience. Initially seeing this for the first time a a child, I
found the two flight chamber 'radiation' scenes so powerful, I dare
admit that they actually have haunted me in nightmares occasionally
over the years. Today, I STILL find it difficult to sit through them,
and prefer to reach for the fast forward button whenever they are fast
approaching. The method in which these scenes are filmed - slow motion
effect, eery sound effects over background silence, in-depth depictions
of sadness/shock on the chimps faces, the look of horror on Broderick's
face as he witnesses the fate of the chimps first hand - can come as a
pure disturbance for any animal lover to watch... especially knowing
that the movie is/was based on real life experiments. 

Alas, that is the true nature of animal experimentation, and the movie
does such a good job depicting it from an in-depth point of view - how
the subjects of the fatal tests come to grasp with their impending
doom, their 'fight to survive', and how that in turn effects their
human trainers, who can't help but bond with them. And of course it has
a climax happy ending that we're left hanging for.... the irony of the
humans unknowingly training the chimps toward their freedom, as well as
for the fateful project.

I love this movie and think its an absolute 80's classic, one of the
best. Definitely a gem that has, in my opinion, been horribly
underrated. They certainly don't make movies like these anymore, which
is a shame.
<|_=00=_|>
Jimmy Garrett wants to be an air force pilot but taking his girlfriend
up in a jet while drinking champagne was not a move that seems likely
to aid that career goal. That little stunt sees him bust down to
helping in a special pilots project (Project X) which he hopes will see
him trained up to be a pilot but really sees him looking after chimps
who are being trained as pilots for some reason. Jimmy takes to the job
once he befriends chimp Virgil, who appears to have been taught sign
language. Things are good and Jimmy's technique benefits the programme
until, that is, the painfully naïve chap learns the aim of project x.

Very much aimed at a young teen audience, this film is a solid family
drama with a conscience and a message about animal testing. The basic
plot is pretty obvious but it is effective in drawing the audience in
with humour and of course the fact that monkeys are legally very cool
and cute. I doubt anyone watching is as naïve as Jimmy and most viewers
will see the obvious plot development long before it is revealed and
from there it continues along a fairly predictable path. It is to its
credit though that it is still quite engaging, exciting and touching
despite this simplicity and older children will eat it up. It does have
a message about animal testing but don't expect it to be balanced or
weigh up pros and cons or anything like that because this very much has
its Disney agenda. It is still sweet family fare though but it does
take a lot of swallowing in both the simplicity of the message and the
high-concept of the plot.

Broderick takes billing after all the monkeys which I suppose is only
right. He is solid and works well with the chimps but the film is not
his by any means. No, the film belongs to Willie (Virgil), Okko (Goofy)
and the others. Virgil in particular is expressive and very well
trained – in fact trained to the point that he does convince as the
character he plays. Support is basic by comparison but still does the
job. Sadler does his usual bad guy shtick while McGee, Stark and Hunt
are all solid for what they have to do.

Overall then a basic but enjoyable family film that is simplistic on
all levels but is cute, sentimental and quite dramatic. Probably not
anywhere near good enough to stand up to viewings by discerning adults
but it will make for a good family film if you have older children.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this movie, despite what cynics, bigots and critics
say, who can't appreciate a drama that stands on it's own two feet. 

It may be regarded as a "chick flick," but it's designed for those who
have a heart, who have feelings. I saw this movie as a kid and recently
bought it on DVD; I enjoy it now, just as much as I did when I was
younger.

I realize that what was done in this movie has been done already in
real life years ago, by the US Air Force, but this is a movie--it
should be taken lightly as one.

The soundtrack is important in most movies and does great justice to
this one. You'd have to appreciate composers of classical music, such
as Horner, to appreciate this one. The acting was good and the chimps
steal about half of the scenes because it's mostly about them.

I wonder how PETA felt about this movie. I just don't want to hear or
read about them whining about anyone harming the chimps...
<|_=00=_|>
There are a lot of great ape films. King Kong, Mighty Joe Young, Congo,
Planet of the Apes, and Gorillas in the Mist are all great ape films.
However I feel that Project X is not also a great ape films, but one of
the greatest and most under rated films that I have ever seen.

A young chimpanzee named Virgil is raised by a lady named Terri at a
university. THere she teaches him how to use sign language. After a few
years she loses custody of Virgil and he is to be sent to a zoo.
However instead of going to a zoo Virgil is sent to a U.S. Air Force
base where they use Chimps to simulate flight to help the Air Force
understand some war tendencies better. At the base a young man named
Jimmy starts to work closely with Virgil and develops a friendship with
Virgil that will change both of their lives.

A big reason why this film is awesome is that it has awesome acting.
Matthew Broderick is awesome in this film. He is a great actor but this
is his best film in my opinion. Broderick shows great emotion at
various points in the film. ALso he has a great presence with all of
the chimps in this film and is truly a "Lord of the Apes".

Helen Hunt is pretty good too. I do not think that this is her best
film the way I do with Broderick but she is pretty good. I think she
plays the trainer who is sad to see her animal student leave great.

However as good as Broderick and Hunt are, there are other actors in
this film just as awesome. Those whom I am speaking of are all of the
chimpanzee actors in this film. VIrgil is awesome as the main chimp in
the film who learns sign language and has a deep understanding. I also
liked Goliath, the circus chimp who likes to smoke and does not like to
listen to people more than he has too. The chimps do a great job of
adding humor and understanding to the film. A lot of what they are
doing is funny at times but by watching them and what they go through
you gain an understanding of why it is important for animals to not be
used as lab rats.

The message in this film is a great one. Many animals are used in tests
that are not unusual to the ones done in this film. So by showing this
on screen it helps people to realize that it is important to be ethical
to animals and not just use them as lab rats.

I should warn viewers that there are some very touching parts that get
emotional in this film. A lot of parts in this film touched me greatly
and made me nearly get choked up. But I think that this helps to get
the films message across.

A great film. Really under rated. Great acting by humans and apes.
Highly recommended.
