

Do you like Christopher Walken movies? The good, the deep psychological
studies, the creepy pseudo-underworld /misfit characters that have
unfortunately typecast one of America's greatest and multi-talented
contemporary actors?

Do you like Abel Ferrara movies?  The down in the muck, inner-city
examinations of the seedier motivations and lifestyles-the side of life many
of us would like to ignore, but are intrigued by nonetheless?

Low budget and a lot of conjones are trademarks of Ferrara's films (Fear
City, The Addiction, The Funeral) and this is no exception, but the term
stylish is defined here..You see, you hear, you FEEL the environment-the
nasty low morality hustlers of the five burroughs.Much congrats to Alex
Tovoularis' production design.

King of New York may not be as famous as Ferrara's Bad Lieutenant in the
world of the cinema-geek, but maybe it should be.

Joe Delia's haunting soundtrack is a perfect compliment to Bojan Bazelli's
moody visuals-Walken's confrontation scene of the old-style Mafiosos is as
classic as it is intense.

Man, do I love this movie.

<|_=00=_|>
King of New York (1990) was Abel Ferrara's return to the his favorite
style of film making (the urban street drama). Over the past fifteen
years, this movie has achieved a cult status that one would have never
imagined. During it's initial release on video, this film was a
word-of-mouth hit. I remembered watching this in high school. Although
the movie was never a major box office hit, film found an audience when
it was released on tape. But the movie's popularity grew even more when
rappers made numerous of references to it in music and song.

Christopher Walken stars as a crime lord who has done a stint in
prison. Upon his release he begins to rebuild his fledging empire
through violence and strong arming. Whilst he rotted in prison, his
rivals became strong as they gobbled up his business. With time on his
side, Frank launches a plan that'll make him KING OF NEW YORK. Can
Frank do it by himself? How will the local authorities re-act to his
new found activities? Will his soldiers remain loyal? What will his
rivals do? To find out you'll just have to watch it!!

I found this movie to be very good. Abel Ferrara has found his niche
audience and he should cater to it. He has a style that a director like
Martin Scorese once had.

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Abel Ferrara tries but unfortunately fails to create competition to a
genre which is dominated by 'Scarface'. King of New York had the
potential to be something great but in the end it only manages to
frustrate you.

The whole plot in itself is amazingly simple. I mean, where's the
originality? A guy called Frank White (Cristopher Walken) gets out of
prison, kills everybody just like that (I guess it's that easy, huh)
and then he rules New York. Then some cops get angry with Frank because
he's a criminal (that's the most deepest part in this movie, cops are
supposed to be "complex" individuals...) and they decide to kill him.
Then there's some shooting and more shooting and finally everybody's
dead.

A plot could actually be that simple if there was something extra in it
- something interesting to spice things up - a great character,
interesting details or ultimately anything to separate this film from
the masses. Unfortunately King of New York doesn't have anything to
offer in that area. They have obviously tried to deepen Walken's
character but they fail miserably. In fact that's the case with all the
other characters too. Walken's supposed to be this guy who cares about
the poor but this is shown in what, two scenes? Same thing with the
police, when they all get killed I don't feel anything because I
haven't related to them. Furthermore the dialog is mediocre at best and
you can't really call it original.

The biggest problem of this movie is that it's not coherent at all. The
scenes are in many occasions completely unattached to each other and
the whole movie ends up being like a mess. The atmosphere in the film
is good - Ferrara is able to depict the brutality and the overall mood
well but otherwise the directing is just average. For example the
opening scene is way too long. I'd understand it if the movie was an
epic or a masterpiece but now it just seems completely irrelevant and
tiring to spend at least five minutes following a guy who gets out of
prison without dialog. Same thing with the final scene - it drags too
long. I guess if you enjoyed the movie the final scene could work but
for me after a messy 1,5 hours it just works as an icing in the cake
what comes to frustration.

I guess the main point I'm trying to say is that this movie had
potential but it never delivered. The characters are paper thin thanks
to awful cutting and the plot is just oversimplified. In the end this
movie offers you nothing but frustration and gore.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a strange movie. The IMDb trivia notes for the movie state that
the director and writer spent five years working on the script, yet the
story is disjointed and doesn't have a strong plot. The story basically
follows the life of drug kingpin Frank White (Christopher Walken) after
he is released from prison and re-enters the criminal world to reclaim
his drug empire. However, there's not much character development and
many of the characters are one dimensional. And the movie could be
called over-stylized.

Yet, somehow it all works and this movie, while not a classic, could be
considered a cult classic for its great cinematography, superb acting
performances, tense action sequences, its cinematic risk taking and its
outright coolness. For a movie shot in the late 80's (released in 1990)
its ahead of its time.

Christopher Walken gives a great performance as Frank White. Many
viewers who may only know Walken from his more recent appearances as
"the weird but cool guy" will be surprised by the multifaceted
performance he gives here. The late Victor Argo's performance as
White's nemesis on the police force, Roy Bishop, should also be noted.
Argo gives a note perfect, yet nuanced portrayal, of a weary, "seen it
all" cop who is determined to get his man.

Wesley Snipes and Laurence Fishburne were still early in their film
careers while appearing in this movie, but you can clearly see the
qualities that would make them stars. Both bring depth and realism to
their otherwise stock characters. David Caruso also does a great job
with his character. One of the shortcomings of the movie is that
there's no strong female lead... Frank White has a relationship with
one of his attorney's, Jennifer (Janet Julian), but the script leaves
out a lot of details (e.g., why they are together in the first place).
In fact, all the women in this movie look like models which only adds
to the stylized unreality the movie creates.

Finally, I have to mention the oldschool rap soundtrack which fits the
proceedings to a "t".

If you are a fan of crime/action movies, "King of New York" comes
recommended, but fair warning, its not your typical gangsta flick.
<|_=00=_|>
"From now on nothing goes down unless I'm involved. No blackjack, no
dope deals, no nothing. A nickel bag gets sold in the park I want in!"
And so it goes. Walken gives the performance of his career as Frank
White, The King of New York. Walken is both captivating and convincing
as the drug lord with a conscience and the ice cold killer who will
stop at nothing to redeem himself. Released from prison, he is now
"reformed" and ready to once again ascend to the very top of the drug
pyramid with the help of his very loyal black street crew. Hit after
hit of top mob bosses in the city brings him closer to his goal of
building a new hospital but unfortunately draws the attention of a
demented police squad determined to put Frank outta
business...permanently. To just call these cops "dirty" would be a
disservice to dirty cops. They are also crazy and not afraid to
implement their own brand of justice. The cops are p***ed off that
Frank is taking over and they can't do anything about it. So the
detectives plan to take Frank out themselves. They are headed by a
detective who cannot control them yet wants to see Frank go so badly
that he doesn't have the heart to stop them. This leads to a showdown
between Frank's dangerous black Mafia and the corrupt coppers. Frank
responds to their attempts to foil him by putting out contracts on the
police. I heard that when this was shown at the Sundance Film Festival
critics expected to see something nice and cheery about New York based
on the title alone. When they saw this movie they were shocked and
never invited director Abel Ferrara back. This tells me two things that
(1)this is very funny and I wish I had been there to see their
reactions myself and (2)most critics have absolutely NO IDEA what
cinema is all about and the same goes for viewers who expect all movies
to have redeeming social values, teach a moral lesson, and give them
that warm fuzzy feeling inside. King of New York had a great supporting
cast, skillful direction, and a solid script. And watch for Frank Gio
as mob boss Arty Clay he was awesome! It is a gangster classic that
never waivers in its intentions and I will be highly anticipating the
long awaited prequel to this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Abel Ferrara as a director has his ups and downs. In his entire career,
the only masterpiece he made was "Bad Lieutenant". However, the rest of
his films are always interesting if never completely successful. "King
of New York" is a very offbeat crime film and will not appeal to those
seeking another "Goodfellas". However, the film eventually won me over
because of its dreamlike atmosphere. This is one of the more surreal
mob films I've seen. Most of the characters are a bit one-note, but
Ferrara's direction is intriguing and Walken is great as usual. The
film is slowly paced which, along with the bizarreness, makes it very
inaccessible.

Walken turns in his most Walken performance. I'll leave that up to you
as being a good thing or not, but personally I love the man. He is
strange as all hell and unnerving at moments but is memorable all the
same. I'm not sure if the humor was intentional, but there's something
hilarious about watching Walken dancing to Schooly D surrounded by
marijuana smoke. The supporting cast is one of the most bizarre ever
assembled and is truly once in a lifetime. Laurence Fishburne's
character is a blaxploitation throwback stereotype but easily steals
the show. Victor Argo, David Caruso, Wesley Snipes, Janet Julian, and
Paul Calderon are all good in their roles. "King of New York" is
definitely not for everyone, but those interested in more offbeat and
dreamlike films will enjoy it. Its more of an art film than an action
film. (7/10)
<|_=00=_|>
Abel Ferrara created a monster here and Christopher Walken grabbed it
by the neck and made it one of the best gangster movies ever made. A
truly faultless performance by Walken. The scene where his crew first
see him after his release from prison is superb, he may try to act as
one of the boys but his unnerving manner is there for all to see.

Considering this film was released in 1989, the cinematography is
highly impressive. The shots of Walken as he looks cold-eyed into the
night are tremendous, as are many of the New York shots. This movie has
a very dark feel and edge to it and I thought the score complemented
this superbly.

Larry Fishburne also does an excellent job as a drug-fuelled punk and
the drug deal scene is one of the films many highlights. What impressed
me most about this film is that not one scene is wasted. It is short,
sharp, action packed and to the point and it is one of those rare gems
that actually has a fantastic ending.

Well done Ferrara, this movie is one of the greats.
<|_=00=_|>

	The ruthless underbelly of the New York criminal world is examined somewhat
graphically in `King of New York,' directed by Abel Ferrara, and starring
Christopher Walken.  Upon release from prison, New York crime boss Frank
White (Walken), determines to become a major player in the city's underworld
and wastes no time in putting the wheels of his plan in motion.  Among the
major obstacles he encounters are King Tito (Ernest Abuba) and Larry Wong
(Joey Chin), both kingpins of their respective organizations, veteran
detective Roy Bishop (Victor Argo), and Dennis Gilley (David Caruso), a
young, hot-headed Irish cop who seemingly single-handedly wants to take back
the city from the riffraff who control it and seem somehow impervious to
prosecution.  None of which matters to White, who is adamant in his quest to
become the King of New York.
	Though hard-hitting and excessively violent, Ferrara's film lacks the
grittiness of say, Scorsese's `Mean Streets,' or `Taxi Driver,' but
nevertheless makes an impact, due mainly to the unfettered violence, as well
as the subtle, understated menace Walken brings to the role of Frank White. 
There's an edginess that permeates the film and the characters who bring it
all to life, with the exception of White, who-- as played by Walken-- is the
picture of restraint, the eye in the center of the storm.  And it's that
cold, soulless, almost haunted look of his that makes him so disconcerting. 
It's the contrast between his calm demeanor (which threatens to explode at
any moment) and the overt violence with which he is surrounded, that gives
him that sense of power, and it's also one of the strengths of the film. 
There is definitely something unsettling about Walken's presence in a role
like this (and indeed with many of the characters he's portrayed in his many
films); he has a natural ability and the looks-- which he uses so well to
his advantage-- to convey the very essence of evil in all it's myriad forms.
 If they is any doubt, check him out in `Things To Do In Denver When You're
Dead,' and `Sleepy Hollow,' just to mention a couple.  He has the tools to
make you believe his characters, and with adroit skill he uses them all, as
he does here with his creation of White; and his performance is one of the
highlights of the movie.  
	Walken doesn't have the floor to himself in that regard, however, as
Laurence Fishburne (billed here as `Larry') gives a memorable, high-powered
performance as well, as Jump, White's main man who provides the muscle for
his organization.  Fishburne pulls out all the stops and laces Jump with
high voltage energy that never runs out, while taking a page from the John
Woo Book by brandishing pistols in both hands at once, which serves to
enhance his lethal potential.  And his over-the-top, in-your-face attitude
is the perfect antithesis to Walken's calm, and is in it's own way just as
disturbing in the aloof disregard of-- and lack of respect for-- life.  I
guarantee this is one pair of hoodlums you will not soon
forget.
	The supporting cast includes Wesley Snipes (Thomas), Janet Julian
(Jennifer), Giancarlo Esposito (Lance), Paul Calderon (Joey) and Steve
Buscemi (Test Tube).  Ferrara's film is fast paced and relentless, and he
adds a nice touch to the ending that contrasts well with all that precedes
it, and yet `King of New York,' even with the outstanding performances of
Walken and Fishburne, never quite captures that elusive something that
would've taken it above and beyond the average crime action/drama.  It does
have it's moments, however, and the aforementioned performances alone are
worth the price of admission.  Just don't come to this one expecting
anything extraordinary; it's a good movie, but the Oscars will have to wait
for another day.  I rate this one 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Now here's a film with a mean edge....very mean....almost too mean. If
I didn't like Christopher Walken (and who doesn't?) I wouldn't have
watched this low- life trash. But Walken makes the trash fashionable
somehow. Plus, I always like looking at great nighttime shots of New
York City.

A nice job of restoration was done on this latest two-disc DVD. The
film finally looks good. This is stylishly filmed, too.

Story-wise, as mentioned, it's very rough, lots of f-words, and a
simple story of a crime boss who is released from jail and is trying to
reclaim his hold on the city's mob scene.

It's an interesting cast. Besides Walken is a trio of actors who wound
up becoming stars: David Caruso (a TV star), Lawrence Fishburne and
Wesley Snipes. All of them are nasty, too. Sometimes they make Walken
look good in comparison. Unfortunately, two of those guys are cops and
filmmakers love to make the cops into unlikable bad guys. They
certainly are here.

So, if you're feeling ornery and want to take out some hostility
without hurting anyone or anything, just flip this disc in your DVD and
it should be what the doctor ordered. If you can relate to any of these
people in this movie, call a minister, priest, rabbi or psychiatrist.
You need help.
<|_=00=_|>

King of New York(1990) is an excellent movie that is Abel Ferrara's most
stylish film.  As years go by, King of New York is a film that will be more
respected and seen as an example of Ferrara's best work.  It was the second
best gangster film in 1990 next to Martin Scorsese's Goodfellas.  The
direction is surpurb and the characters are filled with colorful
traits.

King of New York(1990) is a modern reworking of the Robin Hood legend.  Its
basically about a former drug lord who wants to use drug money to help poor
and unfortunate people.  Christopher Walken gives one of his five top best
performances in the role of Frank.  The feature is a neo noir because there
are no people except for a couple that are likable.

The violence in this film is very brutal and done with plenty of flair. 
Frank's plans do not work out as everyone is out to get him(espically the
police).  Frank is a person who's alive on the outside but dead on the
inside.  King of New York has been compared to Scarface(1983) but I believe
that this movie is closer in spirit to Ringo Lam's City on Fire(1987) and
the two Chow Yun Fat/Andy Lau films of Rich & Famous(1986) and Tragic
Hero(1987).

Laurence Fishburne gives a very good performance as Frank's loyal right hand
man.  In fact, all of the action sequences involving him makes the actor the
Hollywood B-movie eqevulent of Chow Yun Fat with his two gun act.  Steve
Buscemi has a bit part as a rival drug dealer.  I only wished that the idea
of putting a contract on the police was expanded on with a few scenes of
many police officers being assassinated by Frank's men.

One scene that is terrific is the scene where the police dressed up as drug
dealers who raid and try to terminate Frank and his gang.  Another excellent
scene is the funeral sequence.  The ending is unusually low key for a mafia
flick.  I would like to see a director's cut of this film released on video
because I feel that something's missing from the R-rated
version.
