

One of the great things about movies is that every once in awhile the
unexpected happens, something comes along that you know immediately is just
a bit different and special somehow.  Usually it's the film itself, but on
occasion-- and this is one of them-- a character will emerge who is not just
a character in a movie, but IS the movie.  Here, it's the title character of
`Crocodile Dundee,' directed by Peter Faiman, and starring Paul Hogan as the
inimitable Mick Dundee, a rather unique individual hailing from the small
hamlet of Walkabout Creek, Australia.  Mick hit the big screen in 1986, and
from the first moment he appeared, right up through the end of the second
sequel, it's been a `G'day' for audiences around the world.

In Australia on assignment for her New York newspaper, journalist Sue
Charlton (Linda Kozlowski) runs across a story she just has to pursue.  It's
about a legendary `local' from one of the small towns on the cusp of the
bush, a crocodile hunter who, the story goes, had his leg bitten off by a
croc, then managed to survive by crawling, alone, for days on end across the
outback.  So it's off to the town of Walkabout Creek in search of this
larger-than-life character, who it turns out is quite a `character' to say
the least.  He is, in fact, one of a kind.  

After a memorable meeting in the town's only pub (one of about four
buildings in the whole place), Michael J. `Mick' Dundee agrees to take her
on a tour retracing his steps and reconstructing the famous event where it
actually took place.  He promises a hard journey through some rugged
terrain-- no place, in fact, for a `Sheila'-- but, like any good reporter,
she's ready for anything; or so she thinks.  And it's the beginning of an
adventure she, as well as the audience, will never forget.

Hogan concocted the story and created the character, then wrote the
screenplay along with John Cornell and Ken Shadie, after which he turned it
over to director Faiman, who did a worthy, if not exceptional, job of
translating Hogan's vision to the screen.  Faiman, however, is destined to
be the forgotten man with regards to this project, inasmuch as he was not
only necessarily overshadowed by writer/star Hogan, but he presented the
film in a fairly straightforward manner, without anything particularly
noteworthy that `he' did that would put his `signature' on it.  Add to that
the fact that this was the first of only two films Faiman ever directed (his
second was the lackluster `Dutch' in 1991); simply not enough to reference
him, nothing added to his resume afterwards to make you take notice and say,
`Oh, yes, he directed Dundee,' too.'  Still, filmmaking is inherently a
collaborative medium, and as they say, a film does not `direct' itself; so
credit must be given where it is due, and considering how good this film is,
and how well it did at the box office, it points up that whatever Faiman
did, he did right.  And he deserves to be acknowledged for
it.

It's no secret, of course, what really makes this film work.  Aside from the
engaging story with it's romantic notions of adventure, from beginning to
end it has the four `Big Cs' going for it:  Character, Charisma, Chemistry
and Charm.  Let's face it, Paul Hogan is `The Man' as Mick Dundee; he's the
guy other guys admire and want to be (whether or not they'll admit to it),
and he has the kind of natural good looks, charisma and charm that is
irresistible to the ladies (whether or not they'll admit to it).  And the
chemistry between Hogan and Kozlowski is irrefutable; it's the kind that
makes you want to put another shrimp on the barbie.  Besides all of which
there is an innate honesty about Hogan's Mick that shines through like a 1st
order Fresnel light in a London fog.  He's laid-back and grounded, with a
refreshingly logical outlook on life-- this guy's never going to need a pill
for hypertension-- and what adds even more to his appeal is that there's a
touch of larceny in his make-up, hiding just beneath that twinkle in his eye
and his obvious integrity.  You also know instinctively that this is the guy
you want in your corner when the chips are down.  All of this and more is
what Paul Hogan captures in his performance; this is the Mick `Crocodile'
Dundee he brings to the screen.

In her motion picture debut, the lovely Linda Kozlowski brings some sizzle
to the screen and proves to be the perfect counterpoint to co-star Hogan. 
Something of an `Ibsenesque' role model, she demonstrates that a woman can
be strong and ultra feminine, capable yet vulnerable, and all at the same
time.  It makes her portrayal of Sue Charlton convincing, well rounded and
real; much more than just a cardboard cutout kind of a character that could
have been used as nothing more than a vehicle to move the story along. 
Instead, though this is without question Mick Dundee's story, she makes it
her story, too, and it gives the film an added perspective and considerably
more depth than what is usually found in light comedy, which is essentially
what this film is.  And there's a look in her eye and something in the way
she smiles at Mick that has an absolute ring of truth to it.  You could say,
in fact, that Hogan and Kozlowski are the Bogie and Bacall of the
outback.

Another invaluable asset to the film is the performance of the likable John
Meillon as Mick's friend, Walter Reilly.  The part is a true character
actor's character, and Meillon does it beautifully.  The supporting cast
includes Mark Blum (Richard), Michael Lombard (Sam), Steve Rackman (Donk)
and Reginald VelJohnson (Gus).  A memorable film filled with unforgettable
characters, `Crocodile Dundee' will take you to the top o'the world... `down
under.'  10/10.

   

                           
<|_=00=_|>

Crocodile Dundee is a great comedy from 1986 which can be enjoyed after
repeat viewings. Over the years I've heard a lot of criticism of this film
and I cannot understand it. If you don't like this film, then something must
be wrong.

It's great to see the tough but naive Crocodile Dundee-played excellently by
Paul Hogan-come to New York and after a sequence of events meet up with
journalist Sue Charlton played by Linda Koslowski. Koslowski and Hogan made
a great team in this film.

Like all comedies I won't spoil the scenes for anyone who hasn't seen the
film but there are some great scenes particularly one where two youngsters
try to mug Dundee with a knife. You'll laugh at what happens
next.

All in all, a great comedy. Ignore any criticism you've heard of this film
and enjoy a great film.
<|_=00=_|>

Paul Hogan's original tailor-made 'fish out of water' flick became a massive
hit in 1986 and still remains a warm, amusing and irresistibly enjoyable. 
In terms of plot, its simpler than simple - American reporter Linda
Kozlowski is sent to Australia to investigate the legendary 'Crocodile'
Dundee (Hogan) and ends up bringing the charming rogue back to the Big
Apple.  It's a winner in every sense from Hogan's wonderfully laid-back
performance to his own screenplay, featuring an array of classic quips and
moments.  Peter Best's excellent musical score also deserves applause in
helping to ensure that this film remains great, exciting and still novel
entertainment almost two decades on.
<|_=00=_|>
When you mix good comedy with action and a very likable leading
character you get a hit movie. I never met anyone who didn't like this
film, although there are always detractors to any movie and no movie is
perfect, either.

However, this was an extremely entertaining that made an international
star out of Australian Paul Hogan. Two sequels followed this movie.
They were decent but could not measure up to this effort.

Not only was this a big success for Hogan and everyone else connected
with it, but I believe he got a wife out of this wife, going on to
marry his co-star Linda Kozlowski.

As someone pointed out, Hogan, as crocodile man "Mick Dundee" made the
rest of the world aware of a number of Aussie phrases. Few men played
as manly as likeabe and charismatic a hero in the 1980s as Hogan and
"Mick." 

Twenty years later, this is still a fun movie to watch now and then.
<|_=00=_|>
What a wonderful adventure romance! This is a film that neither my
husband, my teenage son, or myself can resist watching time after time,
whenever it happens to be on TV.

The movie tells the tale of Mick Dundee, a charismatic adventurer from
Walkabout Creek in the Australian outback, who ends up as a 'croc out
of water' (as some reviewers have cleverly phrased it) in New York
City. Naturally, there's a 'sheila' with him, a love interest in the
form of beautiful blonde American journalist, Sue Charlton. The sparks
fly between them, the chemistry cooks, and so on.

This movie of course is made solely by the legendary character of Mick
Dundee, played to charming perfection by Paul Hogan, both in his native
bush and also Big City settings. You'll be in stitches, you'll cheer
for him, you'll be amazed at his adaptation of his unique Down Under
bush survival skills to the streets of the Big Apple. The knife
incident...what can I say? He displays an endearing innocence of the
seedier aspects of Big City life, notably its drugs and prostitutes.
But it's not only Mick's humour and charisma, this adventurer is a guy
with integrity that would put most everyone, rural or urban, Australian
or American, to shame. 

The greatest supporting role here must surely go to Mick's bush buddy,
Wally, who's basically 'all talk and no action', yet one of the most
likable ever film characters.

The ending? I won't give it away, but it's a dilly, a dandy, and a
doozy. Just one of the many reasons I can watch this great movie again
and again. The first Crocodile Dundee sequel is equally entertaining,
and though the second (Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles) doesn't quite
measure up, I can never resist watching Mick in action.
<|_=00=_|>

Hogan was the reason for this films success.He really comes off naturally
and is very charming.The direction techniques of this movie was only fair
and the story is very very simple BUT another secret of this movie besides
Mr. Hogan is the great screenplay.No wasted scenes and the story just moves
along taking the audience with it for more.The screenplay works so well that
although the movie is one of the most predictable movies ever,the audience
still enjoys the ending,and to top it all off,the audience actually wants
more!Now this is a way to make simple movies.Charm our hearts and take our
emotions and curiosity for an entertaining and educational ride.Extreme
gimmicks and million dollar effects are not always required.Back to the
basics filmakers!
<|_=00=_|>

Crocodile Dundee - 4/5 stars

A Film Review by John Ulmer

"Crocodile Dundee" is one of those Fish Out of the Water tales; the innocent
outsider thrown into the frustrations of modern life. Or is it the Croc out
of the Water? Whatever it is, it's one of the best of its
genre.

"Crocodile Dundee" is about a newspaper journalist (Linda Kozlowski) who
travels out to the Outback, where she meets with Mick Dundee, better known
as "Crocodile" Dundee. After wandering around in the Outback for a few days
with Mick, writing her little story about surviving in the Outback, she
decides that it would be interesting for her (or her newspaper?) to bring
Mick back to New York City, where she lives. Mick reluctantly agrees, and
travels to New York City clad in his croc-skin vest and Australian hat. Now
Mick will have to adjust to modern life if he wishes to survive in New
York.

"Crocodile Dundee" is, in a way, very typical of its kind. For example: Mick
walks off the plane to NYC and steps onto an escalator, dressed in his
Australian attire. Now, no matter how innocent and inexperienced a guy is,
you can't tell me he's not going to realize he looks a bit odd in his
clothes. The first thing I'd do is try to change to fit in better. But, you
see, this is half the fun of this films, and all Fish Out of the Water films
for that matter. If the main character did adapt straight away to his new
surroundings, not only would it make for an awfully boring tale, but it
would not be a proper Fish Out of the Water film.

Not only is Paul Hogan completely convincing in his role as Mick Dundee, he
is utterly likable from the start. He's a nice, innocent Outback man who
learns what the fast life is like, yet sticks to his old ways. As we can see
from the less-successful sequels, Mick never really adapts to his
surroundings. He learns how to survive, but he never buys fancy clothes or
such: he sticks with his croc-vest and hat. 

While "Crocodile Dundee" isn't exactly a great comedy, it's one of those
that can be remembered for being very funny, and it is easy to watch. It has
a certain charm to it, like many of those eighties' comedies. It makes it
hard to hate them. Just yesterday I wrote a review for "Opportunity Knocks"
with Dana Carvey. That movie wasn't great, but it's hard to dislike it.
While "Crocodile Dundee" is about ten times greater than "Opportunity
Knocks," it still isn't an excellent comedy. But because of its likable
charm and great sense of humor, it's definitely one to see and watch many,
many times.

There have been a lot of these kinds of films: "Blast From the Past,"
"Bubble Boy," to name a few recent of the genre. But "Crocodile Dundee"
ranks as one of the best of its kind.

4/5 stars -

John Ulmer
<|_=00=_|>
The Australian film industry first began to come to international
notice in the seventies and early eighties with films like Peter Weir's
"Picnic at Hanging Rock" and "Gallipoli", Fred Schepisi's "The Chant of
Jimmie Blacksmith" and Bruce Beresford's "Breaker Morant". Most of
these were films with a serious theme and, often, a historical setting.
"Crocodile Dundee" was different. Not only did it have a contemporary
setting, it was also perhaps the first great Australian comedy-
certainly the first Australian comedy to achieve international success.

The protagonists are Mick Dundee, a bushman from northern Australia,
and Sue Charleton, an attractive young female journalist from New York.
Sue is on assignment in Australia, and hears stories about a legendary
crocodile hunter from the small outback village of Walkabout Creek.
(The name may be homage to Nicolas Roeg's film "Walkabout", one of the
earliest manifestations of the Australian New Wave. One of the stars of
that film, David Gumpilil, has a part in Crocodile Dundee). Sue meets
Mick to interview him and travels with him into the bush to see the
scene of his famed encounter with a crocodile that nearly cost him his
leg. She then arranges for him to travel back to New York with her- the
first time he has been outside Australia or visited a city.

The film is essentially a romantic comedy. Romantic comedies generally
deal with a couple in love and the way in which they overcome obstacles
to their love. A common type of obstacle is a discrepancy in their
social backgrounds, and this is the type we have here. Sue and Mick
seem to be polar opposites. She is a typical product of the American
East Coast elite- urban, wealthy, professional, politically committed
to liberal causes. He is from a working-class background, rural,
apolitical with no fixed employment. As another reviewer has pointed
out, he is as much a fish out of water in the city as she is in the
outback. To make things worse, he is considerably older than her, and
she already has a boyfriend, her editor Richard. There is, however, a
saying that polar opposites attract, and this is as true of characters
in romantic comedies as it is of magnets. The marvellous ending on the
crowded subway station is one of the most memorable finales to any
romantic comedy, rivalling that of "The Graduate". 

Some romantic comedies concentrate on romance at the expense of comedy,
but Crocodile Dundee is not one of them. The film is brilliantly funny,
especially in the second half when the action moves to New York. The
main source of the humour is Paul Hogan's title character. Mick is a
rough diamond, but decent, kindly and good-hearted. Most of the laughs
arise from his innocent misunderstanding of the seedier aspects of life
in the big city- there are jokes at the expense of prostitutes,
criminals like the muggers who flee when they see Mick has a bigger
knife than they have ("That's not a knife. THAT'S a knife!"),
transvestites (one of whom Mick mistakenly tries to chat up), drug
takers (Mick thinks cocaine is a cure for blocked sinuses) and
psychiatrists ("Haven't you got any mates to talk to?") This last
sentiment touched a chord in Britain, ever suspicious of the American
obsession with psycho-analysis. Mick may be apolitical, but he is also
politically incorrect- much of the humour is aimed at the culture of
political correctness, just starting to burgeon in the mid-eighties.
There are jokes about race and gender, and Dundee is not only a drinker
but also a heavy smoker. (And this during a decade when smoking was
almost banished from the screen).

Some of the humour is perhaps a bit exaggerated- it is, for example,
difficult to believe that Mick does not recognise the prostitutes for
what they are, as he is no sexual innocent but a red-blooded ladies'
man with an eye for the Sheilas- but this is deliberate exaggeration
for satirical effect. The film both satirises and celebrates
Australia's self-image as a land of self-reliant pioneers from the
outback- most modern Australians, in fact, live in the suburbs of a few
large cities- by contrasting idealised rural Australian values with the
supposed vices of urban America.

Despite the great success of this film, the sequel was less successful
and Paul Hogan and his lovely co-star Linda Kozlowski (who later became
his wife) did not perhaps go on to the glittering careers that some had
predicted for them. Nevertheless, Mick Dundee will live on as one of
the great comic characters of all time, and the film itself as one of
the best comedies of the eighties and possibly the best Australian
comedy ever. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Paul Hogan bring the character of Mick 'Crocodile' Dundee to life. Sue
Charlton (Linda Kozlowski) is a beautiful reporter from New York on a
quest into the Austrailian Outback in search of a story, but she gets
way more than she thought when she meets 'Crocodile' Dundee in the
flesh.

The scenes in the outback are my favourite, a great blend of action and
comedy, with some simply beautiful cinematic views thrown in; but the
film does get funnier once they head back to New York. His naivety in
the big city opens the door for lots more comedy moments.

Overall it's a really good comedy 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
New York reporter Sue Charlton hears of a guy in the outback of
Australia who survived an attack by a crocodile. For research she meets
up with "Crocodile Mick Dundee" and spends time with him out in the
dangerous Bush Country. Finding a rapport during their time together,
Sue convinces Mick to go back with her to New York, which brings
interesting results as Mick becomes a big hit by treating the Big
Apple, and all that comes his way, the same as he would the Outback.

Crocodile Dundee has a standard fish out of water comedy premise, yet
with a number of truly funny sequences and an appealing turn from Paul
Hogan as Dundee; it became a monster smash hit that the cinema watching
public lapped up with glee. In a decade that is often considered to be
the worst for film, it may just be that cinema goers were desperate for
a pick me up movie? Something that Crocodile Dundee most assuredly is.
But to give that credence would, I feel, be doing it a disservice, for
in spite of the rickety concept and the obviousness of where we will
ultimately end up, it has bundles of earthy charm, a charm that many
can identify with.

As Dundee goes about his way, meeting pimps, transsexuals and muggers
et al, they are not only very funny scenes, they are also points of
reference to the ever changing way of the Continents. The film does
come dangerously close to falling into a sugary rom-com mire, but with
a strong performance from Linda Kozlowski as Sue, and Hogan introducing
an icon to 80s cinema, Crocodile Dundee safely hits the target that it
was surely aiming for. Besides, the love story here is very easy to get
on side with.

Two sequels would follow, the first one was a retread reversal and just
about passable, the second one, after a gap of 13 years, was bad and
evidence that the joke had long since passed. Crocodile Dundee 86 holds
up well as the escapist piece of cinema that it is. A nice film to
revisit every other year, it be simple, warm, and yes, I'll say it
again, damn funny. 8/10
