

Quite simply the funniest and shiniest film-comedy of all time... it's
certainly on my personal top-ten list.  This one also gets a solid ten on
the voting scale.  Millionaire heir, Arthur Bach (Moore), is a middle-aged
'child' who refuses to take the mature path in life and avoids all requisite
responsibilities.  He also refuses to leave the bottle.  One day he and his
personal butler, Hobson (Gielgud), go shopping at Bergdorf Goodman's and run
into petty larcenist, Linda (Minnelli).  Arthur and Linda's chemistry adds
electricity to the rest of the film.  There are hilarious set pieces
aplenty.  In one such scene, Arthur (drunk  throughout most of the story)
knocks on the wrong apartment door and receives ear shattering threats from
a human 'siren' ("My husband has a gun!!!!).  Performances by everyone
involved should be duly noted: Geraldine Fitzgerald plays Arthur's
loving-yet-ruthless grandmother, Sir John Gielgud almost steals the entire
show with his acidic droll-isms (He took home the Oscar for this one), and
Christopher Cross provides the Main Theme song (Oscar winner "Best That You
Can Do").  It's a shame the late Dudley Moore passed away last month (March
2002).    

<|_=00=_|>

From the beginning of this movie it seems apparent that the role of Arthur
was meant to be played by a much younger actor.  By the end, it's clear that
nobody other than Dudley Moore could have done it so well.  Looking back,
one remembers the sappy Christopher Cross theme song (does anyone remember
Christopher Cross?) and oh-so-80's clothing and sets with an unavoidable
nostalgia.  But the triumvirate of Moore as Arthur, Liza Minnelli as Linda,
and Sir Johnny G as the butler Hobson, dripping with sarcasm and at the
pinnacle of his considerable talent, make this more than a throw-away
farce.

All the best lines belong to Gielgud, and the Academy Award was hardly
adequate for such a legendary performance.  Moore's lovable drunk would wear
thin in later years, but here it is a fresh and delightful tour de force in
the most politically incorrect way.  Liza is flawless, but one hates to see
her in a non-musical role, for fear of squandering such an immense talent. 
But the chemistry, the synergy between these legends is palpable. 

The laughs never get old.  It is, however, a tragedy that the DVD is not
available in cinematic aspect.
<|_=00=_|>
This 1981 comedy still sparkles thanks to the combined efforts of
writer/director Steve Gordon and stars Dudley Moore and John Gielgud.
Sadly, Gordon, only in his early forties, died soon after completing
this, his only feature film. It's an especially unfortunate loss since
he shows a truly deft hand at character-driven farce that makes the
whole film irresistible. It plays almost like a 1930's-style screwball
comedy revamped for contemporary tastes. The plot centers on Arthur
Bach, a drunken, diminutive millionaire playboy who is at risk of
losing his $750 million inheritance if he doesn't marry the dowdy and
boring Susan Johnson, an heiress handpicked by his old-money father and
dotty grandmother. Of course, he doesn't love her and by chance, runs
into Linda Marolla, a working-class waitress (and of course, aspiring
actress) after she pilfers a Bergdorf Goodman tie for her father.

The standard complications ensue but in a most endearing way with loads
of alcohol-fueled slapstick executed with classic élan by Moore. That
he makes such a spoiled character likable is a credit not only to his
comic talents but to Gielgud's feisty, acidic turn as Hobson, Arthur's
devoted but reality-grounded valet. It's the type of role he could play
in his sleep, but Gielgud makes Hobson such a truly memorable character
that his fate in the film brings a welcome injection of poignancy in
the proceedings. In probably her most likable film role, Liza Minnelli
hands the picture to her male co-stars by toning down her usual
razzle-dazzle personality and making Linda quite genuine in motivation.

A pre-"LA Law" Jill Eikenberry plays Susan just at the right
passive-aggressive note, while Barney Martin (Jerry's dad on
"Seinfeld") steals all his scenes as Linda's slovenly father Ralph. The
one fly in the ointment is veteran actress Geraldine Fitzgerald, who
overdoes the eccentricities of the grandmother. And I have to admit
that I still can't stand the very dated, overplayed Christopher Cross
song that inevitably won the Oscar for that year's best song.
Unfortunately, the 1997 DVD, certainly in need of remastering, has no
extras worth noting except some photos and production notes.
<|_=00=_|>

Delightful movie. Side splitting laughs at times, heart warming at others.
Sir John Gielgud is wonderfully funny and poignant as Hobson, Arthur's
butler. My favorite scene is where he goes to Liza Minnelli's house to talk
to her, you really sympathize for him and her. Memorable song "The best that
you can do", and unforgettable characters make this a feel-good memorable
movie. Definitely on my Top 30 of all time. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
The late Dudley Moore had the most famous role of his too-short career
in 1981's ARTHUR, a raucously funny and alternately touching tale that
generates warm smiles, big belly-laughs, and an occasional tear if
you're in the right mood. Moore received a Best Actor Oscar nomination
for his performance as Arthur Bach, a drunken playboy who "races cars,
plays tennis, fondles women, but he has weekends off and he's his own
boss." Arthur is destined to inherit 750 million dollars when he
marries a snooty society girl named Susan Johnston (Jill Eikenberry)who
is the spoiled daughter of an undercover gangster. Things get sticky
when Arthur meets Linda Morolla (Liza Minnelli) a waitress/struggling
actress from Queens who steals neckties for her father's birthday.
Moore lights up the screen in one of the single funniest performances
of the last 50 years. The late Sir John Gielgud won a Best Supporting
Actor Oscar for his flawless turn as Arthur's acid-tongued butler and
best friend, Hobson, whose outward disdain for Arthur's behavior covers
more paternal feelings. There are other funny contributions by Barney
Martin as Linda's father. Stephen Elliott as Susan's father, and
Geraldine Fitzgerald as Arthur's demented grandmother. The film was
directed with a keen eye for comedy by a first time director named
Steve Gordon, who, sadly, died the following the year. There was also a
forgettable sequel several years later, but this instant classic is not
to be missed.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's begin with that theme song sung by Christopher Cross. The song is
"If you get caught between the moon and New York City." It's a great
theme and song even after all these years, it never gets tiring. It
really is a great song about New York City as well. Anyway, the great
Dudley Moore CBE stars as a spoiled drunken millionaire who is engaged
to Jill Eikenberry's character in the film. Jill would later star on LA
Law. Anyway, he is served by his wonderful British butler, Sir John
Gielgud OM who won an Academy Award for his performance in the film as
Best Supporting Actor. Arthur falls in love with Liza Minnelli's
character who is perfect in this film besides her performance in her
Oscar winning role in Cabaret. No, Liza doesn't get to sing. She plays
a diner waitress. Anyway I love Geraldine Fitzgerald as the Bach
matriarch of the family who decides the family's fortune. Anyway, she
is fabulous and should have gotten an academy award nomination herself
for Best Supporting Actress. Barney Martin best known as Jerry's dad on
Seinfeld plays Liza's dad. He's great too. The movie was well-written,
acted, and delivered to the audience who wanted more of it.
<|_=00=_|>

Ok,
even if you can't stand Liza- this movie is truly hilarious!  The scenes
with John Gielgud make up for Liza. One of the true romantic comedy
classics
from the 20th century. Dudley Moore makes being drunk and irresponsible
look
cute and amusing and it is damn fun to watch!  The one-liners are the
best.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

First, many people hate the movie for they feel it glorifies alcoholism
and makes light of it. The movie endures for its existential core: the
tragedy of Arthur beneath some great humor. The great English actor
Gielgud carries this movie on his shoulders without his talents it
would have never been this good. Arthur drinks because he has been
abandoned by his rich parents who are absorbed in their wealth
accumulation and art collecting. Hobson serves as Arthur's surrogate
father; I cannot tell you how great the dialog in this movie is, you
will be quoting lines from it the rest of your days,"Usually one has to
go to a bowling alley to meet a woman of your stature." It is important
to see that when Arthur is loved he stops drinking. This occurs after
Hobson's death and his marriage to Linda. The film's star has fallen
considerably as it has been taken as showing being drunk as funny or
making light of alcohol abuse. When you watch the movie again, see it
as Arthur seeking the love he was denied by his absent, materialistic
parents in the arms of prostitutes with Hobson serving as a paternal
figure in absentia. The movie's core is the dynamic between Arthur and
Hobson, how the latter gently, but firmly, guides and protects him. He
conceals his imminent death from Arthur until the very end, preparing
Linda, quite sternly, for the heavy lifting of loving Arthur ahead for
her.

This is my favorite comedy for many reasons: 1. The best writing of any
comedy with non stop witty banter, 2. A great heart that shows love
that quietly, without applause, cares and protects a damaged boy in a
man's body. Yes, my header is spoken by Burt Johnson, Arthur's future
father in law who does not have Hobson's patience for Arthur's
flippancy and mockery in the funniest scene in the movie. You will love
the movie if you see its linear narrative hidden deeply within the
great humor. A dying caregiver full of worry about his surrogate son
and what will become of him after his death. Arthur's progression to
manhood, when he finds the love he has been searching for he throws off
his liquid crutch that deadened the pain of abandonment. Hobson
discovers this love when he mocks Linda and Arthur yells at him.
Hobson's death is done so well and understated. My favorite scene is
where Hobson looks away from Arthur and mumbles,"Arthur, you're a good
son." They both are so embarrassed by their love for each other. It is
done without full orchestras or string sections. After he dies, Arthur
quietly moves a piece upon the chess board, gets up and locks the door
behind him. What a moving, artistically brilliant way to delineate the
pain and separation that is the death of a loved one.

Yes, I consider it the funniest movie ever made. I did not do the humor
justice in my review because it has been so calumniated since 1981 I
thought I should dispel the misunderstandings of the movie. The great
writing starts at the beginning and is solid all the way through to the
ending. I have watched this movie sixty or seventy times, returning to
it every couple months for thirty-four years. Gielgud never gave a
better performance; the dyad between Moore and Gielgud, the understated
deep love will endear this classic to you. The writing is on a level
you will never see again in your lifetime. There are quotable
one-liners that would be the highlight of other entire movies; this
movie has hundreds of them. Be warned, this is a classic but the sequel
and the remake are dreadful. You will never see protective love shown
in such a quiet, moving way. I enjoyed 10, though I do not care for
Blake Edward's movies, on the whole; this movie towers above it. My
Favorite Comedy.
<|_=00=_|>

It's hard to put your finger on this one. Basically I suppose it's a comedy
about an idle rich drunk who falls in love with a (comparatively) poor girl,
whom he wants to marry at the risk of being disowned by his
family.

It has funny moments, romantic moments, and touching moments. Dudley Moore
is funny and somehow makes his self-centred character endearing, Liza
Minelli is a convincing foil as the the feisty opposite he attracts, but
John Gielgud steals the show as Arthur's wonderfully sarcastic
butler.

It's corny but great fun with a memorable soundtrack, and ran for nearly 3
months at our local fleapit.
<|_=00=_|>

Written and directed by Steve Gordon. Running time: 97 minutes. Classified
PG.

It was the quintessential comedy of the decade. It won Sir John Gielgud the
Academy Award. It was even featured in VH1's "I Love the 80's." And it looks
just as good today as it did upon it's initial release. Arthur is the
acclaimed comedy classic about a drunken millionaire (played with enthusiasm
and wit by Dudley Moore in an Oscar-nominated performance) who must choose
between the woman he loves and the life he's grown accustomed to. While the
basic plot is one big cliche, there's nothing trite about this congenial
combination of clever dialogue and hilarious farce. Arthur Bach is
essentially nothing more than a pretentious jerk, but you can't help but
like him. Especially when he delivers lines such as, "Don't you wish you
were me? I know I do!" He's also a delineation from the archetypical movie
hero: unlike most wealthy characters we see on the silver screen, he's not
ashamed of being filthy rich. In one scene, a man asks him, "What does it
feel like to have all that money?," to which he responds, "It feels great."
Moore lends such charisma and charm to a character that would otherwise be
loathed by his audience. And Gielgud is simply perfect as the arrogant
servant, addressing his master with extreme condescension in spite of the
fact that his salary depends on him. Arthur is one of those movies that
doesn't try to be brilliant or particularly exceptional: it just comes
naturally. The screenplay -- which also earned a nod from the Academy -- is
saturated with authentic laugh-out-loud dialogue. This is the kind of movie
that, when together with a bunch of poker buddies, you quote endlessly to
one another. It also looks at its characters with sincere empathy. There
have been a number of comedies that attempt to dip into drama by including
the death or illness of a principal star (including both Grumpy Old Men's),
but few can carry it off because we just don't care. When this movie makes
the dubious decision to knock off the butler, it actually works, because we
genuinely like these people. Why should you see Arthur? The answer is
simple: because it's an all-around, non-guilty pleasure. At a period in
which films are becoming more and more serious, Arthur reminds us what it
feels like to go to the movies and just have a good time.

**** - Classic
