

I thought this was the coolest movie back when I was a kid, I recently
watched it again after many years, I introduced it to some of the younger
kids in my family and they loved it. Fred Savage and his not as great
little
brother, Ben really related well with kids, I really didn't care for
Daniel
Stern in this film and Howie Mandel was super as the monster Maurice. I
recommend this to kids who would like to see a good kids film for once, I
know this is out of date for todays kiddos, but worth watching over and
over
again as the years go by. I really miss films like this and never will
forget this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I used to kill myself laughing at this film when I was young. Fred
Savage seemed to get all the good roles in these kind of films in the
late 80's and this one is great gross fun.

The film is just a smashing manic ride, racing along like a miniature
Beetlejuce and has all the mischievous, sticky horrible nonsense that's
usually found in the mind of kids! Ignore all the rubbish about sexual
and paedophile undertones, It's simply folk reading WAY too much into
things that could mean anything. Maybe some folk have some secrets of
their own if they keep noticing things like that Hmmmm? I'm pretty sure
the filmmakers didn't set out to do something like that deliberately!
Great film! Thoroughly enjoyed it when I was 12, and still enjoy it now
that I'm 30! Check out The Wizard as well! Another great (And
misunderstood) Fred Savage Film
<|_=00=_|>
The 1989 Fred Savage and Howie Mandel vehicle, "Little Monsters", is a
children's/kid's film. While it was a childhood favorite of mine, I
recently had a chance to re-watch it, and I have to say, it just
doesn't hold up. It suffers from a loose plotting and a disturbingly
cruel nature, and I'm shocked my parents actually let me watch it.

Savage stars as Brian Stevenson, a young boy who has just moved to a
new neighborhood, and is feeling sad because he lost all of his
friends. When strange pranks appear, set up all over his house during
the night, he is blamed by his parents for setting them up, even though
he denies it. In addition, his younger brother claims to have seen a
monster that comes out from under his bed at night. Soon, Brian
encounters the monster- Maurice (Mandel), a playful and nutty humanoid
with bright blue skin, who introduces him to the world of monsters
underneath his bed- a massive land with all sorts of creatures who do
nothing but play pranks, scare kids and play video games.

However, over time, Brian realizes that the pranks and fun have
consequences, and he and Maurice are forced to help his brother Eric,
whom is subsequently kidnapped by "Boy", the evil leader of the
monsters.

To give credit where it is due, the film has a strong atmosphere.
Although it's meant to be fun, the introduction to the film and the
third act are meant to be creepy and unsettling for the audiences, and
I will say, this film is oozing with atmosphere and the general creeps.
It is well paced and well-shot, and it is very eerie for children.
Particularly some of the earlier jumps and some of the monsters.

In addition, the script (by future "Pirates of the Caribbean" scribes
Ted Elliot and Terry Rossio) is quite imaginative, although it has been
long-rumored that many scenes were cut and re-written, and that the
final product differs greatly from the first draft.

Finally, the music is incredible. It's very haunting and has an air of
sorrow, mixed with hints of joy. It gives a good tone and emulates the
up's and down's of the story magnificently.

However, there are two huge, looming problems with the film.

First, despite the imagination, the film isn't well-written. Characters
are established well, but are not necessarily likable. And the plot is
just a mess. In fact, the "plot" doesn't really exist until the last
half-hour. Up until then, it's more of a series of skits and pranks.
The villain ("Boy") and his motivations are not made clear, and the
climax, without spoiling anything, is a non-sensical, sloppy mess. It
brings the film down a few points, and takes away from the scenes that
do indeed work.

Secondly, this is a very dark, cruel film. Many scenes involve pranks
played by the monsters, which become increasingly dark and morally
questionable. Scenes involving tricking young children into drinking
urine, scaring infants, tampering with food, destroying property, etc.
break past the border of bad taste. And there is a great deal of
violence in the film, including characters being kidnapped, burned,
beaten up, and even a creepy scene where a monster is decapitated and
has its head replaced with a pumpkin. It's very dark, and it's
inappropriate for children under 12, I'd say. (Which is the target
market, as kids who are any older are probably not going to like it)
And the bigger problem is that there are no real consequences for the
cruelty and violence, making the theme of responsibility very hollow
and hypocritical.

This film is a mess. It deserves about a 3 out of 10, but my nostalgia
for it, and the sleepless nights of creeps it gave me has elevated it
to about a 5 out of 10. I'd say it's decent for older children, but
parents should plan on watching it with their kids, and making sure the
theme of responsibility was clear to them.
<|_=00=_|>
Remember when you were a child and were convinced there were monsters
in your room? Remember when your parents came and checked under the bed
to show you that there was no such thing as monsters? Remember how you
used to wonder where the monsters (because you KNEW they existed,
despite what your parents said) went when your parents came into the
room? Well, this film will give you those answers.

And it does it in a humorous way. It is a fun comedy, with a touching
story line of friendship between a boy and a monster, and a side of
sibling love. It has a fairly straightforward plot which is easy to
follow.

An amusing performance by Howie Mandel (lately of Deal or No Deal fame)
and one of Fred Savage's early "cute" roles next to his brother Ben,
make this a great family movie.

I've probably added a point for nostalgic reasons, but my children
would rate it more highly than me.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is so bad it's good. Literally.

Fred Savage(Brian Stevenson) just moved into a new neighborhood. Which
means he hasn't any friends. Yet, but he will when his little Brother
Eric Stevenson(Ben Savage)screams into the night and unleashes a friend
that we all love.

Maurice(Howie Mandel)is a monster that was a human. He lives in the
Monster world UNDER the beds. He's very comical and silly. To bad
Boy(Frank Whaley) and Snik(Rick Ducommun) don't think so. So what
happens when Snik kidnaps Brains brother and takes him into the monster
world? Brain takes action.

Starring Fred and Ben Savage, Howie Mandel and Rick Ducommon this movie
is good for all children as it will help with friendships and it will
help with a lot of family togetherness. Recommend for everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
The overall plot to this movie is seriously dumb but for some reason i
always liked it. Howie Mandel plays and over the top hilarious monster
named Maurice and he tries to make best friends with human Brian (Fred
Savage). The cast of this included Fred Savage, Daniel Stern (who's the
narrator on The Wonder Years and ha starred in many other hit movies),
Ben Savage, Frank Whaley and of course Howie Mandel.

I liked the one liners throughout the movie even though most of it was
set in this underground monster world where half of them aren't even
scary. I don't get it, why have most of the monsters be prank artists
and have some of them be actually scary bad guys. I guess the film had
to have a heel in it somehow.

Most people will remember the actor who played Snik as Cindy's Father
in Scary Movie, but this was a great performance in a somewhat weird
movie. Daniel Stern plays a serious role and was great as the heelish
but caring father of the Savage brothers.

I don't mind the bad press this movie gets because I liked it growing
up. I don't understand why but it was always a favorite of mine.

7 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
This was a good film, not great I watched the movie with my sons and
they loved it. While it isn't the greatest movie of all time, it
teaches a nice message and makes you feel good. The only drawbacks that
I saw were trying to make Fred Savage's younger brother Ben an actor
before he was ready. The profanity included was unnecessary; while I
support realistic language in a film, the swearing seemed fake and
forced and simply out of place. Fred Savage, even at this early age,
knew how to act and Howie Mandel's monster performance was well done.
I'd recommend for parents to watch this film with their children as it
teaches a valuable lesson about how families should try to work. All in
all it is a great rainy day renter.
<|_=00=_|>

Although I did enjoy this movie (and gave it a 7), I found the PG rating a
major misstep by the MPAA. Cuss words, adult situations, more than
cartoonish violence .. not that the movie is lessened because of it .. but
at the beginning of the video I rented, there was an add for kids to call
a
1-900 number and try to win prizes related to to the show - but this movie
is in no way made with kids in mind. Howie Mandel hams it up, and an early
movie appearance by Frank Whaley is five minutes of fabulous.
<|_=00=_|>
After moving house and witnessing his parents' marriage crumbling in
front of him, Brian (Fred Savage) investigates his brothers claims that
monsters keep coming from under his bed and scaring him at night. After
swapping rooms, Brian is visited by a big blue monster, and the next
night Brian manages to trap him in his room using his engineering
skills. The monster turns out to be hyperactive troublemaker Maurice
(Howie Mandel) who befriends Brian, and shows him the wonders of the
monster world under his bed, where every night, the monsters reek havoc
in the homes of young children. But the mysterious monster Boy (Frank
Whaley) wants Brian for himself and keep him under the bed until the
sun comes up, and thus turning him into a monster.

Apart from the first four Rocky films, Little Monsters was hands down
the main film I watched religiously as a child, my face no further than
two feet from the TV screen. I remember finding it strangely eerie
amongst all the fun, and being genuinely disturbed by some scenes.
Boy's henchman Snik, a giant, hunchbacked monster with large bottom
teeth, really frightened me, and the scene where he breaks one of
Maurice's horns always shocked me. Re-visiting the film, roughly around
fifteen years later, I can see that I was right to feel unnerved.

Yes, the film is certainly childish and playful, but has a surprising
line of darkness flowing through it from beginning to end. From early
on, where Brian finds an overturned TV in the darkness of his closet
that is showing the climax of The Fly, to the finale that sees Boy's
face burned off to reveal a hideous face underneath, the film often
steps out of the childhood safety area. It's certainly refreshing to
see, and this sort of atmosphere can only be found in the Golden Age of
kiddie flicks, the 80's, where films like The Dark Crystal and The
Goonies showed creepy creatures and foul-mouthed kids that the target
audience could really enjoy and relate to.

Not to say that Little Monsters quite matches up to the two films just
mentioned - it has some annoying child characters and Maurice does
become slightly tiresome - but it is certainly an imaginative, funny
and exciting little film. It's sad to see another of the key child
stars of the era, Fred Savage, come out of the decade and dissolve into
the woodwork, similar to the likes of Corey Feldman and Corey Haim.
Although his maniacal behaviour does occasionally become exhausting,
Howie Mandel's performance is certainly energetic, and you can't help
but love him when he drinks a bully's apple juice, only to refill it
with p**s. Hardly a classic, but certainly a film I will absolutely
cherish from my youth, and will enjoy revisiting once every decade or
so.

www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
LITTLE MONSTERS seems like the sort of children's movie that isn't made
much now. Maybe Hollywood comes close with the vulgarity factor but
those movies have no real heart at their center's. There's something
wholesome to this film when comparing it to today's' shiny plastic but
intrinsically devoid contributions masquerading as children's fun. It's
not deep or intelligent but LITTLE MONSTERS at least has a nice texture
the CGI epics of today don't, and that's what counts for me. There's
something distinctive to this juvenile but likable fantasy.

In a striking fade-in the film's protagonist Brian explains in moody
voice-over that his family has moved to a different neighborhood,
leaving his former friends behind and forcing him to start anew. While
his younger brother (really his younger brother, Ben Savage) doesn't
have a problem with it, Brian is left to sneak downstairs to devour
peanut butter and onion sandwiches and catch late night cable until
running into Maurice (Howie Mandell) a professional monster who enters
any house he pleases via the netherworld beneath every child's bed.
Deducing that Maurice can't be exposed to bright light, Brian quickly
uses this leverage to have Maurice showing him the ropes, sneaking into
other family's houses and causing all the mischief you swore wasn't
your fault when YOU were a tyke. But there's trouble brewing in the
monster's dimension as the sinister "Boy", high chieftain of this
rickety realm, decides he wants Brian to join his world permanently and
goes to extreme lengths to make it happen. 

LITTLE MONSTERS delights in scatology and gross-outs like swigs of p*ss
& cat food sandwiches, it even has the kids exclaiming "Sh*t"
sometimes, something I don't see in today's antiseptic pre-teen movies.
It appeals to the mindset of its demographic in other words. The idea
of a secret world of labyrinthine staircases, endless nights and
mountains of junk food is a seductive one even if it is restricted by
the movie's budget. The monsters are just dolled up kids in elaborate
Halloween costumes. 

Howie Mandel is clearly doing his best Beetle-juice impression here
with bratty Fred Savage as the adventurous sixth grader. What really
has the strongest impact though is Frank Whaley as Boy, the abomination
even the other monsters fear. He's soft spoken and androgynous, coyly
appealing to Brian at the climax to come and play with him forever in
his fabulous netherworld. Only when the camera pans backwards do we see
that his face is literally tacked on like a mask, disguising a hideous
interior. The sequences with Boy plumb at something deeper and darker
than the rest of the film, a vision of curdled boyhood by way of a
child predator. This is the only time the flick transcends its status
as enjoyable malarkey into something more unsettling. Boy is too adult
to really be like the other monsters so naturally he's the villain. I
couldn't help thinking of another powerful man-child barricaded in his
never-never land, inviting other children to come join him and be young
forever.
