

Renny Harlin's first American film was one of the best of a slew of
prison-set horror films(like "Death House" or "The Chair")in the late
80's.Twenty years before,guard Lane Smith had wrongfully executed a
condemned man.Now,he is the warden of the newly re-opened prison,and the
man's ghost is back for bloody revenge.This atmospheric and very moody
film
features lots of gruesome gore and violence.Viggo Mortensen,Tiny
Lister,Tom
Everett and Kane Hodder are onhand for the entertaining
carnage.
<|_=00=_|>

Considering the amount of crap that Hollywood studios churn out onto DVD
these days, it's simply amazing that this absolute gem of a horror movie
is
only available on video (and NTSC at that!). If you, like me, are a big
fan
of the multi-talented Viggo Mortensen and are lucky enough to come across
a
copy of this film on eBay or suchlike, then I suggest you buy it until
someone comes to their senses and treats this film to the DVD transfer
that
it richly deserves.

This was Renny Harlin's fourth film (just before he came to fame with 'Die
Hard 2') and stars Viggo, as the kind of prisoner that you'd want as your
friend, along with Lane Smith (he of the 'Superman' TV series) as a
deliciously sadistic warden. The story takes place in a prison (no
surprise
there, though it was filmed in a REAL prison which adds to the atmosphere)
and concerns the unintentional release of the revenging spirit of a
prisoner
electrocuted 30 years earlier - nuff said. Fans of truly inventive and
gory
dispatches will love this film. The ending is a bit cheesy, but that's the
only quibble I have.

9/10

PS - Viggo does look real good in his underwear.
<|_=00=_|>
What we have here is a compelling piece of low budget horror with a
relatively original premise, a cast that is filled with familiar faces
AND one of the most convincing filming locations in the history of
horror films. So...could anyone please tell me why this movie is so
utterly underrated??? "Prison" is the Finnish director Harlin's
American debut, which still counts as his best effort even though he
went on making blockbuster hits like "Die Hard 2", "Cliffhanger" and
"Deep Blue Sea". The story entirely takes place in an ancient and
ramshackle Wyoming prison, re-opened for the cause of over-population
in other, more modern state penitentiaries. Inside the former execution
dungeons, the restless spirit of the electric chair's last victim still
dwells around. The now promoted warden Eaton Sharpe (Lane Smith) was
there already 40 years ago, when this innocent man was put to death,
and the spirit still remembers his vile role in the unfair trial. It
seems that the time for vengeance has finally arrived. Viggo Mortensen
plays the good car thief who has to prevent an even larger body count
and Chelsea Field is the humane social worker who slowly unravels the
secrets from the past.

"Prison" contains over half a dozen memorable gore sequences but it's
the unbearably tense atmosphere that'll stick to you for certain!
Unlike any other horror picture from that decade, "Prison" features an
amazing sense of realism! By this, I refer to the authentic scenery and
the mood inside the prison walls, of course, and not towards the
supernatural murders that are being committed... even though these are
genuinely unsettling as well. The film's best parts are images of
realistic and tough prison-drama sequences combined with visual mayhem
and shocking horror. The absolute best terror-moment (providing me with
nightmares ever since I saw it at rather young age) focuses on a
grizzly death-struggle involving barbed wire. Haunting!! The screenplay
only suffers one flaw, but that's a common one...almost inevitable, I
guess: clichés! The story introduces nearly every possible stereotype
there is in a prison surrounding. We've got the ugly, fat pervert with
his 'cute' boy-toy, the cowardly and racist guard avoids confrontation
at all costs and – naturally – the old 'n wise black con who serves a
lifetime (did I hear anybody yell the name Morgan Freeman?) Don't stare
yourself blind on these clichés is my advise, as there are so many
other elements to admire. The photography is dark and moist, the
mystery is upheld long and successfully and the supportive inmate-roles
of class B-actors are excellent (the fans will recognize Tom Everett,
Tom 'Tiny' Lister and even immortal horror icon Kane Hodder). Forget
about Wes Craven's god-awful attempt "Shocker" or the downright
pathetic cheese-flick "the Chair". This is the only prison chiller
worth tracking down! Especially considering Viggo Mortensen peaking
popularity nowadays (I heard he starred in a successful franchise
involving elves, Hobbits and other fairy creatures...) this true 80's
horror gem oughts to get an urgent DVD-release!
<|_=00=_|>
As prison movies go, "Prison" easily rises above expectations.
Competent acting by Lane Smith, Viggo Mortensen, and a cast of prison
stereotypical character actors carries the movie into above average
territory. The abandoned Wyoming prison where it was filmed is
interesting, and lends authenticity. Although the horror prison aspect
has been done more recently, there is a certain quality to "Prison"
that has not been replicated. I'm not sure what it is, but the
combination of likable characters that have some development fighting
an unleashed spirit is depicted quite well, in the tradition of great
films like "The Keep". - MERK
<|_=00=_|>

This is an excellent example of what can be done on a small budget movie.
The acting is excellent considering the script & the whole atmosphere of
the
film is very foreboding. The gore is well done and used sparingly (look out
for the excellent barbed-wire death) & the action is punchy when used. It's
true that there are dodgy lines in the script at times, but compared to
other movies on the same (or bigger!) budget, it's hardly noticeable at
all.
Overall, this is recommended. Trust me, it's better than it appears!
8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Yes people this has three cast members from the movie "Leatherface: The
Texas Chainsaw Massacre 3"  shocked?  Well for me, yes I was very shocked. 
Tom Everett and Viggo Mortensen are too excellent actors, you might remember
them as Tex and Alfredo, from TCM 3 of course.  
Prison relates to other movies like "The Horror Show", "Destroyer", and
"Shocker" but there was something different about this film.  It was
creepier than all those others and it had better torture scenes of pain and
agony and including...yes...death.  The only thing that didn't make it as
good as all the others you only see the spirit one time for about ten
seconds, that's it.  Through the whole movie the spirit appears as bright
light and electricity.
Oh and did I include that Kane Hodder is in this too?  Good story, alright
setting (It takes place in a prison what else do you want), and acting is
basically average.  If you like prison horror movies this is a for must see
for your eyes, pure eye candy!  
<|_=00=_|>
A cash-strapped prison board decides to reopen an old, run-down slammer
that has been closed since 1968, putting no-nonsense warden Eaton
Sharpe (Lane Smith), an ex-guard at the establishment, in charge of
running the show. When Sharpe orders two of the new inmates (one of
whom is played by a young Viggo Mortensen) to break down the sealed-up
entrance to the execution chamber, he unwittingly unleashes the
vengeful spirit of dead convict Charlie Forsythe, who was wrongfully
sent to the electric chair.

With the two men responsible for this dreadful miscarriage of justice
currently residing in the very same prison as Forsythe's ghost, one
might expect retribution to be swift, but director Renny Harlin (Die
Hard 2, Cliffhanger, Deep Blue Sea) drags out matters for over 100
minutes, chucking in as many hoary prison drama clichés as possible in
the process, whilst having his malevolent spook kill off several other
characters for no discernible reason other than to pad out the action
and meet the gore quota—except that the splatter here is remarkably
tame despite the inventive nature of the deaths.

5.5/10, rounded down to 5 for the cinematography, which utilises a blue
tint and smoke throughout in a bid to add style and atmosphere, but
which, in reality, only succeeds in making everything blue and smoky.
<|_=00=_|>

Story of a wrongly executed prisoner who haunts the prison he was
electrocuted in and kills random prisoners while waiting to take revenge
on
the man who framed him.

Viggo Mortensen is great, and the acting is pretty good overall. Lane
Smith
is deliciously wicked as the guilty warden. Also, this film has some great
gore, including death by barbed-wire mummification.
<|_=00=_|>
Years after a Charlie Forsythe has been executed via the electric chair
the state of Wyoming reopens the prison . During some renovation work a
wall is knocked down releasing the spirit of Forsythe who is now bent
on revenge 

This is a cross-genre film featuring prison exploitation movie mixed
with horror . Before the credits role you know what to expect and no
one is expecting the cerebral psychological horror dished out in John
Hillcoat's GHOSTS OF THE CIVIL DEAD because this is more in keeping
with ghost of the very uncivil undead 

Noticing the credit of director Renny who would give us DIE HARD 2 and
DRIVEN strikes you that this is going to be a bit loud , noisy and
exaggerated and guess what we get ? That said we also get an early
starring role from Viggo Mortensen possibly the most underrated actor
of his generation 

The story and style plays out as you expect it . A diverse group of
cons split in to predators , prey and intelligent lone wolfs are
sentenced to serious time in the penal system . You can't help thinking
perhaps the conditions seen here are a bit to grim to be realistic but
then you stop to consider that in real life convicted prisoners in some
states live in tents in the yard then maybe no embellishment is given .
It also noticeable how similar in some ways on a visual level this film
is to Michael Mann's THE KEEP from 1983 but Mann did manage to make his
film a bit more hypnotic than Harlin has done with PRISON
<|_=00=_|>
Lane Smith stars as a worn-out bug-eyed warden Sharpe who in 1968
executed some prisoner. 20 years later the almighty Board reopens the
Prison, transfers some inmates to it and reinstates the old dog Sharpe
who's plagued by nightmares of that execution he carried out a long
time ago. Viggo Mortensen plays a mysterious convict do-gooder that
helps everybody and carries himself with unprecedented grace. Lincoln
Kilpatrick (who did some quality time later in Fortress) plays an old
black guy that already did time here under warden Sharpe. The go-to
girl of late 80s action and horror Chelsea Field is spliced in as a
concerned female observer. To top it all off the evil spirit gets
unleashed (it's the 20th anniversary of that execution) and haunts the
place The Keep/Evil Dead style. Prison is not well written, but looks
okay and is shot well. It has a lot of familiar faces. The scares don't
work, but I think it's because they're ridiculous and funny to begin
with. The third act has people running around in panic and a surprise
twist is revealed that goes absolutely nowhere. This movie you're going
to laugh at if you've seen Evil Dead, The Keep and Fletch. But to Renny
Harlin's credit, he made it watchable enough for others to comfortably
sit through it. It's his first all-American movie and he made a wise
decision of grabbing onto the first (worst?) thing they gave him and do
his best with it.
