
This is an excellently crafted piece of work from former Roger Corman
student, Joe Dante. I won't go much into the plot, but it involves a
news woman who gets attacked while in a porno shop viewing room. To get
her mind off things, a psychiatrist recommends she goes to his private
retreat to be treated. After that, spooky happenings and strange deaths
start occurring. This film has great direction and great atmosphere and
mood. The lighting and use of fog is excellent and really hightens the
spookiness of the film. One of the best werewolf transformations is
shown in this film, rivaled only by the one in An American Werewolf in
London. Although this movie starts out slow, the tension keeps rising
and keeps you interested in what will happen next. The spookiness
doesn't always lie within the content but also the claustrophobic
feeling and the uncertainty of who you can trust. A very good movie,
highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
The Howling

Easily one of the most historically popular werewolf films out there
deserves some attention, right? Well of course. And since lately I'm
getting more and more into werewolf films, I figured it was high time I
actually bought this one and reviewed it. This, along with American
Werewolf in London, were the two films that revolutionized werewolf
movies and transformed them from just some guy running around bein' all
hairy and strangling people. On top of it all, we have Joe Dante
(Piranha, Gremlins) directing. Good times will be had by all!

This film revolves around a news anchor-woman who is helping the police
track down a serial killer, made all the easier by the fact that he's
taken an interest in her. Well, everything goes just awful and she ends
up traumatized. Her shrink suggests she and her husband take a
comfortable, soothing vacation in a community that he's a major part
of. Of course, the movie is helped along by the fact that the town just
happens to be chock full of werewolves who can't seem to decide whether
to eat these new people or have them join up.

Here's the breakdown:

The Good:

--We've got some beautiful and unique looking werewolves here. The
first one we have a very clear view of, in the doctor's office, almost
resembles some creature that's part wolf, part man, and part cat. It
just kind of had that feel--not that it's bad, I liked it.

--Interesting story, one of the better ones in the world of werewolves.

--The acting is pretty good, one has to consider the fact that a lot of
actors just don't take these kinds of roles seriously enough. So
finding a movie like this where they do is quite nice.

--Naked transforming werewolf sex scene by a campfire. Hmmm... maybe
this should be the Memorable Scene....

--Average amounts of violence--more a suspenseful werewolf film than a
visually disturbing one. The gore, while only occasional, is really
good.

--Nice mystery story wrapped up in here.

Didn't Hurt It, Didn't Help:

--Decent music, somewhat average for these kind of movies.

--Dee Wallace-Stone's acting occasionally isn't quite up to par, shall
we say...

--One werewolf transformation sequence is actually animated--like with
cell animation and it doesn't look very good. It's brief and small, and
doesn't detract from the film's overall quality.

--Dee Wallace's friends in the movie really seem to adopt the notion of
werewolves rather easily--I would think it would be hard to accept that
idea... oh well...

The Bad:

--Some two-dimensional characters.

--This film is in a series notorious for it's much crappier releases,
but that's really about all there is that's not to like.

The Ugly:

--Robert Picardo (the hologram doctor from Star Trek: Voyager) plays
the ultimate bad-ass werewolf--and boy, his face doesn't look good all
charred with acid...

Memorable Scene:

--Robert Picardo's werewolf in the Doctor's office. Oh, and that
werewolf transformation sex scene. That was pretty hot.

Acting: 8/10 Story: 9/10 Atmosphere: 9/10 Cinematography: 8/10
Character Development: 8/10 Special Effects/Make-up: 8/10 (some less
than fancy stop-motion, and one bit of obvious animation)
Nudity/Sexuality: 4/10 Violence/Gore: 8/10 (Average amount, but very
high quality) Sets/Backgrounds: 9/10 Dialogue: 7/10 Music: 7/10
Writing: 8/10 Direction: 9/10 

Cheesiness: 1/10 Crappiness: 0/10

Overall: 8/10 

A horror must-see. One of the classic werewolf films. Personally, I
think Dog Soldiers may still be a little better, but that's just me.
For horror fans and a great piece for non-horror fans to find out what
a good werewolf movie should look like--sans CG werewolves.

www.ResidentHazard.com http://bartboard.proboards3.com/index.cgi The
Board, movie message board.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1981, horror movies were on the verge of their greatest comeback.
The 1970's gave us Alien, Jaws and the Exersist, but we had lost the
creepiness of the classic "Universal" monster films, such as Dracula,
The Mummy and (my personal fave) The Wolfman. Pop culture had come to
know the werewolf as a guy that hadn't shaved in a while and grew
fangs. Joe Dante had a different idea. I was a freshman in high school
in 1981 and some friends and I played "hooky" from school and went to
see The Howling. After about 10 minutes I was so scared, that I
actually found myself wanting to go to math class. Dante's film is full
of suggested terror, although once he shows you, he never lets up.
Karen White (Dee Wallace) is a popular newscaster who has managed to
catch the eye of a serial killer. She decides to help the police trap
him, but unannounced to us is the fact that the killer has a secret...
A very dark secret. After a terrifying encounter, Karen and her husband
Bill (Christopher Stone), take a long needed vacation. A retreat colony
up in woods is their destination and the townsfolk (including the late,
great John Carradine) are just normal everyday people who welcome them
with open arms. As the days go by, strange things begin to happen and
we realize that the colony is actually a colony of... Anyway, the
visuals are great and this was long before the computer generated crap
that they throw at us these days. Eddie Quist (Robert Picardo) is the
resident bad dude or (wolf) as you may, and has one of the most classic
transformation scenes I have ever witnessed. His sister Marsha Quist
(Elisabeth Brooks) is definitely the hottest werewolf I've ever seen,
and the cast is rounded out by Sheriff Newfield played by the one and
only (Slim Pickens). The Howling certainly revolutionized the modern
werewolf which has come a long way since Lon Channey Jr wore an afro
wig and a pig nose, and there's not a lot of werewolf stranglings in
this one. I have seen every werewolf movie ever made (literally), and
The Howling has always remained my favorite, with An American Werewolf
In (London)comming in at close second. If you have never seen this
classic film, I urge you to go rent it, turn off the lights and pull
the blanket up tight under your chin (for faster head covering action).
You won't regret it, after all werewolves were meant to be big,
ferocious, violent beasts that rip their victim apart. Nuff said.
<|_=00=_|>

Attractive reporter(Dee Wallace Stone)is coming to a small health
resort.What she doesn't know is that all the residents of this resort are
werewolves."The Howling" is one of my favourite werewolf flicks.It features
some of the best transformation scenes ever filmed,excellent special effects
and a bit of irony.The acting is pretty good,and Joe Dante's direction is
well-handled.There's a nice amount of blood and gore too!This shocker offers
also some delicious sleaze(sex and full frontal nudity).However I'm not
going to waste my time writing about its sequels,because they pretty much
suck(still I haven't seen the fourth and fifth installments of this
series).Joe Dante also made the kick-ass "Piranha"(1978).
<|_=00=_|>

Most of my favourite horror movies of the 1980s were small, indie movies
made outside the major studio system e.g. 'The Evil Dead', 'Maniac', 'Basket
Case'. Most of the "big" horror movies then (like now) were pretty lame.
'The Howling' is a notable exception. Watching it over twenty years after it
was originally released is quite an eye-opener. It not only holds up well,
it is in fact, a damn fine movie. Joe Dante must take the credit for this.
For me in the 1980s Dante was like a smarter, more inventive Spielberg.
Dante, who learned his chops working for Roger Corman as an editor, writer
and director, is a knowledgeable horror buff (Universal, Hammer, Bava
movies) with a sly wit and great sense of fun. 'The Howling' is full of in
jokes and ironic nods, but never goes all the way into comedy. Dante takes
the material seriously. This is a pretty scary movie and the werewolves are
some of the best ever seen. Dee Wallace ('The Hills Have Eyes', 'The
Frighteners') is a TV reporter who is traumatized after a close encounter
with a serial killer (Dante regular Robert Picardo). Dr. Waggner (Patrick
Macnee of 'The Avengers' fame), a charming psychiatrist she knows and trusts
suggest that she and her husband Bill (Christopher Stone) join him at his
therapeutic retreat "The Colony". I won't spoil the movie by going into
detail about what happens next, but it's creepy and entertaining. Wallace is
very good and Picardo, who usually plays comic roles, is convincing as Quist
the psycho nut job. 'The Howling' was co-written by John Sayles, who pops up
in a cameo, as does Roger Corman, and super fan Forrest J. Ackerman, former
editor of 'Famous Monsters Of Filmland'. Dante is a loyal guy who always
likes to acknowledge where he is coming from, so as well as Corman and
Ackerman there are roles for horror legend John Carradine, Kevin McCarthy
('Invasion Of The Body Snatchers'), Kenneth Tobey ('The Thing From Another
World'), Slim Pickens ('Dr Strangelove') and Dick Miller (as "Walter
Paisley" his character in Corman's 1950s b-grade classic 'A Bucket Of
Blood'). 'The Howling' is sure to be enjoyed by every horror buff and for me
is one of the all time best werewolf movies along with Universal's 'The Wolf
Man' and Hammer's underrated 'The Curse Of The Werewolf'.
<|_=00=_|>

Yes! For a change in the horror genre this film does deserve all of the
praise, hype, cult following and respect it receives, even from the critics.
I would go so far as to even admit that I find this Joe (Gremlins,
Innerspace, The 'burbs, Matinee, Small soldiers) Dante flick one of his best
crafted works, followed by PIRANHA.

It's always been a toss up between THE HOWLING and AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN
LONDON for the most effective lycanthropy picture of postmodern horror
cinema (anything since Psycho). Where John Landis used comedy more
blatantly, the humour in THE HOWLING is far more satirical and subversive.
Undoubtedly, Rob Bottin's  effects steal the show as well as they did for
John Carpenter's THE THING. The transformation of Eddie Quist, especially on
the revamped DVD is something to behold.

For anyone with a passing interest in the horror genre this is a film to
include on that 'TO SEE' list. For fans of werewolf movies this should go on
that 'MUST SEE' list.
<|_=00=_|>
This classic werewolf movie is not as good as "An American Werewolf in
London", however it is a pretty good horror movie in its own right. It
is also one of the first (if not the first) to do an on screen
transformation scene not using the old frame by frame technique. The
story has a female reporter traumatized after she helps the police
track down a serial killer. A friend psychiatrist sends her to a
retreat known as "the colony" to help her unwind and get to the root of
her problem. Well lets just say her first impulse was right as she
really seems to think her and her husband are out of place in this
retreat. I would agree, I do believe I would have left after seeing the
first little beach party where the guy about to throw himself in the
fire seemed the most sane. For the most part this movie has a bit of a
slow setup, but once it gets going near the last 20 or thirty minutes
it really gets going. The werewolves look rather good, there are a
couple of scenes where they appear to be nothing more than cartoons or
something, but for the most part they look like working models. There
is a bit at the end which puzzles me as it seems to add humor into what
was otherwise a movie that wasn't trying to garner laughs. However, for
the most part you get a rather nice horror movie with lots of stars,
something of a rarity this day and age.
<|_=00=_|>
Terrific modern werewolf film from director Joe Dante remains one of
his best movies.

News Anchor has a terrifying encounter with a lunatic murderer, then
decides to seek rest in an isolated colony of weird characters. It's
about to become a hairy situation!

Writer John Sayles (who does a humorous cameo as a morgue attendant)
makes The Howling a clever and deeply spooky picture with some nicely
tongue-in-cheek humor. The story references lots of old-school horror
movies, notice how many of the characters in this movie are named after
directors of old werewolf films. Dante lends some well-crafted
direction, giving the movie a truly haunting atmosphere. He builds some
great suspense and the occasional good shock. The art direction by
Robert Burns is also quite good, making for some creepy settings. Rob
Bottin's makeup FX are impressive and frightening. Pino Donaggio's
music score is splendidly dramatic.

Dee Wallace Stone does a strong performance as the film's troubled
heroine. Patrick Macnee, Dennis Dugan, Belinda Balaski, and Christoper
Stone are also good in their supporting roles. Elisabeth Brooks and
Robert Picardo make for some truly scary villains.

Along with Landis's great American Werewolf in London, which ironically
came out the same year as this film, The Howling ranks as one of the
very best modern werewolf movies!

**** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
I saw for the very first time THE HOWLING last weekend and I must say
that the critics were right, it's one of the better werewolf movies
ever made.

It looks like another typical werewolf movie but it's not, this one is
far different to other werewolf movies. It revolves around a TV
newscaster (Dee Wallace) that has the mission to catch a insane serial
killer who has been murdering people on the city with the try to get a
amazing number of audience, but the encounter changes everything, she
gets traumated with the events and didn't get to see his face. Then she
is sent to rehabilitation for remember what happened with her attacker
and at the same time two of her best friends investigates more about
the serial killer they discovers very suspicious clues about the
attacker. And when the newscaster's husband is attacked, one of her
friends goes to the zone and finds the answers to all the clues and
will try to warn her that where she's now living is not all peaceful as
it seems when a wolf is stalking around the woods.

Had a great story, good actings and a very good chase scene, anyway, I
loved this. I give The Howling a 9 out of 10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
There are few fence-riders where this movie is concerned. Most fans of
the genre of Horror and of the sub-genre of WereWolf movies either love
this movie...or hate it.

Let me begin by saying that I admire this movie very much. I enjoy
watching it, and the two subsequent sequels. In my opinion, after the
third Howling, they got stupid, hokey, campy, and just plain bad. Also,
let me warn you that this movie is dated, slow, and has large blocks of
uneventful moments where even the most base character development is
not being utilized.

But, with that having been said, the story is a good story. It is
poorly executed due to the large slow spots I mentioned before, but the
story was a sound and well-written one. Everything does not just
magically come together. The reporting team there as moral and
emotional support for ace reporter, Karen White (Dee Wallace), is
working very hard to put it together. Their discoveries do not come
easy, but rather as a result of hard work, open-mindedness, and
diligence. Not luck.

The cinematography is mostly unremarkable, except for the scene in
which Bill is attacked. The filmography is beautiful there, with the
moonlight streaming out from behind two great trees, and the scene
between is clear and lit by a beautifully brilliant silvery moonlight. 

Very good stuff.

I also loved the use of The Wolf Man, 1941 with Lon Chaney, Jr. as a
source for information in their research. This is an instance in which
a movie used a real movie to quote, rather than some made-up movie. Wes
Craven's use of this element was highly praised in the Scream Trilogy,
and yet, here it is, twenty years earlier.

This production also features a cameo by Forrest J. Ackerman, movie
actor with credits in over 20 B-grade horror flicks, and a very good
(if somewhat over the top) supporting performance by John Carradine.

Naturally, most fans of the horror genre want to compare this movie to
An American Werewolf in London. That is, of course, like comparing
apples to submarines in that the former is a B production, with a small
budget and the latter is a much larger funded project at exactly TEN
times the budget. 

The Howling had a 17M return from a 1M investment, while AWiL had a
30.5M return from a 10M budget. Let's see...17X the investment/3.5X the
investment. I'd have to say "The Howling" is the big winner, here, as
far as profit goes. I use profit as a measuring stick, because it seems
that profit is all Hollywood cares about anymore. Art and artistic
expression no longer seems to be the point of film making these days.
But for the sake of art, I loved both movies, this one and its
competitor. 

The make up artistry used here was excellent, and actually worthy of
the story. That, along with truly professional performances by Dee
Wallace and Christopher Stone, make this an enjoyable and memorable
film, which I have recently added to my DVD collection.

All in all, I consider "The Howling" to be a benchmark film in the
sub-genre of werewolf movies.

It rates a hard-won 7.9/10 from...

the Fiend :.
