
What makes this action drama particularly moving is the comparison
between the extended family of a Sicilian crime boss and the
clannishness of the hillbillies. While Joey Rosellini insults the
mountain folks as people "who farm rocks" his boss John Isabella sees
the link -- "that is what they said about our people back in the old
country." It is not a matter of who wears the nicer suit; it is a
matter of blood, of kinship, and of ensuring that the one with the
greater grievance has justice is done for his family. This is a very
old tradition, both in the Sicilian families and in those Celtic clans
that moved into the hills of Appalachia. In this aspect "Next of Kin"
reaches a level of art not usually found in action films. The scene of
the women packing sandwiches for the big hunt shows a level of clan
community not well understood by us city-folk.

Watch this film and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

I have lived in Chicago all my long life, and I really appreciated the
authenticity of the location scenes.  The area around Wilson and Broadway
is
exactly where the "hillbillies" (forgive the term), especially the single
men, generally migrate.  The characters in the flophouse and bars must
have
been taken right from the street.   The "project" was recognizably
Cabrini-Green, and Truman and Jesse's restored three-story house could
almost be pinpointed to Lincoln Park (except that the "bad guys", and
Truman, would never have found such open parking - they'd still be
circling
the block).

The cemetery where the final showdown occurred is Graceland on Clark
Street,
as everyone who has toured or visited this landmark would know.   It was
an
agony to watch these historic monuments being blown to bits - I had to
keep
chanting "it's only a movie, it's only a movie".

But the readiness of the Kentucky family to jump into the fray was very
real.  That wonderful scene of the pickup truck on its northbound trek up
Lake Shore Drive has its counterpart in everyday life, so I've been
told.

Liam Neeson is a revelation.  It's hard to believe that the same actor who
plays to perfection this tight lipped, lean and mean mountain man, will
later be nominated for an Oscar for his heart-rending portrayal of a
sophisticated German industrialist.

Truman Gates may be my favorite Patrick Swayze character.  There's plenty
of
blood-and-guts action, but it's easy to believe that a concert violinist
would fall madly in love with this exciting, unusual cop.  Helen Hunt, as
his wife, and Michael J. Pollard as a benighted flophouse manager, are
excellent in their roles.

See this movie for a good story, authentic characterizations, and non-stop
interest.
<|_=00=_|>

When his brother is murdered, a policeman is caught between his devotion
to
the law and his family's desire for revenge in this action drama. Patrick
Swayze plays Truman Gates, who left his backwoods Appalachian home for
life
as a Chicago police officer. When his brother is killed by a gangster,
Truman is determined to seek legal retribution. His older brother Briar
(Liam Neeson) has different ideas, however, and travels to the city to
seek
old-fashioned vigilante justice. Truman must now choose between his
family's
belief in mountain justice and the duties of his job. Though the film is
not
particularly action-packed, director John Irvin does provide the expected
gunplay and macho confrontations. However, despite a surprisingly
distinguished cast (also including Helen Hunt and Michael J. Pollard),
little distinguishes the film from numerous other revenge stories with a
similar outline. Next of Kin is the second action film that Patrick Swayze
starred in from 1989. The film is full of action and has some great fight
scenes. Daniel Baldwin is great as the bad guy and look for a young Ben
Stiller before he hit his prime. 
<|_=00=_|>

Worth watching as both a vigilante movie and as a meditation on the
meaning
of family, this movie surprised me with the level of it's performances.
Liam Neeson contributed his usual fine job, as did a nicely creepy David
Baldwin, and a nice mob boss performance by Andreas Katsulas (better known
as the One Armed Man from the Harrison Ford movie of "The Fugitive").
Good
little wussy role by Ben Stiller; nice supporting job by Helen Hunt.
Patrick Swayze does a good dependable job in this movie, but is outshone
by
the finely understated performances of the men playing his relatives from
backwoods Kentucky.  Great use of Chicago locations, though the "L" trains
running past my house don't appear to have the conveniently flat roofs to
jump on. (Alright, a minor quibble).  All in all, quite worth
watching.
<|_=00=_|>

Patrick Swayze stars in this action crime drama as a Chicago cop from the
south avenging the death of his brother.  So the plot is pretty basic, so
what, it is still an enjoyable action/crime-drama.  The cast was very
good
in this film, which includes Liam Neeson, Bill Paxton, Helen Hunt, Adam
Baldwin, and even Ben Stiller in a smaller role.  The action was pretty
good
too, especially the chase on top of the train.  The film also used its
Chicago locations very well, which is something I like in movies.  The
film
has a few faults, including an extremely predictable ending.  But aside
from
that its a fun film for action fans. 3.5/5
<|_=00=_|>
***SPOILERS*** The murder of young Gerald Gates, Bill Paxton, by the up
and coming rookie Mafioso, Joey Rosselini, Adam Baldwin, for not
stopping the truck that he was driving, for a rival vendor company when
ordered set off deadly repercussions that went from the city of Chicago
to the hills and coal mines of rural Kentucky.

Geralds murder by a member of the Mafia's powerful Isabella family
started a violent "blood feud" between the Gates' and Isabell's that
even dwarfed the legendary feud between the Hatfield's and McCoy's.
Gerald's older brother Truman, Patrick Swayze, who's an undercover cop
in the Chicago PD knew what was coming with the Gates family back in
Kentucky up in arms and wanting revenge for their brothers murder. 

Showing up, unannounced, in the big city is Briar, Liam Neeson,
Gerald's other brother looks to track down his killer, or killers, but
Truman talks him out of taking the law into his own hands and letting
the police and courts bring Geralds killer to justice. When there's
nothing happening in getting Gerald's killers by "the law" Briar goes
into action and tears up the Isabella mobsters only to later get shot
down and killed by them. 

Even Truman begins to realize that only him and his kin will have to be
the judges juries and executioners of Gerald's killer and leave the
Chicago justice department and police alone on their coffee break,
which seems to last the entire movie, that their on. 

The Kentucky Hillbillies turn out to be more then a match for the
Chicago mobsters taking the fight to them in a final and bloody
shootout at a local cemetery. Not even the dead are speared in this
film, with the mobsters being shot with shotguns and bows and arrows as
well as chased by dogs. In one horrifying one of the scene one of the
mobsters is trapped in a trailer with dozens of dangerous snakes,
poisonous as well as deadly constrictors, who go on to do a job on the
poor smuck who's hopelessly trapped there. 

The head of the Isabella mob family Big, or Big PaPa, John Isabella,
Andreas Katsulas,ends the bloodbath by blasting young Joey who's
incredible and brainless arrogance and stupidity started this whole
mess by murdering Gerald. It was the mob-hillbilly conflict that lead
to the death of Big PaPa John's one and only son Larry, Ben Stiller,
who was blown to bits by the outraged Bariar Gates.

Patrick Swayze comes across as his usual pleasant and nice guy self as
Truman Gates and at first tries everything to stop the impending war
between his people, the Hillbillies, and the Chicago mobsters. Later
Truman sees that the only way to settle things is with guns not with
do-nothing lawyers DA's and police investigations and gets with "the
program" set by his brother Briar and his fellow mountain men. Truman
is also not as unsophisticated as his fellow home boys being married to
Jessie, Helen Hunt, a concert violinist and well educated young woman. 

Loseing both his brothers, Gerald and Briar, in the war with the mob
Truman can now look forward to his wife giving birth to a future Gates
and go back in peace, as a Chicago policeman, to raise his family. The
movie "Next of Kin" is a bit unusual with the mob getting the hell beat
out of them by a group of people who they never had any contact with
and always looked down on, like the vicious and ignorant Joey, and
never really took seriously until now.
<|_=00=_|>

I chose this movie for a report in my Communications class.  I have seen
it
several times but looking at it from a different angle this time, I saw
the
development of Swayze's character or his return to his family roots.
However you want to look at it.  The first time I saw this movie I was
blown
away by Liam Neeson's portrayal of Briar Gates, he brings his character to
life as much as any actor as ever brought a character to life in any
movie.
Years later when I discovered that Liam was british my opinion of his
acting
abilities skyrocketed.  My favorite quote in the movie was by Liam, "My
name
is Briar Gates and I want the man that kilt my brother."  In print it
doesn't sound like much but when he delivers it, this quote is truly
amazing.


<|_=00=_|>
Shot on location in Chicago, Next Of Kin is about a culture clash
between two groups that are known for longstanding vendettas. They
would be the Sicilian Mafia and the hillbillies of the Appalachians.

Patrick Swayze is one of three brothers of whom the youngest, Bill
Paxton, is killed after organized crime takes over a trucking firm he
was a driver for. They killed the wrong guy because in addition to
being Paxton's brother, Swayze is also a Chicago police detective. 

Of course Swayze has to operate within the parameters of the law.
That's not the case for the oldest brother Lian Neeson. He comes to
Chicago just looking for them that did the deed.

Andreas Katsulas is the Mafia crime family head and he's got an idiot
son played by Ben Stiller whom he turns over to enforcer Adam Baldwin
to learn the business. Stiller goes right to the top of the criminal
food chain with Baldwin when he and Baldwin kill Paxton. But Baldwin is
a survivor and he'll do whatever it takes to survive.

The showdown between hillbillies and Mafioso takes place with a
cemetery at night serving as the OK Corral. It's quite a battle and
justice is served if not the law.

Next Of Kin is your routine action film, but it does have one thing
going for it that I have to praise. The hillbillies are real people
here, they're not the Clampetts of Beverly Hills nor the mouth
breathers from Deliverance. I'm glad that the producers avoided
stereotyping them which would have been easy. Swayze is a good action
hero and his leading lady is Helen Hunt who as Mrs. Swayze in the film
is not given all that much to do. 

Fans of the late Patrick Swayze will be very happy with Next Of Kin.
<|_=00=_|>
It's Kain-tuck hillbillies versus the Chicago mob in a typical John
Irvin bad classic, NEXT OF KIN. A wooden but beautiful Patrick Swayze
stars as a Chi-town cop originally from Kain-tuck whose brother (a
young Bill Paxton) is murdered by a psychotic mobster (FIREFLY's Adam
Baldwin). Another brother, straight out of the Kain-tuck hills (a
bearded Liam Neeson doing a perfectly dreadful hillbilly accent) shows
up to avenge Paxton's death, and all hell breaks loose. It's the
Hatfields versus McCoys, downtown style. A young, somewhat awkward Ben
Stiller plays the son of the mob boss. The final showdown is a comedy
classic, as an army of hillbillies who come to the rescue, armed with
bows and arrows among other things, takes on the gun-slinging mob in a
graveyard. NEXT OF KIN is no ROAD HOUSE, although Swayze races around a
lot in an old Camaro. And he wears a funny hat. Plus he has a mullet,
which he sometimes twists into a fetching ponytail. In fact, depending
on the scene, his hair out-acts him. I sometimes wonder how John Irvin
kept getting jobs, but I suspect the studios loved him for his
"one-take and let's move on" attitude.
<|_=00=_|>
Next Of Kin is a terrific,underrated and entertaining Action-Thriller
that is filled with fine direction,a great cast,wonderful Action,an
impressive script and a good score and soundtrack. All of those
elements make Next Of Kin a solid film worth your time.

Set in Chicago,Illinois,Next Of Kin tells the story of Truman
Gates(Patrick Swayze),a Chicago cop from the hills of Kentucky who is
investigating the death of his little brother Gerald Gates(Bill
Paxton)who was killed by gangsters. Meanwhile,Truman's older brother
Briar Gates(Liam Neeson)has come to Chicago to do his own investigation
and the gangsters find out you mess with their family you mess with
them.

Released in 1989,Next Of Kin is a wonderful and very underrated
Action-Thriller that wasn't a hit at the Box Office and was panned by
critics but in later years the film seems to have found an audience on
cable and home video. And while the film doesn't reinvent the wheel and
isn't very groundbreaking or revolutionary,Next Of Kin is a movie that
gives viewers great entertainment for 108 minutes. From beginning to
end Next Of Kin is a movie that gives viewers a good balance and
mixture of Action,thrills and drama with grit and style that never
changes throughout the movie and is happening on the mean streets of
Chicago with intensity and violence all around. The tone and atmosphere
of Next Of Kin can at times be bleak and downbeat but you are never
depressed while watching the film because while the tone of the movie
is serious the film at times has some humorous moments that are funny
and give Next Of Kin a light tone. The storyline moves at a fast pace
and keeps you glued to the screen and will keep you wondering what will
happen next in most of the scenes. What separates Next Of Kin some of
the Action movies of the late 1980s and early 90s is the the depth and
themes discussed in the film. The main theme that is repeated
throughout the film the theme of family and blood we see families from
both sides whether it's with Truman and his relationships with his
brothers and family or with Gangster John Isabella(Andreas Katsulas)and
his family and no matter what conflicts or problems you still have
blood,loyalty and family will always be with you. The characters Truman
and Briar Gates we see that the two brothers are estranged because of
Truman leaving for Chicago which Briar saw as betrayal but when their
brother is killed we see Truman and Briar try to repair their
relationship while trying to find out who killed their brother and it's
pretty obvious that even though they don't say the two truly love each
other and care for one another and the dialog between the two feels
real and truly adds to the film. In NOK there is a contrast between the
people in the big city in Chicago and the hills of Kentucky showing the
Gates family living in houses in the woods and hills that are in the
dirt which is opposite of the Isabella family who wear expensive suits
and live large houses in the big city of Chicago. One of most
interesting things about Next Of Kin is the cast in the film which
includes actors who were either already famous or would become famous
later on such as Patrick Swayze,Liam Neeson,Helen Hunt,Bill Paxton,Ben
Stiller,Adam Baldwin and Ted Levine with all of them giving fine
performances. The screenplay by Michael Jenning is impressive and
well-written with Jenning's script giving most of the characters
power,depth,emotion and Humor that makes the movie works so well. The
Action scenes in Next Of Kin are wonderful as well as simple but
effective and are in tune with the kind of Action scenes that were done
in other Action flicks of the 1980s and early 90s. The ending of Next
Of Kin is great because the ending has Action,excitement and once again
deals with family and loyalty as well as gunfights and some hunting. A
terrific conclusion.

The cast is outstanding. Patrick Swayze is excellent and at his best as
Truman Gates,a Chicago cop. Liam Nesson is brilliant and memorable as
Briar Gates,Truman's older brother and has great scenes with Swayze.
Adam Baldwin is terrific as Joey Rosselini,a hot headed Gangster. Helen
Hunt does a fine job as Jesse Gates,Truman's wife. Andres Katsulas is
outstanding as John Isabella,a Chicago Mob Boss. Bill Paxton is
wonderful as Gerald Gates,Truman and Briar's younger brother. Ben
Stiller is great as Lawrence Isabella,John's son. Michael J.Pollard is
amusing and fun as Harold,a Motel owner. Ted Levine(Willy Simpson),Del
Close(Frank),Valentino Gimo(Rhino),Paul Greco(Leo),Vincent
Guastaferro(Paulie),Paul Herman(Detective Tony Antonelli)and Don
James(David Jenkins)give good performances as well.

The direction by John Irvin is great,with Irvin always moving the
camera and giving the movie a wonderful visual style. Fine
direction,Irvin.

The score by Jack Nitzche is fantastic,intense and memorable and fits
the tone of the movie. Terrific score,Nitzche. There is also a few cool
songs on the soundtrack by Gregg Allman And Lorrie Gates(Brother To
Brother),Larry Gatlin & Patrick Swayze(Brothers),Rodney Crowell(Hey
Backwoods),B.B King(My Sweet Understanding Lady),The Charlie Daniels
Band(My Sweet Babies Gone)and more. A memorable soundtrack.

In final word,if you love Action-Thrillers,I highly suggest you
see,Next Of Kin,a terrific,underrated and entertaining Action-Thriller
that is worth your time. Highly Recommended. 9.5/10.
