
There is so much more to this film than Dustin Hoffman running around
in a dress trying to act like a woman. Tootsie is one of the most
intelligent comedies I've ever seen. It is perfectly cast,
well-layered, and full of surprises.

Dustin Hoffman plays Michael Dorsey. He seems to know everything about
acting except how to stay employed as an actor. In an early montage we
see him auditioning for numerous plays where he is either too old, too
young, too short, simply not the right guy for the part, or in some
cases impossible to work with. We also see him trying to teach his
craft to some young wannabe actors, and working at a restaurant to pay
the bills. After a hilarious argument with his agent, he is simply told
"No one will hire you!" The very next shot has Hoffman in drag walking
down the street to an audition for a soap opera part his friend (Terri
Garr) was unable to land. So intent is the chauvinistic director
(Coleman) on casting a woman that looks tough enough for the part of a
hospital administrator, Hoffman is denied without so much as a reading.
He responds with a hilarious tirade that opens the door to his
television career. Hoffman lands the part, and is soon winning over
fans all over the country.

While Hoffman finds it wonderful to be working regularly, his personal
life is understandably put to the test. He alienates Garr, is
constantly made fun of by his roommate (Murray) and falls in love with
one of his co-stars (Lange) who of course cannot learn his secret or
he's out of a job. Things are further complicated when two older men
fall in love with him. It would be pointless to try and describe some
of the awkward situations he finds himself in. You must see the movie
to experience them for yourself.

The film is so well-cast it's incredible. There are so many fine actors
at work here that it almost becomes a contest of who can steal the
scene first. Murray gets his share with his improvised lines. His
lamenting of the state of his plays during a party scene will have you
howling. The icing on the cake was director Sydney Pollack agreeing to
play Hoffman's agent. They only have a few scenes together, but they
are the film's best.

Tootsie is head and shoulders above other films I've seen that deal
with men in women's clothing. Mrs. Doubtfire for example was all
slapstick without much heart. In the end it tried to redeem itself in
that department and just got way too sappy. Tootsie also wisely holds
back in the feminism department. Although Hoffman's Dorothy Michaels is
clearly a woman who inspires others to stand up for themselves, he is
advised to tone it down by Pollack in one scene. Hoffman feels his
Dorothy character should be doing specials and giving advice and
whatnot, but Pollack reminds him, "You have NOTHING to say to women,
Michael." In other words, you're lucky you've gotten away with the
stunt up to this point, now you should be looking for a way to get out.

Overall Tootsie is wonderful experience. It made a fortune when
released, and is still very relevant today. Don't miss it! 10 of 10
stars from the Hound.
<|_=00=_|>
Remember when comedies used to be actual movies with actual stories
with actual points and the funny just flowed out of them, instead of
just a flimsy excuse to string together jokes and funny scenes and
stock situations? Yeah, me too. What happened? 

If you're in the mood for a great movie that will get you to cough up a
boatload of honest laughs, then you ain't gonna do better than TOOTSIE.
You are not going to find a better written, acted, and directed comedy
anywhere. There are plenty as good - but none better. This is a career
highpoint for all involved, and when "all" includes names such as
Sydney Pollack and Dustin Hoffman, you know that's a sentiment that
carries some significant weight. 

And it just reaffirms the old adage that every single comedy should
have Bill Murray in it.
<|_=00=_|>
Michael, an unemployed actor in New York, takes desperate measures by
dressing up as a woman called Dorothy Michaels and gets a job at an TV
soap opera, where he falls in love with Julie. But how to tell her that
he is actually a man...? 

Winner of 3 Golden Globes ( Best movie comedy/musical, best actors
Dustin Hoffman and Jessica Lange ) and one Oscar ( Best actress Jessica
Lange ), "Tootsie" is a small masterpiece of intelligent comedy, full
of emotions, love and interesting observations about the relationship
between women and men.

-------

The situations are deliciously written. Just take the scene where
Dorothy is auditioning for the role in the TV soap opera but is turned
down because she is "too soft". Her response is gold: "Yes, I know what
you want! You want some gross caricature of a woman to prove some
idiotic point, like power makes women masculine, or masculine women are
ugly...! Well, shame on you, you macho sh*t a**!" When later asked from
the producer if she was just acting when she said that or if she was
natural, she responded: "Which answer will get me the job?" Needless to
say she got the job that instant, and a special place in my heart. But
the best scenes are the ones where Dorothy is constantly improvising on
the set, like when she was supposed to say to a woman who was beaten up
by her man to take a therapy, but instead decided to tell that she
would never let a man raise his hand on her( and then she threw a vase
of flowers into the wall! ). Wonderful fun! Billy Wilder would be
proud!

Dustin Hoffman is pure genius, more as a woman then as a man, as are
Terri Garr and Bill Murray, before his critical fame with "Lost in
translation" and "Broken flowers". "Tootsie" is quite simply a classic
all the way through!

Grade: 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Possibly the best gender comedy of all time! Everything in this baby
clicks:
A script that is both clever, endearing and realistic in its depiction of
the emotional transformation within Michael Dorsey, incredible acting
performances (with Dustin Hoffman, Terri Garr and unbilled Bill Murray as
standouts) and a great soundtrack that adds volumes to the mood of the
film.

This is a 10! Watch it!
<|_=00=_|>

It's more than a movie about a man in drag and it's more than just a great
movie.  This movie goes to show that Dustin Hoffman  is best at playing the
oh-so-very-different characters.  Whether it's his unforgettable character
in Rainman or Michael Dorsey/Dorthy Michael in this, Dustin is at his best
when he plays someone DIFFERENT, someone who is not your average
person.

This film will make you laugh, that's for sure, but it'll also make you
rethink about the things that really make you happy in your life, something
too few of us think about...almost never.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a wonderful
film,I can't remember how many times I have seen it,I love it! Dustin
Hoffman is brilliant as Michael Dorsey and Dorothy Michaels.Along with
Jessica Lange and Teri Garr and fantastic direction from and co-star
Sydney
Pollack,this couldn't be any better.It's a great story and well scripted
and
very funny besides.If you love films you can't not love this one.This is
my
2nd favourite film in the world  only because ''Some Like it Hot'' is my
first choice.Dustin is one of the best actors in the business and
continues
to be to this day. 
<|_=00=_|>

Wow!, what a film anyone who has seen this film would definetly agree with
me that  this film touches you in so many different places. It's funny,
sad
but also appealing to so many different people. Dustin Hoffman is superb
in
it, so is Jessica Lange the way they act on set together is very amusing
but
when they are alone, it's always an emotional scene. Especially the scene
in
which Julie (Lange) throws a glass of champagne at him when he tries to
come
on to her at a party, it's so funny.
Murray is also good as Hoffman's mixed-up flat mate.
Sydney Pollack the director also takes a small role as Hoffman's Agent who
unsuccesfully tries to find him work.
The viewer sees the struggle of all the characters in their everyday life.
There is also a touch of romance in the fim for the sentimentals in this
world.
The whole team bonds together to create a funny, imaginative film suitable
for anyone who is in the mood for a laugh or a cry.
I thouroughly reccomend it!!
<|_=00=_|>
If there is 10 things I would advise my grandchildren to do in their
life, watching this film is the 2nd. You think I'm joking though, I am
not.

Over the years of cinema the entire trend of men in drag has been used,
abused then labeled as being gay. For all you homo-phobics that think
this is purely a 'girly flick' with cheeky unfunny drag gags, then stop
right there. You couldn't be more wrong. I agree that a man dressing up
in womens clothing is no longer a big deal and is never humorous, after
centuries of it. This is the most witty, hilarious and relaxed movie
that so many actors and directors have missed completely when dealing
with the whole 'drag' subject.

The storyline is a hot tempered and highly opinionated out-of-work
actor(Dustin Hoffman) is told by his agent (Sydney Pollack) in all
kindness that nobody will hire him. He takes it upon himself to dress
as a woman just so he is not recognized by those he has p'ed off in the
past. From Michael Dorsey to Dorothy Michaels, Hoffman plays a woman
with such a justice you forget she's not real. Just like everyone in
the movie, you will fall for Tootsie head over heals!
<|_=00=_|>
It's strange how seeing a man dressed up as a woman always seems to be
funny and popular with the audiences. Milton Berle helped make
television with skits like this on his early 1950s show. It works here,
too, with Dustin Hoffman applying the makeup and playing the role to
the hilt.

Helping Hoffman is Jessica Lange in, by far, her most attractive role.
I'm not particularly a fan of hers but she looked spectacular in here,
almost like Marilyn Monroe. 

This was a popular film because the humor was good and the two leads
did a nice job, and people like a good romance story, too. Hoffman,
like him or not, is a fabulous, able to play so many diverse roles.
He's an amazing actor.

Sometimes overlooked is the big-name supporting cast which includes
Dabney Coleman, Teri Garr, Bill Murray, Chares Durning and Geena Davis.
The latter was making her screen debut in here!

This isn't as "cute" as it was 25 years ago but it sure was a
justifiable bit hit back in the early '80s.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to deny this as a funny film, because it is so hilarious! I
find myself still cracking up after all these years, each time I see
it. I've seen it countless times, and it's still a great watch.

Dustin Hoffman plays Michael Dorsey, an unemployed actor, who can't
seem to get along with any director or writer in town. One day, he
takes his friend, Sandy to audition for a part in a soap opera. She is
turned down, and because he is so desperate for work, he dresses up
like a woman, and goes in for the interview himself. He is hired
because of his ( I mean, her) defiant attitude, and throughout the rest
of the film, he is now known as, Dorothy Michaels.

The film is hysterical, and well-written. There is not a time that I've
seen this film, where I didn't laugh or smile. It's light, but has some
adult material that might not be appropriate for anyone under twelve.
It's cute, and there's really not much more to it than that. I think
everyone will love it, once they give it a chance.
