
A Nightmare on Elm Street: The Dream Child, the fifth installment in
the Nightmare on Elm Street series and the worst sequel ever in the
series, even worse than A Nightmare on Elm Street 2. I was lucky enough
to get the Nightmare on Elm Street DVD box set for my birthday and I
watched all the sequels. The dream child was the worst without a doubt,
I was surprised too since they were doing so well with the last two
sequels. But I guess they just lost the charm, the story was just
ridicules and I wasn't happy with where it went. Alice just became more
annoying, she's not Nancy or Kirsten, so her carrying this film on her
own didn't work for me. Freddy is also loosing his scare, this was just
getting a bit silly.

Alice is back and she's carrying a child, she couldn't be happier with
her life. But Freddy is also back and he's not going to be too light on
her since she defeated him so easily in the fourth movie. But anyways,
he wants her child and to be born into the world again. Did you ever
wonder if Freddy had parents too? Well that's what A Nightmare on Elm
Street: The Dream Child investigates and Alice soon finds out what
Freddy's childhood was like and that maybe that's the one thing that
can defeat him.

A Nightmare on Elm Street: The Dream Child is just all in all a bad
movie and an insult to the series. I don't think anyone could be happy
with this sequel. Just the story was really silly, I mean it could have
possibly worked, but once again, it was just executed the wrong way. I
know that if you're looking to see the sequels for the Nightmare on Elm
Street series, you should watch it, but I really wouldn't recommend it,
it's not worth it, at least in my opinion.

3/10
<|_=00=_|>
Not saying this is a bad movie like most people say, but if you look at
it real closely; you will see this installment has the most drama than
the others. Besides PART 7. Director Stephen Hopkins and (female)
writer Leslie Bohem provide a great dramatic story with perfect comic
timing by FREDDY KRUGER(Robert Englund).

Alice(Lisa Wilcox) and Dan(Danny Hassell) have been living like king
and queen since the battle with FREDDY. All of that is about to change,
because FREDDY is using their unborn baby, Jacob(Whitby Hertford),
dreams to kill those close to her. The only person who can help her is
the rest of her remaining friends and FREDDY's mother, who body has
been missing since the birth of FREDDY.

Now the plot sounds like an average horror movie, but it's not. What
most people complain about is how slow moving it is and not few people
are killed like the other installment. This movie not about that at
all, it's more on the human side than horror. Of course, you have those
excellent one liners from FREDDY. So watch if your in for a
horror/drama.
<|_=00=_|>
On the day of her graduation in Springwood High School and after having
sex with her boyfriend Dan Jordan (Danny Hassle), Alice Johnson (Lisa
Wilcox) has a dreadful nightmare with Amanda Krueger (Beatrice Boepple)
on the night that she was mistakenly locked up in the asylum with one
hundred maniacs and then with Freddy Krueger's rebirth. During the
night, while Dan is in the graduation party in a swimming pool with
their common friends Yvonne (Kelly Jo Minter), Mark Grey (Joe Seely)
and Greta Gibson (Erika Anderson), Alice calls him and Dan leaves the
party and drives his truck to meet Alice at her job. However he is
attacked by Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) and crashes against a large
truck instantaneously dying. The shocked Alice goes to the hospital and
finds that she is pregnant of Dan's son. When Greta is killed by Freddy
during a dinner party, Alice becomes intrigued since she was not
sleeping in both occasions; therefore Freddy could not have used her
dreams to reach Dan and Greta. Sooner Alice concludes that Freddy is
using her baby's dreams to kill her friends, and she decides to seek
out Amanda to learn how she could defeat and destroy Freddy Krueger.

"A Nightmare on Elm Street: The Dream Child" is the fifth part of this
classic movie and is a creepy and underrated sequel. This is the movie
of the franchise that uses the greatest number of impressive gruesome
special effects. The deaths are very creative, like the one in the
comic book or the attack of the motorcycle and one of the scariest
scenes is when Alice is dressed like Amanda and surrounded by the crazy
guys in the saloon of the mental institution. The beauty of Lisa Wilcox
gives a great contrast with the ugliness of the beast Freddy Krueger.
My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "A Hora do Pesadelo 5: O Maior Horror de Freddy" ("The
Hour of the Nightmare 5: The Greatest Horror of Freddy")
<|_=00=_|>

Never mind Freddy's return is never explained, this installment has terrific
effects, and style to burn with Robert Englund giving it his all, but this
series is getting old fast. In this entry, Freddy (Englund) is trying to
control the unborn child of part four's survivor and murdering all her
friends in the process. The black and white sequence is a highlight.
Unrated; Extreme Graphic Violence, Sexual Situations, Profanity, and Brief
Nudity.
<|_=00=_|>

The series began suffering with the fourth movie, but this one really sent
the series down hill. The acting is horrible. Only Robert Englund delivers a
good performance. Not easy considering how pathetic this movie makes Freddy.
Instead of the dark and scary villain, he's become a wise cracking jerk. The
story is poor, making little sense. More details about Freddy's past come to
light, but it really doesn't make a difference. The movie is also not very
scary. The makers of this movie just opt for a lot of gore. The special
effects try to fix the movie's many problems, but they don't. You'd think
they would know when to quit, but yet another sequel followed. Thumbs down
on this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Freddy, who survived being destroyed be the 'dream master', is now
attempting to be reborn through the dreams of Alice's as-yet unborn
baby. Alice starts having nightmares concerning Freddy's mother, his
place of conception and what he looked like before he was cremated by
avenging parents.

The '5' I have given this film is only so high because of the dark,
imaginative special effects, the atmospheric soundtrack and because of
Robert England who is at his wisecracking best (even though the
comic-book portrayal of Freddy leaves the film abut as scary as an
episode of Postman Pat. Everything else about this film stinks, from
the lousy, couldn't-care-less acting to the often tedious storyline and
the irritating characters. Reviews at the time of this film's release
claimed you needed an IQ of less than 20 to enjoy it. Perhaps they were
being generous.
<|_=00=_|>
Some of the best, if not the best, special effects in the seven-part
"Nightmare On Elm Street" series were featured in this movie. They are
good and they are clever. 

The teens in here are still annoying and profane but not to the degree
they are in most of the "Freddy" films. There are some real "hotties"
in here, too. The ridiculous part is that all these "teens" look about
25 years old (which they probably are). Robert Englund (Freddy) has
some funny lines, as he did in a most of these movies and the movie is
well-photographed.

My problem with the story, and almost of them actually, is the theology
which has always been so stupid, but I tolerated it through all of the
films. But here, to a show a book in the beginning of the film that
says "Christian Mythology," is a real cheap shot and going too far.
This pagan propaganda was heavy in this film, which is really only
worthwhile for the inventive special-effects.
<|_=00=_|>
By 1988, it seemed that audiences couldn't get enough of Freddy
Krueger. The first three films made a lot of money, which led to
merchandising up the wazoo. He was a household name and it was only the
beginning. 'The Dream Master' was the most successful of the series up
to that point. So naturally the folks at New Line got started on the
next chapter. It came less than a year after 4 and didn't perform as
well as what came before. All these years later though, it actually
holds up well.

Pros: A great and creepy opening sequence. Above average performances.
One of the best scores in the series. A welcome return to a darker
atmosphere. Nicely done effects. Eye-popping production design.
Creative death scenes. Some cool ideas, such as how Freddy gets to his
victims this time. Moves at a good pace.

Cons: Like the last film, this one's plot is real thin. Brings up some
serious issues, then drops them. Though shown less, Freddy isn't as
scary as in the earlier films.

Final thoughts: Like 'Halloween 5,' this sequel was rushed into
production after it's predecessor's success. Had they given the
audience a longer break from Ol' Freddy, it may have done better at the
Box Office. Despite this and it's faults, this installment is one of
the series' strongest. From the spectacle, to the likable cast, to the
darker tone and the chilling score it's a treat. Too bad they had to
blow it with the next one, but that's another story.

My rating: 4/5
<|_=00=_|>
A Nightmare On Elm Street 5: The Dream Child was the worst Freddy
Krueger film I've seen yet.

To start off on a good note, though, I liked the cinematography. In
fact, I really thoroughly enjoyed the cinematography. It's not often
that the cinematography is the best aspect of a picture, but it is
here.

The director was weird, though. I mean, I could tell he had a little
bit of skill with the regular scenes, but the dream sequences were done
incredibly poorly. Usually the best parts of the films, these dream
sequences were incredibly poorly conceived. I know that the filmmakers
were trying to blend the dreams with reality as in the first film, but
they ended up being so goofy that it became entirely too obvious what
was a dream and what wasn't. Something else about the dream sequences
that bothered me: in the first film Freddy would cut the characters and
they would get cut in real life. Whatever happened to that? Instead the
dreams just lead to random accidents in real life.

The acting in this movie is even worse than last time. Once again, I
liked Lisa Wilcox's pretty face, but her acting is awful. All of them
have shitty acting. Even so, the actor who played the character of Mark
was interesting. He wasn't very good (though better than the other
actors), but he was the only actor who seemed interested in bringing
out the more intriguing aspects of his character. These characters
aren't much to be interested in. They're dull and not very
intelligently designed. 

Oh, god, Freddy. What have they done to you? You keep getting more puns
put into your dialogue, but now he's being put into bizarre costumes
and corny setups. I need to watch the first film again so I can take
him seriously again. Robert Englund has even stopped trying, a sign
that this series has hit rock bottom. I remember reading that this was
Englund's least favorite film. And I can easily see why. The "Super
Freddy" scene was borderline unwatchable.

I think the worst part must be the dialogue. This is really among the
worst dialogue I've ever heard. I straight up hated the words coming
out of the actors' mouths, and I think it was part of the reason the
acting itself was so bad. I cannot imagine these lines coming out well.
On the other hand, every time the director has regular scenes outside
of the dreams, he is able to set up the scenes fairly well. Like I
said, he has a bit of skill. Albeit he's not brilliant, but he had
potential. Until the dream sequences. But if he had a decent
screenplay, his ability might have taken the film somewhere.

Visually, the film isn't even attractive. Apart from the
cinematography, there's nothing in the effects or set design that would
make this film pleasant to look at. It's just an ugly looking film. I
was far more interested in the movement of the camera than the images
on the screen.

Yeah, the sh***y effects seal the deal for me. A Nightmare On Elm
Street 5: The Dream Child sucks.

1/10
<|_=00=_|>
Obviously, they wanted to have Freddy come back yet again. This time,
he murders people through the dreams of an unborn baby. You read that
right: AN UNBORN BABY! I never knew that unborn babies can dream, but
apparently they can. As for the murders themselves...well, let's just
say that the doll scene was something else! I would imagine that Robert
Englund is probably proud to be remembered as that claw-handed slasher.
Granted "A Nightmare On Elm Street: The Dream Child" isn't exactly the
most creative movie ever, but it's still neat for what it is. Needless
to say, there are some silly one-liners. And yet, there were even
sequels after this one...
