

Let me state at the outset that I have Cerebral Palsy and I went into this
film expecting to have to make allowances for the lead performance.  I left
the theater half-convinced that they'd cast an actor who had Cerebral Palsy
in the role, even though I knew that was not the case.  The performances
were generally excellent, with a special nod to Brenda Fricker and to Hugh
O'Conner (I believe that's his name) as the young Christy Brown.  Christy is
talented, brash, arrogant, at times vulgar and petulant-in other words,
human.  This film, along with Gaby: A True Story and the documentary King
Gimp, are excellent portrayals of life with CP.  By no means a complete
portrait, but fine examples of the disabled as human beings.  Most highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

Daniel Day-Lewis' almost impossible performance as a man with cerebral palsy
earned him a well-deserved Oscar in 1989 for Best Actor over the heavily
favoured Tom Cruise in 'Born on the Fourth of July' and Morgan Freeman in
'Driving Miss Daisy'.  The Academy was still riding the wave of awarding
Dustin Hoffman a second Best Actor prize a year earlier for his performance
as a mentally challenged individual in 'Rain Man' and since Day-Lewis'
performance was superior to Hoffman's, the Academy had to recognize him.
Day-Lewis probably would have won anyway as his performance was hard to
ignore and he had never received any acting nominations from the Academy
before this film despite turning in great work in such films as 'The
Unbearable Lightness of Being' and 'My Beautiful Laundrette.'

As Christy Brown, Daniel Day-Lewis makes his character unsympathetic as he
doesn't want you to feel sorry for him.  He achieved the great success of
being an accomplished writer and artist.  Director Jim Sheridan directs the
film like a series of home movies that millions want to see.

Brenda Fricker won the Oscar as Best Supporting Actress as Brown's mother
and she is the real moral centre of the film and this film proves that
Hollywood is capable of choosing small, lesser known films for Oscar
consideration and 'My Left Foot' is a film that is uplifting without being
sentimental.
<|_=00=_|>
Daniel Day Lewis is one of the best actors of our time and one of my
favorites. It is amazing how much he throws himself in each of the
characters he plays making them real.

I remember, many years ago, we had a party in our house - the friends
came over, we were sitting around the table, eating, drinking the wine,
talking, laughing - having a good time. The TV was on - there was a
movie which we did not pay much attention to. Then, suddenly, all of us
stopped talking and laughing. The glasses did not clink, the forks did
not move, the food was getting cold on the plates. We could not take
our eyes off the screen where the young crippled man whose entire body
was against him and who only had a control over his left foot, picked
up a piece of chalk with his foot and for what seemed the eternity
tried to write just one word on the floor. When he finished writing
that one word, we all knew that we had witnessed not one but three
triumphs - the triumph of a human will and spirit, the triumph of the
cinema which was able to capture the moment like this on the film, and
the triumph of an actor who did not act but who became his character.

Jim Sheridan's "My Left Foot" is an riveting, unsentimental bio-drama
about Christy Brown, the man who was born with cerebral palsy in a
Dublin slum; who became an artist and a writer and who found a love of
his life.

I like every one of Day Lewis's performances (I have mixed feelings
about his performance in GONY) but I believe that his greatest role was
Christy Brown in "My Left Foot"
<|_=00=_|>

I am in awe of Daniel Day-Lewis' acting in this movie.  I can't think of
anyone else who could have portrayed the real-life writer Christy Brown as
well as he does.  He doesn't just portray the ravages of cerebral palsy of
his character but the intelligence, humour, courage and love of the man.
The character also is not deemed a saint but allowed to have humanity - the
foul mouth and love of booze and women.  If a movie can be called inspiring
than this has to be it.

Lewis and Brenda Fricker as his mother both won Oscars and Ray McAnally as
his father also deserved one.  The movie is well directed by Jim Sheridan
with whom Lewis again worked with in the excellent In The Name Of The
Father
as well as The Boxer.
<|_=00=_|>

As someone who has lived with cerebral palsey for over forty years, I find
this movie to be inspirational.  If someone with such a severe case of CP
as
Christie Brown has can do so much, then there's no reason that I couldn't
achieve my own dreams.  Daniel Day-Lewis and Brenda Fricker both give
awesome performances.


<|_=00=_|>
Even if you know absolutely nothing about Ireland, you have to love "My
Left Foot" (and especially Daniel Day-Lewis' performance in it). He
plays cerebral palsy-afflicted Christy Brown. Due to this, he has spent
most of his life ostracized. Even when trying to warn people about
something, they just laugh at him. The light in the darkness for him is
that he has control over one body part: his left foot. He uses that
appendage to paint and write poetry, bringing him to prominence.

Daniel Day-Lewis and director Jim Sheridan did very well on this
collaboration, and also on a later collaboration: "In the Name of the
Father" (but "The Boxer" was unnecessary). "My Left Foot" can make you
feel many ways: sad, hopeful, or something else. But in any case,
Daniel Day-Lewis gave the performance of a lifetime here. A great movie
in every sense.
<|_=00=_|>

"My left foot" teaches us (or at least it should teach us) one important
lesson: handicapped people aren't necessarily retarded, they can just as
well be far more intelligent than any of us. I know that this sounds corny
but come on, that's how many of us tend to still feel just because we can
walk. This is a true story of a poor Irishman who suffers from a case of
cerebral palsy and still eventually becomes a celebrated writer and painter
only by using his left foot. When you know this much you can fill in the
rest. I'm not saying his story isn't touching, of course it is. I'm saying
that the movie is predictable and the terrific performances is what you will
eventually remember. Oscar awarded Daniel Day-Lewis was spectacular as
Christy Brown and we certainly shouldn't forget Hugh O'Conor who was just
fantastic as young Christy. Movie that deserves to be seen.
<|_=00=_|>
I can still remember the fuss that was made when this movie was first 
released. Everybody was applauding it. 14 years down the line the film 
is very dated, but still very enjoyable but more importantly very 
powerful.

The story centers around Poet, artist and author to be Christy Brown. 
He suffers from Celerbal Paulsy (I hope that is spelled right) which 
means to be all three of the above occupations is some feat that should 
not go unnoticed. He lives in a large family (13 children, not all who 
suffered) in a small terraced house in Dublin's City Center. The movie 
begins with his birth and the late great Ray Mc Nally being told by a 
nurse that there were complications during the birth. We move forward a 
couple years to where we see a young Christy (played by Hugh O'Connor) 
being helped around by his mother. It is a sad sight to see him 
underneath the stairs of his family home watching his brothers and 
sisters (all Abled bodied) living a normal lifestyle (despite being 
poor) and knowing that he is just as well able to communicate. The 
finest scene in this early stage of his life is when Christy writes for 
the first time. In front of his family. His father is sceptical at 
first however his opinion is reversed when Christy finally proves that 
he is not the idiot that everybody thinks him to be.

We then move to Christy's later teenage years where he meets a nurse 
with whose help he begins to learn how articulate his words. However 
Christy becomes infatuated with this lady. His mother is delighted that 
her son is happy however his father is once again the sceptic but this 
time he has good cause to as Christy's heart is broken when this woman 
announces that she is engaged to an Art dealer. 

This film is brilliant and I have a massive amount of praise for Daniel 
Day-Lewis who portrays Christy as an angry young man who is coming to 
terms with everything in his life. He is disturbed by womens reluctance 
to accept him and his condition, He is fed up of his fathers treatment 
of his mother and his siblings. Day-Lewis is totally immersed in his 
character and it is one of his finest roles. I have seen old interviews 
with the real Christy Brown and I can safely say that it is hard at 
times to distinguish is it Christy Brown or Daniel Day-Lewis on the 
screen. 

However the show is stolen from him by the finer performances of young 
Hugh O'Connor and Ray Mc Nally. Both of whom should have got Oscars as 
Best Supporting Actor (O'Connor) and Best Actor (Ray Mc Nally). 
O'Connor definitely proves himself in the role because he portrays the 
same qualities that Day-Lewis does as a frustrated youngster. Mc Nally 
defines the typical Irish Father role that would be made humorous by 
Colm Meaney in a number of films. It is such a great pity that he died 
shortly after this film. Brenda Fricker must also be mentioned as the 
doting mother who does everything that she can to help Christy reach 
his full potential. Again she is life like to Christy Browns real life 
mother however I think there were more deserving people for that Best 
Supporting Actress Oscar. 

This film is an amazing piece of independent film making and it really 
does so the potential of Jim Sheridan as a director and actor. He would 
further develop the themes of family, Irish society, loyalty in his 
other films.

9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
The most important thing about this movie is the brilliant performance
by Daniel Day-Lewis and Hugh O'Conor as Christy Brown, guineas artist
and fighter who despite of her physical condition overcame all the
odds. As a person who did work with patients with cerebral palsy, I can
assure you that their performance were shockingly convincing. The
enormous support that Christy got form his family, low-income, working
class Dubliners, encouraged him to do the impossible and this picture
depicted this support brilliantly have not read the book, but the
dialogs were written wisely to capture Christy Brown's witty arrogant
personality. I do recommend this movie to everyone, especially to
classic movie-lovers.
<|_=00=_|>
DANIEL DAY-LEWIS does a remarkable job of playing Christy Brown, the
artist who grew up with cerebral palsy but managed to have a productive
life, dealing successfully with his handicap and becoming a respected
artist and writer.

The film, however, is a very difficult one to review--or even watch.
Fortunately, I had the caption feature on to catch every spoken word
which would have been impossible if I saw the film in a theater. While
I respect it as a brave piece of work dealing with difficult subject
matter, I can't say it's the sort of film I'd want to view more than
once.

Nevertheless, my attention was held by the story-telling device, a
flashback framed by the present, in which we see Christy being honored
for his achievements before we see the flashback to his youth and his
struggles to communicate with those around him, who certainly gave him
loving care.

DANIEL DAY-LEWIS certainly is remarkable as the troubled man who falls
in love with a therapist (FIONA SHAW), much to his mother's fear that
when the love is not reciprocated his heart will be broken. There's a
painfully long scene in a restaurant where he confesses his love to her
before others and then goes into a frenzied rage after drinking too
much.

BRENDA FRICKER does a brilliant job as the mother taking care of him,
his father and a brood of siblings while struggling to keep a roof over
their heads until Day-Lewis begins to have success with his work. She
complements Day-Lewis' performance as the warm-hearted mother and
shares many poignant moments with him.

Richly detailed story of a family that stayed together under the most
unusual of circumstances with attention to period detail in every frame
of the film. Both Fricker and Day-Lewis won Oscars, but HUGH O'CONOR
and RAY McANALLY are also excellent. O'Conor is Christy as a boy and
McAnally is the father who spends too much time at the local pub but
loves the boy.

Summing up: Elmer Bernstein's music is an added plus factor. Well
worthwhile, but definitely not a film for everyone.
