

*click*

As the phone went dead, my heart almost stopped as I watched Harry's
expression.

I have known of this obscure thriller for years, and it gets better every
time I see it.

'Miracle Mile' is an apocalyptic classic. As many other user comments have
indicated, the film portrays mass hysteria and panic due to an impending
nuclear attack. At first only Harry (Anthony Edwards) knows about it, and
then tells a handful of citizens with such urgency that they have no
choice
but to believe him. From there the word spreads gradually, and impending
doom really sets in. The streets break out into riots, and people just go
absolutely nuts. All this while, Harry and his girlfriend Julie and
desperately trying to get to a helicopter platform so they can escape to
the
extreme north. Problem is, many others have that idea as
well.

Sounds a bit far-fetched? Perhaps, but the film's anticipation never seems
to let up. This is an extremely enjoyable film that makes you think of
your
own immediate values. I mean, what WOULD you do in that situation? Would
you
just sit and wait for it? or would you (attempt to) flee? After viewing
this
film, you ask yourself these questions.

A forgotten gem that deserves the full anamorphic DVD treatment. It's an
80's movie, so it's not without it's corny moments and the somewhat cheesy
format. But these things don't really matter as the film portrays panic so
perfectly. If such an event (god forbid) was to actually occur, I believe
the chaos on the streets would look just like the film.

I've seen some very negative comments on the film, and everyone is
entitled
to an opinion. But what can I say? I consider this a classic of
sorts.

9/10


<|_=00=_|>

Miracle Mile is one of my favourite films -I know it has its rough
edges but I fell in love the first time I saw it at the University of
Portsmouth film society ten years ago. I can't quite understand why
though.

It belongs to the genre of suspense films called real-time thrillers
-Hitchcock's Rope and Nick of Time are other examples. These are films
which explore the very nature of film as a time-based medium. Usually
the device is used in suspense movies, but has become popular recently
in art house cinema like Timecode and Russian Ark.

The set-up is simple -after a day when he has fallen in love at first
sight, Harry Washello randomly answers a ringing phone at a phone
booth. The call is a wrong number from a soldier stationed at a nuclear
silo. He is trying to warn his father that a nuclear strike has been
launched and the US will be face a retaliatory attack in eighty minutes
time. From then on, the action is played out in real time.

Unlike the aforementioned examples and the execrable 24, the real time
actually works in Miracle Mile. If you sit through it with a stop
watch, it only ever drifts out by a few seconds. The real time is
essential to holding suspense and sympathy with the characters. Was the
phone call for real? We don't know until an unforgettable moment, when
the film becomes a race for survival.

There are some great, truly profound images -such as the dying Wilson
scrambling up the down escalator with the body of his sister, or Harry
and Julie lost in a department store surrounded by ticking clocks. This
attention to detail and the bizarrely dark tone of the film elevate it
to cult status. It has a soul and an individuality all of its own -can
you imagine an episode of 24 ever being scored by Tangerine Dream?

This is a film about chance -the chance of Harry falling in love that
day, the chance of him picking up the phone. The chance that effects us
all and how we are at the mercy of it. But ultimately it is a very dark
love story and perhaps that's why I like it so very much.

<|_=00=_|>

I first saw this movie on video around the time it was produced.  I
immediately liked it even though it was a bit bleak.  But the late 80's
were
full of apocalyptic nuclear holocaust movies and this was the only one
that
stayed with me.  Now, years later, I've just rewatched it (this time on
DVD)
and I still think it's a very good -- but not great --
movie.

Admittedly, there's some over-the-top 80's haircuts and costumes, stuff
that
would be seriously 'retro' nowadays.  And the acting, particularly in the
beginning, is 'obvious' and a bit tiring.  But when the hero receives that
fateful phone call, it all changes.  Suddenly, it's like watching a
stage-performance of a play, a pressure-cooker where everyone suspects
everyone else and no one knows what's really going on.

In fact, one of the  best parts of the screenplay is that we, the
audience,
also don't really know what to believe (until the very end).  We watch the
hero struggle with what to tell people who's help he needs:  if he tells
them the awful truth, they may not believe/help him; if he tells them a
more
believable lie, is he denying them the chance to survive or at least to
die
with their loved ones.  Either way, both he and the people he meets turn
to
progressively more and more extreme behavior -- people die! . . . and what
if it all turns-out to have been a hoax?

In all, I think this movie ranks as a great sci-fi film, and in the truest
sense of the genre: What If.  It's not about aliens or galactic empires or
anything else that's more fantasy than reality.  Instead, it's a situation
that any of us could easily imagine and I think this is why it stayed with
me all these years, why it now forms a part of the framework for my
imagination whenever I find myself catastrophizing about terrorism or
natural disaster, anything that could separate me from the ones I love.
What would I do?
<|_=00=_|>

I didn't hold high hopes for 'Miracle Mile'. Directed by Steve De Jarnatt
who made the cheesy but fun 'Cherry 2000', and starring two actors (Anthony
Edwards and Mare Winningham) that I feel at best indifferent about, it
starts off almost like a John Hughes romantic comedy, and your finger might
begin to hover off the "off" button.  But if you persevere it quickly
becomes an utterly compelling thriller. It requires a certain amount of
suspension of disbelief to accept the premise of the movie, but once the
story kicks in you really get sucked into it! Edwards is actually very good
in the lead role, and the film is full of all kinds of familiar faces and
character actors like Mykelti Williamson ('Truth Or Consequences, NM'),
Denise Crosby ('Star Trek TNG'), Robert DoQui ('RoboCop'), even b-grade SF
legend John Agar ('The Brain From Planet Arous'), and 'Reservoir Dogs' Mr.
Blue Edward Bunker! This movie really seems to split people down the middle.
Some hate it, some love it. I'm in the latter camp. Highly
recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
The thing that makes this movie particularly effective is that it feels
just like a dream. I've had nuclear holocaust dreams all my life, and
when I watched this movie I felt like I was dreaming. I really
connected emotionally with the main character. He's a nerd who has
suddenly met the girl of his dreams, a nerdy, cute girl with glasses
and a sweet demeanor, and at that precise moment the world appears as
if it is going to come to an end! And he's not going to get a chance to
even kiss her before the world goes poof! hey, it's bad enough to die,
but to die with an unfulfilled love is truly nightmarish! 

The movie is not exactly illogical, but follows a sort of dream logic,
where things just get worse and worse, relentlessly, and the harder you
try to run away, the slower you move. The ending is devastating,
horrifying and heart warming all at the same time.

After seeing this movie for the first time I shivered for hours, and
couldn't bring myself to watch it again for 12 years! Its not that I
didn't like it, I just knew that if I saw it again I would lose that
special thrilling fear that it instilled in me. But it was so powerful
that when i did see it 12 years later I remembered every plot, every
character and event. On one viewing it imprinted itself on my brain,
which movies hardly ever do.

See it! And see it late at night in a dark room!

cb
<|_=00=_|>

A story that begins like a romantic comedy and goes somewhere else. A
disjointed plot, producing emotional confusion in those simple souls who
go
to the movies to have a piece of candy handed to them. It took courage to
do
this, and the result is an artistic success of the highest calibre.

The box-office story was probably not so good, but shame on those
critics
who helped send this movie to oblivion. Someday the Internet or something
is
going to bring back those few movies that stirred our emotions instead of
putting them to sleep.
There is no personified villain here. Time is the enemy, and The Bomb.
How
does it make you feel to be tricked? Maybe you deserve it. After all those
countless, harmless, villains who've walked across your screen to fall
like
rags, here's a movie to shake you up instead. Oh never mind, just go back
to
sleep.


<|_=00=_|>
This is actually my favourite American movie ever, and also my
favourite thriller ever. I've seen it three times, and I've been blown
away on each occasion. Some elements may be compared to Terry Gilliam's
Twelve Monkeys, but I find Miracle Mile superior to it.

The plot is incredibly good, with much more depth than I thought after
seeing it the first time - at that time I mistakenly thought it was a
little flawed. The use of colours is also noteworthy.

While the movie is extraordinarily captivating overall, I think a few
scenes in the beginning have a somewhat cheesy 80s feeling to them, but
they're still strangely hypnotic.

One might also wish that some of the acting were a little better.
Nevertheless, I see now that Anthony Edwards makes an absolutely
outstanding acting performance in the lead role. The Tangerine Dream
soundtrack is also excellent. By all means, don't let the movie's quite
apparent weaknesses deceive you into thinking that this is just another
second-rate, one-dimensional thriller.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm a big fan of post-apocalyptic movies; for some reason, the thought of
civilization as we know it grinding to a halt on a backdrop of nuclear
bombs
falling intrigues me to no end.

There are a host of movies that deal with Life After The Bomb, a whole lot
more dealing with Life While Preventing The Bomb, but not very many that
deal with Life Immediately Before The Bomb. This is one of the latter, and
I
think it pulls it off really well.

This offbeat movie chronicles a few hours in the life of a character who
has
just found out that the missiles are on the way.

This movie is rather offbeat; the acting is not bad, but just unlike
normal
hollywood acting, even despite a few familiar faces. The pacing is
different, the sets are different, the colors are different. And in this
case, the differences give it an edge that is quite intriguing.

The main character (tom cruise's ill-fated co-pilot in top gun) displays
such an acute, personal anxiety that really grabbed my attention and
really
made the movie hit home.

While some of the other acting is less than stellar, in a movie like this
it
does not detract.

This movie really did make me think about what I would do in a similar
situation. Very thought-provoking.

If you are as intriguied by nuclear war as I am, you should definitely
watch
this film.

8 / 10
<|_=00=_|>

Hello there,

You're definitely interested in this movie if you've got this far on the
IMDB...

If you're, like me, a child of the 80's (teenager in the 80's) who saw
this
movie in the cinema's with that great soundtrack from "Tangerin Dream" in
it(in the middle of the cold war),than you really are going to like this
movie...
I was able to track down this movie on PAL VHS-Tape on Ebay(you can buy it
on DVD now,zone 1 only) and saw it last night on my own
again.
Ok,I'll have to admit that it's dated now (look at the clothes...)but that
same sad feeling that creeps slowly into your head while watching this
movie
is still there!
I really hope with the whole of my heart that we never,and I say
NEVER,have
to witness the day that our chosen leaders make the same stupid mistake of
launching a nuclear attack on a country like they do in this
movie...
This is not your typical big budget,special effects loaded action-vehicle
about a full-on nuclear strike but a modest little movie about what
happens
to a small bunch of people that finds out by accident that their country
(USA) has launched a nuclear attack against another unspecified country
and
are getting back what they've started....

If you have your heart at the right place,then this movie grabs you by the
throat and won't let go...

On the other handiIf you ONLY like comedy's and big budget action
movies(which I also like very much)then you're probably going to despise
this one...

Go now and find this little gem of a movie,I know you want
to...

Cheers,

Dirk

<|_=00=_|>
In Los Angeles, when the musician Harry Washello (Anthony Edwards)
meets Julie Peters (Mare Winningham) in the museum, he immediately
falls in love with her. They schedule a date late night in Miracle
Mile, but the alarm clock fails and Harry misses the date and he
arrives three and a half hours late. Harry accidentally hears a
mistaken phone call and a man tells that the United State has just
started a nuclear war sending missiles against Soviet Union and in two
hours Los Angeles would be hit by the enemy back missiles. Harry seeks
out Julie and frantically tries to find a helicopter pilot to leave Los
Angeles. Meanwhile the rumor is spread out and brings chaos to the
city.

Today I have watched the cult "Miracle Mile" maybe for the sixth time
and despite being dated in the present days with the end of the Cold
War, it still impresses how a rumor can be so destructive. The frantic
and nightmarish story of a young man that discovers that Los Angeles
will go into a meltdown in about two hours has the pace of "After
Hours" of 1985. The haunting music score of Tangerine Dream fits
perfectly to the apocalyptical screenplay of this unforgettable unique
film. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Miracle Mile"
