
I don't really know what it is about Dirty Dancing.. there is some sort
of absolute magic in this movie.. I cannot possibly recount the
hundreds (yes, hundreds)of times I've watched it, beginning to end...
but every time I do come upon it on TV, I am entranced and mystified
and sit myself down and there I am, for two hours, loving the movie as
if I'm watching it for the first time. Although Patrick Swayze and
Jennifer Grey absolutely hated each other throughout the making of this
film, they possess a beautiful chemistry on the set.. it makes the
viewer enjoy it that much more, to see this passion and commitment..
and I can't help tearing up a tiny bit at the end, when Patrick comes
up to the Houseman family and tells her dad, "Nobody puts Baby in a
corner". (classic moment) For all those people who believe this movie
is corny and sappy, maybe in a way it is, but it was the penicle of the
80's films, and put Patrick Swayze right on the map; his performance
was immaculate. 

Three Cheers for Dirty Dancing !!

Ps- The soundtrack is fantastic, an absolute masterpiece
<|_=00=_|>
This timeless summer love story is a classic and will never be dated. I
can't even count how many times I've seen Dirty Dancing. This is one
movie that I could probably watch every few weeks and still love.

There is something timeless about this movie. I have loved other
"blockbuster love story movies" like Pretty Woman and when Harry met
Sally. I think their up there but there is something about Dirty
Dancing that just makes it absolutely perfect. The characters, the
chemistry between Swaze and Grey, the movie's direction, the INCREDIBLE
dancing, the warm summery atmosphere, everything about dirty dancing is
absolutely perfect. It is an instant classic and I've never really seen
a movie like it either before or since.

I don't think there is one particular element that makes this movie so
loved but many things, a lot of which are mentioned by numerous
reviewers. Dirty Dancing has a nostalgic, languid, summery mood,
realistic characters, a relateable honest message coupled with
incredible music and dancing, and the one of the best dance sequences
cinema has ever given us. 

This movie is always on TV and I will continue to watch it as long as
they show it. But I WILL mention I have no interest in seeing "Havanna
Nights", this one they should have left alone.
<|_=00=_|>

80s...........................................Dancing............................Patrick
Swayze..............................Baby's in the
Corner....................Abortion..........................Lake
Dancing

Who wouldn't think this was one of the best movies EVER. Even as a very
masculine male I find this film very entertaining. It represents a time
when films could be based completely on dancing and music without the
modern day clichés. This film represents a time when love could blossom
in the summer, and also the unending (yet creative) story of a daughter
who grows to be a woman … through dance.

Grade: ***** out of *****

<|_=00=_|>

I have been waiting to see this film for ages and I finally have! As soon as
I heard the title I knew that this film would be my favourite film ever and
when I saw it believe me I wasn't disappointed!

This film had everything dance, love and Patrick Swayze! There was so much
in it and it dealt with important issues, (that were at the time, 1960's) ,
such as abortion.

The dancing in this film was fantastic, just like the acting was! Swayze was
brilliant just like Grey was too!

Although this film was absolutely fantastic you cannot say that you have
seen it if you haven't seen the last scene. It really does take your breath
away as the whole choreography of the last dance was done brilliantly, it
had you dancing at the end of the film and it really wouldn't surprise me if
it influenced people to take up dancing!

Overall Dirty Dancing is a film NOT to be missed and even if half the actors
are in the: "Where are they now?" period the actors will always have this
superb film in their career!

<|_=00=_|>

I viewed this movie for the first time last night and I enjoyed every aspect
of it –the dancing, the acting, the dialogue, the plot, the script and the
whole atmosphere that this movie created. I would highly recommend
it.

Jennifer Grey gives an absolutely wonderful and first class performance in
her role as Frances (Baby) Houseman. She has a natural ability and flair for
dancing and she is beautiful and enchanting on the dance floor. But what is
wonderful about Baby is that she has such a wonderful depth and dimension to
her character. This is not simply a movie about dancing but the
scriptwriters have also given us a chance to see Baby deal with the various
emotions and feelings that she is experiencing throughout the movie and to
allow us an insight into how her interaction with others at the camp changes
her life. Grey portrays her character with such realism and poignancy that
you end up feeling deeply for Baby as she experiences all she does in this
movie.

Patrick Swayze is magnificent in his role as Johnny and truly succeeds in
making his character come alive. He gives his character a comprehensive
personality, strong appeal and great depth. The chemistry between Swayze and
Grey is enchanting and powerful and contributes significantly to the great
success of this movie 

Cynthia Rhodes is great in her role of Penny and her portrayal of the ordeal
that she experiences is truly powerful and contributes a frightening
dimension to the film. The other members of the supporting cast –Jerry
Orbach and the late Mark Cantor deserve a special mention here-also give
wonderful and imaginative performances that gives this movie an additional
dimension of high quality acting and believability that is wonderful to
experience. The dancing is magnificent and first class on the part of all
involved. 

The script and interaction between all the major characters is intriguing
and engages the viewer in a powerful fashion. The plot, although exceedingly
predictable, is given more than enough life and vitality to make this movie
successful. 

Furthermore the wonderful selection of music contained in this movie creates
a truly magical atmosphere and very nostalgic environment that enhances the
quality and success of all the various scenes.

`Dirty Dancing' is a truly powerful, magnificent and very appealing movie
that leaves you deeply touched and with a wonderful feeling in your heart
and soul and an inspiration to dance. I highly recommend
it

<|_=00=_|>
This is the best movie ever, but that is my opinion. Some say it's
cheesy but I think it is truly a beautiful film. The chemistry between
Jennifer Grey and Patrick Swayze it's like no other I have ever seen,
and that is what makes the film so perfect. I always wonder what would
have been of this film if these two actors never existed, because not
just one them did it for me, they both did. If you have never seen this
film, when you do you will understand what I mean. Dirty Dancing looks
like it was done from the heart and it feels so real for some reason,
like magic- and the soundtrack LOVE IT. Besides the 2 lead actors the
soundtrack makes the film the beauty that it is. As you can tell I am
in love with this film, and I know you will be too.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those rare rare films that needs a 30 year break between
the time of production and the time of the review in order to
appreciate it.

Since 1987 I have seen this film 7 or 8 times. Each time it just gets
better. As a Prolific Review here on the IMDb, I can count on the
fingers of one hand the number of films that improve with age like
that.

This is literally the original "feel good" dance film -- which spawned
dozens if not hundreds of imitations. The script is perfect. The acting
is perfect. The casting is perfect. The direction is perfect. And the
music score is to die for.

Nobody puts Baby in a corner? Well, nobody should ignore this film
either! Also has an odd note of the "one hit wonder" label about it,
which in my view only makes it more of a treat than it already is.

Swayze's career was unfortunately cut short. Jennifer Grey, who
practically made this role a part of her DNA, had a nose job and (the
cynics say) lost a lot of later roles because the casting directors
were afraid no one would recognize her. And the brilliant
writer/Producer Elenor Bergstein for whom this was a labor of love
(there was a documentary on this) also seemed to hang up her spurs when
production wrapped.

The IMDb rating is a joke. This is no less a classic in its genre than
Maltese Falcon or the Matrix.

See it, rent it, buy it. But don't forget it.
<|_=00=_|>

I first saw this movie with my fiancée many years after it came out. I
thought I would hate it, but to my surprise it is so cheesy that it's
great. We've spent many hours reenacting parts of the movie
("Sylvia?!Yes Mickey?" or "I'm sorry you had to see that Baby.
Sometimes in this world we see things that we don't want to."). My
financee cracks up every time I imitate Neil. Also the music is classic
and fun to sing along with, especially on road trips. Of course I don't
admit any of this to my male friends. It's like a guilty pleasure. I
seriously watch Dirty Dancing once a month or more and it is just as
good every time. Jennifer Grey is also so cute in this movie. Its too
bad her career never really took off.

<|_=00=_|>
There was talk on the E! Hollywood Special about the Making of Dirty
Dancing which still is considered by many women including a dear friend
of mine in her fifties to be one of her favorite all time movies. Maybe
the music, the dancing, or the melodrama around the plot of Baby
Frances becoming a dancing sensation with Johnny Castle. Of course,
this film established Jennifer Grey whose biggest role to date was the
resentful sister in Ferris Beuller's Day Off. Patrick Swayze is
perfectly cast as the heart throb leading man who sweeps baby away
literally. Dirty Dancing has it all to become a Broadway or West End
smash hit. It has the love story, the music, and most of all lots of
dancing. Jennifer and Patrick could revive their roles easily. it is
nice to see Jerry Orbach play a doctor instead of a police officer and
Kelly Bishop as the mother. It all took place in the Catskills in the
sixties where many Jewish families vacationed in the area during their
summer vacations. At the end of the film, it is sad to see the hotel
owner, Kellerman, be baffled by the next generation. It happened
anyway! Most people prefer cruises and traveling through Europe than
spending the summer in the Catskills. Those old grand hotels are
becoming Indian gaming casinos. Let Broadway bring Dirty Dancing alive
and well. After all, they could do it for Footloose and Saturday Night
Fever, this should be a no brainer! I know that this film is one of the
favorites that you don't get tired of after watching 800 times. There
are people that have probably seen this film-a 1,000 times by now.
Somehow watching the making and the story behind Dirty Dancing made me
long for my childhood days as a thirteen year old. Dirty Dancing may
not be the greatest film ever made in the history but its universal
appeal still draws crowds and repeated watchers like the 800 club whose
members have watched it so many times. I watch it fondly now with all
the awkwardness of Baby's first days and her first true love with
Patrick Swayze as heart throb, Johnny Castle. Nobody could have
imagined this little film as a big hit then with the sixties music, two
soundtracks, and even a tour in the late eighties. I hope they bring it
to Broadway in a musical. It would work for the audience to be part of
a film. No wonder it still attracts kids and even adults particularly
women of all ages to watch it over and over again. Well, Australia and
London both have had productions of Dirty Dancing. It looks like it
will come to Broadway in 2007 just in time for it's 20th anniversary.
<|_=00=_|>


When this film was released I dismissed as being lightweight pop nonsense. 
That was a mistake.  

After repeated viewings and seeing a documentary of the making of DIRTY
DANCING, discovering the depth of this film certainly increases its
appeal.

DIRTY DANCING is a film about change.  The evolving nature of relationships
within the family, the changes in one's view of the world during their
coming of age, etc.  The story takes place during August of 1963, the final
weeks of the last summer of innocence for the American people.  The many
personal changes experienced by the characters reflect the many changes in
American society that would be marked by the Kennedy assassinations and
Vietnam.

Female movie go'ers adored this film and repeated trips to the movie houses
made it the world's most successful dance movie.  As a male I find the
romantic pairing of ultimate stud Patrick Swayze with very plain Jennifer
Grey very hard to accept.  This would be fatal for most romantic dramas, and
it also may have create the intense dislike expressed by most male
reviewers.

The film's soundtrack found #1 status before the release of the movie.  To
this day it is nearly impossible to attend a wedding reception without
hearing a DIRTY DANCING song.

Near the midpoint of the film Baby's mother wakes up and asks Baby's father,
"Is anything wrong?"

Baby's father, the anti-change family member, attempts to keep all that is
happening a secret.  He tells his wife to go back to sleep.  However, resist
as one can, change is unstopable.  DIRTY DANCING is the story of one person
waking up just at the final moments of our country's last sleep in
innocence.

