
As an infant, Jonathan Graves is absconded from his father, Malcolm
(Michael Des Barres), the leader of a black magic cult, when Malcolm
almost sacrifices Jonathan in a ritual. 25 years later, Jonathan (Peter
Liapis) learns that his father has passed away and he has inherited his
estate, including a large home that is now in disrepair. He moves there
with Rebecca (Lisa Pelikan), and soon after begins acting strangely,
instinctively following his father's footsteps.

If you're a fan of campy, cheesy horror films, as I am, Ghoulies is a
must see. Everyone else should probably avoid this film. This is a
Charles Band production. Charles Band means Empire/Full Moon, and
Empire/Full Moon is almost a guarantee of some campiness/cheesiness.
Not many of Band's films, however, approach the sublime ridiculousness
of Ghoulies. We're almost in Troma territory here, but Ghoulies is
played much more seriously than the typical Troma production, and in
this case, it works to increase the entertainment value.

Since Ghoulies was made in 1984, it features most of the mid-80s horror
film clichés. Shortly after moving in, Graves throws a party, so we get
big hair, tight miniskirts, skinny ties, recreational drug use, and so
on. We also get our eventual fodder for our body count, although in
this case, it is worth noting that writer/director Luca Bercovici
introduces a "twist" near the end that significantly decreases the body
count.

Liapis is the focus of the film, though, and without him, Ghoulies
might be more boring than campy. His absurd overacting, often in solo
scenes, takes up a majority of screen time. Still, just the brief
presence of two demonic minions, Grizzel and Greedigut, would alone
make Ghoulies a must see, especially given how everyone continues their
attempt to play the film seriously when they appear. And I haven't even
mentioned the other ridiculous minions, which are obviously puppets and
"dead props" (Band seems to love puppets), and were the beginning of a
horror industry attempt to cash in on the success of Gremlins (also
seen later in such films as the Critters series and Munchies). We also
get zombies, a Star Wars-like battle of wizards, sunglasses as a major
plot device, an evil doll, an attack with a 5 foot long tongue, and
some probably unintentional homoerotic subtext. Who could pass all of
that up? The film gets a 7 out of 10 from me--an 8 out of 10 would have
been in order, except for the inexplicable absence of gratuitous
nudity.

Note that while Ghoulies is tagged "comedy/horror", it's very unlikely
that it was intended to be a comedy in any way. Even if Band applied
the label to the film prior to release, it was probably because even he
realized how ludicrous the film turned out. At any rate, it would be
misguided to watch it expecting intentional humor.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was entertaining. Especially, if you like
beautiful girls in sexy heels and tight dresses. It truly captures 80's
fashion and hair styles and I love the 80's. The Ghoulies themselves
looked incredibly life-like with grossed-out slobber and nasty sharp
teeth. However, I thought the battle between good and evil could have
been played out over a longer period of time. This monk comes from
nowhere and saves the day in a matter of minutes. The evil guy's son
was also drawn to the dark-side too quickly. He moves into his new
mansion and begins practicing the dark arts in the same evening during
the first party. How uncool. He yells at his guests and quits school
the very next day. He should have at least heard voices for a few days
first.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes indeed the 1980's when I was but a very impressionable teenager, it
felt like my every waking hour was spent in my local videostore, and
when I was in school, I was always thinking about what movie I was
going to watch next.

As was the case back then, a cool looking cover was always the catalyst
for me to hire the movie regardless of whether or not I enjoyed the
movie.

So Ghoulies was to be my introduction to the cinematic world of a
certain film producer Charles Band, and his company Empire Pictures.
Having just recently revisited the world of Ghoulies, and just about to
embark on my fortieth year on this earth, I have hand on heart began to
realise that what I liked when I was a teenager, has not remained the
case as I've gotten older.

No matter what the detractors think of Charles Band's riff on Gremlins,
the movie does have more plus points than negatives. The overall acting
is pretty spot on, Peter Liapis as Jonathan Graves truly devours his
part as Jonathan Graves, heir apparent to the supernatural throne left
to him by his late demented father Malcolm, Michael Des Barres.

Des Barres has never been an actor that I've been to keen on, maybe
it's his accent that I find somewhat off putting, but then again if
you've ever watched him in Diary Of A Sex Addict, the title pretty much
summed that movie up, but let us not forget his turn in Nightflyers.

You know when your a teenager, and you just watch copious amounts of
nonsense, you tens to forget what you've watched and just who was in
it, back in 85, I had no idea who Jack Nance was, but then I still
hadn't watched Eraserhead, but Nance participation was a bit of a shock
to me, I did find myself doing a double take when I spotted him hiding
behind that fake beard, but you never forget that crazy eyed stare.

But what about the movie itself. Like I've mentioned previously,
viewing the movie as an adult, you still sensed the atmosphere, those
pesky Ghoulies, still look as cheap and cheerful and not quite scary as
ever, but Luca Bercovici does capture some pretty good stuff on camera.

Of particular mention was the scene when Malcolm rises from his grave,
quite striking and very well lit.

Ghoulies was my first introduction to Charles Band, but it wasn't until
I watched Trancers, that my interest in Band's output truly took hold
of my teenage years, and throughout the next two decades.

Ghoulies 2 was a smart little follow up three years later, ignore the
next two sequels, as really you can't hold a candle to the original.

My rating is 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
A surprise hit in the horror film-drenched 1980s that spawned several
sequels, GHOULIES was one ii a long line of puppet movies from the old
Empire Pictures, the same folks who would soon bring us RE-ANIMATOR. In
GHOULIES, a young man moves into an old mansion and before you know it,
he is attempting to conjure up a bunch of hellish critters to do his
bidding. Soon enough, he has them going after his enemies. The ghoulies
themselves are hand puppets that look pretty ferocious for hand
puppets. The conjurer, played by an insufferable actor named Peter
Liapus, has been possessed by a dark spirit that resides in the old
house. A little too much time is spent on the guy and his conjuring,
but once the ghoulies get going, watch out! This comedy horror film
stands out among many similar flicks from that era. It was obviously
inspired by GREMLINS, but in the end it in no way resembles that
now-forgotten classic. Worth a look if you can buy the idea of puppet
monsters. PUPPETMASTER had the same theme and look, and was also an
Empire Pictures job, if I am not mistaken.
<|_=00=_|>
Laughs and seriousness are both in this movie, I think. It holds the
attention but demands complete suspension of logic. A young man and his
girlfriend move into an man's old mansion home, where he becomes
possessed by a need to control ancient demons. This does remind me a
lot of Ghoulies II. The comparisons are obvious, and just like that
film, I like it enough, but I don't think it's great or all that really
good. I happen to know places and people, some that might pass for the
world in Ghoulies. That said, the directing, music, editing, etc. are
not focused on at all. If you can find it on DVD or Bluray for under
$7, buy it, but it won't be worth much more than that to you because
it's a bit outdated.
<|_=00=_|>
Ghoulies kinda threw me for a loop. For years, I had seen the old VHS
box moldering away in the backlist at the video store, with the li'l
creature popping out of the toilet, and I thought, Gremlins rip-off,
figured I'd know the whole plot from scene one, and never bothered. But
I finally caught it, and found nothing like I expected. Not that that
turned out to be a terribly good thing, but at least it gave me a
moment of hope.

Jonathan Graves inherits the old ancestral mansion, and discovers that
he apparently comes from a long line of satanic occultists. Of course,
he can't help but pick up the old family tradition. His friends think
this is eccentric, and his girlfriend Rebbecca thinks he's a worthless
slacker who's wasting time he could be spending fixing up the house.
But he gets results, and soon the mansion is populated with a startling
number of tiny demon puppets and two helpful midgets that only Jonathan
can see.

Rebecca finally puts her foot down and demands an end to all the
Satanism, so what does Jonathan do? He mind-controls her, which not
only ends her criticism, but allows him to dress her up in slutty
outfits. (This is where any remaining sympathy I had for Jonathan went
out the window.) Then he invites all his friends up so that he can use
them in an occult ritual which he believes will grant him vast power,
but which actually resurrects his dead, Satanist ancestor (dad? gramps?
I was never really sure), who shows up spoiling for a fight.

The puppets go (mildly) berserk, everyone dies, and Jonathan and Gramps
have their showdown. Of course, good triumphs (if you can consider a
guy who's been summoning demons, bargaining for occult power, and
mind-controlling his girlfriend, the good guy). Then, everybody comes
back to life in one of the biggest cheats in all slasherdom. Have they
no shame?
<|_=00=_|>

This movie made a nice sum of 35 million at the box office, yet many
consider it a poor movie at best.  So how did it make this much money?  With
a good ad campaign, that's how.  This movie was the first small creature
attack movie to come out after the very successful Gremlins the previous
year.  Critters, which most consider the better film, came out a year later
and made a lot less than this one.  Then there was the famous scene of the
creature coming out of the toilet.  It made it look like a Gremlin type
movie...funny with a bit of charm to it.  It fooled my parents and we saw
this dog in the theater when I was ten.  We knew it wasn't quite what it was
advertised as though as soon as it started as it has a scene where a guy
rips out a woman's heart.  It isn't all bad though as there are some scenes
here and there that are good, but overall this one is just bad as it is not
just about little creatures, but a bunch of other satanic stuff as well as
this guy throws a party and does rituals and accidentally raises this one
evil guy.  Sounds better than it is though as there are no stars in this one
and none of the actors in this one can act.  You do though get to see the
little person who played ET.  
<|_=00=_|>
If the cover of your movie has a creature popping out of toilet. I your
movie, you better have a creature popping out of a toilet. It's
Chekhov's gun. There was no ghoulie that ever popped out of a toilet. I
was waiting the entire movie for a puppet to pop out of a toilet, and
never got it! 

Aside from that this movie is still pretty bad. The main actor has some
weird green eyes that glow when he "invokes" them (I guess). I don't
really know, because they don't explain it, and they show up when he is
"more" menacing than he normally is. I also didn't understand why they
had to wear sunglasses towards the end. He could turn his weird green
eyes off when he wanted. He didn't need the sun glasses. I also didn't
get why the main character decided he had to quit school to clean up a
house. Why wouldn't you just clean up the house after school??? It
didn't make any sense. 

The movie is filled with pretty subpar acting. For some reason a female
costar that seems like she was already in her fifties, but her actual
age hadn't caught up to her yet. 

The ghoulies were the best part, but you only see them for maybe,
maybe, 10 minutes out of the whole movie. 

There were also these two dwarfs that showed up for no real reason
except to drink some liquid, and fight against their original master
(maybe?)
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the first of the low-budget direct-to-video from Charles
Band's Empire Pictures of the 1980s' VHS craze, and its about as silly
and illogical as anything you'll see from that era. Peter Liapis (Kyle
Mclachlan's evil twin perhaps?) moves into an old house, and in his
attempt to restore it, he becomes obsessed with ceremonial black magic.
In his rituals he manages to conjure up personifications of the demons;
Vepar, Procell and Astaroth in the form of bogus-looking, puppet-like
goblins. This is hopelessly contrived and laughable as the ghastly
dwarfs hang around and wreck havoc on a group of unlikable, snobbish
idiots after Liapis fulfills his final master ritual. Its typical
Charles Band stuff as the cast takes the ridiculousness seriously, and
one can only suspect that the idea was loosely ripped off from the
incomparable hit, 'Gremlins' Its fun if you like to watch slimy,
rubbery toys attack people, and some will get a laugh out of the most
absurd and incoherent of plot-lines.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw this I thought it was going to be great sense I saw Ghoulies
two first than three and than this. I saw the whole thing and boy did
this movie stink so much it made part four better than this.This movie
does deserve to go in the bottom because it was pointless,stupid and
not much blood in the horror scenes.Although this was a cruddy movie,at
least in this Ghoulies it showed horror parts than the others.But
besides that good thing the rest of the movie was so boring I couldn't
bear to watch more of this movie. Who ever made this movie possible
deserves to die because that company doesn't know good movies and bad
ones.All I'm saying is do not ever watch this movie or you will be very
bored.
