

La Bamba which stars Lou Diamond Phillips as tragic 50's rocker Ritchie
Valens(real name Richard Valenzuela) is my favorite rock bio film.  The film
covers the Mexican American Valens' rise from poverty in California to
becoming a rock n roll superstar at the young age of 17 only to lose it all
within 8 months on the "Day the Music Died".

 In addition to focusing on Valens' music career, writer/director Luis
Valdez spends time showing the tense relationship between Ritchie and his
older brother Bob who is played excellently by Esai Morales.  As Ritchie
becomes famous Bob begins to resent him and that provides the film with some
of its most powerful and heartbreaking scenes.

The film's other effective moments come between Ritchie and his girlfriend
Donna.  During their scenes together I felt that Valdez did a good job in
showing what teenage romances must've been like back in the more innocent
1950's and how parents prejudices could interfere.

Last but not least is the film's great soundtrack.  Ritchie Valens songs
were redone for the film by the group Los Lobos.  All of the instrumental
music was provided by Carlos Santana and Miles Goodman.  Also included are
many other classic songs from the 50's.

The only small criticism I have of the film is that Valdez spends too much
time in foreshadowing Valens' fate through dream sequences and references to
his fear of flying.  While it is documented that Ritchie did have a fear of
flying I would imagine that he didn't talk about it as frequently as he does
in the film.

Overall I think that La Bamba is a film about sticking to your dreams and
the importance of family.  I give this film a pretty strong recommendation.
You don't even necessarily have to be a fan of 50's music to enjoy it.  This
is for those who enjoy small films that deal with the triumphs and struggles
of everyday people.
<|_=00=_|>
Ritchie Valens was a young,vibrant rock and roll star.At 17,he could
already write songs,sing,and was an absolute wizard with a guitar.I'm
too young to remember the real Valens,but when I think of him,as well
as other stars who died tragically young,I can't help but wonder what
might have been.This young man was only getting started in his stardom
when he was cut down all too soon in the same plane crash that claimed
the lives of Buddy Holly and The Big Bopper.This film did a great job
of bringing the legend of Valens back to life if only for a couple of
hours.Lou Diamond Phillips gave the performance of his career here,as
Valens,even though he didn't really look much like the real man in my
opinion.Being the role he is best known for,I'm sure it is also one he
has tried to escape from in the 15 years since its' release.As far as
historical accuracy,I have heard discrepancies as to how the story
really went,but you know Hollywood,things always have to be spiced up
just a little.Overall,this movie is great fun,especially for old rock
and roll enthusiasts such as myself.Thumbs up!
<|_=00=_|>

One Summer afternoon back in 1996 i was 17 years old, I had a guitar but
never played as much as i should have.

With nothing to do i was watching TV, and La Bamba came on and for whatever
reason i decided to watch it.

I have heard of Ritchie Valens but knew nothing of him, i knew a few of his
hit songs but never knew that was him singing till i watched the
movie.

That summer day i watched La Bamba changed my life. The movie just reached
out and touched something in my soul. I am a Rocker and love all kinds of
Rock music. And that's one of the things i loved about La Bamba the great
music.

I watched La Bamba everyday it would come on cable even bought the movie,
even after that i would still watch it when ever it came
on.

Every time i see it i fall in-love with the movie all over
again.

And because of this film i play my guitar, and because of this film i have a
dream of working in film as a Writer/Director.

The story is all about Ritchie Valens who is 17 years old and dreams of
being a rock star. But there is so much more to it then
that.

It's a story about family as well, and young love.

Lou Diamond Phillips who is a Fav actor of mine is amazing in La Bamba he
shows how talented he is.

Esai Morales plays Ritchie's older brother Bob.

Esai Morales plays the troubled Bob with perfection.

The Casting is great Rosanna Desoto plays Connie Ritchie's Mother, Elizabeth
Pena as Rosie Bob's wife.

Danielle Von Zerneck as Donna Ritchie's Girlfriend and the great Joe
Pantoliano as Bob Keene who discovers Ritchie Valens and is his
Producer/Manager.

Like i said there is more to the story then just Ritchie's dreams,What La
Bamba comes down to is a story about Brothers.

In some ways i relate to Ritchie but at the same time i know how Bob feels
being second best.

Writer/Director Luis Valdez does an amazing job. Thank you Mr.Valdez for the
wonderful job.

Los Lobos perform most of the sound-track and perform all of Ritchie Valens
songs.

Lou Diamond Phillips is amazing but Esai Morales is the stand-out with his
performance.

I just wanna thank the cast and crew for the inspiration they have given
me.

And of course the man himself Ritchie Valens R.I.P

La Bamba shows you that Dreams can in fact come true.

I give La Bamba 10/10


<|_=00=_|>

I must say I am very disappointed in the people slamming this movie.  While
they are certainly entitled to their opinion, I think if they watched the
movie again without an open mind, they would come to love it as I
have.

I can't even begin to describe the pure quality of this movie.  Absorbing
story, believable, sympathetic characters, pathos, bathos, all the makings
of a thought-provoking movie.  
Personally, there are two quintessential rock and roll movies:  "The Doors,"
and "La Bamba."

For a good cry and a good time, check out this movie.  You don't even have
to be a fan of Valens or a fan of 50's music to fall in love with
it.
<|_=00=_|>

Ritchie Valens (Lou Diamond Phillips) is a very poor Mexican-American living
with his family in a slum in Paicoma, California. When he is sixteen years
old, his half-brother Bob Morales (Esai Morales) is released from the jail
and comes back home, bringing money enough for the family to move from the
slums to a humble house in a better place. Ritchie goes to the nearby
high-school, where he falls in love for Donna (Danielle von Zerneck). Donna,
together with his mother Connie Valenzuela (Rosanna DeSoto), his family and
his guitar, are the passions of Ritchie. Bob Keene (Joe Pantoliano),
president of Del-Fi Records in Hollywood, invites Ritchie to record a single
and offers him a recording contract. His first single (`Come On Let's Go')
is a great success, and Bob Keene becomes Ritchie's manager. The next songs
(`Donna' and `La Bamba') are also very successful and Ritchie Valens becomes
famous, earning lots of money. While traveling making shows along USA, he
decides to accept an invitation of Buddy Holly to fly back home. A tragic
plane crash on 03 Feb 1959 ends the life of this promising seventeen years
old singer, along with Buddy Holly and the Big Bopper. The dramatization of
Ritchie Valens' life is presented like a soap-opera, full of beautiful
songs, and it is very pleasant to watch this film. Lou Diamond Phillips has
(maybe) his best performance as actor, but Esai Morales is wonderful as his
big brother. The touching story looks like a fairy tale, having a tragic
end. My vote is nine.

Title (Brazil): `La Bamba'

<|_=00=_|>

Under-rated melodrama with excellent music by Los Lobos and others.  Young
Lou Diamond Phillips gives an excellent energetic performance and Esi Morles
is at his very best as the sometimes neglected hoodlum brother.  A great
cast from top to bottom saves what could have been an all too sudsy script. 

<|_=00=_|>

The life and times of Richie Valens, and 
well made to say the least. Lou Diamond 
Phillips really showed a lot of promise in this 
film, but poor choices later in his career hurt 
his rep in Hollywood. Nonetheless, this film 
is quite an achievement in regards to portraying 
a rock idol (which was far better than the dull 
Buddy Holly Story). What really made this film 
was the relationship between Phillips and Esai 
Morales. Never has a brotherly dynamic been 
portrayed so fluidly, displaying the sweet and 
sour sides of the two growing up. With the help 
of a great soundtrack, I really felt this film has 
a spirit which isn't displayed in biographies 
anymore. Nowadays, most films try too hard 
to show the downside, which is what this tried 
not to do. 7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
In the history of Hollywood cinema,musicals have always played an
important role."La Bamba" is one of those rare,well made musicals which
depict the cause of the rising popularity of Latino music.All credit
for this film's success must go to its creators such as director Luis
Valdez,famous musicians Carlos Santana and Los Lobos and amazing actors
Esai Morales and Lou Diamond Philips who plays "once in a lifetime
role" of a talented rock musician named Ritchie Valens who left for
heavenly abode at a young age.This film provides for an interesting
viewing experience as we get mesmerized by its diverse themes which
range from family drama,gentle romance,sibling rivalry and soothing
music.La Bamba has enough material in the form of social message too.We
learn from this film that true brothers are always made for each other
as they understand each other's joys and pains.It is said that talent
never goes undetected.This is shown candidly as young Ritchie Valens
succeeds only due to his natural ability to perform beautiful songs."La
Bamba" is a film for all those admirers of good cinema who would like
to see a musical film.
<|_=00=_|>

Esai Morales gives the best performance of his career in this 1987 movie
about Hall of Fame rock and roller Ritchie Valens, who was tragically killed
in a plane crash at the age of 17 with the big bopper and Buddy Holly on
February 3, 1959. Morales plays Bob Morales, the half brother of Ritchie.
Bob is a drunk who feels as if he is in the shadow of Ritchie due to
Ritchie's musical talent and success. In fact if I didn't know better you
might think the movie is about Bob. He was in the movie a ton. Lou Diamond
Phillips does a good job of portraying Ritchie. I would definitely suggest
that you watch this movie. It has a ton of great music and like I said
before Morales is awesome in this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

La Bamba is one of the movies that makes you feel good,cry and think about
how life really is short. Lou Diamond Phillps was in top form as Richie
Valens who never got the chance to show us what he could do. I'm not
really
a Rock & Roll fan but this is a good movie and one hat brings a tear every
time I watch it.
