

Ghost is one of my favorite films.  It is romantic and touching. Ghost shows
the love that transcends even death. The chemistry between Demi Moore and
Patrick Swayze is incredible.  The way they look at one another is sexier
than any of those very graphic "love scenes".  They make a real romantic
connection just through their eyes.  Ghost not only has wonderful, likeable
characters in Sam Wheat, Molly Jensen, and Oda Mae Brown, but it has an
engrossing plot that moves right along.  Entwined in all this is a beautiful
score.  The theme song "Ghost", written by Maurice Jarre specifically for
the movie, is enchanting, and, of course, an oldie, "Unchained Melody", adds
another magical touch to a magical film.

<|_=00=_|>
Certain movies will just always be hard to write a review for. You can
give your opinion and say what you enjoyed or didn't enjoy but I find
myself hesitating in certain aspects just because a classic must be
left some space to be a classic. Ghost as far as I'm concerned will
forever be a romantic classic. It's sheer brilliance is it's twists, it
is incredibly, deeply, romantic and at the same time terrifying, and
has an underlying story that is never fully explored. It's got action,
mystery, horror, and at the heart is the pure, simplistic romance of it
all.

The story is about an investment banker played by Patrick Swayze and
his girlfriend, played by Demi Moore. Sam and Molly are deeply in love,
planning for the future and happier in their lives than ever before.
Until Sam discovers laundered money in investment accounts. He is
robbed and subsequently murdered for his password to the computer in
order to empty the laundered money from the accounts. But Sam doesn't
go the other side. He is kept on earth in spirit form because of his
unfinished business both with Molly and to discover his murderer. He
must learn the ropes of being a ghost and nobody else can hear him
until he runs into a so called psychic who scams people into believing
she can contact their dearly departed. However it turns out, Oda Mae
Brown played in her academy award winning role by Whoopie Goldberg can
actually hear Sam. Together the unlikely team must help each other
uncover the horrible murder plot and save Molly.

Swayze and Moore make an incredible couple..hot on screen. Their careers
have perhaps slipped since then one might say but this was them at
their best. Swayze was indeed at the top of his game coming out of
Dirty Dancing and Roadhouse and Moore was young and a new hot commodity
which made them undeniably perfect together. Their roles fit them
perfectly. Whoopie Goldberg was hilarious and believable as Oda Mae and
her character was such an integral part of the film. Tony Goldwyn plays
a great villain as the betrayer of the film. In a short time director
Jerry Zucker establishes a best friendship between Goldwyn and Swayze,
a deeply loving relationship between Swayze and Moore, and a plot line
that goes far beneath the movie. Obviously Goldwyn's character is being
used by a much higher up criminal to launder money although we never
see him. Is he being blackmailed? Paid off? Something held over his
head? Maybe he's not the bad guy but rather forced to commit these
acts? It's a big job because we also know Willie Lopez played by Rick
Aviles is involved in this as well. And deeper than that we have the
theology in the film. The light brings good people to the afterlife and
the dark shadowy beings torture the evil. 

This film is one of a few that is endlessly watchable meaning you can
sit down any time and watch it through over and over and over again
which is exactly what makes it a classic. It has it's holes, it has to
with a plot like that. And it has it's disturbing moments, a gratituous
death scene, a make out scene which although features Swayze and Moore
is actually Demi and Whoopi...you have to see it to understand it. Also
if Sam Wheat must learn how to physically touch things in his ghost
form...how does he sit, walk, etc before he learns that? And his first
experience with walking through a door happens days after his death.
I'm sure sometime between then and that point he would have had to have
walked through something. Perhaps those are minor points but they are
things that will come up especially if you have seen it as many times
as I have. 

The film is a must see and if you haven't seen it, go watch it right
now!! Because it's one of those staples of films that everyone must
know about. Ghost is amazing!! 9/10

Happy Anniversary to my beautiful Sam...we watched Ghost together last
night.
<|_=00=_|>
The imaginative but well-conceived idea of dishing up a romance upon
lovers communicating spiritually owing to one of them is dead, was
first filmed by Steven Spielberg 8 months before the Ghost's silver
screen release. Spielberg's movie Always(1989) had classy use of
visuals fulfilling the needs of viewers with mystery-based
expectations. Yet, Always lacked the sense of essential romance
concept, despite having the same plot and even the same storyline in
Ghost. Originally the idea has been created by Chandler Sprague and
David Boehm.

However, Ghost accomplished of what "Always" tried and failed to
accomplish. Thanks to the great acting trio of Patrick Swayze + Demi
Moore + Whoopi Goldberg, for together they registered indelible moments
into Ghost. It is scraped in our memory how in time Molly and Sam
happen to keep their thoughts off each others' feelings, and that
taught us: "Love begins with emotions, ends with thoughts". On this
account they never called off their faith on believing that they will
keep an enduring love affair. These indelible scenes in Ghost are
conceptually cut where the editing was so impressive that instead of
trying to make the story more plausible, it empowered the devotion of
lovers onto their relation. The scene which Sam's ghost drew upon Oda
Mae's body to break the longing with Molly by kissing her is an
imperishable cinematic instant. 

I was in love with someone, and it was February,2005; we were both
watching the Ghost on TV, both talking on the phone. Then that scene
came upon(Sam's ghost kissing Molly in Oda Mae's body), I felt lost
deep in my heart seeking the girl I'm talking on the phone. I heard she
was crying and sobbing, and keep saying to me: "I will never forget the
first time you kissed me and I don't need to be alive to recall this"
Ghost is one timeless romantic masterpiece that had its moments. For me
the kissing scene was the best kiss in movies of all time. MTV had
honoured this kiss as well, several years after the release of the
movie, as the best kiss in '90s. Superimposing that, the scenes where
Oda Mae Brown convinces Molly that Sam's ghost is around her and then
Molly reasons with police that Oda Mae knows what nobody is able to
know but Sam and herself only, are the scenes that deliver the magic
beyond eyes and beyond ears.

To watch Ghost is in the to do list of what to do when you're on a
date.
<|_=00=_|>
It may be easy to write this fantasy/love story off as a bloated
box-office winner with a heart of F/X, however the performances are so
winning, and the Oscar-winning script so satisfying, I can't believe it
doesn't rate higher with viewers. Murdered businessman (Patrick Swayze,
not a good actor but doing OK here) sets out in ghostly form to bring
his killers to justice--and to watch out over his lovely girlfriend
(Demi Moore, hitting all the right notes of a grieving lover). Whoopi
Goldberg won a Supporting Oscar as a fake medium and Tony Goldwyn is
uncanny as a slimeball ex-friend (his sniveling is so convincing it may
have cost him real-life celebrity). Extremely well-directed by Jerry
Zucker--in anybody else's hands, this might have turned to mush. ***1/2
from ****
<|_=00=_|>

I cant believe all the people who are slamming this movie for bad acting
or
miscasting. Its a wonderful movie and demi moore and patrick swayze do
great.Whoopi gives her oscar winning performance in force as a psychic who
helps the ghostly swayze avenge his murder.I couldnt believe the user who
commented that they wish they could go back in time and recast with nicole
kidman and jason patric as the leads -WRONG . now that would be moronic
recasting esp jason patric ? who the hell is he? some beverly hills 90210
punk and nicole kidman would not pass for the sweatshirt type woman
period.
great movie ignore the naysayers
<|_=00=_|>
I must say this film surprised me. Coming in, I knew nothing about it
but the famous clay-forming scene... I didn't know I was in for such a
strong experience. This film had me from the first few moments of it. I
never lost interest. The plot is so interesting and intriguing, you
can't help but watch, often at the very edge of your seat. I will say
that I found one twist somewhat predictable, but maybe I've just seen
too many later movies before watching this. There is a lot of suspense
in this film. When I found that it was directed by a Zucker(yup...
Airplane and so forth), I was somewhat doubtful as to any other quality
in the film than the humor of it... if you're reading this and you're
thinking the same, trust me; he pulls it off. Excellently. There are
few, if any, flaws in directing. The writing is solid. At times, there
seemed to be a little too much humor and some scenes were maybe a tad
long, but apart from that, there was not really anything with this film
that was flawed. The score is great. The pacing is incredibly good. The
acting is really good all-round. Goldberg provides a lot of comic
relief, without being obnoxious. Moore and Swayze have magnificent
chemistry, you truly believe them as a couple. The special effects are
grand, yet they don't take over the movie. This is driven by the
emotions, by how the plot affects these characters. I was completely
into this movie all the way. The humor is very good and surprisingly
tasteful for the theme. Much of it is derived from the situation of
Swayze's character and his interaction with environment and other
characters. All in all, just a very impressive film. I recommend this
to any fan of drama, romance, comedy, thriller or fantasy, as well as
anyone interested in seeing a non-parody Zucker film and fans of the
actors. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
After so many years, every time when I see this movie again, it always
makes my eyes water! This is basically a simple story. However, the
script writer by Bruce Joel Rubin and the director by Jerry Zucker are
intelligent. They made the simple story a touching, interesting one. I
think most people cried at the end of the movie. This reminded me
another commercial successful movie "Titanic" in the year 1997. The
music (composed by Maurice Jarre) was so moving. Patrick Swayze and
Demi Moore played well, not to mention Whoopi Goldberg. Her performance
was amazing!(she also had excellent acting in Spielberg's early
masterpiece "The Color Purple") The visual effects by ILM was
extraordinary in that time. By and large, this touching movie is not
only a huge commercial success, but also a classic!
<|_=00=_|>
GHOST, in my opinion, is an excellent romance about true love that
lasts eternally. When Sam (Patrick Swayze) got mugged, I got really
scared. You'll have to see the movie if you want to know why. If you
ask me, Maurice Jarre's score is absolutely beautiful. To me, Carl
(Tony Goldwyn) was a very creepy guy. Also, Willie (Rick Aviles) was
just as scary as he was. I was amazed at the way Sam could step through
anything in his ghostly state. All in all, everyone involved in this
film did an outstanding job. In conclusion, if you like Patrick Swayze
or Demi Moore, this is definitely a movie to see. You will really be
touched by it.
<|_=00=_|>

My wife loves this film, and I found it more then a romance movie.  A
intriguing story, of deception, death, the after life, and greed.  This is a
great film, with character you care about, suspense, romance, and a fresh
script.  This film made Patricks carrier, and after this film  he chose a
few films that killed his chances of acting in higher budget films.  I
believe if he picked a couple more scripts like this one he would be on the
same level as Tom Cruse.  I think the politically correct 90's found him too
macho for their tastes, and it drove him to do that film about India which
helped kill his carrier.  In the end this film is a little about what
Patrick could have been, a true international star.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1970 we had "Love Story" remember? Ryan O'Neal and Ali McGraw crying
and loving all the way to the bank? 1990 gave us "Ghost" love beyond
death and corporate shenanigans. I saw it last night for the first time
and surprise, surprise, 15 years later I do understand why people all
over the world flocked to see, to devour this soufflé, again and again.
Bruce Joel Rubin won an Academy Award for the screenplay, I remember
Jodie Foster handing him the statuette with a smile worthy of a British
diplomat. But in fact, the screenplay should have propelled the Academy
to create a separate category alongside Best Original Screenplay and
Best Adapted Screenplay. Yes, Smart Ass Screenplay of the year or Most
Commercial Screenplay. Jerry Zucker does a masterful job allowing
Rubin's stroke of genius to unfold without major interference. Demi
Moore is scrumptious and what Maurice Jarre does with her tears
deserves an award of its own. Patrick Swayze suffers with a certain
amount of dignity, his anger is very virile but his expressions of
longing are pure Lana Turner. What makes the whole calculated
enterprise worth every bit of its hype is Whoopi Goldberg. She brings
the tale where it really belongs. A comedy. A ghostly comedy about
enduring love.
