

This movie has some slow moments, and I found the idea that Kevin Bacon's
character, an aspiring directory, would leave his girlfriend (played by
Emily Longstreth) for a bimbo-actress (played by Teri Hatcher and one of
the
film's weakest characters) pretty unconvincing. In general, I found the
bimbo-actress subplot poorly done, and this was the slowest part of the
movie. The other characters were done well, with an outstanding cameo by
Martin Short as the aspiring director's agent -- the three scenes with
Short
would make the movie worthwhile by themselves in my opinion. J. T. Walsh
was
very good as well, as the fatuous studio head, and the gag at the end
where
the young director's career is revived was very enjoyable.

It's not as good as "The Player" or "Get Shorty", but if you like movies
about making movies, you will probably like this one.
<|_=00=_|>

THE BIG PICTURE is a breezy satire of the movie business from the mind of
writer/director Christopher Guest (BEST IN SHOW, A MIGHTY WIND).  It tells
the story of Nick Chapman (Kevin Bacon), a young film director who gets put
through the Hollywood wringer.  Studio executives, agents, and starlets all
prey on Nick's naivete and he eventually sells out, neglecting his
girlfriend and best friend in the process.

What's interesting about THE BIG PICTURE is its grassroots portrayal of how
Nick finally launches his Hollywood career - by starting small, doing his
own thing, and involving his friends.  Those are basically the tenets of
independent film, which boomed in the decade following THE BIG PICTURE.

Nowadays, many of those indie directors - among them Steven Soderbergh,
Robert Rodriguez, and Christopher Nolan - are getting hired to do big-budget
studio pictures.  In fact, Soderbergh's "sex, lies, and videotape" was
released the same year as this movie.

Was Nick Chapman's "Pez People" video responsible for the indie film
movement? Not likely, but THE BIG PICTURE was certainly an advocate of its
principles.   

    


<|_=00=_|>

I've watched this many times, and feel that this ranks with the best work
of
Christopher Guest.  Kevin Bacon is outstanding as the idealistic young
director Nick Chapman, who falls prey to the jaded Hollywood lifestyle -
long before he can afford it personally or financially. Martin Short's
role
as Nick's agent is hilarious, and other good performances are turned in by
Jennifer Jason Leigh, Terri Hatcher, and many others.  This is Spinal Tap
for the film industry, and well worth a look. 
<|_=00=_|>

THE BIG PICTURE is a breezy satire of the movie business from the mind of
writer/director Christopher Guest (BEST IN SHOW, A MIGHTY WIND).  It tells
the story of Nick Chapman (Kevin Bacon), a young film director who gets put
through the Hollywood wringer.  Studio executives, agents, and starlets all
prey on Nick's naivete and he eventually sells out, neglecting his
girlfriend and best friend in the process.

What's interesting about THE BIG PICTURE is its grassroots portrayal of how
Nick finally launches his Hollywood career - by starting small, doing his
own thing, and involving his friends.  Those are basically the tenets of
independent film, which boomed in the decade following THE BIG PICTURE.

Nowadays, many of those indie directors - among them Steven Soderbergh,
Robert Rodriguez, and Christopher Nolan - are getting hired to do big-budget
studio pictures.  In fact, Soderbergh's "sex, lies, and videotape" was
released the same year as this movie.

Was Nick Chapman's "Pez People" video responsible for the indie film
movement? Not likely, but THE BIG PICTURE was certainly an advocate of its
principles.   

    


<|_=00=_|>
Los Angeles is a city where one can find, almost at every turn, a
director, a starlet, a producer, or a cinematographer if one happen to
be in the right places. Nick Chapman, a young man from Ohio, is trying
his hand at directing. We meet him as he is going to an award ceremony
at an event where the best new short film directors are competing for a
prize and a chance to make it in the business. Nick is not prepared for
what happens after his film becomes the talk of the town.

Nick Chapman is in a relationship with Susan, an architect just
starting her career. His good friend is Emmet Sumner, a cinematographer
struggling to make it in the industry. Nick is being courted to sign in
with different people so he can go to his next project. He has written
a screenplay for a film that he wants to direct. Never, in his wildest
dreams, he never imagined the strange world he is getting into, and the
weird people he will have to deal with while getting his picture
produced! For starters, Nick's agent, Neil Sussman, whom we meet during
a luncheon at one of those trendy restaurants, is a creature from
another planet.

The next person Nick gets involved with is Allen Habel, a producer that
sees potential in Chapman. As Nick pitches the film, Allen is already
changing the way he feels will attract viewers, which has nothing to do
with the original concept. Allen wants to set the picture on a beach,
not in a cabin in the woods, while it is snowing, as Nick has conceived
it. To make matters worse, Allen invites the young man to a party at
his house that turns out to be a disaster as Nick gets to meet the film
capital's fauna and flora, and ends up losing Susan.

Nick gets dazzled at first, but when Allen Habel's business goes bad,
he is left on his own. Added to all that, he doesn't have any money, so
he has to look for any kind of job in order to survive. All his big
shot friends drop him like a hot potato. No one will take his calls.
Nick having broke with Susan and having betrayed Emmet, finds himself
alone in the middle of all that phony world, until he meets a rock band
and he makes a video of a song that becomes a hit. It is at this point
Nick gets his creative powers back and as we leave him, he is directing
his picture the way he wanted.

Christopher Guest, a witty genius in his own right, directed this
movie, his first full length film. "The Big Picture" shows a great
talented director that knows well that strange world of glitter and
heartaches that is Hollywood. Christopher Guest has been involved in
the movie industry for most of his life and it shows.

Kevin Bacon is an asset in any picture where he appears. His take on
Nick Chapman is dead on. Mr. Bacon is an excellent actor, as he shows
here. It is unfortunate Martin Short, who steals every scene he is in
didn't get credit for being in the film. His agent must be a composite
on the many characters the director, and him, must have met, at one
time, or another.

Christopher Guest has a group of actors that are featured in his films.
Michael McKean and Mr. Guest have a long history of collaboration. The
late J.T. Walsh gives one of his best performances as Allen Habel. The
rest of the ensemble cast is also notable, Teri Hatcher, Fran Dresher,
and a goofy Jennifer Jason Leigh, among others.

Never having seen this film, we were lucky to catch it recently and it
was worth the wait.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to believe it's been twenty years since this came out. Kevin
Bacon is established as one of the best American actors (also, one of
the greats who've never been nominated for an Oscar!). Teri Hatcher is
the star of a huge television hit. Christopher Guest still makes
brilliant films and gives his actors more freedom than almost any other
director today. And my affection for "The Big Picture" only grows
fonder as the time passes.

In "Rolling Stone" magazine's 1989 "Hot Issue", then newcomer Steven
Soderbergh was profiled as that season's hot new filmmaker. One remark
was about how students in LA based film schools have their works shown
at big events, attended by many hot shots in the entertainment
industry. Meaning, a young woman or man could have a "bomb" of sorts on
their hands before even turning professional! Not the most nurturing
environment for youthful talent.

Bacon's "Nick Chapman" gets the full treatment as a guy on the fast
track after winning his school's big prize for his project. And things
don't go wonderfully well after he starts meeting the movers and
shakers in his new world. The late, great J.T. Walsh is a studio head
(for the time being) who seduces Chapman into believing all his dreams
are possible. Michael McKean is Chapman's friend, a cinematographer who
isn't necessarily the first choice to shoot his debut. And John Cleese,
Martin Short and Jennifer Jason Leigh have great turns as Chapman's
different associates that can't really stop the grimly funny runaway
train he's on until his self respect finally returns and he sees
everything for what it really is.

Most films about film-making are not that good. This is a major
exception to that rule. Very bitter, but also very sweet. Just like
life!
<|_=00=_|>
This is an under-rated late 80's film that captures the changing
entertainment scene of that decade, with much humor and irony. 

While the usual "Hollywood is phony" theme exists here, that story is
always interesting, and it really scores when it reminds us of how
success can be gained and lost quickly. 

Martin Short is the uncredited star here, with a couple of hilarious
scenes, the best one at the outdoor patio restaurant where he praises
Bacon without knowing any of his work. All in all, a nice movie about
movies, with some special surprise locations for movie buffs!

The late J.T. Walsh offers a subtle performance here, with one of my
favorite (perhaps a somewhat spoiler line, but nothing to do with the
plot)...Bacon: "I'm from Ohio", with Walsh's comeback, "my first wife
is from Illinois", as in everything outside of LA is one place. Perfect
deadpan humor.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a truly great film.  Really.  It's fun, and really
quality
filmmaking.  My girlfriend swears I'm obsessed - but this is an
opertunity
to see some of today's familiar faces "before they were stars."  If
you
like Altman's "The Player" you'll love this movie. The point of view
is
diferent - more comedic and a little less dark.
<|_=00=_|>

Thank God for Christopher Guest. Anyone who loved him as Nigel Tufnel in
Spinal Tap and has since appreciated his mockumentaries "Waiting for
Guffman" and "Best in Show" should take a look back at The Big Picture. As
with his other films, the humor is subtle and a bit "inside," but the more
you see it, the more you love it. Kevin Bacon and J.T. Walsh are perfect,
and Martin Short steals every scene he's in. (Added bonus: the Pez People
song at the end, obviously sung by Michael McKean, sounds like Spinal Tap
with keyboards instead of guitars. Very funny.)
<|_=00=_|>
This is a strange movie about a young film student, Nick Chambers
(Kevin Bacon), who wins an award and is picked up by a producer Alan
Hale. Nick has some good friends and a loving girlfriend and a great
idea for a simple movie. He is also very innocent and naive and
basically is chewed up by the Hollywood machine and spat out.

The movie reveals how the Hollywood dream is not that great, and it is
only through luck that Nick actually makes it. In the film there is
another guy who did not win a trophy but he seemed to have made it big.
Nick believes that he has made it as well, and quickly leaves his old
friends for his new ones. It also seems that Alan is prying Nick away
from his friends and setting him up with Hollywood friends, such as the
actress Gertrude.

Suddenly Alan Hale is axed and all of his projects are canceled. Nick
finds that he is now untouchable and left in the streets with not money
and no friends. He slowly watches how everything is taken away from him
and reminded out how big a dream he really had. His former landlord
claims that he was a director that was spat out, as if making it
harbringer of things to come, and then reminded when he is applying for
a job as a waiter, that everybody wants to make it big in Hollywood.

It is only fortune, and a bit of vision, that brings Nick back. He runs
into an old school college that introduces him to a band that wants to
make a video, and he does. At that time he is trying to rebuild his
relationships. It is interesting to see how pessimistic Nick is because
he is always expecting the worse and getting the best. His
ex-girlfriend threw him out yet when he came to her again she welcomed
him, and even visited him again. His old Camera-man friend whom he had
let down, was still welcoming to him and said, "I was always your
friend." This contrasted the people he had met at Hollywood, who were
his friends when he was big, and dumped him when he had lost it all.

This movie is good, and has a fantasy feel to it. The cinematography
creates a more dreamlike world, but it is a dream where the good
becomes bad and is only restored through some fortuitous move. What
this movie shows me though is who one's friends really are. His true
friends remained his friends while his Hollywood friends only spoke to
him when they wanted something.
