

Just prior to graduating with a degree in Film Studies a lecturer asked
us, "So what's your favourite film now?" Whilst my peers spouted out
Goddard films and obscure German expressionist shorts I sat quietly
thinking; my favourite film has been My Favourite Film since I was
seven... So when it came to me and I mumbled "The Goonies", I was
expecting scorn, ridicule and possibly minor injury, but instead was
met with concurring shouts and whoops and cries of "Hey you gu-uys!"
from the rest of the class. You see this is the unifying thing about
The Goonies; mention it in a room full of twenty-somethings and they'll
whell up and utter "Sloth loves Chunk" or adopt a harassed Chinese tone
"Thats what I said...Booty traps!". And if that room happens to be a
pub, several chairs will scrape back and semi-inebriated grown men will
lift their shirts, shake their bellies and revel in the truffle
shuffle. People may say it's an Indiana Jones wanna-be I think that is
the defining beauty of it all. When we first watched The Goonies it was
like watching our dreams come true on screen! We'd loved seeing
Indiana's adventures and escapades and in The Goonies we saw kids like
us actually doing it! They got to be just like the mini-Indies we
imagined ourselves to be in the playground. But its not just the
adventure that makes us love the film, we love those Goonies
themselves. They were like our friends. We got annoyed with them
sometimes, and we wanted to protect them, and we laughed at their jokes
and cheered when they had a brilliant plan. Identifying with those kids
was what we loved and why, as adults, we quote them and 'become' them
when talking about the film. I still want to be like Andy, having a
perilous adventure sliding down tunnels and facing the bad guys on a
huge pirate ship... but of course also making time to kiss Brand AND
Mikey! I also think that this is why Goonies 2 is such a relevant and
exciting concept. We've all grown up together and I'd love to see how
the guys are doing now...I just hope it doesn't disappoint... So if
you've not seen it do it right now, and if you have kids sit them down,
hold their hand through the scary bits and enjoy! They'll thank you in
twenty years time!

<|_=00=_|>

Anyone who grew up in the 80's will list the Goonies as one of their
favourite films, or at least look back at it with a misty
eye.

It had everthing you could want, thrills, spills, pirates, booty,
adventure,
freaks and bad guys. I just wanted to be a Goonie or go on a Goonie style
adventure. Even the place where they lived was cool. A big old house in a
picturesque bay town. You don't get houses like that in England. The only
interesting thing you would have found in my loft would have been a dead
pidgeon.

Then there were the Goonies themselves who just seemed so cool. Data's
gadgets and smart mouthed ..erm.. Mouth.

We are first introduced to them one by one in the fantastic introductory
sequence. The bad guys of the piece, the Fratellis, organise a jailbreak
in
a huge 4x4. In the process of doing so they speed past every member of
the
Goonies, introducing their character traits. Then they all get together
at
the leader Mikies house and just doss around for a while feeling sorry
for
themselves, because a property magnate wants to but there little town and
turn it into a country club (although the bay looks like it would make a
poor golf course, but hey). So this is the Goonies last day together and
they have to do something about it. And don't they just.

What follows is like a comedy Hardy Boys crossed with a game of
Mousetrap.
Some of the set pieces are genius (the pirate, One eyed Willie, had a
penchant for elaborate traps to stop people pinching his booty) and the
sets
are equally inventive. The gang get themselves into various scrapes with
the
traps, or the Fratellis or both and somehow always come out on
top.

Richard Donner's direction is always brisk, the young actors performances
are superb (specially the fantastic 'Chunk'), the senior cast is very
good
and the dialogue is chock full of hilarious lines.

I must admit I look back at it through rose tinted glasses. I was in awe
of
it when I was a kid, and now when I watch it, it reminds me of my
childhood
and all the things that was great about it. I cant fault the Goonies,
even
now. I still believe it is the perfect kids film.

I am probably preaching to the converted, but if you havent seen the
Goonies, go and buy it now! And if you don't like it, what the hell is
wrong
with you!?!?!?

<|_=00=_|>
It was in 2001 or thereabouts that I watched and listened to the audio
commentary track that is on the DVD version of The Goonies. Nostalgia
is a wonderful thing, and seeing how the principal cast had aged (or
hardly aged in Josh Brolin's case) was worth the price of admission on
its own. But this is just one of The Goonies' selling points. Despite
what the IMDb's ratings would have you believe, it is an immortal
classic that warrants repeated and frequent viewings. It is not a
coincidence that many of its cast and crew have repeatedly appeared in
all sorts of productions before and since. Indeed, this was probably
the first film that introduced me to the reality that the same actor
will often play ten different parts in ten different films when I
realised that Jonathan Ke Quan was the same brat that made parts of
Indiana Jones And The Temple Of Doom so amusing. Seeing him in the
video-enhanced commentary of the DVD nearly two decades later was a
surprise and a half.

The film revolves around a group of children and adolescents who live
in the poorer, less trendy part of a beachfront town. Unlike an episode
of Barney, every member of this principal group is given a background
and a string of differences from their castmates. You will not see the
teenaged Brand responding to the same situation in the same manner as
the ten year old Mikey, and that is where a major part of the film's
strength is derived. The only weakness in the characterisations is with
Martha Plimpton and Kerri Green, who join the adventuring boys a little
way into the film. Exactly what they are doing other than giving the
character of Brand something similar to himself to bounce his more
adult-oriented lines from is anyone's guess, but they do work in their
limited capacity. It is just a pity that Chris Columbus' screenplay did
not give them a little more to do, other than defuse one fiendish trap
towards the end of the ride.

Speaking of fiendish traps, the adventurers journey from one puzzling
location to the next with barely a stop for breath. It works because
unlike similar adventure films where the director expects us to be
impressed by a fiendish-sounding name, the specific places that are
visited by the Goonies have function. The bone piano shown in one such
sequence, for example, would appear in the nightmares of children
learning a regular piano for years after the film's theatrical release.
It also gives Corey Feldman a good chance to act out a character who
speaks very fluent Spanish. And while I am on that subject, who could
forget the immortal scene early on in the film where Mouth deliberately
loses something in the translation when Rosalita is shown around? But
the prize for scene-stealing goes to John Matuszak, who plays the
unofficial eighth Goonie, Sloth, with a weird aplomb that may well
scare the willies out of parts of the intended audience. But then, in
1985, scaring the intended audience a little was considered a healthy
part of making a film for those in the age ranges depicted here.

They say you cannot have a good protagonist without a good antagonist
to bounce off. Robert Davi, Joe Pantoliano, and Anne Ramsey provide
antagonists so good that they utterly hose the rule about not working
with animals or children. The Fratellis work so well here because they
are working with children. The late Anne Ramsey played her part so well
that the mere thought of watching her in anything scared the willies
out of me for years. Nowadays, as I have fully realised the mechanics
behind film for some years, I am keen as mustard to see some of her
other work in such pieces as Throw Momma From The Train (now there's a
title that brings images to mind) or Meet the Hollowheads. That a
performance can produce two entirely different reactions in the same
person at different stages of their life should tell you all you need
to know about its quality. Robert Davi and Joe Pantoliano are somewhat
overshadowed here, but the manic, cackling quality of their
introductory act also left quite a lasting impression.

You might have noticed that I have so far only mentioned the special
effects in passing while heaping praise upon the acting. This is
because unlike films such as the recent Star Wars prequels, the effects
complement the acting rather than overshadow it. From what I am able to
tell, all of the effects in The Goonies are practical, and some of them
quite inventive. There is no use of blood squibs, which may disappoint
some viewers, but there are enough mechanical sets and air vents to
fill three films. Some of these effects did not turn out so well and
were cut from the final film (the squid sequence being the most famous
example), but unlike a lot of films that depend on special effects for
a crucial element, everything shown in the final cut is in perfect sync
here. Suspension of disbelief is never an issue, which is just as well
considering some of the preposterous things that roll by the screen
with a certain nonchalance.

I gave The Goonies a ten out of ten. Like Superman or the original
Lethal Weapon, it shows that Richard Donner knows how to make a
classic. Now that it is twenty years old, it stands forever as a relic
of a time when the world of those under the age of eighteen was far
less oppressive. If you have not introduced your children around the
age of ten or greater to its joys and moments, then shame on you.
<|_=00=_|>

Treasure hunts.  Who doesn't remember digging under the porch, in
creekbeds,
hollowed out logs, etc to find the buried treasure you just KNOW is hidden
there somewhere?  The Goonies is a fun-filled ride right back into our
youth
where treasure hunts are no longer a thing of the past.

I absolutely loved this movie.  It was just so much fun to watch when I
was
a kid and just as much fun when I watched it again as an adult with my own
kids.  Of course the movie has moments of predictability, and no, the
villains aren't all that intimidating...they're actually quite moronic.
But
that only adds to the charm of this movie as well as its comedic value.
Although there are lessons peppered in (don't judge by appearances, right
vs. wrong, etc), overall, The Goonies is a wonderful exploration of
childhood friendships and imaginations...from Data and his many scientific
creations to One Eyed Willy and his pirate ship.

There isn't a character in this movie I didn't fully enjoy watching...you
have the dim-witted, evil Fratelli's, heavy-set, melodramatic Chunk, Data
with his "booty traps...that's what I said, booby traps" galore, the
odd-looking but loveable Sloth, and Mouth with his, well, Mouth.  Those
are
only a few...there are many more.  A lot of great lines come from this
movie
along with memorable moments (the Truffle Shuffle).  I've seen The Goonies
about a hundred times and I STILL enjoy watching it over and over again.

This is absolutely a pure, fun-filled movie to enjoy with your kids,
grandkids, nieces and nephews, or simply by yourself.  Hang on and enjoy
the
ride!  The Goonies earns a solid 5 out of 5 stars!

<|_=00=_|>

Every kid has imagined what it would be like to go on great and glorious
adventures. Pirate ships, police chases, treasure chests full of gold and
surrounded by human skeletons with patches over the eyes, the inherent
excitement in the possibility of a cavernous wonder world beneath the very
streets where they live. The Goonies is about a group of kids who have grown
up together and are about to be torn apart because their parents are being
forced to sell their homes. In the attic of one of their houses (Mikey,
played by Sean Astin), they find an endless supply of fascinating things -
treasure maps, paintings, cryptic writings in strange languages. They find a
map that sounds promising, and decide to see if it has any value, hoping to
be able to find enough treasure to prevent their parents from losing their
homes. 

Not only was The Goonies a brilliantly written, directed, and acted movie,
but it was also so much FUN! The adventures of these kids through the
underground world, while being chased by the despicable villains known as
the Fratellis, are fascinating to watch. The Goonies is a great cinematic
experience. It has everything that anyone who was ever a kid could ever
want. Even the elaborate sets are very convincing. 

The sense of adventure and hope that are presented in The Goonies is very
uplifting and inspiring. The lovable characters are perfectly developed and
endlessly entertaining. Many of them, particularly Sean Astin and Corey
Feldman, delivered the best performances of their future careers right here
in this early adventure film. This movie can be enjoyed by virtually anyone,
which is one of its best values. It is truly timeless, and it should not be
missed. 
<|_=00=_|>

The first time I saw THE GOONIES was at a friend's house right when it was a
"new release" on video. After the best times I had in my life watching it,
the friend established a "Goonie" club for the fun of it. Perhaps your past
childhood memories would have been the same, too! While the movie is a tad
heavy on the stupid foul jokes, it does have the imagination of willing to
trek around for some perilous adventures, plus a few spooks. There possibly
was never a movie like this providing tons of fun and laughter during the
time. The characters and their personalities were most original, including
"Data" and his supply of gadgets, and "Chunk" with his obese but likeable
image (love that "Truffle Shuffle"!). But "Sloth" easily stole the show with
his own likeable personality, a goon with the weirdest face I've ever seen
in my life! Just think of how fun it is to discover lost treasure, when you
know it's only fantasy. Four key things come to mind with THE GOONIES:
pirate ships, teenagers, the Frattellis, and Cyndi Lauper. They're actually
"good enough" and they go together in this memorable journey! Kudos to
Richard Donner for bringing me a movie that I've seen over 100 times and
never stop enjoying! After all these years, I'm STILL waiting for a sequel!

HIT PUREE!!! 
<|_=00=_|>

I love The Goonies.  It is a classic 80s children-adventure film.  They
don't make movies like this anymore... of if they do, its children hurting
other children (Cruel Intentions... etc).  I do miss that from the 80's...
during that time you can have an adventure film that relies on humor and
"monsters" without an overt display of violence and sex like in todays
"PG13" movies.  Anyway.. I rant...

I love all the characters from The Goonies.  Chunk is my fav (truffle
shuffle, hostage crisis, Dead things Mikey! Dead Things!, and when he
starts
spatting off Hebrew when he is captured by the Frattellis).  Its amazing
to
see the changes in Josh Brolin (Brandon) from back then to his
performances
today.

I have this movie although it must be a edited version because I heard
there
was an octopus scene in the uncut version.. Haven't seen it
yet.

I heard they were going to make a sequel.. My question.. Why!?! Don't ruin
a
good thing. Leave it alone and walk away.  Resist all urges for a
money-grubbing "typical hollywood second release" scenario.

I love the music from The Goonies as I am a huge 80's music fan.

Lastly, the scene is beautiful.  I live in Portland, Oregon and have
traveled to Astoria several times.. It is a pitty to know that the last
time
I was in Astoria, the house featured in the movie was run-down and looked
to
be vacant.

10/10.


<|_=00=_|>

There was a time when boys would spend a whole day watching their favorite
heroes, dreaming of riding a crusade against Darth Vader's Empire or
fighting the enemies among the Knights of the Round Table. Just like in
the
Fantasy Island, where Mr. Roarke and Tatoo would make all one's wishes
come
true, The Goonies has the special talent to bring our childhood fantasies
back and remind us how great those years were.

In this 1985 movie, a bunch of kids find a map which indicates the spot
where the evil pirate One-Eyed-Willie buried a big treasure stolen from
English ships in the 1500's. As we can predict, they decide to seek for
the
gold and precious stones to help their parents who are about to be
expelled
from their homes because they can't make ends meet and also because some
wealthy men want to put their houses down to build a country club on it's
place. Dangers, traps and even a family of thieves - the Fratelli - are
after them.

As the film goes on, we can see how closer the friends get and how
supportive we all should be. They would always be there for each other, no
matter how deep their problems are. Even a rich girl, Andy, is accepted by
the group, in a very politically correct act, where no distinctions are
made. The scene in which the guys are stuck in a hole, is very touching
and
really digs our sense of aid.

Richard Donner directed this movie and another famous director, Chris
Columbus wrote the screenplay, based on a Steven Spielberg's story. Matt
Sweeney was responsable for the special effects and the main theme ( They
'r
good enough ) was written and performed by Cindy Lauper.

After the film, none of the kids became famous actors. Corey Feldman and
Kerry Green took part in some teenage comedies, while Sean Astin showed up
in "Memphis Belle" and Ke Huy Quan was the young Indiana Jone's chinese
taxi
driver in "The Temple of the Doom". The only one who joined some serious
projects was Martha Plimpton.

But these are just technical details. What really counts in "The Goonies"
are the two hours of humanity, pleasure, inocence, friendship - and even
the
first love - that only children can show in their eyes. In fact, it's a
small journey to our past, to a time when your deepest worries were about
the girl (or the boy) on the next chair.

<|_=00=_|>

Well,well,well.......this film has became one of my all-time favorite
movie!The first time i watched the movie i just couldn't help myself
wishing I was there with them.The movie is so full of adventure!But
what really bothered me was the exact date it was filmed!Oh my gosh it
was dated back in 1985!I was not even born by that time.....But hey
they did a pretty good job!I wish i could owned this in DVD so i can
watched anytime & show this to my children.But it was so hard to find.
So i guess i just had to stick to our cable.

It was amazing to see Sean Astin(Mikey)so young and active.You could
certainly see the difference he is now in Lord of the Rings trilogy.
The story isn't like any...it was so unique!The place and view are
awesome and was actually filmed in the City of Astoria.

My favorite character is Mikey and Josh.They are two brothers who wants
to help their parents.So Mikey,being the youngest wants to find that
treasure to save them from Troy's dad.My favorite lines were.... "When
you look in the sky,it will be another town,when you see your
friends,it will be in another school".

It's kinda touchy and sentiment....but good!I remember the new album of
Ataris(So long Astoria)where it became one of their song.I was reading
the lyrics and there was a similarity in the movie.The last part goes
like this,

"So long Astoria,i found a map to buried treasure and even if we come
home empty-handed we still have our stories of pirate ships & wounded
hearts,broken bones and the best of friendships.& when this hourglass
out its final grain of sand.I raised my glass to the memories we
had.This is my wish,i'm taking them back,I'm taking them all back."

I remember mouth said the last lines when they were trapped inside the
cave.I guess the band members of Ataris saw the movie in their
childhood years and like them,we were spell-binded by its great story.

So long The Goonies,you will be remembered as one of the most amazing
movies we had.Just like the movie,"The relics of remembrance are just
like shipwrecks only they're gone faster than the smell of the rain."

But for now,you became a resurrected memories from ashes in our
childhood dreams.......

<|_=00=_|>
I was 18 when this was released. Just a little bit too old for it. Over
the decades I've heard people just a few years my junior rave about
this as if it were an Indiana Jones or a gremlins or the like. So
finally at the ripe old age of 46 I've had a look. I cannot believe the
hype for this. The director's overriding instruction to the actors,
seems to have been, shout and scream and say your dialogue whilst
everyone else is saying theirs. That will keep the audience thrilled
and excited. It gave this member of the audience a headache. The
storyline is weak, the characters 2 dimensional and the script is dire.
I kept thinking these kids must be off their Ritalin. It was like an
onslaught of annoyance. I get that people are nostalgic for movies they
saw when they were kids. I still think jaws is one of the greatest
films ever made, whereas people younger than me can't abide the plastic
shark. But really, I'm amazed that so many people still seem to rate
this. I challenge anyone over 40 (in 2013), who hasn't already seen
this movie as a kid, to like it!
