
This is amazing-looking movie with the whole thing done in just six or
seven colors. When it came out over 15 years ago, it stunned audiences
with its color scheme, being so different from anything else that had
ever been put on film. Those colors, for me at least, make this an
absolutely fascinating film to watch. There are literally thousands of
scenes I wish could freeze and somehow convert them to a painting to
study for their artwork.

The characters and the story don't match up to the greatness of the
photography, but they are all over-the-top, especially the villains.
The famous actors who played them here must have a had a lot of fun on
the set playing "Flatop," "Pruneface," "Lips," "Mumbles," etc.

Meanwhile, Warren Beatty and Gleanne Hedley are good as Dick Tracey and
girlfriend Tess Truehart, and she's as sweet and soft as her name.
Another good addition is Charlie Korsmo as the delinquent young boy
Dick and Tess take under their wing. The colorful other characters are
played by Al Pacino, Dustin Hoffman, William Forysthe, Paul Sorvino,
Mandy Patinkin, Madona and other names you know but are too numerous to
list here. Check the full credits on the main page and you'll amazed.

The only negatives I found were Pacino's voice which grates on you
after awhile, Madonna's off-key singing voice and the fact that the
film would have been better trimmed about 10 minutes. Those "faults"
are all minor because overall, this is a fun movie....a cartoon strip
coming to life in an incredibly-colorful fashion.....like nothing you
have ever seen.
<|_=00=_|>

If Dick Tracy was in black and white, the pope wouldn't be religious. Giving
a new sense to the concept of color in a movie, we are offered an unique
experience throughout a comic-strip world, and it's one of the few movies
which succeeded in doing so, thanks to a serious script, good direction,
great performances (Al Pacino is astonishing) and most importantly a
powerful mix of cinematography, art direction and costume design. Using only
primary colors, the experience is quite different from anything we have seen
before. And there is also a quite successful hommage to all the
gangster-movie genre, pratically extinct from modern cinema. Overall, I see
this movie as a fresh attempt and a touch of originality to a cinema which
relies more and more on the old and already-seen formulas. 7 out of 10.

<|_=00=_|>

"Dick Tracy" is one of our family's favorites -- the actors are great --
the
art direction is exceptional -- the music is magic. It's not supposed to
be
"To Kill A Mockingbird" -- it's a fun experience.

Stephen Sondhemim's songs are stellar: "Back in Business" is energetic,
"Sooner or Later" is just right, "What Can You Lose" is haunting -- even
tunes like "Live Alone and Like It" add to the story

Got to love the giddily over-the-top performances of Al Pacino, Dustin
Hoffman, Glenn Headly, Charlie Korsmo, Mandy Patinkin, James Caan, Dick
Van
Dyke, supporting villains...  The list is far too long. And, yes -- even
Madonna and Warren Beatty are awesome.  Written with a smile a minute (how
many times have we looked at each other and said, "Wait a minute -- I'm
having a thought -- it's gone!"?).

However, one of most telling things about in this film is that everyone
involved seems to be having a good time -- and that above all adds to the
enjoyment for the viewer.  So, if you haven't already, why not give "Dick
Tracy" a chance -- accept it for what it is -- a Sunday comic strip
brought
to life -- and in a wonderful way!!
<|_=00=_|>
I've been watching "Dick Tracy" for years, and as a result it's become
a vital part of my life - it was with me throughout childhood and I
used to see it quite often. Seeing it now, as an adult, it's still a
very good movie - dark, satiric and incredibly misunderstood. About the
only thing that can be said is the Oscar nomination Pacino received -
other than that it is rarely discussed and didn't make much of a fuss
when it came out.

Pacino is over-the-top but to good effect as he's clearly having loads
of fun. Beatty is great as Dick Tracy and behind the camera manages to
capture the atmosphere of a film noir comic book better than any other
film, possibly, I have ever seen. Just taking a look at one scene from
the film is breathtaking. The lighting, velvet overtones and smog/smoke
combine to create a great effect.

There are some really funny cameos including one by Dustin Hoffman as
"Mumbles," and I don't think there are any flaws at all in terms of
acting - even the mandatory kid-character is far better than expected.

Overall, a really fine movie that has become misunderstood over the
years since its release and is incredibly underrated with only 5.7/10
average on IMDb. The critics' reviews are very positive (check out
RottenTomatoes.com) and after seeing the film once again it's not hard
to see why - this is a perfect example of capturing the essence of a
comic book, from style to eccentricity.

Highly recommended. 4.5/5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

I never attended the midnight showing of a movie before "Dick Tracy" came
out.

I still have the "t-shirt ticket" I had to wear to get admitted to the
showing around here somewhere and, like that shirt, "Dick Tracy" has stuck
with me ever since.

If you've seen the movie, the sharp visuals, bright primary colors and
strong characters have no doubt been etched into your brain.  It's a wonder
to behold.

As director/star/co-writer/producer, Beatty knows what works in a film and
shows it here, taking a familiar American icon and re-creating him for a
whole new era.  Still set in the '30s, "Tracy" has a kind of timeless
quality like all good films do.  I've lost track of how many times I've
watched "Tracy" and I still catch something new every time I
do.

The others are all top notch, starting with Pacino's Big Boy Caprice (a
reminder that he can do comedy with the best of them), even Madonna's
Breathless Mahoney is a relevation in that under the right environment, she
can act (GASP!).  

But there's still such themes touched on as the necessity of family, keeping
true to one's self, good versus evil, even Machiavellian themes are
explored.  Odd for a comic strip film, but hey, it works.

All in all, "Dick Tracy" is a classic unto itself.  Compared with other
films of this decade, it makes a strong statement.  It's a good, strong film
that doesn't depend on blood, violence, profanity or nudity to make its
point.  

There's a lesson to be learned here.

Ten stars.  Great Scott!
<|_=00=_|>

This is a marvelous film.  Warren Beatty managed to film it just like a
comic book MIGHT be brought to film with humourously grotesque and bizarre
characters, beautiful colours, and a plot that really only could have come
from a comic book.  The buildings, set design, make-up, and props are like
nothing I have ever seen in film before.  Now, never having read the
original strip leaves me out as far as making probably very insightful
comparisons with this film and the original source.  That being said, I
think that Beatty, although drastically changing some of the villains in the
film to fit smaller roles, tried to keep the spirit of the film inside the
comic strip.  Does that make sense?  Probably not.  Anyway, Dick Tracy
offers a lot.  It is a visual feast with a decent story and some prime time
stars doing some things you may not expect from them.  Beatty is very good
as the lawmen, but much of the supporting cast steals many scenes from him. 
Al Pacino as Big Boy Caprice is sensational as an over-the-top thug out to
get every criminal under his control, while he intermittenly quotes folks
like Nietchze, Jefferson, and other historical figures.  Dustin Hoffman as
Mumbles is wonderful - if you can finally figure out that it is him(notice
in the scene where a stenographer is taking down what he says((That is Oscar
winner Kathy Bates!))).  James Caan has a brief yet good scene with Pacino
Godfather style and Beatty gives Michael J. Pollard and Estelle Parsons
cameos as well(both co-starring with him in Bonnie and Clyde).  Then there
is Madonna.  She tries her best to live up to her name of Breathless and
does a VERY credible job at it.  And then of course there is the music of
Stephen Sondheim, an Oscar winner for this film.  It is very good and in
some ways more memorable than much of what goes on in the film.  Perhaps a
song here or there might have been cut, but for the most part the music
greatly added to the overall effects created in the film.  Is Dick Tracy
great?  No, but it is a whole lot better than it is generally given credit
for.  In some ways its innovation must be reviewed again.  I think that for
its type of film it is one of the best.  
<|_=00=_|>

Don't look for an overdeveloped plotline here....just sit back with some
popcorn and enjoy this one.  A gallery of stars pop up as the classic
cartoon character's villains in this live action comedy, which features
incredible makeup and set design, not to mention knockout performances from
Beatty, Madonna, and Pacino.  Great fun for kids and adults
alike.

*** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
I thoroughly enjoyed this true to form take on the Dick Tracy persona.
This is a well done product that used modern technology to craft a
imagery filled comic era story. If you are a fan of or recently watched
some of the old Dick Tracy b&w movies then you're sure to get a kick
out of this rendition. The pastel colors and larger than life
characters rendered in a painstakingly authentic take on an era gone by
is entertainment as it's meant to be. I personally find Madonna's
musical element to be a major part of this film-the CD featuring her
music from this movie is one I've listened to often over the years,
it's just so well done and performed musically and tuned to that era.
In my mind, Madonna's finest moment both on-screen but especially
musically. This is sure to bring out the "kid" in you.
<|_=00=_|>

An all-star cast, vivid colors that could give you a headache and Madonna's
sizzling performance made many think that "Dick Tracy" is much better than
it actually is. It is one of those typical quantity over quality projects
that uses smoke and mirrors to make the audience think that it is something
unique and intriguing. However, the film is little more than a comic strip
that jumps up at you ala the "Superman" or "Batman" group of films. Warren
Beatty's performance and in-your-face direction are not totally successful.
The seemingly endless name of cast members also becomes dizzying. Al Pacino
(Oscar-nominated) steals every scene and pulls a Jack Nicholson from
"Batman" out of his hat. "Dick Tracy" is a good film, but it is far from
being a masterpiece. 4 stars out of 5. 
<|_=00=_|>

Released in 1990, Warren Beatty's take on a popular one-time comic book
detective is at once successful and distinctive.  It doesn't have the
preachy Americo-centric moralism of the "Superman" movies, neither does it
possess the dark and tragic depths of the early "Batman" films.  "Dick
Tracy" is distinctive as it just tries to be what it is: a literal live
action comic strip.  In this the cops headed up by a straight-laced
detective (and his plucky kid sidekick) are the heroes, with a horde of
ugly, scheming gangsters as the villains.

In a town simply named The City, Dick Tracy (Warren Beatty) is an honest but
reckless detective who divides his time between chasing villains and going
out with his girlfriend Tess Trueheart (Glenne Headly).  He finds himself a
new sidekick in the shape of the Kid (Charlie Korsmo), a homeless young
thief he pulls off the streets.  Tracy will need all the help he can get, as
his arch-nemesis Big Boy Caprice (Al Pacino) is on the rise.  He's just
rubbed out his main rival Lips Manlis (Paul Sorvino), taken over his club
and stolen his girlfriend, singer Breathless Mahoney (Madonna).  Now he's
preparing for a rampage that will ensure him complete control of The
City.....

Take the story out of the movie and it would make a fine period melodrama. 
There are enough twists and turns in the plot to keep it interesting for the
bulk of it's two-hour running length.  The script mixes a healthy stock of
comic book characters (hard-nosed cop, honest sweetheart, streetwise kid,
mean ugly gangster and attractive but sleazy moll) and has the standard
surprise ending.  This is combined with a show of action scenes (featuring
cement baths, punch-ups and tommy gun shoot-outs) but in keeping with the
pictures lighthearted tone, there is nothing gory or explicit.

The setting and technical aspect is especially good in this film.  The use
of primary colours in both the backdrops, sets and costumes is brilliant and
makes the whole film really come alive.  Enhancing this is a wonderful music
score, put to good use in both the action scenes and the quieter, more
sentimental moments.  Even Madonna's songs fit in well with the picture, as
they're cleverly used in ways that bring the story forward and add irony to
key scenes.  

The performances are for the most part excellent.  Warren Beatty is on form
as eponymous detective and he works well in tangent with Charlie Korsmo as
The Kid, who is both his partner and surrogate son.  If the film has a
recurring weakness, it's in the lack of chemistry between him and leading
lady Glenne Headly.  There is certainly more discernible tension in scenes
between him and Madonna, who turns in a good performance as the scheming,
gangster's moll.  She is certainly no Oscar-winner, but neither is she the
wooden disaster so many make her out to be.

The cast of prosthetics-clad gangsters reads like a "Who's Who" of vintage
character actors: Dustin Hoffman, James Caan, Paul Sorvino, William
Forsythe, James Tolkan, etc.  The outstanding performance here, though, is
Al Pacino as Big Boy.  Usually known for his more serious portrayal of
villains in films like "The Godfather" and "Dog Day Afternoon" it is a
delight watching him go gleefully over the top here.  Big Boy is deluded,
cruel and arrogant and makes a worthy adversary for Tracy.

Not one of the most well-known comic book films going around, but it is
still a joy to watch.

  
