

The most common thing critics said to trash Harlem Nights
was
that it was too profane to be set in 1938. Well, this 
statement here was completely without logic. Two points to
back
myself up:

1. In almost every 1930's/40's/50's gangster movie, the characters

are very profane. Look at any movie directed by Martin Scorcese
and
starring Robert DeNiro and Joe Pesci for evidence of this

2. What do you expect from a movie starring Richard Pryor,
Eddie Murphy and Redd Foxx? If you expect these three men
to
watch their language, you are truly a stranger in the ways
of
their material

As for the movie's sexist feel, I cannot dispute this. However,
I
can defend it. I am not a sexist young man despite being only

twenty-one years of age. I feel that women should
have the same rights as men. However, I think Eddie Murphy
was young and dumb and only felt the way he did because
he was not mature enough to understand women. Now he is
happily
married and expecting his fifth child, so I think he is a
little
wiser today.

As for one review I read that said every white man was
a bigot in this movie. Guys, come on, it's Harlem in 1938!

Despite all of this, the movie is a well-made, well-characterized,
entertaining film. It was taken too seriously when it was
first
released, and I'm glad many people here seem to agree with
me.

The plot concerns Sugar Ray (Pryor, who was sadly the only
disappointing performer here) and his adopted son Vernest
Brown,
a.k.a. Quick (Murphy) owners of the hottest nightclub in
Harlem.
It becomes the target of gangster Bugsy Calhoune (an impressive
performance by Michael Learner) and his buddy Sgt. Phil
Cantone
(A terrific Danny Aiello). They plot with their employees
to scam him out of his money by placing a fake bet on a boxing
match
and leave Harlem.

The movie is not without plot holes and the occasional
bad
line of dialogue, but other than that, it's funny and entertaining.
A particular highlight are Foxx's nearsighted Bennie Wilson
and Reese's Vera Walker, who exchange profane banter 
throughout the film, which is hilarious. A cameo by longtime
Murphy friend Arsenio Hall (whom I usually dislike) as a crybaby mobster is
also very funny. Don't listen to the critics, this
movie is funny as hell!
<|_=00=_|>

Yeah, yeah this movie is full of profanity and I see other users saying
that
Eddie couldnt decide if it was a comedy, drama, etc. I personally thought
the movie was hilarious and quite clever. I never really thought it was
anything other than a comedy. Tell me how a movie this good gets a rating
of
4.8, when an awful movie like The Thomas Crown Affair (the remake) gets a
7.0!!! Try this everyone, sit down, relax and don't try to "read" anything
into this movie......just enjoy it...


<|_=00=_|>

Harlem Nights is a great that stars the funniest three black comics to
ever
grace a comdey stage. Eddie Murphy knew what he was doing when he decided
to
cast Redd Foxx and Richard Pryor in the other two male leads. The film has
great one-liners and a amusing fight scene between Eddie and Della Reese.
If
you've never seen this film, you're in for a treat.
<|_=00=_|>

A lot of people have commented on the violence and profanities in this
movie.  I guess it could have gotten by without so many foul words.  But
this movie is still funny!  The most hilarious scenes are Eddie Murphy's
fistfight with Della Reese, and his shootout with Arsenio Hall.  Say what
you will about Eddie Murphy, but he can still crack you
up!
<|_=00=_|>
...Thats right the best. This movie was a hallmark for standup
comedy. For
the first time you had all the greats in one movie, Eddie Murphy, Richard
Pryor, Redd Foxx, Robin Harris. Especially since the last 2 have passed
away
and Richard Pryor is too ill to do a movie again. When he made Nights he
had
to sit in his wheelchair when he wasn't filming, hence you never see him do
anything physical in the movie. I first saw this movie one I was 10 with my
dad, uncles and my grandmother. Of course she was turned off by the
profanity but we all were laughing untill our sides hurt. I also remember
all the things the great voices of cinema said about this movie. And to
that
i say how can you look down at this movie for profanity and praise movies
like Goodfellas and Pulp Fiction (great movies by the way) when they have
twice the vulgar langauge. And to those that say, well why did they portray
the white mobsters as the bad guys? Well its Harlem in the 30's and ask any
black person who owned a place of buisness then how hard it was. To me this
wasn't just about Eddie, Eddie, Eddie, this was an epic for comedy and I
hate to use the clinche but "Black" movies as well. The only other Murphy
movie that comes close is Nutty Professer. I hope the sequel to that is
half
as funny as Nights. One last point that I think why critics panned this
movie is, we all now Eddie is a comic genuis, but people were so use to
seeing him play to a white partner or sidekick (i.e. Trading Places, All
the
Beverly Hill Cops and 48 Hours) But to a comedy standup fan like me,
Murphy,
Pryor, Foxx, Hall, Harris in one movie was like giving a Star Wars fan (as
I
am) premire tickets to Ep. 2 & 3. If you haven't seen this I recommend it
just for the fact that half the cast had passed on and this was their last
work, but its also a fun take on the mobster movie craze of the 30's and
40's.
<|_=00=_|>
Three of the greatest (and dirtiest) comedians ever together in this
one movie. Funny, hilarious, yes at bit off color with the many uses of
the f word but still a great movie with a nice sting at the end. Get
over the F word! If you haven't seen this movie in a while, go back and
watch it. The first time I watched it, I was lukewarm about it. Now I
go back and watch it, grateful that it was made especially since the
passing of Richard Pryor (and Redd Foxx). 

If you haven't heard any of their stand up, go listen. It's awesome.
Richard Pryor is the best. 

My only complaint is that Arsenio Hall's character was stupid.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of Murphy's best works. Ignore what the critics say. They
just didn't get it. I am a mid-aged white woman - and even I get it. It
is a misogynistic as any stylized Western you may have seen. And the
language is just what you would expect from Murphy and Pryor. This is
stylized Harlem, guys.

I do not think Murphy set out to break ground plot-wise. Its meant to
be a very traditional good vs. bad mobster movie. In this rare case we
get to see the other side of tracks version. Why not??

This movie is a rare joining of a classic team of talents including
Richard Pryor, Della Reese and Red Foxx. Della was my favorite and her
rapport with Foxx is classic.
<|_=00=_|>

Contrary to popular belief, this is actually a pretty good movie.  The
problem is that people go in expecting a goofy comedy.  If so, you will find
this movie to be terribly boring.  The movie is more of crime and drama
mixed with a little comedy here and there.

      The cast is excellent. The acting is superb, though its expected with
names like those.  The set is also good . You feel like your in the time
period that the movie is supposed to be in, there are no goofs. The first
half of the movie will seem a little boring with few laughs, but then the
second half is much funnier.  The best , and funniest line of the movie was
when Dela Reese is hounding Red Fox for only leaving a "swallow fill of
orange juice".  He responds by saying "Well swallow it and shut the F***
up".

	  The plot really picks up in the second half.  Murphy and Pryor attempt to
pull a sting on their enemies and in the end are successful. The plot is
very interesting, with twists and turns here and there.  You never know who
to trust.  Overall I would give the movie a 7.  If you go in not expecting
laughs, you will find it to be a very enjoyable movie.
<|_=00=_|>

I found this movie to be very enjoyable. I do have to say there was a lot
of
profane language but that was probably why it was made for adults. I would
recommend this movie to the comedy lovers,(that don't mind the language),
and give it a solid 7. If you give the movie a chance you will probably
like
it... 
<|_=00=_|>

Some might think that this effort from Eddie Murphy (who wrote, directed,
executive produced and starred in) might not be up to his and the co-stars
efforts.  They might be a little right, but it isn't a waste to say the
least.  The talent is still vibrant even with a not too great script from
Murphy including him, Richard Pryor (who gives his best, most recent
performance to date), Redd Foxx (one of his last) and Danny Aiello.  So
sure
it may be profane with a story that isn't too credible, but that's fine.
Not great, but in truth, not to be missed either.  B-
