

"Kramer vs. Kramer" is a terrific drama about an unhappy woman who walks out
on her husband and young son. The husband now has to take up the
responsibilities of taking care of the boy. As he does, they get to know
each other better. But then, the mother and wife returns, and she wants
custody of the boy. "Kramer vs. Kramer" has lots of drama with some
wonderful bits of comedy thrown in for good measure. Dustin Hoffman won his
first Best Actor Oscar for his brilliant performance here. Most people say
his performance in "Rainman", which won him his second Oscar, is his best.
He was great in that film, but I disagree that its his best. In my opinion,
the best performance of Hoffman's career is in this movie. Scene after scene
shows us why Hoffman is one of the best American actors working today. He's
also funny at times. Also giving a terrific performance is Meryl Streep, who
wasn't as well known when she made this film like she is today. Streep, like
Hoffman, also won her first Oscar (for Best Supporting Actress) for her work
in "Kramer vs. Kramer" as the wife and mother who tries to find herself
after walking out on her family. Justin Henry, who was only 8 years old when
the film came out, is wonderful as Hoffman and Streep's son. He won an Oscar
nomination for his role here, and still to this day he is the youngest
performer to receive an Oscar nomination in a competitive category (Best
Supporting Actor). Jane Alexander is also fine as a conserned family friend.
She too got an Oscar nomination (for Supporting Actress where she lost to
co-star Streep). "Kramer vs. Kramer" is a great film from start to finish.
Writer-director Robert Benton has made a film that's absolutely
unforgettable. 

**** (out of four)

<|_=00=_|>

This outstanding film has about the best acting that you'll ever see, and
that alone makes this a must-see.  The entire cast is excellent, but then
again, it had to be in order to keep up with Dustin Hoffman and Meryl
Streep.  It didn't take me long to get hooked on this film, and aside from
a
courtroom scene that is merely good, this is top-notch entertainment.
This
is a rare film that actually deserved all the Oscar recognition that it
received.  See it for yourself and you will definitely not be
disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
After a decade of turbulent unrest, American movies began to switch
gears and turn their cameras away from war-torn battlefields, political
corruption, and general social unease to the more intimate world of
family dysfunction. The toll the selfish Baby Boomers began to take on
the American family as they grew up and had kids of their own was
making itself felt.

"Kramer vs. Kramer" is one of the first of these dysfunctional family
dramas that would continue to be so popular throughout the 1980s, and
it's one of the best. It gets a rather bum rap now, because it's known
as the film that beat "Apocalypse Now" for the 1979 Best Picture
Academy Award, but comparing these two films is like comparing a banana
to a marinated chicken breast: they're not remotely the same, but can't
we enjoy them both? Director/writer Robert Benton doesn't try to do
anything fancy with his movie; its strength lies in its performances,
those of Dustin Hoffman and Meryl Streep particularly, playing a
divorced couple fighting childishly and selfishly over their son. The
courtroom scene in which they duke it out for custody, and in which
each is forced to hurt the other in terrible ways, is devastating, and
feels authentic. The movie doesn't present Hoffman's solid dad as a
hero, or Streep's straying mom as a villain. They're neither good or
bad as people -- they're simply bad at being married.

The film is tear-jerky at the finale, but not in a manipulative way. It
earns its right to elicit sobs.

Grade: A
<|_=00=_|>
I consider myself lucky that I got to view a wonderful movie with two
marvelous actors. "Kramer vs. Kramer" was great to me because I think I
could relate to it.

Unfortunately, my parents are divorced. Even though I was older than
Billy in this movie, I felt his pain and confusion. Having two parents
who you thought were happy and end up hating each other is the worst.
Through this movie, actually, I think it made me realize that my
parents are people too, and they had as just much pain as my sister and
I had.

Back to the movie, this was a good one. Yes, it's dated and Meryl and
Dustin are very young. But I would recommend this for a lot of people,
because I think most can relate in some way. There are funny, sad,
happy, and relieving moments that are carried away terrificly by these
great actors. It's a good movie and deserves more credit than a 7.5.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

"Kramer vs. Kramer" is probably the weakest winner of the Best Picture Oscar
in the 1970s, but that does not mean that this it is not an excellent film
that more than delivers. The film deals with a career man (Oscar-winner
Dustin Hoffman) who must rear his young son (Justin Henry, the youngest
Oscar-nominee ever) after his wife (Oscar-winner Meryl Streep) leaves them
with no real explanation. What follows is a heart-touching story about the
man who finally learns what it means to be a father and a boy who learns who
his father really is. Of course the film becomes heart-rending later as
Streep returns after a long absence and wants to take Hoffman to court for
custody of their son. "Kramer vs. Kramer" then becomes an intense courtroom
drama that has few equals. Robert Benton's Oscar-winning direction and
screenplay could have fallen flat several times, but he stays focused
throughout and his plan works to near perfection. Of course the
aforementioned performances and the performance of Oscar-nominee Jane
Alexander are the primary calling cards of the film. Hoffman and Streep are
at the top of their careers here and their acts are electric and thunderous
from start to finish. All in all, "Kramer vs. Kramer" could have been
unintentionally funny or even down-right dull, but the film is so well-made
and acted that it succeeds with stunning results. 5 stars out of 5.

<|_=00=_|>
Although credit should have been given to Dr. Seuess for stealing the
story-line of "Horton Hatches The Egg", this was a fine film. It
touched both the emotions and the intellect. Due especially to the
incredible performance of seven year old Justin Henry and a script that
was sympathetic to each character (and each one's predicament), the
thought provoking elements linger long after the tear jerking ones are
over. Overall, superior acting from a solid cast, excellent directing,
and a very powerful script. The right touches of humor throughout help
keep a "heavy" subject from becoming tedious or difficult to sit
through. Lastly, this film stands the test of time and seems in no way
dated, decades after it was released.
<|_=00=_|>
Robert Benton's Kramer vs. Kramer is a character based story just like
his "Human Stain(2003)" and "The Late Show(1977)". 2 of his 3 Oscar
awards are belong to Kramer vs. Kramer, for his success on directing
and writing; thus making his film bringing a real life drama with the
real life characters so close to us. It's all about ordinary people
with our problems. What's different and catchy about Robert Benton's
film-making was here we are not trying to put ourselves in the actors'
shoes, the actors are trying to put themselves in our shoes.

The story is about the Kramer family which is broken, father and mother
are separated, and they have to fight for their son's custody in court
against each other. After his wife walks out on him, Ted Kramer's life
completely turns upside down. He has to take care of his son, Billy;
but at the same time he's very busy with his position in an advertising
company. Soon, he loses his job; Billy has an accident; his wife wants
Billy to live with her. Against all the problems Ted is facing, he
always fought with his heart. Ted's a very emotional and sensitive man,
but a strong person at the same time.

Ted Kramer character was a new model for Dustin Hoffman. But since the
late 1950s' Elia Kazan's pioneer approach of modern drama making on
film, with the basic instalment of the leading actor into a conflict,
Ted Kramer's strong character raised Dustin Hoffman's acting to become
a legend ; just like it did to Marlon Brando, Sylvester Stallone, Al
Pacino and Jack Nicholson with 1970s'.

Something more about the movie; the linear cut has been 43 minutes
longer than the theatrical release. Most of this cut has included Meryl
Streep's deleted scenes. Also Meryl Streep has been originally cast in
the role of Ted's one night stand, eventually played by second
supporting actress Jobeth Williams. Meryl Streep's role as Joanna
Kramer has been primarily offered to Kate Jackson; but due to her
contract rules with the TV-series Charlie's Angels, she hasn't been
able to accept this role. Joanna Kramer character has been designed to
be the leading actress and subject to have more scenes, before director
Benton making the last decision of the plot's focus point.

Both Meryl Streep and Dustin Hoffman today have splendid fame on movie
career, and Kramer vs. Kramer was an important milestone for both of
their careers. Dustin Hoffman's Oscar speech winning the best actor at
the 1979 Academy Awards ceremony is one of the best Oscar speeches of
all Academy Awards history; like the movie Hoffman's Oscar speech is
also available to watch on Youtube.
<|_=00=_|>
Kramer vs. Kramer is one film to hold on too and not forget. It isn't
one of the most popular films ever made and is certainly one of the
weakest best picture films, but it does not mean it still isn't
important. I thought the movie was well done and made you just want to
watch more and more of it. The performances were the best positive for
the film and Dustin Hoffman played one of his best roles he's ever done
as the lonely workaholic who has to take care of his son, as his wife
separates from him. Billy, who is Hoffman's son, played another great
performance along with Meryl Streep, playing the depressed mother of
Billy. Kramer vs. Kramer is not one of the greatest films and is not a
perfect 10, but it succeeds in making the film worth watching and worth
caring about it. Certainly, one of Hoffman's best films he's ever done.
I highly recommend it.

Hedeen's Outlook: 9/10 ***+ A-
<|_=00=_|>
Certainly when I saw this movie at HBO, I was bit erratic in following
the plot, but it catches my attention when seeing Dustin Hoffman in it.
Honestly I'm not enthralled watching old movies, but then in the long
run it changes my point of view. Seeing this stirring film made me
experience once again couching at my seat not noticing my tears
suddenly roll down my cheek, and then after, let loose a heavy sigh in
realizing the impact of what I've just witness. Kramer vs Kramer was
indeed one of the best classical drama movies I've witnessed for a long
time that even I, myself couldn't imagine how it touched me. The story
was strongly emotional, but is not saturated with such. The characters
weren't unrealistic for their roles; they possess qualities that make
viewers like them whatever position they have in the film, like the
role of Meryl Streep, she was a mother who honestly concede her
mistakes at the past but then she's confident to stand up her emotional
motives to get what she desires in a fair and square battle. Dustin
Hoffman was way too outstanding, I can't even fathom how this guy could
play seriously difficult roles and suddenly jump into another role
which is completely different, then performed it well. Even though I
have already seen the movies a lot of times, when I seat back and
lounge at my home scanning worth movies to peer and buy a time for it,
catching a glimpse for Kramer vs Kramer will make my experience another
worthwhile moment.
<|_=00=_|>
One word that comes to mind when describing 'Kramer vs. Kramer' is
terrific. Benton's direction and screenplay are solid but what also
seems to have worked very well was that he gave his actors the freedom
to improvise and was open to their suggestions. Not once, does the film
lose focus (credit goes to the fine editing department). It's very much
a character driven drama with fabulous acting. Perhaps, it's the
freedom the actors had which makes their performances look more natural
and their on screen interactions very real. I wonder how cathartic it
was for the great Dustin Hoffman to play Ted Kramer as he himself was
going through a rough divorce. A brilliant Meryl Streep too was still
in the grieving process of having lost her loved one. The fabulous Jane
Alexander seems to have a comfortable off screen interaction with her
co-stars and she too did a lot of improvisation. The same can be said
for child actor Justin Henry. The result is excellent performances by
all four actors. The whimsical score (that comprises of famous numbers
from composers like Vivaldi) beautifully adds to the mood. These days
court room divorce dramas have become quite popular on TV but they lack
the authenticity, humbleness and simplicity of 'Kramer vs Kramer'.
