
A reviewer once complained that "Punchline" commits an unforgivable sin
by being an unfunny movie about stand up comics. For anyone who agrees,
try looking "irony" up in the dictionary - it's an element that's
occasionally used outside of the literary world. 

The film's deliberately awkward and painful scenes illustrate the
point, "Lady, nothing is a joke to me. That's why I'm in comedy. And
that's why you're not." 

The same reviewer made the hilarious claim that comics never tell jokes
out of compulsion or denial, but simply because "they love making other
people laugh." newsflash: creative and hysterical people are often
highly dysfunctional! :D thank you goodnight!
<|_=00=_|>
One of the best and also most overlooked films of Tom Hanks'career was
the 1988 comedy PUNCHLINE, in which Hanks plays Steven Gold, a
struggling stand up comedian who uses his comedy to work out his own
inner demons, a lot of which stem from his childhood and his twisted
and unresolved relationship with his father. Hanks walks the fine line
of comedy and tragedy so effectively in this movie. One scene where he
is excited to perform because a big agent is in the audience and is
shattered when he learns it's really his father out there and he
literally has a breakdown onstage is absolutely heartbreaking. He is
also laugh out loud funny when he performs a stand up routine for a
group of patients at a Brooklyn hospital and then two minutes later is
looking at the chart of a terminally ill child. Steven Gold is a
character so desperate to be loved that he thinks himself into
believing that he is in love with a married woman (Sally Field) who
also wants to do stand-up. Another great scene is when he pours his
heart out to her and when she rejects him, he storms out in the rain
and starts out doing Gene Kelly, but the dance in the rain turns into a
brief descent into madness. Standup comics, for the most part, are not
happy people, and Hanks conveys this so beautifully in this film. His
final set at the film's climax reeks of his brilliance and he gets
strong support from Field and John Goodman as Field's husband. If you
somehow missed this early sleeper in Hanks' career, check it out..
definitely worth renting and repeated viewings.
<|_=00=_|>
So much for my family, my kids, my sanity, and my discretionary money,
what little of it I have...I want to tell jokes!!!...This bittersweet
relationship between Tom Hanks and Sally Field has husband, John
Goodman, totally perplexed...The nightclubs, the fast food, the partial
housewife thing, the spending money on jokes..None of this makes any
sense for a struggling married couple..Yet somehow, Sally Field must
find herself..."Be supportive of my quirkiness!!"This was a precarious
instinct that Sally Field felt compelled to necessitate!! The film
"Punchline" spends most of the time making personality confusion the
culprit to domestic shaky grounds, but in the end, it shows how Sally
Field can be a good wife, a good mother and yet express a part of
herself for herself by being a stand-up comic...The challenge stand-up
comedy represents by being as painful as Russian roulette with five
bullets, plays itself out as a frustrating dilemma that confuses both
Tom Hanks and Sally Field!!!!...What was finally attainable in both
their lives was recognition at a humanistic level...What is seemingly
unacceptable to the run of the mill rational person, as opposed to a
stand-up comic, is that there is no comprehension of the fact that a
stand-up comic views the ability to make people laugh as one of the
most coveted qualities in the world!! To be funny is more rewarding
than wealth, power, and/or a wonderful physical appearance!!! Stand-Up
Comedy is not necessarily a lucrative talent, and you do not have to
constantly make people laugh, but when Sally Field won the contest that
night, it meant she had the ability to be a stand-up comic,,this was
important to her!!!! The desire Sally Field had to tell jokes at
various New York nightclubs, transcended selfishness, and merely
pointed out that having a family and a husband does not mean your life
stops totally!!..Bottom line, if Sally Field were on trial for
negligence and self centered preoccupation, she would have been
acquitted!! Ultimately what gave her stand-up comic hobby a sense of
gratification was the emerging approval and encouragement of her
family!! The "Singin in the Rain" scene that Tom Hanks performed was
FABULOUS!!! as this film just oozes with talent...This movie is
identical to the plot of this movie...BEING DIFFERENT IS BETTER...JUST
ASK SOMEONE WHO OWNS A ROLLS ROYCE!!!!
<|_=00=_|>


This is a wonderful movie.  Every time I see it on cable I'm reminded how
well-crafted it is.  The writing is solid, the characters are real, and
the
desperate world of the stand up comic, whose life is nothing without the
laughter, is captured very well.

Anyone who's worked professionally in comedy knows that comics are, as a
rule, not happy people.  Look at Jim Carrey or Woody Allen when they
aren't
in front of a camera and you'll see real pain in their eyes, just below
the
surface.  Tom Hanks, as Steven Gold, captures that kind of character
perfectly.

This was the performance that marked the turning point for Tom Hanks.
There
would be no oscars for him if it weren't for Punchline, because this was
the
movie that proved he could flip between comedy and heartfelt drama on a
dime.

Sally Field does very well, and John Goodman gives one of his best
performances ever.  
<|_=00=_|>

Tom Hanks is absolutely brilliant as a former medical student who rebels
and
becomes a stand-up comedian.  Hanks grants this movie with a heart and
soul.
His stage delivery is good but unfortunately hampered by really weak,
unfunny material.  In his acting, the sincerity, drive and passion for the
job are strongly conveyed, as well as a fairly believable nature to his
eventual love for Field's character.  This performance, in my opinion,
outshines much of his later work, including all of his Academy
Award-labeled
stuff.

Sally Field is miscast as a housewife who coincidentally decides to do
stand-up.  She is the weakest character of which I do not care about, nor
will I ever care about. Her plight is totally meaningless compared to
Hanks'.  Her stand-up delivery is forced, and seemed too much like
*acting*.
Yet she got slightly stronger material, and it confuses me
so.

The pro comedians in this film are blindsided by crappy material.  A few
use
their own stuff, but are still hurt by poor camera-work and bad editing.
All of the acts should have been shot like a Richard Pryor concert movie.
Incidentally, when not performing, all of the comedians are terrific
actors.
John Goodman is also superb as the supportive husband to Field.  He
brings
a heart, charm and sensitivity to a thankless role, and makes it easier to
view the moments when she's on screen.

Pre-dating Seinfeld's "Comedian", "Punchline" is actually a good look at
the
lives of a stand-up.   However, when it should have been the funniest
ever,
in well-known fact, it is not.  Everyone in the audiences was laughing far
too much and way too loud.  They may has well have been at the Apollo.  It
could have been comedy gold, but instead we got silt.
<|_=00=_|>
Memorable.....but bad memories outweigh good, at least for me, with
this movie. 

That's my recollection of this film which, frankly, I haven't seen in
over a decade. However, this movie left some indelible impressions in
my sensitive memory, and perhaps I'll re-visit it again one day.

Tom Hanks was mesmerizing as the haunted comedian, a man with a lot of
talent to make people laugh but a guy tormented by the lack of support
from his father. There is a scene or two in here with this dad that is
so uncomfortable to watch that it has prevented me from seeing this
another time.

Too bad, because I do remember some wonderful, funny scenes such as
Hanks in the hospital entertaining the patients. Sally Field also gives
a touching performance as a housewife trying to break into the
business, and John Goodman is likable as her husband.

An interesting film with very emotional scenes you won't forget. It's
almost too much for me, for some reason.
<|_=00=_|>
For a film about getting laughs, this Sally Field, Tom Hanks vehicle
gets too few. The film is essentially a drama about stand up comedy, it
must be said. Family drama, social drama and relationship drama are all
covered, yet in its attempt to roll you in the aisles, "Punchline"
lacks exactly that.the killer instinct.

With its failure to focus on a single issue, "Punchline" loses power.
Coupled with Tom Hanks terribly unfunny routines, and you have a
floundering feature. The two actors do reasonably well I must admit,
putting two solid performances together. Sally Field's housewife come
comedienne even manages to grab a laugh. None of these positives can
manage to rescue "Punchline" from the mediocre though.

John Goodman is most enjoyable in his support role.

Sunday, November 15, 1998 - Video
<|_=00=_|>

Tom Hanks performs the "Singing in the Rain" umbrella/street dance number
like you'd never imagine it could be.  I loved him in this movie.  Probably
more than the vast majority of his others.  His portrayal of an emotionally
tormented and lost young man blessed with a tremendous and natural talent
for comedy - dark as it may be - broke my heart.  I wasn't crazy about Sally
Fields as his leading lady - the match up just didn't work for me. But as
individuals they were both excellent.

I would recommend it highly.  It's not really a comedy as the title might
suggest.  It is, as I said dark, but with some very warm feelings about
giving.  I gave it an 8

<|_=00=_|>

I cannot say enough good things about this movie. It's one of the most
original movies I've seen in a long time. 

How often is it that we have this movie plot: boy meets involved girl, girl
realizes boy is her true love, girl dumps her lover to marry boy, boy and
girl live happily ever after? To say that this is not the case in this movie
is a gross understatement.

The stand-up acts are not amazing, but that's not really what the movie's
about. It's better if you look at it as a drama. I love how everyone thinks
Tom Hanks, a very funny guy in this movie, is a one-dimensional person who
is ALL about humor. That's the real point of the movie - he's not. I
especially love the line (and I know I'll screw this up
somehow):

Field: You're so funny because everything is a joke to
you.
Hanks: I'm so funny because nothing is a joke to me.

I've seen my share of comedy-dramas, but most I only liked for the comedy
aspect. In this one I could just ignore all the stand-up and I'd still love
this movie (although the opening scene is very well-done and
funny).

I would highly recommend it, it comes on the cable movie channels a
lot.
<|_=00=_|>
55/100. David Seltzer's direction doesn't guide the film along as it
should, he doesn't seem to know what direction to go in. . It jumps
from comedy, to satire, heavy drama, romance and back again. Sally
Fields and Tom Hanks try, but the material they are working with just
doesn't know what it wants to be. The romantic angle is completely out
of place, and overall the bitterness of the film is a turn off. Even
the stand up comedy scenes shown in the film that are supposed to be
good, simply aren't. The ending is not satisfying at all. It is a shame
the stars didn't get better material, it could have worked so well in
different hands.
