

This movie was panned when it came out but I think it got a bum rap. Joe
Piscopo has a tough role playing an idiot (not as easy as you would think
it
would be) and  Danny DeVito's energy helps carry the film along. Great to
see Harvey Keitel in a role that doesn't involve blowing someone's brains
out.  This is a great flick to catch on cable on a rainy afternoon.
Silly
but fun. 
<|_=00=_|>

I don't know why this film was so horribly panned when it was first
released, its just a harmless and lightweight gangster comedy.  I will admit
that director Brian DePalma who has directed such classics as Scarface and
The Untouchables was taking a huge risk by agreeing to take on this
lightweight comedy, but I think it ended up turning out just fine.  DeVito
and Piscopo have surprisingly good on-screen chemistry and DePalma's
directing style shows through and works well in this film.  This was
certainly one of Danny DeVito's better comedies in the 1980's.  I was also
glad to see that Roger Ebert actually gave this fun comedy a good review. 
***/****.  Great fun.
<|_=00=_|>
I like Danny devito. His sense of comedy and timing are really what
make the movies he makes fun to watch. He is perfectly casted in "Wise
guys" which is Brian De Palmas attempt at a comedy. The movie is pretty
much a parody of the gangster genre which was popular in the 70's. The
movie also stars Joe Piscapo as his bumbling Jewish friend Moe. The
story is of these two men and their jobs in an organized crime
syndicate were they are treated with low regards, even from their boss.
harry (De vito) and Moe don't really have it easy in the mob. After
screwing up on a simple job the main boss decides to have them both be
given a contract to kill each other without either of them knowing. The
comedy is good and fresh. particularly the scene at the church which
still makes me crack up. Captain Lou albino is great as Frankie the
fixer. The chemistry between Harry and Moe is well deserved in this
buddy comedy. I think it was overlooked because they expected De Palma
to make more serious oriented films that critics were used to like
"Scarface", "The Untouchables" and "Carrie". Its disappointing that
they passed on this film cuz:

1. I thought it was really good. 2. Each character got some good screen
time 3. Its a great parody that even Scorsese would appreciate 4. De
vito is just funny and thats always a plus.

If you like gangster films but prefer to see the genre itself be given
fresh material, please look at this film, Its worth a rental.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is silly but never stupid, so you can just enjoy it for what it
is...a Jersey mob comedy.  Principals DeVito and Piscopo are life-long
friends who live next door to each other in Newark, and their source of
income comes from the mob figure (Dan Hedaya) who allows them to pick up his
dry cleaning and start his car (this was a funny scene..DeVito starting a
car that might explode..the entire neighborhood clears out in 20 seconds!
Plus the other mobsters bet on the outcome!) and go to the track for him.
They are sometimes joined by Captain Lou Albano, who is out of his mind but
at least did not attach those rubber bands to his face like he did when he
was WWF-connected, and he has little patience for either of these
flunkies.

Don't want to give anything else away, but the friends are put in
the
position of having to test their friendship and on the whole, this is a very
satisfying comedy with a two leads in good form, great character actors like
Julie Bovasso, Antonia Rey, Patti Lupone,  Ray Sharkey, and an appearance by
Harvey Keitel, too!   Plus authentic Jersey locations, including a trip to
Atlantic City..

Brian DePalma directed, and he is not renowned for his comedies but maybe he
should be.

<|_=00=_|>

Mildly enjoyable diversion seems grossly out of place it De Palma's
canon.
The premise is interesting - two loser hoodlums (Danny DeVito and Joe
Piscapo) try to screw over a mob boss and end up getting hunted down.
However, it is never particularly funny and the story isn't really that
interesting.  De Palma's directorial mastery is nowhere to be seen here -
the direction is competent but the script never really gives him a chance
to
demonstrate his skills.  Not as bad as some make it out to be, but
certainly
a failure, especially considering that it came between Body Double and
Casualties of War, two of De Palma's best films.
<|_=00=_|>
Harry Valentini (Danny DeVito) and Moe Dickstein (Joe Piscopo) are both
errand boys for the Mob. When they lose $250,000, they are set up to
kill each other. But they run off to Atlantic City and comedy follows.

This film is a bit of an enigma in Brian De Palma's career, not fitting
in with the themes or style he is known for. In fact, I would have
expected something like this to come from Billy Wilder before De Palma,
but yet it exists.

I do have to say I loved the roles filled by Lou Albano and Harvey
Keitel. I mean, wow, despite a relatively weak film, Keitel still
brings his A game.

Roger Ebert wrote, "Wise Guys is an abundant movie, filled with ideas
and gags and great characters. It never runs dry." Apparently this
enthusiasm has "run dry" since its release, as now the film is largely
forgotten and Rotten Tomatoes gives it a poor 33%. Personally, I
thought it was just average.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a great gangster spoof movie.  It is probably one of the
funniest
gangster movies ever.  Devito and Piscopo are great together, however,
Lou
Albino, as Frank the fixer, steals the show.  He stole every minute of the
film that he was in.  It was almost like watching an old marx brothers
film,
where you only keep your eyes on groucho, in the scenes that he is in.  In
this one, you keep your eyes on Frank the Fixer.  The acting is funny and
the script is also very clever.  I would put it as one of the funniest
movies of the 80's
<|_=00=_|>
Let's just say it up front: Brian De Palma doesn't direct comedies, at
least not as a major part of his career. When he's done so it's usually
in the realm of black comedies or satires, like his early films
(Greetings/Hi Mom) or the rightfully maligned Bonfire of the Vanities.
His sense of comedy is BIG (note the caps) and broad, but his farce is
nowhere near the kind of genius of Mel Brooks. His slapstick is so
large and spread out in scenes that it makes Looney Tunes look subtle
(having Captain Lou Albino as one of the main bad-guys, the "Fixer" as
he's called, is part of it). And the story is fairly idiotic too.

Yet I found myself enjoying Wise Guys, but for the little it aimed for.
This isn't a grand vision like De Palma would immediately after go for
in The Untouchables and Casualties of War. It was a trifle, a way to
test himself in a low budget with actors he hadn't worked with before-
chiefly stars Danny De Vito and (yes, star) Joe Piscapo. They play
grunts whose job is to serve at the behest of mob boss Castelo (Dan
Hedaya, hamming it up like it's nobody's business). When the two dopes
lay a bet on a horse that isn't the one Castelo bet on and loses,
they're each given a charge: each must kill the other to prove loyalty.

This, of course, is another set-up for a series of missteps in the two
knuckleheads running away from the Castelo bosses, all the way down in
Atlantic City as Harry tries to find his Uncle Mike, very much dead.
The subtitle for the film could be called 'Wackiness Ensues', and De
Palma doesn't let anything go past as being unnoticeable. Particularly
is one scene, perhaps De Palma's most daring (or just recognizably 'De
Palma) cinematographic-ally when Harry has to go turn on 'the car' that
might explode any moment (the shot speeds up and does a 360 as everyone
runs away from the scene, a hoot-take on his usual style). And in the
script, some lines of dialog and set-ups are so blunt you can feel the
force at the back of your head.

But somehow, against all of the odds of the 'ho-hum' quality of the
set-up, it's fun because of the acting. Joe Piscapo is mentioned today,
just his name, as a punch-line, but there was a time when he was at
least halfway amusing (mostly in skits with Eddie Murphy on SNL), and
here he's let loose with the a character like Moe who, I guess compared
to Harry, is the straight guy depending on the scene. Harry, meanwhile,
gives Danny De Vito a real chance to chomp at the bit: he's so over the
top, but he's also a believable luck-believer (he goes for it the way
Bible-thumpers go for God), and in those moments when Piscapo falls
totally flat, somehow De Vito comes back in to make things fun in the
delirious way. Others like Lou Albino and, on a more subtle-menacing
scale, Harvey Keitel, do a competent job in their roles.

So, going in and expecting a really great comedy or just an interesting
piece of art will mean some disappointment. As a juicy diversion that
ask for nothing except a few chuckles by way of the New Jersey
Turnpike, it does its job reasonably well; De Palma fans who find
themselves going through his thrillers and blockbusters first will come
across this, possibly, last in his catalog. But it's far from his
worst.
<|_=00=_|>
I've just caught it on TCM and can't wait the 5 weeks till it comes out
on DVD. This is a gangster spoof at its best, full of lovable
characters well played by top actors of the mob genre. Danny DeVito and
Joe Piscopo make a great loser couple, Dan Hedaya stars as the dreary
mob boss, whose henchmen include Frank Vincent and hilarious Lou Albano
that steals every scene he's in. We even get to see Harvey Keitel in a
classy supporting role! The plot is simple and has been done before and
after, but rarely with such charm and lightness. With a current rating
of 5.2, it's a severely underrated gangster comedy able to deliver
entertaining evening for every fan of the genre.
<|_=00=_|>
"Scarface" director Brian de Palma's "Wise Guys" should have been
called "Stupid Fellas." This uninspired Danny DeVito & Joe Piscopo
Mafia comedy doesn't contain shred of humor. Suffice to say, DeVito and
Piscopo are no Laurel and Hardy and de Palma doesn't have a funny bone
in his body. Scenarist George Gallo wrote this turkey before he penned
the classic "Midnight Run" and he concocted this crap with "Johnny
Dangerous" scribe Norman Steinberg. "Wise Guys" qualifies as one of the
worst mob comedies. Heavy handed with idiotic "Three Stooges" heroes
who elicit no sympathy, this crime comedy is a flat line disaster from
fade-in to fade-out. The Gallo & Steinberg jokes will make you cringe
instead of grin and DeVito and Piscopo have no chemistry.

Harry Valentini (Danny DeVito of "Batman Returns") and Moe Dickestein
(Joe Piscopo of "Dead Heat") serve as a couple of errand boys for
heavyweight crimeboss Anthony Castelo (Dan Hedaya of "Freeway") who has
been pick-up and deliver his laundry and groceries. When we first see
them in action, Harry has to crank up Castelo's car so that if any of
his enemies has wired dynamite to the starter or the door, Harry will
be blown to smithereens. A delayed timer saves Harry's life, but this
scene is the only one where de Palma conjures up in suspense as
everybody makes bets that Harry will never survive. Castelo surrounds
himself with equally heavyweight thugs and they are literally a who's
who of Mafia crime movies. The only one who amounts to a character is
Frank the Fixer (Lou Albano of "Stay Tuned") whose enormous appetite is
exceeded only for his hate for Harry and Moe. He shows nonstop contempt
for Moe and calls him 'dickmeat.' He takes our disastrous duo out to
the race track to place a bet for Mr. Castelo on a horse. Since Moe
always loses Castelo's money, Harry comes up with a surefire scheme to
make them heroes in Castelo's universe. Instead, Harry and Moe don't
bet on the right horse and lose. Now, they owe Castelo a whopping
quarter of a million dollars.

Castelo has his henchmen separate and question Harry and Moe under the
worse circumstances and neither of our protagonists sells each other
out. Castelo cannot believe their loyalty to each other and decides to
test it by letting them live if they will kill each other. Of course,
our heroes have no idea that they are gong to shoot each other.
Castelo's bartender Marco (Ray Sharkey) dons a disguise and tries to
warn them. They plunge into a church where Marco tries to tell them
that they have been assigned to kill each other, but the Fixer shoots
him. Here's an example of the lame-brained comedy in "Wise Guys." To
make themselves appear inconspicuous to everybody else in the church,
Marco demands that they behave exactly like him, so when he takes a
bullet in the back, they imitate his dying actions. Hah! Hah! Hah!
Eventually, Harry spots the Fixer with a smoking revolver in his fist
and they flee, stealing Fixer's Cadillac.

First, Harry and Moe phone up their relatives and warn them about the
impending trouble so that they can get out of town alive. Second, Harry
fakes a phone call to his Uncle Mike in Atlantic City because he
believes that Uncle Mike—a connected mobster—can bail them out of their
predicament. They repaint Fixer's caddy pink and wreck it considerably
on the way to a luxurious motel in Atlantic City where they settle into
the most expensive suite using Fixer's credit card and proceed to wine
and dine themselves in preparation for visiting Uncle Mike. They run
into an old friend, Bobby DiLea (Harvey Keitel of "Reservoir Dogs") who
owns the motel and Harry promises to tell him everything. DiLea already
has a glimmer of an idea because he has learned that they are charging
everything on Fixer's credit card. Later, the scene shifts back to
Newark in a restaurant when Fixer watches in rage as the waiter cuts up
his credit card because his credit has been overextended. Not long
afterward, Castelo calls in his henchmen and dispatches them to
Atlantic City to complete the job that they previously bungled.
Predictably, Mike is no longer alive and our heroes find themselves
deeper in doo-doo. Moe leaves Harry, but Harry's grandmother gives him
the quarter million that they need to pay off Castelo.

Brian de Palma shoots "Wise Guys" without any of his swirling
characteristic camera work. He sticks with straight cuts and plain-Jane
camera work. The humor is labored and the wrap-all-the-ends-up
conclusion is the best thing about his movie. The only surprise is the
one that DiLea pulls on Castelo's men as well as us because we think
that he is a rat, too. Only die-hard de Palma fans will like this if
they can handle the half-witted humor.
