
Going in a different direction from the previous two movies in the
series, this one took a few chances. The high-rise, mirrors, a new
Kane(sad what happened to Julian Beck), etc. I loved this movie for
those reasons. Not saying I didn't enjoy the other two because those
were excellent, but it seemed like there wasn't anything in there to
make them considered a horror movie except for the presence of ghosts
with a little bit of suspense. "Poltergeist III" contained murder,
suspense, tricky camera angles and most of all, the best acting I have
ever seen from Heather O'Rourke. She was so adorable in her red pajamas
and I truly believe she carried the movie with up to par performances
by Skeritt, Allen, Rubenstein, Fire, Flynn Boyle and Wentz. Her
presence on screen while watching this movie is so magnificent and very
believable. When I was little, she was my first crush and I loved her,
I only found out on 6-4-2005 that she passed away and it crushed me. I
say this is the best of the series and I know I am the minority, but
hey, to each his own. I realize the first movie is pretty much
legendary for her famous line "They're Here", but I feel the acting
here is better. The way they made the concept of the mirrors work is
amazing and I thought it was a great attempt a something new. I gave
this movie a 9/10 because of how much I enjoyed Heather O'Rourke's
performance. Check it out.
<|_=00=_|>
At times, watching Poltergeist 3 is like watching a bunch of different
movies at once. You have John Hughes style teen angst with Lara Flynn
Boyle, you have yuppie love problems with Tom Skerrit and Nancy Allen
and finally you have the horror film with Heather O'Rourke.

There is definitely an interesting concept hiding in this film. Carol
Anne has been sent by her parents to live with her aunt and uncle in a
Chicago high rise so she can attend a special school to deal with her
emotional problems. At school, Carol Anne has been forced to talk about
her experiences during the first two films, and this has brought back
the Reverend Kane, the ghostly villain of Poltergeist 2. In a neat
touch, Kane tries to get at Carol Anne through mirrors by taking
possession of various peoples' reflections, and draining the heat out
of the apartment building. Tangina arrives to try to intercede, but
another ghostly battle begins to get Carol Anne back.

It is clear that this movie was lower budget than the first two, and as
such, the effects, while very creative, are not as good. The script
also suffers, dragging for a good portion of the movie, and not really
developing the characters. Also, the words "Carol Anne" are said ad
nauseum to the point where you almost wish the ghosts would just take
Carol Anne and go.

This is the weakest of the three Poltergeist movies. The movie isn't
terrible, but it certainly is not good either.
<|_=00=_|>

What made the first Poltergeist so appealing was how likeable the
characters
were. For the 3rd installment in the Poltergeist series only Heather
O'rourke (Carol Anne) and Zelda Rubinstein (Tangina) are hold overs from
the
original cast. If O'rourke and Rubinstein were smart they would have
skipped
particiapating in this bomb of a movie also.

Though the special effects were somewhat interesting this movie suffers
from
a bad script and bad acting highlighted by the actor who plays Dr. Seaton,
who may have given the worst acting performance ever. There are far too
many
characters in this movie who are uninteresting and that you have a hard
time
caring about.

There is a certain sadness in watching this film knowing that Heather
O'rourke died a few months before it's release. A double for Heather  is
used to shoot the final scenes of the movie which creates an odd and
choppy
ending.

This movie is a sad final chapter in the Potergeist series. The people
behind the 2nd and 3rd installments were never able to recapture the magic
from the original Poltergeist. It's even sadder that the cute and innocent
little girl passed away at such a young age.

<|_=00=_|>
I have seen any number of successful movies turned into shameful
franchises, but the 'Poltergeist' trilogy really takes the cake. While
I would never suggest the first was a fine film to any degree, it has
its share of good scares and (more importantly) iconic scenes and
images that stay with the viewer. I can only hope nothing stays with me
from THIS abysmal chapter in the series. Not to speak ill of the dead,
but Heather O'Rourke truly showed her (lack of) acting chops here.
Granted, this is the first time in the series she's been expected to
really perform (beyond 'They're here' and 'They're back'...oh, and a
LOT of shrieking), and she was only 12 at the time, but who would build
their movie around a performance that would embarrass a porn star?
Especially when you have comparative heavy-hitters (at least for the
time) like Tom Skerritt, Nancy Allen and Lara Flynn Boyle in your cast?
Who would do this? Apparently a producer/writer/director/visual effects
coordinator like Gary Sherman. Less than halfway through this quagmire,
I realised there was something horribly wrong with the direction:
nearly every one of the actors delivered their lines as though they'd
first seen them that morning; the action relied too often on (not
particularly spectacular) special effects; and the story offered little
sense and less sympathy for any character. I set these problems
squarely at the feet of director-co-writer Gary Sherman. I hope he's
proud of himself. And whatever happened to Scott, the doofy
pseudo-romantic interest for Lara Flynn Boyle? Not that I care, but
when you're tying up your loose ends, wouldn't you care to at least
account for all your 'major' characters and their whereabouts? I guess
that's just me... Any reviewer here who would suggest 'Poltergeist III'
is in ANY way good needs to see more movies. Perhaps they are suffering
under some mass-hypnotic suggestion projected by the imagination of a
manipulative 12-year-old girl they've never met. Within the last month,
my wife and I have viewed all three 'Poltergeist' films. Do yourself a
favour, and just watch the first.
<|_=00=_|>
Although "Poltergeist II" wasn't a box office smash, MGM still decided
to make another entry - possibly because then MGM was considered the
last stop in Hollywood by producers wanting to make feature films (and
still is to a degree), and MGM then *really* needed the money (and
still does to a degree). The end results really look like a token
effort made to make a quick buck. Despite the luxury high-rise setting,
much of the movie looks somewhat impoverished. There are a few good
special effects (I saw a TV program that revealed that many of them
were actually all done on set, instead of being added to the movie
after principle shooting), but there are some shabby effects as well
(specifically the "ice" effects seen several times in the movie.) The
script contains a number of unanswered questions, more if you haven't
seen any of the previous movies. The cast (especially the male actors)
all seem to be phoning it in, showing their feeling to the entire
enterprise. MGM put this out on DVD with part II, probably because they
thought (correctly) that no one would buy part III on its own.
<|_=00=_|>

The first POLTERGEIST is still the best haunted house film in history(In
my
opinion.), but this 2nd and final(?)sequel comes in at a close 2nd. Carol
Anne stays with some relatives(Tom Skeritt, Nancy Allen, and Lara Flynn
Boyle.)in a Chicago highrise to go to a special school for gifted
children.
Suddenly the evil Reverend Kane and his army of ghosts from the first two
films show up to make life Hell for the residents of the highrise.
Exciting,
suspenseful, great story, acting, and music score. ***** out of *****.
R.I.P. Heather O'rourke.
<|_=00=_|>
Heather O'Rourke is one of the only original cast members who returns
for this "Final Chapter" in the "Poltergeist" series.

Director Gary Sherman, a special effects wiz, presents us with some
impressive visual trickery (all apparently produced on the set), but
offers nothing else in the way of entertainment. His film is very
rarely scary, rather mostly just plain silly, as Carol-Anne once again
faces the evil preacher Cain (an unimpressive Nathan Davis) who this
time has taken over an entire sky-scraper.

The cast do nothing for proceedings, and even Zelda Rubinstein (who
also returns as Tangina) looks as though she wished she wasn't there.
Jerry Goldsmith's music is also missing, but perhaps that too would
have made little difference to the final outcome. Not much of a finale
to this frightening, spooky story.

NB Heather O'Rourke sadly passed away after production was completed,
at the premature age of 12. A dedication can be found in the closing
credits.

Saturday, January 1, 1994 - Video
<|_=00=_|>
Strange little sequel filled with annoying characters and some horrible
dialog. Poltergeist 3 is not really all that bad, it just suffers
greatly from those two flaws. Story does wisely by switching the
setting from the suburbs to the big city. The character Carol Anne now
resides with her aunt and uncle and snobby cousin in Chicago, where
they live in a high rise. Soon, ghosts start popping up again. This
movie has some of the stupidest lines in it, it's often hard not to
grin. O'Rourke did a good acting job in the first two films. Here, not
so good. I think that may be the fault of whoever wrote the go-nowhere
script. A lot of the characters lines in this seem forced or overacted.
Especially the character of Dr. Seaton. The special effects are
impressive though. The makers used a lot of mirror tricks that really
pull the movie through it's stupider moments. However, the chopped off
head of Kane scene was atrocious. I guess this movie suffered because
of severe budget cuts.A lot of scenes in this movie feel a bit lame(the
kid who busts up through the ice and runs into the window, the "break
the mirror" scene,the kid who flips off the security camera, etc.,
etc.). Nancy Allen, who plays the aunt, does not look happy to be
involved in this. Weaker entry in the series, but it is watchable.
Seems a bit rushed. Features annoying teenagers you would find in a
Friday The 13th movie. A guy rips off Lara Flynn Boyle's cheek. And
whats with that growling window pane in the end? Ya gotta see it if you
saw the first two. Two stars.
<|_=00=_|>
I was shocked when I came to this site to see how low the rating is for
this movie. I loved horror movies as a kid and still do, but of
everything I remember watching when I was younger, Poltergeist III
scared me the most. I would go literally weeks before I could look at
myself in the mirror again... I'd always have to run by them. I used to
watch this movie with my friends and it made them equally afraid of
mirrors. I'm not going all out to say that the acting was high quality
or that it goes down in my books as a classic horror movie but I think
it's highly underrated. It's an incredibly dark, terrifying movie in my
opinion. I think it's by far the scariest of the three Poltergeist
movies, although the original Poltergeist is my favorite.
<|_=00=_|>
Carol Anne has been sent to live with her Aunt Patricia Wilson-Gardner
(Nancy Allen), her husband Bruce Gardner (Tom Skerritt), and
stepdaughter Donna Gardner (Lara Flynn Boyle) in the Chicago highrise
which Bruce manages. Her relatives don't know the story of her ghostly
encounters. Carol Anne is in group treatment under the care of
disbelieving Dr. Seaton when Rev. Henry Kane reappears. Tangina Barrons
is alerted to his presence.

First, it's her older sister. Now, it's her parents. They may as well
make Carol Anne an orphan in the movie. It would make more sense. The
whole movie is flat. It is not scary and none of it is interesting. I
certainly don't want to make fun of "Carol Anne" out of respect for
Heather O'Rourke. She remains a positive for the franchise till the
bitter end.
