

In this sequel to 'The Return of the Living Dead', three neighborhood kids
stumble upon one of those army drums and accidently release the gas that
revives the dead. What follows is basically the same horror mayhem as its
predecessor.  Zombies rise from the graveyard and remarkably manage to eat
the brains of everyone except for the few people within which the movie
revolves around. The two movies are pretty much similar in terms of content,
but what is lacking this time around is freshness.

The first movie took a satirical approach to George Romero's 'Night of the
Living Dead', and it worked in terms of humor and creepy fun. In this film,
which is basically a carbon copy of the first, it is not quite as much fun.
Rather, it seems to be more silly than funny.  The script strains for humor
throughout the movie, particularly in a scene in which the movie mocks
Michael Jackson's 'Thriller' video. But its flaws don't really matter
because this is not the kind of movie to be taken seriously.  I guess that
it can be a decent movie to watch on a Halloween night.

Rating: (5/10)
<|_=00=_|>
...I hate to say it, but this movie is nothing compared to the original,
seriously. Thom Mathews and James Karen are back, playing different roles of
course, as grave robbers, and there are also a bunch of young middle school
kids, a teenage girl and another guy fleeing in terror from more
brain-munching zombies, resurrected from their peaceful slumber yet again by
the weird chemical from the original. This is missing the great
punk/rock/metal soundtrack, humor, punk rock characters, and gore from the
original, so basically it falls flat and never goes anywhere. I was getting
really bored. If you want a rehash, this is your dish I guess, but otherwise
this movie flat out blows. Watch the first one again. 
<|_=00=_|>
I still remember how I got into this movie. The VHS cover was very
cheesy but at the same time it was intriguing. I remember avoiding this
one until it was the last VHS on my local video store Horror shelf.
When I rented it in the early 90's, I wasn't a bit disappointed but I
forgot about it pretty soon.

Years after, I watched it on DVD and the memories are still fresh! This
movie isn't better than the original but still has it's own good
moments. Thom Matthews reprises his lead role and delivers a great
performance. The direction is pretty good for the movie's standards and
I must admit that this is a visually stunning low budgeter.

The ending is among the best of any zombie flicks for it's unique
cheesiness and non-stop action.

Watch this sequel only for fun purposes, do not watch it as a straight
Horror movie because it might disappoint you.
<|_=00=_|>

This was an ok sequel to the original.  Though I liked the first one much
better.  This time around one of those drums from the first one falls off a
truck and these kids open it, once again awakening the living dead.  This
time around though, it is definitely more of a comedy than a horror.  The
first one had quite a bit of comedy in it, but in the end I would say it was
more horror...this one has very little horror in it.  A kid, his sister, and
I think a TV or cable repairman must try to escape the living dead.  There
is also an old guy who was a doctor.  There are also two grave robbers who
are the exact two guys who released the chemicals in the first one and a
girlfriend of the younger guy.  Once again the zombies are seemingly
indestructible, but this time a weakness is found in the form of
electricity.  So the conclusion to this one occurs at an electrical plant. 
The kid must face down the bully who released the chemical too.  Would have
been a better movie if it was more horror oriented, but it is still worth a
look.  The slimey zombie from the first one also makes a brief
appearance.
<|_=00=_|>
What was the point of the movie titled return of the living dead part
2? It doesn't really make sense that there would still be any barrels
of that toxic stuff after the huge bomb in the first movie wiped
everything out. Why did the people even bother trying to live when they
realize that the ghoulish things don't even respond to anything but
aerobic videos and 80s music. It was really embarrassing to see the
thriller Michael Jackson semi-cameo thing at the end. Who's lame idea
was it to have electricity stop the wandering wormbags, wow, what a
terribly finish to a ,well, awful try at impressing the kids. Six year
old's can't get into R-rated movies. Please don't rent this and ruin
your night.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is Awesome!!! the zombies are creepy, and the film maintains that
"night of the living dead" feel to it....not too campy, just right....and
the electrocuted zombies is a classic scene!!!

I Really enjoy this film, this gorefest seems to hold its own with horror
fans, and although it has a (part 2) attached,...it isnt really a sequel
per
se, its more of another telling of zombies attacking people!

this film is horror at its best! its campy, its fun, its Zombie
time!
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this on the Sci-Fi Channel yesterday, and I was meaning to rent it for
a while, so I was glad I'd get a chance to see it. And despite how amazingly
mindless this was, it was so entertaining, and kept my interest the whole
duration of the film.

Young Jesse is going to be initiated into some club, led by bully and
tough-guy Billy. They find a drum of toxic gas at the graveyard, and open it
up, only for Billy to be covered in the stuff, and Jesse locked in the
mortuary. Meanwhile, teenaged Johnny is leaving his ditzy girlfriend Brenda
for a night to help out Ed, who needs to get the heads of some buried bodies
for some museum or science lab, I don't remember. They find Jesse, who then
escapes home, where his older teenage sister Lucy berates him for being out,
and locks him in the room when the cable guy, teenaged Tom, shows up. This
is all just the setup of characters when the gas from the drum escapes out
into the graveyard, and even comes in contact with Ed and Johnny. Soon,
zombies are rising up for fresh brains, and after the town is evacuated
(except for the select few, who don't get away) and sealed off by the army,
all hell breaks loose. With the help of Doc, next door to Jesse and Lucy,
the handful of likable characters fights to escape and survive, all up to
the surprisingly suspenseful climax.

This is by far one of the most brainless horror movies, seeing as that it
has more comedy than horror, but my God, I could not get over how
entertaining this really was. I mean, from start to finish, my interest was
held. I liked all the characters, I laughed a few times, I was scared a few
times, and really liked this. I recommend this, without a doubt, for anyone
looking to just watch something fun and exciting, and not think, for about
ninety minutes. Definitely rent, buy, or look out for this on TV. It's a
great movie! 


<|_=00=_|>
While transporting drums of the dangerous Trioxin gas, one of them
falls from the army truck into a river. In the morning, the boy Jesse
Wilson (Michael Kenworthy) is bullied by the older Billy (Thor Van
Lingen) and Johnny (Jason Hogan) and he hides himself under a bridge
nearby the cemetery. The two bullies find Jesse and they see the
barrel. Then the bullies lock Jesse in a mausoleum and they decide to
open the barrel, releasing the Trioxin and breathing the toxic gas.
Meanwhile the grave robber Ed (James Karen) hires Joey (Thom Mathews)
to help him to pillage the graves and they go to the cemetery in a van
with Joey's girlfriend Brenda (Suzanne Snyder). Ed and Joey go to the
mausoleum and Jesse is released and runs home. His sister Lucy Wilson
(Marsha Dietlein) tells him to do the homework. Then the cable guy Tom
Essex (Dana Ashbrook) arrives to fix the television and he recognizes
Lucy from the high- school. Soon the Trioxin awakes the dead in the
cemetery and the town is crowded with hordes of zombies. Ed, Joey and
Brenda run to Jesse's house and team up with Lucy and Tom trying to
survive to the brain eaters. 

"Return of the Living Dead: Part II" is a funny zombie cult movie. This
sequel is a comedy with action, with good special effects and creepy
zombies. There are the usual stupid attitudes from the characters but
it is highly entertaining. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "A Volta dos Mortos Vivos - Parte 2" ("The Return of
the Living Dead: Part II")
<|_=00=_|>

A careless Army officer whilst driving his cargo to a new location, (unknown
to him) accidentally looses one of his canisters. A few days later a few
children stumble across it. They open it unleashing a mysterious fog, which
engulfs the nearby cemetery. This action revives the dead creating Zombies.
Naturally they go for a walk searching for their favourite snack,
Brains.

A fantastic B-grade film, with all the charm and grace of a true black
Comedy. Humorous in the sickest of ways. And at least the army didn't react
in the same way as they did in the first. I love this film (though not to
the extent of Re-animator). Deserves a 8/10.

<|_=00=_|>

    Did we really need a sequel ? We have nearly the same plot, some of the
same actors, definitely some of the same lines and practically the same
actors. Yet, right when Thom Matthews was about to be type-cast in horror
movies, he said, "Sure, I'll do it." Later, you know he screaming, " They
drove up to my house and dumped a truck load of money on my front
porch......"   I mean, what are the odds that two idiots who look exactly
alike will befall the same fate ? Admittedly, Thom and James Karen could
make a very funny comedy team, but not in the same roles saying the same
things like some asinine Martin and Lewis series. That said, this movie is a
lot funnier than the first. Phillip Bruns replaces Don Calfa and has some
very funny lines. A sub-plot involves juvenile delinquency and acceptance as
the zombies horse around, steal the scenes and get in the way. One in
particular in a dark suit and a few others just keep returning in other
scenes as if that wasn't really obvious. I guess there was a shortage in
extras. Mitch Pileggi of the X-Files has a very obvious role and I'm sure I
recognized the zombie on the hospital phone as from an old episode of the
original Twilight Zone. If I had written the script, I would have tossed in
a vampire to spar with the zombies because he sure would have been immune to
that bite of their's.
