
Prospective Monster Squad viewers may recognize the name Fred Dekkar,
the director of another 80s cult classic, a zombie horror called Night
of the Creeps. Monster Squad follows in that tradition as the
horror-comedy about a gang of young kids who save their town from
Dracula and his goons. In my opinion, Monster Squad is a much more
enjoyable movie than Night of the Creeps. 

The Monster Squad refers to a tree house club of five kids who are
self-proclaimed horror fanatics. Little did they know that their
enthusiasm in the genre would suddenly come in handy as their town in
suddenly invaded by Dracula and a few other memorable horror villains
in their classic form. Drac is terrorizing the town, trying to locate a
powerful amulet which has the potential for serious disaster. When no
one else believes the kids, or when no one else is powerful enough to
stop them using traditional crime fighting methods (arresting the
Wolfman didn't seem to work out), the Monster Squad (with the help of
Scary German Guy and Frankenstein) takes things upon themselves to save
the day. 

This movie was great because, although the monsters may appear somewhat
corny (not forgetting that it is technically a family horror film), it
still has a heap of great qualities. The kids are actually all pretty
cool (especially Rudy, even though his wears his pants so tight, you
can see what side he tucks on). Great music, great cast (Andre Gower,
Robby Kiger, Ryan Lambert, Stephen Macht, and Jon Gries), and great
fun!

Fans of obscure 80s movies are sure to add to the cult following. You
won't be disappointed. It is loads of fun. Bona Fortuna!
<|_=00=_|>

What's not to love about this great flick?! It's got humor and great
moments
with the classic monsters, rendered in styles much more in keeping with
the
Universal tradition than the slick "Van Helsing" (which I do like).

The kids are great, the monsters look good, and the jokes are actually
funny. WHEN will this film be released on DVD?! It deserves the special
edition treatment.

I've seen this film so many times, first as a youth when it was released,
and it never gets boring.

It's campy without being stupid, and tongue-in-cheek antics abound. Anyone
notice the odd way that this film and "Evil Dead 2" seem to have shared
similar endings? It's kind of strange, really.

ANYWAY, would love to see this released as a nice DVD.

<|_=00=_|>

The Monster Squad is a terrific re-telling of the House of Frankenstein, set
in the late 80s.  A group of young boys unearth an evil secret within the
diary of vampire hunter, Dr. Abraham Van Helsing (Dutch, not German, but
forgivable).  Dracula has returned, and has re-animated Frankenstein's
monster, and brought along a innocent, but tortured werewolf, the
frightening, Creature of the Black Lagoon-esque Gill-Man, and a 2000-year
old Mummy.

The SFX are spectacular, and the make-up and costuming are very well-made.
This movie closely follows the the myths and folklore of popular monsters
(only wooden stakes and garlic are effective on vampires; even dynamite
cannot stop the silver-prone werewolf; etc.)

The acting is somewhat lacking, but this is a kid's Saturday night drive-in
type movie.  Only Duncan Regehr (syndicated TV's Zorro) as the truly and
unrelentingly evil Dracula is worth mentioning.  However, Tom Noonan as the
kindly and gentle Frankenstein's monster is a great departure from the
malevolence of his counterparts.

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

Great movie. This is the #1 all time best family/horror flick you can see.
When I was in preschool I use to watch this movie
all the time. Over, and Over. And I blame this one single movie for my great
taste in cheesy, violant, Slasher/or not, horror movies. I'm now starting to
wach more and more horror B- movies
(anything by Troma team video I highly recommend). 
        But back to the monster squad its all about these kids who are
really into the whole idea of monsters and stuff. So, they start this
Monster club(Hence the name "monster squad").
But the craziest thing happens, Dracula, Frankienstien, The Mummy, The
Wolfman, and a swamp creature, all come back to life. With the help of the
school tough guy, Rudy they challenge these classic monsters to the
death.

FUNNY.                   10 OUT OF 10


<|_=00=_|>

This movie brings back childhood memories of watching TV all day long during
the summer vacation.  This movie was, and still is, one of my favorite
movies of all times.  Just watching it makes me happy.  So what if the
acting is not top-caliber.  It has a great story and the characters are all
fun to watch.  It is a highly amusing film that you should watch if you've
never seen it.  
<|_=00=_|>

This is a great and imaginative kids adventure film. Well acted, well
written and the monsters look great. I'm sure that many parents would be
conserned by the cursing in this film done by 12 year olds (most likely the
reason this gem hasn't hit DVD yet) but I have never understood how some
people think that cussing will destroy your kids brain and turn him into a
drug addict. It's good wholesome fun for everyone.
<|_=00=_|>

Give this movie a chance.

Imagine "The Goonies" without the budget but with all the heart. The Monster
Squad is a pack of grade-schoolers with an ear to the rail on the evil
doings of monsters. No, they haven't seen any monsters-- but that doesn't
mean they don't exist.

You guessed right. Turns out there are monsters running around all over the
place, and they are fixing to put the mortal screws to Portland, Oregon.
Lucky for us there are a few heros, mostly fifth or sixth graders and a
beagle pup, who will act instead of sitting around worrying about their
marriages like some stupid adults we know.

The Monster Squad is one of these rare movies that treats kids, the problems
they face, and their unique solutions to the same with grace, wit -- and
solid respect. This superbly sweet and memorable movie deserves more than
the 5.5 it got here at IMDB.

Great scene: Leonardo Cimino plays the film's Boo Radley, the strange
recluse whom all the kids fear without knowing why. When Sean, the leader of
the Monster Squad, is given a book that can illuminate why the monsters are
reappearing, he has no choice but to seek the man's help. The book, it turns
out, is in German. Not only does the scary man speak the language, and
kindly help them get through the important passages in the book; it also
happens that he knows what monsters are.

You might need to explain to your kids what the numbers tattooed on the
scary mans forearm are.


<|_=00=_|>

Having grown up a child of the 80's crazes, I happen to love just about
anything 80's...even if for no other reason than to now poke fun at it. 
Monster Squad is no different.  I absolutely LOVED this movie when it came
out and watched it over and over again.  A few years back I decided to watch
it again and, well, I still loved it.  Ok, so it was a lot cheesier than I
remembered, but it's still great fun.  

Monster Squad has some great dialogue and really entertaining scenes.  Plus,
you've got all the classic monsters which truly make this film worth
watching.

I highly recommend anyone who has a love for anything 80's, or just like
fun, simple movies to check this out.  It really is worth
it!
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this film a couple of years ago and it still remains to be one of my
most favorite monster/comedy films of all time.

It has an easy to follow plot, people you can root for and some pretty
good
special effects.  If your a real monster film buff, you'll enjoy some good
trivia throughout.

A good score for all involved.

Out of 10..........9/10

<|_=00=_|>
One hundred years ago, Dracula and other monsters survive to the attack
of Dr. Van Helsing and his men to his castle with a magical amulet. In
the present days, Dracula travels to the United States and arrives in a
small town. He summons the Werewolf, the Mummy, the Swamp Thing and
Frankenstein's creature to help him to retrieve the amulet.

In the town, a man claims that he is the werewolf and goes to the
police station to ask to be locked up in a cell. Meanwhile a mummy
vanishes from the local museum and police detective Del (Stephen Macht)
is assigned to investigate the case. When his son Sean (Andre Gower),
who is a monster fan, learns the news, he joins his friends Patrick
(Robby Kiger), Horace (Brent Chalem) and Rudy (Ryan Lambert) in his
monster club to read a Van Helsing's journal that was given by his
mother. However the book is written in German and they are not able to
translate it. So they asks for help from their weird neighbor that they
call Scary German Guy (Leonardo Cimino) and they discover that they
need to recover the amulet and a virgin to get rid off Dracula and the
monsters. Meanwhile Sean's little sister Phoebe (Ashley Bank), who is
unsuccessfully trying to join the club, befriends Frankenstein's
creature. The unlike group brings Patrick's sister (Lisa Fuller), who
claims that is virgin, to read the passage that sends the monsters to
the limbo. Will they be successful in their intent?

"The Monster Squad" is a highly entertaining cult movie with a funny
story that entwines adventure, dark comedy and horror. This film is
also a tribute to the Universal Monsters. There is a touching moment
when the Scary German Guy tells to the kids that he has experience with
monsters and we see a concentration camp number on his arm. My vote is
seven.

Title (Brazil): "Deu a Louca nos Monstros" ("The Monsters Have Gone
Crazy")

Note: On 24 July 2016, I saw this film again.
