

This was the first "Ernest" film, and I've been reading a lot of people's
comments, how they're bashing this movie, and saying it wasn't good. I
disagree. "Ernest Goes To Camp" is a great "Ernest" film. The plot is very
solid, and Jim Varney's first theatrical movie as the dim witted Ernest P.
Worrell was a LAUGH RIOT!!!! Varney did a great job in this film, and this
was the movie that got me hooked into "Ernest" films in the first
place.

Jim Varney Rules (I miss you!!)!

<|_=00=_|>

While many have put down the Ernest 
series, I have always held a special 
place in my movie collection for this 
particular film. Sure, it wasn't an Oscar 
worthy film and it didn't have much of 
a script, but it quickly introduced us to 
an icon which I will consider one of my 
favorite movie characters of all time. 
Ernest P. Worrel embodied so many 
simplicities, yet he was sensible and 
likable simply because of his down-home 
nature. Also, this film embodied the old 
story line of the loser teaching the bully 
a lesson, which is a story paradigm I have 
always levitated toward. A good heart 
warming story that was cool and fun to watch.
<|_=00=_|>

Ernest (Jim Varney) gets a job as a handy man at a summer camp for
troubled
youths, but what he really wants to be is a camp counselor. A consummate
screw up, Ernest ends up causing all kinds of comical chaos. Fortunately,
he
also ends up helping many of the campers and saving the camp itself.
Ernest
Goes To Camp started the whole Ernest series of movies, even though these
were pretty stupid films Varney always made me laugh.
<|_=00=_|>

This is by far, the funniest ernest p. worrell flicks ever. What I still
like about it, its that not only is it heartwarming and rejuvenated; but
from the series itself, this is the only normal one I consider funny. I
know
its slapstick comedy when Ernest gets squash from a coke machine or when
he
is flying from the toliet; but at least he's not chasing trolls, playing
basketball, in the army, in africa, in jail, saving santa, or worse yet,
school. I can't go any farther than this, but this is the only ernest
flick
that I will only watch, and still like until the day I
die.
<|_=00=_|>

Ernest goes to camp was released in 1987 to not so good reviews. That
didn't
stop people from going to the theater. The film brought in nearly 25
million
domestically. That's pretty good considering the film cost only 3 million
to
make. This movie might not be award winning, but if truly watched, you'll
find that Ernest P. Worrell isn't as annoying after all. He can be funny
at
times. The story isn't all that bad for being written by unknowns. It
involves Ernest, a goofball counselor who must save his camp from being
destroyed by miners with the help of some juvenile kids. It's more
interesting than it sounds. Give it a try, you'll know in the first 15
minutes whether it's your kind of movie or not.

Rating: C+       
<|_=00=_|>

Jim Varney was a good man and his movies are always funny and
entertaining.
Jim knew what the people wanted and put his soul into his movies. They are
emotional, funny, and entertaining all at the same time. Jim was a movie
god
and his movies deserve nothing less than a 10 rating because they were
more
than excellent. R.I.P. Jim "Ernest" Varney
<|_=00=_|>

Wacky and undeniably funny, the Ernest movies are one of a kind. No other
movie series can capture the same level of fun slapstick hijinks and
goofiness of the Ernest series, not even the POLICE ACADEMY movies.

When I first saw this movie, I didn't think much of it. I didn't think it
was a bad movie, but I didn't think that it was a good movie either.
However, after seeing the movie a second time, I grew to appreciate the
crazy antics of Ernest and he instantly became one of my favorite movie
characters. 

 It is in ERNEST GOES TO CAMP that Ernest is at his best. The movie contains
some hilarious scenes between Ernest and the campers, which help make this
one of the best summer camp movies ever. Jim Varney, possibly the most
underrated actor of the 1990s, was able to create such a unique and
interesting character with this movie that it is really hard to dislike
Ernest. There is a little Ernest in us all. Rest in peace, Jim Varney. Your
legacy lives on!
<|_=00=_|>

Sometimes, a film made for the childish audience can transcend time and
generations and become widely accepted by all. Rocketman with Harland
Williams did, and i believe that so has Ernest Goes To Camp.  There is just
a serious enough a theme to the film of the heartless land developer trying
to drive the low earning camp off the property, but Jim Varney manages to
keep it silly enough to be entertaining.  This film has some great moments,
and it is worth the *now* retail price of like $5-8 just to see the fashions
these kids in the late 80's wore.  Also, being 17 now, i grew up at the same
time as this film.  Look out for the song i'm awfully glad it's raining sung
by Varney. It makes me teary everytime i hear it.
<|_=00=_|>

"Ernest Goes to Camp", the quintessential Ernest film, introduces the mass
population to the dim, innocuous Ernest P. Worrell (Jim Varney).  Many of
us
had seen the Ernest & Vern commercials prior to the film's release, but
the
movie gave all of us a special glimpse into the life of this simple
country
boy.

In this particular film Ernest is the lone handyman at Kamp Kikakee, a
summer camp for young boys, whose premise is based on ancient Native
American principles and traditions.  Ernest enjoys his job and simple life
very much, but he longs to be promoted to the position of camp counselor
so
he can "shape and mold young minds into a focused world view".  Ernest may
just get his chance...

The state governor has ordered the camp to take part in his Second Chance
program, which will allow a group of juvenile deliquents from the State
Institute for Boys to take part in the camp's activities, and, hopefully,
clean up their acts.

The evil, military-minded Counselor Stennis - who is almost reminiscent of
Douglas Niedermeyer from "Animal House" - takes a crack at knocking the
second-chancers into place, but strikes out when they stage a coup and
break
his ankle.  Head Counselor/Manger Tipton is in a bind.  He knows none of
his
counselors will want to take charge of the deliquent boys now, so he
enlists
naive Ernest to do the job.

Ernest takes his new duties, and the boys, very seriously, but the boys
could care less about him, until the camp nurse sets them straight (i.e.,
"Ernest is the only person in the world who even wanted to know you").
Meanwhile, a strip mining company on the upper part of the river has been
trying to talk Chief St. Cloud, owner of the campgrounds, into turning the
land over to them so they can mine the land for petrocite.  The Chief, who
speaks no english, turns the mining company down twice, through his
granddaughter (the camp nurse).  Lo and behold, Sherman Krader, the mining
company CEO, cons Ernest - the only other person at the camp who can speak
the Chief's native Indian language - into getting the Chief to sign the
release papers.

The camp is going to close.  The second-chancers will be sent back to the
state institution.  This looks like a job for ERNEST!  He and the
deliquents
devise a plan to scare away the strip mining company, which involves
blowing
up all of their equipment.  The plan doesn't really work because Sherman
Krader arrives on the scene with a fully-loaded rifle to shoot ring-leader
Ernest (and...let's face it...in the real world Ernest and the kids would
have been sued because of their thoughtless plan).  Luckily though, the
camp
nurse went behind them all and got the judge to issue a restraining order
against the mining company.  Later, Krader's attorney admits that they
bamboozled the Chief so the camp is saved, the second-chancers get to stay
at the camp year-round, and Ernest becomes a full-fledged counselor
(although he still performs his handyman duties).

A string of inferior Ernest films were released, up until Jim Varney's
death
a few years ago (he was 51).  "Ernest Goes to Camp" is the only one worth
seeing, unless you have children who might enjoy the films. I was nine
years-old when I saw this flick in the theater, and I still enjoy it!  Saw
it on DVD for the first time today!
<|_=00=_|>
Ernest's summer camp adventure is actually his second feature-length
adventure after he began life in TV commercials (not a lot of people
know he actually starred in Dr. Otto and the Riddle of the Gloom Beam
the year before), and it's fairly standard mid-80s family fare.

The clumsy handyman (played, by the late, ever appealing Jim Varney)
gets a job as a counselor for delinquent kids who are having trouble
fitting in with the more privileged lot. Through pain and pranks he
manages to build their confidence. A very tacked-on subplot about an
evil businessman wanting scam the Indian camp owner in order to mine
the area into oblivion builds to a moderately entertaining climax as
Ernest and the kids revolt.

It reminded me a lot of Meatballs and Bushwhacked (both better films)
and while it's shot for the big screen (in lovely anamorphic
Panavision) John Cherry still directs like it's for TV, and clearly
should have done more takes and rehearsals. I doubt kids will notice or
care, but it gives the film the rushed feel of a TV production.

Worth watching, if only just once.
