

It's the early 80's, what do you expect?  This is a scary scary film.  And
I
think I know why films now a days can't hold a candle to films like
Halloween and Evil Dead.  And that is because a photo copy is never as
good
as the original.  That is the bottom line.  Directors don't care about a
lot
of the material that they are filming today, especially when it comes to
horror films and that is because they don't write their own stories.  They
do someone elses work.  But not Evil Dead.  This was Raimi's baby from the
outset.  When films like the two mentioned were filmed they were filmed by
two directors that were complete unknowns.  They had no pressure to make a
great film and they did it on an incredibly low budget.  Halloween was
made
for $150,000 and Evil Dead for $50 000.  So what that meant is that the
directors could stick to their visions but they had to find innovative
ways
to do so.  Their budgets didn't allow a heap of special effects so they
had
to rely on what they knew.  And that was, how to create atmosphere using
the
camera.  And Evil Dead is one of the best at doing that.  There is one
scene
in this film that I will never forget and that is one of the early scenes
where the cast arrives at the cabin.  Here we see a long shot of the cabin
and it has very eerie music playing.  This shows the cabin as being
menacing.  It lets you know that there is evil in that cabin.  And that we
are in for a hell of a ride.

Sam Raimi made a masterpiece here that I believe stands the test of time.
You can put this film up against any of today's so called horror films and
I
guarantee you this scares you more.  Raimi cares about his movie and he
does
everything to make you feel the terror that the cabin people feel.  We are
scared and disgusted at what happens when one of the women goes outside
alone at night and meets a tree that does unspeakable things.  And when
the
book is first introduced.... that is horror movie history there.  What a
brilliant concept.  A book that is evil.  I have often wondered about such
books.  We hear about them all the time in movies about ancient Egypt and
ancient times.  But here we have a book that has weird incantations from
another world and another language, and you just know that as soon as some
idiot utters the words that they are not supposed to say, well they won't
be
around much longer.

The Evil Dead is a miracle.  It was made on a rock bottom budget yet it is
scarier than any Hollywood movie that is made for 20 million could ever
hope
to be.  If you want to truly experience a frightening experience, rent
this
film, it knows what it wants to say.  And it knows how to make you afraid.
So be afraid.  Be very afraid.  You may never look at the forest the same
again.
<|_=00=_|>

What more can be said of Raimi's legendary cult-classic that hasn't
already been beaten to death like a puss-oozing zombie that crosses
paths with Ash? Possibly nothing, but I'll try. 

Before Spiderman and before the countless spin-offs of this movie were
made or even conceived, Raimi and friends decided to make a low budget
zombie flick mainly for fun, and surprisingly it has become a
masterpiece of shock and horror. Possibly a perfect example of how to
make an entertaining film on a shoe-string budget, The Evil Dead
delivers what it promises, the ultimate in grueling horror. Even with
it's mild budget and sometimes shaky acting, TED shocks and spooks the
audience through chilling atmosphere and some of the most violent
effects ever put on film. Those who are squeamish need not apply. As a
matter of fact, just run for your girly life.

There are several reasons this film succeeds. First, Raimi's camera
work is truly masterful. By using fast camera work and aggressive
shots, Raimi has created an eerie world that is sometimes hard to look
at but too entertaining to turn away from. His style from behind the
camera is absolutely unmistakable. This is perfectly exemplified in the
beginning of the film, where the camera alone creates enough atmosphere
to leave you biting your nails in suspense of what's to come. You feel
at any moment someone is going to get their neck chomped on by some
zombie hiding just out of view. One of the most impressive openings I
can think of, perfection in pacing and atmosphere. It gets even better
once the action starts. Some shots hold for a seeming eternity, and
part of you wishes for it to stop for it's unrestrained gore and
violence...but the other part of you is getting a sick kick out of it.
One of the most impressive shots is where the darkness from the trees
begins to chase people, knocking any tree or obstacle down that happens
to be in it's way. Truly magnificent technique, however they did it. 

TED also succeeds because it's self-aware of the fact that it's a
simple zombie movie and never takes itself too seriously, and doesn't
expect the audience to do so either. It's meant to be campy, cheesy,
revolting and chilling at the same time. There are moments in the film
where it seems to be making fun of itself and the genre in general. For
this fact alone, one cannot hold certain things against it such as
sometimes questionable acting from the supporting cast and sometimes
the downright implausibility of certain situations. If you can accept
this and you're not put off by mannequin ultra-violence, then you
should find yourself on the supporter's side of the fence. I think some
don't like it because it can be ridiculous and cheesy in parts,
although it was meant to be. Even with the fact that it's sometimes
cheesy, there are some downright chilling moments in this film that
most horror films nowadays cannot begin to muster. Case in point, the
zombie screaming from the cellar door. The zombie growls and howls
themselves are enough to send shivers up one's spine. And let's not
forget the unforgettable tree love scene, ridiculous and hilarious
simultaneously.

Last but certainly not least: Bruce Campbell as Ash, the badass of all
zombie films. Campbell is Ash, period, and always will be.

In my opinion, this is by far the best of the trilogy, and although
there could have been more of the chainsaw, this is the definitive
zombie film and probably always will be. I feel it succeeds over it's
sequels due to it's increased violence and lack of humor in comparison.
It's blood, gore, camera work, and shock factor are still formidable
even today and are what make this such a cult classic. If you've ever
liked any horror film, this is an absolute must-see.

Love or hate it, there it is.

<|_=00=_|>

A few nights ago, a couple of friends and myself watched The Evil Dead
again. It was like the 68th viewing for me ( I think...lost count somewhere
around 50) but it still only means one thing to me: PARTY
!!
Many feeling can occur when watching this delicious masterpiece by Sam
Raimi. You can either adore it, be frightened by it or be disgusted by it.
But it always leaves a big impression on you and I can't imagine anyone
would hate it. 

And there is ONE feeling that everyone should have towards this
movie...RESPECT ! 
Mostly respect regarding the achievement of Sam Raimi. This guy was 21 years
old when he made this film and that's impressive to say the least. I'm
around that age at the moment and I sure as hell haven't pulled it off
yet...I strongly doubt I ever will, actually. No, when you're able to come
up with such an original and dared idea for a horror film, you belong to the
greatest minds in the film industry. Sam Raimi did it and his further career
only confirmed his status of being a genius with every single movie he
directed afterwards.
Tons of respect towards Bruce Campbell as well. Sure his performance in this
movie is far from great, but at the time, he did it because of his
friendship with Sam Raimi. And because The Evil Dead became a big hit, his
career was launched too and he certainly grew as an actor. Bruce Campbell is
now in the favorite actor-list of many B-movie fans...And I'm one of them.

Then there's Tom Sullivan...responsible for the make-up. What a fine job he
did. The Evil Dead gave a whole new meaning to the word "gore" and we have
this man to thank for that. Most nowadays horror films still can't live up
to the standard of Evil Dead...not even close. 

The plot of this film is as simple as can be...but it works. Five friends
drive to a small cabin in the woods to spend a small vacation. They find a
tape recorder with a message...Out of curiosity, they play it and pure evil
is rised in the woods. One by one, they become possessed and turn into
horrible demons who try to kill those who're still alive...That's it !!! And
that's all there is needed to create a fun and very original horror movie.
The same story already came out in 1978 as a short film called "Within the
Woods". It was meant to fund money for this film and it's great B-movie fun
as well. If you're a big fan of The Evil Dead trilogy, it's certainly worth
searching for.

Anno 2003, Sam Raimi has grown out to one of Hollywood's favorite directors.
He became immortal in the eyes of the big budget audience with his movie
Spiderman. The sequel of that one is in production while I write this. I'm
sure it will be as decent as the first Spiderman was, but I'd still prefer
to see Evil Dead 4 coming from the brain of Sam Raimi.

A fun trivia element to finish this review with : If you're watching the end
credits of the Evil Dead, you'll see Joel Coen is credited as Assistent
Editor. Coen now is a famous director as well and may be considered as the
best director alive. Back in 1981, he and Sam Raimi were close friends and
even shared a studio when they were in collage. Joel Coen made his debut in
1984 with Blood Simple. One of the best cult movies ever
made...

Join us....
<|_=00=_|>

For a film that was made on a budget that would make Steven Spielberg die
laughing, "Evil Dead" was one for the most interesting pieces of horror
cinema I've ever seen. I watched the series backwards, so "Army of
Darkness"
was the film I saw first, then "Evil Dead II." While "Evil Dead II" is
probably still my favorite, it was interesting to see where it all started.

The camera work is incredibly good, and the fast motion sequences showing
the demon's approach was pretty well done, if not completely original.
Though also interesting, and kinda funny to note is that we see the
characters running away, but when the camera switches away from the demon's
view, we don't see the demon, and that seems like a touch of genius...we
know it's there, but we can't see it, and while it probably was a
limitation
of the budget, it actually proved to be a great method of suspense.

The special effects are as laughable as they were in the rest of the
series,
but there's something to be said for a film that takes its chances and goes
to the extreme in lieu of lacking resources. People complain about this a
lot, but I have to say to them "get a sense of humor." The whole point of
the "Evil Dead" series was to mock horror films and show how campy they
were
and that they could get even worse. It's humor is in that the film tries to
take itself seriously, but the lack of a big budget makes this not only
impossible, but even funny in spite of the fact that it could conceivable
be
a serious film.

The acting is also terrible, but again in that way that it's so obviously
bad that it's hard to tell were the actors just plain bad or were they
doing
that deliberately to serve the purpose of mocking the genre. Bruce
Campbell's introduction into the world of abused heroes is interesting
since
his character is actually less of a chauvinist in this one than he
ultimately became famous for. But it works, and the horror on his face when
his friend has no reservations about chopping up his possessed girlfriend
is
actually believable.

Overall, this movie is a great piece of cinema. It's humorous, but serious
as well, and its greatest strength is its ability to draw the line between
being part of the genre and mocking it. There are plenty of moments of
original horror (I don't think anybody could keep their composure during
the
"Tree Rape" scene, which they repeated to lesser effect in "Evil Dead II,"
but let's face it that movie was supposed to be a rehash and extension).
Give the film a chance and don't take it too seriously. Otherwise you're
missing the point.
<|_=00=_|>

Sam Raimi is currently getting a lot of attention and acclaim for directing
the over-hyped blockbuster 'Spider-Man'. That movie has introduced him to
mainstream filmgoers, no bad thing in itself, but to many of us Raimi is
already a legend, because he created 'The Evil Dead', without a doubt one of
the greatest horror movies of all time. Made on a shoe string budget as a
labour of love, it still remains Raimi's best movie. He has subsequently
worked on bigger projects with bigger names but it is arguable whether he
has ever surpassed the invention, thrills, energy and sheer fun of this. And
why Bruce Campbell never became a genuine movie star after his debut here,
and not just a much loved cult figure, is a complete mystery to me. 'The
Evil Dead' is a modern horror classic and absolutely ESSENTIAL viewing for
any self-respecting movie buff! It doesn't get much better than
this!
<|_=00=_|>

The Evil Dead is a film that scared me. In fact, everyone I spoke to has
been scared of this film.

It really is a horrible film. You feel sorry for the characters in it. They
are trapped in a cabin in the woods with some evil looking demons. The
forest itself is alive and there is no way out. When I first watched this
film I wanted the good guys to die because I felt sorry for
them.

This film is one of the great horrors like The Omen, Texas Chainsaw Massacre
and Nightmare on Elm Street. There are some truly creepy scenes in the film.
The scariest scenes are where the girls are possessed by the demons. The
other really scary scene is where the demon is in the cellar-I couldn't stop
thinking about that scene.

The best horror films are the ones where the characters are in hopeless
situations with no easy way out. The Evil Dead is one of those films. It
really is creepy. Make sure you watch this film during daylight hours. Those
with a nervous disposition should avoid.
<|_=00=_|>
Sam Raimi's feature length debut "The Evil Dead" is truly one of the
greatest horror films of all time and the start of a magnificently
entertaining trilogy of hilarity and some real scares. Made on a budget
of only $375,000, the film is surprisingly accomplished on a technical
level. The effects, although they do look fake by today's standards,
hold up a lot better than you might have expected, and the stop motion
sequence at the end, which looks a lot faker than anything else in the
movie, was accomplished for its time and budget.

"The Evil Dead" is about a group of young adults who travel to a cabin
in the woods and discover a 'book of the dead'. No prizes for guessing
what happens next as each character is possessed (except for Ash) and
disposed of via an intriguing variety of methods. Considering its
budget, unknown director (at the time), and typical slasher plot "The
Evil Dead" would almost certainly seem headed towards forgotten B-movie
status, and yet it has stood the test of time and remains one of the
most widely acclaimed horror films of all time. Why? It's simple.
Although "The Evil Dead" is nowhere near as funny as its sequels, it's
still a humorous self-satire while also being terrifying despite its
age. This odd combination (only perfected in this film's sequels and
"Creepshow") works because Raimi crafts a tense and moody environment,
puts his characters in there, and then ruthlessly disposes of them,
sometimes doing so several times for the same character. What's worse
is that there's nowhere to go. Raimi creates a claustrophobic feeling
in anyone watching, he wants you to think about being in a situation
where you're trapped with nothing but death and destruction surrounding
you. For most people, he probably succeeds. As far as acting goes, none
of it is really very good but Bruce Campbell is instantly likable as
Ash, who just has to be one of the most memorable horror film
characters of all time.

Gory, desolate, hopeless, and still funny, "The Evil Dead" is a horror
masterpiece that isn't quite the strongest entry in the series, but is
shockingly accomplished and entertaining despite its low budget and
inexperienced cast and crew. This is a film everyone must see, along
with its sequels. 

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

Until about 3 years ago, my favorite movie was Halloween 2. There was no
doubt, whatsoever that THAT was the greatest horror flick
ever.

Then, in the fall of 1999, I found The Evil Dead on a sale at a shopping
center in Stockholm for a great price. The previous missing 12 minutes of
blood and gore (that the Swedish censorship had cut) were back, in the
full
uncut Swedish version.

I bought it with another film, 'cause there was an offer to buy 2 movies
and
only pay 100 crowns (about $11/£7 today).

I saw it, and I was scared beyond recognition! The music, the low budget
camera, the camera work! Everything. It had everything!

It was scary, it was dark, the music was scary, it was made during the
golden age of horror (early 80's) with a low budget and no huge stars in
it
- everything I look for in a horror movie.

It still is my favourite - no doubt about it. I can't imagine any movie
being better than Raimi's masterpiece, I definitely can't.

The greatest piece of horror ever!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is the movie that started me into horror movies. I had seen
horror movies before this but this is what made me a horror fan. if you
haven't seen it i give this movie and its sequels my highest
recommendation

there is everything in these movies. From disgusting horror, shock
horror, spookie horror, and even a bit of humor. The only slight down
side may be that it was made very low budget. This is covered over by
the greatest actor of all time--------------BRUCE CAMPBELL. He is a
great actor in all movies and this is his start. It is also the start
of Sam Raimi's directing career. There is great directing, great
acting, great fun, inventive camera angles, and even a little bit of
nudity if you like that sort of thing. so watch and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
Looking for a fun weekend away, Ash, Cheryl, Scotty, Shelley and Linda
all head up to a cabin in the woods for drinking and fun aplenty.
Having found it in the midst of the woods, they ignore the mysterious
things they see and settle in. However, a clock stops and a mysterious
trap door opens on its own and the boys go to investigate. Finding an
old book and a tape recorder, they discover that something happened
here but don't believe claims of the wood being alive. However when
strange things start happening they find it is too late to try and
leave and that they have awakened demons that will kill them all before
dawn.

I wonder if this film would have been as famous in the UK if it were
not for the outrage that it got involved in with the whole "video
nasties" affair, I guess we'll never know but whatever factors helped
it on its way it is undeniable that Evil Dead has been a great
influence on many subsequent films. It is easy to look at the things
like the tacking shots (done by running with camera on planks), the
excessive gore and the "cabin in the woods" setting and call it obvious
and clichéd but that is to forget that some of these things have become
the norm since this film, maybe even because of it. This is not to say
that the film isn't cheesy, poorly acted and rather low cost but then
that is a fair claim because it is all these things but it is actually
more impressive when you know the limitations it was made under. The
gore and effects may have dated now but they are still very effective –
not because they are cutting edge effects but because they are
delivered with a real nasty eye and a sense of horror and brutality
that really helps the action. I will admit that ED2 is delivered with
real comedy but this film is a lot nastier and I defy anyone to be
amused by some scenes. Specifically the BBFC's excised "pencil in
wound" scene is hard to watch but is not as genuinely disturbing as the
tree rape – this is not a funny scene but one that really delivers the
horror of this film.

Given that this is a low budget horror then I think it succeeds well
because it is gory and, although not that scary (coming from a man who
is freaked out by all zombie films) the gore is hard to watch at times
and made me flinch. The performances play second fiddle to the
director, who marks out the style that he carried with him on his way
to becoming the director of blockbusters that he now is; his
camera-work is clever and he has a sense for the manic and the brutal.
The cast are mostly forgotten and it is only Campbell who has gone on
to cult status, but even his performance is not remarkable here (much,
much better in ED2) and the rest are just "kids in a cabin" fodder.

Overall this is a good film that is a low budget horror that works
thanks to constant gore, clever and energetic direction and a real
sense of brutality in the action. It isn't wonderful and many will
dismiss it as just one of many "don't go into the woods" horror movies
but that is to forget how early it came in that cliché. People who
dislike gore will find little else here and I personally prefer the
horror comedy of Evil Dead 2 that is more or less a remake with a
bigger budget, less brutality and more laughs but this is still an
influential film that should be seen for that reason.
