

After reading some negative comments on this film it seems to me that many
of those reviewers hate horror movies.If you don't like horror,then leave
this genre alone!!!Go back and watch some Hollywood big-budget
trash!!"Children of the Corn" is an enjoyable horror film with a few creepy
scenes and some good shocks.The acting is decent enough,and the atmosphere
of an isolated town(Gatlin)is well-captured.I've seen the first four parts
of this series and they are not really bad(want some crap-check out
"Witchcraft" series)Enough said-try this one if you enjoy watching horror
movies.Very atmospheric score too!
<|_=00=_|>
Certainly one of the better adaptations of a Stephen King tale,
Children Of The Corn, for me, was a goosebump film. But all the more
chilling was an unseen, Evil Force who a group of murderous children
happily calls "He Who Walks Behind The Rows" (Rows, meaning rows of
corn in a corn-field) The image you get of this "He Who Walks Behind
The Rows" character is simply Satan with a new nick-name. And why old
Lucifer has chosen to possess a billion ears of corn in Nebraska
{instead of the John Deere tractor sitting alongside of it} is beyond
me. Whatever the reason, the fact that he's somewhere within that
cornfield gave me the chills throughout this film. More chills than
watching these children go on a killing rampage throughout the small
town. Anyone over the age of 17 was quickly laid to rest at the
beginning of the film, and any kid about to turn 18 happily sacrificed
themselves to "He Who Walks Behind The Rows".

The film stars Peter Horton and Linda (Terminator 1 and 2's) Hamilton.
By accident, they enter this small town and become the towns only two
grown-ups. Once spotted, they are quickly labeled "Outlanders" and are
pursued throughout the remainder of the film until they are finally
caught, bound and prepared for sacrifice.

I love this film. Its had a special place in my heart for years. There
is not a boring moment in this film that would put you to sleep. There
are many jolts, winces and frights. And even though the "He Who Walks
Behind The Rows" fella never shows his face, you will definitely feel
it's presence. Trust me. Just knowing that he's somewhere in the midst
of that cornfield will be enough to creep you out.

I give this gem a 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Children of the Corn is a classic example of a movie that was much more
frightening when I was a kid. Now I suppose it pales in comparison to
the better horror flicks I've seen. It's still not a bad genre flick
and I recommend seeing it. Children of the Corn has its moments. Isaac
and Malachai are still creepy looking cats (both played effectively by
John Franklin and Courtney Gains). The musical score with the children
chanting is an eerie effect too. The café scene and the accidental hit
and run are the standouts of the movie, it's pretty grisly stuff. The
rest is a bit mediocre. Peter Horton and Linda Hamilton are pretty good
as the young couple trying to escape the murderous children. And an
appearance by R.G. Armstrong is never a bad thing. The movie is a
"loose" adaption of a Stephen King short story, but the sequels are
just absolutely King rapes. So do not bother with those.
<|_=00=_|>
Stephen King is often cited to be the father of modern horror, and this
view isn't wholly unfounded. King's stories have had a large impact
upon the horror genre, and many of them are very good stories in their
own right also. However, when it comes to translating King's words onto
the screen; many filmmakers have proved that they are not up to the
task. I haven't read the book, 'Children of the Corn', but I'm sure
it's better than this movie. While the film isn't especially bad; it's
hardly a tour de-force of horror cinema either, and like many Stephen
King films; this one could have been a hell of a lot better. Actually,
this story isn't one of King's better efforts; it follows a small town
whose children murder their parents on the instructions of a mysterious
preacher; a little kid calling himself Isaac. The story picks up three
years after this terrible event when a young couple drive into town for
some reason. They find the village completely devoid of adults and it
isn't long until they discover what's happened and seek to put an end
to it! 

This film has missed several opportunities, the most glaring of which
is the subterranean manifestation that dwells beneath the soil in the
cornfields. We get several glimpses of this creature, but we never get
to see it properly; and because of this, the monster is about as
threatening as a bunch of little kids. Oh wait. Anyway, the film draws
parallels with other evil kids films such as Village of the Damned in
the way it plays out, but it never really gets out of first gear. While
the atmosphere of the town is foreboding and well done on the whole,
the plotting isn't very exciting and there's very few moments of real
tension or suspense, which ensures the film isn't as engaging as it
could have been. The cornfields and the corn that inhabits said field's
makes for an unlikely horror prop, and some scenes within the fields
are genuinely creepy. The kids themselves are rather well done also,
with both of the main ones having good screen presence. If you were to
pigeonhole King's films into 'good' and 'bad', this one would firmly be
in the latter side. On it's own, however, it's not all that bad, and if
you're a fan of King's work, you'll no doubt find something to like
here. Or you might hate it for not living up to the book, one of the
two.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this film sitting on my Dad's lap when I was about seven years old.
(I was a horror film fanatic from a very early age on.)  We used to sit up
watching late night scary movies while my Mom went to her ceramics classes.

Dad and I loved this movie.  There is no sex or nudity in this film.  Even
though the images are pretty graphic, if your older children are mature
enough to handle a little fright, this should be okay for them.  Besides,
since the children are the "bad guys", your kids should be pretty happy!!

My favorite actors in the film are the two star children (Joby and Sarah).
They really make the film eerie with their innocence and sadness over losing
their families.  Malachi would be the scariest character.  Even the way the
other children in the movie gasp when they hear his name makes me shudder.
I would not want to face him either!!  Another aspect that makes this film
so scary is the music.  The director adds clips at just the right moments
but doesn't forget to leave ample silence.  There is nothing greater to add
to the suspense than a good dose of silent screen.  Then all your senses get
a jolt at once when the big horror scene comes alive.

The most suspenseful scene is when the boy stumbles out onto the highway
clutching his sliced throat.  It's a real hair raiser!!  But, without
revealing too much, I guess I will close by saying that this is by far one
of the best horror films I have ever seen.  A little strange, but, then
again, this IS a Stephen King film.  Need I say more?? 
<|_=00=_|>
This is the tale of a young couple (Peter Horton and Linda Hamilton)
stranded in the deserted little town of Gatlin, Nebraska and stalked by
a pack of adult killing children worshipping a demon living in the
surrounding cornfields. 

This very atmospheric piece is a rather humble b-movie that boasts an
unusual and interesting premise (thanks to a pretty good short story by
Stephen King) and delivers some decent performances from its cast
(which is rare with children in general). 

Although soft in its depiction of violence, the movie offers some
creepy moments (especially in the still effective opening sequence).
John Franklin, excellent as the child-preacher Isaac, makes for one odd
and creepy looking kid and Courtney Gains inhabits his psychopathic
Malachai character with obvious delight. 

The cornfields are beautifully shot and the overall is boosted by a
pretty efficient score by Jonathan Ellias. And to top this all up, R.G.
Armstrong makes here an appearance (albeit a too short one) as a
recluse gas station owner. 

Don't be fooled though. The movie is far to be a masterpiece. At
leading endlessly its main characters around cornfields and then
through the deserted town (direct effect of superficially expanding a
short story to feature film length), the movie ends up suffering from
its slow pace ("Things just aren't happening fast enough" even says
Horton at some point) with the characters taking what seems like an
improbable amount of time to realise what is afoot. 

The danger of young and impressionable minds blindly following
extremist religious leaders is certainly an interesting theme but is
here barely tapped into. 

Finally the climatic sequence, with the manifestation of the
collieflower looking "He Who Walks Behind The Rows", is a bit of a let
down to say the least. 

Those (not so minor) details however are not enough to warrant the bad
press the movie gathered upon release (and Stephen King's severe
criticisms). "Children of the Corn" is a well performed little soft
core horror b-movie that surprisingly enough spawned a franchise and
still provides eerie ambiance and creepiness that even, at times, make
the few cheap scares work.
<|_=00=_|>

Maybe not so scary, but pretty cool horror movie after the short story
written by Stephen King.

The children of Gatlin, under the influence of 'priest' Isaac, kill all
their parents as it is the wish of the Lord who apparently lives in the
corn. 3 years later a couple (Peter Horton and Linda -Terminator- Hamilton)
are stranded in that same place. The kids, led by Isaac and his first man
Malachai, set up a plan to sacrifice them to their God.

The movie gets a great start with the children killing their parents, after
that it isn't much horror but more of a suspence movie. You got to see this
only for the Malachai kid. Great casting!

6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a really disappointing adaptation of an excellent and
terrifying short story which appeared as part of American horror
novelist Stephen King's first anthology of short stories, 1978's 'Night
Shift'. King's story offers a dreadful sense of growing unease and a
truly horrific ending which is completely scrapped in the movie
version.

The good news about the film is that Linda Hamilton stars; if she has
ever delivered a bad performance I have not seen it. She has a
toughness and a vulnerability at the same time, and is an extremely
likable actress. I just wish she made more movies; I remember seeing
her many years ago as the violated wife in the harrowing telemovie
'Rape and Marriage: The Rideout Case'. Hamilton made 'Children' shortly
before playing tough heroine Sarah Connor in 'The Terminator', the role
for which she is most famous.

Burt (Peter Horton) and Vicky (Linda Hamilton) arrive in the small town
of Gatlin, Nebraska to find that a small group of mutinous children led
by the Damien Thorn-like Isaac (John Franklin) have risen up and
murdered nearly all the adults in their town. At the unhinged Isaac's
behest, they worship He Who Walks Behind the Rows, and they are not
above sacrificing the odd grown up to this mysterious figure.

The shadowy presence of He Who Walks Behind the Rows pervades King's
taut tale. In the story, Burt is killed by this thing a few hours after
he finds his wife crucified, her eyes plucked out and the empty sockets
filled with corn husks. It is an incredibly downbeat and horrible
ending to a great story, and draws most of its strength and power from
the fact that we do not ever really find out what exactly He Who Walks
Behind the Rows is. Is it human? This clever method of suggesting
rather than showing horror is discussed by King in his wonderful and
nostalgic non-fiction book 'Danse Macabre'. He recalls always being
disappointed when a monster was finally unveiled in a horror film.
According to King, your imagination will always summon a beast much
more frightening than something that a special makeup effects man has
dreamt up. Unfortunately, the horror of He Who Walks Behind the Rows is
totally diffused by this film. Instead of some terrifying presence, we
get an awful electrical current, the product of some pretty shoddy
early eighties special visual effects work.

But the worst thing about this movie is the happy ending. As I wrote,
King's ending is far better and a hell of a lot scarier. It would have
been extremely powerful had Burt and Vicky met a grisly fate more
faithful to King's original vision. These are likable characters; we do
not want to see something bad befall them. So a downbeat ending would
have been that much more effective. The loss of these characters would
have been depressing and unsettling. Instead, what we end up with is a
forgettable ending to a forgettable film. 'The Shawshank Redemption'
this most certainly is not.
<|_=00=_|>
The murder rate is as high as an elephant's eye in this flaccid
adaptation of Stephen King's short story. While driving through
Nebraska en route to a new job, medico Burt (Peter Horton) and his wife
Vicky (a PR-Terminator Linda Hamilton) nearly run over a mutilated boy
who staggers from the cornfields. Seeking help, they enter the town of
Gatlin, whose under-20 residents have butchered their parents per the
decree of junior-grade holy roller Isaac (John Franklin), who preaches
the word of a being called "He Who Walks Behind the Rows." King's
original story (from his 1978 collection Night Shift) was a lean and
brutal melange of Southern-Gothic atmosphere and E.C. Comics-style
gore, which script Greg Goldsmith effectively neutralizes by adding a
youthful narrator (a grating Robbie Kiger) and putting an upbeat spin
on the story's morbid conclusion. Fritz Kiersch's direction is TV-movie
flat, with the sole inspired moment (hideous religious iconography
glimpsed during a bloody "service") delivered as a throwaway. Aside
from Horton and Courtney Gains (as Isaac's hatchet man Malachai), the
performances are dreadful, and the depiction of the Lovecraftian
monster-god as a sort of giant gopher inspires more laughter than
terror. Amazingly, the film spawned six sequels; Franklin (Cousin Itt
in the Addams Family films) later appeared in and wrote 1999's Children
of the Corn 666.
<|_=00=_|>

I dunno what it is about this movie, but it is so addictive. The first
time
i watched it it scared the mess outta me! But I really liked it and
watched
it over and over. I myself am a fan of older horror movies, and this movie
is for sure a lot better then some of the so called horror movies now
days.
Some of the stuff i didn't really like though (SPOILER) I didn't really
like
the way they drew on Jesus's picture, and i didn't care to much for there
gathering when Issac preached about their "god" "He Who Walks Behind the
Rows". But other then that i really liked this movie and would reccomend
it
to anyone who likes being freeked out! 
