
Oh, come on, IMDb users. How could this film get only a 6.5? Yes, it's
a kid's movie, but I know plenty of adults(not including myself) who
loved this film. It touches our hearts, and tickles our funny bones.
Not to mention I think in one way or another we could relate to it.
That's why it remains a classic Christmas comedy.

Home Alone is not only one of the highest box office successes of all
time, but it deserves more praise. Mac showed a talent that very little
child stars have now-a-days. He brought in a great comedy about a boy
who accidentally is left home alone when his family goes on vacation
and takes on two burglars. 

Yeah, it's quit unrealistic about the burglars, but honestly, this is a
terrific family film. Joe Pesci and Daniel Stern are the perfect comedy
duo of two idiots who can't rob the place because a 8 year old child
has out witted them and set some clever and very funny traps around the
house.

Please give this movie a chance, it's just terrific and I guarantee
nothing but great laughs for you and the whole family.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
'Home Alone' has succeeded in establishing itself as a Christmas
tradition, spawning off three sequels (including a made-for-television
flop), and a whole franchise in and of it.

Macaulay Culkin plays Kevin McCallister, the average American child. He
has an attitude almost expected of a Chris Columbus film from the
eighties. He lives with a large family, which, right now, being around
Christmas time, is about quadrupled, flooded by relatives' children,
all of whom pick on poor, poor Kevin (sympathy long lost later into the
film).

One day Kevin wakes up from his sleep to find his wish has come true:
his parents (John Heard and Catherine O'Hara) have disappeared.
Enthralled by this, he proceeds to do everything and anything he was
not allowed to do before, including eating ice cream in the morning,
watching violent gangster films, jumping on the bed, wrecking his
brother's room, and having some fun with a BB gun. Unfortunately for
Kevin, his parents have not just disappeared - they have accidentally
left him at home before going to Paris!

Trouble really starts when two pesky burglars, Harry Lime (Joe Pesci)
and Marv Merchants (Daniel Stern), decide that their next burglary will
be at the McCallister residence. Little do they know Kevin is more than
prepared, arming the house with an array of booby-traps that would
impress top spies in the American government.

John Hughes, writer/director/producer of my favorite comedy, 'Planes,
Trains and Automobiles,' wrote this film, and it is no wonder. It is
just like Hughes' humor. It mixes emotion, belly laughs and a
warm-hearted ending all into one little bundle called a movie. John
Hughes' films, in my experience, are usually very good, mainly because
he approaches films at a very classic level. He doesn't resort to
crude, kid jokes, like 'The Master of Disguise' or 'The Tuxedo,' to
name a few recent flops. He almost always levels everything out
perfectly in his scripts, and nothing is different here. Also, he
places Kevin and co. in a large brick home in a large neighborhood in
Chicago; a home that very much resembles those in 'Planes.' and 'Uncle
Buck' (I would not be surprised if it is the same home).

As for the acting.

Macaulay Culkin is not at his best here. His best performance would
have to be in an earlier John Hughes film named 'Uncle Buck,' where he
had more of a cute charm than an acting charm. Here, he could barely
act his way out of a plastic bag. Fortunately, with great performances
by John Heard, Catherine O'Hara, Pesci and Stern, his bad acting is
long forgotten by the time we become absorbed into the film.

John Heard and Catherine O'Hara bring Kevin's parents to life. They
seem almost complete opposites. Kevin's father, Peter (Heard), is very
calm and laidback. His mother, Kate (O'Hara) is extremely nervous
almost all the time, fretting throughout the film. She is aggravated
very easily and, like all mothers, her instinctive nature to care for
her child is what drives her to the point she goes to in the film.

And then there's Pesci and Stern. My favorite lot of the film. They
perfectly blend humor, pain and aggravation to the film.

Pesci's character Harry is very strict, easily agitated and picks on
Marv for a great many things. Marv, the stereotypical 'tall, stupid
one,' is completely stupid. He does things that would make a hamster
blush. Yet he is the character I have found many like the most, mainly
because he is so stupid you have to feel sorry for him. Stern brings a
great trait to the character of Marv, and I am very pleased he got the
part. It's a hard choice to decide which baddie is better, so I just
say I like them both the same.

All in all, 'Home Alone' is probably the best Christmas movie to rise
out of the film industry in the last twenty years. It seamlessly blends
humor, pain, emotion, human instinct and some great booby-traps all
into one little bundle. This film has stood the test of time greatly.

4.5/5 stars -
<|_=00=_|>

Home Alone (1990) Rating: 8/10

It might be dumb and corny, but I've actually liked this highly
entertaining
flick. The plot's unbelievable, but who cares: it's funny! Macaulay Culkin
plays 8 year-old Kevin, a misunderstood kid who lives in a big ass house
with his family. They're about to leave for Paris, where they're gonna
spend
Christmas. About 20 people are running around the house, frenetically
preparing for the trip. Kevin's mad at everyone, because no one pays
attention to him, unless it's to yell at him. Hence, Kevin goes to sleep
wishing that his whole family would disappear, and the next morning, they
do! The thing is that they somehow woke up late, left home in a hurry, and
hey, they forget Lil Kev! At first, he's happy as a monkey, but after a
while, things get messy. Two dumbass robbers are planning to rob his
house,
but Kev ain't gonna let them!

Okay, I know, this is one stupid story, but it's developed into a
wonderful
family film, as enjoyable as it is warmhearted. Mac Culkin is awesome in
the
lead. He really carries the film: he's got style, he's funny and he's even
a
good actor! Too bad his personal life screwed up, because he had the
talent
to become a grown-up movie star. The idiotic criminals are also really
cool,
because they cast good actors instead of some Ernest-style lame-o
over-actors. Oscar-winner Joe Pesci and Daniel Stern (the narrator on The
Wonder Years) are hilarious, but they also bring a bit more depth to what
could have been cardboard characters. Pesci plays an aggressive thug, and
anyone who's seen him in a Scorsese film knows how good he is at it. Stern
plays a total dufus, and he's also really convincing at it. The film's
humor
might seem dumb, but hey, it's funny. John Hughes' screenplay has Kevin
protecting his home by turning the thieves into human Wile E. Coyotes, and
like the cartoon, it made me laugh. The gags might be old, but they're
played with inventiveness, and the acting is always right. I just love
this
film, and you will too if you look beyond the fact that it's a family
film.
<|_=00=_|>

The overwhelming success of 'Home Alone' (it spawned two sequels), is enough
to guarantee that most people will love this story of a family that departs
for Paris on the Christmas holidays, mistakenly leaving an eight-year old
boy to fend for himself. And fend he does, when burglars threaten to break
in unless he can rig enough booby-traps to keep them out.

That's the simple plot in a nutshell. Macaulay Culkin seems to have no
problem carrying most of the film with a wide variety of looks, gestures and
expressions--but for my money it's Daniel Stern and Joe Pesci who get the
main laughs as the bumbling burglars intent on outwitting the kid's traps.

Others in the cast don't have as much to do but do well enough by their
roles, particularly Catherine O'Hara and John Heard as the parents who only
discover on the plane that Kevin is missing. The laughs are steady, the
color photography is great and the slight story is probably every boy's
fantasy of what it might be like to be left home alone. Add to that the
holiday flavor of Christmas and a pleasant musical score by John Williams
and you have the makings of a classic. 

The proof is in the pudding--they must have done something
right!!

<|_=00=_|>

"Home Alone" is a hilarious film about a young boy (Macaulay Culkin) who is
accidently left home during the Christmas holidays after the rest of his
family goes to Europe.  At first Culkin loves the situation, but soon he is
scared to death when he learns that burglars Joe Pesci and Daniel Stern are
targeting his house.  However, Culkin is pretty smart for an eight-year-old
and he has plans for them when they attack.  Chris Columbus' direction is
smart and so is the over-achieving screenplay.  This film has a little bit
of something for everyone and the fact that the backdrop is the Christmas
holidays, only makes it that much more special.  All the performers do well
and in the end the film also does.  4 stars out of 5. 

<|_=00=_|>

This type of family comedy truthfully works better if you are grown up with
the stooges.  Because this film has a climactic scene with more slapstick
than most can take.  I can though.  But if you think this is strictly a kids
film, parents will like it too I bet.  
The plot follows a kid (Macaulay Kulkin) who gets left behind in a Chicago
suburb while his family leaves for Paris.  And though the house is all his,
2 burglars (Joe Pesci and Daniel Stern who give the best on-screen duo of
1990) want the house.  But not without the climax.  While most of the film
is unbelievable (both good and bad), most of the film should keep families
in good spirits, unless parents don't enjoy seeing Pesci getting his head on
fire and Stern screaming like a girl.  Funny, even if it's not John Hughes'
(writer/producer here) best.  B+
<|_=00=_|>

Home Alone is arguably one of the funniest movies ever! Its really good.
The
cast is very good! It was sweet to see John Candy in it! The team work of
Joe Pesci and Daniel Stern is just not insanely hilarious but its also
incredible that the two are so good together and I like how their scenes
of
punishment is followed right after the other! I think John Heard looks
like
Bruce Willis! I like Catherine O'Hara, she is a fine actress! Look for
Larry
Hankin and Roberts Blossom! John Williams has another great score
here!This
is a perfect movie for people to watch around Christmas and if you need a
big laugh watch this as it will crack you up! Also, I strongly recommend
Home Alone 2! It arguably funnier then this plus Time Curry, Brenda
Fricker,
and Rod Sell appears in it! Both movies are strongly
recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
In the Eighties, John Hughes churned out a handful of movies and scored
many, many hits. Quite rightly, as most of them were seriously funny -
I'm DEFINITELY not referring to Curly Sue, so relax! In one particular
scene from Uncle Buck, Macaulay Culkin interrogates a babysitter
through the letterbox to make sure she's not a baddie. This inspired
Hughes to write a whole new movie. Who would have known that this and
its sequel would go on to become two of the biggest hits of all time?
Both Hughes and Chris Columbus seem to prefer setting their movies
during the holiday season (Gremlins, Planes, Trains & Automobiles,
Christmas Vacation) and manage to pull them off without too much
sentiment, or sickening amounts of gooey love.

There are two reasons why Home Alone was such a big success. The first
is that it's about a kid who outsmarts grown-ups, something that
happens every day, only there's a worldwide conspiracy of silence. This
movie yells it out loud and clear. The second is John Williams's
magical score, which elevates the movie way above slapstick family fare
to something more serious and regarded. It was nominated for an Academy
Award, along with the Christmas carol Somewhere In My Memory, but lost
to John Barry's Dances with Wolves. Damn! In a mad rush to the airport
one morning, the MacCallister family forget one little thing...Kevin
(Culkin). He is an eight-year-old kid who wants nothing better than a
peaceful Christmas and some time to himself. It's hard for him to get
this when living in a house with seven other people(the exact same
house from Planes, Trains And Automobiles, don't you know0. With the
rest of the MacCallisters in Paris, Kevin runs wild doing whatever he
wants, eating whatever he wants and watching whatever TV show he wants.

But there's one major problem. The Wet Bandits, Harry (Joe Pesci) and
Marv (Daniel Stern), are on the prowl and have knocked off every other
house in Kevin's street. His is next. And seeing that he's
man-of-the-house now, he HAS to defend it.

Using whatever tools are at his disposal (rusty nails, blow torches,
Micro Machines) he sets up a labyrinth of booby traps, so that the Wets
can't break in. Their idiot-proof determination proves to be their
downfall, as they are tortured and torn-up upon entering Kevin's
domain.

Although this is not the only point of the film, there is an important
message that family is what really matters to a child, or to anyone,
and having them home for the holidays is better than wandering a huge
house all by yourself.

There are some movies that work best at Christmas and this is one of
them. I'm not saying that in a couple of decades it will be the new
It's A Wonderful Life, but it will be remembered fondly at the very
least.

Don't be a Scrooge. It's Christmastime. Go rush to check out Home
Alone.
<|_=00=_|>
"Home Alone" is one of the most popular movies from the early 90's. Its
success was phenomenal and it also made Macaulay Culkin a superstar.

The plot is quite original and surreal: a child who is home alone and
capable of making the bandits's lives miserable? Sure, it's an
impossible story, but who cares? Far from being a perfect movie, it is
however okay and fun to watch, entertaining and contains slapstick
humor too although I don't like some of the language used. 

Our story takes place in Chicago at Christmas time, which makes this a
Christmas film. In fact, the movie has lots of Christmas decorations,
lights, snow and many other details which create the feeling and magic
so characteristic of Christmas. To accent the Christmas atmosphere even
more, there are a cup of nice Christmas carols such as "Rockin' Around
the Christmas Tree" (performed by Brenda Lee), "You're a mean one, Mr.
Grinch", "White Christmas", "Carol of the Bells", "Oh Holly Night" and
"Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas" and some brilliant
instrumental musics.

Kevin McCallister is the hero of the story. He's not just any kid, he's
a very smart one. He also knows all about the intentions of the "wet
bandits" Harry and Marv and prepares them lots of unexpected
"surprises". Their lives won't be easy with Kevin defending his house.
Sure, they are the villains and as such they get what they deserve, but
they do suffer a lot too. We almost feel sorry for them.

The "wet bandits" were nicknamed like that by Marv because their
"calling card" (according to him) was to let the water running in every
houses they robbed. That said, both "wet bandits" are hilarious. Harry
is more cranky, while Marv is the most stupid of the two (although both
are stupid) and maybe that's why people tend to sympathize more with
him. Marv's stupidity also makes him the funniest of the two. Marv is
the typical tall and clumsy guy with no brain, a bit like Averell
Dalton from the Lucky Luke comics.

The movie has lots of funny moments. The funniest for me is when Harry
and Marv pretend to be Santa Claus and his elf and the way Harry speaks
in that scene, followed by the even funnier part when Kevin fires at
Harry's pants. Whenever Kevin fools the bandits in a try to make them
believe the whole family is at home when Kevin is all alone is funny
too. For some reason, I also find funny whenever Kevin screams
maniacally (particularly when he says he's not afraid anymore and sees
Old Marley and screams out loud.

The scenes which Kevin fools and scares the Little Nero's Pizza boy and
Marv with the gangster film "Angels with Filthy Souls" are hilarious,
but in the case of the Pizza boy it is unfair for him. There was no
need to scare the hell out of him - he was just delivering pizza and
wasn't after Kevin.

Old Marley is an interesting character. I always felt sorry for him
because of the lies Buzz tells about him. And the man never did
anything bad to anyone. Buzz is a jerk and Uncle Frank is even worse.
Buzz is mean for Kevin and Uncle Frank openly dislikes Kevin. When
Uncle Frank tells Kevin «Look what you did, you little jerk!», Kevin's
parents should tell him something like «Frank, stay out of this and
shut up!».

The church is magnificent. It's one of the biggest and most beautiful
churches I've ever seen in a movie. 

Macaulay Culkin is terrific as the clever kid Kevin McCallister. Joe
Pesci and Daniel Stern are awesome as the "wet bandits" and Roberts
Blossom is great as the character Old Marley. It's also delightful to
see John Candy as Gus Polinski, the «Polka King of the Midwest».
<|_=00=_|>
There is no film to put beside Home Alone by way of comparison. It is a
film genre of it's own. I read and hear reviews of this movie that
express disgust and horror and I picture John Hughes chuckling. This
was the intent, it was meant to upset the status quo and in
"politically correct" times that we live in, isn't it a small surprise
to see this film come to the forefront again? This is a movie that will
freak out the uptight for as long as it exists in any media. It was
meant to. As much as "Clockwork Orange" talked about "ultraviolence"
this movie is all about ultra-bad pranks. We can numb ourselves to sex
and violence but Home Alone is a movie you just will never get used to.
There will be something in this movie that will get to you. As a last
resort to make sure everyone is offended before you leave the theatre,
John includes the always discussed paint can scene. No reason for this
scene, except to make sure he gets you and also to make sure you leave
talking about it. Obviously filmed on a budget, and using Hughe's stock
cast, this is a movie simply about a young kid whose parents forget him
while they go on vacation. All the characters are bizarre in one way or
another. This movie reminds me of "Rocky Horror Picture Show" in that
everyone in the film has something odd about them and both movies
joyfully celebrate these uniquenesses. Not a movie to buy for Mom on
Mother's Day... but worth seeing just to say you did.
