

If you love the "Guns Of Navarone" as one of the greatest, and more
importantly most literate WWII action films of all time, then this "sequel"
is really going to cause some painful moments, and I wouldn't recommend
watching the two films back-to-back under any circumstances.   Owing to the
fact that it took original "Guns" producer Carl Foreman a decade to get the
"Force 10" film project off the ground, Gregory Peck and David Niven were
both  Social Security eligible by the time the film was ready to go, and
that meant we'd have to see a new cast.  And for the most part, despite the
borrowing of footage of the first film's climax at the beginning you might
as well watch this film pretending the first one never happened.   The
"Nicolai" connection to the first film is weak and barely explored, and we
probably could have done without that plotline altogether.  And whereas
"Guns" was deadly serious in tone, filled with some rich character studies
and literate exploration of the moral questions that get raised even when
fighting a good cause, "Force 10" is really more of an escapist war film,
punctuated with moments of light comedy, and with no depth whatsoever in the
characters and script.  If one is willing to accept the film on that level,
then it can be enjoyed as an entertaining diversion, but no more.   It is
interesting to see Harrison Ford in his first post-Star Wars role working
alongside the great Robert Shaw in his last film, and Edward Fox appears to
emulate most of David Niven's mannerisms quite well.   Carl Weathers though,
was an annoying distraction and the scene where he demanded "answers" while
the enemy was approaching was just plain dumb.   

By it's very title though, "Force 10" is always going to have the problem of
it's magnificent predecessor hanging over it.  Too bad the sequel
possibility wasn't cashed in on sooner when Peck, Niven and Quinn could have
still done their parts (I always hoped they'd lead a new mission to rescue
Anthony Quayle!) 
<|_=00=_|>
My Take: Often lambasted, but fast-paced and highly entertaining sequel
to the classic adventure film. 

Honestly, I think "Force 10 from Navarone" was more fast-paced,
action-packed and hilarious as it's predecessor, "The Guns of
Navarone", but then, it also lacks the stronger elements that made its
predecessor better. But it seems unfair to compare a sequel to its
predecessor when the film is a sequel in name only. Other than the
opening which re-tracks the memorable final scenes from the original,
FORCE 10 FROM NAVARONE mostly flies solo. 

The cast was excellent. Robert Shaw and Edward Fox are good
replacements to Gregory Peck and David Niven in the roles of Keith
Mallory and Major Miller. Harrison Ford absolutely amazing as Lt. Col.
Barnsby. Carl Weathers is usually out of place, but he's fine enough.
While Barbara Bach and Richard Kiel offer fine performances after their
roles in "The Spy Who Loved Me".

There will be a few hate remarks from fans of the original, but seeing
it as not a sequel to the classic film and more of a film that uses
'Guns' as its inspiration, this "sequel" is fun, exciting and
occasionally excellent. 

Rating: **** out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>

   Some time after the successful mission to destroy the huge guns on the
island of Navarone, Mallory and Miller are sent to Yugoslavia to kill
Nikolai, a German agent who nearly blew the Navarone operation, and who has
now infiltrated the Partisans. To get there they are attached to Force 10
led by Col. Barnsby, who have their own mission to destroy a vital bridge.
From the outset things go wrong, as they steal a Lancaster from an airfield
in Termoli, are joined by Sgt. Weaver (escaping US MP's), then get shot
down, bail out, and are captured by Chetniks who are loyal to the
Germans.

   By the time this sequel to 'The Guns Of Navarone' was made, 17 years had
passed. Gregory Peck and David Niven were too old to reprise their roles, so
Robert Shaw and Edward Fox took over. Harrison Ford, fresh from 'Star Wars',
played Col. Barnsby, Franco Nero signed on as Nikolai, and Richard Kiel,
Barbara Bach, and Carl Weathers all came from recent box office hits - the
former two from 'The Spy Who Loved Me', the latter from 'Rocky'. Guy
Hamilton was hired to direct (Goldfinger, Battle of Britain, Live and Let
Die etc.)

   This film has been much maligned over the years, somewhat unfairly. It
could never hope to emulate its predecessor, and therefore takes a different
approach. While 'Guns' had a taut, serious tone, this adopts a more tongue
in cheek feel. Some of the interplay between Shaw and Fox is quite deadpan
and amusing, with the actors obviously not taking proceedings too seriously.
Harrison Ford looks uneasy at the start, but settles into his role as things
progress. The use of the stunning Yugoslavian countryside gives the film a
unique feel, and it appears to have had a decent budget. The score harks
back to the type of Boys Own adventures that were so popular a decade
earlier. 

   There are some flaws, yes. Possibly more tension could have been injected
at some points, and Mallory seems to have lost the ability to speak fluent
German since 'Guns'. It's not in the same league as that film or the
marvellous 'Where Eagles Dare', but it's an enjoyable way to pass a couple
of hours on a cold, wet winters' night.

   
 

      
<|_=00=_|>

In the late 70's the war genre saw a revival and Harrison Ford starring in
not one but two movies of the period, the romantic drama HANOVER STREET
(1979) with Lesley-Anne Down and the more commercial FORCE 10 FROM NAVARONE
(1978).

Over the years, the film has got some unfair press in my view and is
regarded as sub-standard compared to the infinitely more successful GUNS OF
NAVARONE. However, the chemistry of all concerned is just right for this
film, which involves a group of soldiers trying to blow up a bridge in
Yugoslavia and the search for a traitor from the original film's
mission.

There are some good action sequences, and the dialogue exchanges between
Ford, Edward Fox and the late Robert Shaw are passable. Carl Weathers
(coming quick off ROCKY), racism issue aside, still seems out of place in
the film, although he has one or two good moments. Barbara Bach and Richard
Kiel, hot off THE SPY WHO LOVED ME, are stereotypes.

Ron Goodwin's score keeps the film moving.


<|_=00=_|>
I actually saw this movie before I saw "The Guns of Navarone", and I
have to say, I prefer "Force 10". It seems like it always comes on TV
on a rainy Saturday afternoon, and I'll always get sucked right in.
I've probably seen it about 10 times. Despite some laughable special
effects, and otherwise dated production value, this war movie packs a
good action punch. Not many WW2 movies are set in Yugoslavia, and
that's one of the interesting elements of the film. The story itself is
a classic "Against the Odds" type affair, involving a covert Allied
mission with a dual purpose. The great Robert Shaw is a standout, and a
young Harrison Ford shows why he eventually became the superstar he is.
Rousing music, tense action sequences, shootouts, knife fights,
bombings,rescues,deceit and trickery make "Force 10" a lot of fun.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a pretty solid World War II movie, a belated followup to the
very successful (and, yes, better) "The Guns Of Navarone." This time a
force, mostly British soldiers but led by a young American colonel
(Harrison Ford) is sent over to Yugoslavia to blow up a bridge the
Nazis use. In addition, two other Brits (Robert Shaw and Edward Fox) go
along on another assignment to kill a double agent. Well, half of the
team is shot down before they even reach their destination as their
airplane is crippled. They are killed in air-fire or upon landing on
the ground. That leaves just a small group, the above-mentioned stars
of the movie plus an addition, Carl Weathers (of "Rocky" fame) picked
up on the ground, and the double-agent (well-played by Franco Nero) who
is assigned to go with them after he is "cleared" of charges.

Anway, this re-assembled team goes on to complete their mission, or at
least attempt to and are thwarted numerous times by sabotage. I won't
give away the ending. 

Overall, a good story and definitely worth a rental and possibly a
purchase. The DVD transfer was a bit grainy at first but got better as
the film went along.....as the story did.
<|_=00=_|>
FORCE 10 FROM NAVARONE...I don't know what to say apart from the fact
that I enjoyed it as a kid, and I'm looking forward, in years to come,
to sitting down with my son (now 2) and watching it with him. With the
exception of the original Navarone, and WHERE EAGLES DARE, FORCE 10 is
far-and-away the greatest book-to-movie translation in it's genre. The
critics got it wrong, they always do!(How many people saw Titanic
because they said it was so great? They didn't mention the steam coming
from a decorative smoke stack, or the digital watches, did they?!)

FORCE 10 generally has a good feel about it, it isn't too serious.
Shaw, as he'd proved with JAWS and THE STING, was the contender for one
of the greatest British actors ever, only Burton or Olivier have been
close to that title. With the recent success of Shaw's JAWS and,
obviously, Ford's STAR WARS, it was prime casting...no question.

Don't take it to seriously, and with the fast-paced story, Top-Notch
cast and brilliant Ron Goodwin score...you should really enjoy it, if
you like the genre! Roll on six or seven years time, my son is in for a
treat!!!
<|_=00=_|>

World War II has spawned so many stories, films, books, songs, TV shows,
from garbage to genius, that one could easily spend an a lifetime absorbed
in them.  Here is a basic WWII movie that tells a very straight forward
story about a small group of soldiers trying to blow up a bridge in enemy
held territory.  It doesn't try to be Bridge on the River Kwai, another film
where a small group of special forces travel (on foot I might add) to
destroy a bridge important to the enemy forces. 

On the plus side is that the action takes place in Yugoslavia, not the
setting of too many war movies made in Hollywood, so that gives this some
interesting moments (how many movies have Croatian Chetniks in them?). 
Also, Robert Shaw, good in anything, and Edward Fox have a great rapport,
trading lines with impeccable timing.  It would be easy to believe they are
lifelong friends in real life the way they portray their characters. 
Harrison Ford gives a solid performance as a young overachieving officer,
helping the subplot of the new blood clashing with the old veterans. 
Barbara Bach is beautiful, but not much other reason for her to be around. 
Carl Weathers actually gives a nice performance as the rebellious black
soldier, implausibly brought along by weirdly improbable circumstances. 
Facing the fact that the Armed Forces were segregated during WWII, it seems
like the makers wanted to have a black included in the movie and had to make
up some way to do that, coming up with a ridiculously contrived way to have
him along.  It's unfortunate they couldn't come up with something better
because, though Weathers is likable and his character brings something to
the party, they way they did it undermines the plotline.

The action is okay, though the payoff at the end, clever as it is,
ultimately fails because of the special effects--they just weren't that well
done; they seemed like they came from a grade b movie. 

If you've seen some WWII movies like A Bridge Too Far, Kelly's Heros, Battle
of the Bulge, the Devil's Brigade, or Where Eagles Dare and liked them,
definitely give this one a try.  Not a classic, but a decent addition to the
crowd. 
<|_=00=_|>

Force 10 felt like a James Bond reunion. The director is Guy Hamilton
(Goldfinger, Diamonds Are Forever, Live and Let Die, The Man With the Golden
Gun). Robert Shaw (From Russia With Love) is the star. Barbara Bach (The Spy
Who Loved Me) is a love interest. Even Richard Kiel (Jaws in The Spy Who
Loved Me) is here as a heavy. Unfortunately this film is not as enjoyable as
a typical Bond film not to mention equaling or surpassing the Gregory Peck
classic, The Guns of Navarone, to which it is a followup. The film is not an
entire waste however. A young Harrison Ford is very convincing action star
even here and is almost enough to save this disappointing effort. The only
really gripping part of this film was the racial tension between Keil's
character and Carl Weather's (Predator) character. Average film, 6/10. This
review was based on the widescreen version on the DVD which had a few extra
minutes.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie sequel to the Guns of Navarone was made and released about
eighteen years after that film . Successful warlike picture well acted
and finely directed by Guy Hamilton . Thrilling and rousing film is set
about two years after the events of Guns of Navarone , in which a
valiant and skilled trio , Harrison Ford-Robert Shaw-Edward Fox , is
dispatched to a dangerous mission during World War II in Yugoslavia .
This powerful , dramatic story from the Alistair McLean novel starts
when the commanding staff assigns a mission to several oddly assorted
military experts as Mallory , now been promoted to the rank of Major
(played by Robert Shaw in this sequel and was his last film completed ,
he was called Captain Jack Mallory ; in the original was played there
by Gregory Peck) and Miller, who has now been promoted to the rank of
Sergeant (played by Edward Fox who replaced Ian Bannen ,here was called
Corporal Dusty Miller , in the original performed by David Niven) .
They are teamed to discover a traitor and destroy a bridge vital to
enemy strategy . The outfit must destroy a huge dam and a bridge that
threaten the Allied . To do so , they must sneak throughout the Nazis'
noses disguised as German soldiers.

It is one of the most thrilling and moving films set on the years of
the Second World War . This interesting wartime picture contains
high-powered action-packed , shootouts , explosions , floods , mass
slaughter and lots of fun . Fairly decent acting by the star-studded ,
a traditional all-cast , this Box office hit is a funny , exciting WWII
actioner . Common production personnel who worked on or were credited
for both this movie sequel and the original The Guns of Navarone
included novelist Alistair MacLean , producer-scriptwriter Carl
Foreman, production designer Geoffrey Drake, editor Raymond Poulton and
production supervisor / production accountant Sidney G. Barnsby .
Highlighted by a stirring and thrilling climax with overwhelming action
scenes proceeded by a good technician and artistic team. The picture is
well set in Yugoslavia and results to be a great super-production with
all-star-cast , impressive scenes , shimmer photography and a vibrant
sound , the time has increased its value ; despite its releasing was
panned by critics . The acting of the interesting characters is
believable and convincing , furthermore and enjoyable support cast as
Carl Weathers , Franco Nero , Alan Badel , Michael Byrne and it's one
of three movies, all made during the mid-late 1970s, that actress
Barbara Bach and actor Richard Kiel both appeared , it includes The
humanoid , Spy who loved me and Force 10 . 

Director Guy Hamilton uses a clip from his earlier film Battle of
England when the Messerschmitt attacks the Lancaster bomber and the
so-called German Panzer tanks shown at the end of the movie are
actually Soviet T-34s - a medium tank produced from 1940 to 1958 . The
screenplay has eloquent dialogue , humor , double-crosses , continuous
tension and surprising twists that keep the viewer's attention .
Sweeping wartime movie epic from the director of 'James Bond's
Goldfinger' presents the historic events of hokey manner but it does so
fascinatingly . All in all,it's a successful piece of warlike fluff.
Although overlong ,has good battle footage , solid acting ,
breathtaking scenes which help offset a sometimes far-fetched plot, but
suffers on television , as the small screen damages its really
spectacular images. The soundtrack by French composer Maurice Jarre ,
Jean Michel Jarre's father , is full of vibrant sound , brings a solemn
score, cutting edge, played by an orchestra of wind . Colorful
cinematography in glimmer color by Christopher Challis , being filmed
on location in Jersey, Channel Islands , Mediterranean Film Studios,
Malta , (studio), Montenegro , Plymouth Docks, Plymouth, Devon,
England,Shepperton Studios, Shepperton, Surrey, England, UK . Guy
Hamilton' filmmaking is absorbent and entertaining , a good job , and
the production shoot for this movie went for sixteen weeks . Rating :
good but inferior to original , wholesome seeing . This picture should
please most action-war-adventure buffs.

Interesting screenplay by Robin Chapman based on a novel by Alistair
MacLean . He wrote many best-selling action novels that were turned
into often successful movies. When asked to comment on why his stories
were so popular he remarked that he always wrote stories that were
visual. Since they were easy to imagine when the books were read, they
were easy to film . This flick is one of several movies based on an
Alistair MacLean novels set in rugged battles during WWII , the first
was ¨ Guns of Navarone¨ , after that , it would be ¨ When eagles dare¨
by Brian H Hutton . And subsequently post World War and Cold War as
¨Bear Island¨ by Don Sharp and ¨River of death¨ by Steve Carver ; in
addition , two adaptations directed by John Sturges : ¨Ice Station
Zebra¨ , ¨The Satan Bug¨.
