
Another 48 Hrs. (1990) was another sequel. During the 80's any movie
that made the slightest of profits made a sequel. For one reason only,
to make even more money. However many producers never made another dime
off of the momentum of the previous film and were stuck with a sequel
that cost two or three times as much as the original film, Another 48
Hrs. was a prime example. The only reason films that produced multiple
sequels raked in the dough was the films were cheaply made, low
overhead means more potential for a profit. When you pour millions into
a movie and expect to make a buck, two out of three times you're going
to lose your shirt. 

The movie has a "rushed into production" feel. I felt the same way
after watching Scary Movie 2. The director was given what he had to
work with. I can't fault Walter Hill because he made a pretty watchable
movie. The problem was this film didn't need a sequel. The end results
are a remake of the first movie. No more, no less. This film was made
during the peak of Eddie Murphy's over exposure period. Like so many
actors, he was a victim of his own excess. Nick Nolte seemed to be
going through the motions whilst Eddie Murphy had that "look at me"
thing going.

Overall it's not a bad movie. But if you're expecting something
different then look elsewhere. Maybe the filmmakers should have watched
the first movie again before they wrote the script. It would have
helped a bit. 

Recommended for fans of the first film.

B
<|_=00=_|>

It's a good thing that director Walter Hill has waited 8 years before making
a sequel of the original "48 hrs."  If he had released this film immediately
after the first one, it would have become a flop.  The reason is because
both films are very much alike.  "Another 48 hrs." hasn't got anything new
to offer; it's an almost exact copy of the first one.  And that's precisely
why they waited so long before making this sequel.

Nothing really changed actually.  There's Nick Nolte who plays the same
cigarette-smoking and alcohol-addicted tough-guy cop forced to team together
with Eddy Murphy who takes up his part as the noisy, bad-mouth and
know-it-all convict-character again.  Just like in the first film, it's the
chemistry between these two actors that makes "Another 48 hrs." really
worth-watching.  And just like in the first film, the only decent acting
comes from Nick Nolte and Eddy Murphy while the rest of the cast is merely
below average.
Once more the action scenes are great to watch.  This is a good thing,
because it makes you forget about the weak script.  The dialogues are funny,
but they're overloaded again with harsh language.  Some might find this
annoying; I honestly thought it became funny after a while.

The ending is pretty weak and predictable, but on the whole "Another 48
hrs." is almost as good as its predecessor and good waste of time; not
money.
<|_=00=_|>

I'll be the first to admitt that the sequel probably isn't as good as the
original, but for some reason i get much more enjoyment from watching it.
Perhaps it's due to the fact that Murphy gets to show off more of his
comic
talents then he does in the original,but whatever the case i found this to
be an enjoyable flick which unfairly recieved some harsh critisim (in my
opinon). The basic plot for Another 48 Hours is that Detective Jack
Cates(Nolte)has for years been attempting to track down a underground
criminal only known as the iceman. Then when Cates finds out the iceman
wants his old buddy Reggie Hammond(Murphy)     dead, he enlists his help
to
bring the iceman down (because apparently Hammond is the only person ever
to
have seen the Iceman). A few notes, at the end of the original film,
Hammond
only had 6 months left to go on his sentence. However since then his
sentence has been changed to 6 years because he apparently robbed the
prision payrole(hey i'm not making this stuff up). Ganz's(the main bad
guy,
from the original 48 hours) brother is one of the bad guys who has been
hired by the iceman to kill Hammond and Cates. The sequel is more
comic-like
than the original,and truth be known some parts of it's storyline are
flawed
(we never really know the real story behind Hamond being detained for
another 6 years)and the Jack Cates character is more lukewarm then the
original. But still, Another 48 Hours provides much entertainment and if
your a fan of Eddie Murphy i would recommend you giving this one a
try.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie just has it all, comedy; great, fast-paced action and a
moderately solid story. This is the kind of movie which you should see
with
your friends on a Friday-night, with a great bowl of pop-corn. The actors,
such as Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy (the original 48 Hours team) have a
great chemistry between them and their combination of action and fun works
well for the film. The movie is very funny and you'll have a hard time not
enjoying it, with it good soundtrack and quite original, cool scenes (such
as the bus-scene). I would like to mark Andrew Divoff's performance as
Cherry Ganz, one of the biking psycho-killers that Murphy and Nolte are
after. Divoff really scared the crap out of me with his wild, fierce,
hyper
portrayal of Cherry Ganz, who also contributes to alot of killings and
violence shown in this film. People who say that 48 Hours is the
"untouchable original" are wrong because the sequel was made by the same
director who's style you immediately recognise in this picture. Another 48
Hours is as good as the original and is doubtless a highly entertaining
film!

<|_=00=_|>
When I was little and saw the first 48 Hours, I thought Eddie Murphy
looked pretty scrawny in that suit and that, upon seeing the sequel, he
looked a lot more fashionable. Then I realized he was wearing the same
suit throughout this movie (I guess he was in a lot better shape).
Other than considering this film to be a fairly entertaining rehash of
the first, I guess that's my review.

Although I must mention that if someone were to fire a Desert Eagle
handgun as close to their face as Andrew Divoff does in the final act
of this film, he would probably burn his cheek and deafen himself...
but I guess that's just part of Walter Hill's bombastic direction.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to admit this film has a 'Have I met you before' feeling to it.
But then most sequels do. Same characters, same personalities leads to
some of the stuff being same-ish. Yet I ask you, how many people do you
know that drastically change overnight? Not that many. So the same
characters having the same reactions and habits to similar situations
is not that far fetched. Hill Street Blues characters didn't change
that much either yet it stayed entertaining. I thoroughly enjoyed this
film. The acting is of a very high quality and so are some of the
action scenes. And there is a twist in the film I didn't see coming. So
all in all, not a classic yet highly entertaining, and that is what it
was supposed to do.
<|_=00=_|>
Another 48 Hrs. feels like a missed opportunity; it feels as if the
makers have recognised the potential of the idea and have done half a
job. This is because it never really elevates itself above the material
it actually is. At a time when the Lethal Weapon films had proved there
was a demand for white cop with black sidekick buddy combination type
films, Another 48 Hrs. is perhaps a cash in sequel to a film that was
never anything special any way. Where as it sounds like I'm being
negative, the film was enjoyable for what it was and that said; I would
have a hard time in deciding which one I liked more.

A scene from this film which typically sums up the genre the film is
working under highlights not only the genres inability to ever be
anything above a certain level but also the problem films face when
they age. The film is a crime film; a buddy combination of two people
getting involved in shoot outs and general criminal activity whilst
battling each others egos. In 1994 when Pulp Fiction came out, films
like Another 48 Hrs. were history and a particular scene is defining
evidence: shortly after a prison bus has rolled over a few times, two
hells angels are going to kill someone on board. But what happens is
instead of riding up to the overturned bus and finishing the job, they
park their bikes a few hundred yards away, get off very slowly and walk
up to the bus with the intent to kill. Now, there is absolutely no
reason for them to do this apart from add suspense to the scene and
perhaps have two bikers walk in tandem; in slow motion amongst the heat
wave in a 'cool' fashion. This is the point; films such as these rely
on what would look good cinematically rather than stick to what their
characters would do.

I know it's wrong to compare a film to another film made after it but
this highlights not only the bad way in which Another 48 Hrs. has aged
but further cements what a great film Pulp Fiction really is; the buddy
combination in that film of Jules and Vincent who are by no coincidence
black and white but Tarantino plays with realism in the film and the
scene in which someone is accidentally shot in the back of the car is
so much more clear in the sense it is two fingers up to scenes like the
one just mentioned in Another 48 Hrs. The film starts off with Reggie
(Murphy) still in prison and shows up its other half of the buddy
combination as a bit of an idiot. Another 48 Hrs. suffers from its
cliché that its best cop on the force, Jack (Nolte), is actually a
loose cannon whom needs to be removed even though the job is actually
perfect for him; an idea toyed with in the third Die Hard film but with
John McLane. Jack seems certain that an antagonist known as The Iceman
is at large but is demeaned and shown up as perhaps a bit of a
schizophrenic; one officer labelling this Iceman as an imaginary
friend/enemy who Jack has been pretending to chase.

Unfortunately, the initial incident in the film happens a little early
by way of a shooting at a race track. What I couldn't understand is
that with all those people watching the race, nobody saw the bad guy
shoot at Jack and consequently; the police have their eye on him.
Reggie on the other hand is out of jail and he miraculously survives an
attack on a bus (mentioned earlier) as it rolls over several times;
something that would have killed him. But the film suffers from it lack
of logic that can be applied to certain situations: The bus rolls over;
the bikers aren't professional enough; the back up arrives a too
quickly and are unable to spot the bikers fleeing; the bikers in other
scenes get their guns out in full public view too many times but nobody
ever seems to mind and generally, there is an acute sense of
frustration during these times. But the film backs itself up with a
scene in a nightclub during which it makes a pastiche out of its
predecessor by putting Jack in a punch up only for Reggie to save him
by acting out his cop/no nonsense routine by threatening to shoot first
and the ask questions later. Along with this, Jack even makes reference
to 'typical bar punch ups that you get in the movies' where he states
someone always hits else someone over the head with a chair or a glass
bottle. Jack then does exactly that with a bottle and the chair soon
follows.

But to me, this is Another 48 Hrs. recognising that is knows what it
is; that it knows the formula its using and is having fun playing
around with the clichés; even if scenes such as the bus rolling and the
bikers not doing what they should do by finishing the job. The film is
by no means great or groundbreaking but I was never bored or put off by
what I was seeing; it may have lacked realism and been since pushed
down a peg in the crime genre hierarchy by bigger and better films but
it remains entertaining to a degree with gunshots powerful enough to
propel people through windows and cops smart enough to wear bullet
proof vests whilst off duty. Another 48 Hrs. is by no means a big
winner but it is by no means a massive loser, even if it may indeed
look like that in another twenty years.
<|_=00=_|>
I agree with most of the past commentators. This film is a half-sequel,
half-remake. So many elements were simply copied from the original
film. I'm sure the filmmakers considered this homage, but it comes off
as a lack of ideas. And we won't even go into the monumental plot
holes. Gigantic plot holes. Brobdingnagian plot holes. And while I
hadn't previously noted the enormous amount of glass breaking, until
reading the comments, yes, I'd have to say they made it more or less a
motif of the film. Murphy and Nolte did reasonably well resurrecting
their respective characters, and there were some truly funny moments,
and truly snappy repartee. But it's not enough to save this one. If you
liked the original film (and who didn't) you should probably see this
one, just don't have high expectations for it.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a pretty entertaining sequel, but totally inferior to the
original in almost every way!. I enjoyed this film quite a bit, however
a lot of it is rehashed,and it had some shocking but bizarre plot
twists, don't get me wrong i didn't see them coming, but they didn't
make any sense, however Eddie gets to show off more with his comic
talent, and had a lot more to do this time (in my opinion). Nick and
Eddie still had awesome chemistry, and the film is constantly
entertaining, it's just it's nowhere close to being as good as the
original, and felt they could have done a bit more new material. I
enjoyed this movie quite a bit however it can't match the original. The
Direction is good. Walter Hill, does a good job here nothing special
but he kept the film at a fast pace! good job. There is a bit of blood.
We get lots of pretty bloody gunshot wounds but that's it. The Acting
is very good. Nick Nolte is fantastic once again, he had awesome
chemistry with Eddie Murphy, was likable,kicked that ass, and was lots
of fun to watch!. Eddie Murphy is AMAZING as always, and is just plain
hilarious,however both of them seemed to be going through the motions
at times, still they gave it there all, and they were both great, plus
Eddie gets to show off his comedic talent more! (Eddie Rules!). Brion
James is good here,but didn't have enough screen time.Andrew Divoff, is
great as the main villain, and was very menacing. Ed O'Ross is also
good with his limited screen time. Overall well worth the watch, just
don't expect the original. *** out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
The Movie begins with a meeting of a few bikers. Then a some cops
arrive and get killed. (who could have guessed). Then you see a
racetrack where some money-exchange is taking place. After a shootout
between a guy and Jack Cates (Nick Nolte). There is a little explosion
but they don't find the other guys gun. So Jack is in big problems
because he is likely to be charged with manslaughter. Jack visits
Reggie (Eddie Murphy) in prison and tells him that he only gets his
money (which Jack stored for him) if he helps him. Reggie gets really
mad. BTW: Reggie says he was in prison for 7 years which gets explained
later. Because in Part 1 they always talked about (I think) just a few
(like 2 or so, but don't hold me to that) years. Oh and on of the
bikers, who are supposed to kill Reggie is the brother of the bad guy
in the first movie. Well, Reggie gets out of the Prison and is on his
bus. while that happens there is an attempt on Jack's Life. Because he
is on the search for a ominous Drugdealer called :The Iceman. (BTW: I
missed something before: Reggie was in his cell alone and singing to
his James Brown tape. Looks exactly as it did in Part one. When the
movie came out, I read that this Scene was put in to compensate Eddie
Murphies Wishes. But it was funny one time. The second time it looks
kinda out of place.). All that happens in the first 10 minutes of the
movie. So you can imagine that there is a lot of action in this movie.
After a while they get to be good buddies during the movie again. It's
very similar to the first movie. And a lot of scenes are kind of just
copied from the first one (I mean storywise) Since Walter Hill had 8
Years to come up with a new and entertaining and sometimes funny story.
But the movie just hasn't the charm of the first movie. Though if you
enjoy either Eddie Murphy or Nick Nolte You'll like it I will not spoil
the rest of the movie for you if you haven't seen it yet and tell you
who the iceman is. Now it get's explained why Reggie was in the Can
longer. He was framed for illegal money possession in Jail. Since Jack
doesn't give Reggie his Money they have to work together, and Reggie
isn't happy about it. Nobody from the Force believes Jack about the
"Iceman"... Well the story develops as you might think.. They go
through a lot and become good buddies again. I am watching the Movie
right now. The revelation who the "Iceman" is, that is the only real
surprise in this movie, the rest is real predictable. Well it's a
typical "Buddie Movie" as they did back then (like from the middle
80ties to the beginning of the nineties)... like the first Lethal
Weapon Movie. First the two don't like each other and during the movie
they become best friends.(It's sad that they, for the most part, don't
make 'em like this anymore).. If you like these kinds of movies you
will like this one.. I like them from back when they were new, so I
still do. But if you are used to Movie like they make 'em today , I
really don't know if you will enjoy it. But it is a pretty good movie.
Watch it and decide for yourself. And if you haven't seen Part 1 (48
Hours) get that one too. O.K. I will watch the rest of the movie now
and enjoy myself. One last thing: I really think, the movie is worth 7
out of 10 points.
