

When you have the reputation that Parker and Stone do, it is hard to get
rid
of the sterotypes that have been drawn around you.  You are forever stuck
in
the mold that has been bestowed upon you.  But perhaps sometimes when
stigmas of that nature are forever embedded with your name and reputation,
it actually gives them more leeway to make a statement that is political
in
nature.  As long as they disguise that statement(s) with all that made
them
popular in the first place, they can get away with it.  So now, if I said
that beyond the non-stop vulgarity and infinite humour that this film
contains, is a film that has an important message camouflaged in
animation,
would you believe me?  Would you care?

First off, this is the most profanity laced film I have ever seen in my
life, and that includes early Eddie Murphy efforts.  But the profanity in
this film had me in stitches.  Honestly, that was almost not just a figure
of speech either.  I laughed so hard that I almost banged my head on the
on
the person in front of me.  Remember how absorbed you were at the horror
of
war at the beginning of Private Ryan?  Well if you had to parallel the two
and replace horror with humour, that is a safe comparison.  This film is
so
******* funny and I really enjoyed it on that level.  I can honestly say
that I haven't laughed so hard since Office Space.  The profanity goes a
bit
overboard at times but I think that was on purpose.  Some of the humour is
a
bit gross ( seeing Sadam's rubber propalactic was funny but a little sick
at
the same time ) but I think these guys wanted to see how far they could
go.
And they went very far and they dared the MPAA to censor them even more,
and
hey, I was very entertained.

But on the political side, there are a lot of dicey issues that are
covered
here.  Censorship for one.  It's funny because we as Canadians and
Americans
have some of the same ideologies and one of them is free speech.  But if
that is what we want, then we have to be willing to go all the way.  You
can't pick and choose what is more free and more appropriate than
something
else just because it is not politically correct.  Free speech means free
speech.  Free to express your thoughts in an open forum.  This film tells
us
that free speech is free as long as you don't offend the masses.  It also
says that in MPAA's world it is okay to see blood and guts and intestines
and brain tissue ( many of those films get an AA rating ) but profanity
dictates that an R or an X is required to see the film.  That really is
silly.

The film also touches on racism in the armed forces and it shows how brain
washed Americans get when there is a conflict with an opposing nation.  It
doesn't matter that perhaps some of the issues at hand are clouded and
misunderstood, many  people stand behind their government to the very end.
Kill em' all in the name of the Constitution.  There are also some stabs
at
religion and being gay and a plethora of other issues.  A particular scene
with Bill Gates is funny.

Parker and Stone have given the finger to the ratings system in America
and
I think people will like it.  They have also given much more credit to the
Canadian armed forces in this movie.  If the U.S. ever went to war with
us,
it would probably be over in a day or so.  So thanks for making us look at
least competetive.  That was cool.

It may be weird to read a review of this film and have comments about
politics in here, because it really is a funny movie and I was in a good
mood when I left the theater, but there is more to this movie than just
humour.  To accomplish that and still be known as the guys who made fart
jokes and the F word popular is quite a feat.  This film is there to enjoy
but it is also there to ask some tough and interesting questions.  Enjoy
the
film, but listen to what it has to say.  That is, besides the F and S
word,
listen to what it wants to say.

**** One last observation and that is, when I was in line for the film, a
lady and her five year old daughter were in front of me.  When they asked
for South Park, the cashier asked if she was sure because there is a lot
of
profanity in the film.  The lady reassured her that it was fine.  Her
daughter can listen and watch but knows not to repeat.  That is
responsible
parenting.  Teach your kids right from wrong and hope they turn out well.
That's all you can do.  And I applaud that parent for doing so.  She may
never know who I am but I will remember her for quite some time.  Maybe if
more people were like that, there wouldn't be such a fuss about profanity.
After all, they are just words.
<|_=00=_|>

I was not a fan of South Park before I saw BL&U, nor was I a fan
of movie musicals. Well, I'm still not a fan of musicals, but
I'm a fan of *this* musical, and am grateful to Parker and Stone
for demonstrating that it's still possible to make a great
movie on one's own terms.

For this movie, unlike the usual feature-length adaptation of a
pop culture phenomenon, not only lives up to its pedigree, it
wildly exceeds it. Yes, the movie does recycle many of the
show's jokes, but it does so in new yet relevant contexts that
keep the material funny if you are familiar with the South Park
world. If you aren't familiar with that world (as I wasn't
before seeing the movie), the gags are simultaneously accessible
yet often subtle.

Subtle? Yes, many of the gags are. Indeed, one of the pleasures
of owning a copy of the movie is having the ability to review
the movie, in slo-mo if necessary, and discover throwaway sight
gags that one has missed in the delirium of watching this
anarchic satire the first time through.  (And if you have the
DVD, you can add subtitles to catch many of the songs' often
elusive lyrics.)

Then there's the music. What is it about movie musicals that
attracts great satiric minds? Not since Pynchon's "Gravity's
Rainbow" has a work of art so subversively exploited the
conventions of the movie musical as South Park. From the droll
opening strains of Mountain Town, to the Disneyesque "Up There,"
to the Les Miserables spoof, "La Resistance," South Park
simultaneously sends up the genre while paying homage to it, and
still finds room to use the songs to score delicious points
against its myriad targets.

One last thing: this movie is not cynical. Beneath the
scatological humor, the cartoon violence, the scathing
portrayals of Wynona Ryder et al, and the backdrop of adult
xenophobia, sexual repression and political opportunism, is a
sensibility that exalts childhood as an island of honesty and
idealism, if also of id-like impulse and frequent selfishness.
In this they share space on the shelf of great satires with
"Candide," "Gulliver's Travels," "Tom Sawyer" and especially
"Huckleberry Finn"--classics that, like BL&U, also exposed the
hypocrisies of the adult world "through the eyes of a child."

Elvis Costello once sang, "I want to bite the hand that feeds
me/I want to bite that hand so badly/I want to make them wish
they'd never met me." That BLU was shut out at the Academy
Awards (having only garnered a nomination for the relatively
tame "Blame Canada", which lost, appropriately enough, to the
execrable Phil Collins) only vindicates the film's
take-no-prisoners send-up of nearly everything that annoys in
this suffociatingly focus-group-tested, PC-policed, cynically
sentimental, violence-ridden, love-starved modern world. See
this movie, and see the persistence of hope and possibility
sparkling like a diamond amid the pop culture detritus of a
quiet little red-necked, white-trash, strait-laced, mesuggeneh,
US mountain town.

<|_=00=_|>

What can I say but OH MY GODS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  I had heard rumors about
this movie's extremities (no pun intended) and that it was much
more...ahem...wild than the t.v. show.  Now, I've only seen a handful of the
television shows, and they're pretty racy and raunchy, but I've always liked
what I've seen.  It's definitely not a show (or movie!) for kids.  Or the
faint of heart, or the easily offended.  But then again, if you know that
you're an easily offended person DON'T GO SEE THIS MOVIE! 

I loved this movie.  Granted, I have to admit that I was shocked and
surprised through 95% of it.  But it was great nonetheless. It was funny and
vulgar and said pretty much everything in a manner that was NOT politically
correct.  But then again, aren't we all getting pretty sick of political
correctness?

I think one of the things that gets most of us, (at least myself) is that
when we were kids that age, we never would have gone around saying half of
what those kids did.  Or, if we did, we did our best not to get caught!  Of
course, I was only ever threatened with getting my mouth washed out with
soap...not my mother starting a war with a foreign country! 

The musical numbers were great!  They were very upbeat and will stick in the
minds of viewers for years to come.  In the future, when we're all sitting
behind our desks (or whatever jobs we may have), we'll notice that we'll be
humming certain catchy tunes and when we stop to wonder what it is, we'll
remember the songs from South Park both with humor and with horror that
we're actually humming them out in the "civilized" world.  The scene I think
the best for musical numbers was where several of the different songs were
going on at one time.  It was very "Les Miserables" like (I saw the musical
so I know what I'm talking about) in a very sick and twisted sort of way. 
It was simply funny and light hearted.

This movie poked fun at just about everything in the book.  Nothing was
spared.  Not Christianity, not different racial stereotypes, and certainly
not the gay community.  But none of it was handled in a fashion to be
hateful or humiliating.  In my opinion, all the jabs were meant to get
people to see that there shouldn't be the divisions that there are and when
people get separated, they leave themselves open to ridicule and criticism.
Rather if we all came together and put aside the divisions and stereotypes,
then perhaps we could all see the humor in remarks and jabs like the ones
made in this movie.  

As for the political statement: it's true, you know.  This country (as are
many others) is always looking for something or someone else to blame for
all the "troubles."  We as a nation are hypersensitive to every little thing
and just about everything is taboo.  From swearing to being able to purchase
certain adult oriented "toys," a person can't do anything in this country
without being censored or "forbidden" to.  It's sad when a state's laws or a
person's hysteria keeps people from their constitutional right of free
speech and the like.  And this is what this movie was trying to point out. 
I agree with the person who is his review of this movie wrote, "They're just
words" about the swearing in the movie.  And that's all they are. 

I give this movie a 10 for its humor, its musical numbers and its obvious
statements.  I think that everyone (who has an open mind) should go see this
movie...and then go again and take someone who doesn't have an open mind so
that it can be opened by the hilarious things said and done in this movie. 

<|_=00=_|>


When "South Park" first appeared on the scene, I dismissed it without
ever really
watching it. I wasn't too interested in watching little kids yell and
curse
at each other.
When "Baseketball" opened last July, it was there and then that I began to
understand the
humor and musical styling of "Park" creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone.
Last year also
saw the release of the duo's "Orgazmo" and "Cannibal : The Musical", both
made prior
to the "South Park" phenomena. I became a fan. With "South Park : Bigger,
Longer, and
Uncut", the television show makes the giant leap to the big screen with a
completely over
the top feature that will probably end up as the one summer film that
gives
the audience
the most pop for it's coin.
To synopsize the film would be too painful (and boring).  It's so
packed with plot
and characters that a one sentence generalization would do the film no
justice.  I'll put it
this way : If you don't know, get, or find "South Park" funny, DON'T GO
SEE
THE
FILM.  There might be droves of walkouts as soon as the opening sequence
ends by
people who thought that a cartoon could never be "that bad".  The R rating
and the
"Uncut" of the title are there for a reason.  Heed the
signs.
Paced like a bat out of hell, "South Park" is the funniest film to
come
around in
some time.  While most of the jokes might seem stale to real "Park"
devotees, Director
Parker knows exactly how to keep the film flowing, and in the process,
show
us new
sides and characters that used to be unattainable on Comedy Central.  The
movie is
vulgar and offensive, that's the idea. But Parker and Stone never once get
meanspirited
about things, always making sure everybody get a slice of the
laughingstock
pie.
The dreaded "bleeping" of the curse words is finally gone, leaving
Parker and
Stone their first chance to show the world just how far they can take this
concept.  After
hostilities with the ratings board over the NC-17 given to "Orgazmo"(which
was
harmless fun), this new film( which is far more raunchy than "Orgazmo")
can
be easily
viewed as one big middle finger to the ratings board.  It's the first film
I
have ever seen
that purposely goes unbelievably far just to see what they can actually
get
away with.  It's
very interesting to compare this film, which made it out with a R rating,
to
others that
were slapped with the NC-17.  I believe that this is what Parker and Stone
had in mind.
Watching the antics of Stan, Kyle, Cartman, and Kenny on the silver
screen
does have it's advantages.  The film is decidedly cinematic, often jumping
to
show-stopping musical numbers that I love Parker for.  Working with Marc
Shaiman,
Parker brings us a whole new load of songs that are equal parts silly, and
yet retain some
musical respect.  A just world would find evil Canadians Terrence and
Phillip's "Uncle
Fu**a" at the number one spot on the charts.  Like "Cannibal", the songs
stay in the head.
They move beyond their comic foundation and feel like real songs, Parker
has
a musical
gift and this "South Park" feature really showcases it.
But don't fret fans, the film is jammed packed with comedy that
represents what
"South Park" is all about.  Canadians, African-Americans, Jews, Catholics,
the poor, the
wealthy, gay, straight, bi, men with voiceboxes, men with puppets on their
hands...
Everyone is made fun of here.  And every moment of this 80 minute film is
comedic
gold.  Like the "Beavis And Butthead" film, this movie comes out just as
people are
beginning to write off the TV series.  And similar to "Butthead", this
film
has made a
true fan out of me.  No other flick this year will have the stamina, the
audacity, and the
sheer momentum to please like this little "South Park" film.  I give
Parker
and Stone
endless credit for crafting a film that nobody will expect, and that every
fan will
relish.--------- 9

<|_=00=_|>

In the quiet little town of South Park Stan, Kyle, Cartman and Kenny bride a
tramp to sneak them into an R screening of the new Terrance & Phillip movie.
 They emerge foul mouthed and with attitude as a result of the movie and,
while repeating a stunt in the film, Kenny is killed and sent to Hell. 
Kyle's mother leads a movement against the Canadian comedians that results
in their arrest and sentencing to death.  Meanwhile in Hell, Satan and his
lover Saddam Hussain prepare for the killing of Terrance & Phillip – the
sign of the coming of the new time where Satan will rise again to rule the
earth.  Can Stan, Kyle, Cartman and Kenny save the comedians, stop the
censorship movement that blames society for bad behaviour and prevent Satan
and Saddam from destroying the world?

I suspect those that hate this movie are generally those who hate the TV
show, where those who liked it may not be those who watch the show.  I'm a
fan of the show but I not such a fan that I blind to the lack of consistency
at times in the show – some episodes are dumb and lack wit, trading on swear
words and forced jokes.  However I fell in love with this movie from my
first time seeing it.  The film is funny in the same sort of silly juvenile
way that the series is.  It has the same strange sense of humour – witness
Conan O'Brien having a `Judas' moment and throwing himself to his
death!

However on top on this it is imaginative.  How many other crude films would
do it as a musical.  I'm not saying that this makes it more worthy than
gross out comedies like American Pie etc, but it is cleverer.  The musical
element adds to the film and helps it's stretched running time.  The songs
are all catchy and are better than some of Lloyd-Webber's stuff!  They are
choreographed well and just feel funnier due to the situation and the
lyrics!  For example Satan's song `Up there' is excellent but hilarious
because of who's singing it and the sentiments he's expressing!

The irony of the film is not lost.  The accusations levelled at the South
Park Movie are those that the mothers in the film level at Terrance &
Phillip.  The story actually answers it's own critics while telling the
story!  It's not perfect and it does go a bit over the top and maybe begins
to think that it is cleverer than it actually is.

The voice work is as excellent as always and Parker and Stone carry this the
whole way home.  Guest stars add some interest but really all I need is
Cartman et al and I'm set!

Overall I am a South park fan and I really enjoyed this.  Not just because
of the elements of the show that are reproduced here but also how clever it
feels (even if it isn't always as smart as it wants to be).  This isn't a
cheap TV spin off into a movie this is a film that is imaginative and funny.
 Haters of the show will hate this but this may win you over if you thought
the TV show was juvenile and a waste of time.
<|_=00=_|>
Nothing can prepare you for this film. It's a one off. Undoubtedly the
best film I have ever seen. I truly laughed until I cried in the cinema
showing, bought the video and the soundtrack - which I never do - and
have watched it several times over. The political undertones are
frighteningly poignant. The idea is brilliant. It's the antidisney.
It's a fart in the face of those who wage war in the name of decency.
It's a bunch of foul mouthed kids spewing profanity. It's better than
good versus evil; it challenges us to asses the criteria upon which we
judge good and evil. It pokes fun at everyone, white, black, Jewish,
Christian - but particularly the stupid and the bigoted. by ridiculing
the fuss that is made against profanity, the writers have safeguarded
themselves against adverse publicity from complaints. It's what the
film is about in the first place. My only complaint is that this film
is so brilliant that it made Team America seem tame.
<|_=00=_|>

South Park: Bigger, Longer and Un-cut is a great movie.  Not only because
the TV show (South Park) is one of the best animated shows of the 90's but
also because of it's comedy, political and social satire, and though you
can't see it right away, a look into censorship and what bad and good
qualities it's doing to American life.  And it also shows that Trey Parker
and Matt Stone seem just like a bunch of comedy writers and composers, but
that they could be truly freedom fighters by show-casing this
film.

The story is about the four boys of South Park (Stan Marsh, Kyle Broflovski,
Kenny McCormick, and Eric Cartman) and after they go into a rated R Terrence
and Phillip flick, they start to use their new founded dirty words to
excessive use.  Since the film is Canadian, a war breaks out between Canada
and America.  Kenny dies (thats not a giveaway because on the TV show Kenny
dies in every episode) and winds up in hell to find Sadaam Hussein and Satan
as gay lovers.  Both plot sides are very hilarious (depending on if you
watch the show) and it's very satirical (if you don't believe me, just look
at Bill Gates getting shot in the movie).

The Movie seems quite content in it's dirty foul-ness and funny comedy
musical type way to make us laugh (not that thats a bad thing), but I think
that Matt and Trey are tying to tell us something with this film.  It is a
wakeup call to America that if censorship doesn't change soon, we might
actually go to war with a country over something as arbitrary as censorship
and freedom.  Or... it's just a good old fashioned comedy with fart jokes,
sex humor, and a Winona Ryder playing ping-pong in her private area.  Of
course that's just my opinion, I could be wrong.  Never-the-less, this film
is one of the best of the year.  A++ 
<|_=00=_|>
If you're not a fan of non-stop swearing, crude humor, musicals,
satire, violence, or just South Park in general then don't watch this.
Trey Parker and Matt Stone hold nothing back during this movie.
Everything they can't get away with on television they do so with
Bigger, Longer, and Uncut. Weather anyone believes it or not BLU is a
musical in every respect. From the intro song(Small Mountain Town) to
the money number(Uncle F*cker, which you will find yourself singing in
the shower), this is a musical top to bottom. The movie kicks off with
the kids going to see the Terrance and Phillip movie where they hear so
many bad words they become corrupted and begin to use them in their
every day lives. Kyle's mom is so outraged by this film that she, along
with the rest of South Park, manage to get the United States to go to
war with Canada for sending the Terrance and Phillip movie to America.
Stan, Kyle, and Cartmen form a resistance group to fight their parents
and the war, and Kenny goes to Hell where Satan and Saddam (who are gay
lovers in the movie) plan on taking over Earth by using the war. This
movie is so great it's hard not to love it, especially since it made
the Book of World Records for 399 swear words and 128 offensive
gestures. Parker and Stone out-did themselves with this movie. You'll
laugh until you hurt.
<|_=00=_|>

its easy to see why a lot of people may be offended by this film. After
all, it makes fun of black people, Jews, women , Canada, homosexuality,
homeless people, fat people and of course Barbara Streisand...miss
anything out!!?! yet if you like it you can't help but admit that the
movie is comedy genius. The opening 10 minutes had me rolling in the
aisles "how would you like to suck my b#lls, Mr garrison?" and the song
"its easy mmmmkay" being some of the highlights. the jokes while
repetitive (based on swearing or insulting someone) never get old and
the genius of ideas such as "operation get behind the darkies" while
being offensive are undeniably funny. the only people who would rate
this movie any less than at least 7 are the pathetic types who'll say
"oh its to vulgar and rude and offensive". thats the point! so if
you're someone who can laugh at yourself (which we should all be able
to in an un-serious movie such as this) and want to witness some
amazing moments of comedy genius than this is for you. special shout
out to the creators of south park for the character Eric cartman, the
real star of this movie who would be up there on par with homer simpson
for all time greatest comedy character if not for his foul mouth and
habit of insulting well..everyone! 10/10 from me for all the nights
this ones cheered me up with out fail.

<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie and laughed and laughed and laughed.  I was shocked and
offended.  It was one of the bravest movies of the year, nevertheless
decade, or history.  It was definitely bigger and longer.  It certainly
seemed uncut, even though it wasn't.  See June 29 studio brief.  It was
hilarious.

Plot: The movie had a great plot.  I won't give it all away, but it is
definitely big.  It starts with Stan, Cartman, Kyle, Kenny, and Kyle's
little brother sneaking into the Terrance Phillip movie, "A**es of Fire,"
which has been rated R.  They learn all kinds of swear words and use them
at
all times.  The rest of South Park kids see it also, and by the next
school
day, the parents find out and totally hate the movie.  They form a group
against the movie.  It goes out from there.  There is also a plot with
Kenny
going to hell, and finding Saddam Hussein and Satan in love.  Saddam is a
hornball.  And Satan regrets the whole relationship.

Crudity:  Definitely for adults only.  It probably has the most swear
words
than any other movie this year.  It has cartoon nudity.  It has breasts
and
wriggling penises.  All cartoon, of course.  It has violence galore by the
end.  Do not take your kids to see this, or be prepared to feel
uncomfortable.  All theaters must enforce the carding laws for this one.
However, if none of this will offend you to the point of hatred, do not
see
this.  It also has racism, sexism, and offends every group out there from
the Gays to the MPAA to the parents.

As a whole:  The funniest movie so far of 1999.  I laughed so hard.  I
found
it only mildly offensive personally, but then I also love the movie "Pink
Flamingos."  I cannot recommend this movie to everyone.  I can recommend
it
to those who are not offended easily.  This does not include the people
who
feel brave because they survived "There's Something About Mary."  Parents
will not like this movie unless they are completely open-minded, and I
recommend not seeing it with your children.  However, it is wonderful.  I
loved the musical format that they chose.  Everywhere there is a song.
Also
stay past the credits, there is an after-scene.  It is trying to be a
"Pink
Flamingos." I love it but can only recommend it to the group from 17-30,
male.----------------------------10 
