

Congo is the first movie on the IMDB for which I am writing a user comment.
I am giving it this distinction because, although it is not the best movie
I
have ever seen, nor my all-time favorite movie, it is one of my personal
favorites nonetheless.  If I could choose only ten movies to own, or even
just five, Congo would be one of them.

Because so many people dislike Congo, or are at least indifferent to it, I
feel compelled to explain why I like it.  I like Congo because it's
different: in the seven years since I first saw it in June of 1995, I've
seen countless other movies, but Congo still retains its uniqueness, I
believe.  Other movies have tried to duplicate Congo's juvenile sense of
adventure and tongue-in-cheek humor (most notably the two Mummy movies),
but
none of them have surpassed Congo as one of the most gleefully preposterous
and deliriously fun yarns I've ever seen.

So many people have criticized Congo in so many ways that I'm not sure
which
complaint I should address first.  The consensus among most comments seems
to be that the character of Amy, the "talking" gorilla, pretty much ruins
the movie because she is annoying and unconvincing.  Although I cannot deny
that "Amy" is, indeed, a woman in a gorilla costume which is not quite
convincing, I should also say (1) that when I first saw Congo, I thought
Amy
was pretty convincing, and at least acceptable; and (2) convincing gorillas
in movies are rare, in my opinion.  Rick Baker's work in Gorillas in the
Mist and the Mighty Joe Young remake is the best I've seen; and although
Amy
(created by Stan Winston's team, not Baker's) is inferior to Baker's best
work, she's better than some of Baker's apes in Burton's terrible Planet of
the Apes remake.  If I must choose between Amy, and Tim Roth in an obvious
chimpanzee costume, I choose Amy.

Another common complaint is that the movie Congo is inferior to Michael
Crichton's novel, upon which it was based.  I read the novel in early 1995,
just prior to seeing the movie, and so the book was still fresh in my mind
when I saw the movie: and I thought the movie did an excellent job of
conveying the essence of the book, and gave the story an offbeat style
which
sets the movie apart from the book.  The movie also has a healthy sense of
humor about itself, which Crichton's novel lacks and sorely
needs.

I almost forgot the actors!  Some people hate Congo simply because it lacks
a Mel Gibson or Bruce Willis; nevertheless it does boast a talented and
interesting cast of mostly underrated actors.  Laura Linney has given good,
strong performances in many movies, but I argue that her performance in
Congo is still her most entertaining.  Dylan Walsh gives an earnest,
appealing performance as the earnest, appealing Peter Elliot, whose
devotion
to Amy (however laughable it is for many viewers) gives the movie some
heart.  Ernie Hudson gives a clever, unforgettable performance as Munro
Kelly; although black, he possesses the mannered speech and condescending
attitude of an authentic "great white hunter," one of the movie's best
gags.
Grant Heslov has little to do, but some of his delivery is terrific
("Safari?  I don't even like picnics!")  Tim Curry is a sheer delight in
this movie, giving a campy performance as the monomaniacal Herkermer
Homolka, a "Roumanian philanthropist" obviously written into the movie (the
character does not exist in the novel) to correspond with Wayne Knight's
character Dennis Nedry in Jurassic Park.  Some people are offended by
Curry's performance, and believe it's offensive to Roumanians as well.
Here's a tip: anyone offended by anything in Congo takes life (not to
mention this movie) way too seriously, and needs to lighten
up.

Many people hate Congo simply because it's cheesy.  But considering the
story (assorted oddballs journey to a site in the African jungle which may
be the legendary mines of King Solomon), how could the movie not be cheesy?
Did people really expect a movie called Congo to be realistic, believable
and compelling?  Surely such a movie would be even more cliched and
misconceived than the one that was made.  John Patrick Shanley's script may
be crude and smug, but at least it's fun, and certainly a model of
efficiency: Shanley trimmed the novel of subplots (such as a rival
expedition, and attempts to decipher the gray gorillas' "language") which
would have made the movie longer, slower and more pretentious.  He added
lots of pithy dialogue and made the whole affair an exercise in high camp.
The result is a quintessential juvenile adventure that improves upon more
bombastic and elaborate efforts like Armageddon.  And Frank Marshall's
straightforward, low-key direction nicely contrasts with the inherent
absurdity of the storyline; a more intense and heavy-handed director would
not have been a good choice to helm a movie like Congo.

Congo isn't nearly the terrible movie that many people believe it is.  It
isn't a movie for everybody or even a movie for most people: but it was
created with a certain audience in mind, and many people are simply too
serious and high-minded to belong to that audience.  Congo and movies like
it are cartoons for adults: if you don't like movies with colorful visuals,
ridiculous plots and juvenile characters, you should not watch Congo.  But
if you do like movies with those characteristics, then I submit that Congo
is one of the best movies of that kind that I've ever seen.

<|_=00=_|>
Congo is rarely mentioned in any discussion about film. It seems like a
forgotten artifact, abandoned like King Solomon's mines, discovered
only by only those who maintain some fundamental interest; what you
find is going to depend on how open you keep your mind. Rest assured,
those of you who would rather ignore it aren't going to be missing a
diamond, but I'd say an arrowhead isn't out of the question.

I'll dispense with the metaphors: Congo is not a bad film. I watched it
many times in my youth and just watched it again yesterday, and the
biggest complaint I have is that the original song 'Sounds Of Africa'
is awful. I won't summarize the plot or analyze the film in explicit
detail, but I will say that it is briskly paced, sharply written, and
features solid characterizations, or as solid as they can be in an
adventure epic. As an example, Tim Curry has been dismissed too often
as the comic relief when he is actually central to the plot and turns
in a deliciously dense performance, above and beyond the limitations of
his character. Considering the slightly campy tone, the special effects
are well above what anyone could expect. Just don't come prepared to
judge them based on modern standards or Jurassic Park. Personally, I
find physical effects more endearing than CGI anyway.

As many reviewers have said, it's a film of a bygone era, a lost world
story treated as an adventure epic. Clearly it's not Indiana Jones and
the tone tends to waver a bit, but it's never boring, and if it had
been adapted from the book directly, it would have been. I can't
imagine someone watching the airplane SAM scene without being excited
by the action, or watching the group's border crossing struggles
without at least sporting a grin.

So, check your ego and check your critical faculties; this is no
Citizen Kane and it doesn't pretend to be. Those that harshly criticize
it, by my estimation, have a lot to learn about having a good time at
the movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't get me wrong, this is not Oscar worthy in the least, nor does it
stand as a particularly entertaining popcorn flick.

I love this movie because of it's incredible cheesiness, from the
talking gorilla to Tim Curry's greedy diamond chaser to the absurd
diamond laser plot line. I've read Crichton's book and it's quite good,
the movie however, misses a lot of the time.

That being said, I still love watching it, I can't explain it, I guess
it's so bad that it's good for a laugh whenever I see it, and watching
people devoured by psychopathic gorillas never gets old.

If you've got friends over, pop this one in and give it the MST3K
treatment, you'll have a blast I'm sure.

Like I said, no redeeming value to be had here but if you like watching
bad movies just for the heck of it, this may be one to check out.

P.S. Joe Pantoliano's cameo is golden.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, this movie is best watched on a rainy day or when you're pretty
bored. The fake looking gorillas were obviously not very well-made,
whereas the 1993 film Jurassic Park had familiarized audiences with CG
dinosaurs. In fact, CGI was originally planned for the grays, but the
technology had not yet been developed to the point where realistic hair
could be created. While smooth skinned dinosaurs were possible, hairy
apes would have looked inappropriately cartooned. Therefore,
animatronics, masks and puppetry had to be utilized. So that was kind
of a damper on the special effects as well as Tim Curry's bad acting.
The movie could have been a lot better, but it was viewable. If you got
over the gorilla puppets and Tim Curry's accent, you have a pretty
decent movie. I thought the story was good. It's not Jurassic Park, but
it's Michael Crichton. Congo wasn't very realistic, but neither was
Jurassic Park. It was like that show "Legends of the Hidden Temple"
with intelligent gorillas and science. There was action and a plot. So
I could sit and watch it. I'll give it (barely) 6 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember being only six years old when my older brother and his
friends rented this one night. I watched it with them and now that I am
seventeen years old, I feel that this was one of my most cherished
memories. Of course i fell asleep near the end of it then, but it was
still a really good memory, to watch CONGO with them. And now I have
viewed this film fairly recently without falling asleep and have read
the Michael Crichton(Jurassic Park, The Andromeda Strain) book. I for
one find this film to be very entertaining. Of course it goes without
saying that this film is not completely accurate to the book. They have
added new characters and added more gory death and less technology and
actual factual feeling. The creators could have made this film an
interesting sci-fi adventure feature, but instead they have made a B
movie. Although the film feels like the former, and did when i was six.
This film has enough technology and factual feel to be interesting, but
not quite believable. And yet, this for once, is not at all a bad
thing. The film is pretty convoluted. It is about a primatologist and a
friend who have a talking gorilla(via electronic headset) and decide to
go to it's birthplace to see what its like and discover what happened
to a team that went their a little while earlier to find a treasure in
which Tim Curry randomly appears in a fake accent and pretends to be a
companion who is searched for by a stereotypical soldier looking dude
who turns out not to be a friend and, yeah. I don't really know how to
exactly explain the plot, suffice to say that somehow, the gorilla
named Amy and her friends, for some reason, must escape from a
helicopter because they are shot at and end up in the jungle, not
alone, with all of their crew mates and stuff. And from there on, they
must try to avoid danger from snakes, hippos, and a wild pack of
mutated monkeys that intend to eat their flesh and kill everyone. I
know that this film sounds completely ridiculous and stupidly
pointless, but that is really part of the fun. Usually movies are
either thought provoking and interesting, or entertaining. This film is
very entertaining and funny. This film also has a high body count, with
a lot of characters meeting their end in gruesome ways. It takes itself
seriously, but not seriously enough to make it not fun. I liked this
film as a kid because it was funny and fun. It still works for me.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't care what anybody says. I thought it was a well thought-out
storyline and the characters were awesome. Everyone had to love
Herkama. He made the whole show. Besides, I've seen a lot worse be
treated to Academy awards simply because of directors and the movies
weren't that great.

I don't think what the creator was attempting to capture special
effects buffs as much as it was telling a basic concept of greed.

If you like a good story and can grasp the concept of what it is
telling you about the wisdom of Solomon then watch this movie with new
insight. If not, you deserve Million Dollar Baby!
<|_=00=_|>
"Congo" is a lot of fun as long as you don't take it seriously. Because
they share the author of the books they are based on, it is perhaps
inevitable that in any review of "Congo" the film "Jurassic Park" will
come up sooner or later. Yes, "Jurassic Park" vastly surpasses "Congo"
in quality, but seeing as how the former is debatedly THE best example
of a summer action flick, making that statement doesn't necessarily
mean that "Congo" isn't worth watching.

In fact, "Congo" is a breathtaking thriller, probably only marred by
its budget which causes some of the effects to look rather cheap, and
descend into the B-movie territory. That being said, director Frank
Marshall still manages to not only create a film that not only succeeds
as an action film, but at times the tension grows so high that it
almost could be labeled as a horror flick (though I highly doubt that
that was the intent).

Yet there is some justification in labeling "Congo" as a horror film
(at least in part). There are definitely some moments, particularly in
the latter half of the movie, that are actually quite frightening.
While the killer gorillas don't necessarily "look" scary up close, the
savagery in which they attack and brutally murder people is pretty
scary. In addition, the gore level is pretty high, especially for a
PG-13 rating. The efforts on the part of the filmmakers to avoid an R
rating is at times obvious, such as in some of the more brutal gorilla
attacks, the picture is fuzzy and in slow-motion (these changes are not
successful, and hurt the movie). Even as it is, the levels of terror
and gore are high enough to make one wonder whether the PG-13 rating is
appropriate.

"Congo" is not without its flaws. As I said before, the budget
constraints make some of the effects look cheap, and at times lower the
film to the B-level range. Also, the film takes a little too long to
begin gaining momentum, which at times cause the film to drag (though
the payoff in the latter half of the movie is well worth the wait).
Finally, it is quite clear that Amy is a person in a gorilla suit
(which given the complexity of the character was unavoidable). The
killer gorillas don't suffer from the same fate, but they don't look
particularly frightening (actually, they look rather sickly, however
their actions quickly quash that notion).

Frequently, acting is not a strong point for most action-adventure
films, unless the characters are rather unique (as in "Pirates of the
Caribbean"). However, "Congo" is an exception. It features not one, but
two standout performances. Tim Curry is great as Herkermer Homolka, the
jewel-obsessed "Romanian philanthropist" (you can almost see his eyes
take the form of diamonds. It's a typical Tim Curry role, but he avoids
overdoing it and becoming annoying (which I guess he is, but in a good
way).

But perhaps the biggest surprise is Ernie Hudson as the sarcastic, and
ever so slick Monroe Kelly. It's all in the delivery, and Hudson
delivers his lines with enough wit and bite to make him easily the most
appealing actor in the movie. Had this movie been more popular, it
would be reasonable to suspect that Hudson could have been up for an
Oscar, as most of the nominees of the said award win for inferior
performances. Laura Linney and Dylan Walsh are adequate, but given the
staple hero characters they are given, it is probably unfair to expect
more than what they give. Grant Heslov plays the neurotic sidekick that
he usually plays (see "True Lies"), and it is pretty welcoming.

I don't understand why this flopped at the box-office. Perhaps because
it had to live up to the reputation of "Jurassic Park," which is more
than can be expected of any film.
<|_=00=_|>
The idea is great, the book was a good read, and the film ought to have
been great as well. I was disappointed, but I still have a soft spot
for this story. They expected Congo to be the next King Kong and there
were a good deal of toys, action figures, books, stickers, etc. to sell
to the expected hordes of fans. The fans did not materialize and the
action figures are an easy buy on the internet.

The legend of the city of Zinj is a phenomenal idea to work with for a
film. Evolved apes is a sure seller. But this movie did not deliver.
There were so many missed opportunities and examples of poor writing.
For me the ape researcher on the expedition is a bit goofy to be
credible. And he is one of the central characters! We are not given
much to believe his knowledge or utility to the expedition or to Amy
for that matter. This spoils that character. I liked the African actors
in the film and was willing to go along with the hunter and his
somewhat distracting phony English accent. But somehow, the film did
not deliver what it could easily have delivered: action plus
thought-provoking story about animal intelligence.
<|_=00=_|>
I only read a bit of the novel, the bit when the people are killed, and
it is really graphic. The film is no masterpiece,it is a bit cheesy,
but it does have a sense of fun, (ie. Bruce Campbell, "Stop eating my
sesame cake") and not as bad as the rating suggests. The special
effects are nothing special, and I didn't get why the gorillas jumped
into the lava at the end. That was the most cheesy thing about Congo.
The script had its ups and downs, and the direction was a bit
inexperienced. But the acting was on the whole alright. Laura Linney,
who is a very good actress is a strong lead. Dylan Walsh pales in
comparison but has some good delivery. Ernie Hudson is the best actor
in the movie, with his easy-going charm and his grin. As for Tim Curry,
at first I was put off by the accent, but hey it's acting. He was like
a parallel to Dennis in Jurassic Park which is better. But I liked him
here,he gave a great delivery of such classic lines. Please stop
criticising him, when he was actually one of the reasons why I like the
movie. He didn't deserve that Razzie nomination; that should have been
Grant Heslov, whose delivery was whiny and his character was poorly
written. Amy starts off well, like the movie, but grates on the nerves
when the movie wears on. I am terrified of the King Solomons Mine
scene, it is just very graphic, having your head bashed in like that. I
know it's pretend but it felt real.The scenery was splendid, the
cinematography was excellent and Jerry Goldsmith's music was good. In
conclusion, a fairly watchable movie, if you don't mind too much
cheese, and shouldn't be compared to Jurassic Park, the only thing they
have in common were that they were written by the same author. 6/10
Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>

It is a fairly mindless piece of work, not as good as the novel, but this
film isn't too bad.  The monkey scenes are good, as is the plot which is:
Working for a company mining diamonds out of Congo, Karen Ross, whose
previous team had been killed, goes to the Congo with Peter Elliott, who has
trained a gorilla to talk using sign language, who is planning to release
her.  Special-effects aren't great, but I enjoyed it.  I don't really
understand why the gorillas were simply jumping into lava at the end.  It
only rates a 5 out of 10 on my ratings.
