
Glancing over some of the other reviews of Me, Myself and Irene that
crop up on this page, it seems loads of people absolutely hate this
movie. If anything, the majority of negative comments appear to be
coming from people quick to dismiss it as a dumb piece of un-PC gross
out comedy, which is completely missing the point. This is a Farrelly
Brothers film with Jim Carrey in the lead role, what were they
expecting? Citizen Kane redux? I myself have a masters degree in Film
Studies and while I like to sit around, stroking my beard (or failing
that, somebody else's), watching Almodovar films and saying
"fascinating" at regularly timed intervals, I also like to laugh. And
Me, Myself and Irene is one of the most gut bustingly funny films I've
watched in months.

The story concentrates on a Rhode Island police officer named Charlie
Bailey-Gates (Carrey), a downtrodden member of the community who
everyone else in the town regularly takes advantage of and who hasn't
been the same since his wife left him for a midget limo driver. One day
though things get a bit too much and Charlie snaps, goes mad and ends
up driving a car into the front window of the town barber shop and
defecating on his neighbour's lawn. One trip to therapy later and it
transpires that all his bottled up rage has manifested itself as a
split personality called Hank and he has to keep taking pills to keep
him sedated. Shortly after this happens, he meets a down on her luck
woman called Irene (Renee Zellweger) who is in serious trouble with the
law and events conspire to send the duo on a wild cross country journey
to clear their names of murder.

To say this lends itself to some painfully low brow humour would be an
understatement and whether or not you will enjoy the movie rests
largely on what your reaction to the phrase "Jim Carrey being hit with
nun-chucks by an angry black midget" is. For those of you who prefer
his more gentle approach in The Truman Show or Man on the Moon then
this is not the film for you. If however, you howled with laughter
watching Dumb & Dumber as I did, then this should be right up your
street. Carrey, fresh off playing more restrained roles in the
previously mentioned films looks to be having a total riot letting
himself loose and his rubbery faced contortions are hilarious. Watching
him wrestling with a cow, beating himself up and getting drop kicked
down a hill is an absolute blast, the man is king of physical comedy.
Throw in some very, very funny scenarios involving rubber dildos,
albino waiters who may secretly be serial murderers and tarantulas and
you have a highly entertaining turn.

Its not all about Carrey though and some of the best moments come from
his three sons. Charlie it seems was too happy to be married to be
concerned when his wife gave birth to three black triplets and ended up
raising the boys as his own, so when the storyline properly kicks off
he has a trio of bickering homeboys for kids who all happen to be
geniuses. The dialogue between the three provides some of the
highlights of the film, especially during the scene where the boys
steal a police helicopter. It also leads to the immortal line "no
bitches after eleven." So before you all start complaining about this
being crude, offensive, low brow trash and how we should all be
watching Aguirre: Wrath of God or The Seventh Seal to really get the
best out of cinema, consider this: not all movies have to be po-faced
musings on the fates of man. Sometimes, all you really want is crude,
offensive, low brow trash and this one was so hilarious, I had to stop
the DVD three times because I was laughing so much I kept missing half
the jokes.
<|_=00=_|>
Back when I first saw the commercials for this movie, I thought it
looked pretty stupid. One day, I was at the video rental place and I
decided to rent this because I like most of the Farrely brothers
movies, and I also think Jim Carrey is hilarious. What I got was a big
surprise, a hilarious movie that looks dumb on the surface, but really
makes you laugh out loud.

In the movie, Jim Carrey plays a man with a split personality named
Hank. Hank is violent, but has some funny ideas and does some really
weird things. I don't want to spoil anything, because the comedy of
this movie should never be spoiled for anyone.

There are some good actors in this movie that help keep the movie from
becoming stupid. The advertisements did the film no justice, but you
should see this anyway because it is exceptionally funny.
<|_=00=_|>
I find it strange so many people disliked this movie. Just because a
critic dislikes a movie, doesn't mean you have to dislike it too! I'm
not suggesting it was the greatest comedy of all time, but it certainly
achieved its purpose. 

There were easily enough laughs throughout the movie to keep me
entertained, and Jim Carrey was his usual talented self. Renee
Zellweger played her part well, allowing Carrey to steal most of the
thunder. I'm not Carrey's biggest fan when he's being interviewed, but
his acting is always impressive and appropriate.

I would definitely like to see Carrey pursue a few more dramatic roles.
<|_=00=_|>
Funniest movie I have seen in a long time, wish I had seen it much
earlier. I thought I had grown tired of Jim Carrey movies. He seemed
like the same character in just about every film. True enough, I can
still see elements of the same kind of character in this film, but I
think the story is a good one. Renee Zellwegger is lovely and sexy.
There were so many funny moments in this movie, from when Jim Carrey
nurses on the lovely young mother to the very end when the three boys
leave us with "Thank you for watching our **** movie!" I actually got
all of my friends to watch this movie with me because I was so excited
about it and it's already almost 7 years old. Who knew? I guess that
just goes to show that you can't judge an actor or a movie until you've
seen it.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is made by the famous Farrelly brothers and then you can of
course expect how it is,funny from beginning to end.
This movie like all the other Farrelly movies,take up issues which most
people would find shocking.They joke about things that is so embarrassing
and funny.
I must say that I love this kind of comedy and can't wait until the next
Farrelly movie.

A great comedy that deserves a position on the top among the best of its
genre. 
<|_=00=_|>

There is probably no other movie coming out this summer that will produce
more from the gut 
laughs than Me, Myself & Irene.  Sure it's crude, sure it's vulgar and
juvenile at times, but 
sometimes we just have to take ourselves back to when we were younger and
used to laugh at 
things that we would otherwise find rather disgusting.  The main treat is to
watch Carrey 
transform from the sweet natured Charlie to the vulgar, Dirty Harry sounding
Hank.  Hank does 
things that not many people would even dream of, and it's a kick to see him
get away with some 
of them.  Equally funny are Charlie's three sons, who are highly
intelligent, love their dad and 
use a certain phrase to great effect.  Some may find this movie offensive
and occasionally funny 
at times, but I found it enjoyable from beginning to end.   A good way to
blow off steam from a 
bad day.       
<|_=00=_|>
'Me, Myself and Irene' is one of the few comedies that have a strong
repeat value as it always made me laugh every time I rewatched it. Sure
it has its share of crude humour. After all, it is a Farelly Brothers
movie but none of it bothered me (as was the case with 'There's
Something About Mary'. I just love the whole wackiness of it, the
adventurous feel, the landscapes, the comic timing, the story, the
lively soundtrack...all of it combined brings a freshness. Jim Carrey
is in his hilarious comic form. He and Zellweger form a great pair (of
course it's also known that they were dating during the film
production) and have a brilliant chemistry. Zellweger is cute and
vivacious. It was quite fun to watch Chris Cooper play the villain. the
rest of the cast (which is a lot) contribute well. 'Me, Myself and
Irene' is one of my favorite comedies, simply because it hasn't lost
its repeat value and gets me laughing out loud.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is not only the funniest film of the year (so far), but one
of the best of the year (so far). Jim Carrey's comedy antics (not seen
this good in 3 years) makes a come back thanks to the Farrelly brothers
(Dumb and Dumber, There's Something About Mary) who make their 2nd
collaboration. Here, Carrey plays a gentle police officer who gets
screwed in life so many times, he grows a new personality that is
incredibly bad. 

Carrey plays 2 characters here- 1 (Charlie Baileygates) is a little
funny, but the second (Hank) brings out one of Carrey's best
performances yet. Renee Zelwegger is a good co-star for Carrey
(coincidentally, Carrey dated Zelwegger off set just like how he dated
Lauren Holly off set of Dumb and Dumber). The best scenes include the
hilarious sex scenes, and Carrey's kids, who are straight A black guys
who curse in every other sentence and yell German at each other. Split
personality is at it's best here.
<|_=00=_|>

Great directing, great story line, great acting. Jim Carrey is brilliant in
his role as both "Hank" and "Charlie." The problem with rating any comedy
is
that what's funny for one person is repulsive, boring or stupid to the
next.
You can't please everyone---but this one definitely comes close (hence, the
above average overall rating at IMDB).
Don't miss this one!

<|_=00=_|>
OK, Jim Carrey fans, this is Jim doing some of his very best work. I
don't think anyone else could have pulled off playing Charlie
Baileygates. I was disappointed in Renee Zellweger's performance, but
I'm not really a big fan of hers. (And, for the record, I'm also not
too fond of Carrey's over-the-top style, but I pick and choose to make
sure I see him in roles I would like.) The Farrelly brothers, known for
their irreverent comedy, made this movie enjoyable and hilarious. I
don't want to spoil the movie for anyone. Just expect twists and turns
that leave you laughing. This movie is not for the faint-hearted, and
it's not for kids. (If you've never seen a Farrelly movie, you'll need
to know this!) This is not laden with "Oscar-quality" performances at
all, but just something to watch when you want to laugh and not think.
-- Movies like this are good, if that is what you're looking for. The
plot was great, and the casting (overall) was incredible. I can't get
over Charlie's family. You'll see! I find them the most fun of all.
Watch it with good friends who love to laugh -- I think we can all find
something like Charlie in all of us.
