
Whether film buffs would ever admit it or not, the original Teenage
Mutant Ninja Turtles movie is a classic film, arguably way before its
time. Although for the die-hard fans of the comic book this movie did
lack the apparent actual violence it did instead have great dramatic
scenes blended in with witty comedic lines.

With a dark tone and gritty cinematography filmed with fantastic sets
and locations around New York this 90s movie is far from something to
be pigeonholed 'just for kids' or a 'family movie'.

The aforementioned 'surfer dialogue' criticised in other reviews can be
put down to personal taste, as the majority of fans do find this lingo
both entertaining and quote-worthy. Who could forget Splinter
exclaiming "I... have always liked... COWABUNGA!!" Casey Jones is one
of the greatest characters in film for a long time and the performances
given throughout, even though can be labelled slightly b-grade, are
lovable all the same from Chief Sterns to Charles and Master Tatsu. The
angst of Raphael to the cheekiness of Michelangelo there is nothing not
to like about the characters in this movie.

The musical score is great and ranges from intense to comical - very
fitting for a movie that is exactly that in its mood, without becoming
corny unlike its follow-up films. MC Hammer creates the best songs of
his career. Shameless fun.

All of the scenes are special in different ways to different fans of
this cult classic; from Casey Jones vs Raphael in the park to the
Antique Store battle.

Extremely under-rated. One of the best comic-book adaptations ever made
and one of the defining films in a LOT of people's childhoods. A
fantastic film for anyone with direction and storyline that remains
highly enjoyable through the test of time.

Brilliant.
<|_=00=_|>

I speak out on behalf of all fans of the TMNT!

This is not a bad movie!

You might say it has no storyline but I say it's kept simplistic for
all the comic book fans. You don't want to confuse people with a
massive complex tale. No one argues with 'Enter the Dragon' having a
bad storyline!

The characters in this movie are wonderfully set up. Right from the
start we see that Raphael has issues. This anger forces him to distance
himself and in the process we feel his fury. We immerse ourselves in
the character and see how deep he can go. From woefully staring into
New York from a rooftop or letting out a frenzy upon the gang that has
literally knocked April to the ground we are getting to know the
character inside and out. This is the hero of the movie. As for the
comedic cheek of Casey Jones or the light-hearted double wisecracks of
Michaelangelo and Donatello, I'd love to see the reason behind this
movie having "no character study" as some people might say.

The action scenes are set up within the constraints of a normal fun
movie with great camera angles just dying to be put on an advert or
poster.

The turtle effects by the Jim Henson creature shop don't disappoint
even though Splinter looks like he walked straight off the set of
'Labyrinth'. The turtles are so good you shouldn't care anyway. The
animatronics are fab and the voice characterisation is well chosen.

As for the main blessing, Steve Barron has chosen a dark tone for his
movie. The original comic book would have been made proud by this
attempt at making the movie more adult than people could believe. The
crime-filled backdrops of New York make a great battleground, and the
whole mythological element that all crime is ruled by a master ninja
adds to the drama. The soundtrack couldn't be better for the beginning. 

This is a fantastic movie and horribly underrated. With so many great
elements this goes down as one of the all time great fantasy
adventures. 10 out of 10 and a cowabunga to boot!

<|_=00=_|>

I was just a little kid when I first started collecting turtle stuff,
Comics, figures, and trade cards, as well as many other things.. I remember
one day I came home to find that my mother had thrown out every action
figure and card I had, as well as most of my comics.. She replaced them with
a phone and a fish tank.. She said I was getting too old for kid toys, and
that I would grow out of them any way.. I was about 9... So when the movie
was released I was the first one there on the first day it was released to
theaters.. I collected some of the figures later on, but I never had a
collection that was even close to my first.. I have almost every cartoon
movie made on tape, several copies of all three live action movies, and this
one on DVD... I never grew out of the turtles, and I know I never will.. I
know all three movies word for word... When every one grows up, a part of
them, a big part dies, and we forget what we loved so much as children.. Our
Imagination dies, and an adult is born.. I simply refuse to let my heros
go.. While the years pass and the turtles are forgotten, they will forever
be a reminder to me of the times I could spend hours on end with nothing but
myself and my action figures that came to life right in front of me with
nothing more than my imagination....
<|_=00=_|>
I recently bought an old VHS copy of "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: The
Movie" and I must say that this movie is still great even after 14
years. Now first let me that this is the only faithful film in the
"TMNT" trilogy of movies released during the early '90s. 

This film, released at the height of "Turtlemania" in the summer of
1990, raked in $133 million at the box office, quickly making it the
highest grossing independent film of all time. That's good considering
it also faced heavy competition from another comic book adaptation that
year, "Dick Tracy," which was directed by Warren Beatty and was quite
groundbreaking, on its own terms of course.

Though the film is more in touch with the toned-down animated series of
the same title, its roots are squarely in the original comics created
by Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird. This film is violent (it DID push the
limits of its "PG" rating in some spots, especially with some intense
moments, many of which dealt with teenage crime and alienation, and
some particularly brutal fight sequences) and is quite dark and
actually kind of scary. This is by far the most mature, moving, and
tense film in the series and we should thank director Steve Barron for
making sure his vision of the Turtles did not stray off course (unlike
the sequels).

I was a huge Turtle freak growing up, and I still have many of my
original action figures and other memorabilia. I only recently
purchased Eastman and Laird's line of graphic novels from First and I
must say that they're quite excellent and they take me back to the
Turtles' roots. It is quite obvious that this line of graphic novels
served as the main source of inspiration for the film. One particularly
big difference between the comics and the film is that the literary
source material is quite violent (and not to mention very bloody in
some spots).

Many people may look at this film today (in 2004) and they might say
this film has not aged well. All I can say is that they did not have
CGI taking control of every single action sequence to make up for lack
of real stunt work. The performers inside the Turtle costumes acted
quite excellently considering what they went through to become our
four, high-kicking reptilian heroes.

I remember reading a little while back that Hong Kong director John Woo
had expressed interest in remaking the Turtles movie. I hope not for
two reasons: 1) If the Turtles were to be remade, it would most likely
be based off of the current running "TMNT" cartoon series, which is
crap and 2) The original 1990 film is fine the way it is and does not
need to be touched by the greasy hands of today's Hollywood.

"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: The Movie" is the best adaptation of the
comics so far, and I loved it. It is one of the best comic-to-film
adaptations of all time and should be preserved. "TMNT" forever!

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

I dare anyone to hate this movie.  Come on.  I triple dog dare you.  Sit in
front of the TV with a bunch of your friends and just try not to like it. 
You can't.  It's impossible.  I was a full fledged turtle fan back in the
day (I don't think the fad lasted long enough for us to earn Trekker-type
names) and of course at that point, I thought it was the Gone With the Wind
of our time.  That, obviously, it's not. But there is something just
incredibly charming about a bunch of giant turtles acting like typical
sit-com kids.  One even gets yelled out for sneaking out past curfew to see
Critters 2.  If it comes on TV, even my dad has to pause to watch at least
one fight scene.  If someone in a college dorm pops it in, legions of kids
will exclaim "Holy sh*t!  Is that Ninja Turtles?" and then plop right down
in front of the TV to watch.  You have to give a lot of credit to the guys
who made this film.  It was released in the height of the craze so they
could have thrown anything on the screen and it would have been a hit. (See
Ninja Turtles 2).  But instead, they tried to make it the best film they
could, despite the subject matter.  They came up with an almost relevant,
after school special type plot.  The jokes and references range from
Moonlighting to John Steinbeck, and the fight scenes are done in the spirit
of a Jackie Chan flick.  Add the fact that there are giant turtles doing the
fighting, and you get a funny, imaginative, and just plain likeable movie no
matter what your age.  Sure, it's about pizza loving ninja turtles.  But it
is the best movie that could ever be made about pizza loving ninja turtles. 
That has to count for something.
<|_=00=_|>

Ninja Turtles.  Anyone born in the 1980's remembers the phenomenon that
swept the country during the late 80's and early 90's.  And this movie
proves what was once a big icon fad that was the Teenage Mutant Ninja
Turtles.  This movie is well made for a kids movie, and it is my favorite
of
the series of films.  I even like this more than the TV show.  It has more
drama and action than the other parts.  And it's dark, I like that in a
kids
movie.
<|_=00=_|>

On your first read of the title, you may think "Ah...the Ninja
Turtles...kid's stuff".  That conclusion is partially understandable,
considering the fact that most people's minds drift towards the Saturday
morning cartoon show, which was made for little kids.  But if you are one of
the handful of people who remembers the original TMNT comic book and how
dark it was, you will probably think more of the name.  This live-action
version of the Teenaged Turtles reaches back into its comic book origins and
sacrifices the kiddie stuff in favor of a darker, more brooding film.  This
is the key to this movie's greatness.  It shows the Turtles how they were
meant to be shown.  The movie is still fun, though, supplying the viewer
with all the early 90's teenager slang and ass-kicking that you can squeeze
onto celuloid.  The only problem is that the whole Ninja Turtles franchise
has come with a love it or hate it tag attached to it, often times giving it
a bad rap that it really doesn't deserve.  The film is no Blade Runner or
Spiderman by any means, but it's still a great little piece of cinema that
you can just sit down with a bowl of popcorn (or maybe a pizza) and enjoy
without much thought.  Sadly, this is as good as the series gets (not that
this movie could get much better).  The sequels (TMNT 2: Secret of the Ooze
and TMNT 3) aren't really that great.  TMNT 2 lacks the gritty edge that
makes this movie good (having Vanilla Ice on the soundtrack doesn't help
much either) and TMNT 3 is obviously aimed directly for the little ones. 
This is the great little movie.  COWABUNGA!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Ah good times good times, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, one of my
favorite cartoons as a kid and I absolutely loved the comics as well.
This was such a great concept, I mean look at the title, who knew,
right? Turtles that fight crime, talk like surfers, and eat pizza, but
we bought it and rooted them on! So obviously the creators wanted to
cash in on this great story and we got the live action Teenage Mutant
Ninja Turtles. Guess what? It was awesome! This is one of my favorite
movies from the 90's, I'm in my 20's now for goodness' sake and I still
watch this. I can't help it, it's just such a fun movie and the great
thing about this movie that despite it was made more for kids, it had a
dark edge to it that it was also made for the adults as well.

April O'Neil, an investigative reporter at Channel 3 Eyewitness News,
is researching a story on a recent, immense crime wave in New York
City. She is later rescued by the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles from a
group of street thieves. As the Turtles are celebrating their victory,
an ex-hockey player called Casey Jones, having become a vigilante to
combat the crime wave, is shown beating two thieves with his sports
equipment and arguing with Raphael over the proper way to punish
criminals. The crime wave is traced by April to the Foot Clan; the Foot
Ninjas attack her and knock her unconscious, Raphael rescues he. As the
Turtles escort April back to her apartment, where they remain for some
hours, the Foot raid the Turtles' lair and kidnap Splinter. They carry
him back to their headquarters, where their master Shredder is forming
an army of corrupted, ninja-trained teenagers to build himself an
empire of crime. One of those teenagers is Danny, the son of April's
boss; having seen the Turtles at her apartment, he tells Shredder where
to find them. The Foot therefore launch a surprise attack on April's
apartment. Outnumbered and surprised, the turtles are finally defeated,
they may have lost the battle, but it's time for war to get their
Splinter back.

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles is one of those movies that just rocks
because it has awesome action sequences, fun actors, and just a great
story. I miss writing like this because it seems like more movies that
are made with superhero's for the kids now-a-days are more cheesy. This
was not made to insult anyone's intelligence, I mean, like I said
before these are pizza eating vigilante fighting talking turtles yet we
believed it. Not to mention that there is a talking rat, I know it's
kind of a weird little puppet they created, but still he's like the
Chinese Yoda that always makes a classic "funny" at just the right
time. His last scene with Splinter was short, sweet, and effective.
This is a movie I will show to my kids when I have a family one day and
will still watch with a smile on my face.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
As a new generation turns 18-20 this movie was vital for many growing
up. It WAS their Saturday morning routine. A necessary part of growing
up, The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles instilled values for a generation.
Both the movie and the TV show were key in this upcoming generation's
development and coming of age. I recently watched this movie again for
the first time in a decade, and yes it was cheesy and tacky. However,
that doesn't make it bad in anyway. There are some complex issues going
on beneath the surface here. First, this movie was released close to
the peak of crime wave that occurred across the country in the early
1990's. A city lost in crime is saved by a few of the next generation's
heroes, who are nothing more than teenagers on a quest for pizza.
Second, there is a definite connection between Splinter and Jesus when
he is nailed up to a wall and talking to his "sons". Many reading my
comments may laugh because, lets face it, the idea of the Teenage
Mutant Ninja Turtles is hilarious, but the movie spoke to a specific
generation at a specific time and as a period piece it can still be
appreciated. This was more than just a movie; it defined a generation.
Even if the movie makes no sense go with it and watch it for the
ridiculous 1990's dialogue...Its funny, enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>

Now that the TMNT craze has been over for a few years due to the dumbing
down of the original, show, the stupid live action show and lackluster
followups to the original movie, I feel I can safely comment on this movie
and not be accused of jumping on the bandwagon.  The movie is a bit
surprising, it is quite dark, there is swearing (a big no no in translating
a popular kids TV show to the big screen), and some bloody fights, well
bloody for the expected age audience.  The tone really fits the original
Eastman and Laird comic series which was excellent.  And thats great, the
last thing we need is a cheap cash-in on a popular comic.  After TMNT and
Batman what was the last good comic movie?  Maybe the Mask, the Crow, or
Blade.  So a good comic movie is very rare thing and I think TMNT deserves a
second look just because its tone was so different from what it could have
been and eventually did become in TMNT 2 and 3.  I'll be generous because I
look with nostalgic eyes, I was 7 when I first saw the movie in 1990, and
give it an 8/10.
