
Here's another example of the sequel being slightly better than the
original, at least in my humble opinion. However, the original ("Honey,
I Shrunk The Kids") was nothing super, not something you'd call a
"classic." It was "pretty good." This one is "good." 

It had more laughs and less irritating kids. There is still the stupid
teen romance, but not emphasized as much as in the first movie. The
little kid in here, who is turned into a giant, is cute and affable and
his giggle is fun to hear.

The first 40 minutes of this film are the best. It gets a little too
silly after that. At the end, Disney succumbs to the craze of the early
'90s: having a woman punch out a man. In this case, it was nice mother
(Marcia Strassman.) Give me a break!

The special-effects were okay but not totally convincing. In fairness,
it's not easy trying to produce the effects of a 100-foot child walking
down the streets of Las Vegas, but they've still come along way from
the days of "The Attack Of The 50- Foot Woman" in 1958. However, there
is still room for FX improvement.

Overall, some good laughs in the film and - with one exception -
likable characters.
<|_=00=_|>
This one is pretty good. Those who say that he runs around in a stupid
King Kong or Godzilla like fashion are wrong. Does he eat anybody? No.
Does he kill anybody? No. He is just a normal baby that has had an
accident that most babies never have. He does break things, but that
does not mean that he is a terror to society, or should be killed, or
tranquilized. Moranis is excellent as his usual "eccentric" role in all
three of these movies. Too bad the Szalinski's moved, because I liked
the Thompsons from the original. I bet they either had to move because
of Nick and Ron always at each others throats, or because Amy and
Little Russ could never be parted. But it seems like Amy has forgotten
all about Little Russ Thompson by now, because she just goes off to
college with no regrets or worries. Bridges was good as Wayne's
boss-totally different than his much earlier role as Harvey, the
deputy, in the priceless classic, High Noon.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't mind sequels, some are great like Home Alone 2 and Empire
Strikes Back, some are nothing special but can be an improvement over
their originals like Garfield 2 and others that belong in the garbage
like Home Alone 4 and NeverEnding Story 3. This sequel really isn't
that bad, at this point I don't think it belongs in either of these
categories but in a category titled "a sequel that isn't as good as the
original, but a sequel worth watching". It is very daft, even more
dafter than Honey, I Shrunk the Kids, with a very silly final 20
minutes and the pacing at this point in the film isn't as strong as it
was in the first 40 minutes, which was fun, fun, fun personified.
Still, it is very entertaining for a number of reasons. It is nicely
filmed, with a good soundtrack and some fun gags and physical comedy.
But it was the performances that made it worthwhile. Rick Moranis
reprises his role as Wayne and is immensely likable as always, and
Marcia Strassman is great as Diane. Daniel and Joshua Shalikar are very
cute as Adam, who has a nice, funny little laugh that doesn't grate,
thank goodness. The other kids give appealing performances once again,
the teen romance is evident here and is rather sappy, but hey I can
live with that. Overall, for a sequel, this is really not bad. 7/10
Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
The lovable Szalinskis are at it again. In this inferior sequel to
Honey, I Shrunk the Kids, Dad blows up his little son to the size of a
redwood. It is enjoyable enough in the beginning but after a while the
filmmakers run out of ideas about what to do with a big baby. As with
the first film, Moranis brings a lot of energy to his role and
Strassman still looks cute but the other kids and the nosy neighbors
are missed. The plot line about Moranis' wacky boss just gets out of
hand and by the time the action moves to Vegas, the whole plot becomes
tiresome. It may have helped if they had a cuter kid play Adam or if
they had him do some funnier things.
<|_=00=_|>

That affable, amiable, absent minded professor family man Wayne (Rick
Moranis) is back, but now his experiments in size are funded by a big time
company and he's a hot property. Unfortunately, his new toddler son, Adam,
is the one who gets zapped this time, but instead of shrinking, he's
turned
into a toddler of Godzilla proportions. If you thought Wayne's wife was
unhappy with Wayne shrinking their older son Nick and daughter Amy (who
only
cameos here) in the first film, just wait till you see her lose it here
when
she finds out her little boy Adam here! Now it's a race against time for
Wayne to shrink Adam back down to size before he's destroyed by an
uncaring
society, with help from his now teenage son Nick and his girlfriend, Kerri
Russell before she hit it big with "Felicity".

May strain the cuteness for some, will warm the hearts of others. Followed
by a direct to video sequel that's not even worth the price of
rental.
<|_=00=_|>
I expected some negative comments, but nearly every single one? C'mon,
it's not that bad! It's really simple, stupid and (of course)
illogical, but denying that there's no absurd comedic moments (the baby
is kind of funny!) and no funny scenarios (the teenagers being stuck in
the "toy car") seems bizarre to me.

I loved this film as a kid. There were specials on the Disney Channel
when it finally (after what seemed like forever) premiered on there,
and it was a rather neat experience for an eight year old.

In fact, I've watched this movie so many times as a kid that I've seen
it a hell of a lot more than the unquestionably superior first movie.
It was just one of those things.

Watching it now, I'll admit that the special effects can be rather
cumbersome and the lines are almost always pure cheeseball (Rick
Moranis' especially). Also, Keri Russell's work here is absolutely
terrible; after watching a lot of "Felicity," I for some reason
expected her to be at least near that quality. Not to mention the
stupid "villian" who hits the baby with some projectile; very, very
mock able.

But it's a nice little dumb movie! Who cares! It's certainly not
"sequel hell," etc etc. It's entertaining at the very least.
<|_=00=_|>
Honey I Blew Up The Kid is a decent family movie with an average story
line.The movie will definitely entertain a younger audience,but adults
watching this movie with their kids will probably be bored,although I
will say it isn't a horrible family film,its not the best,but its not
the worst.The original,Honey I Shrunk The Kids,is definitely a much
better movie for the whole family to watch.Honey I Blew Up The Kid will
appeal to very young children,but the older audience will be bored,and
fans of Honey I Shrunk The Kids will be disappointed by this sequel.

Wayne Szalinski (Rick Moranis) gets himself into another very difficult
situation when a new experiment causes his youngest child keep growing
more and more stories tall.
<|_=00=_|>

"Honey, I blew up the kid" is wildly fun.  When I first saw it back in '92,
I couldn't believe how fun the film was.  I actually prefer somewhat than
Honey, I shrunk the kids.  The characters were interesting.  The whole
relationship between Adam and Wayne was adorable and genuine.  Wayne's
character was very well developed as a clumsy genius who feels his wife
doesn't think he knows what he's doing.  And Adam himself has a great
babyish personality that I found interesting and absorbing.  This movie is a
definite must-see.  It reminds me a lot of Roland Emmerich's "Godzilla" more
than any of the other godzilla movies.  I also like how the movie doesn't
copy from the original at all.
<|_=00=_|>
After the first (successful) movie surrounding shrinkage, and being
heavily influenced by some classic sci-fi flicks of the 50's, it was
inevitable that we'd see this. Again heavily influenced by some classic
black and white sci-fi movies of the 50's, we now find the Szalinskis'
with a bigger problem. Yep its basically 'Attack of the 50 Foot Baby'
or another 'King Kong' clone/homage.

The plot: Well the title says it all really. Oh OK, set five years
after the tiny events of the first movie, the Szalinskis' now live in
Nevada. They have a new two year old son called Adam, Nick is now a
teenager and Amy has gone to college. Funnily enough Wayne (Rick
Moranis) is now working on a ray gun that will increase the size of
objects. On a routine trip to his work space at Sterling Labs, little
Adam is accidentally zapped with the ray but nothing seems to happen.
Later on at home Adam is exposed to electrical waves from the microwave
which appear to trigger the enlargement process. Slowly Adam begins to
gradually grow bigger and bigger; Wayne and Nick must now try to
reverse the process before Adam becomes a danger to himself and others.

So again the main draw here are the effects, the big breezy colourful
effects. How do they stand up? Well not too well really. OK lets start
positive, there are numerous sequences where it appears that they used
someone in a large bodysuit. In some scenes we see live action shots
Moranis with a live action giant toddler, but if you look closely this
does appear to be a very good bodysuit on an obviously tall person.
These shots are always from behind the large toddler so as not to give
the game away but they are very effective. This showcases the
innovation of the effects crew which unfortunately could only go so
far. Other than the usual oversized and undersized props, which are
always highly effective if sometimes a bit rubbery looking, much of
this movie has to rely on bluescreen and rear projection.

And this is where the movie really falls down, the terrible terrible
bluescreen/rear projection effects. The bulk of the effects are
unfortunately reliant on these techniques and alas it all stands out
like a sore thumb. There are clear brightness differences between the
live action in the foreground and projected background. Thick black
lines outline much of the effects and the colours are faded throughout.
Overall the effect is just way too obvious and really takes you out of
the movie. Heck even some of the large sets are bad looking, when Nick
and his young female counterpart are riding in Adams oversized pocket,
it just looks poor. There are some nice touches of forced perspective
in a few shots but again you can see right through them. Don't get me
wrong I give them an A for effort but clearly the effects team needed
more money or skills, many movies came out before this and looked way
better.

Other than the effects there isn't a great deal on offer here frankly.
The plot sees a clichéd company villain (John Shea) going after the
oversized Adam for his own nefarious dastardly deeds (still not
entirely sure why he gets fired by Sterling, for being mean?). This
inevitably brings about the inevitable 'King Kong' homages as they use
helicopters to try and tranquilise Adam. Lloyd Bridges pops up as
Clifford Sterling, president of the Sterling company, a company that
does...scientific type stuff. Obviously Bridges brings his own brand of
spoof-esque humour which is fine but a bit childish, yeah I know its a
kids flick but still. Moranis brings home his lovable nerdy Louis
Tulley-esque character again; complete with more outrageous inventions
which are admittedly pleasing to the eye. Nothing new really, they
reverse or mirror some scenes and dialog from the first movie.

The movie ends in Vegas which generally looks horrendous from start to
finish effects wise. The movie also becomes very stupid as they
apparently evacuate the Las Vegas strip in around five minutes. They
also manage to coordinate getting all the lights switched off down the
strip in five minutes, like all of them! No one gets hurt, nothing gets
damaged, and the way they placate Adam is vomit inducing. I guess its
all understandable seeing as its essentially a kids movie but its still
very lame, lazy and dull.

Doesn't help that the kid they use for the role of Adam is just kinda
annoying, but that's just me. I think the problem here is the over use
of an idea, the Kong sized threat. Add to that the fact its a giant
toddler which isn't particularly interesting or threatening, and of
course the fact the first movie used a less common theme which was
executed way better. Overall its all adds up to a relatively fun movie
with the odd decent moment. Its just fails to capture the magic of the
first movie; in this case miniature things are more fun I think.

5/10
<|_=00=_|>
I personally loved "Honey I Shrunk The Kids" and am a fan of Rick
Moranis's work. As most sequels are, "Honey I Blew Up The Kid" is not
nearly as good. I however still found it enjoyable. Yes, the effects
are pretty awful, but don't forget that this movie is 25 years old and
it's demographic was aimed towards children and families. 

I did enjoy getting to see Nick, who was only 11 in the first movie, as
a young teen, dealing with fitting in and relationships (much like
Amy's struggle in the first). 

One thing that I wish this sequel would have given is a little bit of
discussion on the aftermath of the kids who were shrunk in the first
movie. 

I would recommend watching this sequel if you were a fan of the first,
but also to go into it knowing it's not as good.
