
When Pocahontas originally came out, Disney's wave of recent hits came
to a crashing halt. The film was labeled as racist or at least
insensitive to Native Americans and the goodwill that Disney had
established with its audiences quickly evaporated. You could say they
have never been the same since. 

The "fearsome foursome" that is The Little Mermaid, Beauty and the
Beast, Aladdin, and the Lion King has no equal, except perhaps the last
four Pixar movies. Pocahontas is not, unfortunately in that "club" and
never will be. Disney spent the next four to five years trying to
recreate the "magic" with films like Hunchback, Hercules, Mulan, and
Tarzan. Unfortunately, none of those films had the surprise and "good
feeling" of the earlier Disney hits, and except for maybe Mulan, none
of those films, as films, were as good either. And although Pocahontas
is and was the point where the schizm occurred, in retrospect, it's a
pretty damned good movie. So what went wrong?

First, it wasn't the Lion King. They could have put out something
"safe" after the Lion King, and it still probably would have paled in
comparison to what was then a great big giant behemoth of a movie. That
movie earned over THREE HUNDRED MILLION in its theatrical run in 1994 -
not as common then as it is now - thing was a juggernaut. Pocahontas,
following on the heels of this bad boy, was not going to live up to
expectations. 

People blamed the fact that it was about PEOPLE and not animals, and
that it was based on ACTUAL history rather than a fairy tale. THEN they
blamed the fact that the history part of it was botched and that the
film's portrayal of Native Americans was at best insensitive, racist at
worst. 

I'll grant you that making Pocahontas' mentor a talking tree and having
her learn English "instantaneously" because she listened to her heart
is a wee bit ridiculous, but racist? Come on. The message of the film -
that love can conquer hate - is anything but racist and if anything,
the film shows the "Indians" in a more human light than the English,
who are their usual, stereotypical pig-headed selves. 

Here's what else is good about the movie: The SONGS. Remember 'Colors
of the Wind'? Could there be a better song about reconnecting with
nature and valuing the earth more? We NEED this song right now,
especially, with the world seemingly sliding ever more into a
consumerist "bliss," what better than to see some beautiful chick
running through the forest teaching that rugged white man how to value
LIFE? And what the hell is wrong with that I ask? 

And what about some of the other songs? The one about the RIVER BEND
and making choices - good stuff. And the whole montage ending song that
repeats SAVAGES SAVAGES BARELY EVEN HUMAN from both sides - showing
that BOTH SIDES misunderstand each other. It gives me chills when
Pocahontas is running and you see the war superimposed behind her and
she sings "HOW LOUD BEAT THE DRUMS OF WAR!" - makes me want to cry!
Don't we need this now I ask you?

But, by far the best thing about this movie is - the animation. It is
absolutely GORGEOUS. The design for this film is sumptuous, with mostly
blues and a seamless style that never gets in the way and illustrates
the action (and the feminine nature of the film) so beautifully.
Compared to the dreck that is the HUNCHBACK - that film is ugly as sin
- and the absolute HIDEOUSNESS of Hercules - the animation in that is
strictly straight-to-video, Pocahontas absolutely ROCKS. Only Mulan,
with its chirpy story and colorful style match up to the grandeur of
this one. 

While Pocahontas didn't have the grand ending that the Lion King had
(it was a downer, remember?), the story bucks tradition by making it
about people instead of animals, and its' message outweighs the
"historically inaccurate" complaint. What movie IS historically
accurate? Disney took a chance with this one and they got BURNED, which
is why they went back to doing "safe" crap like Hunchback, which tanked
anyway. They should have done the SCARLET LETTER or something like that
- really start pissing people off. How about the MARQUIS DE SADE?
There's some history for you!

Watch Pocahontas again without the weight of expectations. You'll be
surprised by how good it really is.
<|_=00=_|>

When this movie came out (in 1995), I thought : "Another one "big
stupid kiddy Disney American colonialist propaganda movie" ! Nobody
thinks no more about a love story between an Indian girl and a
colonialist ! The indians were exterminated by the colonialists ! Not
loved by them ! Everybody knows that !"

And I didn't watch such of silly movie, of course ! I'm not a stupid
man !

BUT, there's a week ago, the daughter of my sister (9 years old),
forgot that DVD in my home. I thought : "Let's see this stupidity, just
to laugh at the most ridiculous Disney's movie !"

I watched it. And I cryed. This is the best Disney's movie, and maybe
the best movie, I've ever watched !

How can you criticize it ? Have you lost your children soul ?!!

Of course, just after watched it, I thought : "Well, that's good.
Better than I thought. But that's all".

But the next day, the song of the old "mother witch" remains in my mind
! I decided to watch it again, and again. Now, I've seen this movie
about 20 times in one week. That's incredible, I think I'm a fan !!!!

For me, in general, the worst part of a Disney movie, was the songs.
I've always hated them. For the first time, I found the songs were the
best part of this movie ! I listened to every songs of this movie, and
I think, they are all good, and even, great ! Also the music ! It's an
Mozart's opera !

Graphics are good, but the editing is better ! The first encounter
between Pocahontas and Smith at the falls is a pure master-piece ! And
the movie's references are plenty ! The "3-voices song" of "savages",
reminds me the "rumbles" of "West Side Story", and the final "goodbye"
reminds me the final of Spielberg's "E.T.".

I don't know if this movie was done "for children", but I know I cry
every time I watch it ! 

Thanks for Mike Gabriel, Eric Goldberg, Alan Menken, Stephen Schwartz,
and the Disney Company to have kept their "children soul". I was wrong
and they were right. And I'm happy of that.

Well, I quit you now, I need to watch this movie again... Goodbye !
:-))

10/10 !!!!!! of course !

<|_=00=_|>

Perhaps there should have been a disclaimer at the start of the movie
saying: "Loosely based on the true story of the Indian princess" and then
there wouldn't be all this fuss about a Disney movie not sticking to
historical facts. First of all, when you go to see "Pocahontas" knowing it's
a Disney animated feature, do you really think you're going to see an
accurate depiction of events? It's not meant to be a documentary--take it
for what it is, a charming, completely enjoyable work of art with stunning
visuals, great songs (by Menken and Schwartz) and an uplifting tale that has
a message for kids and adults. What more could you want?

Definitely a must-see Disney film for the whole family. Should create an
interest for kids to learn about the actual events if they are so inclined.
As entertainment, it's top-grade Disney with a hauntingly beautiful score
that would fit well into any Broadway musical. The songs are splendid: 'Just
Around the Riverbend', 'Colors of the Wind', 'The Virginia Company' -- and
the artwork combined with the music for the gold-digging number is
outstanding. 

Belongs up there with 'Beauty and the Beast' and 'Hunchback of Notre Dame'
as one a serious film fan should not miss.
<|_=00=_|>
Well when I watched Pocahontas back in 1995 I was only 12 years old,
and I thought it was a nice movie, a bit too serious, but all in all a
good movie. But now, almost ten years later I saw it again, and wow
what a surprise I got... The movie is probably the only Disney movie
with a REAL love story, the sneak around and tries to hide their love,
and in the incredibly sad ending, they choose life over love (or
something like that), which makes the whole thing mature and realistic.
And the music, that wonderful music. "Colors of the wind" (fantastic
singing by musical star Judy Kuhn) is probably one of the best Disney
songs of all time. The other songs are great too. The only thing the
film lacks is "classic" animation, these new things like; not seeing
Pocahontas nose from the front, I dunno, I can't help thinking of this
film with the animators (and style) from "The beauty and the beast".
The voice acting is top notch by the way! I don't care that the movie
is historicly incorrect, its just a damn good Disney film, that has
crawled up to the top 5 Disney classics of all time in my book.
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't watched Pocahontas in maybe ten years, but I was feeling
nostalgic one day and popped it in. I could not believe how truly
BEAUTIFUL this movie is, in every aspect. 

MUSIC: Aside from the songs everyone knows (Just Around the River Bend
and Colors of the Wind) every single other song in the film is
wonderful, with soaring harmonies and Broadway quality singing.
Everything was masterfully written and executed. The music alone is
reason enough for this to be adapted into a full out Broadway musical,
but don't worry...the music is brilliant but it doesn't scream
"MUSICAL!" like Hairspray or Mamma Mia.

ANIMATION: Drop. Dead. Gorgeous. Every single frame is such wonderful
eye candy, and the camera work serves the sweeping storyline extremely
well.

STORY: Dramatic (with it's humorous moments of course), romantic, and
it carries a very important message of peace, maturity, and fighting
against ignorance and prejudice from BOTH sides. This is possibly the
Disney movie with the greatest message for kids.

HISTORIC ACCURACY: Yes, Disney changed the true story quite a bit, but
if you look to Disney for accurate re-tellings of historical events you
have a serious PROBLEM. This movie is more 'Inspired by' than 'Based
on' and since the true story is about a 13-14 year old falling in love
with 30-40 year I think we can all appreciate that they took some
liberties with a KIDS' MOVIE.

All in all, I really don't get why this isn't revered as a classic
right along with The Lion King and Beauty and the Beast.
<|_=00=_|>
Recently I started watching this again with my 4yr old son and fell in
love with it all over again! The music is outstanding (I especially
love the "Colors of the Wind") and the entire movie is a visual treat!
I know many have complained that the movie is a European version of an
event and demeaning to American Indians, but from what I've read,
Russel Means (voice of Powhatan) was happy with the final product and
its portrayal of Native Americans. Whether or not it is historically
accurate, it is great entertainment and I believe the overall message
of peace and acceptance between peoples is timeless good advice. All in
all, a great addition to the Disney catalog of movies.
<|_=00=_|>
This is by far the most under-rated Disney movie of all time. Sure it
wasn't perfect, but it is MUCH better than a 5.6.

The story is absolutely engrossing. There are so many good and
realistic things going on... a man learning about all the little things
he has missed in life, an Indian princess striving for adventure and
guidance amongst her steady and safe society, and a full-blown war
between civilizations who both believe that the other is made of
savages. I appreciate that this story is a realistic depiction of war,
with two disagreeing sides, neither of which is necessarily right or
wrong.

The animation in this movie is absolutely spectacular. And it is
spectacular in the best way: with a basis in cinematography. The
animation is not only spectacular because of the details in the
backgrounds and the characters, but even more so because of how
beautifully it is used. Scenes such as when Pocahontas and John meet in
the mist are the kind of simple beauty that more movies need. When you
hear the song "Listen With Your Heart", you can practically feel the
breath of the surrounding forest. Fantastic stuff.

Another big high point is the music. Everyone's heard the show-stopping
"Colors of the Wind", but the others are worthy of praise as well.
"Steady as the Beating Drum", "Just Around the River Bend", "Savages",
"Listen With Your Heart", "Mine, Mine, Mine", and the deleted "If I
Never Knew You" ALL fit perfectly. Musically, this movie is on par with
Aladdin, The Little Mermaid, and The Hunchback of Notre Dame, and just
a tick behind "Beauty and the Beast" and "The Lion King".

So if all these things are good, why only an 8? Two words... the
ending. Everything leading up to it is so engrossing, and "Savages"
builds up such an intense conflict drama, and everything is falling
apart. This was the chance for Disney to turn this movie into a
classic, and with what had to happen, they easily could have. But they
completely failed. After "Savages", the scene that should have been the
most intense and dramatic climax in their history ended almost
instantly. It was too fast, there was almost no drama like their should
have been, and the dialog was awful... captured none of the epic feel
that it should have. Such a shame that such a great film was wrecked by
such a horribly executed ending.

I also wasn't a fan of the constant distractions of the animal
sidekicks, and of course there are the matters of historical accuracy
and non-stereotypical depiction of the Indians, but as an avid
animation fan I was willing to overlook these issues and give it a
chance to be a good film in a non-contexted world. Some may be put off
by this, but since when have animated films been historically accurate?
So, honestly, those who are put off by things like "People in the
dynasty when Mulan lived weren't praying to ancestors yet" should
probably not expect to like this movie.

Out-of-context, I give it an 8/10 because everything up till the ending
was completely magical, and had some of the best moments in all of
Disney history, but the ending fell flat. I still want to watch it over
and over again, because the rest of the movie really was fantastic.
With a proper dramatic ending, I really do think that it could have
been nominated for "Best Picture" like the Disney people thought it
would. As is, it's a great entry into the animated classics canon.
Definitely recommended even though it falls well short of the greatness
achieved by the early 90's films.
<|_=00=_|>
What can I say... When I was a kid, I didn't like Pocahontas. In fact,
I was disappointed with this movie. Because, to me, they HAD to be
happy ever after! The years have passed, and I'm 19, and I felt really
stupid because I didn't like this movie. Oh my god. This movie wasn't
made for children, It was made for grow ups. It's language... a child
would never understand the message. A child would just enjoy the
animation, Meeko and the songs. When I saw that movie again, 2 years
ago, I understood why they couldn't be together, I understood the
message of the songs and I understood the fact that this movie is one
of the most brilliants animations crated. When I saw "Colors of the
wind" I cried. When I heard "Savages!" I got chills. How Disney did
that? Kids, don't watch this movie. Grow-ups, GO NOW AND WATCH. This
movie teaches values that this world forgot, and we need more movies
like that. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
During the famed "Disney Renaissance", a period that started in 1989
with the release of The Little Mermaid and continued through the entire
1990s, Disney was creating modern classics with every film they
released. In the midst of this revolution came Pocahontas, a rousing
animated musical, directed by Mike Gabriel and Eric Goldberg.
Pocahontas is something of an outlier in the Disney cannon. It is not a
cutesy, kid-centric fairy tale a la Disney classics like Snow White and
the Seven Dwarfs or Beauty and the Beast. What Disney's 33rd animated
feature is, is a sensational movie musical, and one of Disney's most
technically accomplished works.

Pocahontas, in typical Disney style, takes a well-known tale and molds
it into an easy-to-digest story set to music. In this case, for the
first time at Disney, the story is not entirely fictional. Here's where
some people come down on Pocahontas. No, it didn't stay completely true
to what really happened with John Smith and the real story of
Pocahontas, but it would be a much lesser movie if it had. Pocahontas,
the movie, is based on the legend of Pocahontas rather than the
reality. The decision to romanticize the legend is a no-brainer. This
is Disney after all. We expect strong archetypes and accessible drama.

The story begins with English settlers setting off for Virginia. Their
leader, Governor Ratcliffe (David Ogden Stiers) comes in search of
gold, John Smith (Mel Gibson) comes for the adventure of a lifetime.
Back on the New World is Pocahontas, a young Algonquin princess voiced
by Irene Bedard, who is set to be married to the tribe's dashing
bachelor, Kocoum. It's all very predictable Disney stuff. The settlers
are mostly just boisterous, gold-lusting, brutes, The princess is weary
of getting together with the jock character, and there's only one man
who understands her. We've heard it before. Even so, the story is
handled with care and the familiar elements are welcome for the most
part. The unfamiliar elements, chief of which is a surprisingly mature
and complex love story between John Smith and Pocahontas, are where
Pocahontas' plot stands out from its Disney siblings. There is more to
this film than surface layer romance. Complimenting the dramatic story
of betrayal and acceptance is a poignant message about coexisting
peacefully with each other and the world around us.

The story is as moving as any other Disney classic, but what makes
Pocahontas a notable Disney Renaissance landmark is its animation and
music. Hand drawn animation had been around for a half century before
Pocahontas, and stage musicals a hundred years before that. It's a
wonder then, that somehow Pocahontas still manages to be a jaw-dropping
example of both. I don't think the film gets the credit it deserves as
one of Disney's best drawn films. The animators, led by the legendary
Glen Keane, do things with animation that were game-changing, even by
the high standard set by the world's leading animation studio. The
character designs are expertly idealized, accentuating facial features
and movement without ever crossing the line into cartoon. The
backgrounds are even better. The untouched beauty of the American
landscape is given scale, depth, and an expressionistic dynamism. It
all comes together in the musical numbers. 

Music is always a matter of taste, but for me, every song down the line
in Pocahontas worked in a big way. I honestly cannot think of another
musical that can make that claim. Every musical, animated or otherwise,
has at least one dud. It's a rule. Pocahontas breaks tradition. The
rhythmic "Just Around the Riverbend", the wonderfully wicked "Mine,
Mine, Mine", and the grand, Oscar-winning spectacle that is "Colors of
the Wind" are all rousing, bombastic, and sweeping pieces of music. The
songs are up to the quality of the very best Broadway musicals, and the
animation only improves the numbers. The explosively vivid colors and
spacious movement that go along with the songs are artistry of the
highest kind.

There is a surplus of talent and passion in every fiber of Pocahontas.
When all the pieces come together, the story, the animation, and the
music, Pocahontas is remarkable. It's a film of craftsmanship and
quality. While kids will no doubt enjoy it, it's not made "for" kids.
Like the best Disney movies, Pocahontas appeals to anyone who loves
music and appreciates the warm touch of hand drawn animation. Add to
the sights and sounds, some of which were enough to literally take my
breath away from me, a timeless message of acceptance and stewardship
of nature, and what you get is a classic, Disney or otherwise. Show
this movie to your kids, watch it yourself, just see it. Pocahontas is
in a word... Beautiful.

92/100
<|_=00=_|>
I read the poster's comments (the one from Paris) and had to laugh,
because I completely understand him. I went away for school in Europe
in '95 when the film came out, and when I came back Pocahontas was the
rage. You know, the way all Disney films were back then-there were
commercials, songs on the radio, stuffed animals, etc....until the NEXT
Disney movie came to dwarf it until a lame sequel or TV series came
out. So let me tell you, I was skeptical about Pocahontas. 

I saw this a year after it came out and instantly fell in love with it.
It's a mature Disney animated feature- (in my opinion) even more mature
than Japanime films I have seen. The love story seems very real-there
is a sort of chemistry between the leads that you can feel.

The soundtrack is one of my favourite parts about the movie. Every song
matches perfectly with the spirit of the time and place..a new world in
the 1600's.

Finally..whoever had the idea to cast Mel Gibson(and Christian Bale) is
a genius. Love those voices!

One aspect of this movie often overlooked is its dreamy editing. It is
so consistent throughout and rivals many critically acclaimed films
with great editing.

See it again, and remember: "You can own the earth and still, all
you'll own is Earth until you can paint with all the colors of the
wind."
