
Indeed Mark Wahlberg is a bit cack in most of his films, but The Big
Hit is a masterpiece of comedy. The action is fun, but is not meant to
be taken seriously. I think that some people might have watched this
film expecting a standard action film, in which case I can understand
their disappointment. It's just good fun and Lou Diamond Phillips is
brilliant. His over-the-top performance is perfect and is something
I'll never forget.

The Big Hit is one of those films where you either get it or you don't.
If you don't then I can understand how it might seem a bit
two-dimensional. However, anyone who hasn't seen it should take a
chance.
<|_=00=_|>

I had absolutely no idea that this movie was supposed to be a silly,
spoofy
action film when I saw it at the theater.  The first 10 minutes makes this
perfectly clear.  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie for just being "guilty
pleasure" escapist entertainment.  Yes the movie is silly and corny - but
that was the intent of the film.

Its more than understandable that this movie isn't for everybody, either
you
love it or hate it.  However, if you watched the movie and took it
seriously
(ie the breakdancing during the first 'hit'), then you definitely missed
the
point.  8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is about a day in the life of a hit man played by actor Mark
Whalberg. Melvin (Mark Whalberg) has good life thanks to his talent as
a hit man, but has very working class mentality going about his life.
But none of the girls he associates with shares his work ethics, but
just sees him as a cash cow, and a guy to dump all their troubles on
to, until Cisco (Lou Diamond Phillips) kidnaps a Japanese mogul Jiro's
(Sab Nishi) daughter Keiko (China Chow) and dumps her on to his lap.
Keiko is the first to sympathize with Melvin and hits it off with him.

There are three stories going on simultaneously in this movie: One with
Cisco and his boss Paris (Avery Brooks) who's a friend of Jiro's and
wants the guy who kidnapped Keiko dead (not knowing that it's actually
Cisco who did it). Second with Melvin's girl friend Pam (Christina
Applegate) who's Jewish, and has a mother who is against her marrying
this Irish Catholic guy. Third with Melvin and Keiko who's being kept
at his house. All three converge at Melvin's house at lunch, and
pandemonium breaks loose.

The story line is one of the most original, and is a feel good movie
'90s style where the under dog anti-hero gets the good he deserves in
the end. The riot is seeing all the other materialistic people around
Melvin all trying to take advantage of him showing how nice of a guy he
is despite his choice of profession.

Was this movie great ? Yes !! And is highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

You must not think of this movie as a pure action movie,because it is not
ment to be.
This is one of the best action/comedys that are ever made.
It mixes the humor with the action so well and the story is just plain
nuts.The movie takes new directions all the time and it never stops to
surprise you.
The main characters gets involved in the most redicolues dilemmas you have
ever seen and I guarantee that you will laugh many times.This movie also has
some very violent scenes and some bad language.So it is not for
kids.
In the main roles you will find  Mark Wahlberg,Christina Applegate and Lou
Diamond Phillips which is my best friend Ole Martin's favourite
actor.

So if you are looking for a laugh and some great action then this is the
movie for you.
  


<|_=00=_|>
Watch Melvin Smiley's more than complicated life erupt in chaos. His
fiancée's parents are coming for a visit, his (other!) girlfriend is to
blame that he's kind of out of money, he really ought to return the
tape of King Kong Lives... On top of all that, Melvin soon gets
problems of an even worse kind. A professional hit-man, Melvin suddenly
finds himself in terrible danger of getting killed by his own
co-workers when a kidnapping turns out to have been a bad idea.

It's crazy. Exaggerated, chaotic, full of somehow weird characters,
often unrealistic action scenes, fun. I'm surprised this movie is so
little known, and I am even more surprised that so many people hate it.
Sure, if you expect a serious, realistic action movie, The Big Hit
isn't the movie for you. You really need a sense of humour for this.
Expect an action comedy, almost a parody, and you'll be entertained for
sure.
<|_=00=_|>

Mark Wahlberg portrays Melvin, a professional hit man whose financial
problems make him a reluctant partner in crime in a kidnapping scheme.
Melvin's closest associate, Cisco (Lou Diamond Phillips) plots to kidnap the
daughter (China Chow) of a wealthy foreign film maker (Sab Shimono) and
demand a huge ransom in the process that will help all of their financial
positions. What originally seemed like the perfect crime soon turns deadly
when their boss (Avery Brooks) who also just happens to be the godfather of
the kidnappee finds out about their scheme. In an effort to save his own
skin, Cisco pins the entire thing on Melvin. Now Melvin is running (and
gunning) for his life from a squad of deadly hit men as well as the power
hungry Cisco. In the process, he also begins falling for the beautiful
kidnap victim (only in the movies, folks). Sure, the film is hokey at times
but it makes up for that with an abundance of gripping action scenes and
hilarious comedy. 
<|_=00=_|>

When a group of hitmen kidnap the goddchild of their boss all hell breaks
loose.

This is plot for this awesome comedy/action thriller starring Mark Wahlberg,
Christina Applegate and Antonia Sabato, Jnr.

This is a high-octane comedic look at hitmen - and what would happen if you
double-crossed your boss. Turn up the sound on this one, sit back, and be
amazed.

It's movies like this that show how good an actor Mark Wahlberg really is.
8.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
There are some movies that you just watch to relax and enjoy some great
one-liners, and some movies you watch for the hilarious plot. This is
one of both of those types of movies. A situational dark comedy, watch
this one when you just want entertainment that makes you laugh. This is
the story of a hit-man who is trying to get ahead by doing the dirty
work all of his friends create. Turns out he is very talented at what
he does. If you would like to see Mark Wahlberg in an early role, I'd
recommend this one. He plays the straight-man so well. The characters
are so well-casted. I enjoyed the humor. To like this one, you can't
take life too seriously. If you've ever seen "Lock, Stock and Two
Smoking Barrels", this has similar humor, but it's like "L, S and TSB"
on Prozac. Tame enough for most of your friends, but still funny enough
to get a belly-laugh. I bought it sight-unseen and have been very happy
with it!
<|_=00=_|>

Wahlberg plays a contract killer who wants no more than to be liked in "The
Big Hit"; a solid three star flick which features good action, stunts, pyro,
CGI, camera work, etc. Protag Wahlberg  juggles two difficult girl friends,
a double cross, and a cute kidnapee (Chow) with the demands of his
profession in this not-to-be-taken-seriously film with a spritz of romance.
A fun and kinetic watch for those into the crime/action/comedy/romance genre
mix. (B-)
<|_=00=_|>
When you watch this movie,you can't return it to the videostore because
it's great.This is an action comedy and it will laugh you to death.
There is enough action and humor in this movie,and great actors but
still,...I don't know what but there something missing.If you see Pulp
Fiction,you will know what I'm talking about.

Melvin Smiley, a successful young hit-man, is living a normal all-day
life for his Jewish fiancé Pam, but kills for money in Paris'
organization. In addition, he has a relationship with a beauty from the
neighborhood and gets bothered by a pimply video store guy, because he
did not return "King Kong Lives" for two weeks. He and his three
teammates Cisco, Crunch and Vince one day decide to kidnap the daughter
of super-rich businessman Jiro Nishi - off the record. What they do not
know, is that Jiro just went completely bankrupt due to a successes
movie production, and, even worse, that his daughter Keiko is the
god-daughter of Paris, the boss of the kidnappers. He and his men are
now searching for the kidnappers in order to grind them up properly.
Meanwhile, handcuffed Keiko falls in love with killer Melvin while both
preparing a kosher meal in order to satisfy Pam's visiting parents, who
are out of the house with Pam - with a body in the trunk.

And when I remember of Christina Applegate,...Mmmmmmmmmmmm! I would
rather recommend you Pulp Fiction,because it's more funnier and more
tens than this film!But you must see this one too!
