
The real story of Columbus is an adventure story with plenty of plot
twists and interesting characters. So there was no need to fabricate
history in this film. We have Columbus' journals that tell us what
happened when he landed in the new world and the events that followed.
This film set an agenda to make Columbus out to be a visionary who
against the odds made good and the only problem was that everyone else
didn't have his insight. Ridiculous! Columbus did something quite
amazing in sailing to the new world but that doesn't mean that he
didn't have serious flaws. For one, in the film he speaks about a "New
World" but Columbus died believing he actually had found a passage to
Asia so for him there was nothing new about it. The first encounter
with the natives is also ridiculous in the film. In Columbus' journal
we see that naked villagers came out onto the beach and that Columbus
claimed the land for Spain and then took out his sword and tested the
natives' knowledge of weapons. They had none and Columbus actually cut
them. In the movie, Columbus is just walking through the jungle and he
is approached by hostile natives ready to fire their arrows at him. He
tells his men who are about to open fire to stop and that they must act
peacefully. So Columbus becomes the peacemaker when in reality the
natives were peaceful and he drew his sword on them. There are tons of
these moments in the movie that make this movie a joke in terms of
history. If directors are going to use real historical figures they
need to represent them accurately. If they want to imagine or reimagine
the colonial experience then they should use fictional characters.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1992, the 500th anniversary of Columbus's arrival in the New World
was marked with a deluge of movies, documentaries and T.V. dramas. Not
only is this the best of those commemorative re-tellings, it is also a
lesson in how good historical movies should be made. Ridley Scott's
direction and Gerard Depardu's leading performance gives us a genuine
feeling of what must have faced Columbus and his crew as they set off
on a voyage that, in their time, was more dangerous than space travel.
This movie does more than tell their story however. It recreates an
epoch in a way that few other historical dramas ever have. Fifteenth
century Spain is every bit as vivid as the unchartered jungles of Latin
America. And it is a testament to Scott's skill as a director that he
beautifully contrasts the splendor of Queen Isabella's court with the
insect infested, monsoon ridden "New World". And yet we also see that
while the hand of civilization has made Isabella's Spain so
resplendent, it has also tainted it with corruption. No such corruption
exists in the virgin forests of San Slavador. Not until the European's
arrive that is.

Every single scene in this film is loaded with symbolism. Behind the
dialog and interaction of characters, there is an abundant subtext that
just craves to be explored. It is a film that you come to appreciate
the more times you see it and come to understand better, the older you
grow. Critics have been unenthusiastic and even dismissive of it. Don't
dare listen to them until you have watched it at least three times
yourself. It would also be careless of me to comment on this film
without mentioning the brilliant score by Vangellis. Hovering between
the atmospheric and the pure scary, it blends with the general aura of
the film brilliantly. Pure magic.
<|_=00=_|>

I think this movie got a score it doesn't deserve. First of all the story
is
about an adventurer who discovered America and who was rejected the honour
for his efforts, it is all in the movie. It shows how Columbus went from
being a hero to a nobody, it was his sons who had to fight for his honor
after his death. The movie really presents this perfectly, all from
Columbus' dreams until after he discovered America, got mocked and became
a
laughing stock. So this is not the typical hero movie you have seen, but
it
is rather true to its real story, at least as true as you can get in a
movie
lasting 2 hours from a story which goes over a period of 30 years out of
an
extraordinary man's life. The other movie made the same year about
Columbus
was more the typical hero movie, where it ended when Columbus discovered
America. And the music in this movie is so good, it catches the moods in
this movie so great, this music is as perfect to its story as the music in
2001. I want to recommend people to see this movie again and this time
with
another view, and try to remember what their seeing.


<|_=00=_|>
1492 casts a long shadow over my filmgoing life. It is one of the first
films I remember seeing where I started thinking of all the activity
that went into making a film. My young mind did not process a lot of
the plot - and in retrospect I can partly blame the makers of this film
- but I did notice shots, sounds, music. Perhaps the music more than
anything.

So fast-forward a decade and a half at least... 1492 was massive in
Europe when it came out. Ridley Scott, director of Alien, Legend and
Blade Runner, was telling the story of Christopher Columbus, starring
the venerable Gerard Depardieu, all to a score by Vangelis which flew
off the shelves faster than any film score since, well, Blade Runner.
What did they have to show for it.

We know the story, or we think we do: Columbus, an Italian immigrant,
gets a grant from Queen Isabella of Spain to map a shorter route to
India, sailing West. What he discovers is a whole new world, the
Caribbean islands. But the "new world" experiment fails badly and
before long utopia becomes a stage for jealousy, manipulation,
superstition and even genocide. 

It took several studios to co-finance this massive undertaking, based
on a screenplay by journalist Rose Bosch. Supposedly, Scott immediately
had his sights set on Depardieu, which paradoxically leads us to both
the film's greatest asset and liability.

Depardieu exudes a very un-Hollywood brand of charisma: grounded,
vulnerable, but also prone to hardness and anger. His Columbus is a
tragic idealist, likable even when carried away by his own arrogance.
It's hard to imagine anyone else in the role. It is a pity then that
his English was nowhere near good enough to carry the film.

For many years, I had been warned and had only seen the film dubbed in
my native French (it did help that Depardieu dubbed himself, as did
supporting actor Tcheky Karyo), but upon seeing the film "as intended"
I was simply baffled. This, coupled with a script that leaves a few
motivations unexplained and sometimes gets bogged down, severely
undermines a film that is otherwise brimming with first-rate
craftsmanship.

Despite the odd heavy-handed use of orange gradient filters recalling
the younger Scott brother's feature-length Air Force commercial, the
film is littered with unforgettable imagery. Vangelis' music, though
even more effective listened to on its own, plunges you headfirst into
another world, one of infinite possibilities.

The net result is a very imperfect film, but as an exercise in
world-creation, an admitted Ridley Scott hobby, you'l be hard pressed
to find its equal.
<|_=00=_|>
Ridley Scott's masterpiece, 1492: A Conquest of Paradise, is a visually
compelling film and well acted. Those who gave low viewer ratings in
the viewer comments obviously do not see the beauty of epic films.
Epics are supposed to be kind of lengthy. It is, to me, the best
depiction of Columbus I have ever seen. True, the lead actor is a
Frenchman, but if you set that aside you can see that he looks and acts
like what one would picture Columbus to be. Durring the sailing scenes
it almost made you feel as though you were sailing along with Columbus.
I think that the people who are down on the historical accuracies and
"inaccuracies" of this film do not cease to realize that Columbus was
out for more than spices from India but also a conquest to spread the
Gospel to the people of the Far East. The other inaccuracies of the
film have only been brought to light years after the films release.
They discovered that Columbus was probably not from Genova.
<|_=00=_|>

Simply an amazing look into the life of Christopher Columbus. We discover
who he was, what made him tick, we see what he accomplished and how it
really backfired on him. This film shows us largely what Columbus had to do
to accomplish his discovery of the New World. It shows us that Columbus
didn't know where he would wind up, some thought that they would fall off
the edge of the world. Columbus didn't seem to think so, he already knew
that the world was probably round. What he did not know was that they were
not venturing on a new found, easy way to the Asian continent. Instead they
were headed to an unfamiliar place, a place full of surprises, wonder and
beauty. A gorgeous, lush, tropical, plant filled paradise. The scene where
Columbus comes in contact with a new kind of people, the Indians, is simply
well filmed and photographed. That scene captured the surprise Columbus had
when he discovered that he was merely just a guest, in a foreign place.
Somebody already intruding on a land that has already been conquered, by the
Indians who inhabit Columbus's dream. It soon turns into his own nightmare,
as he trys to accomplish his dream and the natives rebel against him and his
men. Near the end of the film a hurricane hit's his New World, basically
surprising him and shattering his dreams. Even before the hurricane the film
demonstrates to us that his dream was already being ruined. Moxica a spanish
nobleman who tallied along with Columbus on his second voyage back to the
New World, basically causes havoc for him there. As a result, there are wars
and battles that brew, murder, Indians become his slaves, everything falls
apart for Columbus. The film not only captures the essence of Columbus's
hardtimes, but it also captures some of the remarkable things he did
accomplish. Like the raising of a bell in the New World, his first voyage
through the vast Atlantic Ocean, his friendship with an Indian native named
Utapan, the love he had for his wife and his kids. This film is a special
film with excellent performances from Gerard Depardieu who plays the man
Columbus. Also the supporting cast is great (Sigourney Weaver, Michael
Wincott, Armand Assante, Fernando Rey, Tcheky Karyo). Ridley Scott who
directed Gladiator, Blade Runner, Alien, Thelma and Louise, hit's a home run
here and wins. Vangelis's musical score is excellent and adds an extra sense
of wonder, to a film that is already full of it.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a great film, I really enjoyed watching it. We watched a small
amount at school, and I just had to go out and borrow the video to watch it
all. Gérard did a great job of playing Christopher Columbus, this film is
also very informative and I did learn from it.
I would recommend that everyone go and get this film on video and watch
it.

<|_=00=_|>
As an avid historical buff I definitely consider this film a must see.

Unlike other film which are simply based on history, Conquest was more
realistic than others. In most aspects anyway. I will discuss to some
degree where I feel that "artistic license" was used.

The scene where victims of the inquisition, were executed many of them
Jews was quite accurate. Contrary to popular belief, most were
strangled before set on fire. The film showed that in detail.

The encounter with the natives took place on the beach according to
most accounts, not inland as in the film , This is one of the first
inaccuracies.

Another inaccuracy was that Sanchez , brilliantly portrayed by Armand
Assante. According to histirical texts went on the voyage. His
assignment to safeguard th e Spanish crown's share of any riches
seized. another historical inaccuracy.

Later came the Moxica character portrays by Michael Wincott. He cut of
the arm of a native who hadn't found any gold. This was very accurate
the natives were given quotas of gold the had to find and give to the
Spaniards as tribute. Those who didn't comply were often mutilated.
Also many of the early colonists rose in rebellion against Columbus.

But the most profound dialogue in the entire movie was when Friar Rojas
mentioned to Sanchez, referring to Columbus " what a waste of a life"
Sanchez replies " If either of our names are ever remembered it will
only be because of his" A must see for anyone who appreciates history.
<|_=00=_|>

I have rarely seen a big budget historical film filled with so many
inaccuracies. One would think that a film of that caliber could have hired
a
writer who would have known that Columbus left Hispaniola with only two
ships, since the Sta. Maria was destroyed. The film shows 3 ships
departing.
There is never a mention of a third or fourth voyage, nor of the discovery
of Terra Firme. Further, there is not a single mention of the name
Hispaniola (or La Española) in the film. The dramatic scene of landfall at
Guanahaní is ruined by the appearance of the island. Watling Island is low
and scrub covered, not hilly and forested. The birds on the island and the
fauna are more proper of Costa Rica. The scene of the death of a
crewmember
from a snake bite is a comical sham. Not only were are there no poisonous
snakes in the Caribbean, there are no snakes at all on Watling. The budget
of the film could have bought a lot more! What a waste...
<|_=00=_|>
I first saw this movie in 1992 after hearing that I had missed
something special from a friend who did see it in the theater. As one
always interested in history since childhood, I looked into the history
portrayed in this excellent film. Actually, it is adopted from
Columbus's son's own memoirs and what is factually known. Columbus did
strike out to find Asia, we all know that. But he actually did become
idealistic and wish to create a New World for those weary of the old -
and many were. This theme continued right into the development of the
U.S., which may (or may not) be the best example of that intention.
What many do not realize is how much this history intersects with the
Knights Templar's search for a place to headquarter permanently after
loosing it's hold in Europe in 1307-14. Sound crazy? Check the details!
In Spain, the Templars were converted into an order called "Knights of
Christ" and retained that famous cross that everyone is familiar with
as present on the Santa Maria, but with no understanding. Prince Henry
the Navigator was one and Columbus was made one. There is new (old)
evidence that French Templars who settled in Scotland after 1314 made
it to what is now Rhode Island (two archaeological evidences exist
there, as well as evidence in Scotland). Some theorize (and this is
much more theory than the aforementioned) that the hole on Oak Island
was a stash created by the French Templars of the mysterious treasury
that never has quite been accounted for and has given rise to numerous
theories of Templars treasures in France and elsewhere. (Even the book
- The Da Vinci Code utilizes parts of this foil in its plot). If you
traced it truly, the diligent researcher will find that the Templars
had its continuance as the Freemasonic brotherhood. The U.S. was
founded by intention by French, American, and yes, British Masons. A
strange coincidence? What has this to do with Columbus? Am I way off
the subject. Well, no,... I would argue. That this movie is a visual
and auditory masterpiece is without question. That the acting is
everywhere from adequate to brilliant, (yes, who could play Moxica
better, and how can anyone seeing this movie in English be so arrogant
to complain that Depardieu has a French accent??) Columbus used the
plans of Da Vinci (is a light going on?) for an ideal city for his
ideal New World. That he had problems with his ideals becoming reality
is more than commonplace for anyone who has tried to do something
extraordinary, but especially when power is involved. His plan had to
fail, even the weather was against it. No one in Europe understood
hurricanes then.

I could go on, but there are dozens of points of historical discussion
that this film prompts, including a thorough study of the Roman
Catholic Church, the Reformation, the history of "Witch Trials"
anti-Semitism in Europe, The Thirty Year War and the Wars of Religion,
The Age of Reason, the rise of Science, etc., etc., etc! What a film
packed with potential historical departures this is!! I pity those who
miss all this richness.

When I read such negative reviews by those who claim the history is all
wrong, I wonder what stereotype of history they think they were taught.
It is no surprise to me that they seem to think the scene with the
orange was about an orange! They didn't pay attention to this film long
enough to understand the simplest scene! I gather they don't really pay
much attention to history either, but have popular historical
assumptions that they have been fed or imagined. This is a film that
ought to be shown in every classroom in the New World as well as
Europe, if nowhere else. And for those who claim they were bored - rent
an Arnold shoot-em up and stay home during elections, your opinion is
just that valuable.
