

I thoroughly enjoyed the movie 'Basquiat'. It is a subtle portrayal of a
complex character, beautifully acted by Jeffrey Wright. It would have been
easy for the film-makers to go over board with this movie. Basquiat sure
did
have the character to allow that. And the fact they didn't feel the need
to
do that, is why I like this movie so much. It'd been easy to concentrate
more on the drug taking, on his immense paranoia, and on his lively
lifestyle that went beyond Andy Warhol and Madonna. And doing that would
have probably got the movie more hype, attention and plaudits. Instead the
makers of this movie just give glimpses of his life and merely suggest a
whole lot more, and this works well. It's a movie that goes along more at
a
stroll than a run, and grows in stature and depth as it does so.

But, the 'problem' if you can call it that, with 'Basquiat' is that you
need
to know this man's art, and this man's character to really enjoy and
appreciate this movie. And that's why I think it maybe doesn't get the
sympathetic reviews or attention it deserves. If you didn't know about
this
man's life before seeing the movie, then I don't know what you could take
from the film.  And if you watch it without knowing about him and his art,
then I can imagine it wouldn't really hit the mark.

What makes this movie beautiful in it's subtlety is that it does great
justice to the wonderful talent and nature of Jean Michel Basquiat. And if
you love his art, then do watch this movie, it's well worth it.

9/10

<|_=00=_|>
of Jean Michel Basquiat and the art world of the 80's. Granted, the
film is a bit abstruse, and some viewers have complained about the
music tracks (actually Basquiat's own music from his band); but it does
serve to show the disaffected life of an artist, who seemed to gain
fame, money, and fair-weather friends, despite himself.

Jeffrey Wright is very understated, but believable as Basquiat.
Apparently he and his father were estranged, until he became famous.
Then everyone wanted something from him. Not just another story of fame
and its vices, however; because the film does NOT show his life as
glamorous, indeed once he has "made it" we still see him dining at
Lutece, people critiquing, being unaccepting of him as a person.
Perhaps in real life this was one of the sources of his insecurities,
and reason for his drug addiction. Certainly, if one believes even half
of what is written about the NY art world- it cannot have been a
forgiving place.

That aside, the film also has some interesting cameos, David Bowie as
Warhol is excellent, Dennis Hopper as the Zurich art dealer, Bruno
Bischofsburger is very believable. An amusing cameo with Christopher
Walken as a James Lipton character; a pretentious interviewer. The only
annoying performance was Parker Posey, as gallery owner Mary Boone, who
perhaps portrayed this person too close to the mark.

Keeping in mind that Basquiat was under age 30 when he died, this story
is credible. An artist who rose too fast, was used and discarded-
apparently in real life Basquiat had a tendency to be generous, and
gave away many of his paintings. There is one scene where he is beaten
up so two street people can take steal a "SAMO" inscription on a piece
of metal.

The visuals are also noteworthy, while an earlier review critiqued the
surfboarding sequence, I find that a preferable segue to Basquiat's
need to escape; apparently he owned a good deal of property in Hawai'i
and spent time there as well.

The scenes with Claire Forlani are also effective, Basquiat's some-time
girlfriend, we see her as a waitress, then a junkie, then a cleaned-up
version, going to Columbia. The NY street sequences are realistic, It
is not glamorous (though the accompanying jazz music is). It shows the
schizophrenic nature of NY; Lutece, a homeless person sleeping outside,
a man selling stuffed animals on the street, and Bruno
Bischofsberger(Hopper) who mistakes Basquiat for a homeless person,
trying to clean the windows on his Mercedes. Very realistic.

I highly recommend this film; it does not glamorize the story, and
while it may not be completely accurate, it rings true, and portrays a
life many artists may wish for, until they get it. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

I thought this film captured the feel of SoHo and the downtown art
scene in 1980's NYC.  (I lived in NYC from 1986 until 2001.)  I
really like the untethered, free-spirited, and dangerous elements of
Basquiat's character.  The movie doesn't fit into the film school
model of a perfectly constructed piece, but I find that appealling;
the film is artful and enjoyable.  I watch it whenever it shows up on
one of the film channels unedited and uninterrupted.  Hope you
enjoy it as well.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm a sucker for movies set in New York City, which is one reason I decided
to see this, that and the supporting cast.  I don't know much about
Basquiat, his life or work, so I don't know how accurate the movie is, nor
do I know much about art, but this film drew me in.  I know the film was
made by a friend and compatriot of Basquiat, Julian Schnabel, and if there's
a weakness, it's that sometimes we feel this is an inside job.
Nevertheless, we do go inside the art world, get to know about graffiti, and
we get to understand what makes Basquiat tick.  I also thought Jeffrey
Wright was good in the title role.  The supporting cast were all first-rate
as well. 
<|_=00=_|>

If you love art, this movie is definitely for you.  If character
development
and good writing are important elements in your movie selections,
definitely
add this one to your list of "must sees." However, if you typically only
prefer major "blockbuster hits," you may want to forego it.

Intricately performed and written, this film is "art-house" &
"independent"
at it's very finest.  David Bowie is perfection as
Jean Michel Basquiat's friend and mentor, Andy Warhol. Michael Wincott
sheds
his usual grovel-voiced tough guy
persona to play Basquiat's first flamboyantly feminine art dealer. Jeffrey
Wright's brilliant performance as
the complex Basquiat received a nomination for "Best Debut Performance,"
and
Benecio Del Toro won
"Best Supporting Male Performance" at the 1997 Independent Spirit Awards.
Even the minor characters
(Gary Oldman, Christopher Walken, Dennis Hopper, Parker Posey, Willem
Dafoe)
add colorful
performances to Julian Schnabel's first "canvas on film." --J.B.

<|_=00=_|>
"Basquiat" is a film with an agenda. Far from being a neutral stage
upon which the life and emotion of the artist is played out for us to
observe, this film wants to make a point about the art world, casting
Basquiat as Oliver Twist. If you are looking to find out what drives an
artist you are not going to find it here - unless the answer is money.
The filmmakers did not go very far into the head of their subject -
either that or he was a very shallow and vapid person. I did not get
the feeling from this film that Basquiat was a true artist; rather, he
came off as an opportunist who figured out how to capture the mechanics
of bad abstract impressionism and pass himself off as one. Then a lucky
break, combined with silly art collectors who have way too much money
and not enough of their own thought processes, multiplied by a guilt
ridden population of white people flush with 1980's cash, combine to
equal the phenomenon of Basquiat.

I am not saying that this is (or is not) the truth. In the world of art
there are no truths anyway. What I am saying is that this is not a
neutral biography. It may pay to do a little bit of research into
Basquiat before watching the film. As for myself, I admit to watching
it only because I was bored and nothing else was on. I knew vaguely the
story, and who Basquiat was, but had no opinions of and no real
knowledge about him. Since I am not the type of person who forms his
opinions on any subject based on information from only one source, I
did some research into Basquiat after the film before coming to any
sort of conclusions. What those conclusions were are irrelevant as far
as this review is concerned - but what does concern me are the many
people who undoubtedly had their opinion about Basquiat fed to them by
this film and who now consider themselves educated on the subject.

As far as the film itself, it is not bad. Not great, but not bad. It
had a certain feeling to it. But it is hard to get beyond its portrayal
of the subject, as he is the reason for the film. As noted, Basquiat
comes off as an empty headed and shallow individual without a lot of
talent or original thought who likes to use drugs and drink a lot. The
film's Basquiat seemed not to care much about art, that it was an
afterthought to him. He was shown as a dabbler - dabbling in music too
but not doing much or giving it much effort. Perhaps that is the truth,
I don't know, because overall the film is more a study of art and what
constitutes it and gives it value than a biography of an artist - and
postulates that today's art is more about the name than the actual
piece. The same thing that is given away for free by a homeless man who
lives in a box can be worth six figures if the right people decide that
it should. I also felt that he filmmakers relied on cliché' a bit too
much for my liking. The scene that sticks out in my mind is the one
where Basquiat was on a schoolyard basketball court with his buddy, who
was trying to get him to play. Basquiat was totally inept at the game
and had no desire to play whatsoever. The filmmakers were obviously
trying to demonstrate either one or both of two things - that Basquiat
was so much of a cerebral artist that he was incapable of physical
sport, or that Basquiat was a black man who could not play basketball.
Whatever the case, the scene was painful to watch. It was ham-fisted
imagery at its worst. A well done scene with some good conversation and
emotion could have sent the same message intended in the schoolyard -
actually could have done it better because as blockheaded as the
schoolyard scene was, it still did not send a clear and defined
message.

The acting in Basquiat was for the most part serviceable, with David
Bowie turning in the most inspired performance as Andy Warhol. Bowie
brought a subtle warmth and humanity to a person who is often portrayed
as a cold cartoon character. Although Warhol was clearly intended to be
an exploiter in the film, Bowie managed to show him as a person who
felt that Basquiat was a true friend and not just a paycheck. This is
an Andy Warhol who cared about people, and who could have his feelings
hurt just like anyone else. This is not the stereotypical movie Warhol,
playing with people like the proverbial chess pieces. This Warhol
genuinely admired the work of his protégés. And David Bowie would know,
wouldn't he? He was there. I got the feeling that Bowie took the part
to make a statement about Warhol - as if he was annoyed by younger
filmmakers using the stereotypical Warhol image in an exploitative way.
I felt that he was subversively reading the lines between the lines.
Good for him.

This film is more a commentary on the art world, on racism, and on
exploitation than it is a biography. I would say that it is better to
look at it this way, for as a biography it is biased and somewhat
mean-spirited. Remember the first line of this review? It seemed to me
that the filmmakers were saying that Basquiat was bereft of talent and
inspiration - that he was a bum and a drug abuser who got lucky.
Perhaps he was, but I'd prefer to make up my own mind. So it would pay
to know a bit about the subject before watching - this Basquiat is a
light dessert, not the main course.
<|_=00=_|>

I cannot believe that Basquiat isn't high in the top 250; it is easily the
best movie I have ever seen.  No matter whether or not you like/liked
Basquiat's art, this movie is amazing.  In fact, you'll probably enjoy the
movie more if you don't like his art.  Basquiat was a crackhead who chose
to
live on the street.  None of his art demonstrated amazing artistic
technique, yet with the help of some exorbitantly rich, twisted and
influential people in the art world, he rose from the gutter and gained
international stardom.  Whether he deserved his fame, wealth and glory is
addressed throughout the film, but the movie is more about how his
self-destructive tendencies managed to get the better of him and lead him
to
an early death.  The movie is very depressing, but also inspiring.  The
acting is fantastic overall, although Dennis Hopper was awful as Bruno and
I
wish that Courtney Love were not cast as Big Pink.  The film itself is even
a work of art.  Don't see it if you're only into mystery, horror, suspense,
or action films, but if you like art or are at all intellectual, see it see
it see it see it see it!

<|_=00=_|>

Once in a while a movie is perfectly acted; this is one of them. David
Bowie
does the best Andy Warhol ever captured on film. The film in itself is a
work of art, as much as Basquiat was himself. I'm unaware of how factual
the
film is, but I'm guessing it's not too false. It's a near perfect film and
that's why I give it a solid nine.  
<|_=00=_|>

I enjoy Basquiat's artwork. When I look at it, It doesn't look like it took
a great amount of talent. His work tended to look very simple, really basic
ideas. However, the creativity is overwhelming. He was a minimalist, that
came up with simplistic masterpieces. Yeah, it was not real hard to do, but
few have ever had such creative ideas. This film reminds me so much of the
artist himself. It has a ton of style, it is fun to watch, somewhat
uneventful, and like the artist, it is destined to be remembered, because
style never dies. Heavyweight talent is everywhere, with actors such as
Dennis Hopper, Benecio Del Torro, Geofrey Wright, David Bowie, Willam DeFoe,
etc. I don't think either the film or the artist were that special, so why
can't I forget either?
<|_=00=_|>

Basquiat is one of the most beautiful and spiritual yet honest and
unpretentious movies I have ever come across...   I have watched it many
times and it has never failed to move me and give me a surge of both
melancholy and creativity!
