

'Stanley and Iris' show the triumph of the human spirit. For Stanley, it's
the struggle to become literate and realize his potential. For Iris, it's to
find the courage to love again after becoming a widow. The beauty of the
movie is the dance that Robert DeNiro and Jane Fonda do together, starting
and stopping, before each has the skills and courage to completely trust
each other and move on. In that sense it very nicely gives us a good view of
how life often is, thus being credible. Unlike some other reviewers I found
the characters each rendered to be consistent for the whole picture. The
supporting cast is also carefully chosen and they add a depth of character
that the main characters get added meaning from the supporting performances.
All in all an excellent movie. The best thing I take from it is
Hope.
<|_=00=_|>
This may not be a memorable classic, but it is a touching romance with
an important theme that stresses the importance of literacy in modern
society and the devastating career and life consequences for any
unfortunate individual lacking this vital skill.

The story revolves around Iris, a widow who becomes acquainted with a
fellow employee at her factory job, an illiterate cafeteria worker
named Stanley. Iris discovers that Stanley is unable to read, and after
he loses his job, she gives him reading lessons at home in her kitchen.
Of course, as you might predict, the two, although initially wary of
involvement, develop feelings for each other...

Jane Fonda competently plays Iris, a woman with problems of her own,
coping with a job lacking prospects, two teenage children (one
pregnant), an unemployed sister and her abusive husband. However,
Robert DeNiro is of course brilliant in his endearing portrayal of the
intelligent and resourceful, but illiterate, Stanley, bringing a
dignity to the role that commands respect. They aren't your typical
charming young yuppie couple, as generally depicted in on screen
romances, but an ordinary working class, middle aged pair with pretty
down to earth struggles.

I won't give the ending away, but it's a lovely, heartwarming romance
and a personal look into the troubling issue of adult illiteracy,
albeit from the perspective of a fictional character.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a wonderful movie, with perfect performances by the very best
actors. Anyone who doesn't appreciate this little masterpiece has
probably spent too much time in front of the TV. The writing is superb,
and the direction flawless. From the opening 360 degree pan, which ends
by a close-up of the bakery (which is, in fact, the center of the
drama), to the outstanding last line of the film (which is, in fact,
the theme of the movie), the storytelling is absolutely first-rate. The
acting is a study in naturalistic performance style. Jane Fonda is, as
always, the best of the best, but Stanley's father steals the show. De
Niro, as Stanley, gives an understated and totally endearing portrayal
of a resourceful and intelligent "illiterate." This film is the
opposite of the "blockbuster" -- finely crafted, intimate, and
uncompromising.

<|_=00=_|>

I just read the comments of TomReynolds2004 and feel I have to jump in here.
 I understand he doesn't like the film, but his reasons are not evident. My
feeling regarding this film is that it is not afraid to travel the darker
roads of loneliness, failure, disappointment and sorrow.  Each of these two
people, as portrayed, have plenty of reasons to be bitter and angry, yet
find tenderness and comfort in each the other.  Only great acting could make
this work without becoming an emotional quagmire, sentimental and sappy.  I
really became interested in these people because of their overwhelming
humanity given to them by such strong performances.  I have every reason to
dislike Jane Fonda for her Vietnam era actions, but personal feelings apart,
she is fabulous in this role. Robert DeNiro is superb as a man whose
intelligence and goodness begins to fail him in a world indifferent to his
abilities. This is the first I have seen DeNiro using tenderness rather than
toughness to sell a character and I really like it. This film was a big
surprise when I first viewed it and I look forward to seeing it
again.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm a male, not given to women's movies, but this is really a well done
special story.  I have no personal love for Jane Fonda as a person but she
does one Hell of a fine job, while DeNiro is his usual superb
self.
Everything is so well done: acting, directing, visuals, settings,
photography, casting.  If you can enjoy a story of real people and real
love
- this is a winner.
<|_=00=_|>

Excellent acting by the 2 main stars, De Niro and Fonda, make this a movie
well worth seeing.
A story about an illiterate, and a woman who helps him learn to read. In
return, he helps her stop clinging
to her past husband and learn to enjoy life again. It was interesting to
see
a slice of American life that's
different from the glamour (huge homes with swimming pools) that is so
often
the backdrop to Hollywood
movies (yawn).
<|_=00=_|>

`Stanley and Iris' is a heart warming film about two people who find each
other and help one another overcome their problems in life. Stanley's life
is difficult, because he never learned to read or write. Iris is a widower
with two teenage children working in a bakery where she meets Stanley.  She
decides to teach Stanley how to read at her home in her spare time.  Over
time they become romantically involved. After Stanley learns to read, he
goes off to a good job in Chicago, only to return to Iris and ask her to
marry him.

It's a really good film without nudity, violence, or profanity, that which
is rare in today's films.  
A good film all round.  


<|_=00=_|>
As the last film directed by the redoubtable Martin Ritt, this 1990
drama is full of good intentions about adult illiteracy and has two
proved star actors, Jane Fonda and Robert DeNiro, in the lead roles.
Nonetheless, it rarely hovers above the level of a Lifetime TV-movie,
as the story amounts to a series of episodes around the burgeoning
relationship between Iris, a recently widowed worker in a pastry
factory and Stanley, a quiet, illiterate cook who likes to invent
mechanical contraptions in the privacy of his apartment. They meet when
he is hired at the company cafeteria, but he loses his job when it
becomes clear he cannot read or write. Realizing his illiteracy has
prevented him from taking care of his ailing father, Stanley asks Iris
to teach him. The rest is pretty inevitable, though there are affecting
moments along the way mainly because DeNiro is able to convey the basic
decency and veiled humiliation of his character.

What I do miss in DeNiro's performance is the edge of danger that makes
him truly transcend his best roles like what he did right after this
film as Jimmy Conway in Martin Scorsese's "Goodfellas". Stanley seems
to be a distant cousin of DeNiro's similarly passive and inarticulate
character in Ulu Grosbard's 1984 "Falling in Love". In what was to be
her last film for fifteen years, Jane Fonda seems woefully miscast,
looking too intellectually alert and physically aerobicized to portray
Iris with conviction. Begging for a Kathy Bates-type to inhabit her,
Iris should be downcast about her life and feeling a deepening
loneliness about her situation, but Fonda's off-screen resourcefulness
makes it difficult to believe this woman would truly feel stuck. It
also feels disingenuous of the character to talk about her weight
concerns and wanting a couple of eclairs when we are looking at an
actress who has made millions on her workout tapes.

Regardless, Ritt is also a master when it comes to showing the trials
of everyday people in working class settings, and there is genuine
chemistry between the two actors, which helps considerably as the story
meanders toward its conclusion. The rest of the cast is used
inconsistently as plot devices, in particular, Swoosie Kurtz as Iris's
battered sister, who oddly disappears midway through the story, and
Martha Plimpton as Iris's sullen, impregnated daughter. I have to
conclude the primary problem with the film is the episodic screenplay
by Harriet Frank, Jr. and Irving Ravetch, both of whom have teamed with
Ritt on a number of superior films like "Hud" and "Norma Rae". The DVD
has no extras.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a complex film that explores the effects of Fordist and
Taylorist modes of industrial capitalist production on human relations.
There are constant references to assembly line production, where
workers are treated as cogs in a machine, overseen by managers wielding
clipboards, controlling how much hair the workers leave exposed, and
firing workers (Stanley) who meet all criteria (as his supervisor says,
are always on time, are hard workers, do good work) but who may in some
unspecified future make a mistake. 

This system destroys families - Stanley has to send his father to a
nursing home (where he quickly dies) after Stanley loses his job. Iris'
daughter is a single teen mother who drops out of high school to take a
job in the plant. References are made to the fact that now, with
declining wages, both partners need to work, the implication being that
there's nobody left at home to care for the kids. Iris' husband is dead
from an illness, and with the multiple references in the film about the
costs of medical care, the viewer must wonder if he might have lived
with better and more costly care. Iris' brother in law gets abusive
after yet another unsuccessful day at the unemployment office when his
wife yells at him for buying a beer with her savings instead of leaving
it for her face lift and/or teeth job (even the working class with no
stake in conventional bourgeois notions of perfection and beauty buy
into them). The one reference to race in the film is through a black
factory line worker whose husband is in jail (presumably, he's also
black, and black men suffer disproportionally high incarceration
rates). She remarks that he, like her, "is doing time" - her family is
composed of a prisoner and a wage slave.

Stanley, however, still believes in human relations and is therefore
for most of the film outside of the system of Fordist capitalism. He
cares for his father in spite of the fact that it was his father's
traveling salesman job that resulted in his illiteracy - he has not yet
reduced human relations to a purely instrumental contract, as Iris'
brother in law does (suggesting that he "married the wrong sister"). He
does not, as Iris says, conform to the work-eat-sleep routine of
everyone else; rather, he uses technology and the techniques of
industrial production in an artisanal and creative way, in a sort of
Bauhaus ideal. This was the dream of early modernists and 1920's
socialists (such as the Bauhaus) - to use technology to provide for all
basic needs, allowing for more free time for creative human work and
fuller human relations. He is also outside of traditional gender
relations. He cooks, he cleans, he cares for his family, and he knows
how to iron. Iris, on the other hand, lives in a traditionally male
role - she's a factory worker, the mains source of income for her
(extended) family, and she brings Stanley into the public realm,
traditionally off-limits to women. By teaching him to read and write,
she gives him access to the world of knowledge, also traditionally
gendered male.

Literacy here is used as a metaphor for the (traditionally masculine)
public realm and the systems of circulation (monetary, vehicular,
cultural) that enable participation in the public realm. Without this
access, Stanley is feminized - the jobs open to him are cooking and
cleaning. He is excluded from all regular circulations, unable to
participate in the monetary (can't open a bank account), in the
vehicular (can't get a driver's license, can't ride the bus), and in
the social (he asks if he exists if he can't write his name).

After learning to read, he grabs books on auto repair, farming, and
spirituality (the Bible). The Word of God is therefore relativized,
placed on the same value plane as how-to books. In fact, organized
religion in general is only very occasionally present - the Bible also
appears on a dresser as the camera pans to find Stanley and Iris having
sex. It is, however, acknowledged as a moral force - Iris, clearly a
character devoted to living a "good" life, mentions at the beginning of
the film that her rosary was among the objects lost in a purse
snatching.

Once able to read, he enters the system and lands a managerial position
with a health care plan, a car, and a house, taking his place at the
head of the family, the breadwinner. Presumably, he's an industrial
designer, dreaming up products that will require others enduring the
drudgery of the assembly line to produce. This ending, probably the
only bit of conventional Hollywood in the film, is so incongruous with
all that has come before that I at least wonder if it wasn't forced in
by some Studio exec suddenly worried about the lack of a feel-good
ending and its potential effect on the bottom line.

Now that, according to the pundits, we've comfortably moved on to
post-industrial capitalism, the film also has a slightly nostalgic
feel, as though we needed the historical distance to really analyze
what happened during that period. 

Nevertheless, it's highly recommended - at least if you want to
exercise your brain. Disregard the ending, and it's close to a perfect
10.
<|_=00=_|>
I found this to be a so-so romance/drama that has a nice ending and a
generally nice feel to it. It's not a Hallmark Hall Of Fame-type family
film with sleeping-before-marriage considered "normal" behavior but
considering it stars Jane Fonda and Robert De Niro, I would have
expected a lot rougher movie, at least language-wise. 

The most memorable part of the film is the portrayal of how difficult
it must be to learn how to read and write when you are already an
adult. That's the big theme of the movie and it involves some touching
scenes but, to be honest, the film isn't that memorable.

It's still a fairly mild, nice tale that I would be happy to recommend.
