

This film starts out promising and carries that promise a fair way into the
movie, but when everything falls into place we are left with illogical
character developments purely so the film-makers can end the movie on time.
The fact that Snoop's character is not a villain, but the script unjustly
makes him one, is probably the worst thing about the movie. However, this
film is still worth the watch for Snoop Dogg's interesting performance and
some actually creepy moments.

This film as a whole is not a success, but for fans of B-grade horror (which
admittedly I am), this has some value to it.

6.5/10
<|_=00=_|>

Yeah, like pretty much every other horror movie that hits the theaters, this
one took a pretty heavy trashing both, from the critics and from the
audiences who didn't understand it.  However, I found "Bones" to be a highly
enjoyable, entertaining, and (at times) creepy horror flick that I hope, is
the birth of a new franchise.  It's very refreshing to see a horror flick
that can take a standard premise and make it seem fresh again.  Also, I
enjoyed the killer being a someone who we can sympathize with. Let me break
it down a little bit. 

Back in 1979, Jimmy Bones was the man of his neighborhood.  Just what all he
was into is never fully explained, but we do know that he runs a pretty
classy little nightclub and loves to dress in full-pimp get-up.  Basically,
Bones is a good guy.  All he wants to do is run his business and take care
of his people.  However, when he is propositioned to bring in crack, he
refuses and is double-crossed then murdered by people he thought he could
trust.  

Jump twenty years into the future and we get a group of twenty-somethings
who have just bought the building where Bones was murdered.  Hoping to turn
the place into a club, they ignore all warnings of the place's evil and
pretty soon, they mess around and wake the dead.  Now that Bones is back,
he's upset, understandably, and wants revenge on the people who did him
wrong.

That's it.  Kinda sounds like Nightmare On Elm Street right?  Well, it's a
lot like it and a lot of others you may have seen.  What set this one apart
for me was the lead.  Casting Snoop Dog as Jimmy Bones was perfect.  I've
never been a big fan of his acting, but here, he pulls it off great giving
us a villain that we can sympathize with, care about, and root for.  We know
where he's coming from and watching him take his revenge on the dispicable
villains was fun fun fun.  I also enjoyed the romantic angle brought to the
film by the chemistry between Snoop and Pam Grier.  I don't think that it
would have gone down near as well had there been a different set of actors,
but it gave a real soft side to Bones and made me like him that much
more.

I really loved the cinematography and having the blood look intentionally
fake, was also a nice touch.  Unlike some others, I really enjoyed the
shifting in tones. The first 2/3 of the picture had a really dark and gothic
tone to it while the latter third had a little bit of comic relief thrown
in.  Yes, it went WAY over the top (the severed heads, that whole "world of
the dead" bit) but, for me, that added to the overall joy of the film and
made it that much more.  It also made it  VERY hard to take it serious. 
It's pretty hard to find a good horror flick these days (and a mainstream
one, at that) and I'm sure that I'll be adding this one to my dvd collection
pretty soon.  Oh, (I don't think I'm giving too much away here) the door is
left open for a whole slew of sequels.  I can't wait.
<|_=00=_|>

I was doubtful about this movie when I went to the cinema to watch it last
weekend, but after having watched it I reinforce my good opinion about the
products made by New Line Cinema. The film is very well done but apart from
that, I think it shouldn´t disappoint any fan of horror, it has everything
that a good movie of the genre must have, including great amounts of blood,
a very good rhythm and effective actors such as Pam Grier(Jackie Brown), the
muse of blaxploitation genre from the seventies, a genre which is paid
homage in this movie as well as some classics of the genre such as
"Hellraiser" or "Reanimator", although the introduction of the comic element
paying homage to that movie was for me the weakest element of the whole(it
broke the so tenebrous atmosphere).Finally, director Ernst. R.Dickerson who
also directed the not so good but entertaining "tales from the Crypt: Evil
Knight" assured that this movie had elements from Italian horror cinema, I
don´t know but perhaps there is one: The warms.A homage to Lucio Fulci?, I
know there is many homages here but it is the same for other movies and the
cocktail is far from being so effectively combined as here.I don´t think
they are going to make a sequel, but I am looking forward eagerly the next
movie from this director and I wish "Resident Evil" was so
satisfactory.
<|_=00=_|>

With a growing trend of rappers starring in their own movies, Snoop Dogg
joins the pack with 'Bones'. Snoop plays Jimmy Bones, a 70s hustler, who is
betrayed and murdered by some of his closest associates. Since the time of
the murder, Jimmy's corpse is buried in the basement of an abandoned house
in Bones' now seedy neighborhood. When a group of empty-headed teenagers buy
the abandoned house, they unsurprisingly wake up Jimmy's spirit, resulting
in Bones going on a bloody rampage for revenge.

What the heck are we to do with a movie like 'Bones'. Are we supposed to
take it seriously as a horror movie. Or laugh at its silliness and Snoop's
attempt at becoming a real-life 'Doggfather'. Whatever its intentions are,
this movie doesn't have the feel of a horror movie. Rather, it feels more
like one of Snoop's pot induced fantasies.

Rating: 5/10 or (2 stars)
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is not the worst of horror movies that I have seen, however it
is
far from the best also. This movie has some pretty decent special effects,
and doesn't have a bad story line. Who better to play a drug pusher in the
70's than Snoop Dogg. Snoop is not the best actor in the world but does
show
a better job in this movie than previous movies. 7 out of 10 stars. Not
great, but not bad.
<|_=00=_|>

Ahh... the midnight horror movie.  Cheesy, silly, and not in the slighest
bit scary, its sole purpose is to provide a cheap thrill or induce sleep. 
As anyone who's read any of my other reviews can see, I like cheap thrills
just as much as a good movie, and although Bones certainly was cheap,
cheesy, silly, and not in the slightest bit scary, I didn't enjoy it as much
as I'd thought I would.

The reasoning for this is that Bones is exactly like any other
direct-to-video, midnight cable fare, only at theatrical release, midday
pay-per-view pricing.  The reason I like other cheap films so much is
because they are just that - cheap.  I'm biased; I expect a lot more from a
movie that I shell out $9 for in a theatre than a $2 5-day
rental.

In 1979, Jimmy Bones (Snoop Dogg!) is your friendly neighborhood
numbers-runner.  A crooked cop, a drug dealer, and his business associate
try to convince him to bring crack to the hood.  Bones is a numbers-runner
with morals and a love for his people, and won't allow it.  The business
meeting ends with his murder.

In 2001, the neighborhood has gone to hell, especially Bones' old mansion,
which is currently haunted by a big black dog with blood-red eyes.  A group
of teen wanna-be DJ's (who also just happen to be the children of Bones' old
associate) decide to fix up the mansion and turn it into a happening
nightclub.  They discover Bones' skeleton buried in the basement, and a
stray dog, whom they name Bones (how original!).  This dog just happens to
be the same killer incarnation of Jimmy Bones' ghost, and every life he
takes adds life to the bones in the basement, until Jimmy is resurrected
from the dead, and he sure is angry!

This film, equal parts horror, comedy and blaxploitation, begs you not to
take it seriously.  If you do, like most films of this type, you'll notice
the atrocious acting and cheap special effects.  If not, however, you'll be
intrigued by bleeding pool tables, talking severed heads, and a climax in
the "city of the dead", that is actually well done and far surpasses the
rest of the film.  Unfortunately, it lacks the campy "charm" of any of the
above mentioned three genres.

I knew from the trailers and movie posters not to take this movie seriously.
 Even taking it as nonseriously as I could, I just couldn't enjoy it; it's a
lowbrow wolf of a film trying to pass itself off in theatrical sheep's
clothing.  Honestly, if I had found this on the back shelf of some cheap
video store I would've loved it.  In a theatre, I just expect more from
films.
<|_=00=_|>
I've read the other comment referring to Snoop Doggs'horror film,
Bones....When this first came out it was my favourite horror film but I
watched it that many times that it lost its' lustre.

The effects are great and plenty of blood and some gore from the
outset. The beginning sets the tone for the rest of the film as it's
one of those films that you just NEED to get to the bottom of why it is
happening and what actually took place to cause it. It all unfolds at a
pace enough to keep your interest as a viewer. This film is still a
very watchable and enjoyable film in my opinion, even today. 

It was nice to see Snoop in something different and anyone that is a
Snoop Fan will enjoy this film all the more.....7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

I must say this film was a little better than I expected, however, having
said that I wasn't expecting much in the first place. Im not giving
anything
away - the storyline is very straightforward and the blurb on the back of
the dvd/video cover is quite sufficient in explaining the plot. <p>
If you like your horror movies whether they be A or Z grade (like I do)
then
this film is worth a peek. The horror scenes are quite decent. There is a
surprising amount of genuine suspense (even I jumped a few times)and quite
a
few laughs - but dont even try and look any further into the film than
this!
If you are one of those people to whom the quality of a plot must be in
league with films such as "The Shawshank Redemption" and "The Godfather" -
AVOID AT ALL COSTS. This film should only be viewed by those who are fans
of
the horror genre. <p> This is a messy film when taken seriously, it
makes very little sense, the explanation as to how Mr Bones became of the
undead is limp to say the least. Pam Grier (Jackie Brown) is wasted in
this
film - she has no room to show any of her (in my opinion) excellent talent
and comes off wishy washy. Snoop Dogg is a terrible actor and I was very
glad that his main roles in the film were limited to flashbacks and the
climax. Unfortunatley once again the directors and writers had no idea how
to finish the film and resorted to the old "spirit of the thought to be
defeated demon managed to slip into someone else for no apparent reason"
cliche. Also I was HIGHLY dissapointed with the death scene of Bones that
caused the whole thing -very weak. For horror fans out of interest only.
5/10  
<|_=00=_|>

This was a very good film if you dig any of the "Nightmare on Elm Street"
series (preferably Parts 3 or 4). You can see it has that Freddy Krueger
vibe running through its veins. Right down to the colorful shadows, neato
killings, and anti-hero villain. But it also stands on its own much more
than some similiar Nightmare knockoffs (Leprechaun comes to mind, in fact
this film plays like a much more effective Leprechaun 4: Lep in the Hood).

Snoop Dogg does very well in the role of Bones, making lines like, "The
Gangster of Love don't need no fried chicken" sound very serious and
convincing. Pam Grier once again returns to her roots and I for one am not
complaining. Maybe I'm slightly partial to this film because it features
Katharine Isabelle from one of my favorite horror films "Ginger Snaps". But
beyond that I very enjoyed this ride of movie.
<|_=00=_|>
An attempt to make a modern-dress Gothic melodrama that is just not
successful. Ernest Dickerson has a good grasp of the iconography of
horror films, but he can't put them together well enough to make a good
scary movie. He borrows concepts and images liberally from Clive
Barker, Dario Argento, and Mario Bava - but all it shows is that he's a
good copycat, not that he's a good stylist. From the idea of evil
reviving itself by consuming a victim (Barker's "Hellraiser", but
cinematic ally dating at least back to Hammer's "Dracula, Prince of
Darkness" from 1965), thru the rain of maggots (Argento's magisterial
"Suspiria"), to the disembodied hand reaching out of the darkness to
torment the dead man's lover (Bava's masterpiece, "Whip and the Body"),
there really is nothing here that we haven't seen before and better.
The conceit of setting it in a ghetto with an all-black cast promises
an interesting variation on your basic "revenge from beyond the grave"
scenario, but beyond the music and fashions it's still a pretty clichéd
film. One of the problems is that Dickerson just can't seem to leave
well enough alone - like the maggot scene. OK, it's raining maggots and
it's terrifying, we get it already, is it really necessary to go for
the gross-out by showing people EATING them? Or the scene where Maurice
is killed - again, the dog-spirit eats Maurice to give form and
substance to Bones' cadaver, we get it, it's not necessary to linger on
the details of the chow-down. It's never scary - just disgusting. Even
his attempts to inject humor are forced and heavy-handed, with the
idiotic scenes of Bones carrying the heads of his victims and having
them carry on an interminably pointless conversation. And again, he
doesn't show it to us once, there's at least three long scenes with the
chatty heads so whatever humor there was is pounded into
unconsciousness thru repetition. But the most glaring problem with this
movie is that we are asked to sympathize with a character who is, at
bottom, just as big a bad guy in life as the crack dealers who murder
him. Dickerson tries to show us Bones as the protector of his 'hood,
but come on - he's exploiting his people just as much with his numbers
game, or did it never occur to anyone to ask how Bones got the money
for his supah-dupah fly crib when everyone else around him lives in
complete poverty? For a MUCH better horror movie that reflects the
black urban experience, rent "Tales from the Hood" instead.
