

I was very pleasantly surprised at this film. Denzel Washington proves again
that he can handle any role that he chooses to play. In this case, he plays
homicide inspector, Lincoln Rhyme who has been nearly paralyzed after
suffering from an accident in the line of duty. But now, when a mysterious
killer begins killing off people in a very peculiar matter, he must team
with a hard-headed rookie cop (Angelina Jolie) to solve the crimes.
Supporting cast includes Queen Latifah, Michael Rooker, Mike McGlone, Luis
Guzman, Leland Orser and Ed O'Neil. 

I like the way they have the killer as an intelligent person. Someone who
has a knowledge of what he is doing. And the way he leaves clues for the
cops to follow. To come up with something this perfect, you must a genius.
While not really scary, this suspense thriller is actually thrilling as
opposed to the many number of "thrillers" that are not even thrilling.
(Example: HANGMAN). Thank you Hollywood for giving us THE BONE COLLECTOR.
This is a good one. Highly recommended.....5/5.
<|_=00=_|>

Denzel Washington plays a former cop who is injured in the line of duty and
becomes a crime scene investigator and expert witness in the service of law
firms.  Angelina Jolie plays a cop who is struggling to find a place within
a male-dominated police culture, and shows a talent for crime scene
investigation, which Denzel's character immediately recognizes and
appreciates, since he is bedridden and physically unable to go to most crime
scenes.  She is reluctant to get involved, but does wind up grudgingly
serving as his eyes and ears as they try to follow clues left by a serial
killer who gives clues about his next victims and taunts them and the
police.

While Denzel's character is almost too brilliant to be believable, if you
can overlook that you should thoroughly enjoy this movie.  Denzel and
Angelina, together with cops of varying competence, try to follow the clues
given to them by the serial killer, who gives them clues before
the killing actually occurs.

Most people who enjoy a dark, suspenseful movie (such as Silence of the
Lambs) should thoroughly enjoy this movie. 
<|_=00=_|>
I've read quite a few comments on this movie and some of them I
disagree with and others I don't. Sure, it may be a little predictable
and a bit 'all been done before' but there is a certain level of
originality and uniqueness to it also.

For starters it has a fantastic cast and both lead actors (Jolie and
Washington)have won Oscars and thats says something. It can't be easy
playing a paralysed man and remaining so still and wooden and he plays
the frustrations and emotions so realistically that I would imagine a
person actually would be like in real life. Jolie is charming, composed
and works well with the camera. Her character is convincing enough and
this goes for her performance.The support cast is fantastic too,
especially Queen Latifa.

The film may have the usual iconographic elements found in the
psychological thriller genre but they are necessary for it to firstly
conform and also progress. 'The Bone Collector' introduces new
techniques and a slightly different angle for the viewer. there has to
be a certain amount of repetition with this genre for it to work and
this is the case for many others, such as romantic comedies and a
couple falling in love or teen flicks with a football jock character.

I am currently writing my degree dissertation on sexual subjectivity in
psychological thrillers and this film is perfect for that. The changing
levels of gendered representations is very interesting and both
supports and detracts away from the current representations in society.

I say, give it a go! Don't listen to people who have already seen it
and didn't like it. If I'd have done that then I wouldn't have given it
a go and my dissertation would have been short of argument!
<|_=00=_|>

I am one of those older folks who doesn't care for the kind of movies that
are made these days. As such, my movie watching is generally confined to old
classic films ala TCM and AMC. But, I do subscribe to all of the premium
channels via DirecTV and, occasionally, watch a newer film if the plot
synopsis appears to be one that I may be able to tolerate. I have read all
of the previous reviews of this film on the IMDB and find them very
interesting. Many of the reviews mention a movie titled "Seven". I have
never heard of, much less seen, "Seven". I consider this fact to be a
fortunate one because I was able to watch "The Bone Collector" without
having to constantly compare it to a previous film. In short, I liked this
movie. I was entertained royally precisely because I didn't take the story
line too seriously. There was not much time wasted on character development.
GOOD !! I don't need to know why the characters became the persons that they
are. I simply want them to get on with whatever they must do. Another thing
that I liked was the lack of sex scenes, which seem to be almost a necessity
it today's movies. The two leads did a great job and their chemistry was
excellent. Mr. Washington and Ms. Jolie were very believable. The killer? No
big deal. I couldn't have cared less who did the killings. I simply waited
for justice to be done. In short, I don't agree with any of the harsh
criticism that I have read on this forum. I guess that's because I am a
rather down to earth person who has no need to turn watching a movie into an
academic exercise, complete with thorough analysis of character motivation,
etc.   
<|_=00=_|>
A bed ridden, paraplegic NYC detective, Lincoln Rhyme (Denzel
Washington), teams up with a rookie cop named Amelia (Angelina Jolie)
to try and catch a serial killer, in this dark, moody atmospheric
thriller from Director Phillip Noyce. This is a fine thriller.

From the get-go viewers understand that an intelligent maniac is on the
loose, and could strike at any time. That is the very definition of
cinematic tension. In addition, the killer uses dark, subterranean
spaces to torture and kill victims. That inky darkness, together with a
haunting musical score further amplifies suspense.

But, the solution to the whodunit puzzle is ultimately unsatisfying
because the screenwriter withholds important back-story from viewers.
This could have been so easily fixed with the addition of a line or two
of dialogue and/or a brief added scene near the film's beginning. Even
so, good plot misdirection creates ample red herrings, so that the
killer's identity is not a foregone conclusion.

The film's cinematography, production design, and editing are fine.
Washington does a good job as the paralyzed cop. But Angelina Jolie is
miscast; she pouts her way through the film looking like she's bored
out of her mind. The support cast helps a lot, with highly credible
performances from delightful Queen Latifah, capable Ed O'Neill, and
reliable Michael Rooker.

The crime scenes tended unfortunately to be in-your-face grizzly. But
at least the gore quotient was minimal.

For dark, moody serial killer films set in NYC, I prefer "Sea Of Love"
(1989). Nevertheless, "The Bone Collector" can be enjoyed for its
elevated level of suspense, its fine cinematography, and its generally
high level of acting. Be advised, however, that the film's finale may
be a disappointment if you expect all the whodunit puzzle pieces to
fall into place, neat and tidy.
<|_=00=_|>

I went to this film expecting not too much after all the
bad
commentaries about it, but in the end I think this film
is
quite entertaining. The acting is quite good and the filmmakers
understand it to build a 'scary' atmosphere. Of course, this
is
no masterpiece like Se7en, but its okay...
What I did not liked at all, was the ending. It was so
(!!!)
predictable. Some people even made bets à la "5 bucks she
will
save him". Moreover it was really stupid, that the killer's motive had
nothing to do with the entire film. And maybe the worst about the film was
this completely ridiculous christmas
scene where both lead characters seem to be a couple. It
seemed
to me like the writer thought "Oh s**t, I forgot the two
have
to fall in love" and so he wrote this scene.

Bottom line: Quite entertaining but too predictable to be
good.
My vote: 6/10

BTW: What do Angelina Jolie and Julia Roberts have in common?
The wide grin :-)
<|_=00=_|>

When NYPD cop Amelia Donaghy uncovers a mutilated corpse she shows a natural
eye for detail and preserving crime scenes. When the killer turns out to be
a serial killer leaving clues to his next crime, NYPD turn to the paralysed
ex-forensics cop, Rhyme to help them piece together the clues. With Rhymes
bedridden, Donaghy becomes his eyes, ears and legs as she walks the scenes
under his guidance to uncover the trail.

This is a star vehicle - two Oscar winners and some good supporting actors
(Luis Guzman, Michael Rooker to name two). However the plot is below the
Washington and Jolie. It is the old "killer taunting cops to catch him"
chestnut. It is slightly spiced up by the use of forensics etc and watching
Washington putting together the logical clues is quite fun - mainly because
you get the feeling that you're right there with him and that it all makes
sense. However most of it doesn't makes sense, a lot of the forensics is
bull and relies of coincidence or Washington dragging facts from the back of
his head. This is a shame because it feels like the film is just being lazy
at times and is cheating us out of logic. This laziness feeds right through
to the ending - if you thought that the Scream films were lazy and stupid
wait till you see the stupid ending to this! Up till this the film does have
plenty of horrible scenes and lots of tense bits with Jolie walking round in
the dark with the killer potentially just round the corner.

Jolie is good and deals with her character well - despite the fact that a
beat cop would never just be able to become a crime scene officer on the
whim of an ex-cop. Washington deals well with his character being paralysed
for the whole film but does get a bit silly at the end where he fights the
killer with just his head! Support is fine - but Guzman is not as good as he
usually is.

Overall this is a B movie that got an A movie budget. The film is dark and
tense but ultimately a bit lazy and blows it totally with a stupid lazy
conclusion.
<|_=00=_|>
One time, when I was about 11 years old, I rented a film called "The
Silence of the Lambs", and... Wow! I can't describe the the feelings I
had. It was the best film I had seen till that moment, and it is on my
mind until today.

In my opinion, this was the inspiration for all the other thrillers
which came out after 1991, specially those ones with a serial killer.
Some time after that, I rented "Se7en", which was for me wicked,
claustrophobic (in the good way), brilliant, almost as good as "The
Silence of the Lambs". Taking those two films, almost all the other
serial killer thrillers were a big waste, specially "Kiss the Girls".
However, "The Bone Collector" was released in 1999. But, for some
reason, it received many bad reviews. I really don't agree with them.

The theme of "The Bone Collector", despite the fact that it has already
been used in many other films, is really interesting. I won't say much
about it to preserve your entertaining, but I can say it is very
suspenseful, dark, well-written, well-directed and well-acted. Denzel
Washington gives another great performance as the paralitic detective,
but the big star is really Angelina Jolie. She's very, very pretty and
talented, and has a GREAT future. She has been keeping my attention
since the TV movie "Gia", and surprised me last year in the wonderful
"Playing By Heart". I'm very glad that she won the Golden Globe for
"Girl, Interrupted", and I hope she wins the Oscar for that part.
Angelina deserves it for walk one more step on her brilliant career.
Her acting in "The Bone Collector" is not different. Her dialogues with
Denzel Washington in the film are intense and provoking, and without
her the film would have been a little lost.

So, when you see "The Bone Collector", try to forget the bad reviews
and have fun. It is not "The Silence of the Lambs". It is not "Se7en".
But it is a fine film if you want to feel your hands cold and your
heart beating fast. And appreciate Angelina's beauty.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
The storyline has too many flaws and illogical sequences to be
worthwhile. Jolie's acting is pretty flat and poor, Washington's is OK,
the rest of the cast are cardboard cutouts. Somehow almost everything
about this film oozes mediocrity. The plot is lame. The only thing I
liked more or less about this film are the fairly original methods the
perpetrator uses to end his victims. Technical details are worse than
the most far-stretched CSI 'knowledge' and gizmos and halfway the movie
one wonders if the director even cared about detail credibility. (Some
Spoilers hereafter!) I mean, an EKG machine with a pure sinus wave
reflecting a man's heartbeat, a quadriplegic with full body muscle
spasms and one working index finger, sure. A killer gutting a man's
bowels whilst keeping him alive to allow the rats to feast on him
followed by a rat aiming for the guy's FACE! What's with all that
stupidity? Then there are quite a few continuity goofs, but you can
find those elsewhere here on IMDb Honestly I found it a bit of an
insult even to my limited intelligence.

Waste of time. Still 4 out of 10 to keep my girlfriend from kicking me.
<|_=00=_|>
The Bone Collector

The serial-killer genre received a big boost over a decade ago when
'The Silence of the Lambs' was released; Hannibal Lector himself
spawned a newfound interest in not the slasher genre of the eighties,
but of the psychological slashers.

Unfortunately, like all movies and their genres, they simply get…old.
I'm tired of serial killer movies that try to cash in on the success of
'The Silence of the Lambs.' We've had countless films over the years
since 'Silence' that are just tragic rehashes of each other with
predictable and ridiculous endings.

Now we have 'The Bone Collector,' another typical 'psychological
thriller' brought to life by a great cast and director.

Angelina Jolie plays the cop-on-the-streets who discovers a corpse next
to a railroad. She immediately sparks interest in herself as the chief
of police starts watching over her more, and a paraplegic man named
Lincoln (Denzel Washington) summons her to his home to ask her a simple
question.

Washington wants Jolie to help him catch the killer.

Denzel Washington plays Lincoln, a man who used to be big but is now
immobile. His only moveable joint below his neck is a single finger,
which he uses to click a computer mouse by his bed. He is watched over
by Queen Latifah, a caring woman, sure, but not exactly loving.

'The Bone Collector,' based on the novel of the same name by Jeffery
Deaver, could easily have slipped into the average slot, but because of
a great cast, is just good enough to recommend. There are some
gut-wrenching scenes in 'The Bone Collector,' but then there are some
scenes (including the end) that recede into the stereotypical
psychological thriller.

Director Phillip Noyce uses some great shadowing and a dark, moody
atmosphere to bring the surroundings of his film to life. Exterior
shots are dark and withdrawn, and interior shots are almost brighter.
It is as if the darkness symbolizes the chemistry in the characters.
The more Denzel talks to Jolie the brighter the room gets; when they
are outside it is darker. Why? Because she doesn't know anyone outside.
It is as if the surroundings are tailored around her character's
emotions. She's happy, it's bright. She sad, it's dark. Etc…

All in all, I was going to give 'The Bone Collector' a higher
recommendation than three stars before I saw the ending, but it turned
out to be quite ridiculous and average; plus, it was very predictable.
I guessed it before it happened.

3/5 stars –

John Ulmer
