
Filmed in 1990, POISON was an extremely obscure art house film--until
Senator Jessie Helms, a hysterical homophobe, threw a public temper
tantrum over the fact that it had been financed in part by a grant from
the National Endowment for the Arts. Helm's tirade had the effect of
piquing public curiosity, and while it never played mainstream cinemas
POISON did indeed go on to a wider release on the art house circuit,
winning the Grand Jury Prize at the 1991 Sundance Film Festival and
receiving an unexpectedly rapid release to the homemarket as well.
Thereafter it rapidly returned to the same obscurity from which came.

In a general sense, the film is inspired by the writings of Jean Genet
(1910-1986), a French author associated with the existentialist
movement. A deliberate outsider, Genet spent so much of his youth in
and out of prison that he was ultimately threatened with a life
sentence as a habitual criminal. In his writings, Genet fused his
homosexual, criminal, and prison adventures into a consistent point of
view--one that championed freedom of choice (no matter how unattractive
the choice), self-determination (no matter how unfortunate the result),
and generally gave the finger to any form of authority (no matter how
necessary.) POISON specifically references three of his most celebrated
works: OUR LADY OF THE FLOWERS, THE MIRACLE OF THE ROSE, and THE
THIEF'S JOURNAL, all of which were to some extent autobiographical.

At the same time, the film also references a host of other films--so
many that it is sometimes difficult to know whether a single reference
is deliberate or simply a fluke, an effect that Genet himself would
have likely admired. The most obvious of these references is D.W.
Griffith's 1916 silent masterpiece INTOLERANCE, for like that film
POISON tells three distinctly stories, cross-cutting between them that
they might heighten each other. Unlike INTOLERANCE, however, each story
is also told in a distinctly different cinematic style, and these too
seem to reference various other films.

The first of these stories, HOMO, is very specifically drawn from
Genet. It tells the story of a constant criminal and homosexual who,
while in prison, meets a man whose repeated sexual humiliation he
witnessed when both were children in a reformatory. He forces the man,
who is unwilling mainly due to fear than from morality, into an
emotional relationship and later rapes him. The "present" sequences are
shot in a murky half-light, the prison presented as a labyrinth of
potential sexual destruction. When the prisoner recalls his youthful
past, however, the tone changes to a surrealistic and extremely
artificial beauty--not unlike that seen in such films as James
Bidgood's PINK NARCISSUS and Fassbinder's QUERELLE. It is worth
pointing out that these different styles are ironic in use: although
shot darkly, the events of the "present" sequence are only mildly
shocking in comparison with the events of the "past" sequence, which is
shot in a bright and rather romantic style.

HORROR references the 1950s and early 1960s cinematic style of such "B"
directors as William Castle and Roger Corman, and it frequently borrows
cinematic ideas from Rod Sterling's television series THE TWILIGHT
ZONE. In this particular tale, a scientist has labored to isolate the
essence of the human sex drive--and succeeds only to ingest the element
by accident. With human sex drive raging out of control in his body, he
develops oozing sores, and his physical contacts with others spread the
condition. It is difficult not to read this as a reference to the AIDS
epidemic.

The third story, HERO, is actually presented very much like a modern
television news story and is told through a series of interviews. Here,
a young boy has shot his father--and then, according to his mother,
leaps from the window sill and simply flies away. Neighbors comment:
the boy exposed himself. School teachers comment: the boy was
unnatural, the boy was normal, the boy was creative, the boy was a
liar. A doctor comments: it is possible the boy had a, er, disease of
the genitals. As the story progresses the layers add up--but it leaves
us without clearcut answers, much less a clearcut response, and in this
last respect it is exactly like the other two stories.

It is extremely, extremely difficult to know how to react to POISON. It
has moments of remarkable beauty, but these are coupled with moments of
equally remarkably off-putting disgust. It is often an erotic film, but
the eroticism is tinged and occasionally saturated with revulsion. And
in all of this it is remarkably true to its original source: Genet,
whose works typically provoke exactly the same sense of beauty,
disgust, sensuality, revulsion, and uncertainty of response. I cannot
say that I like POISON, which was the directorial debut of Todd Haynes,
presently best known for FAR FROM HEAVEN--but then, it is not that sort
of film; it does not invite you like it, but rather to consider it both
in whole and in part. It strives to be interesting, and in that it is
often quite successful.

Unfortunately, it may also be a little too interesting for its own
good. While it certainly has its visceral moments, occasionally to the
gag point, it asks us to solve a puzzle from which pieces are missing.
This not a necessarily a bad thing, but in the case of POISON too many
pieces have gone astray; it seems deliberately unsolvable. This may
actually be intentional, but if so it was a mistake. A sense of mystery
is one thing, but mystification is another, and given its overall
strangeness--not to mention the subject matter--I think it very, very
unlikely that it will ever have more than curiosity appeal outside an
art house audience.

GFT, Amazon Reviewer
<|_=00=_|>

After reading a bit about Todd Haynes' "Poison" and the homosexual
comparisons that people seem to only be drawing from it, I've come to the
conclusion that it doesn't deserve to just be tagged as a seminal film of
the "new queer cinema". It's so much more than that.

First of all, I found "Homo" to be the least intriguing of the 3 stories.
"Hero" is actually more disturbing, showing the sudden disappearance of a
mentally-inflicted, patricidal child who, according to his mother, was
sent
from the angels. I was particularly impressed by Haynes' creative use of
layering in the adultery and spanking scenes.

But, in blending three prominent aspects (color, black and white,
documentary) of the film medium into his film, the beautiful b&w "Horror"
is
the most notable, showing the sudden downfall of a scientist's prosperity.
Haynes conveys the scientist's hysteria to his audience by using slanted,
extreme close-up camera techniques and spastic editing, not to mention a
haunting soundtrack.

The film is a bizarre one, indeed... but undeniably artful, and it
certainly
doesn't deserve to simply be pigeonholed into nothing more than a
cornerstone for homosexual cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite this film receiving a lot of negative feed back from a lot of
its viewers, I think the film is a truly provocative experience.
Granted this film is definitely not everyones cup of tea to say the
least, but it operates beyond entertainment. It is not there to be
liked or disliked, it is there to be analysed and that is where the
enjoyment comes into play.

The film is constructed of 3 stories; the homo, the horror and the
hero. Spread out over three different time periods. If any one is
thinking The Hours or 21grams think again, its not. This is a much
slower paced film and for want of a better word, 'duller' than the two
previously mentioned films.

Upon first viewing of the film, it appears that the three characters
share no apparent link. However, each story acts as a metaphor for a
wider issue, which does connect them all. I wont say what it is, thats
your job! Overall poison is a very clever work of art, which belongs to
the sub genres of expose and art-house. So if you enjoy those types of
films and are interested in queer cinema go watch it! Finally I think
Todd Haynes is a genius, a true auteur.
<|_=00=_|>
Poison, the first theatrical film of Todd Haynes, is a grotesque,
pessimistic, and extremely disturbing picture that is both celebration
of misery and cruelty and a reflection of human tenderness and sexual
freedom. The film interweaves three very different stories together
into one narrative line. The film goes back and forth between each
story, and each story is completely different from one another in
theme, content, style, musical choice, genre, and tone. One story,
titled 'Horror', is shot in the style of a 50s B-horror film and is
about a scientist who manages to alienate the human sex drive into a
vial of fluid. Unfortunately, he accidentally drinks the fluid and
mutates into a blistering pile of pus and proceeds to go on an
infectious rampage, spreading his disease to all he comes into contact
with. Another story, titled 'Homo', is a sinister, gritty, muddy, and
emotionally tender love story set in an underground prison of some kind
in which two male prisoners slowly descend into an obsessive and
violent S&M relationship. The story contains flashbacks to their
traumatic youth. The remaining story, titled 'Hero', is shot in what
appears to be a documentary format in which several members of a
distraught community are interviewed about a recent bizarre tragedy
involving a disturbed family. A little boy named Richard shoots his
sexually abusive father and then flies out the window, and the entire
incident was witnessed by his mother who considers her son to be an
angel sent from God to watch over her.

Poison is a rather strangely enchanting film. One of the most
enchanting things about it is that it never quite gives you any time to
breathe. From frame one, the film plunges you into a world full of
cruelty and chaotic confusion and you're left on your own to pretty
much sort through the images. It's all rather elegantly pulled off.
Haynes manages to capture a lot of the charm and the overall structure
from each film medium his stories represent. With 'Hero' he manages to
present that optimistic 50s family sitcom outlook gone slightly wrong
found in David Lynch's Blue Velvet. He does this by using a lot of
bright colors and simplistic architecture. The effect is unsettling,
but it is also strangely hypnotic in it's own weird way. By using
mostly mastershots and by allowing a little more time for talking
heads, he's able to create a real creepy sense of foreboding fury that
fits really well with the other two stories. With 'Homo', he uses a lot
of low angles and close-ups. He also uses more natural lighting, at
least in the scenes that aren't flashbacks. It's a much more
testosterone driven story, and so the dark look really helps to
highlight a lot of the sweatier, more vulnerable aspects of the bodies
of these characters. This adds a much more psychological aspect of male
sexuality to the film that carries over to the other two stories,
making 'Hero' seem ever so slightly more perverted to the average
viewer and making 'Horror' seem a lot more metaphorical and realistic
in some ways. With 'Horror', we get the bleakest and most disturbing
tale of the three. In order to create that classic horror movie feel,
Todd Haynes uses a lot more fade-outs, more specific music cues, and
noticeably melodramatic narration. He allows us to really feel sorry
for this disturbed character, and that feeling of uncleanliness
pervades the rest of the film as a result.

It seems to me that Haynes wanted to create this film in order to
develop an intricate puzzle of how genre pictures can manipulate other
genre pictures, the viewing experience of each picture, how watching
one sort of theme in one picture can invisibly affect a separate
viewing of another picture, and to recreate the style of multiple
viewing itself. His personal reasons for making this film, however,
seem to be much more complicated. Poison is what I would consider the
quintessential gay picture. It has everything I love and hate about
most gay themed films (the depressing endings, the perverted
camera-work, the abundant strange behavior, the gratuitous sex), but
it's self-awareness is so fun to watch that it rises above all the
schlock and finds it's own path toward narrative freedom.

Above all, Poison is a masterpiece. Along with In a Glass Cage, If....,
My Own Private Idaho, Mysterious Skin, and the films of Derek Jarman,
it's one of the more challenging gay themed films that you're likely to
see. Even if the subject matter disturbs you, there is still so much to
digest in terms of imagery and in the wonderful music score. Even if
you put aside all that, however, you still have one of the most unusual
storytelling structures you will likely see for this kind of film. You
can spend the entire film just studying the structure and you will
learn so much about scene and theme composition. Even putting aside
THAT, however, the ambition of the film is enough to admire. I find
that there is way too much going on here that can simply be written
off. The things I've noticed upon re-watching this film have chilled me
to the bone, and watching it only makes me want to watch it again. It's
one of those films that really hit the right notes with me. I will
admit that the first time I watched it I couldn't quite comprehend it.
It is a dizzying film in that sense, and I don't expect most viewers to
digest a lot of the imagery on their first viewing. However, it's a
film that I think really says a lot about human progress in terms of
sex, imagination, violence, and physical desire. It's a powerful film
with a lot of quiet emotion with an ending that left me feeling very
polarized. Watching it once is simply not enough.

*to read more, go to cuddercityfilmchronicles.blogspot.com*
<|_=00=_|>
Todd Haynes became well known with his film "Poison", which was
successful at the Sundance film festival. What I like about "Poison" is
that is not another stereotypical gay film. It contains three separate
stories, all shown out of sequence. So it's like watching three bizarre
surrealist films within one movie. One story "Hero" is a mockumentary
which deals with a young boy and his abusive father. After killing his
dad, he mysteriously flies away. Another story deals with a disease
like epidemic, which seems to be symbolic of aids. This part is filmed
in a style of a campy 50's sci-fi film. The man drinks some sort of
potion and is given the disease. A colleague still loves him even
though he's infected. Then the last story "Homo" deals with two men in
prison and their homosexual relationship. These two guys have known
each other from their youth and the one has flashbacks of the torment
he has faced. "Poison" is a unique experimental masterpiece of queer
cinema, reminiscent of Derek Jarmon. The film went through much
controversy with its NC-17 rating. But really, there's R-rated films
which are much worse. "Poison" is definitely not a film for everyone,
but if your looking for something strange and different you'll probably
enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
Todd Haynes is one of those directors whom I've come across with due to
his more recent works (FAR FROM HEAVEN) but with whose earlier work I
was totally unfamiliar with. If anyone would have told me that POISON
was part of his filmography, I wouldn't have known -- that's how
obscure this movie is. At a brief 85 minutes, it tells the three
separate vignettes, all of them loosely based on the writings of Jean
Genet: "Hero" presents a mockumentary of a boy who shoots his father
and then flies away. Of course, we later learn out why. "Horror"
ventures into science-fiction territory and has a 1950s feel (down to
the cheap-looking make-up, wooden acting, and bad dialogue), in which a
scientist extracts a hormone that not only unleashes his sexual
desires, but turns him into a monster and thus sets free a mutating
virus not unlike AIDS. The third installment is the one which most
closely resembles the writing of Genet: "Homo" is a gay love story
complete with male rituals and lots of repression set in prison and is
the only one of the three to feature actual homoerotic content -- but
has one very nauseating sequence in which one character's demons come
to light in a flashback sequence in a juvenile detention that involves
spitting into one of the character's mouth (and John Leguizamo, as
excellent as he is as an actor, portrays sheer nastiness as one of the
inmates who is enjoying himself a little too much). It is the most
disturbing of the three and the one I least connected with, mainly
because for obvious reasons it was fetishistic and implausible as well
as humiliating. It's the only one of the three to make me feel like an
outsider when venturing into gay-themed stories: for some reason I find
that this sort of tale, where games of extreme humiliation seem to be
rampant in gay erotica. Even so, POISON might be of some interest to
those interested in gay-themed cinema, but it should be approached with
a caveat for anyone a little sensitive to the degrading behavior that
"Homo" offers.
<|_=00=_|>

Make sure that you are not tired when watching this film.  Although this
film introduces some outstanding performances by some little known actors,
the film falls short.  
One of the three short stories of the film is shot in black and white and is
strangely reminiscient of David Lynch's masterpiece "The Elephant Man." 
When Dr. Graves is ordered out to the fire-escape, I was just waiting for
him to shout, "I'm not an animal; I'm a human being."
The prisoner story, unlike the black and white story, is full of emotion and
intensity.  Issues such as homosexuality, abuse, and longing for love are
enmeshed in this tale.
The third story is shot documentary style.  An unseen interviewer questions
neighbors, family, and friends about the events leading up to the shooting
and death of an abusive father.
This movie will intrigue you, confuse you, and bother you.  It's worth a
watch.

<|_=00=_|>
31 Days of Spookoween: DAY ELEVEN

Film #11: Poison (1991)

Review: It feels both right and wrong to classify Todd Haynes'
brilliant feature film debut "Poison" as a horror film. It is unlike
any other film that would fit into the genre (although one of its three
segments obviously replicates the sci-fi/horror B-Movies of the
1950's), and yet it is still spine tingling and disturbing and, in all
honestly, occasionally horrific. But, it is many other things as well,
a long list of adjectives taking up line after line could easily be the
remainder of this very review. One moment may have some fittingly mild
black comedy, while the next may be a poignant love scene, while the
nest may be gripping, while the next may be terrifying, while the next
may be madly surrealistic. It's deftly unpredictable and oddly
engaging, not a minute is wasted and the pacing feels like a gentle
breeze that suddenly morphs into a Hellish blaze of howling wind. 

Back in the early 90's when the film was first released, it was rather
infamous. Hotly debated and heavily controversial, the film was met
with outrage from some, and a totally unreasonable NC-17 rating from
the MPAA. Yes, it is true that this film tackles heavy themes,
particularly those that deal frankly and explicitly with homosexuality,
and there are some brief flashes of rather strong sexual imagery, but
the film never dwells upon anything that is at all "obscene" or
"vulgar". Often, these "dirtier" sequences evoke a feeling much
different than lust...they evoke feelings of pain and heart ache and
horror and beauty, there's never the sense that what you're watching is
in any way "filth"; no, everything feels tasteful and necessary and
meaningful, and this creates an experience filled with enigmas and
experiments and romances and an overall entirely unique expression of
the pains, pleasures, and paranoia that comes with human sexuality.
<|_=00=_|>
Queer filmmaker Todd Haynes' debut feature POISON dazzles as a
multi-faceted cinematic triptych, three segments: Hero, Horror, Homo,
all inspired by Jean Genet's novels (with his texts sporadically
materialize on the screen as inner beacons), are intertwined altogether
yet each is bestowed with a sui generis visual style that speaks
volumes of Haynes' eclectic idioms. 

Hero takes the form of a grainy and slipshod pseudo-documentary,
interviewing sundry characters about a deadly homicide further
confounded by a surreal twist, a 7-year-old boy, shoots his father dead
and then wondrously flies away from the window witnessed by his mother
Felicia (Meeks), various interviewees recounts the boy's aberrant
deportment before the incident, some are startlingly perverse, finally,
through Felicia's account, the boy's ascension smacks of something
punitive and defiant in the face of family dysfunction and violent
impulse, rather dissimilar in its undertone and timbre from that WTF
upshot in Alejandro González Iñárritu's BIRDMAN (2014, 7.6/10). 

Horror, shot in retro-monochrome and abounds with eye-catching Dutch
angles, namely is a none- too-engrossing pastiche of the erstwhile
B-movies and body horror, a scientist Dr. Thomas Graves (Maxwell),
accidentally ingests the serum of "human sexuality" which he has
successfully extracted, starts to transmogrify into a leprosy-inflicted
monster, and his condition is deadly contagious, which threats lives
around him, especially his admirer Dr. Nancy Olsen (Norman), who
against all odds, not daunted by his physical deterioration. In
comparison, this segment is less savory owing to its own unstimulating
camp, where Hero ends with a subjective ascending, the upshot for a
beleaguered gargoyle is nothing but plummeting. 

Last but not the least, Homo is plainly a more self-reflexive treatment
conjured up à la Fassbinder's QUERELLE (1982), another mainstay of
queer cinema derived from Genet's text. A prisoner John Broom
(Renderer), grows intimate towards the blow-in Jack Bolton (Lyons),
whom he has met before during his stint in a juvenile facility of
delinquency, Jack's humiliated past emerges inside John's mind, now it
is his turn to exert his suppressed libido. This chapter is as
homoerotic as one can possibly imagine, a maneuver Haynes would have
unwillingly relinquished en route pursuing mainstream acceptance, one
tantalizing sequence of Broom groping an asleep Jack is divinely
graphic and atmospherically transcendent. 

Credited as an experimental juvenilia, POISON throbs with vitality,
ambition and knowing archness, though the end result is far from
flawless, it potently anticipates many a Haynes' modus operandi, say,
the segmental structure and interview-style in I'M NOT THERE. (2007,
8.0/10), his distinct prediction for the photogenic period setting and
outfit in FAR FROM HEAVEN (2002, 9.2/10) and CAROL (2015, 8.9/10), not
to mention his latest sortie into black-and-white mystique and
paralleled storytelling in the Cannes-premiered WONDERSTRUCK (2017). 

Not many can embrace perversity as plucky as Mr. Haynes has done,
whether it is a tragedy can easily take place around us in real life,
or a man living through his most egregious incubus, or a blatantly
idealized contest of one's sexuality (motifs like wedding, saliva and
scars are all defying their accepted norms), just like a child's
stretching hand in the opening credit, Haynes' first directorial outing
jauntily treads through many taboo subjects and in retrospect,
vindicates that it will be our profound loss if his talent fails to be
acknowledged and utilized in full scale.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, this is indeed a pretty weird mix of three seemingly unrelated
stories, the debut feature film by Todd Haynes. I had seen nothing by
him before, but I've been interested in seeing 'Safe' (1995) for a
while now. And his recent film 'Carol' really seems worth a watch as
well. I have 'Velvet goldmine' on DVD as well, but I'm not sure about
that one, for more personal - rather inexplicable - reasons, I suppose.

Back to 'Poison'. I found the whole thing to be pretty intriguing,
though I'm not sure how it should all relate (other than the obvious
human state of misery). A quote from the film, a certain statement
about something being a lie and the truth at the same time, struck a
cord with me; the film seems to be the director's attempt to put
something really personal out there, but at the same time he hopes it
pertains to something essential. A bit vague, I'll admit, but I'll
comfortably leave it at that: I liked it quite a bit, even if things
(altogether) didn't make sense, completely.

The individual stories, about a boy killing his father, a man in prison
meeting an 'old' friend and a scientist who simply makes a big mistake,
somehow blended together well enough, reminding me of several other
directors' films, such as Guy Maddin (haven't seen much of him - shame
on me), Tom Kalin^ and John Paizs.

So... a fine little gem it is: 8 out of 10.

^ Strangely enough, Kalin made a rather cult-ish debut film a few years
before Haynes did, then Haynes did a much more straightforward (but
certainly not mainstream, either) follow-up drama with Julianne Moore
in the lead, and then - guess what - years later Kalin did the just the
same...
