

I think I know why Blair Witch has generated as much negative as positive
responses.  It FORCES YOU TO BECOME INVOLVED IN THE MOVIE GOING EXPERIENCE!

Wow.  What a concept.  Instead of sitting there like the passive sponges
most of us become when going to the movies we are actually expected be
become involved.  Take a leap of faith/belief or whatever and delve into
this movie.  Without the overpowering F/X and music score most movies rely
on to 'scare' you, if you still have an imagination left what is implied
becomes a hundred times scarier than anything offered up by Hollywood in the
last 30 years.  The hardest thing in movies is to scare you.  Not make you
jump out of your seat with 5000 watts of sound blasting at 400 decibels
(ever seen the 1999 version of the Haunting?  Event Horizon? - every
potentially tense scene is preceeded by dead silence then the Blast).  Wake
up people!  Blair Witch is the horror movies we have been needing for a long
time and I'm glad someone finally had the guts to make
it.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is not a feature film.  For a start, it is not feature length,
also, it is not shot on film.  More importantly, it does not have what
feature films have these days: star actors, special effects, exotic
locations, explosions.  Instead, seeing B.W.P. is seeing something else
that
a cinema can be: a place where people can share an intimate experience
created by a few people on a tight budget.  I would be glad of its success
if only for that reason.

The first section of the film appears at first to be amateurish and slow.
In fact, it is very deft, and very efficient at what it does.  It tells the
audience everything it needs to know about the characters and situation,
and
nothing more.  Also, it gets the audience into the habit of viewing the
film's format: alternating between black and white (very grainy and poorly
focussed) film, and the washed out colours of shaky pixilated video.  The
film makers managed to set up a rationale for why the film is so cheaply
made.  Three people hike into the woods for a few days to shoot a
documentary, with borrowed equipment, and are in the habit of videoing
everything for the hell of it.   They cannot carry tripods, steadicams,
dollies, large lighting rigs, or the like, so everything we see is lit
either by raw daylight, or by a single light fixed to the camera, which
illuminates just what is within a few feet of the lens.  The film creates
its own excuse to be cheap.  This is intelligent.

The acting and script are both excellent.  The well-cast actors are
presumably playing pretty-much themselves, and are convincingly
naturalistic, and neither too likeable or too dislikeable.  The slow route
into hysteria is well documented.  Rather than simply having a character
say
"We're lost!", we see many scenes which show the trio getting more and more
hopelessly lost, and more annoyed with each other for this.  By the time
they are thoroughly lost, the audience shares the despair.

My friend and I, after seeing it, both felt a little sick.  I put this down
to my having been tense for a hour, he put it down more to motion sickness.
The jerky, badly-framed camerawork is hard on the eye and stomach, but I
applaud the director for its uncompromising use.  Similarly, no compromise
is made with the dialogue.  Some of it is very quiet and must be listened
for, some is technical jargon, which is left realisticly
unexplained.

One of the great strengths and weaknesses of the film is the editing.  It
is
good in that it does much to heighten the tension, with many key moments
lasting just a little too long for comfort.  Each time the characters find
something nasty, the viewer is made to want the editor to cut soon to the
next scene, and the fact that he doesn't adds to the sense of being
trapped,
as the characters are.  The problem with this, though, is that one is left
wondering about the motives of the fictional editor.  In truth, of course,
the film is edited to create these effects, and to entertain, but the
film's
rationale is that these are the rushes of a documentary put together
posthumously by someone other than the film's original creator.  Why, then,
would an editor piecing together such footage, edit for dramatic effect
rather than for clarity?  Why would he keep cutting back and forth from the
video footage to the film footage, when neither shows any more information
than the other?

The film is stark.  After one simple caption at the start, all that follows
is the "rushes".  I wonder if the film might not have been improved with an
introductory section which documented how the rushes were found and edited.
A programme was made for television which did this.  Perhaps a portion of
this might have been added to the film, making it more complete, and more
believable (and proper feature length).

While I applaud the fact that young original film-makers have managed to
create a mainstream hit out of a simple idea, well-handled.  I dread the
possible avalanche of inferior copies which may come.

Most horror films these days are created not for the audience, but for the
makers.  The departments of special effects, make-up, model-making,
animation and so forth all try hard to show potential future employers what
they can do.  The result is that nothing is left for the audience to do,
since everything can be seen and heard, and the viewer's imagination can be
switched off.  Today, it is possible to see pigs fly on the screen, and so
film-makers show off and show us a formation of Tamworths, which is
something which will look impressive in the trailer.  To show us less is to
make our minds fill in the gaps.  This way, we create our own terrors,
perfectly fitted to ourselves.  The ghastly face I see in my head, is the
ghastly head which I find scary.  The ghastly face I am shown may be one I
can cope with quite easily.  If I see a believable character screaming in
hysterical fear at something I cannot see, my own brain creates demons for
my night's dreams, demons far more mighty than anything CGI graphics or a
latex mask could portray.

This film will stay in your thoughts for some while.

<|_=00=_|>

I saw this film last night, LONG after all the hype and reviews were made
about it. I settled in with the right mood for any film: no expectations. If
you expect too much, you may be let down (take note for any Kubrick film). I
watched the entire film without interruption and came out with a great
feeling. "The Blair Witch Project" is one darn good movie.

Many critics and moviegoers complained about the film for its length, its
amateurish photography/editing, and its lack of adequate acting. I feel
these things MADE THE MOVIE. First, the film has to be at most ninety
minutes long: any more, and it would be too long and boring. Second, the
amateur video take gives the audience the feel that they are actually in the
woods, listening to the rippling water of the creek, snapping branches under
their boots, and hearing things go bump in the night. I greatly admire the
use of two video cameras (one black-and-white, the other color) to denote
which character is shooting the film. Lastly, the incessant screaming of
whiny Heather, the constant complaining of average-joe Mike, and the
Dudley-Do-Rightness of Josh make for great acting. Yes, these are regular
people and up-and-coming actors from your local community theater, but YOU
KNOW THEM. You've met people like them.

The biggest complaint, however, comes from the film's supposed "lack" of
scary moments. This film reminds me of the classic horror film "The Texas
Chain Saw Massacre," and though not as gory and as shocking as that film,
"The Blair Witch Project" shows just enough fright in the group's search for
a way out of the woods, stalked by people and/or things they may never
understand. In the older film, the long interval between opening credits and
first gory act of violence is about thirty minutes long; it is even longer
here, but the suspense/fright (just as in the older film) begins right from
the opening credits: you just don't see it until the film's over. These are
three people out to make a documentary in the woods with handheld
camcorders--these are REAL PEOPLE. And GREAT ACTORS. Heather whines a lot
and screams and reminds you of the girl you hate so much you fall in love
with her. Her screams sound real, her cries are genuine, and she is DEEPLY
DEEPLY sorry for bringing the others into the woods in order to film her
documentary.

I really dig the beginning. It seems so real to me I may delve into my old
home movies for nostalgia. Heather and Josh pick up Mike, then go to the
store for supplies. This opening sequence really packs a punch. These are
three Generation Xers out for a camping trip. We all know what happens to
them, but we're glued to the screen, intent to know what actually happens.

The interviews give us some detail into the Blair Witch legend, but most of
the audience is too busy thinking about the actual trek into the woods that
they don't listen. This is wrong. Listening is good. The interviews, which
also sound real and not rehearsed in any way, are like movie reviews: the
critics tell you what they saw, but mostly they don't want to ruin it for
you...unless they hated it.

And that's what I'll do. I won't ruin it for you. 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Privileged to see a preview of this fantastically terrifying film, I found
myself actually feeling the pain and mind-numbing anguish of the
characters.
At times in the movie, I would find myself trying to peer through the
darkness with them, fully realizing that there was absolutely no chance of
knowing what was out there.  I think that is the most effective aspect of
this, the fear of the unknown.  I really can't think of anything more
frightening than something that has no identity, and so you don't know how
to relate or react, and you are forced to suffer through the unknown.  A
key
component also included in this film was the steady decline of human
spirit
that you witness first-hand.  You watch as the characters are broken down
to
small, scared, hunted animals, and you find yourself shaking your head at
how pitiful and helpless they have become, yet you don't feel sorry for
them, only agonizing hope that they will escape the fear with at least
their
lives.  Wonderfully created film that, at least for me, an outdoor
enthusiast who used to enjoy wandering alone through familiar woods, will
always haunt me to the core of my soul when I look around and see nothing
but endless woods, unknown sounds, and things that are never seen.


<|_=00=_|>

With all the hype surrounding this new independent horror film, you might
think it would be hard for it to live up to expectations. The Blair Witch
Project is probably as scary as it's reputation. Feel free to read on, I do
not intend to give away any of the film's secrets or surprises. The less you
know about this creepy little chiller, the better.

Filmed on video and 16mm black & white, this film is exactly what the horror
genre needs in a time reminiscent of the early 1980s slasher onslaught. The
Blair Witch Project has no knife wielding maniacs, no DNA altered monsters,
and no real bloodshed onscreen. We see what the three film makers see as
they make their way through the deep, dank woods in search of a legendary
witch. There are times when there is nothing but a black screen, and all we
can do is listen to their scared voices and the unexplained noises going on
around them. The true horror behind this film is the unknown, and those dark
places where you know something is lurking.

If you are a seasoned veteran of the horror cinema, The Blair Witch Project
may be less frightening than for someone who has not seen many scary movies.
You will have to respect it's originality, and it's manipulation of our
deepest fears. At times the film really makes you feel the sense of dread
the film makers are experiencing. One thing I did notice about the audience
in the theater is that everyone was very quiet. Except for an occasional
gasp, the moviegoers were absorbed in this film. That's unusual for a modern
horror movie. Most are full of
fake scare tactics and multiple twist endings that keep the
audience
shouting and screaming at the screen. One thing for sure, you
can
expect many imitations of The Blair Witch Project in the future.
Isn't
that how it usually goes?

<|_=00=_|>

Like most movies, whether or not someone likes TBWP will usually depend on
what they're looking for.  Many people enjoy horror movies because of the
special effects, gore, shocks, and, in some cases, the high production
value.  Since TBWP came from a small independent film company that cost
less
than a hundred grand to make, can a moviegoer really expect all that and
have a good time?  I honestly don't think so.

Myrick and Sanchez had a terrific idea for a film: make a frightening mock
documentary that was supposed to look like it was done by some amateur
college students.  Some people seem to be under the impression that the
movie was about the witch, when what it really was about the mental and
emotional breakdown of the three film students.  I feel that once viewers
could accept the low production values and the improvised script, only then
could they deal with Heather, Josh, and Mike.  Until they do that, the film
would never work for them.

I just put myself in their position:  I'm lost in the woods, I'm tired, I'm
hungry, and I've got the added stress of returning borrowed equipment.  The
weather is getting colder, it rains just enough to make life miserable, and
something is waking me up each and every night.  Now, I'm exhausted,
grouchy, scared, and I having troubles thinking clearly.

People might have hated Heather because they she was bitchy and annoying,
but all three of them had their moments, good and bad.
Many people might have also hated the fact that not everything was
explained
to them, and that they never got to see the Blair Witch.  Many other people
may have resented Artisan Entertainment's marketing campaign, although they
can't deny just how effective it was.  All the filmmakers and actors asked
was that filmgoers understand the spirit that was intended; without it,
they
knew the film couldn't work for anybody.

As you might already tell, I thoroughly enjoyed this film.  What Haxan
Films
managed to do with what they had is not only revolutionary, but is also
inspirational to independent filmmakers everywhere.  I found the backstory
interesting, the plotline well thought out, and the characters extremely
developed, considering the lack of structure and guidelines within the
film.
If you do decide to see this film, I think you'll enjoy it if you see it
for what it simply is, nothing more; it might even scare the hell out of
you!
<|_=00=_|>

This movie scared me in a way that no other has done before.  I remember
going to camp as a child, and hearing things outside at night.  That was
scary enough.  This movie recreated that entire scenario and then added some
to it.  The fact that those things that go bump in the night outside your
campsite were REAL in this movie makes it more nerve-inducing and
frightening.  As anyone, the first time I set foot in the ocean after seeing
JAWS for the first time, I was nervous.  Let me tell you in order to get
from the movie theater to my house, I have to drive through the woods.
After seeing this movie, that drive got SIGNIFICANTLY longer, more eerie,
and scared the heck out of me.  I went about 90 mph all the way home in
order to get out of the woods!  This is one SCARY movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Hmm. Wow. What is there left to say? I've waited for most of the hype to
die
down to even add my comments for this movie to IMDB, and here they
are:

This is really a movie that has polarized a lot of people. Many love it
and
consider it the best thing since sliced bread, and plenty more absolutely
hate it and call it tripe, drivel, awful, wretched, the worst ever, etc.
(NOTE: as far as I'm concerned, the opinions of anyone calling any movie
the
best- or even more especially, the worst- movie ever are to be immediately
disregarded.) Highly innovative in its way, it spawned many parodies and
an
interesting but inferior sort-of sequel. In the summer of Star Wars:
Episode
1, this was the movie that originated several cultural symbols.

I saw this movie shortly after it opened in wide release. Sitting in a
theater surrounded by my friends with popcorn in my lap and watching Mike
and Heather run around some creepy old house, I felt for the first and
last
time in my adult life *real, creeping fear* when I myself was not in
danger.

Many have complained about the shaky-cam, the cussing, how nothing 'really
happens', and that it's not scary. By and large, the camera is not *that*
shaky, at least to the point where you can't understand why- they're
tromping through the woods and they're scared half to death. I must not
get
queasy very easily, as I had no problem with it. As for the cussing- the
lines were ad-libbed, the actors are college-age, and all three sound
exactly like every American college student I've ever known. So maybe
people
have a problem with young peoples' language, but what else is new? That's
not a flaw of the movie- it's realism and part of why so many more young
people found TBWP scary.

I think at least some of the dissention in opinions is caused by
generational and cultural differences. My mother's friends told me it
wasn't
scary, but that 'Psycho' terrified them. 'Psycho', while interesting and a
classic, is not the least bit scary to me. 'The Excorcist' has only a
couple
scenes that I find frightening, but my mom breaks out in goosebumps at the
mere mention of it. The scariest thing I ever saw until I watched this
movie
was a reel in a collection of horror shorts: a woman walks into her house
carrying groceries, drops her keys down her heating vent, bends down to
try
to get them, and something grabs her scarf. She struggles, but within a
minute or two, she's drug down and strangled. The scarf goes slack, the
woman is lying dead on her floor, and that's it.

TBWP is about what you *can't see*, about how your fear of the unknown is
so
much worse than what the unknown could probably ever be. The characters
were
not even necessarily likable, but they were *familiar*- Heather is the
girl
I sit next to in film class who thinks she has all the answers. Their
mundane existence, captured in the beginning of the film, roots them in
reality. What happens to them is terrifying because they are so every day,
so interchangable with millions of other college kids. And, finally, you
never know whether the Witch exists or not. Everything that happens can be
explained away by coincidence, pranksters, bats, hunger, exhaustion and
imaginations run wild with fear- or you can choose not to explain them
away.

Young Americans are not scared of much- school shootings can roll off us
like water, the evil human beings inflict on each other is run-of-the-mill
6
o'clock news, we are raised in a culture that claims to worship a
vengeful,
elitist god while almost everyone is hypocritical and uses the power of
spirituality as a way to abuse others. We are in information overload from
birth. What we fear is not knowing. And in the Black Hills Woods of
Maryland, just beyond the flashlight's reach, something is making strange
and terrible noises- but we don't know what it is.

<|_=00=_|>

A film which fell foul of its own publicity machine, `The Blair Witch
Project' was abhorred and derided by the mainstream film-going public which
it became unfortunately directed at due to its extraordinary and outlandish
marketing campaign. `The Blair Witch Project' is not a typical film that
the
typical cinema-going public would normally be exposed to. The camera-work
is
jerky, the dialogue repetitive and inane and the action virtually
non-existent. At times confusing, annoying, irritating and tedious, this
film is nonetheless a brilliant piece of arthouse experimental film-making.
This movie is virtually all style-there's hardly any plot, no real action,
no semblance of a real script-and one that works on a deeper psychological
level than the standard mainstream horror film. Indeed, only the very last
image in the film is truly frightening, and only if it can be correlated to
an incident at the very beginning. The rest of it only becomes scary
afterwards, when the audience has had time to consider what they've seen.
It
is groundbreaking, manipulative cinema made without a script, with an
amateur cast and with little or no post-production values. This is a
remarkable film which can only really be appreciated, if the accompanying
hype is overlooked, as a unique, avant-garde art film and not the regular
Hollywood stock it was presented as to the public.
<|_=00=_|>
As anyone who has read my reviews for any length of time knows, I don't
kiss ass when it comes to independent films. If it's a good film; I
rate it accordingly, if it's a bad film; I do likewise. 

However....

It's become one of my pet peeves that indie film fans demand that EVERY
independent film be called nothing short of a masterpiece no matter how
mundane it is, no compromise. It's this mentality that has resulted in
my extreme dislike of indie films and their fans and filmmakers.
Honestly; just because something was made without studio assistance
and/or interference DOES NOT automatically make it a masterpiece, any
more than having the hot new centerfold of-the-month makes the next
Michael Bay film an Oscar contender. Yet, still the indie zombies
insist that it does, supposedly this mentality comes from resenting
Hollywood's excesses, such as taking away artistic control, bloated
budgets, inattention to casting appropriate actors in favor of popular
ones, and worst of all; annoying marketing campaigns. What BS.

Indie films are guilty of many hypocrisies; but attacking marketing
campaigns is their biggest; as endless marketing hype(along with pure
stupidity)is the only reason anyone would have seen this clunker I'm
currently reviewing.

I can recall, quite vividly; the endless pop-up ads, the fan sites;
official and(supposedly)unofficial, magazine articles, TV. specials,
the merchandise, the relentless TV. commercials. Whew. The people who
complain about the 'Dark Knight's marketing campaign just plain weren't
ALIVE to not know the extent of this films marketing(which makes sense;
since 99.9% of all the negative TDK reviews I've seen couldn't have
been written by someone older than 5 or 8). TDK had NOTHING on this
film's relentless marketing campaign.

Trashing Hollywood for over hyping their products, then doing the same:
that's the definition of hypocrisy. That alone would be justification
enough to dislike TBWP and it's indie film moron cult and to call them
hypocritical and give the film a 1 rating, even if it was a good movie,
even if I had liked it.

The fact that it also sucked as a film anyway just justifies my rating.

The common defense is that this is some brilliant 'art-film' which
introduced the concept of not showing the monster and leaving it to the
imagination. BS. Val Lewton did the same thing a thousand times better
during the '40's, with films which are classics of the genre: 'Cat
People', 'The Seventh Victim'. etc. and in 1963; probably the best of
all 'unseen' horror films; Robert Wise(a disciple of Lewton)'s 'The
Haunting' was released; to borrow an indie film fan phrase: it PWNED
'Blair Witch'. All classics, all achieving their suspense without
showing the monster. All before this film.

But indie fans ignore all this; they claim those movies don't count
because they are old and in black & white. Typical response from them,
no respect for older film.

As for the 'story' of this film and it's qualities; I wouldn't even
give it a D if it was a student film. The device of not showing the
monster comes off less as an artistic choice and more an excuse to film
nothing but a couple of dumb-asses running around and passing it off as
a film. I'll admit it's clever, heck, even Lewton originally adopted
the device out of necessity, but he did it mostly because he recognized
it's dramatic potential in the face of several alternatives. For the
record, it is also a complete and utter rip-off of a much better film
called 'The Last Broadcast', the difference being that there is a
survivor. Really, otherwise it's the same damn thing, and it's the
indie film fans who call Hollywood unoriginal(If only I could use the
eye-roll emoticon).

The story also sucks, 'Cannibal Holocaust' did the 'found footage'
thing much better. The 'acting' is also awful; it's so forced you
wonder if the witch is a legitimate legend even in the context of the
story. The praise for characterization is true, though. I definitely
felt something about the characters: I wanted all 3 of them dead within
a minute. And even if, pray tell, the device of not showing the monster
WAS original, or had been used well; does it REALLY matter if it's an
awful film otherwise? Nope. At best, it just revives a long-dead
gimmick.

And for all the people who say it must be good because so many people
thought it was real, let me ask you something: Have you ever heard the
phrase 'Idiots will believe anything'? Grow up and watch some
atmospheric, 'unseen' horror films that are actually good. This is no
different than your usual incredibly stupid, vapid Hollywood slasher
flick with annoying teenage victims, only without a slasher and not
made by Hollywood, but still incredibly stupid , vapid and filled with
annoying teenage victims.~
