
Peter Jackson truly outdid himself when creating the Lord of the Rings:
The Fellowship of the Ring and he fails to disappoint us in the 2nd
part of the Trilogy. The Two Towers shows us that he is not a one-hit
wonder, like so many directors are. I actually think that The Two
Towers reaches the same level as the Fellowship of the Ring, and
sometimes even surpasses it.

This film is the biggest film in the trilogy. What do I mean by that?
Well this film has so many things going like the amazing Battle of
Helms Deep. Frodo and Sam journey to Mount Doom, to destroy the Ring.
But the one who's leading them through the way is Gollum, he looks so
creepy and realistic, that he doesn't feel disconnected from us. A
powerful performance by Andy Serkis as Gollum, he should of been
nominated for an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor.

The Best part of the film, is quite easily and everyone knows it the
ending. The ending of the battle of Helm's Deep is quite breathtaking,
and as Gandalf the White comes in the distance with another army to
defeat the Orcs. When Treebeard and his army of Entz tear down
Isengard, the destruction and the battle is so immense in size, that
you truly have to see to believe.

In size and scale, Peter Jackson has truly redefined the word "epic"
and he also pays attention to the small things that truly elevate this
movie from great to amazing. I definitely recommend this film to
everyone, but you really should watch the first movie to truly
understand what's going on.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

It seems ridiculous to want to add my own comments to a slew of others
that
are already in IMDB's records, but I feel like I cannot sleep nor cease
the
throbbing in my chest until I release some of what I have so recently
seen.

Peter Jackson's The Lord of the Rings is one of the bravest projects ever
attempted by a filmmaker. Mr Jackson deserves every ovation he will
receive,
every award, every bit of the praise and adoration that will be spoken
and
written.

This second installment of the story is a masterpiece in every sense,
forget
your prejudices about the books, they are another way of looking at this
beautiful story (I know this is slightly against the rules, but a I
cannot
resist saying that a previous writers comment - a comment that compared
the
Lord of the Rings Films and Books to the difference between Romeo and
Juliet
in screenplay and ballet formats - was entirely accurate).

Gollum was an excellent amalgam, so easily could he have been an annoying
Jar-Jar-Binks-Alike. Instead the way that Jackson and Serkis (and
doubtless
many many others) chose to portray the CGI incarnation of "Smeagol" was
incredibly emotive and powerful. Gollum is profoundly disturbing,
amusing,
almost lovable... Not even John Ronald Reuel himself could induce that
range
of emotions for Smeagol in me...

A truly skin-crawling performance by a superb Brad Douris as the evil
Grima
Wormtongue was just beyond words. Douris _Became_ Wormtongue in a
skillful
fulfillment of what was already inspired casting.

Probably the most definitive casting of this film though was Manchester
born
Bernard Hill as Theoden, King of Rohan. The casting for "The Two Towers"
makes one shake ones head and wonder, in retrospect, whether anyone else
could have filled these roles.
Mr Hill's performance was truly first rate, a performance which
contributed
greatly to "The Battle of Helms Deep", scenes which were a spinning
tornado
of emotions for the viewer.

Viggo Mortensen goes from strength to strength. His performance is
visceral
and yet sensitive. The overriding emotion that Tolkiens vision of Aragorn
induced (at least for me) was awe at his heroics. Mortensen's portrayal
in
Jackson's frame brings new aspects to the Aragorn character. Mortensen's
Aragorn is emotionally dextrous to go with his physical dexterity, he is
sensitive, seemingly empathic, warmer and more fundamentally human, and
yet
super-human in presence and charisma. "Definitive" is not strong enough
of a
word.

If you still view Jackson's epic with scepticism I implore you to put
down
your preconceptions and your prejudices, but most of all put down the
books... This is beautiful way to see middle earth, don't pass it up -
The
books are the ultimate fantasy epic - the pictures you draw in your head
are
better than anything you can imagine, but The Lord of the Rings "The Two
Towers" is one wonderful interpretation of that epic story.

Go, Laugh, Cry, and Sit in Awe of this cinematic treat.

<|_=00=_|>

The opening scene of The Two Towers provides an outstanding, yet very
brief,
taste of action, cinematography, and special effects, only to be matched
(and far surpassed) in the final hour of the film. The stunning events of
the third hour of The Two Towers are undoubtedly the centerpiece of the
film, and while the first two hours serve finely as story development,
they
primarily build anticipation for the final hour, which mostly depicts the
battle of Helm's Deep. More than anything else, the first two hours
merely
tease and torment the patient audience. It's a shame that such a gap has
to
exist between the first minute and the final hour, but I take no
reservations in saying that despite how you feel about the first two
hours
of the film, the final hour will make the wait entirely worth its
while.

As stated, the road to the battle of Helm's Deep can be enormously long
and
painful for any viewer aware of what breathtaking scenes await towards
the
end of the film. Perhaps The Two Towers' biggest fault is in its own
accomplishments; the first two thirds of the film are well shot, well
paced,
and they necessarily and adequately progress the storyline, but when
compared to the spectacular final hour, the first two hours seem
uneventful
and insignificant. However, to be fair, I feel that it's simply
impossible
to create two hours of film that could appropriately lead into the battle
of
Helm's Deep. It's difficult to comprehend how such scenes came to exist
in
the rather short amount of time Peter Jackson has had to create six hours
(so far) of finished film. The battle of Helm's Deep is simply unreal;
it's
unlike any event that has come to pass since fantasy films gained, and
regained, popularity.

As assumed, The Two Towers begins where The Fellowship of the Ring ended.
The majority of the film follows four separate groups and their story
lines:
Frodo and Sam; Aragorn and Legolas, Merry and Pippin, and Saruman and his
army. The performances live well up to the standards of the first film,
with
a particularly notable performance from Viggo Mortensen as Aragorn, whose
role is significantly larger in The Two Towers. Aragorn satisfies a
thirst
for someone to root for, a thirst that was left partly unquenched in
Fellowship. It's much easier to root for Aragorn than it is for Frodo;
Aragorn has many more qualities of a leading man, a soldier, and a hero.
More than once did the audience, filled mostly with academy voters,
applaud
the heroics of Aragorn. Gollum also shines in a much-welcomed large role,
due to extremely realistic computer animation, and a fine performance
from
Andy Serkis, upon which the animation was modeled. In Fellowship, it was
appropriate to consider Gollum one of the many great 'features' of the
film.
However, here he is more of a leading character and a 'star,' and his
convincing dual-personality, stabbing voice, and well-choreographed body
movements make him consistently eye-grabbing and the center of focus of
nearly every scene in which he appears.

As was The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers is a visual delight.
Those
who have seen Fellowship are no doubt familiar with the beauty of the
landscapes of New Zealand. The cinematography is, again, one of the best
aspects of the film. The swooshing camera movements that follow the
armies
and horsemen throughout the fields are extremely satisfying in this
post-Matrix era. The shots of the ascending enemy-laden ladders in the
battle of Helm's Deep are terrifying and chillingly gorgeous all at once.
The visual effects take an appropriate leap forward from those of the
first
film. While the visual effects in Fellowship were outstanding, the battle
of
Helm's Deep provides for the best application of CGI since the rippling
waves of The Matrix's 'Bullet Time.' The battle of Helm's Deep features
absolutely awe-inspiring and seamless integration of acting, stunts, and
computer animation. Each orc seems to have its own personality,
demonstrated
in its movements and visual features. The masses of armies fight with
strategy and true character, which I imagine is much harder to accomplish
than animating thousands of identical clone troopers. The only problem I
have with the visual department is the look of Gimli, the Treebeard.
Gimli's
visual features seem a bit childish and uninspired, inconsistent with the
standards set by the rest of the film. But again, there is simply nothing
that compares to the battle of Helm's Deep. George Lucas and the
Wachowski
brothers certainly have not created anything that approaches the
grandness
and magnificence of The Two Towers' final hour, and I doubt they will do
so
anytime soon.

In The Fellowship of the Ring, I had a few minor problems with Howard
Shore's score. While I thought it was gorgeous and it established several
very memorable themes, I don't think it handled the sentimental scenes
(opening in the Shire, Gandalf's passing) properly. I thought it caved in
to
the melodrama a bit too much, resembling the emotions from James Horner's
Titanic. However, I believe that The Two Towers requires the type of
score
which Howard Shore accomplishes best: dark, continuous, and unrelenting,
as
demonstrated in Se7en and Silence of the Lambs. The theme used in many of
the action scenes in Fellowship (low brass, six notes repeated with a
rest
in between) is much more present in The Two Towers, appropriately. A
brand
new theme is also unveiled, the theme for Rohan, a prominent kingdom in
Middle Earth. Rohan's theme is played more often than any other melody in
the film, underscoring most of the memorable and heroic scenes with great
effect. Howard Shore undeniably exhibits his skills as an 'A-list'
composer,
and with a possible double Oscar nomination this year for The Two Towers
and
Gangs of New York, he could get propelled to the very top of the
'A-list,'
right beside John Williams and Hans Zimmer in terms of
demand.

If not the picture itself, there should be a way to recognize and award
the
battle of Helm's Deep. The battle sequence alone represents successful
filmmaking in its highest form. The choreography of the battle, the
visual
effects, the pacing, acting, cinematography, and music, all work together
in
perfection to achieve grand filmmaking which is as entertaining and
enjoyable as film can be. For this very reason, no one, whether a fan of
Fellowship or not, should miss The Two Towers. 
<|_=00=_|>

Seriously, I never thought a movie could get better than the Fellowship of
the Ring, but it did. This movie should be #1 on the IMDb top 250. This
movie, as long as it was, captivated me from start to finish, and those who
are not entertained by this movie can not be entertained period.

Yes, I have read the book. Any chapters cut out at the end of books III and
IV will probably themselves in the next installment. If you haven't noticed,
the beginning of the Two Towers was actually closed the Fellowship of the
Ring on the big screen.

Gollum was a CG masterpiece. He added some light to this incredibly dark
movie. At the same time, there are areas where you feel sorry for the poor
guy, or just want to kill him. Smeagol was probably the most diverse
character I've ever seen.

Elijah Wood put on a better performance than he did in the first movie, as
did Sean Astin. Ian McKellen, who captivated us in the last movie,
captivated us even more in this one. Viggo Mortensen, John Rhys-Davies, and
Orlando Bloom made a great trio. They laughed together, cried together,
prospered together, and suffered together. This trio gave life to Aragorn,
Gimli, and Legolas. Eowyn expressed her emotions clearly through Miranda
Otto. 

The music need not be discussed. Its greatness speaks for
itself.

Favorite Scene: The Battle of Helms Deep. Possibly the greatest scene in the
book, 50% of the trailer, and action packed climax to this beautiful movie.

The movie, like its predecessor, fails to bring us closure, but that's ok.
Closure will come next year. I look forward to the Return of the
King.

The Two Towers is now my favorite movie of all time.

The scale is broken. 10 is not a capacity sufficient enough to hold this
movie... my movie... my... precious...

<|_=00=_|>

Really, I should probably let this film soak in a bit; I am, after all,
on
something of a "post-viewing" high right now. However, at this moment, my
feeling remains the same from the first installment - this is the movie
experience I've been waiting my whole life for. In case you haven't
gathered, this movie is visually stunning, literally breathtaking. I mean
that, some of the scenes in this film simply stopped my lungs in their
tracks, shocked at the pure, enveloping beauty of the shot. Peter Jackson
has a profound grasp of visual manipulation like few directors have ever
had.

The acting is, as always, superb. Kudos for hiring "actors" not "stars";
"Oscar-worthy" over-acting could have threatened the realistic touch the
film's remarkable cast supply. Specific mention goes to both John
Rhys-Davies in his well enjoyed comic turn, and very largely to Andy
Serkis,
who was a major role in creating the most realistic and brilliantly
well-performed CGI character I've ever seen (Gollum).

For the most part, and as a fan of the books, I take no offense to the
slight plot modifications. My understanding is that Tolkien himself
realized
that visual adaptation of LotR would require a somewhat different take on
his work, and was apparently open to such minute changes. There are also
a
few tiny bits and pieces I was disappointed to see not make the final
cut,
however, I'm sure a future inevitable extended DVD will take care of
those.

In short, if you found the continual enjoyment I did with the first movie
of
LotR, this movie will in no way let you down. Not even for a
minute.

Highly recommended, 10/10.

<|_=00=_|>

Yes, it's true. Return of the King may have won more of the Oscars as the
culmination of Peter Jackson's magnificent cinematic achievement, but
history will in fact adjudge "The Two Towers" as the greatest of the three
Rings. If Fellowship was a road movie and ROTK was a friendship film, then
Two Towers is an unadulterated war movie of heroic proportions. Peter
Jackson said he based it on "Zulu"- and we can see why. It has a dramatic
intensity and flow which none of the other films quite share. Good against
evil are so sharply contrasted that you could cut your fingers on them. TTT
also has the best score Howard Shore has produced. And it has the best
dialogue.

The screenplay explains (with barely disguised contemporary resonance) what
we are protecting in Western civilisation when we defend ourselves against
those who would wish to destroy it. When Sam tells Frodo that there are
"some things worth fighting for", when Merry tells Pippin that there "won't
be a Shire" unless they do something about it, when King Theoden laments
that "the sun has gone down in the West" this film could be entitled not the
"Two Towers" but "the Twin Towers". It is Miltonic in its scope. It is
cinema as art.

Yes, one may quibble about certain Entish details, and I know that the Elves
weren't supposed to be at Helm's Deem, and that Faramir is a little
undeveloped, but does this matter? Not at all. The Extended version is
better than the original, but does not need to make such a quantum leap as
Fellowship managed with its EE. However it will be a film that is seen as a
landmark in cinema. A trilogy which may never be bettered. And a reminder of
what we are all here for

<|_=00=_|>

The Two Towers can only be explained in one word, beautiful.  This film
left
me breathless.  I was hoping for a film that could stand in the same
depths
of the Fellowship of the Ring, and I must say that it has surpassed the
film
completely.  I will have a hard time watching the Fellowship and seeing
the
ending, knowing there is so much more waiting.

Let's start with Gollum.  Gollum gave an astonishing performance.  The
poor
misunderstood beast, or the darkened soul creature whose cares are only
based on the One Ring.  The performance given in CGI is at times very
human.
The facial expressions given could strangely give this character a
personality as you would see in any great actor.  Gollum's voice is still
haunting, even when the beast appears to be the loving guide to the dark
gates of Mordor.  For these reasons and more, Gollum has become my
favorite
character in the film, replacing Legolas in the Fellowship.

On the other side of Middle Earth we see Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli.  I
have to say that the dark times of this movie are at times overbearing,
and
saddening.  There is a perfect mix of humor in the film given by the
characters Gimli, and Legolas, while still keeping the viewer in
understanding that these are very darkened times.  Aragorn's performance
is
outstanding.  He has proven that he can be put on an A-List of actors, and
deserves appraise for his performance.

Gandalf "the White" in this film was a twist.  We remember the friendly
Gandalf The Grey in the Fellowship being a kind elderly wizard.  Shouting
off fireworks for the children of the shire, and smoking "leaf" as
explained
in the novel.  There are no cute scenes with the new White Wizard.  No
fireworks, or pipes.  Just a Wizard that knows the daunting task ahead,
and
the quest seems to have taken hold of the great wizard.

Very dark are the times for Frodo, and Samwise.  Gollum seams to give
Frodo
hope, as the two ring bearers can associate the pains of the One Ring.
Frodo gives an amazing performance this time around as well.  It seams
that
the Ring of power has taken hold of Frodo, and our hero is slipping.  But
the surprise was aimed at Samwise.  Proving that Sam is the definition of
a
true best friend.  Even at times when it seems there is no hope for the
troubled trio, it seams that Sam brings hope to the moment.  This is what
keeps the Frodo's story this time around even more extraordinary, is the
hope that is there, even when all odds point to despair.

Merry and Pippin's story is very odd initially.  The Ents in the story are
very wise and newly troubled creatures from the amazing mind of Tolkien.
This story goes back to cut scenes during the worries of the rest of
Middle
Earth, and gives us a feeling of hope, in the troubled times of Aragorn
and
the others.  The Ents were very well done CGI wise, but it was there
personality that moved the audience.  They are curiously wise, and well
spoken and give the impression of an elderly college Professor.  Their
story
is eventually given a wonderful opportunity, and for those of us who know
the story, know that greatness is upon them.

This movie honestly moved me further than I thought any film could.  I
could
see my face and the emotion I felt as I was watching this mammoth film.
Peter Jackson has truly given us all a gift of a magnificent.  This story
has captivated my heart, and the film has taken my breath away.  There is
no
words that can express the greatness of this film.
10/10

<|_=00=_|>

Every great adventure story worth telling has a solid hero - someone who
puts others before themselves and uses their talents to do their best at
keeping the forces of evil at bay even if it means the loss of life and
limb. At its core, this movie has eight such heroes and each one lives up to
the call. From Pippin and Merry, the lost hobbits who aid the Ents in
battle, to Gandalf, Aragorn, Gimli and Legolas who held back the hordes at
Helms Deep to Frodo and Samwise who continue to make their dangerous and
arduous trek to Mount Doom. All of these characters are heroes and they're
played with love, respect and meaning.

Though the acting in this film was top notch throughout, I found myself
amazed by Gollum's (motion captured body and voice by Andy Serkis) overall
performance. Though obviously CGI, there was so much emotion in this
character that I couldn't help believe he was real! Though "Final Fantasy"
was the only movie that created the most realistic CGI characters that
dominated an entire film, Gollum is lightyears ahead with the simple fact
that this deformed li'l hobbit seemed human. He had the spark of life behind
those eyes that the FF "cast" lacked.

As a film, this movie has it all - action, drama, comedy - but none of it
would've worked without characters we cared about, villains we despised and
heroes we cheered for. With the obvious success of the first two
installments, the release of the final film next December may prove this to
be THE BEST trilogy ever made!

<|_=00=_|>
From the beginning to the very end, the Lord of the Rings trilogy is
interesting and enjoyable. The books and the movies alike grasp one's
attention as if they were real. You, the reader or viewer, can sense
the pain of the characters, their emotions. The trilogy is truly
powerful on screen. The second movie, however, I believe has something
the first and third are missing; it feels like a bridge connecting two
great islands. There is something unique about it that cannot easily be
described. Metaphorically, the first movie is, say, a soldier. The
third movie is the path home from war. And the second movie is the act
of coming home because it contains the obstacles that must be passed
through before achieving the goal. Although not 100% loyal to the
written trilogy, the movies are done in such a way that the mainstream
audience and LOTR fans from before the movies came out can say they
were enjoyable and well made.
<|_=00=_|>

I considered The Fellowship of the Ring to be one of the greatest movies
ever. This one is better!

The scenery is marvelous, the animations great, and the story superb. This
episode strays further from the books when it comes to the unfolding of
events, but I feel that it stays closer in atmosphere and realism; the
nazgûls are now the fear-inspiring creatures they should be. Gollum,
excellently implemented, even becomes more realistic then I remember him
from the books, not to mention other attempts to portray him. His
schizophrenic monologues are among the highlights of the
movie.

The major drawback is once again the apparent incapability of the dark-side
creatures. Aragorn with fellows can ride back and forth among them unhurt,
while the Uruk-Hai fall in large numbers just for being nearby. Though I
enjoy many of the jokes made at Gimli's expense, this still is another thing
I partly dislike. Gimli sure is no clown in the books.

I rate the movie 9/10 (my highest so far).

