

I love this film.  Absolutely love it.  Can't help it.  I'm a child of the
40s and this movie is about when I was a kid.  The sets are great, the story
is 40s, the cars, the cafe with the bizarre little gingerbread giving an
impression of a gnome's hangout, the costumes, the hero with his wiffle hair
style, the airplanes and even Howard Hughes.  What more could you want?  No,
this isn't The Matrix with a lot of slick computer effects with mind
twisting is it or isn't it real.  It's clear who the bad guys are-- and
they're bad, except when, of course, the mob types are swept away by
patriotic feelings and fight the Nazis.  It's got it all.  A wonderful trip
back into the 40s with near superhuman villans, beyond the pale heros and
lovable sidekicks. 
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is what "Spysmasher" and "The Red Skull" wanted to be, but
couldn't because special effects were too lame then and their budgets were
too small. It's sad how a lot of critics dumped on Bill Campbell's
performance in this movie, when he does precisely what he should -- he's the
square-jawed, slightly naive, optimistic hero who is repeatedly
double-crossed by the wily villain (if he were less of a Boy Scout and more
of a James Bond, there wouldn't be any movie). Connelly and Arkin are just
great as, respectively, the beautiful and plucky girlfriend and the
brilliant mechanic father-figure/sidekick. If you liked those old serials,
you'll love this movie. 

Maybe the movie didn't have an audience, but if you watch the trailer it
wasn't marketed right -- the trailer makes it seem like an Indiana Jones
movie, and it is much more innocent (and sweeter) than that. Apparently
Disney was planning to make another one, but pulled the plug because this
one bombed at the box office. I recall expecting something else when I went
into the theater, and being very pleasantly surprised by it. I was also very
surprised when the movie wasn't a hit, but I even sort of liked the old
Flash Gordon serials, so...

Another thing that is disappointing me at the moment is that I can't find
any entries for the Spysmasher or Red Skull serials (the latter was the
first one I know of with the Commando Cody character, although I don't
recall him being referred to by that appellation -- I saw it 40 years ago,
and then managed the catch the last hour or so in the middle of the night
about 15 years ago one sleepless night, so it's kind of a
blur).
<|_=00=_|>

I was chomping at the bit, waiting for this movie to come out, back in
1991.
I had loved the Dave Stevens comics since I first encountered them
(ironically, at the same time I had read about Bettie Page in an article
about Bunny Yeager, in a photography magazine).  The comic captured the
spirit of 1930's aviation pulps, as well as the Doc Savage crowd.  It also
brought along that Republic Studios flavor.  I couldn't wait to see this
as
a movie.

The movie captured the spirit of the comics beautifully.  Sure it was
disappointing that Doc Savage couldn't be included, but Howard Hughes made
a
sensible substitution.  I was a bit annoyed that Disney felt they had to
change Betty into Jenny, but with Jennifer Connelly in the role, I was in
a
forgiving mood.  The film was full of action and humor, cliffhangers and
character; just like Stevens' creation.  If there was anything to
criticize,
it was the toning down of Betty/Jenny.  Yeah, I know, this is Disney, and
she was far tamer in the comics than the real Betty/Bettie Page; but, hey,
a
guy can hope.

Bill Campbell was perfect for Cliff Secord.  He had that All-American
look,
with an impish twinkle in his eye.  Watching the movie, you could see the
excitement when he was flying, and that he was head over heels in love
with
Jenny.

Alan Arkin made a great Peevy, although he was far less cantankerous than
his print counterpart (incidentally, Peevy was based on Doug Wildey,
creator
of Jonny Quest).  He was more of a Connecticut Yankee than grouchy
mechanic.

Timothy Dalton made a great pseudo-Errol Flynn.  I wasn't too happy that
they trotted out that Flynn-as-Nazi Spy nonsense; but, it works
beautifully
for the story.  Paul Sorvino made a great 30's mobster, too.  Add Tiny Ron
as Lothar, modeled after Rondo Hatton, and you have some pretty fun
villains.

Then, there's Jennifer Connelly, one of the most beautiful and talented
actresses in Hollywood.  As I said, I had hoped for a little sexier
character; but, the compromise was still pretty good.  Connelly brought
both
a wholesomeness and sex appeal to the role.  She looked great in the
period
clothing, too.

Everything about this film worked.  The period detail was first rate, from
the costumes, to he set design, to the slang.  The only thing that would
have improved this would have been to make more films.  This is a great
film
for the whole family and captures the spirit of Republic and the pulps as
well as Indiana Jones did.

<|_=00=_|>
THE ROCKETEER 

Aspect ratio: 2.39:1 (Panavision)

Sound format: 6-track Dolby Stereo SR

(35mm and 70mm release prints)

Based on Dave Stevens' graphic novel, this very un-Disney-like Disney
movie is a joy from start to finish, a two-fisted tribute to the
serials of yesteryear which combines nostalgia for the innocence of
ages past with the Art deco gloss of a world on the brink of war. Bill
Campbell (from TV's "Tales of the City") plays a 1930's air ace who
stumbles on a jet-propelled device that allows its wearer to fly at
high speeds, a device coveted by law enforcement agencies, gangland
criminals, Howard Hughes (!), and a Nazi villain (Timothy Dalton)
masquerading as a Hollywood heartthrob.

Handsome and talented, Campbell plays the title role with just the
right amount of wide-eyed candor and boyish charm, and he's supported
by a veritable who's-who of Hollywood's finest character actors,
including Alan Arkin, Paul Sorvino, Terry O'Quinn, Ed Lauter, Jon
Polito and Eddie Jones, alongside Tiny Ron as a hulking henchman
clearly modelled after Rondo Hatton (courtesy of Rick Baker's rubbery
makeup), whose speciality is - you guessed it - *snapping spines*!
Sadly, Jennifer Connelly is unable to make much of an impression as
Campbell's eye-candy girlfriend, an old-fashioned heroine who lacks
autonomy and is almost entirely dependent on her co-star's strength and
bravery. That small blip aside, director Joe Johnston (HIDALGO) plays
the whole thing straight, without even a hint of camp (when Campbell
asks how he looks in his spiffy 'Rocketeer' outfit, Arkin deadpans:
"Like a hood ornament!"), and while the characters are mere stock
figures, they're played with real integrity by an enthusiastic cast,
and the film's many set-pieces culminate in a showstopping finale on
board an exploding zeppelin high above the Hollywood hills! Yep, this
is one movie where you *definitely* get your money's worth!! 

Produced today, the script (by Danny Bilson and Paul De Meo) might have
been co-opted by some overpriced 'star' whose off-screen notoriety
could sap the magic out of every frame. It's the fact that Campbell
WASN'T a household name during filming, and that the production dares
to celebrate the movies of a bygone era without simultaneously mocking
its references, which makes THE ROCKETEER so special. It carries none
of the baggage that a major celebrity would have brought to it, and is
simply a thrill-ride, no more or less, packaged and presented as a
widescreen spectacle for audiences young and old (and DO try to see the
film in its original Panavision dimensions). Incredibly, the movie
underperformed at the American box-office, despite playing in 70mm
(blown up from the original 35mm) at selected venues, though it has
since found an appreciative audience on TV and home video. Originally
released in the UK as ROCKETEER, an unnecessary abbreviation.
<|_=00=_|>
I've always surprised when people don't like this movie. It was one of
my favorites at the time, and it has aged very well. It's a real "retro
30's" picture, like "The Shadow", instead of being a modern
reinterpretation of such movies like the Indiana Jones films (which I
also like very much). 

The reviews cover the plot enough, and there are no real surprises
here, but it's great family fun. My kids really love this movie, and I
end up watching it every year or two, and I have never tired of it.
When it came out there were apparently sequels planned, but it got
killed at the box office by T2, which ran over everything that summer,
so Disney never did anything with the show. They have recycled the
atmosphere and the music in the "Soaring over California" ride at DCA,
and I have to say it always makes me wistful that the movie never got a
sequel.

By the way, the movie doesn't follow the comics that closely, which I
don't mind, but if you are a purist and a fan of the "graphic novels",
you might keep that in mind.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie has the tendency to fly off the screen at you, especially if
you
saw it on the big screen like I did. I was 9 years old when the Rocketeer
came out, and after seeing it I couldn't help but day dream about flying,
and winning over the girl. Of course I tended to have the same day dreams
after watching Superman the movie. But this film is a little different. It
seemed more believable to me, as a kid, in that it incorporated some semi
historical facts with the story line. I believe it to be one of Disney's
finnest films, perhaps a modern epic. It's one of those films you've got
to
watch at least once a year. However I do have a question concerning it,
"How
did the Rocketeer manage with all those flames blasting at his
ass?"
<|_=00=_|>

I liken this movie to movies such as "Indiana Jones" or "The Mummy".  It's
one of those action-packed, adventurous movies with just enough romance,
humor, and drama to make it in my top five movies of all time list. Cool
special effects and happy ending.  It's safe enough for kids, satisfying
for
parents, and teens probably enjoy it the most.  Set in the 1940's, it
stays
true to its setting and gives a good look back at what American culture
was
like then. It gives a little history lesson, too (Howard Hughes, Nazis,
etc.) The acting is also wonderful- probably Billy Campbell's ("Enough")
best performance, Timothy Dalton plays a great villian, and Arkin always
does good.  Jennifer Connelly, who recently made it big in "A Beautiful
Mind", looks surprisingly different, but still quite pretty.  Her
performance is also grade-A.

Who wouldn't want a jet pack?  EVERYONE should see this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Disney hasn't made a whole lot of movies over the last decade that have
really been able to capture my interest. One of their better efforts,
1991's "The Rocketeer," is one of the luckier films.

"The Rocketeer" soared high and mighty upon its release in 1991, from
the graphic novel by Dave Stevens and onto the big screen, with Cliff
Secord (Bill Campbell) dawning an experimental rocket pack that is
coveted by gangsters and Nazis during World War II.

The movie does remind some people of the serials of the 1930s and
1940s, some of which helped to spawn the mega-successful "Raiders of
the Lost Ark" in 1981 and this year's "Sky Captain and the World of
Tomorrow."

"The Rocketeer" is a great movie, and it should be viewed by everyone.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
In 1938, in Los Angeles, the pilot Cliff Secord (Bill Campbell) crashes
his plane after being hit in the air in a shoot-out between gangsters
and FBI agents in a car chase; completely broken, his best friend and
mechanics A. 'Peevy' Peabody (Alan Arkin) tries to fix an old plane to
raise some money in an exhibition show. However, Cliff finds a package
hidden by one of the gangsters with a rocket with belts and they find
that the device allows man to fly. Meanwhile, his beloved girlfriend
and aspirant actress Jenny Blake (Jennifer Connelly) succeeds in an
audition to make a small part in a movie of the great actor Neville
Sinclair (Timothy Dalton) that is ranked the third in box-offices.
During a flight exhibition, the mechanic Malcolm (Eddie Jones) has an
accident, and Cliff uses the rocket to save him, being called Rocketeer
by the public. With his picture in the front page of the newspaper,
Cliff is chased by the FBI, the gangsters and German spies that abduct
Jenny and forces Cliff to rescue her.

"Rocketeer" is a delightful adventure that recalls those classics from
the old times of Hollywood. There is a handsome hero, a gorgeous
heroine, gangsters, Nazi spies, betrayals, in a pace of cartoons with a
magnificent art decoration, cars and costumes recreating Hollywood in
the late 30's. The story has great lines and uses real characters, like
Clark Gable and Howard Hughes, in fictional situations. My vote is
seven.

Title (Brazil): "Rocketeer"
<|_=00=_|>
There's more fun to be had out of this movie than I'd expected. The
story is given elsewhere so I'll pretty much skip it and get to the
more important things, like the twenty-year-old Jennifer Connelly with
her eyes of night and lips as bright as flame. She's a bit plumper (all
over) than we're used to seeing her but it's okay because cartoon
figures ought to be slightly overdone. She looks and sounds magnificent
-- those two monumental and nacreous incisors, I guess. She could open
mangoes with those teeth. Not that she's as beautiful as any woman
possibly could be. Connelly COULD be better looking but if she were it
would probably be against some law. Anyway, it would be hard for any
normal man to stop from flinging himself at her feet and groveling over
her toes.

Bill Campbell looks like a cartoon too. In fact everyone in the movie
looks like a cartoon except the guy playing the huge thug working for
Paul Sorvino. That guy doesn't look like a cartoon. He looks exactly
like Rondo Hatten, an acromegalic actor from a few 40s horror flicks.
But, it must be admitted, Rondo Hatten looked like a cartoon. And,
well, if A = C and B = C, then A = B, no? It's a conundrum alright.

The movie is filled with delicious 1938 atmosphere. I wasn't around to
enjoy it but it's always struck a resonant chord in me when I glimpse
it in movies or listen to recordings from the period. 

Here we have an Artie Shaw sort of band playing "Begin the Beguine"
with a close simulation of that famous arrangement that made it such a
hit. A smiling singer who looks like Nicole Kidman stands on the stage
and sings without rolling around or smashing a guitar. Call me retro,
but I prefer it to Snoop Dog Eeeze 2 Dudes. All seriousness aside, what
happened to pop music anyway? Where are our Cole Porters and Ira
Gershwins. Somebody hand me a hankie.

The production designer deserves a medal for capturing the exhilarating
vulgarity of Southern California. I think I glimpsed a reproduction of
Benvenuto Cellini's Apollo amidst the faux Egyptian columns.

I enjoyed the airplanes too. The one in the beginning of the movie was
built exclusively for racing. (I forget its designation.) It was a
horror to fly because it was hardly more than a huge engine with a tiny
airplane built around it, as unstable a craft as ever took wing. Scary
news footage exists of one of them zipping along at a tremendous rate
and then, out of nowhere, kaboom, spinning deliriously into the ground
at full speed. The 1930s were famous for their air races, like NASCAR
is today. Heroes were made out of aviators. Airplanes that later became
famous as fighters in WWII were first configured as racers -- Curtis
P-40s, for instance, and the British Spitfires.

Of course it's an imitation of the Indiana Jones series and maybe an
imitation of some Indiana Jones imitations, a kind of meta-imitation,
but, gee, it's enjoyable. What atmosphere. And lots of action.
Everybody and everything is turned into mincemeat one way or another
but not in any way that's offensive. 

It's really kind of engaging if you don't ask for significance.
