
This is the best rendition of Dracula ever captured on film. Gary
Oldman's dark and sensual personae outshines any other vampire who ever
dare put on a cape. To me Gary Oldman is the most talented and
underrated actor ever. He becomes who he is playing, however in this
role... Dracula became him... Oldman set the bar so high it is
untouchable even to Bela Lugosi. Winona Ryder's delicateness suited the
role of Mina/Elisabeta nicely and Keanu Reeves played the unsuspecting
and naive Jonathan with satisfaction. However the whole movie comes
together because of Gary Oldman's intoxicating essence. He draws the
viewers into his darkness and passion and guides them through until the
end. This film is drastically romantic and hauntingly captivating- just
like a real Dracula movie should be. The cinematography deserved
Oldman's phenomenal performance and perfectly created a true vampire
realm. Francis Ford Coppola is brilliant. This is the spirit of the
vampire.
<|_=00=_|>
Though I did not read the book and can't compare it to the movie, I
found Bram Stoker's Dracula quiet excellent. The costume design,
lighting, camera work, make-up-fx are all very good and make for a very
atmospheric movie.

There are some truly outstanding things in this film.

1, the editing... excellent, I love the way they worked with dissolves,
the hypnotic feel they created with the careful editing. Every frame
flows in the other, the whole style grabs you and never lets you go...
I simply could not turn my eyes off the screen.

2, the acting... Gary Oldman is THE Dracula, IMO. Seductive, strong,
bad and scary in his own distinctive way, yet really romantic.

Hopkins is funny as Van Helsing and quiet ironic.

Winona is a great Mina. Beautiful, innocent. She looks great in these
Victorian costumes.

Keanu Reeves is not as bad as many of you think. He makes the best of
his underwritten character.

3, the Score... haunting, romantic, scary. It works beautiful with the
pictures.

I think this movie is a great cinematic achievement and very
underrated. It's a shame they don't make movies like that any more.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
One of the best known and most popular Dracula films is by Francis Ford
Coppola. At the time he really hadn't made a hit film since The
Godfather, he was going bankrupt. So what better way to get out of debt
than to make something that is pretty much a guaranteed thing that
audiences will love? We got the scares for the boys and the romance for
the girls and it equals Dracula. Many people ask me what is with the
appeal of vampires? My opinion; it all equals sex. The dashing handsome
man coming into the young lady's room at night confessing his desire
for her and her giving herself completely to him is not only romantic,
but dangerous and filled with adventure. I always found it funny that
Dracula was supposed to be the villain of the story, but he's offering
to take the girl on this incredible adventure through the world and
time yet her usually bland boyfriend doesn't want it that way so he
rips her from that experience… I don't know, maybe I just look at
things too differently. However moving onto the film, Francis took on
the classic tale claiming to be "Bram Stoker's Dracula", not really
being 100% faithful to the novel and really over glamed it, however
still made this into a very good movie.

In 1897, newly-qualified solicitor Jonathan Harker takes the
Transylvanian Count Dracula as a client from his colleague R. M.
Renfield, who has gone insane. Jonathan travels to Transylvania to
arrange Dracula's real estate acquisition in London, including Carfax
Abbey. Jonathan meets Dracula, who discovers a picture of Harker's
fiancée, Mina, and believes that she is the reincarnation of Elisabeta,
his long lost love. Dracula leaves Jonathan to be seduced by his brides
and sails to England with boxes of his native soil, taking up residence
at Carfax Abbey. In London, Dracula appearing young and handsome during
daylight, meets and charms Mina. When Mina receives word from Jonathan,
who has escaped the castle and recovered at a convent, she travels to
Romania to marry him. In his fury, Dracula transforms Lucy, her best
friend, into a vampire. The men: Van Helsing, Holmwood, Seward and
Morris kill Lucy. After Jonathan and Mina return to London, Jonathan
and Van Helsing lead the others to Carfax Abbey, where they destroy the
Count's boxes of soil. Dracula confesses that he murdered Lucy and has
been terrorizing Mina's friends, but a confused and angry Mina admits
that she still loves him and remembers her previous life as Elisabeta.
At her insistence, Dracula begins transforming her into a vampire. The
men are now determined to save her before her transformation is
complete by killing Dracula.

What makes this film so special compared to other Dracula movies? I
think it was Gary Oldman's performance, he made a very memorable
Dracula. Ranging from creepy and disturbing to romantic and charming. I
think a lot of people connected with the love story, even if it was
over romanticized, a lot of people would like to think that "love never
dies" and someone would "cross oceans of time to find them". Does the
film have flaws; oh yeah. Between the laugh fest that was the battle of
the bad accents between Keanu Reeves and Winona Ryder. There are scenes
that are very over the top and over acted, sometimes also equaling a
little too MTV generation. However, you cannot deny that the style of
the film is absolutely memorizing and very elegant. The costumes and
sets are very stunning and who could forget Dracula's "butt" hair-do?
This film has had so many parodies making fun of the lines and hair,
but I think that goes to show the impact that the film had. It also
started a stream of the Universal Studio remakes with "Mary Shelley's
Frankenstein" and "Wolf" later on. The film may be flawed, but I still
love it. It's not faithful to the novel, but gets more things correct
compared to other films like Dracula's death and some lines directly
taken from the novel like "Yes, I too can love". I think this will go
down in the horror classics when it comes to vampire movies, it's got
class, violence, blood, style and a lot of sex appeal.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
As is the case with many of these latter-day horror movies, this is
visually stunning. This one is particularly so, with beautiful colors,
wild special effects, lavish sets and a handful of pretty women, led by
Winona Ryder.

It isn't all beauty; there are some horrific, bloody moments in here.
I've seen the film three times and the first two times was terrifying
to me in parts. The last viewing wasn't as scary, but maybe I was
distracted by seeing this on DVD for the first time, which enhanced the
visuals and added some nice 5.1surround sound.

At two hours and 10 minutes, it's a bit long but there are very few
lulls, if any. Gary Oldham gives his normal intense performance as
Dracula and it never hurts to have Anthony Hopkins in the film. 

The only negative I found was Keannu Reeves, who sounds a bit wooden in
his lines. Is it my imagination, or is he a terrible actor? Maybe it's
just his voice. Nonetheless, Cary Elwes, Richard Grant, Sadie Frost and
Bill Campbell all give good support to this film which is a real feast
for the senses.
<|_=00=_|>

"Bram Stoker's Dracula" is one of those films that reeled people in by
making its audience believe that it would be an intense horror film on par
with productions like "Rosemary's Baby" or "The Exorcist". Instead, director
Francis Ford Coppola stayed more true to Stoker's novel and put a focus on
an intense love story that transcends time, the elements and even life and
death. This naturally turned off many horror enthusiasts who would rather
see a film that thrives on shock value rather than a movie that thrives on
heart, brains and emotion. The film is naturally about the titled character,
an immortal man (played superbly by the nearly always exceptional Gary
Oldman) who has turned against God and now lives through the powers of
darkness. By the late-19th Century, the titled character is trying to lure
back a reincarnation of his one true love (Winona Ryder) and of course
attempting to eliminate all those that might stand in his way (Ryder's
fiance Keanu Reeves and professor Anthony Hopkins most notably). Overall
"Dracula" is an amazingly good looking film that benefits from high
production values and guaranteed performances (mainly from Oldman and
Hopkins). Coppola's direction is strong, but a bit overbearing at times and
sometimes it is unclear what the tone of the production truly is. Watch for
Italian beauty Monica Bellucci as one of Oldman's beautiful, but deadly
wives. 4 stars out of 5.   
<|_=00=_|>

	The most famous vampire in the history of literature and film is brought
graphically to life in `Bram Stoker's Dracula,' directed by Francis Ford
Coppola, and starring Gary Oldman as the Count from Transylvania.  Working
from a screenplay (by James Victor Hart) that is a faithful adaptation of
the novel, Coppola takes an artistic approach to the material and creates
some startling and effective images-- some quite intense and erotic-- to
tell the story of Count Dracula and his world of the undead.  Unsettling at
times, and often shocking, the film is mesmerizing and thoroughly
engrossing, delivered with a full palette of colors and shadows that form a
backdrop against which the characters so vividly emerge to play out the
drama.  It's a visual and emotional feast that is satisfying in every
respect, beginning with a brief history of Dracula and the circumstances of
his life that ultimately allied him with the forces of darkness and
evil.
	Initially, the casting of Gary Oldman as Dracula seemed inauspicious and
ill advised; in retrospect, the choice of Oldman was inspired.  Though many
actors have done the role before and since (Schreck, Lugosi and Lee, just to
name a few), Oldman manages to make the character uniquely his own, with a
nuanced performance infused with depth and acuity.  Even when delivering
famous, oft quoted lines from previously filmed versions of the story
(Lugosi's `Children of the night, what music they make,' for instance),
Oldman makes them spontaneous and fresh, with a conversational tone that
makes you feel as if you're hearing them for the first time.  His presence
is self-assured and menacing, which makes the character strong and
intimidating, and you sense his longevity and the dark wisdom afforded him
by his many years of existence.  There is a fastidiousness about Oldman's
methods of inhabiting a character that makes you wonder if there is anything
as an actor that is beyond his grasp.  At this point, I would think
not.
	As Van Helsing, Anthony Hopkins puts his personal stamp on a well known
character as well.  His portrayal of the famous professor is zealous and
lively, and touched with an eccentricity that makes him an interesting and
welcome presence in the film.  Winona Ryder, too, gives a believable
performance as Mina, a somewhat emotionally challenging role she addresses
with the restraint demanded of her by the character.  With her dark, winsome
looks and natural intensity she is perfect for the part, and displays a
femininity that contrasts well with the overt sexuality of Dracula's three
`brides.'  And Tom Waits gives a memorable performance as the mad,
insect-eater, Renfield, as does Sadie Frost, as Lucy, Mina's young and
nubile best friend who unwittingly falls prey to Dracula's dark powers.  The
single member of the cast who seems to struggle a bit with characterization
is Keanu Reeves, as Jonathan Harker; he gives a passable performance, but
fails to ever get a firm grasp of the character.  Still, he has an engaging
presence and, though lacking depth, his portrayal is at least credible
enough to maintain the continuity of the film.  
	The supporting cast includes Richard E. Grant (Dr. Seward), Cary Elwes
(Lord Holmwood) and Bill Campbell (Quincey).  Exacting in detail and
imaginatively rendered, Coppola's `Bram Stoker's Dracula,' is an impressive,
memorable film.  By boldly juxtaposing images and shadows, embracing the
innate sensuality of the vampire, and blending it all together so
seamlessly, Coppola has taken his film, not only to the zenith of the horror
genre, but beyond.  It's a journey into the regions beyond the known,
wherein the forces of darkness thrive and survive; a cinematic experience
you'll not soon forget, courtesy of Coppola, a superlative cast, and the
magic of the movies.  I rate this one 9/10.      
<|_=00=_|>
This movie have excellent cast, director, photography, atmosphere BUT
writer is complete idiot. He butchered the beautiful story. It would be
OK if movie don't have name: Bram Stocker's Dracula! STOKER TURN OVER
IN HIS GRAVE after this film. All characters are disgusting: Dracula
wasn't romantic pathetic Don Juan, he was tyrant and evil!!! Lucy
wasn't whore, she was kind shy girl! Mina was never in love in
Dracula!!!! She loved Jonathan more than everything in the world and
their love defeated Dracula!!! And Dracula never transformed in ugly
hairy monkey and raped Lucy on cemetery(that is the worst scene in
movie) Story from book was very original and there weren't necessary to
make it more pathetic and more stupid American to make great movie. I
hope that some wise director make one real version of Dracula to
correct Coppola's greatest error in his life!
<|_=00=_|>

This one really nails it.  Lush, sensual, sexy\gory, beautiful and creepy.
With just the right touch of humor to keep it in perspective. Tom Waits as 
Renfield gone bonkers is great comic relief.  Nosferatu of 1922 or Werner
Herzog's version of 1979 are also very good but they've got nothing on this
one. It stands well with them and is a must for any Vampire story lover. 
This one pulls of Dracula's story in high style!  One of Coppola's Best
works. 

<|_=00=_|>

The background of this story is the myth / legend of Count Vlad Dracula (son
of count Dracul) ‘nicknamed' Vlad Tepes (Vlad the impaler). Vlad was, as the
film tells us a warlord in the 15th century who fought the Turks. According
to the myth he drank the blood of his victims and impaled them. This is a
real myth, as it was and maybe even is still believed in Rumania. A lot of
information about Vlad Dracula was later gathered by Irish writer Bram
Stoker, who, combined it with myths of vampires into this tale of the well
known blood -–sucking Vampire. Another thing that is real in this film are
the pictures in the book Vampyr, which is read by van Helsing (Anthony
Hopkins) in this movie. The pictures you find there are also to be found in
history and school books, complete with ancient writings beside
them.

I will not reveal to you the nature of the plot, but I must say this bloody
horror film is one of the most sad and romantic stories ever told. It is
about a man who loses his wife and cannot rejoin her in another life. So he
turns against anything people in the 15th century believed in and is
punished by god to wander the earth as the undead. He is cursed to be feared
and hunted, for he needs to drink the blood of man to keep alive. He is
nosferatu (vamyr), he is Count Dracula.

He lives miserably for about 400 years until he falls in love again. And by
doing so we are dragged into the fortune and misery of a creature who lives
eternally. He is alive, but lifeless on the inside. He is rich, gentle and
loving, yet he must feast on humans to survive. He is damned forever, whilst
he did not do anything wrong.

The settings of this great story is late 19th century Europe (England and
Karpathia). Karpathia is not well known to man, the wild side of Europe. All
this bears with it the mysticism of this story and the epic and tragic
background. As for Dracula (Gary Oldman) himself, he drags us into a world
of blood, lust and erotica. He seems only to be driven by his great love for
Mina (Winona Ryder) and the need of being together with her. TRUE
LOVE

There are some great (and famous) actors in this film: Anthony Hopkins,
Winona Ryder, Gary Oldman, Cary Elwes and Keanu Reeves. They all contribute
greatly to this film, although I must say that the best acting comes from
Gary Oldman (Dracula), Sadie Frost (Lucy), Sir Anthony Hopkins (van Helsing)
and music legend Tom Waits (Renfield). Do not get me wrong the rest is good
to and do their job's well, but these four really put the dot on the
i.

Besides the actors there are a lot of things that stand out (look at the
list of prizes and nominations at the Oscars), but I must say two people are
left unaccounted for there. The director Francis Ford Copolla and the genius
behind the haunting and touching music Wojciech Kilar. They both bring so
much to the greatness of this film, I would have felt like an idiot if I had
left them out.

This does not  only make an excellent horror / epic / romantic film, but
surely is (in my opinion) a great date flick, about love everlasting and the
tragedy of a man who is cursed to live forever and roam the world alone, for
he is feared and hunted.

9 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie I feel has not gotten high enough vote in your system.
Therefore I gave it 10 points despite a few details that would normally
deprive it of one point.These are firstly that the character of
Jonathan does not measure up to the standards of the rest of the
actors. The second little detail is the scene with the party where Lucy
joins together her worshipers. Quincy is holding his hat in front of
the sofa when Lord Holmwood arrives. The next time we see him he is
given his hat with apologies from the doctor Jack Seward who apparently
has sat down on the hat. He already sat there in the former scene when
Quincy is holding the hat. Very irritating with such a big blunder in a
super movie like that. Now, what makes the movie a "tenner" is
everything else, in particular Gary Oldmans interpretation of the
count, and Anthony Hopkins as doctor van Helsing.The scene with Mina
and Dracula in bed is one of the greatest romantic scenes ever, and
sure to make any girl cry.
