

John Murdoch (Rufus Sewell) wakes up in an eerie hotel, naked and in the
bathtub, with no memories and blood on his forehead. (I couldn't imagine a
more strange and frightening experience.) The ring of the hotel phone
breaks
the silence-- a strange man on the other end tells him he must leave
because
there are people looking for him. Many events such as this one unfold in
Dark City, where "man has no past... and humanity has no
future".

Dark City has been passed over by so many critics it's depressing. I think
that it should at least have been up for "original screenplay" or SOMETHING
at the Oscars to reward Alex Proyas for his fantastic vision. I fail to see
why so many people label this movie "noir" like it's BAD or something.
Being
dark and twisted is not a crime, and despite some other people's comments,
this movie is NOT just for the trenchcoat-wearing masses (or if it is,
maybe
the rest of you can learn something from Goths). If you like sci-fi, dark
plots and having reality be so well distorted that you don't realize it IS,
so you will love Dark City. (People who have seen the Matrix BEFORE this
movie MUST see it, it is very similar in these three respects).

I gave it a 9 out of 10 ONLY because I thought the ending fight scene was a
bit weak. Great for a fight scene, but because the rest of the movie
focuses
on John Murdoch's quest to discover his past and the eerie, ominous
happenings in the city, the climax seemed hastily thrown together, as if
the
crew all of a sudden remembered they had a deadline to meet and could no
longer continue the plot in the previous fashion.

The visuals in this movie were absolutely stunning. The effects were NOT
used to substitute for the plot, like other movies such as Starship
Troopers, Lost in Space and Alien: Resurrection. They were used only as
needed and were breathtaking. The editing is NOT as choppy as is rumored,
it
only lends to the power of the movie. There are some heart-stopping images
in Dark City. Watch for the Strangers' clock, views of the city and John's
memories.

Proyas takes ideas and ambience from many other movies but integrates them
all neatly into Dark City. Gotham City is clearly seen as is Metropolis and
other influences such as Ed Hopper's "Nighthawks" dominate in the diner
scenes. The forty-ish era (yet strangely futuristic) city is known to be
populated, and yet it is ominously empty (hence one of Hopper's main
themes,
isolation in large cities). (It's especially quiet at midnight, hehehehe...
;D ) This 40's era ambience together with the sci-fi fantasy undercurrent
makes for a very interesting feeling while watching.

I'm happy that Kiefer Sutherland, Richard O'Brien (of Rocky Horror fame)
and
William Hurt agreed to do this movie, it gave Dark City just that much more
validation in the USA (I wish things weren't like this, but they are).
Kiefer Sutherland is absolutely wonderful and convincing as the
doctor/scientist Dr.Schreber, and Rufus Sewell is a properly confused yet
determined John Murdoch. Many critics say that William Hurt's character,
the
detective, and Jennifer Connelly's Emma Murdoch could have used a little
more development, but I think part of the point of Dark City was that you
don't really know who people are (not to mention yourself). Richard O'Brien
and his character's whole race creep me out every time I see the movie, but
he's especially frightening and a strange character. I had to resist the
urge to talk like a Stranger after seeing the movie a few times.

Trevor Jones, one of my favorite movie composers, did the score for Dark
City, and I must say it's very apropo. The deep, bass vocals and frantic
themes are some of my favorite aspects, but "Memories of Shell Beach" is a
haunting, beautiful song as well. Some of my other favorite scores by him
are the Dark Crystal and Last of the Mohicans.

Altogether, I think Alex Proyas had a stroke of genius in the making of
this
movie. One of the most original dark sci-fi movies I've seen in a long
time.
It deserves its place with the Matrix, 12 Monkeys and others, pioneers in a
field so changed (usually for the worse) since Star Wars and since earlier
sci-fi classics. I hope these won't be the last of a (dare I say it?) dying
race of movies that have true creativity and originality.
<|_=00=_|>

I will be part of the rabid throngs of people lining up to catch a
spectacle
as huge as Reloaded and Revolution. Despite(and maybe because of) Matrix
sky
high hype right now, my thoughts drift back to this overlooked
classic...but
a little on Neo and gang first below...

The Matrix just happened.

With an uncanny midas touch, The Warchowski bros launched this(then
unknown
film) at the the right place, in the right time. With an execution
commercial enough to bring in the box office moola and a philosophical
subtext accessible enough for the general public to latch on to, the rest,
as they say...is history.

The philosophical under pinnings though, (of blue pills, red pills, the
subreality of consciousness and all that mambo jambo etc), so successfully
popularised by The Matrix, was infact neither originated by  The Matrix
nor
as fully realised than in other more accomplished works.

Which leads me to....drumroll.....

As such, IMHO, the best execution on the concept of reality and perception
was already explored in a much more unbelievably visual opus, one year
earlier, the grossly overlooked, criminally under-rated,

"Dark City". (One of My Top 10 All time Favourite Films)

This scifi/ film noir hybrid was impactful both cinematically and
ideologically. Most importantly, it rewarded my wildly abandoned reach for
human imagination and thirst for ideas, by fulfilling as much promise a
motion picture can ever hope to give.

On top of that, my background as a "trekkie" scifi nerd meant I
instinctively respond to films which challenge me both intellectually and
spiritually. Dark City was thus a near religious, life cleansing
experience
for me.

And any which way I look at it, this film soars to heights unseen since
2001: A Space Odyssey...

But due to its messed up(or near-absent) marketing campaign(positioning
the
film to resemble a horror film for the teenage crowd), the film did not
find
its intended audience and flopped unceremoniously. Of course it found its
audience but by then its was too late...

That said, the thirst for something better than our run of the mill pop
corn
fare is still there, waiting to be quenched.

And The Matrix filled that void.

Too bad it wasn't this film.
But in a ideal world, it would.
Sad.
<|_=00=_|>
Dark City is the best film of Alex Proyas. He uses the Gothic and
claustrophobic themes commonly and dark colors prevail during the film
like "The Crow" .The story doesn't follow a certain order of rule,
instead there is some mind games and puzzles in the film, that causes
watchers to be active in each minute and motivate to the movie..

The topic is about a man who loses his past and first finds himself in
a bath tub, doesn^t know about himself and his life, but he has one
ability that no one has, he can be alive when the evil forces stops the
time and reshapes the world according to their own demand. The story is
so fantastic and Proyas' nightmare world come true in that movie.

I can basically say that it's one of the best science fiction movies
ever made, it opens doors to different dimensions and force human
brains' capability....

"Mutlu Bahar"
<|_=00=_|>
Dark City is all about a man who has incredible powers but doesn't
realize it. Everyone is under the control of mysterious 'strangers' who
are injecting them with false memories/altering their reality. This man
(Rufus Sewell) finally confronts these men in a battle for the city.

This is one of those films that inspires you to learn more about
sci/fi. The whole movie is cold, dark and it never lights up for a
minute. This movie is an underrated brilliant sci-fi film and it bares
a resemblance to 'The Matrix', but was made before it, so there is no
denying that Dark City must have been an inspiration for The Matrix.

The story is complex but develops itself as a frequently entertaining
thriller. It is thought provoking, which is a lesser thing you'll find
in films today. You'll sit there thinking about life after viewing this
film. It can easily been our future if we head down the road we are on.

The performances are all very good, specially the three lead men. Rufus
Sewell plays the confused lead, William Hurt plays the film noir
detective and Kiefer Sutherland is the quirky side switching doctor.
Don't forget Jennifer Connellywho plays the role with great expertise.
Alex Proyas much like The Crow has created this Gothic world where the
sun never rises and inhabitants live in darkness. The sets and costumes
are beautiful. The acting is top-of-the-line, with Sewell in the lead
part. Everyone does a great job.

The villains in this film, THE STRANGERS, are creepy and will send
chills down your spine every time you see them in their long black
coats and hat. The costumes for them are perfect and could not have
been done better, they live in the world underground and you see the
different lifestyles between them and the people they control, yet live
above them.

The thing that amazed me the most would be the cross between the 1950
to 1980's, it was brilliant, the set pieces were perfect for this film.
Every time I saw the buildings changing, I was in amazement. Everyone
that took part in this film should be praised, this is a film that
should get more attention from the general public, but is overshadowed
by films that like to put more action then story in it's plot.
<|_=00=_|>

An absolutely brilliant and nightmarish production!  DARK CITY is an
enriching and surreal experience, full of beautiful images and powerful
symbolism.

John Murdoch (Rufus Sewell) wakes up one night, resting inside a bathtub.
He look around, realizing that he is inside a hotel room.  In a state of
shock, he finds a bloody corpse lying near his bed. Then...reality sinks in.
He discovers an appalling revelation which he cannot accept. He is wanted
for murder on six separate accounts.  How does all of this fit in when he
thought of himself as a completely sane person?  He does not believe he was
responsible for these murders, but the cops think otherwise as they chase
him down... Next, a swarm of humanoid creatures known only as the
"Strangers" have summon him.  For
unknown reasons, Murdoch happens to fit into their intricate schemes for
conquest...

This is just scratching the surface of the premise for Alex Proyas' moody
and engaging film, DARK CITY.  DARK CITY is a very vivid film with an
original concept. As the story expands and the main character must go into
the heart of the matter, he learns that there's a conspiracy going on
"mixing and matching" different identities together into one whole. The
Strangers are the masters...the inhabitants are their puppets...and the city
is their playground...

DARK CITY essentially has gorgeous photography, capturing aspects of the
entire city where imagination paints the picture and provides the details.
This film relies a lot on imagery and the fantastic production values are
laced with a perplexing storyline that keeps the viewer's eyes glued to the
screen. The eye-catching, stylish future noir designs a visionary world,
evinced in the setting of the Big Apple itself, New York City during the
time period of the 1940s. Dark City's visual
backgrounds enliven a difficult and incomprehensible plot to comprehend and
the special effects create an astounding experience, traveling into a vortex
of mankind's phantasm.

DARK CITY, in addition to the superb background settings, allows for
character development as well. The audiences grows greatly in a moment of
eagerness as they want to determine what will happen next to the characters
in this film. As always, the cast is wonderful. Rufus Sewell is excellent as
John Murdoch, convincing as an ordinary man on the run from both the law and
the strangers. Jennifer Connelly is sensuous and appealing as Murdoch's
loving and concerned wife. William Hurt plays his cards right as a
straitlaced NYPD inspector, Frank Bumstead, who
keeps pursuing John Murdoch.  As  an  eccentric   psychiatrist,  Dr. Daniel
Paul Schreber, Kiefer Sutherland conveys a confused doctor who shares a
frightening connection to these Strangers.

DARK CITY is splendid viewing injected with a theme about the loss of
identity and the destruction of individualism in order to create an ideal
society.  DARK CITY is an unforgettable, breathtaking visual experience!
This film is enriched with layers of characterization, a plot where there is
more than meets the eye, and venturous special effects.  DARK CITY is
recommended viewing with the lights out!  A  thoroughly  cogent flick which
keeps you guessing what is going on.  DARK CITY is a fine treat for the eyes
and mind.  This is one journey where you reach the point of no return!

RATING: *** out of ****.   
<|_=00=_|>

This is probably the best Sci-Fi-Film of the Ninetees. Matrix is good, but
this film is better. Both deal with the same question: What is reality? Not
only was Dark City first, it also handles the subject much better and more
adult than Matrix. Also its conclusion is far better than the one of
Matrix.

Not only does this film deal with reality, it also deals with humanity,
something which lacks Matrix. What makes us humans? To quote Dr. Schreber
from the film "Are we more than just the sum of our Experiences?" This film
is slowpaced, but not boring at all. And it deserves the title: Dark. The
film is dark, "noir" and this gives the film a great atmosphere. The
darkness and coldness of the strangers is in contrast to the bright light of
the sun created by John Murdoch in the end.

This film is very philosophic, which I like. The best films are those which
help us to think and this one clearly is such a film. Something which is
needed in our society of marionettes and idiotic consumers who know more
than anyone else before in history but who lack the ability to truly
think.

The show down was a little weak, but the film made this up again at the very
end with the last meeting between Murdoch and Mr. Hand. I remember Murdoch's
words well and he speaks of a truth which is sometimes forgotten: What makes
us human is not to be found in our heads, our brains and our
minds.
<|_=00=_|>
If you like mind twisting movies that stick with you for days/weeks and
make you question the human existence and our reality as we know it,
then DARK CITY is the film for you.

Similar in philosophy to the later released 'The Matrix', the film is
centered around a man (Rufus Sewell) who becomes suddenly and
unwittingly aware that his world is not what it seems. The film kicks
off with Murdoch (Sewell) waking up in a bathtub with no memory and a
dead body in the same room. He has no recollection as to how and why
he's there.

As Murdoch attempts to put the pieces together he notices that at every
midnight on the dot, apart from Murdoch himself, every inhabitant in
the city falls asleep. It's then that he realizes that something even
bigger than his memory loss is taking place.

Alex Proyas (The Crow) manages to combine a tantalisingly interesting
Sci-Fi screenplay with dark and drab yet beautifully mysterious
cinematography and he pulls it off (once again). Although a box-office
flop, it has managed to, through the years, collect and maintain a cult
following which is well deserved.

It isn't without it's faults, Rufus Sewell although adequate, doesn't
steal the show (much like Keanu), and the talented co-stars (k.
Sutherland, Connelly & Hurt) aren't utilised as well as they could be.
The story does become slight complicated and a little ridiculous at
times, but which Sci-Fi movie hasn't suffered from that affliction?! To
summarise, think of 'The Matrix', minus the big name stars, special
effects and hype, and multiply the philosophy and mystery by 10
(without complicating it, like the Matrix sequels did) and you end up
with DARK CITY.
<|_=00=_|>

My age: 13

John Murdoch, played by Rufus Sewell, awakens in a bathtub in a hotel
room,
not remembering anything about his past and discovering that he is wanted
for a series of brutal murders.  He receives a phone call from Dr
Schreber,
played by Kiefer Sutherland, who wishes to help him, and leaves the hotel.
He begins to have memories of Shell Beach from a postcard in his suitcase.
He has no idea what is going on in the dark city.  The strangers are
another
species who live under the ground and search for the human soul.  The
strangers have the ability to tune, to cloud people's minds and make them
sleep.  John finds that he is the only person who can resist this power
and
use it himself.  Every night the strangers put the whole town to sleep,
imprint people with new memories and change the appearance of the city.
Detective Bumstead, played by William Hurt, is on the murder case, trying
to
bring John in, but is then caught up in helping John uncover the
truth.

This film is visually excellent, especially during the scenes when the
strangers are changing the city.  I look forward to future work by the
director Alex Proyas, whose directing style is brilliant in this film.
Acting performances are very good, and the film has an interesting and
intriguing plot.  The characters are well thought up, and you really care
about them.  The film is great from start to finish, but the film is best
in
the end, with a showdown between the main stranger and John.  One of the
best films of recent times, Dark City deserves to be called the Number 1
movie of 1998 by Roger Ebert.

Australian Classification: M 15+: Medium Level Violence

Rating: 88 out of 100
<|_=00=_|>
Dark City (1998) New Line Cinema.

Review: Dark City being directed by Alex Proyas, who directed the dark
thriller The Crow, I had to see this movie. This is an original, dark,
engaging, and one of the best movies of 1998.

The story is the best. A man who wakes up in a bathtub has no memory at
all. He discovers that some ominous beings are coming after him. Who
are they? What do they want? And to top it off, he is a suspect in
several murders. As the story unfolds, it just gets more interesting.
The look of the city is quite a sight. It has an old school comic book
feel to it. The style of everything is a nice 1940's style, from
clothing to the cars. 

As we follow our hero, we learn more about him....or do we? What is
real? What is fake? Questions keep coming up but, are their any answers
to all these questions? Even more weird is when at the stroke of
midnight, the city changes shape while everyone sleeps.

Our hero is also followed by an honest detective, Insp. Bumstead, who
just wants answers to the murders and gets involved in the mystery too.
Our hero wants to look for one location that could unlock the mystery
to everything. What could it be? 

Another strong point here is the acting is excellent. Rufus Sewell
plays his role with conviction and passion. The casting is flawless. 

The Last Word: Awesome flick. This is a movie that is excellent brain
food. It makes you think....a lot. You will most likely watch this over
and over again to figure everything out. No problem. This movie never
gets old. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not saying the acting was perfect, i'm not trying to say the story
was told in the most professional way or all by rules of film-making.
It wasn't at all an up-tempo film Hollywood style with lots of
explosions and rapid smart dialogs.

But, somehow, unlike most films with few exceptions, it had the
capability of putting you in a certain mood. A mood of inconvenience,
because you become one with the character John Murdoch, mostly thanks
to Sewell's acting. Maybe it's because when I've seen this movie, it's
always way past midnight, but I guess it's part of the ultimate
experience from it.

The thing is I've only felt this way about a movie once before, and
unfortunately, I can't remember the title of that movie, only that it
ended with a picture of an ocean, and an alone man on the beach,
leaving us never knowing if he would ever meet his girl again or not. I
love when a picture put that enormous hill of emotions in your heart,
and just as many questions in your head. That feeling, that mood.

Most of the actors has received bad reviews for this movie, not least
on this forum. But in my opinion, Rufus Sewell is doing his part very
well. First so uncertain, then slowly growing into his role. Keither
Sutherland, in a pretty uncomfortable role as a scared, weak doctor
does it surprisingly good. William Hurt is hard and scarred, but soft
on the inside. I guess the actors are telling more about their parts
than the script itself. 

Generally, all the actors seem to have captured this feeling, this
sense, that colors all throughout the picture, making the picture. You
are not watching it. You are in it. You are John Murdoch.

I'd like to end with a quote

John Murdoch: "When was the last time you remember doing something
during the day?"

It sort of reveals the touch of it. If you haven't seen it, see it, in
the middle of the night! If you've seen it daytime, see it again at
nighttime. Not because you're tired, but because it's dark.
