

Kathy Bates(Frances Lacey)also "Misery'90), performed
outstanding acting skills as a wonderful mother who just plain loved her
children more than herself and was able to warm the hearts of many people
she encountered, especially, Soo-Tek-Oho who owned a broken down shack and
a
few acres of land, which turned out to be a great Mansion for her children
Edward Furlong(Shayne Lacey),"Three Blind Mice " Clarissa Lassig(Lynn
Lacey)
and a few more children.  This film will warm your heart and soul and will
definitely make you shed a tear or two.  We need more picture of this
caliber, which is a true story and down to earth and REAL!!
<|_=00=_|>

I know a lot of folks talked about this movie being so heartwrenching,
and at time a tear jerker, but this movie is as close to my childhood
as I can imagine. We weren't quite as poor, but I really grew up in a
half-finished house and we were pretty tight on money. We never
finished our house, but my mom sent three kids to damn good colleges
and private schools while supporting us on a teacher's salary.

And Kathy Bates nailed it just right. I think that this movie portrays
a lot of things about people who are struggling to get by, and it does
it in a way that is very evenly balanced. I mean, her character is
mostly sympathetic, but she shuts people out too. She's proud to a
fault. She wants so much to do it all on her own, that she doesn't seem
to realize just how much help she needs. That sense that she is all
alone in it; that's how we felt. I'm sure that's how my parents felt. I
liked how she found friends who knew how to handle her pride and still
help her. 

I loved this movie but it is hard for me to watch! 

I never got nails for Christmas, though!

I think the bit about the disclaimer that this is all fiction is just
the standard CYA language the lawyers put in at the end of every movie.
There's lots of novels that are "fiction" that are true.

<|_=00=_|>

I would like to say that today was the second time I have seen this
movie on Television AND I LOVE IT!!! This movie is very exact with the
times 60's and very heart felt... I was overwhelmed at times with
emotion... So, If you are a women watching this movie for the first
time be prepared to Cry, Laugh, & sometimes flintch...The Mother is a
very prideful person that has a lot of hopes and dreams and that
sometimes get's in the way of her children's lives... This is also a
story of Courage, Hope, And family Values... I recommend this movie to
anyone who has ever thought they could not make it on there own raising
children.

HAVE A GREAT DAY!

<|_=00=_|>

My wife is usually the only one in my family that will watch this type of
movie.  We call it a "mother's movie".  But she got me at a weak moment
and
I watched it and I liked it a lot.   I think that it was certainly Kathy
Bates and Soon-Tek-Oh that kept it going.   At the beginning the narrator
states that it is a true story.    I watched it with the thought that this
was something that actually did happen.    At the end of the credits it
says
that the above story is ficticious etc. with that usual speel.   Now I
don't
know what to believe.  Was it real or just made up.   I wish I could find
out the truth.
<|_=00=_|>

Kathy Bates and Edward Furlong were great.  The story flowed and at times
was a tear jerker.  One couldn't help but root for the family and their
drive to have a home called their own.  One mother's desire to hold her
family together at all costs.  Not an Oscar winner, but a real down to earth
humanistic story all can relate to.  A MUST SEE.
<|_=00=_|>

An excellent performance by the entire cast.  Kathy Bates as a single mother
facing the many odds that seem to conspire to prevent her from making a home
for her family.  Especially memorable was the Christmas morning scene. 

<|_=00=_|>

The narrator of this story is supposedly the 13 year old, oldest son of
the
family the film is about, and he starts out by saying it's all
true.
Kathy Bates plays Mrs. Lacey, the mother to 5 children, the widow of an
Irish Catholic SOB, as she repeatedly refers to him.
They're poor, and on a lurch, pack up and leave their dumpy apartment in
L.A. for who knows where.  They end up in Idaho, working for a Japanese
man
who's also a widow, making a home out of a shack on his
land.
You see (feel) the struggles of a parent, a mother, and not only that, but
a
single parent and mother of 5 children who has practically no
money.
You see the relationships between siblings and between the children and
their mother.  You see the resourcefulness and hard work ethic of the
mother, sometimes taken too far, to the detriment of her own children
(shunning the priest's attempts at helping out with free clothes or food
or
Christmas presents).
You see the struggles of the oldest boy, a 13 year old son, taking on
responsibility as the "man of the house," yet also being told to go get
his
father's belt for whippings from his mother.
The mother finds work in a bowling alley, and you see her struggles with
dating the bowling pro who works there.
Every penny meant so much to them, that when their house is burning down,
the oldest daughter risks her life to run inside and find the money jar,
and
cries on her mother when she has to tell her she couldn't find
it.
One of the sons discovers a junk yard on the way home on the schoolbus and
ends up making many visits, scavenging various items for the house,
pulling
it all the way home on a make-shift wagon.
As someone else already commented, the Christmas morning scene is
poignant,
as is the ending of the film.
The ending was just another beginning, I would think, for this
family.


<|_=00=_|>
As usual, Kathy Bates is outstanding in her performance.

There aren't many movies that get to me emotionally, but this one sure
did. I found myself identifying with more than one character: As a
single mother, it wasn't hard at all to relate to Frances' struggles.
As a former willful but loving teenager, I sympathized a lot with
Shane, too.

I felt myself sharing the family's joys, struggles and disappointments,
and learned a few things along the way. Sometimes it's true that pride
goeth before a fall.

A very believable plot and great acting throughout, this is a must-see
movie.
<|_=00=_|>

The first reviewer took the words right out of my mind.  This movie was so
good, I had to watch it twice to see what I missed.  So many movies out
there that deal with nonsense.  This one touches your heart.  I'll admit I
didn't want to see the movie because of Kathy Bates but this movie changed
my opinion about her.  I was disappointed that the movie had an open-ending
but was satisfied that they family was going to be alright.  One thing
though... The narrator's voice and Edward Furlong's does not resemble one
another.  I have changed my own rating system..... Out of 10 stars, I give
"A Home of Our Own" 6 1/2.  Get the box of Kleenex!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was as close to home as it gets. We were not as poor as the
Lacey's, but some of our Christmas's were skimpy. I particularly
thought the casting was good and the plot line was very believable.
When my grandparents first got indoor plumbing, the whole family
gathered at their house to celebrate. No more long cold trips during
winter! I imagine that most people who watched this movie was
critiquing the character development and other mundane points, but
anyone who has been lacking the common necessities was looking at this
in a far different light. At first I thought more interaction with
between Murray and the junkyard owner would have helped, then I
realized that this was about Frances and her struggle to provide for
her children. Some of the kids characters were never developed but it
didn't matter. They were shown to be suffering during the bad times and
enjoying the good times. I want to watch it again to see what I missed.
