
"Gladiator" definitely is a classic film as it combines a simple, but
moving, story with beautiful scenery, filming, direction and score – it
is truly a "complete" movie.

I am mostly compelled with the beautiful script which in a way reminds
me of poetry, though it is still everyday language. I love the acting
portrayed by the late Oliver Reed and also Richard Harris. Russell
Crowe, Djimon Housou and Joaquin Phoenix are also superb and the parts
suit them perfectly. There are also a number of less "popular" artists
who also deserve a big "bravo". Amongst them I have to mention ex-Mr
Universe Ralph Moeller who is mostly used as the comic relief of the
movie. In Gladiator we can also the beautiful and popular Maltese TV
Star and actress Ruth Frendo, who although has a small part, she is
totally brilliant and outstanding.

Actually I got to IMDb while I was looking for her name on the
internet, in fact on IMDb she has some very stunning photos. I was
lucky to meet Ruth Frendo whilst she was filming in another Maltese
production. Ruth Frendo is not only a gorgeous and talented actress but
she is also amazingly intelligent and very down-to-earth. We will
definitely be seeing more of her work in the future... 

The scenery used for "Gladiator" is brilliant – and the opening battle
scene is definitely one of my top favorite scenes. The modern camera
technique contrasts sharply to the brutality of the gladiators actions
and blood shed during the movie; and I love the light contrasts thanks
to the lenses which most definitely have been used to create a surreal
feel to the entire movie.

"Gladiator" deserves all the awards and great reviews it has received,
and for those of you who still haven't gone and watched it – I can
assure you that it will be well worth your time and money. So go on and
rent it now!
<|_=00=_|>

Most films require that the viewer identifies with the character to truly be
engrossed with the film. If you can't feel something for the character, than
the audience is lost.

Luckily, in Ridley Scott's case, Russel Crowe is so captivating and
convincing as a general loved by his troops and as a slave loved by the
people that the movie really works. Possibly one of the greatest actors
today, Crowe carries this epic film on his very capable shoulders.

Not to say that he is the only reason this works. The supporting cast, most
notably Connie Neilsen, buoy the film to new perspectives.

Jacquin Phoenix definitely captures the egotisitcal persona he should
display, stealing every scene he's in. Phoenix will surely be put on the map
with Gladiator.

But the real shining star in this film are the incredible action sequences
which jolt the viewer right in with the opening sequences, as Maximus' true
worth to the Roman Empire is displayed. Scott's camera work within these
completed sequences takes a modern twist that really works for the gruesome
scenes.

Crowe will now get the respect he deserves for this collosal performance.
Gladiator makes the most of its 2 and a half hours, marking a triumphant
comeback for the long forgotten epics of the classic days of film. ALL HAIL
MAXIMUS!
<|_=00=_|>

Once again, Director Ridley Scott proves to be as professional as one can
be. The recreation of ancient Rome is splendid, with all its magnificent
buildings and atmosphere and he is able to show with all brightness the
greatness of the Roman Empire, with its political problems and military
discipline, and love and treason, of hate and jealousy, that still have a
place in our world today. But the story has a glow of its own, to which all
the beautiful scenery (believe me, it's awesome!!!) and great cinematography
are just balancing factors. The plot is a rich one, that is as dynamic as it
is present. He once again, after Blade Runner, 1492, and others helps us
visit the depths of the human soul, which remains the same over all our
historical and social experience. Even the fights, are displayed in such a
way that all the blood is quite discrete, but still, making us feel like
screaming and jumping out of our seats. I would also like to point out the
performances of the cast, that is surprisingly good. We have some actors and
actresses, who are not Hollywood icons, but are are greatly able to move the
audience among screams and tears. All in all, we have guys like Russel
Crowe, who are coming out to be part of a new and extremely promising
harvest of people who are making each time more fans around the world. Well,
you
should see for yourself!
<|_=00=_|>

This is wonderful storytelling.  The opening Battle Scene simply mesmerizes,
showing the brutal nature of combat for Roman conquests.  I went back to see
the film again.  The first time I didn't hear anything Crowe said before the
battle.  I was just too visually caught-up.  The second time I listened very
closely and caught the wise yet succinct line from Maximus "what we do in
life... echoes in eternity."  Awesome.

A simple man v. an emperor.  I just loved the resilience Maximus showed
throughout the movie.  I find in most movies, there is an irritatingly slow
process where the character has to "find himself," not so with Gladiator.
Maximus does what is needed.

I liked how there were only two or three issues within this film.  One was
the afterlife.  Aspects of the afterlife are opened, but not overdone.  Love
of family is given sizable focus. I liked the theme of love of country that
we see as well, although it may not be justly deserved, it is never
questioned.

The visual effects were amazing.  It actually had me wanting to believe
that's the way Rome actually looked in all it's glory.  The battle of
Carthage reenactment was really great.

The ending is just hypnotic. Intentionally or unintentionally it was simply
emotional.  The music is wonderfully beautiful as if Maximus' family are
telling him...you have arrived.

Bottom line: magnificent.  Visually and emotionally satisfying.

<|_=00=_|>

Great Story!  Great Writing!  Great Acting!  Great Directing!  Great Score!
This movie has it all.  I especially enjoyed the mood of the film.  Even
though it has a lot of action, there is a subtle elegance throughout the
picture that gives it great style.  The movie flows effortlessly from scene
to scene, while at the same time creating wonderful intensity and
nail-biting excitement.

The acting in the movie more than lives up to expectations.  Russell Crowe
is brilliant in his role as Maximus, the "general who became a slave, who
became a gladiator, who defied an emperor."  Crowe's intense style is
perfect for the relentless determination and confidence of Maximus.  Joaquin
Phoenix is equally wonderful in his role as Commodus, the corrupt emperor.
He plays a great villain because he is able to give Commodus depth by
showing certain vulnerable or fragile sides, while at the same time
instantly transforming to let the ruthless nature of his volatile character
shine.  It also helps that Joaquin has the classic Caesar look that works
perfectly with his role.

Connie Nielsen is also very good as Lucilla.  However, perhaps the two
finest performances in the movie were given by a couple of acting veterans
in supporting roles.  Richard Harris and Oliver Reed were exceptional in
what will be remembered as crowning achievements at the end of their
careers.  Harris was perfect as Marcus Aurelius, the aging Caesar who
reflects upon his life and contemplates how the world will remember him. And
Reed, especially, gave my personal favorite performance in the movie as
Proximo, the trainer for the gladiators.  The way he spoke about the life of
a gladiator, the splendor of Rome, and the "thrill of the Coliseum" really
added excitement and anticipation during the viewing of the movie.

Gladiator is filled with many memorable moments that one would need to see
more than once to fully appreciate.  The excitement felt for me when Rome is
first shown in all its wonder and marvel is my favorite scene.  But the
whole movie is a rush!  Hans Zimmer provides the absolute perfect score to
capture the different moods in the movie.  Ridley Scott sets the perfect
tone with his artistic and creative directing.  I would recommend it to
anyone who can stomach intensity and enjoy an epic story for the ages.  Next
to Braveheart, this movie is the greatest of all-time!

<|_=00=_|>

The movie is the story of Maximus (Crowe), a general who leads the Roman
army to victory over Germania in the beginning of the movie. The dying
emperor of Rome, Marcus Aurelius, is watching this battle.

The emperor's son, Commodus, then arrives with his sister Lucilla, and it is
discovered that Commodus fully expects to be announced the new emperor of
Rome in a few days. Aurelius, however, has other plans--he wants to make
Maximus emperor, and requests that of the general, who wants nothing more
than to go home to his family.

I went into this movie having just watched Ben-Hur in my film studies class
and having watched an episode of Xena only a couple of weeks earlier that
featured the story of Marc Anthony and Cleopatra. So you could say I was in
the perfect mindset to watch a "sword-and-sandal" movie. I wasn't sure what
to expect, having somehow avoided all the hype that accompanied this movie.
But I was not disappointed.

Gladiator features some wonderful cinematography by John Mathieson. The
battle scenes are very graphic. (This movie is not for the squeamish, that's
for sure.) There were some scenes in particular that really struck me, such
as when Crowe appears to be floating over the ground very fast.  The use of
color and color tones added a great deal to the mood of the movie.
Excellent.

The script was being written and re-written as the filming was going on, yet
it doesn't show that the actors had no idea how the movie was going to end
when they began filming.  The acting is terrific. Russell Crowe is
wonderfully cast as Maximus. Many reviewers agree that he is now officially
a star. Joaquin Phoenix also proves his mettle as the emotionally troubled
Commodus, whose behavior and emotion toward his sister could give anyone the
creeps. Connie Nielsen makes you believe that, as Lucilla, she really is
torn between natural loyalty to her brother and doing what she knows is
right. Oliver Reed, in his last performance, is memorable in his role of
Proximo, the former gladiator who is the owner of Maximus and brings him to
Rome.  In short, the actors were brilliant in their roles, not over-acting,
but giving subtle, strong performances.

The script itself is very good.  Although some elements are a little hard to
believe--the fact that no one recognizes Maximus when he's a slave?--this
film calls for a willing suspension of disbelief, which one would happily
comply with.  (It's really no fun to nitpick such a movie.)

It's true that this movie does pretty much follow the Braveheart formula.
However, this movie includes some elements, such as the cinematography and
the incredibly graphic battle scenes (one reviewer likened it to Saving
Private Ryan, "only better"), that are spectacular in itself. Overall, a
great movie that I highly recommend.

<|_=00=_|>

I love history, and to me, Gladiator is a masterpiece. It is the most
accurate picture of the Roman Empire Hollywood has ever put out.  People
declare Spartacus a masterpiece, but Gladiator far outdoes Spartacus in
quality.  The costuming, the acting, the screenplay, the scenery, and the
fighting styles made me think that I had traveled back to 180 A.D.
Russell
Crowe is a true Hollywood tough guy, and he is superb in this movie.
Joaquin Phoenix is outstanding as a villain, one of the best in movie
history.  He played his character as if it were a psychologist's dream
case.
Connie Nielsen plays one of the strongest female characters that I have
ever seen.  The choreographer of the action sequences was brilliant.
Ridley
Scott did an outstanding job in recreating the Empire, including the
multitude of ethnic groups within the Empire and accurately depicting
everyday life.  If you're looking for insight into what the Roman Empire
was
like, this is a perfect depiction.  
<|_=00=_|>

The epic blockbuster returns with the 21st Century's answer to Cecil B
DeMille, Ridley Scott and his dramatic tale of courage and revenge,
GLADIATOR - "the general who became a slave, the slave who became a
gladiator, the gladiator who defied an emperor".

Once a great roman General, and as good as adopted son of Marcus Aurelius
Caesar (Harris), Maximus (Crowe) is forced into exile by Commodus (Phoenix),
heir to the throne, after the death of Marcus. Saved from death by slavers,
he is purchased for use as a gladiator by Proximo (Reed) and ends up in the
arena of all arena's, the Colloseum, where he proves unbeatable under his
guise as "The Spaniard".

And with a budget of over $100m, Scott certainly delivers the goods.
GLADIATOR transcends the notion of 'blockbuster' that we have become
accustomed to in the age of electronic and special effects wizardry and
instead offers a good old fashioned action film along the lines of Spartacus
and and Ben Hur. Not only are we drawn into an archetypal story that
contains all the classic elements a filmgoer could dream of (love, loss,
courage, despair, good triumphing over evil etc etc) - also on offer is a
visual feast of cinematic painting after painting - a rich tapestry of
images that are breathtaking and ultimately visually satisfying. From the
plains of Germania, to the desert stronghold of Zuchobar, and finally to
great Rome herself, John Mathiesion, the cinematographer is to be commended
highly for his general inventiveness and ability to capture so much on film.
The opening  battle scene is superb as a cast of thousands erupt across the
screen and provide an indication that we are about to see a film that pays
incredible attention to detail throughout its entirety. In every way, Scott
has created a world for us that scuttles films of similar epic undertakings
(and budgets!) and sends them to their dooms at the bottom of the murky
depths of film history where they belong.

The cast is generally very strong. Crowe proves himself very suitable to the
task with a great
emotional range and depth of character. His accent ocassionally bugged me
(as did the mish mash of accents on offer - but that is I guess a legacy of
'internationally casted films'), but this aside, he was well and truly up to
the task. Phoenix is also excellent as the disturbed Commodus, as is Nielson
as Lucilla, the daughter of Marcus who "should have been a son" and finds
herself torn between loyalty to her brother and doing what is 'right'. The
old guard thesps of Harris, Reed and Jacobi (Grachus) are uniformly strong
as supporting characters, and Spencer Treat Clark (Lucius) does a fine job
as the young heir to the throne.

Add to this great cast excellent editing and post production work, and an
intricate soundscape (including a magnificent Hans Zimmer score), and you
have a film that, despite its length, was highly palatable and had me in
there from beginning to end. A must see.

 
<|_=00=_|>

I borrowed this movie on DVD, but I wish I had seen it in the theater for it
would have been a lot more fun and powerful there. Despite this, Gladiator
is one of the most powerful and moving films I've ever seen. The plot goes
so smooth together, as well as the acting and the terrific musical score.
Director Ridley Scott puts all effort into making this film an epic, and he
does just that. I'd have to say that anyone who likes Ridley Scott (I sure
do) should see this. It is a lot like Ridley's other movies (Black Hawk Down
was also amazing). If you can stand a little bit--well, ok a LOT of blood
and gore, then you should see this. Russell Crowe shows an excellent
performance like no other. I don't think there's one bad movie that Ridley
Scott has made or that Russell Crowe has acted in. The fact that the brutal
battles involving innocent slaves in this film actually happened in real
life centuries ago makes it even more interesting and powerful. Emperor
Commodus is a truely evil and life-like villian who shows a lot of his wits
in attempts to get his revenge against Maximus.

Ridley Scott went to many different locations to shoot this film to make it
real, and he does. The film is set in Rome, and it looks just like it. You
feel as if you are there in the crowd, hearing them cheer and cheer to see
the death. To some of you, this may sound a little barbaric, and believe me
the film is VERY barbaric and brutual, however it teaches a very strong
lesson of what happens when an economy turns as violent as Rome was. Ridley
Scott goes to many lengths to make this movie real, because even though the
characters are fictitious, all of this really did happen. Innocent people
had to go through brutual fighting while thousands of people cheered for
either their death or the enemy's death. If you were an inexperienced
fighter, chances are you would get killed. But the strange thing is that
Rome LOVED this. People came from all over to see these fights and to see
the blood that was shed, that is why you can't blame the characters in this
film for being so forlorn and saddened the whole time. The film itself is
very dark. The theme is dark and the ending is dark. From beginning to end
there is excessive violence (for those action movie-goers, this is a movie
for you). But if the violence is concerning you, don't let it. The special
effects make the movie great, but it's the acting and storyline that make it
spectacular. HIGHLY RECCOMMENDED for anyone who wants a good time.
Definitely makes you think. ***** out of *****.


<|_=00=_|>

Germania, 150 AD, the setting of Gladiator's opening scene. Far from the
blazing sun and dazzlingly beauty of ancient Rome, Ridley Scott shoots the
opening sequence in a subdued light. The Roman legions are nonetheless
impeccably turned out as they face the comparatively disorganised rabble
that inhabits this miserable environment. Caesar's soldiers seem somewhat
misplaced here. However, Russell Crowe is at home in this environment of
knee-deep mud and merciless snow. He commands the screen with all the
virtues of his motto: ‘Strength and Honour.'

The plot, with its hero-to-zero-to-hero nature, runs through Gladiator's
every vein. As General Maximus, Russell Crowe is welcomed by Marcus
Aurelius
Caesar (Richard Harris) to take the Roman throne as Emperor of a new
Republic. All does not run smoothly however as mislead heir to the throne
Commodus (Phoenix) takes over Rome with ill-gotten domination, having
dispatched his own Father. Maximus is cast out to find his family murdered
and his Spanish farm burnt to the ground. Taken in as a slave by Proximo
(Reed), Maximus becomes a Gladiator and starts his journey to the Coliseum
and revenge against Commodus.

Scott's cast is powerful and he is not left wanting as powerful
performances
are delivered by all. Due to his untimely mid-production death, Oliver Reed
is created in some scenes by the grace of computer graphics, which are as
convincing as they come; sometimes making it difficult to differentiate
between Reed himself and his computerised counterpart.

It is, however, the supporting actors who create many of Gladiator's best
dialogue-based scenes. In an accomplished demonstration of her acting
ability as Lucilla, Connie Nielsen saves the occasional scene as Joaquim
Phoenix shows us that he can ‘do evil', but is less convincing when it
comes
to the more emotional qualities of his role.

As a vehicle for the plot, Scott's beautifully created and highly symbolic
(there is an image of fire in nearly every shot of the film) dialogue
scenes
are of a certain merit with digitally created backgrounds that encompass
the
meticulous nature of the Roman Empire. However, dialogue alone does not an
epic movie make, and it is in the film's spectacular action sequences that
Gladiator come into its own. Shot on location in Malta, Scott's first arena
was built by an army of locals and commanded some 5000 extras (a large
majority of whom were of a cardboard variety). All of this pales in
comparison as we arrive in a digitally created Rome which makes some scenes
in Ben Hur some somewhat small scale. The Coliseum is immense, both inside
and out, and the computerised provides the electric atmosphere in which
Crowe and his feline companions (four sizeable, and real, Bengal tigers)
perform.

The battle sequences are perfectly choreographed and shot as iconic masks
and typically Roman chariots are abundant in their power and imagery. As
swords clash and heads roll, Ridley Scott is triumphant in the application
of special effects technology and his directorial prowess.

Always one to embrace technology, Scott's views over Rome's landscape are
reminiscent of the beautifully created cityscape of Blade Runner. This is a
film that fears so little and boasts so much, even a lady archer being
sliced clean in half by a spiked chariot wheel!

All those involved with Gladiator should be delighted and confident with
their creation, for indeed this is a convincing and enthralling display
with
epic proportions to take the wind from James Cameron's titanic
sails.

