

I really don't see why this movie tanked and why it is hated by many.  Maybe
its poor box office performance was due partly to its R-rating, being that
it appeals to a predominantly teenage demographic.  But I found it to be
funny, entertaining and downright awesome!

This is not a nostalgic piece.  Other than the music, this film's characters
seemed to be fished out of contemporary society.  So the older viewers might
not enjoy it QUITE as much.  I have to say, my only disappointment was that
Kiss only got to perform once, at the very end.  Other than that, this is
just a wildly funny comic ride with good performances from the main cast, as
well as the supporting--Lin Shaye stands out as the ultra-protective,
Bible-toting, chain-smoking mother who regards Kiss as "Knights in Satan's
Service."  Joe Flaherty, of SCTV fame, also has a funny cameo. 

What can I say?  I laughed a lot.  I bobbed my head to the music.  I had
fun.  That pretty much does it for me.  

My score:  7 (out of 10)   
<|_=00=_|>

I liked detroit rock city for one reason and one reason only. I am a metal
fan and this movie brought to the big screen the adrenalin fueled craziness
that is Kiss and hard rock music in general. Anybody looking for "depth" in
this, has the wrong movie. I like all types of movies and sometimes I like
my movies deep. But not all the time. Sometimes I want to smile. Sometimes I
want to be entertained. This movie does that and it does that
well.

I think the bottom line is, if you are a Kiss fan or fan of hard rock in
general you will love this. If you are not such a fan, but still open to
movies where the sole purpose is to entertain you may like it. But if you
hate Kiss or have no interest in their type of music in general your more
likely to have no particular interest in this. Me, I thought it was great! 
Kiss forever! Rock and Roll all night!
<|_=00=_|>

Being that the story is about kids who want to go to see their
favourite
band, you know that in the end they will somehow get to see the show.  It's
a question if you enjoy the ride to get there.  And I did.

Although being a teen comedy (which always means an obligatory
puke
scene), and some physical comedy which was a little distracting,
this
film was just fun.  The film works cause everyone can think back to
the
days in high school when you worshiped a band, played their music,
and
would DIE to see them play live, and this film captures that
feeling
perfectly.  It also captures the era perfectly with the music,
cars,
good soundtrack, and the pot shots at of course... disco (Did you
see
those SHOES the disco chicks were wearing??).  And of course it was
VERY
funny in places (I thought my jam sessions were bad...).

Also the film had me guessing as to what would happen, sometimes
I
thought it was predictable, then it switched gears and surprised
me,
particularly the ending which was so perfectly sweet!!  Perfect
music
high school camradare done wonderfully.  Even though I am not a fan
of
KISS, everyone can think back to the time when your fav band was
your
TRUE means of salvation.

Rating 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

"Detroit Rock City"

Darth Maul, Austin Powers, Tarzan, John Travolta, Julia Roberts, Cartman,
James West, and killer sharks... What else would summer 1999 require? KISS.
That's what we need. With all the teenager movies stinking up the
multiplexes recently, the only relief is a film featuring the Knights In
Satan's Service. Recalling "Dazed And Confused" and channeling "Rock N' Roll
High School", "Detroit Rock City" is a heaping portion of good fun. Filled
to the brim with energy and acted by a cast of clever actors who probably
can't even shave yet, this new music-packed comedy might just be what the
doctor (Dr. Love, that is) ordered.

KISS fans might not be too happy to hear that the band isn't in the film for
more than 5 minutes. Director Adam Rifkin ("The Chase" and the pathetically
forced "Dark Backward") and writer Carl V. Dupre have made a film not about
KISS, but about four teenagers from 1978 Cleveland who drive to Detroit to
see the band in concert. Everything from religiously fanatic mothers (The
great Lin Shaye), to money-stealing bullies, and even some Disco lowlifes
try to stop our heroes as they trek to see the world's greatest band. Once
in Detroit, the friends split up to find opportunities to scam their way
into the show. It is also in Detroit where each teen learns a very important
lesson about life, and just how much KISS rocks.

Leading the group is Edward Furlong. Last seen in John Waters's "Pecker",
Furlong has opened up greatly in the past couple of films. In "Detroit",
Furlong gives his best performance to date. I've never seen him so loose
on-screen before. Working with James DeBello, Giuseppe Andrews, and probably
the most expressive teenage actor working today, Sam Huntington, they each
deliver just the right amount of teenage apathy, yet make each one of their
characters endearing to the audience. It's enormous fun to watch them
on-screen together. You don't come around such a young cast that works so
well together too often. Other players include the eternal vamp Shannon
Tweed, Natasha Lyonne("Slums Of Beverly Hills") in yet another role that
cannot seem to tap into her talents as much as I would like to see, and even
a girl fittingly named Beth played by the wonderful Melanie
Lynskey("Heavenly Creatures"),

It's quite obvious from the brilliant opening credits that Director Rifkin
is out to have some fun. He brings back the 1970's with wonderful widescreen
lensing, a dab of split-screen, and a soundtrack crammed with classic rock
hits. One after another, the music fills each scene with such vibrant
energy. After getting so used to the pre-packaged soundtracks that
frequently don't have anything to do with the movies that feature them, it's
refreshing to see film and sound live in holy matrimony for once.

The camera swings and moves with alarming speed. The colors pop and squeak.
The era is evoked gently and without(much) sarcasm. "Detroit Rock City" is
one of the few films that seems to be the product of genuine love for the
era and the music. It's a bright film with an enormous amount of good will.
Whatever Rifkin has forced upon us before has now been forgotten.

If I had to make once complaint about "Detroit", it's the typical use of
drama to justify the movie. You've seen it time and again, the film you love
crashing to a halt so the lead character can make some death-to-the-ears
speech about freedom, love, or any other mundane belief. It never ceases to
stop any film, and it brings the kinetic "Detroit" to it's knees for about 5
minutes. The picture is bright enough to not have to include any dramatic
weight whatsoever. It's seems like a screenplay conceit, and probably is.
Yet another film that's too self-conscious to really kick back and fire on
all cylinders.

New Line cut a great trailer for this film. The "Mad" magazine-style poster
was also a genius choice. "Detroit Rock City" is silly and sometimes
childish, but it never stoops to the constipated laughs of "American Pie" or
the plain ugliness of other similar "boy" intensive teenage comedies.
"Detroit" is often sharp, always silly, slightly tasteless, but a seriously
rocking late summer film that makes up for the usual garbage that litters
August. You wanted the best, you got the best.---------
9/10

<|_=00=_|>
I was a huge KISS fan for much of my teenage life (finally seeing the
original band on their 1996 Reunion Tour was one of the highlights of
my life, as I was too young to witness them in their '70s heyday), so
DETROIT ROCK CITY was mandatory viewing for me when it first hit video.
I would've loved to have seen it during its short theatrical run, but
sadly, this overlooked movie tanked at the box office and disappeared
within a week of its release, which astounds me to this day, because
even if you're not a KISS fan, any rock and roller past or present
should be able to relate to this story of musical fanaticism, no matter
what band(s) you might be into.

The film does share many similarities to an earlier classic, 1979's
ROCK N ROLL HIGH SCHOOL (starring the Ramones), but thanks to the more
liberal time period in which it was made, DETROIT ROCK CITY is a lot
more foul-mouthed and raunchier, which may have cost the producers a
PG-13 rating, but it just fine by me... after all, real high school
kids don't say "darn" and "heck," they spew the F-Word liberally into
every sentence! Anyway, our story revolves around four high school
misfits circa 1978 whose main goal in life (other than playing bad
covers of KISS songs in their basement rec room) is to finally see KISS
live in concert at Detroit's Cobo Hall arena. When one boy's
fundamentalist Mom discovers the "demonic" concert tickets in her son's
jacket and burns them, it sets the four friends on a quest to figure
out how to get into the concert at all costs, and they set a hilarious
series of misadventures in motion along the way. In no particular
order, the boys run afoul of a gang of disco-loving toughs on the
highway, get mixed up in the middle of a convenience store robbery
(thwarted by a Stretch Armstrong doll!), take the stage in a male strip
joint to win money for tickets, get their car towed from the mean
streets of Detroit, and rescue one of their own from a Christian boy's
school. The film's eye candy quotient is filled very nicely by a cameo
from Shannon Tweed (real-life companion of Kiss' Gene Simmons), and
there's even a tender moment of teenage romance as one boy loses his
virginity (in a church's confessional no less!). All this madness is
set to an irresistible hard-rockin' soundtrack that features not only
Kiss but other 70s titans like Blue Oyster Cult and Ted Nugent. Do the
boys finally make it to Cobo Hall to see their heroes? I don't want to
spoil it for those who haven't seen it yet, therefore I highly
recommend that you check out this overlooked comedy gem. DETROIT ROCK
CITY is a hysterical trip down memory lane for anyone who's ever
cranked up their favorite song extremely LOUD...and as Kiss themselves
once said, if it's too loud,you're too old. Thankfully I'm not too old
to enjoy this movie!!
<|_=00=_|>

My summary says it all. This movie did rock! It had funny characters, a
funny story and an awesome soundtrack, especially Van Halen's Runnin' with
the Devil.

The story is set in Cleveland, 1978. Four boys, Hawk, Jam, Lex and Trip who
are part of a rock band named Mystery which is modeled after their favorite
band, KISS. They bought tickets to see them and go on a road trip to Detroit
and get into many misadventures dealing with an angry mother, some tough
jocks, some disco freaks, a stolen car and an attempt to win
money.

This movie was Eddie Furlong's second best(T2 was the first) and it was a
takeoff for the other guys. The only thing I would've changed was the mood,
it seemed just a little dark for my taste but it was still an awesome movie.
9/10   
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was great,funny,cool,realistic and entertaining The Story of
four teens who play in a KISS cover band who got tickets to go see KISS
in Detroit, but a series of unfortunate events stop them from going to
see the concert,and they don't stop at nothing to get all the way to
Detroit for the Show of their lives.

The Best thing about this movie is that the characters are believable,
they are exactly what you would expect, and they act exactly like
normal teenagers would in the late 70', in most teen movies you see the
usual cliché's, but not here.

All in all this movie is very entertaining, you never get bored, and
the movie really puts you in these guys shoes and feel just like they
would in that type of situation.Plus the movie is filled with an
awesome soundtrack, with bands like AC/DC, Van Halen and of course KISS
who also appear in the film.

So my advice to you (if you like good ol Rock n' Roll and Fun movies)
is to rent Detroit Rock City invite some friends and Have a great Time.
<|_=00=_|>

Hilarious...not a brainy or brilliant picture but it carries some
off-the-wall moments that make it all worthwhile. The dialogue is
unflinchingly crude and certain scenes will just catch you
off-guard...definately worth your time. Don't worry if you aren't into
KISS...it's more about their journey TO the concert.

<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie about four teenagers, Hawk (Furlong), Jam (Huntington),
Lex (Andrews), and Trip (Debello). They plan on seeing Kiss, but Jam
accidentally takes Trip's jacket home, with the tickets inside. While
Jam is at school, his mom, a complete bible-maniac, finds the tickets
and burns them. She proceeds to take Jam to a boarding school. The boys
are bummed out, but they hear on the radio that the 10th caller who can
give the real names of the band members gets 4 front row tickets and 4
backstage passes to the Kiss concert. Trip wins the contest, and off
they go to rescue Jam, and head for Detroit.

I won't go into what happens there. All I'm gonna tell you is, this
movie is hilarious. Go watch it for a great time.
<|_=00=_|>

Detroit Rock City Is a very weel made comedy film,that gives the audience
EXTREMELY good laughs,first rate acting,and an original script.Four teens
lose they're concert tickets to go see Kiss,so they win a contest on the
radio.Then they go drive to Detroit for the concert.Not much to say about
this film,but I guarantee that it is a great movie to watch.There is only
two small flaw in Detroit Rock City,and that flaw is that it didnt seem long
enough,and that the ending seemed like it was an easy way to end the
movie.One last thing,some of the lines in this film was damn FUNNY.Detroit
Rock City is a great movie to watch.8 out of 10.
