

I caught this film on video because the trailer wasn't too good. But it did
have Eric Idle voicing Devon so I gave it a chance. I loved it. The dragon
stole most of the scenes, but the other characters weren't bad either.
Kayley & Garrett made a good couple and it was refreshing to see a romance
that wasn't based on looks or riches. I wanted them to be together.
Bladebeak was amusing and Aydon (voiced by the excellent Frank Welker) was
good to watch. Rubere was deliciously villainous. The weakest characters
were Arthur & Merlin but the film wasn't really about them so it didn't
matter. 

The best scenes were set in the Forbidden Forest where we witness all kinds
of weird and wonderful flora and fauna. There are good songs (I Stand Alone,
Through Your Eyes & On My Father's Wings especially.) I also cried at
several points. Ignore the bad press. Watch it. 9/10 
<|_=00=_|>
Genre: Cartoon, Camelot, Adventure with female knight in training.

Main characters: Kayley, Garret, Devon and Cornwall.

Actors: Lots of famous ones here! There is Cary Elwes (Garret), Eric
Idle (Devon), Gary Oldman (Ruber), Jane Seymour (Juliana), Don Rickles
(Cornwall), Pierce Brosnan (King Arthur), John Gielgud (Merlin).

What happens: Kayley is the daughter of Sir Lionel, one of the knights
at the Round Table. The young girl dreams of following in her father's
footsteps as a knight. Then, disaster strikes. Lionel is killed :-( and
Kayley as well as others mourn for him. Kayley dreams on of becoming a
knight...

My thoughts: This film had good potential. It had good animation, good,
heartwarming songs, good characters and lots of good actors. They
released it and (on IMDb especially) it sort of flopped like a deflated
balloon. What happened?

Well, I don't know personally. I suppose a lot of people don't like
this film for a number of reasons. Yes, the film isn't perfect, but
it's CERTAINLY enjoyable and good to watch! It's also good for the
children, they are likely to enjoy at least one aspect of the film and
want to watch on (just like me when I was younger). They may enjoy the
songs, they may enjoy the actors, they may enjoy the characters or the
excitement, or they may enjoy the humour. They are most likely NOT to
be disappointed.

Adults are most likely to like the actors. Monty Python fans will
hopefully not be disappointed by the performance of Eric Idle. Also
here is Jane Seymour (but not Henry the Eighth's wife OBVIOUSLY! :-) ) 

Why this film has gone down so badly is a mystery to me. I hope those
of you who have never watched it before will enjoy it as much as I do.

Recommended to: Families who like cartoon films, people who like any of
the actors I mentioned earlier and people who just like the sound of
the film in general - enjoy! :-)
<|_=00=_|>
I was shocked,surprised and flabbergasted by the negative reviews I
would see on the web, I thought that this film a very,VERY good
Arthurian movie along with Walt Disney's classic "The Sword in The
Stone;" the MGM live-action classic "Knights of the Round Table" with
Robert Taylor & Ava Gardner; the musical "Camelot" starring Richard
Harris & Vanessa Redgrave.

This film has everything: a very good story, excellent music, and
that's one thing I love in a movie is a very good soundtrack; and an
excellent voice casting too. I love Kayley, and her desire to carry on
the tradition of her father in the excellent song On My Father's Wings
was a great scene in the film. I also love song "The Prayer" too. The
song became popular among artists like the Celtic Woman - I don't
understand why a popular song would come from a film that people
thought it's awful.
<|_=00=_|>

I am going to agree with the majority of the other posters here. There is
a
lot of good elements in this movie, but it is all put together as much
more
of a cliche then it had to be.

It seemed like there were too many singing scenes and they were too abrupt
and not integrated into everything. Every time one started, I couldn't
wait
for it to be over so we could get back to the story. And as others
mentioned, the singing voices were too different from that of the
characters
themselves. Imagine if they had used the time during the songs to actually
give more plot and character development.

Everyone seemed too two-dimensional. As someone else pointed out, how did
the bad guy even get to the round table in the first place? He was
charming
in his own way, but too cookie-cutter.

As others mentioned, the animation is very hit-or-miss. The backgrounds
and
overall mood are very well done, but a lot of the characters were just not
animated well, the hawk was frequently deformed, etc. It stood out badly
due
to the quality of everything around it. Take a look at something like
Princess Mononoke to see characters animated on a limited budget that
meshes
much better with everything else, with a lot more visual
style.

It seems like it would have a feminist bent, but then she is still rescued
most of the time, and the dress scene at the end seems especially absurd
in
the context of everything else.

Some of the comedy elements were cute, but I did dislike all of the movie
references and everything. Since everything else seems centered in the
world, it seems out of place.

Like the Black Cauldron, this was an OK movie that could have been a lot
better. But at least BC didn't have all that singing. Sword in the Stone
also worked a lot better while being in a similar vein.

If you want an American animated movie that is really consistent with its
own world, animated well, has good characters, etc. check out the Secret
of
Nimh. You can get it really cheap on DVD now. Seeing Quest for Camelot the
day after Nimh, there really is no comparison...
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I finally saw it. And boy, it was nothing to sneeze at.

(**Spoilers**) Now, I tried to give it a chance, I really did. Being a
big fan of animated musicals, I tend to enjoy films of this genre. But
sadly, the effort was wasted in this misshapen heap of a story. Now,
for the positive side, I must say I thought the two-headed dragon was
hilarious... Eric Idle and Don Rickles were simply perfect picks for
their voices. However, the main characters were bland, and lacked a
proper chemistry. Kayley was drastically out of place with the story.
Her whole, "I wanna be a warrior" rant reminded me of Taran from "The
Black Cauldron." Ladies were not knights, and did not sit with the men
at the Round Table. And NO woman dressed like she did at that time.
Garrett was the most boring, angsty piece of wood, it hurt. And, to top
it all off, the two main characters fell in love in less than a day.
(I'm sorry, but even for an animated film, that was way too rushed,
considering how they got along in the first place. Ruber, the villain,
was a lame, inept villain, who lacked a good motive. It was lame.

The singing voices for the characters (not counting Devon and Cornwall
(the two-headed dragon), and Ruber (the villain), who did their own
singing) were all obviously different. And the songs came out of
nowhere. I mean, one minute we have Kayley's dad telling her about
Camelot, the next, the knights are parading and singing to Aurthur's
castle. Yeah, that *TOTALLY* happens in real life. I know animated
musicals have songs, but they're usually better done, and fit in with
the storyline. The animation smelled... and I often saw re-used clips
about three times over. And the colors were so washed out, it hurt.

And the plot... hoo boy! Did these people even try and base it on the
book it supposedly originated from? Now, I never read the book, but I
read its summary, and the characters are barely anything like this. The
plot is weak, watered down, and lame. I know the book was adult, but
they could've made a kid-safe version of it. And Arthur and Merlin are
in this for all of ten minutes, max.

The only *really* catchy song in the film was "If I Didn't Have You",
and the only really beautiful song was "The Prayer." This is sad
because there were other songs scattered throughout the film. So yeah,
this film tried so hard to be a Disney-clone, yet it couldn't hold the
candle to other really good non-Disney films, like "The Swan Princess",
"Thumbelina", "Anastasia", "Balto", and "Prince of Egypt."

Case in point, don't waste your time. It's quite forgettable.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this when I was little and I found it mildly amusing. When I
watched it again when I got older, I saw that there was simply no good
plot or interesting characters in it. 

Kayley longs to be a knight like her late father, and is well on her
way to becoming the adventurous fighting female warrior that she always
wanted. Unfortunately in the end, she is kidnapped and becomes the
stereotypical damsel in distress who longs for her knight in shining
armor, Garrett, the blind hero, to come in and save her. Why can't it
ever be the other way around? 

Ruber, the villain, has no depth, no personality other than the fact
that he is evil and selfish, and has no complexity, meaning or
explanation as to why he does the things he does. The only grudge he
has for the king is that that he just simply wouldn't give him all the
land. Despite being voiced by Gary Oldman, and having a few witty lines
he just becomes silly and not very threatening. 

As for the two headed dragon, they have absolutely no business being in
the movie other than comic relief, which is a very weak aspect of
storytelling.

One a positive note, the music and the songs are very good. Andrea Corr
plays Kayley's singing part and Celine Dion play's Juliana's. But other
than that, it really is nothing special.

4 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
There were many movies that told the legend of King Arthur of England.
The Sword in the Stone was probably one of the best examples for this
legend. And there was another one called Quest for Camelot- Wait a
minute! Quest for Camelot?!! This movie wasn't great, this movie
sucked! Why am I saying this? Oh, you're going to find out in a
moment...

1) Songs, songs, and more songs. Oh, I'm sorry, this is a musical
adventure. None of the songs made any sense at all. They would make Tom
and Jerry the Movie look like the Music Man or The Titanic Animated
Trilogy look like Singin' in the Rain! 2) Rip-offs by the dozen. I spy
with my eye the main character who looks like Belle from Disney's
Beauty and the Beast. There is no escaping the rip-offs! 3) Abysmal
dialog. Read this following quote: "You've got to ask yourself 'Do I
feel Clucky?' Well, do you punk?" Stupid. Absolutely stupid, movie!
You're ripping off one of Clint Eastwood's best lines and then you
inserted "Clucky" instead of "Lucky". If Clint Eastwood were to hear
that, he would've said "Boy, do I feel unlucky today. One minute, I was
the star of Dirty Harry and that next thing I know, my line gets stolen
by an ax-chicken with the voice of Sonic the Hedgehog from that
horrible TV series "The Adventures of Sonic the Hedgehog". Ungrateful
punks." 

This movie is so unbelievably bad that it left the Nostalgia Critic
making two nuclear explosions and go on a shooting spree involving
Disney characters(Note: for the record, that was played for laughs and
no beloved Disney characters were harmed during the making of the
Nostalgia Critic episode reviewing this movie)! If I were one of those
people working at Warner Bros Studios, I would've stopped the numb-nuts
from making this fire-breathing monstrosity that is Quest for Camelot.
<|_=00=_|>
Back in the days when there is no such Oscar category as "The Best
Animated Feature of the Year" , animations were for family use only.
It's obvious that by 2001, adult themed animations began running off
readily. Looking at the year 1998, alongside of Antz, Mulan, and Toy
Story 2 ; Quest for Camelot was another successful blockbuster hit in
the animation genre. 

It's an adaptation to Vera Chapman's novel "The King's Damosel", the
writer of which is the founder of the J.R.R. Tolkien Society of Great
Britain. Though, most fun and joyful parts of the novel are missing in
this film. The basic formula of creating a Swashbuckler Adventure out
of a heroic journey story has been applied again just like The Mummy,
Robin Hood, Indiana Jones, Conan the Barbarian and so on. 

What's so good and staying within living memory? 1/First of all, it's
very entertaining for everyone who like Swashbucklers. Must be rated
"E". 2/A sense of Tim Burton style singing dialogues. 3/All the cruel
and bloodthirsty fantasy world creatures are pleasant looking: Dragons,
Drakels, Ogres, and the very special Two-Headed Dragon. 4/The Dark
Jungle with Necromancer Trees. 5/The lost sword of Excalibur. 6/The
legend of the Three Circles. 7/The story is centring on a girl who
wants to be a knight! Praise for Hayao Miyazaki 8/The first time when
Garrett and Kayley meet the two-headed dragon: -Garrett:What are you?
-Dragon:We're the reason cousins shouldn't marry. 9/The back story of a
blind farmer, and his success story becoming a knight 10/The blind
farmer's silver winged falcon, and all the scenes that it's fighting
with either dragons or ogres. 

What's not to like and to forget? 1/The overall animation quality is
only as good as a computer game except the music. 2/Some scenes and
sequences are giving homage to Star Wars, Indiana Jones and even the
Taxi Driver; and those homages are stomach aching. 3/King Arthur is
very weak, he is half the size of Merlin and shorter than Kayley
4/Merlin is not the Merlin as we know him, he's afraid to cast spells,
and not able to protect Arthur's castle 5/The moment when King Arthur
grabs the Excalibur from the stone, he seems like a 4-year-old kid
pretending that he's He-Man and the people around him are the Masters
of Universe 6/The fact that King Arthur is Pierce Brosnan's worst voice
acting ever 7/Character development and back stories of the characters
are very weak except Garrett's character 8/Visual Effects are awful
9/Over 350 animators have worked to create this animation, but it's
still not "animating" what needs to be animated, 'cause the action
sequences and the human movements/reflexes are dreadful 10/Sound
Effects are not synchronized properly 

Give it a shot, this is at least worth watching, catch it on Youtube.
<|_=00=_|>
I first saw Quest For Camelot when I was ten years old (I saw it in
theaters) and it was one of my favorite movies. I'm seventeen now, and
yesterday, I watched this movie with my little brother. Of course, it
was a lot more immature than it was when I was ten, but I haven't
laughed so hard in a long time. This is truly a fun, wholesome movie.

The story centers on Kayley, a young girl who wants to become a knight
in Camelot. When King Arthur's sword Excalibur is stolen by the evil
Sir Ruber, and then lost in the Forbidden Forest, Kayley sets off to
recover the sword and save Camelot. Her quest is also crucial because
Ruber had killed her father ten years before, and has now taken her
mother hostage. In the Forbidden Forest, Kayley is joined by Garrett, a
blind hermit who doesn't welcome her company at first, and his falcon
Ayden. They are also joined by Devon and Cornwall, an odd and bickering
two headed dragon, while being followed by Ruber and his metal minions.

This a movie that is a cute relief to many Disney movies, and I love
the music in it much more than most Disney sing-along songs. While some
songs are simply silly and fun, like "If I Didn't Have You" sung by
Devon and Cornwall (which I laughed all the way through due to its
nudges at 20th century pop culture), many of the songs express morals
and feelings that the audience can take to heart. "United We Stand" is
sung by the knights of the round table, saying that "no one shall be
greater than all", something that the villain Ruber doesn't like very
much. "I Stand Alone" tells how Garret does not trust the world around
him, having been shunned for his blindness, yet at the same time, he is
opening his world to Kayley. And my very favorite song is "Looking
Through Your Eyes", the love song between Kayley and Garrett, which is
honest due to the fact that neither let Garrett's blindness stand in
their way.

The emotions in Quest For Camelot are also real because although there
are plenty of funny moments, these are balanced by dark and serious
moments. These include Kayley's father's death scene, his funeral, and
Ruber's witchcraft scene. Ruber's song is creepy and dark, and
seriously scared me when I was younger. And one scene that really jerks
the tears for me is when Kayley and her friends reach the end of the
forest, with Excalibur in hand. Garrett tells Kayley to go on without
him, because he does not "belong in that world", and thinks that he
doesn't deserve to love Kayley. After he leaves, Kayley says "but you
belong in mine" before going on. It's really pure of heart, and made me
sad. Or maybe I'm just a sap. Oh well.

All in all, I think that everyone should give this movie a try, even
teenagers. Heck, I'm a teen and I love this movie. I won't pretend to
be "too old" for a cartoon sing-along movie. (In fact, I love these
songs so much that they stay in my head forever and drive me crazy)
Quest For Camelot may not be the best made movie, and yes, it does have
plenty of flaws, but if you look past that, you're guaranteed to laugh
and smile, and it leaves you with a good feeling at the end.
<|_=00=_|>
In the 1990's, large, industry conglomerates, in an attempt to dethrone
Walt Disney as the ringleader in animation, were creating divisions of
their company dedicated to releasing animated films that would
optimistically create lucrative hits for the studio as a whole. I cite
this specific reason as to why, whether it seems I'm actively searching
or not, I constantly find a great deal of little-known, animated relics
from that time period that were either financial failures or simply
films that have aged with no pop culture footprint to show whatsoever.
Quest for Camelot is an intriguing little footnote for this time
period, as it pretty much bears all the reasons Walt Disney's impacting
animated films were frequently imitated but never duplicated or
matched, at least during that time, in terms of quality.

The film feels like it was written from a template for animated films
that revolves around the same basic hero and villain structure,
boasting everything from cheap side characters offering comic relief,
relatively unremarkable animation, and unmemorable songs. We focus on
Kayley (voiced by Jessalyn Gilsig), who ventures out as a young girl to
Camelot to meet King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table. While
there, she is acquainted with the greedy knight Baron Ruber (Gary
Oldman), who attempts to assume all the powers brought forth by a sword
by the name of Excalibur. Fast-forward ten years later, Excalibur has
been stolen, and Kayley teams up with Garrett (Cary Elwes), a blind
knight and Devon and Cornwall (Eric Idle and Don Rickles), a two-headed
dragon that reminds one of Zak and Wheezie from Dragon Tales (I can't
believe I'm making that kind of reference) to recover the stolen sword.

Quest for Camelot has all the clichés and predictabilities one can
think of in an animated film. Spliced infrequently amongst the zippy
action of the film are indeed musical numbers that are just drenched
with worn messages and uninspired lyricism, hopelessly showcasing how
not only thrown together this project was from the get-go, but written
without heart and wit to accompany them. One of the reason Disney
succeeds so overwhelmingly with their animated films is they throw in
thoughtful themes, great characters, and engaging stories, and, most
importantly, are written, directed, and animated by people who clearly
love animation and care about making a great product. Testimonials from
Quest's crew have stated how working to create the film was more like
an exercise granted by people who foolishly assumed creating an
animated film was a fool's errand that could be done by anyone. With
that, what was created was one of the most perfunctory animated films I
can think of, not only robbed of any creativity, but any kind of soul
to speak of whatsoever.

The animation, even for traditional, hand-drawn standards, looks very
mediocre. To think Toy Story, one of the most revolutionary animated
films ever made, was three years old when this film came out is an
astounding thought, and even as Quest for Camelot tries to blend old
animated styles with newer, glossier ones, it simply fires back in the
film's face, looking even more ugly. It was the awkward period between
the old and the new, meaning bigger players were free to make bigger
moves thanks to their more impressive technology (Disney, Pixar in this
case) and those with cheaper, older animation were forced to make due
with what they had from a technology standpoint. While some companies
and projects worked to do what they could with what they had, Quest for
Camelot's mediocre animation perfectly compliments a tired story.

Finally, there's the problem that lies with the characters. Besides
Kayley and Garrett being two of the most unremarkable animated heroes,
Ruber has a seriously stunted, nonexistent personality, even for a
villain. A large chunk of the film sees him absent, completely ridding
the film of any kind of suspense from an antagonistic side, leaving an
already soulless, empty film even more gutted of any emotional
connection.

Quest for Camelot is a shockingly cold film, and given how much happens
in seventy-seven minutes, it's all the more shocking to note how boring
most of the film is. The entire film is a curious failure of
underestimating the success of an empire and thinking their success is
simply luck and a few computers.

Voiced by: Jessalyn Gilsig, Cary Elwes, Jane Seymour, Pierce Brosnan,
Gary Oldman, Eric Idle, Don Rickles, Bronson Pinchot, Jaleel White,
Gabriel Byrne, and John Gielgud. Directed by: Frederik Du Chau.
