

In The Firm, Tom Cruise plays an extremely intelligent young lawyer who
takes a job with a tremendous firm, having been seduced by their huge
financial offerings. "The Firm" begins to sound very creepy very early in
the film, when it becomes known that `the firm' has never had a divorce,
`the firm' encourages children,' `the firm' is a big, happy, 41 member
family. Unfortunately, it seems that another interesting little side note is
that no one has ever left `the firm' and lived. 

Mitch McDeere (Cruise) is hired by `the firm,' and at first, everything is
great. The firm loves him enough to pay back all of his student loans all at
once, and he is completely taken in by everything, even down to the way that
the firm furnished his new house, in his beautiful new neighborhood (`To
make you feel at home. Hope you don't mind.'). The lives of Mitch and his
wife Abby (Jeanne Triplehorn) are completely and drastically changed when he
is hired by the firm, setting up a disorienting atmosphere, especially when
strange things start happening, people getting killed by boat bombs and
whatnot. 

Gary Busey plays a small, seedy role, and it works really well because he's
best at playing seedy characters. Ed Harris also delivers a good performance
as an FBI agent trying to coerce McDeere into helping them investigate the
big bad firm. It seems that McDeere has been helping the firm in its illegal
activities, making him guilty without him even knowing about it. If he
doesn't help the FBI, he'll go to jail with the other 40 members of that
big, happy family. 

The Firm really gets going once McDeere starts trying to investigate, making
copies of incriminating files, etc. Some things may have gone a little too
far, like the conveniently placed pillow truck, but as a whole, The Firm is
a great thriller. It may not be quite as good as other John Grisham
adaptations, The Rainmaker, in particular, but The Firm's complex and
fascinating plot, as well as good direction and acting, makes it way above
average.  

<|_=00=_|>

All the elements to make a hard-hitting melodrama of corruption (with FBI
and Mafia aspects present) are unfolded here in a gripping yarn from John
Grisham's novel. Tom Cruise is excellent as a young man who joins a small
but prosperous law firm, only to discover that all the perks he enjoys come
at great expense to his integrity, not to mention his life. The plot
thickens when members of the firm are murdered and Cruise gets drawn into
the unmasking of the firm, risking his life to reveal the criminals. Gene
Hackman, Ed Harris, Holly Hunter and Hal Holbrook all give strong
performances, with Hunter fully deserving her Oscar nomination. The pacing
is good despite the film's length (well over 2 1/2 hrs.) and there's seldom
a dull moment. Especially gripping is the supercharged climax.

Not having read the book, I see where others are disappointed with the
ending. Having no comparison to make, I can only say that it kept me
absorbed until the final scene. Definitely a must-see if you enjoy action
thrillers with a climactic punch. One of the best films of the '90s, full of
suspenseful twists and turns.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a long (154 minutes) but pretty solid drama-suspense story
about corporate corruption. The film features a well-known cast, and as
soon as the action kicks in this becomes a very tense story.

Tom Cruise is very good as the hotshot lawyer, as is Jeanne Tripplehorn
who plays his unhappy wife. This is a complex story at times, one not
always easily understood, especially the ending. So much is explained
so fast at the end it's tough to comprehend it all.

Wilfred Brimley, Gene Hackman, Hal Holbrook, Holly Hunter, Robert
Strathairn and Ed Harris all make this a really deep, impressive cast.
For more details of the story, check some of the other reviews.
<|_=00=_|>

Though not the best of the Grisham adaptations, this is up to the usual
high
standard in plot and stars that Grisham movies have become associated
with.
The plot on this one is a little more far-fetched probably on account of
the
fact that this was one of Grisham's first works, escapism and
entertainment
seem to be the most prominent here, other Grisham works had begun to
develop
other traits alongside populism, like being almost topical and seeming to
make social comment on issues that Grisham must have had an inside eye on
when he was actually involved in the legal business for all those years.
The
Rainmaker is a great example of this when a young lawyer takes on a pro
bono
case of a widow's suit against a rogue insurance company that wouldn't pay
up on  a claim for her son's illness, and who as a result died from it.
You
will find none of this in the Firm, it is the straightforward story of a
young lawyer whose life becomes entangled in the law firm from hell, which
has all the usual mafia connections and all the usual FBI hardball
characters battling with the caricatures from the Mafia. It does however
make great entertainment , you will soon forget how far-fetched and
improbable it all is, as you will become instantly fascinated, and stick
with 155 minutes of plot twists and turns.

<|_=00=_|>
Tom Cruise, the All American kid from the trailer park who worked his
way through Harvard Law School, just got the dream job with a
prestigious white shoe law firm in Memphis, Tennessee. Sounds like he's
on his way to the top with wife Jeanne Tripplehorn. But it turns out to
be a nightmare. 

This Firm's main client is a Chicago crime family and they launder the
mob's money. Now the FBI in the persons of fatherly Steven Hill and
hard-nosed Ed Harris are squeezing Cruise to infiltrate and get
incriminating information. That would result in disbarment for
violating lawyer/client privilege. And The Firm isn't a gang of boy
scouts either. They're not above a little blackmail and entrapment and
they've got a security man in Wilford Brimley who's real good at it.

How Tom Cruise gets out of this rock and a hard place situation is the
plot of The Firm. Sydney Pollak gave him one stylish cast in support
and everyone of them delivers. Even players like Gary Busey, Hal
Holbrook, Gene Hackman, take essentially supporting roles because this
film was a guaranteed blockbuster. All of John Grisham's novels have
their own built in audience, The Firm is no exception. I do remember my
mother was a devoted reader of his work, whereas I always await the
film version.

Holly Hunter got an Oscar nomination for her small role as private
detective Gary Busey's secretary and girl Friday. When Hunter witnesses
Busey's murder without the hit men knowing it, she sets the wheels in
motion for the downfall of the bad guys. Hunter got nominated for Best
Actress for The Piano and Best Supporting Actress for The Firm, a most
unusual occurrence. She won for The Piano in 1993, but lost the
Supporting Actress Award to her co-star in The Piano, Anna Paquin.
Winning both would have just been a bit too much for the Academy
voters.

The Firm has a far fetched plot to be sure in the way that Tom Cruise
brings them all down. Still that's the charm of it. It's almost
Hitchcockian in its pace and mood, and even more resembles the Mission
Impossible television series in the way it's all brought off. Small
wonder that Tom Cruise was chosen to star in the big screen adaptations
of that television classic.

When I watch The Firm, I'm reminded of that line from another
television classic that one Hannibal Smith used to say about he loved
it when a plan comes together. That's what you will like about The
Firm.
<|_=00=_|>

I read "The Firm" after watching it, not knowing what expect (I didn't know
if it would be a tight or loose adaptation). It was pretty close, with the
difference mainly lying in the ending, and that where Sydney Pollack makes
this story go from good to great: The book, at the end, makes Mitch out to
be a coward and a traitor at the end, by making him give into the FBI. But,
in the film, Mitch is seen as a hero who doesn't give into anyone. The FBI
doesn't win and the Mafia doesn't win. Mitch wins. He bows down to no one.
Tom Cruise also plays a *great* Mitch McDeere, with a lot of intensity and
charisma. You cheer for him as the protagonist. Holly Hunter is top-notch
with her portrayal of the vulnerable, secretary turned accomplice Tammy.
Gene Hackman is also great as Avery Tolar, the one bad guy who sympathizes
with Mitch and Abby. Such a great screen presence. His scenes while they're
in the Kaymen Islands are key ones to watch. Jeanne Tripplehorn finally
makes up for her role in "Basic Instinct" as Abby McDeere, the "cheated
wife", not only by her husband, but also by the firm he works for. Sydney
Pollack showcases some of his best work as director, especially by the
opening segment that describes Mitch McDeere perfectly in the span of less
than 10 minutes. 

Such a GREAT adaptation, and a even better film to watch!
<|_=00=_|>
You really can't fault any of the performers here. Tom Cruise has a
boyish high-school handsomeness and an unthinkingly naive demeanor to
go with it. Jeanne Triplehorn has big dark soulful eyes and does and
says what she's supposed to. But the lesser actors are the more
interesting. And they are here in droves. Gene Hackman, the late
What's-his-name Viterelli (I can only think of him as "Jelly" in
"Analyze This"), Holly Hunter looking sexy and sassy, a hypomanic Gary
Busey who, when capable of it, really delivers, Paul Sorvino who
underplays (honest), Hal Holbrook and Wilfred Brimley being nasty, poor
Tobin Bell as the albino who must have played a dozen hit men and mass
murderers by now, Ed Harris now with a completely shaved head, Terry
Kinney as the pale blond nice guy who conceals his demons, and Steven
Hill as a ruthless FBI man.

The performances and the locations make this worth a dekko. This ought
to be Sidney Pollack's turf alright -- corruption in a law firm and
illegal activities by the authorities, the kind of polluted panorama
that he often finds appealing. But somehow it doesn't come off. I
haven't read John Grisham's book but it's hard to believe the plot
could be as complicated as this movie. There were times when I was
completely lost, especially towards the end when the firm begins to
unravel and the chases and breathless phone calls start.

Probably the most interesting character's is Gene Hackman's crooked but
very human lawyer. His scenes with Tripplehorn are really quite good,
his hesitations, awkward silences, embarrassed chuckles, and vapid
smiles. His last scene with her, as he lies half drugged in bed, is
outstanding.

The ending is hard to swallow. Cruise gives the Feds just enough legal
information to put the bad guys away for several years, based on the
fact that the firm overbilled its clients and used the post office to
do it, which is a federal offense. A clever move on the part of Cruise
but I had a hard time visualizing these murdering wealthy perps doing
any jail time. I mean, for what? For sending a client a bill that
charged too much? That would put my plumber in jail, my doctor, my
shrink, and a strange porno web site that I once unwittingly subscribed
to -- but these guys? Nope. Even if they were convicted, I see
Dershowitz handling the appeal
<|_=00=_|>
The Firm (1993)

The twist in the plot as you realize this Memphis law firm is not what
it seems, and the rather innocent freshman lawyer played by Tom Cruise
is slow to catch on, is the core of the movie, and a relief. It starts
steadily, or slowly, depending on your patience, and in fact plays many
scenes out in more detail than we need for a kind of bookish thriller.
It's not a bad ride, and there are some further, minor twists, but it's
not packed tightly enough, or frankly original enough, to lift its
boots out of the sand.

Director Sydney Pollack, hugely successful as a director and actor,
might have just had bad scriptwriting here by David Rabe, because John
Grisham's book had proved itself. The acting is really solid (I'm no
Cruise fan, but he's fine), but the characters are often doing things
that just don't quite follow, or that are improbable or stupid. Or they
end up doing something dangerous and the danger is either watered down
or ridiculous. Examples that come to mind are how they show Cruise
discovering or stealing or xeroxing files. We get the plot, but it
lumbers along, or is just shown, not built up with suspense. The
cinematographer takes a hit here, I think. Things are often nicely
framed and routinely well done, but a thriller needs to hide some
things, show some things, create ambiance and mystery, and so on,
visually. It doesn't really happen.

So, for a kind of technical high-stakes, rich person's good-guy bad-guy
suspense film, it will get you through, but barely. By the last five
minutes, if you aren't sucked in, you'll want to scream "hurry up!"
<|_=00=_|>

I wanted to get a copy of the screenplay to compare the movie with the
dialog and directions, but initially received the FIRST draft by David Rabe.
 I finally got the shooting script later.  All I can say is that it ended
with Mc Deere blowing away all the partners in a restaurant with an AK-47. 
It really made me appreciate the re-write by David Rayfiel and Robert Towne.
 I have watched this movie many times and enjoy the suspense, romance, and
Grusin's solo piano score, which always blows me away.  But the one thing
that impressed me most with multiple viewing, is how Gene Hackman really
makes the movie work.  His portrayal of this corrupt, but incredably
likeable character is the one thread that holds the movie together for me
and goes down as one of his most memorable acting performances.
<|_=00=_|>
When "The Firm" came out was - believe it or not - the first time that
I had ever heard of Tom Cruise (although I didn't see the movie until
several years later). And let me tell you, this was a great
introduction. Cruise plays novice lawyer Mitch McDeere, who goes to
work for a Memphis firm. With this firm, he has everything that anyone
could want. But there's the question: why does everything seem so
perfect? The answer lies in the firm's unseemly other side. And they're
not just going to let Mitch blow their cover.

Sydney Pollack pulled off everything perfectly here. It's sort of like
an Ira Levin novel how everything plays out. You may be suspicious of
everything after seeing this movie. Above all, it shows that Tom Cruise
can actually do a good job when he tries. Also starring Jeanne
Tripplehorn, Gene Hackman, Hal Holbrook, Wilford Brimley, Ed Harris,
Holly Hunter, David Strathairn and Gary Busey.

It's hard to believe that this was the first movie adaptation of a John
Grisham novel.
