

Some people claim this is a bad movie... true.
Some people claim this movie is a bad translation of the video game it's
supposed to be based on... true.
Some people claim it's the worst ever... trust me, I've seen
worse.

While it does have its Christmas list of bad things (poor script, ugly sets,
subpar acting), it's good for a laugh or two because of the negatives... at
the same time however, any dedicated fan of the Street Fighter games will
find this as an insult because it does not properly adapt the video
game...

Is it a bad movie? Sure it is... but I've seen my share of bad movies and I
can tell that this isn't the absolute worst!
<|_=00=_|>

As a huge fan of the video game that is the basis for this movie, I felt
compelled to watch it even though I have never been much of a Van Damme fan.
To my surprise, I found this film to be a lot of fun.  By action movie
standards, the silly one-liners work pretty well, and it was fun to see the
video game characters come to life, even if they did make a few changes to
the basic plot of the game.  All things considered, I'm glad I took the time
to watch "Street Fighter".  It's nothing memorable, but if you're in the
mood to watch some silly action fluff, then I'd say that it's time well
wasted.
<|_=00=_|>
Street Fighter is a strange video game movie. The game is an amazing 2D
fighter with a wide array of characters from different continents who
battle it out for...something.

The Movie, surprisingly, has more plot than you would think. M. Bison
(Raul Julia, in his final performance) is now portrayed as a
megalomanical super villain who has dreams of causing collapse to the
entire world, such as killing a large number of hostages unless paid a
ransom worthy of Dr. Evil standards, creating a breed of super soldiers
and kidnapping the Queen of England and create his own world based off
of his image. Trust me, it is as silly as it sounds.

Lt. Guile (Jean Claude Van Damme) approaches the situation in that he
has to save the hostages and hopefully put Bison on ice, once and for
all, thus stopping his plans for world domination.

From there on in, the movie is basically an almost two hour fan service
with various subplots with almost all the characters from the Street
Fighter universe. Zangief and Dee Jay work for M. Bison as Muscle and
Computer Technician, respectively. Chun-Li, Balrog and E. Honda are all
out for get revenge and Ken and Ryu are professional fighters hoping to
score a battle against the vain Vega and evil Sagat.

Like I said, the rest of the movie is nothing short of fan service,
since all the actors deliver some truly awful one liners aside, Van
Damme's Guile almost sounds like Tommy Wiseau ("The Room") when you
close your eyes, and the whole plot itself is actually quite boring.

Well, why in the world would someone defend this movie then? I'll give
you three reasons, two are part of the movie, and one is a personal
thing.

1. Raul Julia's M. Bison. A villain who looks rather powerful should be
given a great performance. While Raul Julia did die after this movie
was over, there is no denying that he went out with a bang rather than
whimper. His performance is laughably over the top, but at no point do
you look at his face and see a man who seems to think he's in a movie,
and as a result, he makes the movie quite amazing. If anything, he
gives us a theatrical villain which, for his character, works very
well.

2. There was a lot of room for potential here. Let's be honest, writing
a movie is easy, but writing a good movie is hard. The director (Who is
also the writer) took a fighting video game and crafted a movie out of
it, and a fairly well done one at that. Sure, not in execution, but in
originality, it works.

3. It was a movie from my childhood. I was a child of the 90's, and as
such, I can remember my parents letting me watch this at a very young
age, and it was awesome. Damn the Nostalgia factor, but it's what makes
this movie really good. I can remember how intimidated I was in the
final battle scenes, and how cool M. Bison was to me (in that over the
top Saturday Morning Cartoon style of cool).

This movie is a very easy one to attack for just not being good, but
understand from my point of view, even knowing how bad it is, having no
character development, some truly cheesy one liners and awful
performances, including Van Damme giving a performance that makes him
sound like Tommy Wiseau if he smoked cigarettes for ten years and you
closed your eyes real tight, I still like it.

It's cheesy, terrible and ridiculous, but all you need to know is that
Raul Julia delivers some of the best lines for years to come, and you
know you are dealing with a kind of cult classic when one of the film's
greatest lines is, "This is merely superconductor electromagnetism.
Surely, you've heard of it." In other words, go see this movie if you
haven't already.

7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, so not all of my family agrees on the movie. But, I enjoyed it
from the first time I saw it on T.V. The two main actors, Raul Julia
and Jean-Claude Van Damme portray their characters well, though Kylie
Monigue turned me off her character a little. Be in mind that being
based on a video game it can not be perfected to follow the games
exactly. In general the movie is centred around two forces based in
Shadaloo, where A.N. (Allied Nation) hostages are taken by General M.
Bison (Raul Julia) and unless is demands are met, he'll kill every
single hostage is has. It is up to the U.N. leader, military commanding
officer Colonel William F. Guile and his army to rescue them. They are
joined along the way, under unfortunate circumstances, by a ninja
journalist Chun-Li Zang (the voice of Mulan) her two friends a former
sumo-wrestler E. Honda (Peter Navy Tuiasosopo) and former boxer Balrog
(Grand L. Bush) as well as two thieves, Ryu Hoshi (Bryon Mann) and Ken
Masters (Damian Chapa). A good enjoyable movie with some light class
actors and a well thought out plot . Okay so not every person in the
world will love this, but when you want something for a rainy day (like
it is out here) then this is the type of movie I'd recommend. 

Overall I gave it 10/10 because not only is Jean-Claude Van Damme one
of my favourite actors, everyone of his movies entertains me greatly,
not to mention the awesome fighting scenes. For fans of Jean-Claude Van
Damme who have not seen many of his movies I recommend that you see The
Replicant, Timecop and maybe Universal Soldier (if you don't mind a
little bit of a corny actors based around him).
<|_=00=_|>
I really don't see why most everyone has a problem with this movie. The
storyline is solid, and is, contrary to what most people believe,
somewhat true to the story. Like it or not, Guile and Chun-Li are meant
to be the main characters in SF2 and the movie reflects this. In the
games, their endings are directly tied to Bison. Of the remaining 14
characters (obviously not counting Bison,) only one other is: Cammy's,
and that's only because Bison tells her about her amnesia.

As for the casting, it was very well done. The only problems I
saw/heard are Van-Damme's French accent, Dhalsim's casting as a doctor,
which WAS well done despite being unfaithful to the game, T. Hawk's
lack of height (I think Rainwater is shorter than Van-Damme) and
Chapa's short hair. Otherwise, everything else was spot-on, especially
the casting for Bison. Raul Julia is the only person that I think
could've done it. He's a fairly versatile actor AND he looks like
Bison. A couple other characters were miscasted like Dhalsim, but the
excellent acting made up for that.

The combination of Charlie and Blanka was both acceptable and
unacceptable. How? Street Fighter Alpha didn't come out until a year
after this film did, but both Blanka's and Guile's endings disprove the
combination. 

Getting back to the story, it was actually believable for not being
based around a tournament like SF2 is. Being forced into a three day
timetable by Bison's ransom demands made the movie seem all the more
action-packed, to me at least. The scene between Bison and Chun-Li in
Bison's quarters could've been cut out, though, except for the part
where Bison was about to get his butt kicked by Chun-Li. The final
battle between Bison and Guile was the most blatantly choreographed yet
still exciting thing I had ever seen in a martial arts movie up to that
point, other than the odd scene from a few Jackie Chan movies.

The sound was pretty horrible. Generic rap somehow found its way into
the movie in the cage fighting arena scene, and I swear I heard it
again when I played the god-awful SF3: Third Strike. That one should've
been permanently shelved. The orchestrated music that made it into the
movie was nearly impossible to hear, although some of it was vaguely
reminiscent of Guile's stage in SF2. The worst part was the lack of
music from the game. A symphony orchestra doing all the music from the
characters that made it into the movie (so no Fei-Long or Akuma)
would've been great. So would have the Amiga CD32 version of Super
Turbo if it was out or the arcade version of Super.

Many of the characters signature moves are not present. I counted one
Hadouken (to Vega in the Ryu+Ken vs. Vega+Sagat fight in Bison's
quarters, very easy to miss as it's done at point-blank range,) a few
flash kicks (minus the special effect,) and one Psycho Crusher (I think
that's the name.) No Sonic Boom, no Shoryuken, no anything else.

Overall, there are a few glaring issues (sound and lack of special
moves mostly,) but it's still very enjoyable.

7/10

Recommended to: Martial arts fans Van-Damme fans Street Fighter fans

Not Recommended to: Street Fighter fans who believe Ryu and Ken are
supposed to be the main characters without realizing only three endings
out of sixteen people (not counting Bison and including Akuma) are
actually tied to Bison himself.
<|_=00=_|>
(WANING SPOILERS!!!!!!)

I don't know why people think this is a bad movie when actually it's
not. It's story of Bison holding hostages for a ransom is not parallel
to the Video Game's Story but that is something M. Bison would do. Also
most of the characters did look like themselves or at least tried to
(Ken was the only who didn't). The Humor by Dee Jay and Zangief was too
good

ZANGEIF: QUICK CHANGE THE CHANNEL!

Captain Sawawda was an also welcomed addition to the Street Fighter
franchise and I someday hope to see him in another SF related project.
The acting was great and the action was unparalleled. My only complaint
is they could have tried harder with the special moves. Other than that
this was an awesome experience. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I have always been a huge fan of the Street Fighter series in video
games. So when this movie came out I was really excited, of course I
was way too young to appreciate a movie, but I can tell that back then
I thought it was horrible.

A few years ago it was aired on TV and (I don't why) I saw it again.
And I found it kind of funny. The story is all twisted if it gets
compared with the video games story; I mean, in the video game, Ryu is
the most important character and in the movie it is hardly seen. Cammy
is a creation of Bison (in the video game), so she is part of the bad
guys, while in the movie she is friend of Guile. A lot of intentional
mistakes were made in order to transform what could be a good story
into a useless-action-movie.

I hoped to see hadoukens and spinning kicks when I first saw the movie,
but there is nothing of that. In other words, the movie sucks.

PS: Kylie Minogue, who played Cammy in the movie, declared later that
she was completely sorry of shooting such a bad movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Shortly after the beginning of the disastrous Street Fighter movie, we
see the words "Based on the Capcom game Street Fighter" displayed. How
ironic, then, that the movie following is anything but. For a movie
that purports to be based on one of the most well-known arcade games of
all time, the Street Fighter movie does not so much tell the story of
the game as it does rape, butcher, and mangle it into an unrecognizable
form. The Mortal Kombat adaptation, while certainly not being a
cinematic masterpiece, at least stayed relatively faithful to the
games.

Somewhere along the line in this parade of broken lives and shattered
dreams, someone decided that the tournament-based, Enter the
Dragon-like storyline of the game would never fly with the American
movie-going public. And so it was rewritten, becoming a typical
American action flick, with plenty of huge explosions, loud gunfights,
and thinly veiled right-wing propaganda. A Japanese protagonist? That
will never do. Why not cast the Belgian Jean Claude Van Damme as the
American Guile, and have him become the main character? It's not as if
fans of the game are going to mind, are they?

Street Fighter the movie is a catastrophe. Every character, bar none,
from the games is butchered and rewritten beyond recognition. Chun Li,
played perhaps the only well-casted actor in this dreck, Ming Na Wen,
has become a mere reporter (with a smirking Balrog and a Hawaiian
shirted E. Honda as her camera crew, natch) instead of a detective, Ryu
and Ken are incompetent gun smugglers, and Jimmy/Blanka and
Charles/Nash become the same person in one of the most laughably absurd
plot contrivances ever thought up. There are so many incongruities
between this movie and the game that it becomes difficult to tell if
they are merely the result of the incompetence of the writers, or their
actual intent. For example, were the writers (whom I hope are begging
for change at bus stop right about now) aware that "Shadaloo" was
merely the name of M. Bison's organization, and not the name of a
fictitious South Asian country? (which conveniently rests atop
present-day Myanmar?) Or were they simply not paying close enough
attention to the game's storyline? Who knows?

Consider the most egregious example of the screenwriters' disdain for
the source material: M. Bison walks into his laboratory and addresses
one of the scientists there as "Doctor Dhalsim." Was Dhalsim a doctor
in the game? Do we ever see him fight in this movie? Do we ever see him
using his remarkably elastic limbs? The answer to all these questions,
of course, is no. The writer's simply drop in a character named
"Dhalsim" just for the sake of saying they included him. The movie's
failing is in its desperation to include every single character to the
detriment of the rest of the film. I can only imagine what Akuma would
have looked like had the writers decided to include him.

Anyone who played through Street Fighter knows that each character had
at least one defining personality trait. Ryu was the stoic martial
artist seeking to become a true warrior, his friend Ken was brash and
arrogant, Vega was obsessed with beauty, Sagat wanted revenge on Ryu
for scarring his chest, etc. It should come as no surprise that none of
these traits appear in any shape, form or fashion in this movie, and in
the rare moment that a character DOES act like their game counterpart,
it's more often the result some sort of lame contrivance than a
scripted personality trait. Chun Li's cameraman Balrog only happens to
box. When Ryu and Ken and "inducted" into M. Bison's army, the uniforms
they wear just happen to resemble the white and red karate gis they
wore in the game. To top it all off, M. Bison gives a lengthy
explanation of how his "magnetic levitation" that allows him to perform
the movie's equivalent of the Psycho Crusher. It's as if the
screenwriters set out to make a completely different movie, and were
only told halfway through that it was supposed to be a Street Fighter
movie.

Which brings me to my next point; there's little actual "street
fighting", giving fans of the games precious little to chew on through
the movie's running length. Whatever fight scenes we get are brief and
unexciting, and are nothing next to other martial arts movies. Instead
we get Jean Claude Van Damme running from scene to scene, spewing out
pithy one-liner after one-liner, gleefully trampling any remaining
source material that hasn't already been butchered. Only Raul Julia and
Ming Na Wen come through with any dignity left; they apparently
realized what a turkey this film was and at least tried to have some
fun with their roles. Their noble efforts, however, are sunk by the
awful screenplay, which should be an example to future filmmakers of
how NOT to adapt a video game to the big screen.

As an aside note, there was actually an arcade game made of this movie.
Yes, it was terrible, too.
<|_=00=_|>

It's really dangerous to make a movie out of a video game, especially when
the characters in the video game are cartoony. STREET FIGHTER is a terrible
movie. The characters are a joke, and ACT like it's all a joke. The movie
looks cheesy (study Bison's "hovering" command pod - it's obviously hooked
to some kind of crane), and committing the famous Street Fighter martial
arts movies into live action just looks stupid. What do you expect from
DeSouza when the only things he directed before were a "Tales From The
Crypt" episode and some shows of "Bowling For Dollars"? (No joke) Even the
few Van Damme fans that are still left (after he's made countless bombs like
this) will be embarrassed for their onscreen hero. 
<|_=00=_|>
There was a rash of bad video game movie in the early 90s, including:
Street Fighter, Super Mario Bros., and Mortal Kombat, and Street
Fighter is by far the worst. It stars the goofy Jean-Claude Van Damme,
a low rent combination of Arnold Schwarzenegger and Bruce Lee, who's
idea of acting is based on grunts and a heavy dose of stink eye. There
is also pop star Kylie Minogue and...Raul Julia. What the hell is he
doing in this? At least he is having fun, but this is not the type if
film that should be remembered as his last. Watching somebody play
Street Fighter is more enjoyable than this. The characters are morphed
into these freaks of what they are in the game, several of them bear no
real resemblance. Vega, Blanka, Dee Jay, and Dhalsim are the ones that
come to mind. The fights are lazily choreographed, with little
attention paid to what characters were capable of in the game and the
movie even falls to give any background or real motivation. It's just a
dumb, boring, and laughable waste of time that doesn't look like it
should have cost in excess of 30 million to make.
