

This is by far one of the best Bond films simply because it does not try to
be a Bond film.  GoldenEye demonstrates an impressive independence that
separates it from the tried-and-true-but-getting-boring Bond formula.  The
one liners are not that great, but the action sequences are mindblowing.
The chase scene is the best I have ever seen in any movie.  Period.  Purists
will complain that there is a lack of gadgetry, but let them pout and go
back to MacGyver reruns.  Possibility is not permissibility.  Just because
Bond has a snazzy car does not mean that he has to utilize every perk that Q
has included.  It is a relief that the writers did not force a new scene
just to show off the car.  The movie does not need one, which helps it to
maintain its quality as not just a Bond movie, but a high quality action
movie that can stand on its own.  You will even find (gasp!) . . . character
building!  There is actually dialogue between Q and Bond, instead of just a
briefing and some commands.  Brosnan more than holds his own against past
Bonds, and offers some of that GQ gentlemen element found missing in some of
the past ones.  Bond fan, action fan, any fan, check this one out.  I even
made my girlfriend watch it, and even she enjoyed it.  Chances are you will
too.

<|_=00=_|>
After a 6 year hiatus the producers needed to make this film good
enough to bring Bond back to the forefront, and in comparison to the
films that followed, I believe this to be the best. Without a cold war
to fuel plot lines, the story is able to step into new territories,
with many great plot elements. Pierce Brosnan portrays Bond amazingly
well in my opinion, and ties all the classic 007 elements together
flawlessly. Although adhering to the Bond foundations, this film has a
great, fresh feel to it, I think partly due to the industrial style
score by Eric Serra. I think you need to see this film more than once
to fully appreciate it, but it is definitely a classic!
<|_=00=_|>

Much had changed for James Bond since Sean Connery first took the role in
1962. The series had taken a turn for the worse in the seventies, when five
films were made but zero good ones were. Still, the public was willing to
grant Bond limitless amnesty that decade, even as his escapades grew less
and less exciting and more and more campy with each new film. The 70s came
and went, ushering in the 80s, which kicked off well with 1981's "For Your
Eyes Only." However, it went all downhill from there as the public finally
stopped tolerating the bad movies and his popularity tanked in favor of
superior competition. Bruce Willis and Arnold Schwarzenegger became mega
stars during that time, and the emergence Indiana Jones was making Bond look
dull and decrepit by comparison. Tim Burton's summer sweep of the cinemas
with "Batman" in 1989 exacerbated Bond's woes, and when legal disputes arose
between the production company and the studio shortly thereafter, it
appeared that Bond had finally died his horrible but well deserved
death.

When the legal issues were finally put to rest in 1994, it was announced
that another Bond film was going to be made, but not with erstwhile
incumbent Timothy Dalton. Pierce Brosnan was given the role after being
forced to reject it in the late eighties, and production began. The success
of the film was crucial. If it lacked spark or came across as campy, it was
likely that Bond would be finished forever. With the stakes in mind, the
Broccoli family (the Bond producers) hired an all-new creative team and set
to work re-establishing 007 in a new era.

I knew none of that when I first saw the film in 1999. It was my
introduction to the world of James Bond, and was a truly an exceptional
first handshake. Knowing what I know now, and seeing the Bond films I have
seen now, I still find it as worthwhile as I did then, and I am forever
thankful that it was made well enough to not only resuscitate Bond, but
propel him into the nineties with the momentum of a blazing
fastball.

The film opens in the eighties, ironically, with a scene depicting the Bond
and Agent 006, real name Alec Trevelyan, being detected inside a Soviet
chemical weapons factory. This section also introduces the character of
Ourumov (Gottfried John), who murders Alec seemingly on a
whim.

Nine years later, Bond meets an appealing young lady (Famke Janssen) while
driving...make that playfully racing, near Monte Carlo. Suspicious, he
follows her to a nearby casino where he finds out that her name is Xenia
Onatopp and she carries ties to the Janus crime syndicate in St. Petersburg.
He chases Xenia when he suspects an imminent crime, but is not in time to
avert her theft of the Tiger--a helicopter that is hardened to all forms of
electronic interference.

Back at MI-6 headquarters, the Tiger is spotted via satellite at Russian
satellite control facility, and it soon becomes obvious that the copter is
merely part of a grander scheme to steal a scary satellite weapon called
GoldenEye. What it does can be described with words, but not with as much
clarity as seeing it in the movie (there are lapses in the visuals here, but
the sight is so impressive that they hardly matter). Bond then departs for
St. Petersburg to find the Janus head man (Sean Bean) and stop him from
using GoldenEye on a more vulnerable target. Much mystery surrounds the
identity of Janus, but it is in the trailer and I suspect most people know
it by now.

There are several reasons that "GoldenEye" is the best Bond film made in
many, many years. The first is the tone, which has ushered out all of the
giddy goofiness of Roger Moore's films and assumed one reminiscent of the
earliest Bond films. The sets, the camera work and the dialogue all come
across as subtle, subconscious reminders of why Bond became so beloved to
begin with.

I always felt there were two major problems with the Bonds of the seventies
and eighties. The first is the inane tone (exception: "For Your Eyes
Only,"), a point I am driving into the ground. With the same exception, they
also featured uniformly unexciting (read it: bad) action plus horrendous
acting. There are light moments in "GoldenEye," as there should be, but the
correct tone is never compromised. 

The only problem is that there is a little too much padding in the middle.
The story is well told, although there is a meeting with Bond and Valentin
Zukovsky (reprised by Robbie Coltrane in "The World is Not Enough") that has
no significance to the advancement of the story. It is unnecessary and
causes the film to drag some. After Bond meets Janus, though, prepare for
the film to take off, as there will be little rest from there on
out.

Just like in the early Bonds, the acting transcends the genre. Pierce
Brosnan is the clear focal point, and is mostly successful. He seems too
reserved at times, as if he is a little timid at acting his best for fear it
might look bad. He does not lack charm, though, because there is something
about Pierce that makes him the ultimate ladies man on screen and off.

More successful is Sean Bean as James's opponent. Bean brings cold, subtle
intensity to the role that shows off the acting skills that got him cast in
"The Fellowship of the Ring." General Ourumov, who is in bed with Janus,
provides a second bad guy. Gottfried John portrays him as a demonstrative
brute, and his style provides a fine foil to Bean's controlled anger. Alan
Cumming plays an evil computer nerd who provides most the light moments I
referred to earlier. Fellow X-Man Famke Janssen's character is downright
demented, and will not be forgotten easily.

My friends, I have just explained why "GoldenEye" is a most superior Bond
film that brought Agent 007 back from the dead and won over a new generation
of fans. The best way I can think of to conclude this review is to comment
on the film's conclusion. At one point it involves a brawl between Bond and
Janus (who is referred to by his real name by that time) that buries just
about every other one in the series. While it does quite not take the gold
from the fistfight that opens "Thunderball," is does serve as a final
reminder that Bond is indeed back, and that he is once again a force best
not ignored.
<|_=00=_|>

Bond is back and better than ever. OK, he may not be better than ever but
he's better than he's been in some time. GoldenEye has a great opening scene
that is more entertaining than most entire movies. It involves bungee
jumping, guns, motorcycles, planes, and nerve gas among other things. Pierce
Brosnan's first effort as Bond is a remarkable one. The movie has good
acting, good action, and humor. It's great escapism from start to finish.
The women are beautiful and Famke Jannsen and Sean Bean play their roles
well. GoldenEye also boasts one of the best finales of the series in which
Bond must take on the villain atop a gigantic satellite dish. As stated
earlier, Brosnan is terrific as Bond. He's suave, witty, charming, looks
good in a suit, and has a capacity for action. In conclusion, this is a
thrilling Bond from start to finish and should not be missed.
Out of 4 stars - 3.5 
<|_=00=_|>
Brosnan has the look, the style, the intelligence and the bravura that
James Bond should have As charming, sophisticated, and always in
control of the situation, Bond called upon all his ability for
improvising escapes from truly impossible situations The new Bond
drives a BMW, remains preferring his vodka martinis 'shaken but not
stirred,' and uses a Walther PPK, 7.65mm The famous announcement
"Bond, James Bond" is changed 

The plot line of "Goldeneye" revolves around an international terrorist
organization calling itself Janus that steels a top-secret Russian
weapon system named GoldenEye and threatens to use it to destroy a
major European city unless paid off

Bond's mission was to find and stop the GoldenEye, struggling with a
sadistic assassin, a treacherous general, an 'invincible' computer
hacker, and most dangerous of all, a colleague and friend 

The opening scene is spectacular with a great bungee jump from a top of
a dam to an exciting racing over a cliff in a motorcycle and skydiving
into a crushing private plane Martin Campbell's film comes with a
phenomenal tank chase through the streets of St. Petersburg; a brutal
showdown in the jungle; and a battle to the death on a high gantry 

Goldeneye's female characters are honestly beautiful with particular
techniques The bad one is Xenia Onatopp (Famke Janssen), an ex-Soviet
fighter pilot who tranquilly smokes big cigars and knocks off her
victims with her 'killer thighs.' In one scene, she challenges Bond's
legendary Aston Martin DB5 to a wild road race outside Monte Carlo with
her red Ferrari; in another she was so smart that she snatches a
top-secret helicopter from under the noses of the French navy 

The good Bond girl is the irresistible Natalya Simonova (Izabella
Scorupco) who 'tastes like strawberries.' Natalya possesses all the
technical ability to neutralize Janus' scheme or to destroy all
computer records with the GoldenEye As one who survived a mass murder,
this lovely beauty is suddenly a marked woman 

The other supporting actors are all fine: 

Sean Bean plays a potentially fascinating bad character, the embittered
and cynical traitor who was believed to have been killed on a mission
Alec Trevelyan has sworn revenge on the country that was responsible
for his parents' suicide 

Alan Cumming plays the 'invincible' Boris Grishenko who sees crime as a
chance to show off his skills; and Gottfried John, the renegade
ambitious general who provides inside access to Russian military
secrets 

Award-winning Judi Dench is terrific as Bond's unshaken spy chief 

Samantha Bond as MoneyPenny puts forward for consideration that Bond's
behavior might be interpreted as sexual harassment 

Serena Gordon as the neurotic MI6 assessor Caroline evaluates 007 for
just 'trying to show off the size of his ego.' 

One familiar face among the MI6 staff was that of the redoubtable Q,
played once again by Desmond Llewelyn who introduces 007 to his latest
chariot, the BMW Z3 Although convertible, this agile vehicle doesn't
play a significant action role in the film Q doesn't forget to deliver
Bond a typical leather belt, a watch that expels a laser beam, and a
silver pen used to clever effect 

The 17th Bond film takes us from Russia, Puerto Rico, Monaco and back
to England It features one of the best title tunes performed by the
"Queen of Rock & Roll," Tina Turner

For trivia buffs: Kate Gayson appears as an extra at the Chemin De Fer
table at Monte Carlo's gambling casino; she's the daughter of Eunice
Gayson, who played Bond's fetching girlfriend, Sylvia Trench in the
first two Bond films, "Dr. No" and "From Russia With Love." It was to
Sylvia Trench that Sean Connery uttered his first line of dialog, "I
admire your luck, Mr. ...?"
<|_=00=_|>

GOLDENEYE, the long-delayed debut of Pierce Brosnan as James Bond, was a
film mired in MGM's convoluted legal problems for six years, problems which
had nothing to do with the 007 franchise, but which happened to fall at the
worst possible time; after Timothy Dalton's 'Serious Bond' experiment,
LICENCE TO KILL, failed to break even in U.S. markets. Despite international
grosses that made the film a profitable venture, many American critics, long
grumbling that the Bond series had outlasted it's welcome, heaped abuse on
the newer, leaner direction for 'Bond', and it's taciturn, less
light-hearted star...and, with MGM's decision to put the expensive series
'on hold' until their own legal and financial issues could be resolved,
LICENCE TO KILL became the unfair 'scapegoat' for the delay.

Much happened during the six-year hiatus; with the collapse of the Soviet
Union, the Communist undercurrent of many Bond films (and the subject of
most of Ian Fleming's novels) was lost; Richard Maibaum, the series' most
prolific screenwriter, passed away, and ill health forced legendary producer
Albert ('Cubby') Broccoli to turn over his duties to his daughter Barbara,
and stepson, Michael G. Wilson (thus ending the other 'prime' 007
screenwriter's script contributions); many other key production figures
would retire, die, or move on; and finally, as the delay continued, Timothy
Dalton, nearing 50, announced that he was no longer interested in playing
James Bond (sparking rumors that Eon Productions, no longer honor-bound by
the senior Broccoli's choices, had given him 'the boot').

While all this opened the door for Pierce Brosnan's long-awaited debut as
007 (after his aborted first attempt, in THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS), with a new
'look' and style for the franchise, whether audiences would even accept a
new 'James Bond' adventure was in doubt. 

Fortunately, everything 'worked'. Brosnan, now 42, was more ruggedly
believable as 007 than he would have been, at 34, and Dame Judi Dench, as
the first woman 'M' (referring to Bond as a "sexist, misogynist dinosaur"),
proved a perfect successor to the late Bernard Lee. While the plot of the
film, involving the master plan of a renegade Russian General (Gottfried
John) and an assumed dead 006 (Sean Bean) to use an electronic warfare
system (GoldenEye) against England was nothing new, Brosnan's daring-do and
one-liners (with humor restored to the franchise), as he proved his value in
the new world 'order', found an audience 'primed' for James Bond's
return...and the welcome cameo of the series' last original 'regular', "Q"
(Desmond Llewelyn, 81, and as cranky as ever), cemented 007's links to both
the past and the future.

James Bond's greatest crisis, whether he still had 'Box Office', had been
overcome, and with audience favorite Pierce Brosnan in place, his emergence
into the 21st century was assured. 
<|_=00=_|>

After a 6 year hiatus due to protracted legal wranglings as to WHO owned the
BOND film rights, GOLDENEYE was finally made! It was worth the wait! With
the almost impossible assignment of both retaining the quintessential METHOD
of the Connery period and the need to drag Bond screaming into the new
millennium and its new technology, Martin Campbell actually pulled it
off.

Brosnan, though not my personal favorite I have to say, did a damn near
remarkable job, by not only bringing elements of Connery, Dalton and Moore
to the role, but by stamping it with his own identity (he WAS actually first
choice ahead of Dalton but was contractually tied to REMINGTON STEELE and
could not gain a release!)

Wishing to link back with the earlier mega successful Bonds, the very title
of GOLDENEYE was inspirational, immediately bringing to mind the latent
image of GOLDFINGER. Not one half bad title song either compared to some
recent efforts.

With Bernard Lee's sad demise, Judy Dench made a brilliant replacement as M,
all balls and bravado. Similarly, Moneypenny is now a strictly new-age
secretary admonishing 007 for his sexual harassment of her good self!
Dearest of all, Desmond Llewelyn still shines as "Q" berating 007 for his
behaviour and telling him to "grow up."

Famke Janssen is a throw-back to the good old days of Bond badgirls as the
aptly named Xenia Onatopp. Izabella Scorupco however must be the most
beautiful of all the "good" Bond girls. Feminine to the core and everything
the average man would want to love and protect she is is simply yummy.....no
more so than when she chides 007's cold-war repartee with his Russian
counterpart as "Boys with Toys"  Soo cute!

Action was at a premium from the rip-snorting bungee-jump (pre-credits) to
the climactic battle atop the communications tower. Everything gelled in
this movie to elevate it to amongst the top 5 Bond films...no question! Top
dialog, state of the art fx, innuendos on tap and a really first rate
villain. Shame none of the later Brosnan outings have come close to this
one!

8.8 out of 10!
<|_=00=_|>

*** 1/2

Starring: Pierce Brosnan, Izabella Scorupco, Sean Bean, and Famke
Janssen.

Double-0 agent James Bond, still as suave and sophisticated as he was in the
last film, enters Russia in search of the stolen Goldeneye satellite. 

After six years without 007, the fans needed a movie like this.  Just about
everything in this works, from the witty plot to Pierce Brosnan as the new
Bond.  And I can't review this without complimenting Sean Bean as the series
best villain.

Rank in the Series: 1st
<|_=00=_|>

Sorry y'all. I think this is the best James Bond ever. Not only because
Pierce Brosnan IS James Bond, or because it feels modern having a woman (and
what a woman!) cast as M. Or even the fact that this film actually is just a
little bit believable...

I love the feel of it. The part where JB races through ... Moscow, is it? I
dunno ... with a tank is just superb.

There is only one thing I dislike: why oh why did they have to put the BMW
in the film? They don't use it!It's in the film for only a couple of
minutes, not even that. Product Placement at its worst. And it's such an
UGLY car!
<|_=00=_|>
The James Bond franchise, in cinematic terms, began in 1962 with Dr No.
There followed a Bond movie every couple of years or so (the longest
gap between two 007 films was the three-year-hiatus separating The Man
With The Golden Gun - 1974 - and The Spy Who Loved Me - 1977). Then, in
1989, with the release of Licence To Kill the series seemed to die. The
box office returns of that film were disappointing; the then-Bond actor
Timothy Dalton was axed; the film itself was presented in a grittier,
more adult style than fans were accustomed to; and various legal
wranglings put the Bond character into limbo. Six long years went by
without a Bond movie and many insiders predicted an end for the British
super-spy and his outrageous screen adventures. Too much time had gone
by, they said, no-one was interested any longer in the character or the
stories. But then Goldeneye came along, with Pierce Brosnan as Bond -
it went on to become a commercial hit, propelling its star into the
A-list and reinvigorating the entire series.

James Bond (Pierce Brosnan) and his secret agent colleague Alec
Trevelyan (Sean Bean) infiltrate a Russian military installation on a
sabotage mission. During the mission, Alec is apparently killed by the
enemy forces but Bond manages a miraculous escape. Several years later,
a state-of-the-art helicopter is stolen from the West by some Russian
spies and used to destroy a Siberian satellite station. When Bond
investigates, he discovers to his surprise that the plot involves his
old colleague Alec - who is very much alive, having faked his death in
the earlier exchange. Trevelyan's plan is to get control of a powerful
satellite called the Goldeneye and to use it to destroy a designated
target on Earth - in this case, London. It emerges that his parents
were Liensk Cossacks, brutally killed by the British when he was a boy,
and he has long plotted a way to have his revenge. Bond teams up with a
Russian computer programmer, Natalya Semyonova (Isabella Scorupco) and
pursues Trevelyan around the globe in an effort to stop his sinister
scheme. The trail leads to Cuba, where Trevelyan has a secret lair from
which he is on the very brink of unleashing chaos upon the world....
unless 007 can find a way to thwart him.

Goldeneye begins with a truly outrageous stunt involving Bond
freefalling in pursuit of an unpiloted, plummeting airplane. This dumb
but enjoyable scene sets the tone for the rest of the film - very much
a tongue-in-cheek, improbable, action-orientated romp. Brosnan is OK as
Bond, though I still feel Sean Connery and Roger Moore were slightly
better suited to the role. Tina Turner's powerful theme song is very
good, but the incidental scoring by Eric Serra has a tinny, tacky feel
to it that makes one long for John Barry! As the bad guy, Sean Bean is
effective enough even if he never quite matches the memorableness of
the all-time great Bond villains (eg Dr No, Oddjob, Blofeld, Francisco
Scaramanga). The Bond girls are very good in this one - Scorupco is
gorgeous and plays a pleasingly resourceful character, while Famke
Janssen has great fun as a female baddie who crushes victims between
her thighs (what a way to go!) Goldeneye is by no means the best of the
Bond series, but one has to be thankful to it for getting the dormant
series up and running once more. And, in its pacy, breakneck way, it is
undeniably a lot of fun.
