
This movie has taken a lot of stick. It was slated by critics when it
came out and was blamed for wrecking Nicolas Cage's career. The thing I
don't think people get is that it's not meant to be an epic, Oscar
contender of a movie, it's just some brilliant "Bruck-buster" action at
its best. Fast cars, quick editing and a great soundtrack - it does
exactly what it says on the tin. Also, for anyone who likes cars its a
pure treat. It has everything: Ferraris, Mercs, a Hummer and lets not
forget Eleanor! I think you'd be hard pushed to find a better action
movie, and personally, a better movie at all!! Then again maybe that's
just me!
<|_=00=_|>

GONE IN 60 SECONDS / (2000) *** (out of four)

	"Gone in 60 Seconds" is an energetic, slick, stylish action picture with
high octane star power and lots of awesome looking automobiles. If you are a
viewer interested in cars this production, by producer Jerry Bruckheimer
("Con Air," "The Rock"), is worth seeing just to feast your eyes on the
glossy vehicles. Although the film secretes a stench of weakness in many
areas, its precise sense of action and excitement make it a moderately
successful summer thrill ride.

	The film stars Giovanni Ribisi ("The Mod Squad") as a young crook named Kip
Raines, who, as the movie opens, fails to deliver a long list of expensive
cars to the powerful criminal Raymond Calitri (Christopher Eccleston). When
Kip's life is threatened because of such, his older brother, Randall
"Memphis" Raines (Nicolas Cage), a retired but skillful car thief, is called
upon to complete a task in exchange for his brother's survival: steel fifty
cars-specified by model, color, year, and make-in only four days.

	Memphis disburses the first three days recruiting a team of bandits to help
him pull off the heist. The crew includes Sara "Sway" Wayland (Angelina
Jolie), a sexy yet gruff retired car swindler knowing Memphis through
previous business, a fellow named Mirror Man (T.J. Cross), the aging and
wise Otto Halliwell (Robert DuVall), as well as Tumbler (Scott Caan), Atley
Jackson (Will Patton), Toby (William Lee Scott), and Donny Astricky (Chi
McBrde). 

	Contributing to the film's drive and tension is a subplot involving two
police detectives, Roland Castlebeck (Delroy Lindo) and Drycoff (Timothy
Olyphant), who suspect from previous experience that Memphis and his crew
are up to no good and keep an extra close eye on them.

There is not much time for character development here; the audience gets to
know these people though their rugged lifestyles and assume tough
personalities through the films hard core, stylish atmosphere. To make
matters even worse for the film, the dialogue fails to define the characters
with a gritty cultural tone. I am not stating I think profanity and
vulgarism is necessary for thrillers to flourish; I actually honor the
director's decision to sustain from extreme foul language in a movie that
could have very effortlessly earned an R-rating. However, I do believe in a
movie such as "Gone in 60 Seconds," to strongly develop the character's
enlightenment, dialogue needs to be believable and authentic. 

 In spite of problems, the characters are effective due to the top notch,
perfectly cast performers responsible. Nicolas Cage's melodramatic
performance is intense and convincing. Angelina Jolie's sleazy appearance is
completely appropriate here. Delroy Lindo is deliciously sturdy and
believable. Giovanni Ribisi, Scott Caan, Robert Duvall, Will Patton, and
Christopher Eccleston provide persuasive supporting roles.

	The film contains standard structure, with a satisfactory first act that
elaborates on the story's style and the character's motives, sets up a
fast-paced theme of action, but lacks depth and strong character
introduction. In the second act we run into a few more problems: the story
wastes time during much of this segment, never really building up for the
third act. While the middle of the movie occupies much time, and a sex scene
provides a solid mid-plot,  not a whole lot happens. The third act is pretty
much a sheer adrenaline rush containing furious wall-to-wall excitement and
one of the most intense car chase sequences ever filmed.

	The soundtrack to "Gone in 60 Seconds" contributes a great deal to the
inspirational action scenes. It is scenes like the car chases that makes
this movie work in spite of several destructive faults. Dominic Sena, whose
career has mostly consisted of directing commercials, has an appealing style
and a decisive attitude in "Gone in 60 Seconds" which will grant audiences
with two hours of commotion, thrills, and excitementbut not much more. 

	


<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those films I liked quite a bit the first time, but
didn't think that much of it on the second viewing. I guess enough of
it was just good for one look. Maybe it was the immature attitude that
prevailed throughout the film that wore thin. But I am not going to
knock the movie: it's entertaining and definitely worth a look if you
have not seen it.

If you like cars and chase scenes. t's worth multiple looks. In fact,
the car chase scene at the end is one of the best you'll ever see. Nice
soundtrack in here, too, and a pretty good cast with Nicholas Cage
leading the way.

The bad news? Well, here's yet another case of Hollywood making "bad
guys" into heroes. We're supposed to root for people that steal cars?
Hello??!!
<|_=00=_|>

gone in 60 seconds is a very good action comedy film that made over $100
million but got blasted by most critics. I personally thought this was a
great film. The story was believable and has probobly the greatest cast
ever
for this type of movie including 3 academy award winners nicolas cage,
robert duvall and the very hot anjolina jolie. other than the lame stunt
at
the end this is a perfect blend of action comedy and drama. my score is
****
(out of ****)
<|_=00=_|>

What's in a name? If the name is Jerry Bruckheimer expect it to be filled
with action.

In producer Bruckheimer's latest film, Gone in 60 Seconds, its all about the
nomenclature.  With character monikers like Kip, Sway and The Sphinx and
cars idealized with names like Diane, Sue and the elusive Eleanor, it's only
the non-stop action that keeps you from wanting to just play the name game.

Not a deep script by any means, but it is a great vehicle for action as
Nicolas Cage as Memphis Raines, along with Angelina Jolie and Robert Duvall,
comes out of car-thievery retirement to save his brother's life by stealing
a list of 50 exotic cars in one night.  A remake of the 1974 cult hit, this
film may not be destined for the same cult status but it is entertaining.

Surprisingly, it's the action that keeps you watching not the acting.
Although loaded with stars, none of them have standout performances,
including a very weak performance by one of my favorite up and comers,
Giovanni Ribisi.  Even Jolie, coming off her recent Oscar win, is just a
token love interest with hardly any screen time.

Can a series of beautiful cars and the car chases they become involved in
make a great film?  I think so.  The film is a pleasure to look at and
although one particular scene takes you into the realm of unbelieveablity,
the action is non-stop and the suspense is compelling.  Just be wary of
other drivers fighting for a pole position as you leave the theatre.

3 1/2 out of 5
<|_=00=_|>

This movie has it all.  Great woman, cool scenes and of course the cars! 
The cars were the best thing in the movie.  I think that Cage and Jolie
performed brillantly; as well as the whole cast.  There was humor, excited,
shooting.  Even though it's a remake I believe that this movie is one of my
favorite.  I recommend any to go see this movie because it's awesome with
it's cars and Angeline Jolie ;)


<|_=00=_|>
As much as I like big epic pictures - I'll spare you the namedropping -
it's great to kick back with a few beers and a simple action flick
sometimes. Films where the plot takes a backseat to the set-pieces.
Films where the dialogue isn't so cleverly written that it ties itself
in endless knots of purple prose. There are HUNDREDS of films that fit
the bill... but in my opinion Gone In Sixty Seconds is one of the
better ones.

It's an update of the movie that shares its name. It also shares that
picture's ethos, but not quite it's execution. Whatever was great about
the original has been streamlined. Whatever was streamlined was also
amped up thanks to a bigger budget. Often these kinds of endeavours are
recipes for complete disaster - see the pug-ugly remake of The Italian
Job for one that blew it - but here, thanks to a cast of mostly
excellent actors, Sixty succeeds.

The plot and much of the dialogue isn't much to write IMDb about. Often
you'll have scenes where the same line of dialogue goes back and forth
between the actors, each of whom will voice it with different
inflections. A lot of people found this annoying; I find it raises a
smile. Each actor gets a chance to show off his or her definition of
style here, with Cage, Jolie and Duvall leading the pack of course (and
it should be noted that it's also amusing to see Mrs Pitt not given
first billing here). The chemistry between good ol' Saint Nick the
stalwart (see date of review) and Angelina leads to a couple of nice
moments.

The villain is not even a little scary - I've seen Chris Eccleston play
tough-guy roles before so I know he can handle them, but I think he was
deliberately directed to make his role inconsequential as not to
distract from the action. We know the heroes are going to succeed,
somehow; we're just sitting in the car with them, enjoying the ride. I
think a lot of these scenes were played with tongue so far in-cheek
that it went over the heads of a lot of people giving this a poor
rating. In fact, I wouldn't have minded some fourth-wall breaking winks
at the camera: it's just that kind of movie.

All this style and not so much substance - something that often
exhausts my patience if not executed *just* so - would be worthless if
the action wasn't there. And for the most part, it is. Wonderfully so.
I've noticed that it seems to be a common trend to be using fast-cut
extreme close-up shots to direct action these days. I personally find
this kind of thing exhausting. I prefer movies like this where the
stunts are impressive enough to not need artificial tension ramping by
raping tight shots all the time. I've been told that Cage actually did
as many of the car stunts as he could get away with without losing his
insurance (in real life I mean - his character clearly doesn't care)
and it shows. The man can really move a vehicle and this is put to good
use in the slow-burning climatic finale where he drives a Mustang into
the ground in the most outlandish - and FUN - way possible.

So yes, this movie isn't an "epic, life-affirming post-9/11 picture
with obligatory social commentary" effort. The pacing is uneven, some
of the scenes could have been cut and not all the actors tow the line.
But car movies rarely come better than this. So if you hate cars... why
are you even reading these comments?!

I'd take it over the numerous iterations of "The Flaccid And The
Tedious" (guess the franchise) any day. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

This movie doesn't tell you any new truth or treat your refined taste with
amazing characters.  It is just an old-fashioned chase movie of the good and
the bad guys.  The circumstances and the grand theft of 50 cars over one
night is of course out of this world but it doesn't matter because Nicolas
Cage and Angelina Jolie charm us out of it.  After watching hundreds of car
chase movies in my lifetime I didn't think yet another one would lighten my
eyebrow.  I was wrong.  The smart and humorous execution of the car and
car/helicopter chases was a great fun to watch; a good honest adrenalin
booster.  Perhaps I am little generous but I give it 8/10 for all the fun. 

<|_=00=_|>

GONE IN 60 SECONDS was one of the most fun experiences I've had at the
theater in the last couple of years. Though a little too long and not really
full of action until the final twenty minutes, it moves well and has a good
cast: Nicolas Cage, Will Patton, Robert Duvall, Giovanni Ribisi, Delroy
Lindo, Christopher Eccleston, and others. Angelina Jolie is the only weak
point. She's in desperate need of a talented hairstylist, and while she's
hardly a good actress, she really doesn't do much in the film when you look
at it, which is a good thing. But the film has style and a good pace, with
some great theft scenes, well-spotted humor, and a final chase that (while
not among the greatest ever filmed) is certainly a wild ride. GONE IN 60
SECONDS isn't a great film, but it sure as hell is fun.
<|_=00=_|>

I feel that many of those who have reviewed "Gone in Sixty Seconds" have
essentially missed the point of the movie.  This is only peripherally a
movie about car thieves.  At its heart, this film is about cars.  Many
reviewers have criticized the film's characterizations and character
development.  Let's check the credits... uh huh, yeah, executive
producer,
Jerry Bruckheimer.  I think it's a little unrealistic to walk into a
Jerry
Bruckheimer film and expect "Citizen Kane."  That said, I thought the
characters were certainly adequate.  The villain was suitably unhinged
and
nefarious, and I thought Nic Cage did a great job as Memphis Raines.  He
is
one of my favorite action stars; unlike Arnie, Sly, or Jackie, he can
actually act, and this adds a whole new dimension to his characters that
none of the other big action stars have.  The closest comparison I can
come
up with is to the epitome of cool himself, Steve McQueen.  The supporting
cast was solid.  Giovanni Ribisi, Robert Duvall and Angelina Jolie are
all
capable of far more than they are given here; all three of them could
sleepwalk through their roles, but they do a solid job with what they're
given.  Angelina Jolie's character Sway was essentially throwaway eye
candy;
I would like to have seen the Memphis-Sway story developed further and
made
an actual part of the movie or scrapped altogether.  Mirror Man is a
wonderful character, and Scott Caan, one of my favorite young actors from
his performances in "Boiler Room" and "Varsity Blues," did a good job in
his
all-too-brief role as Tumbler.

Enough with the characters, let's move on to the real stars, the cars.
Many
reviewers seem to have been disappointed with the car chases, faulting
them
for failing to turn sufficient numbers of exotic cars into flaming,
cartwheeling wreckage.  I say, HALLELUJAH!!!!  The cars Memphis's gang
steals are not just transportation.  These cars (especially the '67
Mustang
"Eleanor," the '70 Hemi 'Cuda, the '70 Plymouth Roadrunner Superbird and
that flamethrowing Merc,) are breathtaking, agonizingly beautiful.  They
are
truly works of art on wheels.  Would viewers have been up in arms if
filmmakers had destroyed a Van Gogh on film for sheer dramatic effect?
Hell
yeah.  That's how gearheads feel when watching priceless, historic
automobiles meet ugly ends simply because a movie studio can afford to
trash
them to make a profit.  That said, I was glad to see "Gone" avoid the
destruction of any truly cool cars, other than Eleanor, and gearheads
will
be pleased to note that the Eleanor crushed in the junkyard was a junk
'67,
stripped of all useful parts and given a good paint job.  While on the
subject of Eleanor, many reviewers have said that it was a replica '67
Shelby, and was a bad replica.  Well, yes, technically it was meant to be
a
'67 Shelby.  A tricked-out, customized, bad@$$ Shelby.  It's not a bad
replica, it's a spectacular custom.  No, no Shelbys left the plant
looking
like Eleanor.  If only they had.  Aftermarket lighting, ground effects,
hood, wheels, nitrous, roll cage... the list of modifications that have
been
clearly made to the car goes on and on, and the end result is one of the
most beautiful cars the world has ever seen.  The chase with Eleanor was
very well done, except for that horribly fake-looking jump (honestly,
with
90 mil to blow, couldn't you make that look better?) and the activation
of
nitrous at 7000 RPMs (I know all car guys got a laugh out of that.)

In the final assessment, this was a fun movie.  If you want character
development, get "Citizen Kane."  If you want to see scads of cars
trashed
for no reason whatsoever, get the original "GI60S" or "Ronin" (home of
the
most overrated car chases in movie history.)  If you want to see
true-to-life, absolutely realistic car chase action, watch Steve
McQueen's
green '68 Mustang GT390 duke it out with the black Charger R/T in
"Bullitt,"
or better yet, switch on NASCAR Winston Cup racing next Sunday. If you
want
to have a good time, enjoy a movie, watch some cool cars and some sweet
driving, get "Gone in Sixty Seconds."

Postscript- if you liked this, you definitely need to check out the James
Bond film, "Diamonds Are Forever," home of another amazing Ford Mustang
chase sequence.
