

I found this film a thrill to watch. I never intended to watch it but one
day it was on and I decided to give it a go. I have not seen the original
and I had not even heard of it. But when I got in to this story I found
very
entertaining. The characters are wonderful. Kristy Swanson is beautiful as
the mannequin. Hollywood is hilarious. I also like the lead character as a
lot of people, maybe myself can relate to him. After Watching it I rate it
as my favourite Romantic Comedy. It is one that the whole family can
enjoy.
I would highly recommend it as a film worth watching.

<|_=00=_|>
Same plot... different characters... over the top fantasy plot... over
acting... "Mannequin On The Move" is an uncalled for sequel to a
popular romantic comedy. It was obvious that a sequel was on it's way
but my real question is: "why did it take 4 years to produce this
sequel?". There isn't real effort in my opinion.

Still, the movie is entertaining , pop corn entertaining. Meshach
Taylor returns as well as the ultra flamboyant Hollywood. His character
is probably the most likable in the movie. Not that William Ragsdale or
Kristy Swanson are not good but Taylor steals the show. Talking about
the lead couple, I felt that Ms. Swanson wasn't very natural in her
role. She's extremely cute and had this "girl I would like to protect"
personality but she lacks of a vibe. Ragsdale (a different kind of hero
in "Fright Night") delivers a less usual performance as a geeky hero.
It works. Terry Kiser of "Weekend At Bernie's " fame delivers an over
the top performance but strangely enough, it works for the movie. 

Ah, what the heck. Give a chance to this sequel and you might have a
good time if you are into the post 80's mess. It's a cheesy movie with
a happy ending. You can't go wrong.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched both part's 1 and 2 consecutively over the past two night's.
part 1 is GREAT!, but part 2 is also a little gem too! It's so lively,
original, and fresh! With a really entertaining soundtrack of music as
well, ''Mannequin 2: On the Move'', is well worth a go. Starting out in
Medieval Europe, in the fictitious land of ''Hauptmann Koenig'' in the
year 991, a young man named William is a young, sexy and unbetrothed
handsome Prince of the land, son of the evil Queen, he has fallen for
local townsfolk girl, Jesse, and even though they are from Europe, we,
the audience, are entranced by their love and commitment to each other,
even though they all have strong, thick and heavy American accent's!
They are so close, they plan to elope, but then William's mother, the
scummy old Queen, turns up, and gives him a necklac, cursed by a local
sorcerer, to allow for him and his bride to be, to make as a symbol of
their eternal love. Once it's on, she turns to plastic, a mannequin,
and is cursed to remain that way for a thousand year's, until she
meet's a true love from another land, only then can the necklace be
removed. So, 1000 year's later, here we are, in Philadelphia, Emmy and
Jonathan have since gotten married, Claire Timkinn has since quit
Prince and Co. and left it in the hands of Mr. James, a snobby ex-pet
emporium owner, Roxie has also left town, B.J. Wert is in prison and
Felix and Mr. Richard's have somehow mysteriously disappeared!
Jonathan's younger cousin, Jason, has been offered his cousin's place
at the store, and like his cousin, he has some of his same qualities's,
he's smart, clever and has a good sense of business, he's also young,
sexy, and caring too!, but above all, he's about to give everyone a
shock, he look's exactly like William too!, one day, his first day
actually, a shipment of Merchandise for the store is coming, it's from
Europe, actually it's from ............ Hauptmann Koenig!!!!!!!! After
the shipment truck crashes on the way and the merchandise falls into a
river, Jason see's mannequin go under, thinking it's a real live girl,
he jumps in to save her, only to find out, she's a mannequin! Later
that night, Jason is clearing up for closing time, he is putting away
extra stock from the shipment, jewelery, valuable's, etc, he removes
the necklace form Jesse, and she comes alive after a 1000 year snooze1,
and in the process, scaring the living daylight's out of him! He shows
her around the city, explain everything to her in great detail, and she
tell's him she love's him, he cannot believe this, but she's determined
to spend the rest of her life with him!, he agree's and they fall for
each other. Jason tell's his story to the head fashion designer at the
store, none other than... Hollywood Montrose!, who reassure's him that
''this sorta thing happened before!'', and it's happened again. All
ends well, with the two tying the knot, and spending the rest of their
live's together, while sorcerer is turned into a mannequin himself,
tossed out of a hot air balloon, and broken into pieces
<|_=00=_|>
Even though this is a pretty badly made movie, it's something that I
just enjoyed when I was a kid. I think because I was in my princess and
"damsel in distress" phase.

Watching this movie now, it is pretty ridicules. I mean, the whole
history back flash in the beginning, now I know this is a movie and it
is supposed to be fairy tale like, but the peasant girl having a
beautiful dress and cape with perfect hair and make up? Just didn't
make sense. The knights were complete wusses when in real life they
were trained to take a sword through a gut and continue in battle.

And the acting, yes it's pretty bad. But again, this was just something
that I enjoyed as a kid. For the kids, just let them have fun with it.
But as a movie for adults in a serious train of mind, just ignore it.

4/10
<|_=00=_|>
Sequel to Mannequin has little in common with the first movie, outside
of Meshach Taylor's character Hollywood and the Jefferson Starship song
played at the end. A lot of people hated the first Mannequin but I'm
one of its fans. It's a movie that never fails to bring a smile to my
face, despite its perceived faults. This one is not as good, for a
variety of reasons, but it is watchable fluff. It recycles some
elements from the first movie but goes in its own direction with the
cursed necklace and all that. It's not very funny but there are some
laughs here and there. The romance this time doesn't work as well due
to the bland chemistry between William Ragsdale and Kristy Swanson.
Despite this, both of them are cute and fun individually. Terry Kiser
is amusing as the villain. Meshach Taylor aggressively steals every
scene he's in. The trio of German bodybuilding guys are very lame. I
assume they were put in this because Hans & Franz was a thing on
Saturday Night Live back then. Aside from "Nothing's Gonna Stop Us
Now", this is a terrible soundtrack. The gagworthy "Can't Believe My
Eyes" by Gene Miller (who?) is just one of the tacky songs in this. If
you liked Mannequin, give this one a shot but keep expectations low.
Oh, and be prepared for a surprising fate for one of the characters. I
doubt you'll see it coming.
<|_=00=_|>

The movie is an excellent comedy with the usual simple laughs you come to
expect.  Kristy Swanson is ok, but the original Kim Cattrall was much
funnier.  Besides the obvious reasons, Kim Cattrall is also a much better
actress, and I think she does well in just about every movie she plays in.
This film is a 3.5 of 4 and the original is a perfect 4 in its
category.
-Peter
"When you're smart people need you"


<|_=00=_|>
Jessie (Kristy Swanson) is a peasant girl in love with a prince
(William Ragsdale). His mother will have no engagement between her son
and Jessie so she finds a sorcerer to turn her into a statue for 1,000
years. Fast Forward. Jason (also Ragsdale) is a new department store
employee with the job of helping to bring the "peasant girl statue" to
an exhibit at his store. Naturally, he finds a way to unlock the spell
and turn Jessie into a real person. They enjoy a few brief days
together (they even go dancing at a nightclub!) until, it seems, the
spell is reworked. Is there someone else after Jessie, as a love
interest? How will the course of true love be fulfilled? Fans of these
sorts of films will be delighted to discover this one, especially girls
and women of all ages. Swanson and Ragsdale are beautiful people with a
talent for comedy, too...watching them is a very real pleasure.
Costumes and scenery in New York are quite wonderful and the silly but
fun plot is most appealing as well. Yes, teenage boys will cut this
film to shreds, if they get their hands on it. But, hopeless romantics,
after your purchase or borrow this film, keep it in a secure place. You
will want to watch it whenever you need a trip to the fantasy land of
romance.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie when I was younger and really loved it....granted as
to all 'sequels' it is not as great as the first one but still a good
movie. Like Mannequin it starts off in another time and something
unrealistic happens like with Emmy getting sucked through a time portal
of some kind through the tombs of her ancestors and then somehow being
turned into a mannequin....a magician puts a curse on a young maiden
that a prince has fallen in love with for a thousand years or til true
love that she will remain frozen...The blossoming story of love between
Kristy Swanson and William Ragsdale is very sweet and as in Mannequin
it ends with a unique rescue of true love and bringing Meschak Taylor
back for this one as well was a welcomed comic relief as 'Hollywood'.
All in All a good movie!
<|_=00=_|>

I thought this movie was better than the original. It had more feeling to
it.  I did like the original though and I thought the sequel could have
had
a more original title, but that's the only thing I disliked about the
movie.
I liked Jesse a lot.  She was very deep and also beautiful in body and
spirit.  The fairy tale aspect was good too. I liked the scene where she
was
dancing and teaching the people in the club 1000 year old dancing and
they
thought it was cool. Yes, bring back the ancient ways I say!  And
Hollywood!
What a character!  I liked him a lot too - and the prince was cute!!!
Bravo!
A great feel good movie! I wonder if the curse on the Jesse's home
country
has lifted now that She is back with her Prince!  :)
<|_=00=_|>


"Mannequin 2" is not better than the original, but sure it's a great
light comedy. I'd say that it's perfect to watch this movie with your
sweetheart, or by yourself if you're in the mood for silly jokes, and a
silly plot, but hey!!! you'll enjoy it.

William Ragsdale's role kinda reminded me his role in  "Fright Night", he
is
dumb, but gets what he wants, but maybe it's just my imagination.

Kirsty Swanson looks great, and is OK, ... oh yeah, she was
hot!
mmmh Meshach Taylor gives the most homosexual performance in a 90's comedy
movie. And Gail's character was OK because Julie Foreman is so
pretty.

Don't expect too much of this movie, have a nice time watching
it!
