

It is interesting to see what people think of this movie, since it is, in
fact, quite unique (though it bears some of the trademarks of Clive
Barker's
writing). Even though it might seem a bit cynical to say so, the movie is
just intricate enough to deflect those that need standard Hollywood plot
hooks, and layered, so that if you expect to be fed, you will see a normal
monster flick with lots of monsters and a disjointed plot.

Those who need a linear, specific and untangled plot line will hate this
movie, because the story lies, like in the novella, partially between the
lines, or in this case, partially off screen, in comments and the
imagination.

Another possible hang-up is the ending, of which I can say, without
spoiling
it, that it is not entirely good and not entirely bad. It is, in fact, not
very defined at all, which I know sends some people into raging tantrums
about that they didn't get to know what happened, but to me, and to many
others, I'm sure, just adds another dimension to the story - the dimension
of speculation, and, in addition, the point that great disruption has a
tendency to cause ripples that extend quite far.

There is definitely moral here, but of a rather different kind than the
standard Hollywood in-your-face-at-the-end-of-the-movie sort of display.
Summing that moral up is simple, even though it is not quite that simply
displayed; prejudice and the human tendency to hate the
different.

I love this movie, even though, as many of the reviewers have noted, the
expressions of the actors (with the exception of David Cronenberg, who does
a wonderful appearance) are rather tacky. I'm not sure they are entirely to
blame for their rickety appearance and lack of depth, though, seeing that
these are common problems in converting literature to screenplay.

All in all, this is a great movie, provided that you do not expect it to be
a standard horror movie.
<|_=00=_|>

What's fun about Barker's Nightbreed is that it's the story of a human on a
rampage, a deadly threat to monsters everywhere.  In this one, the monsters
(the night breed of the title) are the "good" guys.  It shares its sense of
celebrating the different, the twisted, and the dark with the first Addams
Family movie, and much of Tim Burton's work.  It also has the goriness that
one expects from a piece by Barker.

Especially fun is the performance by Cronenberg as the truly evil human
doctor who is bent on destroying the Nightbreed.  As happens in most
classic
monster movies, the villagers surround the monsters' castle with torches
and
pitchforks.  Only this time, the modern setting replaces the castle with an
old mausoleum and the rustic "weapons" with guns and bombs.  And this time
the sympathy you felt when you saw Frankenstein's monster burned in the
windmill is the very center of the movie.

This isn't a masterpiece, and even Barker has done more interesting, and
certainly more chilling, work.  But it's pure fun, it looks great, and
remains light without mocking itself.  Worth a look!
<|_=00=_|>
I was peeved that the best make-up academy award went to Dick Tracy, a
horrible film with horrible make-up. The Nightbreed (based on the
better titled "Cabal" novella) look terrific, the acting is excellent
and David Chroneburg makes for a truly creepy and terrific antagonist.

The plot focus's on Aaron Boone, who has recurring nightmares about a
society of monsters living under a cemetery. Is he making it up or are
they real and calling to him? His Pyschologist (Chroneburg) convinces
him he's a murderer, a slayer of families.

Troubled and suicidal, Boone seeks refuge in Midian but the monsters
don't want him at first. He is also tracked by his girlfriend, Lori who
refuses to give up on him even after he dies and comes back cold and
monstrous.

But Decker isn't about to let Boone continue on. He raises the locals
on an all out assault on Midian, like a holy war in gods name led by
the devil.

Barkers themes of misunderstood monsters may come from his experiences
as a homosexual male, but they are always strong and honest. Nightbreed
turns the genre on it's head. The monsters are just trying to survive
and want to be left alone, but man is hunting them.

A 20+ minute longer cut was originally submitted by Barker, but the
studio chopped it into this fractured masterpiece. Barker is hard at
work trying to locate the missing footage for a directors cut release.
Until then, this version will have to do.
<|_=00=_|>

Nightbreed is not only great, it is also unique, even taking into account
other Barker's movies, which never lack originality. An amazing adaptation
of a very interesting idea for a book. For the horror genre, it has quite
a
few of subtle symbolics and references. Certainly a lot of fun to have, a
a
bit to think about, if one cares to. And, not to forget, a nice music
score.
Well, the special effects, as usual, get old faster than anything, but
that
is probably the only drawback. I've just seen it again after ten years,
and
I still find it something to recommend.
<|_=00=_|>

Clive Barker is, by far, the best horror writer of this century, and a fine
visual artist as well. Few of the films made from his fiction are
satisfactory "Clive Barker Experiences".  This is partly because his main
strength as a writer is, naturally, his use of language to provoke emotional
reactions and to evoke  very special moods above (beneath?) and beyond
ordinary shock and revulsion.  He raises horrific imagery and psychological
situations to the level of poetry. This is not easy to do in film, a purely
visual medium. The image of a monster or a monstrous act in film is a
picture:  there it is before you.  A description of same in fiction can be
given all sorts of depths and angles in the mind in writing.
"Nightbreed" almost works as an adaptation of Barker's "Cabal".
Unfortunately, as is apparent, most of Barker's budget was blown on the
monsters (which are excellent movie monsters), with insufficient funds
remaining for factors like cast. The actor who played the all-important role
of Boone was not up to it at all.  He conveyed almost nothing of the depth
of Boone's torment, which exists on a number of levels.  A talent should
have been sought instead of a hunk. This is symptomatic of the film's
weakness in general. Too many (albeit high-quality) monsters and too little
time and attention spent on the basic human values (simply, character) which
must underlie all fiction, no matter what its genre.
<|_=00=_|>

Fascinating is an excellent word to describe NIGHTBREED: it doesn't
necessarily mean it is good or bad, just interesting.  Indeed, Im still
not
sure whether or not this film is good or bad.

On the credits side, the sets, costumes, make-up, special effects, even
the
matte paintings are gorgeous, grotesque, perfect for what is required.  I
was amazed that such fantastic production values could be found in a movie
that on the surface seems so schlocky.  There is such a wealth of
imagination here that one can hardly take time out to think about the
flaws.
I was so amazed by the knock-out apocalyptic finale that I could barely
think about how silly the context is (a bunch of redneck Canadians
blow-torching a cemetary.)

he film's biggest flaw is it's sheer magnitude- there are SO many
characters, plots, subtexts, overlays, and so on, that no really coherent
or
involving center emerges.  It can be interpreted as: a story about how
love
conquers the supernatural (a la Dead Again), a Silence-of-the-lambs-like
psychodrama about a serial killer; a dreamy horror flick reminiscent of
Nightmare on Elm Street and especially Little Monsters;  a
Gilliam-inspired
fantasy (the teeming underworld city is strongly reminiscent of Brazil and
the Fortress of Ultimate Darkness in Time Bandits, while other parts are
reminiscent of The Adventures of Baron Munchausen); a symbolic tale of
racial tolerance; and on and on.  So much happens, so many characters are
involved, so many subtexts present themselves, its hard to know what is
going on at all.

Still, one really does have to see the film to believe it.  The underworld
city is stunning, its atmosphere created perfectly by both the production
design and a series of bizarre tableaux of its residents.  It is a mark of
Barker's screenwriting talent (so often evident in his other films if you
can look beneath the shlock) that all the characters, even monsters seen
only briefly, ring true in some strange way.  The many stories are
actually
touching.  Also, the ending is cleverly conceived; it doesnt go out of its
way to leave the door open for a sequel, rather the open door is integral
to
the plot.  I would love to see a follow-up just to know how Barker carries
through the mythical aspects he introduces in this film's last
part.

Perhaps the film could have been more focused, with fewer subsidiary
characters; perhaps the completely inappropriate (but obviously
intentional)
humor could have been dropped; perhaps the entire serial-killer sub-plot
could have been excised completely.  In any case, this film is a
knock-out.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't ask me why I love this movie so much...Maybe it came at a time in
my life I desperately wanted to fit in, maybe it is the amazing monster
effects, maybe because I enjoyed the novel "Cabal", but It's probably
because I LOVE Clive Barker. I think it's fair to warn you the movie
and the novel have no true resolve and like me you'll probably have a
WTF moment at the end. At least two sequels were planned but never came
about due to the fact the movie flopped for a few reasons. The studio
made drastic cuts to the film cutting a good 30 or so minutes out of it
and they did a HORRIBLE job promoting it. The adverts made it look like
just another cheap slasher showing mainly the "Button face/Mask" Decker
character. This is a movie about the monsters! About fantasy! About a
place called Midian! It's a story where the monsters are the good guys.
There is truly nothing else out there like it! It's not a movie for
everybody I suppose but it stands as one of Clive's many great works.
Sit back and be prepared to be taken to Midian - where the monsters
are.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're looking for an original horror flick, this might be the one
for you. It's strange and at times lingers on stupidity, but it's just
such a good looking, nice sounding and original movie, it never fails,
except maybe during the over long climax. "Nightbreed" is a must see
for horror fans, or for fans of monster movie make-up.

Boone (Craig Sheffer) has been having dreams of a town called Midian
full of mutant creatures. In therapy, his psychiatrist Dr. Decker
(horror director David Cronenberg) has come to the conclusion that
Boone is a murderer, and gives him hallucinogenic pills, and tells him
to turn himself in. After almost getting killed, Boone ends up at the
hospital, where he runs into a mental patient who also knows about
Midian, and tells Boone where to go. Midian, located in a graveyard, is
inhabited by vile mutant creatures that don't let Boone in. After
escaping with only a nasty bite, Boone is shot dead by the police, who
were lead to his location by Dr. Decker. But Boone isn't dead. The bite
causes him to live, and he goes off to Midian. Meanwhile, Boone's
girlfriend Lori (Anne Bobby) tries to find Boone and get to the bottom
of this. When Dr. Decker also finds out about this place, chaos ensues.

The plot seems long and complicated, but it really isn't hard to
understand. The plot, among other things, makes this movie really
interesting. The make-up effects are astounding. The creatures look
unique and amazing, and make this a very appealing film. To add to more
senses appeal, we have a musical score by Danny Elfman, that is both
lush and bouncy, and fits the film like a glove. The shots in the movie
are also set up beautifully. The cinematography is lovely, and the
movie sets up an atmosphere that is never broken. Even the acting is
good, with the biggest surprise being director David Cronenberg giving
a great, menacing performance as the man, who for one reason or
another, wants to see Boone dead. It's odd for a horror film to be this
well done.

The problems with the movie...well there are a few, but the positives
outweigh the negatives. The script features the occasional lame jokes
to try and add some humor, but almost every one falls flat. The mutant
creatures look great and for the most part are well acted, but
sometimes it feels like they are just posing their awesome makeup for
the camera. The worst part of the film would have to be the climax. It
takes so long, and is just constant chaos. It's the portion of the film
that moves from individual characters and nice tight knit shots, to
fiery explosions from each direction and violence happening to
characters we don't know or care about.

Overall, this movie is amazing to look at. It's a well done horror
film, but even with that said, it has the occasional failure in
character's lines, and a messy climax. Nonetheless, this is one to
check out.

My rating: *** out of ****. 101 mins. R for strong violence and
language.
<|_=00=_|>
A masked serial-killer is slaughtering families. Meanwhile, the
youngster Aaron Boone (Craig Sheffer) has nightmares with monsters in a
place called Midian. He has therapy with the psychiatric Dr. Philip K.
Decker (David Cronenberg) and his girlfriend Lori Winston (Anne Bobby)
wants to travel on vacation with him. When Aaron visits Dr. Decker for
a session, the doctor convinces him that he is a serial-killer and asks
Aaron to turn himself in to the police. He also gives a medication to
calm him down. However it is indeed a hallucinogen and Aaron is hit by
a truck. He awakes in a hospital where he shares a room with the insane
Narcisse (Hugh Ross). When he overhears the man talking about Midian,
Aaron learns the direction to reach the place. He heads to the place
and finds that Midian is a cemetery. Further, there are monsters hidden
from the humans in the underground and is bitten by Peloquin (Oliver
Parker). Aaron flees from the monsters and finds Dr. Decker, Detective
Joyce (Hugh Quarshie) and a team of police officers waiting for him
outside the cemetery. Decker lies and yells that Aaron has a gun and he
is murdered by the police. However the bite revives him and he goes to
Midian, where he joins a society of monsters hidden in the underground.
Meanwhile Lori is seeking him out while Decker wants to destroy the
ancient bred of monsters.

"Nightbreed" is a cult-horror-fantasy film by Clive Barker. The film is
highly entertaining but screenplay has an abrupt beginning and a
deceptive conclusion. The DVD I saw does not have an alternate ending
in accordance with the director's cut, but the description gives a
perfect conclusion to this film. Aaron says goodbye to Lori, but she
suicides and resurrects as a Nightbreed. There is no resurrection of
Decker and Ashberry kills Eigerman that is seeking revenge. My vote is
seven.

Title (Brazil): "Raça das Trevas" ("Darkness Breed")
<|_=00=_|>

Boone is a man plagued by secrets and nightmares. His situation is greatly
worsened when his therapist reveals his darkest deeds. With his girlfriend
in tow and the therapist hot on his heels will Boone be able to find this
town of monsters in his dreams and what will happen when he finds it and
they find him.
I've always enjoyed this film since its' release. It is a good solid monster
flick with some gore and a little mythology to boot. The creature effects
are even to this day some of the darkest and twisted ever
seen.
The directing and look of the film are solid. Translating Clive Barker's
imagination is probably very hardeven by Barker himself. The acting of the
leads is very good and Cronenberg (a director in his own right) is sedate
and creepy. If Hopkins wasn't available to play Hannibal the cannibal I
would have chose him. The main detractor is the way the studio hacked up the
original cut. And poor marketing didn't help either. Please release a
director's cut someone. 7/10

