

Oh, for crying out loud. This was a fun little movie with lots of good
action in it that never takes itself too seriously. For what it was
intended
to be, it can't possibly rate this low. Was it honestly worse than
"Highlander 2", with its big budget and big-name stars? Or "Glen or
Glenda",
a shining example of deep cinematic ineptitude? I don't think
so!
<|_=00=_|>

Ok, it's not an Oscar winner, but few films are.  It is a campy flick, but
it's not the wanna-poke-your-eyes-out-to-stop-the-pain campy, but rather in
the realm of a guilty pleasure.

In agreement with an earlier post, this was not supposed to be a film that
took itself seriously.  Notably, the action was on par with any other
martial arts movie being made, and the script had a bunch of smart-assy
humor (which I must admit that I'm a big sucker for).  It's meant to be a
fun film, and that was the end result.

As far as a video game movie is concerned, it's not the worst ever
made...Mario Bros is still the king, with Street Fighter in a close second,
and Final Fantasy in third place.  So you see, there are worst movies that
have been made.

And folks, I'm not ashamed to admit that I have the DVD for this film in my
collection.
<|_=00=_|>

I really don't see what everyone's problem with this picture is!  I believe
that if any film bases itself on a computer game, then it stands to reason
that is not going to take itself seriously for a split second! I played some
of the DOUBLE DRAGON games for Nintendo when I was younger and they were
pretty jokey themselves.  This little picture has great fights, great action
and most importantly of all, a great sense of humour.  Robert Patrick camps
it up wonderfully as bad guy Koga Shuko.  A young Mark Dacascos (DRIVE, THE
CROW: STAIRWAY TO HEAVEN, CRYING FREEMAN) kicks less butt than usual but is
still enjoyable.  Alyssa Milano is great as the sardonic revolutionary
Marion, and both Dacascos and Scott Wolf as the Lee brothers (Dacascos is
'Home Lee' and Wolf is 'Ug Lee', geddit?) both have a fine line in sarcastic
remarks.  The car chase near the start with the 'Dragon Wagon' being pursued
by Abobo's van is brilliant, especially with the use of computer graphics. 
Again, a classic example of good, mindless fun!
<|_=00=_|>

I feel bad to see that this movie got such an incredibly low rating.
Granted, it was no masterpiece. Then again, I don't think it was
supposed to be. 

I first saw this movie when I was fairly young, and I absolutely adored
it. I had a crush on the brothers (the "Double Dragons" of the title),
and I borderline-idolized the glow-in-the-dark punk kids. They were
just so cool to me!

About a year ago or so--maybe two years ago--I watched this movie at
about 2:00 in the morning during the summer, when there was nothing
else to watch except infomercials or music videos. I was either 17 or
18. The movie wasn't as good as I'd remembered, but, to my very
pleasant surprise, it wasn't nearly as bad as other people remembered
it to be.

This is a good late-night movie, or nice if you're in the mood for
something cheesy and nostalgic. I give it a 6 out of 10. A little above
average--but I think that's just nostalgia. For most people viewing it,
it's probably worth a 5.

<|_=00=_|>
Double Dragon is better then Super Mario Brothers. Then again, so is
everything else. The movie was released in 1994, looks like it was made
in 1989, and the fashion is circa 1980. Why is it people from the
future dress like they're from the past? And why is it Alyssa Milano
looks hefty? It was terrible, unsophisticated and bumpy. 

That said, it gave me exactly what I wanted. Slapstick Sung-fu action
and a few familiar faces. I enjoyed. You don't rent a movie like Double
Dragon because you want an engaging plot. You rent it to relive your
childhood hi-jinx.

Watch it and I guarantee you that you'll be downloading an emulator and
playing it within a week.
<|_=00=_|>
This is decent cheesy fun, with fun performances, however,
Streetfighter is better!. Now don't get me wrong i did enjoy it, it's
just it could have been a lot better, but again why the heck is this in
the bottom 100!, it's enjoyable, cheesy fun if you know what to
expect!. I really enjoyed the performances, however i thought the fight
scenes could be a little better, and there were a few bland bits here
and there, plus the ending kind of sucked. I loved Mark Dacascos and
Scott Wolf, and thought they had great chemistry together, however
Alyssa Milano was kind of wasted, and thought they could have used her
talents better, plus Kristina Wagner was very bland as the Hench woman.
This is decent cheesy fun, with some fun performances all around,worth
the watch!. The Direction is decent. James Yukich does a decent job
here, keeping it lively and colorful,good shots, and he kept the film
at a good pace for the most part. The Acting while not anything
brilliant is a lot of fun!. Mark Dacascos is great here, he is
charming, funny, extremely likable,kicked that ass,is fantastic at
martial arts, had awesome chemistry with Scott Wolf, and entertained
the hell out of me! (Dacascos Rules!). Scott Wolf is excellent here, he
had awesome chemistry with Dacascos, kicked that ass, and was fun to
watch!. Robert Patrick is having a lot of fun hamming it up here as the
main villain, and i had a fun time watching him! (Patrick rules!).
Alyssa Milano is STUNNINGLY GORGEOUS!, and is fine with what she had to
do, however i wished they used her more. Kristina Wagner is bland as
the Hench woman. Julia Nickson-Soul is good in her short role. Overall
worth the watch. **1/2 out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
Mark Dacascos and Scott Wolf star as Jimmy and Billy Lee, two brothers
who join forces to keep a magic medallion out of the hands of a gang
leader (Robert Patrick in an embarrassing performance) he already has
the half of it and he'll do anything to get the other half. People
often times wonder why Robert Patrick and Mark Dacascos never got that
far in their careers. Well for those that are curious, here is your
reason. Double Dragon is easily one of the worst video game adaptions
and from what I remember about the video game, this isn't one that is
all that hard to adapt. Indeed had this been done as an Indianna Jones
style thriller with numerous martial arts fights, we might have had
something. What the movie ends up being is a cheeseball adaption that
fails to engage anyone over the age of 11. Although i'm not sure even
if small children will enjoy something so stupid. It's a bad movie.
Just plain bad.

* out of 4-(Bad)
<|_=00=_|>
My first acquaintance with the Double Dragon feature film was through a
collection of video captures hosted on the X-Entertainment web site.
Even they could not prepare me for the purely abysmal experience that
the film proper represents. Like so many video game films after it,
Double Dragon takes a perfectly good idea for a video game and turns it
into an abysmal feature film. The film itself has a few things in
common with the video game: the title and a few character names. The
game featured one or two players moving a character from the left of
the screen to the right, punching and kicking seven bells out of anyone
who dared to get in their way. Unfortunately, Greenleaf Productions and
director James Yukich thought that by aiming the film at children too
young to remember any of the video games, they might make some money.
Fortunately, the adults who were old enough to have played the classic
video games ignored the film as it deserved. We certainly would not
want the powers that be in Hollywood getting the idea that we actually
like this kind of crap, after all.

The first problem lies in the screen writing. What made the video games
so compelling was that they made as little effort as possible to
differentiate its setting from the reality of the player. The story,
such as it was, was secondary to people beating each other senseless.
In the feature film, the writers attempt to give the story of Double
Dragon a background, a motivation, or a reality. They manage to get all
three, that much is true, but they all come out the same way:
incredibly silly. Making matters worse is some incredibly stupid
costume design. I do not know who designed Alyssa Milano's attire for
this flick, but I am just betting they spent much of the time when they
first saw what they had made laughing at poor Alyssa. Whomever designed
the makeup effects for the Abobo character should have been arrested
for crimes against the viewer. I do not know exactly what they were
trying to achieve with all the lumpage on his body, but whatever it is,
they failed. Perhaps his best scene is when Milano is force-feeding him
spinach in one of the weirdest interrogations on film.

Also looking to fire their agent is Robert Patrick, who was at the time
struggling to capitalise on his burst of fame after Terminator 2.
Perhaps his agent told him that films based upon video games were going
to be the new big thing. What the agent forgot to mention was that
while they were a new big thing, they were a new big thing in
unintentional comedy. Preceded by one year with Super Mario Bros.,
Double Dragon set a new low in cinematic history that it took another
five years to worsen in the form of Wing Commander. I have no doubt in
my mind at all that when Patrick looks back at this film, he thinks to
himself "this is the moment I took what was still a salvageable career,
and flushed it down the can". His performance is utterly terrible here,
so I am inclined to blame the level of pathetic that Double Dragon
reaches upon the director. After all, he has shown already that he is
more than capable of turning in a good performance with halfway decent
direction. Not that a good performance from either would have saved
this cinematic abortion.

Another problem for a film based upon a beat-em-up video game is that
the fight scenes are terribly executed. The camera rarely sits still
long enough to make out what is going on, the choreography is utterly
terrible, and the actors chosen for the parts clearly have no idea what
they are doing. Was it really that difficult to get some people who
really know their martial arts for the task? Hell, let's farm the
rights out to Golden Harvest, they at least know how to choreograph a
halfway decent fight scene. Especially poor are the scenes with Abobo,
where none of the superhuman strength the film goes to great pains to
tell us he has is actually utilised. Much like Michael Beck in Xanadu,
he is really there as window dressing. Part of the problem here is that
the canonical character Abobo is meant to appear superhuman in size,
and the film just goes too far in trying to maintain that illusion. It
would be better to have left the character out of the story altogether
than present us with the tumour-encrusted visage we get here.

Even as an unintentional comedy, Double Dragon is a failure. Sure,
there are moments when the viewer is either going to laugh or cry, the
moment when Marian force-feeds Abobo spinach being a prime candidate.
However, these moments are too infrequent, and the film takes itself
far too seriously otherwise, for this to be anything other than a
mean-spirited laugh at the principal actors. Half of the dialogue
sounds like it was ADRed by prepubescent children, and none of the
actors save Robert Patrick look like they could punch their way out of
a bag of potato chips. I can still remember when the advertising corps.
made a big deal about this being a film based on a video game, back in
the days before films based on video games had a reputation for being
universally terrible. And I still wonder what the hell Alyssa Milano's
costume designer was smoking. In at least half of the shots she is in,
she looks like she is contemplating force-feeding spinach to her agent
until he vomits up a lung.

For these reasons, I gave Double Dragon a one out of ten. Between
watching this film again and being given a spinach enema, I would
choose the spinach. You must be wicked hardcore if you can sit through
this.
<|_=00=_|>

Out of the various movie versions of computer/arcade games, I found
Double Dragon (I'll call it "DD" for most of the review to save on the
typing) to be the most entertaining and refreshingly different.

DD has a great sense of humour which doesn't let up for it's entire
running time. Unlike the absolutely awful, misguided Street Fighter
movie (worth watching because it's so bad!) and the excellent (in my
opinion) first Mortal Kombat movie, DD pays fine tribute to it's
original source without taking it that seriously and it works.

The bad guys aren't too evil - they're more over-the-top and silly in a
way that you hope nothing too bad happens to them - the same goes for
the heroes. Everyone in this movie does a great job and Robert Patrick
has some pretty funny moments pulling his face and laughing in a
deliberately corny, evil way. I love his final scene in the movie -
hilarious! Alyssa Milano looks hot in this movie - I love the short
blonde look and the clothes she wears. The guys playing the DD brothers
are likable and funny.

Overall, the look of Double Dragon is colourful and flamboyant. A huge
budget may not have been spent but, to the makers' credit, this fact is
part of the movie's charm - there are some CGI moments but not overused
like movies made today. Some aspects of DD are similar to the Super
Mario Bros movie but this movie is far more entertaining than that.
There are plenty of in-jokes and nods to other movies. (POSSIBLE
SPOILER: Look out for the cameo appearance by the Double Dragon arcade
machine!!)

Anyway, just wanted to show my support and appreciation for a movie I
really enjoyed. I think those who pan this movie don't really get it
and expect something of a more violent and serious nature - if that's
what you want to see then there's plenty of martial arts and action
movies out there to your liking. Double Dragon is a cartoon-like movie
you can enjoy just for it's fast pace, sense of fun and
meaninglessness.

<|_=00=_|>

I wasn't expecting the next Citizen Kane of this movie, but I was
expecting a little more than I got. Double Dragon, the game, is about
two of the baddest martial artists the gaming world has ever seen, but
the Lee brothers in the movie are a pair of goofballs who don't kick
any significant butt until like the last fifteen minutes of the movie.
They actually spend most of the movie running away from the bad guys.
There are one or two recognizable video game bad guys like Abobo and
the lady with the whip, but other than them this movie has almost
nothing to do with the game. As far as adaptations of Double Dragon I'd
say this rates a little below the cartoon show in quality. You can have
some dumb fun by watching this movie, but dumb's the operative word...

