

Just when you think he's cornered, he thinks of a new strategy. Samuel L.
Jackson portrays Lieutenant Danny Roman, police hostage negotiator. When
he's framed for a crime he didn't commit, against his fellow police officers
no less, he knows that the only way out is to bring in an equally tough
negotiator, Lieutenant Chris Sabian played by Kevin Spacey, who's from
another precinct and who therefore could not have been contaminated by the
bad elements within his own force, which buys him the necessary time to
bluff and blindside while he finds the clues he needs to prove he's
innocent. Chicago is taken hostage along with the few people he retains as
bargaining chips, and we are taken along for the ride. This was a masterful
job of film-making from beginning to end. The characters and story were
flawlessly developed. We don't precisely know who's guilty or who's
innocent. Roman conducts his interrogation and trial while he negotiates
with the police outside, some of whom are working overtime to eliminate
Roman before he figures it all out. This all occurs right under the noses of
the FBI who are in way over their heads and don't have a clue who's guilty
or innocent, just like the rest of us watching. Along the way, we get to
witness Roman lecture his underlings about the finer points of negotiations
while he himself has just become a hostage taker. "Never say no!" he barks
with effective zeal. And he tests his bewildered pupils continuously, who
fail continuously. Only Sabian is smart enough to understand what's going on
in Roman's mind. The strategy is shared by two men who think alike, who are
under stress, and have an innate instinct for lie detection. The screenplay
was terrific. The cinematography was effective. The acting of Jackson and
Spacey exceptional. And the supporting cast, particularly
bad-guy-turned-good-guy Paul Giamatti who provides great comic relief, was
outstanding. If you're in the mood for an intelligent, taut thriller, The
Negotiator delivers... 9/10.  
<|_=00=_|>
Anyone who says this film is not good must be crazy! The Negotiator has
the complete package intelligence, love, anger,comedy,suspense and
action. An absolute terrific film which as well as having all the
characteristics to make a classic, it has the cast to match. Samuel L
Jackson at his best playing the role as Danny Roman, a negotiator with
nothing to lose but all to prove. Kevin Spacey shows a strong side of
his acting ability and is terrific in the role of Chris Sabien, another
negotiator who has the sole interest of getting the truth!. The film is
full of so many twists and turns that makes it one of the best
thrillers ever!!! GUARANTEE...THIS FILM WILL NOT DISAPPOINT!!!
<|_=00=_|>

The Negotiator presents us with both of two things in a summer full of
 flicks only containing one or the other: ambition AND intelligence.  It
 doesn't have any qualms with taking a far-fetched concept and treating it
 with absolute seriousness, but unlike most movies that are willing to do
 this (especially some recent ones involving very large asteroids and very
 large lizards), it is able to pull it off by combining a tight script with
 strong, strong acting.

If this were a perfect world, Jackson would deserve an Oscar nomination for
 his performance here.  There's no way on Earth he'll get it, of course, but
 he's given the difficult role here of playing a guy who has to convince the
 guys downstairs that he's a psycho, while convincing the guys he's
 kidnapped that he's innocent, and he does a flawless job of it.  No easy
 task, especially when you consider the fact that he's got to throw in the
 occasional gunfight.  At least he'll probably win the MTV award :)

What results is a skillfully made film.  I enjoyed it.  It made sense but
 kept me guessing, the action was intense but still followed logical
 patterns, and the ending was not a disappointment.  An altogether fun
 experience.
<|_=00=_|>

In terms of plot and story development, The Negotiator offers little
that is new. It's a very conventional film. However, it gets a much
needed injection from its cast, especially the two leads Jackson and
Spacey, whose verbal exchanges are exciting and dynamic.

The far-fetched yarn introduces us to Chicago hostage negotiator Danny
Roman (Samuel L. Jackson). Roman's partner Nate (Paul Guilfoyle) is
brutally murdered just as he is about to expose a bunch of cops who
have been stealing from the Disability Fund. All the clues at the scene
of Nate's murder point to Roman being the guilty one. Danny is arrested
for the killing, but he remains determined to prove his innocence. He
violently besieges the Internal Affairs division of the Chicago P.D,
taking several hostages at gunpoint, and proceeds to demand that his
name be cleared. Hostage negotiator Chris Sabian (Kevin Spacey) arrives
on the scene to talk Roman into surrendering his hostages.

The ease with which Jackson's character is framed for a crime he didn't
commit is hard to believe, and his subsequent decision to take hostages
in order to clear himself stretches credibility to the limit. The
solution to the mystery - with the revelation of the real killer coming
right at the end - isn't especially believable either. However,
improbabilities aside, The Negotiator is an entertaining work. As
mentioned, Jackson and Spacey's confrontations are quite dynamic and
help to make the film compulsively watchable. Siege thrillers by their
very definition are exciting, and this one is no exception. Granted,
The Negotiator is totally conventional fare, but within its limitations
it remains a well-crafted, absorbing and agreeable offering.

<|_=00=_|>
Lieutenant Danny Roman, just married and quickly becoming recognized as
one of Chicago's top hostage negotiators, has his life turned upside
down when he's framed for the murder of his partner and embezzlement of
his department's pension fund. With the evidence piling up against him
and unsure of whom he can trust, he resorts to desperate means by
taking hostages himself and acquiring the services of unknown but
equally skilled negotiator Chris Sabian in order to clear his name.
Sharp, intelligent thriller should be your run-of-the-mill cop flick,
but its plot twists are so convincing, its police procedures so
realistic, and its acted with such great conviction that you don't want
to miss a single moment of it! Jackson and Spacey ignite the screen,
but they're surrounded by a top-notch supporting cast. A great piece of
work from all those involved. ***
<|_=00=_|>
I know very little about the movie industry, directing, producing and
the like but I know when I really enjoy a movie, and I enjoyed this one
so much I am making my first ever comment on a movie on this site.
Having just watched this movie for the first time, I have been riveted
to my seat. The twists and turns were so good even I didn't know who to
trust! I was wrong about some of the cops I thought were dirty, right
about others and the end took me by surprise. Although a long film, the
pace of events and quality acting kept me interested from the first
minute to the last one. This is probably the best thriller I have seen
this year and I recommend it to anyone who is looking for a good
thriller with a few action moments thrown in intelligently for good
measure. All credit must go to Samuel L Jackson for a great performance
in playing a specialist police officer who finds himself an innocent
fall guy, supported very well by the late J. T. Walsh, who seemed to
always play dislikable characters. Jackson makes his character an actor
himself, as a psychopath to the cops he holds at bay and a careful
family man to his new wife whilst slowly but surely convincing his
hostages of his innocence. Similar credit for great performances go to
Kevin Spacey as the neutral respected negotiator dropped into a tense
situation completely blind to events, and I have yet to see a poor
performance by David Morse, who followed up this film with another good
performance in "The Green Mile". My work as a real police officer in
England seems so ordinary and boring by comparison!
<|_=00=_|>
"The Negotiator" is neither a deep film that might cause serious
contemplation of social issues nor a radically different experimental
experience. It is simply a star-studded action thriller designed to
allow the audience to escape into the world of Chicago hostage squad
cops. A wrongfully accused negotiator/cop, played at about 300+ degrees
Fahrenheit by Samuel Jackson matches wits with another negotiator,
Kevin Spacey, who does his best to keep Jackson from reaching the
boiling point. Briefly, Jackson is caught in the middle of an extortion
scandal involving the lifting of millions of dollars from the
policeman's pension fund. When Jackson's partner becomes aware of the
secret heist, he is taken out, and the powers behind the white-collar
corporate dealings use Jackson as the scapegoat. Jackson then
retaliates by using extra-legal means.

What makes this movie are the performances by both Jackson and Spacey,
with good performances by the supporting cast, including the late J.T.
Walsch who made a career of playing heartless and emotionless
middle-age men. And John Spencer is also involved as the Chief of
Police, shortly before he was promoted to the White House Chief of
Staff in "The West Wing".

The movie goes a mile a minute but is suffused with an interesting
enough storyline to make it well worth the price of admission. Some of
what happens is ludicrous when you really think about it, but you tend
to just run with it. Not a bad way to kill two hours, and you could do
a lot worse.
<|_=00=_|>

Terrific action drama about dedicated cop Jackson,who is framed for the
murder of his partner and stealing money funds. Spacey does a great job as
the stranger. Film relies more on drama than action which is good in this
case. Marred only by overlength.

Rating:**** (out of five) 
<|_=00=_|>
An honest cop is an easy target, right? Well, this is what the trailer
of "The Negotiator" states, but it also states a lot of more things;
some which it shouldn't state. So my first recommendation is: don't
watch the trailer of this film before watching the film itselfIt will
make it better. Danny Roman (Samuel L. Jackson) is a successful
negotiator and, as it happens in these films, he's getting too close to
something and consequences are ahead.

That's all you'll hear from me. After this main plot line, "The
Negotiator" becomes a nerve- racking ride; with thrills all the way
through and a very intelligent use of the general elements of the crime
thriller. See, that's the thing about crime thrillers: they are always
around the same kind of ideas and stories. I recently watched "Edison"
and I didn't like the way it handled things; because it wanted to give
an explanation to a conspiracy that was confusing and difficult to
understand, sadly inside of a good script.

"The Negotiator" suffers from the same thing. However, writers James
DeMonaco and Kevin Fox make it up with some beautifully written,
gripping dialogue in a fantastic achievement; considering that one of
them hadn't done anything before and the other had written "Jack". The
screenplay of "The Negotiator" is probably what brings the rest to
life.

It isn't the writers' fault but, although the cameras are well placed
and F. Gary Gray's direction is accurate, everything feels a little bit
like television (like in "SWAT"). I'm not saying this is a bad
characteristic, because it doesn't make the film less dynamic and
because the film is, as I said, intelligent; but it's ultimately
disappointing. The music by Graeme Revell is one of the high points,
with chilling strings that accentuate the characters' looks in the
moments of tension. 

These moments of tension also look like television, but we forgive it
because we get some good intense looks. If "The Negotiator" is not good
for everything else (which is not entirely true), it is good because of
the actors (casting by David Rubin). Samuel L. Jackson is full of
perfectly managed rage as Danny Roman, achieving a better performance
than the ones he got in other movies where he carried guns, like "The
Long Kiss Goodnight", "Rules of Engagement", even "Shaft" and
definitely "SWAT". 

A lot of the actors in the cast come from television or are now still
on television (which may help the feeling I was talking about), like
Ron Rifkin, John Spencer, Carlos Gomez, Nestor Serrano, Stephen Lee and
Doug Spinuzza. They are all great, and so is the late J.T Walsh in a
small role. Besides, Regina Taylor is powerful as Jackson the cold
David Morse is astounding playing a kind of villain and showing he's
one of the best for playing villains today; even in films like
"Dreamer". 

Paul Giamatti steals the show as a maniac hostage, which is a nice
performance to see Giamatti before becoming the cult performer he is
now. He was still good then. Siobhan Fallon is also flawless as a
law-abiding secretary. But Jackson is the centre of the movie,
alongside the other main character. Chris Sabian appears late in the
film, but in the skin of Kevin Spacey he encounters Jackson's craziness
and "The Negotiator" elevates itself into a whole different level.
Spacey's facial expression and manner of talking and Jackson's unique
eyes movement are just little details of their incredible performances
and their chemistry. 

Wonderful actors pay attention to details in movies. At least just to
watch Spacey and Jackson, you can't miss "The Negotiator". It has one
of the best acting duos I've seen in a long time.
<|_=00=_|>
Regular readers of my reviews (all three of you) will know that one
film that really soured my opinion of the Hollywood machine is the
completely botched "Italian Job" remake - a typically stylish but
ultimately shallow rehash of a perfectly good original. I was almost
angry at director F. Gary Gray for trying to wreck my fond memories of
Michael Caine in Turin so imagine my surprise to find him responsible
for this earlier effort which is a genuinely exciting, if far-fetched,
thriller starring two of Hollywood's biggest actors. Where did it all
go wrong for the poor guy?

Samuel L Jackson plays police negotiator Lt. Danny Roman, a hostage
negotiator with the Chicago PD who's a nice guy and all-round good
bloke. After discovering corrupt cops helping themselves to the
department's disability fund, Danny's world comes crumbling down after
his partner is gunned down with all evidence pointing to him. Believing
himself to be set up by Internal Affairs, led by Inspector Niebaum
(J.T. Walsh) and Commander Frost (Ron Rifkin), Danny decides to take
some hostages of his own in a desperate attempt to prove his innocence.
Facing fellow negotiator Chris Sabian (Kevin Spacey), can Danny
discover the truth before his one-time colleagues put a premature end
to the siege? 

Featuring quality at every level of the casting, "The Negotiator"
shrugs off it's far-fetched scenario and becomes one of the most
compulsive thrillers I've seen in ages. With the outcome never really
certain until the credits roll, this is as good an example that I can
think of of a film that has all the traditional elements of a classic
summer blockbuster but remains taunt, thrilling and exciting
throughout. Acting is a real strength of the film as Jackson, Walsh,
Paul Giamatti and David Morse offer real depth to their characters and
hold the film together with ease. Spacey looks a little out of place -
he's too nice to play the stone-faced good guy with a mean streak - but
his performance supports Jackson's wild-eyed paranoia perfectly. The
biggest problems I found was that the story took a while to get going
and when it did, it was actually rather obvious who the villains are.

I was actually a little tired of hostage movies after watching the
equally brilliant "Inside Man" a little while ago but while that was a
little on the slow side, this kept up a cracking pace until the very
end. But both are exceptionally well-written, well-acted pieces of
cinema and I don't think I could pick between the two. Even my Better
Half enjoyed it, making me stay up late to watch it in spite of my
early start the next day. I wouldn't describe "The Negotiator" as
exceptional because it doesn't offer anything new in terms of action
films or thrillers and the premise, as I've said, is too far-fetched
for me personally. But "The Negotiator" is still a highly enjoyable
film in its own right and to ignore it would be criminal. Feel free to
ignore "The Italian Job" rehash, though...
