

Dutch is fantastic because Ed O'Neill, the star of the movie, is a fantastic
comedian, and an underrated one at that (but then again, Hollywood does
recycle the same cast over and over, so it's no surprised you never see him
in too many major motion pictures). And though Christopher MacDonald, who
play's Doyle's father is a real creep, he is a great comedian as well, and
you just can't help to laugh whenever this guy is around (uh...that's a good
thing).

This is the early part of John Hughes's transition into strictly doing
family films. He passed the teenage films (the brat pack series), then films
with slightly younger supporting and main casts (Uncle Buck, Curly Sue,
Dutch), and then went straight for the youngest-aged family film series
(Home Alone, Baby's Day Out, etc). The early part of the John Hughes family
film series, which started somewhere around 1989/1990 and continued into the
early 90s, are comedies that I still enjoy watching (I haven't cared to
watch many of his later movies because Baby's Day Out and Beethoven, etc.
just doesn't interest me). They had two great elements: the social
commentary (though it tends to be repeated in many of his
films/screenplays), and the comedy element. 

Disappointed that his father (Christopher MacDonald) is in London (on a
supposed "business trip", which translates into a holiday with a woman
instead of his son) and won't be spending time with him on Thanskgiving,
spoiled-brat Doyle (Ethan Embry) decides that he doesn't want to spend the
holiday with his mother, either. They don't get along well, especially
considering he is more like a mirror of his incredibly obnoxious father,
while his mother (Jo Beth Williams) is a sensitive, kinder woman who just
wants to get along with her son. Don't worry, 'Dutch' is on the case!

Dutch (Ed O'Neill) is sort of a bafoon character (as we see from the
introduction at the party where he engages in something like a mini version
of Peter Sellers in 'The Party'). But, he's a good-natured fellow with a
heart of gold. He'd have to be to make a promise to Doyle's mom that he'd
bring the boy home for the holidays (Doyle goes to private school).

It proves to be no easy task. Not at all. Since Doyle doesn't want to come
home at all, let alone with his mother's goofy boyfriend. Doyle despises
Dutch because Doyle comes from major money (Dutch works in construction) and
sees himself as a much classier person than Dutch (who can get pretty gross
when he wants...if only to annoy Doyle). But, Dutch is going to do whatever
it takes (and it takes a lot) not only to keep his promise to Doyle's
mother, but to try and get the tense little boy to lighten up and see that
the world is not entirely against him. So there, you have the typical
elements of Hughest: 1) social commentary via class divisions; and 2)
unecessary youth angst. 

With a guy like Ed O'Neill, who even offers some great slapstick comedy, you
can be sure that you'll be in for a lot of laughs. This guy truly is one
underrated actor. 
<|_=00=_|>

About fifteen minutes into this movie I was thinking, "This kid needs a
darn
good spanking" but all he really needed was a little love and someone to
listen and this changes him more than any thing. And that's all kids and
teens really need. This film displays that. The kid's actions made some of
my friends leave the room right in the middle of it, but if you look past
these mischievious doings you can really see that it is a cry for help.
Critics, I think were too harsh and really did not see was Hughes was
trying
to say. Ed O'Neil and Ethan Embry are very talented and they make a great
team. This film has a good message behind it and recommend it to every one.

<|_=00=_|>
DUTCH, in my opinion, is an excellent comedy about an unlikely
friendship between a teenage boy and his mother's boyfriend. If you ask
me, Doyle (Ethan Randall) was an absolute snob! That kid really need to
learn respect! However, in my opinion, every mishap that occurred on
his journey home with Dutch (Ed O'Neill) was absolutely hilarious.
Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone was ideally cast,
the direction was flawless, and production design was spectacular, and
the performances were top-grade. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend
this comedy about an unlikely friendship between a teenage boy and his
mother's boyfriend.
<|_=00=_|>

Although it has similarities to 'Trains, Planes and Automobiles', it is
absolutely original.  The two lead characters work so well together and off
one another that it's hard to remember sometimes, Ethan Randall is just
acting.

Basic Plot: Dutch (O'Neil), is dating a beautiful rich woman who is going
through a separation with her well-to-do husband.  She has a son named Doyle
(Randall), who attends a boarding school far enough away from home, he has
been requested to come home for Thanksgiving, by plane.  He declines, and
refuses to see his mother for the holidays.
Instead of getting upset, she sends her, 'heart's bigger than his brain' for
a boyfriend by car to go get her hurtful son.  Once he arrives, he finds
that this twelve year old is more problem than expected, and the road-trip
that leads them from where they began to where they end up, is a truly
heart-warming and funny story.

Hughes brings us characters in this that make you feel for them all.  As in
all of his films, for the most part, but to a certain degree even more so in
this.  A gradual escalation from hateful to loving, from cold to warm, and
from angry to happy.  It's most assuredly one of the best scripts ever
written.

I give it a 9 out of 10 (10 being the highest). I don't give it a full ten,
because there are some slow scenes, I could have done without, but they do
help the movie keep its sincerity.

And that's my review.
<|_=00=_|>
I have watched this film so many time and I'm so happy that it finally
came out on DVD(I actually never taught it would but thanks to "Anchor
bay entertainment" it did) The trailer of the movie describe really
well what the movie is about "The story of a boy who lost the child in
himself and the man that helps him find it". It's my favorite movie
written by John Huges and I'm a big John Huges fan. Ethan Randall/Embry
plays his part really well,he was perfect for the role of Doyle,he made
the transition between the angry rude Doyle of the beginning of the
film to the normal 12 year old kid you see at the end looks very
natural and his chemistry with Ed Oneil is fantastic.

Ed Oneil one of the most underrated actor in America just because of
his Al Bundy persona.I Love Ed,I grew up watching Married with...and I
have seen most of his other project,including the new yet short lived
"Dragnet" TV show.That guy got style and he's ten times more talented
than some of the guys you see on the big screen these days,I'm looking
forward to his next project.Dutch was in my opinion his best role so
far.

Well this film his a classic in my book and it has a great message to
it. I'll give it a 9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Dutch is a mix of other John Hughes movies, Planes, Trains & Automobiles,
Uncle Buck and Home alone. Out of those movies, Dutch is at least funnier
than Uncle Buck. Although, nothing new, Dutch is still an enjoyable movie.
Overall, very funny and entertaining. *** (out of four)
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Yes, detractors, it can be too violent and quite a bit vulgar but, yet,
Hughes puts his great beauty into the movie near the end. Dutch runs
wild, here and there, but Doyle is drawn as such a stuck up, loathsome,
cruel swine that we enjoy seeing him put into his place. Trust me,
after he knocks the janitor's bucket over, hangs up on his mom, stomps
on bugs and mocks everyone around him, you won't feel sorry for him.
Dutch's cross-country journey to try and make peace with his
girlfriend's nightmare son is full of humor. True, it is the darkest of
all of Hughes works with Doyle severely disturbed almost causing
other's deaths with his payback car crashing stunt. There are the
signature Hughes' scenes that endeared him to so many of us. The
painful journey of discovery that leads Doyle to the realization of his
place is worthy of owning. Really, as your reviewer, it is so easy for
me to help you with this movie. Do you like Hughes? His movies are
really templates that rarely deviate from his set parameters. This
movie was attacked for the violence of Doyle on others and Dutch's
vulgarity (nude playing cards, bathroom humor); Siskel and Ebert hated
the working class snobbery of Dutch towards golden boy Doyle and his
silver spooned condescension of all other human life.

Yet, it has Hughes moral core still. My favorite scene is where they
wind up at a shelter. Doyle makes friends with an adorable little girl;
her worried, care-worn mother tells Doyle that hope is all that any of
them have left. The violence is all bloodless and cartoon level like
Home Alone. Parents may not care for the ride the two share with the
call girls. The movie is an existential awakening for Doyle who sees a
side of life he has been sheltered away from by his phony, cruel
father. The movie is quite funny and, honestly, you will detest Doyle
so deeply for his insufferable arrogance that you will enjoy the brat
getting what he deserved. I am not a big O' Neil fan but he is fairly
under control here, not like his TV show. Those of us who liked Hughes,
enjoy his movies for the morality deep within them. Doyle's time at the
shelter, with Dutch surrounded by the poor and the homeless, changes
him quite believably. Yes, there is this working class lecture by Dutch
that may grate upon your nerves but it never devolves into Dirty
Dancing where all the rich are pompous asses and the workers saints
from Heaven. Simply put, it is funny, I was laughing quite a bit
throughout the entire movie.

Like all Hughes' movies, it grows deadly serious at the end. The
unvarnished look into the suffering of the poor is something not seen
enough in American cinema. Doyle learns how lucky he is and, above all,
he is taught compassion. Dutch is rough, vulgar and often, when he
sings, difficult to bear but the motif is meritorious. The best way to
view the movie is to contrast the Doyle at the end with the Doyle at
the very beginning. Like Uncle Buck, we have the greatest gift given to
angry, bitter, neglected children. The signature embrace, there and
here, shows you the theme: bringing back the lost child to the mother.
Undeniably, Dutch goes through Dante's Inferno to bring this one back.
Doyle makes Uncle Buck's Tia look like a model child. This is why it is
so funny, Doyle is such a pompous ass, spewing contempt upon everyone,
you will laugh your butt off seeing him get some of his own back. I own
the movie for its message: see the suffering inside of the abandoned
child. The look of love from the mother to Dutch is what this movie is
about. Along the way, Hughes reminds us all of how bad it can become by
showing us those who are really suffering. Yes, detractors, this is a
lesser work of Hughes. Admittedly, it is quite far from Breakfast Club
or Uncle Buck, yet, the moral core remains. 

Despite all of his crudity and working class arrogance, Dutch goes the
entire road for an angry, lost child. The lesson is that love is always
sacrifice; truly, I don't know if I possessed this level of love for
this little creep. The beauty at the shelter that was John Hughes.
R.I.P. Deus Vobiscum IMDb. Q.E.D.

"You Are Never Defeated Until You Admit You Are." General George S.
Patton
<|_=00=_|>

Wow! What a funny film. What I liked about the film was how these two
different characters try to get along - both from different backgrounds
- be it culturally, economically or living status. 

The film gets you thinking - can these two people eventually learn to
get along, and above all, make it home for Thanksgiving?

At first, you think the spoiled rich kid needs a good boot in the bum,
but all he needed was someone to talk to and have a shoulder to lean on
- his dad had left his mum - a broken family. Towards the end of the
film, the divorced dad lets a bomb drop - he wants his ex-wife out of
her house (he paid for).

I'm from Australia - and this film was titled "Driving Me Crazy". I
learned recently that the U.S. called this film "Dutch", named after Ed
O'Neill's character Dutch Dooley. 

No matter where you go in this world, and whoever you may meet, a
friendship can develop - don't forget that.

If you enjoy this movie, please look at the following buddy - road
movies:

Midnight Run, The Odd Couple 2, Road Trip, Planes,Trains and
Automobiles

<|_=00=_|>

Dutch is one of my favorite movies ever. it is so funny, And its always so
fun to watch everytime. It never gets old. The things that Dolye and Dutch
say to each other are so funny, they always make me laugh. I must say Doyle
is a real brat though. Theres so many memorable things in this movie....all
the great funny quotes...all of Dutch and Dolye's arguments....the fire
works scene...and I really like the scene with the 2 call girl babes :)

This is a great movie that I still watch all the time. I recommend it to
anyone who likes to laugh like me ( :
<|_=00=_|>
The chemistry between Ed O'Niel as 'Dutch' and Ethan Randall as 'Doyle'
is excellent. It makes the movie work, whereas other lesser talents
would have produced a ho-hum movie. The excellence is not always found
in the script, and these two actors bring a mediocre script up to the
level of excellent. The young actor 'Ethan Randall' that played Doyle
is in reality none other than 'Ethan Embry', the actor who played
'Frank Smith' on the circa-2003 version of 'L.A. Dragnet', costarring
with Ed O'Niel once again!

Unfortunately, Ethan Embry was replaced in the second season of
'Dragnet' by an entire roster of new (and boring) actors...including
the yet-to-be-desperate housewife Eva Longoria! 

Those two work well together.
