

What a wonderful film! "Blast from the Past" is charming, sweet, and
hilarious. Very funny. The premise is original and interesting, and I
thought the film was engrossing and thoroughly entertaining -- I laughed out
loud several times. Brendan Fraser is perfectly cast as the goofy, innocent
Adam. Alicia Silverstone is better than she's ever been, I'm certainly no
fan of her, but she did a more than okay job in this film. But the really
ingenious casting decision was to give the roles of Adam's parents to Sissy
Spacek and the always brilliant Christopher Walken -- I dare say that the
casting of Spacek and Walken in this film is the _opposite_ of type casting,
:-).

I really, really liked this film because it is genuinely entertaining, and
it is never boring. Brilliant comedy in other words. (8/10)

<|_=00=_|>

Need an escape?  Here's your ticket!  This is a delightful movie
depicting
life in the past and the shock one can get when fast forwarding to the
future.  There's something about gong back in time!  For those of us who
lived thru the 60s as teens, it's a reminder of a more innocent time.
Seeing the past come alive in the form of music, baseball cards and even
the
furniture makes you feel like a window has been opened and you're actually
watching family life in the early 60s.  Watching the reactions of a full
grown man who has been in a fallout shelter with his parents, now coming
above ground for the first time is hilarious!  Seeing him search for a
"non-mutant" girl friend while he learns all about life above ground, is
just as funny.  You have two choices.  You can watch the movie as a critic
and look for things that you think "don't work" in the movie.....or, you
can
relax and enjoy the trip, the jokes, the characters and the trip back to
the
present!  That's what I do, every chance I have to see this "Blast From
The
Past."
<|_=00=_|>

There surely is a lack of originality in movies now. Romantic comedies
always seem to have the girl outwit the guy, the guy persisting, and then
they finally get together. That's exactly the case in Blast from the Past,
except that the guy has been living in a bomb shelter for all of his life.
It's a joke that could work for a five minute sketch, or it might just flop
overall, but that's not the case here. It's a simple romantic comedy with a
huge twist thrown in, which works to the movie's advantage.

Adam (Brendan Fraser) had lived in a fallout shelter for all of his life,
because his father (Christopher Walken) thought a nuclear bomb was dropped
on the house. 35 years afterwards, Adam goes up to bring supplies and meet a
girl, which he does. Eve (Alicia Silverstone) is a feisty, typical 90's
American, but since Adam had never met anyone else besides his parents, he
just accepts it. Soon he falls in love with her (hence, Adam and Eve), but
the reverse is not the same. Will he convince her? Only the cliché on
romantic comedies will tell us!

Blast from the Past is surprisingly lightweight romcom. It never goes to
take itself seriously, which helps keep the mood light, which is what it's
supposed to be. At times it gets silly, including a Benny Hill-ish chase
scene, and the obligatory man-who-can't-drive-car-drives-car-wildly scene. A
scenario like this could easily descend into heartstring-plucking land, but
thankfully stays on the top, and over the top. Director Hugh Wilson, whose
resumé includes such movies as the original Police Academy and The First
Wives Club, can keep a movie that could turn drastically wrong on the right
track.

Fraser is great. It really seemed like he was brought up in a fallout
shelter. His mannerisms were all from the sixties, and the way he acted was
exactly on key. Silverstone was okay, but nowhere near as good as Walken and
Sissy Spacek as Adam's parents. They embody their roles as people who have
to live in the same space for 35 years. This movie is everything romantic
comedies today don't have: no crude humor, funny lines, good acting, and a
fun story. People could really learn a lesson from watching Blast from the
Past.

My rating: 7/10

Rated PG-13 for brief language, sex and drug references.
<|_=00=_|>
..."Blast" would have likely won. It boasts excellence in all aspects of the
film from
story to casting to acting to sets to costumes,
music, etc. This tight, creative,
unpretentious, and lightly romantic comedy romp between
a
hip "new millennium" chick and an old fashioned
stuck-in-a-fallout-shelter-for-35-years guy is a breath
of
fresh Hollywood air deserving of it's critical acclaim.
<|_=00=_|>

"Blast from the Past" does what it set out to do and it does it
beautifully.
The whole premise (i.e., a man who was born and raised underground with
no
contact other than his parents for 30+ years, only to go "above" and find
himself in today's world) is brilliant.

Brendan Fraser is perfect as Adam--sweet, naive, and trusting--and
reinforces my feelings that he is a very underrated actor.  I love Adam's
reactions to modernisms that he encounters for the first time, such as the
"other man's underwear" scene, the idea that Troy could have a, gasp,
COMPUTER! right there in his house, or the "Well good for you!" about Troy
being gay.

Alicia Silverstone is wonderful as Eve, as are Sissy Spacek and
Christopher
Walken as Adam's parents, and the rest of the cast.

It's hard for me to grasp why some folks don't like this movie!  In my
opinion, it's truly refreshing to see a movie where its main character has
manners and class, and does not have to rely on today's standards (such as
swearing) to carry the movie.

If you're in the mood to see a cute romantic comedy, do yourself a favor
and
watch this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
See the movie to find out why, but Brendan Fraser's crazy dad has had
him underground for thirty years in an elaborate bomb shelter, so that
when Brendan finally goes upstairs in the 90's to get more supplies for
his parents, he's in for a bit of a shock.

Christopher Walken is wonderful as the crazy, atomic-age inventor.
Alicia Silverstone deserves to be on screen more - she's cute and sassy
as the love interest, but still pulls funny faces with her mouth.
Brendan Fraser was a perfect choice for the biggest fish out of water
ever. His fresh-faced naivety is so convincing. He's larger than life,
and sometimes so naive its corny, but he's consistent, so it works.
Depending on what mood you're in, Sissy Spacek's part adds
psychological depth to the movie or detracts a tad from the fun.

This movie is not at all implausible. There were many people as scared
as Christpher Walken during the 60's. In 1962, during the Cuban Missile
Crisis, Kennedy and Khruschev were one button press away from blowing
us all to smithereens (see Thirteen Days for a historically accurate
portrayal of this). And Walken's character is set up as crazy enough to
build and stock his shelter with 30 years worth of supplies.

8/10. Terrific fun time-skipping romantic comedy buoyed by the
personality of Fraser - perfect to watch with a sweetheart, or with
family on a warm weekend in.
<|_=00=_|>

Brendan Fraser and Alicia Silverstone are on screen gems in their aptly
named characters Adam and Eve. Everything about "Blast From The Past" was
superb from the casting of Christopher Walken, Sissy Spacek and Dave Foley
to the outstanding performances by everyone made this film so
enjoyable.

I could not find one thing wrong with this film because it was that good.
Everything in this film was a breath of fresh air and I'm glad I saw this
film. Through this movie, it has given me respect for Walken, who has become
one of my favorite actors in Hollywood.

The performances by the cast were real and honest. Also, everyone seemed to
enjoy each other's company as well as performing in this movie and it
showed; furthermore, it also showed up in the box office and rental receipts
as people couldn't get enough of this great comedy.

"Blast From The Past" is a worthwhile comedy that deserves everyone's
attention. Two thumbs WAY up. 
<|_=00=_|>

That's pretty much it. "Blast from the Past" has a decent amount of laughs
and fun. Brandon and Alicia are adorable together. And the story is very
original and interesting. Adam is a boy who grew up in a bomb shelter with
his parents, who fear that a nuclear bomb struck from the cold war. For 35
years they raise Adam to be a perfect gentleman. When he wants to meet a
lady and the parents need more suplies for the shelter, they send him up to
face the world of the 90's. He meets a girl, Eve. She seems cold at first,
but they both fall for each other.

The story lacks a little something in some area. I thought they maybe
should've gotten more into the love story, because I felt like it was too
quick. But this is a cute and wonderful film. I would recommend for romantic
comedy type of lovers. They would more than likely get into the film.

7/10


<|_=00=_|>

I thought this was a very funny comedy. The sets used were very realistic,
looked just like some of the furniture we used to own back then. The acting
was right on target, the dialogue was interesting and amusing, and the story
was well done. Made me wonder if this could happen, only not on such a large
or lengthy scale. 3 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
It has never happened, but during the Cold War many people feared that
they would be the victim of a nuclear war between the West and the
USSR. A lot of those people had visions of living in an atomic shelter
for the next three to four decades, perhaps even longer and not being
able to see the daylight ever again. Well, it may never have happened,
but this romantic comedy shows us what it must be like.

"Blast from the Past" tells the story of Adam Weber. In the 1960's,
during the Cuba crisis, his parents locked themselves in the bomb
shelter which his eccentric father had constructed for just in case.
Having been locked for 35 years, Adam has never seen anything else but
the confined space of the shelter. He has never seen anything of the
world and has become a very naive man. Now, the doors are unlocked and
Adam must venture out into LA to find food and supplies for his family
and a non-mutant wife for himself...

Romantic comedies can be found in many forms, but this sure was one of
the more original ones. And I must say that I liked it. The acting for
instance is more than OK. I liked Brendan Fraser as the naive Adam and
together with Alicia Silverstone he forms a nice couple in this movie.
Even though the entire story could have used a little bit more
developing, overall it looks good and offers some good laughs and
plenty of fun for the people who like romantic comedies. I give it a
7/10, perhaps even a 7.5/10.
