

Wesley Snipes has always been trusty in the action genre.  He has great
charisma and looks totally cool when kicking the crap out of the bad guys.
Ever since his breakthrough role in "Passenger 57."  There are many great
moments of action in "The Art of War."  Sure, the plot is far from
compelling, but the energy and fast pace keeps it fueled.

"The Art of War" is not a work of art, but it's a great popcorn flick and
one that won't put you to sleep!  I just wish they could've done something
about the cliches.  I'm not going to give anything away, so I'll just say,
"Why is it in these movies the characters never seem to know who their
limo
driver is?"  It's an overused cliche and a cheap surprise.

My score:  7 (out of 10) 
<|_=00=_|>
Snipes puts in a fine performance as Neil Shaw, a united nations
defence agent who is wanted for the assassination of the Chinese U.N.
ambassador at a time where U.S. and Chinese relations are already
strained.

Snipes teams up with a beautiful U.N. translator (Marie Matiko) in a
search for the truth behind the conspiracy that is engulfing the duo.
The Art of War delivers action, thrills and good plot twists and
overall is a satisfying thriller. However it is not without some minor
flaws, the story although complex and interesting is somewhat
dis-jointed in its delivery and the ending lacks impact, even if it
does ring true to the plot line.

All in all 'The Art of War' is a good, yet less than perfect action
thriller, that will certainly satisfy Snipes fans.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Most people can't differentiate between a bad film and a film they don't
like.  Many people didn't like this motion picture because of its liberal
subtext.  That doesn't make it a bad film.  Most people don't realize that
this was a Canadian production and that probably explains the political
slant.  However, as action films go, it was intelligent, high tech,
stimulating, bordering on believable (seldom are action flicks actually
believable), with plenty of violence.  I didn't particularly agree with its
`New World Order' message, but it was still a solid film.

The main criticism I have of the film is the editing.  In an attempt to make
the story more intriguing, it is pasted together in a convoluted way that
makes it very difficult to follow.  All the factions and motivations are
eventually explained, but one has to pay very close attention or see the
movie a few times to catch them all.  The screenplay suffers from an excess
of subplots, which makes following the story that much more difficult.  The
biggest sin committed by the producers and director was that they did not
understanding their audience.  This film targets action lovers, who are a
visceral lot.  They want to be stimulated, not confused and intrigued.  They
also tend to be more conservative politically (God, Guns, Guts).  So
naturally, the film bombed.

Wesley Snipes delivers a strong performance in the intelligent action hero
role.  Snipes seems to be locked in the action genre when he is really too
bright for the roles he plays.  He should take a lesson from Samuel L.
Jackson and look for scripts that are more dramatic.  Jackson still does
action films (Shaft), but he picks parts portraying complex characters and
scripts with strong character development, instead of straight macho
testosterone parts.  Snipes would have done well in some of the roles
Jackson has had.  Anne Archer does a fine job as the manipulative career
diplomat, pulling everyone's strings behind the scenes.  Donald Sutherland
is a bit flaccid in this film, but his character really didn't have a lot of
bite.

Overall, this film is a strong entry into a genre dominated by mindless body
count.  I rated it an 8/10.  Those who like their action flicks to be
completely believable subtract two points.  Subtract another two points for
those who don't like confounding story lines.  For those who abhor screen
violence, don't even bother.
<|_=00=_|>

I've read some seriously negative reviews of The Art of War. There are IMDb
users out there who hated this movie to no end, which leads me to wonder why
I rented it in the first place, having read many of these reviews already,
and why it was seen as so much worse than anything Wesley Snipes has done up
to this point. Snipes has made some good movies, and some bad ones, just
like almost every actor out there (although there are certainly some that
only make good ones and some that only make bad ones, but Snipes seems to
have about an equal amount of each, maybe leaning slightly in favor of the
bad), and I don't really think The Art of War is any different. It's a
typical action film in which he plays virtually the exact same character
that he played in Rising Sun, except here he's been framed as an assassin
and, as is always the case with movies in which the good guy has been framed
for some crime, he has to set out to prove his innocence with no help from
the police and without knowing who he can trust. 

(spoilers)
Michael Biehn stars as Robert Bly, Neil Shaw's (Snipes) ill-fated partner.
Biehn has been largely missing in action (pun intended) for several years,
his only notable appearances since the spectacular Terminator (and since
being deleted from Terminator 2) being an excellent role in The Rock and his
thoroughly enjoyable performances in movies like The Abyss, Aliens, and Navy
SEALS. Given this iconology, it's strange to consider the role that he was
given in The Art of War. Naturally, actors are given roles that go against
their iconography all the time (a recent example would be Tom Hanks in The
Road to Perdition), but there is generally a reason for that or at least
something about that actor's personality or charisma that fits with the role
that they are given. In The Art of War, there is little reason to have Biehn
play the role that he plays other than to cover up the plot twist near the
end of the film. That's just weak writing.

Like I said above, I enjoyed The Art of War more than many other reviewers
seemed to. The introduction of the conflict is particularly impressive. The
chase through the building early in the film is not only exciting, but
thoroughly convincing so that you really don't guess what's really
happening. Regardless of how the mystery is created (whether or not it be
because of the strange role given to Michael Biehn), consider how well the
frame was set up. Shaw is running through this building chasing the bad guy,
he hears his partner shot twice on the radio, so just as he bursts into the
street which is crowded with police, his adrenaline is pumping and his face
is contorted with the grief of knowing that his partner has just been
killed. It's easy to understand that the police could have mistaken his
expression for grief at having been caught trying to escape the scene of the
crime that they think he has just committed. 

I might like to take this opportunity to point out that while I certainly
found The Art of War to be at least a mildly entertaining action film, I did
not find it to be any more than that. It is most certainly a vehicle for
some good Wesley Snipes action, but is there really anything wrong with
that? I personally enjoy watching Steven Seagal movies and Van Damme movies,
just because they're entertaining and, quite often, more amusing than
anything else. Given that, I would not be being fair if I condemned The Art
of War for not having much intellectual content to speak of.

I am normally not one to forgive stupidity in the movies, but the thing that
allows me to forgive the cheesy action in The Art of War (as an example of
how seriously the movie takes itself, consider the extensive kung-fu
fighting scene that takes place during the New Year celebration early in the
film, to the grand enjoyment of everyone in attendance, who are all lucky
enough to see it close up on the big screen) is that it doesn't pretend to
be anything else. Unlike a Bruckheimer film, it does not throw in all of the
necessary ingredients to attract every kind of audience that can be
attracted to an audience, which is an unfortunately prevalent tactic that
results in a lot of movies that could have been great but instead come out
as muddy messes. The Art of War is a straight up action film, and whether
you loved it or hated it or anything in between, you have to respect it for
allowing itself to be seen as such in a society that more and more seems to
condemn purity in the movies. 
<|_=00=_|>
First off the technical aspects of this movie were superior in every
sense. The sound, the editing, the camera work, all of it was fantastic
and made this an enjoyable treat.

You have to enjoy all that because, with the exception of Donald
Sutherland who is always on, the acting isn't there. Wesley Snipes is
one of my favorite actions heroes, but we all know that action heroes
can't act. Well, maybe Bruce Willis is the exception. But for an action
hero, Wesley is great and does a great job here - for an action hero.

And, hey, Marie Matiko was easy on the eyes.

If you liked Enemy of the State, you will like this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The last decent film Wesley Snipes has made to date, THE ART OF WAR has
him playing a dirty-tricks agent who is on the run, framed for the
murder of a high Chinese official and connected to a container full of
dead Asian refugees. The movie has two things going for it: A great
title and some action sequences right out of the John Woo stylebook,
especially the final showdown in an office building between Snipes and
Michael Biehn. The way the glass shatters and falls in slo-mo as the
two struggle and crash through a second floor barrier adds to the
film's arresting visuals. Chalk one up for Snipes, who seems to churn
out as much crap these days as Van Damme, Stallone and Seagall
combined.
<|_=00=_|>

In "The Art of War", Snipes plays a UN deep-cover operative
whose cover is compromised. Though the film features plenty
of stunts, chases, crashes, shootouts, fights, and
pyrotechnics mixed with a typically convoluted spy-type
plot, we've seen better of all in other films. The flick
does have a female protagonist but there's little romance
or
sexiness in this flick which lacks the spit and polish
of
Bond films and seems to be begging for something more than
just a lot of busy heroics and magical futuristic
microelectronic snoop stuff. Ok but far from Snipes better
films.

<|_=00=_|>

Disclaimer first: This is not Citizen Kane, obviously.
But THE ART OF WAR is about as fun as an action movie can get.

Yes, Snipes is a runaway agent wrongly accused, we have seen this in US
Marshals and Murder at 1600 (by the same Writer.).  But this movie has two
things that those movies lacked, STYLE and an enjoyable supporting
cast.
ART, with all its chase scenes and fight sequences (and there are a truck
load), is beautifully shot.

The sets and camera work are great, and most importantly (partially
because
I live there) you buy that you are in NYC. Few signs of the Canadian stand
in, Montreal. Everything is slick and well shot.

Behind Snipes are a great cast of action cronies, Maury Chaykin as Capella
the FBI agent who doesn't know whether to arrest or help Snipes,  Marie
Matiko, Julia the VERY attractive hostage/eyecandy (Hollywood should learn
from the TASTEFUL handling of her strip scene) and a bunch of good
character
actors who could be of course our villain(s).

Yes, ART OF WAR has too many twists, it tries hard, too hard at times.
But
it is better than the other action flops that have stopped trying all
together.

Bottom line this is The Fugitive meets James Bond (with a little Jackie
Chan).  Its a fast paced, slick, action flick, that has half a brain in
it.
Snipes is awesome in it and should look to move forward from roles like
this.  Ignore the cynical critics who are obviously trying to suck the fun
out of action movies and see it.
<|_=00=_|>
this political thriller isn't too bad.it's not really fast paced
paced,and there is some predictability to it.but it should have enough
twists and turns to keep you guessing.it's also a fairly intelligent
movie.it's also compelling enough to maintain interest.at least i
thought so.i also found it more stylish than many movies of the
genre.Wesley Snipes is the main star,but there are some other well
known actors here.these include Anne Archer,Maury Chakin,Donald
Sutherland,Michael Bien,Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa and James Hong.for this
type of movie,this one is not as over the top with ridiculous action
scenes.though it does have a few scenes with strain believability a
bit.for me,The Art of War is a 6/10
<|_=00=_|>

Wesley Snipes is back better than ever in "The Art Of War," a movie
that is so good it deserves to be among the top ten of the summer.

There are many reasons why I enjoyed "The Art Of War." The first reason
was the supporting cast. When I first saw Donald Sutherland in this
movie, I knew it would be a thing of beauty. He brought great
credibility as he made a good movie, that much better. Anne Archer is
one actress you can always count on to give a good performance. 

"The Art Of War" turned out to be a montage of "The Fugitive" series
and "Enemy Of The State." While this is the only negative thing about
this film, it didn't deter me from enjoying it to my heart's content.

There are many other things about "The Art Of War" such as the
high-tech wizadry and action-filled sequences that were very enjoyable.
However, the best thing about this film was the storyline. "The Art Of
War" had beautiful twists toward the end of the film. In addition,
there are scenes in this movie that are so good they must be seen to
believe they are that good.

