
Set during an unspecified future era, Douglas Quaid (Arnold
Schwarzenegger) is a construction worker who longs for a trip to Mars.
His wife, Lori (Sharon Stone) isn't so keen on it--she'd prefer a trip
to Saturn, or a space cruise. Riding on the subway one day, Quaid
notices a television advertisement for a company named Rekall, which
specializes in memory implants of vacations. Quaid checks into it as an
alternate means of having a "Mars vacation". While at Rekall, he
chooses an alternate personality upgrade of a secret agent. However,
while undergoing the procedure, something goes wrong. He learns that
his Quaid identity was a memory implant and he really _is_ a secret
agent. Now that he has his real memory back, he's on the run and he
escapes to Mars. But why is everyone after him? 

Total Recall, based on "We Can Remember It for You Wholesale", a short
story from 1974 by Philip K. Dick (and novelized in conjunction with
the film production by Piers Anthony), had a laborious history getting
to the silver screen. Tens of drafts were written. Production companies
were attached then went out of business. Many directors and stars were
attached who either changed their minds or who were dropped. Luckily,
Arnold Schwarzenegger talked Carolco into picking up the project for
him, with Paul Verhoeven--who'd already proved his mettle on the
similarly toned RoboCop (1987)--on board as director, because this is
an excellent film.

While Total Recall certainly has influences, including "The Martian
Chronicles" (1980), Dune (1984) and the first major film based on a
Philip K. Dick work, Blade Runner (1982), it's more notable for the
films that it has influenced in subsequent years, including The Fifth
Element (1997) and many of the "rubber reality" films such as Abre los
ojos (1997)/Vanilla Sky (2001) and The Thirteenth Floor (1999). It's
also yet another film on the very long list that have had various
elements "adapted" into part of The Matrix (1999)--most explicitly
here, the "bug" that Quaid has to remove from his body with a high-tech
machine and the possibility of "waking up" from a particular reality by
taking "the red pill".

Although it's easy to interpret Total Recall in a very straightforward
manner, so that the bulk of what we're seeing at any particular moment
and the bulk of the dialogue are the literal reality, very convincing
arguments can be made that the majority of the film is a depiction of
Quaid's memory implant while in the "patient's chair" at Rekall. And
those certainly aren't the only two interpretations possible.

What matters more than thinking one has a "right answer", though, is
the deeply captivating story that provokes our interpretations and the
amount of fun we have getting there. Verhoeven and the scriptwriting
team, which included Dan O'Bannon and Ronald Shusett, the writing team
behind the Alien films (beginning with Alien, 1979), never let us go
very long without another plot twist, most of which force a
reinterpretation of the material that went before. The twists occur
about once per every ten minutes, if not more frequently.

The film is notable for its special effects by Rob Bottin, which were
far ahead of their time, and its fantastic production and art design,
which manage to make us feel both that we're experiencing a vicarious
trip to a "future grunge" Mars and an almost "Doctor Who" (1963)-ish
absurdly artificial reality, complete with supersaturated red skies,
ala Frank R. Paul's illustrated covers for the Amazing Stories fiction
magazine.

Some locations in Mexico were used for the film, including some subway
shots on Mars, and actual commercial sign age was incorporated into the
film. There's a lot of fun to be had noticing all of the cultural
differences and similarities that the future era of the film will
bring. Verhoeven delights in subtle glimpses of various symbols and
accoutrement's. His view of the future is one full of corruption,
commercialism and decadence. He doesn't have much confidence in a
"bright new world" as humans spread out to new territory.

Verhoeven is basically extending the way things are now to the future;
it's as if he sees our state as indicative of human nature, so that as
long as we're humans, people are going to be taking advantage of one
another, trying to control one another, engaging in behavior that's a
conflict between desires and societal mores, but also helping out each
other when the going gets tough. In these respects, Total Recall has
culture-satirical similarities to later films such as Starship Troopers
(1997), which isn't surprising given that Verhoeven directed both
films. It's notable that Total Recall's future is not quite as bleak as
Starship Trooper's.

But the film is hardly less violent. Verhoeven's initial cut was given
an X by the MPAA for violence. A number of scenes had to have small
edits, most of which have thankfully been restored on at least one
special edition DVD. The violence here is a lot more small scale and
personal than Starship Troopers. In terms of the visceral, Total Recall
often rides a gray area somewhere between action and horror. While the
action isn't as explosive as many Schwarzenegger films, the suspense
never resolves until the end. This is an amazing thrill ride of a film.
<|_=00=_|>

I've seen TOTAL RECALL many times over the years and I'm never failed
to be impressed with it . Some people dislike it and I feel I must
defend the movie 

" Confused plot " - Sorry but I managed to understand the complex plot
first time I saw the movie and was impressed that Hollywood had merged
a high concept plot with a FX laden extravaganza , such a pity this
didn't lead to more thoughtful action adventures . If you want to see a
confused plot try watching a James Bond movie from the 1980s 

" The violence " - Yeah this is a violent movie for sure but I do wish
people would educate themselves to the work of directors before they
criticize . Paul Verhoeven had previously made FLESH AND BLOOD and
ROBOCOP so a futuristic adventure by Verhoeven that was awarded an 18
certificate isn't going to be confused with an episode of the
teletubbies

What I liked from Verhoeven's directing is that he's made everything so
recognizable , nothing is ridiculously futuristic looking and we see
the characters wearing clothes that wouldn't look out of place in the
1980s . Verhoeven also brings little satirical stabs to the proceedings
as he did with ROBOCOP and it's a great shame we see less and less of
this European director working for Hollywood 

Verhoeven even gets a good performance from Big Arnie , okay this body
builder was never in danger of winning an Oscar but Arnie doesn't send
himself up and nor do his wise cracks like in his other blockbusters
but he does make for an affable - Though violent - hero . Michael
Ironside gives the most memorable performance which considering he
spends most of the movie running around with a gun is no small
achievement . 

One interesting thing I noticed about TOTAL RECALL after seeing it
again last night is that it's unapologetic on being on the side of the
rebels who are waging a war against the greedy Mars company . Anyone
believe that if it was made today the rebels/terrorists would be the
bad guys ? 

Anyway this is along with the original TERMINATOR the best movie
starring Arnie though most of the credit for this movie belongs to the
screenwriters and director and it's a great pity Hollywood is reluctant
to mix a high concept SF plot with a crowd pleasing action adventure

<|_=00=_|>

Total Recall is without doubt Arnold Schwarzenegger's best movie since The
Terminator.
Arnold fits perfectly in the role of Doug Quaid (definitely his best acting
in a movie to date) the confused construction worker and Ronny Cox provides
his usual evil plotting arch bad-guy.
The impressive visual effects are worth the movie's $100million price tag,
and Paul Verhoeven proved that, as with Robocop and Starship Troopers,
sci-fi is where he does his best work.

What does spoil films like these, however, are people who cannot grasp the
concept of Science FICTION, and refuse to suspend their belief for 2 hours(a
vital part of enjoying these movies).
Movies like this don't work without the overplayed violence, cheesy
one-liners and stunning effects. Take away any of these elements and you no
longer have a sci-fi action movie.

Chill out, check out and enjoy...
<|_=00=_|>
The worker Douglas Quaid (Arnold Schwarzenegger) dreams on Mars for
many consecutive nights. He invites his wife Lori (Sharon Stone) to
spend vacation on Mars, but she does not agree, since the planet ruled
by the tyrant Vilos Cohaagen (Ronny Cox), who sells oxygen for the
population, is facing resistance movement and terrorist acts leaded by
the mutant Kuato. Douglas decides to go to the Rekall Company to
implant virtual vacation memories of Mars for his own satisfaction,
using a special program with the identity of a secret agent. While in
the process, something goes wrong and Douglas becomes aggressive, and
the process is interrupted. While returning home, the life of Douglas
turns upside down, and he travels to the red planet trying to disclose
who he is.

Today I have watched "Total Recall" at least for the tenth time, now on
DVD. Again, I found it an excellent sci-fi film with non-stop action.
The story has many twists, and the screenplay has no flaws, being very
attractive. This was the first movie that the beauty of the unknown
Sharon Stone (in 1990) called my attention. Arnold Schwarzenegger is
great performing a dubious hero, and Michael Ironside is the perfect
villain. My vote is ten.

Title (Brazil): "O Vingador do Futuro" ("The Avenger of the Future")
<|_=00=_|>

TOTAL ACTION! TOTAL SCI-FI! TOTAL SCHWARZENEGGER!

That's right, 12 years after its release this movie stands the test of time.
Maybe not quite as good as Schwarzenegger's other blockbuster Terminator 2,
but pretty close.

Some people say the effects are dated, but I disagree. Dated is super
intelligent talking computers with monochrome, low resolution monitors. The
effects here aren't revolutionary by today's standards, but they certainly
aren't cheap or tacky looking. Except maybe the plasticine faces, but they
are good for a laugh!

I've seen this movie over 100 times and I will continue to enjoy it for
years to come. It's got the perfect blend of science fiction, action,
mystery and special effects. It's actually a thinking man's action movie,
not just mindless carnage. You still wonder till this day, was it a dream or
reality? Every time you watch it you'll notice a different nuance or clue
hinting one way or the other.

For the memory of a lifetime, Recall Recall Recall!
<|_=00=_|>

One of the best mind trips ever, I could only 
wish this movies was made ten years later. 
Even for 1990, this film had some of the most 
imaginative make-up I've ever seen in a movie. 
While it had Paul Verhoeven's classic 
shallowness, the film really touched new 
ground not only with science fiction but also 
with special effects. Talk a good few years 
for a director, he not only changed sci-fi with 
Robocop, he did it again with Total Recall. 
Verhoeven will never, ever win an Oscar for 
best director, but his movies will at least be 
entertaining in most respects.
<|_=00=_|>
Total Recall

Arnold Schwarzenegger stars in an adaptation of Philip K. Dick's short
story 'We'll Remember It For You Wholesale' in the Hollywood makeover
'Total Recall.' And a darn good makeover it is.

Schwarzenegger plays Douglas Quaid, who is having a serious identity
crisis. He lives in the future. In the future, people have the ability
to live on Mars. Well, guess who wants to go to Mars? Unfortunately,
Douglas' wife (Sharon Stone) is not too happy about that idea, and
wants to stay on Earth. So, what's a guy to do if his wife doesn't want
to move? Get a memory implant, of course! Using the latest technology,
memories can be implanted in your brain in a matter of moments. You
choose the destination, identity (spy, civilian, etc.) and Total Rekall
(yes, Total Rekall) will install it for you.

Warned by his friends not to get the implant, Quaid does so anyway. But
something goes terribly wrong. Soon, his wife, friends and co-workers
are all trying to kill him.but why? The answer may kill him.

Arnold Schwarzenegger is perfect for the role of Quaid. People can
argue all they want about how bad an actor he is, but you can't say
that after seeing this movie. He pulls the film's acting and stunts off
with ease, all the while spitting out his catchy one-liners ('Consider
this a divorce!').

Sharon Stone is probably at her best here, seeing that her career went
mainly down-the-drain from here on (okay, she won - or was nominated -
for an Oscar for 'Casino.' This movie made her).

Paul Verhoven directs this film, and there are no arguments that this
is his finest work - by far. He was the director who went on to make
such 'critically acclaimed' (*guffaw*) films such as 'Showgirls' and
'Hollow Man.' His only other film that was remotely good was 'Basic
Instinct,' but this is still ten times better (Sharon Stone would not
have starred in that film if not for 'Total Recall' - Verhoven said so
himself.).

The special effects in this movie are excellent; supposedly, they spent
millions and millions on the fake Mars sets, and I bet they're glad it
paid off.

I recently bought the 'Total Recall' Limited Edition DVD with a newly
remastered digital makeover, Dolby Digital 5.1, behind-the-scenes
documentary(s), a commentary by Verhoven and Schwarzenegger, and much,
much more. If you can find one now (it was limited edition so it might
be off the market, now) I would recommend picking a copy up. It was
fourteen dollars, and it definitely packed a punch for that much (no,
I'm not a salesman!)

'Total Recall' stands as Arnold's most 'thought-provoking' film and
best conspiracy-type thriller. In fact, it is one of the best
sci-fi/futuristic thrillers ever.

Many people do not realize that 'Minority Report' with Tom Cruise is
actually a sequel to this film, and Verhoven and Schwarzenegger had
talked about making it for a long time, but now, it looks like the deal
is off. There is still a sequel in talks, however, not based on a story
by Dick. Supposedly, the company (Miramax, was it?) wants Arnold, Stone
and Verhoven back. Oh well. I, for one, am looking forward to it
(though I don't understand how Stone is coming back.prequel?)

Anyway, I'm getting off the subject. 'Total Recall' is a good movie,
and a darn good one at that. It provides everything we want - and more
- in a movie.

4.5/5 stars - maybe I'm overrating it. However, I feel it deserves that
many stars.
<|_=00=_|>
Total Recall has little, if any,by way of passing itself as being
'art'. It is, but more in the sense of it being pop-art, of the
director Paul Verhoven paying tribute in visuals to the story by
Phillip K. Dick. And it's also one of the more exciting and quotable of
those shameless examples of how to do an action film. In this case,
however, because it is a P.K. Dick-based story there are some good
social bits made in the process. If it isn't as astute or consistent as
Blade Runner or Minority Report, it's probably more due to it having to
be a vehicle for Arnold Schwarzenegger than it being a full-on
thought-provoking work of science fiction on film. But this does rank
up high with the other works of the star, as he is in a complex
situation in the film- his mind is scrambled, at first, and everything
he thought was right as dickens is not. So he's told by 'himself' on a
screen he happened to save for himself that he has to get to mars to
find out the truth.

There is plenty of good action sequences, but it is more about
Verhoven's knack at getting this popularized view of Mars just a little
subverted, a little stranger. Some of my favorite scenes involved
Scwarzenegger's mishaps and turns of fate as the story and his
character took turns. For example, in the scene when Arnold's character
wants to get his memory wiped off to Mars and then he flips out in the
chair, this is a very entertaining scene in being very ridiculous (try
to listen to what he says, or don't as its near unintelligible) as well
as following a darker trek in the story. In fact, much of the film
works on the strengths of both director and star by having it not too
over the top to have some belief in what is going on, but that
expectations aren't limited to what might happen as Arnold's character
in on Mars uncovering the conspiracy around his messed-up memory.

Featuring a sultry Sharon Stone in a great supporting role (another
memorable scene comes with her demise, as usual quotable to the bone),
as well as a memorable climax involving the arid Mars air and a certain
outrageous reaction to it, I recommend Total Recall for genre fans and
even those who might be wary of it being a 'Hollywood' take on Dick.
It's not great, and per usual PKD fans might scoff at the faithfulness
to the source, but it's better than some of the lesser adaptations of
the author. Just go in for a good time and it stands up over time (err,
16 years).
<|_=00=_|>

In 2020, Douglas feels he needs a break from the day to day life and goes to
Total Recall – where memories are planted in your head to make you think you
are someone else for a while – a holiday in your head if you will.  However
before he can be injected he begins to have flashbacks and suddenly finds
that people are trying to kill him and that somehow he must get to Mars to
uncover the reasons.  However what is truth and what is fake and is the
whole thing really happening or not?

Based on a Phillip K. Dick story this was always going to be intelligent –
however it's surprising that Verhoeven manages to keep that core well.  The
plot allows his excessive violence but is also a great story that more than
holds the interest with twists and turns and neither Douglas or us fully
knowing what's going on.  The action is great – even 10 or so years on, and
the tension just stays solid throughout.

Schwarzenegger does his usual invincible muscles stuff and looks happy
blasting crowds, but he is also OK in other areas too.  Tictin is good but
never repeated this success for herself.  The baddies (or maybe not?) are
the best roles – solid baddies like Ironside and Cox are just as good as
they were in other similar roles and Sharon Stone is good as Douglas'
wife.

Overall this continues Verhoeven's trend of making ultra-violence and clever
plots and satire work well together (Robocop, Starship Troopers and this) as
opposed to his trend of making trash!  Everything about this film works well
– whether it be the action or the acting or the plot – a surprisingly nice
package for a violent action movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Doug Quaid keeps getting recurring dreams about a visit to Mars. In
spite of his friends warnings, he decides to have a memory implanted
Mars holiday. But during the implantation he remembers being a secret
agent who is fighting evil Mars boss Vilos Cohaagen. Things are about
to go very intergalactic bonkers indeed.

Total Recall finds director Paul Verhoeven on particularly OTT form,
with the often maligned director cranking up the action and violence to
the max. So then, who better to play out the carnage than the big
Austrian oak himself, Arnold Schwarzenegger? It was actually
Schwarzenegger who brought Verhoeven into the picture. The idea for the
film had been kicking around for years, a number of director's came and
went, David Cronenberg famously worked on a screenplay for a year only
to have it jettisoned for being too close to the P. K. Dick short story
"We Can Remember It For You Wholesale". The makers wanted a high energy
sci-fi blockbuster, a star vehicle for Schwarzenegger, and Verhoeven
was only too happy to oblige. 

Total Recall is a fascinating concept as we find ourselves wondering
what in fact is reality? Quaid himself is never quite sure as the film
takes a delicious twist at the midpoint to further compound the
confusion, but in true Verhoeven style, it all comes crashing together
in a giant ball of bangs, crashes and explosions. It should be noted
that the film is far removed from the cerebral essence of Dick's story,
and really when one saw that Schwarzenegger was to star in a Verhoeven
directed adaptation, one really should be prepared for the high octane
brain dumb down that Total Recall is. Something which was beyond some
highbrow critics who are still baffled by the gargantuan financial
success of the film (it made over $260 million worldwide).

Fleshing out the cast are a stoic reliable bunch. Rachael Ticotin,
Ronny Cox, Sharon Stone & Michael Ironside deliver the expected tongue
in cheek professionalism. While the effects prove to be a mixture of
the poor and the decent; tho it's nice to see the often lost art of
model work being of a pretty high standard. All of which leaves me
personally with a film that I find to be a hugely enjoyable piece of
uber violent popcorn fodder. 8/10
