

This movie was dubbed a football version of "Rocky" except for one exception
--it is an actual true story!!  If you can watch "Rudy" and not have a lump
in your throat during several scenes, especially the ending, then you are a
hard to please critic!!  This movie deserved much better than the 7.1 than
the "critics" gave it.  Sean Austin did a magnificent job playing
overachieving Rudy and for those who ridiculed the fact that he only played
a few seconds at the end of a lopsided game missed the whole point of the
story.  Rudy's dream was to play football at Notre Dame and earn everyone's
respect (including his doubting family).  With his lack of talent for both
academics and athletics, the mere fact that he was even admitted into Notre
Dame after struggling so hard to get good grades at Holy Cross (the Junior
College Rudy went to in an attempt to prove himself worthy of Notre Dame
since he had been out of High School for several years and made poor grades
in High School.)  He overcame his learning problems that had held him back
in High School and this was a monumental achievement in itself.  The scene
where he was finally admitted into Notre Dame on his final attempt (he had
been rejected 3 earlier times) was uplifting indeed.  Rudy overcame reading
difficulties thru hard work much the same way he overcame his lack of size
to make the Notre Dame's football team --thru a gut-busting, never quit
attitude.  His teammates were so impressed with his attitude that they
forced the coach (Dan Devine, a real jerk in the movie) to dress him for the
final game.  The final scene where the entire stadium was hollering "Rudy,
Rudy, Rudy" in an effort to get him into the game at the end was
spine-tingling!  Rudy busting thru the line to sack the quarterback at the
end of the game and get carried off the field with the stadium going nuts
chanting his name---Well, movies don't get any better than this.  And all
this really happened!!  Amazing how one of the best stories ever told in
movies involve an "average Joe" who achieved his dream thru hard work----a
Horatio Alger story indeed--10 out of 10 definitely ---For some of you
"critics" that rated it worse than a "7" --you should take a class in movie
critic reviews --you definitely would flunk my class if you gave this one a
worse score than that!! 
<|_=00=_|>

This is a great film about going for your dreams and never giving up.  No
matter who tells you that you can't do it, no matter how unlikely the
chances are, no matter what, make sure you go for your dreams and do
everything that you can make them come true.

Sean Astin delivers one of his best performances to date.  He plays the
character of Rudy Ruettiger perfectly!  He was an excellent choice for the
role and he deserves a great deal of credit for his work (as does the true
life Rudy).  The rest of the cast was quite good as well; Jon Favreau, Ned
Beatty, Lili Taylor, Charles Dutton, Robert Prosky, and Vince Vaughn (in one
of his first roles).  All of the supporting cast was excellent.

If you like inspirational movies, or just movies about football (although
there is much more to this movie than just football), then I highly
recommend you see this film.  I hope that you enjoy it.  Thanks for
reading,

-Chris
<|_=00=_|>
Rudy is a story that pulls at every heart string and emotions you
possibly could have. Why? Well it doesn't have to do with the actors,
though they are all great. It doesn't have to do with the filming, it
isn't what draws us in. It is one thing. The one major fact.

The True Story. To watch and see how Rudy overcomes every obstacle he
faces. To see how Rudy truly triumphs, even if it isn't the best
possible success for someone, for Rudy it is everything.

This movie is a story that teaches a lesson. It is about football, but
it is about believing. Never giving up. Always giving it your all.

Rudy is a movie that gives us something to believe in. Believe.
<|_=00=_|>

To be completely honest, I was actually impressed with this film. It is
sweet, but there is an honesty and a strong sense of realism at the
heart of this film, which to me, provides the base of its appeal.
"Rudy", unlike the majority of films about athletes, paints a picture
of the real everyman (basically, the jock who isn't a jock) and it does
so in a way that is plausible from start to finish. Working hard,
eating, breathing and sleeping the game does not mean that you will
wind up the star quarterback. Rudy's struggles are genuine: his family
is poor and has never sent anyone to college, his grades are sub-par
(largely the result of an undiagnosed learning disorder), he can't
afford his junior college let alone Notre Dame and Rudy is, at
best,only a moderate athlete. It is in the way that he overcomes these
obstacles (not to mention the beautiful performance by Sean Astin)
which provides the refreshing realism which is at core of this film.
"Rudy" is what sports are really all about.

<|_=00=_|>

If this movie doesn't get you motivated, then something is wrong with
you. This movie proves that good things happen to people who work hard
and don't except the circumstances they are dealt. I've seen this movie
more than 30 times in my life, and i still cant get through the end of
this movie without getting tears in my eyes. Another thing this movie
teaches you is to listen to the people in your life who believe in you
and want you to succeed, don't listen to the people who want you to fail
and constantly remind you that your going to fail. "The best revenge is
success." One of my favorite quotes comes from this movie as well, when
the coach dan devine tells rudy and the rest of the team that "Nobody,
and i mean nobody, comes into our house and pushes us around."

<|_=00=_|>

One of my favorite football movies of 
all time, this film follows in the long tradition 
of great sports movies which can uplift 
the spirit through means other than 
winning the big game and getting the girl 
or some other typical Hollywood convention. 
The music, cinematography and acting 
was excellent in this film, especially 
considering the terrible film choices Sean 
Astin had before embarking on this movie. 
While this was really an homage to Notre 
Dame football, a person could really look 
at Rudy and see a little of themselves 
inside the relatively small man. Charles 
Dutton had one of the greatest speeches 
in the history of sports cinema, and he 
should have gained more notoriety for his 
performance in this film.
<|_=00=_|>

RUDY is the greatest football movie of all time. Wait, did I say 'football
movie'? I meant movie. Period. Between the gut-wrenching acting by Sean
Astin, tear-jerking moments of the climax, the miraculous true story of a
short man fighting to make his lifelong dreams come true, you'll be rooting
for Rudy throughout the film. Rudy's dream is a selfless act of triumph that
can do nothing but good for the entire human race. You can't help but ride
right along with Rudy for the roller-coaster of emotions that ensues,
leading up to the greatest moment of his life, a moment that will resonate
in the very fiber of your being. This movie shows that dreams really can
come true. If you put your mind (and body) to it, and if you have a big
enough heart, you too can accomplish anything! After watching this movie, I
was inspired to try just that much harder at everything I do, in hopes of
one day becoming half the man that Rudy is. This movie is genuine,
heart-felt emotion that will touch the inner depths of your soul. From the
biggest person to the smallest, one and all will be reaching for the tissues
after enjoying, nay, living, every moment of this film. Warning: don't watch
the movie alone. You'll want the extra arms in the room for when you're
hugging each other in celebration, and an extra voice erupting with cheers
for the single greatest movie hero of all time: RUDY.
<|_=00=_|>

I found the movie to be inspirational, a little cliched and always
interesting.  Sean Astin made me believe in the character he played and I
also enjoyed Charles S. Dutton.  You know how the movie will end, unless
you
were born yesterday, but its still satisfying and I wasn't ashamed to shed
a
tear....
<|_=00=_|>

This is a movie for everyone who ever felt like the little person,
overlooked by those who were bigger or more popular. "Rudy" had kind of a
lame title for a sports movie, and i remember the first time I saw a
preview
of it, I was totally moved and involved by the scenes and then guffawed
aloud at the end when the announcer intoned, "RUDY." That set the rest of
the theater laughing too, so imagine my surprise when i saw it a couple
months later and it was a 10 out of 10 in my book.
I'm not even a sports fan but this movie got me. It shows the power of
faith
to get by with any frustration in life, the performances are great and it's
a shame that Sean Astin had to wait eight years to get another great break
with "Lord of the Rings." His is a worldclass performance in this film, see
it as it is one of the most inspiring films you'll ever
see.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the most wonderful things a film can do is be so moving and
triumphant that it makes you cry. You aren't crying because Bambi mother's
was killed or because Jack Dawson went down with the ship; instead you are
identifying with the power of the human spirit. Rudy is an ordinary man, you
could even argue that he is less than ordinary in regards to his physical
tributes and academic capacity, but he achieves an extraordinary feat. He
leads with his heart, even when he doesn't fully understand why he is
putting himself through such perils. He seeks to prove himself to others, to
all those who doubted him and he thrives to achieve his goal for those few
who believed in him. And eventually, when he tested in his darkest moment,
his epipany comes: he needs to do this for himself.

Sean Astin is brilliant in his role as Notre Dame's most famous would-be
underachiever. He plays Rudy with such dedication and determination that it
is impossible not to be impressed by his perseverance, inspired by his
courage, and touched by his passion for the game. 

The story is wonderfully told by director David Anspaugh and writer Angelo
Pizzo. Jerry Goldsmith's score and Oliver Wood's cinematography truly
capture the power and beauty of the story. This film is an incredible
achievement. It touches its viewers right where it counts: in the heart. And
the film has its own emotional centre, its own eloquent theme which everyone
can identify with. We all have dreams, but we don't all strive to attain
them because sometimes our work ethnic does not live up to our aspirations.
As a result, Rudy is an inspiration to anyone who thought they couldn't hang
in there or don't think they have the potential to even try. You can do
anything you but your heart and mind to, it is just a question of
maintaining that integrity for the entire journey. 

Every single time I watch "Rudy", tears race down my face. This film makes
me want to strive for all that I thought I can be and attain the most
seemingly intangible achievements in life. It is important to have things in
life which help you to realize your dreams and persuade you to act on them.
"Rudy" is mine.
