
Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves is a movie that I've watched since I was
a little girl and I still to this day absolutely adore it. Now granted
I know that there was a few flaws with this film as I grew up and
noticed that maybe Kevin Costner's accent wasn't so British or
Christian Slater's. But if we all always complained about accents, I
think we wouldn't enjoy movies as much. I love Robin Hood because it
has action, adventure, romance, horror, magic, everything you can
imagine is in this film. Not to mention that I think we got pretty darn
good performances. My personal favorite is out of Alan Rickman as the
Sheriff of Nottingham, he is absolutely hilarious and a terrific
villain. This is my favorite Robin Hood story of all time.

Robin of Locksley, an English nobleman, is captured and jailed in a
dungeon in Jerusalem along with his comrade, Peter. With their
execution inevitable, Robin engineers an escape, saving the life of a
Moor, Azeem in the process; Peter dies in the attempt and has Robin
swear to protect his sister Marian. Robin makes the long journey back
to England with Azeem, who claims he must accompany Robin until the
debt of saving his life is repaid. In England, with King Richard I
gone, the cruel Sheriff of Nottingham rules over the land with fear,
aided by his brute cousin, Guy of Gisbourne along with the precognitive
evil witch, Mortianna , and the corrupt Bishop of Hereford. At Locksley
castle, Robin's kind father Lord Locksley has been killed by the
Sheriff's men, after refusing to join them for the Sheriff's unknown
but treacherous scheme. Robin and Azeem arrive to find Robin's formerly
luxurious abode of Locksley Castle destroyed and his father, murdered.
Lord Locksley's loyal servant, Duncan, has survived, though his eyes
were removed. With his lands and reputation gone Robin swears to avenge
his father's murder. Robin then begins by seeking out, Maid Marian, the
cousin of the king and his childhood friend. He is immediately
attracted to Marian, although she does not return the feelings, which
poses a problem because Nottingham also has his sights set on her.
While Robin, Azeem and Duncan escape the revenge seeking Gisboune and
his soldiers, they seek shelter in the Forest of Sherwood, where they
come across Little John, and a large group of woodsmen, all of whom
were outlawed through the tyranny of the Sheriff. After proving his
skill in single combat, Robin is accepted into their group and
eventually becomes their leader, though Will Scarlet, one of Robin's
men, is constantly undermining his leadership. Robin encourages his men
to fight back against Nottingham and begins to train them to defend
themselves while they build weapons and homes in the forest, it's their
time "to take it back".

If you haven't seen Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves I highly recommend
that you do, honestly I don't know why anyone would not enjoy this film
just a little bit. Like I said, it has everything to make a film great.
My favorite scene, hard to choose from so many, is the ending battle
scene where they discover that Robin Hood is alive and he is there at
the castle to save his beloved Marian, it's a great scene that keeps
you on the edge of your seat. So please just get past the accents, give
this movie a chance, it's a terrific story and a wonderful movie that I
will still watch and probably will even more so as I grow older.
Besides I have to just to see Alan Rickman threaten Robin Hood with a
spoon, lol, greatest threat ever.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

The summer of 1991 was a lousy one for movies; there were only a few that
stood out amid dozens of crummy releases. The only movies that summer that I
admired were 'Terminator 2,' 'Thelma & Louise,' and this one, which still
stands as one of the most entertaining action-adventure movies I've
seen.

No, it isn't a masterpiece, on any level. Yes, I realize that Kevin Costner
lacks a satisfactory British accent (he doesn't even attempt one). But the
movie is still a fun, rip-roaring piece of escapism, sort of like 'Raiders
of the Lost Ark,' only without the special effects.

Costner may seem miscast as Robin of Locksley, but there's no doubt that he
had the physicality and screen presence to convincingly hold our attention
as a larger-than-life hero. He'd just come off 'Dances With Wolves,' and so
it was a thrill to see him on horseback again (it still is, in 'Open
Range'). I'm willing to concede that he's no Olivier, but in the action hero
mold, he still cut an exciting figure.

I also enjoyed Alan Rickman's great, over-the-top portrayal of the Sheriff
of Nottingham. Out of place? You betcha. Fun? Funny? Wicked? Hey, that's why
we pay admission.

The sets are all dank and gloomy and wonderful. The action is well-staged
and had audiences on their feet all those years ago. Sherwood Forest is
appropriately dense and spooky-looking. OK, so the movie has Christian
Slater in it. I didn't say it was perfect.

'Robin Hood' marked the beginning of the end of Kevin Costner's unanimous
popularity with audiences. Everyone started playing the part of Hollywood
bean-counter and worrying about 'Waterworld's' budget. But you know what I
like about both these movies? No CGI. I am sick and tired of CGI movies.
Popping the deluxe 'Robin Hood' DVD into the old player is a refreshing
treat and a thumb in the eye of digital junk like 'Pirates of the
Caribbean.'


<|_=00=_|>

I have seen Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves so many times and yet it still
thrills me the 100th time as much as it did the first.  I just can't ever
get enough of this near perfect adventure film.

I've always cherished films set in medieval times.  There's just something
about the plights of the oppressed class and the simple heroics of the man
who steps forward to fight for honor and better lives for the dismal.  Then
there are the luxuriant castles, the dashing sword fights, the extravagant
costumes, the tragically beautiful princess he's destined to fall in love
with, and the evil power-hungry villain who will stop at nothing to be
King.

OK, it's a bit of a cliché, but this formula makes for the perfect escapist
film and one thrilling and emotional ride.  No, it isn't original, but it's
just got everything you'd ever want from a film.

The story of Robin Hood has been done so many times, and (unlike most of his
other roles) Kevin Costner is not only believable, but actually quite good
this time (well, except for the accent, but nobody's perfect).

Alan Rickman is just flawlessly devious as the Sheriff of Nottingham. 
Nobody could have done it better, and he also had the best lines ("Because
it's dull, it'll hurt more!")

This was sadly Kevin Costner's last great film, as he went on to star in
such duds as Waterworld and the dismal The Postman.  Christian Slater,
Morgan Freeman, Sean Connery, and especially Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio
give their all, creating a truly emotional and powerful film.  I don't
understand why the ratings are so low.

The ending is just beautiful.  I boo at the sheriff, cheer for Robin, and
cry during Robin and Marian's post-sword fight embrace every time, and you
will too if you ignore the cynics and give this adventure a
chance.

9/10

<|_=00=_|>

Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves was one of the best films of 1991, a triumph
even over the special effects hype of Terminator 2: Judgement
Day.

Despite the critics' complete and utter distaste for the film, I found it
fun, well-acted, and fast-paced.  Great performances abound including
Morgan
Freeman as the Moorish warrior Azeem, Alan Rickman as the hysterical
Sheriff
of Nottingham, and Kevin Costner as our stalwart Robin of
Locksley.

There are great action sequences including the battle against the hired
Celts and Nottingham's soldiers and the final confrontation at the climax
of
the film.

Finally, don't be put off by Costner's lack of an English dialect.  It
doesn't hurt the film at all, and is just something critics were instantly
attracted to, as it is their job to find faults.

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

Wow, this film seems to have annoyed some people. What a fuss about it being
historically inaccurate, or that Azeem found the Chinease invention of
gunpowder etc etc. WHO CARES! Don't nit pick at a film like this and you'll
enjoy it. As for Kevin Costner not having an English accent, I don't really
care, since it's a lot better then the other Robin Hood movie that was made
in England, and was unlucky enough to be released at the same time. (I think
it was simply called 'Robin Hood') OK,so Robin Hood IS supposed to be
English, and yeah, Kev Costner could at least have tried an English accent,
but if we're going to go that far, then they may as well have got an English
actor instead of an American one, but somehow, I don't think Costner could
have been bettered. He makes an excellent Robin Hood. Alan Rickman is
brilliant as the hilarious Sherrif of Nottingham ('Shut up you TWIT!')It's
great fun, and one of those film to watch with your feet up and a big bar of
chocolate.....


<|_=00=_|>
Although i turned my nose up at this film when first watched fifteen
years ago, a second appraisal and a few grey hairs later forces me to
see it for what it truly is; a great swashbuckling comedy romp.

As the pace built, my unease at the somewhat incongruous accents
dissipated and i was left to enjoy a great film with some fine
performances. Notably from Michael McShane as Friar Tuck and Alan
Rickman as the evilly comic Sheriff of Nottingham.

The pace of the film rarely slackens, building up to a rip roaring
finish.

Enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

 Robin Hood:Prince Of Thieves is an all-star rehash of one of cinema's
oldest and most popular stories. Kevin Costner takes the title role and
proves to be handsome enough and swashbuckling enough to do justice to the
role during the action scenes. However, during the film's quieter moments,
Costner's American accent grates a little amid the Sherwood Forest
surroundings.

 The story doesn't particularly need explaining, but for people who have
lived on Mars for their whole lives here it is. Robin of Locksley, a young
soldier, returns from the Crusades to find the city of Nottingham and its
surrounding area terrorised by the evil Sherrif of Nottingham (Alan
Rickman). Robin takes refuge in the nearby Sherwood Forest, where he gathers
a band of woodland outlaws who are always stealing money and treasure taken
by the Sherrif and giving it back to the poor. His dashing antics impress
Maid Marian (Mary Elisabeth Mastrantonio), a childhood friend, and he
quickly becomes popular with the poor and honest folk who nickname him Robin
Hood - Prince of Thieves.

 The film is very old-fashioned, but it occasionally gives away its 1991
release status with modern touches (the fancy camera-work in which the
camera is seemingly fixed upon an arrow as it is fired at a target; the
introduction of a Moorish warrior character [Morgan Freeman] to broaden the
film's cultural reference; Rickman's self-deprecating pantomimic turn as the
wicked Sherrif). On the whole, it is an entertaining film with a good
balance between the action and the romance. The best performance -
surprisingly - comes from Michael Wincott who oozes menace as the Sherrif's
despicable cousin Guy of Gisbourne. There are some quite significant factual
errors, the best (by "best" I mean "funniest") of which is when Robin and
his Moorish companion stand at the foot of the white cliffs of Dover and
Robin tells him: "by nightfall we will dine with my father!" Quite a feat,
since Nottinghamshire is about 200 miles away and this pair are travelling
on foot!
<|_=00=_|>

I've seen several Medeval era films, but none of  them are as fun to watch
as Robin Hood-Prince of Thieves. This is one of thoser enjoyable movies that
you are going to watch over and over. Okay, I'll admit that this movie is
predictable. However its fun to watch even though you can figure out what is
going to happen with the plot,after all who doesn't know the legend of Robin
Hood anyway-Right! Lets face it- and Be honest, there are no surprises in
the plot-you knew before you seen this film that he was going to steal from
the rich and give to the poor, and he was going to be at war with the
sherrif of Notingham. bit this film is just a fun joy-ride. the acting is
just okay, and the costumes are over exageratted.- however this films gives
you a good classic story, great stunts,very good action sequences, good
specail effects,an excellent music score, and several scenes of comic
relief. and its all packaged up as an action adventure that is Great Fun to
watch. I own a copy of this film and I will watch it on average 2 or 3 times
a year- this film never gets old to me. I recommend this film to any one
between the ages of 8 years old to 80 years old - you're gonna love it.(If
you liked this film also see a movie called "First Knight"-1995 an action
adventure/love story about Sir. Lancelot of Camalot)I give Robin Hood-Prince
of Thieves 5 out of 5 stars- A perfect film for your family, everyone in
your household will love it-and so will you.
<|_=00=_|>
Eight hundred years ago, Richard the Lionheart led the third Great
Crusade to reclaim the Holy Land from the Turks... Most of the young
English noblemen who flocked to his banner never returned home... The
film opens near Jerusalem in a terrible dungeon where Robin of Locksley
is about to show the 'English' courage...

Locksley manages to escape with a fellow prisoner, a Moor called Azeem,
and flees home to England... 

On his arrival to Britain, the prodigal son finds dark forces plotting
against his absent king... His father has been slain and his lands
confiscated by the evil Sheriff of Nottingham...

To evade Gisborn's soldiers, Locksley heads off to the supposedly
haunted Sherwood Forest, where he takes his chance with ghosts, and
where he is accosted by a band of outlaws...

Like Burt Lancaster in 'The Flame and the Arrow,' Costner tries to lead
the woodsmen in a revolt against injustice and tyranny, but misses the
youthful exuberance and passion of Dardo... 

Costner looks handsome as the legendary Prince of Thieves who must use
his mastery of archery, siege warfare, and combat strategy to rescue
his beloved damsel... 

Morgan Freeman looks great as Azeem, the wizard with uncommon clarity
of mind, who vows to repay Robin for saving his life... His knowledge
of science is a surprising blow... 

Mary Elizabeth Manstrantonio is Robin's beautiful and clever companion
whose love for the arrogant young nobleman led her to see him taking
her advice in Sherwood Forest...

Alan Rickman fluctuates between being a comic buffoon and a dangerous
madman... He plays the Sheriff of Nottingham who has no limit to his
ambitions... 

Christian Slater is the hot tempered 'turncoat' with enough reason to
hate Robin than any one else...

Geraldine McEwan is the ugly witch who saw the 'painted man' haunting
her dreams... 

Michael McShane is the natural charisma who would not strike a
fellowman of the cloth... In fact he will help him pack for his journey
with lots of gold...

Michael Wincott is the Sheriff's nefarious cousin who justifies his
intrusion with news of profound value: 'I met a hooded man today who
made me warn you not to harm his people.'

Nick Brimble is the best man of the woods who challenges Robin for his
sacred gold medallion...

Walter Sparrow is the loyal servant to the Locksleys who has lost his
vision by the Sheriff's own cruelty...

Harold Innocent is the corrupt churchman who accuses innocent men of
witchcraft and let them die...

There are beautiful, breathtaking, and amusing scenes: Robin's father,
dressed in his black battle armor on top his black stallion, preparing
to battle the 'men in masks'; sweeping shots of the English countryside
as Robin and Azeem escape Sir Guy of Gisborn and his soldiers; the bout
with quarterstaves across a stream; plenty of flaming arrows flowing
through the greenwood along with some exciting fighting; and like Burt
Lancaster in "The Flame and the Arrow," who pauses in the middle of a
frantic battle to plant a kiss on a kitchen maid, Alan Rickman plants
his kiss on Maid Marian in the middle of his frantic duel with
Costner...

The majestic cameo (one of the best in epic movies) at the end of the
film by a great, iconic figure, makes the movie just the right mix of
adventure, humor, and romance...
<|_=00=_|>
Oh dear.

Of all the many reviews I have done for IMDb, this is the one I most
dreaded having to pen.

Because to do this review, I knew I would have to re-watch the film, a
film I had spent some 25 years, a quarter century, trying to erase from
my memory.

But a job is a job. I not only intend to review the film but also, as a
public service, to warn future generations, and children of those
future generations, to avoid this production at all costs.

And, should you ever actually see it, possibly due to a streaming
malfunction, or a sticky key on your Personal Device, please do not
judge those of us from that era (the 1990s) too harshly.

We meant no harm. If you ever get a chance, have a peek at the
definitive work on the "MADNESS OF CROWDS" written by Charles Mackay in
1841. It is no specific justification for this film, clearly, but it
serves well as an apology for the circumstances that spawned it.

Sometimes, you see, Hollywood and the viewing public get caught up in a
collective fantasy about what entertainment is ... or, in this case, is
not. During these periods of madness, certain stars, good though they
may be, become insanely overexposed.

In the current generation, for example, it is Sam Jackson. (The man is
everywhere. I swear I bought a flat screen TV from him at a mall last
week.) 

In the 90s it was Costner. He was a yeoman actor, yes, but to think he
had the chops, or the athleticism, or the grace, or the youth, or even
the accent .... to play Robin Hood? PA-LEEZE! 

And then, sweet Mercy, there is the script. A script that should have
been destroyed before anyone blessed its lines with the immortality of
celluloid. A film that cannot decide if it is a comedy or an action
yarn. (The "Maid Marion Rape Scene" at the end, replete with jokes and
a musical score, could be lowest point Hollywood ever touched since the
silent film era.) 

Great yawning periods in the script ... where nothing happens. A "mass
hanging" scene where the laws of physics are temporarily suspended and
men who have effectively been hanged have to use their arms to support
their own weight while Robin figures out a plan.

Frankly I could go on but this review is painful enough.

As for those IMDb members, contemporaries of the original release, who
indicated this was "the best Robin Hood" they had ever seen, all I can
do is apologize on their behalf. Disco was ending. Computers were
coming into modern life. Pop Tarts were considered a complete
breakfast. They really were not in full control of their faculties.

Have you seen the Errol Flynn version? If not, please go to the Amazon
page and order it.

As for this version, we must never speak of it again. Ever.
