
..But that's not to say the movie is all-around great. It's a very
typical low-budget action flick. The story is pretty cookie-cutter as
far as action movies go. It isn't Shakespeare believe me. And the
acting is substandard at best. But Jeff Speakman to his enormous credit
is a very accomplished martial artist. And having studied Kenpo for
many years I can safely say that it's one of the most faithful films to
capture the art. And what is even more impressive is the way the film
portrays how Kenpo works when compared to different styles (like Tae
Kwon Do).

So despite some minor inadequacies it's pretty awesome in many other
respects. So for that I give it major credit. And to be honest it's a
fun, feel good flick. I would recommend it to any martial arts fan.
It's a good time.
<|_=00=_|>

Where can I learn to fight like that? This movie is fantastic. The fight
scenes are choreographed perfectly and make Speakman out to be a good
fighter, but not invincible(he does get hit a few times, quite nastily I
might add). This is much better than a Steven Seagal film where he never
suffers one blow from the bad guys.
The way Speakman moves is breathtaking. Its almost hard to believe that
what
he's doing is actually a martial art. But it is. And he does it so well.

The plot in this movie is simple: its just another revenge flick. This
makes
the movie easier to watch because you don't have to really watch the plot,
just the action.
Its rather disappointing that after this and Street Knight, speakman was
reduced to doing low-budget films. He deserves another big budget movie
like
this.
Fantastic action, fantastic martial arts choreography make this a 10/10
movie. If you haven't seen it yet you must WATCH IT NOW.
<|_=00=_|>

Jeff Speakman's performance in "The Perfect Weapon" is awesome. This plot is
able to magnificently interweave furious action sequences with the literary
theme of the return home. While the plot differs markedly from that of "The
Odyssey" by the epic bard Homer, there is still one vital thread that can be
explored: both heroes return home after a long exile to kick ass and reclaim
their positions in society. The ensuing list of possible contrasts and
comparisons is exhausting if not infinite. However, if one is to understand
one point, it is that in both works, martial arts are employed to signify
the process of social transition; the re-integration of the hero into
society. 

To be a little less formal, let use the martial arts aspect as a segue into
a nifty little observation. Jeff Speakman is a reasonably well known
proponent of Ed Parker's Kenpo Karate, developed in U.S. during the 1940s
and 1950s. "The Perfect Weapon" is an excellent primer on the power and
wisdom of this art. The clearest example of this exposition is at Master
Lo's Kenpo school, where Speakman learns both the skills and valuable lesson
he will keep with him for the rest of his life; the most important being the
difference between the tiger and the dragon. Yet, the movie is set in
Koreatown, where Tae Kwon Do is the martial art du jour. The korean flags
are prominent in the gym scene, and the references to Korean culture abound.
There appears then, to be a subtle not so subtle match up between Kenpo
Karate and Tae Kwon Do. The climax of this tension comes as Speakman
confronts Leo Lee (Bandana) in the gym, looking for a guy who is 'good in
Tae Kwon Do.' Does the ensuing three on one fight symbolize the clash of
fighting styles? No one will ever know what Ed Parker or Mark DiSalle wanted
to achieve here, but the contrast is too present to be simply a coincidence.

Alas, all reviews must end somewhere, and though I have much more to say, I
will end my two cents with a small criticism of the action in the film.
Anyone with a decent amount of martial arts experience will note that in the
final warehouse scene, the knife attacks are undoubtedly more akin to
training exercises than to real street techniques, but then again that may
have been purposely done. It is also worth noting that this author has
minimal training in Kajukenbo (an art based on Kenpo) and is far from an
expert in the field.  

The one thing that I can say with reasonable auctoritas is that this movie
is electric from start to finish.
<|_=00=_|>
Jeff Speakman(The master of kempo) made his debut in The Perfect
Weapon, in this he plays Jeff Sanders a construction worker/drifter who
brings vengeance to the Korean mobsters responsible for his
mentor(Mako)'s death, his cop brother Adam(John Dye) keeps trying to
tell Jeff that there are proper procedures but Jeff proceeds to hunt
and pulverize anybody who gets in his way. There was just something
about martial arts movies that I loved, something to this day I can't
put my finger on. The Perfect Weapon was made to rival Steven Seagal,
as Warner Bros had Seagal under contract, so Paramount introduced us to
Jeff Speakman. Speakman should have had a bigger career at least on the
basis of this, The Perfect Weapon features everything you would expect
from a martial arts action flick but also has a stronger narrative and
a sharper pace. That being said there are a couple of slow moments but
Speakman is always there to kick life into the movie and on this level
The Perfect Weapon works as a great guilty pleasure. Also Professor
Toru Tanaka makes for a great villain.

* *1/2 out of 4-(Pretty good)
<|_=00=_|>
Jeff Sanders (Speakman) has been training in Kenpo since he was a young
boy. At first, it was because his father wanted to direct all his
unruly, youthful energy. Now he's a Kenpo master who abides by his own
tagline, "no gun, no knife, no equal" (though technically he does use
Arnis sticks). When his friend, a shop owner named Kim (Mako) comes
under fire from the Korean mob, Sanders snaps into action. But will he
snap some necks along the way? Along his quest, he must utilize the
help of his brother, a cop named Adam Sandler...er...Sanders, and a
young punk kid named Jimmy (Fist of the North Star (1995) and Blood and
Bone (2009)'s Basco) but it's going to take all of Jeff's Kenpo skills
to fight off Yung (Hong), Kai (Tagawa) and the intimidating Tanaka
(played, unsurprisingly, by Professor Toru Tanaka). Is Jeff Sanders the
PERFECT WEAPON? Find out today...

The Perfect Weapon is the best Jeff Speakman movie we've seen to
date...and why wouldn't it be: it was his first starring role, as well
as being a major studio release tailor-made to showcase his Kenpo
talents to the world. As might be expected, the fight scenes are the
highlight of the production. Speakman clearly has "got game", as it
were, enough to compete with all his competitors at the time. The whole
thing is well-shot and you can see all the moves. Refreshingly, this
was before quick cuts, green screens and nu-metal corroded the action
genre. Sure, it slows down before the climax, but that's a common
action movie malady we've seen countless times before. There's the time
honored warehouse showdown, but this time employees still work there
and it's not abandoned. So there's a slight difference there.

Gumming up the works is the introduction of Jimmy, the classic young
punk kid. He gives his scenes with Speakman an unpleasant American
Ninja 5 (1993) vibe. He even un-ironically whines "are we there yet?"
at one point. Now, let's not forget Mariska Hargitay, TV's Olivia
Benson, is technically in this movie as well. Despite being top-billed,
she has literally zero spoken dialogue and appears only in brief
flashes. It would have been so much cooler if Speakman teamed up with
her to bust some heads in Koreatown. But no, there has to be an
annoying kid, and the movie goes slower with Jimmy.

At least the movie is well-made, and, plotwise, it's actually about
Kenpo, which gives the whole thing consistency. Yes, the whole thing
looks like it was shot on a backlot (there are some pretty obvious
sets), but some of them are cool - look at "Club Croc-Pit". Notably,
the film starts out with Speakman sweatily working out, shirtlessly, in
sweatpants, to Snap's "The Power". You just know he intentionally put
that song on because he believes it was written about him. You can't
get more 1991 than that. When I was eleven years old, I remember seeing
a commercial on TV for this movie, and even then, thinking, "another
one?" - meaning, I already knew about Arnie, Sly, Seagal, Van Damme,
and perhaps others involved in the late 80's/early 90's action boom,
and I was surprised "they" (meaning studio higher-ups) were rolling out
a new guy. How could I, or anyone, have known that the U.S. action boom
was about to go bust. We should really treasure what we have.

Director DiSalle has had an interesting career - he's only directed
this and Kickboxer (1989), but he produced Speakman's Street Knight
(1993), as well as Bloodsport (1988) and Death Warrant (1990). He wrote
the story for Kickboxer 2 (1989), acted in all five of the
aforementioned movies, and that's about it for him. Apparently he only
works with Speakman or Van Damme. Seems like a good way to go through
life. Anyway, The Perfect Weapon, despite a few flaws, would prove to
be the last theater-released movie from the action boom of the day.
That alone makes it worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
Jeff Speakman really shines in this early 90's beat em' up. He has a
lot of charisma, good screen presence and great fighting skills.
Directed by Mark DiSalle who made JCVD classics Bloodsport and
Kickboxer previous to this. When his family friend Kim is harassed then
murdered by the Korean crime syndicate, Jeff Speakman beats up many bad
guys on his mission for justice. The pace is quick with much well
choreographed martial arts action. The support cast is great with Mako,
James Hong, Professor Toru Tanaka, James Lew as well as many Asian
Hollywood regulars that worked during this period.If you like the Van
Damme and Segal movies of the late 80's/early 90's you will most likely
dig The Perfect Weapon. It is too bad Jeff Speakman did'nt make many
films with a decent budget. If he had the chance to do more projects of
the same caliber and quality as TPW, he would be a household name in
the action genre.
<|_=00=_|>
As Steve Segal's career began to decline, Jeff Speakman's was on the
rise. Of the various martial arts movies Speakman did,l this is by the
far the best, although Lord knows it is no masterpiece. There is very
little plot other than revenge, but the fight scenes are well done and
plentiful. Many familiar faces (Mako, James Hong, Toru Tanaka) are on
hand to support Speakman, who is about as good an actor as Segal, which
is to say not particularly good. But he looks great in the fight
scenes. A young and delectable Mariska Hargitay, later of L&O: SVU, is
along for the ride. Speakman was one of several actors that Hollywood
briefly employed to capitalize on Segal's success. None lasted all that
long. It took the arrival of Jet Li to spark new interest in martial
arts flicks.
<|_=00=_|>
This is my favorite martial arts movie. The plot is easy to follow,
which makes it good for non-martial arts viewers like me. Jeff has an
easygoing personality and is very easy on the eyes. There are some
elements of Asian-American meets Asian, and Jeff melts into that world
almost effortlessly. The opening scene is memorable as Jeff shows us
some of his martial arts moves in full condition, and has a good
opening song. The film never drags. Great movie for couples to watch
together as it isn't necessarily a "guy" film. Unfortunately, Jeff
never followed through on the promise he showed in this, his best film.
He later started doing mellow kind of dad movies. His time would have
been better spent developing his acting abilities, which are rather
wooden. But it's a good kind of b-grade acting.
<|_=00=_|>
When his mentor(Mako) is killed, Jeff(Jeff Speakman) plots revenge only
to find Korean mobsters and hoodlums. Training at the hands of an
instructor-master who trained him on lethal martial art skills and the
combat in Kempo Karate . He must exact his own form of justice turning
into the ¨perfect weapon¨. He's a new hero in Los Angeles , an avenger
who woos to revenge against the murderers.Jeff naturally takes on
multiple opponents , cleaning up nasties Koreans and he beats, punch,
knocks, kicks and defies the gravity with bounds and leaps.

The film packs lots of violence,action-filled,thrills, and fierce
combats with spectacular fighting.The story leave no cliché untouched,
and the struggles are well staged.The movie is starred by Jeff
Speakman, he's 6th degree blackbelt in American Kenpo Karate . He's
director of American Kenpo , an International Kenpo Karate organization
with more than 50 schools.This is his greatest hit but his career
failed in ¨C grade¨ movies(Hot Boyz, Deadly outbreak,Memorial day),
becoming himself a failed star.Secondary cast is formed by habitual
oriental good guys: Mako,Clyde Kusatsu and bad guys played by ominous
villainous with offensive racial stereotypes, such as Cary Hiroyuky
Tagawa, James Hong and Professor Tanaka. The Professor was a wrestler
who possessed incredible strength and was arguably the successor to
Harold Sakata(the Chinese baddie in James Bond vs. Goldfinger) as the
archetypal Asian Henchman. The motion picture is professionally
directed by Mark DiSalle who tried repeat similar success to
'Kickboxer-Jean Claude Van Damme', but he didn't achieve. The movie is
dedicated to Ed Parker and the spirit of Kenpo Karate. The result is a
strong entry for action buffs and martial art enthusiastic.
<|_=00=_|>
Another great, B level action film. Speakman is a great martial artist.
He can really rip up a group of Koreans in a club or on their own turf
at their gyms. He uses a lot of punches which I like cause after a
while guys look pretty silly flipping through the air with gravity
defying kicks that level small country sides. It had a few plot twists
which is rare for the caliber of movie it was, a deep history that
needed resolution and a club scene with exotic Asians. Who could ask
for more? Well OK maybe you could, but still this movie is pretty
sweet. Especially when they bring in Tanaka, that really big guy that
seems to dip his hand in every little karate or bond movie to come
around his olfactory senses. The ending was a bit anti-climactic but
Ill let you decide that.
