

Let's be clear on this one, this is a good film to watch. Picture quality is
more than adequate and the characters are very well developed. The first
prize has to go to the boy Isaiah himself who really was cute, no other word
to describe him. The story is well executed and of course does not fail to
raise emotion. What I query in the film is its political correctness. Any
normal person would expect the boy to remain with his adoptive mother, as
his biological mother had left him for, and even considered him, to be dead.
That his biological mother, on finding out he's alive, tries to reclaim him
seems normal. What is not normal, however, is that the courts give any
creedence to the idea that he should be given back to her, as it is implied,
on the sole grounds that he has the same colour skin as her
!!!
The rubbish spoken by her lawyer to the effect that "black babies should be
with black mothers" should have been shown to be the rubbish it is, but it
seems to come across as being the only argument that influenced the court's
decision as, no other factor seems to have warranted the baby being returned
to its biological mother. I am sure that if the roles and been reversed and
that it was a white baby abandoned in a trash can adopted by a black family,
the courts would have left it with its adoptive family on the basis that
"skin colour had no importance, only the love of a stable family". This last
hypothesis is, in my opinion, the just one, but it should be applied in all
cases, whatever the colour of the baby and whatever the colour of the
family. One get's the impression the director wants to "be good to the
blacks at all costs" even when the well-being of the child in this case
would dictate otherwise and I call this being a victim of political
correctness. Of course, the ending is "diluted" and we see Khaila calling
back Jessica Lange to look after the child when she realises that she can't
cope. Her behaviour throughout the film is quite plausible and quite
understandeable. What is not, it the behaviour of her attorney and the
courts. I am not an American but one of the great things about that country
is the mixture of origins which has gone to forge it - people of all colours
and races but all American.
Once you go down the line of wanting to make a black child have a black
doll, read obligatorily books about black characters, have black parents etc
etc, you are starting down the same path as the Ku Klux Klan many years ago
and it's not better but more of the same. To get back to the film, though, I
would highly recommend it but would warn viewers of its failing as described
above.
<|_=00=_|>

My comments have nothing to do with the obvious good acting skills, it's the
plot that bothers me.  Maybe it's because I'm from Canada where I don't
believe that racial issues play as important a part as in the United
States(of course racist attitudes exist in Canada), but I was completely
astonished that the colour of someone's skin was the deciding factor of
where a child belongs - that's completely unrealistic to me and that was the
ONLY point the biological mother's lawyer made.  

Give me a break!  As a mother, I understand that the only reason you have a
child is to give life to that child for it to be happy and "your ownership"
never plays a feeling moment because when you really love and care for a
child, you're ultimate feeling is for that child to be happy and you, as the
loving mother, always comes second - that child comes first! 

This particular movie explained the baby to be thrown in the garbage and
that fact was never brought out in court.  It's not about race/money - this
movie was unrealistic and for those who think the biological mother was
right -- ask yourself if you're thinking of the child or a selfish adult who
cannot grow up and admit a mistake and try and make it better by considering
the child's feelings at this point.  Wouldn't it be better if the biological
mother introduced herself slowly into the child's life and not turned his
world upside down at an age where he only looks for security???  And, the
biological mother never once thanked the adopted mom for saving her baby's
life and taking care of him.  Again, I found this movie unrealistic and
disturbing that the torment of a child would be allowed, especially by
someone who says they "love" them - that's not love, that's
selfishness!

As for the ending -- the biological mother shouldn't have won, period.
---imagine, the poor kid never would have went through the torment. -- a
mother even gradually brings their child to daycare before they leave their
child for just a couple hours! 
<|_=00=_|>

Try watching this movie sometime with a white woman who is the adoptive
mother of an African-American child.  I happen to baby-sit such a family and
watched the movie with the kids' mother.  I don't know how she sat through
it without throwing something at the screen-not that this is necessarily a
criticism.  This film is very thought-provoking, though I think for the
wrong reasons.  The main focus is all about color and whether people should
raise children of different races.  Jessica Lange's character had a small
speech in the courtroom about how love makes a family more than race, but it
was just glossed over and the focus of the film went right back to race
defining families.  Maybe I just see this differently because of my close
association with a family where the parents and one child are white and the
other child is not, but family is not about race-corny as this may sound, it
really is about love and support.  The ending, as some other reviewers have
said, is very wishy-washy.  My viewing companion and her husband, who joined
us at the end, liked it because they want to have a good relationship with
their daughter's birth mother.  I agree with them on that, but if the movie
is going to deal with legalities so much, it should resolve those legalities
at the end of the movie.
<|_=00=_|>

I come from a family of 3 children, 2 adpoted and have to applaud this
movie
for doing a good job of pointing out that being a parent isn't about
giving
birth or "donating" sperm. A child always belongs with a family that loves
him- it shouldn't be about color, or wealth or any other irrelevant
factors.
It's about responsibility and love. Any one can have a baby, not everyone
can be a parent. There are certainly some stereotypes and the movie goes
to
the extreme point of a mother who literally throws away her baby to a
family
that is white, wealthy and kind to the child. The movie does this for
dramatic purposes and succeeds in provoking a response from the many
viewers
who have seen this movie, as reviews will show. The movie also manages to
enrage without even engaging the color issues. When Khaila's character
tells
her lawyer, "but I'm his mother" and insists on her "parental rights" it
isn't even about color but about what is important about being a mother.
Her
character thinks that giving birth gives her rights over this tiny human
being, (well played by Marc) when even children should be viewed as human
beings with rights themselves. Parents who view children as possesions are
wrong. I am "white" my husband is Mexican- does our child belong with one
or
the other? Khaila's lawyer says, "black babies belong with black mothers."
Is that what we want to teach? Segregation? Doesn't work for me. Babies of
any color belong with the people who take care of them and love them.
That's
what being a parent is. 
<|_=00=_|>

I hesitated in seeing this movie for a long time because I knew that,
whatever the outcome, I would be unsatisfied. However, I am willing to
admit
that I was wrong and the movie is a fairly accurate account of
unconditional
love and by the end, I was in tears.  Fine acting all around.

<|_=00=_|>
Losing Isaiah is a movie that attempts to deal honestly with the issues
of interracial adoption. Its portrayals are most always right on the
mark. Halle Berry is almost unrecognizable (of course, her natural
beauty gives her away) in the first part of the film. She is compelling
as the "gone straight" crack addict that threw her son away. Jessica
Lang gives a strong performance as the social worker who dotes on
Isaiah to the point that she almost forgets her own daughter. The best
part of this movie, however, is the ending, when love for the child
pushes all other differences to the side. For all the movies that waste
our time, this one helps to make up for it.
<|_=00=_|>
LOSING ISAIAH is a moving and well-acted drama that takes a hot-button
issue to an emotionally manipulative level but will involve you to the
point of taking sides. Halle Berry plays a crack addict who, one night
desperate to get high, leaves her newborn baby in a pile of garbage and
when she returns after her mission, finds the baby gone. The baby is
rescued and is eventually taken home and raised by a sensitive social
worker (Jessica Lange) who decides to raise and adopt the hyper-active,
crack-addicted baby as her own. In the meantime, Berry gets clean,
wants her baby back and takes Lange to court to regain custody of her
son. This is an involving story that provides a balanced account of an
emotional issue and if you're really paying attention, you will find
your alliance with the protagonists in this story switching from time
to time. Lange is solid, as always, and Halle Berry works hard at being
convincing as a reformed junkie. Strong support is provided by Samuel
L. Jackson and LaWanda Richardson (the real-life spouse of Jackson)as
Lange and Berry's attorneys, David Straithern as Lang'es husband, and
Daisy Prince as Lange's daughter. No matter how hard you try to remain
neutral, this film will suck you in and find you taking sides.
<|_=00=_|>
I've avoided watching the film for the longest time; at first it didn't
appeal and then, as dad in a white couple with two adopted mixed race
sons, I was disturbed by the premise.

I was sitting in a hotel room and it came on and I watched it; that I
continued to watch it is a testament to the quality of the film. Where
does it leave me? More scared than ever that something could happen and
my children could be removed. I am a firm believer that logic and
reason have little to do with family court decisions.

The ending is interesting. My heart kept saying to Jessica Lange, don't
go, it'll only cause pain. On the other hand I would do anything for my
sons, even if it meant me being in pain... so perhaps I would do the
same as her and go.

What really bothers me is Halle Berry's motivation, it seems to be pure
selfishness on her part to disrupt a family, 4 years after Isaiah's
placement. I can understand her desire to be part of his life, I am
sure the mothers of both my sons think of them on occasion and I hope
they are secure in the knowledge that their children are being raised
as lovingly as is possible. So, would a mom do what she did? Perhaps,
but I have to ask is it out of love or some sense of pride!
<|_=00=_|>
I think the plot of this movie was unrealistic though the acting was
excellent and it made me cry towards the end. In reality, you can see
that the Lewins were better fit to raise Isaiah than Khaila. I don't
think a real court would ever give a child like that to its biological
mother considering her background! Maybe if she found a job good enough
to support a child before taking the case to court I would've rooted
for her more. In real life a woman like Khaila can't compete with
parents like the Lewins. The only thing I saw wrong with the Lewins was
that they didn't read to him multicultural books or showed him any real
pictures of people of different skin color so he could learn more about
himself.
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing this I had mixed feelings about it. Nobody could argue
with the acting and Halle Berry Fans who may not be aware of this
film(it's from awhile ago) may want to see it but (and I have to stop
here and out) MAJOR ENDING SPOILER!!!!!

The movie kind of lacks credibility because of the unreal quality of
the ending. In real life it just usually would not happen like this.
While it's perfectly OK for movies to be unrealistic in this case the
movie starts off to gamely tackle a very important REALISTIC issue that
a lot of humans go through. The ending was not only unrealistic it was
almost implausible.

I was quite young when I first saw this and at the time I was glad it
ended as it did because the movie was heartbreaking enough so being
young I WANTED a nice cut and dried Hollywood ending.

But now being all grown up and seeing the agony real people go through
in this situation I'm not sure the ending was as good as I thought
then. Of coarse it would be really REALLY difficult for the writers to
end it any other way and thus appear to take sides. So they chose to
play it safe. I think the movie would, however have been taken more
seriously had it maybe been done a little differently though of coarse
that would have come with it's own set of problems.

Maybe Losing Isaiah was a movie that was just to ahead of its time.
