
I have watched the movie twice, once with my wife and once with my
children.

It is a great movie and totally undeserving of some of the juvenile
comments posted here.

It is a story of a 12 year old extremely undersized boy who is a freak
to many, a best friend to another and ends up being a hero. All through
the movie he talks of God having a plan for him and that his small
stature is a part of that plan.

Don't compare it to the book it is "suggested" from. Neither does
justice to the other.

Don't miss it.
<|_=00=_|>

Fantastic movie! I had avoided this one in the theaters last Fall because of
the theme. Consider this movie in light of the other "suffering child" movie
that came out around the same time, "Patch Adams." Bless those "Patch"
folks, they really tried, but that movie was dense, depressing, and the
characters were tedious if implausible. "Simon Birch," however, succeeded in
every sense. It evoked the late 1950's and early 1960's very well. Not just
the look of an American small town, but the vibe of the folks, especially
the adults, rang very true for me (I was there, same age as the Joe
character). The movie itself was wonderful to look at, and easy to lose
one's self within.

The other key aspect of the movie was title character, Simon. When I first
saw the previews for this, I thought that it could be good, but it could
also be awkward and painful to watch. There is a place for painful and
awkward movies, I suppose, but most often I choose to avoid them. When I
rented the DVD of "Simon Birch," I was willing to watch, but was still
expecting it to be somewhat of an ordeal, like taking bitter medicine. I was
so surprised! It does convey the considerable pain of the characters'
circumstances, yet it is also a story that is fluid with grace and
tremendous joy. I was touched, and I was also happy and uplifted. The entire
cast was stellar, especially the young boys who played Simon and Joe.
Everyone was awesome. What an accomplishment! I gave it a
10.
<|_=00=_|>

Simon Birch is an amazing, touching and emotional drama about 12 year old
Simon Birch, a small boy who can't grow and believes he has a destiny. The
movie is one of the most amazing movies I have ever seen. It's a very well
made movie and VERY sad, especially the ending which had me in tears. There
were even a couple of funny bits here too, like the scene at the school
play.  

Simon Birch is played brilliantly by the amazing Ian Michael Smith who gives
a fantastic and touching performance. I REALLY hope to see more of him in
the future. Joseph Mazzello also gives a great performance as Simon's best
friend, Joe Wenteworth. Oliver Platt is also really good here too as Ben
Goodrich. 

Like I've already is Simon Brich is a brilliant movie and should be watched
by everyone of all ages as it's really amazing. It's one of those movies
which deserved some Oscar winnings. I give Simon Birch a 10/10. See this
movie now, if you haven't already.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is by far one of the most moving, well filmed and acted films
I have seen in many years. The touching story shows the life of young
Simon played perfectly by Ian Michael Smith in a very small, and not
always understanding community. It is set beautifully in the 1950s and
shows how the inner strength and enormous faith shown by such a little
boy afflicted with so many physical problems can have such an influence
on those around him along with the respect he would command amongst his
piers. The film also stars well known child actor Joseph Mazzello who
plays Joe Wenteworth ( Simon's best friend.) Mazzello also starred in
Jurassic Park, The River Wild, The Curse etc I think this was Joseph's
finest performance yet. It was also very nice to see a cameo
performance by Jim Carrey as the grown up Joe, and to see how Jim can
be a very convincing serious actor too ! I would like to see more roles
of this type from Jim for maybe the years to come ?

The photography was so well executed, and showed such lovely changing
seasons through the year it was set. For me there were so many 'post
card 'scenes. The pop songs of the 50s used blended perfectly with the
film, and also had one of the most lovely and very memorable
soundtracks too written by Marc Shaiman.

I must recommend this film to all who have not yet seen it. It scores a
10 on the 'weepie' scale too so be warned !!

<|_=00=_|>
This film is a coming of age piece about a young man with obvious
disadvantages that would have beat down most people. Yet he manages to
find God's plan for him while showing those who doubted him that he had
the right stuff all along. There are other subplot misdirections but
that is the main thrust.

Ian Smith, who plays the title lead, is very small in stature, but he
has giant talents. I'm surprised he hasn't been cast in other films
yet.

An engrossing, sometimes funny and sometimes sad film that I found to
be remarkably well made. Everyone involved should be proud of it. One
of the better little films I've seen lately and frankly it is better
than some major films release lately. Very pleasantly surprised when I
stumbled onto it on WGN and plan to view it again uninterrupted on DVD
as soon as I can. Why haven't I heard of this film before? An excellent
screenplay, skillful direction, plus tight period music, art direction
and wardrobe add up to a great early 60's feel. Natural editing, good
casting, clear sound even during the big exciting scenes show this to
be a well made film all the way around. This is a film for adults about
guys growing up physically and emotionally. This is not suitable for
children under 18. Not because there is something they shouldn't see in
this movie, but instead because they just won't get it.

I saw it last night and I'm still chuckling to myself now and then
about the Christmas play scene. Thanks to all involved for making a
really, really good movie! It has some laughs, but also made me stop to
question what God's plan for my life might be. It restored some of my
faith that He does have a plan for those of us who are willing to give
Him a chance to lead us to our opportunity to become His instrument. If
none of that makes sense to you, you haven't seen this movie!
<|_=00=_|>

There was something that compelled me to see this movie.  I don't know what
it was, maybe subliminal messages in the TV ads or something.  After all,
why would I watch a movie like this when some of my favorite films are
"Blood Sucking Freaks", "Nekromantik", and "Cutting Moments"?

Anyhow, I eventually rented this movie and watched it, and to my surprise, I
really enjoyed it.  The story was very well acted, well written, and
tear-jerking.

Sure, there were a FEW flaws, which was why I rated it with an "8", such as
some ridiculous, unrealistic plot twists, and the film's attempt to be TOO
upsetting.  It was like the director/writer said "All right.  We're gonna
make this film for the sole purpose of having our viewers cry, dammit!  And
we're not just gonna have 'em cry once, we're gonna MAKE them cry THROUGHOUT
THE ENTIRE LENGTH OF THE MOVIE!  And they're gonna like it, dammit!"  (Not
that I cried THIS much, but you can tell they obviously
tried.)

All in all, a good film that shouldn't be avoided.
<|_=00=_|>

A film of many charming features, indeed, but what struck me as the most
impressive quality of it, was its delicate balance between comedy and
tragedy. Strolling ahead on a tight rope, with abyss on either side - that
of despair and that of burlesque - and never falling. It even succeeds in a
most daring balance between pity and parody.

Portraying a boy with such a severe physical handicap, and with terrible
parents at that, would normally tie any director's hands and feet, and the
result would be sweet, at best. In this film, though, we are even allowed to
smile at the odd clashes between the normal and that which is not, and laugh
at the situation comedy evolving. The result is endearing, truly
compassionate.

And the acting is tremendous, especially from Joseph Mazzello and Ian
Michael Smith, the two boys in a very odd couple friendship. Mazzello is
breathtaking in scenes of such emotional complexity that most actors would
be wise to find an easy way out. I have no idea how he does it, but
certainly it is by talent - no schooling gives that kind of
tools.

The plot is overly complex, with several 'deus ex machina' events uncalled
for, et cetera - probably in fear that the skilled balance of the film and
the nerve of the acting would not suffice. But they do, and then
some.
<|_=00=_|>


A lad with stunted growth who holds out with brave optimism and sheer
good-naturedness is able to go through school life and survive any
antagonisms with aplomb, indeed, forging an inseparable friendship, as he
approaches his twelfth and fatal year.

Beautifully told story, with excellent photography and good music keeping
just the right atmosphere, this is a film which might have some downgrading
it to a simple `tear-jerker' and reaching for inexhaustible supplies of
paper-handkerchiefs. But the story-line is more subtle and more carefully
played out, such that in effect the film does not even try to pull out any
angst from those softer-at-heart: the acting itself - especially that of Ian
Michael Smith - and the focussing of the story rises above this. However,
this is of course a `feel-good' story, though the end might leave you
thinking otherwise.

Once again, how nice to see an attractive film without violence or sex being
the main protagonists.

I would not mind trying to find the book................

<|_=00=_|>

There are a lot of people who will see this and probably not understand
its
message,but then again there are a lot of people who will see it and
realize
movies such as this come along very rarely.Simon Birch is a man within a
boys body with a specific purpose and a simple message for mankind.You
see,Simon is a little different from other boys his age,but then again,so
was all of God's chosen.He's a little of all of us to be sure,yet he has
one
thing that few have.Simon is blessed with unmoving,solid as the rock its
founded on FAITH.Nothing anyone says or does will change this.He will be
picked on,poked,prodded,and teased but this fact will ever remain.The
brotherly love that bonds Simon and his best friend will remind you of
times
long thought forgotten and memories you will treasure always.Its rare
indeed
that a movie will make you laugh,cry,and otherwise feel that true love for
life and mankind exists in this world as it is today.This movie is that
special.Just like Simon.
<|_=00=_|>
When i watched this movie it was the most moving,movie ever. the ending
of the movie was the so sad but happy at the same time. i loved how
Simon asked Joe if he could go before passing away, it was so
beautiful, to me it showed the loyalty that the boys had for each
other. the way that the boys were they for each other no matter what
and were

best friends forever was really inspiring to me.this really opened my
eyes to see people for what they r on the inside not on the outside i
love it!! its the best movie ever!! I'm even buying it so i can watch
it over and over again!!
