
The criminals Rock Keats (Damon Wayans) and Archie Moses (Adam Sandler)
are best friends and have been stealing cars together for one year.
Archie invites Rock to join the gang of the drug lord Frank Colton
(James Caan) without knowing that Rock is indeed the undercover
detective Jack Carter, assigned to get evidences against Frank. During
the police raid against a heroin shipping of Frank, Archie accidentally
shoots Jack in his head. Once recovered, Jack declares Archie his
enemy, and arrests him. But the former mates have to join forces
against Frank's gangsters and many dirty cops.

"Bulletproof" is a very funny police story, with a great timing and
pace. There is a great chemistry between Damon Wayans and Adam Sandler,
the good story has many twists and jokes, the cast is charming,
especially the gorgeous Kristen Wilson and this is the second time that
I watch this film and I still like it. This movie seems to be
underrated in IMDb, with some very unfair reviews, and it is a great
entertainment. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "À Prova de Balas"("Bulletproof")
<|_=00=_|>

This movie, I think, is one of Sandler's best and I laughed my A off. I've
watched it probably 15 times and I still laugh. I think the characters were
well formed and the comedic chemistry between Sandler and Wayans was really
entertaining! I think Archie Moses was a cute and fun character(especially
when he used this Budweiser dog as a hostage and then out of guilt he lets
the mutt go).I also love it when he and Keats are at each others throats one
minute and then best buds the next. My favorite line in the whole movie is
when Keats and Moses are pulled over by the cops and Moses has to pretend
he's mentally challenged and while pulling a dopey face he says
"Disneylaaaaaaaaahhhhhnd." Hillarious. James Caan made a brief cameo as
Sandler's notorious boss, Coulton and that was cool too.This movie is no
Academy Award winner, but so what! It made me laugh and dispite other
reviews it is my favorite Sandler, tied with The Wedding Singer and Happy
Gilmore off course. Very, very humerous.
<|_=00=_|>

I really didn't find anything that bad in this movie, it has some big
names
and really entertaining. I found Adam Sandler's character Archie funny,
along with Damon Wayans formed a good team. James Caan as the bad guy was
a
nice choice. The only thing I didn't like about this movie was the ending,
but nothing that big to gripe about this is worth renting if you like
Sandler, cussing, and fun action.
<|_=00=_|>

I think Bulletproof may be a better movie than Billy Madison, but outside
that it's the worst Adam Sandler movie yet. First there are quite a few
scenes of dumb dialogue none of which are funny. And second this movie has
some bad action sequences. In the end this movie can't seem to make it's
mind if it's an action movie or a  comedy and who really cares. *1/2 out of
**** for Bulletproof!
<|_=00=_|>

Bulletproof is one of those movies that the critics are obviously going to
give a blow and thumbs down, but in reality, I really had a good time
watching Damon Wayans and Adam Sandler dodging bullets, cussing each other
out, just basically getting on each others nerves.

An undercover cop named Rock Keates (Damon Wayans) is planning to arrest
long time friend Archie Moses (Adam Sandler) on drug accounts. When the bust
goes terribly wrong, Keates is ACCIDENTLY shot in the head by Moses. Days
later, Moses is arrested by the survived Keates and both are put into a
danger situation with an airplane. After the plane crashes in the desert,
Keates and Moses annoy each other the whole way down.

Damon Wayans (My Wife and Kids) and Adam Sandler (Big Daddy) star in this
hilarious comedy that will have you laughing!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is about friendship and betrayal. Both of the major
characters in this movie are betrayed by their closest friends, and
come to understand what it is really like to be betrayed. One of them
is an undercover cop while the other is a criminal, but also quite
timid, but has joined forces, and then earned the emnity, of a major
drug lord.

The movie opens with the cop and Archie Moses as best friends stealing
a car, but we quickly learn that the cop is an undercover cop who is
trying to bust a drug dealer who owns a huge car dealership. Moses then
brings the cop to the factory and it is discovered that he is a cop and
the police raid the place. The cop wants to protected Archie, but due
to an accident, Archie shoots him in the head. Months later, the cop
has fallen in love with his therapist and Archie is running from the
drug lord. He is found by the police but requests that this cop return
and escort him back.

There isn't much to say about this movie other than how they begin as
best friends, but after the truth is revealed, Archie cannot trust him
anymore. The cop in upset because Archie shot him, but does not want to
believe that it was an accident. We also know that somebody else is
tipping them off, but we do not know who, but the movie is about the
friend's betrayal, and is summed up in Archie's comment to the cop,
"now you know how it feels to be betrayed by a friend." The drug lord
is interesting because he also owns a used car yard and we always see
his advertisement on television. It is as if this guy is flaunting
himself in front of everybody, and those who know the truth about him
are frustrated because they cannot get at him. Archie has the evidence,
but the guy wants Archie dead because of his relationship with the cop.

This is not a bad movie, but Adam Sandler has done far better. It is
not really a comedy, more of an action movie, and though Sandler does
act weirdly, this movie does not stand out in my opinion.
<|_=00=_|>

Mixing hard, violent action and yuk-yuk humor is very difficult to do
successfully, and this movie proves it. Though I like action, and I like
comedy, I just don't find the sight of people being bloodily blown away
hilarious, as this movie seems to think. The action scenes are bland.
There
is some humor, but it's pretty spotty. Bottom line: only watch if you have
nothing else to do and no other choice.
<|_=00=_|>

Bulletproof is one of the funniest and action filled movies I have ever
seen
in a long time, and Damon Wayans and Adam Sandler are a great team, and
James Caan is also good as the drug boss Frank Colton. The whole cast kept
me laughing, and the action kept the adrenaline running.

4 out of 5


<|_=00=_|>
Starring Adam Sandler and Damon Wayans, the former a criminal, the
latter a cop, plot sees the mismatched pair thrust together to bring
down a criminal kingpin (James Caan). So it's all set up nicely for a
high energy action comedy from the realm of buddy buddy bonanza. Sadly
it has energy to burn but the execution of the comedy is weak to the
point the makers have to resort to the base level of comedy writing to
try and get laughs. 

The odd line raises a chuckle, but quite often this is followed by a
period of inanity, which in turn is followed by a ballsy action
sequence (the makers very aware they quickly need to keep the
demographic genre fans back on the clock). All this while a budding
bromance - that's coupled with some lame homophobic undertones (a
revolver up the butt gag? Seriously?) - threatens to turn it into the
Brokeback Mountain of the buddy buddy action genre of film. Hell! the
screenplay even has the whiff of misogyny about it. 

The stars are badly served by poor writing and direction, but they
themselves are guilty of offering up a chemistry free movie that dulls
the senses during all the interim talking sequences. It's hard to
believe this is the same pair of actors who have The Wedding Singer and
The Last Boy Scout on their respective curricula vitae. This is a waste
of talent and a wasted opportunity for something fun and exciting. A
pic only marginally saved by its shoot-outs and fisticuffs (for the so
inclined of course). Oh and what was James Caan thinking? Working for
food or what? 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
I believe this movie was highly, highly underrated. Sandler and
Waynes(spelling?) work amazingly together, in my opinion. It seems that
for some reason this year this movie was overlooked, maybe because of
Happy Gilmore, which is a possibility.

Definitely one of the better action/comedies of the 90's, as you can
see I feel strongly about it. The plot is very interesting, and there
definitely are some twists and turns that do keep you guessing. As you
can see from this movie Sandlers career went uphill, as Waynes seems to
have fallen. This movie reminds me a lot of Nothing to Lose (starring
Martin Lawrence) and other movies of the sort. I don't know what it is
but I have a soft spot in my heart for the 90's action/comedies.
