
Since Zoolander was released, I think I can safely say that it's become
one of the most popular dumb comedies of the past ten years (a decade
that was all too saturated with dumb comedies). Maybe it's the
tongue-in-cheek attitude, or the clever writing, or the fact that it's
immensely quotable ("I'm pretty sure there's more to life than being
really, really, ridiculously good looking"). But whatever it is, it
makes for a terrifically fun movie.

Ben Stiller is Derek Zoolander, three-time male model of the year,
whose brainpower never quite caught up to his really, really ridiculous
good looks. After losing his title to up-and-coming model Hansel (he's
so hot right now), played by a Zen-ed out Owen Wilson, and the death of
three of his model friends in a tragic gasoline fight accident, he goes
on a quest to find his purpose in life. Turns out, his purpose in life
is as the face of Mugatu (Will Ferrel with the world's best hair)'s new
Derelicte fashion campaign--or so he's led to believe.

The plot is not strong. The characters are not fleshed out. But Ben
Stiller keeps Derek's stupidity hysterical instead of irritating, and
the rest of the cast adds gimmick after gimmick to keep things running.
(Come on, the coal mines of New Jersey? Tell me that's not funny.)
<|_=00=_|>

Derek Zoolander is stupid. So is his movie. But by no means, is Zoolander
humorless.
Directed by and starring Ben Stiller, Zoolander is a very funny movie, if
you know what to expect.
Based on a character that Stiller created for the 1996 VH1 Fashion Awards,
Derek Zoolander was originally intended to satirize the fashion industry.
The movie does no less and as a result, has received some very negative
patron reviews. Audiences went into Zoolander expecting another Ben
Stiller,
Meet the Parents-type comedy, and when they got an offbeat movie about the
fashion industry's plot to assassinate the prime minister of Malaysia,
they
didn't know how to react. To enjoy Zoolander, one has to forget all
expectations and see the movie for what it is supposed to be: ridiculous.

Derek Zoolander (Stiller) is the fashion industry's number one male model,
but his career is slouching and boy beauty Hansel (Owen Wilson) provides
tough competition. Fashion designer Mugatu (Will Ferrell) takes advantage
of
this and Zoolander's stupidity, and brainwashes him to kill the Malaysian
prime minister, after he put an end to vital fashion industry
sweatshops.
The talented cast and an excellent soundtrack add absurdity to the already
farcical plot. Zoolander gives both Ferrell and Wilson the opportunity to
do
what they do best. For Saturday Night Live's Ferrell that is embracing and
developing the demented, while for Meet the Parents' Wilson, it is the
chance to play a comedic, confident, character role. Stiller's father and
wife also appear in supporting roles, with Jerry Stiller as Maury
Ballstein,
Derek's agent, and Christine Taylor as Matilda Jeffries, a TIME magazine
reporter. Jerry Stiller, like Wilson, always manages to find humor in
every
role he plays, and in Zoolander this remains especially true. Taylor,
being
a veteran of the Brady Bunch movies, is not stranger to satire
either.
Well-chosen and placed music adds laughs and heightens the tone and feel
of
the movie. With songs ranging from Wham!'s `Wake Me Up Before You Go Go'
playing as cruising music for Derek and his male model friends, and
Michael
Jackson's `Beat It' as the background music for a face-off between Derek
and
Hansel, any remaining seriousness is diminished.
And yet even more surprise and absurdity is added by the many unexpected
cast members and cameo appearances. Others appearing in Zoolander include
David Duchovny, Jon Voight, Vince Vaughn, Andy Dick, David Bowie, Cuba
Gooding Jr., Winona Ryder, and even Ralph Lauren's own male model, Tyson
Beckford.
I can understand people disliking this movie; it is temperamental. This is
the kind of movie that varies depending on the audience and a person's
expectation. Generally though, if you keep an open mind and realize that
it
is not meant to be serious in any way, your view of the movie shouldn't go
anywhere but up.
Zoolander is absurd, ridiculous, and overall, an incredibly stupid movie.
I
suggest you see it.


<|_=00=_|>

I gave this movie a 9/10 for this reason, if you have seen the previews,
you
know what you are going to see. You are going to see a movie that is
exactly
the kind of humor that the preview TELLS and SHOWS you it contains. They
don't expect Oscars, and arent even trying for them. This movie is not to
be
taken seriously, its for FUN, people. The movie's main characters did
great
jobs, and had good charisma between them, there were tons of other actors
putting in small bits (some of which were amazingly funny, I laughed out
loud in a few parts, and I almost never do that). There were some truly
funny moments, moments I found much funnier than I thought the film would
be. When I told friends and family I saw it they all said, `You did?' when
I
said I liked it they said with even more incredulity, `You did?!' because
I
don't like certain kinds of stupid humor. I liked the Three Amigos, but
hated Austin Powers. Potty humor doesn't do it for me. But this movie was
surprisingly witty and funny without thinking it had to be disgusting to
be
humorous. There were a few parts I could have lived without, gladly, but
overall you get what you think you are going to get, and
more!
<|_=00=_|>

Released a few short weeks after Sept. 11, Zoolander became the target of
"this is why they hate us" diatribes. I didn't see it until months later
and
immediately recognized what I can only hope I would have seen if I had
watched it earlier--that this is a superb satire/farce.  There aren't many
movies that manage to be both silly and smart at the same time, and this
is
one. It is not only a send-up of the modeling and fashion industries,
admittedly easy targets, but of our whole image-obsessed culture which
commodifies love, spirituality, patriotism, heroism just as easily and
unthinkingly as it does kitchen appliances. This is not a "stupid" movie,
even though it is about stupid people and stupid situations. It keeps the
targets of its satire within its sights at every moment, never letting
that
focus flag to pursue maudlin subplots, but at the same time, it is
unfailingly hilarious, with marvelous comic acting, sight-gags, sets, and
costumes. The screen is just packed with visual jokes at almost every
moment. This is not a movie that anyone needs to be embarrassed to watch
or
enjoy. But it is also just plain damned fun!
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw this I was expecting a total disaster of a movie.
Persuaded by my older brother, I rented it and watched with a skeptical
mind. I like Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson OK, but the idea just seemed
so stupid and the fact it was based on some short on VH-1 making fun of
male models seemed like it wasn't thought out too well.

What I ended up doing was laughing so much I nearly died. This movie's
story is definitely pretty ridiculous and not completely thought out,
but the list of characters and cameos alone make this worth a treat.
This is probably the funniest I've seen Will Ferrel, and Jerry Stiller
plays his usual old crotchedy man with flying colors. Almost every
scene with them makes you laugh out loud. It seems pretty obvious that
even though it was a feature film, Ben Stiller seemed to have a lot of
control over this. Definitely isn't made to please the masses, but those
who can appreciate ridiculous, campy humor and are fans of these actors
will find themselves wanting to show this movie to anyone who hasn't
seen it. I won;t ruin any of it, except to say the funniest line in the
movie is "Merman! MERMAN!!!" And expect many great cameos, especially
Billy Zane. You'll understand once you see it.
<|_=00=_|>
A really great take on the modelling world. Each Time I watch it I see
something else that makes me howl with laughter. Out of all the
Stiller/Wilson collaborations this is definitely the funniest. There is
so much going on in the film and I love the way all the celebs join in
on the joke. Zoolander has a great soundtrack a very humorous plot and
is light enough to enjoy whatever the mood.

I would definitely recommend a few viewings before you make judgement.
Will Ferrell is manic as Mugato and Wilsons Hansel is as laid back as
all his all his characters. The scene in the coal mine is the best.
Enjoy whilst partaking of an Orange Mocha Frappucino. More from the duo
please or a Zoolander II
<|_=00=_|>

When Zoolander came out, I remember big deal plugs that were made for this
film by the media. The movie, after all, is poking fun at entertainment, in
particular, the fashion and model industry.
This was a hilarious take on it, and Zoolander, our main character, is
stupidly lovable. Ben Stiller proves once again his flexibility with his
comedic acting. Just watch 'Meet the Parents'and this, you'll think it's 2
different actors. Showing you how much work Ben can do, he also helped write
and produce the movie. Owen Wilson usually ends up in a movie with Ben, and
he's hilarious too. And of course Will Ferrell is always a
riot.
Read the Plot Outline in the details, there's not much to it. But you don't
watch movies like this for incredible story lines, do you?

No, it's not an oscar winning comedy, most aren't. It's not an intelligent
look at real-life, it's not the greatest storyline driven kind of movie, and
it doesn't have top notch acting. But it's incredibly funny, especially the
DVD. The DVD is filled with so many extra goodies, it's worth
getting.
The movie is filled with cameos like David Bowie, Paris Hilton, Billy Zane,
AH! There are so many, you just have to see the list yourself.

Rent or buy it, and leave your brain on the table next to the popcorn.
Because there's more to life then being really, really, ridiculously
smart.
<|_=00=_|>
This has to be a movie that people would either laugh their butt off
watching, or turn it off and never finishing it because it was so
stupid. Fortunately, as someone who loves absurd humor, I was
entertained by it. Yes, it's one of the dumbest films you'll ever see,
but it's supposed to be stupid, a satire on the shallow people and
world of male fashion models.

Ben Stiller is outstanding as "Derek Zoolander," the brainless model
who's number one male model status is upended by newcomer "Hansel,"
played by Owen Wilson. In light of Wilson's recent real-life drug
problems, I couldn't help but think "how can these actors play absurd
roles like this and be normal?" It's almost understandable by so many
in the film business are whacked! You have to hand it to them, though:
Stiller, Wilson, Millo Jovovich and Will Ferrell are good at playing
weird people, as they do here. But it's all in fun - plus a serious
comment about child labor - and the movie is simply to be enjoyed for
what it is. Of course, it's stupid overall, but it's a spoof, like the
Austin Powers films.

Film fans and celebrity geeks will enjoy all the cameos in here, along
with the wild outfits - male and female - and all the goofy looks on
the faces, mainly Stiller's poses. In between all the dumbness is some
smart satire on several topics dealing with the fashion business. Just
know what you are getting into here, and you should get enough laughs
to make it an entertaining hour-and-a-half.
<|_=00=_|>

In Entertainment Weekly, Ben Stiller described this feature-length
adventure
of the moronic male model he created for the VH1 Fashion Awards as
"MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE meets EYES OF LAURA MARS." Me, I can sum it up in
two
words:  "AUSTIN Posers."  No, better yet, I'll boil it down to one word:
"endearing."  That's right, endearing!  As lighthearted as it is
lightheaded, this daffy spoof of conspiracy thrillers and the mad, mod
world
of male models and other hipsters has a surprising undercurrent of
sweetness
to it. Star/director/co-writer/co-producer Stiller plays dopey Derek
Zoolander as a gentle, essentially kind-hearted naif under his hip veneer.
The same is true of Owen Wilson, putting his twang and quirky humor to
good
use as Derek's rustic yet hippy-dippy rival-turned-ally Hansel. I suspect
folks will like ZOOLANDER even better on DVD, since there are tons of
hilarious extended scenes and deleted scenes as well as the original
Zoolander TV sketches that Stiller & Co. did for VH1. As Derek says in the
voiceover intros on the DVD menu, the ZOOLANDER disc is a wonderful
introduction to "the world of DiviDuh"! :-)


<|_=00=_|>
Not a favorite on the first viewing, when it premiered, this movie is -
I have to admit it now - hysterical. Don't forget that it's a parody,
it's quirky, completely ridiculous, insane & over the top and yes,
people in it act stupidly. I'm not a fan of Ben Stiller, I haven't
enjoyed any other movies of his, but this is spot on. I say justice has
been done: it's been finally revealed that stupidity knows no gender
when it comes to the fashion world, and it comes in epic proportions. 

By the way, the fashion world redeemed itself by participating in this
movie. Watch for the countless cameos from famous people in the
industry. The fact that they accepted to make a little fun of
themselves shows that they do have a sense of humor, and that's quite
refreshing. 

Oh, and Jon Voight deserves an Oscar for his deadpan performance as
Derek's estranged father. He made me break down and cry tears of
laughter over the terrible drama of the Zoolander family. Words are
useless here, just watch the movie!
