

There's one guarantee in life : When you're reading 5 reviews on Mars
Attacks, FOUR of them are negative ones! Why, I ask?? It's really hard for
me to believe that all these movie-lovers fail to see the film like Tim
Burton intended it. Mars Attacks! is a great film and - above all - a very
effective parody. Burton takes the opportunity to spoof and laugh with
almost every form of nowadays filth...Politics, religion, the army,
television, greed in Las Vegas and God knows what else. Mars Attacks! is the
purest form of cinema anarchy I've seen so far, and I really want to
encourage you to see it again if you didn't like it the first time. Tim
Burton is a genius. Practically all movies he did before ( and after ) Mars
Attacks! prove that. Do you really believe that he would deliver a failure?
Or do you think the entire brilliant cast would agree to starring in an
inferior production?? They all acknowledged the genius of this movie...why
can't the audience do the same?

Mars Attacks! is a very remarkable achievement for yet another reason. This
very well might be only film that cost a fortune in order to look cheap!
Burton probably wasted a huge budget to make the settings and the design
look like they did in the typical 50's Science Fiction movies. Burton is a
big fan of these movies and he saved  neither money or trouble to make his
satire look like those films. The direct tribute to Edward Wood in the
opening credits is an obvious example of this as well, I think. Perhaps,
this would be the only real thing you can accuse Tim Burton of...Mars
Attacks! is a very personal project of his. I really doubt he worried much
about the question whether Mars Attacks! would become a success or not. He
told his tale and he clearly enjoyed doing so...Why wouldn't you enjoy
watching it then? 

Note: This review is dedicated to Mailen. A great regular user here on this
site and I know for a fact that she adores this film as
well...
<|_=00=_|>

Anybody who hated this movie missed the point. This is a fun little satire
on the American culture of assimilation, the great cultural melting pot. It
dares to ask the question: What if another group of people doesn't want to
be adopted into the American consumerist culture? The results are hilarious,
as we have a group of Martians double-talking their way through the
annihilation of the US of A, and the only people capable of stopping them
are those who could really care less about the American Way: the President's
daughter, who shows more respect for culture and history than her parents
could ever muster; and Richie the donut store kid, whose primary concern is
the welfare of others, specifically his grandmother, who ironically provides
him with a way out of this mess. I've only seen this film twice, but it
still makes me laugh my head off and provides me with the antidote for the
jingoistic finale to the other alien invasion film of 1996, Independence
Day.

In short, say what you want about Mars Attacks! If you don't understand it,
that's not my problem.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw this in the theater with my granddaughter, we both
found to be pretty lame and disappointing, but not without some wit to
it. Since then, it's been on the cable channels multiple times, and I
always find myself watching it again. I really hate to admit it, but
this thing has really grown on me - so much so that I finally bought
the DVD.

When I first saw it, I wouldn't have given it more than a 4 out of 10,
but after repeated viewings, I now give it a 9. I can't really say why,
and I certainly can't justify it in any rational sense, but it all just
works for me. The wry wit, the blatant social and political commentary,
I find it all immensely satisfying.

My confession's over, I'll do my penance. But I have to also say that
my granddaughter's opinion of it has never wavered. She considers this
movie as evidence of my incipient senility...
<|_=00=_|>

As someone stated before, with tremendous accuracy, Mars Attacks! is one of
those movies in which you rarely encounter a mid term: either you love it or
you hate it.

Personally, I have to say that I stand on the "loved it" part. Mars Attacks!
is great entertainment at it's best, and Tim Burton did an incredibly good
job, as usual.
One of the things that seems to bother me the most is that some people may
not understand the purpose and the message of the film: it's mission is to
spoof all those action and Sci-fi movies that abound on clichés and
laughable scenes; in which Independence Day is one clear example.
Independence Day is bad, relies too much on SFX, and abuse the audience's
sanity, believing us to be fools. This is the idea that Jonathan Gemes
(screenwriter) and Tim Burton(director) had in mind.

Also one high point of the movie is it's main attraction to it's cast: Box
Office names like Jack Nicholson; Glenn Close; Danny DeVito; Pierce Brosnan;
Sarah Jessica Parker; Michael J Fox; (th great) Natalie Portman; Lukas Haas;
Jack Black; Pam Grier and Annette Bening, all of them come together,
representing a part of society and social status that they spoof
themselves.
The special effects are also a funny part, because some of them are very
well achieved and some of them are really cheesy: that's their
purpose.

Anyway, much more shouldn't be said, since Mars Attacks! is one of those
films that you have to see for yourself, and ultimately
evaluate.
9 ou of 10 
<|_=00=_|>

After reading some of the other comments, there's only one thing everyone
should keep in mind. This film is for laughs and is spoofing the early 50's
sci-fi films that some of us grew up watching.
In the early film, War of the Worlds, the Martians were killed by micro
organisms that were in our atmosphere. Here they were killed by Slim Whitman
music. How about when the Martians were chasing people and zapping them
while the "translator" machine keep saying "Don't run,we are your friends".
The Martians like Tom Jones so much that they joined his back up
singers.
Every time I watch this film I see something else that's there for a "joke".
Don't try to make this movie fit the sci-fi mold; just watch it for the
spoofs and enjoy yourself.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of these movies you absolutely like or absolutely dislike. I
liked it, sure. It's such a sarcastic view of America: its people, its
government, its army, its television, its culture, everything and everyone
falls under Tim Burton's incredible axe. Many talented stars gather for an
incredible script. It is unbelievably funny, absurd and full of
contradictions and nuttiness. It's like a mixture of Star Wars, Animaniacs
and the Clockwork Orange. For sure, you will like it a lot and believe it is
the best movie you have ever seen or you won't understand a thing and feel
disappointed. If you like Jim Carrey or Brad Pitt, please go and choose
another movie.
<|_=00=_|>

The greatest aspect of _Mars Attacks!_ is that it is not supposed to be
great.  The film was shot on a low budget, and many of the crew, namely
actors Jack Nicholson and Danny DeVito, and director, Tim Burton, agreed to
make the film as an homage to the TOPS Bubblegum wrapper comic
series.

The film works because it doesn't present itself as being more than what it
is: a parody of '50's B-films.  Throughout the film, obvious references to
those B-film classics, like _The Day the Earth Stood Still_ and _This Island
Earth_, are present.  When the Martians land in Nevada (alleged home of Area
54), Burton reminds us of those famous scenes in which the U. S. army
battles the aliens with crude artillery, matched against the sophisticated
ray guns of their adversaries.  Because the sci-fi B-films of the '50's were
infused with anxiety, precipitated by the McCarthy era, Burton plays upon
this context when the Martians visit Congress and destroy every senator and
representative in attendance ("We still have 2 out of 3 branches of
government working for us," President Nicholson reminds his fellow
Americans).  

Aside from the riotous parodying which takes place, the film draws upon a
cast of Oscar-nominated talent.  However, realizing their true motivation
for such a film as _Mars Attacks!_, Oscar nominees Glenn Close, Annette
Bening, and Jack Nicholson camp it up.  Immediately, an audience member
acknowledges that these actors know the Academy will not reward them for
their efforts in this film.  However, an informed audience member would see
that their acting, meant to be campy and hammed up, is at the heart of their
performances.  Given the fact that these are award-winning actors acting
poorly, any viewer would have to applaud the performances as "sheer
talent-less."

I give this film 9 out of 10 points.  While not a great film, by any stretch
of the imagination, it is a fun film which fulfills its purpose.  Nicholson,
DeVito, and Burton can be pleased with the results of their desire to bring
the famous TOPS story to the screen.  In an age in which Hollywood either
promotes lavishly expensive, high-tech scripts or promotes artistic
plot-driven storylines, _Mars Attacks!_ finds its own place and does not put
on the facade of being something other than it is, an homage and revival of
the classic '50's sci-fi B-film.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is hilarious. It works at all levels. Its funny, its original in
its approach, and is a perfect satire on all those euphoric sci-fi movies.
Its a laugh all the way roller-coaster with a script that never stops to
shock you. It is such a pleasant diversion from the serious, heavy and
pretentious sci fi disaster films full of preachings and heroism of a few.

The characters in the film are damn funny and very well developed. The huge
cast has been assembled so well by the casting director, that I feel each
and every actor was born to play his/her character in the film. The double
dose of Jack Nicholson is awesome. He plays the Texan millionaire cowboy so
well, that I couldn't identify him when he appeared the first time. Tim
Burton does a commendable job of building up so many characters with so
little time. He doesn't waste any time at all, every one gets a few minutes
as the movie is on the run from the word go, but still each character is
rock solid. I wonder how was he able to manage Jack Nicholson, Pierce
Brosnon, Annette Benning, Glenn Rose, Michael J Fox, Sarah Michelle Gellar,
Natalie Portman, Danny Devito, Pam Grier and Tom Jones. Each one of them
deliver a worthy performance. The special effects are too good. They are not
sleek and heavy as in other big budget films, but unpolished and cocky, in
line with the message of the
film. The martians are hilarious, but devilish at the same time. The music
has the touch of 60s sci fi films which only adds to the effect.

Finally, here is a film which doesn't try to be wise and sensible in a
cliched way about our fantasies of life in outer space, instead takes a
lighter and jollier approach.
<|_=00=_|>
What a wild movie! I've begun to appreciate this more and more with
multiple viewings. I think it's Tim Burton's most underrated film.
Unlike many of his previous films, this seems pretty impartial when it
comes to the satire: everyone gets it here, not just the usual
Christians. Here, New Ange devotees and Liberal advisers and generals
are also made to look stupid. This is probably one reason the national
critics - who are overwhelming Left Wing - didn't like this movie. They
weren't used to the same abuse some of us put up with all the time.

Politics aside, this is one funny movie. It's a combination of science
fiction, drama and comedy. It's a parody of the 1950s flying saucer
films except it has 1990s color and good special-effects. Burton was a
fan of those corny '50s sci-fi films so he made his own!

The story quickly moves from one character to another, from the low-key
President of the U.S. played by an unusually-reserved Jack Nicholson to
the wacky New Ager Annette Benning to Martin Short with his goofy
smile....well, there are so many characters here - most of them
completely whacked - it's too many to mention. The diversity of these
people and the subtle humor in which they are all presented is just as
much fun to watch as the special-effects. The Martians are a real hoot.
They have to be seen to be believed.

I didn't like all the characters but, most people won't either. For me,
showing elderly people as senile (Sylvia Sidney's role) is
mean-spirited; Rod Steiger has the stereotypical war-mongering General
is getting tiresome and the obvious politically-correct role for Jim
Brown also went overboard. 

All in all, however, this is about as entertaining a film as I have
ever found, nd one that gets more enjoyable with each viewing.....which
is why I rate it so high.
<|_=00=_|>

When Martians make contact with earth opinion is split into two camps
between seeking peace or preparing for defence.  When the inital meeting is
turned into a massacre by a misunderstanding surrounding the dove of peace,
the camp seeking war seem to have the stronger case.  However the Martian
Ambassator apologises and is allowed to meet before the joint houses in the
US.  However when the Martians use this as an way to wipe out America's
leaders in one move.  Security is stepped up and the world is put on a war
footing, however the martians seem only interesting in destruction and
death
and deliver both with a wickedly cruel sense of humour.

We all know that Tim Burton and sci-fi blockbuster movies don't always
deliver the goods (planet of the apes anyone?).  This was released in the
same summer as Independence Day and ID came off much, much better.  That
was
mainly because ID gave the people what they wanted - they wanted a little
comedy, lots of fancy FX and explosions, nothing different that would cause
them to think in any way, and the good guys (the Americans) must win and
save the earth!  Burton gave them most of that, but it was just too
different!

What we have here is a ID style story but it is infused with Burton's manic
vision.  This takes away from the blockbuster appeal of the average ID, but
it makes it a much funnier, wierder experience.  Some of it doesn't work,
Nicholson's multirole performance is nowhere near the standard of Peter
Sellers in Dr Strangelove (which he clearly aspires to) and some of the
cameos are forced and silly.  However all the stuff with the aliens works
really well because it is so OTT and it knows it - Burton just lets his
vision run wild.  In place of ID destruction of the white house, we have
the
aliens knocking down the Easter Island statues like 10 pin bowling etc.
Where ID took itself very seriously, Mars Attacks plays like a spoof of the
1950's sci-fi and comes off much better for it.

As for the ending - of course it's absurd!  Yes it's a bit of a leap to
imagine that the aliens would be defeated in this way, but it doesn't
matter
because it's all tongue in cheek.  It is no more stupid than ID which sees
the aliens destroyed by Goldblum and Smith flying a spaceship (Smith flies
it because he's seen one before - the scientists who have been studying it
aren't allowed, even though they know how it works), into the core of the
mothership, downloading a computer virus from Windows 98 onto the alien
system and clearing off!  Both endings are dumb, but at least Mars Attacks
doesn't try to cover it up.

There are so many actors here that to try and say who does well and who
doesn't would take ages.  So here we good.  Good -Nicholson (as the
president), Brosnan, Sarah Jessica Parker, MJ Fox, Steiger, Pam Grier,
Lukas
Haas, Jim Brown and Lisa Marie.  Bad - Glenn Close, De Vito, Short and a
pointless "oh look it's...." cameo from Tom Jones.  The actors given screen
time are good but stars wheeled out for novelty value are a bit wasted
generally.

Overall this may not be to everyone's tastes.  When it come out everyone
seemed to expect another ID style film.  However Burton's mad vision and
comic touches make this a very enjoyable spoof.
