
A mediocre storyline (i.e. Titanic) can become a world class film with
character development, believable dialogue, and, for lack of a better
word, some Hollywood magic. This film could have been a blockbuster
with less action, less noise, less effects and more humans being human.
Look at 2001 A Space Odyssey, Jaws, Titanic and countless other films,
and you'll see that the story was about as interesting as Virus, and
the actors, equally talented. Virus failed to deliver characters that
we could believe and identify with.

I still recommend this film highly, as its interesting, it contains
Jamie Lee Curtis (a hottie) and Donald Sutherland (a 20th century
legend), lots of effects and action. In a way its sort of fun to watch
quality actors attempt to make the best of horrible dialogue.

A 7 out of 10 for storyline and casting
<|_=00=_|>

Don't take this movie too seriously, and Virus is actually an enjoyable
romp, that pays homage, excuse me, rips off many venerable movies from the
same and similar genres.

It starts of as an X-Files episode, turns into The Perfect Storm,
Sutherland
is clearly inspired by mad Quint in Jaws, then the movie becomes Johnny
2.0
meets Robocop and Alien II.

The drawbacks are of course obvious - the Life Form behaves more like a
space moron, than a higher form of intelligence. If it was the latter, it
would simply have the entire crew set port in Australia and have taken it
from there. Instead, the "humans are viruses" approach simply brings it
down. Bummer. Billions of miles of space travel, and it gets bested by the
motley crew of a tugboat with a demented skipper.

Anyway, 21 years after Halloween, Jamie Lee still looks delectable with a
perfect figure. The rest of the crew are funny and charming, in a
forgettable way. Sutherland puts in the best acting he has in years, which
isn't saying too much as he has been  phoning his performances in since
JFK.

Anyway, this movie is low on originality, but if you like the genres
above,
it is a pretty nice diversion.
<|_=00=_|>
After losing their payload the ramshackle, sinking, ocean-going salvage 
tug "Sea Star" takes refuge in the eye of a typhoon in an attempt to 
make repairs. Whilst trying to find help the tug, captained by Robert 
Everton ('Donald Sutherland' ), discovers a Russian science vessel 
adrift in the eye. The crew believes their troubles are over and they 
are set for life when the captain informs them of the value of 
salvaging this apparent ghost-ship. However, the navigator Kit Foster 
(Jamie Lee Curtis) and the chief engineer Steve Baker (William Baldwin) 
are not convinced that it will be that easy. Once power is restored to 
the ship strange things start to happen and the crew mysteriously 
disappear one by one. It isn't until the discovery of the last 
remaining Russian crew member, the chief science officer Nadia 
Vinogradiya (Joanna Pacula), that the crew realize the enemy ranged 
against them isn't the Russians but something far more malevolent. 
While I'll admit that the plots is hacked from dozens of other (Mostly 
better) films, 'Virus' is no where as bad as others have made it out to 
be. Jamie Lee Curtis is likable in the lead and the special effects are 
terrific! The film is an entertaining and fast-paced sci-fi horror 
movie. It was gory too.

I enjoyed it. 6.5/10.

ABOUT THE DVD: Universal has done a terrific job with the release of 
the virus DVD. The crisp looking 2.35:1 wide screen transfer looks 
great. There's little to no grain, sharp colors, solid blacks and 
realistic flesh tones. The Dolby digital 5.1 audio is very effective. I 
loved them gunshots! Gotta have your gunshots! Extras are great, too. 
The commentary, provided by the director, John Bruno, select cast 
members and the composer is an enjoyable track filled with 
behind-the-scenes stories and is quite informative. Next up is a very 
good 17-minute documentary, Ghost in the machine, covering everything 
from special effects construction to cast interviews. Next up are a 
collection of 4 deleted scenes (Shown in there rough-cut form), which 
are pretty enjoyable in there own right. Next up is a tiny 6-minute 
featurette, which is really just a rehash of the documentary. Also 
included are production notes, DVD-ROM features, a trailer, and really 
cool animated menus. Nice! DVD ratings
<|_=00=_|>

"The Terminator" meets "The Predator" and "Alien", and what we get is this
routine but moderately effective horror thriller, which isn't quite as bad
as its reputation might lead you to believe. Sure, it lacks substance and
(except for a few details)originality, but the energetic direction, the fast
pacing and some impressively filmed explosions keep it
painless.
Effects aren't particularly outstanding, though.
<|_=00=_|>

I've heard people trash this movie left and right yet I found that it kept
my attention for the duration of it's running time and all the technical
aspects were top-notch (especially Tippett Studio's CGI realization of
Goliath).  The characters weren't great and weren't bad either.  Sure, we've
seen it all before in other films but I have little hope of finding a film
that's completely original.  Frankly, I got about what I expected out of it
- motion picture fastfood.  You enjoy it as you take it in and digest it and
forget about it after you leave the theater.  It's just entertainment and
not bad for what it is.  Unlike LOST IN SPACE or BATMAN AND ROBIN, this film
isn't boring.  It moves at a quick enough pace to where you don't find
yourself checking your watch all the time.  I'm not sure what the deal was
with Donald Sutherland's character who displays no sense of logic
whatsoever.  Had they dropped the stuff with his character, it would've
helped the film.  If you're bored, check it out.  It's worth at least one
viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
Say what you want about this movie not meeting expectations of the 90's
but it was very entertaining and thats most of what I expect from any
good movie.

Bad aliens, greed, bravery, bravado, science gone bad and survival all
play major parts in this flick.

Strong women, brave men and treacherous men are a good mix for any
story and this movie has them in abundance.

The aliens seem to want something from humans and its not in the best
interest of these humans to meet their needs.

Try not to be comparing this movie to other sci-fi and just enjoy an
interesting twist on the genre.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie will probably not go to the history as one of the greatest. It
will probably not even be remembered a couple of years from now. But it is a
good horror/thriller movie with some decent effects. It's been a while since
I actually jumped more than three times in the chair. Ok, the tricks to make
you jump is kind of common, but they obviously worked.

Apart from the end (that is very strange) this is a good movie. The weird
thing though is that right after Kit Foster and her boyfriend ejects from
the ship the storm goes away. Hmm...
Of course you can't compare this with milestones like any of the Alien
movies, but it is well spent money, and two hours killed
time.
<|_=00=_|>

What I noticed about "Virus" is that ANYTHING can happen to ANY of the
characters.  They actually get the crap beaten out of them, even Jamie lee.
The special-effects are fantastic for this film and the robots are actually
menacing.  The characters aren't too interesting but they suit the film.  I
was surprised at how the movie wasn't as predictable as I thought it would
be.  "Virus" takes a new direction.  Instead of having a bunch of aliens or
monsters running around, killing people, they have robots.  It's an original
idea that hasn't been tackled that often in this type of genre.  A good
movie. 
<|_=00=_|>

After reading less than favourable reviews, I was concerned this movie
would
not live up to the potential of
the plot scenario. That is, an Alien entity arriving on Earth and fusing
humans, or parts of humans, with mechanical
technology to further it own existence.Fortunately, the movie lived up
totally to my expectations.
We start off with a BANG! and than it's non-stop, sit on the edge of your
seat stuff until the end. Anyone who
watches STAR TREK knows the BORG. This movie makes what we've seen of the
Borg look like a stroll in the park. Whilst extremely graphic in nature,
VIRUS's depiction of this Aliens handiwork is as it would be...gruesome!
Without giving away the plot, you have a claustrophobic situation
reminiscent of ALIENS
with Jamie Lee and Bill Baldwin & crew being hunted down one by one. Chase
scenes involving a multitude of half human/half machine monstrosities keep
coming at you like Arnie in TERMIMATOR.
The special effects and art concepts are original and really make this
movie
stand out. Interestingly you'll
see Mr. James Cameron thanked in the fine print of the credits. The
mechanical marvels are certainly up to his standard. I loved the movie and
now on DVD its straight into my collection.
<|_=00=_|>

Saw this one on DVD last night and I really liked it.
It was a fast paced comicbookaction popcorn movie with scares that made me
jump the chair a couple of times. The story is nothing new. We´ve seen it
numerous times before. Like Alien. But nothings original these days anyway.
The FX where great and I liked the frankensteinish look of
it.
It rates high on my popcornmovie chart.
