

Possible "spoilers", if it's even possible to spoil a film like BEL. This
is
by far one of the worst war movies I have ever seen, especially in terms
of
realism. As a former Naval Flight Officer who was stationed on a carrier
in
the Adriatic in the early 90's, I can say with absolute certainty that
this
story, the dialogue and just about everything else was complete hogwash.
It
pains me to think that some hack writer actually got paid big bucks for
this
script, probably much more than I ever made in full year in the Navy.
Anyway, I could obviously point out a million things wrong with this
picture, but I'll limit to a few laughers:

First, I flew EA-6B's, not F-18's, but apparently nobody else did. Every
EA-6B (and non-F-18) shown in the film was tied down to the flight deck.
In
fact, I don't recall any other jet being launched or recovered in this
film
from that carrier deck other than that 2-seat F-18. Back then, the Hornet
squadrons on my boat (yes it's a "boat" not a "ship". Only blackshoes
called
it a ship. Even had a 'shoe Senior Chief "correct" me (a lieutenant) in
that
regard once. Get real.) only had one seat, one pilot and no
navigators/rios.
Only Marines flew those D-models. At least they could have used an
F-14.

-Some Master Chief running around the boat chastizing an Admiral and
telling
him what to do/not do. Yeah, right.

-The bad guys are shooting SAM's at our "heroes" who survive quite a while
before getting bagged. Only after getting safely on the ground with their
big, bright, colorful (!) parachute canopies, do they decide to interrupt
the Admiral's meal to tell him a jet's been engaged. Oh, I better get up
and
see what's going on! That boat would be at General Quarters the minute the
first missile was in the air. And missiles, which normally travel at many
times the speed of a Hornet in burners, would either hit or miss, not
follow
you all around the sky. And a search & rescue mission would be in place
IMMEDIATELY regardless of what some pseudo-Italian knucklehead who thinks
he's in charge says.

-Guys walking around the flight deck with no head/ear protection
immediately
before, during, and after flight ops? Uh, no. At not playing football
either.

-Flight crew (officers) eating meals on the enlisted men's mess decks
rather
than the dirty-shirt wardroom? I suppose it's technically possible, but
are
they out of their minds?

-A Navigator/NFO threatening to leave the Navy to go fly for the airlines?
Sorry, even if one had a civilian pilot's license (most do NOT) all those
backseat hours in the Hornet count for squat in the eyes of the FAA. There
are way too many military PILOTS that compete for commercial pilot jobs,
that a navigator sure as heck wouldn't get one.

-A downed pilot sitting there in an open field in enemy territory not even
making an attempt to hide/evade. The other guy just leaving him there to
find higher ground? Didn't you guys learn anything in SERE school? Also, a
single fighter going feet dry in potentially hostile territory with no
other
escort, support aircraft, or SARCAP? Hah!

you get the picture...
<|_=00=_|>

SPOILER ALERT !
This was the sorriest movie I can ever remember seeing.  I realize that
everybody is still in shock from 9-11.  I personally lost a family member
because of it.  But that doesn't mean I'm so starved for patriotism that I
would blindly love this crap.  A US Navy pilot and navigator disobey orders
then get shot down.  Suddenly he can dodge automatic fire from assaults
rifles, 20mm cannons, and grenade launchers?  He runs in the daytime, stops
to transmit in open territory, and suddenly knows the area better then they
people who are chasing him?  His commanders are unwilling/unable to help
him.  The end is the worst, he's running around in between crossfire of his
rescuers and his pursuers without ever getting hit?  Grabs some disk of
pictures that would have been transmitted automatically to base as soon as
he took them anyway?  Then runs and jumps off a cliff to someone hanging
from a helicopter rather than having the stupid helicopter land for 3
seconds to pick him up.  I realize that some people may need a boost of
patriotism but we can do much better than this crap.  See 'Saving Private
Ryan' again if you're that desperate.
<|_=00=_|>
I first saw this movie with a few buddies who had rented it on a
Saturday night, and thought I'd join in. Now, if this had been a spoof
of American War movies, it would've been great. Only problem is that it
isn't a spoof; it's dead serious. 

The huge number of goofs and mistakes aside, this movie offers little
in the ways of storyline and character development. You really couldn't
care less if Wilson's character lives or dies, and Hackman doesn't
really get anything done until the end of the movie (which is
ridiculous to say the least!).

Now, the thing that really breaks this movie, is the aforementioned
goofs and mistakes. As I mentioned, if this movie had been a parody on
American war/action movies I would've loved it, because all of the
goofs actually make you think that it IS a parody! But considering the
fact that it's a glorified, super-patriotic, default American war hero
running around facing all kinds of problems, it all seems like a moral
boost for the newly attacked America (my sympathies for all who were
affected by 9/11 by the way...): The hero is a handsome, blond,
all-American guy (they could've added that he was a star quarterback
and we'd have the complete package) who faces irredeemably evil
Serbs/Bosnians/Whatevers (we never really get to know...) and has to
face the hazards of traversing unknown territories. It all seems the
typical Hollywood action/war...

HOWEVER... *SPOILERS!!!!!*

The fact that the entire navy administration doesn't send in a rescue
team until the very end is a bit silly. Also, scenes like the minefield
where Wilson's character is chased by two soldiers and runs straight
through the trip-mines (where he is unhurt by the explosions, one of
the soldiers step on a mine that kills both him AND his buddy standing
10 feet away!), And the ending in which he's shot at by a HUGE amount
of soldiers (including tanks...) and manages to get out unhurt (note
also that three half-as*ed choppers take out a lot of that army without
getting shot down...). And let's not forget when he runs up a hill
while being shot at, and the bullets keep on following him while he's
running down the other side!

*SPOILERS!!!!!*

So, all in all, as a war movie it's horrible Hollywood junk that falls
flat on bad acting, terrible script and major goofs! As a parody on
action/war movies though, this could go far! If they'd only put those
weaknesses to good use...

Many will try to save the movie by claiming that "It's not supposed to
be realistic!". I, however, feel that war is bad enough to be taken
seriously, and not turned into a stupid glorification like this, where
one man can beat an entire army (and considering how incompetent the
Serbs/Bosnians/Whatevers are portrayed as in this movie, I'm surprised
that no one took offense!). Just like "Titanic", it undermines the very
issue at hand, and deserves to be forgotten for that.

1/10
<|_=00=_|>
Sure, this movie is unrealistic, slightly jingoistic, and not exactly
Dr. Zhivago when it comes to a deep plot, but it's fun to watch. I'm a
serious student of the military studies in a professional sense, and I
fully realize that the technology (especially the missile chase) and
doctrines are unrealistic, but I am also capable of suspending my
critical eye when I just want to sit back and enjoy an action flick.
I'll save the brain power for something that actually matters, not for
a movie, which is just another form of escaping from real life for an
hour or two. So yeah, this movie gets a thumbs up for a fun film to sit
back and enjoy the surround sound and big screen TV while chomping on
some popcorn and a Coke.

Don't a movie seriously that isn't supposed to be taken so seriously!
<|_=00=_|>

I'm sure there have been worse movies made. I just haven't seen them. Even
if you are not looking for an intelligent handling of international
politics, and don't care about the horribly jingoistic attitudes portrayed,
I think it is still difficult to fathom how this movie could be enjoyed.
Action sequences are never resolved, they just **SPOILER WARNING** end with
the main character miraculously transported to another location. It is
unfortunate that the U.S. military can not extend the range of its
transporters to actually get characters completely out of the battle zone,
instead of a mere few hundred yards.

The rest of the world mocks America because of movies like this.
<|_=00=_|>
Having just watched this film (based on the participation of an actor I
admire) I have to say that this film was can only be described as
unintentionally funny throughout. Full of clichés (ie European general
who doesn't care about the troops, gung ho Americans itching for
action). Oh dear. The worst bit about this film is not the political
idiocy of it, the emptiness of the plot, the disdain for life or the
appalling editing (slow motion shots which are a reminder of the A
Team) but the music. What does it say when a civil war in the former
Yugoslavia is accompanied by rock music? Well, it says that this is
essentially a movie for American teenagers who haven't a clue where
Yugoslavia is (or was) but who do need to be made to sit still in the
cinema. Result: with an action movie where random death happens to
people they don't know about or care about but American lives are
precious. Ultimately, this is a recruiting film for kids who think that
they can be involved in foreign wars they know nothing about, get shot
at, but come home safely. Dire.
<|_=00=_|>

This is the sorriest waste of time and money that I have ever seen.  I
can't
believe that Gene Hackman participated in this garbage.  Is fame and
stardom
a bore for him?  Does he yearn for oblivion? It seems that he's
deliberately
trying to end his career.  Well anyway, this movie is about a NAVY pilot
Chris Burnell (Owen Wilson) who is shot down over Bosnia and must get to
the
border to be rescued.  <SPOILER> As soon as he parachutes to the
ground he witnesses how his navigator is executed by a chain-smoking,
Adidas-clad, unshaven Serb soldier of fortune.  Not waiting any longer
Burnett activates the GOD MODE cheat code and takes off running uphill
while
being shot at by assault rifles and large caliber machine guns, and as you
might have guessed he escapes, for now.  In fact the cheat code stays on
for
the rest of the film and is also used by Admiral Reigard (Gene Hackman) in
the helicopter rescue scene at the end where the Serb platoon consisting
of
over 50 infantry men, tanks, and large caliber weapons, is eradicated by a
two Hueuey helicopters. <END OF SPOILER> After watching this film I
learned that 1). SAM's are very slow but have unlimited range and fuel 2.)
Serb soldiers do not need food, water, nor sleep 3.)An American NAVY pilot
can withstand tremendous G-forces 4.) Thin ice that cracks under a human
can
really support a tank.   Holy crap, who wrote the script?  He should be
hanged.  Can this movie get any lamer or dumber you ask?  Yes it can!
There's a part where Burnett is picked up by refugees and a kid (wearing
an
Ice Cube T-shirt) gives him a clean bottle of Coca-Cola (label to the
camera) and after a sip Burnett says `good'.  So basically the bad guys,
including the Adidas wearing bounty hunter, smoke cigarettes and the good
guys drink Coke.  Oh my, my!!!  Who's responsible for this?  However, this
movie does have some pluses such as props and camerawork, but it's all
overweighed by lack of realism, exaggeration, political correctness, and
Owen Wilson's crocked nose.  BOTTOM LINE: Watch `Nick at Nite'
instead.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't think this is really considered a "war movie" in the normal
sense but it might as well be since it involves all military people and
the focus is an American Navy pilot who is shot down over Bosnia and
runs for his life while waiting to be rescued.

Outside of Owen Wilson ("Lt. Chris Burnett") blaspheming about a dozen
times, I thought this was a very entertaining film with spectacular
sound and a couple of very intense action scenes. I always find
man-on-the-run stories good, anyway.

The missile-jet scene has some of the best surround sound I have ever
heard in an action scene, along with super visuals. Wilson's travails,
as he tries to stay alive in hostile territory while red-tape holds up
his rescue efforts, are fascinating. The action scenes are quite
different, too.

This is a film I guarantee will not put you to sleep and, at the same,
doesn't overdo the action. The end has the usual credibility gap with
what I call "Rambo mentality," but overall is a gripping story.
<|_=00=_|>
behind enemy lines, is a movie which shows the typical American hero,
stuck in abnormal circumstances. 

The film itself was good, it certainly delivered action, suspense, and
for the most part, fun. The characters were solid, and director John
Moore emphisised the war - torn cities of Bosnia quite well (which was
one of the highlights of the film). Owen Wilson, did a good job at
portraying a character way out of his comfort zone, and Vladimir
Mashkov was chilling as a Serbian sniper. 

I must admit,and agree with most people, the ending sucked. The whole
Owen Wilson dodging bullets thing,(while running on a lake)was a bit
far-fetched. I mean seriously, those Bosnian army guys would have be
trained to shoot accurately in these situations. i mean its like 70
snipers against one man, even an army tank misses! you see all these
Bosnians shooting and not one, not one hits him.

overall the film was good, but could have been better, it delivers
thrills, and does keep you entertained. But like most peoples opinion
the ending is a disappointment
<|_=00=_|>
I have to agree that this is completely unrealistic movie but what
actually annoys me the most is the constant trashing of Balkan people
through presenting this war in such movies. 

Most actors that are portraying Bosnians, Serbs and Croats might be
Slavic in origin, however the main characters are given to people who
are native English speakers so the dialogs in B/H/S language are
ridiculous, misinterpreted in English and offensively stupid.

The storyline is offensive to all the people that died in this war, but
also to people who lost a loved one in that war.

I'm really sorry that Owen Wilson and Gene Hackman allowed themselves
to be involved in such BS of the movie.
