
Never in the field of human endeavour has there been an act of such
instrumental, destructive, diabolical folly as this justifiably
reviled, quasi-sequel to the original 1986 fantasy in which immortal
warriors duelled throughout the ages until one remained. Yes, its
Highlander II - a film so bad that Robert Mugabe refused to show it to
white farmers on the grounds that it would be "exceptionally cruel".
Needing to grasp on to a strand of optimism, perhaps only the thickness
of a human hair, I long ago decided that the film existed purely as a
textbook demonstration for future filmmakers on how not to make a
successful sequel to a hit movie. This theory alone explains the
cynicism on screen and the ham-fisted, slapdash, car-crash handling of
the material. Don't misunderstand; I'm not saying this thing is poor -
poor would be generous praise for a Frankenstein fantasy in which all
the invention, both visual and conceptual, inherent in the first film's
appeal is frittered to nothing. In fact, the totality of the words
already used are only the merest fraction of those required to
accurately portray the near total devastation that washed over me as I
sat through it (I'm ashamed to say not for the only time) on a stormy
night 14 years ago. Russell Mulchay deserves to be poisoned and broad
beaten with a tent pole in the male ruminations for his decision to
helm the whole sorry affair and grind his original good work to dust.
It hardly needs saying but the problem for anyone scripting a
Highlander II is that Highlander I concluded business comprehensively
with no outlet for a second episode. To get around this the makers of
The Quickening simply decided to ditch the back-story of the original
film and invent a new one which would enable them to write around the
fact that all the immortals, bar M.Lambert were, not unlike themselves,
dead from the neck up. So although McCloud was originally born in
Scotland and Ramierez in er, Egypt, now they were aliens from a planet
called Zeist; handy, because this new ancestry meant that all that was
needed to reengergise the concept was that another visitor showed up on
Earth and the games can begin again. To fully appreciate how awful an
idea this is you need only imagine a Star Wars sequel in which the
action is suddenly set in present day Earth for reasons of plot
convenience or a second instalment of Titanic in which it's revealed
that Jack and Rose are actually time-travellers and are thus able to
prevent the disaster and save all their friends. Thus Highlander II is
effectively the one line joke in the Player in which the writer of the
Graduate pitches the terrible sequel writ large and for real. We can
only imagine that the owners of the original film were desperate for
more because nothing but desperation could possibly explain how this
made it to the screen. If blame were slurry and required apportioning
by EU agricultural directive then you'd need roughly 6 tankers worth,
each containing somewhere in the region of 40,000 tonnes. The shame of
Sean Connery and Christopher Lambert is palpable and everyone who felt
any enjoyment during this picture is consciously and deliberately
complicit in its evil work. As a purely commercial enterprise with no
respect or consideration for the 1st film or its fans, we can only hope
that all involved lost millions and that having lost their deposit they
were forced to sell themselves into sexual slavery. Highlander III, not
exactly itself a great sequel, ignored this one completely as
ironically it left no outlet for a third episode but it too was a
cynical cash-in and could only continue the first film by ignoring its
ending whereas the forth in the series simply didn't bother with the
first film at all, opting instead to go with the spin-off T.V series.
That's the way the rot spread but here's where it started - now please
Hollywood...never again.
<|_=00=_|>

Ah, friends. Come sit with me as we experience the Quickening. If we
both stick our hands into a puddle of orange, shiny goo, we'll be
shocked, and yet, united. Then we can battle the evil Katana and save
Zeist from ... from what?

This is the effect of HIGHLANDER II.

HIGHLANDER II: THE QUICKENING is set in the future. Well, at least, I
think it is. The film begins on Earth in the year 1999. Then, it heads
off to the planet Zeist 500 years before. Following that, we're back to
Earth in the year 2024. I'd say the film is pretty much divided between
being on Earth in 2024 and Zeist 500 years before, but I think it was
meant to be on Earth in 2024.

Now that that's cleared up ...

Imagine, if you will, that most of what they told us in the original
HIGHLANDER was crap. Immortals don't come from nowhere, they come from
the planet Zeist. The entire original HIGHLANDER movie was lies! Lies!
Lies!

And if you believe that, I've got some $200,000 property for you down
in sunny North Carolina.

Connor MacLeod, the main character of the original film (played by
Christopher Lambert), is old and dying. When, in 1999, the Earth's
ozone layer was nearly completely gone, MacLeod created The Shield
Corporation, which then created a shield which would protect the Earth
from the sun's violent rays. But in 2024, the world is a dark dungheap,
and MacLeod's pretty much to blame.

Now let's go back to the planet Zeist. General Katana (Michael
Ironside) is pretty pissed. MacLeod's still alive. So he sends his two
retarded minions to kill MacLeod. The extremely elderly MacLeod somehow
starts dancing around like Dean Martin and beheads both of them. The
power of their lifeforce makes him young once again and free to kiss
terrorist Louise Marcus (Virginia Madsen) and then try to take down the
world's anti-Ozone shield. Oh yeah, the ozone's healed, by the way.

So then Katana comes to Earth to kill MacLeod, who is suddenly
super-cool and ready to kill Katana. But for some reason, he needs
help. So the producers paid Sean Connery $3.5 million. Behold! Juan
Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez is resurrected from the dead and comes back
(for nine minutes of screen time) to help MacLeod shut down the shield.

If you haven't figured it out by now, HIGHLANDER II is completely
messed-up.

I haven't seen a sequel this bad in who knows how long. It contradicts
the entire HIGHLANDER mythos, and thus was ignored in every other
sequel and television series that followed. 

But there is a good side to the film. I think Ebert said it best in his
review of the film: he describes HIGHLANDER II as being "a movie almost
awesome in its badness". How awesome do you hear that? But that's
exactly what HIGHLANDER II is: almost awesome in its badness.

It may be one of the worst films ever made, and it may be the worst
sequel, but it is also a very fun and frequently (unintentionally)
funny film. In the words of the Immortal Ramirez, "If you can summon it
all up, at one time, in one place, you can accomplish something
glorious."

Whatever that means.

NOTE: There are two versions of the film. The theatrical version,
called the Quickening, has just been reviewed here. The director's cut
has been re-named the "Renegade Version" and changes much of the film's
story. The film has also been completely re-edited. The Quickening
version runs 89 minutes, while the Renegade version runs 109.

HIGHLANDER II: THE QUICKENING by Russell Mulcahy. * 1/2 out of ****.

<|_=00=_|>

(I May Spoil some of the movie)Without a shout of a doubt, this is by far
the worst sequel ever made for a movie. The first Highlander was a great
film, it had a good story, good characters and plot that pretty much
worked.
Highlander II had some of the worst acting I have ever seen, really bad
camera work, horrifying choreography in the fights scenes, a story that
made
absolutely no sense, cruddy special effects and overall, it was just a
really bad movie. Though I am a fan of the first Highlander, it seemed to
me
that a sequel was not possible. Macleod had defeated the Kurgan and won the
Prize. Now all of a sudden it's the future, and the immortals came from
another world? I am fan of Michael Ironside but this was by far his worst
acting job ever as he played the villain, Katana. What makes absolutely no
sense to me is that in the first Highlander, the immortals didn't know why
and where they came from. Now all of a sudden, Macleod remembers life on
his
homeworld of Zeist. The one thing that kept this movie up somewhat was Sean
Connery's return. Now he died in the first Highlander, but they brought him
back. And it really wasn't explained how he came back to life. This was by
far the worst of the Highlander series, and the sequels later on
disregarded
this movie which I felt was a good idea.
<|_=00=_|>
This has to be one of the worst sequels ever made. Not that
"Highlander" was a great movie to begin with. But still, destroying a
concept so completely is almost enviable.

It's the year 2025. The whole earth is covered by a shield that stands
in for the ozone-layer that has been destroyed. Connor McLeod has
killed all the other immortals and is slowly dying of old age. But
something happens and immortals are suddenly starting to show up again
and Connor must fight once again.

I don't want to know which drugs the script-writers were using when
coming up with the plot for this movie. How DO you start with a movie
about immortal warriors on the Scottish highland, and end up with
aliens fighting each other under a red sky in 2025?! Do we even want to
know? It has to go down into movie history as one of the worst ideas
ever. Taking something that was almost a solid story and destroying it
completely by introducing weird elements like aliens and shields in the
sky.

So, apart from that? Well, even if we do overlook that major flaw this
is still complete garbage. What did they pay Sean Connery to appear in
this? Either he was well paid or the man doesn't take any pride at all
in his work. The action scenes are pathetic, the effects are awful.
Christopher Lamberts wheezing voice makes the VIEWERS want to slice his
head off.

I consider myself quite the connoisseur of b-movies. I can actually
enjoy movies purely because they stink. But this is just so bad that
it's not even funny. I rate this 1/10.
<|_=00=_|>

All true Highlander fans will simply not acknowledge the existence of
Highlander 2, wih good reason: Planet Zeist.

if you were to see part 2 and not the Original, it would be ok, cuz it would
make sense in its own way.  H1 and H2 are effectively unrelated films.  But
Highlander was quite an original story.  H2, unfortunately, is a bit goofy
and out of sync.  Quite laughable in its own way.

If you want a good laugh, check it out.  It's high cheese.  If you're a
Highlander purist, it DOESN'T EXIST.  The intention was probably good,
trying to show the aftermath of McCloud's mistakes after winning the
original "tournament", but the premise is ruined by Planet Zeist, and
Michael Ironside is just rehashing the Kurgen.  He's a bit funnier in the
villain role, but it doesn't save the movie from being
silly


<|_=00=_|>

I've heard alot of bad things about this, but being a fan of the
Highlander
film and TV series, I had to check this out. That was a mistake. This
movie
has almost nothing to do with the first movie, and even by itself sits on
laughable premises. The writing is terrible, the characters are
one-dimensional (at best), the effects look like they were done out of
someone's garage. Hey, let's summon back dead characters for no apparent
reason. Hey! Let's pretend everyone's from another planet! You know what?
Let's through in a conspiracy for the hell of it! This movie seems like it
didn't leave the script-writing process until they finished shooting, and
then they skipped editing. I shudder to think the horrors I would have
witnessed had I not been watching the directors cut.
<|_=00=_|>

i saw the premiere of this film in edinburgh at the odeon.  the theatre
was
packed and having really enjoyed the first movie, like i guess most of the
audience we were all really excited to be seeing the sequel.  you can
imagine our dissapointment.  lots of ppl, including us , left 20 mins
before
the end, quite a few patrons were quite angry at how ineptly bad it was.
having recently seen it again on cable it is still utterly
woeful.
i would rather go and clean the toilet than sit thru it
again.
on second thoughts i'd rather come and clean your toilet and i don't like
clieaning toilets and don't know you.   get the idea???
<|_=00=_|>

In 1999, I was graduating college in Richmond, Virginia and had a yard sale
to get rid of excess junk.  I had quite a collection of movies on VHS that I
hoped to get rid of because DVD was just coming into its own.  I had a copy
of "Highlander II Renegade Version" that I bought in th 4.99 clearance bin
at Wal-Mart because I had seen "Highlander II: The Quickening" and wondering
if there was any way possible in improve on one of the worst films I had
ever seen.

Well, renegade version started out priced 2.00 in the morning.  By
lunchtime, it was down to a buck.  As the afternoon wore on, the price went
down... 75 cents, 50 cents, 25 cents.  Finally, I had sold most of my films
and decided to give it away for free.  As the sun began to set and I cleaned
up, this film was still there.  It seems you cannot even give it away for
free!

Anyway, if you're a glutton for punishment, this is the film for you.  It
has "low budget" written all over it, and I, for one, cannot possible fathom
how Sean Connery agreed to be in it.  

"This movie is awesome and fearless in its badness" Roger Ebert writes, and
for once, I agree with him.  It is pretty bad.  It creates massive
continuity errors with the first Highlander by having all the immortals come
from the planet Zeist (!?!).  Second, as a plot device, the sky is covered
with some kind of orange/red crud to protect the earth, which has lost the
ozone layer.   Wouldn't everything on Earth die without any kind of sunlight
anyway, since the sun is the source of energy for all the forms of life at
the bottom of the food chain?

The renegade version is even more unwatchable than this version! You might
ask yourself, how is that possible considering that Highlander II is one of
the worst films ever made.  Well, somehow they found a way.  Now if they
could only put all that energy into cancer research, cancer would be wiped
out!

I could go on and on just how and why this movie is so stupid, but what
would be the point?  Chances are, if you're reading this review, you're some
kind of Highlander-head anyway.  More power to you, and there can only be
one! (fake laughter)
<|_=00=_|>
I have cried in a total of 3 films in my life... Number 1, Bambi, when
his mum dies.... Number 2, City Slickers, when Norman the Calf gets
dragged down river and nearly dies... and finally, Number 3, Highlander
II, as it soooo bad! Remember Highlander? The Locations, The
Soundtrack, The Kurgan, The Plot...

Now, take it all away and replace it with...

Awful red sky effect throughout the film, Couple of old Queen songs
from the 1st film, Michael Ironside doing a bad Kurgan impression and a
"plot" that doesn't have any relevance to the original plot...

That is Highlander II.
<|_=00=_|>

Worst sequel ever, bar none. If you are a fan of the original Highlander (a
great movie in my opinion), and for some reason haven't seen this yet, for
pity's sake, don't! It will contaminate all the good memories you have from
the first film.
*SPOILER ALERT* (As if this piece of muck could be spoiled) This movie tells
us the immortals from the first movie, steeped in mysticism and ritual, are
actually...aliens. Yep. You heard me. For some reason these exiled aliens
become immortals when on Earth (sounds like a pretty good exchange to me -
exile for immortality). Sounds stupid? It is. No real reason is given for
this ridiculous twist. Oh, and Sean Connery's character from the first movie
(Juan Ramírez) manages to come back to life for a little while, to help
Conner MacLeod. How? Magic...but didn't they just tell us these guys were
aliens and not the mystical warriors we were led to believe in the first
movie? Maybe they're magic aliens - that must be it.
I actually saw this farce at the cinema, much to my chagrin. Have I
mentioned that I am a big fan of the original Highlander movie? If any film
ever made me wish we had the technology to selectively delete portions of
our memories, this is the one. Avoid at all costs.
