
After bizarre attacks on a Japanese freighter, first the French then
the U.S. learn of the existence of an apparent modern "dinosaur". When
it's suspected that radiation from nuclear weapons testing in French
Polynesia may have instead produced the monster, biological radiation
specialist Dr. Nick Tatopoulos (Matthew Broderick) is called to the
scene. While investigating the monster's path of destruction, a new
sighting arrives--just off the coast of New York City! 

It's no secret that Godzilla has been much maligned. Even Fangoria
editor Tony Timpone stated in an editorial that he thought it sucked,
and he's usually willing to give movies the benefit of the doubt. The
reasons why director Roland Emmerich's version of Godzilla is hated are
as varied as people stating opinions. But I tend to think that there is
also a strong bandwagon effect with this film that will be tempered by
time. There are already signs of a number of people giving it a second
look and lessening the severity of their criticism.

The chief complaint seems to come from a very vocal but relatively
small crowd of fanboy purists--they dislike that Godzilla is different
here. In the Japanese films, made by the Toho production company,
Godzilla is a guy in a rubber suit who stomps on models of buildings
and such. He tends to lumber, as irrelevant military attacks on him
provide pretty fireworks. Most Godzilla films feature him fighting some
other monster, "professional wrestling" style, and Godzilla arbitrarily
falls down and gets back up as he is attacked and attacks with various
"death rays" from his mouth, eyes, etc. Now that might sound like I
don't like the typical Godzilla film, but that's not true. I like them
quite a bit, but a big part of the reason why is that most of them are
very cheesy. I'm a fan of bizarre cheese/camp, and you get tons of that
in Godzilla films.

But I'm not a purist. To me, there's no good reason why Emmerich's
Godzilla needs to be similar to the Toho incarnations, which in fact
are often quite different from and inconsistent with each other, too.
At this point, I see Godzilla more as a recurring character type--think
of the various instantiations of Dracula or Frankenstein throughout the
20th Century. The Toho films can't really be seen as chapters in a
single, long story. But whether their arguments are wrong or not, the
fanboy purists are at least noisy and prolific, and too many people are
followers.

If Emmerich would have given us a guy in a rubber suit, acting just
like the Toho Godzillas (not "Godzilla"), with the typical
gobbledy-gook of a Toho script, this film would have bombed even worse
(if we can call a 100 million dollar film that made a profit a "bomb")
and the fanboys would have still found something to complain about.
Even though I love the Toho Godzilla films, too, we can't deny that
they do not tend to be bestsellers on video in the U.S., despite the
fact that they're readily available for purchase.

So what Emmerich gives us instead is an epic, expensive-looking film
that spans a number of genres, features more coherent dialogue and
subplots than a typical Toho Godzilla film, and showcases a redesigned,
mostly cgi cast of monsters, where Godzilla looks and behaves much more
like a "real" giant, mutant lizard. For those of us who are not
purists, who do not care if our opinions match the majority, and who
evaluate films on all or their technical and artistic levels, it's
difficult to deny that Godzilla has many merits.

For example, the cinematography in this film is gorgeous. The sound
design is superb and the soundtrack (score and songs) works well with
the film. All of the action sequences, and they comprise a large
percentage of the film, are expertly staged--Emmerich doesn't resort to
darkness, blur-cams and overly quick cuts like many other directors.
It's always easy to follow the narrative during action scenes, it's
always easy to see what's going on, and it's always coherent. That goes
for the non-action scenes, too--the entire film is ingeniously designed
in terms of the progression from one sequence to another. Also, the cgi
is amazing--it's often difficult to tell where it stops and
mechanicals/models begin.

But the story is great, too. Broderick's Tatopoulos is an attractive
anti-hero, a nerdish scientist who solve dilemmas with his professional
knowledge. The other hero is Jean Reno as Philippe Roache, a humorously
enigmatic French "insurance agent". The obligatory romantic subplot,
involving Tatopoulos and Audrey Timmonds (Maria Pitillo) surprisingly
avoids clichés, and Timmonds provides a launching pad for an
all-too-honest satire of the media.

Satire is high up on Emmerich's agenda. Godzilla not only satirizes the
media, but the military, New York/New Yorkers, film critics, and even
monster movies. While the film is simultaneously giving us a lot of
genres--sci-fi, horror, adventure, war film, drama, etc. the most
unexpected motif is the almost cartoonish, spoof-like humor. Godzilla
is more frequently laugh-out-loud funny that anyone expected it to be.
It's not just one-liners and overt jokes, although those are certainly
present, but the amped up intentional absurdity of situations such as
the final taxi cab "chase".

Even if you think that Godzilla has some internal problems as an
artwork (and I agree that there is a slight clunkiness in parts of the
narrative flow--it caused me to subtract a point), there's no way it
deserves the trashing it's received so far. This is at least a
well-made film on a technical level, and if you have any taste for
slightly campy sci-fi/monster flicks, you should find much to enjoy
here.
<|_=00=_|>

Alright, I've had enough.  Godzilla was a GREAT movie, and I'm just sick and
tired of all the critics and others who view the movie as a complete
disaster due to its lack of a story and other problems.

Personally, I don't care.  The movie, from day one was meant to be just a
big effects laden action movie.  It's just for fun.  I understood the story.
The movie should just be viewed as a fun, blow everything up in your way
movie.  Don't be so hard.  Sit back and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

As opposed to most people, I thought this movie was excellent.  You can't
watch the movie and expect Shakespeare...it's Godzilla.  You have to
appreciate the work that went into making this creature look so lifelike. 
This movie had spectacular special effects and a pretty decent story line. 
I thought this movie was great.  I didn't find the acting to be all that
bad.  I would recommend watching this movie before you come to any
conclusions.
<|_=00=_|>
I really do, genuinely enjoy Godzilla. I have watched it on numerous
occasions for a long time now and I always think it is an incredibly
fun and entertaining movie. The first time I watched it though was when
I was around four years young. It was one of the first, as I called it
then, scary movies I watched.

I actually will never find the strength to call this film horrible,
even though my opinions on it have of course lowered a lot over time,
because I watched it when I was so little, and I thought it was the
best movie ever. This film is still really enjoyable, because it's
value doesn't decrease as much as the person who watches it
entertainment does, but it still sickens me to know it has such a low
rating and many look down on it, while really it should receive more
appreciation.

I might have lowered my opinions on this film, but it is still a
pleasing film that does not deserve the rating it has. I didn't see
much of anything wrong with it, even now, and I just thought it was
suspenseful and exciting, somewhat more suspenseful than a lot of other
movies that have been made, with a lot of fun performances and
excellent CGI. Godzilla, yet classified as a horror\suspense, was
actually a touching film and was sad in some parts, as well. I will
never understand how someone could hate a film that's just meant to be
all around fun and enjoyment. It is still my favorite out of the
original and newest remake.

Two thumbs up for Godzilla.
<|_=00=_|>

It's been almost five years since this film came out back in 1998. I can
remember the very first TV Spot on television around New Years. As a HUGE
Godzilla fan I was excited to say the least. And I must tell you, when I
saw
it when it finally came out I wasn't dissapointed, and to this day I
still
feel the same way.

It's a darn shame that this film gets blasted like it does. It shows me
that
the majority of the people (and Godzilla fans) that take the time to
write
reviews for films probably don't know what they are talking about when
they
talk of America's "Godzilla".

There are a couple of main issues critics and Godzilla fans have with the
film. The story and the monster itself, 'Godzilla'.

If you look back at all of the original Japanese Godzilla flicks, you
aren't
going to find a great (not to mention BELIEVABLE) story or plot. I
realize
this, even being a fan of all things Godzilla. Dean Devlin and Roland
Emmerich's 'Godzilla' atleast, in my opinion, had the audience believing
what was going on up on the screen. And if the story was slightly dull to
some of you, you should let it pass. Remember what 'Godzilla' is about,
afterall.

And what was wrong with the monster itself, Godzilla? Nothing. If you get
two action figures, one being a model of the original Godzilla from the
Japanese series and a model of the new American Godzilla you will find
differences but both are remarkably alike in alot of ways.
They both have the spikes, gigantic size, and famous roar. The major
differences being the skin color, face, and longer legs.
I loath it when people bring up how they shouldn't have changed
Godzilla's
looks. I mean, I love the old Godzilla look, it may be silly to some, but
to
me it's still cool. But it would NOT have worked for this film at ALL. If
they had made the American version with a creature that had big 'googily'
eyes and flying around on his tail kicking monsters, it would have ended
up
being a laugh-fest at the theaters.

What the American 'Godzilla' brings us is a believable monster that has
the
spirit and characteristics of the original, that satisfies the audience.
It
was just more realistic. Shouldn't we have expected that?
Devlin and Emmerich came up with a monster that was realistic. Something
the
creators of the original attempted at doing but were limited to rubber
suits. Something the Japanese audience accepts, but the American audience
will not. It's sad that most Godzilla fans and critics do not understand
this.

I personally believe that the majority of the general audience ENJOYED
this
film. It's just the critical blasting from G Fans and Critics that got
alot
of attention, unfortunately, and therefore this gets labeled as a 'bad'
film. It's sad really that people can't enjoy this film.

This is one of my favorite DVD's to plug in. It's Big, Loud, and
Fun.
And although we've had lots of great films with tons of Special Effects,
there's nothing quite like it.

So take a look at it, be open and I'm sure you will enjoy the fantastic
pop-corn entertainment known as "GODZILLA".


<|_=00=_|>
Well, being a longtime fan of the GODZILLA/GOJIRA films as a youngster,
I remember seeing this with great anticipation. I, unlike a lot of
people, was not at all disappointed. This film was exactly what I was
hoping it would be at the time. Sure, it certainly wasn't as charming
or as funny as the films I loved as a kid, but it was a lot of fun. I
loved the action scenes, the look of the monster was crazy to me, and
the plot was simple enough for a first time viewer to get right into.
Seeing it again 10 years later, I had the same reaction. My opinion of
this film hasn't changed one bit. I guess everybody's complaints stem
from how this has no charm or any kind of attempt at being cute or
original. I guess that's understandable, but I still don't see what
everybody's problem is. This was supposed to be a fun, exciting, and
action packed thrill ride. That's all it is, no more, no less. I
personally think that it succeeds at what it achieved to be perfectly.
Matthew Broderick may not exactly be an action hero, but his character
sure was quirky and funny. Jean Reno was as good as usual.
<|_=00=_|>

I don`t know what people expected from this movie. High drama, perhaps
Shakespearean dialog. This is an all out action movie that deserves way
better reviews than it got. This movie could have been horrible, but the
characters were pretty well fleshed for a movie of this type, and the makers
actually went for the pathos angle with the creature. Rather than make
Godzilla a giant monster, they gave the creature a personality with its
behaviour, a personality that can best be seen at the Madison Square Garden
explosion. For anyone to not find that scene poignant, they must be
heartless. Add to this the great acting, and the "scientific" explanations
(which was more than Independence Day ever managed) and this is a grossly
under-rated movie.

<|_=00=_|>
What were some of you expecting? Shakespeare? Tennesee Williams? Its a
movie about a giant lizard in New York - just accept it for what it is!
Its entertainment and no more - and on that level (at least for me) it
works just fine! Its's not "realistic" enough? Again, how realistic is
a giant lizard supposed to be? It's a FANTASY movie! Besides, I thought
the special effects were pretty impressive! And its not as if the
ORIGINAL Godzilla movies were good, with their actors in rubber suits
and laughable, ridiculous "monsters" (gamera, mechagodzilla, etc etc)-
the Godzilla in THIS movie was an animal, not a monster driven by a
need to destroy things! I didn't think Matthew Broderick was bad at all
- although I DID find Animal's girlfriend extremely irritating with her
shrill voice! Really, I didn't think this movie was bad at all - no,
its not a profound meaningful work or art, but then who expected it to
be? It's an enjoyable diversion - that's all anyone should expect!
<|_=00=_|>
I have read the other comments about this film, and while I might agree
with them from a critical point of view, the fact remains that this
movie was NEVER meant to be a critic's favorite! We are not talking
Oscar-material here, not even for special effects. OK, so it's nothing
like the originals, and it has a skimpy little plot and no cinematic
depth. But y'know what--WHO CARES! I went to this movie to be
entertained, and I wasn't disappointed. It's loud, it's quasi-scary, it
had explosions and giant lizards, it had cheesy characters with cheesy
names and all sorts of good stuff you expect from a fun, no-brainer
movie. C'mon, were its predecessors any better? No sex, no graphic
violence (unless you count the poor thing's demise at the end), minimal
profanity--I was able to take my daughter to see it and not be
embarrassed! Today you can pop it in your DVD player or VCR on a rainy
Saturday, make some microwave popcorn (just keep your pet lizard away
from it!) and kill about 90 minutes with the family. The only part I
had a problem with was, they made the beasty so personable, so NICE (it
never INTENTIONALLY kills anyone, y'know), I couldn't help but feel
sorry for it when it died at the end. They even gave it KIDS, for
Pete's sake! As a fellow parent, I actually sympathized when it found
out "they trashed the Garden". I was hoping for a sequel with the
hatching egg at the end, but sad to say, that got scrapped. Anyway, my
final word is: Get over it, folks! It wasn't MEANT to be taken
seriously! Once you get past that, you can enjoy it for the cheap
theme-park-ride it was meant to be. I love it!
<|_=00=_|>
Who are these people comparing this to the older Godzilla movies.. ?
There is absolutely no comparison....this film stands on it's own and
is a fast action paced, highly entertaining movie with special effects
that were the best at the time.

You have to smile at the people who take the Godzilla mythology far too
seriously. I had to smile when I read some of the reviews from the die
hard Godzilla fans.

Personally, I don't care. The movie, from day one was meant to be just
a big effects laden action movie. It's about comic book character.

AN EXCELLENT ENTERTAINING POPCORN MOVIE........BRILLIANT
