
I remember when I was about five or six years old that me and my
younger sister used to rent out this film quite often and watch it all
the time until we had to return it. Although I could not remember the
title of the film until I saw it many years later, I would often
remember the characters because I felt that I understood them and loved
them to pieces. My sister's favourite scene was the 'He's Back' because
she found the gospel singing hilariously funny though I can't actually
remember what my favourite scene was. When I watched it for the first
time in like five or six years, it brought back all the lovely memories
and scenes and just wish it got more of the recognition it deserved and
that I wish it was brought back on TV for younger children to watch and
enjoy, I also think that the video and DVD should be brought back onto
shelves so that people who did enjoy the film can enjoy it again. The
singing I also thought was wonderful, it would be another five or six
years for me to realise that the person who sang 'Please Wake Up' was
the person who made me laugh my head off in BBC sitcom 'Some Mother's
Do 'Ave 'Em'. Overall, this film deserves 10 out of 10 and more
recognition!
<|_=00=_|>

A road accident causes poisonous gases to leak into a forest. A young
badger's life is at stake. Her three friends, Abigail a tomboyish mouse,
Edgar a careful mole and Russell a greedy hedgehog, go to find special herbs
that can save her. They have plenty of adventures along the way and learn
about courage and working together. There are only three songs in the movie
(including end title), but they are worth hearing. Please Wake Up brought
tears to my eyes and He's Gone/He's Back is an upbeat gospel number. Once
Upon A Time is a nice one to finish with. The characters are likeable and it
doesn't get too cute. Children should love it and so will tender-hearted
adults.    7/10

<|_=00=_|>

I'll always remember the first time I saw this film, in late 1993 when I
was
8 years old.  This film was really the first film to ever have a large
impact on me.  Up until then, I had been mainly unaffected by fast, fun,
feel-good kids movies with happy endings.  This one was different... the
ending was only semi-happy and I cried like a baby.  Sure, I was only 8
years old... but that was the first time I had cried at the ending of a
movie (and the last time, until I viewed "dancer in the dark" a few months
ago).  Needless to say, this is a very powerful film about family,
friendship, and guilt.  I'm quite surprised this only has an average
rating
of 4.7/10 from IMDB users.  This film is much better than animated films
like "Fantasia" and "Shrek" which have a much higher rating from IMDB
users.
Sure, it's not as flashy, but it has so much more to say.  I think some
users are too ignorant/cold-hearted to appreciate what this film has to
offer.  It's not a cheesy film in the slighest.  Anyone with a heart
should
appreciate its power.
<|_=00=_|>

okay i haven't actually seen this movie since i was like 7 but i just
spent about 5 hours trying to figure out the name of the movie by using
a million different searches because i am that much in love with this
movie. i think that every single time my mother brought me to the movie
store i rented this movie. as soon as i found the movie i saw pictures
and i almost cried. these characters are super adorable and i need to
buy this movie. i don't see how any people do not like this movie or
think it is about how bad people are. every movie needs a theme and
little kids do not really notice things like that. the only thing i
really picked up about saving the economy or whatever is that you
shouldn't litter or pollute because it can hurt the little animals. i
mean are you saying that is a BAD message to send to kids. okay lets
tell them we live in a perfect world and so you can ruin it any way you
like.that's not cool. i think this is the best animated movie ever made
and the message is kind of like fern gully's too but it is way better

<|_=00=_|>
OK, I'll say this now, this is one of the best animated films I've ever
seen in my life. The question I have to ask is, WHY IS IT SO HARD TO
FIND FILMS LIKE THIS? It has all kinds of stuff that makes an animation
good, drama, a laugh or two, and peril. Why does everyone give this
classic a 4 to 0 out of 10?!!!? That being said, this is basically an
eco-toon, in which a poison is leaked into the village of Dapplewood,
and it's up to 3 little "furlings" to find a flower to cure their sick
friend, whose parents were tragically killed by the gas. Lots of people
say that his makes humans look like the villain, they've obviously
never saw the ending. This FernGully/Secret Of NIMH classic gets two
thumbs up from me.
<|_=00=_|>

I first saw this film cause I am great admirer of Mr. Michael Crawford and
his work and I wanted to see how he did in this animated film. He was just
phenomenal (as he usually is ;-) but I was also touched by the sweetness
of
the film and the characters. The other performers in the film were just as
good and deserving of their roles as Mr. Crawford was. I thought the story
had more heart and kindness in it than any of the animated movies I had
seen
such as "Shrek", "Fantasia", "Finding Nemo" and so on. This was an
original
story and I loved it. I was in suspense watching it, I couldn't leave the
room I was so engrossed in it.

From the bottom of my heart to those people that designed and directed
the
film, and to the actors and to Mr. Crawford - BRAVO!! ENCORE!!

Emma
<|_=00=_|>
I personally think that Once Upon a Forest is an underrated gem. I mean
this is one of the few animations that had me weeping buckets at the
end, and I am a 17 year old schoolgirl. My only complaint is that at 68
minutes long, it is a little too short, but putting that discrepancy
aside what you have is a beautiful, poignant film. The animation is
stunning with beautiful backgrounds and excellent character animation,
and I absolutely loved the songs by James Horner. Please Wake up, had
me in tears,(the only other song in an animation that did that to me
was Somewhere Out There from American Tail) and I know the vocals were
a bit shaky but that can be forgiven as that is such an emotional song
to sing, and it did say in the trivia that Michael Crawford found it
very difficult not to be moved by the song. He's Gone/He's Back is an
upbeat gospel song that provides the funniest moments in the film, and
Once Upon a Time is so lovely with sublime vocals by Florence Warner
Jones. The characters are a delight, particularly the wise Cornelius,
and the three furling friends are very well done, with enthusiastic
voice work from all involved. Both Ferngully and this were heavily
criticised on release for being too preachy, but to me, both are
wonderful overlooked films. Whereas Once Upon a Forest has slightly
better songs(as I really liked the ones in FernGully) and better
character development, one of FernGully's main merits is the villain
Hexxus who terrified me when I was 9, and Tim Curry is one of the gods
of voice acing and made Hexxus as chilling as people remember him. Once
Upon a Forest has a number of enemies portrayed, like the yellow
dragons, the owl and the gas, and I must say they were very well done.
In conclusion, a beautiful underrated movie, and my main advice to
those who haven't seen it, have a box of tissues beside you as this is
bound to bing you tears. 9/10 Bethany Cox.
<|_=00=_|>
I Haven't seen this movie over 10 years (i'm 40) but i always loved it.
I know everyone has a right to their own opinion. But i don't know why
this movie keeps getting a fairly low reviews. And for a g rated movie
it has a pretty dark story. but it does have cute heroes and wonderful
music. And i'm happy to find it on DVD. It does have a good message in
the story about protecting the environment and how pollution effects
all that lives in that environment. And when some animated movies are
violent (not all are though). I hope you enjoy it has much as i do.
They do need to make a sequel to it. And bring back the characters.
Ether as adults or as they where in the first movie as children.
<|_=00=_|>

I'll give you that "Once Upon a Forest" is kind of an eco-toon.  But I
really don't think so.  It's far more about the journey of the furlings; of
them becoming adults.  The poisonous gas is just a plot-device to make the
trip necessary.  And it was the result of an *accident*, not an intentional
evil.

SPOILERS

And, in the end, humans come and clean up the mess.  The only adult
character, the only anti-human character, is amazed and awed.  I think that
directly contradicts the "humans are bad" message people are complaining
about.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie a few days ago for the first time since I was a very
young
child. I can say that I remember it, but, watching it again for the first
time in several years, each scene made a new and different impression on
me
than it did the first time I watched it.

If I had blindly seen this movie for the first time, I would give an
irritated comment. But I can remember what I thought as a six year old,
and
my sister remembers the same things. My much younger sister loves it as
much
as my sister and I did, and I can safely say that it doesn't instill any
absurdities in a child. Truly, this film has no shades of gray, only black
and white. But young children can't understand that many shades of gray,
and
no connection is made between (possible spoiler) the 'bad humans' in the
movie and their own loving family.

If you're looking for an entertaining movie for your kids, I recommend
that
you rent "Once Upon a Forest". However, I don't recommend that you watch
it
with your kids, as, I'm certain, it will irritate the heck out of
you.
