

First, I liked the script and it benefitted because of the casting
too.
LL Cool J gives a good performance as "God" a ruthless crime lord as well as
Omar Epps in a very different role but still manages to keep that street
charisma that he has.  Nia Long's character Myra was perfect to draw the
line between his police work and his personal life.
this also starts Stanley Tucci, Pam Grier, Hassan Johnson and Veronica
Webb.

one of my all-time favorites...

9.5/10
<|_=00=_|>

Those looking for a rousing shoot-em-up action picture will probably be
disappointed by `In Too Deep.'  Those looking for a more low-keyed, subdued
and thoughtful study of the realities of life as an undercover cop will,
however, find much in this film to admire and appreciate.  Omar Epps stars
as a Cincinnati-based rookie cop, Officer Jeff Cole, who goes undercover to
nab a major cocaine dealer from New Jersey who calls himself `God,' (played
by rapper LL Cool J) and who, Godfather-like, involves himself heavily in
familial values and efforts to `help' the struggling members of his blighted
neighborhood.  In its exploration of its subject, the film wisely eschews
the over-the-top fantasy heroics that afflict so many action films and,
instead, tethers itself to the harsh, often ugly realities of the dangerous
criminal world in which it is set.  The movie builds much of its drama and
suspense by bringing to the foreground the fascinating logistics that go
into undercover police work, forcing us to witness first hand the risks, the
moral compromises (to be convincing, Cole has to snort cocaine himself, for
example) and the psychological ambiguities that invariably accompany the
job. 

Cole is a man who has been obsessed from the early days of his
underprivileged, slum-ridden childhood with making a difference in a
crime-infested world he knows all too well from first hand experience.  This
makes him a natural choice for infiltrating this underworld existence since
his background has given him the understanding he needs as a point-of-entry.
 Thus, as he embarks on this new and dangerous career, we see the innate
compassion he extends to those caught in the same environment from which he
has sprung, an empathy that, in the context of his job, often leads him into
a `softness' that clouds his judgment and ends up endangering his life
further.  In addition, as he is accepted more deeply into the inner circle
of trust that God has set up around himself, Cole begins to question his own
loyalties – or so, at least, the offers in charge of him begin to believe. 
(This, I imagine, is the undercover agent version of the Stockholm Syndrome
that afflicts so many kidnap victims, often leading them to transfer their
loyalties from their rescuers to their abductors).  

The screenplay, though it could be sharper and more incisive at times,
occasionally achieves substance in its examination of just what happens to
an undercover agent's mind when he does indeed get `in too deep.'  In
addition, the film frequently achieves moments of genuine suspense, in truly
scary scenes involving God's uncontrolled displays of manic violence and
torture and in moments when Cole's entire cover seems to have been `blown.' 
In those moments, LL Cool J hits all the right notes in his performance but,
both he and Epps, unfortunately, lack the dramatic and emotional range as
actors necessary to make their quieter, more intimate moments effectively
credible.  In addition, the dialogue often rings untrue, especially in the
conversations among the commanding officers played by Stanley Tucci and, in
another weak portrayal, Pam Grier among others.

With better performances, harder-edged dialogue and slightly more energetic
direction, `In Too Deep' might have been a great study of moral conflict set
within the context of an exciting policier.   On the other hand, the film
could also have been much worse.  As it is, `In Too Deep' respects the
seriousness of both its subject matter and its audience and provides a
number of powerful scenes - factors for which we are grateful but which also
make us yearn for the high quality film that might have been. 


<|_=00=_|>

In Too Deep is a urban drama that was overlooked in 1999. Omar Epps is
good
in the lead role a J. Reid/Jeffery Cole an undercover cop who begins to
lose
his mind while trying to get close to God ( a drug lord) played very
effectively by LL Cool in one of his best performances ever. The direction
and cinematography are very good and the film features cameos from rappers
Nas, Stickay Fingaz and Jeramine Dupri. While the film isn't as good as
Deep
Cover it's still worth a look.
<|_=00=_|>

First of all I'll start by saying that "In Too Deep" is a watered down
version of "Deep Cover", but that's not really a bad thing.

The movie looks, sounds and is acted in a very well put together way. The
characters are even memorable, even LL COOL J's "God", is really
effective.
He's a family man, but a notorious and mean gangster all at
once.

The look at what going undercover can do to one's mental well being is a
really sharp and involving look. Stanley Tucci, excellent, Nia Long, let
her
have her own movie,PLEASE!!, Omar Epps as "J. Reid", very impressive. And
look for Pam Grier, NAS, and a few others.

A really good African American crime thriller, with heart.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is excellent. It has everything; lovable characters, crude humor,
brief nudity, popular actors, well-written story, a ruthless but nice
crimelord who calls himself "GOD". Omar Epps plays Cole, an undercover cop
who goes "in too deep" to stop God. At first he suspects he's a cop but
after certain encounters with God's enimes; Cole proves himself. He takes it
to far sometimes, then his boss stops him from undercover work but he
quickly put back in. There nasty but funny scenes n this movie such as: God
cutting off the tongue of 1 of his enimes, then another, he shoves a pool
stick in his butt. Defenitely a "must-see" film. Although the ending is not
expected but nonetheless go see it!
<|_=00=_|>

This movie wasn't bad at all, in fact, I never rented when it was new
because it just *looked* bad. It was actually almost an exact remake of
"Deep Cover," with many of the same elements. I suggest watching them back
to back to see what I mean. There's the cop who starts to like, somewhat,
his target, there's the beating up of a once trusted confidant on a pool
table, there's the frequent meetings in out of the way places with his
superiors. The only real drawback of this film is the "love story," which
did nothing but destroy all momentum the film had going, each and every time
that subject came up. Edit that out and you'd have a great
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Very realistic portrayal of the Ohio drug crime scene and the tense
tightrope walk an undercover officer had to do to nab the local
drug-lord. The street talk and violence ring true. Reasonable
performance by Omar Epps and a good one by LLCJ. I found the part of
the movie where he takes a forced hiatus from his undercover role a
little draggy though. The other members of the police force are lacking
in conviction, but in my opinion, they are extras and their performance
has very little relevance to the story. The criminal extras on the
other hand, excel. And that is where it matters. , Overall, the movie
compares well with the 2006 Leo Di Caprio- Matt Damon - Scorcese
thriller. Definitely worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
This is actually a very good film. A great watch, and tense all they
way through. It was an incredible mix of scripting, acting, dialogue
and cinematography that uncovered an understanding of truth on both
sides of the issue.

In this film, Omar Epps plays a rookie, undercover cop, whose first
small assignment actually leads him into the number one crime syndicate
in all of Cincinnati. The inexperienced cop uses his urban upbringing
and street smarts to get him to the top, where he really has to decide
which side he wants to be on. Also LL Cool J showed that he had much
talent in acting as in Hip-Hop music. Omar Epps is also great, and Nia
Long, nice eye candy from fresh prince of Bel Air and Stanley Tucci,
who added further weight to the cast. The soundtrack is great too,
especially at the end with the Mobb Deep track, it's a perfect fit.

Overall rating: 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite the negative criticism leveled at "In Too Deep" for the
notoriety of its violence, this superficial but entertaining urban
police thriller is considerably less gory and graphic than "Belly,"
last year's stylishly overwrought narcotics yarn. Anybody who remembers
classic undercover cop capers, like "Serpico," "Rush," "Deep Cover,"
"New Jack City," "Donnie Brasco," or even a "Wiseguy" or "Miami Vice"
TV episode, should find "In Too Deep" ranks as a tolerably exciting but
hopelessly derivative variation on a well-worn theme. Although
Australian director Michael "Angel Heart" Rymer and "Dead Presidents"
writer Michael Henry Brown and "The Octagon" scribe Paul Aaron stick to
the formula, they have provided enough new material so that "In Too
Deep" doesn't overdose on clichés.

"In Too Deep" chronicles the predicament that undercover Cincinnati cop
Jeff Cole (Omar Epps of "The Mod Squad") confronts when he must prove
he is not the heat but a home boy to a suspicious, big-time coke
dealer. Worse, after he infiltrates the organization, Coe must never
let the camaraderie that develops between the hoodlums and him
interfere with his goal of busting him. Rymer and his scenarists dilute
some of the suspense by unfolding the story in flashbacks as our hero
lectures a class of Chicago rookies about the dangers of undercover
work. Obviously, Cole will survive the ordeal intact no matter how
treacherous the obstacles, because we see him after the fact rapping to
rookies! Anti-climactic and predictable as "In Too Deep" remains, Rymer
and his writers cobble together a serviceable actioneer with layers of
atmosphere.

Cole is fresh out of the police academy when he volunteers to go
undercover for Captain Preston Boyd (Stanley Tucci of "Big Night").
Initially, Boyd is leery, but he lets Cole make a buy, and nothing
terrible happens. The next time out things go haywire when Cole tries
to bust two Latino coke dealers. Their imposing, steely-eyed mother
grabs his crotch where the latest surveillance technology is nestled to
hang the dealers. Cole dismisses this close shave and pleads for bigger
game: Dwayne Gittens. A refugee from New Jersey who has settled in
Cincinnati, Gittens (L.L. Cool J) runs 80 per cent of the coke in town
and calls himself 'God." According to Boyd, nobody has ever gotten
close enough to Gittens to nail him. Posing as a drug dealer from
Akron, Coe pursues Gittens, but he nearly dies when a duo of renegade
dealers working for Gittens try to take him out.

As J. Reid, Coe defends himself and caps one of the dealers, and then
turns himself in to Boyd. Promptly taking Coe off the case, Boyd packs
him off to a safe house in the sticks. While Cole cools his heels, Boyd
signs him up for photography classes at a nearby university. Coe meets
Myra (Nia Long of "Love Jones") during a photo modeling session and the
sparks fly. After a rip-roaring, gangsta-busting opening, "In Too Deep"
shifts gears from an inner city shoot'em up to a chick flick in the
country. Antsy as Coe is to bust 'God,' he goes over Boyd's head and
cuts a deal with the D.E.A. Before you can say 'reload,' Coe shows up
back in Cincinnati. 'God' is overjoyed to see him and apologizes for
the slip-up. Jeff Cole grows so obsessed with arresting 'God' that he
crosses the line between good and evil and his undercover gangsta
persona overshadows who he really is. Eventually, the transformation
becomes complete. When he tries to see Myra, she vows to have nothing
to do with him.

Although "In Too Deep" imitates many earlier undercover cop movies,
several things differentiate it. Happily, the producers selected a city
other than New York, Los Angeles, Miami, Chicago, or San Francisco as
the setting for their film. The Cincinnati police uniforms with their
white kepis make the cops look like AFJROTC cadets. Even though he
doesn't say much as Coe's superior, Stanley Tucci delivers his lines
with none of the usual loud-mouthed antics of the stereotypical police
captain. Tucci's voice is so crisp and commanding that you hang on his
every word that way you might with Anthony Hopkins. The filmmakers know
when to turn up the hip-hop music and when to turn it off, especially
during the obligatory romance between Coe and Myra where the music
lightens up to reflect the intimacy of the situation. Finally, Rymer
and company conclude the action with a less-than-gratuitous gunfight
that leaves the villain standing so that he can be convicted and
sentenced to two life terms in prison. Typically, the villains die a
horrible death in these movies.

Omar Epps has more to do as an undercover cop in "In Too Deep" than he
had in "The Mod Squad." At times, when he dons an obvious wig, he
resembles a young Yaphet Kotto. Nevertheless, he creates a sympathetic
cop, and he doesn't perform any fake heroics or stunts that an ordinary
man couldn't match. Epps convincingly captures the dilemma that his
psychologically warped out detective succumbs to when his bad guy
persona gains control of him. Meanwhile, rapper L.L. Cool J forges a
memorable villain in Dwayne 'God' Gittens. ." "In Too Deep" qualifies
as an above-average entry in the drug bust genre, though it pales by
comparison with "New Jack City," "Donnie Brasco," or "Serpico." Sloppy
scripting sometimes mars the overall sense of believability. After Cole
busts the Latino drug dealers, he waltzes out of his house amid a swarm
of cops, and a friend of the family spots him. Later, she tells one of
'God's' henchmen, and Coe has to prove himself again. The measure of
Cole's success is reflected in 'God's' decision to ignore this cry of
warning. Fluid, kinetic helming by Michael Rymer keeps the action
moving ahead at a swift clip that rarely slackens off, except in the
romantic moments. The villains aren't cupcakes, and the hero's plight
is no picnic. If you enjoy slam-bang cop thrillers, "In Too Deep" makes
the grade.
<|_=00=_|>

A superb, tense thriller that can be placed alongside "Donnie Brasco" (I
mean,
of course, Agent Joseph Pistone's book, not the dreadful movie, full of lies
and awful changes, that was "based" on it).
"In Too Deep" is powerful, dark, gripping and keeps you in uncertainty
of
what's going to happen till the very end. A very realistic experience,
with
attention paid to the tiniest details and legalities - this isn't your
average
stupid Tarantino flick where undercover cops go around happily shooting
anyone
they want whenever they feel like it; this feels almost *real*! I doubt if
the
movie was actually based on a true story of an undercover policeman (unless
the
"story" is the obvious fact that thousands of policemen risk their lives
every
month working undercover all over the world), but if anything like it
ever
happened, you can safely bet that it happened exactly the way the movie
tells
it. Highly recommended, especially for anyone interested in true crime. I
hope
it comes out on DVD, with extras and specials - this movie deserves it.
If
while reading "Donnie Brasco" (NOT while watching its stupid film
version...) you
ever wondered what it would be like if moved to the 1990s, "In Too
Deep"
will answer your questions! (By the way, have you noticed that "God"
looks
somewhat like a thin Suge Knight, while J-Reed looks a bit like an
older
version of Tupac Shakur...?)
