
This is the sequel we have been waiting for! After a little slump with
Halloween 5, I think a lot of Halloween fans were worried that the
Halloween franchise was going to be like the typical Friday the 13th
series, that as the sequels went on the stories would just get worse
and worse. Why is Halloween H20 different and better than the other
sequels? Because they went back into their roots, most sequels loose
touch with what the original movie was trying to produce and get into
goofy characters. This movie delivers in perfect scares, the story is
awesome, and we have Jamie Lee Curtis back! What more could we ask for?
I do have to admit that there was a disappointment that they killed the
original nurse from the first Halloween movie, but the way Michael did
it was classic. This is my favorite Halloween sequel because Michael is
back and he's scarier than ever. We have some new great actors like
Josh Hartnett, Michelle Williams and even LLCoolJ was fun to have
around, they were all great additions to our Halloween story.

The movie features the return of Laurie Strode, now revealed to be
living under the assumed name "Keri Tate". As Tate, Laurie has a
seemingly perfect life with an intelligent son and a boyfriend, a great
career; however, Laurie is far from happy. The tragic events from 20
years previous still haunt her mind, and strongly take effect on her
parental capabilities. To everyone, this is "just another Halloween,"
however Laurie still lives in constant fear. But this year is
different. Marion Chambers and her neighbors are murdered by Michael
after he steals a file on Laurie Strode. Michael leaves to find Laurie.
To mark the 20th anniversary of the happenings of 1978, her brother,
Michael Myers, appears, and starts killing off her co-workers and
students one by one. And for the first time in two decades, they meet
again. Laurie escapes, but chooses to go back to the school to
challenge Michael in a fight to the death. She finds him and attempts
killing him several times. But after all, this is Michael Myers, after
several sequels you know it isn't going to be that easy.

Halloween H20 is a great sequel that is sure to give you good scares,
laughs, and it keeps you interested. This is one of those rare movies
that made me cover my eyes in terror, I know it sounds a little cheesy,
but when Laurie is having a bad flash of Michael coming towards her and
she keeps trying to close her eyes and say it's just a dream, but she
opens them and he's still walking towards her, yikes! Also I absolutely
LOVED the ending, this was a great closure to the series, even though
sadly they created another sequel, I just have to forget about that one
because this is the way they should just leave the Halloween franchise.
So not only would I recommend this movie if you were looking to
complete the Halloween series, but just watch it in general, this movie
goes back to the basics and is just a great movie. It was a lot of fun
to watch and see Michael terrorizing the new cast, even after 20 years
he's still got the touch to even make us sympathize with him, ooooo,
Michael, where will you take us next? Well, hopefully a much better
sequel then what I had to put up with in 2002.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Halloween was, is, and will likely remain
the greatest horror movie of all time.
None of its sequels or imitators could
even come close. Until now. Halloween H20
is a fantastic film. Unlike other films
of this genre, it realizes that you need
to care about the characters in order for
the film to scare you. Gore does not equal
terror. The original Halloween knew that
and H20 knows it. It allows you to get to
know the characters so you can root for
them in the end. Unlike the Scream-type
movies of today, teenagers are not the
only ones with brains here. Jamie Lee
Curtis gives a performance superior to her
one in the original. Her character was
destroyed from the events of the first
film. We get to see her rebuild herself as
she finally faces the fear that has
haunted her for 20 years. Kudos to
director Steve Miner. He creates a
perfectly creepy atmosphere, allows
Michael Myers to move like a person
instead of a robot, and throws everything
but the kitchen sink at us in a white
knuckle ending. This is the first horror
movie I went to in a long time where the
audience SCREAMED with regularity. There
were more screams in the last half hour of
this movie than there were in SCREAM 1 & 2
combined. My only complaint is the over
use of false scares. But other than that,
this is a first class thriller that
FINALLY does justice to the original
HALLOWEEN. I give it ***1/2 out of ****.
<|_=00=_|>
Back before Lions Gate (now Lionsgate) held the monopoly on mainstream
genre pics, Dimension Films was the go-to place for horror and suspense
of the 'indie' sort. In 1998, with Wes Craven's 2 "Scream" films
maintaining the public interest to great financial success, Dimension
decided to put their acquisition of the "Halloween" franchise to good
use (especially after the atrocious "Curse of Michael Myers") by making
a sequel to end all sequels (at least until the atrocious "Halloween:
Resurrection" turded up multiplexes).

In addition to being one of the most instantly-recognizable titles in
all of horror, "Halloween: H20" came to screens with an added
incentive: it marked the series return of original protagonist/victim
Laurie Strode (played with cat-like veracity by Jamie Lee Curtis).
Curtis' presence, in addition to the reliable skill of director Steve
Miner (who cut his teeth on two "Friday the 13th" sequels), plus a
story that wisely disregarded the incidents of all the sequels past
"II," set "H20" up as the series payoff I was so eagerly awaiting.
After leaving the theater, I was more than satisfied with the end
result.

Years go by. Dimension becomes a notorious den of re-cuts, re-shoots,
and re-castings (just ask Wes "Cursed" Craven) still trying to mine the
'Fresh-Faced-Teen' demographic that doesn't seem to exist anymore. Upon
re-examination of "H20"'s box/poster art, I noticed a recurrent motif
(from "Scream" to "Phantoms" to "Nightwatch" to "Rounders") in design:
the proliferation of airbrushed faces looking Deeply Concerned about
something, in addition to an over-reliance on bold, exclamatory blurbs
from dubious sources (WWOR-TV, anyone?).

But I'm not reviewing the marketing tactics of a company whose former
glories (namely Tarantino and Rodriguez) are now its only source of
revenue.

"Sin City" notwithstanding, "H20" might have been the last good movie
to come out of Dimension. At its core, it is a surprisingly compact (86
minutes, including credits) horror-thriller that moves so briskly we
are never able to get too cozy with the characters. Miner goes for the
subtle compositions that marked John Carpenter's original, and is
fairly successful: the film refrains from the obligatory sex and
self-referential attitude that would have been profitable at the time.
From frame one, "H20" feels like a continuous, flowing set-piece...but
the way it sidelines its characters leaves a hollow echo when it's all
finished. Also unfortunate is that the suspense is so heavy-handed it
seldom creates tension; this might be attributable to Chris Durand's
overly self-conscious portrayal of the menacing Michael Myers. The
relationship between Curtis, her son John (Josh Hartnett), and Myers is
the film's intriguing familial triangle, but is disappointingly
underdeveloped (though for the sake of the series, it wraps things up
well enough).

In the end, "H20" is Curtis' show. She imbues her character with as
much straight-faced commitment as she did in '78, in addition to a
toughened exterior bent on preserving family values at any cost. The
denouement, which contains a moment as touching as it is creepy, gives
new meaning to the phrase, "tough love."
<|_=00=_|>

With the success of "the new" horror film genre started by Kevin
Williamson's Scream, it was inevitable that it would Halloween
H20.
With Williamson in an unacknowledged, co-producer role, H20 added a bit
of hip teen class to the Halloween series, with Dawson Creek's Michelle
Williams, Jodi Lynn O'Keefe, and the debut of Josh Hartnett heading the
cast
along with scream queen Jamie Lee Curtis.
Fans of the series have been let down with disappointing sequels
soiling
the reputation of the classic original, so it wasn't all bad when the
producers of H20 made a controversial decision to ignore films 3-6 in the
series.
Set in a California posh secluded high school as opposed to
Haddonfield,
H20 is a taught film lasting no more than 80 minutes if you don't include
the credits. In the short running time the film manages to pack in suspense
and drama to satisfy both fans of the series and of the genre, with the
film
managing to keep both traditional and "new age" horror fans
happy.
In all, a healthy addition to the classic horror series, watch out for
Halloween 8: Homecoming.
<|_=00=_|>

"Halloween H20:20 Years Later" made by Steve Miner("House",the second and
the third part of "Friday the 13th" series)is quite good,especially if you
liked John Carpenter's classic "Halloween".The film disregards Parts
4-6,which is not necessarily a bad thing.Luckily it has plenty of
suspense,and a good amount of scares-especially the prologue is quite
terrifying.There is only a little bit of gore,so gorehounds will be
disappointed.Jamie Lee Curtis is pretty good as a Laurie Strode,but the
other characters played by the supporting cast are shallow and empty.The
score by Marco Beltrami sounds exactly like the one from "Scream" and this
is surely big mistake.All in all I enjoyed this one and you should too if
you are a fan of "Halloween" series.7 out of 10-a solid horror
flick!
<|_=00=_|>
Don't ask me why but I couldn't help being involved in the pre title
sequence of H20 . I mean how many times have we seen a madman stalking
his victims in a dark house ? Too many you say ? I couldn't agree more
but director Steve Miner has managed to make this sequence tense and
exciting 

The story is held up slightly after this as we're introduced to the
characters . Jamie Lee Curtis returns as Laurie Strode who having
survived the previous encounter with Michael Myers now has a drinking
problem . Perhaps not the most radical or original example of character
development but character development of a sort . Obviously Michael
Myers is just as you'd expect him to be . He says nothing and goes
around killing horny teenagers 

Interestingly enough while horny teenagers having sex are expected to
be bumped off in this type of movie there is no on screen sex in this
movie and there's nothing to indicate that none of these teenagers have
lost their virginity . They're no angels but they're not promiscuous
sex pigs either . Deliberate post modernism on the part of the writers
? Possibly since we see two teenage girls watching a clip from SCREAM
on TV so make up your own mind and it's good to see a horror film with
some lighter moments which come from a performance by LL Cool J as a
cop while at the same time the humour never becomes OTT 

By no means a classic example of cinema H20 is a fairly impressive
movie for what it is - Yet another sequel in a horror franchise but one
that kept this sometimes demanding viewer entertained
<|_=00=_|>
I love Carpenter's Halloween and, frankly, wish there had never been
any sequels. Halloween is a near-perfect horror film: very suspenseful,
stylish, subtle, and loaded with amazing, spooky atmosphere. None of
the sequels even come remotely close to duplicating any of the
qualities that make Halloween so amazing. H20, however, - while not
similar in style to the original - is the only Halloween sequel to
display any sophistication and wit. There are lots of knowing and witty
allusions to the original and the film actually doesn't insult the
audience's intelligence. I love the ending to the film; it is very
gratifying to see Laurie finally confront and defeat her monster, both
figuratively and literally. And the final image and sounds of the film
demonstrate an intelligence nowhere to be found in any of the other
Halloween sequels: just as the original ended with the ominous panting
of a disembodied Michael, H20 ends with the victorious panting of
Laurie as the credits roll.

The other sequels are for the most part embarrassments. This entry,
however, is a lot of fun for anyone who loves the original. Of all the
sequels, it's the only one worth checking out...
<|_=00=_|>
Ah, the mid-to-late 1990's... sort-of a rebirth of horror in a way.
After all, the period from 1990 to about 1995 was wholly and decidedly
a relatively murky period for the genre, with quality releases being
very few and far between. Audiences were tiring of the holdover 80's
slasher flicks and ho-hum ghost stories, with really only a handful of
stand-out creep-shows to keep horror fans satiated. With so few
quality-choices (notably the mini-series "It" from the book by Stephen
King and the wonderful thriller "Candyman" from the stories of Clive
Barker), it was no wonder that the early 90's were considered a "dead"
period.

Then, "Scream" happened and changed everything. It proved that not only
could horror be widely appealing at the hands of gifted writers and
quality filmmakers, but also showed that the old tropes and clichés
could be "hip" and "cool" again when handled with care and a degree of
nostalgic love.

So, it should come as no shock that after the colossal misfire that was
the previous film ("The Curse of Michael Myers"), the "Halloween"
series got a new lease on life with a post-"Scream" sensibility in this
1998 release- "Halloween H20: Twenty Years Later." A minor degree of
self-awareness, a focus on modern teenage and young adult culture and a
fun blast from the past by way of original star Jamie Lee Curtis made
the series relevant and modern in a way that both worked to
re-invigorate interest and also pay homage to the series origins.

The film was lovingly crafted to serve as a book-end to the original,
cleverly taking advantage of being released on the twentieth
anniversary of the John Carpenter classic as part of it's schtick. It
was built up as the "Halloween" to end all "Halloween's"... A
"Halloween" for the modern era. A "Halloween" for the sharp and
post-modern 90's crowd. And a "Halloween" that honored the long-
beloved roots of the series.

Directed by Steve Miner, the film revolves around Jamie Lee Curtis'
Laurie Strode, now living as a teacher under a false name. Still
haunted by nightmares of her murderous sibling Michael Myers, Laurie is
trying her hardest to move on. But when her brother comes calling, the
stakes are set for a final and apocalyptic battle from which only one
can emerge alive.

The success of the film really falls onto its clear adoration of the
original and the desire to "evolve" and "complete" the story that it
started in a new and fresh way. You can feel the love for that film
oozing in virtually every scene here, with many subtle homages and
call-backs. Yet it also builds and evolves the franchise in a way that
previous films hadn't. Whereas prior sequels truly did feel like they
were simply trying to re-create the magic of the original to
increasingly diminishing results, "H20" actually has the guts to say
"No, the best way to pay tribute to the origin of the series is to make
homage and continue the story, but allow it to change with the times."
A huge part of that is the result of that late-90's self-aware mindset
popularized by other films, and I think it works wonders. There are
numerous levels of subversion that make you second-guess where it's all
leading, there's plenty of banter and humor that satisfies the
audience, and it also makes the wise move to make all the characters
likable... nobody here really has their own agenda as so many other
slasher-sequels have done with their characters.

Miner's direction is strong, with a keen sense of scope, atmosphere and
composition. He finds just the right balance between old- fashioned
cinematography and 90's era aesthetics, giving the film a unique tone
and visual palate that both compliments and contrasts with the
Carpenter original.

Performances are uniformly strong for the material. Curtis is a joy in
her returning role, giving Laurie a grand sense of pathos but also a
drive to finally face her fears. Supporting roles by the likes of Josh
Hartnett, Adam Arkin and even rapper LL Cool J round out a likable and
believable cast. And there's no sore thumbs to be found. Also of note
is voice-over artist Tom Kane, who perfectly re- creates the brilliant
dialog of the late Donald Pleasance in a wonderful opening sequence.
(Also, keep your eyes peeled for future superstar Joseph Gordon- Levitt
in a small role in the opening sequence!)

Should I have to address any negatives, I would definitely have to dock
some slight points for a frankly shaky first act, which does fall back
on the old tropes and clichés a bit too much. It just feels contrary to
the much stronger second and third acts of the film, and it doesn't do
much to subvert expectations or built on the legacy of the series. I
also take some slight issue with the film's at times break-neck pace...
it's already a fairly short film, and it rushes a bit too much for
everything to really set in.

Still, those flaws being stated, I can't help but feel that for my
money, this is the best of the "Halloween" sequels. It built off of
what came before, served as a loving tribute and also book-ended the
series with what was at the time built up to be the final entry in the
series. To me, the "Halloween" franchise is a trilogy- Carpenter's
"Halloween", it's first sequel "Halloween II" and this film, "H20."
Everything else to me is pure fan-fiction.

I give "Halloween H20: Twenty Years Later" a strong 8 out of 10 as a
horror fan and in particular as a fan of the franchise. Definitely
worth seeing. (It's follow-up "Resurrection"... not so much.)
<|_=00=_|>
When a nurse (Nancy Stephens) comes home from work but she thinks, her
house is been rubbed. After finding broken glass on the front door,
when she's too frighten to check inside. She asks one of her neighbors
to check it out, but they don't find nothing inside. Expect her office
is been trashed. When the nurse goes back to her home, she finds out
the file of Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) has disappear. She slowly
realized that her estranged murdering brother Michael Myers (Chris
Durand) has find out, where she lives. But the nurse finds herself
killed by Michael and the neighbors as well. Now Laurie is living the
life as a head mistress at a private boarding school in California. But
Laurie is living in the name of Keri Tate to protect her real identity.
Laurie is a alcoholic, she also has an 17-year old son John (Josh
Hartnett), she has an boyfriend Will (Adam Arkin) who's also working in
the school but she still fears that Michael will find her one day.
Since Michael's dead body disappear 20 years ago from the hospital. Now
Laurie feels that the day is coming that Michael will strike again
anything soon.

Directed by Steve Miner (Day of the Dead "2008", House, Lake Placid)
made an enjoyable if flawed sequel to the classic "Halloween". Which
"Halloween:H20" is certainly better than most of the "Halloween"
sequels (Although i did enjoyed "Halloween 4:The Return of Michael
Myers"). Director Miner certainly knows the rules of a slasher/horror
movies. Since he directed the better "Friday the 13th" sequels (Part 2
& Part 3) and he also worked with Curtis before in "Forever Young".
Curtis gives one of her best performances in her career returning to
the role that made her famous (especially her old days as the "Scream
Queen", she was certainly one of the originals). She originally wanted
John Carpenter to directed this but he wisely walked away and let some
other director handle the material. Since he was never comfortable with
the sequels.

DVD has an sharp non-anamorphic Widescreen (2.35:1) transfer and an
good Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. The Canadian DVD says it's
enchanted for 16x9 televisions but it is not true, since it is the same
transfer from the 1998 DVD. But it is at least, one of the better
non-anamorphic transfer from that time. DVD also included an
featurette, music video and an amusing trivia game (Which it should
been more complicated). I would have loved to hear an running
commentary track by director Miner and actress:Curtis but sadly, we
didn't. There's no deleted scenes as well, since some television
versions added some additional footage. The cast are good here
including Michelle Williams as John's girlfriend, LL Cool J, Jodi Lyn
D'Keefe and Adam Hann Byrd. There's also cameos by Janet Leigh in a
good scene with Curtis and Joseph Gordon-Levitt in the opening
sequence.

"Halloween:H20" was a surprise box office hit. Many critics enjoyed
Curtis' performance, which it is one of the reasons why "Halloween:H20"
is worth watching. But the screenplay by Robert Zappia and Matt
Greenberg (The Prophecy 2, 1408, Reign of Fire) has some major
problems. The seventh film of the series suffers a bit too much from
false scares and humour (Certainly from the LL Cool J character, i
liked this actor/rapper but his role as the security guard/wannabe
cheesy romantic writer seems out of place with the film). Also one of
the problems, i felt it was too short. The screenplay should have been
more complex. But it has enough thrills, suspense and excitement to
make it better than it is. Overall "Halloween:H20" is truly a good
sequel that should have ended there. Although i enjoyed
"Halloween:Resurrection" on a guilty pleasure level. I felt the final
scene between Laurie and Michael to be oddly intriguing, especially it
nearly humanized Michael. This is certainly one of the most underrated
sequels of all time, this is worth re-discovering since it's been 10
years from its release. Kevin Williamson, the then hot-screenwriter of
"Scream" and "I'll Know What You Did Last Summer" did some re-writes in
the screenplay. Which he's only credited as one of the co-executive
producers. Super 35. (****/*****).
<|_=00=_|>
Twenty years before this film was released, audiences were introduced
to the murderous Michael Myers. A masked man stalking the small town of
Haddonfield, Myers made a name for himself in the horror genre. Now,
twenty years later, Michael is back for more mayhem.

Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) faked her death twenty years ago, and
now she is a single mother working as a teacher. Strode has kept her
history a secret from everyone, but not all secrets stay buried. She
soon finds herself being chased by the lunatic all over again.

This film is close to being as great as the original film. The
storyline makes more an interesting film, and Curtis is working along
side some great actors including her own mother, Janet Leigh, who makes
a cameo appearance.

This movie is far from many mediocre sequels of horror films. This
franchise has remained one of the best made in horror history. A must
see for any horror fan. A perfect movie to kick back with on October
31st.
