

I was surprised to see such a low rating on IMDB for this film, which I feel
is Crystal's masterpiece.  While watching it, it becomes clear quickly that
making this movie is a real labour of love for Crystal.  He really displays
his entire range in this surprising drama about a rather complex
Vaudeville-esque comedian (whose character Buddy Young Jr. was introduced
years before during Crystal's unforgettable stint on the 1984-5 Saturday
Night Live season).  Perhaps I was just in the mood for a sentimental film
while I was watching it, but I was really compelled by the film, which also
featured an unbelievable performance by David Paymer as Crystal's brother. 
The flashback sequences were fabulous-- I just can't say enough good about
this film.  Just don't set your expectations for a comedy, remember this is
a rather long, sentimental (yet never sappy) drama with comic elements and
enjoy! (rating 9/10)
<|_=00=_|>

Billy Crystal's directorial debut was not a big success mainly due to the
fact that people had no idea how multi-faceted he had the ability to be.
This is not a comedy. This is a very moving drama about a comedian and his
life, both public and private. There are several highly insightful moments
and some real movie magic present. I assume Crystal had help with his
directing, as there are a few crafty camera shots. I personally don't mind
that most critics overlooked this movie, but I am very glad that the Academy
recognized David Paymer, as Crystal's watching-from-the-wings brother, with
a Best Supporting Actor nomination. He and Crystal play off each other
wonderfully. They act so much like brothers throughout the years of the
film, Paymer's last name might actually be Crystal.

Helen Hunt, Ron Silver, and Jerry Orbach have good roles, albeit fairly
small. There are also several cameos, including Lowell Ganz and Babaloo
Mandel. They co-wrote the movie with Crystal, and this duo have their names
on Happy Days episodes, as well as a slew of films. This information is
helpful to the humor when they appear as a couple of goofy young
writers.

This fine film is not without a couple of drawbacks. The make-up job on
Crystal and Paymer in their old age is far from realistic. This aspect of
the film needed Rick Baker. The other item that detracts this from being a
truly great film is that it is essentially a biography of a fictional person
who isn't a very nice guy. The movie has a few moments where it wants the
viewer to feel sorry for him for ruining his own life. To me, however, it is
great storytelling and wonderful acting. It is sad, poignant, and, upon
first viewing in 1992, nothing I expected from the mind of Billy
Crystal.

If you've never seen this picture because you have heard too many negative
things, please give it a viewing. You could very well be surprised.

<|_=00=_|>
Took a chance and bought the DVD for an extravagant amount of
money(well £2.99 to be exact) and it turned out to be an unexpected
delight. Billy Crystal is brilliant as an acerbic comic ably supported
by David Paymer as his long suffering brother. If your expecting an out
and out comedy you might be disappointed, but as a moving story of
someone's life who happens to be a comedian, it's touching, poignant
and sometimes very funny. Although Paymer got an Academy Award
nomination, Crystal who let's face it is the only reason to watch the
awards got nothing,zero,zilch, not a dickey bird... but as someone once
said "don't get me started..." (8/10)
<|_=00=_|>

This movie didn't get a big audience and it is a shame, but that's no
surprise.  It doesn't have the makings of a big box office hit.  This is a
hilarious film, and I laughed nonstop, but it's not entirely a comedy.  It
has a great human element.  Not your usual Hollywood fluff.  I mean, I enjoy
comedies like "There's Something About Mary" that do virtually nothing for
civilization, yet make you laugh out loud, but it's always a great incentive
to watch a comedy that keeps its ear to the ground, that's down to earth. 
Few times have I watched a film that made me laugh so hard, yet touched my
heart in the most poignant fashion.  "Mr. Saturday Night" is a real
gem!

I've always been a big Billy Crystal fan, but this is his best work ever! 
It's easy for a stand-up comic like Billy Crystal to co-write, direct and
act in a movie about a stand-up comic.  But the film also flaunts his range
as an artist.  Needless to say, it shows off his more serious side.  I'm
sure some elements of the story were inspired by his origins as an
up-and-coming stand-up comedian.  And he brings us into all aspects of this
fictional comedian's life.  What people tend to overlook is the fact that
most comedians...don't live very happy lives.  They may seem very jovial on
stage, but what goes on off-stage is an entirely different story.  Buddy
Young (Crystal) doesn't have luck with family, friends or anyone in his
life.  Sometimes it is his fault, sometimes it's not.  Sometimes the people
in his life just fail to understand the real Buddy and his sort of
mentality.  I've heard several reviews stating that it's hard to get engaged
in a film where the main character is an insulting, unappealing soul.  I
personally didn't find his character unappealing at all.  Then again, I
don't know Buddy personally.  But I always enjoy watching movies about
characters that are hated much more than movies about characters that are
loved.  What's compelling about a story about someone who everyone loves? 
If you watch a movie about someone who has his flaws, it gives you more to
think about.  Why does this person behave this way?  Was there a pivotal
moment that caused him to be this way?  

But I can respect a man like Buddy Young.  So his jokes are very negative. 
They're funny!  Some may not prefer his type of humor; if you don't, that's
your prerogative.  All I know is I never seen a comedy that was so
consistently funny.  Often when I watch a movie where I get big laughs in
the first act, the laughs wear out as the film goes along.  When you make a
comedy that starts out really funny, you have to keep that consistency.  The
upcoming gags have to be either just as funny or funnier.  Never did I feel
the comedy lagged.  There's tons of lines and scenes that will stick in my
mind forever.  One absolute gem is a scene in a restaurant.  Billy takes
pieces of bread and does all sorts of impressions.  For example, he takes
two long pieces of bread, puts them on each side of his head and
impersonates a Hasidic Jew.  And later on, he impersonates an interview with
a basketball player in the locker room, which is too racy for me to mention.
 

Here are some memorable lines:

"Hey, old lady.  Moses called.  He said you're a great f**k!" 

(to an enormously overweight man) 
"You look like New Jersey in pants!"

(pertaining to Jewish food) 
"These are diseases with prices!"

David Paymer's Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor was very
well-deserved!  He delivers an incredible performance!  Paymer often plays
second banana to a group of great actors in the movies that he does, and
this is one film where he actually had a significant role, even failing to
be upstaged by the great Billy Crystal.  Paymer delivers a powerful, subtle
performance in which his facial expressions are much more compelling than
the words he speaks.    

The chemistry between Crystal and Paymer is excellent.  Though they don't
share much of a resemblance, they are extremely believable as lifelong
brothers.  I was raised an only child, but I'm sure many siblings can relate
to their love-hate relationship.  Crystal is the aggressive type, whereas
Paymer is simply there to ride his coattails and criticize him.  Buddy Young
is not the perfect individual, but he has a strong personality, whereas his
brother Stan secretly envies that strength and constantly fires his
insecurities at him.  There is a great scene, where Buddy reveals to his
brother that Stan wishes he could've lived the same life, wishes he could've
been the one who had the guts to perform on stage, wishes he could've been
the one to ask Elaine (his current wife) out that time he hooked the two of
them up.  And though Stan doesn't agree with his brother, you know he
agrees.  He wishes he was as successful and had the guts to do what he did. 
And Buddy was simply doing him a favor by giving him a taste of what it's
like to be a celebrity by letting him be his agent for many years. 

The minor flaw:  the overdone makeup job on Crystal in his later years.  I
felt the makeup jobs on Paymer and Julie Warner were done just right.  Their
aging is more convincing, whereas Crystal looks like Peter Falk in
"Roommates."  He doesn't look old, he looks like Billy Crystal behind loads
of makeup.  But Crystal delivers such a credible performance that it's easy
to overlook that minor goof for most of the film.  

Watching a film like this makes me feel that I wish there were more comics
like Buddy Young nowadays.  In one scene, Buddy watches TV and sees a
guy--dressed like a hippi--telling all sorts of mindless jokes about drugs. 
He comments, "You call these jokes?"  Exactly what I'm thinking.  So many
modern comedians just don't have that magic that comedians of the yesteryear
had.  And they play themselves out, depending too much on subjects involving
sex and bodily functions.  Buddy Young is like a cross between Don Rickles
and Rodney Dangerfield.  The kind of comedian that makes you laugh
hysterically, no matter how many times you see him perform.  Never does he
run out of steam, just like Rickles and Dangerfield.  

"Mr. Saturday Night" is like nothing you'll ever see!  It's hard nowadays to
find a comedy that's even funny.  This is movie that's not only funny, but
it's hilarious.  And it's not only hilarious, but it's touching and
powerful.  A must-see!

My score:  9 (out of 10)      
<|_=00=_|>
Billy Crystal co-wrote, produced, directed and stars in this
sentiment-laden Neil Simon knock-off about a Jewish comedian in the
late 1950's who becomes a television staple in the '60's, and an aged
grouch in the present day. David Paymer tries hard in the doormat role
of Crystal's put-upon older brother, but he and Crystal spend too much
time in hokey old age make-up, bickering back and forth like in a road
company version of "The Sunshine Boys". The movie looks good, with fine
Don Peterman cinematography, but it attempts to combine nostalgia with
stereotypical Jewish humor and half-hearted pathos--never cutting back
on the insults and quips--for a static, unremarkable result. *1/2 from
****
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great movie! Crystal is deep without being annoying. This
movie has a wholeness about it lacking in so many other works. I must
admit, I just watched this movie almost 15 years after it's debut
because I thought it was Billy doing stand-up. I had no idea the
involved story and how deeply touching it would be.

Those who were disappointed in this film went into it looking for a
comedy the likes of Eddie Murphy or someone else. So did I...but how
could the story not change attitudes and opinions? To each their own.

I could see how this movie had difficulty finding an audience. It
paralleled Crytal's life too much and many like myself like Billy, but
maybe not enough to see him do Live stand-up. He never quite held that
arena strongly. Also, he was still riding on the 'When Harry Met Sally'
steam, which was in large part a chick movie (again, rich with dialogue
and opposite of the Stallone action hero us guys seems to like). So,
reluctance to see Crystal in his own stand-up movie was not for me.

This movie is really a classic and will last the test of time because
of the story between two brothers.
<|_=00=_|>
How come this film has not received more plaudits? I know David Palmer
got an Oscar but it's such a wonderful feel good film that deserves
more. I watch it regularly to cheer myself up. Mr Crystal's delivery is
razor sharp and he's really put together a beautiful and utterly
believable faux biopic. I can't deny that I had to check that this
wasn't a true story but maybe I'm a little gullible. Lovely story about
two Jewish brothers and their growing up within the field of stand-up
comedy although with quite separate roles. Great cameo from Jerry
Lewis. The make-up in these sorts of films where characters age
substantially can be a little suspect but the cast do well to express
ageing bodies quite well. A true original and be prepared for joyful
tears in the midst of laughter.
<|_=00=_|>

Although I like the actors in this film, I fell asleep within an hour of
starting to watch. It is evidently quite boring.

<|_=00=_|>
Buddy Young, Jr. (Billy Crystal) is a talented comedian after forty
years of struggling to reach the top. But Buddy can be unsympathetic
man towards his comedy, his family and especially his long suffering
brother/manager (David Paymer). Now Buddy has to make a choice between
pushing forward to his dying career or making piece with the family,
he's hurting.

Directed by Billy Crystal (Forget Paris, Have a Nice Day, 61) made his
directorial debut with this sometimes flawed but an genuinely touching
and bittersweet comedy. Crystal is good in the lead role, since it's
based on his comedy character routine but when Crystal plays the older
version of his character. He's hardly convincing as the older Buddy,
especially with the heavy make-up role. Which he looks like Carl Reiner
than himself. Paymer and Julie Warner as Buddy's wife plays the older
version of their characters more convincingly. Paymer received an Oscar
Nomination for his terrific supporting performance.

DVD has an good anamorphic Widescreen (1.85:1) transfer and an
fine-Dolby 2.0 Surround Sound. DVD has an interesting commentary track
by Crystal, which Paymer joins him during the last fifty minutes of the
movie. DVD also has three new featurettes with Crystal and Paymer,
deleted scenes with introduction by the director, gag reel and the
original theatrical trailer. This dramatic comedy has good supporting
roles for Oscar-Winner:Helen Hunt and Ron Silver. Some amusing cameos
by Jerry Orbach, Jerry Lewis and an young Adam Goldberg. This is one of
the few underrated films of Billy Crystal, which he appears in. Written
by Crystal, Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel. Which Ganz and Mandel wrote
comedies like "City Slickers 1 & 2", "EDTV" and "Greedy". (****/*****).
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those films that aims to show the darker side of comedy,
and Billy Crystal does well in bringing a lot of aspects of that
together in one film.

Yes, the old age make-up looks slightly more 'Mrs Doubtfire' than
authentic, but you can't take away the fact that Crystal is very good
in his role, tracking the comedian from unknown to famous to back
again.

I think this film is overlong, about half an hour in fact, but there
are some lovely moments along the way, that are both funny and tragic.

I think this film is certainly worth a watch.
