
OK the premise is dumb--A mom is going on vacation to Australia for two
months. She has five children and leaves them with a tyrannical
babysitter. The babysitter dies (of natural causes) within the first 15
minutes and the kids basically have to live alone all summer...but need
money for food. The oldest one is 17 year old Sue Ellen (Christina
Applegate)and she easily gets an executive position (just like real
life, right?) at a fashion agency and, naturally, is incredible at her
job. And her brothers and sisters learn values from her example...

Sounds horrible, but it's well-acted (especially Applegate and a drop
dead gorgeous Joanna Cassidy), it moves quickly, is very funny, has a
great soundtrack of new AND old songs and I enjoyed every minute of it!
Not a great movie by any means, but if you can turn off your brain for
2 hours, you'll really enjoy it!
<|_=00=_|>

Don't Tell Mom The Babysitter's Dead (1991)

This is one of the best and the last 80's style comedies along the lines of
"Uncle Buck". Sue Ellen (Christina Applegate) is the oldest of 3 brothers-
Kenny (Keith Coogan), Walter (Robert Gorman), Zach (Christopher Pettiet) ,
and 1 sister- Melissa (Danielle Harris). Excited about her mom leaving for
Australia on vacation, Sue Ellen is expecting to have a great summer- that
is until she discovers she is going to be "babysat" by the evil Mrs. Sturak-
a mean, grumpy old hag who gives you book reports instead of letting you
watch television in the evening. Then, Mrs. Sturak dies- leaving Sue Ellen
and her four siblings to survive the summer, prompting her to get a job to
support her brothers and sister, put food on the table, and learn the true
meaning of responsibility. This movie has some laughs and is pretty fun and
entertaining. A good family comedy. 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
You know... I've seen this a couple of times and I'd see it again. It
made me laugh. It was charming. It was a harmless flick; no psyches
were harmed in the making thereof. Granted, no real thought needs to be
put into watching it. But it was fun, and I enjoyed it.

Christina Applegate especially impressed me, which is noteworthy as --
at the time -- I really disliked her as a result of really disliking
"Married With Children." She was not only good in her role but, I have
to say, pretty much won me over. 

I can't say that the film made me wish I had siblings or a dead
babysitter, but it did entertain me, and it made me smile to remember
it watching this review, which has got to be worth something.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw it again; the cast carries a silly plot, in much the same way
as a '40s screwball comedy but with an 80s/90s sensibility and
awareness. Applegate and Coogan are really outstanding here, and the
supporting cast is smart enough to either support or stay out of the
way, as necessary. It's pure humor with no big message, which
apparently was a virtue 60 years ago but is unforgivable now. I'd best
describe the humor as, "Hilarity ensues as fish out of water learn to
breathe air." 

I'd give it a very solid 6.8 out of 10, worth a rental or a Netflix
hit, but not a $20 purchase.

Tom
<|_=00=_|>
What is a great film? Something that is truly timeless, or something
which is a classic of its genre? Obviously, no-one's pretending "Don't
Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead" is a great film (no great film has a
title of more than three words. Think about it) but nonetheless, one
does get to see how a film handles its composition of several genres
rather than one. It's the best strategy towards greatness, and I hope
to see this attempted more frequently.

"Don't Tell Mom..." is at an interesting cultural crossroads. It's
basically the last of the Eighties high-concept comedies: the same
broad category as films like Big and Crocodile Dundee, where the whole
film comes from the pitch. However, we get to see shades of Wayne's
World-esquire Generation X teen movie, especially in the character of
Rob, and unfortunately the short-lived genre of 'kids acting in
grown-up situations and delivering ever-so-amusing grownup lines.' John
Hughes was the master of this style of film-making, and there's
definitely shades of his work in here, most noticeably the setting of a
film largely within a family house.

First of all - the pitch. Kids left at home for summer with babysitter.
Babysitter dies and kids must fend for themselves with as few people
let in on the secret as possible. From this moment on, the film was
always going to go about the format of throwing its naive, brattish
teenagers in the real world at the deep end and extracting as much
amusement as possible from their sinking-or-swimming. 

The screenplay starts to thin at this point. Of the five kids in the
house, only two are feasibly old enough to work, or indeed to learn any
sort of life lesson throughout this experience. The plot then follows
Sue Ellen as she stumbles her way into a job and up the corporate
ladder (the script is devoid of jokes at this point, but I kept
watching because Christina Applegate is a surprisingly good actress.)
Everything from this point is a misjudgment - it's virtually scrawled
across the screen that Sue Ellen is getting some life lessons and
becoming a young adult. The film could have done without the
'boyfriend' storyline though - it's without doubt the saggiest part of
the film.

More interesting is the Kenny storyline. Younger brother Kenny goes
from being a hopeless layabout stoner with no inkling to as what he
wants to do in life to a man with a plan. Lack of screen time prohibits
us from truly understanding why, but we do get an insight into the
film's message - the real world is about sacrifice. Kenny must throw
away his carefree existence if he wants to become a man.

Sure, this film has faults like pearls on a string - the annoying
smaller children who eat up screen time and contribute nothing but an
unbearable cuteness (and they're not even that cute: they steal money
from their mom's purse - twice.) Sue Ellen's corporate life is shown as
patronizingly simple, but that's a fault of all movies in general, you
can't have clever successful people as the heroes because the audience
feels intimidated. The other major fault I'm going to point out is the
chronic lack of laughs. About the biggest giggle was David Duchovny's
horrendous yellow shirt. But "Don't Tell Mom," much like its
characters, has an innocent, naive charm about it, and if you can put
aside your critical mauling instinct, it won't be the worst two hours
of your celluloid life.

Keep your eyes peeled for a throwaway reference to Big.
<|_=00=_|>
Being one of those people that isn't heavily into the whole cinema
"thing," I have my classic favorites and I stick to them. But this one
outshines them all. When asked 'what is your favorite movie?' at times
I am hesitant to disclose DTMTBD as my number one. First, it must be
clear that this is obviously not necessarily a "good" movie, in the
eyes of the Academy or critics, but it's not supposed to be. That's the
beauty of it, and that's why Christina Applegate is an actress!

There are so many quotes that I would like to add to my "comments," but
as most of you have probably seen it, you don't likely need a
commentary; so instead I'll just get back to the QED Report so Swell
can have it to New York by this afternoon.

It's too bad she and young Brian are married now -- I used to watch the
grunion run with him. We'll see.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember watching this film when I was growing up, I loved it then
and I still love it.

Despite the fact it's obviously predictable, it's a fun film that's
well acted and directed and has a great soundtrack.

Christina Applegate is quite impressive as Sue-Ellen, as is the rest of
the cast.

Most of the characters are quite black and white with the obvious
"baddies" getting their comeuppance towards the end of the film.
Predictable films howeverm, aren't always bad. Especially if they are
well acted and the characters are interesting. The only character that
was meant to be nice that I found utterly annoying, was Josh Charles as
Sue-Ellen's sugary sweet suitor, Bryan. His acting was great don't get
me wrong, but I think it's safe to say Bryan wouldn't be MY type!

If anything else, this fun film is easy to watch and will remind most
people in their mid 20's of their adolescents.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember watching this film when I was about ten and I loved it. I
remember being motivated to see it in the first place because Married
with children reigned supreme in our house and I loved Christina
Applegate. In this movie she didn't disappoint either, as she was not
only good in it, but played a character wildly different from mean, dim
witted Kelly Bundy. Instead she played Sue Ellen Krandle a decent
,level headed, but restless young woman who is uncertain about her
future. Sue Ellen has a contentious relationship with her siblings and
mother,but she also is willing to strive for their approval and
respect. In other words she is a regular seventeen year old. More
mature than her siblings but not quite ready to take up the mantle of
an adult. When her mother goes to Austraila, Sue Ellen thinks that she
is going to have a care free summer of fun in the sun, when a woman
comes to the door and her mother introduces... the babysitter. When mom
leaves the seemingly sweet grandma like gem, reveals a nastily
terrifying tyrant underneath, and Sue Ellen and her siblings try and
keep cool heads. The old be careful what you wish for scenario surfaces
when the baby sitter sees Sue Ellens punk brother's bedroom and is
literally shocked to death. Sue Ellen finds the woman's corpse and to
make a long story short her and her siblings are left for two months
with out money or adult supervision. This movie is not perfect from a
technical standpoint. It a predicable cheesy fantasy full of scenarios
that in real life would be incrediblbly dark. However, for some reason,
the acting, the engrossing action pact scenes and the love you have for
the respectful a, fresh and resourceful sue Ellen and hate you have for
the bad characters emotionally engross you. This movie couldn't hold up
today, but for its time, and because the memories it brings I will
always love it.
<|_=00=_|>
How could you NOT like this movie! I am watching it right now, and it
has inspired me to write a review, and hopefully give it more
recognition and more importantly, a higher rating!!!! Kids home alone
with no parents, free to do whatever, but also trying to maintain
living! Each character has their own stereotype- Walter the youngest: a
handful, Melissa: the disobedient tomboy, Kenny: the headbanging rocker
drop-out, Zachary: the calm, but sneaky love struck teen and Sue-Ellen:
the responsible, yet hip mother of her siblings. This movie is full of
much excitement and a great plot. You cannot go past this underrated
classic!
<|_=00=_|>

I loved this movie, even now, 10 years later, I think it's
great.

The movie starts with the main character, Sue Ellen crowing to her friends
about how she's going to be on her own this summer, because her mother is
going on a 2 month vacation, but to her surprise, the mother does not trust
her 17 year old daughter to be in charge for 2 months, and hires a
babysitter, who turns out to be an evil 80 year old nazi, and the kids
immediately despise her.

Lucky for them, she dies fairly soon, and they pretty much drag her body to
a funeral home, ring the doorbell and run. No, that's not incredibly
plausible. But good lord, it's a kids comedy. There's going to be some
stretches in there.

Anyway, so the kids are broke, and Sue Ellen decides to get a job. She gets
a job at a fast food restaurant, but decides she needs a more mature job, so
she makes up a fake resume, and applies for a receptionist job (which for a
17 year old, isn't such a stretch), however, before she can apply for it she
bonds with one of the big wigs at the company, and this big wig makes her an
assistant. Some people commenting here forgot that 1. She was NOT an
executive, she was an assistant, and 2. She didn't do that great of a job,
they never actually showed her working. She was hired and kept on because
her boss adored her, not because she was some sort of secretarial
prodigy.

This movie obviously could never happen, but hello, could Home Alone
actually happen either? I can't believe people take these comedies and
complain about how unrealistic it was. This movie's objective was to
entertain, not make any sort of political statement.

Anyway, it was fun, it had a cute ending, and I thought Christina Applegate
did a swell job acting in this one.
