
I had to sift long and deep for a good comment on this. Why all the
hostility? I think there was great chemistry on this production and it
shows; the actors and crew involved loved the game and had a good time
making this. This movie successfully recreated the feel of the game,
and because it kept exposition to a minimum of what you needed to know
for this particular story and didn't borrow from or revise any of the
original characters or settings, it supported and strengthened the
franchise. No story is retold here, no words are wasted, the setting,
feel and pace is familiar to fans of Resident Evil and yet it's
perfectly accessible to those unfamiliar with the broader storyline.
Not giving the fan-boys their favorite characters was a good choice
since characters tend to get mangled in adaptation, and yet the
fan-boys still complain. With this film you have a good, watchable
story that can partake of the Resident Evil cosmology, showing it due
respect.

It did an excellent job establishing characters without too much
unnecessary background, developing them just enough to make you want to
know what they'll do next, to make you care before the sudden and
gruesome happens to them. The acting was above par for a Resident Evil,
certainly much better than the first game. The plot was no more comic
bookish than any of the games. My one complaint was that the characters
were too battle-trained, too slick, too good at fighting for them to be
sympathetic horror subjects. This could've been balanced out with more
reaction shots showing the soldiers wetting themselves. But Alice's
over-the-top commando-style action made her too much of a super heroine
to really make anyone concerned about her survival; characters made of
Teflon make good action but apathetic horror subjects.
<|_=00=_|>

I wasn't waiting to see anything amazing when I started watching for this
movie, since almost all the license movies have been terrible...
Fortunately, my opinion was to change! Movie was great, actors were good
enough, and there was actually a plot (whoa!). Director has done a great
job
by having that videogame atmosphere by use of light, but still keeping the
movie tense. Marilyn Manson has also made a great job by composing some of
his greatest soundtrack titles which really fit for this movie. I have
played both Resident Evil and Resident Evil 2, and recognized many of the
scenes which were kind of similar to games. What can I say? For the people
who have played games, this one gives good vibes and they are going to
love
it. For regular people the movie might be above the average. This was one
hell-of-a-movie, and I'm waiting for the sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
As a big fan of splatter and horror films i was gladly surprised when i
watched this. I haven't played the game so i had no idea what to expect
and had nothing to compare with. I really feel that this pays homage to
the old zombie films at least to an extent. The zombies here are a
little bit faster though.

It begins with a nice back story and then builds slowly in pace to a
climactic frenzy. The effects are top notch, solid directing, a really
imaginative and eerie production design and great acting.

Yes, i may be a little biased but i really like Milla Jovovich. I think
this is the kind of role that fits her best, strong kick ass attitude
with an odd personality wrapped in a seemingly fragile shell. Her
performance here reminds me a bit of the character she played in "The
fifth element" and also the character in the later "Ultraviolet" The
other actors did a good job as well so she's not the only one to get
credit although the movie revolves around her character. The child AI
is a very nice and creepy addition to the atmosphere.

The RE theme could have ended up as a nice trilogy but the sequel
unfortunately lacks nearly everything(except Milla) that this film
delivers. Not that RE2 is a complete mess but nowhere near this. I
haven't seen the third installment yet but even if that one holds true
in quality to this one number two becomes the odd one out.

If you like zombie and action films you'll certainly like this one.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie means business. Quick disaster with a mystery to it, jarring
deaths, naked Milla, all in the first few minutes. It keeps up the pace
throughout. In terms of critical comments, yes, you don't really care
about the characters, but so what? How often do you really care about
the monster fodder in horror films? And true, it wasn't a literal
working of the movie, it didn't take place in a mansion and it didn't
involve exploring lots of rooms and solving puzzles. That's because
it's a movie. A literal translation of Resident Evil would probably be
really dull. Games and movies are very different mediums. I don't think
some people here understand that. One guy said he thought the movie
rocked but after repeated viewings he thought it sucked, and that's a
video game player attitude - movies don't have to have good replay
value, it's okay to enjoy them once. I only enjoyed Star Wars once, but
I don't think it sucked, it just didn't have a lot of depth. Not every
movie has to be Citizen Kane. 

It was an engaging story, moved like lightning and had some excellent
scares.
<|_=00=_|>
First things first, I really like "Resident Evil". While I can't
comment on the success of the conversion to a movie as I've never
played any of the numerous video games, the film is beautifully shot
and has an urgent pace. It also has a great looking cast, a thumping
soundtrack and plenty of boys' toys.

Milla Jovovich is stunning as the heroine, Alice. Whoever thought of
casting Jovovich in this role deserves a bonus. Watching this beautiful
star kick various forms of zombie butt while wearing a short red dress
is a wonderful experience.

Anderson's movies may be accused of being style over substance but
there's no doubting that "Shopping", "Event Horizon" and "Resident
Evil" are fantastic examples of eye candy. Every shot is beautifully
composed and the film has a high-budget sheen.

8 out of 10. Casio G-Shock fans will be in their element watching this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
"Resident Evil" was a smart and scary game. The darkness and the
surprises were huge scare factors. In that famous game, you find
yourself trapped in a mansion crawling with the undead because of a
mistake made by the Umbrella Corporation.

Director Paul W.S. Anderson makes a fast, dark guilty pleasure of a
film from this game with "Resident Evil".

Milla Jovovich is Alice, who wakes up in a creepy, poorly lit mansion
at night in a remote forest. She has no memory of who she is or why
she's here, but after a group of soldiers bursts in and takes her to a
hidden lab underneath the mansion with them, she quickly begins to
realize a terrible secret. She and the others find themselves locked in
"The Hive", an enormous, elaborate underground structure that was
sealed by the supercomputer controlling it. It soon becomes evident
that an experiment called "The T-Virus" escaped into the air and killed
everyone. But nobody really stayed dead. Now the remaining survivors
must fight their way back out of The Hive before the door seals
permanently... and at the same time they must contain the virus before
it reaches the surface. 

The film moves at a breakneck pace, with some elaborate sets and great
cinematography that sets the dark mood well for this atmospheric sci-fi
thriller.
<|_=00=_|>

I was generally surprised that I liked this movie, not being a fan of either
of it's stars.  I decided to give the movie a try since it does deal with
one of my favorite horror topics...zombies!

As a horror movie Resident Evil fails miserably, it's not scary and contains
only small amounts of suspense.  It is much better as an action film
although much of the action is chaotic, accompanied by lame heavy
metal/thrash music.  But seeing as it is based on a video game and made
primarily for teenage boy video game addicts it is quite good in and of
itself.

The movie plays well, even though it is apparent that some scenes have been
cut to achieve an R-rating.  The characters do what they need to do in order
to survive.

One small problem with the movie is the relative lack of zombie screen time.
 They do appear in two major scenes but most of the time the hallways are
clear.  This hive was supposed to employ thousands of people but you only
ever see 100 zombies at the most.  Also, the humans seem to be able to
travel easily wherever they have to go until it is time for another action
sequence.  It would have been better if they constantly ran into single
zombies which they were able to easily dispose of, but this is nit-picking
on my part.

Overall I enjoyed the movie and I have never seen, let alone played, the
video game.  I'm not sure if this movie will have the staying power over
multiple viewings for me (like Aliens) but it's a very good single viewing
action picture.  Easily the best movie I have seen based on a video game. 
Despite it's flaws Resident Evil rates a 7 out of 10, if taken more
seriously this could have been a really good movie.  It would have been nice
to see a George Romero version.
<|_=00=_|>
Resident Evil is probably my favorite zombie movie next to Planet
Terror. It had flaws, some acting was poor, but still was one great
time from start to finish and excellently crafted entertainment!!!!! It
had wonderful action, nice gore and the performances overall were
exceedingly decent for what they needed to be for a video game
adaptation. I especially love Michelle Rodriguez's portrayal of Pain;
amazing character. 

I first thought when I was watching this film that it was going to be
an over-the-top gore movie with way to much blood and carnage, not so
much as focusing on the main point of the story, but it turned out
unimaginably well, for I thought it wasn't going to be that good at
all, and the complexity and edgy scenes and screenplay surprised me.
Milla Jovovich and Michelle Rodriguez acted wonderfully in this film
and this was a great action\horror movie that I am extremely glad I was
able to have seen, and will gladly see over and over again.
<|_=00=_|>
To be honest, the first time I saw this, I didn't care for it. It did
not follow the story line of the game, and that made me very unhappy
with this endeavor.

Upon realization that a video game is "dumbed down" for the players to
be able to concentrate, however, I opted for a second viewing and came
to realize that this was not the waste of time I first believed. 

I was disappointed with how it played out because there were no cures
along the way, they made little notice of records and files lying
about, no matter how relevant they were or were not, and the sequence
of things was not on par with that of the game. I realize that to do
things that way would have severely hampered the flow of the movie
itself and would have made it far less active. Considering this is
first and foremost, an action movie (with horror elements), that would
not be considered a good thing.

The truth is that Milla Jovovich contributes a very capable and
entertaining presence and performance to this work. Her supporting cast
(every one) gave nothing but the best they had. The story itself flows
quite well and was creatively written and executed. 

There is nothing wrong with this attempt. It just didn't live up to a
fanboy's expectations. Unfortunately, that was their major principal
audience; game fans, and that explains the lackluster box office payoff
and the low IMDb user ratings for this attempt. The fanboys were
disappointed; the casual fans casually attended this event; and the
mainstream didn't understand the big deal, either way and so did not
participate to a profitable level.

With the release of the second installment and all the advertisement
and hype Apocalypse received, it drew the mainstream fans a bit harder;
the casual fans were less casual; and the fanboys were still
disappointed, but resigned to the fact that this was just how it was
going to be; take it or leave it. We took it and, in retrospect,
embraced the first attempt, as well.

It rates an 8.4/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>

This one's been in development for quite some time and I was disappointed
when George Romero left the project.First off,the trailer for this movie
made me sweat,because it wasn't very good.Thankfully the movie rocked.By
far
the best game-inspired flick to date and a heck of a good ride.All the way
across the board:good acting,good f/x,awesome soundtrack and score(Marilyn
Manson-who'd a thought),excellent production design and top-notch
direction.All-in-all a very satisfying dark run through the bowls of the
Unbrella corporation....Watch out for the Red Queen and bring on RE#2.Come
Get Some(sorry Duke).ENJOY!
