

Compared to previous attempts by competing studios to break Disney's
stranglehold on the animated film market, The Swan Princess really is a
good
movie. The animation does not quite have Disney's finesse and got a little
rough in places, but was still watchable and generally pleasing to the
eye,
unlike, say, Thumbelina. The songs, though not particularly memorable and
vaguely cheesy in the manner of much older animated flicks, did not bring
the movie to a grinding halt and actually managed to, in general, help it
along. It has a plot.

That's not to say that The Swan Princess doesn't have its problems, mostly
in its characters. The titular lead, Princess Odette, is a flat failure as
a
heroine--she never *does* anything except lead her one true love, Prince
Derrick, to her--and even then, she only does that because her animal
friends, Puffin, Speed the turtle, and Jean-Bob the frog, cook up the plan
for her.

Derrick is much more likeable, and though throughout most of the movie he
is
a flaming idiot, he is a likeable and sympathetic flaming idiot--and he
does
learn. His mistakes are, as a rule, human and understandable, and in the
end
it is he who saves the day and finally learns the movie's apparent
lesson--that beauty is not all there is in matters of love or anything
else.

The development of their relationship is refreshing--rather than falling
in
love at first sight, they start out hating each other with a passion, and
it
takes them years--spanned capably over the course of one amusing if sugary
song--to realize that they do love each other. And then Derrick blows
it(!),
and spends the rest of the movie scrambling to recover from his
mistake.

The end battle was satisfying, though in general I prefer for the heroine
to
help save their hides in some manner. The movie-makers were not afraid to
beat
the living daylights out of their hero, and though the save he pulls in
the
end is nothing short of miraculous, it was at least shown much earlier to
be
within his princely capabilities.

Despite its flaws, I found The Swan Princess to be a satisfying and
re-watchable movie--though I did catch myself agreeing with Derrick's
comment (stated early in the movie) that he could do much
better.

<|_=00=_|>
*sigh* I was like around 2 years old when it came out and apparently it
was a favorite of mine along with the Disney classics and such. And
even though I'm 13 now.. i still love it. A total classic love story
where the two "lovers" are separated and the Prince has to find the
Princess. I love the songs 'This Is My Idea' and 'Far Longer Than
Forever'. This Is My Idea is probably my favorite because it shows
Odette and Derek grow up together and it's quite funny when they come
to the "This is not my idea.. This isn't my idea.. of fun" since it
usually concludes humorous scenes. Any young child would love it..
especially girls. The animal-trio are hilarious especially Jean-Bob and
Speed.
<|_=00=_|>
It's been a little while since I had seen "The Swan Princess," but I
could distinctly recall many scenes from it. I'd always enjoyed it
before, so I decided to watch it again - for the most part, it still
holds up.

Of course, it's a children's tale, so some slack must be given; it's
not going to be as well-rounded (entertainment-wise) as a movie like
"Toy Story," but it does contain its fair share of adult-oriented jokes
along with silly physical humor that will amuse children.

The story is pretty basic - a lovely princess is destined to marry a
prince, but an evil sorcerer (voiced by the diabolical Jack Palance)
has other plans and kills the princess' father, locks the daughter away
and casts a spell on her so that she turns into a swan at night.

It's predictable, but it's got a great vocal cast, and the animation is
pretty good. Give it a shot. Avoid the unnecessary cash-in sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
This was my favorite sage of movies when I was 3. I still love them to
this day when I am 15. This movie tells the timeless tale of two lovers
who are drawn apart by one shallow prince who eventually learns that
there is more to love than looks and beauty. When Derek goes on his
quest to find Odette, he realizes how much he really does love her and
his kingdom gets sick of hearing about here. The music is spectacular
as well. I love the songs "Far Longer Than Forever" and "This Is My
Idea". "This Is My Idea" shows Derek and Odette growing up and you
notice that every year their relationship grows until one summer when
they realize how much they really do love each other. When they are
pulled apart by Rothbart and how shallow Derek is, they sing the duet
"Far Longer Than Forever" about their everlasting love for each other.
Anyone who does not like even the first movie has a real issue. Even
though the saga got kind of lame as the years went by, they still hit
me close to home.
<|_=00=_|>
Boo, Boo! I say to all reviewers who think it is corny, so what. I love
it anyway.

This is a type of film Disney is known for making, instead it is made
by Columbia Tristar. The story is basically about a princess called
Odette who is kidnapped by an evil sorcerer, Lord Rothbart who puts a
spell on her that turns her into a swan and the only way the spell can
be broken is if Prince Derek declares his love for Odette.

Jack Palance plays Rothbart as a pantomime villain.

I like the love story between Odette and Derek especially when they
start of not liking one another.

It has some very funny scenes and lines. The two scenes that stand out
for me is when the Prince is practicing his marksmanship with painted
arrows and the targets are musicians dressed up as animals. Another is
Jean-Bob, a frog voiced by John Cleese who is convinced he is a prince
and that if he kisses Odette he will become one.

The songs are very memorable and catchy, I especially liked the songs
"Practice, practice, practice," "No fear," and "This is my idea." The
animation is just amazing, the movement is so realistic and the scene
at the end is awesome as it is at night, you can see the shadows of the
water, the moon sparkling and the swans flying by.

This film has it all- romance, humour, magic, action, brilliant
animation and a moral story where good triumphs over evil.
<|_=00=_|>
I was very young when this movie came out, so I grew up watching it. I
have ALWAYS loved this movie. I just barely watched it over again
(because now I'm in high-school and I hadn't watched it in a long
time), and I still love it! It's true that it does have it's flaws, but
they're nothing huge. It's still better than most Disney movies that
I've seen (but then again, that's just my personal opinion).

I agree with those who say that the sidekicks are the best; but Derek's
sidekicks are just as amusing as Odette's. I love Brom and Queen
Uberta; but Rodgers remains my favorite character of the movie. I love
his sarcastic humor- "You should write a book; How to offend women in 5
syllables or less." Come on- that's hilarious! I also like that
Chamberlain guy. He has my favorite line of the whole film; "Oh! the
milkman- it must be the milkman!....... Well... it's not the milkman." 

I think that the biggest flaw in the whole play was Princess Odette;
she is supposed to be the heroine, and she never does anything! OK, she
finds Derek and gets him to come to the lake, but she couldn't have
even done that without Puffin, Speed and Jean-Bob. No offense, but when
Derek said, "What else is there?" He was kind of on to something.

And contrary to what most people say, I loved all the music- even "No
More Mr. Nice Guy." My favorite song is "This is My Idea," simply
because it's funny, and I don't mind it getting stuck in my head (which
it tends to do a lot).

I just think that there's something in the Swan Princess for every age
(though keep in mind that I can only attest to 15). It's a movie that
every girl would enjoy seeing at least once.
<|_=00=_|>
Prince Derek and Princess Odette are forced to spend their summers
together by their widowed parents hoping for them to fall in love. Just
when they seem to do just that, Derek says "You're beautiful.", and
Odette ask "What else?". Derek could only reply "What else is there?".
Evil sorcerer Lord Rothbart kidnaps Odette and places her under a spell
which turns her into a swan. She turns back to a woman when she's on
the lake as the moon rise. When moonlight leaves the lake, she's turn
back into a swan. The only way to break the spell is to have her love
make a vow of everlasting love.

This is very much an 80s style animation with the singing, the drawing,
and the subject matter. All the characters are straight out of 80s
Disney movies. And quite frankly, it works on that terms. The
animation, the jokes, the princess subject, the songs... all of it
works but only on that term.
<|_=00=_|>
I happen to think that this was a very cute fantasy movie. It does not
copy The Swan Lake and it is original. However, it has some good love
scenes and I liked it in the sense that it was very fun to watch. I
still remember the movie from when I've seen it years ago. It has
pretty good animation and good songs to remember. The music is nice to
listen to. The characters are displayed well and the voices are clear.
This movie is adorable. I liked it very much and it was memorable.
There are two sequels following it that I enjoyed as well. The third
one was very funny. Anyways, The Swan Princess was satisfying. This is
a great movie to show to kids and adults.
<|_=00=_|>
This was one of those cartoons I had heard about so many times, and I
knew at least one of the actors doing a voice in it, I knew it wasn't
going to be Disney standard quality of animation or storytelling, but I
was still willing to try it, from director Richard Rich (The Fox and
the Hound, The Black Cauldron). Basically Princess Odette (Michelle
Nicastro) and Prince Derek (Howard McGillin) were forced by their
parents as children to many summers together in the hope they that they
would grow become close and eventually fall in love, they hates each
other, but as adults they may finally to develop mutual attraction, but
after a little offence he causes she is not sure he truly loves her for
more than just her beauty. Years ago vengeful sorcerer Lord Rothbart
(Jack Palance) was banished from the kingdom for attempting to cast
evil spells and take the kingdom for himself, but he has returned to
take revenge, disguised as the "Great Creature" he can turn into he
manages to kidnap Odette, and fatally wounds her father King William
(Dakin Matthews), Derek vows to train himself to kill the beast that
killed the king and save the life of his true love. While Derek's
training goes on and believing that the princess is still alive for him
to save and convince of his love, Odette has had a curse placed on her
by the evil enchanter, at his castle lair on Swan Lake she will turn
into a swan in the daylight, and if she does not to return to the water
when the moonlight shines she will not temporarily turn human for the
night time, Rothbart will only lift the curse if she agrees to marry
him so he can legally take the kingdom, she continues to refuse. While
cursed Odette makes friends with friendly tortoise Speed (Steven
Wright), frog Jean- Bob (John Cleese) who believes he is also cursed
and if kissed will become a human prince, and the puffin bird named
Puffin (Steve Vinovich), they sympathise with her wanting to return to
the kingdom as a human and be with her true love, Derek refuses to let
her mother Queen Uberta (Sandy Duncan) make him marry someone unless he
truly loves them. Prince Derek does eventually find Odette as the swan,
but he wrongly assumes she is the Great Creature, but he does see her
turn temporarily human at night, but she is trapped by Rothbart before
she can make any escape and stop the proposed bride seeking and
potential wedding ceremony for the prince, and with the evil sorcerer
disguised as the princess he hopes to make the prince express his true
love to the fake, therefore allowing him to take the kingdom. In the
end Rothbart in the form of the Great Creature is defeated by Derek
firing the one arrow through his heart, the swan curse of Odette is
lifted, and the couple finally embrace their true love for each other,
marry, unite the kingdom and the two families and they all live happily
ever after. Also starring Liz Callaway as Princess Odette (singing
voice), Mark Harelik as Lord Rogers, James Arrington as Chamberlain,
Davis Gaines as Chamberlain (singing voice), Joel McKinnon Miller as
Bromley and Brian Nissen as the Narrator. You can tell by the animation
style that this film was a rather low budget, the story does have it's
fair share of predictable and cheesy moments, and most of the songs are
lame, but the voice casting is chosen well enough, Palance making a
good villain, and Cleese and Wright adding the needed comic relief, I
suppose it will entertain most of the family, not a bad animated
musical fairytale. It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original
Song for "Far Longer than Forever". Worth watching!
<|_=00=_|>
I have always passed up the offers of watching The Swan Princess
because I had the impression that it was a cheap Disney rip-off of
inferior quality. I have also avoided other animated films, such as
Anastasia, for the same reason. Recently I became unemployed so had
more free time and on a whim I decided to watch Anastasia, expecting it
to be a cheese fest which would leave me cringing and rolling my eyes.
Car crash TV if you will, which I was in the mood for at the time. To
my surprise I absolutely loved it. Well, it is clearly not one of the
best movies of all time, but I can't deny that it is one of my
favourite animated movies. Which brings me to The Swan Princess: my
surprise at enjoying Anastasia so much encouraged me to give this movie
a go. I regret this decision.

The animation is sub-par. Honestly, you'd think they could have made it
look a little less like a My Little Pony episode and more of the
quality of their main competitors, Disney. Now don't get me wrong, I
wasn't looking for animation of say Aladdin quality. Anastasia's
animation isn't that good either after all, and that didn't affect my
enjoyment. In this case though it really is just like a cheap cartoon
which in turn makes me feel like I'm watching something aimed solely at
little children rather than an animated movie for all ages (such as
Disney movies or indeed Anastasia, which I feel I'm starting to gush
about).

The songs are awful. No joke. Again to use Anastasia as a comparison:
A's songs aren't the best, but they are more mature I guess. I don't
mean lyrically, I mean in sound and indeed in how they are performed.
SP's opening song is abysmal. "This isn't my idea of fun" indeed. Using
a song for a montage showing time passing is a fine idea, but the song
needs to be decent and well..the singers should have decent voices too.
The kids singing these parts were awful. For an example of how to do
that type of scene right, see Do You Want To Build A Snowman? from
Disney's most recent release, Frozen. I would continue but there's only
so many ways I can say that the songs suck.

The story. Oh I could accept this story maybe if the animation and
music were better. It is one cliché after another, with one boring
cardboard cut out character after another. I didn't like either Odette
or Derek for various reasons, in Derek's case he's just a class A
pillock and I found myself rooting against him. Odette is just boring,
no wonder he only liked her for her looks. "What else is there?" is a
fair question when you consider who she actually is. A pretty face.
Allegedly anyway, she's not the best looking animated character I've
ever seen. But I digress. The villain was also stupid and made no
sense. He wanted to take over the kingdom but refused to just take it,
even though the king was dead and his heir had vanished?! No, he wanted
to do it legally by marrying Odette. Stupidest villain I can think of,
he didn't deserve the kingdom by that point. At least other villains
have decent plans! 

All in all, I was so disappointed by this movie. I'm not sure if it is
aimed at a wide audience or solely at children, but in my opinion if
they were attempting a movie which would appeal to a wide range of age
groups, they certainly misfired on this one. I cannot see what this
movie has which would appeal to anyone over the age of 8. Disney it
most certainly is not. And there I was thinking Disney try-hards
couldn't get worse than Thumbelina!
