
Among the thousands of films I have viewed, this movie would rank near
the top for sheer entertainment. That's not saying it's the best-made
or most intelligent or scariest or funniest or features the best
effects, etc. etc. But combine all those and you have a film that's
tough to beat when you're looking for 100 minutes of escapist fun.

The film features some wild computer-enhanced special effects that were
new to its day, but now about 10 years later, it's no big deal. In
fact, some of it, such as the lion, look pretty hokey compared to the
stuff that's out there now. To me, it was story that was the lure,
anyway, not the special effects.

Because it's so much fun, this is one of the fastest-moving films I've
ever viewed. The time flies by. It's not to be analyzed or given much
thought, because it's so ludicrous. You just go along for the wild ride
in this fantasy-adventure and get a bunch of laughs and thrills along
the way. That's one of the big attractions of this of film: the
excellent combination of adventure and comedy.

Are there annoying things in this movie? Sure. To me, it was Bonnie
Hunt's occult beliefs and too many OMGs and the overdone character of
the hunter (Jonathan Hyde). Other than that, I loved the film the first
I saw it and every time afterward. I've probably viewed this movie as
much as any, simply because it was so entertaining.

Robin Williams, David Alan Grier and the two kids, Kristen Dunst and
Bradley Pierce, were all great people to watch and share this adventure
with. 

Now THIS is entertainment!
<|_=00=_|>

There is only one way to describe Jumanji: excellent. The plot is very,
original, with outstanding concepts packed into each individual scene.
After
viewing this movie, the wild side of the jungle gets into you, making you
want to dare to play the game. Although the computer animation may not
look
all that real, I still give this movie a 10/10, for an outstanding plot,
casting, and spirit, which any great movie has.

<|_=00=_|>

I remember I watched this movie a few years back. I always wanted to see
the
movie again, and I finally did that today. Strange that this movie has
alway
been on top of my mind...

This movie is amazing! It has everything; comedy, love, adventure.

Shortly after the movie started, your mind will be sucked into the
story.

Great!

10 out of 10 from me!
<|_=00=_|>
There are few children's movies that I particularly enjoyed – I can
recount The Borrowers, Labyrinth and The Neverending Story. Jumanji,
however takes a new place among children's films – in fact, it may seem
that initially, Jumanji is about simplistic story about kids playing a
board game. Based on a gorgeous picture book story of the same name by
Chris Van Allsberg, this movie takes a beautiful magical adventure and
makes it into a thrill ride that defies all natural laws. 

Time travel, physical transformations, perceptual distortions and
multiple universes are just a few of the things that Jumanji toys with.
The most evident phenomena is that the characters run in two different
and parallel universes, one where Jumanji exists, and the other where
it is just a dream. The life of Judy and Peter as orphans exists in a
different world from the one where Jumanji doesn't exist – in other
words, Jumanji is a catalyst of fate, an evil entity that does not
bring about awe as it did in Allsberg's book, but fear. The world that
Allen Parrish is doomed to be incarcerated in the jungles of Jumanji is
another one, but that period of time is nonexistent in the world he
will eventually live in. This is the beauty of the movie; that these
characters can only allow their trauma and epiphanies to cross worlds.
With each roll of the dice, the characters grow and change. 

The ending with 'Jumanji' is mark of the end of that universe –
everything that the jungle world had yielded, from the colonist-hunter
Van Pelt to the roaring stampede and the monkeys had to return, to be
sealed into the game and the universe. The game controls life; but it
is merciful when played to the end without cheating. 

The mental agony and pain must have been tremendous for the Parrishes.
Presumably, Alan spent his twenty six years in the jungle, but returned
to his old self only to again relive his life as if it never happened.
The temporal distortion must have presumably had an effect on his
parents, although only Sarah seems to notice. (She was playing the game
– and only those playing are directly affected, but in the game
universe of Judy and Peter we see a problem in the movie's
understanding of temporal change) 

The power of fate in deciding the endgame was critical in the film. It
seems that the game was in itself a game of a game; it was all planned
out and ready to go. In fact, it also seems that no matter how crazy or
perilous the situation is, the characters cannot be killed. Even Van
Pelt says at the Sir Sav A Lot that "I am hunting only Alan. I won't
kill you, since you didn't roll" He too is bound to the rules of the
game, no matter how much of a colonialist he is. The game instills a
high level of fear without death, in order for the game to continue,
all the characters must be present. So in one way, no one need be
scared of anything in the game. Instead, the game builds resilience in
the characters. 

It was natural that in the end the end was initiated by the future; or
more appropriately the past. At the end, both Sarah and Alan make up
for the trouble they have caused and have a life bond from the
experience. The jumping between 1994 and 1964 is a critical aspect
where we see that the horrors of the game have allowed Judy and Peter's
parents to not die in the ski accident. They are oddly willing to put
an end to their vacation when they hardly know the Parrishes…

"In the jungle, you must wait, until you roll a five or eight" –
Jumanji "Roll a two, roll a four, but never ask for more" – Gautam

RATING: 10/10 (amazing)
<|_=00=_|>
You know the drill: young Alan Parrish gets sucked into a board game
called Jumanji, returns when a brother and sister are playing 26 years
later, and has to battle the animals that wreak havoc on the town. It
all seems pretty simple, but they play some neat tricks with it in the
movie. As the adult Alan, Robin Williams is more subdued than usual,
but still makes the character admirable. With good support from Bonnie
Hunt, Kirsten Dunst, David Alan Grier, Bebe Neuwirth, Jonathan Hyde and
Patricia Clarkson, this is a pretty interesting movie. I will admit
that the monkeys looked pretty fake, but we can't dwell on that in this
movie; the point is to enjoy oneself while watching it.

Oh and one more thing: from "Jumanji", I learned the difference between
alligators and crocodiles.
<|_=00=_|>
The smash hit 1995 film Jumanji- based on the children's book- is a
great family film. The plot of the story involves a young boy named
Alan Parrish who in the 1960's finds a supernatural board game, that
was buried underground in the 1800's. Alan is instantly drawn into
playing the game, and Sarah-a girl who lives close to him- also joins
in the game. After the powers of the game transport young Alan into the
jungles of the board game, no one believes Sarah's story of what
happened, and everyone suspects foul play. 

Now in 1995, a girl named Judy (Kirsten Dunst) and her younger brother
Peter have been drawn into the game after finding it in the attic of
the old Parrish house. When they play however, Alan (Robin Williams) is
released from the jungle accidentally when one of the kids rolls a
certain number on the dice. Now, with the powers and creatures of
Jumanji released, they must finish the game. But to do so, they must
find Sarah (Bonnie Hunt), because now it is her turn to roll the dice.
After finding her, they must hurry before the town they live in is
destroyed and before they all die!

Jumanji is great family film, packed with - at the time - great
graphics (that now look like a computer game). While some hate this
film for being too terrifying for young children, people have forgotten
what the rating PG means-PARENTAL GUIDANCE-NOT all ages. So with this
in mind guidance is suggested for scary scenes, but I think any child
over 3 can enjoy this film. It has no gore or attacks really. Sure,
there're some mildly scary scenes, but look at Harry Potter – I think
more kids I heard of thought that was scary than Jumanji. Another great
thing about Jumanji, is that like Shrek and such films, adults can
enjoy it as well. It's not one of those films where you have to suffer
through, like many movies coming out today. I think movies like Jumanji
are the best of their kind. 

The acting was great, and Robin Williams is perfect for the role of
Alan Parrish, and Bonnie Hunt and him had good chemistry. Kirsten Dunst
in this film was further shaping her acting career, to appear in such
films now like 'Spider-Man' and the teen movie 'Bring It On.' I
honestly forget the name of the kid who plays Judy's brother Peter, but
he was okay. I don't think he was great though. Okay, but not great. I
doubt as he gets older he'll get a film career much past his teen
years. 

So if you want some good, family fun seeing a movie, rent Jumanji. And
remember, PG = Parental Guidance, not All Ages, so do use discretion is
your kids don't like mild terror, but I doubt you'll have to,
especially on video (I'll admit the theater added some more terror).
It's not as terrifying as Ebert stated in his review. With all the
movies he's seen, I think he's way off mark. He compared Jumanji to
being as suitable as Jaws was for children, but big news Ebert, Jaws
WAS rated PG. Anyway, I hate when people think of Jumanji as a 'should
be PG-13' because it's not. It's great family fun with loads of laughs,
jungle animals and creatures, and just plain hilariousness! 4/5 stars.
I loved Jumanji, and I DEFINITELY recommend it to families.
<|_=00=_|>

Find a comfortable chair, lay out the board, grab the dice, and get ready to
play.  But remember:  once you start this game, you can't stop.  If it takes
you over twenty years to finish, finish you must.

"Jumanji" is loosely based on the Caldecott Medal-winning children's book by
Chris Van Allsburg.  The basic premise stays the same:  a sister and brother
find a strange game based on a jungle safari adventure.  When they begin
playing it, they find they cannot stop, for the characters and events of the
game come to life and start filling their house with monkeys, lions,
explorers and other strange things.  Only finishing the game will make it
all go away.

In the hands of Hollywood, more story is added.  Now we have a game spanning
26 years, when one of the two children playing the game in 1969 gets sucked
into the game itself.  He's trapped there until a fresh pair of children in
1995 find the game and begin playing.  The right number is rolled, and out
Alan comes...as Robin Williams!  Finding the grown girl to complete the
group, the four must complete the game before their town is destroyed by the
stampeding rhinos, killer pod vines and crazed Great White
Hunter.

Robin has some good moments in this film, though he isn't allowed to riff as
much as in other vehicles.  He's supported by an excellent cast, including a
young Kirsten Dunst as the sister of the new pair of children; Jonathan Hyde
as both the 1969 father and Van Pelt, the Great White Hunter from the game;
and Bebe Neuwirth as the modern children's aunt.  The effects are, not
surprisingly, ILM-excellent -- necessary in a film of this type.  The script
was co-written by Van Allsburg to insure the atmosphere of the film and book
mesh, but he did not fall into the "This is MY baby" syndrome, and received
good help from his two co-writers (for details, see the main page).  Highly
recommended for old and young alike.
<|_=00=_|>
I just used to love "Jumanji" as a kid. This was what was Oscar worthy
to me, because I loved the special effects and Robin Williams. Even
though I think I over did it with the Oscar worthy thoughts, still to
this day I enjoy "Jumanji". It's a great family film that will make you
feel good and have fun with.

Robin Williams plays Alan, a boy who when he was little and had a
horrible fight with his father plays a game with his friend, Sarah, and
the game happens to be cursed causing Alan to get sucked into the game
until someone else plays it. Sarah freaking out by just what happened
runs home and no one believes her leaving Alan behind for decades in
the game. When a new family moves in, Judy and Peter and their Aunt
Nora, they find the game and start playing and release Alan who has
just survived decades in a jungle. When they realize that they must
finish the game to make the horrible curses it brings go away, they
find Sarah who is now the town loony, and must play it 'til they
finish. But can they do that with all the spiders, elephants, lions,
tsunami, vines, stampedes, and an angry hunter? You'll just have to
wait and see.

This is a great movie for the family and I'd highly recommend it for a
good watch. It's just a fun fill adventure with great effects and some
fun performances by Robin and Bonnie and a very young Kirsten Dunst. So
sit back, grab the popcorn, and enjoy "Jumanji"! 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I love this movie ! Robin Williams, Kirsten Dunst, Bebe Neuwirth and
the animal special effects are incredible. My only complaint is that no
attempt was to explain the strange origins of the game as possibly a
game that is cursed or an artifact left in our world by the African
gods. There are several other plot points that are never answered: why
keep returning to the house, and if they know the game is dangerous,
why lose it with the pieces included so someone else can play it. I
think I'd be leaving the dice and pieces as far away from each other as
possible. The whole time-traveling/ renewed time line effect is a minor
problem in the plot as is why that hunter wants to kill Daniel(Robin)
in the first place. The computerized animal effects are made to act
like real animals both charming and mischievous and sinister. The slow
degradation of the Parrish house into a jungle and gradually the whole
town is a remarkable effect, quite possibly the most elaborate for any
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Another of my favorite childhood movies, there is Jumanji,one of my
favorite movies with Robin Willians and Kirsten Dunst. Alan Parrish is
a rich boy and his family were the founders of the city of New England,
where the boy and his family lives. Not only that, his father is a
businessman who has lots of deals and one of them is the notable shoe
factory. But Alan life is not so good as we think: he is having
problems with her best friend Sarah's boyfriend and his gang and his
father wants to send him to a boarding school. Angry, he says to his
father that he is never going to talk to him again and will ran away
from his home. But when Alan was going to scape from his house, his
friend Sarah goes to his house to talk, and they end up playing the
mysterious game called Jumanji that Alan found buried. The strange game
starts, and many strange things like wild animals start to show up,
until Alan enter the game and be confined there until the results of
the dice be 5 or 8. Sarah, too afraid to continue playing,run away.
After 26 years,two brothers named Judy and Peter found the game and
start playing it, like Sarah and Alan 26 years ago. Peter takes 5 in
the dice, what makes Alan turn back after many years. Now they need to
finish the game in order to all the horrible results end, but first
Alan needs to find Sarah and convince her to play the spooky game
again.
