

It's post-revolutionary France.  Napoleon is in power.  The Age of
Enlightenment is in full swing, yet the remnants of the Dark Ages still
linger to restrain the thinking of many a powerful monarch, religious leader
and rank-and-file common citizen.  In all areas of life, the barriers to
freedom and self-expression are rapidly giving way, leaving traditional
institutions and values fighting for their very survival.  And this includes
that most sensitive of all areas, the one that has, perhaps, caused more
consternation for the race than any other in our history – determining the
role that sexuality plays in defining who we are physically, emotionally and
spiritually.  Long thought of as little more than a necessary evil,
sexuality is suddenly starting to be reexamined in the light of other
scientific and academic reassessments.  Small wonder that at such a crucial
moment in mankind's sexual awakening, a figure like the Marquis De Sade
would emerge, a man whose name has since become synonymous with perversion,
deviancy and licentiousness.  It is this epic struggle between religion and
nature for the soul of humanity that Philip Kaufman captures so brilliantly
in his wickedly perverse, mordantly witty and brilliantly acted film,
`Quills.'

Director Kaufman, working from a screenplay by Doug Wright (based on his
play of the same name), chooses to start his tale almost at its end – at the
period when De Sade was already wasting away in an insane asylum, considered
too perverted and dangerous in his ideas to be allowed to run loose among
the general populace.  Yet, it's hard to keep a creative genius down – and
De Sade has, unbeknownst to the priest who runs the facility, been regularly
smuggling out manuscripts to publishers on the outside, much to the chagrin
and delight of many elements of the French public.  One of those least
amused is Napoleon himself, who decides that he must take action in
silencing this reprobate once and for all.  He decides to send a
`specialist' in mental health – one Dr. Royer-Collard, a man more in tune
with the techniques of the Spanish Inquisition than of modern medicine – to
take charge and bring De Sade to his senses.  Wright's and Kaufman's other
two main characters include the priest, The Abbe du Coulmier, who is keeper
of the institution, and Madeleine LeClerc, a beautiful young devotee of De
Sade's work who serves both as laundress and chief smuggler for the author
and his works.

In many ways, the most interesting conflict turns out to be the one between
De Sade and the Abbe, two men seemingly antipodes apart yet somehow able to
find a common ground of mutual respect and understanding.  On the one hand,
we have a man who has completely thrown away all sexual inhibitions and
indeed lives to not only experience every possible sexual pleasure but to
encourage others to do so as well.  On the other hand, we have a man who has
chosen a life of chastity and celibacy, opting to completely shut down the
sexual aspect of his life as a pious sublimation to God – and yet neither
extreme seems normal, healthy or practicable.  In fact, near the end, De
Sade suffers the torment of realizing that someone he cares for very deeply
has become a tragic victim of one of his `ideas' run amuck, just as the
Abbe, after years of repression, finds himself inching ever closer to the
insanity that he is supposed to be curing in others.  

Interestingly, the Abbe, the representative of the church that held the
world in the grip of the Dark Ages for so long, is actually a beacon of
enlightened reason compared to Dr. Royer-Collard, the self-ascribed `Man of
Science.'  Here is an individual actually aligned with the Church's Medieval
methods, inflicting any form of excruciating physical and psychological
torture on his patients to achieve their ultimate `cure' – though we can see
by the way he subtly abuses his own sixteen year old wife that `power' is,
as always, the world's strongest aphrodisiac. 

Special not must be taken of the superb performances by Geoffrey Rush,
Joaquin Phoenix, Michael Caine and Kate Winslet.  Each does a superb job in
bringing these diverse and complex characters to vivid
life.

In terms of art direction, costume design and cinematography, the filmmakers
do a fantastic job in recreating this strange world of the past - capturing
that startling admixture of piety and licentiousness that bespeaks the `dual
nature in Man,' which has forever served as the basis for the epic struggle
between religion and nature.  In a world like the one we live in now - in
which explicit pornography has found a comfortable and, indeed, quite
lucrative niche - De Sade seems ever more a man ahead of his time.  It was
his misfortune to be born into a world not quite ready to accept the ideas
he had to offer.  Yet, had he been living in this century, perhaps we would
never even have heard of the name De Sade at all.  Perhaps he would be just
another anonymous pornographer, using the camera rather than the written
word to graphically illustrate his darkest sexual longings.   Then again,
who knows?  Perhaps it would be he who founded a world famous magazine and
set up a mansion dedicated solely to the propagation of male sexual
pleasure.  It is, in the face of `Quills,' a thought worth
pondering.


<|_=00=_|>
This was a good movie, but I thought it had somewhat of an
unsatisfsying ending (well, to me anyway). Sad too. It moves nicely,
though and you don't want to be interrupted. It can get rather graphic
at times, but that's mainly because of the subject material, I guess.
Geoffrey Rush is brilliant.He has a real knack for bringing strange and
twisted characters to life. Michael Caine is doing his usual job of
being superb as well. Every new role Kate Winslet performs is different
from the previous and she excels every time. She expresses emotion very
well. And my goodness, Joaquin Phoenix. I wouldn't say that I was ever
a *fan* of his, but damn, now I am. If there was ever a performance
that just made me melt, this was it. The restrained emotions and
frustration of unfulfilled desires of his character were just performed
brilliantly. This guy's an amazing actor.
<|_=00=_|>
Quills is the modernized story of the Marquis de Sade, whose steamy
writings whipped France into a sexual fury in the late 18th Century.
And by modernized I mean that it has been told through the experiences
of a lot of French people who speak English and with British accents.
But no matter, I'm willing to accept that everyone in France in 1800
spoke perfect British even if only because of Geoffrey Rush's brilliant
performance. With every movie that he comes out with I become more and
more convinced that there is nothing he can't do.

In order to know virtue, as the Marquis explains, one must first
understand vice. In Philip Kaufman's Quills, the focus is on the
Marquis de Sade after his writing has taken him beyond the artistic
freedom generally accepted in the 18th and 19th centuries, even to
elite aristocracy like himself. It is a detailed exploration of the
events that led from him being a social elitist to living almost three
decades in prison, writing things that caused his keepers to make it so
difficult for him to write that he ultimately uses his own blood and
excrement for ink, and his clothing, the walls of his cell, and his own
skin as parchment.

Luckily for the Marquis, at first anyway, is that there is something of
an understanding priest in the Abbe du Coulmier, another wonderful
performance from Joaquin Phoenix. An intensely religious man, Coulmier
believes that the Marquis should be allowed to write, if only to purge
himself of the sadism with which his head is filled and which would
later be named after him.

Kate Winslet plays Madeleine, a laundry maid who smuggles the Marquis'
writing out of the asylum so that it can be published, for which many
people are not happy, but many others are. The Marquis dips into the
extensive world of the forbidden sexual taboos of the 18th and 19th
centuries, writing extensively about them without a care in the world
for propriety. One may wonder to what extent the Marquis' writings were
such a hit because they were forbidden, or because of their lewd
content, which may euphemistically be described as guilty pleasures for
the masses. Indeed, Larry Flynt was not working, so graphic pornography
was something of a rarity.

There is a curious relationship between the Marquis and a physician
named Royer-Collard, played by Michael Caine, who is assigned to law
down the law with the Marquis and prevent him from writing anymore. The
glee with which the Marquis mocks and taunts him are some of the best
parts of this outstanding film. There is a great parallel between the
two characters, as well. Royer-Collard pretends to be a moral role
model, at the same time taking a wife who is young enough to be his
daughter, possibly even his granddaughter, and treats the Marquis with
exactly the same sadistic (if I can again use the term for the behavior
for which the Marquis would later be named) behavior that he condemns
that Marquis for writing about. Both men engage in many of the same
practices, it's just that the Marquis makes no attempt and has no
interest in hiding his interests in the pleasures of the flesh.

I think that the most important thing to remember about this movie is
that it is able to deal with a person who's beliefs are, I like to
think, below the moral compasses of most of the people who will watch
the movie, but it's not about what he was writing, it's about the fact
that he was writing at all. It's about his defiance in the face of a
corrupt moral authority, his insistence on maintaining an artistic
expression that was not well received but that was certainly
therapeutic to him. Sure, his sanity is in question, to say the least,
but as they say, genius is often associated with madness.

What a great coincidence, too, because so is Geoffrey Rush.
<|_=00=_|>
I originally went to see this one in a movie theater on a whim - I was
feeling spontaneous, so I bought a ticket for a movie I knew nothing
about, and went in free of preconceptions or expectations.

The cleverness of the very first scenes brought a smile to my face, and
I knew I was in for a rare treat; off the top of my head, I can't think
of a movie with a better conceived, audience grabbing opening sequence.

And the impression lasted throughout this great film. Quills is a
passionate (and entertaining!) cry in defense of artistic freedom, and
the fundamental freedoms of speech and religion; and it is a
deliciously clever movie, both in dialog and in plot. It is actually a
movie that has something to say, and does it in an entertaining,
engaging way that doesn't leave the audience feeling that they are
being lectured to or talked down to. 

A few scenes are gruesome and unpleasant, but they, I think, are a
necessary evil for the telling of the story, not a gratuitous
shock-tactic.

The performances are excellent throughout, and the storyline is will
firmly claim and keep your attention. Quills is the sort of movie that
you don't forget, and that'll linger on in your mind long after you've
seen it.

I would heartily recommend this movie to anyone - even if it doesn't
sound like the type of movie you'd normally go for. I for one am very
glad that I happened to be feeling spontaneous the day I went to see
it, because otherwise I would most likely have missed it. So give your
spontaneity a chance if you happen upon Quills in your local movie
rental place.
<|_=00=_|>

QUILLS / (2000) ***1/2 (out of four)

By Blake French: 

	"To know virtue we must aquatint ourselves with vice."

						Marquis de Sade

	Philip Kaufman's "Quills" will leave some audiences cheering and others
disappointed and disgusted; there are good logical arguments from both
sides. One of the most controversial movie of the year, "Quills, " based on
the play by Douglas Wright, doesn't entirely examine the torpid mind of the
disreputable 18th century French author, the Marquis de Sade, but instead
indicates the impact his sexually and sadistically explicit literary work
influenced the public. The biggest argument could be made with the sanity of
Marquis de Sade himself, as whether he was a perverted, sex-obsessed
psychopath or simply a spirited aristocrat who only stood for artistic
expression and freedom of speech. The movie's characters take their own
sides; after becoming aware of the authors material, Napoleon wants de Sade
(Geoffrey Rush) shot dead at the insane asylum he is being held at, but
instead a sadistic torturer named Dr. Royer-Collard (Michael Caine) is
assigned to take charge of the patient; the virginal laundress Madeleine
(Kate Winslet) , thinks de Sade is a writer, not a madman, and helps to
smuggle his erotic stories out of the institution for public publication;
the asylum priest, Adde Coulmier (Joaquin Phoenix), first befriends de Sade
and grants him special privileges, but once he discovers the extremity of
his subversive ideas, he reluctantly changes opinions. De Sade inarguably
had some fanatical fantasies, but the film leaves it up to us to realize his
lustful imagination captured on paper are transpired due to his inability to
experience them in the real world outside of his chambers. The subject is
carnal and a bit unsettling, and the movie exploits the eroticism clearly on
screen; the film is strictly intended for mature audiences. But director
Philip Kaufman ("The Right Stuff") does not portray the likes of de Sade in
a disturbing manner, but keeps the story engaging. The atmosphere feels
accurate and convincing, and the movie is not without humor and the expected
material found within the mental institution, like the patient who thinks he
is a bird, a pyromaniac, and the hulking horny guy who has his mind set out
on raping any human with two legs with no external organs between them.
There are a few scenes that could have captured the audience a bit more
exclusively. However the entirely convincing, intense, brave, Oscar worthy
performances by Michael Caine and Geoffrey Rush make up for that. The
Marquis was an extremely complex individual, and Rush captures that through
a character without heart or compassion, but with spirit and zest; even
though de Sade went through each day with suffering, he still approached
life with insight, ambition and curiosity. He is so determined to fulfill
his need to write his perverse ideas, after forbidden and when his quills
are taken away he still prevails by using blood, wine, and feces in the
place of ink, and his clothes, sheets, and walls as paper. De Sade stands as
an example that society is most successfully established when people
understand that we are all simply expressions of our own nature, that it is
most healthy to declare our motives and passions to ourselves. He is also a
prime example of self-control, and that freedom of speech only carries us so
far. It would be interesting to see what would happen if Marquis de Sade was
to live in present times and if he was to exploit his ideas on screen or in
novels. I think he would push the envelope to yet another level and have
quite an influence on today's society. I hope people who see the artful
"Quills" share their opinions with one another, after all, that is the
reason why filmmakers make movies like these. 

<|_=00=_|>

Quills is one of the best films of 2000, in my reckoning, second best only
to You Can Count on Me. It is one of the most brilliantly directed, acted,
produced, and written films I've seen in a very long time. There is not a
(major) character in this film that is not very complex, and the issues at
stake are utterly important.

Perhaps the greatest success of the film is how well it works on commenting
both on its own time and situations and our own world today. The issues of
free speech, creativity, dementia, corporal punishment, religion, sexuality
and especially politics are woven into the film in amazing ways. Yes,
politics, for it works as an allegory to the recent presidential scandals.

There are two flaws, one major, one semi-major. The semi-major one involves
the epilogue. It is not bad, but it is unnecessary. Perhaps the best way to
describe it is superfluous and predictable. The major flaw would destroy any
lesser film. Here, it is hardly noticable. Still, if one contemplates it,
there is no getting around it. There is never a believable reason why
Madeleine should be so helpful to the Marquis de Sade. They present a tiny
one, but it is not good enough.

Still, with its successes elsewhere, these flaws do not weaken this film.
Without them, it would have been perfect. With them, well, just because it
is flawed, doesn't mean it isn't a masterpiece. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Quills is a delightfully unsettling account of the demise of the
Marquis de Sade and those he brings down with him. The film presents
viewers with all the evidence they need to identify the fallacies of
society's separation of "good" from "evil" and "moralists" from
"sinners." It subtly asserts that the values traditionally used to pass
judgment are compromised by convention and religion, and that there is
moral danger in accepting these values without question.

During the film, one form of sin is only replaced by another, which
defeats its resistors and beguiles the rest by hiding behind a
pretentious shroud of religion and convention.

Viewers are horrified to discover that they can actually identify with
the marquis, whose name inspired the word "sadist" to describe those
who derive sexual pleasure from violence. Most viewers' senses of
morality are sullied by the realization that they are hanging on every
twist of the plot, desperate to know what will next beset these
wretched characters.

Based on historical fact, Quills catches up with the Marquis (Geoffrey
Rush) during the twilight of his life, when he has already been
sentenced to life imprisonment in the Charenton Asylum. No longer able
to pursue the perverse sexual escapades that had landed him in the
madhouse after decades of unspeakable offenses, he now purges his
demons by writing. At the urging of the saintly, ever-tolerant and
even-tempered Abbe Coulmier (Joaquin Phoenix), the marquis describes
his imagination's disturbing scenes on paper.

Trouble arises when one of his books, smuggled to a publisher by a
sympathetic admirer - innocent laundry maid Madeleine (Kate Winslet) -
catch the disapproving eye of Emperor Napoleon.

There is no escape from sin when the man sent to purify the Charenton,
Dr. Royer-Collard (Michael Caine), only seeks to replace it with
intolerance and unimaginable cruelty.

True to the spirit of the film, the sets are imbued befittingly with
gloom and grime, and the inhabitants of the Charenton are realistically
ragged.

Rush and Winslet's performances as the marquis and Madeleine are
stunning. The film's delicious impropriety is heightened by their
chemistry, which is so potent as to be communicable to viewers.

The super-intelligent plot is unexpectedly circular, leaving viewers
feeling as though they may well be next in line for the madness bred at
the Charenton. Their fears are seemingly verified by he change they
know the film has already inspired in them.

Far from resolutive, the only solace the ending holds for viewers is a
sense of, "Aha, now I know," and a new way to evaluate the good in evil
in themselves and others.
<|_=00=_|>
Quills is a movie about the man The Marquis De Sade. If you are not
familiar with him watching the movie would be advisable even though
your own research might be better. The film follows him played
amazingly by Geoffrey Rush in a insane asylum. Michael Caine who is an
expert at "curing" people of their madness wishes to take a new
approach at solving the mental in-capacities of the inmates of the
Charenton. This of course it that of more brutal methods than that of
the Abbe played by Joaquin Phoenix. What does seem of the least cruel
of the punishments in this movie turns out to be the most costly, Sade
is no longer allowed to write. This had dramatic affects on him and his
state of mind.

In the movie Geoffrey Rush simply shines. Here he proves once again how
he has undoubtedly one of the most under appreciated actors around
today. His performance is unique in that he plays a man considered
perverse yet brilliant, a man of many self contradictions. As the film
wears on Geoffrey Rush does not take the easy way out in making his
performance extraordinary flashy, in fact it remains quite subtle. His
subtly is what truly makes his performance great with the many
underlying tones he carries. Michael Caine whenever in a film carries
this great presence with him and continues to do so here. He is
obviously a man of many secrets and I had wished he was given more
screen time to study his more of his character motivations and actions.
Kate Winslet and Joaquin Phoenix play well in this movie but have had
better performances which is a true testament to their abilities.

The writing of the movie is very good in that the movie remains
interesting throughout. What fails though is the directing. It was
solid but refused took unnecessary turns in the film. The romantic
tension between Winslet and Phoenix was pushed upon the story a bit too
hard and at times dragged away from what was a compelling enough of a
theme: freedom of expression.

Freedom of expression is something that we all have to have in our
lives. If we do not have it we will go crazy like many of the inmates
of the Charenton. Our ideas is what keeps us going and when that right
is taken away from us our problem do not disappear they erupt. For
example some people express their ideas through writing such as the
Sade in this film. If that is taken away not only do we lose our sanity
but along with it our very humanity. We can no longer differentiate
between fantasy and reality as Geoffrey Rush so perfectly illustrates.
That is what this film showed but unfortunately did not show enough of.
If it had stayed more consistent with this theme and picked it apart in
other aspects it would have reached at the height of greatness. Yet it
did not and is very good recommendable film but not what it could have
been.
<|_=00=_|>


I saw the movie.  I liked it.  I loved Michael Caine's performance.
Michael Caine is always great.  I was also stunned by the
stomach-turning depravity of the French legal and medical system of the
time.  Then I read the book.
The first half of the movie is typical Hollywood bad history: composite
characters, events out of sequence, a devoted wife where there should
have been a devoted mistress, etc.  But the second half is fiction. In
fact, De Sade (b. 1740) spent the last 10 years of his life, 1804 -
1814, living in relative comfort, with a mistress boarding in an
adjacent room, at his family's expense, in the Charenton Asylum.  By
this time de Sade had spent a major part of his life in and out of
prisons and asylums for sexually abusing prostitutes and servant-girls,
and also for complicated reasons connected with prison escapes, bad
debts, and the French Revolution.  He had even been sentenced to death
at one time (1772). The pretext for his final imprisonment (he was now
63) was publishing pornography.  But the real reasons were complicated.
He was notorious and infamous, both for his crimes and his pornography.
Napoleon wanted him put away, because he believed de Sade had written a
pamphlet defaming him and his family. The family wanted him put away to
protect the family honor.  The asylum was under the control of the
French Ministry of the Interior.  It was run, except for the last 7
months of de Sade's life, by an Abbe' Coulmier, and at one time a Dr.
Royer-Collard was the medical director.  There was also a 17-year-old
worker in the asylum, Magdeleine Leclerc, with whom de Sade had (by his
count) 57 sexual encounters during the last year of his life. The Abbe
viewed himself as a humanitarian not a jailer and respected de Sade as
an intellectual.  The Abbe has been described as despotic but
enlightened.  While de Sade was in the asylum, he continued to write and
publish (anonymously) pornography; but he also wrote and published
ordinary plays, many of which were performed at the asylum, and choral
pieces, some of which were performed at the asylum's church. There were
sporadic attempts to curtail his writing activities. In 1807 police
seized one of his pornographic works during a search of his room.  It
was dutifully returned to his family after his death.  (They destroyed
it.)   In October 1809 he was briefly placed in solitary confinement and
deprived of writing materials.  In 1813 the Minister of the Interior
banned the performance at the asylum of the plays. But all things
considered, de Sade was pretty much left alone. He was in failing health
during the last 4 months of his life and finally died of natural causes
at age 74.  His surviving son was visiting at the time, but missed the
last moments.
What is particularly troubling about this movie, is that it uses the
correct names of people and places.
 > 
<|_=00=_|>
Geoffrey Rush, star of Pirates of the Caribbean, Elizabeth, and
Shakespeare in love, Stars in this tale of the infamous and perverted
Marquis de Sade. Imprisoned away from the world in the French asylum of
Charenton. In a bid to silence the Marquis, famous for his lewd and
pornographic writings which has made him infamous, The French ruler
Napoleon sends the cold and reserved Dr Royer Collard (Michael Caine)
to cure and prevent him from smuggling manuscripts to a publisher,
secretly aided by the beautiful virginal chambermaid Madeleine (Kate
Winslett) who often finds herself the object of his writing and
affection. However along with the Marquis, Madeleine also finds herself
the object of the affections of the young and handsome Abbe du
Coulmier, (Joaquin Phoenix) the administrator at Charenton. His
priestly vows prevent them from being together and conceals hi love fro
her. The Marquis meanwhile is suffering at the hands of the repulsive
doctor. Due to an indiscretion, at one of many of Charenton open nights
when the French aristocracy gather to watch one of the Marquis plays.
The play entitled "the crimes of love" makes exact and deliberate
references to the doctor's personal life where he picked a penniless
but beautiful young nun Simone (Amelia Warner) from a convent, a girl
young enough to be his daughter- to be his wife and subjected her to
hours of "nightly wife's duties". The doctor vows revenge on the
Marquis and even more so when Simone runs away with an architect after
reading one of his most lewd novels to date. The Marquis is stripped of
all his privileges; first his paper, quills, and ink are taken but he
refuses to be silenced. With tragic consequences. As the punishments
grow more severe and each knew novels written b something disgusting
objects the marquis and the doctor are locked in deadly battle over
power and control, which sends the law and order of Charenton asylum
downhill as the fight takes a twisted and unexpected turn. A thrilling
story with many twists and turns where egos collide and love interferes
where power and money speak and authority is threatened.
