
This is a feel good movie, not very deep BUT well conceived, written
and acted. DeVito is excellent as a failing marketing man being
transformed into a thoughtful, caring army educator. As important is
the film's excellent presentation and discussion of the works of
Shakespeare.

No surprise, DeVito's self centered abrasiveness meets with antipathy.
Army officers don't care. Convinced of their own worthlessness,
DeVito's students are disinterested, at best. During the semester,
DeVito, mellows, students learn enough to advance,and Army brass begins
to appreciates the new teacher.

The best part of this film is not DeVito's or the student's redemption
but the film's beguiling Shakespeare presentation. DeVito teaches the
Bard with passion. The writers deliver illuminating, focused student
dialog. As one who didn't "get" Shakespeare until seeing MacBeth a year
after graduation. This movie was a better class than anything I took in
high school or college.

Enjoy the film and the class.
<|_=00=_|>
Renaissance Man is directed by Penny Marshall and stars Danny DeVito,
Gregory Hines, James Remar, Mark Wahlberg, Stacey Dash and Kadeem
Hardison. Hans Zimmer scores the film and it's written by Jim
Burnstein. The story sees DeVito as Bill Rago, a divorced advertising
executive who loses his job and finds himself unemployed. Not only
that, but the relationship with his daughter has started to feel the
financial strain. However, the unemployment agency find him a short
time position at U.S. Army training base, Fort McClane. The position
entails him to teach basic comprehension to a class of academic under
achievers. Initially he's not enthused by the job, nor are the class
particularly responsive to his civilian status. But just maybe this odd
coupling may turn out to be good for both parties? That is if Drill
Sergeant Cass (Hines) lets them that is?

A box office flop that was first marketed as a comedy, then as a drama
{it's very much both}, Renaissance Man holds no surprises what so ever.
The formula remains the same as every other piece featuring a teacher
and an unruly/troubled/under educated class. So with that in mind, and
considering the film has largely been kicked by the professional
critics, I'm not here to sell this movie to anyone, because sometimes
you have to acknowledge that a film can hit a spot of your own personal
psyche, yet at the same time be a million miles away from someone
else's.

The choices we make dictate the life we lead

For me personally, Renaissance Man is one such film. It was one dark
rainy night back in the mid 90s and I had the blues, I popped over to
the video store to see what was available, I couldn't find anything
that remotely sounded like something to lift me out of the stupor I was
in. I then spied a copy of Renaissance Man, a film I hadn't heard
anything about, and although I took that as a bad sign, Danny DeVito's
beaming smile on the cover of the box lured me in. I was thinking how
much I had enjoyed him in Twins at the back end of 1988, so to me it
didn't seem such a bad gamble to take. I was expecting a comedy and I
got one, but the bonus was that what I also got was a very uplifting
dramatic tale about the human condition, people learning from each
other, a tale that shows the power of artistry and how it can unite and
lift people. A tale that shows that maybe some folk aren't as clever as
others, but if they can grasp a straw and be all that they can be, then
their heads will be well and truly held up high.

Renaissance Man, I believe, is a sadly undervalued film on this, or any
other film related site. But that's just me, because hey! We all got
different psyche's right. Right? 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
What a polarity of opinions on this one! It's either love it or hate it
time. Put me definitely in the camp of this movie's admirers and
supporters. I noticed that many of this film's fans were from all over:
Texas, Canada, Scotland, Brooklyn, Australia, and Paris! Many noticed
the similarity to Dead Poets Society as did I. Other movies it could be
compared to are Mr. Holland's Opus and Konrack, and the more recent
French film, The Chorus, movies in which other teachers too are
celebrated for enriching the lives and spirits of their students. I
think your Parisian correspondent sums it up the best: to see fine art
working its way into the psyches of those previously unaware of it and
to see people growing in spirit as a result of their exposure to and
interactivity with it: that's what makes this story such a treat and an
inspiration. It's what makes being a teacher worthwhile and justified.
It moved and touched me. I had a personal connection to this movie's
plot line as well: I knew a teacher who used to go into inner city
schools and also taught the kids Shakespeare, especially the
old-fashioned swear words the author used in the plays! Quite
successfully too. Also, I grew up in Detroit so I appreciated the
opening of the film set on familiar streets of the Motor City. A
beautiful and touching film. None of the film's critics or supporters
commented on the plot line in which the teacher recovered the true
history of his recruit's father's unrecognized heroism. That was
beautiful too. Go see this film and be inspired.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is about educating the most unlikely people so that they will be
able to appreciate beauty of the classical works. For me, it's very moving
because enjoying good works of art are fully part of enjoying life. Besides,
the film is well done and funny. And last but not least, education is
properly shown as a two-way process: the teacher will learn a lot from his
students during the very time he teaches them. In summary, I loved the story
and sent everyone I met to see it. And most of them were happy
too.
<|_=00=_|>
Army recruits categorized as, shall we say, neither the best nor
brightest, but they somehow get turned on when reluctant teacher DeVito
reads Shakespeare's Hamlet to them and it hits a chord. The high point
of the film is reached when one of those recites on command his
"irrelevant" Shakespeare on a rainy night's drill to Sergeant Gregory
Hines and finds in his memory from "Henry V" (with lead-in not at hand)
"We few, we happy few, we band of brothers. For he today that sheds his
blood with me, Shall be my brother." This is a truly nice movie, about
heroes but not about touting war. At a later point, my usually stoic
wife shed some tears. Danny De Vito is surprising to me. He generally
leaps over my expectations, no matter how far I raise them up.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the most moving experiences in cinema I had during the Nineties
was watching Renaissance Man. It's more than a comedy about
underachievers realizing their potential. It's about the man who makes
them realize their worth as human beings getting quite an education
about life himself.

Danny DeVito is that man in a role about as far removed as you can get
from Louis DePalma in Taxi and Lawrence Garfield in Other People's
Money. He's an advertising man who loses a couple of big clients while
getting stuck in traffic and gets bounced from his job.

Needing an income while looking for a job, the Michigan Unemployment
Department gives him an interesting job, a civilian remedial education
teacher for the United States Army. He's assigned to a class of eight
trainees who might wash out if they don't shape up. It's their mental
attitudes that need adjusting.

A little trial and error and DeVito hits upon the idea to use
Shakespeare, specifically Hamlet as a teaching tool. Interpreting and
learning life's lesson from one of the greatest works of literature in
the English language apparently works and in ways far beyond making
these trainees get through basic training.

This is my favorite film with Danny DeVito and he's not an easy fit
into army life. Cliff Robertson, James Remar, and Gregory Hines are
some of the army people he deals with.

But the eight trainees are the heart of the film. Mark Wahlberg, Lillo
Brancato, Kadeem Hardison, Richard Jones, Khalil Kain, Gregory
Sporleto, Stacey Dash are seven of them. One of them doesn't make it
through and ironically because of an act of kindness. But my favorite
in the film is Peter Simmons who plays Private Brian Davis from Grand
Forks, North Dakota. It's young men like him and his father before him
in Vietnam who was killed in action who keep this country safe and
secure. He gets the best recognition possible at the end of the film
and you are guaranteed not to have a dry eye when you see it.

Renaissance Man is a beautifully crafted film from Penny Marshall and
should not be missed when broadcast.
<|_=00=_|>
The older I get the more I realize how this movie is a little cheesy,
But if you really like a feel good movie you can't go wrong with this
one. Danny Devito did a wonderful job playing a teacher in the army.(a
job he didn't ask for and is not looking forward to)He is brought in to
teach these kids that everyone thinks are stupid. Every one of the
characters left an impression in my mind. They all did a wonderful job
at playing their roles.Each one of the student's are different and
everyone knows someone in real life like each one of them. It is a
little like dead poet's society but with more comedy and a more "happy
good feeling" I am always in a GREAT mood at the end of this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start off by saying that this movie is miss-marketed as a
comedy. As a comedy, this movie is, at best, mediocre. Sure, there are
some funny moments, but it isn't nearly as hilarious as it claims to
be. However, what this movie lacks in comedy, it makes up for with it's
other qualities. This is a warm, fuzzy, feel-good movie with a lot of
wisdom in it. The character development is excellent and we really get
to like the characters. The bond between DeVito and his students is
strong. This movie is very touching, with a few funny moments
in-between. Sure, there are some corny scenes (the rap scene) but hey,
every teacher has their own way of making their students understand
their material, right? I would recommend this movie, although not as a
comedy.
<|_=00=_|>

I love this movie. I first saw it when I was about eight, and it inspired
me
to read Shakespeare. Of course, because of my age, I was unable to
understand HAMLET, but I thought I would just mention it. This movie is a
great portrayl of how a formerly selfish man changed himself and his
students through Shakespeare. This movie is deep, but it's also very funny
and entertaining. There are some great, brilliant moments in here,
especially when DeVito says, "All I know is, the choices you make dictate
the life you lead. To thine own self be true. " There is also an excellent
scene where one of the students recites Shakespeare for Hines, the drill
sergeant. This is a fantastic movie that I absolutely loved, as did my
English teacher. I highly recommend it. Of course, if you only find Bruce
Willis movies entertaining, this movie is not for you.

<|_=00=_|>
This film is a very nice one. There are a few reasons for that. Danny
de Vito (playing Bill Rago) is great and plays his role very
enthusiast. De Vito's best scene is the one where he is in the office
where he's going for a job. He totally does NOT want to be there
because he's ashamed of being there. When he gets a teaching job
offered, the look on his face,when he finds out he is supposed to teach
soldiers in the army, is marvelous. All the other actors are playing
(very) good, especially Gregory Hines as drill-instructor who wants
Bill Rago gone. The few scenes Hines and De Vito share together are no
less than hilarious, that's for sure.

The story is not as strong as the (sometimes) brilliant acting from the
whole cast. To be honest, the story of Jim Burnstein is predictable and
boring. Not only is the ending something you know 30 minutes before
it's there, also the most important lines of the story are predictable
and because of that boring. I can't spoil the movie, but let me tell
you: For this film, Jim Burnstein wanted all happy things and endings,
even when it's not appropriate.

If you have read Willliam Shakespeare's 'Hamlet' (a brilliant book, if
I may say so) you'll enjoy this film a lot more.

If you like this motion picture you should also see 'Dead Poets
Society' with Robin Williams.
