

I've watched this movie twice now on DVD, and both times it didn't fail to
impress me with its unique impartial attitude. It seems more like a
depiction of reality than most other Hollywood fare, especially on a topic
that is still hotly discussed. Even though it sticks closely with the
southern viewpoint, it doesn't fail to question it, and in the end the
only
sentence passed is that the war is lost, not matter what, and cruelty is a
common denominator.

What really makes this movie outstanding is the refusal to over-dramatize.
Nowadays truly good movies (in a nutshell) are few and far apart, with
mainstream fare being enjoyable (if you don't have high expectations), but
terribly commercially spirited. I think this movie comes off as a truly
good
movie (without being a masterpiece), because it sticks to itself, and
gives
the viewer a chance to watch and analyze it, instead of wanting to bombard
him with effect and emotion to blot out his intelligence. This movie is
cool, observant, and generally light-handed in its judgement, which is
GOOD.

The story has its flaws, especially Jewel's Character comes off
doubtfully,
but then again the situation at the time was so chaotic, that for a young
widow it might have been only logical to somehow get back into a normal
life, even by liberally taking each next guy. Still she doesn't come off
as
weak, in fact I think she's one of the stronger characters, she's always
in
control of the relationships, with the men just tagging. And I take it
very
gratefully that she's not a weeping widow. I believe in the 19th century
death of a loved one was something a lot more normal than now. You could
die
so easily of even minor illnesses and injuries, so the prospect of of
someone dying, while surely causing grief, didn't traumatise people like
it
does now. People didn't seem to build shrines about their lost ones like
they do now, and I like that attitude.

My recommendation is for intelligent people to watch this movie, if they
are
in the mood for something different than the usual hollywood fare. Don't
watch if if you want non-stop action or heart-renting emotion.
<|_=00=_|>

The American Civil War was marked with horrible battles that exacted a toll
on humanity that numbered into the thousands; however, there were other
aspects of this war that took an equally horrendous toll.  The border states
in this war were completely divided and often the inhabitants of these
states were caught up in desperate struggles for their lives and homes.

Certainly "Ride with the Devil" does not feature the epic battle scenes that
"Gettysburg" brought to the screen, but it does give an excellent insight as
to how everyday people dealt with the total destruction of their lives.

"Ride with the Devil" certainly gives a fresh and unique perspective of the
Civil War.  It is to the movies credit that it fully explores the tedium of
life experienced by the common combatant who faced moments of tremendous
anxiety while in combat and the long dull periods of no action.

Furthermore, I am really tired of movie critics harping on the dialects and
language used in the movie.  Well folks I hate to tell you, but in the 19th
Century people generally spoke in the manner that this film depicts.  I
believe that the language in the film is one of its finest points.

Ang Lee went to great pains in making this one of the finest period pieces
that I have encountered.  Mr. Lee used hundreds of Civil War re-enactors and
took great care in making sure that his principle actors, sets, and scenery
looked the part. The movie was filmed in Missouri and Kansas and captures
the scenic beauty of this area.

The actors are of a fine calibre and should be recognized for their
outstanding performances.  Considerable kudos should go to Tobey Maguire and
Geoffrey Wright.  They both were believable in their mannerisms and dialect.
Tobey Maguire is outstanding in his use of period language.

All in all the movie is great.  Since it wasn't on the big screen long we
can only hope that the video will arrive soon.  Sometimes it is refreshing
to go and see a movie that is about
real people and events that really happened.


<|_=00=_|>

My great-grandfather J.W. Daugherty was a very young teenager during
the civil war in Missouri. While still twelve he was put to work as a
mule-skinner by one of the "black-flag" bands of bushwackers around
Cedar County, in southern Missouri. He later mastered the use of the
six-shooter, and rode with Quantrill. He claimed to have ridden with
Jesse and Frank James during and after the war, but every man of his
generation made the same claim. Were all the claims true, it would
probably be about fifty thousand in all who rode with the James boys.

J.W. claimed not to have been present during the burning of Lawrence,
but so did everybody else. With so many thousand occupied in riding
with the brothers James, it is passing strange that so few managed to
be present during the actual burning of Lawrence, the single most
important action of the Quantrill band.

I am, incidentally, named after Lawrence, that appellation being my
first name.

J.W. claimed it was the James brothers who invented the idea of
gripping the reins in their teeth while firing both revolvers, thereby
availing oneself of a full twelve rounds in flight. J.W. ended up being
the champion fiddler of Missouri, losing that title only when jealous
rivals shut him out of the fiddling contests because he could read
music.

Another great-grandfather of mine was James Quinn, a young captain of
the Union calvery. This was a Missouri militia unit, but militias on
the border often saw more action that regular units back east. His job
was to guard the railroads from the "highway agents" who even then were
perfecting the feat of robbing the trains of yankee gold sent south for
payroll.

James and J.W. were supposed to have been on opposite sides during the
Battle of Wilson's Creek, but it is impossible to know for sure. I have
copies of Union orders for Captain James Quinn, having to do with the
bandits operating in southern Missouri.

This film, RIDE WITH THE DEVIL, is one of the truly great American
films, and the only one that even begins to get close to the feeling of
the border wars, the bushwacking, the betrayals, and the split
families. In Missouri, the Civil War was hell on earth, breaking every
family apart at least once.

Toby McGuire is overwhelming in his grasp of the teenage border warrior
who has known nothing else but killing, and who finally decides to make
a new life in California. Jewel is astonishing as the young survivor
widowed twice, but full of life and a desire to live it to the fullest.

The historical details are almost always spot on, and the faces of the
men and women are disturbingly like what they must have been in those
terrible days.

But finally, it is the script that is almost unbelievable in its power.
Even when one or two words are wrong, the scriptwriter manages to
somehow capture the mood and the rhythms of 19th-century speech in that
part of the country, in all its humor and deep fatalism and
courtesy--and yes, its cruelty too.

This is the first work of art that made me feel something close to what
my great-grandfathers must have gone through. They left many stories
and written records behind, but such autobiographies conceal as much as
they reveal, especially about the violence and its traumatizing effects
of the young males who experienced it.

I am grateful to the makers of this film, the script-writer, the author
of the original book WOE TO LIVE ON, the actors and others who created
RIDE WITH THE DEVIL and somehow managed to make it such a stunning work
of art. To them I am thankful for bringing me closer to ancestors who
made me what I am; and who--for better or worse--made this country what
it is.

Lawrence Swaim

<|_=00=_|>

Easily 9 out of 10 for a film by director we will continue to grow to
admire. But don't watch this movie expecting to be "entertained." Ang Lee
takes an objective look at a relatively unexplored aspect of the Civil War.
What is beautiful about the movie, like all of Lee's films, is that he
doesn't "side" with his characters. He creates characters, embodies them
with life, problems, and ambiguity ... and endows them with a reality that
often hits far closer to home than with which many are comfortable. This
film has action, but it is not for the action lover since the violence is
deeply disturbing and far from gratuitous ... i.e. like the characters, it
is real. And as you would expect about one of mankind's most horrific wars,
the violence is horrific.

But as an exploration of the greater human ambiguity that surely dwelt
within the Civil War, it is a masterpiece. Was the war about slavery and an
abolitionism? Lee seems quite willing to blur that line made so popular in
depictions like the Blue and the Grey. Neither is about idealism, though, as
seen in Gone with the Wind. It is about freedom, about the desire to have
something which is yours and to fight for it. As you watch the characters,
you will ask yourself "how can they be fighting to preserve slavery?" The
fact is, I don't think they really are, and in that the film shows the
problem of why so many were caught up in the maelstrom of the Civil War.

The fact seems clear that many of the characters we learn about are fighting
out of senses of loyalty to "home" though they may never have examined what
home represents or whether they truly espouse its values. The letter scenes
are very moving and yet subtle. Jake and Daniel are other examples of
loyalty stretched to the limits. And when the tension finally snaps, and
these characters find themselves suddenly "free" ... we see the birth of new
men.

All this mixed in with Lee's beautiful incorporation of humankind's
environment with breathtaking vistas and frames. Lee has a style which is
his, somehow European in its "art" (a slow camera, unrushed), Asian in its
epic-ness and development of story, and yet somehow familiar and easily
accessible to so many in North Americans.

Relax, let go of your preconceptions about what the Civil War is, what the
"western" as a genre is, what a war movie should be ... and let Ang Lee take
you into a world so fragile, so hard, so real that few of us can comfortably
see it.

In this, Lee continues what he wrought in Ice Storm. Again, the movie is
slow paced and without apparent "direction" ... a sure sign of Lee's ability
to direct without "imposing" himself on the story or screen. His direction
is amplified by what he brings out of Jewel (yes, the singer), a hitherto
unproven actress who puts in an amazing performance.

A movie for those who love film and are not lovers of the standard Hollywood
epic.
<|_=00=_|>


In anticipation of Ang Lee's new movie "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon,"
I saw this at blockbuster and figured I'd give it a try.  A civil war movie
is not the typical movie I watch.  Luckily though, I had a good feeling
about this director.
This movie was wonderfully written.  The dialogue is in the old southern
style, yet doesn't sound cornily out of place and outdated.  The
spectacular
acting helped that aspect of the movie.  Toby Maguire was awesome.  I
thought he was good (but nothing special) in Pleasantville, but here he
shines.  I have always thought of Skeet Ulrich as a good actor (but nothing
special), but here he is excellent as well.  The big shocker for me was
Jewel.  She was amazingly good.  Jeffrey Wright, who I had never heard of
before, is also excellent in this movie.
It seems to me that great acting and great writing and directing go hand
in hand.  A movie with bad writing makes the actors look bad and visa
versa.
This movie had the perfect combination.  The actors look brilliant and the
character development is spectacular.  This movie keeps you wishing and
hoping good things for some and bad things for others.  It lets you really
get to know the characters, which are all very dynamic and interesting. The
plot is complex, and keeps you on the edge of your seat, guessing, and
ready
for anything at any time.  Literally dozens of times I was sure someone was
going to get killed on silent parts in the movie that were "too quiet"
(brilliant directing).  This was also a beautifully shot movie.  The
scenery
was not breath taking (It's in Missouri and Kansas for goodness sakez) but
there was clearly much attention put into picking great nature settings.
Has that rough and rugged feel, but keeps an elegance, which is very
pleasant on the eyes.
The movie was deep.  It told a story and in doing so made you think.
It
had layers underneath that exterior civil war story.  Specifically, it
focused on two characters that were not quite sure what they were fighting
for. There were many more deep issues dealt with in this movie, too many to
pick out.  It was like a beautifully written short story, filled with
symbolism and artistic extras that leaves you thinking during and after the
story is done.
If you like great acting, writing, lots of action, and some of the best
directing ever, see this movie!  Take a chance on it.

<|_=00=_|>

This movie is one of the sleepers of all time. I gave it a 10 rating. The
story is of the famed 'Bushwhackers' out of Missouri that fought on the
side
of the South during the War Between the States. The clothing they wore
were
authentic, the history and why they fought is very accurate and well
researched. There was actually one of the battles that did not take place
as
they depicted... but not bad for Hollywood. The actors were well cast and
were either the most brilliant of actors or the director really know how
to
get the best from them. I suspect it was a combination of great directing,
super casting to find the right people and excellent performing by the
actors. Not just one or two... this movie really jelled! It has action,
romance, suspense, good guys and bad guys (sometimes depending on your
individual perspective) and history all rolled into one movie. Even has
the
future Spiderman and Jewel. And she's good! 
<|_=00=_|>

Taiwanese director Ang Lee, whose previous films include 'Sense and
Sensibility' and 'The Ice Storm', turned to the American Civil War for his
latest feature. Based on a novel by Daniel Woodrell, it follows the
exploits
of a group of Southern guerrillas, known as bushwhackers, as they fight
their Northern equivalents, the jayhawkers in the backwater of
Missouri.

As one might expect, there is plenty of visceral action, but the focus is
on
the tension that the war put on the young men who fought it - many of whom
were fighting against their former neighbours and even family. Jake Roedel
(Tobey Maguire) is such a man, or rather, boy, as he is only seventeen
when
the war reaches Missouri. He is the son of a German immigrant, but instead
of following his countrymen and becoming a Unionist, he joins his lifelong
friend Jack Bull Chiles (Skeet Ulrich) and rides with the bushwhackers.
Despite a lack of acceptance because of his ancestry and an unwillingness
to
participate in the murder of unarmed Union men, he remains loyal to the
cause. So does his friend Daniel Holt (Jeffrey Wright), a black slave
freed
by another bushwhacker and so fighting for the South.

Lee handles the subject with aplomb, never rushing the deep introspection
that the plot demands in favour of action and this lends the film a sense
of
the reality of war - long periods of boredom and waiting interposed with
occasional flashes of intensely terrifying fighting. The action is
unglamorised and admirably candid, recognising that both sides committed a
great number of atrocities.

The performances are superb, with Maguire and Wright both courageous and
dignified. Up-and-coming Irish actor Jonathan Rhys Meyers is particularly
chilling as a cold-blooded killer, while Skeet Ulrich is enjoyably suave
and
arrogant. Lee never flinches from the reality of war, but his actors do an
admirable job of showing the good that comes from it - the growth of
friendship, the demonstration of courage and, on a wider scale, the
emancipation of oppressed peoples. Ride With the Devil is a beautiful and
deeply compassionate film that  regularly shocks but always moves the
audience.

<|_=00=_|>
As someone interested in 19th century American history I had to get
this movie on DVD. It took forever to arrive but was well worth the
wait..... I think. The qualification is added because I found it ...
odd. Appparently accurate, literate, well acted but most of all
unpredictable. I shall resist the temptation to write "spoilers" but
suffice it to say there were more obvious "Hollywood" ways of dealing
with many of the plot twists. Put another way, this movie is very well
written. As "Gods and Generals" dealt with this horrible war at the
level of general officers, this movie deals with it at the level of
privates and irregulars. Is it too much of a soap opera? Not really. Is
it unsatisfying in its dealing with evil? No, but it is unexpected. Is
this a great movie? I don't know, but it is a good one.
<|_=00=_|>
For those who commented on The Patriot as being accurate, (Which
basically satanised the English), it was interesting to see this film.
By all accounts this was the bloodiest war that Americans have ever
been involved in, and they were the only nationality present. It was
therefore very refreshing to see something resembling historical
accuracy coming from that side of the Atlantic that did not paint
America as either martyrs or saviours. All in all though what this film
did bring home was the true horrors of any conflict, and how how
whatever acts are committed in war only breed worse acts, often
culminating in the suffering of the innocent. This was not a film where
you cheered anybody on but both pitied and loathed all.
<|_=00=_|>

Strangely enough this movie never made it to the big screen in Denmark, so I
had to wait for the video release. My expectations where high but they where
in no way disappointed.   As always with Ang Lee there is fantastic acting,
an intelligent and thrilling plot that has you guessing right till the end
and superb filming. Along with Unforgiven this is easily one of the two best
westerns of the 90`s.

People who expect something along the line of Mel Gibson in The
Patriot(corny) or Braveheart(acceptable) will be sourly disappointed, all
others who appreciate the above mentioned qualities will have a fantastic
time watching it. 9 out of 10.
