

"X-Men" is a rare treat-- a blockbuster that lives up to its hype and a
comic book adaptation that hits the mark.

Along with Tim Burton's "Batman", this stands head and shoulders above all
other superhero movies.  It's a genre that's usually synonymous with
silly,
campy, cartoonish crap, but Bryan Singer delivers a long-awaited exception
to the rule.  "X-Men" is smart, stylish, and very cool... one of the
better
sci fi/fantasy films of the last decade.

Of course, it helps to have good source material.

The X-Men comics, which originated in the 1960s, are more politically
progressive and morally complex than older superhero stories such as
"Superman" where the heroes are always right, and truth, justice, and the
American Way always prevail.  The series is a well-crafted parable about
individuality and discrimination.  The characters are mutants--struggling
to
find a place in a society that rejects them.  Its primary villain,
Magneto,
isn't an evil lunatic-- he's a sympathetic character, a misguided
revolutionary playing Huey Newton to Professor Xavier's Martin Luther
King.
The iconic character, Wolverine, is a beer-swilling anti-hero who cares
little for ideals and fights only to protect himself and his loved ones.
The female characters are as powerful and important as the men, rather
than
being mere love interests.

Rather than making just another flashy
explosion-per-minute-special-effects-extravaganza,
Singer practices the lost arts of character and plot development.  As a
result, the movie has a far greater depth than the average big budget
summer
flick.  The acting is also quite good on the whole.  Hugh Jackman, who
plays
Wolverine, is fantastic--a bona fide Clint Eastwood caliber badass.  Some
of
the dialogue is fairly cheesy, but in the hands of Ian McKellan and
Patrick
Stewart it sounds quite convincing.  (Stewart has made a career out of
making lame dialogue sound cool.)

Hard-core fans of the comics have complained about the omission of several
popular X-Men.  This is silly.   A movie that gave the background on every
character in the comic books would be 6 hours long.  There will be plenty
of
time to develop new characters in the forthcoming sequels.  Fans have also
complained about the casting of Anna Paquin as Rogue.   I disagree.  Rogue
is unable to touch another human being without harming them--she would not
realistically act like a confident, sassy warrior.  Paquin did a
tremendous
job of conveying the fear and isolation that such a young woman would
feel.
She will undoubtedly grow into the part in future movies.

In the end, "X-Men" is a comic book movie.  Superpowers are explained with
silly pseudoscientific babble, the plot revolves around a fairly
ridiculous
take-over-the-world scheme, and names like "Magneto" are spoken with a
straight face.  Don't read all the glowing reviews and expect Citizen
Kane.
But don't underestimate "X-Men" either.  It is an intelligent movie that
people will enjoy whether or not they are familiar with the
comic.

<|_=00=_|>

There's no doubt about it, X-Men is not a stereotypical "comic-book film".
Whenever a movie is made that is based on comic books, there is always a
fear that it can and will be typically pigeonholed into the "comic book
film" genre and that the movie is basically made for the fans of that comic
book.  Comic-book films are usually unrealistic and unappealing to the
general audience.

Bryan Singer, however, did a wonderful job at making X-Men a movie that will
not only overjoy the fans of the comic book, but also the general movie-goer
as well.  The movie is grounded, without the flighty unrealism of comic book
material, and it delivers a message about prejudice that has always been
what X-Men were about: fighting for a world that hates them.

The performances are outstanding, especially Hugh Jackman who, in my
opinion, did a dead-on Wolverine, and Patrick Stewart, who never failed to
show the peace and self-control that Professor Charles Xavier always strove
to maintain.

Aside the characters, the plot was original (I couldn't tell you what was
going to happen in the end by the middle of the movie) and most importantly:
the world was REAL.  The only suspension of disbelief that is required is
the assumption that these genetic mutations can happen, and did, causing
these extraordinary people.  Honestly, I was a little disappointed that the
colorful high-flare costumes were omitted, but I instantly forgave Singer
when I realized why.  It was simply to add to the
realism.

All in all, X-Men was excellent.  If you're a fan of the comic book
series as I was, then you'll endlessly enjoy seeing these characters come to
life.  And if you've never been exposed to the comic book, this movie will
give you an entertaining way to be exposed to its message about fear,
hatred, and prejudice.
<|_=00=_|>

A tale of super-evolved mutants in a struggle against human oppressors,
X-Men is an instant sci-fi classic, combining impressive special effects
with an involving plot to create a truly memorable cinematic experience.

Lacking the tongue-in-cheek camp of the later Batman films and other
recent
comic books-turned movies, X-Men draws the audience into its world of
mutants and superpowers, and prevents it from becoming tacky or absurd.
Not
to say that there isn't any humour in the film, in fact it delivers some
of
the best one liners in a film this year.

It is a rare thing for an action blockbuster to feature great acting, but
with a cast that among others involves both Patrick Stewart and Ian
McKellen
is bound to be above average. Both Stewart (as Professor Charles Xavier)
and
McKellen (as Magneto)deliver stellar performances, and their onscreen
chemistry is compelling as they play two old friends turned arch enemies.

The rest of the cast deliver solid performances, including Hollywood
newcomer Hugh Jackman as Wolverine, Oscar-winner Anna Paquin as Rogue, and
another rising star Rebecca Romijn-Stamos as the seductive but deadly
Mystique.

A classic tale of good versus evil, with heroes, baddies, and great
special
effects, I don't think it's going too far to say that X-Men is destined to
be
mentioned in the same breath as Star Wars and other all-time sci-fi
greats.

<|_=00=_|>

With so many movies out right now that are designed solely for entertainment
puposes--from "Gone in 60 seconds" to "MI-2" to "Scary Movie"--it is
promising to sit through a 90-minute film based on a comic-book that
actually gives you an opportunity to think and be challenged.

Bryan Singer's "X-men: The Movie" is nothing more than an introduction to
the lives of the characters from the comic book. The very fact that his
movie doesn't try to add new elements, or change elements that already
existed within the comic, is what makes it so successful.

X-men the comic series has been around for more than 30 years. And for good
reason. It has dealt with all of the important elements that good
storytelling includes--rejection, loneliness, hope, fear, distrust, love,
selfishness, power, and the price you pay for doing what you believe is
right. By consistently exploring various difficult elements of humanity, the
X-men comic has been able to be not only entertaining but stimulating as
well.

Thankfully, Singer's movie translation is no exception. "X-men" is very well
executed, with excellent character work for the leads (Logan, Rogue, Magneto
and Xavier), a good exploration of the motives of each character, and
dialogue that is sharp and intelligent. However, lest you think X-men is
only intellectual, let me assure you that the special-effects department has
done an incredible job of mingling the human elements of the story with
action. From Wolverine's claws to Rogue's devasating touch, from Storm's
namesake displays of nature to Magneto's awesome power, "X-men" constantly
finds new and arresting ways of showing-off each mutants power. And the
closer you get to the end, the more exciting it is.

True, the movie was not perfect. Certain story elements were modified
slightly for big-screen adaptation (nothing, however, that is disloyal to
the ethic of the series). The soundtrack was only sufficient, rather than
being something truly memorable. And not all of the characters were given
equal time on screen (some important characters were completely missing).

But for a 90 minute movie that needs an action plot, it's obviously
impossible to give all the X-men (and their evil counterparts) equal
attention or character development. In fact, the sheer scale of the series
alone all but requires a sequel to flesh out what was missing in this first,
"Intro to X-men" movie.

Yet, as a beginning exploration of the "X-men" universe, this movie shines.
It is attractive, fun and meaningful. Whether you're an X-men fan, you're
looking for something that will make you think, you want an action movie,
you enjoy sci-fi, or you just want to leave the theater feeling like you
didn't just waste a couple of hours and seven bucks, go see Bryan Singer's
"X-men." You won't be disappointed.

<|_=00=_|>

The answer to that question can be found in this movie with a resounding
YES.  Being a fan of X-Men comics and cartoons, I watched this movie with
great skepticism.  It was wonderful how the characters remained true to the
comics.

The special powers that our mutant heros and villains possess are displayed
exceptionally.  It made me wish that I could have a special power of my
own.

Enough can not be said of the phenomenal cast of actors that were selected
for their roles.  Not only did they fit their parts perfectly, but they
made
you believe.  Bravo to Patrick Stewart, Hugh Jackman, Ian McKellen and a
host of actors who were lucky enough to take part in this
adventure.

Bryan Singer does a fantastic job of bringing it all together.  The special
effects in this movie, only enhance the great script and acting.  After
seeing the DVD with the outtakes, the editing was quite
effective.

The true battle of good versus evil can always make for a great story but
when a comic book is adapted to film and you feel that what you see is
really possible, it is a true stroke of genius.
<|_=00=_|>
If this film had been given to the wrong director it could have been
incredibly cheesy. Being a reader of the comics I know that there are a
few things that works on the page of a comic book but not in a film and
let me say that the costumes is one of these things that in all
probability wouldn't work. Singer chose to go with black leather
outfits and I, for one, am very thankful for this choice. There are
many things in this film that works but unfortunately there are a few
things as well that prevent the film from being truly great.

Lets start with the things that work. Acting wise the film is very
good. This is above all attributed to some excellent casting. Hugh
Jackman is simply perfect as Wolverine and brings out the duality of
the character in a very satisfactory manner. Also the scenes were we
see a glimpse of the rage in the character work remarkably well. The
only thing that could be said about him is that he is too tall but it
seems most people, including myself, have accepted this fact. I think
also that it was a wise choice to let a relatively unknown actor play
the part because in that way we have no preconceived notions about him.
As for Professor X no other man than Patrick Stewart could/should play
him. Stewart simply becomes Xavier both in presence, voice and looks.
An example of perfect casting. Ian McKellen is brilliant as Magneto and
succeeds in creating a human villain rather than the usual cliché like
villains we see in Hollywood productions. The acting aside from the
ones mentioned above is pretty good. Not spectacular but good. The only
one who does not look and act like the character we know from the
comics is Anna Paquin who plays Rogue. The character is nothing like in
the comics and Paquin's performance doesn't help the character.

When it comes to music and sound effects in general the film is a notch
above average. The musical score has a very grand, even epic, feel to
it and this suits the film very well. The score is not as memorable as
the score from Batman (1989) but it is very adequate. As for the
general sound effects they are both very fitting and believable adding
to the overall credibility of the film which is considerable. The sound
Wolverine's claws make when they come out is exactly as I imagined it.
Very well done. The effects in general are also very well made. Not as
good as in Spider-Man but still very good. A lot of care has been taken
to make the effects seem as believable as possible and from where I'm
standing they work. The only character whose powers I did not fully
believe in was Toad's. Ray Park is an excellent athlete but many of his
stunts look like obvious wire work. This is a pretty general complaint
I have as some of the action look rehearsed. There is, however, some
interesting action scenes and overall the action is acceptable.

The story is pretty well written and the dialog is both witty and
sharp. Especially much of the dialog between Wolverine and Cyclops
(James Marsden) is very entertaining and true to the comic books. Where
I feel the story is lacking is in the climax which I am afraid to say
is a little silly. Magneto's plan for world domination is actually
pretty stupid when you think about it and that is a shame because much
of the exposition is very well done. Generally, however, the first film
is all about setting the stage for the films to come and it does do
that in a satisfactory manner.

All in all X-Men is definitely one of the better super hero movies out
there and although it was surpassed by the sequel it still stands as a
true testament to Singer's skill.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

The film version of Stan Lee and Jack "The King" Kirby's best-selling comic
book creation, X-Men, has finally succeeded where more than twenty years of
four-color, superhero movies have failed.  They have finally got it right...

It is a stunning cinematic experience, faithfully adapting nearly 40 years
of continuity into a stream-lined, fast-paced, wonderfully exciting trip
into the legendary Marvel Universe.  X-Men features incredible portrayals of
much of the classic mutant cast, especially virtual unknown (at least here
in the States) Hugh Jackman as Logan, the Canadian wildman we all know and
love as Wolverine.  Jackman seems born to play this coveted role with every
bit of gruff and grim gusto; his Wolverine looks as if he simply stepped off
one of Chris Claremont and John Byrne's exquisitely crafted pages.  The rest
of the cast was also pleasantly well-casted and well-suited for their roles,
including the handsomely chisled James Marsden as the stoic field commander
Cyclops and the gorgeous Anna Paquin as the
can-never-touch-but-wish-we-all-could Rogue.  Famke Janssen and Halle Berry
are beautiful and bold as Jean Grey and Storm, respectively, not just
appearing as fleeting shards of eye candy,
but actually adding depth and strength to the flow of the film.  Patrick
Stewart's excellent Professor Charles Xavier is in fine Stewart fashion,
extrapolating on his Jean-Luc Picard character, and adding genuine
compassion and warmth.

Ian McKellan is superb as the tortured master of magnetism, Magneto, playing
the part with malicious glee, tempered with an extreme form of jingoism for
his cause of the militant uprising of mutants over "normal" people.  His
Brotherhood of (Evil) Mutants is composed of Sabretooth, viciously and
animalistically portrayed Tyler Mane, The Phanton Menace's Ray Park is the
wickedly amusing Toad, and the stunning Rebecca Romaijn-Stamos is the
shape-shifter Mystique.  Park actually had the most to say of Magneto's
henchmen, but it was appropriate as these three comprise an awesomely evil
team of muscle and not philosophy like their leader.

The productions values were spectacular, as were the settings, taking us
from a stark, malign concentration camp in Poland to the wilds of the
Canadian north to the serenity of Westchester, New York to a mind-bending
climax on Liberty Island.  The action sequences were well-paced and
action-packed, and much more smoother and better choreographed than any of
the Batman films.  The special effects, especially Wolverine's legendary
adamantium claws, were truly awe-inspiring.

X-Men was meticulously directed by Bryan Singer, who along with 20th Century
Fox, actually listened to and cared about what X-Fans thought and wished to
see on screen.  Although we would have all liked to have stayed in that
theater for another 95 minutes, there are many more stories to tell, and God
willing, Fox will let it happen.

Most importantly, X-Men finally gives Marvel Entertainment Group a firm
footing on film, a foundation that was never fully in its grasp until the
surprise hit of two years ago, Blade.  Now that Marvel has discovered that
it can succeed with its top-tier characters, the sky is truly the limit for
its varied cast of great characters.  I hope that Warner Bros. will sit up
and take notice at what X-Men has accomplished.  Maybe this will be a
wake-up call to those studio executives in charge of Superman and
Batman, and make them realize that the fans' input really does count in the
end...

Highest recommendation!
<|_=00=_|>

I've always been a fan of the X-Men, since the Animated Series aired (I'd
never really read any of the comics though... ^_^). So when I heard they
were making a movie about them, I was counting the days until it was
released. Maybe that affected how I viewed the movie, but I was a bit
disappointed. Director Brian Singer (Usual Suspects) did a good job with
what he's got... the multiple characters, etc. The whole project seems a
bit
"safe," though, as if the producers wanted to make sure this big production
didn't flop. It's a good movie, but not a great one. Fans of the X-Men
might
be especially disappointed if their favorite characters do not include
either Wolverine or Rogue. Mine personally is Cyclops, but he had a minor
role. James Marsden, who played Cyclops, was a bit on the stiff side, but I
forgive him because I like him as an actor. On that note, all the actors
did
an excellent job, especially Patrick Stewart and Ian McKellan, as the
forces
of good and evil. It brought an endearing humanistic side to a story I had
thought was dominated by sci-fi. If you're an X-Men fan, I would definitely
recommend this film--but you probably have already seen it! What X-Men fan
would miss out? If you're not a fan, maybe this movie can be a starting
point for a new obsession... :o)
<|_=00=_|>

"X-men" is a well done sci-fi action film for all action fans: especially
for those who as kids dreamed of having special powers themselves. Each of
the main mutant characters has a special ability and during the film I
sometimes found myself thinking about which of those abilities I would
choose if I were given the chance. Of course all of those special abilities
are visible in the film's spectacular special effects. But the special
effects were not the only thing that made watching this film fun. There is
also plenty of action and character interaction besides shooting and beating
and using special powers. As each mutant character is given a past (to give
him a motivation) and a weakness, the film's plot never got boring because I
also wanted to know how things developed between the mutants themselves.

And I won't even talk about the ending. It actually surprised
me. But go see for yourself
<|_=00=_|>

Tibetan Buddhist teacher Robert Thurman writes in Inner Revolution: "In
karmic evolution, the successful actions that lead to positive
evolutionary
mutations such as a human life are those of generosity, morality,
tolerance,
enterprise, concentration, and intelligence. Their opposites -
stinginess,
injustice, anger, laziness, distraction, and ignorance - are unsuccessful
actions, which lead to negative evolutionary mutations that take you down
the chain through animal incarnations." We got to thinking about this
when
we realized that the mutants in the sci-fi thriller X-Men are of two
types:
the generous, moral, and intelligent ones, and the animal-like ones
acting
out of revenge and anger. The message is clear: evolution can go toward
the
good or the bad, and there will always be a battle between the two
possibilities.

X-Men, with stories revolving around the activities of a group of mutant
superheroes, has been a phenomenally successful franchise for Marvel
Comics.
Now director Bryan Singer (The Usual Suspects) and screenplay writer
David
Hayter have adapted this series for the screen. The movie exposes the
battle
going on for America's soul. In doing so, it goes right to the heart of
the
country's shadow - our continuing inability to deal with those who are
different from us, either by race, ethnic heritage, sexual preference, or
generation. The story taps into the reservoir of feelings we have about
diversity, tolerance, and exclusivity. And, let's admit it, all of us, at
one time or another, have felt like a mutant outsider different from the
"norms" of society and cut off from the "in" crowd.

U.S. Senator Robert Kelly (Bruce Davison) has a cause. There are mutants
living in American communities, and nobody knows how and where they might
use their strange and strong powers. He wants to protect human citizens
by
passing legislation to require them to register with the government.
Indeed,
even mutants with the best intentions can't always control their impact
on
others. When Rogue (Anna Paquin), a Mississippi teenager kisses her
boyfriend for the first time, he ends up in a coma for three weeks. She
can
absorb the energy and memories of anyone she touches.

Fleeing to Alaska, Rogue meets Wolverine (Hugh Jackman), another mutant
who
has amazing healing powers, which come in handy when his retractable
adamantium claws inadvertently inflict damage. These two "freaks" as the
locals call them eventually team up and find their way to Professor
Charles
Xavier (Patrick Stewart), the world's most potent telepath who has
started a
school for "gifted students" - a.k.a. mutants. His key assistants are
Jean
Grey (Famke Janssen) who has telekinetic and telepathic skills, Cyclops
(James Marsden) whose eyes release energy blasts, and Storm (Halle Berry)
who can manipulate weather disturbances.

Not only must these X-Men fight the forces of bigotry and repression
afoot
in America, they must square off against Magneto (Ian McKellen), a mutant
who has survived the Holocaust and now believes that a war with the
humans
is inevitable. He concocts a plan to turn the world's leaders into
mutants
at a special U.N. gathering on Ellis Island. The X-Men come to the rescue
and must contend with his evil team consisting of Sabretooth (Tyler
Mane), a
beast-like warrior; Mystique (Rebecca Romijn-Stamos), a metamorph; and
Toad
(Ray Park), a high-jumping monster with a ten-foot tongue.

Thanks to its thematic riches, X-Men is far more interesting than the
Batman
superhero flicks. Most fascinating is the love/hate relationship between
the
peaceful Professor Xavier and the power-hungry Magneto. In the last scene
of
the film, they play a game of chess in a prison holding Magneto. We all
know
that the mutant villain has not made his last move.


