

When the 1997 version of Lolita was widely censored in the US, many asked
 why the reaction was so strong to this film.  After all, the novel was
 published in the US in 1958, Kubrick's film version appeared in 1962, and
 we hear more shocking tales of sexual depravity every day on the daytime
 talk shows.  But after seeing Lyne's brilliant version of Lolita, I can
 see how he manages to breathe fresh controversy into this familiar story. 
 Lyne's lascivious lens eroticizes Lolita's every movement and pose.  The
 viewer is forced to see her through the eyes of Humbert and to feel his
 obsession and desire.  We are co-conspirators in his crime, and at the end
 we share his shame.  Rather than shocking us (and having us pull away in
 revulsion), Lyne draws us in and makes us face the Humbert in ourselves. 
 This is an incredibly powerful film.
<|_=00=_|>

This is an excellent adaptation of Vladimir Nabokov's brilliant book about
the sordid relationship between a grown man and a teenage girl.  Although
still disconcerting, the subject of pedophilia is far less shocking today
than when the book was published almost 50 years ago.  Yet, despite the
subject matter, the book was wildly popular because it was a literary work
of art, beautifully written with some of the most splendid metaphors and
descriptive narrative in American literature.  This was all the more amazing
when one considers that English was Nabokov's second language.

Director Adrian Lynn (Fatal Attraction, 9 ½ weeks, Indecent Proposal) is no
stranger to stories with perverse sexual content.  His presentation of the
story does the book justice although certain interpretations may not have
been what Nabokov had in mind.  Lynn gives us a presentation that is very
sympathetic to Humbert.  Nabokov's Humbert was very complex, partly a victim
of his fixation on young girls, partly a sexual predator and partly a
hopeless romantic.  Nabokov's Lolita was extremely innocent, just
approaching the threshold of sexual curiosity and urges, more playful than
consciously provocative.  While Nabokov hints at a mutual seduction, he
leans far more heavily towards Humbert as the cause of the events even
though Humbert is clearly helpless in the face of his obsession.  Lolita
entered into the sexual relationship more as a result of longings burgeoning
from her blossoming sexuality than a desire to seduce Humbert in particular,
who was not even her first lover. 

Lynn's presentation transforms Humbert from the seducer into the seduced,
whose weakness for young girls is manipulated by a sexually precocious siren
tempting him to dash himself on the shoals of pedophilia.  Lynn portrays
Lolita as the aggressor, an adolescent temptress who knows she is desired
and simultaneously teases and entices him to do her lustful bidding, knowing
he is powerless to resist.  Lynn's Humbert is more of a hapless romantic
than a fiend, ennobling him as a victim of love rather than the confounded
sociopath he really is.  In Lynn's version, Humbert becomes the fly to
Lolita's spider.

However, after the initial seduction when they take to the road, the film is
very true to the book in chronicling the decay of the relationship,
Humbert's further plunge into feelings of romantic desperation and Lolita's
shrewish exploitation of him as she increasingly uses sex as a weapon.  The
book was very effective at portraying the relationship as a symbiosis of two
deficient beings, each selfishly taking from the other what was needed. 
Lynn does an excellent job of portraying that here.  As the relationship
degenerates, Lynn is effectual at portraying the ugly side of both
characters.  The bitterness and rancor that results is compelling.  To his
credit, he understands that Nabokov's story was more of a character study
than a sex story and Lynn avoids the temptation of becoming too lurid,
focusing instead on solid character development of two very flawed
beings.

I must take a moment to give Lynn the highest praise for his period
renderings.  This is one of the finest portrayals of 1940's Americana I can
remember.  The costumes, hairstyles, cars, furniture, locations and sets
create a 40's reality that is like being hurtled back in a time machine. 
The music is not just precise for the period, but it is perfectly integrated
with the story.  As the two travel, the music changes to reflect the region.
 Having Lolita dance and sing to period music on the radio is a nice touch
because that is exactly what teenage girls of any era are apt to
do.

The acting is first rate all around.  When the film was made, Dominique
Swain was 17, and although she looked young for her age, she could never
pass for 12.  So for the first part of the film before Charlotte's demise,
she is simply too mature.  However, for the road trip she is ideal.  Though
I don't agree with Lynn's early interpretation of Lolita as the teenage
temptress, I can't imagine it being done any better than the performance
Swain delivers.  She is playful and provocative in a childlike manner, part
pixie and part vamp.  Once they get on the road, Swain hits stride with a
performance that is almost a force of nature.  She is powerful and intense,
effortlessly moving back and forth between sweet innocence and the emotional
torrent typified by the `murder me' scene.  It is an outstanding performance
with depth and breadth that is very unusual for an actor so
young.

Jeremy Irons is wonderful as Humbert, giving him as amiable a personality as
one could possibly imagine for a character with such vile intentions.  Irons
injects a good deal of wry humor into the part in addition to giving Humbert
an almost quixotic romantic quality.  Melanie Griffith is just the wrong
actress to play Charlotte.  She looks nothing like the portly and plain
character described in Nabokov's book.  Though her acting is fine and she is
appropriately obsequious, she is far too attractive to be the repulsive
troll Humbert despised.  It takes away from Humbert's desperation because it
hardly seems like a great sacrifice to have married Charlotte to be near
Lolita.

Frank Langella (Dracula) is more obnoxious than mysterious as Quilty, making
the audience want to exhort Humbert to pull the trigger as he confronts
Quilty with the revolver.  Again, I think this is probably Lynn's doing
since his vision is clearly that of a Humbert sympathizer.

This is a fine film with great production values, terrific performances and
a classic story.  I feel that it surpasses Kubrik's adaptation in its
ability to capture many of the finer points of Nabokov's book, even though
Nabokov collaborated on the Kubrik film.  I rated it an 8/10.  It is
definitely worth digging out of the rental stacks.

<|_=00=_|>
Adrian Lyne's "Lolita" has everything it takes to be a good movie
adaptation. Lyne follows the original plot very closely, with few
slight changes. Even the dialogues in many scenes remained exactly the
same. Most of the movie is a flashback, but Lyne doesn't make the same
mistake as Kubrick and he follows the correct order of events (Quilty's
murder, i.e.).

The casting is excellent. Jeremy Irons proved to be a much better
choice than James Mason was in Kubrick's version. Irons delivers
probably one of his best performances as he portrays the tragic
character of Humbert Humbert. Iron's voice overs help us get into the
mind of Humbert and understand his thoughts and actions. Dominique
Swain is excellent as Lolita. She is the perfect nymphet. Young and
innocent, but vulgar and crude at the same time. Frank Langella as
Clare Quilty is a little bit "too mysterious" and he probably should've
been a bit funnier, as his character was in Nabokov's book.

The final reason why this movie is better than its predecessor is its
photography. The colors are just amazing. They actually seem to follow
the mood of the story - from excitingly colorful to tragically dark.

I'm going to keep this user comment rather short. I could compare it to
Kubrick's version some more, but it's easier if you just read my
comment for Kubrick's "Lolita".

The highlight of the movie is definitely the last scene in which
Humbert surrenders to the police - he stands on the top of a hill,
listens to the voice of children playing and expresses his remorse for
ruining Lolita's life. In this one scene, Lyne managed to capture the
whole point of the book that Kubrick totally missed in his movie.

The movie is a perfect 10. Just please go see it without any prejudice.
<|_=00=_|>

The Author would be dismayed, and precisely because the story is so
faithful
to the book. But the story in the book was incidental, just something on
which Nabokov could hang his layered challenges to concepts of narrative.
The narrator is crazy, overly colors and outright lies. The story never
fully exists in the book at all, and such as it does one can never be sure
what is true and what imagined. Humbert is a made up name (as are all
names)
and clearly the narrator makes up most of the elements of his own character
as well (European, Professor, Author... obviously a joke by the narrator on
Nabokov).

In this film, everything makes sense, exactly the opposite of the reason
the
book exists. This is a beautiful film, with lovely detailed cinematography,
good acting and great score, and all to solidify something that Nabokov
created such that it could not be so. I believe that Peter Greenaway could
make a good film of Lolita, and that he would have the courage to make it
confusing and unerotic and unresolved. Why does Dolores' fate have to
change
in the film's epilogue? Because it ties up every last loose end. On
Christmas Day no less!

(The real scandal is not that audiences/censors are shocked by prurient
subjects, but that they take one of the greatest literary achievements ever
and make it "explainable." Is this the only thing we can
accept?)

But take the film on its own presumption that the book's story is what
matters. This Lolita is too old, too pretty and sexy, too controlling.
Irons
is clearly narrowly channeled here and he is smart enough to know it: his
frustration with the unimaginative stance of the film translates to a
frustrated Humbert. I think Melanie is just right (just because HH calls
her
a cow means nothing). HH's violence with his previous wife should have been
mentioned; her running away with the Russian cabbie is as much a setup for
the Lolita fixation as the childhood dalliance, and better justifies the
angst of loss. There should have been a few butterflies, and some
explanation about the play: that it was written to allude to that first
night at the hotel.

I highly recommend the audio tape version of Lolita. It is read by
(guess...) Jeremy Irons! What he brings to the audio tape is the voice and
phrasing of a man in a cell continually going over things in his own mind,
embellishing and exaggerating and confusing and speculating and sometimes
not at all sure about any of it. He brings this same voice to the
voiceovers
in the film, but it conflicts with the images which purport to represent a
narrative stance of "real truth".
<|_=00=_|>

Briefly put, this film is a quite brilliant adaptation of the novel. While
 staying pretty faithful to the original source, Stephen Schiff's screenplay
 fleshes out the primary characters and their relationship, which plays out
 as a taboo but reserved love story. Maintaining the central themes, the
 plot is reduced to the essence of the major players and the linear events
 of the book. It's almost impossible to adapt a long book into the confines
 of a single average-length movie, but Schiff captures most of the important
 moments quite well and humanizes the characters who could have come off as
 bizarre depictions from Humbert's narrative.

Lyne's movie is at once haunting, compelling, and beautifully photographed.
 For all the controversy, it is a mature, reflective, and subtle film. 
"Lolita" is a challenging piece of work that sublimely reflects the pathos
 of the story and manages to retain bits of the complex humor of Nabokov.
 This "Lolita" abandons the notion of being a complete social satire and
 works as an essentially dramatic portrayal of a doomed, inappropriate
 romance that is ultimately a sad, tragic tale.

The performances are remarkable, especially those of Jeremy Irons and
 Dominique Swain. Irons is utterly perfect as the ill-fated wretch, Humbert
 Humbert. So understated but evocative with every move and gesture, he is
 the definitive Old-World European whose obsession bristles beneath his
 timorous demeanor. He evokes an incredible amount of sympathy for the
 character. Swain delivers an on-target portrayal of the flowering nymphet
 who toys with her burgeoning sexuality but hasn't overcome her fundamental
 brattiness. Swain elicits both allure and pity as the wayward character
 whose immaturity in mindset and behavior does not excuse her complicity in
 her affairs. Despite what some critics may have written, Melanie Griffith
 is fine in the small role as Lolita's overbearing mother. She is comically
 obtuse, and her veneer hits all the right, grating notes. Frank Langella
 rounds out the cast as the mysterious Quilty. He is appropriately shady,
 vague, and sinister when he appears from time to time, slowly revealing
 himself.

This is a real winner on many levels and should be up for several awards
 including best picture, director, actor, actress, and adapted screenplay.
 Showtime should be congratulated for its smart acquisition. I hope the
 movie finds its way to the largest possible audience.

<|_=00=_|>

After seeing the Kubrick version, and thinking no one could ever make a
better Humbert than James Mason or a better Lolita than Sue Lyon, I saw this
updated version, and I was very impressed.   It's actually an
improvement.

1. Quilty:  Of all the things I did not like about the Kubrick version, it
was Peter Sellers' quirkily irritating and totally unclear portrayal of this
jerk.   The latest version completely downplays the character, other than to
show that he is a dark, mysterious, monstrous person who keeps showing up in
the shadows.   Also, it finally clarifies that Quilty is the very worst of
Humbert... It is Humbert without a soul, conscience or any redeeming
quality.  It becomes clear that he is truly a monster, and makes Humbert
look almost saintly by comparison.

2. Humbert and Lolita:  While I enjoyed the chemistry between James Mason
and Sue Lyon immensely, the chemistry between Jeremy Irons and Dominique
Swain is ten times better.  This is due mostly to Swain, who basically
portrays a part of herself.   Her teasing and her battles with Irons are
priceless and extremely believable.   Also, the Sue Lyon version showed
Humbert going after an older teen, not as repugnant as the Dominique Swain
version showing Humbert going after an actual underaged teen.  Also, in this
version, most of the movie is about Humbert and Lolita, and their
adventures, misfortunes and run from the law.

3. Humbert himself:  For the first time, we see the reason for his
obsession, and it isn't entirely pedophilia, as in the case of
Quilty.
Irons is given many additional scenes to show the conflict between his
better nature and his pedophile nature, to show that he understands that
what he is doing is not only wrong but will be his downfall.

4. The ending:  I prefer the way it ended so much more in this later
version.  First, Quilty finally, for the first time, comes out of the
shadows, and we see him for his repulsive self.  Sellers' portrayal was too
offbeat to allow us to despise this guy as he should be despised.  Also, the
final "fini" is so downbeat so as to let you know in no uncertain terms that
you have just witnessed a multiple tragedy.

Adrian Lyne did an excellent job of directing, and the music of Ennio
Morricone was a great help to the also excellent cinematography.
<|_=00=_|>

Nabokov's best novel save for Pale Fire will probably never get an "ideal"
filming, unless someone decides to actually commit Nabokov's own script to
celluloid (he wrote it for the 1962 version, and his name appears in the
credits, but the finished product was almost wholly the product of
Kubrick's
pen and Peter Sellers' ad-libbing).  But I like both the Kubrick and the
Lyne versions, with reservations.

With Kubrick's, the only real problem is that it's not Nabokov. James
Mason's performance contains the core of an accurate portrayal of Humbert,
and he's often moving. But Sue Lyon was too old for her part and Sellers'
Quilty is an altogether different conception from the author's (not that
he
isn't lots of fun). The film also suffers from having been filmed in the
UK.
Nabokov had a complex vision of America - vast, tacky, seductive, and
grindingly mundane all at the same time - and this just can't be conveyed
in
a studio and with a few well-chosen locations.

That's where Lyne's version excels. His compositions (or his
cinematographer's) are indeed beautiful to look at, and (I think) capture
suburban and roadside America very much the way Humbert would have
experienced them. Irons is fine as Humbert, although the typecasting was
initially painful to contemplate, and Swain is a vast improvement over
Lyon
as young Dolores: still a bit too old for the part (an inevitable problem,
perhaps, for anyone who wants to film this book), but her intelligent
performance makes up for this. Despite his cheesy reputation, Lyne wisely
refrains from making his Lolita a teenage bombshell, something the more
artistic Kubrick couldn't resist.

Again, however, the problem is Quilty. Both directors obviously felt
compelled to render in three dimensions a character who is one of
Nabokov's
phantoms: Does he really exist? Who is he and what do we know about him,
outside of Humbert's increasingly paranoid imaginings? Can we trust
anything
at all that's said about him in this book? I expect that Nabokov himself
regretted having to bring Quilty out of the shadows at all for the
denouement.

Sellers carried off the role with style, making you forget for a moment
that
his routines seem to have wandered in from another film. Lyne turns the
final confrontation between Humbert and Quilty (there is no flashback
framing device, as in Kubrick) into pure Grand Guignol, and so we have to
endure watching poor, paunchy Frank Langella running down a hallway of his
ridiculously overstuffed house, his bathrobe falling open to reveal his
endowments to our embarrassed gaze before being blown away Dirty
Harry-style
by the avenging Humbert. A major wrong note to say the
least.

So Quilty, in the end, defeats both of Nabokov's filmic approximators. But
if you love the book, see both movies: Kubrick and Lyne each capture
different aspects of the master's great story in valuable ways, and the
new
Lolita is clearly Lyne's best work yet, proving that a great novel can
inspire excellent filmmaking, if not guarantee an "ideal"
adaptation.

What we really need now, however, is not a third version of Lolita, but
finally, a filming of Lolita: A Screenplay. Nabokov had fun writing this,
and any fan of his should read his script as well. Wouldn't you like to
see
a move of Lolita in which Humbert, searching through the woods for his Lo,
encounters a butterfly collector named Vladimir Nabokov? Of course you
would!
<|_=00=_|>
This film is a stunning adaptation of the novel of the same name. The
cinematography is absolutely beautiful and the film is brilliantly
acted. The content of the story may put off many prospective viewers,
but the story does not condone Humberts actions, it simply narrates
them. For those of you unfamiliar with the story, Humberts (Irons) loss
of his young love scars him in a way which compels him to rediscover
it, through relationships with young girls. He moves to a town to
accept a teaching position and while looking for suitable housing he
meets Lolita Haze (Swain), a young girl who immediately catches his eye
and his heart. The rest of the film chronicles their tempestuous
relationship, one in which Humbert takes advantage of Lolita's natural
curiosity and developing mind and body. I highly recommend this version
of the film and the book to any person interested in a beautifully
written, compelling story about one haunted man's selfish folly and the
effect it has the young girl it revolves around.
<|_=00=_|>

Lyne's point of departure from the Kubrick version of Nabokov's great novel
lies primarily in tone: the later version focuses more on the tragic,
dramatic elements of the book and less on the comedic ones.  I will not go
so far as to suggest that Lyne made a better film; he did not.  I do think,
however, that he did pinpoint one of the key components of the novel's
genius: a capturing of life on the newly paved highways of mid-century
America.  As Humbert, Jeremy Irons is as good as his predecessor James
Mason.  Frank Langella's interpretation of Quilty entirely diverges from the
one given by Peter Sellers (and rightfully so; who wants to compete with
Sellers?).  But it is Dominique Swain, outdoing Sue Lyon, who comes closer
than what ever seemed possible to embodying the essence of the doomed Dolly
Haze.  
<|_=00=_|>
I had read Nabokov's book and watched the older movie too. What i liked
about this more recent version is Jeremy Irons playing the part of
Humbert Humbert and so precisely. This film in my eyes had a certain
Kubrick quality to it. This is high souled genius if you ask me with a
fervent faith that art is a divine game. and that pleasure in art
consists in following the moves of the game with the artist himself
when he communicates his own playful and Godlike bliss. Poet and
pervert, Humbert becomes obsessed with twelve year old Lolita and seeks
to possess her, first physically and then artistically, out of love.
The magic of nymphets. This is a dizzying seduction, a masterpiece in a
strange dimension, very rich. Lolita is a major work in fiction,
equally intense as wildly funny. A Medusa's head with trick paper
snakes chewing gum. Beautiful and original, pervasively and
continuously funny, with a humour that is both savage and farcical
which comes to a most interesting and I repeat most interesting and
unexpected ending.
