
As a huge fan of Rene Clement's "Purple Noon" I came to Minghella's
version of Patricia Highsmith's story with suspicion and an irrational
predisposition to dismiss it. Well, I was wrong. The talented Mr.
Minghella perpetrated a magic trick. The film stands on its own as an
entertaining, creepy, thoughtful, beautiful to look at piece of
film-making. Jude Law throw us for six, we're not suppose to feel
attracted to the selfish Dickie Greenleaf, but we do. His scrumptious
performance is alluring, seductive. He is a scene stealer of major
proportions. In the original, Maurice Ronnet's oily Dickie Greenleaf
was a perfect lamb to the slaughter. We don't mourn his death and want
the murderous Ripley, as played by Alain Delon, to get away with it.
Here, when Jude Law is on the screen that's what we're looking at.
We're prepared to forgive him anything and everything. I did believed
in Gwyneth Paltrow's qualm, totally. In the original, Marie Laforet
played it as a tenuous, unclear little excuse. Gwyneth Paltrow gives us
a multi dimensional character and we go through her torment every step
of the way. That, presumably, is merit in great part of Minghella's
superb screenplay. Other joys are Cate Blanchett and Philip Seymour
Hoffman. On the minus side Matt Damon couldn't make me forget Alain
Delon. His Ripley is a better written character than Delon's and his
performance is top notch, but Delon was breathtaking on the screen. I
think than Anthony Minghella was more interested in the inner workings
of Ripley's mind that in the pyrotechnics of a implausible plot. Good.
The semi confession of Matt Damon about a basement full of secret
truths tells us about his pain about his fear. Delon's Ripley is amoral
to the hilt. The murder of Dickie in the original is terrifying. It
takes forever. As well as the getting rid of Freddy's body. Minghella
never show us how Ripley managed to bring a dead body down the stairs.
Clement spends a great deal of time with it. Making it enormously
suspenseful. But, as I mentioned before we did care about Delon and,
maybe, Minghella new that whether Damon got caught or not wasn't that
important. All in all I liked the film very much and the biggest lesson
from a film fanatic's point of view is: you don't kill your Jude Law
half way through a film unless you leave us in the hands of someone who
will make us forget him. Janet Leigh and Anthony Perkins, remember
that?
<|_=00=_|>
When it comes to naming the best films of the 1990's, The Talented Mr.
Ripley hardly ever gets a mention. This is one of cinema's greatest
mysteries; how can a film as well made, constantly intriguing and
brilliantly conceived as this one constantly get passed over? And in
favour of many under deserving films as well? Really strange. Almost as
big a mystery as the one I've just mentioned is the web of intrigue
created here. Through deep, complex characters and situations rich with
double meaning, Anthony Minghella has turned Patricia Highsmith's
original novel into a cinematic masterpiece. The talented Matt Damon
stars as the talented man of the title that is offered $1000 to travel
to Italy to try and return Dickie; the rich and spoilt son of a
millionaire. What follows is a complex, disturbing and fascinating
expose of a man ingratiating himself into the lives of Dickie, his
girlfriend Marge and high society on the whole...

The main reason why The Talented Mr. Ripley works so well is that it's
central characters are deep labyrinths that beg to explored and
analysed. Every scene is rich with double meaning and character
interactions that exist under the surface of the drama we are seeing on
screen. The character of Tom Ripley is a true masterpiece of
characterisation indeed. This sociopath, that would rather be "a
pretend somebody than a real nobody" is a myriad of contradictions and
muddled personalities. His actions are always amoral and through his
lies and deception, it is obvious that he doesn't care at all for
anyone around him. However, despite this; we are still able to feel for
him through his tribulations. The story is told in such a way that it
is difficult to feel for any of the other characters and all of our
sympathies lie with the talented Tom Ripley. This puts the audience in
a strange situation, as we're used to hating the antagonist and feeling
for the protagonist, but this film turns that on it's head, and to
great effect.

The film is helped implicitly by the fact that it's one of the most
professionally made films ever to make it onto the screen. Every scene,
every action, every line uttered is done with the greatest assurance
and nothing at all in the film appears to be there by accident or out
of place. The way that the characters interact with each other and
their surroundings is always believable and we never question anything
that is shown on screen. Anthony Minghella's direction is more than
solid, and this is helped by the stunning photography, courtesy of
1950's Italy. Many a film has benefited from Italy's landscape, and
this is one of them. This is all great, but it's the performances that
put the final finishing touch on this amazing masterclass of
film-making. As mentioned, the talented Mr Damon takes the lead role
and completely makes it his own. He often gets coupled with his friend,
Ben Afleck, when it comes to acting; but this is very unfair as Damon
is one of today's brightest stars. Jude Law and Gwyneth Paltrow make up
the other two leads. I'm not the biggest fan of either of these two
stars, but both, like Damon, give performances here that will always be
associated with their personalities. Cate Blanchett has a small role,
but the real plaudits for the smaller performances go to the brilliant
Phillip Seymour Hoffman, who steals every scene he's in.

The Talented Mr. Ripley is one stunning piece of film. Ignore the
people that don't consider this one of the 1990's greatest
achievements; they are wrong. The film is a masterpiece of tense
situations, great characterisation and professional film-making. And I
refuse to hear otherwise.
<|_=00=_|>

Patricia Highsmith's original novel is about a charming, amoral man who
already has all the elements in place before he does his terrible deeds, and
while Rene Clement's adaptation, PURPLE NOON(1960) doesn't show us Ripley
before he came to Europe, Alain Delon certainly was all amoral charm.  In
his adaptation, Anthony Minghella takes on a different tack, showing us Tom
Ripley before he became the Talented Mr. Ripley(just as last year's
ELIZABETH showed Elizabeth before she became The Virgin Queen; by
coincidence, both films star Cate Blanchett).  When a filmmaker tries to add
psychological depth to what is generally pulp entertainment, it doesn't
always work, but Minghella has pulled it off, while keeping it
entertaining.

There have been some people who think Matt Damon is too colorless here.  In
Clement's adaptation, that might have been true, but the point here is
Ripley is SUPPOSED to be a nonentity, a blank page waiting to be filled(thus
lines like "I always figured it would be better to be a fake somebody than a
real nobody," or when Dickie Greenleaf(Jude Law) tells Ripley that with his
glasses on, he looks like Clark Kent) by someone like Dickie.  Ripley may
have been pretending from day one(which is how he gets to meet Dickie in the
first place), but there was nothing sinister about it, just a bunch of
little white lies.  It's not till he gets entranced by the life in Italy,
and Dickie's life in particular, and then finds himself shut from it, that
things happen.  And Damon is excellent at going through the
transformation(and it's not just the glasses, as one comment suggested, it's
the hair, the clothes, and the whole attitude).

Anthony Lane of The New Yorker, probably my favorite critic today, liked the
film, but he thought it would have been better if Damon and Law had switched
roles.  Again, if Minghella was remaking Clement's version, sure, but not
this way.  If you want someone to be an object of desire, you better make
sure they're desirable, and Law is quite good there, along with showing the
layers underneath.  Gwyneth Paltrow has the tougher role, because she has to
be both smart and able to be fooled, but she pulls it off, especially in the
scene when she tells Tom she really knows what he is.  Cate Blanchett and
Philip Seymour Hoffman are also good in small roles, James Rebhorn is
dependable, and Philip Baker Hall makes a memorable cameo.

One more thing; there have also been complaints that the first half is too
long, and the ending is weak.  The first half not only sets up Ripley's
slowly falling in love with Dickie's life(and even Dickie), but also sets up
some plot points which pay off later, so it's necessary.  And when Ripley
finally becomes The Talented Mr. Ripley, it's unsettling and still delivers
a perverse kick.  As for the ending, without giving anything away, it's the
only way it could end; he goes on, but at what cost?  This is terrific
moviemaking.
<|_=00=_|>
I was so fascinated by Tom Ripley's character that I watched this movie
again and again. There was something about him that I felt sympathetic
towards on one hand and gave me the creeps on the other. Sympathetic
because in more than one ways he is like you and me. He wants to be
rich, he wants approval and he is may be just an opportunist. Creepy
because he latches on like a leech, he can't take rejection and though
he doesn't plan but once he assumes the identity of someone else he can
go to any extent to keep that. Actually one can identify with the
character so much that it's almost scary to look inside your dark
corners.

Matt Damon played this three-dimensional character so well that I
almost became a huge fan of his. Jude Law as Dickie Greenleaf, whose
identity Tom Ripley steals was very good as well. The movie is shot in
Italy, moves at a leisurely speed and is very atmospheric. One of my
all time favorite thrillers.
<|_=00=_|>
Patricia Highsmith's Tom Ripley gets a deluxe reincarnation here, merit
of the talented Mr. Minghella. A sensational script adaptation,
stunning Italian locations and an extraordinary supporting cast. Tom
Ripley saw the light before, most memorably with the face of Alain
Delon in another beautiful outing by the underrated Rene Clement. This
time, the winning feature is the superbly tailored script that gets
inside the heads of the characters giving us a full panoramic view of
their privileges as well as their desolation. Tom Ripley, the amoral,
becomes the tortured immoral here. Anthony Minghella gives him a
conscience, a self-awareness giving the tale an extra chilling touch.
Matt Damon's natural dullness works wonders here. This may be his best
performance to date. But it is the supporting cast that makes "The
Talented Mr. Ripley" fly so high. Jude Law as the spoiled, vain and
ultimately cruel Dickie Greenlef is truly remarkable. His
worthlessness, crystal clear for everyone to see, becomes irrelevant
due to the astonishing charisma and oodles of sexiness that Jude Law
exudes. That, in itself, makes Gwynneth Paltrow's character totally
believable. She's an intelligent woman who must know Dickie for what he
is but she puts that aside and we don't question it. Philip Seymour
Hoffman's Freddie is a fully fleshed out character who's on the screen
for a few minutes but leaves and indelible impression. Great fun to
witness his two faces. Creepy and wonderful. But it is Cate Blanchett,
in a creation worthy of W Somerset Maughan that becomes the icing on
this scrumptious cake. I would love to see a film where her Meredith is
the central character. This "Talented Mr. Ripley" cemented my film
relationship with Anthony Minghella. I wait for his films with childish
anticipation.
<|_=00=_|>

Seeing this gorgeous tango between Damon and Law, I was never less than
captivated and riveted. Minghella has fashioned something literate,
powerful, seductive, charming, tragic, and beautiful. His casting is nearly
perfect. Damon is unforgettable as an amoral but fascinating character whom
we even sympathize with by film's end. Law is stunning as Dickie, the man
whose life Ripley adores. Paltrow is good, though she is not given a whole
lot to do. Blanchett is perfect in a small but pivotal role that only adds
to her already impressive filmography. This is a near-masterpiece.
Minghella's talent for visual opulence is second to none, and his work here
should earn him a directing Oscar nod. The same goes for many others
associated with this brilliant achievement. The ending is as unsuspected as
it is inevitable, that is, sad and unsettling. In fact, the whole film
underscores these emotions. Whereas Highsmith's original novel was cold and
sometimes inert, the film makes Ripley much more of a living, breathing
character, and as such, a great symbol of tragedy. It may be some time
before I forget this intense experience. Certainly one that deserves
multiple viewings. One of the best films of 1999. I think this may be one
of
the best pictures I have ever seen. Bravo everyone. A moving, rich
knockout!
<|_=00=_|>

First of all, I saw this movie twice, which is a rarety in itself these
days.  The actors did what all actors should do in a successful motion
picture, or stage play, and that is submit their own egos to the needs of
the production.  Matt Damon especially surprised me with his total devotion
to the part of Ripley.  Jude Law, once again, proved his talents as an
actor
by becoming Dickie Greenleaf.  Paltrow and Blanchett also totally believed
in whom they were playing and brought that to the screen.  While I have
been
told that the movie is different than the book, I applaud Mingella for his
tight script and seamless direction.  Yet again, we are given a prime
example that when violence grows out of a strong plot we, as an audience,
accept it.  There was not wasted motion or emotion in this film and I
cannot
say enough good things about it.  I am surprised that the Academy so
overlooked this film.  Go see it.
<|_=00=_|>

I'll admit that I rented "The Talented Mr. Ripley" without the slightest
clue about what the story entailed. However, this caused no problem as I
soon became involved in the twisted and rather bizarre plot; I was
immediately interested in the movie as it was unique and unusual right
from
the start.

Matt Damon portrays the mysterious Mr. Ripley, who, more or less, remains
a
mystery throughout the film. I was intrigued at how, when you first see
him
on screen, you are given the impression that he is nothing more than a
shy,
innocent, and intellectual young man who pretty much keeps to himself.
However, this image is only visable for the first five minutes or so, and
is
virtually shattered once he accepts the offer to go to Italy in search of
Mr. Greenleaf's son, Dickie. I was fascinated at how rapidly his
personality
altered, and suddenly I understood that he was rather odd, as he deceived
Mr. Greenleaf in the first place by wearing a Princeton jacket and
pretending that he knew Dickie. Now, I haven't explained this entirely, as
those of you who have seen this film know, as I am not writing this to
create a summary of the plot, but rather to give my comments. Basically,
Mr.
Greenleaf saw Ripley playing the piano at a wedding wearing a Princeton
jacket, and since his son also went to Princeton, he asks Ripley if, by
any
chance, he knew Dickie. Of course, since Ripley never went to Princeton in
the first place, he couldn't possibly have known Dickie. Despite this
fact,
however, Ripley says that he did know him, and that they were friends. As
soon as he says this, he manages to get himself in a deep hole of trouble
as
Mr. Greenleaf asks him to go to Italy to try and retrieve his son, as he
couldn't do it himself due to that fact that Dickie wouldn't listen to his
father following a serries of arguments.

I thought that the acting was brilliant, especially that of Jude Law
(Dickie) and Matt Damon. I was on the edge of my seat throughout most of
the
film, and I felt that all the characters were believable in their own
ways.
I believe this to be a splendidly clever story, which is well written and
directed. I thought that the music playing during most of the film was
excellent as it matched the strange, eerie atmosphere of the story
beautifully.

I would like to conclude this review by saying that this is a very good
movie with an unusually unpredictable ending; it's nice to see a movie
that
doesn't finish perfectly for a change.


<|_=00=_|>

I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.  It can definitely be considered an
"intelligent" thriller.  And I think that Matt Damon made a good choice
choosing this role.  He gets to explore the darker side of a character, a
change for him, and he does so very well!  On the outside he appears so
wholesome and harmless but if you watch his eyes, they can give you a
chill.
And I must say that Jude Law, an actor I had not seen much of before I saw
this film, also gave a great performance.  He has great charm and you can
almost understand why "Mr. Ripley" would go to such great lengths to
possess
his life. Damon did a good job of conveying how desperate he was to be
someone with a life worth coveting.  Don't be put off by how long it is, it
is worth the watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I'd have to say The_Void really sums up on how amazing this film is and
because I find his library of reviews so helpful, I will link them now:
http://www.imdb.com/user/ur2248099/comments?order=date&start=0 His
review should definitely take precedence over all other Reviews for
this film (and probably a lot more). I write this review for the chance
that if someone liked one of my opinions, they'd come and see what I
thought of this masterpiece.

I can't remember that last time I felt my heart jerked like this in
some time. Well that is a lie, I do remember. The last time would have
had to of been when I saw: Match Point. So let's get the 'if you
liked/hated' bust out of the way and say if you liked Woody Allen's
Match Point, I can't see why you wouldn't ultimately like this. Not
that they're AT ALL the same, nor do I have some sort of expertise on
the matter. I just know the rare feeling Match Point gave me is the
same this movie gave me. It sets so many moods and it does it with such
finesse you find yourself begging for more and more in a devilish
fashion you'll catch yourself many times wondering why you're rooting
for Mr. Ripley.

The movie is only 2 hours and 20 minutes or there abouts. But it feels
like a lifetime. Not the sort of lifetime when you're waiting in the
DMV. The sort of life time where you experience, learn, and think about
through your life. Not to say this film is a learning experience. But
it IS an experience and it will fill a hole in your film-going life for
that thick-plot, character ran, and dark trenching void you may have. I
can't think of a film that quite compares in sequence of events,
twists, character development, character inclusion quite like this.

Every character is important, every event is important, and everything
you think is pretty null and void. Or possibly that is just me.

It should be heavily noted that this film STARTS SLOW, as many have
said and probably judged it that way. I'd say it picks up speed around
the 15-20 minute mark and it roller coasters from there. And let me
tell you, when it accelerates, it seriously doesn't know how to stop
and personally, I never wanted it to stop. This is the sort of film
where not even the most annoying person can scream at the film, because
you're too tight lipped about everything going on and you'll most
likely find yourself wanting Ripley to keep going. And when I say
Ripley, I really mean the movie.

And the movie doesn't stop, it keeps going. Even after it's over, you
will be doing a mental tango of all the information you have received
and trying to sort out all the pieces. And trust me, there are pieces.
If you go to watch this film to just watch a 90's flick, you're doing
it wrong. You will probably find the movie a flop of just dark moments
led by lies and deceit. (Which it really is). But to those who went to
watch this film because we wanted to know why there was so much mixed
hype about this 1999 film, we should have all noticed there were the
smallest bits of puzzle pieces and the biggest amounts of twists that
really made this film what it is.

I don't even like Matt Damon, I personally have a biased grudged
towards the guy and his movies. But I'd have to say, it's tough to
choose between his performances here and Good Will Hunting. He, along
with the entire cast will tug at heart strings you never thought you
had. There are the strings for romance, thrillers, and horror. These
strings are the one's collecting dust and sometimes never see the light
of day for a life time. It's rare to come across a film that seems to
have everything and goes about it like it's nothing, like it doesn't
even seem to care if you're watching or not, because it all is going to
happen with or without you. It's truly it's own living, breathing, and
dark entity.

Watch this film if you want a film that will bake in your brain for the
days, weeks, maybe months to come. It's not to late to bring this movie
back up into lunch-time conversation in the new century.
