

And that's not saying that it's great either. It is not. But it's
tremendously low imdb rating makes me wonder who the heck is voting here.
Pret-a-Porter is a pretty good Robert Altman film that is no better or
worse
than Short Cuts, which, while I feel it is a good film, I also think it is
overrated. This one is, however, heavily underrated, and they both got the
same imdb score from me: 7/10 = 3/4 stars.

This is another attempt to make another Nashville. There's a humongous
ensemble cast of actors, some of the best on the planet, a couple of the
best who ever lived. The screenwriter doesn't connect it all very well,
and
lots of the characters seem superfluous or underdeveloped, unlike in
Nashville where even the characters who are only in a couple of scenes are
as familiar to the viewer as a close friend. I would particularly have
liked
the Danny Aiello/Teri Garr section to have been removed. It falls pretty
flat. The Sophia Loren/Marcello Mastrioanni section, the section that most
film buffs are going to be excited for, also plops by its end. And Kim
Basinger, a good actress, truly deserving her L.A. Confidential Oscar, is
not very good as the Southern U.S. reporter: her accent is difficult to
get
around, and her character is often annoying, too. Sometimes, though, her
pieces succeed.

Many other of the vignettes succeed quite well, although there are never
any
fireworks about to shoot off. The Tim Robbins/Julia Roberts plot is very
funny. The three publishers, Sally Kellerman, Tracy Ullman, and Linda
Hunt's
attempts to sign photographer Milo (Stephen Rea) to their magazine are all
very humorous. The love quadrangle between the two designers, Forest
Whitaker and Richard E. Grant, and their lovers is very good, also. Anouk
Aimee's section is also great, maybe the best part (Rupet Everett is good,
also). I loved her so much in La Dolce Vita and 8 1/2.  I was aching for
her and Marcello
Mastrioanni to interact.

The ending is truly fantastic. It is very well directed and filmed. It's a
good film. 
<|_=00=_|>

It was truly exciting to see `Ready to Wear' in the theaters when it first
came out.  Seldom do films delight and amuse us at this level.   But this is
like a Woody Allen film: either you love it or hate it.  Since the story is
too complicated to explain (and the best thing about this film), I'm
sticking to mostly non-plot aspects in this review.

One of the challenges in your first viewing will be this film's utter lack
of exposition.  You will be asked to board this train while it is moving; in
fact, you will need to leap from track to track. The story is not unfolded
as much as it is thrown at you in pieces.  Two minutes after you are tossed
into a conversation (already in progress), you will be asked to join
another.  Unless you have a mind as competitively poised as a super-model,
you'll miss much of the movie the first time.

Don't let the immersion in the world of fashion fool you into thinking this
is a movie `about' fashion.  Fashion is merely a backdrop, a setting for
Altman to play his scenes.  That he so thoroughly masters his subject is
merely a tribute to his intelligence and sophistication.

Like Milos Forman in `The Firemen's Ball,' Altman has created a wonderful
menagerie of human foibles with which to lampoon us.  Our pettiness, our
lack of shame, our corruption and our low regard for each other are
portrayed so truthfully and cleverly that we don't notice who is the real
subject of the satire.  We smugly assume it is the fashion world on
trial.

Even the opening credits were fun - what a collection of personalities (all
stitched on garment labels)!.  Every casting decision was a good one; every
performance was satisfying.  The only thing funnier than Danny Aiello in
drag, is watching him being told he looks like Barbra Streisand.  And the
only thing funnier than that is realizing it's true.

While we're trying to figure out a murder, we are also being dazzled by the
constellation of world stars of all kinds parading before us.  That Altman
dared to attempt such a feat (the group photo at Versailles alone must have
been a challenge) is not half as astonishing as that he pulled it off.  But
the stars, too, are merely a backdrop to funny stories and situations.  No
one but Altman could make an Elsa Klensch cameo so surprisingly hilarious.
The interview about the pouf skirts was just plain funny.  But will most of
the audience appreciate it?  `I doubt it.'

Another delight is Altman's pervasive references to clothing, so dominant
you will miss half of them.  A cab driver, identifying a murderer, tells the
police `all white people look alike.'  How does he tell them apart?  `By
their clothes.'  Film is confiscated from a fashion shoot, because the
murder suspect was inadvertently captured in the background.  But his face
was cutoff in every shot.  `We don't know what he looks like,' the detective
complains.  `But we know what he was wearing.'  Every conversation, every
plot, each detail is so thoroughly self-referencing to fashion; but mostly,
there are dozens of funny moments.  Even the red herring of murder is based
on our mistaking an innocent fashion item for an omen of
death.

<|_=00=_|>

Like everyone else, I note this didn't have much of a plot, etc. etc.  But
it was just a hoot to watch.  I died every time Richard E. Grant came on
the
screen -- he's a phenomenal character actor.  I say, lighten up!  This
wasn't just satire/social commentary... there was subtle homage to
everything from the Marx Brothers to Fellini.  In other words, don't
analyze
too hard; just enjoy!

7/10

<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to understand why so many reputable critics have vilified
this film, which is in Altman's Nashville mode—and indeed includes many
of the elements that made that earlier film such a critical success.
Both address the hypocrisy and viciousness of a big money-making
industry, by interweaving a number of loosely connected stories acted
by a large celebrity cast. Some of these stories work better than
others, in both films; as a previous reviewer noted, in Pret-à-Porter,
they all hinge on the central theme of betrayal, with a cumulative
effect that is saddening as well as amusing.

The principal difference between the two films lies in the way they
end. Nashville is closed off (to my mind, unconvincingly) by an
assassination at a political rally. Ready to Wear ends with a
breathtakingly beautiful, even erotic acting-out of the story of the
Emperor's New Clothes, where almost none of the fashion-industry types
realize that the bankrupt designer has clothed all of her models
in...nothing. The only one who does get the joke is the clueless and
incompetent reporter (Kim Basinger, from Texas, doing a fine retake on
Geraldine Chaplin's annoying role in Nashville), who stalks off in a
huff.

Apparently lots of critics stalked off in a huff, too. That's too bad,
since the film has lots of good qualities. But you miss the point if
you don't realize that it's all leading up to that big shaggy-dog-story
punchline.
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen it a couple of times. I understand Altman was maybe trying to
create a disjointed, farcial almost surreal type atmosphere, but I
found the lack of cohesiveness and clear cut thread annoying and it
caused me to not care about the film or its characters. Being just a
regular jane and not blessed with 15 or so credits in Film-making at
NYU, the subtly of the art was lost on me. I desperately wanted just a
little exposition to grab onto, and all the film's inside jokes and
vague, obscure references to Italian films I found to be self
indulgent. I'm not saying this film was bad - just bad for me. I think
he could have pulled off the same feel and frenzied little European
farce with a TOUCH more connective tissue in the plot. Not a lot, just
a little for the audience to care about the story, the characters and
whatnot. The thing I found in the film that I even cared more than a
fig about was the Simone storyline.
<|_=00=_|>
I am completely baffled at the bad reviews this movie received. Robert
Altman apparently shot first and came up with a story board later, and
we are the richer for it. Just as the finale of this romp is definitive
statement on the putative subject of the ready to wear fashion week,so
this movie is a statement on movie making, and the conclusions would
appear to be the same. Altman's confidence in dispensing with the
conventions of plot, character development, the classic forms of boy
meets girl, boy loses girl, boy jumps off the Eiffel Tower, girl moves
in with Godzilla, is as stunning as the final scene. The sheer pleasure
of watching Altman's usual suspects perform at the top of their game is
enough reason to watch the movie. I will never look at Forest Whitaker
and Rupert Everett in the same way. As for Sophia Loren and Marcello
Mastroianni, blame it all on pasta. And as for the clothes and the
people and the sad old boobs of publishers, frosting on the cake. What
a complete visual joy!
<|_=00=_|>

This is an entertaining spoof built around a Paris fashion week, and was
actually filmed during that event. It's a typical Robert Altman film, with
multiple story lines, fast cutting from one setup to another, and
overlapping soundtracks, which all make it hard to follow at the cinema, and
very suitable for rental so it can be replayed. It would take too long even
to begin to summarise the subplots and characters, but in addition to a
galactically stellar cast; there's a host of guest celebrities, including
lots of couturiers; and of course dozens of models on and off the catwalk,
in and out of designer clothes, and in the climactic scene without clothes
at all. 

It is always healthy - both for laughers and laughees - to laugh at powerful
people who take themselves too seriously; and by poking fun at the fashion
industry and its surrounding media circus, Altman is performing a social
service, as well as being a true artist. But I don't find his satire as
cruelly biting as some people do. He treats some characters sympathetically
or neutrally - eg  the designer played by Anouk Aimée and Marcello
Mastroianni's mystery figure.  And even the extreme characters - eg Richard
E Grant's screamingly gay designer or Kim Basinger's gushing TV reporter -
are only a little more exaggerated than some real-life equivalents.

The final nude catwalk parade is not only a visually delightful and neat
solution to the problem of a designer having lost her collection; but is
also a postmodern take on the fairytale of the emperor's new clothes -
nowadays, the crooks wouldn't have to pretend they were making clothes for
the vain emperor, but would be able to sell him nudity, so long as it had a
trendy designer label!             


<|_=00=_|>
"I am Diogenes the Dog. I nuzzle the kind, bark at the greedy and bite
scoundrels!" – Diogenes

Like most of Robert Altman's films, "Pret-a-Porter" involves a large
cast of characters gathering together to put on a performance, in this
case a prestigious fashion show in Paris.

The film was marketed as a satire, but it really isn't. This is fashion
industry as scatology, a "world of sh*t" in which everything is
grotesque and warped. As with Diane Arbus' famous photographs on
"freaks", Altman deliberately blurs the boundaries between the "ideal"
and the "abnormal", the "beautifully formed" and the "deformed", the
"feces" and the "sanitary", the "inside" and the "outside".

All the characters here are thus "freaks" in some way, all part of the
same freakish human circus. There are dwarf attendants and magazine
editors, transvestites, cross-dressers, lesbians, gays, the obese, the
pregnant, adulterers, illegitimate babies, mortuary attendants, and a
multitude of abrasive caricatures. Mixed in with these are the "ideal"
bodies of the celebrities, the exposed unnatural/natural bodies of the
models, identical twins who exchange their sexual partners, film-star
parodies, television personalities and original film-stars reliving
previous roles.

Altman then contrasts modern sex icons (Basinger, Roberts etc), with
ageing, disintegrating sex icons of the past (Sophia Loren, Lauren
Bacall etc), and goes out of his way to tarnish "surface beauty" by
imbuing the film's sex bombs with abrasive personalities.

The much derided abrasiveness of the film is therefore intentional.
Altman isn't just dealing with caricatures, he's dealing with the
grotesque. Of course grotesque art is, by definition, "the least ideal
form", always a war of "attraction and repulsion". As such, the
reoccurring motifs here are dogs, animals and dog feces. More than
juvenile poop jokes, Altman's recalling the scatological traditions of
Diogenes, the dog philosopher.

Diogenes was associated with public outbursts and obscenity. His
ragged, unashamedly dirty existence radiated disrespect and contempt
for all who gazed upon him. But while he was an animal, putrid and
filthy, he was nevertheless "more civilised" than his "cultured"
audience. In a similar fashion, everyone in this film is held under the
contemptible gaze of Diogenes, whose mischievous dog feces show scorn
for an intrusive and aggressive kind of, not so much modern culture
(typified by television, celebrity, photography, fame and fashion – the
usual boring targets of satire), but the hypocrisy of all culture.

In the film, both television and photography are implicitly connected
by characters accidentally stepping in dog feces. These accidents occur
in both private and public places, playfully linking the home, studio
and streets with a media culture which both intrudes on privacy
(exposing shameful human behaviours, foibles and frailties) and
disguises these behaviours by glitzing and glamming them up. So Altman
is less concerned about the fashion industry, than about what garments
and technology alternatively hide and expose, the prevalence of his
symbolic doggy poop serving to bring the "high" down "low". Everything
is grotesque whether you're on or off the catwalk.

The film ends with a nude catwalk scene, one of Altman's most brilliant
sequences. Here, models walk fully nude whilst the words "You're so
beautiful the way you are" hum on the soundtrack. The sequence derides
the commodification of "beauty", serves as an admittance that humanity
is as grotesque as its ornaments/apparels, works as a dig at the
fashion industry's obsession with "authenticity" (the true "inner
subject/self", the "stripped down ego or essence"), and of course
points toward the end result of all fashion-as-fetish-wear: total,
naked sex. More than this, though, the sequence suggests that there is
beauty in freakishness and freakishness in beauty, which is why a
strange aura of both life and death radiates from this sequence. The
catwalk models are like clones, cold stick figures, one of which is
pregnant. The pregnant model speaks of a mystery about birth and
something new, but she is also the least sexual of the models.
Conversely, the others are like zombies, dead, crawling out of a tomb,
yet are beautifully sexualised.

This blurring, this confusion (ugliness in beauty, beauty in ugliness)
is the very point of Grotesque art. Unlike the satirist, the grotesque
artist does not analyse and instruct in terms of right and wrong or
true and false (satire=logical, grotesque=irrational), nor does he
attempt to distinguish between these. On the contrary, he is concerned
about demonstrating their inseparability. Satire generally aims at
three reactions from the audience - laughter, anger or disgust - but it
aims to produce these separately. The grotesque, however, produces a
reaction of confusion. With satire, there is an alternation or
distinction between laughter and the gross evil which arouses anger.
With the grotesque, however, laughter, hatred and anger seem to meld.

Beyond this there are references to "Funny Face" and "Blow Up" (guess
why), and Altman re-enacts a scene from De Sica's "Yesterday, Today and
Tomorrow" with the same actors (Loren and Mastroianni). It's like the
two lovers from De Sica's film (itself a film in which Loren and
Mastroianni played multiple characters) stepped out of it and resumed
their tale 40 years later in older bodies. Surprisingly, the same lead
actors from Fellini's "La Dolce Vita" also appear, adding a dark tinge
to Fellini's tale of those seeking "the good life".

Tactics like this create a further effect. The characters lose weight,
becoming flat, depth-less images. Consider when the real Elsa Klensch
is interviewed by Kim Basinger who plays an Elsa Klensch character or
when "real celebrities" like Cher and Harry Bellefonte briefly appear
but yet still come across as empty, screen representations of
themselves. The film paints a world obsessed with the "image", but
stresses that there are few "authentic" images. The supermodels of the
90s were clones, destratified personae, simulations of imagined and
imagined bodies, part of man's ritualised games of narcissism. By the
films end, even a naked repudiation of this narcissism becomes a form
of narcissism.

7.5/10 – Two viewings required.
<|_=00=_|>

This review is written specifically for those who have not seen
'Pret-a-Porte' and are confused by the mixed reviews on this site and from
the Critical Press in general.  To you, I would say the following:  Don't
take my word for it...see it for yourself and figure out what YOU think of
it.  It is my opinion that the worst film from Robert Altman is still the
best film of the year (with rare exceptions) and so, naturally, I would
recommend this film to anyone.  However, Director Altman does NOT make films
for everyone.  He often makes films for the 'Advanced' film-goer.  His work
is often dis-jointed and overlapping to an extent that it requires one to
actually ay attention to the goings' on rather than to spoon-feed the
answers to the audience.  Couple this with his tendency to allow the plot
and the character to meander, evolving slowly over the course of the film
and you often get a movie that is distinctly 'un-Hollywood', which can turn
some film goers off.  So I would recommend that you not only sit through
this film, but allow yourself to actually watch it without any preconceived
ideas of how a movie is supposed to be.  Then I think you will find a witty,
sexy satire that is more about our own vanity and betrayal than it is about
the fashion industry.  

But like I said, don't take my word for it (or the words of anyone else, for
that matter): If you are curious, please watch it.  And make up your own
mind.  
<|_=00=_|>
There's one thing in this film that I love in a very film nerdish sort
of way and that is Danny Aiello's character, which is, in a strange
way, a homage to an earlier character in Altman's California Split (a
film well worth revisiting). And while some of the characters may seem
over the top, my own experience in the fashion world would attest to
them being pretty realistic. While it feels as fragmented as any
Altman, there is a story here, and it's a pretty subtle one, but
perfectly satisfactory in my opinion. I think the film, overall, is
woefully under-rated. I feel like everyone got caught up in the idea of
"ALTMAN" and then got confused by "THE STARS" and then didn't really
bother to look at the movie, which has some lovely grace and is well
worth the time. Then again, why listen to me, I liked Ishtar.
