

When I first sat down, to see this movie, I wasn't expecting much; In fact,
I was preparing myself mentally for a total flop... but it really took me by
surprise. It's actually quite interesting, and has some good action
sequences. The plot is pretty interesting, and moves along very nicely,
quickly moving on, constantly developing. The acting was convincing enough,
there wasn't really any scenes that were terrible, even though a lot of the
scenes and lines were very corny; it fit perfectly in with the movie, and as
such wasn't out of place. It's pretty much a B-movie, but if you like(or
just enjoy mildly) B-movies, you'll probably be at least reasonably
entertained by it. It's reminiscent of movies like Fortress, but just a
little better in that it's very unpredictable; no matter what you think is
gonna happen, you'll be surprised again and again by what happens. It's
pretty interesting all the way through, it has some good, 80's style action,
corny B-movie lines, a B-movie feel throughout the movie... so, if you can
watch it for free, either borrow it from a friend, or watch it on TV... if
not, only watch it if you're into movies like Fortress.
6/10
<|_=00=_|>
On the surface, 'No Escape' is just another generic action movie set in
a prison environment. An island prison from which escape is impossible?
An Alcatraz by any other name... Plus the 'two faction-one nice, one
evil' has overtones of Lord of the Flies. While both of the above
comments are applicable, the film rises above itself. With good
performances from powerful actors such as Ray Liotta and Stuart Wilson,
along with a sharp script, 'No Escape' is a hidden gem, and well worth
seeking out. Final Score: 7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>

Soldier Ray (Goodfellas) Liotta is sent to Prison for shooting one of his
commanding officers in the year 2022- but it's no ordinary Prison, they send
if to a deserted Island where bad ass criminals are taken and left alone to
fend for themselves FOR EVER.
        When he arrives he realises there are two tribes one a violent and
sadistic one known as the 'Outsiders' led by Marek (a great performance from
British Actor Stuart Wilson and a Peaceful, loving and tight-knit community
run by 'The Father' (a tailor made role for Lance Henriksen) who would live
the rest of their lives in Peace and Harmony if it wasn't for Marek and his
dirty,Ugly band of bad asses.
      Liotta needs to find his way off the Island which is 200 miles from
the nearest coastline and is constantly watched by The Warden who will kill
anyone who attempts to get off as well have having to fight with the good
guys against the Outsiders who are becoming more and more fierce with each
attack,
    This is a very well made Sci-fi actioner from Martin Campbell who has
since made 007's Goldeneye (1995), The Mask of Zorro (1998) and Vertical
Limit (2000) and is currently working on the Zorro Sequel due out Next
Year.
      There are also plenty of faces to spot for British Viewers including
Jack Shepherd (Yes! Wycliffe himself) who is suprisingly good the as the
village mechanic who has tried for years to build a contraption to get them
off the island, and The late Don Henderson who stars as the resident beer
Maker.

Unfortunately the film bombed on both sides of the Atlantic taking a measly
$15m in the states and a pathetic £500,000 here in the UK on it's original
release 10 years ago but don't let that put you off it's very well acted
with plenty of action and Drama.

My Rating:- **** out of *****
<|_=00=_|>

Ray Liotta plays Robbins, a criminal sent to an island prison where,
due to lack of supervision, the inmates have formed two tribes. The
hippy tribe is led by the great Lance Henriksen, while Stuart Wilson
enjoys himself delivering cheesy one liners as the main bad guy.

Ray Liotta isn't exactly riding a post-Goodfellas high with this film,
but its still very entertaining as trashy action fare. Liotta has a
role that would probably be reserved for Arnold or Sly if this was a
bigger production, but still makes a good job of playing a violent
anti-hero. There are some great battle scenes and fun supporting
performances.

Overall there isn't really much else to say about "No Escape", apart
from you will be entertained if you enjoy action films that you can't
take too seriously. If I'm objective I can't score it very highly but
for entertainment value it gets 4/5.

<|_=00=_|>

I totally agree with the comment given by Slurpee 7. I first saw it as a
young teen and thought it was OK, but every time I saw it afterwards it just
kept getting better and better. I don't know why. The story is very simple,
but Campbell's movies just make you forget about that(e.g. Vertical limit-
with a rather stupid story). This is the first movie I ever saw Ray Liotta
and the man just has such powerful and "vicious" eyes.Great for the part.
And the villain(excellently portrayed by Wilson), referring to his "habitat"
as a first class hotel and making constant jokes - gotta love it. A movie
about survival, and what a man is actually prepared to do for it.  
9/10
<|_=00=_|>
On the surface, this looks like a dumb movie which is overly violent
and too seedy because it features nothing but hardened criminals plus
the normal sadistic warden Hollywood always shows in all modern-day
films.

But....it turns out the story isn't as sordid as it looks and the
violence, although plentiful, is somehow not overdone. Also, the chief
villain " Walter Marek" (Stuart Wilson) is a man with a good sense of
humor. The comedic relief he brings is a real plus to the story. By the
way, Wilson doesn't look like Mel Gibson but his voice sure sounds
similar.

"No Escape" is strictly an action movie with an all-male cast that has
a grim atmosphere of convicts fighting it out on an inescapable island
in the year 2022.

Profanity isn't as much as you'd except in a tough film like this and -
in a real oddity - Lance Henriksen is the nicest guy in the movie! He
never utters a bad or angry word. If you know the characters Henriksen
usually plays, you know this is a rarity. Ray Liotta, Michael Lerner
and Ernie Hudson also star, so it's a decent cast.

You could do a lot worse looking for two hours of "escapist" fare.
<|_=00=_|>
Ray Liota stars in this sci-fi actioner, sent to an in-escapable island
prison he bands together with a group of fellow inmates to fight off a
band of savages. Stuart Wilson plays Marek the psycho leader of the
savages and his over the top portrayal fits in with the late night
b-movie feel. Also appearing are a whole host of British character
actors along with Lance Henrickson and Ernie Hudson who seem to make a
living off this type of direct to video fare.

If your not into sci-fi or action you may as well leave now, this is
one of those films that regular appears late at night on the movie
channel and is worth watching because it's a fun no brainer. The best
way to describe it is a cross of Mad Max and Fortress the Christopher
Lambert Sci-Fi effort. This film is superior to Fortress but falls way
short of Mad Max.

Liota is pretty good but this is no where near his quality of
performance in Goodfella's and to be honest it doesn't need to be as
this is b-movie action fun not Scorsese. He drives the plot along and
carries the action scenes off well. Lance Henrikson is reliable as ever
and adds to his impressive list of fantasy/sci-fi appearances, Ernie
Hudson is OK but will never escape from the isn't that the fourth guy
in ghostbusters who didn't have much to do? One for the late night
sci-fi / b-movie fans 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is not a perfect movie but I'd rate it 9/10. It is a very good
sci-fi adventure movie which is different from other movies at the time
(1994). It has the look and feel of a Planet of the Apes - at times it
is a bit silly and too violent/sadistic but it usually makes sense. The
main character is someone who would usually be played by Van Damme.
Anyway, there is a freshness and an excitement in this movie which is
really all the genre needs. If only there were more movies of this
type. I guess, it's like this typical pulp-sci-fi thriller. The effects
are not very impressive but it has a kind of post-80s look to it. This
was before CGI became normal. I think this movie is going to prove
especially satisfying to fans of adventure movies such as "Conan" and
to sci-fi fans who likes movies such as "Planet of the Apes". Of
course, it is also a prison-break movie, however, I don't think that is
what the movie is really about.
<|_=00=_|>
'No Escape' is a B-movie. Fact. It has B-movie written all over it. And
that's no bad thing. It never really tries to be anything else. It's
about a futuristic world where prisoners are big business for
corporations. Unless they don't work. Then they get shipped off to this
out of the way island where they can kill each other as much as they
like.

One such prisoner is Ray Liotta. He may be a convicted murderer, but he
did it for just motives, therefore we can root for him. And he bands
together with a load of equally supportable prisoners on the island,
compared to the other lot – who are basically barbarians. Thus we have
our movie – the 'good' (well, just) prisoners, fighting off the 'bad'
prisoners on a little island paradise.

Our boy Ray's helped out by a variety of other B-movie actors. You'll
recognise him from what's-it-called and that bloke out of Aliens, plus
the Ghostbuster who joined last. Anyway, it doesn't matter. It's a fun
film with plenty of action and rolls along nicely, helped no small part
by the baddie. He's great fun – naturally psychotic, but great fun. In
than annals of B-movie baddies, Stuart Wilson deserves a mention –
sometimes camp, always bonkers and ready to slaughter anyone just to
keep control of the psychos under him.

Despite its 'B-movie' status, it's actually a little longer than your
average 'straight to DVD' flick. Yet it never seems to drag. Basically,
if you like action, B-movies with a touch of sci-fi and want something
to eat popcorn to, give this one a try. You can pick it up pretty
cheaply or even stream it from many a website.

Plus, is it just me, or are all the computer terminals straight out of
'Aliens?' It's like No Escape is set in the same universe.
<|_=00=_|>

Decent enough action flick about a futuristic island penal colony that no
one has ever escaped - enter murderer Robbins (Ray Liotta) who manages to
break all the rules and band together with a group of fellow escapees (Kevin
Dillon and Lance Henriksen). Together they try to leave the island but find
themselves faced with no escape, hence the title of the
film.

Ray Liotta ("Goodfellas") is quite good in the action hero role - one that
might usually be reserved for a Schwarzenegger or Stallone. But the real
flaw of the film lies in the long sequences in between the good escape
sequences and action sets - such as all the extremely unbelievable,
plot-driven, corny dialogue.

Dillon (Bunny from "Platoon" and Matt's brother) is OK but his character
isn't quite as "cool" as the filmmakers think he is. Henriksen ("Aliens") is
good as usual but really the film comes down to Liotta's performance. It
drives the movie forward but I can't really say it's anything tremendously
special.

3/5 stars.

- John Ulmer
