

In retaliation for the FBI war against the mob in Russian, the mob pay
famous assassin Carlos the Jackal to kill a senior figure in the US
government. FBI deputy director Preston discovers that the Jackal has been
contracted out he contacts one of the few men who can identify him - IRA
gunman Declan Mulqueen. With the Jackal moving freely within the US it is a
race against time to find and stop him before he reaches his
target.

Before he died, the director of "The Day of the Jackal", Zinnermann
approached Universal to have the name changed so that it wouldn't be so
closely associated with his own film. They didn't change it and it's easy to
see what his point was. The plot of this is a bit silly and doesn't have any
intelligence or subtlety. The Jackal is careful is some scenes but takes on
FBI agents in others, he covers all his tracks in designing his gun, but he
kills the builder and leaves the plans for the FBI to find! It doesn't
totally make sense - things are tidied up too easily - Mulqueen finds the
Jackal too easily when the film needs a boost of action.

Willis is OK as the Jackal but he's not totally convincing because he
usually plays roles where he runs round shooting, rather than being a very
clinical hitman who only fires one shot then leaves undetected. Even here he
does some planning but he only looks comfortable when in running gun
battles. Gere is good in an action man role (I'm not a big fan), but he has
one of the worst Northern Irish accents even put on the big screen - it goes
from N.Ireland to Southern Ireland and back again from one scene to the
next. Poitier is a classy inclusion in the pack but doesn't have much to do
but act tough beside Gere. Support is interesting, but they don't have much
to do - Jack Black was great in High Fidelity, but is cannon fodder here.
J.K. Simmons is amazing in Oz but is just an agent here. Venora is good
despite a very heavy accent. Sophie Okonedo is beautiful as she was in
various British TV series but only has a few fleeting lines of dialogue. And
Leslie Phillips is wasted in such a small cameo of little significance that
you wonder why he bothered.

The whole plot sits funny with me - I really don't understand why Gere's
character had to be an IRA murderer. There's an early scene where he's
verbally attacked by one of the FBI for killing women and children, but he's
given time to defend himself. After that we all forget who he is and
everyone loves him. The final act of the film left a bitter taste in my
mouth (I grew up in NI), and you can't help but wonder who in America wants
to promote the IRA as somehow honourable or sympathetic (also see "The
Devil's Own") - I wonder if Hollywood understands now how offending it is to
see terrorists displayed in this way?

Overall, it's quite fun in a brash, loud sort of way - but ultimately it'll
leave you wondering what you just watched and "how did that happen" and
"hang on that bit doesn't work". As a distracting blockbuster it's quite
good but as a relative of 1973's "Day of the Jackal" it's an illegitimate
third cousin.
<|_=00=_|>

I entered the theater with fond memories of Fred Zinnemann's 1973 "Day of
the Jackal", expecting a chance to scoff at a butchered remake of a fine,
suspenseful and tensely-paced film. After the first half-hour or so, it
suddenly occurred to me that what I was seeing was not a remake at all, but
a parody. Then I began to enjoy myself.

Watching to see what modern filmmaking sensibilities had made of the more
memorable scenes from the original kept me thoroughly entertained for the
rest of the show.  Edward Fox's neat little sniper's rifle--with its
disguise constructed from a marvelous, high-tech material called "stainless
steel"--metamorphosed into an immense carbon-fiber contraption suitable for
demolishing an armored battalion.  Fox's deadly silent assassination of a
cantaloupe turned into a market-garden recreation of the Battle of the
Bulge. And so on.

I don't think my companion, or anyone else in the theater, appreciated my
snickers and occasional belly laugh. Too bad. I had a great
time.
<|_=00=_|>
Roll up! Roll up! It's Big Gay Bruce and his Big Gay Death Cannon!
Plausible plot? Unnecessary! Decent acting? Unnecessary! Respect shown
to its mighty progenitor? Unnecessary! Yes it's another offensively
stuffed turkey in the Butch Bruce canon.

I mean where do you start with this film? Okay, let's begin with the
woeful misapprehension people might have that this was, in some way,
related to either the book or the original film, The Day of the Jackal.
It's not. In fact it's so different (and so bad) that Fredrick Forsyth
asked to have his name taken off it. Now I'm not necessarily a stuffy
Brit who can't hack Hollywood remaking British films. Well, okay, maybe
I am a bit like that, but fortunately it's a redundant point in this
case. This film is so different to the original that the name and the
odd reference are the only things that survive.

Now let's move to the premise. Cheesy Russian gangster gets killed in a
Moscow police raid (somehow involving the FBI although no one bothers
to explain why). In revenge, brother of gangster decides to wreak
vengeance by killing the wife of the US President (although again no
one bothers to explain why this is a good move – although to be fair it
was pre-9-11, so he wasn't to know it would have resulted in the US
airforce carpet bombing Eastern Europe). Gangster hires "nasty" killer
(Willis). Police hire "cuddly" killer (Gere), "cuddly" killer tracks
"nasty" killer. Police fanny around and periodically get killed.
"Cuddly" killer kills "nasty" killer. First lady is saved and we all
realise that the IRA are just this bunch of real sweet guys y'know, who
just happen to want to kill innocent people. Nice.

Let's put to one side the distasteful Hollywood habit of playing in the
troubles of Northern Ireland like it was a sandpit in a theme park (I
deal with this point more extensively on the message boards). If
Hollywood directors want to cast the Belfast butchers as hookers with
hearts of gold, that's up to them. I, of course, reserve the right to
despise them for it. It's a free country.

More egregious, however, is the fact that the film manages to patronise
and insult the Irish while trying to support them. That's not
politically distasteful, it's far worse: it's incompetent. It's no
wonder, for instance, that Gere still looks so damn good, given that he
slept through the entire six months it took to make this piece of
cra*p. The fact that Gere's accent is not only Southern Irish, but an
appalling parody of Southern Irish shows that the filmmakers weren't
looking much beyond America to make money from this film. Then there is
that lovely scene at the end where Sidney Poitier (a complete waste of
space in this film) says he's off for a coffee, offers to get our
"cuddly" IRA man one, then casually says "Ah, but then you guys drink
Guinness don't you". Yeah that's right Sidney; the Irish live on
Guinness and potatoes.

While we're on the subject of Poitier: why? In the original film the
detective is the tracker. In Jackal, Gere is the tracker. So what does
Poitier do? Well, he just hangs around and looks like a tw*at of
course. He's got absolutely nothing to do apart from call in the
marines at the end, and he only does this because the nice IRA man
tells him to.

While we're on the subject of Gere: why? I suppose it's only a matter
of time before Hollywood remakes Gandhi with Vin Diesel playing
ex-Mujahideen Commando Mahatma Gandhi beheading his way through 1940s
and 50s India (he is, after all, a bit dark of hue and therefore very
likely to be a Muslim fundamentalist). Let's not forget that Gere's
character is a killer and therefore a nasty piece of work. And if he's
not, why does he know The Jackal? If he's not, why does he know all his
moves? And if he is, why is he such a limp biscuit and such a
"loveable" person? 

All this goes to show that the makers of this film couldn't be bothered
to (a) think about the plot (b) have the characters making decisions
that were in keeping with their character(c) avoid cheesy stereotypes
like having the big boss bad guy kill his own friend – I honestly
thought this had turned into a Bond movie (d) give the "central"
characters something to do (e) credit the audience with a modicum of
intelligence.

This film is an insult to the British and Irish killed at the hands of
terrorists, it's an insult to the Irish people, it's an insult to not
great, but pretty good film it rips off, and an insult to the
intelligence. But most of all – and most unforgivable – it is an insult
to my a*rse for having to sit through the over two hours of run time it
took to finish. Honestly, you'd think with no plot, no characters and
no dialogue, it would be over in no time. But they didn't even have the
decency to quit early.
<|_=00=_|>
I was sure this movie was going to be a disappointment, but after
seeing it I have to say I was deeply wrong. Sure, the story has
numerous big holes (Gere knows the operating technique of his opponent
so well and down to the last detail, you'd think they used to live
together from the moment they were born - total exaggeration, another
example are the lame effects when he's between two trains), and Gere's
dialect is way off (for some reason it didn't bother me at all), but
the rest is pure action and entertainment extravaganza. Bruce Willis
was a perfect choice for the Jackal and Sidney Poitier was as always
amazing and really helped the atmosphere of the movie with his role.
The ending was a bit short, but in my opinion necessary, because I knew
what was going to happen, so why delay it. Nicely done, and great
music. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Although The Jackal is one of my favorite films, due to the fine acting
of all the principal players (especially Diane Venora), and good
direction of the action scenes, the plot contains an amazing number of
outright ludicrous elements that I must protest. Taking it from the
beginning: In the opening scene, a coalition of police forces storms a
Moscow nightclub to arrest a Russian gang figure named Gazzi. Now, as
any policeman knows, the first thing you do in an arrest is handcuff
the perp. But in this case, despite their overwhelming numbers and
armament, Major Koslova (Venora) and Carter Preston (Sidney Poitier),
stand and argue with the guy for a few minutes while the other police
stand by and do nothing. This, of course, allows Gazzi to get the jump
on Koslova with a knife. Not the greatest police work. Then as Gazzi
and Koslova struggle, she manages to get her gun free and shoot him. A
few minutes later Preston thanks her for saving his life. His life? She
was the one he was trying to kill.

For revenge, Gazzi's brother hires the Jackal (Bruce Willis) to perform
an assassination of, as it turns out, the First Lady of the U.S. In the
next scene, the Jackal purchases a weapon on the internet - from some
sort of eBay for terrorists, it would seem. He chooses a huge Gatling
gun that fires monstrous depleted uranium bullets at an advertised 1400
rounds a minute (although if you time the actual firing later in the
film, it isn't even a third of that rate). Now the question is: Was he
high? If you want to kill a single person the best weapon is a sniper
rifle of some kind, like the one used by the Jackal in the original
novel. One of those would have been infinitely easier to acquire,
transport, and hide. Instead he buys a machine cannon that would be
more appropriate for engaging an entire army division. Okay, dramatic
license, but please.

He smuggles the giant weapon to Canada, and there he contracts a local
techno-hood (Jack Black) to build him a remote controlled firing
apparatus. He tells the hood he doesn't want to attract any attention,
and demands that he turn over the blueprints for the thing when he is
finished. Then when the hood asks him or a few thousand bucks for the
plans (out of 70 million the Jackal is being paid), he takes the guy
out into the woods and uses him for target practice with his weapon,
leaving the corpse and several hundred somewhat unusual depleted
uranium bullets for the authorities to find. How's that for not
attracting attention? In the book, the Jackal kills the guy in his
house and hides the body, much more credibly.

After the gruesome murder scene is quickly discovered, Preston and
Declan Mulqueen (Richard Gere) fly up to Canada and locate the hood's
shop, where they find the blueprints for the firing station that were
so important for the Jackal to destroy, although after he'd killed
Black, the Jackal seems to have decided the blueprints weren't worth
going back to the shop for. This is a guy that is the absolute best at
his trade? Mulqueen takes one look at the plans for the device, which
had nothing to do with the weapon itself except to mount it and fire
it, and immediately deduces the exact cyclic rate of the weapon's
automatic fire. Brainy.

The Jackal manages to smuggle the weapon across Lake Michigan on a
pleasure boat, and as he's docked at a marina he spies Mulqueen, who
appears to be searching for him (Mulqueen had not yet seen him at that
point). Does he try to hide, to appear inconspicuous, to keep a low
profile? No, he pulls out a gun and starts firing at Mulqueen! How's
that for not attracting attention? Then he has to make a screaming
getaway in his van. Great plan, for someone whose success depends on
not being discovered.

For her safety, Mulqueen's former lover Isabella (Mathilda May) is
moved out of her house by the FBI people, who fear the Jackal may come
after her. Why he might be after her is never explained (perhaps he
would need a pleasantly sadistic diversion from the tedious job of
planning an assassination). Rather than leave the house empty, Koslova
and an FBI agent remain in it, sitting ducks. Why? At one point they
realize the Jackal is probably inside the house (they were outside at
the time). Do they call for backup? Do they establish a perimeter and
contain him, knowing that they have him boxed in? No, of course not.
They run back into the house, where the Jackal, hiding and waiting for
them, kills them both. Police Work 101? In the film's climactic scene,
the Jackal and Mulqueen face off in a DC Metro station in the middle of
the day. The scene is a good 5 minutes long, and for the duration of it
no one else (except for Isabella) appears in the station. Even assuming
that all the riders had been scared away by the gunplay, it's hard to
imagine that no police of any variety showed up. Maybe the director
waved them out.

Considering the competence of the good guys and the bad guy, it's
surprising anybody won.
<|_=00=_|>
You can't really approach this as a remake of the classic 'The Day of
The Jackal.' Though broadly similar, the entire feel of the two films
is incomparable. And suspense thrillers are all about "the feel" aren't
they? 

The story is pretty standard fair - a super villain assassin (Willis)
is going to make a big kill using a huge weapon and leaving a trail of
bodies along the way. Gere, an IRA soldier (jailed for "terrorism") is
brought on as consultant because he is one of the few people who has
seen 'the Jackal", and given a few vague promises in exchange for his
help. As it turns out, Gere has more than just knowledge - he has a
vendetta. Poitier oversees Gere and the investigation of Willis, and
comes to realize that Gere is the only hope of stopping him.

I like Sidney Poitier, Bruce Willis and Richard Gere, so I was
predisposed to like this film. I was neither very surprised nor
disappointed. The Jackal is entertaining and the performances are
strong. Poitier is always a class act, and Willis and Gere have
terrific anti-chemistry. There's nothing wrong with the cinematography
or directing, and the pace of the film, though a little breathless, is
fine. Regardless, the story-line never reached much beyond the ordinary
thriller fare. Making a truly great thriller requires either doing
something really original (very hard to do) or using a truly inspired
script. This film's script is decent, but the story line could have
used a little more careful thought and a bit more complexity.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never understood why The Jackal has been cursed with poor reviews
from pretty much everybody. From the day I saw it as a 17-year-old in
January 1998 I always found it entertaining and exciting. This might be
down to the fact that I have never seen the 1973 original.

Brucie plays a nameless assassin, cool as ice and utterly emotionless.
Richard Gere is the only man to have seen him. He's let out of prison
to assist the FBI in catching the Jackal before he takes out an
uncertain high-ranking official. Willis and Gere are, for the most
part, leading their own movies as they never meet until the climax.
It's very interesting watching them both go about their business,
Willis hatching a master plan and Gere methodically picking apart his
trail and hunting him down. There is great support from Sidney Poitier
and cutie-pie Diane Venora as a scarred Russian cop.

With a wide variety of brilliantly photographed locations across the US
and Canada, and plot with a medium-level of complexity it's not
entirely brainless viewing but not too taxing as to alienate lazy
viewers. I honestly do not get why so many people hate it. Willis has
done far worse films (even seen Mercury Rising?) that get off scot-free
somehow, but The Jackal doesn't get off so lightly. Aside from Gere's
slightly dodgy Oirish accent I have no complaints about this film. Give
it a chance and you might just be entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
I had a bit of fun reading through user comments on Jackal, and there
are two perpetuating issues in about 90 percent of them: 1) this
"version" of "Jackal" has nothing on the original (because the original
was "oh so great") 2) only idiots enjoyed this version (because its
plot is silly).

My response would be: 1) the original wasn't so great either (go ahead
and jump at me) 2) anybody who thinks only an idiot would enjoy silly
movies is an idiot himself.

On the first point - why is even so necessary to compare remakes to
originals if they can stand perfectly on their own? This one can. In
fact it even has advantages over its classic predecessor, such as
better editing, better cinematography and even better acting. You may
think I'm holding onto a straw here by nitpicking but I'm an odd person
that values the benefits of modern productions.

On the second point - if silliness (better yet stupidity) of the plot
was the criteria by which to avoid the movie, I would probably have
seen only about a dozen movies in my lifetime. I would have avoided
Bond movies, period movies, parodies and what not. And I'd be poorer
for that. So, forget silliness, it's no big deal.

Now a little on the movie itself. The plot is indeed stupid (for an
in-depth analysis I recommend reading hilarious Roger Ebert's review).
The cast reversal is also a bit of misfortune as Gere was initially
supposed to be the Jackal. The fact that the role eventually went to
Bruce Willis, together with adventuristic nature of Jackal's business,
made me root for the bad guy as I never did before. He is conceived as
sort of an upgraded James Bond here, being more ruthless, with drier
sense of humor and taking advantage of both sexes (not only females) to
his cause.

I don't know if making bad guy look good was the intention on part of
the film crew, but it turned out a very subversive move for a typical
Hollywood venture (making an IRA terrorist that pursues Jackal a
likable guy as well is probably another one, but I wont go into that).
All in all, it was a suspenseful voyage with such a good pace that you
don't care about the shortcomings at the first viewing, so I say it's
recommendable. There are certainly far worse ways you could waste two
hours.
<|_=00=_|>
As a re-make of "The Day of The Jackal" this movie succeeds in updating
the setting without completely destroying the character. As so many
re-makes tend to do. Here we find the historical and geo-political
context totally changed but there is successfully conveyed the sense of
an urgent hunt for one dangerous, faceless force of doom.

The technical aspects are among the best features. The cannon is for me
the true star of the movie. Willis's multiple identities make for the
other star feature. Also his portrayal of the psychopath's obsessional
attention to detail and determination to make his lethal "toy" fulfil
it's dreadful promise. Check out that look in his eyes in the climactic
park scene as he wiggles his "joy" stick.

These things allowed, there is one blundering and grossly offensive
feature. Gere's character could have been any terrorist from an
imaginary outfit or assassin or foreign agent, who happened to know
about the "Jackal". Why make him a "hero" out of the IRA? This is yet
another manifestation of Hollywood's liberal mind-set dabbling in
things of which they have not the glimmering of an understanding. As a
UK citizen I have seen plenty of IRA and UDA thugs dragged out into the
daylight. Fat tattooed men with twisted faces, scruffy facial hair and
mullet hair-cuts. There never was one who could by the remotest stretch
of the imagination be likened to a suave sex-bomb like Richard Gere.
When one of the FBI agents suggests that his "war" took the lives of
women and children rather than "British" soldiers he declares that he
never got involved in such things. That is a statement every bit as
ridiculous as if it were uttered by one of Osama Bin Laden's
lieutenants! Can you imagine Richard Gere at a meeting planning the
Manchester city centre bombing, saying to his "colleagues" "Aw, I'm
sorry, I 'll have to sit it out on this one, chaps, this isn't my way
of fighting a war." And, incidentally, Ulster has been a constitutional
part of the British Isles for five hundred years ( twice as long as the
U.S.A has existed ). Please note, Hollywood, the Northern Irish ARE
British. Moreover, the use of the expression "British" to refer to the
English ( which would have been what he meant ) is a uniquely American
error.

There are also numerous "howlers" in the story. For example, if
destroying the plans is so important to the assassin, why does he go
off and leave them laying about to be discovered? When the gangster
falls dead in the car-park, what happens to the body? Where did Gere's
pistol come from in the final scenes? Why did the Jackal wait for the
FBI to arrive before opening fire on the intended victim? Why, when
they knew who it was and that he was there, did they not simply
postpone the opening? Why were there no police or security arriving in
the Metro station ( apart from the one killed )? 

These things aside, a good set of cliff-hangers and one excellent and
novel twist, a play on our assumptions, at the end.
<|_=00=_|>
A almost-typical modern-day crime film in which a hired killer goes
after a political figure and the FBI tries to stop him.

THE BAD - There is a shootout scene at the harbor where nobody was shot
despite three professional killers all doing the shooting. Then there
is the classic Hollywood hesitation by the killer at the end, thus
enabling the potential victim to be spared. That same killer ("The
Jackal," played by Bruce Willis) would also have killed the FBI man
(Richard Gere) without hesitation at the end. And, how Gere knew Willis
was in the subway is never explained. There are other credibility
holes, too, in here: too many.

THE GOOD - The cast of Willis, Gere, Sidney Poitier and Diane Venora is
first- class. All of them play interesting and likable characters -
even the villain! Gere did a credible job with an Irish accent and
Venora the same, playing a Russian. It was fun watch Willis with his
various disguises. The story keeps your interest all the way. It does
it right by not having too much action, but shocking and memorable when
it does occur. If you have good speakers there is some great sound in
the last 20 minutes. A good movie if you like suspense.

OVERALL - Definitely worth a look...or two.
