

I read some of the other comments comcerning this movie. And personally
i thought that this movie was greatly misinterpreted. This movie (while
have some "man-bashing" elements) is more about the friendship of four
strong real black women who represent a little part of most women in
society. I love this movie. I think that it has humor, depth, and
presents a very real perspective on love and dating in today's world.
And while men might take offense to the representation of the male
gender in this movie, I think that it's important to realize that
unfaithful, self-absorbed men do exist. However, as we must acknowledge
the less moral men of our society, this movie also portrays that good
decent men are not a figment of our imagination. With Wesley Snipes and
Gregory Hines characters, we see that men are not all callous unfeeling
creatures. So basically, I feel that this movie is one to be
appreciated and enjoyed. (And in response to one respone that i read. .
. One does not CHOOSE who they fall in love with, love just happens. We
cannot choose who we love.) Anyways. . .i loved the part where she
burned all the clothes too :)

<|_=00=_|>

This was a good movie, even though I'm not the target audience.  It's nice
to see that black women had a movie about them, and thanks to the star power
of Whitney Houston it became no.1 and was a big hit.  I am actually tired of
reading little comments saying that Whitney isn't that good of an actress
because all of those comments are based on the fact that she's a singer.  If
she wasn't a famous singer, nobody would say anything bad about her acting. 
IMO, she acted very well just like in all her movies, she's not an oscar
caliber actress (very few are) but she definitely has screen presence,
charisma and gets the job done.  Stop hating her because she's a singer,
unlike Madonna or Mariah, Whitney at least did some quality work with some
quality people, and she hasn't had flops & horrible movies.
<|_=00=_|>
So I finally got around to watching "Waiting to Exhale" on Encore the
other night and I don't understand why this became a hit.

(Note: spoilers ahead) As far as I can tell, the basic premise of this
film is that all men are insensitive, callous and unfeeling; especially
towards women.

Okay, well and good. That is the storyline? Fine. Men suck, got it.

But there is a huge double standard here; two of the women are dating
married men and clearly, we are meant to be sympathetic about their
plight as they whine and cry about not having "their" man with them at
night in bed.

How about this? STOP DATING MARRIED MEN! Maybe that's your problem in
the first place.

Now, on the flip side, Angela Basset's character is abandoned by her
husband for another woman. Yet, if you pay attention, even this
character is not completely innocent. When her husband informs her he
is leaving, the things she says makes it clear she's known about his
lover(s) for years but ignored his infidelities. Why? Obviously,
because he's so wealthy.

She liked all the "stuff" a little too much to have confronted him
about it. Again, she's made her bed here, not as completely as the two
who are actively cheating, but still. She spends the rest of the movie
being so angry that he left her you never really grow to like her.
Strangest of all is the man whose wife is dying of cancer; he sleeps
with the Angela Basset character after they run into each other at a
bar. With their clothes on, which apparently means it's oh-so-platonic
and sweet. Then he writes her a letter months later, thanking her for
that night and leading the viewer to believe that when his wife kicks
off, he'll contact her again.

Did anyone else think this was more than a little sleazy? I would hope
if I were dying of breast cancer that my husband wasn't out sleeping
around (and I do mean just sleeping) with other women. Sweet, platonic,
whatever; I think it's pretty horrible.

Bottom line; the characters you're supposed to connect to are unlikable
and the ones you're supposed to hate are just pathetic. Not very
enjoyable. However, I did give it three stars for the music, which
didn't suck too badly and the clothes and style. It's a nice little
snapshot of how things looked in '95. And the print wasn't very faded. 

That's about it, though.
<|_=00=_|>
I have the video of this movie and it grew on me as time passed. It's
not a great movie but it is enjoyable and as has been pointed out by
others, it feels good to see a movie about women of color for a change.
However, the movie would not have been watchable without the formidable
talents of Angela Bassett and Loretta Devine. I felt that they really
were Bernadine and Gloria -- even their smallest gestures were in tune
with their characters. I don't have the words to describe what fine
actors these ladies are and their skills are right up there with Debra
Winger, Holly Hunter, Alfre Woodard and others.

Gloria seemed to be the only moral woman in the lot. She was adorable
as an overweight, insecure no-nonsense business woman and mother. She
didn't think she was worthy of love because of her weight, but she was
the only one who found it (and deserved it). She was the only one who
didn't sleep around, wasn't a man basher, set a good example for her
son, and gave good advice to her girlfriends. The other three could
learn a lot from her. Loretta Devine has a really beautiful face --
look past the weight and for those of you who judge people by such
things, her skin color. She has wonderfully expressive eyes and
attractive features. I think it was noteworthy that Gregory Hines'
character saw her real beauty and responded to it. His character was a
decent, good man and I'm glad this was addressed in the movie.

Angela Bassett has always been one of my favorite actors. She is the
total package --- beauty and talent. Her character wasn't perfect but
Bernadine did take responsibility for the mistakes she made in her
life. She was so much better off without that reprehensible excuse for
a husband in her life - she could now start her catering business, she
had a possible new love in her future and she had good friends that
would always be there for her. I was as happy for her as if I were
really one of her girlfriends when things turned out well for her in
the end.

Lela Rochon didn't display any acting talent here and wasn't quite up
to the job of conveying Robin's vulnerability and immaturity. She was
little more than a tearaway that slept around and made dumb choices. In
the book, you realized that Robin had a lot of love to give a man and
didn't seem to know how to choose a good one to bestow it on. She was
obviously beautiful and decently educated but she lacked common sense
and had never really gotten over her betrayal by a man she had really
loved. Her mother was a cancer survivor and her father suffered from
advance Alzheimer's disease. I don't feel they rounded out this
character at all and she didn't seem like an actual person. Just a cute
slut who wondered why she got used by men.

Poor Whitney has no acting skills whatsoever! Every character she
attempts to portray is exactly the same -- Whitney Houston being well
groomed, pretending to be well spoken and classy, and looking cow eyed
at whatever male actor she is paired with. Its a shame because Savannah
should have been played by someone like Angela Bassett or Kimberly
Elise (although she might have been too young). The character had to
tell us she was smart -- in a phone conversation with her mother she
said "I'm smart, I'm a good person and I work hard." Thank goodness she
told us because we sure wouldn't have known otherwise. She has sex with
a man she doesn't like at all and doesn't even know well and then has
an affair with a married man and calls him scum! She has poor
conversational skills, doesn't really seem interested in her
friends'problems and preferred to roll her big eyes and act as if she
were so above whatever little difficulties they were going through.
Savannah would be such a waste of time for any man unless she took a
long hard look at herself. She deserved to be by herself at the end.

This movie might have been better with a female director, as Forest
Whitaker didn't "tell this story" properly at all. We ended up not
liking or caring about the characters because we really didn't get a
strong sense of who they were.

Also, was it me, or was everything in this movie either orange or blue?
<|_=00=_|>
While this movie truly is bound to be more appealing to women than men,
it is a touching story of four best friends. How they stick together
and grow together through life's mistakes, joys, and bad taste in men.
I love Angela Bassett and she is outstanding in this movie. The other 3
ladies, Whitney,Lela, and Loretta do great jobs too. This movie is
filled with sweet moments, great laughter, and maybe some tears. Just a
wonderful movie that shows what friendship is about. I have not read
the book, but I have heard many times that the book is better... but
hey thats true for almost every book turned movie. So all I know is I
love this movie, and every time I watch it, it gives me great pleasure.
Not too mention the soundtrack is fabulous! Whitney, Brandy,
Babyface,Faith Evans,and Mary J Blige make the music in the film
absolutely great.
<|_=00=_|>
Predictable, full of every soppy sad tragic story you've seen on the
soaps. You know who is going to sleep with whom, you know they
shouldn't, you know what the outcome will be. You could write the
dialogue yourself, if you've ever seen even a week's worth of soap
operas. You either want to leave the room, or turn the channel, it's so
soppy and predictable. Of course they all turn out to be strong women
in the end; it was written during that era. Of course 99% of the men
are jerks; it was written during that era. Of course all the women are
fantastically beautiful; you wouldn't put up with this movie if they
looked like real, every-day women. The saddest thing about the movie is
how beautiful Whitney Houston used to be before drugs and her husband
ruined her.
<|_=00=_|>

The Feature Film version of the MacMillan Novel was a welcome
change
from all the "Hood" movies that were being released. Unlike the Hood
movies
"Exhale" did not have a plot that revolved around: violence,drugs, and
guns.
Instead it was a more Upscale drama. If you read the book the roles were
cast perfectly with the exception of the woman that played
Savannah.
Angela Bassett as Bernadine, Lela Rochon as Robin; Loretta Devine as
Gloria;
could not have been better casted, if the movie were done over a thousand
times!

Unfortunately Terry MacMillan allowed the project to get too
commercial,
thus compromising her craft! One verification of this is the exporting of
Whitney Houston from the Music Industry to fill the lead as Savannah. The
part of Savannah demanded a lot of acting ability. They could've gotten
Theresa Randall, Robin Givens or Tyra Ferrell to do the lead, but they
didn't. Instead they hired a pop diva in an effort to get millions of her
fans into the cineplexes; and of course sing on the Kenny "Babyface"
Edmonds
produced soundtrack! Needless to say the grammy Award winner gave a highly
unimpressive performance!

As for the directing; now Forest Whittaker's my boy, but the
direction
needed a womans touch! The story was supposed to be about feminine
friendship, and all the complications that go with it.

Despite the box-office success of "Waiting to Exhale" it failed to
produce a demand for more Upscale Black Dramas! Macmillan had to do it
herself in her follow up book turned movie "How Stella  Got Her Groove
Back!"

Read my review of "How Stella Got Her Groove Back"
<|_=00=_|>

This film brought me to tears not because it was so emotional I had to cry
but being a Black man and a working actor making a living for 20 + years,
It
was the first time a big budget, well shot, well acted (Whitney is still
weak at times), well directed film about "most" black lives got a big
theatrical release. Most black films (Excluding Spike Lee) are about thugs
or are so low budget you never get to see them. It was about
time!
<|_=00=_|>

Angela Basset was good as expected, but Whitney has no Range as an actress.
The screenplay also neglected to portray, on film, the greatness of this
novel.  Instead of promoting sisterhood, they emphasized the
canine-qualities of men.  Read the book; rent Soul Food
instead!
<|_=00=_|>

I got an opportunity to see Waiting To Exhale for the second time
recently, the first time shortly after it came out, and now now. I
can't say time has improved my thoughts of the film, which is odd, as I
seemed to recall really enjoying this the first time it came out.
(Maybe I should watch 'Homeward Bound' again, as I LOVED that movie the
first time I saw it) The only actress really to impress in this movie
is of course the amazing Angela Bassett who growls and hisses every
chance she gets! I really liked this character, and I felt for the
trials she was going through. The other character I liked was the one
played by Loretta Devine, who was cute as the overweight mother who
unexpectedly falls in love. I kind of thought the Lela Rachon character
was underwritten, and seemed to almost revel in her wantonness. lol. As
for Miss Houston, when I was watching her "act", well, Chesty Morgan's
performance in "Deadly Weapons" came to mind for some odd reason, as it
appears the acting thing was becoming a struggle, and wasn't going to
last for too long.. All in all, I wasn't really disappointed in the
film, it just slid off...

