

In the early 90's Jarmusch delivered this charmer, a movie that unites
America and Europe through one single topic, yet shows very different
versions of it.

At probably the exact same moment people around the globe get into taxis. A
stylish Hollywood casting agent mounts a cab in L.A., in New York it's a
hapless poor man trying to get home, in Paris we encounter a blind woman, in
Rome a priest and in Helsinki a bunch of drunks will tell their story. Yes,
indeed. Stories are told, because each episode is an encounter with the
respective cabbie, who all have a life and a past of their
own.

Wynona Ryder's performance of the 20-year-old, chain-smoking taxi driver
does not work very well and also makes for the least interesting story. But
Armin Müller-Stahl as an East-German refugee and former clown, who is
awe-struck and belittled by the bustling NYC around him makes up for a lot.
His helplessness when trying to communicate with his passenger, played by
Giancarlo Esposito, almost becomes tangible when it manifests in his
complete inability to steer the taxi. Within very few minutes the two men
develop an utterly deep and good-humored trust and friendship between them.
I'd call it the funniest portion of the movie, but in Rome we encounter
Roberto Benigni as an always talking, sex-obsessed cabbie. His is the story
we get the least emotional or intellectual outcome from, but, hey, welcome
to the Benigni Show! If you are open-minded enough to laugh about a few
surprises in the field of sexual experimentation (which we don't see but
only hear described without too much detail), this one will stay with you as
one of the brightest twenty minutes in your life. Before Rome we visit Paris
with the most mysterious, yet most catching segment, a curious story about
the afore-mentioned blind woman and a black cab driver, who - we can't be
sure - might be going blind himself (he's very short-sighted and therefore
has problems with driving his taxi) and has a lot of questions to ask. The
woman, however, is not interested in conversation, yet we get the impression
she opens up more than the driver realizes. In Helsinki a group of drunks
tell the story of their sleeping friend's worst day. The cab-driver listens
to it. It's a terrible story about a horrible predicament and the poor
fellow's life basically lies in ruins. And yet the cabbie tops the story
with one of the saddest things you'll ever have heard.

The concept of the movie thinks of night as a place rather than a time,
because all of the stories begin at the same moment in time but in different
time zones. We move east in the process of the film and so we experience
sunset in Los Angeles and early morning in Helsinki. Each of these times
lends a special atmosphere to the story it tells, which becomes the most
effective in the Helsinki story, which is utterly sad, however ends with a
new day starting. People leave their places and go about their lives - the
world moves on, none of the stories has an ending, life for each of the
characters (except one) will continue.

What's so great about this movie is that it tells such different stories
with such different characters who all have different pasts and intentions,
each accommodating the place of action (even visually - in L.A. even the
buildings appear to be candy-flavored, while in Helsinki the city is cold,
drab, yet hopeful) and it all comes together to this huge picture, which
reminds us that we are all different but all live on the same planet and
know similar things about life, death and everything in-between. I wonder
what this movie would have been like, if Jarmusch had also considered taxis
in non-western countries.

I highly recommend this movie to anyone who... Oh, blast! I recommend this
movie to everyone.
<|_=00=_|>

Since I have almost seventeen years of experience in the taxi business as
a
dispatcher and driver, I have to say that "Night on Earth" is one of my
favorite movies! This movie gives a very real and comical portrayal of
life
in this line of work. I've known people who were given great
opportunities,
and rejected them. I've personally kicked drunk idiots out of my cab. I've
had blind people tell me which route to take. I've had people who were so
"down and out" tell me their life story. This is a film that portrays what
taxi driving is all about, and it is not limited to the USA. People are
the
same all over the world! This movie is not yet available on DVD in the
USA,
but I really hope it will be soon!
<|_=00=_|>

It's not that this movie is non stop laughs, but just that it is so smart
and such intelligent humor. It's got a clever premise about five short
stories involving cab rides in different cities, but it's the specific
situations that will crack you up. One after another, they are all
hilarious. Roberto Benini's scene had me laughing out loud, and that never
happens. The only sketch that wasnt so great was the opening one with
Winona
Ryder. Everything that followed it rocked and impressed the hell out of me.
A smart comedy. not too many of those.

<|_=00=_|>
Jim Jarmusch, a director who never neglects to find the time for the
little moments, glances, exchanges in dialog, that bring out the better
(or lesser) in people, puts his skills to full force in Night on Earth.
Another in his several episodic-style films, this time he pushes
forward his great use of pure conversational, and emotional, comedy, as
well as drama. In fact, this may be one of the best from the 90's of
that kind that came out (i.e. mixing comedy and drama to create some
bittersweet vignettes). Inspiration of course pours out from European
cinema, but even in the American segments there's a sense of genuine
pathos with the characters. Sometimes one style was kept totally
consistent, with all comedy in episode four or all tragedy in episode
five, or the two styles went back and forth like in the first two. The
third remains the more ambiguous, and maybe more uncomfortable, segment
of the bunch, and even if it might be the lesser of them all it's still
fascinating due to the actors.

But to get back to the humanism that comes on in the film, it's not
something at all uncommon to Jarmusch's work. In Ghost Dog it goes a
long way to help us not be too left out of the world of Whitaker's
character, or it makes every lady seem all the more odd and unique in
Broken Flowers. Here since it is met with a more realistic approach,
with situations that could be happening right now at night in these
cities, I'm almost reminded of Renoir. Particularly in the second
segment in New York, where there's the perfect divide between lightness
and over-the-top- lightness being in Armin Mueller-Stahl's performance
as Helmut (German ex-clown turned un-knowing cabbie) and Giancarlo
Esposito's performance as Yo-yo. Maybe it's because scenes like these
usually wouldn't make it into 'mainstream' fare, but a sequence like
this showcases some great dialog on both sides (and when Rosie Perez
comes in, all bets are off). Stahl especially makes the scenes work
in-particular as he almost seems to inhabit this person of an outsider
in the (taken for granted) amazing space of NYC.

To say which one was my overall favorite might be a little picky, as
every one of them had something to offer differently. There was the
cute, and slightly awkward, scenes with Ryder and Rowlands (maybe one
of Ryder's few gems in her career too, mostly based on style). The
segment in Paris, again, may make one feel a little uncomfortable, but
that might be the point. And I loved how Beatrice Dalle's role went
effortlessly between the bizarre and the almost ironically
compassionate. It's also the segment which provides a little extra
bitter of a touch by way of the Ivory Coast cabbie, however it does
come to pass as being about two outsiders thrust into a strange little
moment in life. Roberto Benigni's segment was drop dead funny, which is
surprising considering the hit or miss ways of Jarmusch's comedy. But
Benigni is so outrageous in his long monologue its no wonder what
becomes of his passenger. It's a terrific mix between Benigni's
voracious style of fast (but not too fast) speech, and a sort of
silent-film kind of comedy, likely out of Buster Keaton or something.
And all of this is accentuated by a carefully controlled mis en scene
of driving (which is always visually endearing), where right when
you're expecting there to be a cut it waits one or two extra seconds.
It's a film with a sweet rhythm that doesn't drag like in Jarmusch at
his worst.

The last segment, oddly enough, could be a downer for some. It was for
me, until I decided to watch it a second time. This combines the
frustration seen in bits in the other segments regarding a city life
that bogs down on its inhabitants, and the sympathy that can come out
even behind the tough veneer of lives lived with a shell protecting
them from idiots. When it comes time for Matti Pellonpaa's monologue,
it makes for the most touching, and a close-call for most emotionally
striking, thing Jarmusch has ever written, put together by his
portrayal. What's interesting even more so is how the film, despite
this bleak story, doesn't seem to end too much on that note, due to the
last little bit between Mika and Avi, the drunk passenger. In fact,
after watching this a second time, I got to get the sense of what the
film might be about- getting past that separation between a driver
doing his job and a passenger with their own issues. It's also a small
ruby of a communication fable, of how lives in different cities and
countries may be of course different in speech and attitude and dress,
but have similar plights to deal with in the dead of night.
<|_=00=_|>
No one I ever mention this film to has heard of it, let alone seen it!
I actually tried to see Thelma and Louise at the cinema when Night on
Earth came out, but as it was sold out, I saw this instead - what a
lucky break! The film is actually 5 short films of around twenty
minutes, each one a taxi journey, taking place at the exact same moment
in 5 cities across the world, from LA to Helsinki, via New York, Paris
and Rome.

Without ruining the surprises contained (its unexpectedness is one of
its delights) the film covers numerous emotions. At times it is utterly
hilarious, at others it's sad and moving. It is pacy and yet
considered, the characters are well painted, both by the writing and
the acting, and the story lines engrossing yet punchy. There are some
sub-titles, by the way, but please don't let that put you off. It's not
one of those intellectual "aren't I clever" films.

If you like your films classy, well written, well acted, intelligent,
thought provoking yet accessible, and with a great soundtrack (Tom
Waits), then Night on Earth is for you! Share it!
<|_=00=_|>

Jim Jarmusch does an excellent job in creating character conflict and
intriguing, realistic dialogue.  But what I admire most in this movie are
the opening scenes of every segment.  He knows how to capture the essence
of
every city and how to establish mood.  National Geographic has nothing
over
Jarmusch's photographic talent.

All segments are well written and tie in with the respective cities that
are
the back drop of the film: LA, NY, Paris, Rome and Helsinki.  The Helsinki
segment is the most depressing and it's kind of a bummer that the movie
had
to end on that note.  The Paris segment steals the show.  Incredible
camera
work and terrific dialogue.

Overall, the movie gave me a renewed appreciation for cinema.  Thanks
Jarmusch.
<|_=00=_|>
Jim Jarmusch does for movies as Tom Waits does for music, no wonder he
uses his music in his films. I've seen this movie over and over, its
truly wonderful. We glimpse A side of the world that is the same no
matter where you go. The world is round so no matter where you go you
are always in the center of it. Here we catch a Taxi in different
cities around the globe and although the cultures are clearly different
, there is something of the blues in each act. I can't make out which
one is my favorite, they all have a certain magic to them that totally
captures to mood of the country we are in although the mood itself is
that of the night where not much seems to be going on really except in
our taxis. Each scene in this film is a masterpiece, no matter which
country Jarmusch takes us too. Of course Benigni needless I mention is
that little bit more of a of a superstar but for that matter so is the
blind girl in Paris. Great music, great photography, great acting, its
all good. Its magic!
<|_=00=_|>
I suppose people will typically talk about they loved the NY and Rome
stories, but hated the Helsinki segment, or vice-versa, or whatever.
This probably comes from thinking of the entire movie as belonging to a
single genre--drama, comedy, satire. If you take each story by itself,
though, with an open mind, you will find yourself being entertained
(mostly) in five different ways. Although of course we will all have
our favorites. 

I wondered briefly why there wasn't a segment set in Hong Kong,
Singapore, Japan--to make it truly global. Of course it wouldn't be
night at the same time on that side of the world. Jarmusch should have
done it anyway.

Some think the movie is too long. But this is obviously a movie you
don't need to watch in a single sitting; indeed, for the reason stated
above, it's perhaps best watched a little at a time.
<|_=00=_|>

A fantastic piece of entertainment: five little stories, five cities, four
languages. That's all. This movie has no message but it portrays five
regions of the world most sensitively.

The L.A. episode is the weakest. It is not bad but it has one big problem:
it is the first one. People start watching the movie and expect something
sensational. This first episode cannot present anything spectacular, only
first class character acting. There are no big surprises or twists, the
episode is not particularly funny or anything. Honestly, when I saw the
first minutes of this movie I thought: `O dear, I'm going to fall
asleep!'

Then, the N.Y. story came. This one made me laugh real hard, and it made
Armin Mueller Stahl one of my favourite actors. I started to love this
movie, and I was well prepared for the Paris episode, which is, in my
opinion the best, the most satisfying of them.

I found the story of the Roberto Benigni episode rather stupid, but his
talent in exaggerating (so he did this even seven years before 1999's Oscar
ceremony!) made up for it.

Then, the huge contrast: The liveliest episode is followed by the dreariest.
Finnish workers tell each other stories from their lives, each trying to
tell the saddest.

`Night on Earth' is not a movie for everybody but I think it is, in any
case, the ideal movie to watch on television at two o'clock in the
morning.

<|_=00=_|>

In terms of perspective on life, these comic-philosophic taxi rides may be
the most uplifting scenes in Jarmusch's oeuvre. The first of five segments
(in L.A.) deals with Winona Ryder (in a broad, self-conscious performance)
as a cab driver who picks up Gena Rowlands, who wants to put her in a movie.
Rowlands is subtle and complex: she's a rich bitch with a soft side, but we
don't know if she's the former because she's a player or if she's the latter
because she wants to use Ryder. What Jarmusch is going for is to contrast
the social classes -- he has an obvious, unfunny line where Ryder's
character says she's never been to the executive terminal at the airport
before -- but what's really interesting is seeing, since Jarmusch is usually
a male-oriented director, how he handles women (one a tomboy, one in a
position of power).

It's obvious that the little idea of a movie about four taxi cab drivers is
just a thin story that gives Jarmusch an excuse to work with certain actors,
like Rowlands, whose late, great husband he adores. He goes for cultural
miscommunication in the New York story (which is the film's most tender and
brotherly), the warring cultures within a city, where a black man (Giancarlo
Esposito) who can't land a cab fights with his Puerto Rican girlfriend while
being badly driven around by former circus clown (Armin Mueller-Stahl, in a
goofy, charming performance). Jarmusch makes brilliant statements on race
and color in the Paris segment, with a sassy blind woman who's aware of what
her driver is thinking of her -- and who turns our expectations on their
head twice, without coming back to where we started. Benigni, who doesn't
play the clown, is nevertheless the funniest in the Rome ride: he talks
aloud to himself and outdoes and predates "American Pie" by almost a decade.
The final, Helsinki section is the most powerful. When the cabbie tries to
one-up the sob story by one of his three passengers, the conclusion seems to
be that he wins; the two conscious passengers seem to think their
unconscious friend's troubles are insignificant, as if they can't both be
sad. 7/10
