
Biggest problem with most action movies is that they take themselves
way too serious. "True Lies" is mainly fun and entertaining and on top
of that, the action is top class!

Finally a movie of which I can say: "Budget well spend!" The action
really jumps off the screen but it never feels overdone or forced,
which is thanks to action-director veteran James Cameron. He should
stick to directing action movies like this, the Terminator movies and
"Aliens". Please no more movies like "Titanic"! (not that it was a VERY
bad movie) Stick to were your talent lies.

The movie can be described as an American James Bond, meaning that
everything is bigger and I'm not just talking about Arnie's chest. Just
like the James Bond movies, it doesn't take itself seriously without
making itself ridiculous.

Many people seem to have problems with the whole "wife side track,
story-line" I guess I'm one of the few that doesn't mind it at all and
actually find it an extra addition to the story.

The movie has everything a good action movie need: A believable action
hero, explosions, chases, gun fights, a stereotype villain and a high
entertainment value.

I wish more action movies like this would be made.

10/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
Once again, Arnie and Cameron team up to deliver a terrific action
film.

Arnie stars as a secret agent posing as a computer salesman. Not even
his wife knows his true identity and since he is always busy she
decides to have a little excitement and hooks up with a nitwit posing
as a secret agent! In the mean while, in trying to get her back, Arnie
gets his family inadvertently pushed into a plot, by terrorists to nuke
the USA! Preposterous? Yes! Hilarious? YES!!!

The resulting film has Arnie chasing motorcycles on horseback through
hotels all the way to "borrowing" Harrier jets from the military. And,
of course, getting his wife and daughter back.

Packed with awesome action scenes and some really terrific hilarious
moments this is what an action movie should be. Not too serious and not
too pointless. 8/10

Rated R: violence and profanity
<|_=00=_|>
The secret agent Harry Tasker (Arnold Schwarzenegger) has been happily
married with his wife, the legal secretary Helen (Jamie Lee Curtis),
for many years living in the suburbs and having a teenager daughter,
Dana (Eliza Dushku). Helen does not suspect that Harry has a double
life, and she believes he is a computer salesman. After a top-secret
mission, Harry finds evidences that Helen is having an affair with
Simon (Bill Paxton), an used cars salesman that seduced Helen with the
glamour and excitement of his fake life, telling her that he is a spy.
Harry forces his partner Albert Gibson (Tom Arnold) to use the
resources of their agency to follow Simon and Helen; they abduct Helen
wearing masks and later they assign a pseudo mission for her. However,
a group of terrorists kidnap Helen and Harry and the couple gets
involved with a dangerous group that possesses an atomic bomb ready to
be exploded in Florida.

"True Lies" is one of the best adventures ever, and I personally do not
recall how many times I have watched this excellent movie. The story is
amazingly good, with a magnificent screenplay that alternates action
with comedy. Arnold Schwarzenegger, his partner Tom Arnold and Bill
Paxton are hilarious, with very funny liens and situations. Jamie Lee
Curtis is not only funny, but also extremely sexy and hot, and I love
when she says that she married Rambo. The special effects in the action
scenes are stunning. My vote is ten.

Title (Brazil): "True Lies"
<|_=00=_|>
James Cameron has directed some fantastic action movies during his
career (Aliens, the first two Terminator movies, The Abyss,
Titanic--that boat action was like totally awesome!!), but none were as
funny as True Lies is. Arnold Schwarzenegger (Terminator, Eraser, the
Governor of California) is Harry Tasker, a computer programming father
by day, James Bond by night, working for a top secret government agency
that is beyond the CIA and run by Charlton Heston. Tom Arnold, in his
first dramatic role, plays Harry's partner, Gib, and is the smartass,
class clown of the agency. Schwarzenegger and Arnold have a fantastic
chemistry, creating the movie's biggest laughs. Jamie Lee Curtis plays
Harry's under-appreciated wife, Helen, who flirts with the idea of
leaving Harry for a used-car salesman, played with uber-confidence by
Bill Paxson. Helen finds out the true identity of her husband in
another funny scene where both are captured by Arab terrorists with
help from a truth serum. The action part of True Lies comes from Harry
trying to track down the nuclear bomb that has been stolen by the
terrorists. A wonderfully shot escape scene on the bridge that connects
the Florida Keys to the mainland is the pinnacle of True Lies. An
action film that does not take itself too seriously (notice all of the
silly Arnold-lines peppered throughout the movie, my personal favorite
being "you're fired!" before Trump thought of it), True Lies is wildly
entertaining, so much so that you almost forget Tom Arnold was married
to Roseanne.
<|_=00=_|>

When a film has extravagant special effects, robust action, dazzling
direction, wicked comedy and a cast of great actors like Schwarzenegger and
Curtis and Arnold and Paxton, how can you go wrong?  You
can't.

True Lies is one of the best action films to come out, ever.  I don't think
James Cameron knows how to make a bad film and that may be because he knows
a winning team.  He has teamed up with these same players before and the
results have been the biggest grossing film ever, a soon to be trilogy that
started his and the big guy's career and a scary film about
extra-terrestrials.  Well True Lies is just one more amazing film in
Cameron's gold mine repertoire.  This really is a terrific film and it is
one of the best pure action films I've ever seen.  And it is wickedly
funny,
" Did you kill anyone? "

" Yea, but they were all bad. "  Priceless.

Here we have three separate issues happening simultaneously.  Arnold and
Arnold play two agents that are reminiscent to Bond type characters.  They
infiltrate castles and steel secrets and blow things up.  They are very
good
at what they do and as perfect as they are at their job, Schwartzenegger's
home life suffers from it.  His wife ( played with amazing sexuality buy
Jamie Lee Curtis ) loves him unconditionally, but she is a little bored
because he is gone half the time and when he is home he tells her about
boring computer meetings and how he wowed his clientelle with the latest
micro-chips, when in reality he is running through a snow covered field
with
a tuxedo on while being chased by men on skis carrying Uzis.  But she of
course isn't allowed to know about that, something in the name of national
security.  Hence we have Simon.  Simon is played for laughs brilliantly by
Bill Paxton.  He is the kind of guy that has a normal life but preys on
women that may be missing excitement from their life.  This is where he
meets Mrs. Tasker.  And he puts the moves on her, seeing the sexiness
underneath all of her facades and insecurities.  Paxton and Schwartz. play
well off one another and here is no exception as they meet when Arnold goes
to his car lot and pretends he wants to buy a car.  Paxton innadvertently
tells the man who's wife he is trying to with, that there is this hot
little
fox that he is almost in with.  Simon laughs like a slob and Harry has a
vision of breaking his nose.  It is played for laughs but it is here that
Schwartz. gets to show some of this best acting abilities.

The third story is the actual bad guys that want to detonate nuclear
warheads in New York for some sort of revenge.  Somehow the three stories
mesh perfectly together as Curtis gets mixed up by accident with the
terrorists thinking that Simon is being chased by them and so on.  There is
so much energy in this film, so much comedy, so much of everything for
everyone that I really can't see how anyone could not like this film.

True Lies is one of the best action films ever and this is probably Arnie's
best acting.  Cameron and Arnie work well together, and Cameron works well
with Paxton and hell Arnie and Paxton work well together ( Commando,
Terminator and this one).  It would almost be impossible for this film not
be great.  And that it certainly is.  You should have no problem popping
this one in the DVD or VCR and getting lost in excitement for two hours.

<|_=00=_|>

Why should one watch this film? It's stupid, without any character
developments and is about as believable as any James Bond movie. I'll tell
you: It's great fun.
When I watch a movie, I try not to confuse art with entertainment, as some
commenters clearly have done. True Lies doesn't have a hint of art - but its
comic-style spirit and adventurous action is compelling. And please don't be
childish - admit you like seeing nukes go off on screen. This film isn't a
Great Film. But it is Great Fun.
<|_=00=_|>

I had forgotten how funny this film is.  From the very start it begins to
laugh at itself and the entire genre, with great audacity.  Every single
scene is worth watching and I am still giggling about many of them.  (Well,
ok, the camera angle on the scene with terrorist-as-missile is a teensy bit
overdone.) 

I delayed renting it again because I remembered the Jamie-Lee-as-prostitute
scene was difficult to sit through--her predicament is just so embarrassing.
 But this time I discovered it is probably my favorite scene. She is just a
scream (and surprisingly erotic), while her underplayed klutziness
throughout is hysterical, right down to the tango at the end.  Especially in
contrast to her husband's ridiculously effortless physical skills and
unruffled cool.  The only time he loses it, and hilariously so, is with Bill
Paxton. (And I love that she gets her own back for Arnie's sleazy trick.  A
woman who packs a punch.) 

Even the excellent special effects are pure humor.  They are just huge
enough to be ridiculous, and yet never seem overblown--and this with a
nuclear explosion and a Harrier on an urban rampage.  This film is a work of
genius.  How an action/espionage/romance spoof could deliver such outrageous
tongue-in-cheek and yet never feel like corn, slap or déjà vu is a mystery
to me.  

I give this 8/10 for being relentlessly entertaining, at a very high level. 
 And the acting is top notch all around. 

<|_=00=_|>

James Cameron directs this terrific action flick that gives way to bursts of
comedy. Arnold Schwarzenegger is a spy trying to keep his profession a
secret from his wife(Jamie Lee Curtis)and realizes that she is having an
affair. The mild mannered salesman is really a double fisted devil may care
secret agent. The beginning and final sequences are a movie in themselves.
My favorite scenes are Curtis' striptease in the hotel and her "cat fight"
with the gorgeous Tia Carrere in the limo. Plenty of gun fights and big
bangs to please everyone. The cast also features Bill Paxton, Art Malik and
Tom Arnold in his funniest and greatest role as Schwarzenegger's sidekick.
There is a small role for Charlton Heston as the stern single minded boss.
Absolute entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>

*** out of ****

I've seen True Lies at least four times now, and every time I find myself
having a great time watching this first-rate action/comedy/thriller.  But
it's a movie that I can't muster more than passable (but occasionally fairly
ecstatic) enthusiasm for.  It's a very good action movie, and I can
certainly see how it's attained a reputation as one of the best
adrenaline-pumping rides of the 90's, but it's not great.

What True Lies has is one of the more ingenious action movie premises I've
seen.  Arnold Schwarzenegger is Harry Tasker, a husband (to Jamie Lee
Curtis) and father (to Eliza Dushku) by day, and world-saving CIA agent by
night (or day, it depeneds).  His latest assignment puts him on the case of
a mad Islamic terrorist called Aziz, who's retrieved several nuclear
warheads and plans to set them off on U.S. soil if his group's demands are
not met.  Complicating matters for Harry is the inclusion of his wife,
Helen, whom he believes is having an affair with a used car salesman (Bill
Paxton, in what's got to be his funniest performance).

In terms of pure escapist enjoyment, this is actually James Cameron's most
successful film.  True Lies is probably the only Cameron film that never
suffers from the slightest hiccup in pacing (yes, Aliens had a slow
beginning and viewing The Abyss was like watching molasses sliding down a
brick wall).  From beginning to end, there's not a single slow spot, as you
can expect either a sharply staged action sequence or comical setpiece
around every corner.  To keep such momentum up for 141 minutes is pretty
damn amazing, and Cameron must be given credit for making such a long movie
almost so effortlessly enjoyable.

But for all that is so enjoyable about it, True Lies lacks a strong plot (in
terms of action, as the romantic subplot is actually quite excellent).  The
villains are stereotypical terrorists, pure cartoons who don't even make an
impression as cool villains.  In his heyday, Arnold has battled tons of
memorable villains (T-1000 and the Predator stand out), the terrorists here
are clearly among the weakest of Arnold's foes to date.

The action is suitably over-the-top, especially the harrier jet climax,
which makes almost all the action that came before it believable in
comparison.  But the action is mostly excellent, the shootouts and
fistfights are exciting, there's plenty of cliffhanger thrills, and the
chase/catfight set on the lengthy bridge is classic.  

The movie has to keep a balance between strong violence and screwball humor,
which it pulls off very well.  The half-hour segment devoted entirely to
Harry's marital problems is hilarious, its only flaw being the abrupt segue
to "typical" Arnold action.  Even when Arnold's taking down massive armies
of terrorists, Cameron still maintains the same light tone evident during
the comical scenes, while still keeping the action thrilling.  That's quite
an accomplishment.  

The cast is all excellent, given the material and intent.  Schwarzenegger is
still the extremely likeable big lug.  These roles aren't a stretch for him,
but he excels at such parts because he radiates charisma like no other actor
(even if they may all be better than him when it comes to talent).  As the
comic relief, Tom Arnold is surprisingly very funny (since then, it hasn't
been so surprising as he's actually provided decent humor in those Andrzej
Bartkowiak films, or however you spell the guy's name).  Jamie Lee Curtis is
wonderful, too, and I've never been a big fan of hers.  Without a doubt,
this is easily her most winning performance.

One of the big box-office hits of 1994, I was surprised to see True Lies
didn't inspire any genuine imitators.  Just as well, I suppose, there's only
so much Bond "parody" you can see without the material getting tiresome
(Austin Powers, anyone?).  But True Lies' charms lies in that it works as
parody while still excelling as a straight action thriller.  When it comes
to pure direction, that's proof James Cameron can be a
genius.
     
  
<|_=00=_|>
Arnold Schwarzenegger (Harry Tasker) is a super spy character who works
for (eye-patched Charlton Heston) Omega Force, and tracks down
international terrorists...

His marvelous wife Helen (Jamie Lee Curtis) nor their teenage daughter
Dana (Eliza Dushku) know anything about it... Helen thinks he's rather
a dull computer salesman...

Things go rough when Harrie begins to suspect that his wife, a very
conservative secretary, maybe is having an affair with a man pretending
to be a spy... So he immediately brings all the resources of his
department to find out what is really going on... In addition, Harry
was focusing on a Middle Eastern terrorist group called the Crimson
Jihad who terrorizes the United States with nuclear weapons...

In my mind, and I'll bet the rest of you will feel the same as well,
Schwarzenegger has enough physical bravado for the job... Best example:
his scene holding Helen from the moving helicopter... He does a
credible 007—like character, especially out, in and around an ultra
exclusive Swiss château... His hot tango, with Asian beauty Tia
Carrere, establishes Harry's grace and charm...

Jamie Lee Curtis shows she is indeed a sweet delight in the way she
moves... This attractive star still has a great figure... Her arousing
striptease is hilarious and sexy...

Tom Arnold (Albert Gibson) does all of the background work in the van,
while his partner Harry saves the world, in killing bad guys...

Tia Carrere brings a sensuous style as the wild, hot-blooded
psycho-seductress, driven by powerful ambitions...

Bill Paxton becomes funnier as we get to know him... He feels lucky as
Helen's enigmatic suitor, convincing the naive woman, through a series
of "chance" encounters, that he is an international spy...

Art Malik makes an appropriately super-villain especially considering
what he is supposed to be portraying: the face of terrorism, with
fanatical actions shaped by a fundamental antagonism against United
States... You'll explode with laughter watching what occurs when our
super hero tells him, "You're fired."

With 'True Lies,' a vivid reminder of just how exciting an action film
can be, director James Cameron gives us a film that plays for laughs
enough that it works... Watch Schwarzenegger on top of the skyscraper
wanting a horse he is riding to jump to another building... The $100
million in special effects are very impressive... The best example:
Harrier fighters blowing out a bridge; and a standout scene that has to
been seen to be believed:the rescue of Arnold's daughter with a Harrier
Jetfighter...

Six months have elapsed since (September 11th, 2001) that terrible day
of infamy tore at America's soul... On Sunday, October 7, 2001, the
United States and Britain began air strikes against Al Qaeda and
Taliban targets in Afghanistan...

I think each nation must struggle against violence and for peace... We
will never eradicate terrorism altogether, but we can certainly
minimize its destructive impact... This is not a fight against a
specific religion or a culture of people... This is a fight for the
right to live in democracy, freely and in peace... This is a fight to
the end that the whole world must win...
