
At least a 5 would suffice. Like come on this movie is meant for kids
and those whom love that little nostalgia yeah it was corny, and yeah,
it was really stupid. But fellows, that is the power rangers. Many
teenagers such as myself grew up on it. We fed on the corniness of
having huge robots to make one mighty robot. It's just sad how people
will judge a movie based on power rangers because power rangers aren't
cool anymore. Most of these people believe it isn't because society
tells them, "hey you kid, you're what, 10? Yeah... well, f.y.i. you;re
a loser for liking power rangers still, move onto anime." What else is
sad... is how critical people are. It's a KID'S movie. Yeah, sure,
"Finding Nemo" was funny for everyone but, Power Rangers was never
meant for adults. Simply, children. If it was for adults I'd say hell
yeah, a 2 is out of remorse, but since i remember the good old days.
I'm giving this movie a 5 because yes, there is much better movies, but
this movie is good for its purpose. Or at least was.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is not meant to be at all meaning full to an adult audience.
I however saw this film as a child and loved it. I wish that children's
films were still like this today instead of that animated junk. This
film was terrific it has a pretty great story lovable characters and
great villains. I fell bad that this terrific series has gone down the
poop shoot with about 9 remakes of the characters. I think that a lot
of people that were children when this came out would agree here. Not
to mention the film had an amazing soundtrack. All in all for a
children's film i think that this film was worth the money and i
suggest this movie for the newer generation of children too!
<|_=00=_|>
When I was 8 I used to rush home from school to watch the Power Rangers
fight their new baddie of the week. I thought it was great! And then
the movie came out and I was able to see them on the big screen. I've
gotta tell you that it was fantastic! As an 8 year old I fell in love
with Tommy (my first crush) and couldn't help but laugh at all of the
jokes. 10 years later I found it sitting on a shop shelf, WHAT! POWER
RANGERS ON DVD??? NO WAY! SO, as you do, I bought it and it was just as
good as I remembered. Perhaps not for the same reasons though. Some of
the jokes have worn off but as a now 18 year old I am understanding all
of them now. I still find Tommy to be absolutely adorable and I have
found this trip down memory lane to be quite an exciting adventure. I
would recommend this movie to anyone who was a fan of the show as it is
quite funny to see them talking with their fists all of the time no
matter the context and the different fashion back then. How often do we
see teenagers dressed with their shirts tucked into their jeans with a
nice brown leather belt? Ha ha ha. I thought this movie was great for a
laugh. POWER RANGERS ON DVD??? WOW!!!
<|_=00=_|>
1994 was the year of the Might Morphin Power Rangers, I was only 9
years old and was such a huge fan. I remember the summer of 1995 my
friends and our parents took us to see The Might Morphin Power Rangers:
The Movie and we thought it was the greatest movie ever made. I know
that's sad, but we loved the show and the movie lived up to a great
episode with an even better budget. I hadn't seen the movie since '95,
but my boyfriend and I went to Target and found this movie on the $5.50
shelf and I grabbed it for old times sake since he was also a Power
Rangers fan when he was a kid. We watched it and I have to say that
despite how bad it is and how mega cheesy the lines and acting are,
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: The Movie is what it is. It was aimed at
kids and was terrific for them, the story was so bad that it was
actually good.

The rangers are living their lives in the fast lane, they're sky diving
and roller blading, I mean is there anything they can't do? But
anyways, all that is put on pause when Zordon warns the rangers of Rita
and Zed's evil plan to raise Ivan Ooze. Ivan is planning to take over
the world when he shrinks Rita and Zed and is putting all the kids
parents under a powerful spell to make them do his bidding. Ivan then
visits the command center and destroys it leaving Zordon in bad shape
and now the rangers have to save the world on top of saving Zordon and
become the powerful ninjas to regain their powers and defeat Ooze.

Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: The Movie is extremely silly and cheesy,
but I don't know what people were expecting when they watched it that
it got such a bad rating. It's one of those movies that is so bad that
it's actually good. Although Zordon's face will haunt my dreams for a
long time, it was classic the way the "actors" who played the rangers
presented their lines, I loved how they would fight and do back flips,
yet could say their lines perfectly without sounding out of breath.
Also how they replaced certain rangers with people who looked like they
were picked out of a kick ball team line. But Mighty Morphin Power
Rangers: The Movie is a classic film I think in a sense and will be a
true time capsule of 1995.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

I hate to admit this, but "Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: The Movie" is one
of my major guilty pleasures. I really shouldn't like this movie since it's
aimed squarely at kids. But to my astonishment I did. It's no classic to be
sure. It's mostly ridiculous. It's absurd in many ways. However for some odd
reason, it entertained me. The thing I liked best about the movie is the six
young actors who play the Power Rangers. They're all good, although I wish
the screenplay would have let their characters delelop better that it did.
Then this movie would have been better. I wish this movie, as well as the TV
show, could have been aimed at teenagers instead of kids. Then some of it
wouldn't be so juvenile. However, this movie is nowhere near as childish as
the terrible second movie "Turbo: A Power Rangers Movie".  One good thing
about "Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: The Movie" is that you don't see much
of two of the most brainless characters in the history of show business,
Bulk and Skull. Cut those guys out! The six actors who play the rangers
(Karan Ashley, Johnny Yong Bosch, Steve Cardenas, Jason David Frank, Amy Jo
Johnson, and David Yost) give far better performances compared to the two
actors who play those goofballs (Jason Narvy and Paul Schrier) in this movie
and on the TV show. Of all of these actors, only Johnson has gone on to some
fame (on TV's "Felicity"). "Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: The Movie" has
better special effects than on the show and in "Turbo", and that helps alot.
This is one odd picture. It ain't all that good, but it's not all that bad
either. 

**1/2 (out of four)


<|_=00=_|>
This movie was released when I was a kid, and I was already a huge fan
of the Power Rangers television series (the original series is still
the best!). This film had all the right ingredients from the series,
with added fun like new costumes, villains, locations, etc. And of
course, all the stars look fantastic in it, and if you're a fan of the
series, you'll be amazed at how much better the film comes across on
screen. The action scenes are well set out and of course, there is lots
of cool graphics (bigger budget means bigger looks!). But don't just
think it's all about the action- there is a lot of fun mixed into it
all as well. Lots of fun, and can appeal to a large range of audiences.
Sure, it may just be a 'kids' film, and is not exactly Oscar material,
but it is perfect for what it is! Remembering that this series is one
of the most successful children's series in the last 20 years, the film
is a definite must for all fans.
<|_=00=_|>
This could possibly be the best movie in cinematic history. It is well
made. there is a good story line, and of course it gives you the erg to
run out and break some ones arm, or leg, or ribcage. No, but in all
seriousness the movies pretty horrible, but its a good horrible. the
kind of horrible you watch with you're old buddy's and roar about how
impressionable you were when you where, oh lets say six? what really
got me going was how when they talking at the same time and do the same
arm movements. How ever i must admit, i think i have a crush on the
pink power ranger again... You have to love the nineties and I'm sure
we will look back at the 2000's in ten or twenty years time and laugh
the same way we are now.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this thing in the theaters, people. Can you believe it? And I
actually
took the material seriously and thought it was probably the single
coolest
thing I would ever see in my lifetime. Thank God I went on to my 11th
birthday. One of my friends still digs all things Ranger, so he started
playing it during play practice breaks. After having it sit on my shelf
for
so long (yes, we actually own the video...shut up), I couldn't believe
how
much I had forgotten. The horribly obvious wire work with Billy, the
'cool'
new plastic suits (as opposed to the cheap spandex suits of ye olde
television era), the offensively dumb Ivan Ooze villain, and especially
the
giant foam skeleton of a triceretops that attacks our heroes (wow, this
movie has EVERYTHING!). The whole thing just screams Early 90's, when all
kids could think of to do for fun was pretend to be Tommy and break their
buddy's arm while pretending he was Lord Zedd (crap, I actually remember
who
Lord Zedd is!). Things are just corny from start to finish here, like the
new and improved Ninja Rangers with their spiffy Early 90's Computer
Animated Zords (gotta love the Frog Zord). From what I remember, Turbo
was
even more insipid than its big brother, so if you have to choose which
one
to watch during your Elementary School Nostalgia-Thon Fest Bonanza, go
with
this puppy. Trust me, even though it's Grade-A junk food, it will make
you
laugh with the memories. 2/4 Stars
<|_=00=_|>

Ok i admit it i was into the power ranger thing back in the day. This is a
fairly decent big screen adaptation of the TV series. dont get me wrong but
at the time Power Rangers was the Biggest thing in Childrens Entertainment.
I went and saw this movie. i enjoyed it. nothing negative that i can say
about it, i think its a Quirky film appealing to the tween market. This
movie is better than the series when they get their Ninja Powers.  but that
was about it. BTW the new series is looking like it is back in stride with
the originals. It nice looking back on this film as what childhood meant to
me. Turbo, isnt that nice of a movie by all means. out of the two Power
Ranger Feature Films pick Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: The Movie. Cast is
from the TV series. enjoyable adaptation
<|_=00=_|>
This Film, is what it is. Its a children's adventure movie and thats
all. It should not be compared to anything else, and it should not be
judged the same way great films are judged. Its an original idea, and
its bold. Its a non Disney production, meaning its fresh new and
exclusive to my generation. Sure there is better children's
entertainment, but that doesn't mean that this example is 'bad'. All i
know is that I have a ball watching it now, just as I did as a kid, and
that all the little children I know, enjoy it just as much as I did,
meaning it cant be all bad if its standing the test of time, and
reaching out to kids 12 years after it was made. Its a good time, and a
good source of escapism for the adults that are dragged into seeing it.
I do recommend it. If you watch it, just to negate, reject and make fun
of it you will not like it. But that goes for any movie, including Star
Wars and pretty much every modern family classic from Lucas/Spielberg.
