

Richard Curtis, author of Rowan Atkinson's sublime Blackadder TV series,
here contributes a romantic comedy screenplay which is actually romantic AND
actually funny.  American hacks should take note:  it's possible to write
comedy based on the battle of the sexes that doesn't rely on misogyny and
gross-out humor.

Hugh Grant at his most charming leads a talented ensemble cast in this
warm-hearted tale of unrequited and requited love that so impressed stodgy
Academy voters it actually got a Best Picture nomination.  I won't quibble
with those who say it was undeserving -- although some of the other user
comments are ridiculously hostile to such a lightweight romp -- but I will
defend its makers for crafting a genuine crowd-pleaser that relies on story,
character and witty dialogue for its appeal. 

The essence of good romantic comedy is what Curtis and director Mike Newell
capture particularly well in this film (more effectively than Curtis' other
Grant hit, NOTTING HILL) and it's this:  love makes us do stupid things.  We
err in choice, we blunder in execution, we make utter fools of ourselves,
and yet we don't give up.  We still strive.  We still search for that
perfect someone.  And the glory is -- sometimes we get
lucky.

Going along on this quest with Grant and friends is as enjoyable an
entertainment as you're lucky to find in your local DVD section.    

<|_=00=_|>
Richard Curtis's films have sometimes been criticised for giving a too
cosy, conservative view of British society. "Four Weddings and a
Funeral" seems to take place in an England of eternal summer, a land
which consists almost entirely of green and pleasant countryside and
the more exclusive districts of London and which is populated solely by
members of the upper and upper-middle classes. The script does cross
the border into an equally idealised Scotland of mists, tartans and
Highland flings, but even these scenes were actually shot in Surrey.
Such criticism contains an element of truth, but is largely irrelevant
when it comes to assessing the merits of the film because it ignores
the fact that most romantic comedies (in other media as well as in the
cinema) are set against a relatively narrow background in terms of
social class, often enabling the writer to satirise the manners of that
class. Jane Austin, for example, the most successful writer of romantic
comedy in nineteenth-century England, set all her works among the
wealthy landed gentry or prosperous bourgeoisie of the day.

Most of the action of the film takes place either at, or immediately
before or after, one of the four church services mentioned in the
title. The main character, Charles, is a well-to-do young man, probably
educated at public school, and clearly a member of the professional
classes, although we never actually discover what his job is. The film
starts with a wedding at which Charles is best man to Angus, one of his
old friends, and at which he meets Carrie, an attractive young American
woman. The film then traces the ups and downs of the relationship of
Charles and Carrie, via two more weddings (the second of which is
Carrie's own, after she and Charles have split up), the funeral of
Gareth, another friend of Charles who suffers a heart attack while
dancing at Carrie's wedding, and one final marriage ceremony.

Hugh Grant, as Charles, gives a very good performance. Grant has a
relatively narrow range as an actor, but he is capable of some
excellent work within that range. There are some subtle differences
between Charles and William, the character Grant played in "Notting
Hill", another romantic comedy written by Curtis. William is a shy
young man who uses ironic, self-deprecating humour as a cover for his
shyness and lack of self-confidence. He is very much in love with Anna,
that film's heroine, but is afraid to declare his love because he
cannot believe that a beautiful and successful film star would take any
interest in the owner of a small bookshop. Charles, by contrast, is
less shy than William and enjoys more success with women. His humour is
also ironic, but for a different reason. He is afraid of his emotions
and of commitment and uses irony as a means of distancing himself from
life and of avoiding having to commit himself.

The film can be seen as the story of Charles's journey to emotional
maturity. He has had a number of brief affairs, all of which have
petered out precisely because he is afraid of his emotions. His
relationship with Carrie initially goes the same way and she marries a
richer and older man. The change in Charles's character is partly due
to the fact that he sees his carefree bachelor world disappearing as
most of his friends get married, but the event which seems to have the
greatest effect on him is Gareth's funeral, at which a moving eulogy is
read by Matthew, Gareth's gay partner, touchingly played by John
Hannah. Charles realises the strength of the love that Gareth and
Matthew shared for one another and comes to appreciate that such a
relationship is something to be valued.

Grant does well to make Charles a sympathetic figure, despite his
having many failings quite apart from his ironic distancing of himself
from the world. He is clumsy, accident-prone (he manages to lose the
ring at Angus's wedding), much given to profane language and can be
appallingly tactless, especially about his former girlfriends. The
other main character, Carrie, can perhaps be seen as a female Charles,
someone who is on the same journey as him but who has travelled
slightly further. (It is significant that her name is short for
Caroline, the feminine equivalent of the name Charles). She freely
admits to having had over thirty previous lovers, but she is the first
to want to bring emotional commitment to their relationship. Am I,
incidentally, the only one to have liked Andie MacDowell's
performance?- she has come in for a lot of criticism, in my view
undeserved, on this board.

The film is, however, more than simply a study of relationships- it is
also very funny with some superb lines. Hugh Grant can be very amusing,
and there was a great cameo from Rowan Atkinson as a bumbling, nervous
trainee priest who keeps fluffing his lines during one of the weddings.
("Awful wedded wife", or "Holy Goat" for "Holy Ghost"). I also liked
David Bower as Charles's deaf brother David, the late Charlotte Coleman
as his impudent younger sister Scarlett and Anna Chancellor as his
ex-girlfriend Henrietta (also known as Duckface), whose embarrassing
emotional incontinence perhaps explains why Charles is so keen to
distance himself from his feelings. I was less impressed by Simon
Callow as Gareth, loud, extrovert and excessively hearty (like most
characters Callow plays).

To sum up, this was a very good film indeed; proof that the British
cinema can produce romantic comedies as good as Hollywood at its best.
8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Four Weddings and a Funeral is a wonderful movie. Romantic comedies
often throw people off because they tend to be cheesy or depressingly
sugar-coated. However, this is a truly wonderful movie.

First off, the cast is terrific. They play off of each other
wonderfully and it makes for a delightful atmosphere. Just take the
lead, Hugh Grant, whose character doesn't appear fit the stereotypical
lead at all. The humor is very witty, and the jokes are guaranteed to
make you laugh even after you've seen the movie a dozen times. 

Situations in the movie are set up to be played out perfectly. In one
scene Hugh Grant is at a wedding and is seated with all of his
ex-girlfriends. The scene is set up for utter humiliation. 

Even with the quick-witted characters, and all the weddings, it
wouldn't be a movie without that touch of drama that for many might
just get a tear out of them.

Hands down all around great movie to fit most every occasion.
<|_=00=_|>

	The effects of personal want, need, love and desire on the friendships of a
circle of eclectic individuals is examined with a spot of humor in the
witty, clever and oh-so-British comedy of love, romance and finding that
special someone, `Four Weddings and a Funeral,' directed by Mike Newell. 
Hugh Grant and Andie MacDowell head a delightful ensemble cast in this story
of a group of long-time friends, all single, who watch and participate over
a period of months as one by one those amongst them step up at last to the
altar.  Of them all, Charles (Grant) seems the most likely-- and at the same
time the least likely-- to be next.  Young, handsome and charismatic,
Charles has no problem developing a relationship (he's had a number, in
fact, as we learn in one particularly hilarious scene), but sustaining one
is seemingly beyond his grasp.  Until, at the wedding of one of his friends,
he meets Carrie (MacDowell), an American, and she quickly enchants him.  It
is not the end of the story, however; for Charles, Carrie and the audience,
it's only-- as they say-- the beginning.

	Set in contemporary England, one of the aspects of this film that makes it
so engaging is the propriety with which the humor is presented. 
Refreshingly subtle, there's more of Noel Coward than Tom Green or Rob
Schneider to it; a matter of manners, mores and innuendo taking precedence
over gross-out, in-your-face, shock schlock humor.  And though Grant and
MacDowell are at the forefront of the piece, Newell does an excellent job of
developing all of the characters, succinctly supplying enough detail to each
individual to give the film some depth and dimension, without having to
actually go too deep.  He never lets you forget that first and foremost,
this is a comedy.  There's some insight provided, but this is not an
in-depth commentary on human nature, though there are some overtones and
implications in that direction (Charles is always late to the weddings, for
example; perhaps a subconscious denial of the impending nuptials?).  Most
importantly, the characterizations are rich, and the story is involving and
presented with an even flow that allows you to effortlessly be swept away
with it.  

	Certain actors make a career out of playing a variation of the same
character in film after film, striving for that definitive portrayal.  W.C.
Fields played the hen-pecked husband in a number of films, finally
perfecting that particular character in the person of Harold Bissonette in
`It's A Gift.'  For Hugh Grant, it's the retiring, somewhat self-conscious
and stammering, eyelid fluttering charmer, of which he's done a variation in
such films as `Sense and Sensibility,' `The Englishman Who Went Up A Hill,
But Came Down A Mountain,' Notting Hill' and `Mickey Blue Eyes.'  But
Charles is his definitive portrayal of that character, the one in which he
achieves the balance and honesty that makes the character so believable. 
It's a good bit of work by Grant, and definitely one of his most memorable
performances.

	Andie MacDowell, meanwhile, gives a rather composed performance as Carrie,
the quiet American with a reserved bluntness who captivates Charles. 
MacDowell brings a sense of quietude to the role that is sensuously
seductive, which lends credibility to Charles' infatuation with her.  It's a
role for which MacDowell is perfectly suited, as it allows her to play
effectively to her naturally calm demeanor and exquisite beauty and
femininity.

	In a part that has to be an actor's dream, Simon Callow is absolutely
exuberant as Gareth, one of the fixtures of Charles' circle of friends. 
More than just an effervescent character, Gareth is something of the
conscience of the film, laughing away and laying bare any and all pretense
or hypocrisy like a modern day flesh-and-blood Spirit of Christmas Present. 
It's a character that gives needed balance and perspective to the film, and
he's wonderfully played by Callow.

	Also turning in especially noteworthy performances are John Hannah as
Matthew; Kristin Scott Thomas, who is quite alluring as Fiona; James Fleet
as Tom, a character very reminiscent of his Hugo in the TV series `The Vicar
of Dibley,' (and very effective here); Charlotte Coleman, memorable in the
role of Scarlett; and Rowan Atkinson as the hapless Father
Gerald.

	Rounding out the supporting cast are David Bower (David), Timothy Walker
(Angus), Sara Crowe (Laura), Anna Chancellor (Henrietta), Simon Kunz (John),
David Haig (Bernard), Sophie Thompson (Lydia Jane) and Corin Redgrave
(Hamish).  There's enough twists and turns along the way to keep this film
unpredictable, including one scene near the end that initially seems so
mean-spirited that it may have you biting your fist and crying, `Oh, NO!' 
But, not to worry, Newell provides an instant resolution consistent with the
rest of the film, and it not only works but gets a good laugh to boot. 
Entertaining, pleasant and funny, `Four Weddings and a Funeral' makes for a
satisfying, feel-good cinematic experience that just seems so wonderfully
civilized amid the seemingly endless rancor abounding in our world today. 
It's what's known as the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 9/10.  

<|_=00=_|>

I'm blind to the alleged charm of Andie MacDowell myself.  That's why I
think that casting her in this film was a stroke of genius, for so far as my
senses tell me she perfectly fits the character she plays: a dull beauty who
casts a spell over one out of every twenty men she meets, leaving the
remaining nineteen cold and completely baffled.  Charlie (Hugh Grant) is
surrounded by MUCH more desirable female friends - even Duckface has
something going for her - but instead of so much as noticing them he falls
head over heels for an unattainable woman who is, on top of everything else,
boring.  Would have been as good as it is if Charlie's passion had made
SENSE?  Of course not.

Anyway, everyone I know with a low opinion of this film begins the case for
the prosecution with an attack on Andie MacDowell.  Is there anything else
to dislike?  I can't see it myself.  This is one of the world's few perfect
comedies, devoid of longeurs - perhaps the funeral didn't have quite the
desired effect - with true comedy and a nice selection of characters.  One
has no difficulty keeping the dozen or so members of the main set mentally
separate.  How many romantic comedies can you say THAT
about?
<|_=00=_|>
The lead character in this film, Charles, says at one point that, while 
his friends were busily obsessed with marriage, two members of their 
group were, for all intents and purposes, married to each other. In 
those days before Britain had a civil partnership law, he was referring 
to Gareth and Matthew, played by Simon Callow and John Hannah. "Four 
Weddings and a Funeral" was among the first major films to feature a 
gay couple without any comment, moralizing, or stereotyping. 
Considering all of the absurd controversy generated by "Brokeback 
Mountain," this English comedy may be considered subversive in some 
quarters, because it portrays the union between the two men to be as 
loving and enduring as any between the men and a women in the same 
film.

The two gay men are among a circle of idiosyncratic friends that orbit 
around Charles, who suffers from relationship avoidance. Played 
engagingly by Hugh Grant, Charles attends the weddings of others, 
but manages to avoid any commitment of his own. One of the film's 
funniest scenes involves Charles at a wedding reception where he has 
been seated at a table with several of his ex-girlfriends. With that 
one scene, screenwriter Richard Curtis wittily fleshes out Charles's 
character as each woman remarks on her past experience.

The episodic comedy is broken down literally into the five events of 
the title, and the core characters attend these events as spectators 
who each hope for a wedding of their own. Many of the lines and 
situations are extremely funny. Rowan Atkinson steals his brief time as 
a novice preacher who blesses a couple "in the name of the Father, the 
Son, and the holy goat." Although Hugh Grant plays Charles as, well, 
Hugh Grant, several other actors create some fine comic turns. The 
ravishing Kristin Scott Thomas is touching as the lonely Fiona, and her 
timing is impeccable when she recovers from an indelicate question with 
a snappy comeback. Of course, why anyone as beautiful as Kristin Scott 
Thomas should be unwillingly single is a minor casting flaw in the 
film. Unfortunately, Andie MacDowell plays the American, Carrie, and, 
although she looks great in a hat, she fails to generate the necessary 
charisma to convincingly be Charles's object of desire.

However, the low wattage generated by the two leads does little to 
dampen the hilarity or the pathos of this excellent film. While, at 
nearly two hours, the movie is long for a comedy, the structure and 
quirky characters easily sustain interest throughout. With "Four 
Weddings and a Funeral," director Mike Newell has made one of the best 
romantic comedies, and the film holds up to repeated viewings.
<|_=00=_|>

"Four Weddings and a Funeral" is a nice little film from 1994.  It did fair
at the box office and did fair with critics.  The Academy was charmed
enough
to award the film with a Best Picture nomination.  The film deals with a
British bachelor (Hugh Grant) who continues to run into a beautiful young
American (Andie McDowell) at various weddings in England.  As the film
progresses their lust for each other turns into love and the finale is a
real triumph.  This film is a comedy for the most part, but its elements of
drama put it above most films that go primarily for laughs.  The screenplay
is smart and the supporting cast is excellent.  Kristin Scott Thomas and
Rowan Atkinson (albeit in a very small role) are memorable.  4 out of 5
stars.
<|_=00=_|>
I am viewing the movie for my fifth time since its release. I just love
this movie and laugh almost endless throughout the movie. My favorite
parts of this movie are not the "Hollywood A List" actors but the not
so well known actors. They are incredibly funny and give wonderful
performances. I could easily write a bit about each actor in this movie
but time does not permit. These are some very talented people. As a fan
of British humor, I am especially pleased with the incredible writing
along with the acting. Not to mention some of the scenery. If someone
is feeling low, this is a great movie to watch to lift the spirits. I
highly recommend this movie to anyone wanting or needing a good laugh.
<|_=00=_|>


 "Four Weddings And A Funeral" is indeed a delightful little comedy with
some wondeful writing and polished performances.Hugh Grant shines in a role
that unfortunately left Him typecast to this day (for a different side of
Grant see his brilliant Fredrich Chopin in "Impromptu".) and Kristen Scott
Thomas is perfect as the enigmatic Fiona...witty,beautiful and
touching.
 Simon Callow nearly steals the film as Gareth..He is one of the world's
finest stage actors and its nice to see him get a film role he can really
sink his teeth into. Andie McDowall is very convincing as the object of
Grant's affection  and Corin Redgrave has a well acted cameo as McDowall's
fiancee Hamish.
 over all a jolly good film,funny,touching and sharp.
<|_=00=_|>

The movie was funny, easy to watch. Hugh Grant's character - the same one
he
plays in every film - is sufficiently charming that it can pull you
through
any number of storybook plots without all that much trouble.

But Andie McDowell - and I was so seized by this that I registered on this
site just to make this comment, marking the first time I've posted
anything
on one of these - acts so badly I was squirming in my chair with vicarious
embarassment every time she stood in front of the camera. At first, I
thought her character was simply being sarcastic and thus speaking with an
exaggerated indifference. Then I realized that the story called for
nothing
of the sort, and it was just her. Each sentence was blurted in the same
vacant monotone, like she was the voicemail lady sitting in a room reading
off disjointed phrases to be pieced together later by a computer. Out of
the
hundreds of engaging, beautiful, talented actresses who would be champing
at
the bit to appear with Grant in a sure-fire feelgood movie such as this,
how, I ask, how could they have selected her? And after all the film was
in
the can, available for objective review, what callous laziness prevented
the
studio from employing the best CGI talent available to excise her visage
and
droning voice from every frame and replace it with something more
lifelike,
such as perhaps a Dalek from an old Dr. Who episode?

