

I had high hopes for this -- really, I did.  I thought it would be a sweet,
charming and tugging-at-the-heartstrings comedy.  But I was TOO
hopeful.

Story in one sentence:  two best friends (one gay, one straight) end up in
bed together, have a son, raise him together, everything hunky-dory until
she wants to marry someone else and the little family gets screwed
up.

Let's talk about what's the worst:  the script, hands down.  Everything is
so spliced in or cut out it's just terrible.  The transitions are so
choppy,
that we barely have enough time to understand the undeveloped characters --
they're just thrown at us and next thing you know, it's years later.  It's
unrealistic and it's too fictional to really understand or get into.
Madonna is suffering from never finding Mr. Right, Rupert is the gay buddy
that "somewhat" turns into the bad guy and poor Benjamin is just caught in
the middle.  We don't know WHO to hate in this movie -- that's pretty much
the hard part.  Everyone is in the bad guy role, they just don't fit it due
to the fact they all need sympathy.

As for Madonna, yes, it's obvious she took lessons.  The problem would be
that she is way too conscious of the camera.  Her husband commented once
that she needs to let the director direct -- and I think that's a huge
problem with her performance.  She is just "too beautiful" in this movie.
I
mean, she's supposed to be sobbing her eyes out and she looks up and is all
glistening and pretty.  Sorry, but in order for me to believe her I want to
see it on her face that she's worried -- you know, red eyes, puffy cheeks,
smeared makeup -- the works.  Madonna had too much creative control in this
and it's obvious.  Her expressions don't fit her tone of voice either; she
seems to blink consciously and doesn't have much expression  -- but hey,
close your eyes and listen to her and you'll see that she's making
progress.

All in all, a good storyline put to a bad script and bad performances.
Anyone who tells you this is a great movie is obviously a star-struck
Madonna fan.
<|_=00=_|>
So bad it's good. Or something. At least, I didn't actually vomit up my
Hungry-Man TV Dinner -- I sat glued to the screen, fascinated with
Madonna's vapid-rapid-blink "acting" style, Benjamin Bratt's inability
to manufacture charm, and the fact that the normally appealing Rupert
Everett was markedly repugnant in this film. Madonna looks equally
strange. The creature/product has been molded into something quite cute
at various stages in her career, but in this vehicle she looks like
she's been hitting the steroid needle. I tried and tried but was unable
to analyze just what was wrong with her. You be the judge! Watch it!
Preferably with some unsuspecting friends and gallons of alcohol.
<|_=00=_|>

What´s this ?

Stop ! Don´t buy a ticket for this ! Hollywood has to stop making trash
like
this. I mean.. there´s nothing bad about trash but this is nothing more
than
simply boring. A Film about woman who wants a kid and a father who is gay
and not really the father and two other guys and some other gay guys and
the
mother who doesn´t know what she wants from another guy who´s not gay and
what ....   uuuurgh ..

I´m sorry but I can´t see any more stupid films that end in a court room.
If you write a script and you don´t know how to bring it to an end just
choose a court room as the location.
And why is Madonna such a nice person at the beginning of the film, such a
cheap jerk in the middle of the film and so nice again at the end ? Why
does
she have to leave her best friend like that. Did they cut out the scene
where a big stone falls on her head and she suddenly changes into an
unfriendly bad person as well as the reverse scene ?
And these stupid ... no ... it´s not worth writing about this any more....
just ignore this Film !


<|_=00=_|>

Madonna plays a women let down by one man too many. In a night of drunken
excess, she sleep with her best friend - who happens to be gay. She is
pregnant as a result and they decide to set up home as a family, remaining
best friends as they take on the joint responsibilities of parenthood.
Things get complicated as Madonna's character falls in love with a new
suitor. Probably the most PC movie of the year. If any of the subject matter
interests you, and especially if you like Madonna, go and see it. If
well-told stories about nice gay men and children leave you cold, forget it.
This doesn't take the Mickey out of gay people, neither does it sacrifice by
way of caricature or cheesiness. Instead it raises real social questions
about rights and responsibilities towards children, and without
preaching.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie definitely ranks among the worst director John Schlesinger has
ever made.
Visually brilliant movies like URBAN COWBOY seem long gone if compared to
this - pardon me - extraordinary piece of crap!

Madonna delivers an overwhelmingly shallow performance while Rupert
Everett
has to deal with her moron behavior as the film´s character
Abbie.

Maybe Madonna decided to make a movie about her coming of age as a
superstar
- searching for the right guy to raise her child with.
I really think she deserves her husband in real life, Guy
Ritchie.

But I can´t bear her attitude towards her gay friend, whom she chooses to
be
the child´s father - played by Everett. First of all, she lies to him,
saying he´s the father of her child.
When she finally meets Mr. Right, she doesn´t seem to care about him any
longer, treating him like an unloved being.

Accordingly, she abducts the child from the shared apartment to solve the
problem that unfolds when she meets her new lover.
Correctly, Everett deems himself forced to take their case to a California
court.

It is there, however, that Everett learns Madonna has played tricks on
him -
since he isn´t the real father of the child.
He is then - on top of everything - blamed with ruining Madonna´s
life.

Nobody asks how Everett must feel about the whole story..

I simply think that this movie is - apart from the terrible storyline -
unbearable.
You can´t just walk away with a film like this, which incorporates an
attack
on the self esteem of all gay men!!

Madonna ought to stick to her music career at last, since she doing fine
in
that area.
But I strongly advise her to keep her fingers off the filmmaking
business!

The movie is pure bad taste!!!!


<|_=00=_|>
This movie is really a sleeper. I can see why people who watch it
expecting a campy fiasco like Madonna made with Sean Penn would be
disappointed or even p.o.'d. I avoided it for 9 years just on
principle. In fact, during the first few minutes when I accidentally
caught it on TV, I kept thinking, "Who is this actress who looks so
much like Madonna but who can ACT????" This is really REALLY not a
romantic comedy, no matter how light and funny it is initially. It is a
more serious than usual role for both Madonna and Rupert Everett, and
they both did very well. It is touching and funny, and might have
suffered 9 years ago because the viewing public was not ready for the
very realistic portrayal of these complicated questions about who is
really "family" and why.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm with songman018.  I give it an 8 rather than a 10, but I agree with
everything he said about it.  I'm shocked at how poorly this has rated among
IMDB members.  I would've read some other comments to get a feel for why the
average rating is below 5, but I don't want to blow my image of either the
movie, or get disappointed in the people that viewed it.  I thought that it
was an incredibly appealing and sensitive film and that all of the actors
within were amazing.  I don't think I can say much more about it that
songman didn't already cover for me.  I'm very pleased to see that someone
else enjoyed it as much as I did.  Watch with an open mind and
heart.
<|_=00=_|>

Its been months since my wife dragged me to see this film, and I still
can't
get the rotten taste out of my mouth.  Ten minutes into the movie she and
I
were looking at our watches, wondering how much more we were in for.  At
that point we knew we had a film that could surpass The Postman (the
Costner
movie, not the Italian one) in trite pompousness.  The only positive thing
I
can say I gained from The Next Best Thing is that it has given me a new
concrete reference for the term "Bad Movie" (it nudged Postman out by a
nose).

I want to express, these feelings don't come from any bias I may have
against Madonna or any of the other actor's involved in it(including TVs
Doogie Hauser), in fact I have a great deal of respect for Madonna's
business acumen and her ability to continually re-invent herself.  A big
part of her past success has come from her wisdom to surround herself with
capable people, but that seems to have not made a difference this time.
The
usually engaging Rupert Everett walks woodenly through every scene.  Julia
Roberts' 'Squeeze' Benjamin Bratt stumbles through his poorly written
lines.
And as for Madonna herself--what accent is that you're
affecting?

Stay Away, stay away in droves. Or better yet, watch it, and learn what
real
pain is.
<|_=00=_|>

`The Next Best Thing' was excruciatingly slow.  From the start the plot
left
a lot to be desired.  On several different occasions I hoped the movie
would
end, but it just kept on.  The acting was mediocre at best, but even the
best actors would have had little to work with.  Unfortunately `TNBT'
made
it to the top of `Movies I wish I had never seen.'
<|_=00=_|>

I almost felt I watching tv-movie on Hallmark. Especially the last 45
minutes are like in tv-movie. The movie begins with comedy touch and later
it becomes boring drama. Madonna is ok in this movie, but the film doesn't
have good script. All the actors are ok. The movie isn't funny and surely
isn't touching. Maybe better script should worked. If Madonna wants to
become better actress, she should rely on better scripts. This film is like
tv-movie; after you have watched it, you simply forget it. ** stars from
***** stars.
