

Dolphin - cute

Elijah Wood - very very cute, especially when wet and partially
nekkid

Paul Hogan - strangely attractive, must have been the leather bondage cuff
he wore through the whole movie

Plot - very silly

Cute blonde - romance sub-plot highly unconvincing, clearly no girl can come
between a boy and his dolphin and Elijah doesn't even make a vague attempt
at kissing her, instead choosing to spend all his time fondling
Flipper

Ending - strangely similar to Casablanca, as Elijah says farewell to the
finned love of his life...

Lij: Last night we said a great many things. You said I was to do the
thinking for both of us. Well, I've done a lot of it since then, and it all
adds up to one thing. You're going out into that sea with your family where
you belong.

Flipper: eee eee eee

Lij: Now you've got to listen to me! Do you have any idea what you'd have to
look forward to if you stayed here? Nine chances out of ten we'd both wind
up in SeaWorld. Isn't that true, Paul Hogan?

Paul: I'm afraid the kid is right

Flipper: eee eee eee

Lij: I'm saying it because it's true. Inside of us, we both know you belong
with your family. You're part of their life - the thing that keeps them
going. If that pod leaves here and you're not with them, you'll regret it.
Maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, but soon. And for the rest of your
life.

Flipper: eee eee eee

Lij: We'll always have that time under the pier. We didn't have - we lost it
until you found the poison barrels. We got it back last
night.

Flipper: eee eee eee

Lij: And you never will. But I've got a job to do, too. And where I'm going
you can't follow. What I've got to do, you can't be any part of. Flipper,
I'm no good at being noble, but it doesn't take much to see that the
problems of one little boy and his dolphin don't amount to a hill of beans
in this crazy world. Some day you'll understand that. Here's looking at you,
kid.

I'm so moved I may weep.

In summary, approximately 5000 times better than Queen of the Damned, not
quite as good as Lord of the Rings.
<|_=00=_|>

Flipper is a good movie that you can just sit down and watch with the
little
ones without having to worry about shielding their eyes at any point
during
it.  Sure it's a bit cheesey at times and the writing is not on scale with
an actor of Elijah Wood's caliber, but it is an entertaining film to watch
and it's nice to see him playing a somewhat normal teenager.  His
character
Sandy does lean towards the overly obnoxious side of things in the
beginning
though.  So much so that you know if you were in the uncle's place, you'd
take him out for a midnight ocean ride and not return with
him.
<|_=00=_|>
Flipper is a nice heartwarming movie for whole family. It's obviously
not a great movie, Free Willy looks much better almost in every
component of film making. Possibly, at times it becomes a bit naive ,
and the writing and the script are not the best part of the movie, but
it's a entertaining film with very good cinematography (including
underwater shots) and some important moral messages. Elijah Wood proves
himself one more time as an incredibly talented and underrated actor.
He can make bad movie watchable, okay movie - good, good - great and
great movie becomes all time classic. Paul Hogan performance also was
very good and he is completely fit to his role. As I already say above,
whole cinematography was very good. But underwater shots definitely is
the best parts. So Flipper is a perfect way if you want to see nice,
sweet and entertaining movie. If you like me become sick and tired of
modern Hollywood trash, filled with sex, violence, vulgarity and
profanity you most likely would like this movie. 

My rating: 7,7 out of 10. Feel free for mailing me about any of my
comments and posts here. 

Sorry for my bad English.
<|_=00=_|>
I was rather appalled to see the low rating this movie received here,
personally considering it fun family fare. It revolves around a young
teenager, Sandy Ricks, who is sent by his mom to Coral Key to spend the
summer with his Uncle Porter. While there he befriends a dolphin named
Flipper. Lots of adventures ensue amid the predictable nephew / uncle
bonding as well as a little romance for Sandy with a local girl.

I'm a great Crocodile Dundee fan myself so absolutely loved Paul Hogan
in his role as crusty and comical Uncle Porter. For starters, he keeps
an endless stock of Spaghetti-O's in his house to serve as his usual
meal, heated with a blowtorch! Elija Wood, Frodo from The Lord of the
Rings, appeared quite competent playing the young Sandy, a boy at first
none too fond of his forced summer vacation locale.

Of course the dolphin is magnificent and there are some wonderful
underwater scenes. Set in the Florida Keys, it was apparently filmed in
the Bahamas. This adaptation of Flipper makes great family
entertainment, a sweet, sentimental, and fun movie that is infinitely
superior to many of the cinematic offerings for youngsters nowadays.
<|_=00=_|>
Flipper (1996): Dir: Alan Shapiro / Cast: Elijah Wood, Paul Hogan,
Chelsea Field, Isaac Hays, Jonathan Banks: Like Lassie, Flipper has
endured a long time and now it is time to resurrect it with a lame
remake that nobody gives a crap about. Now Elijah Wood arrives at his
uncle's hut for the summer. He would rather be at a Red Hot Chilli
Peppers concert. He eventually meets Flipper the dolphin and they
attempt to prevent fishermen from dispatching oil cans in the water.
Predictable formula featuring characters that merely take up space.
Children may enjoy the film although an attack by a hammerhead shark
may scare them. On that thought, watching a wildlife program would be
more entertaining. Director Alan Shapiro does his best with the flimsy
material with only the production and photography to back it. Wood
overacts throughout the entire film. He does exactly what countless
other child actors have done only he does it worse. Paul Hogan as his
uncle recites Crocodile Dundee. Chelsea Field and Isaac Hays round out
the cast with Jonathan Banks playing the idiot villain. Lassie worked
for the 1940's just as Flipper did the 1960's. Now we seem to have
adopted Free Willy and Man's Best Friend. They all seem to travel the
same story structure whether the creature is of land or water. Purpose
to be an updated version that deserves to drown in cinematic
wastelands. Score: 3 / 10
<|_=00=_|>
The 1996 take on Flipper has Paul Hogan as the nominal male lead, but
the main character is actually Elijah Wood, at the exact moment between
child and adult actor.

The story won't surprise too many people - boy befriends dolphin, they
solve the problem of missing fish and poorly dolphins by finding
illegal toxic waste dumping - but it is colourful, moral, and
entertaining, with lots of underwater photography and, of course,
dolphins.

Which is not to say that it doesn't have the odd moment which makes you
roll your eyes - the hammerhead shark groaning was my favourite - but
it is still a pretty good Sunday afternoon family film.

Joel McNeely's music is lovely.
<|_=00=_|>
The 1996 movie "Flipper" is a Hollywood remake of a popular cult
television series and a few mostly forgotten films from the 1960s. My
personal experience with the latter is very limited. I've only seen one
complete episode from the TV show, part of an older Flipper movie, and
clips of others in the saga about a kid named Sandy and his best buddy,
an unnaturally intelligent (even for his species) and charming dolphin.
But my experiences are enough to tell you that the core elements and
spirit of the show are incorporated into this big-screen version. It's
another story about a boy and his (insert animal species). And although
the movie's adult star Paul Hogan commands the most interesting
character, the dolphin is charming enough to recommend the movie.

In this picture, Sandy (Elijah Wood) is Porter Ricks's nephew (not son
as in the show) and is reluctantly sent to his uncle's seaside home for
a summer after a (what else?) divorce. Sandy is all but willing to
accept his three months living by the ocean until a dolphin separated
from its clan following a trigger-happy boater's tirade decides to stop
by his favorite pier. Sandy, of course, forms a friendship with the
dolphin, whom he names Flipper. And in the end, just like with "Free
Willy," the plot leads up to a struggle to reunite Flipper with his
kin.

This big-screen version of "Flipper" is a little flimsy and it's more
whimsical than it is consistent. And just like with Free Willy, Lassie,
Old Yeller, and every other cute critter in these kind of stories,
Flipper has the ability to read minds, understand English, and run an
underwater bank all without any training (Confused? See the movie). But
honestly, I think that is part of the appeal that the TV show had for
children and that's why I think that appeal will remain for this movie.
Even for this adult, these whimsical and rather implausible adventures
and tactics were packed with charm and the nostalgia they stirred up
was rather enamoring. Yes, a better movie would be made if they tried
to make a more realistic boy-and-dolphin story. How woul a *real*
dolphin from the wild react to such a situation and how would an
ordinary kid not under the control of movie conventions respond? And of
course it'd be better if we didn't have a hokey backstory of toxic
waste and an evil hammerhead shark named Scar? Wait? Scar? A shark
named Scar? Okay now, Scar is a compelling name for an evil lion or
even a Comanche war chief, but a hammerhead shark? The shark is not a
good villain here. It's mouth is way too small to communicate menace,
the moaning sounds it makes (an impossibility for real sharks) is
phony, and the special effects used to simulate it are not sufficient.

But who cares? What do we expect in a "Flipper" movie? A cute dolphin,
a simple story, and a lot of whimsical under and out-of-water
adventures. We get 'em. And there are some more magical moments, such
as a very splendid little sequence where Flipper swims through the
depths and explores the marvels of underwater life. The underwater
nature photography is quite pleasing. And although Flipper does not do
anything that we haven't seen him (or Free Willy, for that matter) do
before, he is quite a good-looking and charming character on the
screen. But ironically, it is Paul Hogan who carries the movie along
when Flipper is not on-camera. Because even though the star, Elijah
Wood, is as fine an actor for this part as anyone, he doesn't have
anything to do that makes him stand out as a character. His change of
mood over the course of the picture, dialogue, and attitude all are
familiar. So when he starts to lose our interest, it is Paul Hogan who
saves the day. He just has an enormous amount of on-screen charm and
charisma with all of his costars. Even the movie's most ardent
detractors will agree with that.

Bottom line, even though I had a lot of mixed reactions, I did modestly
enjoy this "Flipper" movie. It's not, I say, on par with "Free Willy"
but as far as movies about a young, troubled kid and his cetacean best
friend go, this one does alright. Paul Hogan is the best element in the
picture, but the dolphin is charming enough to make it worth
recommending. It is best seen with young children, for it will engage
them (as it did me when I was younger) and charm parents as well. And
adults who grew up with the TV show will be pleased at the same time.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a spin off of the TV series Flipper. But I don't remember much
about the TV series so I don't know the difference from one another.

This is about an average boy teenager named Sandy. Who is spending the
week with his Uncle which he's unaware on what he's like.

Sandy isn't too excited in seeing him because he really wanted to go to
a Red Hot Chilly Peppers concert.

His uncle is Porter an Austrailian/American seaman who enjoys fishing
for a living. And lives in a rigidly old hut that might not look to
satisfying to guests.

Sandy finds it unbelievable that he's related to this guy. things seem
boring till he encounters a dolphin who is very playful. Sandy finds a
new friend to be with through out his vacation.

This movie isn't too bad. Cool thing is it had Ejiah Woods as Sandy and
Paul Hogan as Porter. I recommend it for 8 and up. Rent it first before
buying it.
<|_=00=_|>

I Despised "Free Willy"... i thought it was fruity and stupid. But i likes
this movie!
Sure it's got a bit of a flimsy storyline, but it's your typical 90's
kiddie film. But i
still enjoyed it, oddly enough... I really DIDNT think i would, but i did!
That's
probably just because Elijah Wood was in it. He was funny and before Lord
of

The Rings, people characterized Elijah Wood as , "he was the guy in
Flipper"

sure, i wouldnt see it more than once or twice, but it's pretty fun to
sorta
make fun
of with some of your close friends. I give this movie a 6 outta 10.
Better
than the
average movie out there, but not amazing or anything. Hey, at least It's
not

disney, right?
<|_=00=_|>
Liked but not loved 'Flipper' as a child. Still feel the same as a
young adult. It's a long way from a masterpiece (though it never was
trying to be) and will never be one of my favourites, but it does
exactly what it strived to do and ticks most of the right boxes.

'Flipper' won't blow the mind. While it is good that the story is easy
to follow, at times it did seem a bit too basic and safe, for a feature
length it's slight and it can be pretty predictable, nobody for example
will be surprised by how the film ends. The dark shadiness of how the
human villain is written, played by Jonathan Banks, does not gel with
the innocent, fun-loving, light-hearted atmosphere of the story, almost
like he accidentally walked straight from a different film.

That Banks didn't seem to know whether to overdo the sliminess or give
an indication that the villain also wasn't that smart didn't help. The
dialogue sometimes is a little cloying.

However, 'Flipper' looks very pleasing. It's a beautifully shot film
and even more pleasing to the eye are the idyllic locations and the
stunning underwater sequences. The music is upbeat and charmingly
whimsical. It's all very capably directed too.

Most of the time, 'Flipper' is very charming and sweet, epitomising
childhood innocence and has a lightness that stops the film from
feeling heavy. It has a lot of fun and a heart of gold, so much so that
although it's a problematic film it is difficult to be too hard on it.
It teaches a valuable message that for the type of message that it is
is handled in a way that while not exactly restrained doesn't beat one
around the head.

Elijah Wood is appealing in the lead role and Paul Hogan plays it
straight very effectively. Apart from Banks, the rest of the cast also
do admirably with amiable if somewhat one-dimensional characters.
Stealing the show is the dolphin, impressively rendered with a mix of
show-stopping animatronics and the real thing but also with a
personality that melts the most cynical of hearts. Wood's chemistry
with the dolphin is the film's driving force and is a large part of
what makes the film charming.

In conclusion, decent likable film but not one of those "bowl the
viewer over" films. 6/10 Bethany Cox
