

Although not Joe Pesci's best film, it had enough funny moments in it for
me
to watch it again. Joe Pesci was at his crazy comic best. Vincent
Gardenia's
expressions and comedic timing helped make this an enjoyable film. Mr.
Gardenia's last film. Too bad, he & Pesci would have been a good team in
other future projects.   
<|_=00=_|>

The greatest highlights of Joe Pesci's many-sided career were definitely his
classic roles in Martin Scorsese's breathtaking movies "Raging bull" (1980),
"Goodfellas" (1990) and "Casino" (1995). He acted in "The Super" only a year
after his marvelous Oscar-winning role in Scorsese's finest movie - the
spectacular masterpiece "Goodfellas". Well "The Super" is a very different
flick from what it was like and at first I was very suspicious about it but
it totally surprised me. This is a movie that is built completely around
Pesci's comic talents and at the latest after seeing the film I should
believe no one can deny it anymore: damn he's a very funny little man!
Another thing that is great about "The Super" is the most fabulous script
with lots of hilarious lines and clever, amusing and entertaining ideas.
What's best about all this, film is rather a short one. It's got basically
only one joke so they end the movie on time before it wears out. The ideal
way to watch "The Super" is to open a bottle of beer after a hard day,
slouch on the sofa and just enjoy this stupidness. It's not Scorsese's work
and it certainly isn't very ingenious film but it really made me laugh and I
guess that's what comedies are suppose to do.
<|_=00=_|>
The joke is a bigoted slumlord forced to live in his own building. Joe
Pecci is excellent as "The Super", who gets a real education from his
tenants. His red Corvette is stripped the first night. He is constantly
hustled by his neighbors. Scenes such as when he goes to the local
grocery to buy wine, or when his elegant girlfriend visits his dumpy
apartment, are classic comedy. Vincent Gardenia as Peci's overbearing
father, is a role not unlike the one he played in "Fire Sale". "The
Super" is sort of a cross between "Fire Sale" and Mel Brooks "Life
Stinks". The movie definitely is re watchable, and most likely will
seem even funnier on repeat viewings. Highly recommended, especially
for those who appreciate dark comedy. - MERK
<|_=00=_|>

[MIGHT CONTAIN SPOILERS]
        In Lethal Weapon 2, he played a little weasel con. In
Home
Alone, he played a bumbling theif. In Goodfellas, he played a
vile
gangtser, now Joe Pesci will play a superintendant in "The Super"!

        Louie Kritski is a slumlord, like his old man. For
his
birthday once, his father gave him one of his buildings. It was
a
run-down apartment building and since then, Louie has ignored
the
tenant's complaints for him to fix things. All Louie wants is the
rent.
        Soon Louie is taken to court. The judge sentences him
to
house arrest in his building. So Louie packs his bags and moves in
to
Apartment 5C. Which he listed as "a furnished fifth floor
charmer
with a view". It was anything but that. The room was like the
rest
of the apartment: run down, torn furnature, dirty, eech! The
sink
even shoots up water. Next morning, Louie meets Tito, a young lad
who
lives in the building. Louie thinks Tito messed with his stereo,
so
he plugs it in to try it. It works--for two minutes. It blows a
fuse
because he never fixed the electricity in the building.
        Louie goes to the store to buy food: screw top wine
and
bread as hard as a board. The store has 24 different kinds of pork
rinds
but only one kind of peanut butter. A tenant, Marlon, is holding
a
three-card monty game. Louie plays and loses. 
        Louie invites his girlfriend, Heather, over but she is
too
creeped out by the building. Later that day Louie plays
basketball
with Marlon and friends, who really play fierce when it's for
money.
Louie also put's in electricity. Probably to sweeten a
relationship
with Naomi Bensinger, a court laison. 
        With electricity now in, the tenants have a party. A loud
one
and Louie doesn't like it. Winter came around and he was
"convinced"
to buy portable heaters for everyone. Louie Kritski Sr. did
not
approve of any of this.
         Soon Louie learns to co-exist with the tenants, learns
they're
human beings like everyone else, and he and Marlon make some calls
and
really fix the building into a fabulous looking building! 

         This movie is pretty good. Joe Pesci was good. If not
for
Joe Pesci, this movie would collapse under it's own weight.
This
was Vincent Gardenia's last film. He had a heart attack in 1992.
He
was good in this movie also. So Pesci fans, see this film when
you
get the chance!
--
<|_=00=_|>
For real. Have a little sense of humor about this one. Obviously it
does not contain realistic elements and the acting of some of the
characters didn't give their brightest performances but it's more a
show than a movie. I classify movies as films that are to be taken
seriously precluding to aspects like acting, filming, dialogue,
original comedy, killer special effects..etc whatever it may be because
the people affiliated with the making are striving to find a way to
discover the next best flick. I classify shows as films that are made
strictly just to entertain us. The Super is a comedy and it made me
laugh hysterically just watching Pesci's physical acting. The dad was
hilarious. A lot of people say he did terrible. Why? He was an arrogant
slumlord and a big old asshole that had mercy for not a soul. Reminds
me of my Uncle Jimmy from Boston. His angry bantering and selfish
statements were so funny and in my mind authentic. The main actress? Eh
whatever were watchin Pesci just to belly laugh.

So don't pay attention the shitty elements that most critics cap on but
just sit down, hit the bong, and see if you don't pee in your pants
laughing at the awesome talents of Joe Pesci. GIMME THE RENT!
<|_=00=_|>

If you like " my cousin vinny" than this is a must see.
In this movie , they show a situation that is normal for some parts of the
cities in the world.
A "rich" guy ( home block owner) in his own ' falling apart' building, this
gifs a lot off humorisch situations and after all the super will turn out to
be a great guy even though his father does not agree with
him.
He will find a great place to park his car and will notice that the alarm
works well.
A guarantee for a fun evening in front of the tv.
Good comedy.
<|_=00=_|>

Early 90's rendition of Hal Ashby's 1970 film "The Landlord," which is
given
the comic...or attempted comic treatment by
Pesci as a snobby slumlord who moves in to his slum and sees the light;
the
error of his rich boy ways. Badly written and unbeliveable pretty much all
the way through. One of Gardenia's final films.  
<|_=00=_|>
Joe Pesci, Vincent Gardenia, Madolyn Smith Osbourne and Ruben Blades
star in this 1991 comedy. Pesci (Goodfellas) plays Louis Kritski Jr., a
slumlord like his father, Big Lou (Gardenia) who gets sentenced to live
in one of his apartments he must fix in 120 days or goes to jail. He
meets a council woman from court (Osbourne) who checks in on him to see
if he's doing what he supposed to do and tries hitting on her. He
befriends Marlon (Blades) who tries getting him to play basketball and
such. Soon, Louis realizes he can't be like his selfish father and must
be his own man. I think this is one of Pesci's best and he & the late,
Gardenia were great together. I recommend this.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a pretty straight-forward comedy. Son wants to please his
hard-nosed, cheap father by being the cheapest building owner he can
be. But as he is sentenced to live in one of his worst maintained
buildings, he is forced to learn several lessons about life. Not
everyone likes this type of humor, but if you liked Joe Pesci in My
Cousin Vinnie I would be sure to watch this movie. As the tight-wad
Super, most of the jokes are at Pesci's character's expense. However,
it still leaves room for Pesci's particular style of humor. The "love"
story is pretty typical but in no way detracts from the movie. The
people he becomes involved with could be anybody living anywhere in the
US. There are not many recognizable names in this movie but has some
familiar faces that I remember from other movies. I found this to be a
hilarious movie and wholly recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
Louie Kritski (Joe Pesci) is a money-grubbing heartless NYC slumlord
who learned it from his father Big Lou (Vincent Gardenia). Housing
authorities lawyer Naomi Bensinger prosecutes him. He is sentenced to
bring his building up to code and forced to stay in an apartment in his
building for 120 days. Louie has to stay in the building and Big Lou
commands him not to fix one single thing.

The movie is pretty bad and it has to do with Joe Pesci. He's a good
comic relief sidekick as this annoying character. Usually the lead
characters can show solidarity with the audience and ridicule Pesci.
The whole movie is ridiculous and unreal. The slums have no real
problems because all of the tenants are saints. Louie cluelessly leaves
his expensive car parked in the ghetto. For such a crass person, he is
also completely naive. Pesci is aggressively annoying. Of course, he
learns the expected heart warming lesson but what else is there?
