
"Gossip" barely got noticed when it was released. This reception was
possibly due to the generally slow box office of April 2000, but also
to the fact that, at times, the film's style compensates for its lack
of substance. Still, the film is a fun way to spend a few hours and the
screenplay provides a unique story.

The acting is pretty good, especially from the three leads - Lena
Headey (Cathy), James Marsden (Derrick) and Norman Reedus (Travis). I
saw Headey in some other films after this one, namely "Face" and
"Ripley's Game", and was impressed not only by her emotional range, but
also by her mastery of accents. Both Marsden and Reedus are better
actors than they are given credit for.

The film's style and locales epitomize what I would personally call
'twenty-first century chic'. The loft is ultra cool, and so is the
club. In fact, the film is worth seeing for its locales alone.

Overall, a nice little thriller. I give it a 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>

I viewed Gossip in a classroom setting with 26 college freshmen as a unit
in
a class devoted to transition to college.  I was pleasantly surprised at
the
discussion engendered by viewing the film in a classroom setting.  The
students responded enthusiastically and thoughtfully to the many ethical
issues presented.  I recommend the film for this purpose.

The first 80 minutes or so of this 90 minute suspense thriller reminded me
of some of the earlier films of Brian DePalma.  It is nicely shot at an
urban university (NYU?), and the colors and angles add to the introduction
of the main plot device - an "innocent" rumor started as a group project
for
a communications arts class.  Notice how many right angles and sharp
points
are present in the party and residential settings.  The students felt this
contributed to the intended feeling of edginess engendered by the first 20
minutes.

The first 80 minutes are well-conceived and intricately-plotted. The plot
reveals itself at an excruciatingly pleasurable pace, and a nice twist is
that the character of Derek appears to know no more than we, the audience,
do.

The ending is abrupt and somewhat derivative, but, in post-viewing
discussion, we were able to identify a number of clues to the ending which
the director has sprinkled throughout.

A dark, cine noir feeling to the production results in a film a bit out of
step with the 21st century, but one that should be satisfying to fans of
the
genre.
<|_=00=_|>

Well, not totally. But it definitely left something to be desired. The plot
starts out well and is very intriguing. However, the story takes some twists
and turns that make it confusing and unbelievable.

The plot begins with three college friends, Cathy (Lena Headey, "The Devil's
Advocate,") Derek (James Marsden, "Disturbing Behavior,") and Travis (Norman
Reedus, "Deuces Wild,") who find they are very good at starting rumors. They
decide to use this talent to do an experiment for a class in which they
begin a rumor, track it around campus, and see how it changes and spreads.
The poor subjects of their experiment are Beau (Joshua Jackson, TV's
"Dawson's Creek") and Naomi (Kate Hudson, "Almost Famous.") While at a
party, Derek discovers a situation between Beau and Naomi that soon becomes
the rumor. However, when the rumor takes a drastic turn and students start
accusing Beau of rape, Cathy and Travis must try and convince Derek that
what they've started may lead to something worse. And when Naomi is found
dead, the three roomates must fight among themselves and their consciences
to fix a rumor that gave them more than what they bargained for. 

James Marsden gives an excellent, evil performance. Norman Reedus puts a lot
into his character that excels in the end. And Joshua Jackson gives a
wonderful performance as a wrongly accused man. I found Lena Headey and Kate
Hudson's acting somewhat bland and boring. The movie seems to try too hard
when trying to surprise you. In fact, it tries so hard that it creates way
too many "I have an ulterior motive" and "I'm not what you think I am" side
stories. If it just went down to the basic facts and left a little of the
confusion out, it would have been much better. Possibly a 10 star movie.
However, because I got hopelessly lost by the end, it only earned
******/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Believe me this film doesn't have throngs of admirers. But I have an
affinity for it. It's slick and interesting. The characters aren't what they
seem. I thought James Marsders was quite good as the young man with the
charm and looks..but something sinister lurks behind those eyes. The cast is
pretty top notch for this genre and the film was much slicker than most give
it credit for. It doesn't have a loyal following and certainly it's far from
a masterpiece. But as entertainment,the film didn't let me down. The
ending,while wasn't altogether satisfying,was at least fresh and different
from the typical movie of it's genre. The movie has mystery and
manipulation,it doesn't let you truly know all there is to know about many
of the characters. There are many well known faces,especially from teen
television,but this is an adult film..with adult themes like
rape,deception,manipulation,trust,and possibly "murder." It surprised
me..because after it was over I was entertained. Sometimes that's all it
takes for me to be satisfied.
***1/2/*****
<|_=00=_|>
A vicious rumour is spreading like fire through the university, three
journalism students planted the story, hoping to trace how it changes
as it burns its path; but what goes around comes around.

With a young and talented cast, including James Marsden, Lena Heady,
Norman Reedus and Kate Hudson; Gossip deserves more credit than it
seems to have received.

The story is full of twists and is genuinely compelling to watch and
easy to relate too; the direction is pretty stylish and achieves the
necessary feel for the plot to play out, and the cast all contribute
with solid performances.

It's either been overlooked or harshly criticised by far too many
people, come on! It's a good thriller. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

  This is one of the rare current films which takes the trouble to combine
good acting and an interesting plot with excellent filming and directing. 
The viewer is left to think about the "harmless" thing called gossip, and
about the views and moral codes of today's young generation.
  It is pleasant to note that the characters are quite realistic.  We have
all known, in high school and college such "artistic weirdos" as Travis,
such hysterical "golden girls" as Naomi, such intellectuals as Kathy Jones,
and such successful athletes as Derrick--popular and admired, and yet feared
somehow, for the little diabolical flash in their behavior.  It is a tribute
to the talent and skill of these actors that they inspire belief in the
viewer while playing the roles of abstracts.
  It should be noted particularly that James Marsden, usually an
underestimated actor, manages by his skill to inspire sympathy, and in the
end, a certain amount of bewildered admiration for his character.  One may
argue whether lying and manipulation are immoral--but doing both of them
well, and professionally, is worthy of respect.
  To conclude--this is a film that is rare in the genre of youth films, in
that it gets the viewer to sit back and think about the life these
characters live, and the life which all of us saw firsthand in school and
college.  The life of gossip, of lies, rumors, reputations . . . a life in
which words have power over reality.  The Director shows this well, and the
talented and skilled actors make us believe in the reality of their
characters, their deeds, their emotions, and their thoughts.

<|_=00=_|>

I am surprised that Gossip so far has received rather low ratings. If you
like Shallow Grave - then you will probably like this movie. It is very
similar in concept with 2 guys and a gal living together with somewhat
platonic relationships. But the movie is actually more about something
else
that is very intense and suspenseful.  I thought this movie was very
captivating... all the way to the end. The acting was ok and the character
Derrick Web is very well played by X-men star mardsen. If you like to
guess
at endings, this movie will give you a good ride.
<|_=00=_|>

Based on R2 DVD 87 min.

Gossip starts off well, an interesting premise, pretty people a suggestion
of a good thriller to come. Alas somewhere around the 60 minute mark the
script writer must have run out of pencils. The story takes a witless
fantasy turn that left me feeling cheated.

The so called alternate ending is just a longer and more unrealistic
one.

5/10 catch it on TV
<|_=00=_|>
This was -over-all- a pretty decent movie. Nothing that would make my
favorite shelf, but a movie I could definitely watch a few times a
year. It's got an interesting plot and story-line, and most of the
actors were top notch.

Now that being said, there were two things that kept this movie from
being an excellent movie. The first one was Lena Headey; her acting was
mediocre at best, and in certain parts, down right awful. But this
normally wouldn't be enough to knock off too many points, but the
second problem... 

The ending -while decent- was definitely one that required you to
suspend your disbelief. It leaves you wondering, "What was the point?".

But the acting by James Marsden, and Norman Reedus were amazing, and
almost make up for it. Marsden plays the manipulative liar, who really
isn't a bad guy, one who almost leaves you feeling a certain amount of
pity at the end. Reedus was amazing; probably one of my favorite
performances from him. The shy, SoHo, bohemian artist thing works
really well for him. The interaction between the two men are some of
the most interesting parts of the movie, and show the
dominant/subservient or leader/follower relationship perfectly.

Passable performances by Joshua Jackson and Kate Hudson. Nothing
stellar, but nothing to complain about either.

Again... Decent movie, one that could have been a hit with a few
tweaks, and a different actress for Jones, but nothing that will make a
'favorites' list any time soon.
<|_=00=_|>
Telephone... 

...Telegram... 

...and tell a woman 

Apologies for that old fashioned joke but it did make me smile and
apologies too that anyone might think it's actually true because I know
fine well from bitter personal experience that idle or malicious gossip
and two faced chit chat that can affect a life is just as likely to be
started by males as much by females . I guess everyone already knew
that ? 

Interesting to note though that women like this film slightly more than
men . I have to confess that I wasn't too keen on it . Now this had
nothing to do with sexism and had everything to do with the way the
story was developed which centres around rumours of a rape and before
you can blink the rumours have spread all over college campus and a
student finds himself facing charges . Other reviewers have rightly
pointed out that the story is entirely dumb so I won't bother
reiterating the points they've raised except to say " What about
forensic evidence ? for a charge to be brought " . I also have a
problem that it's a movie that's entirely made for a teen market which
means the cast is young and good looking and we have to endure the MTV
type of filming which totally negates any type of drama
