
"The Rock" combined action, adventure, comedy, romance, special effects
and a great plot into one of the biggest worldwide blockbuster action
films in decades. Add to the mix, Sean Connery, Nicolas Cage, Ed Harris
and a great supporting cast including John Spencer, William Forsythe
and David Morse, and "The Rock" is one of the best ways to spend two
hours. This film also devotes a great deal of time and effort to
character development, something that most action movies neglect. This
film is definitely underrated and is worth more praise than it has
received.
<|_=00=_|>
What can I say other than Connery at his best as usual? It's good to
see Hollywood remembers the best. It's also good to see an American
film portray us little Brits in such high regard.

When else would you see a 60+ year old retired SAS agent who's been
wrongfully banged up for 30 years and kept away from his daughter,
break back into Alcatraz (after successfully breaking out all those
years ago), take out an entire SEAL team almost empty handed, save 81
hostages held at gun point and a city of 5 Million held ransom with 15
deadly poisonous VX gas rockets?? Generally excellent acting by Ed
Harris as you could expect and an almost convincing performance by
Nicolas Cage.

...and thats just the half of it.
<|_=00=_|>

The Rock was an awesome film to see in the cinema. Over the top action,
amasing driving scenes, an all round enjoyable film. Excellent casting of
Sean Connery and Nicholas Cage, interesting idea, ex-military take tour
hostage and threaten chemical warfare. But it's all in a days work for the
FBI.
Scientist risks life and limb to rescue city while pregnant girlfriend
looks
on. Sean Connery' character is portrayed as a hard ex SAS spy and Nicholas
Cage is the mild mannered Scientist/Chemical Expert.
Good film, not too taxing on the brain and overall, very enjoyable! A must
see for Action Fans.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is all a man could hope for in a movie these days. Action
packed, but followed with a meaningful story that relates to today. The
harsh reality is, what takes place within the movie is not too far off
from what could happen in reality. I feel that if anyone fears domestic
terrorism as well as foreign terrorism, this movie is a must see, while
it bends the facts a tad for action and interest sake, its central
story is compelling and thought-provoking.

The best quote of this movie: "This isn't about terrorism, this about
justice. It's about reminding you people of something you find
politically convenient to forget."

-General Hummel
<|_=00=_|>
This is a brilliantly original movie that sees a USMC General out to
get justice for the betrayal of fellow soldiers during various
conflicts. Sean Connery, Nicolas Cage and Ed Harris are all on top-form
in their roles as an SAS former convict (Connery), an easy-going
government chemical weapons expert (Cage) and a disgruntled war hero
(Harris). The bulk of the movie takes place on Alcatraz Island in San
Francisco, where Ed Harris' character has stolen poison gas rockets and
is holding the city to ransom. Michael Bay delivers brilliant action
sequences with massive enthusiasm, resulting in high-octane scenes. The
movie also bosts a powerful and emotional score right from the opening
credits. The movie never gets boring or confusing and is dazzling all
the way to the final, explosive climax. This is a movie best suited to
die hard action fans due to it's loud, over-the-top style. Michael Bay
proves to be one of the best action film directors with this movie
which is one of the best of 1996.
<|_=00=_|>
The Rock is one of my all-time favorite suspense - thrillers.
Believability - almost always a problem for this sort of film - is
enhanced by a very compelling script, sets, and powerful performances
by masters Sean Connery and Ed Harris. Like a good work of fiction,
it's the quality of the telling that makes it believable, not the
likelihood that it might happen. There are no problems with the way
this story is told. The acting, editing, directing and visuals do not
slip at all. Nick Cage - in a performance which approaches his best
work - adds a bit of campiness and humor to this explosive mixture, and
John Spencer, Tony Todd, David Morse, and Michael Biehn all contribute
substantially to an exciting, fast-paced and emotionally draining film.
Any avid movie-goer will be hard pressed to find a single actor in this
sizable cast who has not either become a major star or a fine character
actor over the last nine years.

The plot takes a number of twists and turns along the road, so to
discuss almost any aspect of it in detail would require at least mild
spoilers. None of the plot twists are unbelievable if you are willing
to accept the basic premise. The story begins with Ed Harris - a Viet
Nam war hero and field leader who is now a general and has become fed
up with the abandonment of covert forces operatives by the US
government. To get what he wants, he recruits some of the best officers
under his command to take control of and hold Alcatraz Island, holding
70-some-odd civilians hostage and aiming four missiles loaded with
deadly Sarin gas directly at the heart of San Francisco.

Biehn heads an elite Navy SEAL team assigned to infiltrate and disable
Harris' capabilities. Cage joins him as the FBI biochemical specialist
assigned the task of disarming the warheads, and the only man who can
get them in to do their respective jobs is an aging British
intelligence agent who has been incarcerated for 30 years or so by the
government that now needs his help. Connery's John Mason escaped from
Alcatraz during his incarceration, and for all intents and purpose - is
a much rougher, more real James Bond character without the gadgets and
the comic-book super-villains. All of the above is established in the
first ten minutes of the film and the next two hours is a wild ride,
with some very tense moments and some very intense performances.

I'm sure a lot of people will pick this film apart for the occasional
unbelievable scene, etc, but it's worth while to remember - as my
spouse is always telling me - "its only a movie".

If you want reality, take a walk outside or go to work! 

There are no discernible powerful political messages in this film.
While it must be acknowledged that the USA does sometimes treat members
of its armed forces in an unappreciative and cavalier manner, this film
does not really drive this point home in the way that, for example,
Saving Private Ryan did. While it is also true that the US government
does occasionally cover-up its own illegal activities, or soft-pedal
them with propagandistic white lies, these issues are not really the
subject of this film. This is made abundantly clear by the oddly
out-of-place references to Roswell, New Mexico. The writers either did
not want to dignify any perceived political messages by bringing up
real-world transgressions and cover-ups - many of which are far more
sinister than the secret development of stealth planes. This film is
pure entertainment and - at that - a work of art. Treat it as such and
you might just have a good time with it.
<|_=00=_|>

THE ROCK / (1996) ***1/2

Starring: Sean Connery, Nicolas Cage, Ed Harris, Jon Spencer, David Morse,
William Forsythe, Bokeem Woodbine, and Vanessa Marcil.
Directed by Michael Bay. Running time: 135 minutes. Rated R (for strong
intense violence, language and brief sexuality)

Notes taken while screening The Rock:

· The film contains superior character development of both the antagonist
and protagonist. Each is clear and well defined. We also learn the
characters motives, reasoning, dramatic situation, and premise--all
brilliantly introduced within the setup.

· Sean Connery provides us with strong character development through John
Patrick Mason--although the character is somewhat a rip off of the Anthony
Hokins' Hannibal from "The Silence of the Lambs."

· It is uncanny how well the movie's visual style works. It propels the
film's suspense the extra mile, increasing the tension and enticement. Also
contributing to the style is the fitting soundtrack.

· Some of the events are excessively coincidental. For example, during an
exciting chase scene, Mason dashes out of a building, escaping the clutches
of concealing police, discovering a Hum-V seemingly awaiting his arrival.
Experienced chemist, Stanley Goodspeed (Nicolas Cage), chases after him, in
a high speed Ferrari  sitting outside his position in a building. Another
coincidence occurs in the high security prison, where Mason escapes a
grenade blast by dashing at random into a room, where, of course, there just
so happens to be a secure bathtub to climb in. 

· There is a stolid, aggressively effective cast present. Each actor
contributes a taut, penetrating performance, especially Ed Harris as the
film's villain, General Francis X. Hummel who demands a moral purpose
holding the lives of an urban area at stake.

* The character's motives and perfectly defined, especially General Francis
X. Hummel.  Even as the film's bad guy, he serves an understandable
position, thus we empathize with him, unlike most villains witnessed in
modern day thrillers.

· The standard three act structure is flawless: each scene propels the plot
forward. The sequences either create a new problem or complicate a previous
conflict, favoring with the later concept. This raises the line of tension
even further.

· Most of the production takes place in a high security prison, Alcatraz,
crafted with a complex, awe-inspiring atmosphere towering over that of most
action movies.

· Sean Connery handles the complicated role of John Mason with mere
simplicity, yet easily torments the audience with a sense of omniscient
knowledge of the plot.

· The picture is unpredictable and contains several inducing and unexpected
twists proving this movie is imaginative and free to surprise us. The
conclusion is not fomulatic. "The Rock" is filled with artful design and
crafty performances. It is one of the year's best action
films.

Brought to you by  Hollywood Pictures.

<|_=00=_|>

Fantastically made. Undoubtedly one of the best action films in the
last 20 years, Bruckheimer had a fantastic effect on this as his oh so
loud impact fashioned this movie into what it is, quite possibly one of
the finest in its' genre. Connery puts in a sturdy performance as does
Cage but the show is stolen by the one and only Edd harris. His
commanding performance carried the movie through small snippets where
boredom may have set in, his emotion in the delivery of his lines left
nothing to be desired and the role seemed so fitting for such a man,
although his height was comic in comparison with the other marines. 

All round great film with good acting with just the right amount of
comic relief when it was most required. thumbs up fellas

<|_=00=_|>

"The Rock" is an action movie, alright, but it's an action move about its
characters, and that's what saves it. It has a strong cast and strong
characters and therefore the plot, about a militia group taking Alcatraz
hostage and threatening to fire bombs into San Francisco if they don't get
100 million dollars, isn't what comes off the best.

There are four central characters in this film. Hummel is the man in
charge
of this hostage takeover. He is a highly-ranked general who is doing this
to
teach the government a lesson: they've been neglecting forgotten soldiers
who died in the Gulf and Nam, and instead of their families being told the
truth, they've simply been marked as "Missing in Action." He is played by
Ed
Harris, who does such a good man torn between duty, conscience, and
vengeance, he is the best film villain since Jack Nicholson in "The
Shining."

Goodspeed is a computer nerd working for the C.I.A. He's never been in
combat situations, but because of his advanced knowledge of chemical
bombs,
they've sent him into Alcatraz with a group of Navy SEALS, and he has no
idea how to react in war-like situations. Played by Nicolas Cage, his
performance is believable and powerful.

Anderson is the man in control of the Navy SEALS on the mission to
Alcatraz.
Tough as nails, bound by duty, he freely admits he agrees with Hummel's
reasoning, but he says those are risks that are part of the job, and
Hummel
is wrong in his action because he took an oath to serve his country no
matter what. He is played by Michael Biehn, who delivers a top-notch
performance, and one similar to his role in "Terminator."

But the most powerful character in the film is Mason, the only man who has
ever escaped from Alcatraz. Tough, cunning, and full of one-liners, he has
been caged up in a maximum security prison for years. It's hard to say
whether the viewer can trust him or not, and he has many secrets and much
knowledge of the facility...which is why he was chosen to go with the
SEALS.
He is played by Sean Connery, who's performance is perfectly Sean
Connery-ish. But who would want it any other way?

This film is great, and it is a great character study for anyone who might
be majoring in it or just likes to watch films with good casts.
Recommended.
****1/2 out of *****.


<|_=00=_|>
The 90s was home to a slew of great raw, uncut, action flicks that shot
straight for the rated "R," despite the guarantee that it would make
less money than the money-friendly PG-13 rating. While Die Hard and
Lethal Weapon may have jump-started this craze, the peak of this was
during the next decade, when we saw the likes of Terminator 2, Speed,
Face-Off, Con Air, Die Hard: With a Vengeance, The Matrix, Bad Boys,
Point Break, Under Siege, True Lies, Desperado, among others (Quite a
list I accumulated, eh?). The 90s was certainly a good decade for
action fans, but few movies of this genre can quite top the powerful,
gripping, and edge-of-your seat action blockbuster The Rock. The name
alone sounds powerful, and behind it is two hours of incredible special
effects, superb acting, great action set pieces, and good dosage of
writing, and Michael Bay on top of his game.

Few action movies carries as much morality and questionable
circumstances as this one. In The Rock we follow a furious general (Ed
Harris) leading a group of Marines to take control of Alcatraz Island
(along with tourist hostages), a location that used to house criminals.
Accompanying them are over a dozen missiles that can spell tens of
thousands of innocent lives with every blast. However, he isn't just a
trigger-happy man gone crazy, he is a man seeking justice for the
dozens of lives he saw taken from warfare without compensation. A
villain with a "moral" agenda, yikes. The only hope for the United
States is the only man that has ever broken out of that prison (Sean
Connery) and a chemical "superfreak" (Nicholas Cage). With the odds
obviously against them, the Pentagon is one order away from destroying
the entire location regardless of the innocent lives located in the
island. Mindless this movie is not, as the stakes are high, there is
always a risk of an innocent life going under, and our heroes rarely
ever have the scenario under control. It's just enough to make you
squeal in frustration.

With the tension remaining edgy and the solution never being
oh-so-close, we can thank the writers for delivering a slam-bang
storyline full of great one-liners, likable characters, and a villain
that isn't as simple to figure out as the average evildoer. The writing
staff ranges from the writer of the third Die Hard to even Tarantino. A
major reason for the film's quality is the casting. Sean Connery and Ed
Harris are excellent in their roles and Nicholas Cage albeit a few
lines does a good job. The supporting staff helps as well, as we see
the likes of David Morse, John Spencer, and Cage's love interest
Vanessa Marcil.

Unlike Michael Bay's latest films, which run from mediocre to just
plain bad, he blends plenty of drama and suspense along with action
here. As a matter of fact, the first half of the movie is all suspense,
as the situation is developed, and the risks are presented.
Disregarding a superb car chase, there isn't much exploding in the
first 80 minutes. However, once the protagonists enter the Rock, it all
goes on the uphill action swing. We get brutal fights, brutal
shootouts, near-misses, double-crosses, triple-crosses, chases, and
enough explosions for action fans to sink their teeth into. The funny
thing, the two main actors at the time weren't expected to be in such
action. Connery was aging, and Nicholas Cage just didn't have the look
or the attitude for it. Fortunately for us, they proved us dead wrong.

Bottom Line: If you want to see a true action classic, The Rock is a
great example. Rising above the average action movie and above the
decent ones as well, this is by far Michael Bay's best work and one of
the signature flicks of the 90s. Combining tension you can cut with a
steak knife with thrills, chills, and plenty of carnage, The Rock has
aged well and continues to influence the work of modern action movies
and the work of Michael Bay as well. Grab some popcorn and enjoy this
ruthlessly clever movie. Recommend to the max, as long as you don't
mind a bit of blood spewing onto the screen. They just don't make em'
like they used to.
