
Head-spinning collage of technically marvelous effects in theatrical
remake of cult late-'70s TV series. Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz and
Lucy Lui are attractive, funny, resourceful, sexy and--most importantly
(and surprisingly) quite convincing as super-detectives. Their case
(involving rival software companies, a kidnapping, and the planned
assassination of boss Charlie) doesn't make a whole lot of sense, and
Bill Murray is out-of-it as confidante Bosley, but director McG's
modern-comic action is so lightning-fast and silky smooth you may be
having too much fun to notice. Some of the satire is actually rather
smart, and the girls are game for just about anything. **1/2 from ****
<|_=00=_|>
This is a stylish and entertaining action film, albeit a stupid one
mentality-wise. However, there are a lot of movies in that category, so
you just put your brain on "hold" and enjoy the ludicrous story. Here,
it's three gorgeous babes kicking the tar out of everyone.....which IS
ridiculous! 

The story may be lame but the visuals are a real treat, and I don't
mean just the girls, Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu. The
colors in this movie are vivid and fun to view.

The story is cartoon-like in nature and and funny in a number of sots.
If you took this story seriously, you'd be insulted. The only warning I
would give is for smaller kids because there are a lot of sexual
innuendos in here along with a number of closeup shots of cleavage and
butts. (Not that I am complaining!)
<|_=00=_|>
There's no intellectual challenges made in this movie's plot, and
that's how it should be; the characters are only slightly more
fleshed-out than any of the ones from the TV show, and that's also not
a bad thing - if you put too much seriousness into this kind of film,
you wind up killing the roaring-good times to be had. What really makes
the film work is the charisma ( & physical charms )of the 3 leading
ladies, combined with well-choreographed action sequences and the
tongue-in-cheek script. If you enjoy Diaz, Barrymore & Liu ( not to
mention Bill Murray )when they're on the screen, you'll love this
flick.
<|_=00=_|>

I went to see 'Charlie's Angels' out of interest after all the interesting
coverage from the set.

The laughably complex plot seems to flow along well with the movie. I found
it particularly funny, and enjoyed all the fighting scenes and the fabulous
soundtrack.

The performances impressed me the most. Everyone looks like they're having
fun, but my favourite was Natalie (Cameron Diaz). When she smiles, you
can't
help but smile along with her. I also admired that the girls also did all
their own stunts, something not too common in films. And despite the
rumours, Bill Murray and the girls had good chemistry and he proved an able
sidekick to the girls.

With that said, I'll say four words: Bring on the sequel!
<|_=00=_|>
I was optimistic about this adaptation of the classic 70s and 80s show,
but on first viewing, it did nothing but disappoint. This movie is
simply too over the top, and the 'funny' moments are quite laboured.

Great karate moves and special effects are spoilt by the weak storyline
and a ridiculous performance from Bill Murray. Nice to hear John
Forsythe reprise the role of Charlie though.

A shame that one of the men responsible for the original TV series had
a hand in producing a poor adaptation. Why did Leonard Goldberg bother?
Original star Kate Jackson also commented on how the film failed to
capture the spirit of the TV series: I see her point immensely.

This movie is a poor excuse for something that is supposed to be based
on a legendary TV series. It is simply ridiculous and over the top
nonsense that is absolutely nothing to get excited about.
<|_=00=_|>
My Take: Energetic, mindless summer eye-candy entertainment. 

It's easy to smirk or be nit-picky at something quite as silly as a $92
million big-screen version of CHARLIE'S ANGELS. Looking back, its roots
date back to a successful yet critically-reviled TV series in the 70's.
Bring it here, at our modern period, and be sure to be laughed at. Joel
Schumacher did it, in his 1997 mega-expensive bomb (if you call any
movie grossing more than a hundred million dollars, a bad as it is, a
bomb) BATMAN AND ROBIN, which was immensely hated by everyone
(including yours truly). Now comes CHARLIE'S ANGELS, another big-budget
comedy action film lifted from some age that probably no longer exists
(at least not on our generation). It's director is a former MTV
director. And the script, forget it! How could they make a movie like
this? Or maybe a more interesting question would be, after watching it,
how could I have possibly loved it? Yes! Regardless of having to remind
myself that it was meant to be ridiculous, I positively loved CHARLIE'S
ANGELS, silliness and all. You can nitpick all the dumbness and
stupidity of the script, but here's someone (among a surprisingly high
number of others) who are happy to defend its silliness. It's pure
style-over-substance matter, and the style really won me over. The
stunts are completely unbelievable, the story probably never left the
70's and the script, the whole script, injects enough camp to make this
piece sit right there with the original TV show (of which I wasn't
exposed to). But the great thing about that is it was thrown in for
laughs and a whole lot of fun. The entire piece never took itself
seriously, throwing it a lot of brainless fun at every turn. Director
McG (born Joseph McGinty Nichol) uses his stylish skills as an MTV
director to good use. Every bit feels like an exhilarating
no-questions-asked playhouse of brainless style, and I mean that in the
nicest of ways.

The film is one-part MISSION: IMPOSSIBLE (and in one instance, after
the Angels have described their plan to break in to a room, like that
in the MISSION: IMPOSSIBLE movie, one of their superiors tells them
"That's impossible", followed by a "Sounds like fun" response of
excitement from the crime-fighting Angels), another-part John Woo
action flick, one-part pure 70's camp and another part spoof of it all,
and thrown in, for good measure, some MATRIX-inspired slow-mo stunts.
After opening with one of its first few outrageous stunt sequences, the
story proceeds, concerning a new set of Angels, including smart and
uber-sexy Natalie (Cameron Diaz), tough-cookie but never-not-attractive
Dylan (Drew Barrymore) and no-nonsense and no-less sex-appeal Alex
(Lucy Liu), as always taking orders from unseen voice-in-a-speakerphone
Charlie (voiced by John Fosythe, returning to his voice-acting role
form the TV show). Their new mission: Retrieve a stolen
voice-recognition software from wealthy programmer Eric Knox (Sam
Rockwell). They suspect it may be the owner of a rival company (Tim
Curry), but the plot thickens. But what plot? This is all but a
clothesline for a series of gravity-defying (or at least every form of
science imaginable) stunts (an extremely enjoyable array of fight
sequences and a slam-bang helicopter finale). There's humor too,
provided by the always reliable Bill Murray as Bosley, Charlie's
liaison and the Angels' reliable comic-relief sidekick. Bonus points go
to the oddball Crispin Glover as the "Creepy Thin Man" for providing
the finest silent villain since Jaws in THE SPY WHO LOVED ME.

CHARLIE'S ANGELS is still bound to create a sort of love-hate
relationship amongst its viewers. Some will probably hate it for its
total disregard of logic and sense. Others will embrace it for what it
is: A good, fluffy entertainment (a guilty pleasure if you will). I'm
joining that club! 

Rating: **** out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>

Three little girls have become three little ladies who work as special
agents for Charlie (via intermediary Bosley).  When they are contracted in
to get evidence of Roger Corwin stealing the kidnapped Eric Knox's voice
recognition device.  The agents are successful but Knox turns out to have
more sinister motives and the angels find themselves fighting to protect
Charlie and Bosley.

Yet another in a line of film remake's of old TV shows, in the words of LL
Cool J `yet another remake of an old TV show'.  However this just about
succeeds for one simple reason – it never tries to take itself seriously. 
This works because it can be camp, silly and OTT because we know it's meant
to be.  The plot is OK and has some reasonable twists but really the jokes
and action move it along.  The silliness can get a bit much at times and is
a little tiring.

For example we have far too many shots of the girls tossing their hair, and
too many scenes that mean nothing.  Eg a high speed car chase ends on a
bridge but it has no reason for happening and nothing happens as a result. 
The fights are very OTT and are very much a matrix rip off – they are only
just saved by the tongue in cheek attitude of the film.  But even then they
still silly.

The cast are OK but really they are just playing daft.  Rockwell is really
good and Bill Murray saves the whole film by being really funny.  Tom Green
is in it because his girlfriend felt sorry for him and wanted him to be in a
film that got shown in a cinema outside of the US, however his character is
stupid and pointless.  Wilson is good and LL Cool J makes a good cameo, but
Tim Curry has been better.

Overall it's enjoyable if you're in the mood for silly popcorn trash.  If
you're not in the mood this will only serve to irritate you at how poor
Hollywood blockbusters can be.
<|_=00=_|>
This is not a serious drama. It works as well as it does due to the
very colourful, fun and tongue firmly in cheek vibe that permeates
throughout the film. This is mainly down to the zany atmosphere created
by first time film-maker, but expert pop-promo director McG, In fact
the real tribute has to go to him for crafting a film this good out of
a very difficult production, which faced an incomplete script, and
personality clashes between some of the cast. The film is clearly
tongue in cheek, and references a lot of the stereotypical visual
elements of action movies. From matrix bullet time to music video like
super slow motion shots, the films works slapstick comedy into a
serviceable plot. The three leading ladies are good value, ably
supported by the rest of the cast, albeit Bill Murray's role seems to
almost like a one man stand up show has been worked into the film, and
seems a little out of place. Russell Carpenter's photography is vibrant
and colourful, and musical choices work well for the story.

Overall a lot of enjoyable fun!
<|_=00=_|>

When at the beginning of the movie, each of the angels has a past history
flash back with their own songs, I cant find out the song that played for
Lucy Liu, can you help something like "the best things in life are free,
you
get them from......." Please Help!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I vividly remember this film being publicised and Destiny's Child's
'Independent Women Part 1' being in the charts as well as clips from
this film being featured in the video when I was 13. I wanted to see
this film when it was out in the cinemas but I couldn't see it then
because I was too young due to its 15 certificate in the UK (strangely
enough, it's a 12 in Ireland and a PG-13 in America) but when I was 14,
my mum hired the DVD and I watched it under her supervision due to its
violent content, meaning I was okay. Finally when I turned 15, I
received the DVD for my birthday, that complemented my PS2 perfectly,
and I'd watch it every day after school to write down the script, much
to my sister's annoyance and frustration. I still have that DVD and I
also found the film on LoveFilm Instant. After having watched it for
the first time in a while, I thoroughly enjoyed watching it just as
much as I did as a teenager.

I'd already heard of Cameron Diaz and Drew Barrymore when this film
came out but this was the first time I'd ever heard of Lucy Liu, all of
whom played the Angels perfectly with their high-octane stunts,
numerous disguises and active leading roles, especially Diaz as
Natalie, my favourite Angel who I found the funniest with her
laugh-out-loud lines and superb dance moves, whether in her dream or
against a Soul Train replica stage. The story was gripping and
dramatic, especially when the Angels discover that Eric Knox's
kidnapping was a set-up and have to get their Bosley back. The lines
are mostly fun if a bit silly yet memorable while the soundtrack is
very good and I also have that on CD. Not only did the film's
soundtrack feature songs that were on CD but also songs that were not
on it (e.g. Michael Jackson's 'Billie Jean' and Blur's 'Song 2') and
snippets of incidental music consisting of various arrangements of the
'Charlie's Angels' theme tune plus some eerie, powerful and tense
pieces. A lot of hard work and effort were put in the stunts and action
scenes, the film is somewhat fast-paced and some of the special effects
are incredible, especially the camera zooming into the cloudy sky of
the Columbia logo before cutting to a plane flying against a real sky
and the slow-motion bullet Knox fires when the moment he shoots Dylan
out of the window is replayed. Afterwards, Dylan rushes towards a house
where two boys are playing a computer game and she asks them for help,
that house being the one featured in 'E.T. The Extra Terrestrial' in
which Barrymore starred when she was a little girl. I was so impressed
with the leading ladies' roles in this film that it prompted me to
watch other works of theirs such as Diaz in 'There's Something About
Mary,' Liu in 'Ally McBeal' and Barrymore in '50 First Dates.' This
film also inspired me to write a spin-off television episode that was
based on the Simpsons episode 'Trilogy of Error' as well as a crossover
story in which the Angels meet Shrek (the titular character of yet
another brilliant Diaz movie). While this film has several mistakes as
listed on the likes of Slipups.com and Movie Mistakes.com, they were
still fun to spot and were saved by the humour and the action
sequences. The outtakes at the end were a laugh as well.

Overall, this is an amazing girlie action flick that features memorable
dialogue, stunning stunts, fantastic special effects and a superb
soundtrack. I also recommend the sequel, 'Charlie's Angels: Full
Throttle,' which is even better. 10/10.
