

The lights went down in the movie theater, and I sank down in my seat
anxious to give my complete and undivided attention over to the visual
hypnotist, who twice previous has put me under and filled me with moving,
profound visuals and awe-inspiring landscapes.  My expectations were high,
and they had every right to be, considering past trips our director has
taken me on before.  Philip Glass's music began - instantly recognizable.
Coupled with the first few visuals - classic Reggio.  Everything felt
familiar, and I thought, once more here I am in for a real visual ride.
Something novel, something adventurous, an evolution and a step up from
where we had last left the "qatsi" series.

Yes, I knew beforehand going in to the film the overall colour and
tone
that a film on "war as a way of life" would and should have.  Lots of
greys
and other dreary hues.  Indeed, show me one frame in this 90-minute film
with some colour in it.  Yet, it is not the bleakness of the film's visual
shade that had me consistently throughout the film slipping in and out of
interest.  My problem was with the irrelevancy of numerous images to the
theme of what the translation of "Naqoyqatsi" is all about.

Rarely are we presented with any images pertaining to anything
remotely
concerned with warfare and the causes and effects of such.  Brief, hazy
shots near the end of the film arrive far too late for the viewer to want
to
consider and reflect upon these.  Up till then, we are bombarded with an
overwhelming array of visual distractions that either work to divert or
numb
our senses to the point of yawning indifference - that when the film
finally
arrives at its point, its promoted subject, that of "war as a way of
life,"
the string of shots showing mushroom clouds, marching troops, and human
suffering strangely seem tacked on as if they do not appear logically from
their preceding images.

And herein lies the one major flaw of this film.  There is no weaving
thread connecting the shots smoothly together.  It plays like a confusing
collage of quickly cut montages scrambled up like a jigsaw puzzle that we
the viewer are required to try and make sense of.  Whereas "Koyaanisqatsi"
consisted of recognizable logic from one image to the next, an arc if you
will, where we are able to distinguish a beginning with an end (the cause
and the effect), here we can define no order in the direction from
image-to-image, we search for meaning in the many diversions and
abstractions that are presented to us, and neither have the time nor the
patience to find any - for swiftly the images roll by, a spate of such
that
overwhelms our minds to the point where often we find ourselves mentally
tiring out, unable to keep up with the alarming pace of
interconnecting/overlapping grainy and muddled visuals.  (Some shots are
so
dark and cloudy I oftentimes found myself not even knowing what I was
looking at.)  Because the film is so neurotic in its imagery and so fuzzy
to
look at periodically throughout, we end up losing interest and caring
about
the film around the first 30 minutes in, that by the time Reggio delivers
his anticipated visual payoffs, yes our attention is whisked back in, but
are we at this point able to FEEL anything for what we are
seeing?

The first two films of this trilogy were masterpieces, the two
separate
and unique from each other in both music and atmosphere, with a director
whose passion for his project truly manifested itself on screen in the
many
natural wonders and exotic settings he captured.  Here, Reggio takes the
easy way out, in ironically using a slew of computer-generated visual
effects to achieve a handful of dazzling creations (not to be missed) that
previously he physically would have sought out Creation itself for.
Perhaps
he's getting tired, for I felt his heart just wasn't in this film like it
was the previous two chapters.  Perhaps this installment was brought about
into existence only out of a sense of duty - an obligation in completing a
pre-ordained trilogy.

In "Powaqqatsi" he let his camera pause and study - scenery, faces,
human actions - which allowed us the time to gaze, ponder and reflect.  We
observed and we contemplated.  There is no opportunity for that here.  The
countless shots (450 of them) rush along and bury our concentration under
its suffocating heap.

This commentary compared to the first two, falls surprisingly flat.
All the abstractions and digital code become tedious and tiresome after a
while.  The whole point of such flashy trickery ought to be to stir the
audience to feeling, not stultify them and make them indifferent to the
images they see.

Like witnessing a dream where the images just do not logically
connect
and make sense, I was only pleased to awaken from this film with an
anxious
awaiting to do so all throughout the confusion.  To stand up, stretch, and
step back into a universe where the 6 pm news possesses more of the
"Naqoyqatsi" theme than this film does.  The visuals here do not correlate
with each other; there's murkiness, there's quirky doctoring of images,
there's distortion.  It all comes down to chaos, and perhaps this is to be
taken as a metaphor in defining our times.  In which case, in rating this
film I could well in fact be rating the world we live in.  Perhaps then,
Reggio's final installment achieves its aim afterall - in the aggressive
use
of a technologically-armed visual attack that we are only too anxious to
want to question in the end.

Koyaanisqatsi
Rating Out Of Ten : 10.

Powaqqatisi
Rating Out Of Ten : 9.

Naqoyqatsi
Rating Out Of Ten : 5.


<|_=00=_|>

After reading different comments about this movie, I've decided to see
it, and I'm really surprised because what I have found has little to do
with what I thought it was. 

Naqoyqatsi is about the loss of our natural perception of reality and
its substitute: the image itself as a product of technology, the image
as a weapon in a globalized war. And here comes the apparent
incoherence, because the film is a parade of these images, a product of
the same technological violence it is reflecting and criticizing.
That's not hypocrisy; the contradiction is part of the film itself.

Although I do not completely support Reggio's point of view, I admire
the way he expresses it through his films without impositions of any
kind, so that the viewer can find his own perspective. While watching
Naqoyqatsi, I was asking for the "original" pictures that were below
those distortions and filters, but soon I realized the real world
wasn't there. It was like "OK, so that's all... Well, let's see it".

A few words about the inevitable comparison with it's predecessors: if
you are looking for something like Koyaanisqatsi, go see Koyaanisqatsi
again. Naqoyqatsi is a different film. It does well as the third part
of the Qatsi Trilogy, but like the other two, has its own
"personality". And I think it's a great film. Maybe not a masterpiece
like Koyaanisqatsi, but a great film.

<|_=00=_|>

In the hustle and bustle of a chaotic world, we often don't take the time to
stop and really look at all the beautiful things that tend to pass us by
unnoticed.  It is Godfrey Reggio's aim in `Naqoyqatsi' – as it was in his
previous `Koyaanisqatsi' and `Powaqqatsi' - to focus our attention on all
the artistry inherent in the shapes, forms and patterns that make up our
universe.  His film is a succession of images, some of them derived from
nature (clouds, ocean waves), others from Man (buildings and bridges), and
others from computer-generated fantasy.  These he filters through his
observant camera eye, state-of-the-art processing and ingenious editing to
create a cinematic tone poem.  The element that most separates `Naqoyqatsi'
from Reggio's earlier works is the much heavier reliance on camera trickery
and CGI effects here.  For the most part, Reggio has moved away from nature
as his subject and towards the cyber realities of the current age.  Thus,
the altered emphasis in form seems not merely appropriate but thematically
valid as well, as Reggio examines a world in which nature has been largely
eclipsed by computer technology.

At the end of the film we are told that `Naqoyqatsi' is a Hopi word meaning,
essentially, `war' and `violence.'  I'm not sure, though, that Reggio has
really earned that title with his film.  True, he does include a few shots
of mushroom clouds, of street riots, of violent video games, but they hardly
account for the majority of the images we see.   Perhaps it is the clash
between nature and technology that he is referring to here, but the title –
at least as defined at the end - still seems to fall a bit short of the
mark.

Still, Reggio is often able to find poetry in even the most disturbing of
images.  For instance, there's an amazing shot of a trio of crash test
dummies performing a macabre, yet strangely beautiful slow motion `dance' in
a simulated airplane crash.  It is but one of the many unforgettable images
in the film.

Enhanced by the haunting music of Philip Glass, `Naqoyqatsi' offers a
dazzling kaleidoscopic view of the world, a visual tour de force for the
aesthetically inclined.


<|_=00=_|>

This is a failure so complete as to make me angry.

All of the subtlety and structure of Reggio's early films is gone, leaving
nothing but a hash of digitally smeared images whose sole purpose seems to
be Whining About Bad Things Humans Do. Just how do Star Trek-like wormhole
graphics, slo-mo colorized seascapes, mutiplicities of obviously fake
computer icons, and shots of athletic competition that, incidentally, show
that no one has ever been able to top (or even match) Leni Riefenstahl for
filming bodies in motion, edited together with an overlay of video
colorization that a 1980s "Dr. Who" producer would have rejected as "too
cheesy," add up to a polemic against "civilized violence"? There is no
intellectual, emotional, or visceral connection between these images as
assembled and mutated by Reggio and way too many digital effects artistes,
and the cautionary tale I assume he wanted to produce.  With all of the
"dramaturgical consultants" involved, no one seems to have pulled his head
out the his own feeling of Saying Something Important and considered that
they might all be failing to say something new.

Only people who watch too much television could make such a film and believe
that it's meaningful; this is kindergarten Stan Brakhage, and ultimately
gutless in its relentless obviousness. The only irony and tension evident
here (unlike in "Koyaanisqatsi" where the relentless beauty and strangeness
of time-altered ordinary images forced you to consider their meaning) was
when the DVD I was watching jammed and skipped. This is MTV for the Noam
Chomsky crowd, based on reflex rather than reflection and signifying
nothing. Two stars for the music, which is in Glass's best pomo-Cesar Franck
style and features some passionate cello from Yo-Yo Ma. (I hope for his sake
that he didn't have to record his parts to a playback of the film; there are
some things you shouldn't have to do even for a paycheck.)
<|_=00=_|>
What a let down. Koyaanisqatsi was brilliant, Powaqatsi was quite good,
Naqoyqatsi is the same thing all over again, without the beauty and
profundity.

It's not that I don't sympathise with the meaning behind the film, but
bombarding me with images of dollar signs and corporate logos is using
a sledgehammer to crack a nut. The majority of those who view this
movie do not need to be chaperoned around these issues.

The film feels structureless and jumps back and forth from one point to
the next and then back again. I suppose you could argue that this
reflects the chaotic nature of the films subject matter, but to me,
that's just making excuses for a poorly conceived narrative.

The computer graphics don't work well at all. They often feel like an
excuse to show of a few fancy special effects and already look dated
(Max Headroom came to mind on several oc...oc...oc...occasions.). They
just don't have the beauty of a 'real' image.

To add insult to injury, the film has been stretched out from a 4:3
aspect ratio to 16:9 so all of the people appear distorted. This is
because the stock footage used was 4:3 and they couldn't be bothered
editing it to fit into a widescreen presentation. They just stretched
the lot, and when you watch the DVD it is very noticeable. It's claimed
that this was a deliberate move and not a decision based on technical
difficulties, but I'm not sure.

Overall - I'd say watch koyaanisqatsi again - it's the only film out of
the three worth repeated viewings.
<|_=00=_|>

I read the other review here before seeing the movie and desperately
hoped
it was wrong - it wasn't. Koyaanisqatsi was, and still is, a great
movie --
full of sweeping images and magnificent scope, the movie certainly had an
eloquent statement to make. I was hoping for something similar in the
third
installment.

This was an exercise in tedium. It seemed as though the filmmakers raided
the Time-Life library of iconic 20th century images and fed them through
a
special effects filter. It's as if they felt that what worked in
Koyaanisqatsi, would work here -- extreme closeup, slow-motion etc. But
the
images here had nothing to say.

There was no emotion. Just wall-to-wall shots of everything from dollar
signs, 0's and 1's, faces, bodies, computer chips, JFK, Martin Luther
King,
Bin Laden, buildings ripped by tornados... you get the picture. To make
matters worse, everything was put through amateurish f/x-- mosaic, grain,
vortex, inverted.

While it may have been a technical marvel, the end result felt empty and
labored. Footage near the end consisted of juxtaposing images of real
global
street violence with video game violence -- but so what? Nothing new was
said here. A real shame to end this way...


<|_=00=_|>

I am a gigantic fan of both Koyaanisqatsi and Powaqqatsi, but this movie is
just not good. The reviewer below is entirely correct that the stunning
imagery of the Detroit station is the first and last memorable scene in the
film. I really, really wish I had left after that, instead of continuing to
hold out hope throughout the film. Maybe my expectations were too high, but
I felt let down.

The score is almost completely a rehash of the previous two - not
necessarily a bad thing if you're a fan, but there's only one piece that
stood out to me as being fresh. It was good enough, though, that I'll still
probably check out the soundtrack.

But just keep this in mind if you see this film: if you come to realize at
any point that you're not enjoying it, go ahead and split - you won't miss a
thing, because it won't get any better.

I'll even give the executive summary here (warning! spoilers!): lots of
shots of athletes that look almost good enough for a Nike commercial, shots
of smiling people, inexplicably dull frontal head shots of famous people's
wax dummies (WTF were they thinking here?!?), some giggling babies
(cuuuuute), some "bitchin'" Photoshop effects, some imagery that's meant to
suggest a comparison between the flows of water, information, money and
people (I think)... and then a bunch of quick unrelated scenes of mass
violence... and then a bunch of stock space footage.

I could remake this movie in 10 seconds. Here's my pitch:

2 seconds of a happy daddy with a shaved head and lycra biking shorts
playing with a toddler playing with a kitten playing with
string;
5 seconds of that scene in "Network" where the guy talks about messing with
the "elemental forces of nature" and how "money flows in, money flows
out;"
1 second of Reginald Denny getting brained with a brick, and
then
3 seconds of Alan Bean bouncing around on the moon. 

There you go - that's 88 minutes and 50 seconds of your life I just saved.
Of course, I'd get a copy of After Effects and apply a filter or two, so it
wouldn't look as blatantly stock as it is. If Steven Soderbergh's reading
this, hey, I won't even need much money for this project...

If you insist upon watching a movie about "Life as War," I suggest "Bowling
for Columbine" instead. It may not have the pseudo-intellectual veneer so
fashionable among the black turtleneck crowd, but at least it's
funny.
<|_=00=_|>
first off i consider koya one of my top movies and think highly of powa
as well. this is not either of those movies. it has been made in a
different time .

because my expectations were so entrenched i had to stop this movie
halfway thru thinking it was crap and take a break.

then i came back to it and really enjoyed the last half. not to say
this movie is as well crafted as koyaniqaatsi because it isn't.

but it is very different, the linear sense of koya is gone replaced
with chaotic and seemingly unrelated images thrown together into a
relentless barrage. At first i struggled to find the underlying
theme/string that connected it all as such was in koyanisqaatsi but
there was none and i became disappointed. but perhaps the movie is more
reflective of the chaotic barrage of information we live in. the
unending information and violence overload.

in koyanisqatsi i felt hope perhaps in this nothing but the maddening
roar of modern day society tearing itself apart.

its been twenty odd years since koyanisqaatsi and everything portrayed
in that movie has only become more intense, more fractured. perhaps
this movie lacks the simple sublimeness of the first because reggio not
longer sees the world as such. the madness of modern man is much more
evident in this. the oversaturation in the movie reflecting the over
saturation the skewed perspective our world has.

this movie is certainly not as easy to digest as reggio's other works
and i would like to return to it as some point. To those who enjoyed
the first two i would say watch this but leave your preconceived
notions and expectations behind.
<|_=00=_|>
Having enjoyed Koyaanisqatsi and Powaqatsi I was looking forward to
this third part of the Qatsi trilogy and seeing what direction it had
taken. Rarely has a film so spectacularly failed to live up to its
predecessors and lost its way. Although it tries to represent
"civilised warfare" in the form of sport, science, trade and other
forms of competition, it lacks the global scope and even the coherently
developed themes of its predecessors. War is chaos, but even wars have
an aim in mind and this film had little structure and unclear goals.

Naqoyqatsi is flawed by being a chaotic melange of images that does
little to develop its theme. On the plus side, it wisely avoided using
some of the iconic images of last century's wars.

Naqoyqatsi is also so insular that several times I had to remind myself
that I was not watching an advertisement promoting the American way of
life. Perhaps this insularity reflects the ongoing "War on Terror".
When representing "sport as war" the prominent team logos ensured that
the USA was depicted as the winner. Hence it missed the opportunity to
depict some of the many sports around the world and showing that
humanity is united in its use of sport as a form of civilised warfare.

Apart from newsreel, the footage seemed to have been shot on a budget
in the confines of New York and there was little recognition of "life
as war" in the rest of the world. The gallery of faces (waxworks) gave
only a nod to the existence of important personages outside of the USA.
The makers missed the point that globalisation does not mean
Americanisation.

The Philip Glass soundtrack sounded much like every other Philip Glass
score I've heard (with the possible exception of Koyaanisqatsi) and at
best can be described as "inoffensive" neither adding to, nor
detracting from, the chaotic imagery.
<|_=00=_|>
"Naqoyqatsi" is an experience different of what many viewers might seen
it in the past 20 years. Remember the 30 last minutes of "2001: A Space
Odyssey" when there was only visual effects images and the frightening
music in the background and no words, no quotes were heard? Now,
imagine almost 90 minutes of only that, the only exercise you have to
do is sit, watch and think about why those images appeared and their
meaning. This is "Naqoyqatsi". 

In this documentary director Godfrey Reggio, music composer Philip
Glass (from "The Hours") and animated director Jon Kane created a
enormous montage about many aspects of life on Earth. But his approach
is to show how our society become violent and that progress is a
important part of that cause. The first image that appears is the Babel
Tower and after that technology appears in its several forms in
buildings, computers, science, medicine, our human body capable of
doing miraculous things, the relation between the man and the sports,
and the decadence of the mankind in violent acts. All this achievement
was possible because of technology.

One important thing showed here is the difference between what humans
can do and what technology can imitate too. For instance, the adoration
that we have with famous people. In a take celebrities generated by
computer walks by and the people are crazy about them, waving to them,
taking photos. In the next scene we seen real artists walking in the
red carpet; Marlon Brando, Julia Louis-Dreyfus and Elton John and we
seen the difference between them and the digital celebrities. It might
seem the same thing but it's not. We are really interested in the real
people and not in some CGI creation.

Here comes the difficult part of this film: the discussion and what do
we learn with "Naqoyqatsi". There's criticism and there isn't, it seems
plausible in one moment and totally useless and pointless in the other.
In the whole film there's no critic but after the credits roll in the
end and the meaning of the word Naqoyqatsi is shown there's a critic,
there's the point of view of the director, and by that I mean that it
might be too late for people get the idea of what this movie is about.
Naqoyqatsi is a word of a tribe that means: societies that lives by
killing each other, people living of war. This is a statement towards
our society that gave 10 steps forward and walked backwards in 30
steps. Our material evolution led to our physical destruction and led
to our possible extinction. Atomic bombs, protests, dictatorships,
dictators and their ideologies, weapons of mass destruction, all the
math used by Einstein and Oppenheimer for good reasons used in the bad
and dangerous ones. Since there's no quotes, captions and that sort of
things many people will walk out of this documentary without understand
what the director meant to say with it.

This is a patient, wordless, and mind blowing experience where only the
visual and the real images are important. Many of the images are shown
in slow-motion, giving the viewer time to think, formulate a thought
about what he's seeing at the moment. And of course Philip Glass's
music, in it's quiet and slow language. Very mental and hypnotic. 

I recommend you to watch if possible a similar documentary called "Nós
Que Aqui Estamos Por Vós Esperamos" (translated by "Here We Are Waiting
for You") a Brazilian documentary that follows almost the same path of
"Naqoyqatsi" but it has more messages, more substantial meaning and
captions that explain things. In this documentary director Marcelo
Masagão collected several images of the 20th Century and created a
fictional story for this images stating the different aspects of the
human mortality. It's terrific. 10/10 for both projects!
