

I read the book first and I can only say that I feel sorry for its author,
Carl Hiassen.  The book was an extremely funny satire of capitalism,
politics, gender roles, etc. and the film was just an excuse for the lead
actor to show off her surgically enhanced body.  I mentioned the book in a
university tutorial for my course on literary satire, and no one would
believe me that it was not trash because they could not separate it from the
movie which followed it. Too bad - the book is good enough to have warranted
a script that stays true to the original story rather than exchange wit and
sophistication for extended dance sequences and the lubricatory
possibilities of yogurt.
<|_=00=_|>
...the flop that deserves six of its Razzies and the nomination for
Worst Picture of the Decade?

I think, "Striptease" (1996) directed by Andrew Bergman based on the
book by Carl Hiaasen, is all of the above - a curious mixture of
laughs, satire, absurdism, darkness, silliness, and over-seriousness.
The latter comes from Demi Moore who plays Erin Grant, the FBI
secretary - losing her job and the custody over her daughter to no good
small time crook wheelchairs stealing husband (Robert Patrick looking
and acting like a stoned, redneck version of Gary Oldman) and who takes
a job as an exotic dancer in the local club "Eager Beaver" to earn
money for her court appeal. In the club she becomes the hottest
attraction and meets many...interesting characters, the most colorful
being, of course Congressman David Dilbeck (Burt Reynolds) who "just
loves naked women. It's a character flaw" and who is absolutely smitten
by Erin. Erin also makes friends with a club bouncer, Shad (Ving
Rhames) who is perhaps the best thing in the movie - clever, sharp,
sarcastic, with the great sense of humor. One scene where Shad tells to
Dilbeck's bodyguards that Meryl Streep used to work in "Eager Beaver"
as an exotic dancer and they seem to believe him is brilliant. If only
everything had been as good as he was we would've had a really great
movie. What do we have now? Well, Demi Moore looks really good with the
minimum clothes on. I mean, the woman was a 33 year old mother of three
at the time and her body was marvel to behold. I just think that she
was too serious, intense, and solemn doing the striptease numbers –
after all it is not only strip it is tease, too. It goes to her acting
in the movie in general. Reynolds seemed to have a lot of fun with his
sleazy drunk Congressman David Dilbeck, election-day choice of
Christian groups and a lot of laughs comes from his mannerism and
quotes. There are plenty of laughs, actually, in "Striptease" but quite
often they seem like the wrong and unintentional type for the movie
material. 

Who had the best laugh? I'd guess, Demi Moore did after been paid $12.5
million – one of the highest paychecks for an actress back then.
<|_=00=_|>

The summary line above came from my wife after seeing Andrew Bergman take a
really funny book by Carl Hiaasen and turn it into a "Sincere Sally Field
Gutsy Mom Works As A Stripper Even Though It Means Shame And Disgust Because
It's For Her *Daughter*!!!" movie.

Ving Rhames and Burt Reynolds deliver deft, wonderful performances that are
completely sunk by Demi Moore's Jawline Of Grim Determination.  The book
pointed out that the ones degraded by stripping are actually the men, who
turn into drooling, brainless fools, while the women have the control and
collect the money.  The movie has to add a scene where the daughter sees the
mother dancing (oh horrors!) and the mother has to explain her Sordid Living
to the Innocent Babe.

Also, in the book, Erin is a top dancer who doesn't have the biggest boobs
in the room, but who gets the best tips because she actually knows how to
dance.  So who do they get to play her?  Bebe Neuwirth?  Noooo.  Demi Moore.
 All tits and no dancing talent.

Demi Moore was apparently determined to keep this movie from being seen as a
comedy.  The worst thing to say about this movie is that she succeeded
completely.
<|_=00=_|>

Hey, come on, guys - where's your sense of humor??  The movie is based on
a
book by Carl Hiassen, the master of comedy/thrillers set in southern
Florida.  Demi Moore, Burt Reynolds and especially Ving Rhames bring the
characters to life, and then some!  Doesn't seem realistic?  Have you seen
John Sayles' "Sunshine State"?  This is how the "other half" lives,
believe
it or not...
And even not, it's a very funny film.  Demi deserves a lot of credit
for
taking on this quite challenging role.  She's got a great body, and more
power to her!! May the best woman win!!  And she does!!!

In addition, Burt Reynolds once again proves that he has a
marvelous
sense of comedy timing, character creation, and isn't afraid to make
a
fool of himself.  And Ving...., he's just marvelous.
For a good time, rent "Striptease".  And bring along your
friends.
<|_=00=_|>
for those of you who don't know (and I'm sure there's a lot of you)
Strip Tease was actually a book written by Carl Hiaasen, and a damn
good book at that. Brilliant characters, an intriguing storyline,
hilarious incidents, sex, violence, the works...

I gave the movie a 5 because Robert Patrick and Burt Reynolds were
absolutely hysterical and on-point (I'm sure THEY actually READ the
book), but aside from those two gems this movie was a disgrace.

What happened to the plot?!? What happened to like half the story?!?
What happened to my self respect?!? Why change the ending?!? The story
was enthralling and thoroughly enjoyable when I read the book, the
movie (breasts considered) not so much..

There's a gratuitous 3 minute topless dancing scene, followed by 3
minutes of Demi and the little girl crying and being superdramatic.
CHOOSE which audience you're marketing this movie towards! Women won't
respect a nonsense T&A fest and men don't want to see a bunch of sappy
overdramatics when the movie was advertised like a softcore porno
flick.

The fact that a BOOK about strippers was exponentially better than the
movie.. that's saying something.

- Anonymous Disgrunted Hiaasen Fan
<|_=00=_|>
This is a very misunderstood film. It's not some sleaze erotic thriller
but a comedy drama. It can be off putting when you go from joke to a
serious part of the story, and there might be a little too much
stripping but it's not that bad. The story has murder mystery and and
full belly laughs and a few terrific one liners. If it was made by the
Coens everyone would call it a masterpiece. You shouldn't watch this
film expecting something serious, just go with it and see how much fun
you have. Burt Reynolds gives the performance of his career, Ving
Rhames as good as ever, and there's Robert Patrick playing a loser so
with out morals he steals wheelchairs for a living. Films like this,
that are neither one thing or the other, are always uneven. But the
director/writer manages to pull it off. It could be better but it could
have been a whole lot worse.
<|_=00=_|>
It may not have mirrored the book, but it has its own charm. I haven't
read the book, so maybe that's why I can judge the movie on its own
merits.

Ving Rhames is terrific-- honestly, has he ever had a clunker of a
performance? Demi is luscious (the dance scenes, and the cute scene
where she's getting dressed/dancing after a shower), and Burt Reynolds
is hilarious. I really loved the congressman character meeting the
right wing group slathered in vaseline. "Fresh, hot, lint!" indeed!
Give it a whirl... it ain't Citizen Kane, but it ain't Battlefield
Earth either.
<|_=00=_|>

Striptease

Dire, but strangely fascinating, Demi Moore vehicle about a single mother
who turns to a life of stripping in order to gain custody of her daughter.
(Robert Patrick is the drug-stealing ex-husband who gains custody of the
child.) Ving Rhames is a bodyguard and Burt Reynolds has a nice co-star role
as a sleazy political candidate. This movie was extremely bashed when it
came out, but it's better than "Showgirls," and sort of watchable. If you
don't expect much of a story, then this is for you...be warned, however,
that there is  a lot of stripteasing in this film.

** / *****
<|_=00=_|>
Shabby comedy-drama from Carl Hiaasen's novel has ex-FBI clerk Demi
Moore turning to stripping in order to pay off her legal debts; seems
she's in a fight to retrieve her child from her disreputable ex, yet
the film doesn't see stripping as disreputable and therefore Moore is
the good guy in the plot. Director Andrew Bergman may have helmed this
project blindfolded, how else to explain the sketchily-drawn
characters, the ridiculous strip-club sequences or a dire sub-plot
involving Congressman Burt Reynolds? Solid supporting turns by Armand
Assante as a cop and Ving Rhames as a bouncer give the film its only
validity. As for Moore, she isn't a bad actress, nor is she a stupid
one, but the $12 million she acquired for her non-performance here
seems a joke on the audience--and on Hollywood. * from ****
<|_=00=_|>
Striptease is even worse than Showgirls. The stripping is awful, it is
apparently heavily erotic - I didn't see anything erotic, the dancing
is laughable, this has to be the most overrated erotic movie of all
time. There is nothing, not a single relevant, serious, well
choreographed erotic dance clip or sex scene. The story was turned into
a very shallow script and the only thing that the directors cared
about, was showing Demi Moore in a thong. 

Looking back, this is where Demi's career ended. This movie was so bad
it evicted Demi from the movie industry that disabled her any
opportunity for a serious role. Demi Moore will be remembered forever
in Striptease, the woman who showed a few bits of her butt in
embarrassing fashion. 

There's no substance, no intrigue, no real insight, no drama, if they
wanted to do a sexually orientated movie, then they should have waived
the rights to Hustler to make a porno movie. 

Who ever played in this movie never recovered from it in the aftermath.
Even for $15M, it's not worth it. Oh and the viewer also wastes 2hrs of
his time.
