

Every time this is on TV, I stop and watch it, with absolute
fascination. Do I play or even like golf? Hell, no. Do I care about any
sports? Hell, no. Well, except for pro wrestling, and I barely watch
that anymore as I sink into old age. What fascinates me about TIN CUP
is the delirious story and the colorful characters. Costner, not one of
my favorite actors normally, is simply brilliant as a down-on-his-luck
golf pro and Rene Russo is absolutely striking as his newfound love
interest and salvation. This is one of Russo's greatest roles, in fact.
In addition, there are two terrific supporting roles, with Don Johnson
as Costner's archnemesis and a real cad (which I suspect is how he is
in real life) and Cheech Marin as Costner's stalwart companion and
partner in tomfoolery. In fact, Costner and Marin are essentially Don
Quixote and Sancho Panza, but instead of tilting at windmills they tilt
at golf holes here. You definitely don't have to like golf to enjoy
this movie, slick and formulaic as it may be. And seeing Johnson and
Costner going nose to nose may give you the same frisson as seeing
Travolta and Willis standing elbow to elbow in PULP FICTION. Two truly
big names that you never expected to see together in one movie. Say
what you want about both Costner and Johnson (talk about lives lived to
excess), but they are both terrific in this tidy little romantic
"dramedy." This not a kiddie movie. It is a movie for adults who have
lived real lives and can relate to adult characters who have had their
share of ups and downs and can still dream.

<|_=00=_|>

From an acting standpoint, "Tin Cup" may be Kevin Costner's best movie. Here
he plays Roy McAvoy, a burned-out, washed-out, down-n-out golf pro a way out
in West Texas. He's broke, drunk most of the time, and convinced of his own
worthlessness -- hence his attraction to poetry and a puffed-up opinion of
his own heroics on the golf course (he's got to have something hold on to).
Roy is just this side of being a complete bum -- this is one of the few
movies I've seen on any subject that actually addresses the financial
condition of its loose-living hero.

"Tin Cup" is all about the dire straits of this character, and Costner is
more than up to the challenge of playing this guy convincingly. Costner for
once packs everything into his performance: charm, wit, sarcasm,
hopelessness, bitterness, and more than a little arrogance. He is funny,
laidback and shows remarkable athletic skill. He tops his career-best work
in "Bull Durham" here (not surprising, since this is another Ron Shelton
film).

The movie also works great as a classic heroic Quest story. McAvoy is on a
mythic quest, not for the perfect 18 holes, certainly not for money, but for
love. "Tin Cup" could easily have been titled "Quixote Jousts at Windmills
in West Texas." Best of all, McAvoy KNOWS he's on a quest; when he refers to
it in his dialogue, it sounds pathtically funny, but when you hold this
story up to the ancient pattern of the heroic quest as described by Joseph
Campbell, it really rings true.

Probably the most interesting aspect of "Tin Cup" is that it also works as a
metaphor for what Costner has done with his career. Here's a guy who could
have played it safe and easy after all those Oscars, but took off on crazy
flights of fancy like "Waterworld" and lost badly. (He continued to play
unsafe shots after 1996, with almost every movie that followed this one.)
McAvoy plays the game his way, on a dare, on a bet, with outrageous egotism
and a willingness to lose it all -- publicly. That's what Costner has done
at his own game. Was "Open Range" the dreaded safe shot that corrected his
course?
<|_=00=_|>

If somebody watches Tin Cup and does not find this movie a "must-see", it
might be either because you don't know golf, or because you take life too
easy. This film is nothing but irresistible. It combines those
tiny-little-moments that we golfers must face every time we are in the golf
course (yes, we may not be facing the US Open title, but golf gives us a
chance to know ourselves every time we hit the ball: Do I play safe or do I
take chances? Am I a winner, or am I a loser? Do I have nerves, or do I
simply breakdown?). Tin Cup goes insight all of that, and it shows it to
us,
in such a simple form through the eyes and life of Roy McAvoy and his
buddies, that at the end you find yourself with nothing but the urge to
rent
it again. Forget for a while about the romance and the girl, if so you
want,
but don't deny that the songs, the views, and the dialogue are superb. See
it as a great sport movie, with a clear lesson to all of us: In life as in
Golf, it is you who make that final call. A good call means success; a bad
one, well I guess you know where the rest goes.
<|_=00=_|>

Kevin Costner (Dances with Wolves, The Untouchables) is a great actor, in my
opinion, but most critics and some people don't like him because he takes too
many "hero" roles.  For those people, Tin Cup is a movie you will like, for
those who like Costner, you will love this film.  Cosnter plays a local star
golfer in Texas who runs a driving range that isn't doing well.  He's a good
golfer, but because of some poor decisions never turned professional.  He
has a lazy life goofing around with his friends and caddy, wonderfully
played by Cheech Marin (Paulie, From Dusk Til Dawn).  One day when a
beautiful psychiatrist, played by Rene Russo (Ransom, Major League), comes
in to take lessons from him, he decides to go after her.  The problem is
that she isn't grungy and lazy like he is and she's dating a professional
golfer who went to college with Costner.  He is well-played by Don Johnson
(Dead Bang, Guilty as Sin).  Costner and Johnson hate each other and soon
get into competitions to impress Russo.  Eventually, Costner decides to
impress her he'll try and qualify for the US Open golf tournament.  This is
a very funny film and was not a "chick-flick" like I was worried it would
be.  Costner is excellent in the lead playing a completely likable slob.
Russo is solid as his love interest.  Highly recommended.

<|_=00=_|>
Some actors are born to play a certain type of character. A youthful
Tom Cruise was the archetypal wise-cracking upstart with aspirations
for future greatness; Mark Ruffalo (of Collateral fame) has mastered
the 'just got out of bed' role; and any wife played by Joan Allen is
both sexually and spiritually unfulfilled. However there is no one who
plays the laconic ageing sports pro better than Kevin Costner. Tin Cup
sees Costner at his absolute best, embodying the everyman charm that
won him so many fans in 'Field of Dreams' and 'Bull Durham', yet
exceeding these performances with a depth and sense of impending
fallibility that engages the audience to the extent that we hit every
long iron and read every putt of Roy McAvoy's long journey into golfing
legend.

Costner's McAvoy is introduced as a washed up Texan driving range pro,
a once prodigious college golfer whose talent was unquestionable, but
who was hamstrung by an explosive temperament. Its not until be begins
to teach psychiatrist Molly Griswold (Rene Russo), and has a reunion
with college rival David Sims (Don Johnson) that his competitive flame
is reignited, and he seeks to qualify for the US Open prove his obvious
brilliance to both himself and to the watching world. This wouldn't be
Costner if he didn't have half an eye on Russo's character as well, and
the two plots are interwoven to excellent effect.

I love the golfing action in the movie. While some of the shot making
from McAvoy is simply farcical (if anyone's ever got backspin on a 250
yard 3 wood i'd love to hear from you - I trust my inbox will remain
vacant), director Shelton racks up the tension, especially on the back
nine stretch of the US Open, which inevitably sees McAvoy paired with
Sims in a race for the trophy. Costner actually lowered his handicap to
single figures whilst shooting the movie, so the action has an air of
authenticity to it, especially considering the cameos of well known US
Tour pros such as Phil Mickelson, Corey Pavin and Craig Stadler. The
familiar voice of legendary commentator Gary McCord adds to the feeling
that the proceedings are not that divorced from reality. Ben Curtis (an
unknown) won the Open Championship in 2003 - his first tournament win.

The supporting cast is excellent. This was Johnson's last major film
for a long time, yet it is textured valedictory performance, and Russo
adds radiance with her subtle beauty. Cheech Marin threatens to steal
the show as McAvoy's world-weary caddy, yet Costner is the big star
here. I was delighted with the film's conclusion, an overt rebellion
against sporting conformity.

As a film in this genre, Tin Cup is a brilliant success. Costner has
since gone on to bigger and worser things yet signs of a return to form
are promising, his new baseball movie The Upside of Anger (in which,
naturally, he plays an ageing pro) is released in March 2005. While not
everything about the film is good (a little less mawkishness wouldn't
go amiss in the romance scenes, combined with as little of Linda Hart
as is humanly possible), Costner is on top form, and even if you don't
like golf there is enough here for anyone to enjoy. Highly recommended.

8.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
While it may never be as famous as its forerunner Bull Durham (which
also starred Costner and was also written and directed by Shelton) Tin
Cup has legs of its own to stand on. With a brilliant soundtrack,
excellent support from Russo, Johnson, Marin and others (including two
Costners) and the writing and direction of Ron Shelton, this is a
winner - an incredibly funny and gripping comedy with a smashing bit of
irresistible bravado thrown in for good measure. Where Bull Durham
didn't have a climax per se, Tin Cup does - and what a climax that is.
And although you may in retrospect see the outcome as predictable, odds
are you won't guess this by a mile working into it the first time: the
suspense really works too.

For what it's worth, the riddle the movie starts on has been traced as
far back as The Cosby Show.

A definite keeper.
<|_=00=_|>

First of all, this is a golf film. A great golf film. The best golf film.
But there is more
to it than just being a golf film. It´s the classic tale of a washed-up
hero
wanting
to get the girl. But Kevin Costner gives this role something more. Okay,
it´s not
an oscar-winning role, but the performance sure as heck should be.

And it´s nice to see a golf film with a screenwriter who actually seems to
know
what the game really is about. For those who are not into golf, just look
at
Mr.
Costner´s every move and how he delivers his lines as a drunken golf
pro.
In fact the whole cast is excellent. In comparison to films like
Bagger Vance, Happy Gilmore and Caddyshack this film is the only one that
explains why we men are so hooked on this game. If you see this movie more
than five times, the music might start to get on your nerves. But it´s
okay,
it´s
impossible to add music to a golf film, because the sport itself is so
timeless and silent.
<|_=00=_|>

The game of golf never looked so exciting until Shelton came up with this
little gem about a stubborn golfer and his peculiar approach to the game.
Costner really works under Shelton's direction and snappy dialogue. The
romance with Russo does not ring true but you somehow overlook it because
of
the convincing performances.
<|_=00=_|>

Talented but unlucky golfer, Roy McAvoy (Kevin Costner) pursues
glamorous therapist, Dr Molly Griswold (Rene Russo). Even though it's a
Costner movie, it's actually a decent, surprisingly well-observed
romantic comedy

The American Dream is brought nicely down to earth in this gentle
comedy drama. Costner plays Roy McAvoy, an underachieving golf-whizz
living in a small Texan town, who falls for Molly (Russo), the
girlfriend of his arch rival David Simms (Don Johnson). Luckily for
him, she agrees to sleep with him after he chips a ball from the
clubhouse carpet and hits a pelican sitting outside. Molly gives Roy a
good soul-searching pep talk and it isn't long before he's back playing
professionally - and, before you know it, swinging his sticks in the US
Open. 

Tin Cup's big surprise is the film's unconventional ending, allowing us
to forgive director Ron Shelton's clumsy, problematic dramatic
structure and odd fascination with capturing Costner's highlighted
mullet.

The dialogue and characters are convincing and intelligently developed.
Russo wears vulnerability and neediness like a second skin, while
Costner plays the tragic hero with considerable charm.

<|_=00=_|>

Kevin Costner plays Roy McAvoy, and ex-golf pro who runs a driving range in
the middle of nowhere (520 miles from anything, to be exact). The film opens
with a horrible song, which is followed by a goofy country soundtrack that
was, unfortunately, written for the movie. Why is it that music that was
written specifically for a movie is never any good? There are exceptions, of
course, but none of them can be found in Tin Cup. However, despite the
sub-par soundtrack (no pun intended), this is a surprisingly satisfying
film. 

(spoilers)
It's not about the game in Tin Cup, which is good, because that would have
ruined the movie. There is a delightfully rich relationship between Roy and
Molly Griswold (Renee Russo), who is in an unhappy relationship and becomes
the love interest for Roy in the film. Molly has problems of her own that
parallel Roy's own struggle with his life as well as his golf swing. She is
a psychologist, but she gets hurt a lot. She can always tell when people are
lying to themselves, but can't seem to tell when people are lying to her.
Roy spends the majority of the film trying to get her to leave an unworthy
boyfriend who, of course, turns out to be a total dick, and continually
makes awkward advances of his own. Many of his amorous advances resemble
something confused and totally wrong that you might expect from someone like
Travis Bickle from Taxi Driver. Roy just doesn't understand women, and Molly
doesn't seem to know what she wants in a man.

Cheech Marin rounds out the cast in a fairly serious role that strongly
contradicts his traditional roles, and he pulls it off surprisingly well. He
is Roy's close friend and ultimately his caddy in the U.S. Open, in which
Roy plays as sort of the thinking man's Happy Gilmore. It seems that his
infatuation with Molly has caused him to lose much of his skill (`the
shanks,' I believe it was called), and he tries just about everything to get
his swing back. He uses all of those ridiculous infomercial devices that he
made fun of Molly for using earlier in the film, and even attempts some
witch doctor-like stuff, like getting drunk and playing hung over. Oops.

There is very heavy emphasis on the meaning of the golf in the movie, rather
than the golf itself. It is made clear in many different scenes that winning
or losing or even playing golf are not the things that should be focused on
when watching this movie. It is the way that golf is used as a metaphor for
life that is important. There is a part in the movie where Roy breaks a golf
record, but he still gets no respect afterward, because he had yet to change
as a person. Merely beating a record because you took less shots is
meaningless – what's important is what you learn or how you change as a
result. Even more importantly, near then end of the film, Roy takes shot
after shot at the final hole, dropping all after ball into the lake, but he
keeps taking the shot, rather than attempting to make it to the green safely
with more than one shot. When he keeps telling Cheech to give him another
ball, it becomes very clear that winning the tournament has become secondary
to him. He has set a goal for himself, and even though he knows that it will
cost him the tournament, he still seeks that goal. 

Notice how when he finally does make that shot, he is way above par, but he
still gets a huge response from the crowd. Tin Cup has a sort of Rocky-style
ending, in which Roy loses the tournament, but he still wins his conflict
with himself. Besides that, the movie doesn't leave us with the feeling that
we are seeing a temporary high point that will likely be followed someday
with the same troubles that were overcome in the film, which is something
that even great movies like As Good As It Gets are guilty of. Roy has not
made the most tremendous achievement possible, because he did lose the
tournament, but he has also managed to qualify for the U.S. Open tournament
for the following year. He lost the golf game, but he has made a significant
accomplishment in his life that is especially clear when you compare his
character from the beginning of the film to that at the end of the film.
Character development is one of the most important things about meaningful
film, and it is one of the strong points in Tin Cup. Don't watch it for the
golf, watch it for the well-written script, the great acting, and most
importantly, for the valuable lesson that can be learned from it as a
perspective on life.

