

Of course it's cheesy, it's supposed to be!  It's parody, not an
"action" flick!  If you expected a Steven Seagal movie, you should have
gone
to one!
Those of us who appreciate the nature of satire and parody can find
it
everywhere in this movie!  Any one who has lived in California has seen
several elements of this chase on their own televisions, LIVE!

The names of the characters are great, (Cary Elwes as Steve
Horsegroovy,
Ron Jeremy as a camera man, Bree Walker, an L.A. anchorwoman, playing an
anchorwoman, and Flea of the Red Hot Chili Peppers playing a redneck moron
named Will) and their roles are exaggerated, as they should be in a
spoof.
If you just don't get it, don't waste your time watching it!  And
please
stop crying about it.  Lighten up!

<|_=00=_|>

Ok to be truthful if you have never seen this movie before you are
probably
going to guess the ending by 10 minutes in but don't let that stop you
from
seeing it!  This movie is great no matter how many times you see it.
There
is something for everyone in this movie.. Humor, Romance, Action, Drama
etc.
Even if it is very predictable I don't think there has been a single time
where this movie has been on cable and I haven't watched it.  Just try it,
you'll love it!
<|_=00=_|>

This actually was a pretty good farce really. I do agree that it was
pretty
cheezy full of stock characters and B-Movie acting, but c'mon! It was a
send
up of how the media blows everything up to something massive and how it
sends everyone farther, feeding the media's fire in the process. What made
this apt to me was that after seeing this movie, I watched O.J. take that
mid-day drive down the highway with the LAPD right behind him. The movie
got
at least the media part right.

Also, it's fun to watch Henry Rollins play a cop (of all things) and
Anthony
Kiedis and Flea from The Red Hot Chilli Peppers as redneck hero wannabes.
So
long as you don't take this movie too seriously, it's pretty
funny.

Also, watch right up to after the credits - Charlie's nod to his dad's
role
in "Apocalypse Now" is just hilarious.
<|_=00=_|>
Enjoyable acting and the subplots are hilarious and impressive. A must!

This film is about an escaped con, Jackson Davis Hammond who was
wrongly convicted of a crime he did not commit. He is on the run to
avoid the ruling to put him in jail, which he was sentenced the day
before.

Jack has just stolen a car and is at a gas station when 2 cops enter
and hear of a car that's stolen and Jack panics, kidnapping the
daughter of one of the richest men in America using "unprofessional"
means. He takes her hostage and drives off in her shiny new BMW. At the
same time as the hijacking, a film maker and cameraman are in the back
of a squad car for the making of the cop show documentary "The Fuzz".
When the two cops in the front hear over the radio the announcement of
a kidnapping, they go in pursuit and quickly chase behind them. The cop
driver is a bit arrogant and wants to impress the audience of the show
being recorded. The other cop is a large fellow who seems wiser but
wimpy, he always corrects his partners statistics such as when they
tell the film maker how long they've worked together. It made great
viewing to see their character development. Humorous clips from this
film include the POLICE car hitting American football players as the
chase goes across a park and the other cop saying, "would ya watch!",
the vomit scene when the girl kidnapped is CARSICK, the spillage of
frozen corpses from a medical truck, the running commentary from the
skycopter, plus a few other surprises! Cameo appearances from Anthony
and Flea from the Red Hot Chili Peppers are welcomed and the finale is
classy (but judge for yourselves). I've seen this film over 150 times
easily and it is so amazing I recommend you all watch a film at least
twice to understand other areas to further the films enjoyment. The
rest I shall leave for the film to explain. Its been under rated but
I've seen 2800 films and a film that keeps you in (mild) suspense,
makes you laugh on many occasions and gives you some decent action plus
lots of fun cannot match this awesome film, enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

I loved it. You see Charlie Sheen in a role, where he can show his best
acting talent! That's being a Psycho and being a charming innocent guy at
the same time. He just tries to get out of this shiny-good justice of
America by escaping from California to Mexico. There are a lot of very funny
scenes, and the whole movie never begins to be boring!
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why this movie is so underrated. I never hear anything
about it, as if it's a bad secret that no one wants to get out. I don't
see why. This movie was fun to watch. I know, its kind of simple and
not very "edgy" or anything like that, but who cares really. It's still
good. Charlie Sheen gave a great performance as Jackson Hammond, an
escaped convict who is the cause of the chase. Kirsty Swanson was also
very well cast as the spoiled, kidnapped, rich daughter; Natalie Voss.
Henry Rollins was also very well cast as the cocky Officer Dobbs, and
Josh Mostel was good as Dobbs' partner, Officer Figus. Marshall Bell
was actually not the type of person to play Ari Josephson, Hammond's
lawyer. But he managed to pull it off well I see. Everyone else was
well cast for the most part, no flawed performances to speak of. The
story was kind of shallow but still enjoyable. There were twists and
turns here and there but it all worked out. The soundtrack was GREAT.
The Offspring, NOFX, Rancid, and Bad Religion are some of my favorite
bands and I was surprised that their songs were played in this movie. I
rate this an 8/10, see this movie, it is somehow very good.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm giving it 8 stars for reasons other than Kristy Swanson. Yes,
obviously this movie isn't a masterpiece nor was it made to be. It was
made to be a fun action movie that wouldn't disappoint. I watch this
movie ALL the time and it never gets old (premium channels seem to LOVE
it). The plot is so simple that it leaves so much room for climax and
twists...if that makes any sense. I mean, how could you go wrong with
Ron Jeremy filming news coverage of Charlie Sheen being chased down by
Henry Rollins and the Red Hot Chili Peppers while falling in love with
Buffy the Vampire Slayer at 120 mph?! You can't. This one's a classic
in my book (which also includes Weekend at Bernie's, Home Alone, and
Bandits).
<|_=00=_|>

	Have you ever wondered what it would be like if Hollywood made a film
adaption of the bestselling Nintendo 64 games 'San Francisco Rush'? Probably
not, but here it is. Much like Sheen's other 1994 movie, 'Terminal
Velocity', 'The Chase' is a entertaining action film looking for a brain,
which it can't seem to find. It's good, lighthearted fluff with likeable
leads, some good scenes, and an excellent film-long chase (thus the
title).

	It's careful not to get too complex, and will likely appeal to those of us
who enjoyed 'Speed'. On problem I had was the premature ending. It happened
way too early and left several crucial plot points unfinished. Also the
script comes and goes, one scene it's there, the next it's gone. That gets
tremendously annoying, and the lack of good dialog at times hampers the
impact.

	Still, 'The Chase' is an entertaining piece of cinema if you have an
afternoon to pass with nothing to do, even if it is rather
predictable.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

You can really enjoy 'The Chase' as a simple movie if you don't take
everything too seriously. Or may be not serious at all. There are some
nice
scenes, Charlie Sheen has a funny thing in this movie and Kristy Swanson
is
a beautiful lady. Just enjoy a simple movie like this.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie just seems to have a special place in my heart, it reminds
me of freshman year in high school, VHS tapes and summer vacation (damn
I miss that sh!t). Where else can u get Henry Rollins as a douchebag
cop who thinks he's Dirty Harry, his partner the revolting blob,
Anthony Kiedis and Flea in their hillbilly white trash Monster truck,
Cary Elwes as Steve Horsegroovy the super cheesy anchorman, Tigers
blood in a clown suit, Angela from "Who's the Boss", Ron f-ing Jeremy,
and the mega babe known as Kristy Swanson...no where else that's where!
The Chase is not an action movie, sure there's action in it but its a
comedy and its meant to be satirical (especially involving the media
and the way they like to blow EVERYTHING out of proportion) and it's
not high brow comedy, but its effective. If u haven't seen this flick
check it out, I mean i enjoy artsy movies and indies as much as the
next guy but sometimes a good dumb comedy is just what the doctor
ordered. So just sit back, kick your feet up and enjoy the ride.
