

One of the greatest appeals of this film is its vernacular. Aside from
being cast beautifully by talented actors in diverse roles set in an
interesting story, it's the dialogue that is extremely memorable. That, and
its great title.

And with such a great cast and dialogue, I'm absolutely stunned as to how
this great little film slipped through the cracks and didn't get a wider
audience. Its theatrical run here in Toronto was limited, actually I'm
making an assumption, I don't recall a listing for it, but before you knew
it, it was gone. Perhaps it wasn't marketed well or supported strongly
enough.

I have recommended this film and lent it to many friends and every one of
them has enjoyed it. I generally say, if you liked "Pulp Fiction", another
film which is well cast and with great dialogue, then you will likely enjoy
this one also.

One of my favourite quotes from the film (or any) comes from a supporting
player. Andy Garcia as "Jimmy The Saint", seeks the advice of Bill Cobbs,
playing "Malt", a Soda Jerk, on whether he should impregnate his hooker
friend as a favour to help straighten her out, Malt sarcastically
replies:

"That's just what the world needs... the unholy offspring of you two
bag-o-smashes. That kid will be the anti-christ for sure… 666 written all
over it."

Christopher Walken plays a memorable role of a crippled mob boss, known as
"The Man With The Plan" who is disturbed by his son Bernard's manic and
sexually obsessive behavior after having been dumped by the love of his life
for another man. The Man With The Plan insists that Jimmy, come back to work
for one job, an action, to scare the living daylights out of this new beau,
and tell him to stay away from Bernard's former girlfriend.

Jimmy is given the option to assemble his old crew for this action, which he
does. A strange bunch of men who have been long out of any illegal action,
some of whom miss it, and others whom do not.

And that's just about where it gets real interesting.

The story is laden with character revelation from a old wiseguy who just
doesn't shut up and scenes from everyday people who offer their wisdom to
videotape at Jimmy The Saint's legitimate but failing business, "After Life
Advice" for people who are terminally ill and wish to pass on a legacy to
their loved ones beyond the grave.

Everyone involved with this film should be proud of their accomplishment.
It is a great film and unfortunately hasn't been seen by many, by my account
anyway. Let's see if we can't change that.

<|_=00=_|>

It would be hard to dislike a film that opens with a Tom Waits tune and
gives hitherto
typecast actors a chance to, oh, I don't know: Act.  First, Andy Garcia.
What can I say
about Andy?  He's an attractive guy who all too often gets slated to play
"the attractive
guy."  (His shamefully undeveloped character from Ocean's Eleven comes to
mind).  In
this little indy film he gets a chance to actually embody a character and
not simply be
Andy Garcia (with capital letters).  Then there's his love interest,
Gabrielle Anwar (who
elevated the already immortal tango in Scent of a Woman).  Poor Anwar has
been
plagued with a lot of stock roles in lame movies since then, but here,
like
Garcia, she
gets to explore her role and show the audience she can do more than make
"hey I'm
famous.  Where's my check?" Al Pacino look good on the dance floor.  Also
fantastic are
Treat Williams, Steve Buscemi, and Christopher Walken (who bests his Annie
Hall AND
Pulp Fiction cameos).  The story is simple:  Andy's character is an ex-mob
guy who's
gone legit then pulled back in for one last job, things go wrong, and he's
got 2 days
before he's going to be killed.  In many hands this would be a B movie,
but
the writing is
so clever and unique that this excessively played mob-movie thing seems
like
it's done
for the first time.  There are as many quotable lines in this film as any
cult classic; my
favorites include: "I knew the kid was lunchy, but not that lunchy."  and
meeting Anwar's
character for the first time:
"What's your name?"
"Dagney."
"Dagney?  Wonderful name.  Everyone should know a Dagney."

If you like films like Usual Suspects that combine the action genre with
actual thought
and character development rent this film and see if you can watch it only
once.  In the
same ballpark try Way Of The Gun with Benicio Del Toro and Ryan Phillippe,
another film
where "pretty boys" are actually allowed to explore their craft of acting.

<|_=00=_|>

I feel that a hell of a lot of ppl missed the point on this one; it is
less a Tarantino-esque hip, Godfather mob drama, than a meditation on life
and death, and the frustration of mortality.

Centered around Garcia's character Jimmy, the film follows him tying up
his loose ends, after his gang botch up an 'action', and are given a 48hr
suspended death sentence by bitter crimelord Walken, before the deadly
assassin Mr Shh (Buscemi) is called in. Feeling responsible, and desperate
to tie up as many loose ends in his life, the film finds Jimmy constantly
striving to choose between options, and to try and finish nobly, and
rectify
his perceived wrongs. These include trying to secure his fellow gang
members
(Lloyd, Nunn, Forsythe and the crazed Williams), ensure the wellbeing of
prostitute Balk, and ignore his love for Anwar, to avoid dragging her in
with him. Throughout it all, Jimmy only succeeds in isolating himself
further, fighting his fears and dreams with his logic and pride. Yet as
Warden narrates, there is a sense that Jimmy's peace is just around the
corner, if only he can do the right things.

Garcia truly tranmits his character's pain and suffering, most
pertinently through the changing look on his eyes and face as the deadline
nears - he tries to maintain his grace, but cant quite hide his fears. All
the support are great - Walken and Buscemi as per usual are suitably
fearful, Williams and Lloyd in particular represent lost souls going down
defiantly very well, whilst the underused women are perfect - Anwar doing
well with unhelpful scenes, and Balk truly outstanding as the prostitute
with the zeal and realism that Jimmy so badly needs. The dialogue is at
times cheesy and clunky, and the mob feel somewhat overdone, but the film
feels true, and makes a valuable point about targets, and the temporality
of
life. And it refuses to lose hope, as proved by the final boat
scene.

Similar to Spike Lee's new film, the issues of mortality, and
aspirations
and dreams are key. The film's sombre tone is perfect - not too downbeat
(there are many hilarious and happy moments), but enough to make us
understand the importance of the issues at stake. Aside from staunch,
happy-to-be-cynical other imdb reviewers, the film will affect, and
perhaps
even instruct. Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

I guess this one is turning out to be a love it or hate it
movie.

I don't think the comparisons to Goodfellas or Casino is
fair.
This is more of a fantasy movie, where the characters happen to be
criminals. It's told like a fantasy and the end of course puts re-emphasizes
that.
Goodfellas was gritty and brutal. Although a great film. I found it very
hard to like such ugly characters. Even DeNiro was hard to like. That could
of been the point. Or not. I'm not Scorcese.

I feel these characters are much more likeable. 
Yes, there are some seemingly illogical turns in the plot. Like hiring
Critical Bill. But I think they explain it pretty well. And the more you
watch the movie the more you find details to help explain
it.
Sure he's nuts but he's fearless. It's a pretty standard movie criminal
stereotype. The crazy guy who'll do anything.
I don't know why so many people had a problem with him. He was a great
character and probably the best thing Treat Williams has done in years. He's
likeable but he's just such a nutjob. I love Jimmy's final conversation with
him.

I think in order to really appreciate it, watch it more than twice. First
time it's good but you see holes. The second time the holes get bigger. The
third time the holes close up and the characters shine through.

Everybody keeps comparing it to Tarantino and most seem to make comments
about not liking Pulp Fiction. Not gonna get into the whole defending Pulp
Fiction thing but yes this has a lot of Pulp Fiction influence but the
sources of Pulp Fiction are more what this references. This is not a
non-linear story really. It has flashbacks and asides but it is told in
order.
And the dialogue I think is different from Tarantino's. Tarantino's has his
own lingo. Based on reality. And it is just peppering here and there. It's
more about pop-culture.

This is more like pseudo 50's gangster lingo made up just for solely this
movie. It helps create a microcosm for these characters. You know no one
else but these characters use the dialogue. I think it's quite poetic. Scott
Rosenberg did a great job with it.

It more playful and imaginative.

I also think unlike the straight train wreck downward- slope tragedy of
Goodfellas, which works perfectly for that movie. This has a romantic
tragedy feel. There is a lot of time spent on  denied love.
Anyways. I just really like this movie and it has grown on me
tremendously.

Some may hate it sure. Some love it.
Either way I can think of worse movies to bet on.

I say try it. If you love it it's one of those movies you can watch over and
over and those are the best type of movies.

 
<|_=00=_|>

Next to Garcia's work in INTERNAL AFFAIRS, this is really one of his best
performances... It's a rich film on every level, and it's too bad the film
was caught -- back in 1995 -- in the backlash of Tarantino madness.  Scott
Rosenberg has a unique voice as a writer, and this film attempts to create
its own reality.  All those who say they 'hate' this film should rent
their
copy of HAPPY GILMORE and keep their opinions to themselves.  Needless to
say, this is a film that provokes and p***es people off and one which
should
be viewed without conventional expectations... 
<|_=00=_|>

Jimmy `The Saint' Tosnia as a small business recording messages from the
terminally ill.  He owes money to a local loanshark – a debt that is called
in by The Man With The Plan.  The Man wants Jimmy to scare off a man who has
stolen away his son's high school sweetheart.  Jimmy takes on a group of 4
other men to help him, however the job gets messy and fails,  The Man takes
the only action he can and puts a contract on their lives – giving Jimmy the
option to run, however Jimmy stays to make sure that the rest of the group
get safety into hiding.

At the time, cool crime stories were all the rage – everyone wanted to have
a go, the multiplex audience were falling over themselves for jobs gone
wrong, violence and snappy dialogue.  So into this crowded market place came
this film – it did quite well and was probably above average for the rest of
the genre at the time.  The plot is nothing new and really is very simple
when viewed in a synopsis.  What makes the film work is the fact that it
does manage to pull off the `cool, snappy' thing.

The dialogue is cool and filled with catchphrases `boat drinks'
`mama-rammer' `give it a name'.  The characters are also written larger than
life – from the silent hitman up to the Man With The Plan, they all have
quirks that make them larger than life.  Of course this doesn't make a film
in itself and it is not without flaws – at times it does feel like it's
treading water, but for the most part the smooth feel helps it glide
along.

The cast are all good.  Garcia has one of his better roles in a while and is
effortlessly cool or increasingly desperate as the role requires.  Walken
doing a sinister bad guy isn't earth shattering but he at least he's putting
in effort and isn't slumming as he has of late.  Williams is probably the
funniest as Critical Bill – when summing up why the job went wrong he says
that it was probably Jimmy's fault for giving him responsibility as,
`everyone knows I'm off my t*ts'.  Lloyd is good value and Nunn also acquits
himself well.  Anwar is beautiful and she was well cast – she really does,
as Jimmy says, `glide' when she walks.  Buscemi is in a small part but is
memorable as always.

Overall this may not stand out from the crowd of this genre in the same way
as Pulp Fiction does but is does have a certain cool, snappy feel to it that
helps it glide along.  And, in Garcia, it has a lead that really holds it
together and helps bring out an emotional involvement towards the
end.
<|_=00=_|>

This is an excellent film that has interesting characters, a tricky plot
line and alot of cool phrases/sayings.  This is a movie critizied for
copying Pulp Fiction, but it's not the same kind of movie.  It's script was
made before Pulp Fiction and is more complex then Pulp fiction.  Steve
Buscemi is a standout in the cast as a deadly hitman named Mr. Shh, and
also noticeable is Treat Williams who is the psychotic Critical Bill.  This
is a totally original film that should be recognized and talked about, it
only had bad timing on it's release.
<|_=00=_|>

"Things to Do in Denver... When You're Dead" is a smart little crime flick
that may not add anything to the genre but is an enjoyable ride. Andy Garcia
is thoroughly charming as the honourable Jimmy the Saint who is under
increasing time pressure to fix things before his crew get killed for a
botched job. Other cast members also put in good performances, while if you
are a fan of Steve Buscemi this film probably contains his "coolest" work to
date.

"Things to Do..."'s greatest flaw is its slow exposition. It takes a while
for things to get moving, by which time you may be questioning why you are
watching this movie. Stick with it - "Things to Do in Denver... When You're
Dead" is a crime film worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
Things to Do in Denver When You're Dead is directed by Gary Fleder and
written by Scott Rosenberg. It stars Andy Garcia, Christopher Lloyd,
William Forsythe, Bill Nunn, Treat Williams, Steve Buscemi and
Christopher Walken. Music is by Michael Convertino and cinematography
by Elliot Davis.

Jimmy the Saint (Garcia) is a ex-gangster who finds one of his debts
has been bought up by his ex boss, The Man With the Plan (Walken). The
Man wants Jimmy to assemble a crew to put the frighteners on a guy who
stole the girlfriend of his son, Bernard (Michael Nicolosi), who has
been so traumatised by the break up he has taken to "bothering" young
girls. Calling on four of his old comrades in crime, Jimmy feels it's a
simple job that will finally clear him of his gangster debt whilst
earning his hard up pals some cash. However, in fighting threatens to
destabilise the group and when the "job" invariably goes wrong they all
have to deal with the vengeful aftermath of The Man With the Plan.

You wanna throw those pathetic yuks some scratch, I applaud your
sensitivity.

One of a number of films that surfed in on the wave created by Pulp
Fiction, Things to Do in Denver When You're Dead is a nifty and potent
picture at times, with sharp dialogue, moments of brutalising and a
fire-cracker of a neo-noir finale. Yet it's hurt considerably by the
ridiculousness of the set up. Film hinges on a "shake down" arrangement
that just comes off as a weak excuse for a film, in fact it's bad
writing. There are a myriad of ways to set up a heist gone wrong and
then have the crims be on the run for their lives, this set up is just
pathetic. Buscemi's hit man is poorly conceived, with some glaring
conflicting in the characterisation, while the Anwar (beautiful and
leaving a good impression) love interest angle could have had much more
made of it if the makers had had the courage of their convictions.

Give it a name.

Still, if you can allow the annoyance of the crappy set up to subside,
then there's strong noir themes to indulge in here. A one time bad boy
struggling to escape his past and characters stuck in a bleak destiny
influenced rut they can't get out of. There's a pervading sense of
depression hanging over the film, which in a twisted way makes for good
film, while the character dynamics are strong because the characters
are very memorable. Helps, too, that they have awesome names like Jimmy
the Saint, Critical Bill, Franchise and Mister Shhh! Acting is very
good, with Garcia earning his quality pathos stripes, Williams doing
psycho with ease, Forsythe a mighty machismo presence, Lloyd resigned
and pitiless and Walken turning in another in his long line of bitter
scary bastards.

Worthy of interest to neo-noir fans for sure, but frustration sits in
the narrative to stop it being an essential viewing. 6.5/10
<|_=00=_|>

I CAN imagine telling someone this film is 'a reputable film of inherently
admirable
qualities' - a wide-ranging score, sharp cinematography, a beautiful
elegiac
tone and
a killer script all provide the foundations for one of the most surprising
films I've
seen. Andy Garcia's A-list performance is superbly supported by a host of
brilliantly-
cast characters, with Treat Williams, Christopher Lloyd and the malevolent

Christopher Walken outstanding.

The whole film just sits really well - all the small background details
help
the plot,
flesh out the characters and culture or provide telling counterpoints to
the
situation.

Highly recommended, for those who like their films stylish, well-acted and

intelligent.


