

Okay, truthfully, I saw the previews for this movie and thought to myself,
what are the producers thinking?  Hutton, Jolie, and  DUCHOVNY?  How could
the monotoned actor possibly compete with Jolie's natural power on the
screen?  But surprisingly, the two had the kind of chemistry that showed
intense caring without a kiss.  Even David's humor matched up to Jolie's
spark and fire.  As for Hutton, he played the psycho very well,
contrasting
with David's calm delivery of life threatening situations.  Overall, I was
very impressed with the writing and character development.  I gave it 8
stars.
<|_=00=_|>

Eugene Sands is a drug addict doctor - although he has long since been
barred from practicing medicine having been found operating high, leading
to
a girl's death.  When he is at a club buying he witnesses a shooting and
steps in to do enough to save a man's life.  The owner of the club and
criminal to boot, Raymond Blossom, takes an interest in Eugene and begins
using him and his doctor.  However the FBI are after Raymond and make
moves
to use Eugene to trap him.

Coming off as a slightly upmarket video thriller, this film could have
been
much better but ultimately fails to engage or rise to it's potential.  The
plot is OK but the script doesn't manage to lift the story up into
something
that is really strong and engaging.  The delivery is a big part of the
problem - it isn't that well directed, nothing very wrong but certainly
the
feel of a video film as opposed to a big screen thriller.  The decision to
have a voice over narrator is always a gamble; sometimes it works but
sometimes it really doesn't.

Here the narration doesn't work for two reasons. First of all, the
narrator
has to explain or develop so much because the film fails to do it as part
of
the story being told.  To make matters worse Duchovny delivery is so flat
that it really sucks any energy out of the film.  His actual performance
is
not as bad as his voiceover but he doesn't exactly manage to lead the
film.
This leaves the way open for Hutton's villain, but he struggles with a
lack
of character and eventually gives into overacting.  Jolie is good but
again
suffers from having no character.  Regardless of performances, not having
any buy in with the main people meant that I wasn't into the story as I
needed to be.  Support from Massee, Stormare and Dourdan doesn't so much
add
quality as add familiarity.

Overall this was very much a workmanlike thriller.  It is passable but
really it is difficult to overlook the fact that the film has major
weaknesses in most areas.  The plot is good but the script can't do
anything
with it, the narration is rubbish and the acting is only reasonable on the
whole.  Worth watching once but it's hard not to feel let down by
it.
<|_=00=_|>

Smart, funny script with interesting original premise of the doctor
forced to work for criminals. The movie wanders, though, as there's no
real central plotline. Great dialogue, but maybe the subsidiary
characters are more interesting than the main characters. Script is
dramatic/comedic; movie is played down, but the choice to do so seems
to have robbed the movie of much-needed juice. The stakes don't seem to
be too high for any character. Direction is competent, but doesn't
match the script. Hutton is scary, but doesn't have much to do except
act scary. Duchovny is fine, but I think he was cast mostly for his
X-Files fame at the time. He's not exactly the most charismatic lead
actor.

<|_=00=_|>

Hollywood possesses the penchant for remaking old classic films, such as Gus
Van Sant's re-working of Hitchcock's Psycho. Here's an idea: instead of
remaking GOOD movies, why don't we remake bad ones, and try to improve them?
In such a world, I would nominate "Playing God" for a treatment. The premise
is interesting, and the script, although at times uneven, has moments of
poetic lyricism and some nice touches. So . . . what happened? The finger
must be pointed at the performances, which fail to capture the essence of
the screenplay. David Duchovny is cast against type as a drug-addled
ex-physician, and Timothy Hutton's portrayal of gangster Raymond Blossom
borders on the plane of villainy and its cariacture. Duchovny, whose deadpan
delivery and solemn glances work fine in the X-Files, must realize that the
role he's playing here is NOT Fox Mulder, but a much more unsympathetic
character. Grade: C
<|_=00=_|>
David Duchovny plays the lead role in this film.Now a lot of people
upon finding that fact out wouldn't even bother watching it.Very unfair
to say the least.David made his name on the x-files and is a decent
actor. Dr Eugene Sands(Duchovny)is a drug addicted doctor struck off
for malpractice.By sheer accident he becomes a private doctor for
criminal millionaire Raymond Blossom.However the FBI take an interest
in using Eugene to snare Blossom. Angelina Jolie is cast in the
supporting role of clare-the gangsters moll.She puts in a solid
performance. Timothy Hutton playing Blossom is superb and immersed
himself deeply into his character. Duchovny himself isn't as bad as
many people would think and in the end i would rate his performance his
credible.His familiar monotonous tone and straight face is present but
dosen't detract too much from the film
<|_=00=_|>

I enjoyed this movie. Unlike like some of the pumped up, steroid trash
that
is passed off as action movies, Playing God is simple and realistic, with
characters that are believable, action that is not over the top and enough
twists and turns to keep you interested until the end.

Well directed, well acted and a good story.
<|_=00=_|>

Normally, I don't watch action movies because of the fact that they are
usually all pretty similar.  This movie did have many stereotypical action
movie scenes, but the characters and the originality of the film's premise
made it much easier to watch.  David Duchovny bended his normal acting
approach, which was great to see.  Angelina Jolie, of course, was beautiful
and did great acting.  Great cast all together.  A must see for people bored
with the same old action movie.   
<|_=00=_|>

This film started off seeming a little bit tv-ish but turned out as a very
watchable and slightly tongue-in-cheek thrill-ride.
David Duchovny is very watchable and provides multiple sides of his lead
character, a geeky surgeon, a down-and-out druggy, a hard-balled hero and a
hopeless Romeo. Fighting for the love of Angelina Jolie as the sexy and
good-natured mistress of Tim Hutton.
Hutton has loads-a-fun as the hip and ultra-slick Mob boss, very almost
unconvincingly evil, but not quite.
Peter Stormare is underused and loud roles with screaming obscenities
certainly aren't his scene, roles such as the one in "Fargo" suit his style
alot better.
The narration is well-used and Duchovny's voice is interesting as he
explains his past, feelings, opinions.
But unfortunately there's a point where his slightly mono-style voice gets a
little too much.
Still, he proves a solid lead and leads the film into a successful finale,
ending a worth-while and overlooked Thriller from 1997.


<|_=00=_|>
I went into the experience of watching this movie expecting very
little. I wanted to see the movie ever since I saw the preview for it
years ago. I wasn't even aware that Angelina Jolie was in this. I'm not
a great fan of David Duchovny. Timothy Hutton I expected to play his
usual 'charming criminal role' and not do much more. 

That said, I was truly pleasantly surprised. The film had a nice even
pace, lots of blood-spattering gun play and very little sex. In fact, I
don't recall Angelina Jolie planting those huge lips of hers on
anybody. Hmmm.

David Duchovny played his part to perfection. Next to Angelina Jolie,
his slouching casual self, muted by his dope habit, could have easily
been a drooling fool captivated by her 'loose woman' persona. Instead,
befitting an ultra-cool guy with years of education and socialization
behind him, he turned it way down and was the cool hipster dealing with
really evil hipsters who, like himself, always had some drugs in a
pocket or the glove compartment. 

And like a cool hipster, he naturally kept encountering more and more
cool hipsters. Like the bikers on the road who turn out to be allies
when he is on the run.

He had great lines, as did Timothy Hutton. He showed a mastery of
timing, as did Timothy Hutton. Angelina kind of passed from man to man,
looking beautiful but NOT having great lines and not having much of a
history. 

I am glad I ordered this film from Amazon and finally got to see it. It
was satisfying if you like any of the aforementioned actors. I liked
Angelina Jolie in this film and I usually don't. She just looked good -
good enough to make men want her but not interesting enough for anyone
to want to get to know her.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw Playing God recently and it is an average movie. I am a big fan of
David Duchovny, so that was the reason I rented this movie. The movie has a
lot of blood and gore, a lot of swear words, but no nudity. It is good to
see David in a different role. If you are a fan of David Duchovny or any of
the other actors in this movie then it is worthy for you to see. If not
this movie is not anything to be excited about. The last half of the movie
is much better than the first, it is actually good quality film-making and
shows that David can shine in other roles. My rating: A 7 out of 10.

