

This was one of the first films that I saw when I came back from the Persian
Gulf War.  It is listed as among the biggest money losers of all time and
when it came out it generated some of the most scathing reviews of all time.
When Bruce Willis made The Last Boy Scout later that year, one reviewer said
"He gets punched in the mouth so many times, he must feel like he's still
reading reviews of Hudson Hawk" Willis wrote the story for this film, so I'm
sure this must have particularly hurt him, this film put his career in the
toilet before Pulp Fiction revived it. I don't think the film was all that
bad myself, even though it wasn't Citizen Kane and wont go down in history
as a classic I am at least hoping that it might generate a cult following.
At least it attempts to be original, you have to give it credit for that. So
many movies these days are just rip offs. Willis gives an engaging
performance as the cappachino-drinking, wise-cracking cat burglar who is
forced to pull off one last hiest. I really laughed at the scene where he
and Danny Aiello pull off that robbery while doing such a wonderful
rendition of "Would You Like To Swing On A Star". Aiello is a great actor as
is Andie McDowell and James Coburn who also give great supporting
performances. Coburn has a lot of fun spoofing his tough guy image. It sort
of reminds me of In Like Flynt.
My best advice is leave your brain at the beginning of the movie and just
have a good time. Yes this film wont cure cancer or anything like that, but
its still a lot of fun if you just give it a chance.
<|_=00=_|>
Just sprung from prison Hudson Hawk finds himself being chased by an
insane and insanely rich couple, the CIA and the Vatican in a mad chase
to get bits of a gold making machine made by Da Vinci. Along the way
stupid jokes are told, the plot is ignored or twisted in the name of a
joke and the entire cast winks at the audience repeatedly as if to say
that even they can't believe the silly things they are doing in the
name of fun.

When this movie opened it was crucified by critics across the country
as an unfunny vanity project. It sunk the promising career of the
director and made people take a second look at Bruce Willis. very few
people braved the reviews and saw this in theaters. Me? I'm one of the
six people in America that went to see this on opening night. I've
loved this movie from the first and my opinion has grown with each
viewing. I remember arguing with people for weeks afterward that they
should see this movie because it was damn funny. No one listened to me,
and it wasn't until cable and home video that people discovered this
wrongly dismissed gem. This is more proof that sometimes critics don't
get it.

Then again all humor is subjective and what one person finds funny is
not what other people find funny. I love this knowingly dumb, puny, go
for the obvious, nothing is sacred or too stupid to try collection of
jokes and gags. Other people are offended or utterly bored by its often
infantile antics. I find it charming and harmless, other people find it
cruel (Bunny Ball Ball!). I can't say which camp you'll fall into, but
I think that you should ignore the critics and just see this movie. Its
mindless fun of the highest order.
<|_=00=_|>
When I was in High School, I was working at a movie theater. One day at
work, the theater was giving away movie promotional extras left over
from years past to the employees. One of the items was a promotional
T-Shirt for Hudson Hawk. Being a fan of Bruce Willis and a fan of
t-shirts, I picked it up. I also decided that if I was going to wear
the shirt, I might as well see the movie.

I had heard the rumors: bad bad Bruce Willis vanity project, not worth
a damn, much less a rental. Well, that sounded like a challenge to me!
So, I rented it, popped it into my VCR and prepared to be in agony. I
was very disappointed.

I was stunned at not only how madcap it was, but how well written it
was. Sure, it felt like an excuse to rattle off witty one-liners
amongst a non-sensical plot, but it did it so WELL. Some of my favorite
lines from any movie are in this film.

"How long (were in you prison)?" "Let's just say I never saw E.T."

Some of the references are very early-mid 90s, as to be expected.
Still, there's some great, wacky characters, and it's just a good
stupid caper movie. Don't listen to the critics - this one is
definitely a great film to watch with a group of friends.
<|_=00=_|>
In May of 1991 the world was just not ready for Hudson Hawk, and
apparently this caused a lot of confusion in the marketing department.
How on Earth were they supposed to sell this strange oddity of a film?
Eventually they settled on Bruce Willis brand recognition and built an
ad campaign that would promote it as a sort of Die Hard-lite. When
audiences eventually found out it was an absurdist, cartoon caper
comedy they didn't quite know what to make of it and it was widely
panned by critics and filmgoers alike. Not fair. Hudson Hawk is
actually a wonderful little movie with a reputation is simply doesn't
deserve.

By the time July of 1991 rolled around the movie was getting its UK
premier and the ad campaign had changed to play up the comedy and
adventure more than the action. I remember 10-year-old me (already a
Die Hard and Willis fan) sitting alone in a screen at the old UCI
cinema in Kinnaird Park thinking "this looks awesome". If a kid could
tell the difference...

Being a 15-rating here in the UK (and rated R in the US) I had to wait
until it hit home video. As soon as the end credits rolled I was
fascinated by this new Cappuccino thing that Hawk was always harping on
about. It became my go-to beverage whenever and wherever it was being
served (an idiosyncrasy that has since been ruined by the horrific
advent of "fashionable coffee"). As you can tell, I've been a fan of
Hudson Hawk since I was a kid.

Bruce Willis is Eddie Hawkins, the world's greatest cat-burglar, who is
determined to go straight after a long stretch in prison. Too bad for
him that an assortment of eccentric villains are determined to force
him to do their dirty work in a crazy world domination plot. Take the
usual tropes of James Bond, Crosby and Hope, the Pink Panther, and
retro heist movies and you'll have something close to what Hudson Hawk
attempts to be. It is handsomely shot in real European locations with
lots of quotable dialogue courtesy of Daniel Waters who co-wrote the
script with Die Hard scribe Steven E. De Souza, based on Willis'
original ideas. Yes, Bruce Willis created Hudson Hawk himself.

The movie is far from perfect though, even the biggest Hudson Hawk fans
know that. It is way too complicated and will take several viewings
just to fully grasp what the hell is going on. However, even in 1991 it
seemed that De Souza and Waters knew that the European Union and
forthcoming "single currency market" would be a terrible idea. The plot
to ruin the world economy would probably be lauded in these more
politically turbulent times.

Also,the literal bookends are an indulgence too far, and Andie McDowell
(a last minute replacement for Isabella Rossellini and Maruschka
Detmers) is just about tolerable in a role that she clearly didn't
understand. The scene where she feigns mental illness by speaking in
Dolphin-ish is yet another eccentricity that the film could have done
without. But the main fault here is the swearing. The cast are dropping
f-bombs and mofos all over the place and it just doesn't sit well the
overall tone. There is absolutely no reason why Hudson Hawk should have
been anything more than a PG. When I was 10-years-old I was overdosing
on episodes of The Young Ones (a similarly anarchic and crazy TV show)
and this movie really appealed to me. I do believe that kids and family
audiences were the people that Hudson Hawk should have been sold to and
the R-rating harmed the films appeal a lot.

McDowell aside, the cast are all either wonderfully over-the-top or
strangely quirky. From James Coburn's enthusiastic CIA crook, to a
restrained David Caruso as the mute Kit Kat. He doesn't even have any
lines and he has a character arc. If you are in need of light- hearted,
good-natured entertainment then Hudson Hawk never fails. It is a real
shame that this never had the chance to develop into a franchise. If so
we might have been spared the awfulness of Die Hard 4 and 5.
<|_=00=_|>
I have watched this flick at least 30 times. I can recite it almost
verbatim.

I also realize that I am relatively alone in my feelings for this
movie. My wife reminds me of that all the time.

The humor in this flick probably doesn't appeal to most people, because
they like to be spoon-fed humor. Slapstick and punny humor is far too
refined for most.

I'll always have a soft spot in my heart for (this movie).

P.S. The director's commentary on the DVD is great if you're a fan of
the film.
<|_=00=_|>

A movie that I've never understood the critics' response against.  Yes, it's
primarily a Bruce Willis ego-trip.  Who cares?  It's a _fun_ Bruce Willis
ego-trip.  He smirks, smartmouths, struts, sings, and strides through every
scene.  But he still doesn't manage to steal the thunder of Danny Aiello,
James Coburn and his band of covert agents, and Sandra Bernhard and Richard
Grant in a truly bizarre series of sequences as eccentric (to put it mildly)
billionaires.   Andie MacDowell doesn't make much of a romantic lead, but
even she gets a goofball sequence when she starts speaking in
Dolphin-ish.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm torn on HUDSON HAWK. After watching it, part of me went, "What the
hell was that?" But another part suggested that maybe I wasn't hip
enough to "get" what it was trying to do. Part of me thought it was a
completely ridiculous waste of time. Part of me thought it was just
good, clean fun.

Though certainly not for everybody, there are enough redeeming
qualities in HUDSON HAWK to avert its dismissal as a
multimillion-dollar turkey. Bruce Willis is Eddie "Hudson Hawk"
Hawkins, a cat burglar intent on retiring but who is forced to steal Da
Vinci works of art for a (gasp!) world domination plot. Along for the
ride are Tommy Five-Tone (Danny Aiello), mysterious nun Anna Baragli
(Andie MacDowell) and conniving bad guy George Kaplan (recognize that
name?) played by the late James Coburn.

The plot sounds like it could have made for a good DIE HARD-style
caper, but director Michael Lehmann had other ideas. As he reveals in
the DVD version's audio commentary, HUDSON HAWK was meant first and
foremost as a comedy. Trouble is, it was promoted more as a Bruce
Willis action blockbuster. Audiences were left scratching their heads
as their favorite tough guy engaged in Stooge-like slapstick, sipped
cappuccino and, most astoundingly, crooning Crosby classics.

Not that mistaken expectations are the only thing wrong here. Indeed
HUDSON HAWK is simply too silly for its own good. The gags frequently
fall flat, nearly embarrassing the talented performers involved. The
plot is overly convoluted, and Richard E. Grant and Sandra Bernhard as
the villainous Mayflowers are a bit hard to take. At its lowest points,
you'll be astounded something like this could receive a theatrical
release.

To get the most out of HUDSON HAWK, go in with an open mind. It's
unlike anything you've seen before -- in both good and bad ways.
<|_=00=_|>

Hudson Hawk has cult movie written all
over it. Bruce Willis and Danny Aiello
have a blast making robberies while
singing show tunes. It put me in the
spirit of the movie and I enjoyed
myself. Everybody in the cast overacts
but that didn't bother me at all. This
is the kind of movie that after years
pass will be considered a cult
classic. Check out Hudson Hawk if you
want to have a good time. Because like
all the best films, you have to
suspend your belief in reality to make
it work and this movie is fantasy on a
whole new level. 
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was supposed to be a big blockbuster hit. but it ended up as
almost the end to Bruce Willis's career. Fortunately, that wasn't the
case. The whole world likes Willis's acting, action and the characters
he portrays.

Although this movie was recently rated among the 10 worst movies of all
time at MSN, I found it quite refreshing, interestingly funny and
downright campy. I laugh every time I see the movie. how many movies
can you say that about?

"Bunny! Ball Ball!" Just precious.

The storyline is as follows. A Dominatrix (Sandra Bernhard) and her
megalomaniac husband (Richard E Grant) are setting in motion a plot to
take over the world. Willis's character, Eddie Hawkins, is the only
person who can stop them.

The plot is a classic and the laughs just keep coming. Complete with
Andie McDowell as Hawkins's love interest, this movie is very
entertaining.

What other movie has "the guy on the donkey" listed in its credits?

This movie rates a 7.9/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was on my list of movies generated by actors as personal
projects. That's because you really get to know these guys when you see
what they really want to do. Bruce worked on this for a very long time.

If you check out Willis' acting stuff, it is a particular style, very
much like Mel Gibson's. The idea is to focus on the character in a
serious way, but always let the audience know that there is a carefree
guy doing it. The formula is subtle and depends on the genuine take on
life that the actor has.

If you allow for the incompetent editing and execrable score, this is a
very clever movie. In particular, it is a very clever placement of a
movie about other movies. It walks through the various motions of a
real movie, with lots of references to remind you. But it is really a
bunch of jokes that make the broadest fun of movies. The position and
distance that this film has to real movies is precisely the same as
Bruce's acting stance to the job he does in portraying the character.

Check it out. It's got some problems, but it tells you a lot about
Bruce in whatever of his other films you like, and will likely enhance
that film.
