

I think "Beverly Hills cop III" was an extremely regrettable turning point
in the nice career of one of the most talented and funniest black comedians
Hollywood has ever seen - Mr. Eddie Murphy. Before it he used to be funny or
at least much funnier. He appeared in the rather enjoyable flicks like "48
Hrs.", "Coming to America", "Another 48 Hrs.", "The Distinguished
gentleman", "Boomerang" and of course "Beverly Hills cop I & II" - two
beloved movies that'll always be his very best works.

Then someone decided to add part three in the so far terrific "Beverly Hills
cop" saga. This time Axel Foley was on the mission of revenge and the comedy
was unfortunately replaced by action. Who forgot that most of the glamour
behind these movies came directly from the humor? Even though John Landis -
the man behind hit comedies like "The Blues Brothers" and "Three Amigos!" -
sat in the director's chair the end result just wasn't that funny anymore or
at least it was funny very rarely and that's a bad thing if we compare part
three to its absolutely hilarious precursors.
...and as it happened, after "Beverly Hills cop III" Eddie Murphy got roles
from the movies like "Vampire in Brooklyn" (with only couple of excellent
scenes), "Metro" (that apparently wasn't supposed to be funny in the first
place), "Doctor Dolittle" (cute little film for kiddies who love furry
animals that talk), "Holy man" (interesting but more confusing than amusing)
and "Nutty Professor II: The Klumps" (definitely one of his worst movies,
waste of his undisputed talents and a model example of a comedy that doesn't
make you laugh).

Lately I saw "Life" and surprisingly it was pretty brilliant and alongside
with fairly good "Bowfinger" it's the only completely clear exception in
this course. What I'm saying is, "Beverly Hills cop III" started it all. Was
it all just a coincidence or was it meant to be that Eddie Murphy's best
years were in the 80's and early 90's? I can't tell. This is just the way I
see things.
<|_=00=_|>
Watched this for the first time last night, and was pretty disappointed
(was on a triple bill with BHC 1 & 2 on Bravo, great way to ring in the
New Year!).

Not overly funny, the villains were pretty weak, which is odd as John
Saxon is usually pretty good as a bad guy, and Tim Carhart was great as
Eddie Willows on CSI. Seemed very forced at times, and definitely
lacked the Foley-Rosewood-Taggart chemistry that made the first two
films so successful. Hector Elizondo is no replacement for John Ashton.
The return of Bronson Pinchot as "Serge" was painful to watch.

5 out of 10, based more on Eddie Murphy's performance than anything
else.
<|_=00=_|>

Eddie Murphy's third outing as Detroit police detective Axel Foley who seems
to have made more of a crime fighting contribution to Beverly Hills still
generates some power in the series but the first two films are naturally the
better ones. The film inexplicably removes the John Taggart (John Ashton)
and Andrew Bogomil (Ronny Cox) characters from the series and adds a shallow
new character named John Flint (Hector Elizondo). Fortunately, Billy
Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) is still around and he still manages to be a
perfect foil for Foley. Foley's third case in Beverly Hills is a little
improbable but the action scenes help to make up for the plot which has to
do with Foley matching wits with a corrupt head of security (Timothy
Carhart) at a popular Beverly Hills amusement park called WonderWorld (a
creation of Paramount Parks). The park character costumes and designs are
nice and colorful and Theresa Randle helps to pick things up as a potential
love interest for Foley but the film doesn't give Murphy very many funny
lines and that is a disappointment if one wants to label this film as a
comedy. The action is as usual great but Murphy is reknowned as a comedy
star and the lack of laughs here prevent this from being a perfect series.
Still, it's a very good series. 
<|_=00=_|>
Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy), while investigating a car theft ring, comes
across something much bigger than that: the same men who shot his boss
are running a counterfeit money ring out of a theme park in Los
Angeles.

This film generally gets a bad rap, being accused of being the worst in
the series. Even director John Landis has distanced himself, saying
that Murphy was going through a rough time in his life and was not
giving it everything he had. These may be fair comments, but the film
is still better than given credit for.

Maybe not as funny as the first two, and maybe Murphy is more toned
down, but there is still plenty of fun here from Bronson Pichot and
others... not to mention an overall decent script. Even just trying to
identify the director cameos is a fun game.
<|_=00=_|>
Action pace and comedy by a magnificent Eddie Murphy who is back with
his classic character Axel Foley , he is a foul-mouth,street-smart and
freewheeling Detroit police agent . When his chief is murdered ,he
heads to L.A. to investigate. He arrives to resolve the responsible of
death his chief , there finds the old friend Billy(Judge Reinhold) .The
clues lead a private law enforcement named Ellis(Timothy Carthart)and
henchmen,suspects of killing , they are running a counterfeit money
ring at a theme park called Wonder World. He's helped by a pair of
sympathetics L.A. detectives(Hector Helizondo,Judge Reinhold) causing
wreck havoc on the way as happens at a security guard congress where
Ellis is appointed as Name of the Year.

This silly third entry is packed with action,thriller, shootouts,fast
pace, and tongue in cheek with lots of humor. It's a recital Eddie
Murphy accompanied by two sympathetic partners, Reinhold and Helizondo
substituting to John Ashton now retired , creating an authentic buddy
movie , being developed in agility and movement.The picture contains
spectacular scenes,stopped action as is usual in the Don Simpson-Jerry
Brukheimer productions. ¨Fish out of water¨ formula is seen in several
movies , being here pretty entertaining , it originates enough laughter
to satisfy the viewer ,for that reason is bemusing. The picture
provides fast and furious amusement with spectaculars scenes and
action-packed .Relief comic in charge of Eddie Murphy because of his
foul and fast talking creates most big smiles and causing wreak havoc
on the way. Besides his various jokes with the sidekicks steal enormous
laughters.For that reason the picture is a ¨Buddy movie¨ although are a
trio the protagonist Murphy-Reinhold-Helizondo.Eddie Murphy as
street-smart detective is top notch, as Axel Foley is his greatest
smash hit and converted him into a top international star reaffirming
his status with continuous success.Friends's couple,Judge Reinhold and
Hector Helizondo, as good policemen, are fine and likable. Director
John Landis enhances stunningly the hilarious comic relief of Eddie
Murphy for his fast talking and jokes with the buddies that cause most
big laughs and the abundant gags subordinated to action.This vehicle
for Eddie Murphy as amiable police is terrific,it's his greatest
success and became him in a world star confirming his position as
number one in the box-office. Cameos by numerous cinema directors as
George Lucas, Martha Coolidge, Barget Schroeder, Rick Avery, John
Singleton,Ray Harryhausen, George Schaeffer, Joe Dante, among them.
Catching music with again the international hit smash by Harol
Faltermeyer.Glimmer and colorful cinematography by Marc Alhberg.The
motion picture is regularly directed by John Landis because it contains
some flaws and gaps. The picture will appeal to unstopped action buffs
and Eddie Murphy fans. Rating : Average though amusing.
<|_=00=_|>

i don't know why every1 voted this movie bad coz i think it's a brilliant
comedy. it's funny as well having Serge back in.
I mean this is definitely my favourite one out of the hills cop trilogy coz
it's da funniest well it's your decision but take it from me, its
GGGRRREEEAAATTT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

<|_=00=_|>

Beverly Hills Cop III is the worst in what was a promosing action comedy
franchise. Murphy was in a carrer slump and I guess he made this film to
help out his carrer but it didn't help just sunk it deeper. The film is
full
of mistakes such as the loss of Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckhiemer a weak
script and a lack of action. John Landos who worked with Murphy before and
made good films fails here. The film needed a good action director like
Renny Harlin or Dwight H. Little or even Karthyn Bigelow. Skip this one
even
if you're a die hard Murphy fan. 
<|_=00=_|>
This has to be the worst of the series!! THE WORST!!! The action
sequences are a complete joke as if it were a parody of itself.With
Beverly Hills Cop 3, it's like the director forgot this wasn't a music
video starring Michael Jackson or a B-grade teen movie. Beverly Hills
Cop is an action-comedy!! See, the key word here is "action", which
means realistic gun battles and realistic plot. The first two films had
cleverly placed comedy relief where it was needed while having a very
serious gritty side. This lacks it SERIOUSLY! Inspector Todd wasn't
grouchy enough, Eddie wasn't enough of a smartass (like he should) and
the villain is a damned joke (think of Patrick "American Psycho"
Bateman if he was a blond 90's cartoon bad guy). The only people who
were marginally entertaining are Rosewood and Serge. The other amusing
element is the moment when Axel disrupts a speech by Ellis DeWald (the
blond Al Bundy possessed by demons who act like Patrick Bateman).
THAT'S IT! Of all the people in Hollywood with professional experience
to direct a decent action film, and BHC III picks John Landis. Why? And
what in the bloody blue hell was he smoking, injecting, and imbibing
when he was directing this insult to the entire franchise! At least the
"Batman" franchise was good through the third movie! What's the deal
with this movie being a goddamn amusement park. If it is in
Disneyland-type park then make it a "Die Hard"/Lethal Weapon-type of
fare at least. Better yet, don't do it an in an amusement park! Action
and Disneyland-esque theme parks = 1970s disaster B-movie!

Almost everything and I mean EVERYTHING is a discouraging mockery to
the series. One would expect a car chase even in a bad movie to be good
somewhat. Turns out in BHC 3, even the car chase at the beginning was
complete and total s#!t! Why couldn't the producers and director stick
to terrorists and political assassins and have it end in the classic
all-American, white-knuckle, sweaty-armpit inducing style of
shootout/bloodbath in the amusement park? "Hey Landis! Stick to
directing cheesy-ass videos for billion-dollar diva musicians!! Sadly,
I hate myself for saying this, but as absurd as most of Jerry
Bruckhiemer's movies are, this is the only franchise where his
sensationalist fantasy is needed the most.
<|_=00=_|>
How could they make one more than two films in this series? The Beverly
Hills Cop movies is a sign to moviegoers everywhere that putting a big
star in whatever familiar thing he has done to death already, and way
better by the way, is a total lack of originality. If they had only
made the darn thing funny at least but John Landis, who is usually
pretty dependable as a comedy director, seems more interested in
putting cameos by directors in every scene, so it will at least be
something that you can kill the time spotting.

Every character is dull, and the reprise of Rosewood and Serge's
characters only generate mild interest because we have seen them
before.

The villain, played by Timothy Carhart, is totally expendable and it's
a wonder why they couldn't at least have brought in a stereotype police
captain like in the first two parts. That would have generated some
mild chuckles at least.

Murphy would go on playing cops in two more movies to date, but here
the general idea of having the outsider cop solve everything has
completely lost it's warranty and try making sense of the rather trite
closing showdown between the cop and the villain in the amusement park.
It's amazing that rival Warner Bros. could make a movie series where
the sequels where ten times more entertaining than the two sequels of
BHC but maybe it was because they were all made by the same team of
Donner and Silver. Three directors have been assigned to a Beverly
Hills Cop movie and I think if there is a fourth on the way a new
director is hemline that one too.
<|_=00=_|>
Beverly Hills Cop 3 is an enjoyable movie with a decent storyline and a
good comedic cast.Its certainly not better than the first two Beverly
Hills Cop but it's still has good comedy and action.My main problem is
that Eddie Murphy just didn't seem as inspired this time around,he made
Axel in to a much more serious character,I'm not sure if that's how the
script was written but I think it was just his acting,definitely one of
Murphy's most dull performances,he is usually much more lively.However
there still are scenes where Axel Foley had me laughing out loud and
Murphy was really in character,particularly the scene where he
accidentally ends up in stage and starts dancing with the costumed
characters.I really enjoy the Beverly Hills Cop movies and hope a
fourth one is someday made,Murphy's age will not be a problem because
he still looks great and still plays very lively characters in his
movies.Fans of the first two will without a doubt be disappointed,but
should definitely watch it because the characters and story is still
good. 

Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) returns to Beverly Hills to find the men who
killed his boss,and finds out the case is much more difficult when it
leads him to a theme park where the same men are making counterfeit
money within the park.
