

"Sliver" was not nearly as bad as most reviewers have suggested, in my
opinion. It may be true that Joe Eszterhas rehashes his basic formula one
more time here - "Is the person with whom the hero/heroine gets sexually
involved a murdered or an innocent victim, framed by someone else?" - but
it's a formula that works, that grabs your attention instinctively. The plot
is flimsy, yet inherently interesting. Maybe this thriller would've been
tighter if the gratuitously protracted (and not very erotic) sex scenes had
been trimmed down in length, but Baldwin is magnetic in his role and Sharon
Stone, great to look at as always, also gives a decent performance; they
both overshadow Tom Berenger who doesn't make even the slightest impression.
  (**)
<|_=00=_|>

Whether it's Sharon Stone, or the obvious truth about my voyeuristic
tendencies, I like this movie. Sharon has seldom been more alluring and
Baldwin's character, with his eerily magnificent toys, lives his life
observing others. A movie for the CNN generation I'd contend. 
<|_=00=_|>
I don't why many people put this movie down so bad. Anything with
Sharon Stone is good. This movie is just as kinky as "Basic Instinct",
only more high tech. Working for a publishing company is a hard job to
take, even if you went through a rough marriage and trying to start
over, finding yourself shouldn't be so hard. Not with Carly
Norris(Sharon Stone). She moves into a new high in New York called
Sliver Heights, she gets a room which the deceased lived. and their she
meets the owner Zeke Hawkins(William Baldwin) owns Sliver Heights, and
he thinks he God. This man is not only the owner, he's the biggest
voyeur of that complex. A voyeur(Peeping Tom) like him make others look
like amateurs. I liked ever scene of this movie, the love scenes, the
shower scenes, the conversation scenes, and he actually records them
which I think is downright obscene. Sharon never looked any hotter in
that movie, and he character is really hard core all the way. The
author Jack Landford(Tom Berenger) seemed to be a decent character,
however his shady past makes him the target for police. When he was
killed, the murders stopped, but the voyeurism was way more sinister
than the crimes earlier. So Zeke was given a major attitude adjustment
there, and I think it's time for a new owner. This movie was really
hardcore, imagine for what the unrated version would be like! Rating 3
out of 5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
Out of 1993 comes "Sliver" the sexy top-notch thriller that is very
well done, but slightly misses the mark towards the end. Sharon Stone's
character Carly Norris is a respected book editor with pretty much no
social life, until she moves to a new apartment building called Sliver
Heights, where she meets William Baldwin's character Zeke Hawkins and
the two form a very passionate relationship. Of course being a
thriller, something isn't quite right, and so Carly searches to find
out what is going on.

Stone and Baldwin are both excellent in their leading roles. She's
attractive, he's handsome and both are charismatic. There's some steamy
scenes between the two of them, Stone's character is one that you can
really care for. The supporting characters in "Sliver" actually do what
supporting characters are supposed to - support. Tom Berenger's
character the dodgy Jack Lansford is the "is he or isn't he"
red-hearing, and is played well. Polly Walker plays the vampy Vid
Warren, Carly's apartment neighbor, and is a good parallel to the
reserved Carly. Colleen Camp is Judy Marks, Carly's incorrigible
assistant and she is terrific. Finally, CCH Pounder plays the
detective, Lt. Victoria Hendrix, though she is rather under-used here,
this not being one of her best performances, probably because of the
fact that she is under-used.

"Sliver" provokes some interesting topics of conversation for your next
cocktail party, namely the notions of privacy and what would you do if
you had the power to watch almost whoever you wanted, as Baldwin's
character did. With the increasing notion of "Big Brother is watching
you" in today's society, "Sliver" seems even more relevant to our
lives. "Sliver" is presented in a glossy manner with a cool soundtrack
and is relatively fast-paced. However, while the ending is effective,
more could have been done to raise the notions of privacy that I
previously talked about. Other than that, "Sliver" is a very sexy
thriller.
<|_=00=_|>
Apartment complex in New York City is beset with strange deaths and
cameras everywhere; new tenant Sharon Stone is dating the mysterious
owner, but could he be the killer? Based on a flimsy novel by Ira Levin
(who was slumming, but that's a different story), this unappealing film
wants to be both sexy crime-thriller and murder-mystery, but it is such
a mess from a writer's standpoint that, in the end, all you have left
are the performances, which aren't dynamic enough to carry the load.
Sharon Stone is low-keyed, perhaps a bit self-conscious, yet this works
for her tentative character. Too bad the filmmakers were so concerned
with exposing the killer that they lost track of this woman and her
plight. Drop all the mystery, and you might have a decent character
study. *1/2 from ****
<|_=00=_|>
Stone moves into an apartment building, has weird neighbors, spooky
things start happening left and right, "perv" Baldwin watches her
through surveillance cameras etc.

Sliver had potential. While it's not a total time waster it is very
disappointing. Director Noyce doesn't seem to know exactly what kind of
film he's making here, always promising something that never comes.
Rumour has it that the film was drastically cut and re shot and the end
result here is not satisfying, though I don't know what was originally
planned, but it must have been better. It has it's moments, certain
scenes work very well and suspense is easily built but not sustained.
As said, the ending is ridiculous and really hurts the film. 

Stone is simply a goddess and delivers a good performance but William
Baldwin is utterly intolerable, why this man was given leading roles in
big budget Hollywood films I will never know. The always reliable Tom
Berenger isn't given much to do and his role is a rather thankless one,
underwritten and somewhat degrading. Sadly his career went downhill
from here on.
<|_=00=_|>
Decent acting doesn't salvage this poorly scripted, over-sexed, story
of a 30-something woman (Stone) who seems to make all of the worse
possible choices in places to live and boyfriends. "Sliver" is the
beautiful but apparently haunted (or at least dangerous) apartment
building she moves into on the rebound from a lengthy failed
relationship. Vulnerable, Stone is almost immediately courted by her
new neighbors - Berenger and Baldwin. Inexplicably, she doesn't even
consider moving when she learns that several unresolved murders,
suicides or accidental deaths have occurred in the building, including
the former occupant of her own room who looked just like her. Both of
her suitors are creepy and seem about as trustworthy as politicians,
and it appears likely that at least one of them has committed some
terrible crimes.

This film must have made a better grade b mystery/suspense novel than a
movie. Not having read the book, I can only guess based on my
experience with the pulp mystery genre that the film follows its plot
closely. All of the main characters seem to be either sex addicts,
perverts or impotent men, and this provides an opening for too many
boring and unnecessary sex scenes. I suppose these were meant to fill
in the gaps left by the vacuous plot and the uninspired script.

In terms of mystery, Sliver's central plot succeeds, as it does
(somewhat but not completely) keep you guessing right up to the end.
However, the plot would have made a much better 30 minute or hour-long
episode of a TV detective show (minus the sex). Sliver is overloaded
with baggage and filler - too many sex scenes, a little too much
character development (especially considering how shallow, irrational
and absurd most of the characters are) and not enough psychological
realism.

Overall, I found the film slightly entertaining, but a little difficult
to get all the way through.
<|_=00=_|>
35-year-old book editor Carly Norris, who was married for 7 years but
is now having trouble starting a new relationship, wants to move into
the posh high-rise Sliver Building on New York's East Side. She is
surprised by how quickly her application is approved, but college
professor Gus, who also lives in the building, says Carly looks just
like the previous resident of 20-B. A number of the building's
residents seem friendly, especially Zeke.

Someone is able to see what is going on in the apartments, and this
person even has videotapes of some of the action. In addition to
whoever this person is, Carly is also spying on people after someone
gave her a telescope. Specifically, the couple having sex in a nearby
building.

Carly's boss Alex won't give her a raise. He does take her to lunch,
where they meet Jack Lansford, author of 'Flesh and Blood', which Carly
has never read.

Strange things start happening in the Sliver building. And Carly knows
something happened to the woman who had her apartment. The movie has a
chilling quality that increases as time passes.

I thought Sharon Stone did a good job here, but her best moment was a
funny scene where Carly's date wants to see her panties. And Carly did
have a surprising reaction to ... well, I won't give it away. Stone was
quite good in the scene, though.

There was plenty of good acting, but I think CCH Pounder stood out as
one of the detectives.

Overall, I was happy with the movie. It was a little violent, which is
to be expected, but just tense enough to be interesting.
<|_=00=_|>
Finally saw the uncut version of this on a premium channel. First, the
movie was based on a novel by Ira Levin, who wrote "Rosemary's Baby"
years ago, about a bunch of weird witches in a kinky New York apartment
building and several unexpected deaths in the building. This is about a
bunch of perverts in a kinky New York apartment building and several
unexpected deaths in the building. So there's an odd feeling of
familiarity.

Next, the script, by Joe Ezterhaus, is "Basic Instinct" meets "Jagged
Edge." The film starts out like a classic woman in peril film, except
the woman is Sharon Stone and the camera lingers on her obsessively.
It's soft porn in some shots and hard core in the shower scenes where
we get to imagine her masturbating. The scenes with her in them just go
on and on. (Yes, she is/was beautiful, but a fabulous face can't carry
this sorry mess.)Its a mish-mash of a bad plot, bad dialogue, uneven
acting and we've seen it all before. Twice. Nothing new is added to the
film to make it interesting except the concept of voyeurism and it's
not enough.
<|_=00=_|>
I waited 18 years to see this movie because I had always heard how
terrible it is. When it first came out, I seem to recall thinking it
highly implausible that someone could have the kind of video and audio
equipment you see in this movie. But the equipment and its use in the
film is entirely plausible, even in 1993.

I found no problems with the plot. It's an interesting thriller with
something that's hard to find--a unique story that hasn't been told a
thousand times already. The acting is good. The characters and their
actions are completely believable. I was never left thinking that a
real person might not have done the things that the people in the movie
did.

Having seen the movie, I really don't understand why so many people
criticize it so harshly. In terms of telling a compelling, entertaining
story, I would say it is far better than movies like Hereafter and on
par with a movie like the Adjustment Bureau (just two recent movies I
could think to compare it to).

If you haven't seen it, give it a chance.
