
the first Robocop was amazing, Robocop 2 was a worthy sequel. WHAT THE
HELL HAPPENED!? half the cast was comedians, the acting was god awful,
the script was stupid. I mean how do you go from solid R rated flicks
to a PG 13? Now this film shows the fall of OCP, and many people
jumping out of windows or shooting themselves. Ironically that's what
anyone viewing this film would want to do. Which is why they don't have
theatres on the top of buildings.

this film should be erased from history, and maybe if they make another
robocop call it robocop 3 again, to help people forget about this one.

-50 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
This highly-disappointing sequel finds our hero going against law and
order by siding with a group of down-and-outers who stand to lose their
neighborhood because of evil corporate interests. Along the way Robo
crashes cars, battles robot ninjas and flies through the air like a
six-ton Superman. Alas, none of it can save ROBOCOP 3, a film into
which very little real effort seems to have gone.

When watching ROBOCOP 3, one can't help but think the producers lazily
expected the well-established Robocop brand would simply sell itself
this time around. Making matters worse, they tried to move away from a
more adult-style of action and sci-fi and deliver something you might
watch with older kiddies. I mean, robot ninjas??? What is this, Mighty
Morphin Power Rangers? This thing even attempts to deliver a
do-the-right-thing message, but the whole effort is so muddled and
ridiculous it can't succeed (nor should a movie like this even try).

I am willing to cut movies a lot of slack, but this one's a stinker. No
wonder Robo was reduced to a cheap Canadian-filmed TV series following
this disaster.
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly if you don't like Robocop at all, then obviously leave this
alone, if you've never seen Robocop, watch the first film, then come
back and read the rest of this.

Robocop started out as a hard ass cyborg, you simply wouldn't mess with
(He even helped spawn a video game, in which he fought the Terminator,
you've got to be Tough to be mentioned in the same breath as a
Terminator - you get the point, he was hard) and, he was portrayed by
Peter Weller, who did a good job.

In number 2, Peter Weller was still there and Robocop was still fun and
still tough, even if it wasn't a great movie.

However, now on to the third film, take my advice and miss it, even for
Robocop fans, there little here to enjoy, and this is why.

Robert Burke, has replaced Peter Weller as Robocop, and i not knocking
him as an actor (I Don't know much of his work), but he isn't Robocop,
Period. Also Robocop is now as weak as a kitten, and Oh yes, and he can
fly now too, Yawn! 

This movie simply insults the Robocop name, in every way, i can't think
of a single reason to watch this film, it's another case of no sequels
necessary (although Robocop 2 - wasn't all bad)

3/10
<|_=00=_|>
When I was very little, I became a fan of the first 2 Robocop films. So
when I heard they were going to release a third movie, I couldn't wait.
Then I saw the movie, and couldn't believe what I had just saw. I was
terrible. The story was actually good and could have worked. But they
had to do what ruins a lot of other movies:add a little kid character.
It also featured a very horribly written character of a robot ninja.
And without Peter Weller from the first two movies, this movie just
wasn't the same. And a PG-13 rating? The whole point of the Robocop
movies was to make some of the most violent and swear-filled movies
you'll ever see. So my advice to you would be to watch the first two
Robocop films, and pretend this one was never made.
<|_=00=_|>
Robocop 3 is an 'insult' to the classic original. First of all, the
character of Robocop is played by someone else and the result is just
plain embarrassing. The film is very soft on violence, which was a poor
decision on the director's part because the original film is notorious
for its excessiveness and loved by fans. A PG-RATED Robocop is just a
desperate attempt to cash in on the wider audience, which proves that
the film was made by profiteers, rather than film-makers. This film is
so bad, it's literally dripping with cheese. Robocop flying is an
unintentional funny moment in the film and the part where Robocop
drives a car off a bridge and lands on all four wheels, is just plain
ridiculous. This film was the nail in the Robocop franchise's coffin. I
honestly wish that it had never been made.
<|_=00=_|>

The Robocop idea went far enough with number 2. The third installment is
just awful. Peter Weller had sense enough to stay away from this set. I
enjoyed the first, thought the second was OK but hated this one. This story
was contrived and the acting abysmal. When I began to watch this I had a
feeling it was going to stink and sure enough, it did! Don't bother with
this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Righty ho, what went on here then? I can't believe they made this and
saw fit to release it! It lacks nearly everything the original Robocop
had....especially a big killer robot!

Robocop 1 had ED-209.

Rococop 2 had the huge vicious psycho cyborg Cain.

Robocop 3 had a samurai robot that looked like a normal guy and if you
managed to get a decent hit on him he would break like a dodgy little
action figure! The director must have realised that this was a bad move
half way through making the movie so he added a few more of these
unmemorable villains to make up for the fact he didn't have a big
impressive killer robot in it and failed miserably.

Sorry but that sums it all up for me. There is of course a load of
other faults that i won't go in to but that was the main fault when i
watched it.

A few little cool bits in this movie but the bad far outweighs the
good. If this hadn't been so sucky we would have probably got treated
to a Robocop 4! Damn! 3/10
<|_=00=_|>
Robocop 3 (1993) was an unwanted sequel that helped killed a studio and
sat on the shelf for over two years. Why was this movie made? Who
knows, it didn't make a dime and the film makers tried to make him kid
friendly which killed the series in the process. The movie was so
unwanted that Peter Weller didn't want to reprise his role of Officer
Murphy for a third time. Whilst the second film was extremely dark and
depressing, the third installment swung wildly in the other direction.
Two wrongs don't make a right. The director and writer Fred Dekkar
should have known better. He made a couple of fun and watchable movies
in the past. What ever made them click misfired on all cylinders in
this boring and safe for the family sequel.

Well, this movie killed it's box office draw. Nobody wanted to see a
kid friendly Robocop. The next time it appeared was on the small screen
in two syndicated television programs. Neither raised a big stink and
Robocop went back into mothballs. A shame really because Robocop was
cool. Hell, part two is a classic compared to this celluloid tripe. 

Recommended for die-hard Robocop fans. Other need not apply, except
children who want to see Robocop in action.
<|_=00=_|>
Before I begin, let me get this out in the open: Robocop 3 is easily
the worst movie of the trilogy.

OK, now the rest of the review.

Though this is the worst movie of the series, Robocop 3 manages to find
a way to redeem itself (be it intentionally or unintentionally) by
being incredibly cheesy, and ultimately a load of fun! The film doesn't
even really seem to be a direct continuation of the series, though it
does reference the first movie several times via flashbacks. The story
is just about as dull as it could get, and the acting leaves much to be
desired. Not to mention, the one saving grace this film could have had
(special effects) does nothing to help save the movie from falling to
"B-Movie" status.

I'm not sure why Peter Weller was not brought back for this one, but I
think he was wise to avoid it. Robocop has been reduced to cheesy
one-liners, and badly choreographed fight scenes. However, I think this
adds to the movie's charm. The film seems to take a very
tongue-in-cheek look into the world of Robo, and this saves it from
being a complete failure. Also, it seems as if the writers or director
were watching a lot of Japanese anime, one of the main villains in the
film is a ninja who is seemingly unstoppable; many of his scenes are so
stylized you'd swear you're watching an anime. Rip Torn also adds to
the film's silliness as the head of the corrupt corporation, OCP. He
makes the main conflict in the film not even seem threatening due to
the fact that he isn't menacing at all.

Overall I'd say this film is more of a comedy than a sci-fi flick. It
contains so many cheesy moments that it's best enjoyed with a small
group of friends (my close friend opined once "This is what Mystery
Science Theater 3000 was made for," how right he was). If you are a fan
of the series because of the grittiness and realism displayed in the
first, avoid this entry. However, if you're looking for a good cheesy
popcorn style sci-fi film, by all means, get some friends together and
have fun! This film was made to be laughed at!
<|_=00=_|>

This is the worst possible turn the series could take. Form the violence
in
the first movie and the mindless violence in the second, the third movie
is
suddenly as lame as possible.

First off, let me say I don't understand why people find this third movie
a
better movie then the second. Because it tries a story line with a little
more thought in it? True perhaps, but that's all it's got going for it.
One
painfull moment follows the other. I like lists, so let's list
some.

<<!!!As always, SPOILERS ahead!!!>>

A black woman who's not even 40 calls herself an old woman during the
deportation, the deportation itself is a complete fraud (pick out a cop
and
follow him around. It shows that their instructions were just "run in that
direction and act mean, but for crying out loud, don't hurt yourselves!"),
the laptop reprogramming of the ED-9something, cops who don't know how to
defend themselves when they've got guns and the punkers got sticks,
robocop
who loses every fight he's in, dream sequences on screen like a soap opera
(in the first movie they were just a read-out of the brain activity. A lot
more real), Robocop obviously not weighting anymore then a normal man
these
days (2 of the rebels carry him) and the japanese man responsible for the
killing can just walk around among his victims, never in danger. And do I
even have to mention the flying he's doing?

Add unmemorable villains and not one engaging action sequence and this
movie
has really nothing going for it. The decission to have no blood in the
movie
is almost funny when they have no trouble having a couple of suicides in
the
story.
The story itself, isn't that worth it then, one might say? Let's just say
it's impressive how they can make an almost epic theme reminding of the
holocaust so incredible boring and unadmospheric. I certainly didn't care
for any character, that's for sure.

At least Robocop 2 had action and humour going for it.

2/10 (hey, it still is robocop)
