

To start off with, I do not watch the TV show, so I'm coming from a place of
ignorance when it comes to The X-Files: Fight the Future. However, even
without knowing anything about the characters or story lines, I found that I
enjoyed this movie a lot, and will probably now start watching the shows
reruns. 

The movie starts off tens of thousands of years in the past, where an alien
life form is roaming in underground caves. Fast forward to the present, and
that same life form is unearthed by some kids in Texas. No one knows what
killed this boy, and the firemen sent down to save him. Or maybe, someone
does know. Enter Special Agents Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) and Dana Scully
(Gillian Anderson). A seemlingly unconnected terrorist bombing is linked
with the mysterious deaths in Texas, and lead Mulder and Scully all over the
world to figure out this global conspiracy. Who knows about this alien life
form? And why are they trying so hard to keep it a secret?

From what I've been told, a lot of the regulars on the TV show make an
appearance in the movie. But as I said earlier, even without knowing who
these people are, the movie itself is good enough to stand on its own. What
I found I liked the most, and the reason I'll start watching the show, is
the interaction between Duchovny and Anderson. After 5 years together, these
two work perfectly as a team. They know each other so well; you feel the
chemistry and tension between them. The supporting cast was strong, and I
liked the idea that an entire alien race is being hidden from the world by a
bunch of old white men. The story itself, while again from what I hear
doesn't really conclude any plot points from the show, nor start any new
ones, manages to stand by itself. The scenery was terrific, especially the
opening sequence in the underground caves.
 
What I was disappointed with was it seemed as if Duchovny was in the movie a
lot more than Anderson. It was as if he was the star of the film, and she
was a supporting member. The story seemed to revolve around him, and she was
there to play off of. I wish that Chris Carter (the series writer and
creator, and screenwriter for this film) would have made her more of an
equal. The other problem I had was that while the plot was good, at times it
wasn't explained as much as it could have been. The reason for the cover-up
wasn't made as clear as it could have been, at least in my mind.

Whether you're a fan or not, The X-Files: Fight the Future is a good way to
spend a couple hours in a nice air conditioned environment.


<|_=00=_|>

Well-paced and well-crafted, "The X-Files" is a surprisingly good movie that
does not try to get cute and go away from the things that made the series
such a national phenomenon. David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson seem out of
place working with bomb squads and doing other mundane duties after their
department is shut down by the government. However the two feel that
something really major is up which involves alien colonization on Earth and
a vast government cover-up that goes through the highest places in the U.S.
political realm. A good screenplay and solid direction make "The X-Files" a
first-rate film from a very good cinematic year. 4 stars out of
5.
<|_=00=_|>

The X-Files' first movie is great. It has a clever, yet complicated, plot.
The movie tackles the alien conspiracy head on, connecting some plot details
from the show. But like an episode of the show, only a small piece of the
puzzle is explained. The movie is a scary and thrilling sci-fi movie. All
that's missing is a sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
The X-Files movie really is as good a big screen adaptation as you
could possibly hope for.

It helps that it's entirely controlled by the people behind the series,
and that the programme had cinematic qualities in the first place. On
repeat viewings, however, the story is revealed to be thin, and lacking
in incident. Its need to tie into events of the series makes it not
wholly satisfying as a stand-alone vehicle, though it should still be
understandable to those that have never seen an episode.

David Duchovny as Mulder seems surprisingly at ease in his limited way,
while Martin Landau is good as far as plot devices go. Gillian Anderson
is unfortunately encouraged to overstate her lines, particularly in the
beginning, while a cameo by The Lone Gunmen is perhaps the only
indulgence that would be lost on non-fans.

There are inevitable concessions to the cinema format, of course. Not
the touted mild use of expletives, which happened from time to time on
TV anyway. But the alien presence that mutates to owe a debt to Ridley
Scott's Alien, or the near-kiss between the two leads. Thankfully, the
first point actually makes a logical sense and carries the story
forward. The second is something that was also long overdue, and silly
that it took so long. For two people who obviously feel about each
other the way Mulder and Scully do, to go five years without even
kissing is stretching credulity.

Ultimately, though, it lacks any clear focus for a casual film
audience, and flits repetitively from action sequence to sloppy
exposition and back again throughout its duration. Creator Chris
Carter, like Gene Roddenberry with Star Trek before him, is not the
smoothest writer of his own series, though he does adequately most of
the time. Worst example is the opening Mulder/Scully scene which is
laughably trite, and there are plenty more examples of Carter's
trademark purple prose. Yet it does have a beginning, middle and end,
and can be watched back-to-back with a TV episode with no noticeable
jumps in style. In that sense, then, it is a most successful big-screen
adaptation of a television series.

Hard-core X-File fans will be inclined to award an extra mark to the
total, then. But for a non-committal audience, this is a "6" as they
would have no idea from watching this that the frail, fag-smoking
pensioner is the series' major villain.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is very good.Its deep,its clever,its very interesting,and
entertaining.I just really like how Mulder and Scully are.The situations
they get in make you care about them especially Scully.Martin
Landau,William
B. Davis,Mitch Pileggi,Jeffrey DeMunn,Terry O'Quinn,and Armin
Mueller-Stahl
were all good!The music is good and the direction and editing is
superb.X-Files: Fight the
Future is really a classic movie and I feel its one of the best films
ever!
If you like the series then you'll love the movie!
<|_=00=_|>

There are two types of people in this world: Those that watch "X-Files," and
those that do not. I, like many other critics who walked into "The X-Files"
movie, fall into the latter category. But it doesn't matter, because I don't
believe that there are any real twists in the plot or "revelations" like the
extended title implies there may be. In fact, I think that even the strict
fans of the television show may be a bit in the dark by the time the credits
start to roll. I got lost about 2/3 of the way through, but I still had a
fun time.

Scully and Mulder, the two FBI Agents (I think) from the famous television
show of the same name, make their big-screen debut in a feature-length,
theatrical film release that plays much more like a clever science fiction
film than a stupid one. I do not claim to be a huge fan of the
science-fiction genre -- I like softer sci-fi such as "The Terminator" --
but I admire the hard sci-fi films that make an effort to reach those of us
who many not be the most enthusastic sci-fi geeks. "The X-Files" has a
harder task -- it has to reach those who not only have never seen the show,
but also those who may not love sci-fi too much, and it does a good job. I
admire it above all else for being able to do this.

It strikes a chord that good sci-fi films have struck in the past. It gets
down to the meaty bits, although sometimes the plot left me in the dark and
the ending started to get a bit crazy, which lowered my overall pleasure
regarding the film. It's like a mystery set in the world of UFOs and alien
encounters. It is, at times, quite chilling in a subtle way, and at other
times quite humorous and fun and thrilling.

It starts off with a boy falling into a pit and being attacked by hundreds
of small, slug-like creatures that crawl into his eye sockets and over his
eyes (don't bring the kids to this one). More people enter into the pit in
an ill-fated attempt to rescue the boy, and they wind up being knocked
unconscious (or put into a deep sleep) like the boy. The bodies are all
transported to a hospital, and that same hospital later blows up after
Scully (Gillian Anderson) and Mulder (David Duchovny) are unable to stop an
implanted terrorist bomb from detonating inside a coke
maching.

But then Mulder is told by a mysterious man outside a bar (Martin Landau)
that the bomb was never attempted to be defused. It was all an elaborate
cover-up to hide the bodies of the pit victims. Mulder shrugs off the old
man at first before he realizes that the man used to be a friend of his
father's, and that he has some interesting true stories to
tell.

"The X-Files" intrigued me, kept me interested for the most part, and gave
me a few good chill sequences, and yet I haven't seen a single full-length
episode of the FOX TV show (only little tidbits here and there). From what I
can tell from my short experiences with the television show, this film
carries a much more "mainstream" feel to it. I don't really take an interest
in TV shows because I find them pretty corny. But "The X-Files" movie wasn't
that corny.

The sight of the aliens themselves is only touched lightly, and the secret
promised to be revealed by the trailers and ads isn't. (I assume most people
thought it would be in regards to Mulder's alien-abducted sister from his
childhood.) But Duchovny is very interesting and often humorous in his role,
and I would like to see him in more films than he is in. Gillian Anderson is
a bit weak in her role -- in fact, my mother saw her on stage in London and
reported back to me that she was so bored by her dull, lifeless performance
that she nearly left the theater. But Duchovny carries along the film by
himself, and the film has some good sequences. Overall, even people who have
never laid eyes on the TV show will be able to appreciate
this.

3.5/5 stars.

- John Ulmer
<|_=00=_|>

The first time I saw this film I was expecting something less than
 spectacular because of the mixed reviews I had read before going. Was I
 surprised! It was one of the most incredible cinematic experience of my
 life, certainly of the year. Maybe you think I'm nuts and, heck, maybe I am
 but what I'm saying is true. I am a fan of the series and it's probably why
 I liked it so much. It had a great storyline that explained a lot of the
 mysteries that had been hanging for years while bringing all new ones. It
 also had unbelievable FX that never could have been made for the TV show
 and the aliens were just simply scary! Many many great scenes, not just a
 few good ones isolated throughout the film. And the ending is just
 fantastic, suspenseful and very intriguing. I can't wait for the 6th season
 to begin. 
<|_=00=_|>
If you remember a little decade called "The '90's", you'll definitely
remember that The X-Files was one of the biggest shows of that decade.
The X-Files had so many different fans, I have to admit that I was a
fan, not so much to the extent as many others were, but I enjoyed the
show. However, I think because my friend rubbed it in my face so much
of how much this show was the best television show to ever hit the air
waves, I steered clear of the movie. But I was renting movies the other
day and came across The X-Files, and figured to just give the movie a
shot, it's been how many years since the show ended? But I watched it
last night and I liked the movie. I think the only thing is, is this
was a movie that was definitely made for the fans and no one else,
because if you didn't watch the show, you won't get into the movie.

Mulder and Scully are on the case again after they learn of a deadly
"virus" that is killing off the planet. Of course the government is
covering it up, making it seem like it's more of a terrorist or a
horrible flu. Mulder wants to make the truth known, but Scully has just
given up, that is until she is attacked by a bug carrying the virus and
Mulder will not give up on her. He saves her, but she needs more
strength if they are to make it out of this situation alive.

The X-Files the movie is a cool sci fi film, if you are not a fan or
didn't watch the series, there is a small chance you'll get into the
film. But this was a definite treat for the fans, this is the film they
wanted and as much as I hate this saying, The X-Files is just an
extended episode with a bigger budget, but it's still a cool film. I
liked it, Mulder and Scully always provide perfect entertainment and I
just love Mulder going into his infamous speeches of "the truth is out
there", so over dramatic, but you gotta love his passion in it. The
X-Files is worth the look, it's a fun film and is cool sci-fi.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Watching The X-Files movie for fun and watching it objectively for a
review are two different experiences. When I first watched and rated
this movie, I gave it a perfect 10 for it being an exciting, fast-paced
story of characters I've come to know and love. It still is all that.
But putting the movie in context with the series, evaluating it as an
episode between the seasons, forces me to acknowledge the flaws that it
contains. As I've already mentioned, this is an exciting, fast-paced
story; bigger than any mythology episode before it, as it is
essentially a two-hour mythology episode. Rob Bowman, my favorite
X-Files director does an awesome job. Getting chased by black
helicopters at night through a cornfield and escaping from homicidal
aliens in an enormous alien spaceship are things the series could never
dreamed of doing with a television series budget. The drama, dialogue
and action are great. Martin Landau does a wonderful job as Kurtzweil,
Mulder's informant for the movie. I love the scene transitions in the
movie. A lot of them are done in a creative way that informs as well as
entertains. What brings the movie down a couple of points are some
inconsistencies like Scully not getting caught in the autopsy room, the
patient bee that can stay underneath Scully's collar all the way from a
cornfield in Texas to Mulder's apartment in D.C., many hours later.
And, of course, the bad guys that somehow know that Scully is going to
be stung by the bad bee and have an ambulance and false EMT guys at the
ready, and intercept Mulder's 911. Even in the X-Files, that whole
sequence with the bee sting was too far-fetched to be believable. An
interesting thing learned from the audio commentary is that Chris
Carter wanted to give the fans a kiss between Mulder and Scully but not
a real kiss. So he considers the near-kiss in the hallway plus Mulder
doing mouth-to-mouth resuscitation on Scully to equal a kiss between
the two. Odd thinking methinks. The X-Files movie is not a letdown and
a definite thrill ride for fans of the show. Just a few unbelievable
plot inconsistencies makes it not the best that the X-Files has to
offer.
<|_=00=_|>

[WARNING: Spoilers ahead throughout this review.]

There's a speech Fox Mulder makes at the end of the X-files movie which
goes
along the lines of "Well here we are again, we had the evidence in our
hands
and now we've lost it. I'm sick of it happening again, I don't want to do
this any more." I felt like applauding at that point.

For me that speech was not only this film but the whole concept of the
X-files in a nutshell.

Nothing of any real consequence occurs in this film, nothing at all. It's
simply two FBI agents occasionally being chased, or chasing someone, or
looking puzzled. They sometimes find physical evidence of a government
conspiracy to do something terrible, but the evidence is without exception
snatched away or destroyed (or forgotten by the writers). Sometimes we
might
even see the conspirators talking about these forthcoming terrible events
in
very vague terms. The terrible events never, ever happened in the series.
However, I was hopeful that with a cinema budget they might stretch to
showing an alien invasion or two. Perhaps the writers had only been
teasing
the audience until they had the money to give their intended cataclysm
justice on the big screen. Alas, all we get is an exploding building
(destroying evidence), an exploding car (destroying evidence) and some
snow
falling into an empty hole. Nothing you wouldn't find in a TV
Movie.

The dialogue is awful too, Mulder is continuously told that he's "barely
scratched the surface" of the conspiracy. I'd wager a good amount of money
that he's actually gone right through the surface a long time ago and
exhausted all the plot we're ever going to get out of Chris Carter. When
we
find out what this conspiracy involves, it's actually a very very dull mix
of "Alien" and "V", about extraterrestrials conquering the earth with the
help of ambitious humans with a view to feeding on human bodies. "Doctor
Who" also used this plot several times over in the 60s and
70s.

In the X-Files, essentially, nothing happens, to the characters, to their
status or their plans, and for the worst of reasons, because the producers
want to string this franchise out for as long as they can make money from
it. The aliens will never invade, but neither will Mulder ever prove to
anyone that they exist, I can tell you that right now. I can also tell you
that if all this *is* ever resolved in a final film or episode, it will
turn
out to be a disappointing cop-out.

One of the other reviewers on IMDB compared the X-Files film to Hitchcock,
but Hitchcock actually satisfied his audience by showing the little guy
cleverly fighting back and eventually triumphing over the dark conspiracy
against him. There was methodical progression, there was movement, there
was
excitement, tension and engagement. Hitchcock films are thrilling because
you believe the hero might win or the villain might kill him. You know the
conclusion is just round the corner, whatever happens.

In the X-Files we *know* that Mulder will never be killed (the evil
conspirators say they will not kill him for fear of making him a martyr).
Unfortunately, we also *know* that Mulder will never win, because then
they
couldn't make a sequel to this single-issue drama. There is no thrill in
the
X-Files because the basic premise of the film (and indeed series), its
ground rules, demand that ultimately nothing happens for the sake of
extending the franchise. It's just aimless wandering.

Sorry to be crude, but the X-Files is like perpetual Coitus
Interruptus.

The only vaguely memorable scene is Martin Landau p***ing in an
alley.
