
Obviously similar to Shaw's "Pygmalion", but updated, more modern.

A lovely dream, one very old: rescuing a prostitute from the street.
(Not in Woody Allen's sickish-moody way.) 

However, if you wish to dream this one, be sure you do NOT start to
think very logically . . . She is healthy, not on drugs, not on
alcohol, not even a smoker; no syphilis, no gonorrhea, no AIDS wounds
on her legs, nothing, she is just perfectly absolutely healthy. Body
and mind. She is not a criminal, not inclined to steal anything, she
even values love and dignity more than money. Oh, she has no pimp, who
would be the other man (other than Richard Gere) in her life; nobody to
protect her from smart types who walk off without paying; the pimp
would explode the whole romance instantly. (Instead, a girl friend.) 

She has a golden soul, full of goodness, and loves art, and feels for
art. High-society types around them appear silly, artificial, stuffy.
(Different forks.) She is natural. She even was a good student (!) and
. . . might be again? She loves to bathe, and half the time we see her
happy in the bath tub (which is a powerful signal and symbol for CLEAN,
CLEAN; she even sings so super-ultra-charmingly in the bath; she wants
to wash off the foolishness of her previous few months of street. And
she can do it.

But with all those qualities, WHY would she ever become a prostitute in
the first place? Don't think, don't think. Just dream, it is lovely.
<|_=00=_|>
What is it about this movie that made it such an instant mega smash
when it was released? I'm not sure if it's The incredible chemistry
between Gear and Roberts, the smart dialog, the storyline-combination
of all of the above-etc etc. But I do think These days, so few GREAT
romantic comedies get made. Pretty woman is great. I enjoyed every
moment of this and have seen it many times.

I haven't read any IMDb reviews of this yet, I wanted to comment first.
This is a lovely story of hope and the true purity of falling madly in
love-there are so many movies that try to be romantic and inevitably
come across looking forced and contrived. The story and acting in
Pretty woman, while very obviously being "Hollywood" to a tee, are so
natural and free flowing, that it's just a joy to watch this. It's also
great to see(in what's not usually the case) a romantic comedy that
gets it right, in every area from casting to dialog to pretty much
everything from start to finish. Great movie!
<|_=00=_|>

"the bad stuff is easier to believe. you ever notice that?" -
vivian

ok, so pretty woman is a romantic movie, its cliched, its corny, its sappy.
but hey, beyond all that is a special movie with some very special
performances. julia roberts as vivian ward is absolutely adorable, one of
the most lovable characters of alltime. and those long legs help - like she
says - " 88" of therapy for the bargain price of $3000"

the movie has many memorable lines and if you fall in love with the movie
you will go back to it again and again. this is easily the best romantic
comedy movie of the 90s. though many movies have hence tried to recreate
its
charm, nothing has quite succeeded to replace this movie as the pinnacle of
the genre.

and this ofcourse is high praise from someone who hates the genre. the
story
ofcourse is very predictable and cinderella like. however this is
beautifully told and the on-screen chemistry between the very dashing
richard gere and julia roberts is simply sensational. an absolute must for
fans of romance, comedy, any kind of light hearted movies or for those who
are big fans of julia or richard. watch this movie.

an enjoyable 8!
<|_=00=_|>
Wow! Richard Gere and Julia Roberts give magical performances as a
shrewd businessman and a lovely prostitute. I was really moved by the
blend of humor and romance. The romance was what really moved me. I
thought that Edward (Richard Gere) and Vivian (Julia Roberts) looked
good in the attire they wore to the opera in San Francisco. Oh, boy, if
you ask me, Julia Roberts did, indeed, look like a pretty woman in this
movie. PRETTY WOMAN really tugged at my heart and soul and made me
laugh at times. Don't say I have a twisted sense of humor, but I
laughed really hard when Edward yelled at Stuckey (Jason Alexander) to
get out of his hotel room. If I ever travel to Beverly Hills, I'm going
to stay at the Regent Beverly Wilshire, that is, if I can afford it.
Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that I think Richard Gere and
Julia Roberts each deserved an Academy Award for their performances.
Now, in conclusion, I recommend this star-studded hit to anyone who's a
fan of Richard Gere or Julia Roberts. You'll laugh, you might cry,
you'll be touched, and you'll want to see this box-office smash over
and over again.
<|_=00=_|>

Pure Hollywood fluff story that is so smart and sports such a dynamite cast
that it becomes one of the more wonderful films of the period. "Pretty
Woman" is pop culture at its finest as Julia Roberts (in an Oscar-nominated,
icon-making role) is a prostitute on the mean streets of Los Angeles who
gets a big financial break one night when she meets up with cold, but lonely
business guru Richard Gere. They immediately create a bond and have a night
of passion which soon becomes a week-long partnership with Gere and Roberts
posing as love interests (and of course $3000 is involved as well). Could it
be possible that Roberts, a lady with a heart of gold in spite of her
background, is just the thing Gere has been needing in his life? A
trumped-up adult-oriented version of "Cinderella" is probably the best way
to describe "Pretty Woman". The old Hollywood story gets a glossy new look
thanks to director Garry Marshall (doing arguably his finest film-making
work). Gere and Roberts make for one of the more attractive pairs the cinema
has ever seen. They just shine beacons of light on one another it seems. The
fact that both are very good performers definitely enhance their appearances
though. A smashing soundtrack and that vivid 1980s style (even though this
was released in 1990) make "Pretty Woman" one of the big winners of the last
few years. 4 stars out of 5. 
<|_=00=_|>
What can I say that hasn't been said? This immensely popular, modern
fairy tale romance is a fantastic 'feel good' must see. I can't resist
watching it every single time it comes on TV. To tempt you if you
haven't seen it...it's the story of a feisty, good hearted hooker named
Vivian Ward, who is hired for a week by a wealthy businessman, Edward
Lewis, to serve as his escort at a number of business related social
functions. Needless to say, the relationship doesn't stay 'just
business' for long.

Rather than the plot itself, the beautiful Julia Roberts makes this
movie...and not simply because of her 88 inches of leg! Always
endearing in her roles, she is at her absolute MOST endearing
portraying Vivian in this picture. She brings a real vulnerability to
the role, showing us that just like everyone else, prostitutes do
indeed floss their teeth! Richard Gere pulls off quite convincingly the
role of Edward, the ruthless, calculating millionaire businessman, who
takes over companies only to sell them off piece by piece, quite
unmindful of the interests of any people involved. To give Gere credit,
I was quite impressed that he actually plays the piano in one of the
movie's scenes.

Naturally, given Vivian's membership in the 'oldest profession', there
is sex early on...though I, old fashioned and strict as I am, wouldn't
hesitate to let my young teen see this movie. (There's worse in TV
commercials today!) Oddly, the most truly intimate moment in this film
is not during the more explicit sex but rather, simply a kiss.

Ohhhh, lots of romantic scenes, from a picnic in the park to jetting
off in a private plane for a Big Night on the Town. And etiquette
lessons...Vivian displays charming, amusing, curious innocence when she
experiences with Edward her first opera (all the while looking knock
out gorgeous in a stunning red gown), her first polo match, and her
introduction to escargots. As the movie progresses, she is transformed
Pygmalion style, from the street smart hooker provocatively dressed in
tall black boots and mini skirt, to a sophisticated looking, elegantly
gowned and coiffed young lady. But it's merely appearance...Vivian's
heart of gold and her vulnerability both remain unchanged.

The status conscious snobbery of Beverly Hills dress shops and ritzy
hotels, judging people by wealth and class, is well depicted here. When
Vivian goes shopping for a 'more appropriate' wardrobe at some
exclusive Rodeo Drive boutiques, she is not 'well received' by the
sales ladies, who like all too many of us, are overly inclined to judge
by appearance. You'll want these snobs to get their comeuppance.
Actually, perhaps the most touching relationship in this entire film is
the one between Vivian and Barney, the quite proper but kind desk
manager at the high class hotel (where she is sharing a penthouse suite
with Edward), who is able to see beyond appearance. He develops a
genuine fondness and even more importantly, respect for her.

Other characters of interest...Kit is Vivian's appealing and
sympathetic room-mate, also a hooker (Vivian's a loyal friend), and
Stuckey is Edward's sleazy and despicable business colleague, portrayed
by Seinfeld's Jason Alexander, a TV show which I must confess is not my
favourite. 

As events unfold during the film, it becomes clear that, while Edward
might not understand too clearly the meaning of 'prostitution', Vivian
clearly does. And, it's another shining film illustration of that pearl
of wisdom from Eliza Doolittle (of My Fair Lady) who enlightened us,
'The difference between a flower girl and a lady is not how she
behaves, but how she is treated.' Or, in Vivian's own words, 'People
put you down enough, you start to believe it'.

Great Cinderella movie...don't miss it.
<|_=00=_|>
"This is Hollywood where people come to fulfill their dreams! Some
dreams come true and some don't! Believe in your dreams!"

While visiting Los Angeles for a week, Edward Lewis borrows his
friend's car and gets lost on Hollywood Boulevard... He asks a hooker
for directions... She proposes to help him for 5 dollars... For $20,
she accepted to show him where the stars live...

Edward invites her to join him in his hotel suite, but not for sex...

Enjoying her company, he offers her to be his 'date' for a series of
business activities including a strategic dinner and a pool match...
Out of the 'bargain,' she gets $3,000 cash, a classier wardrobe and a
visit to the opera...

All the characters of the film are convincing, original and
sympathetic, feeling comfortable with each other... Director Gary
Marshall did a great job...

Ideal for the role is Richard Gere... He plays the terrific rescuer who
'free' Vivian from the streets conducting her to his penthouse suite...
He is handsome, charming and shy... 'Henry Higgins' at his best... But
Edward Lewis is a millionaire... He buys companies that are in
financial difficulty... He takes them apart and sells the pieces for
more than he paid for the whole... "It's strictly business", he tells
Vivian... "You and I are both such similar people. We both screw people
for money." Edward's only defect is that he hurts what he loves... He
wins a certain imaginative power by how painful that treason is...

Julia Roberts plays Vivian Ward, an attractive and smart hooker with a
heart of gold... She gives her character a great sense of humor,
charming Edward with her honesty... She is intensely appealing and
amusing, making any man feel comfortable...

Into the snobbish clothing store, she delivers a great exit line, just
devastating the saleswomen... The song is terrific as the scene... In
the hotel lobby, she walks in a 'killer' red dress... She learns which
fork to use in the formal dinner meeting, projecting an escargot
through the air... At the opera she innocently asks: "Where's the
band?"

There's more than a touch of Eliza Dolittle in her role, specially when
she decides she wants more from Edward than money... She gets the
perfect rescue scene with a limousine, a fire escape, a balcony, birds,
music and red flowers...

Hector Elizondo turns a supporting role into more than that... He plays
the formal, intolerant hotel manager... He takes an affection to his
best customer's "niece" and trains her on which fork to use at a fancy
dinner... His amusing performance as Edward's smooth competent hotel
manager nearly shapes Roberts and Gere...

Ralph Bellamy is incredibly good as the aging millionaire, creator of a
small company Edward is trying to take to pieces...

Laura San Giacomo plays Vivian's pal roommate, her first role since she
played the amorous sister in "sex, lies & videotape."

"Pretty Woman" is a contemporary Hollywood fairy tale, a sweet romantic
comedy, an innocent love story in the middle of self-interest and
agreement... It remains as an entertaining motion picture that had
women calling out the delights of true love...

Keep on dreaming!
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes you have a romantic comedy that is remembered for a long
time. Movies with Audrey Hepburn, 'When Harry Met Sally...', little
parts from other Meg Ryan-movies and... 'Pretty Woman'. Of course we
have the famous song and the real launch of the Julia Roberts career
that help a little but it just is one sweet and very funny movie.

Julia Roberts is great in romantic comedies and especially with this
movie (and 'Notting Hill') she proves this. With Richard Gere she has a
perfect chemistry and in the end that is all we want to see. That
Roberts is a prostitute and Gere a very rich man, living in a
penthouse, make things only more interesting, joke-wise. One of the
better romantic comedies made in the past and definitely one to watch
again. And again. And may be again.
<|_=00=_|>
I love this movie...like a Cinderella story for adults, with facts of
the real world: a human (and man) fairy godmother for example, a
prince, everything!!! About Julia, what can I said? I'm a very big fan,
and the way She transforms a prostitute into a princess is phenomenal,
She make it real too. Richard Gere was a 80's prince charming, no
perfect but with a lot of things that make you said: "I want one for
home". Maybe if you are 20 or younger you'll be no identify with the
music, but for oldie's: "It must have been love" and "What women do"
will take you to your best times! If you like romantic stories, that
make you smile, cry and dream, this is the ideal and No.1!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Look where we were in 1990. No wonder we are were we are in 2017. The
movie is charming enough with a splendid Julia Roberts becoming a huge
movie star but, I have to say, watching it now gave me shivers. This is
not Pygmalion, no, there is no insight, it's all superficial to a
cringing degree. She finds redemption through her shopping and his
credit cards. Isn't that lovely? It feels so insane that maybe that
means we're evolving. - I saw Pretty Woman last night with a group who
had never seen it before. Funny thing the young conservative, Christian
women loved it - They didn't seem to mind the message of sex and money.
The young Liberal women found it absurd, offensive and the charm of the
film, dangerously misleading. They left long before the happy ending.
Movies become historical documents, don't they.
