
"Men in Black" and "Galaxy Quest" are in my mind the best sci-fi
comedies ever made, because they are both hilarious parodies of two
different cultures. Whereas the latter spoofed obsessed fans who take
sci-fi entertainment WAY too seriously, this one spoofs the paranoid,
tin-foil-hat brand of conspiracy theorists. It has funny characters,
witty lines, and does not at all take itself seriously.

There are a lot of small details that can take multiple viewings to
catch. One thing I found funnier the second time I watched it is the
scene where Will Smith has just been severely lectured by his boss in
the interrogation room when Tommy Lee Jones enters, asks a few
questions, and tells Smith to come with him. Smith: "I can't, there's
still a lot of paperwork to fill out." Jones: "No, the paperwork is all
taken care of." Smith's boss (walking by): "Hey, nice work, Edwards!"
This is one of many quick, funny scenes that you only really get if
you're paying attention.

All the actors do a good job, too. I thought Rip Torn was the funniest
character, and Edgar the bug was hilariously gross. Linda Fiorentino
was one of the coolest female characters ever. She put Ripley to shame.
Every time I watch this, I want to marry her.

Overall, it's a great comedy that is clever and fun all the way
through. 8/10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

Agent K (Jones)'s partner retires, so he has to find a new one. Street cop
Will Smith seems an unlikely contender to join this very special service and
help K battle illegal aliens.

Barry Sonnenfeld's experience as a cinematographer put him in good stead for
planning this quirky fun sci-fi comedy.

Men in Black is given life by Sonnenfeld's shot-choices, for greatest comic
effect, terrific fun musical score by Danny Elfman, and two perfectly cast
actors: Tommy Lee Jones' wry delivery and Will Smith's comic persona make
for a movie with some real personality.

Vincent D'Onofrio is a memorable bad guy - especially when we don't have to
look at his regular face.

A few death scenes will be too gruesome for kiddies, but once they're a
certain age its bound to be one of their favourite movies. Such terrific
imaginative fun.

10/10

Woman: "You here to make fun of me, too?'
K: "No maam, we here at the FBI do not have a sense of humour we're aware
of. May we come in?"
<|_=00=_|>

As my one line summary says, this is one of the best sci-fi comedies ever
made, next to the classic Ghostbusters and the highly underrated
Evolution.
This movie has action, comedy, and some of the best special effects in the
last ten years. Rick Baker, Hollywood's resident 'creature man', as I like
to call him, has made such a wide variety of aliens. There's the first
alien
we see, Mikey; there's the Worm Guys; and the villanous Bug. But there are
many others, such as Frank the Pug and the twins. The squid baby is pretty
neat. Tommy Lee Jones and Will Smith have an undeniable chemistry
together,
which repeats itself in the sequel. Linda Fiorentino is also good as the
leading lady, and veteran actor Rip Torn is gruff as the head of MIB, Zed.
Vincent D'Onofrio is also pretty good. My favorite line: "No, ma'am. We at
the FBI do not have a sense of humor that we are aware of." All in all,
two
thumbs up, baby!
<|_=00=_|>
As I stated above, Men In Black is just as good as the sci-fi comedies
Ghostbusters I and II. But instead of chasing ghost's we're chasing
after rogue aliens.

James (Will Smith) is an officer in the NYPD and one of the top
officers. After a hard night, James is questioned by his own police
force for allegedly killing a suspect who fell off a building. As James
insists that the person was acting strangely, Agent K (Tommmy Lee
Jones) comes in and takes him out. 

James is welcomed to a secret agency which keeps aliens in check. After
a brief examination of his life, James (now Agent J) joins the agency.
On his first day, suddenly K and J are on a mission to stop a massive
cockroach from destroying Earth and starting a galactic war. 

The chemistry between Smith and Jones is hilarious. Smith has some
great comedy scenes especially when he is using his new weapon, the
Noisy Crickett and him trying to deliver a baby squid type creature.
The aliens are smart, their inventive, and their just plain fun when
seeing how they identify themselves and hide their identities. The
story is funny and will keep you laughing at almost every scene.

The presentation of aliens as everyday people trying to live normal
lives in Manhattan is a lot more fun than the presentation of murderous
aliens (Independence Day). Another great part is that the film isn't
overblown with special effects of alien explosions and massive battles.
Instead comedy and chemistry keeps this top comedy flowing. 

Men In Black. Starring: Will Smith, Tommy Lee Jones, Linda Fiorentino,
and Rip Torn.

4 1/2 out of 5 Stars.
<|_=00=_|>
God, do I remember when this movie came out in the summer of '97. This
movie brought aliens back in the strongest way possible, everyone was
singing Will Smith's catchy song of the same title. But I remember
seeing this movie and just wearing out the VHS when we got it. As a 12
year old kid, I just adored this movie and so badly wanted to be apart
of the Men in Black. I thought they were so cool. Years later, I got
the DVD because I wanted to go for a trip down memory lane, this may
not be as cool as when I was a kid but this is still a very fun sci-fi
flick that makes you laugh, squirm and also has some good scares. There
is a reason why Will Smith is a star, he made this movie a riot to
watch and has every star quality you could imagine. He and Tommy Lee
Jones take us on an incredible ride through our world where the person
that lives next door to you just might be an alien.

Agent K is a member of the Men in Black, a secret agency without ties
to any government, whose goal is to maintain Earth as a "neutral zone"
for aliens seeking refuge. K's former partner, D, has just retired, but
identifies New York City detective James Edwards as a potential
replacement, due to his agility to follow a disguised alien. After
putting Edwards through several tests, K offers him the chance to join
the MIB, which Edwards accepts. Edwards' past identity is erased, and
he becomes Agent J, assigned to K by the agency director, Zed. The
fleet warns that a "Bug," a member of a giant cockroach-like alien
species that are currently at war with another alien race, has crashed
down to Earth and is seeking an object known as the Galaxy that would
turn the tide in favor of the Bugs. To prevent this, they are willing
to destroy the Earth unless the MIB can secure the Galaxy before their
deadline within a day.

The make up effects in this movie are just incredible. The main villain
that was the bug was one of the creepiest looking things you've ever
seen. Vincent D'Onofrio who is one of those great secrets of Hollywood
always delivers an outstanding performance makes the villain even more
creepier because of his jerks and twitches. The CGI effects are very
noticeable but I don't think they could have gone any other way since
the aliens are over the top. The humor is on key, one of my favorite
scenes is when Tommy Lee Jones is trying to find out information and
you see Will Smith in the background who is helping a lady give birth
to an alien and the tentacles come out and start carrying him around
everywhere and even slam him on the car. Men in Black is the definition
of a summer blockbuster, it's funny, action packed, had the great
actors and a very catchy song that is now stuck in my head thanks to
this review. I still like Men in Black, I think anyone who just lets go
and watches this film is guaranteed to have a good time too.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I am very upset that most people take this movie too seriously This
movie is just a nice comedy with a very intriguing subject. Most people
try to find bug in this movie but i believe that they should just sit
back and enjoy the great epic line. Let's be serious do you believe
that a galaxy can be carried around a cat's belt or that "Elivs is not
dead he's just gone home" ? For this reason I believe this is an
excellent comedy with a Sf theme. I also appreciate that the acting is
very good and the script is very nicely written. I urge people to stop
taking the "noisy cricket" too serious! This movie is making fun of the
people who take this sort of things too seriously.
<|_=00=_|>
Agents Jay (Will Smith) and Kay (Tommy Lee Jones) protect our world,
that is crammed full of aliens who live among us, and most of them are
respectful citizens of planet Earth, but every race can have a bad
apple or two. Smith and Jones make an unlikely pair, but they work in
harmony really well here, and it's a pretty funny adventure.

Fine special effects help to bring the aliens in MIB to life, and they
have as much character as the duo in black, and they get just as many
laughs. The film carries a good plot and is entertaining from the
opening scene; which sets the tone of the film nicely, and makes you
yearn for some more.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

"Men in Black" is a fast-paced action-comedy that over-achieves the whole
way.  Tommy Lee Jones and Will Smith make an amazing comedy team as the
title characters who protect the Earth from the scum of the universe. 
Everything is tongue-in-cheek and the whole film works in a really great
way.  A great film that benefits from its characters and amazing special
effects.  4 out of 5 stars.  
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was really fun to watch the first time I saw it in theaters,
upon subsequent viewings, however, it loses its luster. Still though,
it is still a fun movie to watch. Unlike the sequel which rushes us
through the story, this one takes a bit more time developing the
characters even though it is only about ten minutes longer. Both Tommy
Lee Jones and Will Smith are very good and funny, especially Smith
because he is the new guy so he is seeing all the weird aliens and such
for the first time. This is also something missing from the sequel. In
the end though the reason I probably like this one so much is that it
sort of reminds me of a Ghostbuster movie, and seeing as how we will
most likely never see another sequel to that movie it is nice to see a
movie sort of like it in that they are keeping tabs and hunting aliens
rather than ghosts. The pug dog scene is funny, and the dog is not over
used as in the sequel, and there is also a funny scene where Will Smith
must deliver an alien baby...their main objective in this one is to
track down an alien insect that has hijacked the skin of a guy and is
trying to find a universe. If he succeeds the Earth is destroyed, of
course Tommy Lee's character is so calm about the whole situation that
you feel you have nothing to worry about. So for a funny movie that has
great scenes of Will Smith training and becoming a Man in Black watch
this film and do yourself a favor and skip part two...not that it was
entirely bad, I liked it okay, but it just seems like an unnecessary
sequel.
<|_=00=_|>

MEN IN BLACK (1997) ***1/2  Tommy Lee Jones, Will Smith, Linda
Fiorentino,
Vincent D'Onofrio, Rip Torn, Tony Shalhoub, Siobahn Fallon.  Giddily
hilarious sci-fi comedy: think a 90s "Ghostbusters" meets the "X-Files":
hard-as-nails, deadpan Jones (a great master straight man) is one of many
secret agents of MIB (Men In Black) recruiting steetsmart, mouthy Smith
(a
great wiseass) to team up and stop an intergalactic alien bug (in rotting
human form D'Onofrio who gives a brilliant, funny turn) from wiping out
the
Earth and all mankind.  Incredible out there special effects from ILM and
ingenious aliens from self-professed "Monster Maker" makeup guru Rick
Baker.
Hip, clever dialogue and fine chemistry from the odd couple gives this
comic book adaptation of Lowell Cunningham a glossy work over including
Bo
Welch's inventive production design and Danny Elfman's atmospheric score.
Fluid direction by Barry Sonnefield.


