

The movie, "Se7en", starring Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman, and Gwyneth Paltrow,
is by far one of the most inventive, well-written, and cerebral films in
recent history. The film, blending a well put together combination of dark
visual style, intense plot development, and polished acting, remains tight
and focused throughout, from beginning to end, never straying outwards into
unimportant issues, or resorting to typical Hollywood clichés. Se7en is
uniquely on its own for suspense dramas as it both fuels the need of the
audience to be drawn in and entertained by the events unfolding, and remain
uncompromising and shocking, thus satisfying the initial vision of the
director, David Fincher.

The story surrounds the hunt for a serial killer, who, inspired by Dante
Alighieri's seven deadly sins from "The Divine Comedy", sets out to,
"preach" about man's impurity, and does so by targeting victims, then
torturing them by pitting their own underlining sins against them. Se7en
seemingly starts out as a typical cat and mouse detective story, however, it
quickly develops into of a sort of modern-myth, with good and evil taking
centre stage. The story is original on all counts, and thrilling on all
levels. The most important aspect of Se7en, however, is that it keeps the
audience numerous steps behind its story, as oppose to other thrillers,
which become predictable and bland by the end. By keeping the audience in
the dark, the film remains fresh and original as it progresses. Se7en even
dramatically turns the tide at one point, just as the audience is finally
getting comfortable and asserted into the gloomy atmosphere, thus creating
as much as fear and uncertainty in the audience as it is with the characters
involved. By the film's conclusion, the audience is as much apart of the
film as the characters themselves, and arrive at Se7en's surprise ending
without a single clue of it, prior to it occurring. Se7en's poetic
ending(which will not be given away) says a lot for the people behind the
movie, showing they are not afraid of going against the grain. A rarity with
films so nowadays.

Directed brilliantly by David Fincher, and skillfully written by Andrew
Kevin Walker, Se7en is well crafted and ingeniously clever, making it one of
the greatest films of the 90's. While Se7en may not have garnered critical
acclaim as such films as Silence of the Lambs, Se7en is, undoubtedly, as
influential as any film to date.

Score 10/10

<|_=00=_|>

Seven's quality puts it so far beyond most of the "cops on trail of deranged
killer" genre that it comes out as a true jewel of cinema. Everything about
seven is perfect. It is art captured on film. This movie is a bright spot
for all of the stars who worked on it. 

Brad Pitt never gets the credit he deserves for his acting because he's a
pretty boy and the press is a lot more interested about how he and Jennifer
are doing. That's a shame because he is a talented actor that isn't afraid
to take chances with both the roles that he picks and the characters that he
plays. That is quite rare in the A-list world. Morgan Freeman is a great
actor. You can always count on him to do what he does best which is play a
wise veteran that has seen it all. Kevin Spacey is another great actor that
has great range and really puts life and personality into his characters.

The real talent of this movie, excluding the actors that brought it to life,
is the director David Fincher and the writer Andrew Kevin Walker. Fincher's
talents for making a visually stunning film are now well known and he often
brings a dark patina to his work. Andrew Kevin Walker must have some
incredible demons living inside him. Either that or one hell of an
imagination for bringing the intricate story of Seven and the plan of John
Doe to life. 

John Doe's plan really is twisted and I won't be spoiling it here. Suffice
to say I have never seen so evil and complicated a plan in a movie before or
since. The cinematography of the film is dark but beautiful and throughout
the film it is either night or raining or both except for two very brief
moments. It is such an emotional movie that you can't keep from being caught
up in what is happening. Do you understand and sympathize with what John Doe
is doing or do you think him a mad killer that must be
stopped.

Bottom Line: If you haven't had the opportunity to see Seven yet then you
must at least rent it. It is so damn good that I know you will like it. The
only reason you wouldn't is because you're just too damn fragile to take
something this hardcore. 
<|_=00=_|>

Seldom does a film elucidate the culpability of our culture,of our
society,
in the mayhem and madness we often find in everyday life. According to
Se7en, our culture is drifting through darkness. The mouthpiece for this
thematic undercurrent is Somerset, a literate man who also happens to be a
detective, a man who can read a clue ("This isn't going to be a happy
ending") or Dante's Inferno with equal aplomb. He even provides the film's
final thematic statement with a quote from Hemingway. His quirkiness,
perhaps the outgrowth of a brilliant mind, is no worse than that of any
prophet or seer of old, those harbingers of Biblical insight whom others
always find kooky and offbeat. He is not well loved for his cynical,
pessimistic outlook (such that his consuming motivation is to retire and
get
out of town). However, by the end it becomes clear that it is Somerset who
sees our dark world with the prophet's particular clarity. (It is left to
his partner Mills to find this out the hard way).

Working on us to reinforce this world as Somerset sees it is the film's
astounding mise-en-scene, a disturbing film-noir setting developed by
director David Fincher and cinematographer Darius Khondji. Flashlights
barely illuminate the slimy walls of the roach-infested tenement of one
victim and the dark bedroom of another. Rain pours down in buckets.
Bird's-eye-view shots of downtown (the city is never named- a generic,
everyman's kind of place) show dingy, sooty rooftops and grimy streets.
Only
the film's closing scene is in bright sunlight, which by then only serves
as
ironic counterpoint to what we see happening.

This is Somerset's vision; both inhabited and described by him. He finds a
surprising fellow traveler in, not his partner, but the elusive killer
John
Doe. Doe shares the vision and provides an unsettling echo to the
rumblings
and teachings of Somerset. If one looks at life through the Somerset lens,
one must admit that John Doe has a valid point. He and Somerset have
arrived
at the same conclusion, the difference between them being how they have
responded. (Somerset longs to escape to some otherworldly realm in the
country. Doe has taken action.)

Though gripping and fast moving, this is not an action film. It holds our
interest through the workings of horror and mystery: a stark, film-noir
detective piece. Except for one tense pursuit through halls and alleys in
pouring rain, as well as the bit of ending action, there is surprisingly
little violence. We see each murder, save two, after the fact, as a crime
scene. This only makes the final act that much more suspenseful.

This is a very tight film. Elements within: dialogue, actions, lighting,
setting, all of these tend to reinforce one another to paint a solid
picture. It is a perverse logic that makes the final and seventh sin
complete perfectly the circle of events begun with the
first.

<|_=00=_|>

Gothic, shocking, suspenseful, disturbing and clever, `Seven' marked a new
beginning for director David Fincher's career. This dark tale of murder and
crime revolves around two detectives in present New York city played by two
brilliant actors `Brad Pitt' and `Morgan Freeman' who are paired together to
solve a puzzle of murder that is at the hands of a man who kills regarding
to the seven deadly sins. Both actors displayed striking performances that
are so sharp and realistic sometimes you have to remind yourself that's its
all acting.

 David Fincher's masterpiece really gives us an opportunity of a lifetime,
maybe it's one that we don't all wish to share, but by seeing this movie you
will experience a glimpse of the horrors that this world is filled with, and
a small piece of mind of a man who you only prey you never have to meet.

Brad Pitt successfully proves to us that he's not just a pretty face on
screen, and that he sinks into his character so well, that you can walk off
after the film finishes classifying him as a pretty darn good actor.

You wouldn't expect anything else from Morgan Freeman because it's perfectly
obvious that this guy was born to play the roles of the smart detective.

David Fincher's timeless directing and memorable filming captures all the
goods that this film has to offer and will undoubtedly leave you shocked and
begging for more films like this. Seven is a step into the harsh realities
of life, a realistic portrayal of two detectives investigation into the
un-describable horrific world murder, and the darkest realms of the human
soul.

We can only prey for more classic memorable work from Mr. Fincher and for
those future directors who are intent on making a gothic, psychological
thriller, make sure you sit down and watch Seven with a pen and paper ready
to take notes.

<|_=00=_|>

This movie is from start to finish a well produced and directed film.  The
performances in this movie are outstanding. Brad Pitt, once again, makes
his
role a stand-out performance by putting his versatile acting skills into
his
interpretation of Detective David Mills. Morgan Freeman is well-cast. His
brooding acting style fits the character (Detective William Somerset) like
a
glove, and Gwyneth Paltrow gives her best performance EVER in the role of
Brad Pitt's supportive wife/lover (Tracy Mills). And of course, Kevin
Spacey
who plays the diabolical yet misunderstood serial killer.

The movie is suspenseful and in parts very exciting.  There is a
"Pseudo-Noir" quality to this movie that really fits in well with the
content of the film (Serial Killing). It has it's philosophical moments
that
anyone who thinks a lot about the state of the world today can appreciate.
It makes subtle moral judgements without insulting any beliefs that the
viewer may have and it also generates debate for any post-film
coffee/drinks
gathering.

Andrew Kevin Walker (Screenplay) has taken the subject of the Seven Deadly
Sins and he really puts a great new twist on these themes.  As a writer, I
really could appreciate the depth that he goes into with these ideas. The
movie gives us just enough information to be entertained and informed yet
not bombarded and made bored with too much philosophy.  In this respect,
the
film doesn't "preach" any special meaning even though the film's moral
statements are still maintained.  This film can be enjoyed on so many
levels
and I really enjoyed the third act. One of the best pieces of storytelling
and scriptwriting ever.

Outstanding performances from everyone involved (And yes, of course, David
Fincher does a wonderful job) Say no more. *****


<|_=00=_|>
It is a rarity for a film to be completely unsettling and yet
unrelentingly gripping.

David Fincher's story takes place in a bleak and constantly raining
city (never named) where urban decay and sleaze in all forms are
rampant. Coming up to his retirement from the police force is Detective
Lieutenant Somerset (Morgan Freeman) who is tasked with breaking in his
replacement, Detective Sergeant Mills (Brad Pitt) before leaving.
Somerset is world weary, under no illusions about the futility of the
daily role he plays and (initially) wants nothing more than to escape
the grime and violence of the city. Mills on the other hand is
convinced that he is going to make a real difference having voluntarily
transferred to this precinct, bringing his wife to the city with him.
Before Somerset can move on, a homicide comes in which he and Mills are
assigned to investigate. But its only the first of a string of ritual
murders that will be committed by a killer who is basing his crimes on
the seven deadly sins as depicted in Dante's "The divine comedy".

To begin with, Se7en appears to be a standard "cops on the trail of a
killer" story which shouldn't be too difficult for the audience to get
comfortable with. But as we descend along with the characters into the
merciless, brutal world without hope that they inhabit, you are left
reeling at the events that unfold.

The two detectives enjoy an uneasy relationship with no real friendship
ever striking up between them. The older Somerset is educated, astute
and gives the impression of being emotionally burnt out. Mills, who has
no respect for Somersets methodical investigating gets excited at the
thought of solving a murder and firmly believes that the good guys will
win eventually. The further we get into the action, the might of the
evil that they face pushes both men beyond their limits.

This film draws heavily on biblical themes and you can certainly see
similarities with such films as "The Seventh Seal" (1957). Both films
show the price that good men have to pay when they fight evil and the
unsettling truth that the rule book goes straight out the window when
you are dealing with something so diabolical that it has no boundaries
or limits at all.

Se7en shows us a world which has been destroyed by its own sins, a
wasteland in which values are minimal. The killer, having nothing but
contempt for this world, sees it as his mission to expose the faults
and show everyone what they have become. It is a fascinating twist that
when the killers motives become clearer, Somerset with his greater
understanding actually feels some degree of empathy with him. This is
lost on Mills though, whose level of clarity never reaches the same
point.

A previous reviewer mentioned that you begin to expect the unexpected
whilst watching Se7en and i completely agree. Eventually if you think
of the most obvious outcome in any situation and predict that the
opposite will happen, it usually does. Even the finale itself became
kind of predictable because by then you are conditioned not to have any
hope. This is a minor flaw though because the story is so well and so
shockingly told.

Director David Fincher didn't pick up another script for 18 months,
such was his exhaustion and frustration following the completion of
Alien 3. Apparently he agreed to direct se7en after one reading of
Andrew Kevin Walkers screenplay because he was drawn to its hard
hitting delivery about inhumanity. He stated: "It's psychologically
violent. It implies so much, not about why you did but how you did it".
For the camera work specially altered film stock was used to make the
visuals look as dark and unsettling as possible which is complemented
well by Howard Shores music score.

The Most disturbing message that Se7en puts across, is that the fight
against evil is destined to be a Pyrrhic victory. But regardless the
only thing we can do is fight on whatever the cost. We have no other
choice.

"The World is a fine place and worth fighting for." I agree with the
second part.
<|_=00=_|>

David Fincher's bleak, relentless, and ultimately terrifying crime thriller
Seven transcends other films of the genre with incredible plotting (the sort
Hitchcock might employ were he alive and making films in the 1990s) and
scalding intelligence.  With only a small handful of minor flaws -- the
overly familiar retiring cop/young cop pairing; the awful "I'm taking you
off the case!" cliche seemingly required by the genre; one giant lapse in
logic in the downward spiral toward the conclusion that cannot be revealed
without ruining the script's gruesome surprise -- Seven typically keeps its
viewers imprisoned in their seats with a combination of morbid fascination
and abject fear.  Despite attempts by studio executives to alter Andrew
Kevin Walker's ending, the filmmaking team prevailed and audiences
experienced that rare treat of mainstream cinema: an uncompromising
vision.
<|_=00=_|>

Se7En Se7en is just one of those movies that burrows deep under your
skin and festers. Director David Fincher and screenwriter Andrew Kevin
Walker have created a bleak, desolate world where there are no real
heroes, only sinners. An uncompromising story, filthy, grainy visuals
and terrific performances make Se7en a modern classic. Det. William
Sommerset (Morgan Freeman) has seen the human spirit at its worst
throughout his 34 years of police service. He finally realises he has
had enough of the horrors of the world and he becomes ready for
retirement. David Mills (Brad Pitt) is a brash, hot-headed rookie cop
who believes his big break lies in the murky, seedy unnamed metropolis.
Amidst some cynicism, Sommerset takes on Mills as a partner for his
last days. When two murders occur within two days of each other the duo
realize that a serial killer is murdering his victims in accordance
with the seven deadly sins: gluttony, greed, sloth, lust, pride, envy
and wrath. What follows is a terrifying and disturbing story of the
dark side of human nature. Fincher's Noir York with endless rain, rain
that fails to wash (to quote Travis Bickle) the filth off the streets,
is a harsh look into urban life where decency is a rarity. Along with
his cinematographer Darius Khondji, paints the screen with dark greys,
blacks and yellow to hint at the rotting core of this environment.
Freeman gives the film its most complex performance and moral core. His
detective has grown weary of apathy and he slightly suggests an
understanding of the despicable killer. On that note, Kevin Spacey
delivers a chilling portrayal, a killer with a blankly human face and
disturbing conviction. Writer Walker has written a cop-genre film with
impeccable substance. Rather than a whodunit or an action movie, he has
given birth to a story that pokes and prods at our psychic. It forces
us to confront ourselves and question the next time we eat too much, or
take too much time gelling our hair or even lash out in road rage. He
questions our day-by-day apathy and ignorance to the savagery of human
existence in a time of war, poverty, cynicism and most importantly sin.

<|_=00=_|>
A stand out film dealing with a particularly unpleasant Serial Killer,
"Se7en" (along with "Silence of the Lambs"), is something of a
milestone in this genre. An intelligent script, and admirable actors
including the excellent Morgan Freeman, Prad Pitt, Gwenth Paltrow and
Kevin Spacey, with a cinema noir style, and very grisly murders
representing the Seven Deadly Sins. It is the performances however that
lifts this movie above the average, Morgan Freeman as the older world
wise detective, Pitt almost manic as his young enthusiastic sidekick,
Poltrow plays the wife with a fine degree of sensitivity, and Spacey
does his usual brilliant psycho routine. There is a pivotal scene with
Freeman and Paltrow in a café which shows the depth of performances
here. They are believable characters in a dark disturbing world wherein
it always seems to be raining. An effective thriller with tight
direction and atmospheric photography.
