
Every once in a while the conversation will turn to "favorite movies."
I'll mention Titanic, and at least a couple people will snicker. I pay
them no mind because I know that five years ago, these same people were
moved to tears by that very movie. And they're too embarrassed now to
admit it.

I just rewatched Titanic for the first time in a long time. Expecting
to simply enjoy the story again, I was surprised to find that the movie
has lost none of its power over these five years. I cried again.... in
all the same places. It brought me back to 1997 when I can remember how
a movie that no one thought would break even became the most popular
movie of all time. A movie that burst into the public consciousness
like no other movie I can recall (yes, even more than Star Wars). And
today, many people won't even admit they enjoyed it. Folks, let's get
something straight -- you don't look cool when you badmouth this film.
You look like an out of touch cynic.

No movie is perfect and this one has a few faults. Some of the dialogue
falls flat, and some of the plot surrounding the two lovers comes
together a little too neatly. However, none of this is so distracting
that it ruins the film.

Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet are wonderful. Leo is one of the
fine actors of his generation. Wait 'til you see him in Gangs of New
York before you call him nothing more than a pretty boy. Kate Winslet
was so strong in this film. The movie really was hers, and she held it
together beautifully.

James Cameron managed what many believed was impossible by recreating a
completely believable Titanic. The sinking scenes were horrific, just
as they were that night. How anyone can say the effects were bad is
beyond me. I was utterly transfixed.

This film is one memorable scene after another. Titanic leaving port in
Southampton. Rose and Jack at the bow, "flying". "Iceberg, right
ahead!" The screws hanging unbelievably out of the ocean. The screams
of the doomed after she went down. And that ending that brought even
the burliest man in the theater to tears.

The music, which has also been a victim of the film's success, was a
key ingredient. James Horner's score was simply perfect. And the love
theme was beautiful and tragic. Too bad Celine Dion's pop song version
had to destroy this great bit of music for so many.

I confess, I am a Titanic buff. As such, I relished the opportunity to
see the ship as we never got to see it -- in all its beauty. Perhaps
watching it sink affected me more than some because I've had such an
interest in the ship all my life. However, I doubt many of those I saw
crying were Titanic buffs. I applaud Cameron for bringing this story to
the masses in a way that never demeaned the tragedy. The film was made
with such humanity.

Another reviewer said it better than I ever could: Open up your hearts
to Titanic, and you will not be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>

To all the miserable people who have done everything from complain about the
dialogue, the budget, the this and the that....who wants to hear it?  IF you
missed the point of this beyond-beautiful movie, that's your loss.  The rest
of us who deeply love this movie do not care what you think.  I am a
thirthysomething guy who has seen thousands of movies in my life, and this
one stands in its own entity, in my book.  It was not supposed to be a
documentary, or a completely factual account of what happened that night.
It is the most amazing love story ever attempted.  I know that it is the
cynical 90's and the millennium has everyone in a tizzy, but come on.
Someone on this comments board complained that it made too much money! How
lame is that?  It made bundles of money in every civilized country on the
planet, and is the top grossing film in the planet.  I will gladly side with
the majority this time around.
Okay, cynics, time to crawl back under your rock, I am
done.
<|_=00=_|>

Firstly and foremostly, I am a guy, which (in most cases) means I did not go
 see Titanic to see DiCaprio...although I think he can be a great actor. 
 Reading through earlier comments, i grew a bit weary of hearing about lame
 script and shallow characters.  I went to see a ship sink...the plot and
 the characters were, at least to me, a kind of icing on the Cake.  I
 actually think a lot of the characters were done well; that is, by the time
 they die in freezing water, you actually felt a tinge of sadness for them. 
 But , by the time Titanic was over, I was sufficiently moved to make me
 tell people that it was a great movie.  Kate Winslet was good, Kathy Bates
 was perfect, Leo was ok (I'll give you people that - I've seen him shine
 like I know he can ... Basketball Diaries, Romeo & Juliet).  But ultimately,
 the Titanic sinks...and it was absolutely stunning.  Bravo to Cameron.  He
 didn't just show us a large ship sinking, he showed us the back half of it
 crashing down on a hundred freezing, drowning people; he showed us a third
 class mother attempting to sing her children to sleep because she knew they
 were all doomed (broke my heart - i cried the most right there at that
 point), he showed people who worked extremely hard to get OUT of the bowels
 of the ship only to be sucked back in when a random window shattered and
 the water carried them on back in...detail.  I like detail in a movie. 
 Very impressive job.
<|_=00=_|>
I avoided watching this film for the longest time. Long before it was
even released I had dismissed it as an over-hyped, over-blown, overly
romanticized piece of Hollywood schmaltz, and I wanted nothing to do
with it. I never watched it in the theatre. I shook my head in
disbelief at the 11 Academy Awards - even though I had never seen it.
Then I was asked to be a judge at a high school public speaking
contest. One of the girls spoke about this movie. "It was so great,"
she said. "You really felt like you were on the ship." "Nonsense," I
thought. I shared my feelings with my fellow judges. One looked at me
and said, "you might be right, but if she liked the movie that much
maybe she'll want to learn more about the real Titanic. The movie must
have done something right to get her so interested." "Well, maybe,"
thought I. Then it finally appeared on Pay TV. "OK," I thought, "I'll
give it a look see." I didn't want to like it - and I didn't. I loved
it! What a great movie.

Where to start? First - the directing. My high school public speaking
contestant was right. James Cameron does a superb job of creating an
almost "you are there" type of atmosphere. The gaiety of life aboard
the most elegant ship in the world. The nonchalance as news of the
iceberg first spreads; then the rising sense of panic. You don't just
watch it; you really do feel it. Then - the performances. The lead
performances from Kate Winslet (as Rose) and Leonardo DiCaprio (as
Jack) are excellent - Winslet's being the superior, I thought, but both
were good. They had their rich girl/poor boy characters down to a
perfect "t" I thought. In my opinion, though, stealing the show was
Frances Fisher as Rose's mother. She was perfect as the snobby
aristocrat, and you could feel the fear and loathing she felt every
time she looked at Jack. Then - the details. I'm no expert on the
sinking of the Titanic, but I have a reasonable general knowledge, and
this film does a super job of recreating the historical details
accurately and then weaving them seamlessly around the fictional
romance. Very impressive, indeed. Then - the song. Who can watch this
movie and not be taken with Celine Dion's performance of "My Heart Goes
On."

Problems. Well, the romance was perhaps too contrived, in the sense
that I just don't accept that Jack could have moved so effortlessly
from steerage to first class. (I know he was invited the first time;
but he seems to keep getting into first class without being stopped
until he's been there for a while.) The realities of the separation of
the social classes were much more realistically portrayed, I thought,
when the steerage passengers were going to be left locked down there
after the ship hit the iceberg while the first class folks got to enjoy
half empty lifeboats. 

A minor quibble, though. This is truly an excellent movie. My only
regret is not seeing it in the theatre, where I think it would have
been so much more impressive.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

I find it so amazing that even after all these years, we are STILL talking
about this movie! Obviously this movie wasn't THAT bad or else people
wouldn't even BOTHER to talk about it.  I personally enjoyed this film
immensly, and still do!  I guess this film isn't for everyone, but it
certainly did touch the hearts of many. 

As for those that think that this film is "overrated" or
"over-hyped"...well, we only have the movie-going public to thank for that!
lol*  You see, it's not CRITICS/article writers that make a film "HUGE" or a
"HIT" with the general movie-going public.  PEOPLE make the film a huge
success.  With Titanic, everyone was in awe.  Let's face it, a film like
this had never been made before.  At least not with the type of special
effects needed to really capture the essence of the ship actually sinking. 
This film is so accurate that even James Cameron timed the actual sinking of
the ship in the film with the REAL sinking that fateful day in April 1912. 
Even the silverware for goodness sakes matched!  

Give this movie a break you guys!  The critics thought this movie would sink
BIG time!  When this movie actually came out and people started hearing by
WORD OF MOUTH (which is the BEST form of advertisement mind you) that this
was a good/decent/movie worth seeing, then everyone started flocking to the
theaters in droves to see this movie...not once, not twice, but maybe 3
times and more!  So, I really wouldn't say that this movie was
"overhyped"...at least not like the buildup for the MATRIX reloaded or the
HULK is being "overhyped".  ha!  Critics didn't even think that Titanic
would make enough money to cover Cameron's gigantic film budget that it took
to make this mammoth of a film.  However, the films money took care of that
200 million budget and MUCH more!  

Personally, I LOVE this film.  However, this film might not be for everyone.
 DOn't say that this film sucks just because of romance though!  THat is the
most sexist thing I've ever heard! Disliking a movie just because it has
romance in it!  The story was sweet.  The dialogue could have been better,
but let's face it...the REAL star of the movie wasn't Leo or Kate...it was
that GIGANTIC Ship!    I think all of the actors including DiCaprio and
Winslet did a fine job.  It's not thier best work (I've seen much BETTER
work from both of them) but it wasn't the WORST I've seen on screen before. 
Give them a break!

 
<|_=00=_|>
This movie re-wrote film history in every way.  No one cares 
what anyone thinks about this movie, because it transcends criticism.  Every
 flaw in the movie is easily overcome by the many amazing things the movie
 has going for it.  It is an extremely beautiful movie, and I doubt many of
 us will see anything like it again. I've seen it more times than I care to
 count, and I still become transfixed every time, with a feeling which is
 hard to describe.  One for the ages.  
<|_=00=_|>

Titanic directed by James Cameron presents a fictional love story on the
historical setting of the Titanic.  The plot is simple, noncomplicated, or
not for those who love plots that twist and turn and keep you in suspense.
The end of the movie can be figured out within minutes of the start of the
film, but the love story is an interesting one, however.  Kate Winslett is
wonderful as Rose, an aristocratic young lady betrothed by Cal (Billy
Zane).
Early on the voyage Rose meets Jack (Leonardo DiCaprio), a lower class
artist on his way to America after winning his ticket aboard Titanic in a
poker game.  If he wants something, he goes and gets it unlike the upper
class who are so concerned with their social worries.  The two fall in
love
and the audience sees the sinking of the Titanic primarily through their
eyes.

The movie begins in modern times with the exploration of the wreck by a
group searching for treasures, that sunk with the Titanic, which has
recently occurred.  One of the survivors of the Titanic, Rose DeWitt
Bukater, who had heard of the exploration of the wreck on television and
is
flown to the boat where the search is being led from to tell of what she
remembers to help the search.  She gets to telling her memory of the one
and
only voyage of the Titanic.  With this, the scene shifts to Southhampton,
Ireland where the Titanic set sail from on April 10, 1912 as all the
passengers are boarding.  After another stop on the Irish coast Titanic
went
out to see on its maiden voyage across the Atlantic bound for New York.
Historically the first few days of the voyage went by uneventful, but the
fictional plot of the story is developed during this time as Rose sees the
hopeless entrapement of an engagement that she is in to the wealthy Cal
Hockley and falls in love with third class passenger, Jack Dawson.
Captain
Smith alledgedly as shown in the movie was urged by the White Star Line
Director to increase the speed of the ship so they would make the
newspaper
headlines and receive extra publicity by arriving in New York on Thursday
night and not on Friday morning as planned.  Smith then ordered the
fateful
decision going against his thirty-two years of experience to stretch the
Titanic's legs out to full speed.  The Titanic had reports that the waters
in the Atlantic they were sailing in were full of icebergs, but they
ignored
these warnings and proceeded at full speed as shown in the movie.  On
April
15, 1912 at 11:39, an iceberg was sighted.  They attempted to shut off the
engines and turn the ship out of the path of the iceberg but there was not
enough time and the ship hit the iceberg on the starboard side as depicted
in the film.  The portrayal of the many small holes in the side of the
ship
and not one large gash along the side is accurate.  The crew of Titanic
sent
out distress calls and set off distress rockets as shown until 2:18 when
the
lights finally failed.  The lights of the California were spotted six
miles
away but they failed to realize what was going on and did not respond to
Titanic's many pleas for help.  The California had tried earlier in the
day
to warn Titanic of the severe ice that had caused them to stop their trip
but Titanic had brushed them off causing the California to turn off its
radio and leave the Titanic on its own.  The first class women and
children
were the first as depicted to be put into the twenty lifeboats that were
on
the ship.  Overwhelmingly the third class passengers suffered the most
amount of deaths of any class and the crew was hit hard in this tragedy
too.
The word of White Star Line employees and first class passengers was
believed over that of second and third class passengers when authorities
were trying to gain information of the sinking.  Also, the metal that was
used to build the Titanic has been found in recent years under conditions
of
severe cold, which were experienced the night Titanic sank to be extremely
brittle.  Overall, the basic plot is very accurate in its portayal of the
events and the times at which these events took place on the
Titanic.

Many of the characters in the story were not real and created simply for
the
purpose of the movie or as composite characters to represent possible
characteristics and ideas of people on the ship.  The core group of Rose,
Jack, Cal, and Rose's mother all were fictional characters added into the
story as they represent different groups of people from the time.  Yet
many
characters such as the Unsinkable Molly Brown; Captain Edward Smith; the
ship designer, Thomas Andrew; the White Star Line Representative, Bruce
Ismay; and all of the Titanic's officers were real.  The maiden voyage was
going to be Captain Edward Smith's last voyage anyway as he planned to
retire afterwards.  He had been a part of the White Star Line since 1880
where he worked his way up to his status as the Millionaire's Captain when
the Titanic sunk.  The portrayals of the officers is accurate as only four
survived the tragedy except for the officer who threatened to kill all of
the passengers of the ship with his pistol.  He is on record as acting
heroicly and was misportrayed to the point that James Cameron apologized
and
evoked a monument in his honor in the officer's former Canadian hometown.
As shown in the movie there was a language problem between the crew and
many
of the lower-class passengers from non-English speaking nations.  In
addition, Officer Lowe was the only officer who came back in the lifeboat
as
depicted.  The old people shown in their bed as the water came in their
room
were based on the Strauss'.  Not wanting to leave her husband's side Mrs.
Strauss refused to get in her lifeboat and died with her husband on the
Titanic.  Furthermore, Mr. Goggenheim who was shown sipping his brandy and
smoking a cigar reportedly did go out like this dressed in his best.  The
richest man on the ship, John Jacob Astor, who owned most of Manhattan
died
nonetheless as well, but his much younger wife was saved in a lifeboat.
In
addition, Molly Brown was saved and later had medals made up for the crew
of
the Carpethia that picked the survivors of Titanic up from the water.  Her
ticket on the Titanic had cost over four-thousand dollars and by the end
of
her life she ended up broke.  All of the interiors of the ship were
masterfully replacated down to the last pieces of china and silverware.
The
gymnasium, which is hardly seen is recreated perfectly with all of the
machines reproduced to match those seen in old photographs.  The wonderful
outfits and costuming were an excellent re-creation of the Post-Victorian
era of 1912.  The rich at this time practically ruled everything, as the
women's suffrage movement had not quite gotten moving yet.  Women during
this time often married for financial security as Rose was considering
doing
and normally took a back seast status to their husbands as Cal wished for
Rose to do.  The rich did not take well to `new money' such as Molly Brown
as depicted.  Everything of the time was very formal.  Women had to be
escorted to dinner by a male figure as seen with in the dining scenes.
Smoking was not very common among women of the time but holders of
cigarettes, which were just coming in at the time were used as seen with
Rose in the movie.  Men of the time generally smoked cigars not
cigarettes.
Women were constained physically by their corsets and socially by society.
Although James Cameron had no background in historical films he brought in
experts of Titanic coupled with two years spent cross-referencing the
history of the Titanic and few liberties were taken.  The beautiful
cinematography and special effects also helped to make the film even more
breathtaking.

A recognizable message can be seen in the movie Titanic as the people on
the
ship had about three hours to contemplate their demise.  The director,
James
Cameron, shows the various reactions to this time of crisis in people's
lives.  Everyone reacts differently and he gets you to think of how you
might have reacted had you been in that situation on the Titanic on that
fateful night.  In addition, this film is a reflection of the 1990's when
it
was produced as it gives a look into the wreck of the Titanic.  Only in
the
past fifteen years has the site of the actual Titanic been found and
explored.  This movie was able to give us a deeper look into a disaster
that
many would not have viewed.  However, the moral question of whether people
today should be taking treasures from the wreck of an underwater graveyard
is posed.  There have been attempts to stop treasure seeking missions such
as the one portrayed in Titanic but all have failed.  As it stands today
anyone can make a voyage to the Titanic and take whatever valuables they
as
portrayed in the film showing the general values of our time on this
matter.

Technically the film is very well done.  To get footage of the wreck at
the
bottom of the ocean it took twelve dives to get all of the footage needed
for the movie.  In addition, a special camera had to be created to
withstand
the intense pressure at the bottom of the ocean.  Cameron did not plan on
using the probe to go as far inside Titanic as anyone has in the 88 years
since the ship sunk but it worked out that this provided an unique
perspective into the ship.  Furthermore, throughout the film fade ins and
outs from the wreck of Titanic to the scene of Titanic during its actual
voyage.  This shift between the modern scene to the past scene during the
voyage works as an excellent transition that makes the story easy to
follow
in aclear manner.  At the very beginning of the movie a septune recreation
is used to recreate the scene when the actual people left the European
coast
on Titanic giving it distinction from the rest of the events of the
film.

Titanic plays almost like a historical biography and is like a work of
art,
a true epic.  Like most history novels, we know the ending, but it doesn't
take away from the wonderful treats that can be found in this picture.
Certain aspects of this film are Academy Award material including
costuming,
sound, cintematography, and editing.  If you like interesting characters
that will give you an insight into the life of characters in the early
1900's and how they face disaster, then this movie definitely is for you.


<|_=00=_|>


I saw this movie opening day and it took my breath away. James Cameron's
fictional story of Jack and Rose entwined with real life occurances was
haunting and absolutely beautiful. He is an amazing director and writer that
this movie would not have worked without him.

Kate Winslet was stunning as Rose and this movie belonged to her as you
couldn't imagine anyone else playing this role.

Leonardo DiCaprio was really good as Jack and  he should have had an  an
Oscar nomination for this role and the ever brilliant Billy Zane didn't
disappoint in his role as Rose's fiance Cal. His portrayl of Cal was so evil
that despite being an awful person, you couldn't help but feel sorry for
him, especially when despite all his doings he loved Rose so much.

James Horner's music was just as haunting and he always lifts the movie he
works on to the ultimate level.

Kathy Bates was equally impressive in a small role and provided quite a few
of the laughs of the film. 

Everything from the special effects, to the sets to the costumes were pure
magic.

This would have to be one of the most wonderful films of the 20th Century
and one that will never be forgotten.
<|_=00=_|>
Back in 1997, do I remember that year: Clinton bans cloning research,
the unfortunate death of Princess Diana, the Marlins won the world
series and a woman gave birth to septuplets. This was also the big year
in the release of Titanic, one of the biggest films of all time: a tale
about the ship of dreams, about a boy and a girl who fall in love but
are torn apart by their social class and at the height of their
emotional commitment the ship meets with disaster. I don't think
anybody could have expected Titanic to be as HUGE as it was, the movie
was bigger than life and had millions of fans, 85% of them being
teenage girls, I was 12 years old at the time, and of course saw the
movie multiple times. It was the film that made me believe that the
love that Jack and Rose shared was so real and beautiful. At the time I
felt that Titanic could do no wrong, of course I grew up and didn't
watch the film since I was 14, a couple years ago I saw the film on DVD
for 5.99 and figured that it was a good price and to see what I thought
about the movie now. Was it worth the hype? Was it really the best
movie of all time? Was that Leonardo's real nose? OK, I know that's
silly to say, but I did re-watch the film. Being completely honest
here, Titanic is a great movie, it delivered in romance, humor,
disaster, emotions and took us on this incredible maiden voyage.

The film starts with Brock Lovett and his team exploring the wreck of
the RMS Titanic, searching for a necklace set with a valuable blue
diamond called the Heart of the Ocean. Unsuccessful, they instead
discover a drawing of a young woman wearing the Heart of the Ocean,
dated the day the Titanic sank. 101-year-old Rose Dawson Calvert learns
of the drawing, and contacts Lovett to inform him she is the woman in
the drawing. When asked if she knew the whereabouts of the necklace,
Rose Calvert recalls her memories aboard the Titanic, revealing for the
first time that she was Rose DeWitt Bukater. In 1912, the upper-class
17-year-old Rose boards the ship with her controlling fiancé, Cal
Hockley and her desperate for money mother, Ruth DeWitt Bukater.
Distraught and frustrated by her engagement, Rose attempts suicide by
jumping from the stern. Before she leaps, a drifter and artist named
Jack Dawson intervenes who convinces her not to jump. Jack and Rose
strike up a tentative friendship as she thanks him for saving her life,
and he shares stories of his adventures traveling and sketching; their
bond deepens when they leave a first-class formal dinner of the wealthy
for a much livelier gathering of dancing, music and beer in
third-class. After revealing their love for each other and wish to
leave together when the ship docks, they then witness the ship's fatal
collision with an iceberg and now must escape together.

So does Titanic live up to it's hype? I still say that this is a great
movie to watch, I think that there were and still are quite a few
haters that for some reason just want to trash the movie because it had
won a ton of awards and Leo Mania was born at the time. Everyone is
entitled to an opinion, but please don't let the haters bother you from
watching this great movie. It has great acting, amazing effects,
beautiful costumes, outstanding sets, a well-written story and still
looks flawless. Love it or hate it, you have to admit this movie didn't
get a lot of hype just because of Leo's baby face or Kate's amazing
ability to cry on sight, this film is something special. Otherwise I
don't think we'd still be talking about it so many years later. Kate
and Leo had this amazing chemistry that in my opinion made it one of
the greatest love stories of all time. Despite the story not being the
most original with the rich girl loves poor boy plot, I think it worked
extremely well because they fit so well together. James Cameron, the
extreme perfectionist that he is, went over time and money budgets for
Titanic, but this was his baby and it paid off very well. James had
captured everything about Titanic and the sinking so well. He
respectfully shows what terror the victims went through that night and
made sure that this wasn't just a love story but to remember those who
lost their lives on the tragic voyage. He had every right in my opinion
to scream "I'm king of the world!" at the Oscars, because this movie
blew everyone out of the water(no pun intended), you know what? I'm
going to admit it, I love Titanic, even past my teen years I absolutely
adore this movie, it will always hold a special place in my heart, it
has too since I saw this film 8 times in the theater when it was
released. Remember one thing, be true to yourself, don't follow the
crowd, lovers or haters, if you go with the hype you're always going to
go crazy over a film before viewing it, then if you thought the film
was just alright for some reason it comes off as the worst movie ever.
I do recommend Titanic, it's a great one and sure to go down in the
classics one day.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
It's really quite odd. When Titanic first came out,the reviews were
mixed but the public generally loved it,those who disliked the film
were definitely in the minority. Over the years,it has became somewhat
fashionable to slag Titanic off,even if a great many of those people
who did so were probably amongst those who made it such an enormous hit
in the cinemas. Titanic is flawed,definitely,sometimes greatly so.
However,it's also a tremendous achievement for it's director James
Cameron. Mixing a real disaster with romance is harder to do than some
might think. Maybe he did have a right to say "I'm king of the world"
when the film won Best Picture at the Oscars. Just once.

The modern day opening is excellent,making effective use of some of
Cameron's real footage he took of the sunken Titanic. There is a real
sense of mystery. Than we flash back to the Titanic being boarded,and
the film stalls just a little for around two hours. The attention to
detail is amazing {even all the cutlery matched,you know} and there is
nothing wrong with an extremely slow build up to action-think of The
Seven Samourai. However,the central romance between Leo and Kate is
often badly written and unconvincing. For a start Kate's Rose would
certainly not have done two things she does in the film as quickly as
she did {Obviously thousands of teenage girls seeing the film in 1997
would disagree with my views}. We also have to suffer Cameron
constantly labouring the point that the poor people on the ship are
better than the rich people.

However,the final 80 or so minutes,detailing the sinking,is simply
brilliant film making. The suspense is built expertly,even though we
know what will happen,and climaxes with some technical shots which are
still impressive. Perhaps there is a little two much emphasis on the
central couple,but there are some truly moving moments,and it really
feels true,although of course Cameron did play with the facts a little
here and there,as at least one descendant of one of the survivors has
pointed out. The following sequence involving the boats is extremely
haunting,with some especially good use of sound. As for the final
scene,it does manage to be pretty moving,it's schmaltzy but it works
{though hardly original,think of Somewhere In Time and various 40s
romantic fantasies}.

Titanic has some excellent use of CGI {watch out for the transitions
from present to the past on the sunken ship} and one glaringly bad
special effect-the iceberg which looks like polystyrene. James Horner's
best selling score is really quite poor and only occasionally brings
the emotion it should do. Performances are generally excellent and
sometimes succeed in overcoming some thin characterisation {such as
Billy Zane as Rose's fiancée,who even has to suffer with far too much
eye make up!}

Overall Titanic is still worth seeing,and sometimes it really does hit
the heights that it should. It succeeds more than it fails,which is
impressive in a film as ambitious as this.
