

I'm not quite sure what happened to poor ol' Pinhead, but his character
sure
got an overhaul for this misfire of a film.  He is transformed from his
more
mysterious visage into a gimmicky Freddy Krueger-type mass-murderer.

Once upon a time in the series, you had to open a puzzlebox searching for
the secrets of pain and pleasure to be attacked by the Cenobites.  But no
more.  Hell, all you have to do now is go to a nightclub and you're on the
victims list.  Sillyness abounds as the DJ becomes a CD throwing cenobite
and a cameraman launches missiles (yes, missiles) from the lens buried in
his head.  Stupid.

Way off base when compared with the rest of the series, and not worth your
time.
<|_=00=_|>

Being a slasher horror fan during it's rising in the late 70's early 80's
I
watched the first 2 HellRaiser films and when I saw part 3 I was
disapointed.   But watching it again (HBO 01/27/04) I gotta say I was
impressed with the story in general.

I Really got into the last bit where the PinHead chracter confronts it's
"good self"   Very good plot twist written in the classic feel for the
character.

If you were a fan of the first and second HellRaiser films rewatch 3 with
an
open mind... time heals all wounds.


<|_=00=_|>

Watching this film as part of a four movie Hellraiserthon, I was full of
expectation after the brilliance of the first two films.  This third venture
was a total disappointment, replacing the plot and tension of the earlier
films with pretty girls and lots of mindless violence.  The only saving
grace was the excellent performance by Doug Bradley as a very confident and
menacing Pinhead.  Personally, I'd watch the first two films many times
again, but skip this vacation from quality.
<|_=00=_|>

I have yet to see Bloodline or Inferno, but Hell on Earth is the worst of
the first three Hellraiser movies. It lacks both the wit and the sheer
terror of the first two films. What's more, it breaks the rules
established
in the previous Hellraiser films (that is, Cenobites cannot harm the truly
innocent, the Cenobites can be summoned or banished by the box, and so
on).
And while Pinhead actually spoke very little in the first two films, in
Hell
on Earth he is downright talky. Unfortunately, only a few of his lines are
very memorable. It is unfortunate that Clive Barker did not have more to
do
with this movie (he wrote and directed the first and wrote the story for
the
second), as it might have turned out much better.
<|_=00=_|>
The films 'Hellraiser' and 'Hellbound: Hellraiser II,' weren't like
anything ever seen before. They were doors into new worlds. The end of
II was an open ending, so it seemed only natural that more sequels
come, and 4 years later we got one. But something had changed, and not
necessarily for the better. It was decided that Pinhead, otherwise
known as the Lead Cenobite, would be the villain and given more to do
this time around. On top of that a big studio, in this case Paramount,
would be the new distributor and we all know what can happen sometimes
when a big studio gets involved. If I'm making it sound like I hate
'Hellraiser III,' I don't, but like other fans I feel this is where the
series began to lose it.

Pros: Pace moves right along. Good performances, the standout being
Paula Marshall. The urban setting is a nice change of scenery. An OK
score that mixes some classic 'Hellraiser' themes with some new stuff.
Some really good special and visual effects. The war scenes are well
done. Some excellent set pieces, my personal fave being the one in the
club. Some pretty neat new Cenobites.

Cons: No real surprises or much we haven't already seen. Though Doug
Bradley does a good job as both Pinhead and Captain Elliot Spencer, the
fact that Pinhead is made the villain and given more screen time does
make him a bit less scary and mysterious. The final confrontation is
kind of disappointing.

Final thoughts: Though not at all a bad film, this second sequel to
Clive Barker's ground breaking film is a step down from it's
predecessors. As I said there's not much here fans haven't already seen
and both Pinhead and the film are pretty much on the same level as
other movie monsters of the time, which was never the idea. But still
it's fun, has some style, and is far more interesting than some of the
other sequels.

My rating: 3.5/5
<|_=00=_|>

first of all, Hellraiser III isn't a BAD film. In fact, it's quite good if
it would stand on its own. And it certainly is one of the more decent
efforts in the overall disappointing decade of the 90's. Compared to the
first two Hellraisers, however, it's a bit of a failure. Hellraiser ('87)
and Hellbound ('88) were horrorfilms in the purest possible form and my two
all-time favorites. There were 4 indicators in those movies that brought
them close to being the definition of horror.

1. Creating a unique and utterly morbid atmosphere (through settings, music
etc...)

2. Building up an unbearable tension ( the occasional twists
etc..)

3. Showing nasty and very bloody sequences in a beautiful
way

4. The presence of a true horror icon !! ( in this case...PINHEAD
)

Hellraiser III fails to at least 3 of these points...The dark and macabre
settings from Hell and the mental institution are replaced by a bar which
plays horrible rock music, there's almost no tension to detect and it's a
very predictable story. The gore however is still present, but the quality
of it doesn't come near the originals. The Boiler Room massacre puts Clive
Barker to shame, I think. The whole story know turns around the character of
Pinhead. He's more than ever the star of this movie and that almost goes
wrong. He talks too much and he even starts to become funny. That certainly
isn't good for a horror icon. ( Look at what a joke Fred Krueger became ).
Director Anthony Hickox obviously is a big fan of Pinhead and he wanted the
movie to be especially about him. Every now and then Hickox tries to link
this film to the original story but it clearly isn't his biggest concern.
The tapes about Kirsty in the Chanard institute and the dream-sequences
where Joey meets Elliot Spencer are too fake and forced. The movie does
explain where Pinhead comes from but it certainly isn't stressed
enough...

Hellraiser III goes very much over the top near the end and I almost lost my
love towards Pinhead after the church scene ! I'm trying to forget that
particular part. It really is a shame that this movie is part of the series.
If this would have been a new film ( with a new demon ) it would have been
an enjoyable, well-made change. But as part of a great series it fails to
deliver and you're left behind with a disappointment. This movie was
followed by episode 4: Bloodline and a few others after that. The fourth is
a surprisingly good attempt to bring back the spirit of the original ones
and should be watched directly after the first two. Everything that came
after part 4 should be skipped unless you're a die-hard Pinhead
fan.
<|_=00=_|>
HELLRAISER III: HELL ON EARTH (1992)

starring: Terry Farrell, Doug Bradley, Paula Marshall, Kevin Bernhardt,
Ashley Laurence, Ken Carpenter.

plot: Reporter Joey (Terry Farrell), troubled teenager Terri (Paula
Marshall) and playboy club owner J.P. (Kevin Bernhardt) are in danger
from Pinhead (Doug Bradley) after he is resurrected from his purgatory.
Meanwhile, Elliot Spencer's ghost contacts Joey in order to save him
from his purgatory, and Pinhead sets out to create 'hell on earth' by
creating new cenobites.

the good: The thing that kept me engaged the most was the characters.
Joey and Terri had great chemistry and make a good example of true
friendship, Doug Bradley is great as the evil Pinhead and the good
Elliot Spencer, I loved to hate the selfish and cocky J.P. and Ashley
Laurence has a cute cameo as Kirsty.

It also had some fun action and great visuals from director Anthony
Hickox.

the bad: Even though Doug Bradley was great as Pinhead, here he is
missing what the other films have. The emphasis on how Pinhead is not
evil. He does not run hell, he just works at it. He does what has to be
done. Here he is just an unstoppable killing machine.

I also hated Ken Carpenter as Doc, he is a horrible actor!
<|_=00=_|>
Hellraiser: Hell on Earth stars Terry Farrell as a young television
reporter investigating a horrific murder where the victim appears to
have been torn apart by hooks and chains somehow connected to a strange
puzzle box discovered near the body. The clues lead to a prostitute and
a sleazy nightclub owner who's latest art installation is a remnant of
the cenobite dimension left behind on our world which contains the
blackened soul of Pinhead. Hellraiser II director Tony Randel co-wrote
the screenplay for Hell on Earth and he tries to pack a bit too much
into the film. The climactic chase through the city streets with
pyrotechnics and special effects exploding all around feels forced,
like much of the action here. It's dictated by the unwieldly script
rather than flowing natuaraly. If you like the first two Hellraiser
films you'll want to see Hell on Earth and you may even enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
Where Hellraiser 1 and 2 were both very dark and very British,
Hellraiser 3: Hell On Earth is very Hollywood.

J. P. Monroe is the scumbag, soulless owner of The Boiler Room, a
somewhat gothy dance club decorated with morbid art. In his search for
more profane objects to add to his collection, J. P. comes across, and
subsequently purchases, an odd pillar in an art gallery, which fans of
the first two films will have no trouble recognizing. Enter Joey
Summerskill, a frustrated reporter who comes across a bizarre death in
a hospital emergency room. As she watches, a young man is torn to
pieces by hooks and chains that appear out of midair. Eager to discover
the story behind the gruesome, supernatural death, and with only one
clue to follow, Joey arrives at the Boiler Room and befriends the
insecure and abused Terri, J. P.'s ex girlfriend. Together, they
discover the history of the Lament Configuration, the bizarre
happenings at the Channard Institute and the story of Kirsty Cotton.
But it doesn't end there. Joey begins having dreams about a man named
Elliot Spencer, a World War One soldier who warns her that evil has
been unleashed in the form of his own evil alter ego, the Cenobite
Pinhead. Indeed, Pinhead soon breaks free and turns The Boiler Room
into a slaughterhouse. Now he wants Joey. But can Elliot Spencer stop
Pinhead before Joey is taken to Hell?

This isn't a terrible sequel, really. It's not great, but it's nowhere
near as bad as some of the others that followed. There's some nice
bloody gore and naked girls, and Pinhead, as always, seems to be
enjoying himself immensely, seducing his victims with a smile and
making his offer of an eternity of pain seem quite irresistible. His
scene with a priest is particularly nasty and blasphemous...and
wickedly funny. The storyline doesn't always make sense, there's a lot
of unintentionally laughable moments and some of the acting borders on
the ridiculous, but all in all, Hellraiser 3 is pretty good cinematic
junk food. If nothing else, Doug Bradley alone always makes these films
watchable with his flawless portrayal of Pinhead.

6 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
"Hellraiser III" significantly ups the bar in production values
compared to the 2 previous films. Actually filmed in America this time
(the other 2 were shot in Britain although they were set in America),
everything about "Hellraiser III" is bigger, grander and more
spectacular than its predecessors.

Apart from the story, that is. Although Clive Barker is an executive
producer, his hand is noticeably absent from the screenplay. Bolted
together by Peter Atkins and a hack who went on to work with the Power
Rangers, the story loses a lot of its emotional appeal. The film
focuses more on gore and spectacle than the original tale of obsession,
love and loss, and is weaker as a result. Attempts are made to provide
the heroine with an emotional back-story, but they descend into cliché
by using that tired old "I lost my father/brother/son/hamster in
Vietnam" plot device.

I could tell that I wasn't engaging with the story when I noted the use
of an old-fashioned wireless set as a way of initially communicating
with the Pinhead Cenobite's original human persona. Captain Spencer is
meant to have been a British army officer from WWI (1914-1918), but
public radio broadcasting didn't start in Britain until 1922. Being
able to nitpick like this when you've paid to watch something on the
big screen is not the sign of a particularly good film.

The idea of a Cenobite without any moral compass reduces Pinhead (A
horror creation on a par with Dracula, in my opinion) to the same level
as every other stereotypical celluloid purveyor of pointless cruelty
and ultra-violence. 

Adding insult to injury, the closing credits are accompanied by some
amorphous Goth-rock band belting out a track called "Hellraiser". How
imaginative. All the ambiguity, magic and mystery of the original films
has been well and truly bled out by "Hellraiser III". Avoid.
