

After the commercial and critical success of "Do The Right Thing," in which
Lee announced his arrival as a major player, he choose to follow up his
breakthrough with a more personal film.  If you examine history, it seems
all iconoclasts choose to do so after their first big success ("The
Conversation," "Close Encounters Of The Third Kind," "Talk Radio"), and Lee
decided to pay homage to what he's always referred to simply as "the
music."
Set in then-present day 1990, "Mo' Better Blues" tells the tale of Denzel
Washington as Bleek Gilliam, a selfish trumpeter who fronts his own jazz
quintet in an upscale Brooklyn club.  The strength of the film deals with
Bleek juggling his loyalties.  On the love side, Bleek is caught between
two
women; Clarke is a sexy bombshell in constant need of Bleek's attention
who's too busy centering in on his music.  She's also an aspiring singer
hoping Bleek will give her a chance to shine.  Bleek, obviously, does not
want to share the spotlight.  Indigo is a thoughtful schoolteacher who is
not fragile with Bleek's tremendous ego but is careful with his somewhat
callous heart.  At work, Bleek is wrestling with a hungry band demanding
pay
raises given the success they're achieving at the "Beneath The Underdog"
club.  Clumsily working towards the band's raise is Giant, Bleek's lifelong
friend and incompetent manager, who also has a considerable gambling
problem.  Bleek must decide whether to trust Giant or risk losing his band,
while deciding how long he can keep up the game between Indigo and
Clarke.

This, simply, is one of my favorite Lee films.  Thank God someone finally
made a jazz film for the late 20th century, jazz had not received a proper
modern makeover since 1961's "Paris Blues."  Lee creates a wonderful,
intimate world set off by moody lighting in shades of red, yellow and blue.
His camera and editing - which was spontaneous and lively in "Do The Right
Thing" - is slow and deliberate here, carefully punctuated in all the right
places.  This film marked the debut of some of Lee's trademark camera
moves,
including the 'gliding sidewalk' dolly and his slow-spin-upward pans.

Like his previous films, Lee is adept and balancing out scenes between
comedy and drama.  A lot of the 'band' scenes are engagingly funny, mostly
guy talk with a spin of that "cool daddy jazz vibe" added.  Lee is also
skillful at making Bleek the antagonist of the film without rendering him
completely unlikable.  The "Love Supreme" montage ending seemed to stretch
the film for longer than some would have liked, but I feel it was justified
in order to illustrate the beauty and necessity of Bleek's redemption.  Lee
was also smart to reduce screen time given to the film's true protagonist,
saxophonist Shadow Henderson (rendered with cool, suave sophistication by
Wesley Snipes), in order to keep the audience focused on
Bleek.
You will also get a delicious sampling of great jazz in this film if you're
a novice to such.  Aside from the concert numbers written and performed by
Branford Marsalis and the dreamy jazz score by Lee's father, Bill, there
are
great pieces by John Coltrane, Miles Davis and Dizzy Gillespie, among
others.  A cool, sexy film.
<|_=00=_|>

When this was on TV the other night, I expected to stick out about two
minutes of it. Being a follower of Tarantino, all I'd heard recently of
Spike Lee was wholly negative. In addition, I know nothing of black culture
and/or jazz.
Imagine my surprise then when, two hours later, I found myself entirely
intoxicated by the blend of atmosphere, empathy, humour and pure depth of
character and relationship in this exceptional movie. Next up, I'm watching
all his other movies... Quentin, make your peace! 

<|_=00=_|>

One of Spike Lee's best, "Mo Better Blues" captures the atmosphere of jazz.
The soundtrack flows with the acting like a song.  Denzel Washington does a
great job of portraying a jazzman's quest for perfection, while living in a
"real world" full of problems.  Being a musician myself, I appreciated the
struggle Washington's character was going through.  All of Spike Lee's
trademark camera angles (which I've disliked in some of his movies) worked
to perfection in this movie.  Great music, good acting, and a solid plot.
Recommend! 
<|_=00=_|>
This is a very entertaining movie and it is underrated. The characters,
story and music are captivating.

However, I think part of the reason for the lower ratings is the the
poor camera effects. Lee focuses in on characters at times, as though
they are standing and talking to a camera by themselves in some sterile
room, such that it actually cheapens the film. There is a real lack of
realism to this technique - it reminds me of 1960's style TV shows like
Batman. It gives a feel that they ran out of money and when they had to
go back and re-shoot the scene, they did so on the cheap. A minority
may find this unique or appealing, but no great movie or director will
use this technique. The filming with multiple characters in the shot is
generally very good. But, the movie could have been better without
these flaws.

The writing at times is exceptional. There are great lines, as well as
very entertaining dialogue. The scenes between Denzel and Snipes are
exude an extraordinary power and they offer an exceptional dynamic to
the movie as a whole. The female characters are also very compelling.
"Clark" (Cynda Williams) is extraordinarily attractive and the movement
of the character through the course of the movie is well done.

It is difficult not to be captivated by this film. The positive
cultural dynamic it captures is one that Americans can only hope to be
present. Yet, one gets the feeling that reality is closer to the darker
elements the movie exposes. Yet, there is ultimately a very positive
message of love, responsibility.
<|_=00=_|>

I really enjoyed this film.  Everyone has a Bleek in his life: someone whose
love of his life is all he knows, wants to know, etc.  However, we always
lose the love of our life for various reasons.  Then, what do you do when
the love of your life is suddenly taken from you?  That is this film's
theme.  Bleek's only love was jazz music.  Bleek's music was the only thing
that mattered to him.  Music overrode everything: an incompetent manager
(who was his best friend), his lovers, and the contentment of his bandmates
(the money issue which is related to having an incompetent manager).  When
Bleek lost the love of his life (watch the film to learn why), he was forced
to make some hard choices about his life and face some unpleasant truths
(something we've all had to do).

I enjoyed the score and the jazz pieces included in this film (after all,
Bleek played the trumpet).  I really liked the cinematography in this film
because the film showed the beauty of New York City - the brownstones, the
Manhattan skyline (a brief glimpse), the Brooklyn Bridge,
etc.
<|_=00=_|>
"Mo' Better Blues" is Spike Lee's immediate follower of the unanimously
acclaimed "Do the Right Thing". And if not 'Mo' Better' than the
glorious predecessor, Lee still 'did the right thing' by tackling a
less political subject and pay a beautiful tribute to jazz music
through one of the most under-appreciated performances of the 90's:
Denzel Washington as Bleek Gilliam, the trumpet player.

"Do the Right Thing" also coincided with the year Washington won his
first Oscar for his performance as the tormented Afro-American soldier
questioning the value of his engagement with the Yankees. As Bleek,
Washington not only shows a more light-hearted facet of his acting
range, but also proves a unique ability to portray men driven by anger,
selfishness but with enough pride and confidence to win our respect.
His characters might be flawed but we understand them and the emotional
pay-off is that they ultimately try to change, for the best, closing
some fascinating characters' arcs, among which Bleek isn't an
exception.

Bleek is interesting because he crystallizes the curse of making
constantly bad choices, and by 'bad' I mean 'tragic', even more because
only the scope of a life highlight them. And "Mo' Better Blues" spans
thirty years of Bleek's life so we have glimpses on the devastating
effects of the most benign choices. It opens in 1969 when Bleek's
friends urge him to come play softball, but it is trumpet which he must
play, under his mother's tyrannic supervision. His father coerces her
to let the boy be a boy, but he's too busy watching TV to be listened
to. The kids finally leave, calling Bleek a 'sissy', Bleek resumes
playing with much reluctance.

The immediate ellipse endorses the mother's authoritarian education;
Bleek became a handsome trumpet player with a way with women, leader of
a quintet featuring Shadow Henderson (Wesley Snipes) the saxophone
player, Bill Nunn in the bass and Giancarlo Esposito in the piano. What
a great delight to watch all these actors joined interacting in the
artist's room. The list would be incomplete without Spike Lee who plays
Giant, an ironic name for the vertically challenged manager of the
band. Anyway, life seems to smile to Bleek, but all the film's stylish
shots can't hide behind the shadowy and smoothly designed atmosphere,
the presages of an imminent downfall. 

"Mo' Better Blues" chronicles a series of bad choices made by a man not
by lack of luck or intelligence, but because his ego and certitudes
prevent him from realizing the harm he causes to his entourage, and
ultimately, to himself. Bleek is too blinded by his leadership to
understand that it might not last, especially with such a promising sax
player, who proves his value every night through outstanding solos.
He's too caught up by his friendship with Giant he lets him ruin the
band's career. Giant is a gambler who makes the wrong bets, who fails
to convince the club owners Moe and Josh Flatbush (John and Nicholas
Turturro) to renegotiate the contract, and much more, who gets no
respect because of his diminutive size. Not stupid or unlucky, but
Bleek's tragedy is that his best friend is. Spike Lee perfectly plays
Giant, the lovable loser. 

But Bleek is also the architect of his own demise, notably on the love
department. He dates two women who couldn't have been more opposite:
Cynda Williams as Clarke Bettencourt, a glamorous, light-skinned artist
whose dream is to be Bleek's Muse and sing for him but she can't break
the iced gate of his own ego forcing Bleek to turn the subject into a
"Mo'Better" moment, a classy euphemism for sex. But it is interrupted
when she accidentally bites Bleek's very tool of work: his lip,
confirming the impossible junction of work and passion. But Clarke's
pleas find echoes in Shadow and her character magnificently blooms when
she sings a sweet ballad for Shadow's quartet (guess who misses?) and
proves Bleek wrong. But his heart belongs to Indigo (Joie Lee), the
less glamorous but more dedicated woman who patiently endures his
rejections.

We know they're meant for each other, but Bleek is still obsessed with
Clarke's body, the highest in the hierarchy of beauty standards in the
black community. Realistically, it's only when Bleek's career is over
that he seeks Indigo's help, and she knows. Paying the highest price of
being Giant's friend, his lip is permanently hurt by two loan sharks.
By the way, the film tactfully avoids the ridiculous triumphant
comeback cliché invited to join the band by Shadow, Bleek can't play
correctly and leaves the stage  forever, the heart full of pain and
humiliation. All he's got left is Indigo, and she only accepts after he
begs her to ''save his life', which means that he finally triumphed
over his own ego.

Part choice, part luck, the film subtly parallels life with jazz music,
which is one third- dedication, one third-inspiration and one-third
improvisation, Bleek was too dedicated to himself to see how listening
to the others could help him. I could relate to Bleek for I had my
share of bad choices, for I'm still trusting my best friend to whom I
owe many of the biggest problems I have (and he's still a friend) for
even with my future wife, I kept lusting about other more voluptuous
women, while I still know that she was the one. I remember an old man
who hardly knew me but said "there's something erroneous" about me.
Now, I knew what he meant and this is something I can also say about
Bleek, hoping that, like him, my life will change positively.

And the ending says it all when the exact opening scene is recreated,
only this time, Bleek lets his son go play with his friend, probably
realizing that one simple choice can have one hell of an effect on
one's life, and not repeating the same mistakes is already a way to
succeed.
<|_=00=_|>
Spike Lee's latest 'joint' is a jazz variation of 'She's Gotta Have
It', with the genders reversed: maladjusted trumpeter Bleek Gilliam
(Denzel Washington) juggles two lovers while indulging an almost
neurotic addiction to his music. His compulsive behavior is,
presumably, a consequence of strict childhood practice habits, but if
all work and no play have made Bleek a dull boy, the same can't be said
of the film itself: Lee's self-conscious homage to music and fatherhood
suffers from a dizzy overabundance of distracting, Scorsese-influenced
'style'. The film has been criticized for its stereotypical supporting
roles, but the primary characters are likewise only skin deep. Except
for some early childhood Freudian motivation, Bleek remains more or
less a cipher, and his contrived, fantasy redemption (after a series of
false endings, each one more lame than the last) seems tacked on only
to provide a neat, symmetrical resolution.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the best film's Spike Lee has ever created. Denzel Washington
plays Bleek Gilliam, a selfish musician who only listens to his music.
He cheats on his women and wants the spotlight only to himself. On his
road to redemption he encounters betrayal, lies, and greed before he
finds happiness. A happiness that comes at a heavy price. Denzel
Washington and Wesley Snipes give superb performances in their roles.
The supporting cast members also give terrific performances in this
film. The supporting cast members include Giancarlo Esposito, Samuel L.
Jackson, Bill Nunn and Spike Lee. Spike Lee gives these characters
enough personality to keep this movie entertaining. Each member adds
enough color commentary to the film making this a joyous event from
beginning to end. Add this movie to your video collection if you
haven't already.
<|_=00=_|>
I was surprised how much I responded to this movie. I have worked as a
jazz trumpet player, and I thought Spike Lee's presentation of the
darker side of jazz was brilliant. I myself have had to address many of
the problems faced by Denzel Washington's character in this movie, and
I think it should be required viewing for aspiring jazz musicians. Why?
Not because of the entertainment value, but because of the Truth value
(with a capital "T".) Jazz Musicians are artists at the heart, and any
good jazz musician has to deal with the necessary tension between the
somewhat egotistical act of creating one's art, and the cold realities
and consequences of sharing it with an audience. Denzel Washington did
a good job of portraying the conflict between his character's
narcissism and his relationships. Admittedly selfish, his character is
eventually transformed in a powerful and realistic way. Reminiscent of
William Blake's Songs of Innocence and Songs of Experience, Spike Lee
has contributed to the popular lore and also to human understanding
with this work. (And he also is a good actor!) To me the unique camera
angles and choice of sets served to amplify the message of this movie,
which transcends race. While I would have preferred a different ending,
and I hated to watch the violence, I am forced to acknowledge the
realism in the way this movie ends in a positive way. I believe I am a
better person for having watched this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
In Spike Lee's fourth film, Denzel Washington proves early in his
career that he is capable of being funny and romantic in a more modest
film than Glory or Cry Freedom, the music is breezy and romantic and
consistent, jazzy and colorful cinematography, and another
characteristic Spike Lee touch, which is his gift for drawing from his
actors stunningly realistic performances. In some ensemble scenes, the
dialogue seems like improvisation. Maybe it is.

Mo' Better Blues is a good, steady, effective drama, a portrait of a
complex and overwrought musician and the indecision and jealousy that
gradually eat away at his life, but it lacks the passion and brazen
provocative nature of nearly all of Spike Lee's other films.

The cast, once again, is brilliant. Denzel is very very very authentic,
faithful, graphic, and lifelike. My brother is a jazz musician and I've
met several of his fellow musicians. I'm seasoned when it comes to jazz
musicians. Take my word for it, Denzel's performance is entirely true.
Snipes is brilliantly, swaggeringly audacious. Joie Lee comprehensively
draws our sympathy towards her sensitive, self-conscious character and
away from the elegant and subtly compelling Cynda Williams. Spike Lee
himself is one of the most compelling characters. Samuel L. Jackson
entertains in one of his millions and billions of early bit roles.

If I were to say, "I'm in the mood for a Spike Lee joint," this would
not be one of the first films I pick, but it's different and
enthralling. I mean, it's directed by Spike Lee, so how can it not be?
