
If longtime fans of the "Friday the 13th" saga have anything to say
about it, the people behind this film will burn in the same place as
its hockey-masked star. "Jason Goes to Hell: The Final Friday" is
completely preposterous, out of place and an affront to what had been a
dependable horror series.

Admittedly, director and co-writer Adam Marcus deserves credit for his
boldness. He seemed inexplicably convinced that the wheel of the
"Friday" series needed to be drastically reinvented, even though fans
had lined up for basically the same plot eight times prior. But the
brainwave of having Jason possessing one body after another alters the
very fabric of what made these films good. Suddenly it's like we're
watching an "Invasion of the Body Snatchers" rip-off. Throw in Jason's
newfound grunting, a far-too-heavy plot and a magical dagger (!) and
you have something completely unworthy of the "Friday" moniker.

"Jason goes to Hell" is also incredibly lazy. All "Friday" films, by
their very nature, require a leap of faith, but this is really too
much. Firstly, this marked the first time that no explanation was given
for Mr. Voorhees' reemergence. Were we all dreaming when we watched him
get melted down to goo in the sewers of New York City? And what about
Jason's rebirth toward the end (the most ridiculous moment of any
"Friday" film)? How can a little slimy demon be reborn into a man
already wearing ripped clothing and a hockey mask? And what about
bounty hunter Creighton Duke? It's never explained how he knows so much
about Jason and the mythical circumstances surrounding his life. In
each of these instances, there seemingly are no easy answers. So rather
than be inventive, the writers just threw all of this at us and hoped
we would lap it up like thirsty kittens at a milk dish. This sequel
completely ignores the continuity of the Jason legend that had been
meticulously built up over the years.

What's equally tragic about "Jason goes to Hell" is its insistence on
mocking the series. At one point, John D. LeMay's character
sarcastically asks a trio of teens headed for Camp Crystal Lake whether
they plan to smoke dope, engage in premarital sex and then get
slaughtered. Har har. The transformation of Jason into some kind of
media star is just as unnerving. Jason is a legend, a mythical figure
whispered about in wildly imaginative campfire stories. Yet this movie
turns him into a serial killer so well known he makes the TV tabloids
and is targeted by the FBI. This is not the Jason we know, and "Jason
goes to Hell" is not the "Friday the 13th" we love. It essentially
breaks the fingers of the hand that feeds it.

The failure of "Jason goes to Hell," both in terms of concept and box
office revenue, inevitably draws comparisons to the much-panned "Friday
the 13th Part V: A New Beginning." That film drew plenty of boos for
its Jason-less gimmick, but at least it had the feel of a "Friday"
flick. "Jason goes to Hell" is substantially worse than any other
entry, mainly because it is completely unrecognizable. Like "Part V,"
it probably would have worked better as a horror film independent of
the Jason saga, rather than dragging Mr. Voorhees into a place he has
no business being.

Clearly, Adam Marcus was wrong. The "Friday the 13th" wheel did not
need reinventing. The failure of this film (and "Jason X" years later)
shows that fans want a return to simpler times when horny teens in
cabins were afraid to look out their windows. As the saying goes, if it
ain't broke, don't fix it.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's understand two things about slasher horror from the 1980's: first
of all, they had a legacy of saturating their own market, and secondly,
they were simple stories born out of the twilight of an ever changing
world.

With this in mind, it would be easy to point out what is wrong with
Jason Goes to Hell: The Final Friday- however for the sake of time, it
might just as well be easier to point to what's right about it. The
answer to that is: NOTHING! All you ever wanted to know about Jason is
revealed, and once you know the dark secret, it will haunt you- except
for a small matter of cosmetics, the "dark secret" is the same as the
lemon revealed a short time earlier in New Line's bad "finale" to the
Nightmare movies. Of course, the only nightmare about that film was
having to admit that you paid to watch it- it is much the same with
this piece of total garbage.

Jason, it would seem, is not merely a specter capable of regeneration
with a great rage at those who he feels are responsible for both his
own and his mother's demise. Oh no, the dark secret is that if you can
find someone who shares his father's blood line (cause lets face it,
his mother was not born a Voorhees), then you can see Jason finally put
to death, or you can see him re-born. Guess what happens here.

Except the rebirth is anti-climatic because he is nothing more than the
same twisted mass of flesh that he was before he was blown apart by
bombs and bullets at the beginning of the movie. And apparently
genetics has a preference for certain types of clothing, and a certain
mask because he is reborn with both.

In one laughable sequence, you would be forgiven for thinking "Jason"
(or as I'd like to refer to him as...the Imposter) being reborn meant
the world would end, however a mere 10 minutes or so after he was
"reborn," he is also summarily killed again with an ancient dagger (who
were the camp counselors who ignored Jason as he died...some ancient
Sumarian or Egyptian people or something? What's with the dagger that
must be used? Why does it look like an artifact) supplied to his niece
(oh, this is a long story, and is too tedious and boring to go through
right now) who finds the Linda Hamilton in her to terminate the
'terminator.' You'll be in for your just desserts if you think this
repulsive piece of junk is worth even five minutes of your time. Of
course, there is plenty of blood and gore (as the Friday films always
seem to have), and there is also plenty to gross you out- but if you
think or feel anything towards the horror icon that made these films
successful, you ought to take a pass on this one.

Even the soundtrack is awful!
<|_=00=_|>

The ways of bringing Jason back just get crazier by the sequel, but this is
the absolute craziest.  Crazy is too light a word; ludicrous is more like
it.  The opening sequence is really cool.  A woman's taking a bath, she
flees from Jason, he chases her through the woods and BAM!!!  Beams of light
surround him.  That's when we find out she's really an agent and a SWAT team
jumps down and shoots him to bits.  Now, Jason's body has literally fallen
apart.  Ain't nothing we can now, right?  

Jason is taken to the coroner's office, the coroner gives him an autopsy and
suddenly Jason's heart starts beating.  Then, out of the freakin' blue, the
coroner grabs the heart and devours it like a sandwich!  Then supposedly,
Jason's soul enters his body and every time he looks in the mirror, he sees
Jason's reflection.  Now, once we got to the heart-devouring scene, I was
ready to puke--not because it's disgusting, but because of how idiotic it
is.

Now, this isn't a terrible movie, but it's only watchable on an
entertainment level.  The story just gets dumber by the minute.  Hell, the
previous Jason sequels weren't heavy on logic, but they allowed the audience
to suspend a fair deal of disbelief.  Besides, it sucks that we hardly get
to see Jason--mask and all--throughout the movie.  

"Jason Goes to Hell" also lacks a certain charm that the other movies had. 
I'm guessing this was made on a higher budget and the director and producers
were actually trying to accomplish things that weren't accomplished in the
previous movies.  But this is no more than B-horror trying to disguise
itself as A-horror.  There's only one cool death scene that will stick in my
mind and that's when the girl is in the tent having sex, she goes on top and
her body is sliced in half by Jason.  Not to sound like a sadist, but that
was freakin' awesome!  

My score:  5 (out of 10)   
<|_=00=_|>
Not actually killed in Manhattan (surprise, surprise), Jason is still
at it until an undercover FBI agent (Julie Michaels, who makes time to
take a shower) tricks him into an ambush where he's blown to pieces. If
you think being head and limbless will stop Mr. Voorhees from returning
to his murderous ways, think again. Now we learn that he can be
"reborn" through a blood relative and can possess victims by sending an
evil black monster into their bodies (idea stolen from THE HIDDEN).

In a touching tribute to the good ol' days of simplicity,
overage-looking "teens" make time for skinny-dipping and tent sex
before Jason splits the girl in half with a tent stake. This ninth
installment in the endless Friday THE 13TH series features a good cast,
but is derivative, annoying, unpleasant and not likely to be the final
word in the Jason saga, despite ANOTHER cheat title (remember "The
Final Chapter" way back in 1984?).

It played theaters in a cut R version (where it flopped), but the
unrated "Director's Cut" video and DVD version restores most of the
excellent KNB Group gore effects and some nudity, redeeming factors in
a low-grade production like this. Kane Hodder (in his third appearance
as Jason) also gets a credit for stunts.
<|_=00=_|>
I was so excited when the beginning of this film was before my eyes.
The music, the darkness, the atmosphere. The beginning of this movie
starts off just like the first four. It was tense and it had the exact
feel of what we all loved about the early Fridays. The chase, the
unnecessary nudity, the false scares, the mirror, and finally Jason in
all of his gory splendor coming back one more time to wreak havoc on
Crystal Lake. But then suddenly, he is blown up. He is dead, for real
this time. I mean he is not like the T-1000 from Terminator that can
put himself back together. So how does the movie go on from here? Well
to be honest, if the film would have ended after the first ten minutes,
I would have been more satisfied than I was at the end of this film.
Simply put, I was cheated. I was enticed with what seemed to be a
perfect Friday the 13th feel and then they went back to what made the
last few suck so bad. What the hell were they thinking? Why the blatant
disregard for us as horror fans? And why did they start off so well and
then just kill us when Jason dies? By having his spirit enter into the
body of some other people, it is a theme that has been done before. And
to have the talent to make the Friday feel, and then deviate from that
feel, well that is just despicable.

For those of us that really like the films from the early 80's, we were
teased. We were lied to and for that I am still mad to this day. And to
be honest, when I found out that New Line had decided to produce the
films instead of Paramount, I knew that some how, some way, there would
be some Freddy reference in it. And besides the beginning, that was
actually the best part. Now if they only find a way to make the next
film somewhat entertaining, then it could be fun again. But judging by
how bad they butchered this one, don't hold your breath.

Steve and Sean should be ashamed of themselves.
<|_=00=_|>
With over 100 bullets in him, and burns over 65% of his body, Jason
still can't be stopped.

He occupies the body of he coroner (Ricahard Gant) and goes back to
Crystal Lake to resume killing, and to find his sister to give him new
life.

This is certainly a strange one, with Jason occupying bodies as he
needs to, and a trip to the Vorhees home to find out about his past.

At least I recognized one person in this film. Leslie Jordan was funny
until he got fried.

Things really start to get bizarre, but you have to admit the ending is
really cool.
<|_=00=_|>
*May contain spoilers! (Not that I am spoiling much)

This had to be the worst Friday the 13th movie to date, and lets face
it there weren't that many great ones. The huge problem with this is
what the heck happened. The last time we saw Jason he was in Manhattan
and he was somehow turned back into a kid, in this movie he is again a
walking corpse. I can live with that, but then he gets blown up, they
made it look so easy, they should have done that from the start. Now
though it gets strange as Jason becomes something from like the movie
alien or all those body snatcher movies. At this point I am wondering
"didn't I pay to see Jason hack up people directly?". Then comes the
startling revelation that Jason has a sister! What! Get Real!!! There
is no way the woman in the first one had a daughter before or after
Jason (or before or after her head was chopped off for that matter). If
she had a daughter she would have had someone to fall back on and
Jason's death wouldn't have pushed her over the edge (most mothers like
their daughters more anyway). In the end Jason is killed by another
relative, because apparently a relative is the only one who can kill
him (how did they come up with that) and the movie thankfully ends.
<|_=00=_|>
Jason Goes to Hell: The Final Friday is (supposedly) the last Friday
the 13th chapter... FBI agents hunt down and destroy Jason at Crystal
Lake - but Jason has the ability to possess other people's bodies and
continues his bloodbath.

I don't think this would be a favourite of the fans - it is quite
corny, Jason doesn't feature a lot in the movie... but I think the
movie half-way through takes a turn for the better. Instead of being
another mindless slasher - the movie goes all John Woo with some cool
gun fights and slow motion camera. It was like the director had watched
a couple of John Woo films for the first time half-way through shooting
the movie and decides... "it would be cool to use this stuff in this
movie"!

The "Invasion of the Body Snatcher" plot doesn't work - but I think the
stylish gun battles redeem this film somewhat. Sort of recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
If there's one thing that can and should be said in defense of "Jason
Goes to Hell: The Final Friday", it's this...

...this is one bold, gutsy move for the franchise! Completely
subversive and joyously disparate when placed in comparison to the
previous eight films. A bizarre, red-headed-stepchild with a strange
and sharp leaning towards the overly fantastical and blatantly magical.
Taking what had been to that point an increasingly repetitious series,
and attempting to inject some fresh blood for what was at the time
considered to be the one... last... film to cap it all off.

Is is a success? Well, I'd say for the most part, fans do consider it a
failure because it strayed so much from the formula in trying to
establish a grandiose finale. And I think I would probably consider it
to be a bit of a failure for that very same reason. But it's definitely
a fascinating and daring failure. One that I can get behind. Especially
after the increasing monotony of the previous two films. 

Sue me, but I'll take an interesting failure that attempts to shake up
the formula over a bland retread any day of the week!

Jason Voorhees has finally been killed. After an FBI Sting Operation
blows his body to smithereens, the town of Crystal Lake is finally able
to settle down, knowing the figment that has haunted them for so many
years is finally gone.

Or is he?

Nope! As it turns out, Jason has become something more than human, and
his evil has given him the ability to possess others through some sort
of relatively-unexplained magical means. Now, Jason is coming back to
seek vengeance, taking the forms of various characters through
body-swapping, intent on locating surviving members of the family, so
that he may be reborn again through them in his original form. Now, his
only living relative (Kari Keegan), her ex (John D. LeMay) and a bounty
hunter who knows the truth about Jason (Steven Williams) must team up
to stop him once and for all!

Look, this movie's ridiculous. It's completely out of left-field. It
doesn't really connect properly with the previous films. Its storyline
is just bizarre. And it's a completely different beast tonally from any
of the other flicks...

...but it's a lot of fun!

Director Adam Marcus and writers Jay Huguely and Dean Lorey seem to
have a ton of ideas on how to exploit this ridiculous concept, and are
given free reign to just go crazy. There's a little something for
everyone here. From a touch of the self-aware laughs that made "Jason
Lives" so enjoyable, to some wild and whacked-out imagery (you won't
look at a straight-razor the same way again!) to some good
old-fashioned kills that harken back to the first couple of movies,
this film aims to deliver a roller-coaster ride from Hell... and it
does deliver on that promise.

Add to that some likable performances, fun and inventive kinetic
camera-work that knows how to make the best of it's lowish budget,
weirdly entertaining humor and plenty of gore to go around... and it
produces a film that I find to be a decent bit of dumb-fun.

This movie is stupid. Beyond belief. And it doesn't feel anything like
the previous eight outtings. But I'm OK with that. It's got a lot of
insane-o concepts and ideas to play with, it knows exactly what it
wants to be, and it's got some fiendishly creative minds at it's helm. 

It's a failure... but an entertaining and wildly ambitious failure that
I can't help but root for.

So I'm giving it a middle of the road 5 out of 10. If you're a fan of
the franchise and are open minded, give it a shot. You might be one of
the proud few who really enjoys this off-the-rails nutcase- of-a-
flick.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, where do we begin? Jason Voorhees is alive and back at Crystal
Lake, without explaining how he returned from New York. During the
first five minutes, he's blown up and we don't see 'Jason' again till
the last ten minutes of the movie. Jason randomly has a sister now who
needs to die because it's revealed that the only way to kill Jason for
good is that a Voorhees can do it. Steven Williams as Creighton Duke is
definitely one of the most interesting and intriguing characters of the
whole series. Not much is known about him, but he's a bounty hunter
that's had a run-in with Jason before. He knows how to kill Jason for
all time.

After Jason Voorhees is blown to bits, his black gooey heart is eaten
by the mortician that's performing the autopsy. Jason's spirit soon
possesses the body and continues his murder spree. 

We soon meet Steven Freeman, a man who is the father to Jason's Great
Niece. Steven must protect her and his girlfriend from Jason and send
him back to Hell. Throughout the movie, Jason switches from body to
body and it all leads up to a final confrontation at the Voorhees
house. The Necronomicon from 'Evil Dead' makes a cameo. (Perhaps Pamela
Voorhees used it to try and bring Jason back to life) The ending is a
great prelude and tie-in to Freddy Vs. Jason, a movie that was years in
the making. If you love Friday the 13th and crazy bizarre plots, you'll
love JASON GOES TO HELL: THE FINAL Friday!!!
