

Austin Powers is one of those movies that has become MORE popular as time
wears on. Austin's slang has worked its way into the lexicon and everything
from the redhot video to the Austin Powers Penis Enlarger is on sale and
raking in meeeeeelions. When news of a sequel hit the streets, fans
freaked.
It's safe to say that AP2 is rivaled only by The Phantom Menace as 1999's
must see.

The wait is over.

The second-most anticipated movie of 1999 finally comes to theaters. We're
ecstatic to report that AP is a friggin' laugh riot, as Myers and crew have
strung together another brilliant collection of one-liners and over the
top,
sometimes horribly disgusting, sight gags. The follow-up to 1997's video
hit
has Austin heading back to the 60s to track down his mojo, stolen by one of
Dr. Evil's comically evil hapless henchmen. What's mojo? A multi-colored,
stringy looking mess that makes Austin irresistible to the ladies. But the
plot isn't so important. This is the Austin you know and love, only this
time he's even more raw and hardcore.

It's clear that Myers was given a much larger budget to bring his vision to
the screen after the runaway success of Austin Powers on video. The sets in
Spy are much more vibrant and huge, the effects (yes, effects) are
top-notch, and the pacing is completely nonstop. I had a perma-grin stuck
on
my face through the whole thing and will need to see it again just because
the audience drowned out some lines with laughter.

Here Kitty Kitty Kitty
Spy picks up with Austin taking a trip in a time machine back to the
smashing 60s where, as we all know, he is a sexual dynamo. The time travel
bits can get confusing, but as Basil Exposition of British Intelligence
says, "Just sit back and enjoy yourself." Back in the 60s, Austin quickly
draws the attention of his nemesis Dr. Evil. The hilarity begins as a
patchwork parade of moronic henchmen attempt to wipe out
Austin.

Still, the best reason to shell out your cash is that AP2 is clearly Dr.
Evil's movie. If he's your favorite, you're in luck. Most important, we see
him get some.

The film does lean a bit too heavily on gags from the first flick and some
of the "Yeah, baby" schtick grows old fast. (When your Mammy starts saying
"Yeah, baby," it's clearly tired, right?) Still, fans of the original will
feel right at home with the budget destructo devices, the horrid teeth, and
the clumsy bumblings of Austin himself. In a summer full of high concepts
and big budget, AP2 is just the ticket.


<|_=00=_|>
I believe that the general consensus is that the first Austin Powers
movie is the best of the bunch. I happen to disagree (as you can
probably tell from my one-line-summary). I feel that the second film
actually improves on the first film by adding a few new characters and
generally cutting loose on the humor making it even more bizarre and
funny than in the first film. I don't expect people to agree but at
least hear me out as to why I think the second film is better.

As I said a few new characters have been added to the roster and we get
to see some older characters in new and exiting ways. The best addition
to the character rooster is Mini-Me, Doctor Evil's clone, played
brilliantly by Verne Troyer. Not only is he hilariously funny but he
also brings out a different side to Doctor Evil which I found to be
extremely funny. On a related note I found Doctor Evil to be much more
interesting as a character in the second film than in the first.
Probably because the Austin character had to be established in the
first film. Second there is the addition of Fat Bastard, played by
Myers himself. A lot of people have responded negatively to Fat Bastard
but I found him quite funny in a very weird way. Mike Myers definitely
took a step up the weird ladder when he came up with him. Elizabeth
Hurley is written out of the script very early in the film and instead
Heather Graham is introduced as Felicity Shagwell. Heather Graham is
not as strong as Hurley was as Austin's love interest but she remains
nice as eye-candy and what can you expect more than that. Seth Green
pretty much reprises his role from the first film. Nothing much to come
after there. The supporting cast is pretty much the same as in the
first film except this time we get to see Number Two in a young version
played by Rob Lowe who does an uncanny imitation of Robert Wagner.
Mindy Sterling and Michael York returns in their respective parts as
well. There are also quite a few cameos in the film. Including Tim
Robbins, Woody Harrelson, Rebecca Romijn-Stamos and many more.

The film still spoofs Bond obviously and the title in itself is of
course a reference to The Spy Who Loved Me and once again I find that
no-one does it better than Myers. After the success of the first I
think they gave Myers free reigns because a lot of the stuff in this
film is pretty far out. An example could be the hilarious fight between
Austin and Mini-Me and an equally funny scene in a tent. I won't reveal
any more than that. Another thing is that the overall effects seem much
more polished this time around which is probably also caused by the
success of the previous film.

The story is pretty much non-existent which I found to be an
improvement over the previous film which actually attempted to
incorporate a story rather than just be all out fun.

All in all I think it is a matter of taste. Either you prefer the first
or you prefer the second but you should definitely give this film a try
just for the heck of it.

All in all 

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I know it sounds silly, but I just think this is one of the funniest
movies I had ever seen. Maybe I was just in a good mood or something,
but I was a little surprised by the rating of just 6.5 because I knew a
lot of people who enjoyed the movie as well as I did.

We have Austin Powers and he's back and funnier and nakeder than ever!
Despite some recycled jokes, they still get a laugh when he's walking
through the hotel butt naked and only certain objects cover him. When
Dr. Evil escapes the giant dummy in space and heads back to Earth,
Austin alone must go on his mission alone since we find out Venessa was
a fembot. We have a new addition to the family with a miniature replica
that is 1/8 the size of Dr. Evil he calls "Mini Me". Mini Me is just so
cute and he wants to kill Scott. Scott and Mini Me just steal the movie
from this point on. Dr.Evil decides to go back into the 60's and take
over the world by aiming a "lazer" at the moon.

Austin must now go back in time back to the 60's and finds his sexy
assistant, Felicity played by a very beautiful but pretty bad actress
Heather Grahm. Together they must find and fight Dr. Evil before he
makes over a trillion... oops! I mean a billion dollars! There is
another addition of a villain, Fat Bastard, despite most of his gross
jokes, you except him into the Austin family.

Like I said, there are recycled jokes, but that doesn't keep you from
laughing and having a good time. Just let go and learn to have fun with
the movie. Come on, you have got to admit that #2's death was just
great and so funny! Let's get the rating up, it deserves better than a
6.5! I think Austin fans will enjoy this shagadelic movie! 

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

The Spy who Shagged Me - not a title you'd expect to garner much
respect, but this movie does okay. With Austin Powers 2 we see the
arrival of such characters as Mini-Me and Fat Bastard, who inevitably
help steer the sequel way from completely recycling every joke used in
the first film. However, there is still that overlap, so a lot of the
humor comes off a bit stale and tacky. There is virtually no end to the
plot holes, inconsistencies, and various irregularities, but that is
often a big part of the humor of the Austin Powers movies - making
direct fun of the spy genre, as well as themselves.

And, on a personal note, Heather Graham is by far more attractive than
Liz Hurley, and she flaunts it with great respect for us, the juvenile
minded male audience. Overall, I'd consider this sequel about on par
with the original, not in any specific details, but in all-around
entertainment value.

<|_=00=_|>
The follow-up to 1997's Austin Powers:International Man of Mystery was
probably not a certainty form the get-go:if I recall correctly,the
first Austin Powers was NOT the smashing success of a box-office film
that many involved initially imagined,and had it not been for a strong
reaction from video and DVD renters,the franchise may've stopped at
one. Since I happened to enjoy the first one(saw it on video BTW),I can
honestly say that while the sequels seemed to have depreciating
value,I'm still glad that Myers and company went ahead with the
follow-ups.

Now acclimated to the '90s,Austin(Myers,who else?)is about to settle
into wedded bliss when he's attacked in his honeymoon suite by a legion
of Fembots,given marching orders by a refugeed Dr.Evil(Myers,see
previous ref). It seems that Evil's back trying to destroy the free
world,this time with the aid of a time machine of his own making. Of
course,the British secret service ALSO has a time machine(of
course),and Austin races through time to stop Evil's plans,this time
with the help of one Felicity Shagwell(Heather
Graham,beautiful,sexy,game,and yet somehow out of her element here),an
American NOC agent from the year 1969. 

A whole series,moving almost in waves,of sight-gags,verbal plays and
yet more homages to Bond and Bond-type movies of the '60s,basically
keeps the continuity of the original going seamlessly. Much of the cast
from the last movie-- particularly Robert Wagner as the chief
Hench,Seth Green as sullen son Scott Evil,Mindy Sterling as Frau
FArbissima,Michael York as Basil Exposition and Will Ferrell as Mustafa
the Assassin(who must be asked the same question THREE times in order
to get information. One of my favorite gags from the movie)--are
back,supplemented by Rob Lowe as the younger Number Two,Verne Troyer as
Evil's identical clone,one-tenth his size and Myers again as Fat
Bastard,a Scotish assassin with a violent temper who weighs a metric
ton(I think I'm paraphrasing there),among others. Cameos by(among
others) Burt Bacharach(as from the previous film)and Elvis Costello are
added to give the film it's small slice of romanticism. Jay Roach
returns to direct this one,and he,as usual,is near transparent in
allowing Myers(not only star and co-producer but also screenwriter)to
pretty much take this film as high,low,far,close,loud,soft and whatever
as he fancies. While the original's flavor seems to be getting steadily
diluted by the "franchise effect" of sequels(in other words,the effect
that kind of makes a movie more of a "product" than a piece of
entertainment),it still has the same sass,cheeky humor and fun to keep
it quite enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>

POSSIBLE SPOILERS

The Spy Who Shagged Me is a muchly overrated and over-hyped sequel.
International Man of Mystery came straight out of the blue. It was a lone
star that few people had heard of. But it was stunningly original, had
sophisticated humour and ample humour, always kept in good taste, and had
a
brilliant cast. The Spy Who Shagged Me was a lot more commercially
advertised and hyped about.

OK I'll admit, the first time I saw this film I thought it was very funny,
but it's only after watching it two or three times that you see all the
flaws. The acting was OK, but Heather Graham cannot act. Her performance
didn't seem very convincing and she wasn't near as good as Liz Hurley was
in
the first one. Those characters who bloomed in the first one, (Scott Evil,
Number 2 etc.) are thrown into the background hear and don't get many
stand-alone scenes. The film is simply overrun with cameos.

In particular, I hated the way they totally disregarded some of the scenes
in IMOM. When they killed off Vanessa at the start and had Basil sat that
he
knew she was a fembot all along. What was the point of that? They killed
off
Number 2 in the first one, and now they bring him back with no explanation
whatsoever. This is supposed to be a spy-spoof, I don't think any of the
characters even hold a gun in the film. It just goes on a trail, further
and
further away from the point.

The new characters are very unwelcome. The whole Mini-Me `make fun of my
size' joke gets old very quickly. Fat Bastard is just a lame excuse for
gross-out humour. In total there's about two or three good jokes. The rest
are either tasteless or rehashed from IMOM.

If this were the first movie of the series then I'd probably be easier on
it. But the series started on a note of dry wit and then plummeted down to
a
level of gross out humour. So I say, only watch this film if you haven't
seen its predecessor, because The Spy Who Shagged Me is one ultimate
disappointment.

<|_=00=_|>

Hilarious return to the international man of mystery
with this non stop laugh ride of a film with Myers
doing it again as Austin, Dr. Evil and a new
character named Fat Bastard. There are many funny
moments in the film especially the Scott/Dr. Evil episode
of
Jerry Springer and the emergence of Mini-Me, perfectly
played by Verne Troyer. The laughs are constant. You'll
laugh so hard, you'll have a headache when you leave
the theater. 
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is devoid of value. Just a lot of disgusting, vile scenes in
a deplorable attempt at being funny. The "humor" is sickening.
Everyone, except the people who profited, would be better off had this
movie not been made.

If this is the best director Jay Roach can do then he needs to finds
himself another occupation.

I bought the DVD because Heather Graham is in the movie. But her acting
talents are wasted. I'm going to dump this movie as fast as I can find
a buyer. It's not worth buying, renting, owning or watching.

A waste of Mike Myers talents too. Any of Heather Graham's other movies
will provide more entertainment than this foul piece of film making.
<|_=00=_|>
It's surprising to think that the first Austin Powers movie
underwhelmed at the box office back in 1997, only picking up a cult
following after its VHS release, and soon enough you couldn't escape
the sound of someone yelling "yeah, baby!" every 5 minutes. By the time
it's sequel hit the cinema screens, the character, along with the
super-spy's arch-nemesis Dr. Evil, had garnered a huge mainstream
following, and the movie was a big hit. Yet the film, subtitled The Spy
Who Shagged Me, suffers from the same problems as most comedy sequels,
which is basically to re-tread the same successful jokes from the first
movie, and forgetting what made the original so fresh and charming.

Powers (Mike Myers) is a randy, free-love type-of-guy from the 60's.
When he was re-awoken from his cryogenic state in the 90's, his out-
of-date attitudes put him at odds with a society that had grown more
stiff-upper-lipped. Crowds of screaming girls would no longer chase him
down the street a la A Hard Day's Night (1964) and sexy girls wouldn't
be willing to bed him at the drop of a hat. When Dr. Evil (also Myers)
arrives back to Earth with a plan to steal Powers' mojo, the characters
find themselves time-travelling again back to the 60's, where gorgeous
super-agent Felicity Shagwell (Heather Graham) is ready and willing,
but Powers lack the mojo to do anything about it. Most of what made the
first movie so successful was that Powers was a man out of time, so by
placing him back into his natural surroundings, the opportunity to
create funny set- piece's are few and far between.

The dentally-challenged Brit is instead lumped with a dull romance with
Shagwell, which is a carbon-copy of the relationship between Powers and
Vanessa Kensington (Elizabeth Hurley), only with the roles reversed. In
fact, Powers seems to play second-fiddle to Dr. Evil, whose
ridiculously outlandish plots and newly-created sidekick Mini-Me (Verne
Troyer) annoy his estranged son Scott Evil (Seth Green) and provide the
majority of the film's laughs. An early scene where Evil appears on
Jerry Springer with his son is hilarious, and the film is at its most
inspired when the focus is on the bad guys. The Spy Who Shagged Me is
also more gross-out than it's predecessor, continuing a trend set by
There's Something About Mary (1998) and re-establishment of the teen
sex comedy set by American Pie (1999), so Myers introduces a vile
character called Fat Bastard who speaks with a Scottish accent and is
permanently covered with chicken bits, whose scenes tend to induce more
cringes than laughs. It's funny enough to justify its third instalment,
but it lacks the satire, sweetness and freshness of the original.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is best known for introducing Mini-Me, Dr. Evil's pint-sized
clone, to the world, and afterword launched a thousand pop culture
references, which also included an incessant barrage of Austin Powers
and Dr. Evil impersonations of wildly varying quality both on
television and in everyday conversation with one's friends and
acquaintances. After the mediocre "Goldmember" installment had left the
theaters, Austinmania thankfully died down, and hopefully we've heard
our last "Groovy, baby!" for a long time. It was a catchphrase more
annoying than "show me the money!" Anyway, with all that said, is
"Austin Powers II" really worth all of the extreme amount of hype and
imitation it produced? 

Mike Myers has an unenviable job of playing three important roles at
the same time. He proved he is a master of performing bizarre and
hilarious characters during his tenure on the skit comedy show
"Saturday Night Live". The problem is his wacky, off-the-wall
characters do not hold up well for a feature-length movie. Asutin
Powers, the character, is a rather odd parody of James Bond, a hybrid
of Bond, a "Swingin' Sixties" Mod hipster, and Maxwell Smart (in his
goofy ineptness). Powers' catchphrases and jokes wear out their welcome
very quickly, as does the sexual humor and sight gags involving Powers
(which also proliferated the first movie). These gags and catchphrases,
as well as Power's playboy persona, bore rather than entertain. The
writers run the gags into the ground, and insult the audience's
intelligence with the assumption that a crude sex gag done millions of
times will always be funny. They are trite and unoriginal, and are the
movie's greatest hindrance. The Austin character, in spite of his
fiery, lustful mannerisms, is the blandest of the three characters
Myers performs. He just rams this trite stock character into the
ground.

Dr. Evil, on the other hand, is eccentric, silly, and over-the-top evil
enough never to wear out his welcome. Like any comic character,
bizarre, childlike and surreal characterizations are always more fun to
watch than trite parodies of stock characters who rely on shock humor
and boring catchphrases. Rather than do a straight parody of a maniacal
supervillain, Myers makes Dr. Evil a very original and odd villain by
making him as goofy and strange as possible. Evil's idiosyncrasies are
what make him the star of the movie. The Dr. Evil moments are the
funniest. Of the three characters, Evil is Myers's best.

Dr. Evil's fat Scottish henchman (whose name cannot be mentioned
because it is an obscenity) is simply a framework on which to tack on
crude shock humor and fat jokes, which grow boring really quickly and
insult the viewer's intelligence. Amplified grossness does not equal
amplified humor, which is a lesson the filmmakers of the Austin Powers
series do not take in stride. The Scotsman does have his humorous
moments, such as his hilarious "Sexy Man" song to Felicity during an
awkward scene, but mostly his goofy charm is lost in a scene of
pre-programmed flatulence recordings and pastel-colored pig slop. He is
the least interesting of Myers's characters.

Some will apparently compare Mike Myers's triple performance to Peter
Sellers's roles in "Dr. Strangelove." There is no comparison. Sellers
was a master actor who brilliantly channeled his oddball characters in
a dark, subdued and intelligent dark comedy with little, if any, toilet
humor. Myers's strengths are performing goofy characters in ten minute
skits; beyond that, he pushes his talents to their utmost limits. He
performs wildly off-the-wall weirdos in a flashy, expensive, glossy
parody filled to the brim with toilet humor. His efforts are uneven at
best.

And what of Mini-Me, the unsung, unknown legendary Verne Troyer? He
does well as the mute, yet ravenous Dr. Evil clone, but chose to make
Mini-Me a diabolical, sadistic henchman rather than a smaller version
of Dr. Evil. He is very funny in this role, and is, after Myers, the
star of this movie. He holds his own in this role, but I think the fame
of the Mini-Me character far outshines anything in this otherwise fair
comedy. It's not a classic of the genre, but it is an excellent example
of hype and publicity gone amok to the point where pop culture icon
status is given to something that doesn't really deserve it.
