
A League of their Own, another classic movie that I grew up with. I
have to admit it, I'm a girl, I totally fell in love with this movie.
But I'm one of the rare girls that loves baseball with a passion, I was
raised in a very baseball oriented family, we live in Chicago, we kinda
have to enjoy sports, lol. But growing up you wonder why baseball,
football, basketball are more for the boys vs. the girls, girls can
play but are not famous for it and if they are an athlete are accused
of being manly. It's a tough world, but when I was 7 years old A League
of their Own was released in theaters, my family saw this movie
together and my life changed. Sounds silly, but this was the movie that
reminded me to stay strong, at the time when women were expected to
stay in the kitchen, as hard as they had to work for it, there was a
women's baseball league during WWII. A League of their Own explores
this hard but extremely fun time for the girls of the All American
Baseball League.

When World War II threatens to shut down Major League Baseball, candy
manufacturing magnate Walter Harvey decides to create a women's league
to make money. Ira Lowenstein is put in charge of public relations and
scout Ernie Capadino is sent out to recruit players. Capadino likes
what he sees in catcher Dottie Hinson. She's a terrific hitter and he
offers her a tryout, but the married woman is content where she is,
working in a dairy and on the family farm in Oregon while her husband
is away at war. He's less impressed with her younger sister, pitcher
Kit Keller, who loves the game passionately but appears to be less
talented. He finally lets her come along when she persuades Dottie to
give it a try for her sake. When the trio arrive at the tryouts in
Chicago, they meet Doris and Mae. They make it onto the team, The
Peaches who are managed by drunkard former baseball great Jimmy Dugan.
Jimmy initially treats the whole thing as a joke, leaving the
managerial duties to Dottie. However, he takes over when he sees how
hard and well his team plays. The league attracts little interest at
first. With a Life magazine photographer in attendance, he asks them to
do something spectacular. When a ball is popped up behind home plate,
she catches it while doing splits; the resulting photograph makes the
cover of the magazine. More and more people show up and the league
becomes a huge success.

The acting is absolutely superb, we have actors on top of their game,
Tom Hanks who delivers the memorable "There's no crying in baseball!"
speech. Geena Davis who was a great heroine as the star of the league
who just wants her husband home from the war but is hanging onto the
league for her little sister's sake. Even Madonna and Rosie O'Donnell
are great together and have awesome chemistry as best friends Mae and
Doris. This is one of those chick flicks that everyone has to see
because it worked on every level. Penny Marshall truly brought out the
pain these girls had to go through to be taken seriously. The ending
always gets me in tears I have to admit, just knowing that these girls
hung in there and stayed strong when everyone told them that girls
couldn't play ball, let's hope that one day they'll have the
opportunity again.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut
to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it
at Amazon.)

This movie is about ten times better than it has any right to be
considering how sappy director Penny Marshall could have been tempted
to make it, and how phony is the actual baseball played by the young
women. (More on this below.)

What makes it work are fine performances by Geena Davis as catcher
Dottie Hinson, "the best player in the league," and Lori Petty as her
younger sister, Kit Keller. Geena Davis absolutely looks the part with
her cool confidence and stately figure while Lori Petty is scrappy and
believable as the little sister whose puck and determination set the
stage for a sister-rivalry climax at the end.

Jon Lovitz as Ernie Capadino, the baseball talent scout, is a crackup
as he delivers just about all the best one liners. (Example: he's
watching Dottie and Kit milk the cows and asks, "Doesn't that hurt
them?" Geena shrugs for the city slicker, "They don't seem to mind."
Ernie thinks about it and then says, "Well, it would bruise the heck
out of me," which was doubly funny since he has his anatomy confused.)
But the guy who really holds the whole thing together is Tom Hanks as
one-time home run king Jimmy Dugan, who is now the Rockford Peaches'
alcoholic manager. I have seen Tom Hanks in a number of films, but I
don't think he was ever any better than he is here. His transformation
from a crude, uncaring drunk to the team's hard-nosed but soft-hearted
leader is very well and believably done. And Hanks was never more
charming and seldom funnier.

Just as good as the work of the fine cast is Marshall's clear,
old-fashioned direction. In many ways this film is a throwback to an
earlier time when films set out to warm the hearts of the audience and
uplift their spirits. Sure, there is evil in the world and you can't
win them all, but you can try, is what this film makes us feel, and if
you do, something good will happen. There is of course a somewhat
self-conscious retrospective look at the sorry political and social
state of women sixty years ago, but Marshall does not wallow in the
politics. Instead she emphasizes a fun-to-watch tale with real human
characters. The unpredictable, but believable ending was very
agreeable.

Okay now to some of the problems with the "baseball." Notice that we
first see Kit as a softball pitcher. How she made the transition from
throwing underhanded to being one of the best overhand hardball
throwers in the league in just a few months is...well, doubtful. And
the outfits they wore!

Ever try to slide into second trying to break up the double play
without sliding pads or even jersey pants? I don't think so. The girls
were bare-legged. To Marshall's credit she does show one girl with a
huge strawberry bruise on her thigh. Furthermore for those viewers who
have actually played baseball, the way many of the young women threw
and caught the ball was again, shall we say, doubtful. Marshall
employed as extras some young ladies who could actually play a little
and we see some shots of their style and grace, but the only star who
could even pretend to play at that level would be Rosie O'Donnell.
Madonna has some athletic ability, but to imagine her patrolling center
field and hauling down long drives strains credibility.

Okay, so what? If we put Tom Hanks at bat against even the most
mediocre of Class A pitchers, it would be obvious that he is no home
run king. In fact, I think Penny Marshall did a great job of creating
and maintaining the illusion of Big League skills for the players so
that we were not distracted from the story itself. Skillful editing
helped.

By the way, if they gave Academy Awards for a performance in a role
short of a supporting role but longer than a cameo (and maybe they
should), Megan Cavanagh would have won it for her touching
impersonation of Marla Hooch, a painfully shy and vulnerable, less than
pretty girl from the farm who finds herself as a baseball player in the
city as she steals some guy's heart with an unselfconscious, boozy,
off-key torch song. I also loved the scene where she is rocketing line
drives off the walls and through the windows of the high school
gymnasium.

Note the appearance of David L. Lander as the radio play-by-play guy.
He's best known as the wacky/creepy "Squiggy" Squiggman from the old
Laverne and Shirley TV sit-com. Here he plays it mostly straight but
does get to wear his hat with the bill up as Leo Gorcey did in the East
Side Kids (AKA The Bowery Boys) movies from the early forties.

Bottom line here: Uplifting, fun, and even worth seeing again.
<|_=00=_|>

Like most Englishmen, I know about as much about baseball as the
average American knows about cricket. I am also not a great fan of
sporting films in general, although there are a number of exceptions.
Despite this, however, I generally love baseball films, of which there
were a number of good examples in the late eighties and early nineties.
('Eight Men Out', 'Field of Dreams' and 'The Natural' all spring to
mind). There is something about the sport that seems to lend itself to
the cinema; perhaps British filmmakers should consider making a film
about cricket, as the two sports have a lot in common. 

During the Second World War many of America's male baseball stars were
drafted into the forces, and it appeared that the nation might be
deprived of its favourite sport. An entrepreneur therefore had the idea
of creating an all-female baseball league. 'A League of their Own'
tells the story of some of the women who played in that league. 

At the centre of the drama is the rivalry between two sisters, Dottie
and Kit, who sign for the same team, the Rockford Peaches. The sisters
have contrasting characters. Dottie is the more talented player, but
Kit is more aggressive and determined to succeed. Kit's aggression and
the sibling rivalry between her and Dottie lead to dissension in the
team's dressing room, and Kit is traded to a rival team, the Racine
Belles. The climax of the film comes when Rockford and Racine meet in
the finals of the league championship, with Kit and Dottie on opposite
teams. 

The film has some interesting observations about the social values of
the era in which it is set. During this period there was a conflict
between traditional views of femininity and the need, caused by wartime
conditions, for women to take on what had historically been masculine
roles. Before the war, there had been only very limited opportunities
for women in professional sport; most sports, such as tennis and
athletics, in which women were permitted to compete were strictly
amateur. During the war, they were allowed to take part, but were still
expected to conform to the ideal of being 'ladylike'. In the film,
players are selected as much for their sex appeal as for their talent
(Ernie Capadino, the cynical, sexist talent scout, wants to leave one
player out of the team because he considers her insufficiently
glamorous) and they are required to attend a 'charm school' and to
conform to a strict code of sexual morality. Dottie and Kit can be seen
as representing the two sides of this conflict. For all her talent,
Dottie's heart is not really in professional baseball, and her real
wish is to return to her old life as a housewife as soon as her husband
returns from the war. Kit, on the other hand, is single, and sees the
game as a way of escaping from her previously dull existence. 

Although Geena Davis was quite good as Dottie, the two best
performances came from two actors I had not previously heard of, Jon
Lovitz in the cameo role of Ernie Capadino, and Lori Petty as Kit, who
brought out the fierce determination and will to win of her character.
I am surprised that she has not gone on to become a bigger star than
she has. It was interesting to see Madonna (normally found in starring
roles) in a supporting role as Mae, one of the Peaches who rebels
against the strict moral code.

Tom Hanks stars as Jimmy Dugan, the coach of the Rockford Peaches, in a
role created largely because the filmmakers felt that they needed a big
male star. Dugan was himself a famous baseball player in his time, but
his career was wrecked by his heavy drinking. At the beginning of the
film, Dugan is played as a figure of fun, making blunders such as
urinating in front of the women, but being too drunk to notice or to
care. Later on, Dugan sobers up and develops into a mixture of
inspirational coach and dispenser of homespun philosophy along the
lines of 'There's no crying in baseball'. At neither stage, however,
does the film bring out the genuinely tragic aspects of Dugan's fall
from grace as a great, or potentially great, athlete ruined by
alcoholism. (One can think of modern parallels such as George Best or
Diego Maradona). The actor may be at fault here; during the early part
of his career Hanks always seemed a limited actor, convincing in 'Mr
Nice Guy' roles but unable to portray more unsympathetic characters.
('Bonfire of the Vanities' being another example). 

There were one or two other things about the film that I did not like.
I felt we should have seen more of Kit between her transfer to Racine
and her reappearance in the finals. The opening and closing scenes,
showing a reunion of the surviving players more than forty years later,
did not add much to the story. (They did, however, correct the
misleading impression given in the rest of the film that women's
professional baseball came to an end with the war; in fact, it survived
until 1954). Overall, however, this was an entertaining film, well
worth watching. 7/10.

<|_=00=_|>

I love this film!  Seeing Geena Davis, Lori Petty, Rosie O'Donnell and
Madonna in one film is fantastic.  Having it directed by Penny Marshall
makes it all the better.  After I watched it, for some strange reason I felt
I'd watched an extended episode of "Laverne & Shirley" but this is great for
the comedy!

Tom Hanks was magnificent with all the comic touches that endear him to so
many of us.

The older version of Dottie at the beginning and ending of the story is NOT
Geena Davis made up to look older - neither are any of the other ladies!  An
excellent casting decision was made to have older actresses play these parts
- Lynn Cartright was chosen to play Dottie (Geena Davis) in her late 60's
and she was a dead-ringer for Geena!

Watch for Tea Leoni (as Racine Belles 1st-base player), Eddie Mekka (Carmine
on "Laverne & Shirley" - he dances with Madonna!) and David L. Lander
(Squiggy from "L & S" - radio announcer.)

Brings a tear to my eye no matter how many times I watch it - right up there
with FIELD OF DREAMS!
<|_=00=_|>

Little did I know as a child that a professional women's
baseball
league even existed.That just goes to prove what little
recognition
these ladies have gotten over the years.This film finally
pushes
them over the top in terms of getting that recognition.Excellent
perception and direction by Penny Marshall here in recreating
this
long ago time;a time of war when the nation needed the
simple
pleasures of life more than ever,to help them escape,at
least
temporarily,the horrors of the goings on overseas.With most of
the
male professional ball players overseas,our beloved women were
called
upon to fill the void,and boy did they ever fill it!It makes me
wish,
in some ways,that I could have been there to see it all.A fine
comic
performance here by Tom Hanks,as Jimmy Dugan, the somewhat
reluctant
and ignorant(at least,at first) manager of the Rockford
Peaches.
Outstanding performances as well from Madonna,Rosie O'Donnell,Geena
Davis,and Lori Petty.A finer tribute could not have been made.Well
done.
<|_=00=_|>
Set at the start of World War 2, Geena Davis and Lori Petty are
recruited to the first professional baseball league for women. The
sisters struggle to keep the league going against the odds, while their
own personal rivalry begins to escalate.

I don't pretend to know much about baseball, so if this element is poor
i wouldn't really notice, but i did feel that it was a good setting for
the story.

Quite touching and well directed, i was surprised how compelling this
movie was. All in all the strong cast and pleasant script makes this a
good movie, with a little for everyone.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I am not a movie-goer. I watch everything on video or cable. I have
seen League of Their Own no less than 50 times, and each time, I'm
delighted and amazed at the comedic thought and timing that Penny
Marshall put into this movie. This is the only movie that I can quote
verbatim during the dialogue. Such gems as when Jimmy Dugan asks why
the bus stopped, then "Betty Spaghetti" informs him that "Lou quit."
Dugan screams, "Who's Lou?!" And on another Dugan rant, when Rosie
O'Donnell's character mumbles, "Is that English?" The expression on the
scout's face when he sees how, er, plain-looking Marla looks. His
explanation that he has to go home after dropping his recruits off for
tryouts, because he needs to shower, shave, and "give the wife some
pickle tickle." Beyond the funny, fine performances, though, this film
has a sweet sadness that makes it real. In the end, these former
professional athletes who made it to their golden years come back to be
honored in the Baseball Hall of Fame and play in a virtual homecoming
game. They all look pretty much like the grandma who you love or who
lives down the street from you, but you know that they're women who
were brought together because they all had the guts, determination and
talent to change the face of American sports.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite the fact of this movie was exhibited on screens in 1992 or 93,
I've just saw it on TV in my country only a few days ago. In fact, it
isn't the first time it is exhibited, but for one reason or other I've
never had seen it. And I've to say that "A League Of Their Own" really
touched me. In my country, unlike other Latinamerican like Venezuela,
Puerto Rico and -- if I'm not wrong -- Cuba, baseball isn't a popular
game, like soccer or tennis. It's played only in some clubs by American
citizens or Chilean who lived in the U.S. and learned to play and love
it. However, for me the ignorance of the baseball rules is not
important, but the fact of that the subjects treated in this movie are
universal: fight for a dream and achieve it, solidarity (how beautiful
the scene when one of the players teaches to read the one who doesn't
know, using a "little hot" short-novel), friendship, hope, dignity and
the spirit of trying to be always better. From now on, this movie has
become one of my favorites, with some other like "Steel Magnolias" and
"Fried Green Tomatoes". Beautiful ones, inspiring, with no-violence and
giving a positive message good for our spirits, no matter the zone of
the world where you live because, like I've already said, its message
is universal: the hope on reaching your dreams and be a better person.
And I think that it's marvelous in a world like the present, that
sometimes turns so hard to live in. I believe also that it isn't
necessary to be American or have had friends or relatives involved in a
terrible conflict like the 2nd W.W. to understand this movie. Finally,
I'm sorry for my not good English and, if possible, I beg from someone
who had had the patience to read this lines up to this point, some
additional information about the female baseball league of the United
States. I will appreciate it, really. And friendly greetings from
Chile, proudly the world's southernmost country!!. (and very friendly
with foreigners, too. Visit us, we're waiting for you!!)
<|_=00=_|>
I can truly watch this movie over and over again and still be inspired
by it. I think it shows just what women are capable of. If u haven't
seen it i strongly recommend it. It remains at the top of my list and
i've seen many award winning movies. It is filled with an amazing cast.
It will make u cry and the best part is that there are some true facts.
There was this league of women made after most male baseball players
had gone to fight in the war. There's romance, fighting, comedy, and
some dancing. I mean it has everything a movie needs to be enjoyable.
Believe me it wont be a waste of time. You can watch this movie with
family and friends.
<|_=00=_|>

"A League of Their Own" tells a story that is rarely discussed in historical
circles. The country is immersed in World War II and it is up to the women
to keep professional baseball going. The film follows the sometimes rocky
relationship between two sisters (Geena Davis and Lori Petty) who go from a
small town in the midwest to the major leagues. Tom Hanks does outstanding
work as the former player who now manages their team. Madonna and Rosie
O'Donnell are among the other girls on the team who keep Hanks on his toes.
Penny Marshall's direction is very solid here and she tells the story with a
dignified style and grace that works well on the silver screen. A very good
comedy-drama from the early-1990s. 4 stars out of 5. 
