

Following up the spectacular disaster of competing fighting game turned
movie, Mortal Kombat succeeded where Street Fighter failed.  Not a fantastic
movie nor one that goes in my top ten, but Mortal Kombat (without a doubt)
is one of the better game-based-films.

MK wisely avoids inventing plot in unwelcomed places and sticks to the game
as frequently as it can get away with.  Actually the biggest contradiction
that comes to mind is Scorpion and Sub-zero on the same team.  Die hard fans
will call the screenwriter on this, the rest of us won't
care.

All the mistakes Street Fighter made, MK avoided.  Instead of colorful campy
cameo-fest, Mortal Kombat comes across as a dark tale about a handful of
martial artists shot with an exaggerated epic style with humorous undertones
to provide comic relief every now and again.  Then again, it is ironic that
Street Fighter would feel cartoony and Mortal Kombat more concrete when
looking at the style of the games (drawn sprites versus live actors).  MK is
a little silly when reproducing game effects and trademark moves, though now
more and more films are moving in that direction (Matrix, anyone?)

The movie's premise is the first Mortal Kombat arcade game featuring a few
plot hints (journey to Outworld) and a few characters from Mortal Kombat 2
(Kitana, Jax, a youthful Shang Tsung.)

Christopher Lambert and Cary-Hiroyuki Takawa make the most memorable impact
as Thunder God Rayden and Shape-shifting Sorcerer Shang Tsung.  Both ham up
their performances just enough to remind us that we're watching a
live-action video game, but they don't go overboard into Street Fighter's
territory.  The rest of the cast plays their part straight forward and makes
their characters believable.

It's a quick and slick film, gets to the action and gets over with before
you can ask too many questions.  It's a pretty decent martial arts film, and
an outstanding ‘video game' film.  And in 1995, it was the best
game-inspired film you could find.  Today it's still in the top
five.

<|_=00=_|>
A number of martial artists converge in China, from which they're taken
to a seeming alternate dimension to fight in a tournament that's only
held "once each generation". This time, however, the stakes are even
higher, as the outcome of the tournament will determine the fate of the
Earth.

Believe it or not, this is the first time I've seen this film, and I've
not yet had experience with any of the games, the other films, the
animated series, the lunchboxes, or anything else related to the Mortal
Kombat universe. After watching the first film, however, I definitely
will seek out some of the other material, as I enjoyed the film quite a
bit--it earns an 8 out of 10 from me. At this point, however, I can't
compare it to any other instantiations of Mortal Kombat.

The film is basically a combination of a classic Hong Kong-styled
martial arts actioner and a fantasy that leans slightly to the horror
side of that genre. To the film's benefit, it's also not something that
either director Paul W.S. Anderson or writer Kevin Droney take too
seriously--the film is ultimately an adaptation of a popular video
game, after all. There is a tongue-in-cheek, slightly campy sense of
humor and playful cheesiness throughout the film, the humor being
primarily fueled from two characters, Johnny Cage (Linden Ashby) and
Lord Rayden (Christopher Lambert). True, Lambert has a kind of almost
smarmy campiness to anything he says or does, in any film, but for me,
that's part of his attractiveness--it's a large part of what sold me on
the Highlander films.

The fantasy aspect was something I didn't expect before watching the
film. It was a very pleasant surprise. Being a huge horror fan, I was
especially taken with the set design. The fantasy characters, such as
Goro, and the fantasy traits of other characters, were well done and
even subtle at times.

As for the fights, which are the propelling force behind the film,
they're pleasantly varied and well choreographed, although having just
watched Master of the Flying Guillotine (1975) again recently, I was
slightly disappointed that the fights weren't more brutal and gory (and
in fact, this is one of the areas where I subtracted a point). But they
almost make up for the lack of violence but their imaginativeness,
especially the fights with Sub-Zero and The Scorpion. That cleverness
was required over brawn in most instances was also a nice touch.

Overall, this is a great film that any fans of martial arts or fantasy
films should enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
And that really says a lot about how the not-so-current trend of
games-to-movies are received among critics. But this one was easily the
best of all of them. This is easily in a league higher than the likes
of Super Mario Brothers, Double Dragon, Street Fighter, Wing Commander,
the Tomb Raider movies, Resident Evils 1 and 2, House of the Dead and
Alone in the Dark, not to mention that this was one of the few that
actually stayed true to the game, from the costumes to the tourney
fights, from the characters to the plot lines, everything was done
right, and it makes for one hell of a fight-'em-to-the-finish type
movie.

But heed my warning: AVOID THE SEQUEL AT ALL COST! Just stick with the
original. You won't be disappointed (well, maybe you will, just maybe).
<|_=00=_|>
I've always believed that video-games will never make good movies. But
Warner don't seem to understand what a goldmine they're sitting on when
it comes to Mortal Kombat. The franchise has so many characters,
complex back-stories, and mythology that it honestly dwarfs the X-Men.
There is a huge amount of potential in Mortal Kombat. This juvenile
1995 effort only scratches the surface of that potential, but still
manages to be an enjoyable no-brainer.

I remember when this was released back in October 1995. It had been No.
1 at the US box office for three straight weeks. The audience did
actually manage to go along with the silly, tongue-in-cheek hokum, and
it worked. By modern standards this film is laughably awful. The CGI
effects look like they were rendered on a Commodore 64, even when the
technology to make much better was readily available at the time. I
feel so old thinking about how dated and retro Mortal Kombat is.

A bunch of muscular tough-guys are called to an exotic island to take
part in a fighting tournament that could decide the fate of the planet.
The Outworld Emperor wants Earth as his new dominion and is one
tournament away from victory. His mortal, demonic minions, led by the
brilliantly over-the-top Cary Hiroyuki Tagawa as dark sorcerer Shang
Tsung, must fight Earth's toughest warriors. All but three are
expendable: Liu Kang, Johnny Cage, and Sonya Blade. The film follows
them as they fight their way through many colorful environments.

It looks and feels very much like an old-fashioned kung-fu movie. The
production design is frequently wonderful, and there's hardly any
unlikeable characters. Even 4-armed Prince Goro (brought to life by
lovely puppetry) is fun to watch. The story however is paper-thin. Like
I said, it could be so much more but the talent or motivation to make
such a film in 1995 just wasn't there.

I've never been a fan of Paul Anderson (as a matter-of-fact, he's one
of the worst filmmakers currently working), but his US debut is a fun,
little pot-boiler with some funky 90s techno.
<|_=00=_|>
"Mortal Kombat" in my opinion is just an awesome movie. I think because
I was such a fan of the video games, the days when Sega was the
"thang". LOL, way before Playstation there was Sega! But, I really just
loved the characters and this story just always appealed to me. I think
because also my friends and I enjoyed acting the movie and video game
out. No, we didn't kill each other, we just loved the characters.

Yes, despite this being a typical video game movie, I still think it
was cool to watch, still to this day I don't mind watching. It has an
awesome soundtrack, excellent moves, and a great look and feel to the
movie itself. Just let go and have fun with it, if you enjoyed the
video games, I think you should enjoy "Mortal Kombat". It's just cool
to watch and keeps you on the edge of your seat in excitement! 

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
'Mortal Kombat' is a fast-paced adventure with unbelievable action and
acting. The story is told brilliantly and it makes for a fun,
edge-of-your-seat martial arts tale. Two men and one woman enter a
contest that will decide the fate of the world - a tournament to end
all tournaments. It's a very dark, shadowy film that prides itself on a
gloomy atmosphere for which to muster its ground-breaking fight scenes.
Few movies in recent years can match the grittiness and pure
painfulness of these fights. If you're an action junkie, or just
someone who wants a gripping, enjoyable movie then 'Mortal Kombat' is
just what you need. A story of revenge, pride, power, weakness,
determination, friendship, danger, life and death. Superb entertainment
- my absolute favourite.
<|_=00=_|>
The only way I can review this is the pros, cons, similarities, and
differences between the game and the movie.

Similarities: 

1. The characters from the game series make appearances. Some of these
include Kano, Sonya, Rayden, Liu Kang, Johnny Cage, Kitana, Shang
Tsung, Scorpion, Sub-Zero, Reptile, and Goro.

2. Scorpion has his iconic "Get over here!" accompanied by the blades
that stick out from his hands.

3. Each character for the most part have relatively similar backgrounds
when it comes to the movie and the game.

4. MK theme was present in a few fight scenes. The kick-ass theme song
that sticks in your head was used in the opening credits and the
closing ones.

5. Three words: Johnny Cage's nutshots.

Differences: 

1. Little to no, and I mean NO, fatalities are present in the movie.
There is a lot of MK-like action throughout but the one thing that
truly made the games awesome is completely left out. To fill you in if
you haven't played the games, fatalities are pretty much an attempt
(and success) at you being able to brutally murder your opponent in as
gruesome style as possible.

2. No blood. I understand that New Line is trying to make the movie
more appealing to wide varieties of audiences, but Mortal Kombat
without blood isn't Mortal Kombat. This is probably the reason why no
fatalities are involved.

Pros: 

1. The movie has some damn good action scenes in it. They were simply
entertaining to watch and each fight didn't drag out for a long
excessive period of time.

2. The acting wasn't mediocre like I believed it would be. Like so many
other game-to-movie crossovers the major appeal is to display the
perception of how games "should" be made. I put 'should' in quotes
because it fails most of the time, but Mortal Kombat managed to put all
of that behind it and made a pretty good movie.

3. Paul W.S. Anderson. Again he has managed to do an awesome job with
these video game adaptations. Although it was after, his best work I
believe was with the Resident Evil movie seven years later. Personally,
I think he's best when it comes to adapting, which is a rare cause when
it comes to these types of movies. For example: Uwe Boll. Worst
director of all time and he always managed to ruin some pretty good
games (House of the Dead, Alone in the Dark, Far Cry, Postal).

Cons: 

1. The CGI. Oh my lord was this film's CGI terrible. I mean it was just
simply AWFUL. Goro looked like it was animated by a first grader. The
visual scenery is great and all the money probably went towards making
that aspect look real but they completely ignored this very one
distracting aspect.

2. The costumes weren't bad, but they weren't as good as I would have
expected. I like how Reptile was a ninja, but Rayden doesn't look
anything like he does in the games. An argument can be made that he was
in mortal form during the video games to compete in the tournament so
that's why they look so differently, but I object to that because he
looks just so ridiculous.

3. Like I stated before, no blood is present. It's understandable that
the attempt was made to make it PG-13 and all but if this could be
remade with more blood...a lot more blood, then it could be made
better. That's not something I would usually say, but hey, it's Mortal
Kombat, and Mortal Kombat is all about brutality.

Despite the cons and differences it doesn't make this movie any less
enjoyable to watch. It's all around pretty good, could have been
better, but I'm still fine by what I received.
<|_=00=_|>
Nine viewings of Mortal Kombat (MK) may not be enough to convince the
movie fan of its brilliance, but undoubtedly the tenth will provide an
epiphany of Outerworld proportions. MK will no longer be seen as a
cheesy "Rock-em, Sock-em, action flick," but as a revolutionary film
that is as astute as it is subtle. Students of the martial arts will be
mesmerized by the display of skill and talent that is only found in the
greatest of actor-warriors. Students of cinema will be humbled by the
simplicity and utter genius of the cinematography. Students of
philosophy will be enthralled by this film's interpretation of
Heidegger's Dasein and will find their understanding of it born anew.
This film has something for everyone and is without doubt the greatest
film of the twentieth century.

MK3 or bust!
<|_=00=_|>
MK 1995 is a fine, just fine adaption. It is pretty often for movies
based upon video games to end up crappy as a final product. Well, this
one was more than OK. No need to tell anything except a few things... a
few good things. The acting crew is great - Robin Shou (Liu Kang),
Linden Ashby (Johny Cage) and Bridgette Willson (Sonya Blade) were
great in their parts. Robin Shou is not the best actor around, but he
proved to be great as Liu Kang and I find him, for now, to be the best
who portrayed Kang in live action film. Linden Ashby was an excellent
choice for Johny Cage. He was funny, cocky and sarcastic as a
character, and I think that Ashby did a great job. Bridgette Willson
was OK, but not all that great. Maybe because they give her so little
to work with. And when it comes to that, our leading characters are not
that much developed. They are just there to win the tournament, but
their backgrounds are pretty solid, and that's about it. Too bad that
they didn't give them more to their character. Christopher Lambert was
fine as Rayden, mysterious and tall. But his acting was a bit wooden.
Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa was excellent was Shang Tsung, his performance was
inspiring and he made Tsung with such unmitigated charisma. So far, he
is my favorite Shang Tsung. Talisa Soto (Kitana) was also good, alas
just like Sonya, little developed and two dimensional. She was there to
increase the plot for Liu Kang. Now, the one I really found most
entertaining is none else than Trevor Goddard (Kano), his Kano was very
fun! His Australian accent and charm were just through the roof! To
mention the fact that most voice actors in video games based their
performances on Goddard's. Thanks to him, this Kano is memorized and
trademarked forever. Love this Kano! The martial artist that played
Reptile (Keith Cooke), Sub Zero (Francois Petit) and Scorpion (Chris
Casamassa) were amazing in what they do best - kicking some butt! They
really gave a 200% effort and hard work in fight scenes. Fights are
excellent, dynamic and well choreographed. The atmosphere in certain
scenes is good, in a way, it gives us a decent impressions of "fighting
locations." The locations and studio sets were good, CGI, was not that
great. But, don't despair. One of the most beautiful things in this
film is Goro. Performed by special effects master and student to Stan
Winston - Tom Woodruff Jr. Who did an impressive job on Goro. You just
can't deny his puppetry and animatronics. All that is pretty well mixed
with voice acting of Kevin Michael Richardson who voiced Goro. For the
end, Paul WS Anderson is not my favorite director, nor I don't find
most of his films good. But, this one is very special and it was one of
his early works in Hollywood, so he had to prove it. And he did it. He
did a good job. Keep it in mind that this movie offers you only a tiny
amount of blood. Whereas the game is extremely violent. This movie,
reasonably is not. It's a decent fun! Watch it!
<|_=00=_|>

I was living in San Diego (particularly in the suburban armpit of Del Mar)
in 1995, and I remember waiting eagerly well over a year for MK's release.
And it was definitely worth the wait; I saw it a total of 13 times, which
stood as my all-time record for nearly four and a half years. When all was
said and done, it had grossed a strong $70 million domestically, plus $100
million worldwide.

I'm not a Mortal Kombat fanatic anymore, but in retrospect MK was one of
the
most entertaining movies of the 1990s. It was easily the first video
game-turned-movie to contain a halfway decent plot, exciting special
effects, good acting and spectacular martial arts action, the latter which
was before all the present-day "Crouching Tiger" wire-work nonsense. The
actors underwent a three-month crash course in martial arts training, and
their hard work paid off beautifully. On screen, they looked like they were
really performing those moves instead of just imitating them. Unlike
previous video game movie washouts like "Double Dragon" and "Street
Fighter," MK also had a comprehensible plot that remained faithful to the
games, and in the end won a space in gamers' hearts.

Along with the supporting cast of well-renowned martial artists, MK
featured
a nice cache of actors: Linden Ashby – whose screen personalities have all
had a bit of a humorous smartass element to them – was perfect as Johnny
Cage, likewise then-rising star Bridgette Wilson as Sonya Blade and Robin
Shou as the film's centerpiece, Liu Kang. Christopher Lambert gave a witty
performance as thunder god Raiden (constantly misspelled as  "Rayden," much
to the aggravation of many MK fans like myself), and nobody cared that he
was a French actor playing a Japanese character. Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa, who
recently starred in Tim Burton's version of "Planet of the Apes," clearly
had a ball playing the evil Shang Tsung, and it showed. (Heck, how many
evil
sorcerers get to wear cool black leather jackets?)

Unfortunately, save for Tagawa and Wilson, MK unfortunately did not spell
the worldwide exposure that many had predicted would come to the stars
following the film's success, and the art of animatronics, used here to
bring the four-armed Goro to life, is all but extinct in this day and age,
but there was no denying that back in the day, the cast and filmmakers knew
they had made an entertaining movie. While I hardly watch MK anymore, the
bottom line is that it was undeniably a kick in the pants during its time,
and for that reason alone it continues to maintain my highest vote to this
day. 10/10

