

This is by far Seagals best film and his only one that you could truly call
good. His others range from average to just plain awful, but this is a great
action film. Its basically Dies Hard on a boat, but is one of the few
successful Die Hard clones. Andrew Davis made this before The Fugitive, and
his direction is tense and exciting, whats more he gets Seagals best
performance which basically means he is slightly less wooden than
usual.

The plot revolves around this Battleship which is being taken out of use. On
its final run, coinciding with the captains birthday, the ship gets
hi-jacked by terrorists who plan to use the nuclear weapons on board. Seagal
a former Navy Seal, with more medals than a medal shop, is on board as the
ships cook, as this is the only position he can occupy in the ship after he
was involved in a military blunder previously. Seagal uses his skills to
cause problems for the terrorists as he sets out to stop them, aided by Miss
July 89 Jordan The played by the sexy and melon chested Erika Eleniak who is
certainly there for her looks ahead of acting ability, she is however a cut
above Seagal in the acting department.

The action in this is great, Seagals usual Aikido master class is on display
as well as some good gun fights, and impressive stunts. Seagal has always
had a bit of paunch but he looks a lot fitter than his recent films where he
lumbers about, in his earlier films he actually seems in some sort of shape
and actually looks tough.

Overall this is an entertaining film, Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey are in
scene stealing form as the bad guys and Seagal is at the top of his game. 
8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This was a fast-moving Rambo-style action flick (good guys never get
hit despite 10,000 rounds of ammunition fired at them) that was very
popular. It spawned a very weak sequel, par for the course. Several
reviewers here wrote that it is Steven Seagal's "best movie," and I
wouldn't argue with that..

"Under Siege" probably was more popular than the normal Segal action
flick because of several aspects: 1 - the interesting story featuring
the "lowly cook" (as Seagal described himself in this film) beating a
bunch of terrorists taking over a U.S. Navy vessel; 2 - the
over-the-top villains portrayed by fun-to-watch actors Tommy Lee Jones
and Gary Busey, and 3 - the fabulous looks and body of Erika Eleniak,
who pops out of a cake topless in a sight that every guy who saw this
film remembers.

Jones was just about hitting his acting career peak as he demonstrated
the following year with his Oscar-winning performance in "The
Fugitive." Busey was the opposite, nearing the end of his run after a
starring role as singer "Buddy Holly" made him famous. 

This film might be Segal's most successful, or at least in the top
three. His star has faded since the new century. Eleniak never made it
far past the cake. She played "Elly May" in "The Beverly Hillbillies"
the following year and nothing but 'B' films after that.

The first part of this movie is far better than the second. It gets
out-of-control by the end, as most of these action films do with the
violence overdone and with little credibility. But watching the three
leads, and ogling Eleniak, always make this film fun to watch for a
little while, at least.
<|_=00=_|>

I gave this movie a solid ten, and I stick with it. I'm not in particular
a
fan of Steven Seagal, though I don't arbitrarily hate him like many
critics
do. In fact, this was the first of his movies I'd seen, and I liked it
immediately.

For any people expecting this movie to deviate from the usual formula of
(1): Seagal is wronged, (2): Seagal becomes killing machine,
you'll be disappointed. Almost everything in this movie is to be expected,
as Seagal plays his usual tough but lovable good guy who gets pushed just
a
bit too far and goes into full-on expert martial arts killer to enact
revenge. A dozen or so people will die, as many or more limbs will be
broken, and Seagal will do it all with as much emotion as a stick. To
those
expecting more of Seagal's usual stuff, that's what you'll
get.

But in my opinion, what we also get are some inexplicably high level bad
guys for this outing. Although about a decade or two behind today's times
(keeping in mind the film itself is a decade and a half old), the two
antagonists are the well known actors Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey.
While
getting on in their age nowadays, these two were some of the most crazed
and
entertaining actors of the 70s and 80s.
Jones is probably best known from The Fugitive, for which he won an
academy
award, while Gary Busey has done a boatload of famous,
not-so
famous, and video game voiceover work. Together, these veterans almost
steal
the show as they chew the scenery and provide Seagal's most colorful and
charismatic characters. Busey is a former ship's commander who's willing
to
drown his crew simply to taunt Seagal, whereas Jones' character used to
send
body parts to his ex-bosses at the CIA before turning up
here.

The plot of this movie is that the two aforementioned crazies, with an
entire crew of inside tech guys and hired muscle, have overtaken the
aircraft carrier USS Missouri, with plans to extort various things from
the
big guys in Washington with the ship's small but capable arsenal of
weapons
at their disposal. The catch is that a high-ranking ex-navy seal is on the
ship, serving a commuted sentence for misbehavior. Stuck here as the
ship's
cook, Seagal plays Casey Ryback
who must do whatever he can to rally the ship back into responsible
hands.

Strangely enough, the movie departs in several ways from the regular
formula. The aforementioned bad guys are not only one head honcho but two
equally ambitious ones, as well as a capable force of a dozen or so armed
men. But where one would expect Seagal to be alone, this time the film
adds
at least a little credibility to the mix: Seagal still raises hell, but he
also has to get the help of several others stowed on the ship if he's to
have any chance in operating its guns and other functions. In a film
rooted
in implausability, it's at least nice to see old Steve actually running
around with some admitted help.

The pace is interesting, as the early scenes in the movie set up some
beautiful shots of the ship as well as some of its intricate interiors and
set pieces. Some characters are the token one-line kills,
but then there are some side characters who are given their own
personality
and a scene or two to take advantage of. Many characters from the
aforementioned Fugitive (1993) make returns in this movie, as well as a
decent character played by Colm Meaney, who was Miles 'O Brien to Star
Trek
fans.

Probably the only annoying bit of this movie is the female lead, played
by
Playboy model Erika Eleniak. She does a serviceable job, shows her breasts
for a minute like she's expected to, and sometimes comes across as a
believable person. But for the most part, she's there to lend support to
Seagal, and add a little comic repartee between them. I didn't really mind
her until she had a silly turn as hero(ine) for a minute or
two.

But that's a minor quibble, in a film that I still love as being
Seagal's
most tight, interesting and energetic. It somehow seems more well written
or
polished than all his other efforts, and this is no doubt aided by the
considerable time that is spent establishing the villains, who I've
already
noted as being the best Seagal's had to tackle. The sequel to this one was
quite a letdown but still fun on its own, but in my opinion the original
is
Seagal's best and a great choice for those looking for some good old
fashioned action heroics
<|_=00=_|>
When terrorists decide they need nuclear Tomahawk cruise missiles 'to
sell like hot cakes,' they turn to the U.S.S. Missouri, the fastest and
most powerful naval force ever to sail the seas... (The Missouri fired
the first shots of the Gulf War... Her powerful 16' guns destroyed
Iraqi bunkers... Her Tomahawk missiles rocketed deep into the heart of
Baghdad.)

As luck would have it, Chief Ryback (Steven Seagal) happens to be on
board working as 'head cook.' Ryback is seen by all as a 'sorry-looking
sailor' but his true identity as an ex-SEAL expert in martial arts,
explosives, weapons, and tactics, is the Captain's best kept secret... 

There's supposed to be a 'surprise' birthday party for the Captain
(Patrick O'Neal) but he is shot before he can even show up to the
fiesta...

The terrorists, a group of professional killers, under the guise of
entertainers and musicians, get access to the U.S. battleship by a
helicopter cleared to land on the vessel's last voyage by a heavy
turncoat officer...

Tommy Lee Jones is fabulous as the lunatic Hippie, a former CIA
undercover operative, who is for a railing system to offload the
missiles onto a submarine they will rendez-vous with...

Gary Busey is (Krill) the commander graciously ready to give a
'surprise' to his captain... He is absolutely perfect as the maniac
everyone loves to knock him down...

Erika Eleniak is the beautiful Playboy centerfold who will knock you
off your feet... Erika is hired to jump out topless of the cake and
dance...

If you like to see your favorite celebrity shooting an evil bad guy in
the back, don't miss Andrew Davis' 'Under Siege,' a good entertaining
movie, well directed, and very exciting...
<|_=00=_|>
On board the Navy battleship USS Missouri, a group of terrorists use
the rouse of a surprise party for the Captain as an opportunity to take
control and start to load up the weapons – specifically tomahawks with
nuclear tips. Lead by a bitter rouge CIA agent William Stranix, the
group put their plan into action while the military struggles to
formulate a fast response. Meanwhile, lowly cook Casey Ryback is locked
in the meat locker for disobeying an order by the Commander but manages
to get out and have the run of the ship. Luckily for him, but unluckily
for the terrorists, Ryback also happens to be a trained Navy SEAL,
working as a cook to serve out his time, and he doesn't like his
cooking being interrupted by anyone.

In the wake of Die Hard we were treated (and still are treated) to lots
of reruns of the "one man against terrorists" scenario and this film
was one of the better ones, also providing Steven Seagal with arguably
his best film to date. Of course this is not too much of a
recommendation given the poor standard of Seagal films and this
derivative genre. However, for what it is, it moves pretty slickly and
provides lots of men shooting and things going "boom" which, lets be
honest, is all we're really here for. The plot can't compare to Die
Hard because it doesn't share the link of the "common man" being the
hero (if you can call John McClane a common man); instead Ryback is a
trained killer and the plot quickly loses any vague touch with reality
as his fight becomes more and more extreme. The action is still
enjoyable though and, while it isn't a classic in the realms of Die
Hard, it is still an enjoyable action film in an overdone genre.

In terms of acting, nobody could accuse Seagal of being "good" but at
least here he was at the "height" of his powers in a vehicle that
suited him but also had a budget and style to work as a mainstream
product. His lack of emotional range shows as he kneels over the body
of his dead captain and looks like a man who has just missed his bus –
annoyed but not THAT annoyed. However what he does do well is move and
shoot – both skills the film has lots of for him to do and physically
he is impressive. Eleniak should serve as a warning of the fleeting
nature of a-list stardom for those that rely on looks alone. At the
time she was the face (?) of Baywatch and on many people's bedroom
walls and she plays an "actress" who is using her breasts to make a
living – amazingly she plays it without a hint of irony. Looking back
her dated haircut is hilarious and the fact that her breasts are the
only thing that I can remember of her entire career to date is quite
depressing. Jones and Busey can do crazy bad guys better than many
people and they do it well here – especially Jones, who appears to be
enjoying himself immensely.

Overall this is an enjoyable action film as long as you know what you
are getting into – it is not great but it is certainly one of the more
enjoyable Seagal films and does manage to be a good entry in the genre
and it was no surprise to me that Seagal came back for me in a less
successful but equally as silly and enjoyable sequel.
<|_=00=_|>

Steven Seagal might not be Arnold Schwarzenneger or Bruce Willis, but Under
Siege quickly became one of 1992's most successful films, earning Seagal a
fine reputation as a good action star. Andrew Davis directed the film about
a US Battleship that has been taken over by Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey
and it's up to Steven Seagal, whom acts as a chef cook, but is really an
Ex-Navy Seal to save the day with the help of the ever sexy Erika Eleniak
playing Miss July 1989. Jones and Busey particularly are great as the two
villians and the action scenes and karate moves from Seagal are quite well
choregraphed with a fine score by Gary Chang. The supportive cast, topped
off by Patrick Adams, Colm Mehoney, Nick Mancuso, Andy Romano, Troy Evans,
Glenn Morshower, Dennis Lipscomb and Damian Chapa all turn in fine and
impressive even humerous performances. Highly recommended for fans of the
action genre.

<|_=00=_|>
FACT 1 - All knives used on the set were donated by Bob Hoskins who at
the time held shares in Sheffield cutlery industries.

FACT 2 - During the cake scene where the woman arises from the dessert,
the actress demanded that the cake did not contain any sugar because of
a childhood skin condition.

FACT 3 - Seagal was the directors 2nd choice after Van Damme refused
due to filming Universal Soldier.

FACT 4 - Due to spiralling production costs several of the scenes are
actually old archive footage.

FACT 5 - Seagal designed his own costume for the movie after several
attempts by costume designers failed

FACT 6 - Conflict between Lee Jones and Seagal aroze due to Lee Jones'
obsession with calling Seagal, Seagull or Mr Seagull whilst leaving
fish around his dressing room.

FACT 7 - Seagal followed a strict diet of 9 medium raw eggs a day
during filming as recommended to him by De Niro after filming Raging
Bull
<|_=00=_|>


   This movie is definately Steven Seagal's best movie. This movie is
definately worth a look. The supporing cast like Tommy Lee Jones and Gary
Busey make very good villans. Jones did a great job as the half insane
mercinary who's in on a plot of hijacking a U.S. Battleship. There are a lot
of actors in this one who would appear in director Andrew Davis's next film
"The Fugitive" The action in this movie is great. I think this movie also
contains some good cinematography by Frank Tidy. This is not a movie you can
take seriously. You have to use your imagination and know it's not real but
pretend it is. *** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>

Basically Under Siege is Die Hard on a boat. But the direction by Andrew
Davis and the martial arts of Segal make this one stand out. Tommy Lee
Jones
makes a good villain as always. And extra points for Erika for getting
naked.
<|_=00=_|>
Steven Segal's greatest movie ever. Bar none. Who could ever have sold
the idea of an ex-Navy Seal-turned-cook could ever kick that much butt
in any movie. No one. Segal's tongue in cheek performance was great,
talking like he had something to prove in just about every line, trying
not to crack a smile due to the cracker-jack dialogue that was created
for this specific role. Tommy Lee Jones, Colm Meaney and Erika Eleniak
were all okay in this film, but Segal was clearly what made this film.
What especially made everything enjoyable in this film was the lack of
artistry. This was purely for made fo the joke it is, a funny-bad
delight that was supposed to impress us with stupid dialogue and big
action. Chalk one up for the big guy.
