

Deary me, some people get upset when a film isn't what they want it to be,
don't they? How dare the film be what the film-makers set out to make,
instead of what someone's narrow expectations dictate it should b?

Fancy In the Cut being gritty, seamy, sexy and deeply disturbing ... just
like all the publicity (and the rating) warned  us it would be. What a
shock. How did the people expecting another Piano, or Meg Ryan Finds True
Love Yet Again ever find themselves in the cinema?

As for those who have said they have walked out completely unmoved ...
either they must be aliens or robots, or are fooling themselves, not wanting
to acknowledge the truth of what they've seen on the screen. Seldom have I
seen a film that so truly examines the dark side of our sexual impulses. I
walked out quite shattered, and wandered around in a daze for a
while.

Meg Ryan completely miscast? Ridiculous and insulting. How dare you tell an
actress she has to be Little Mary Sunshine for the rest of her life. And she
pulls it off brilliantly. She and Mark Ruffalo give the most stunning lead
performances for a long time. Why? Because they're playing real,
multi-layered people. Not goody-goodies or baddy-baddies.

Didn't like any of the characters? Must have a very limited range of
acquaintances, or alternatively, don't like the real people you do
know.

Thriller plot not thrilling? Admittedly it's not the strongest point in the
film, but it has all the required shocks and surprises (and, you'd think
enough gore for the modern audience), and while the revelation of the
murderer is not the biggest twist ending ever, the final shot takes your
breath away.

And anyway, Campion, while handling the thriller genre competently, is using
it as a means to explore sexuality. And attraction. And how much of love
involves physicality, carnality, trust, the desire to dominate, the desire
to be dominated, and above all, the attraction of the DANGEROUS. Yes, adult
stuff, not often tackled in mainstream films.

I think it's her best film ever (possibly excepting Sweetie), and I give it
9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
"In the Cut" features solid acting and a nice color scheme but is
mostly unremarkable in terms of story, script and visuals. Savvy
viewers will recognize most of the plot elements and characters from
other recent thrillers. The film does, however, have two remarkable
elements: an amazing 5.1-channel sound mix and a nude scene that is
notable not for its pornographic or fantasy-fulfilling qualities but
for its stark realism.

Anyone who appreciates film sound should watch (or rather, listen to)
"In the Cut" because it's one of the few existing films that uses
5.1-channel sound for more than SFX gimmicks or making sure the Dolby
Digital logo appears on its DVD case. The film creates real ambiance
and mood with its sound mix, which helped suck me into the story world
and get a sense of the characters' environment. I first noticed this
when Frannie descends the stairs in the restaurant (just before she
sees the mysterious villain). As she walks through the noisy crowd and
down the stairwell, the conversations, bustling and other background
fade from the front to rear channels and mix with her footsteps as she
descends. This, to me, is much more elegant use of 5.1-channel surround
than sticking a few whizzing noises in the rear channels when a
spaceship flies off the top edge of the frame. "In the Cut" makes full
use of its available channels, which is more than 99% of high-budget
films can say.

The other piece of the film that stuck with me was the nude scene with
Frannie and Malloy that follows their inevitable hook-up. It's so rare
to see a Hollywood nude scene that features characters just lounging
with nothing on and in such an unromantic setting. It's especially
amazing with an established star like Meg Ryan. There are no mysterious
L-shaped sheets to hide their bodies but there is also no sense that
Campion left them nude to attract voyeurs to her film. The characters
don't assume erotic poses; they simply act as if they've already seen
what they have to show each other, as most people do after sex. I don't
often praise realism in films, especially stupid thrillers, but this
scene stood out as much as the excellent sound design. If only the rest
of the film could live up to those standards.
<|_=00=_|>
Meg Ryan gives what may well be the breakthrough performance of her
career in 'In the Cut,' a violent, erotic thriller from maverick
filmmaker Jane Campion. Ryan plays Frannie, a college English
instructor who is instinctively drawn to the seamier side of life. When
women in her Manhattan neighborhood start falling victim to a grizzly
serial killer, Frannie, as a possible witness, becomes a prime source
of interest, both professionally and personally, for a homicide
detective named Malloy, who has some troubling sexual proclivities of
his own to deal with. Attracted by his edgy darkness and smoldering
sexuality, Frannie succumbs to his advances, fully cognizant of the
possible danger he represents. Is the law enforcement official as much
of a threat to this young woman as the psychopath going about town
decapitating and dismembering the local ladies? It is this kind of
moral ambiguity that informs the entire movie.

From the very outset, Campion makes it clear that we are not in for a
conventional police procedural. She is obviously more interested in
character and mood than in the niceties of a well-oiled plot and
streamlined exposition. Frannie is far from being the helpless victim
or plucky heroine one usually finds at the center of such tales; she is
a complex, moody, taciturn woman who seems to be drifting passively
through life, with little passion, conviction or purpose to make any of
it worthwhile. Even when it comes to her sexual obsessions, it often
feels as if she is just going through the motions. It is hard for us to
get a bead on her, for she is a perfect reflection of the world she
inhabits, a world without a clear moral compass - so much so that we
often don't know what we are supposed to think of her or the other
people with whom she comes in contact. The script plays up the sense of
dislocation by having characters appear and disappear seemingly at
random throughout the movie, sometimes serving as little more than red
herrings for both the story and Frannie's life. This often makes it so
that we in the audience feel clueless as to where exactly the film is
headed and what the overall purpose of it really is. It's often hard
for us to get our bearings, yet, it is this very ambiguity, this sense
of being rudderless and confused, that lifts the film above the tired
conventions of the genre. In fact, the film is at its weakest when it
concentrates on the intricacies of the plot - the resolution is
remarkably mundane - and at its strongest when it merely records the
eccentricities and passions of its two enigmatic characters.

The sexual content of the film is highly charged but not overtly
offensive, with one glaring exception, at least in the 'unrated'
version (I assume this does not apply to the version released to
theaters). Early in the film, we are treated to a graphic, hard core
close-up of an act of fellatio that clearly is not simulated. Consider
yourself forewarned.

Ryan has never been better than she is here. She plays Frannie almost
as if she were one of the urban walking dead, just right for a modern
woman who feels no real emotional connection with the world and the
people around her.

Mark Ruffalo is excellent as the cop who may be more of a threat to
Frannie than the killer who's terrorizing the area. Almost as an
afterthought, Kevin Bacon makes little more than a cameo appearance,
overacting in the role of Frannie's stalker ex-boyfriend. 

'In the Cut' is a subtle little mood piece that is more about observing
behavior than it is about searching for a killer. Those looking for an
intensely plotted thriller may not be as intrigued by this film as
those searching for a psychosexual character study. It's the atmosphere
and the performances that count in this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Campion always impresses. Do not go into this film seeking a tightly
woven suspense thriller. This film deals more of what happens when a
woman is continuously victimized by the idea of true love and the world
it places her in. Meg Ryan? I gave her the benefit of the doubt. It
paid off. She is marvelous. Her character is enigmatic and sexy. The
fact that they washed away her Hollywood image delighted me. Her sexual
demands are tastefully perverted. Mark Ruffalo? His primitive macho cop
demeanor plays well for Ryan's repressed desire to have sexual
fulfillment. Why does sex effect so many of us? Why not just tell us
all about it as children. We're not stupid. Just tell us the truth.

Ryan's character has lost connection to the world. Her wisdom and
insight comes from banner poems on public transport. Ryan displays an
inner coolness that I find attractive. She does not respond to silly
questions and reacts slightly to incredible events such as being hit by
a car. She is in her own world of thought lost in an idealistic vision
of happiness and love but lives her reality in perverted surroundings
and grime. The people in her life all seem to be disconnected.

There is a serial killer on the loose and Ryan's interaction with him
is hauntingly chilling while at the same time beautifully shot. There
is a mystery as to whom he might be. The riddle was of minor concern. I
was more fascinated watching Ryan's character. The film is filled with
fabulous shots. Highly stylized. Several closeups of Meg Ryan's world.
The film drags a bit and lingers into the unknown at times just as the
protagonist Ryan. 

It has moments of beauty that is rarely seen on the screen in this day
and age. I give this film a 10.

Victor Nunnally BFA Dramatic History and Theory BFA Film Theory and
Production
<|_=00=_|>
Many people out there do not understand the difference between the Best
Picture and Best Director Oscar. After all, if the director is
responsible for making sure all the elements mix well together, then
surely Best Director should be the same as Best Picture? Well that is
not quite the case, as far as I understand it. The writing of the film,
or the story itself, is at least the main thing that a director does
not have complete control of. There are other elements too of course.
But the reason why it is so hard to explain the difference to people is
that it is rare to come across a film that is well directed but nothing
much else. However, 'In the Cut' is an example of such a film.

The plot is a thriller about some serial killer who is killing young
women. Sound familiar yet? However there is a (pseudo) erotic romance
involved too. Our protagonist is an outgoing female, but yet one with
weaknesses. The storyline revolves around a primarily sexual
relationship that she starts with a detective investigating the case,
however all along she suspects that he is the killer, because she saw
someone with the same tattoo receiving oral sex from one of the murder
victims. I won't reveal the rest of the plot, which may sound slightly
original, but yet I can reassure you it is quite hackneyed in the
execution.

The film is based on a novel written by Susannah Moore, which I am yet
to read, and after seeing the film adaptation, I am in no mood to.
Campion takes to writing the screenplay, but helped along by Moore. In
1993, Campion did a superb job writing 'The Piano', for which she
received a well-deserved Oscar. The characters in the film were all
interesting and well developed, and the story was no difficulty to
understand. It was also quite original. The material for this movie
however revolves around a familiar plot that has a thriller element.
More time in the script is dedicated therefore towards the thriller –
and romance – aspects of the story, and less towards the drama. That's
not to say that the characters are poorly developed or anything, but it
does not help. The main problem with the writing of the film is the
story itself. It has so many familiar elements and at times it is
predictable and clichéd.

The acting is not much better than ordinary either. Ryan has a few good
moments, but is often over-the-top. The rest of the cast is, well,
satisfactory, but nothing special, give or take Kevin Bacon. However
Bacon's character is perhaps the most questionable one of the lot. So
if the writing and acting in the film is ordinary, can it be a great
film? Not really. How then, one might wonder, is it well directed?
Campion is a very good director. She knows exactly how to direct a film
to give it the right atmosphere and make it look good. In the Cut is
one of the best-looking thrillers I've seen of this decade. As in 'The
Portrait of a Lady', Campion demonstrates an acute eye for colour and
light in the film. The execution is very polished. On a surface level
it does not look like a cheap Hollywood film. It does not look like a
vehicle for Ryan or any of her co-stars. Kudos especially goes to
Campion's vision of the flashbacks used in the film, which are
reminiscent of the vignettes Kidman's worldwide voyages in 'The
Portrait of a Lady'. Even Campion's use of black and white aids the
visual style.

This is certainly one of the most unique films I have come across, but
I don't say that in an overly positive manner. It is a very
good-looking film, and ignoring camera angles and editing techniques,
it still looks very solid on a visual scope. There is plenty to admire
about Campion's direction of the film, but under this polished surface
that Campion has created lies an ordinary, predictable, clichéd and
only semi-interesting thriller. It is a film worth seeing to admire
Campion's craft as a director, but the film is otherwise rather
unrewarding, though it surely will still keep one watching until maybe
the last ten minutes.
<|_=00=_|>

I had low expectations as I thought the book was overrated but this was so
much worse than I thought possible.  The whole movie made me squirm it was
so awful.  The dialogue is terrible, there is no motivation behind ANY of
the actions or words of any of the characters.  The sex scenes were
uncomfortable, not sexy.  Every word spoken by the 2 cops was cringe
inducing.  Nothing rings true and there isn't a likeable character in the
whole movie.  There is no suspense, no tension.  And while Meg's body looked
fine her face looked awful.

Jane Campion owes her an apology.  The worst movie I have seen in
years.
<|_=00=_|>
In a word, this film is disappointing. From the beginning, things felt
disjointed and confusing. I had the sense that the director was trying
to bring me into Frannie's world through visual tricks, but they seemed
forced. It was apparent early on the color red was going to play an
important part in the end of the film, because almost every scene had
some red peppered through it, but it was done is such an obvious way
that it became distracting. And every time I saw the red hat or the red
shoes or the red newspaper box, I was struck that it seemed so dated -
I remembered how effective a trick it had been with the movie 'The
Sixth Sense' and how long ago was that? I found nothing sympathetic
about the main characters. And while I didn't expect Frannie or Malloy
to have a heart of gold I would have preferred to care about whether or
not she gets killed in the end. As it goes, I didn't. Casting
baby-faced Ruffalo as a tough-guy, sex-starved cop seemed a confusing
choice. I love Ruffalo, even in his darker films, but throwing a
Village People mustache on a guy does not necessarily make him appear
more menacing.

And I know this will make me seem like a prude, but I did have a
problem with the first sex scene, where Frannie comes upon a couple in
a sex act. There is a close up view of a portion of a penis on screen
for several seconds. I don't have a problem with the act itself, but I
do wonder why it was necessary to show the penis. It was fully apparent
that the guy was getting a blow job, I'm not sure what cinematically
was gained by showing that level of detail. I can only think that it
was put in to push the boundaries of the rating system, or to fulfill
some strange agenda. It seemed pointless and arbitrary. Well, I guess
that is in keeping with the rest of the film.
<|_=00=_|>
In fact, much of Frannie's allure is that she isn't shy about her body,
or even afraid to engage in sexual activity with Detective James Malloy
(Mark Ruffalo) in her two room apartment on Washington Square… 

In the Red Turtle bar, Frannie (Meg Ryan) inadvertently watched a man,
with a tattoo on his wrist, receiving oral gratification from a girl
with blue fingernails having diamonds in them… 

Soon after, there was a homicide in Frannie's neighborhood… The body of
the woman, or part of her body, to be exact, was found in the garden
outside her window…The girl who was murdered was Angela Sands with the
blue fingernails … 

As the psychopath strikes again and again, Frannie embarks on a
powerfully physical sexual relationship with Malloy, despite her rising
suspicions, later on, that the serial killer in question may very well
be the 'good cop' with the 'three of spade' she saw once… 

Meg Ryan plays a very interior character living out of her unconscious
emotions and actions, seeming always scared of what she wants… Her only
passion was poetry… Her former lover Kevin Bacon— mentally
unbalanced—thinks he should stick around because he slept with her
twice… Bacon maintains a threatening presence throughout the whole
picture… Jennifer Jason Leigh— exquisitely sexy— graces the screen as
Frannie's half-sister Pauline… In his few scenes with Ryan, Sharrieff
Pugh proves to be sweet and charming but also bad and scary…
<|_=00=_|>
From beginning to end, an uninteresting, incomprehensible, unrewarding
waste of time. Lack of sympathetic characters in itself is not always a
bad thing (I'm thinking Taxi Driver, Bad Lieutenant, Goodfellas) but
without some performance to draw you in, some attitude or conflict with
which to identify, you're simply left in the company of dullards or
cretins, both of which are in good supply here. I know Meg Ryan's
character is supposed to be bland and timid, but she's also supposed to
have some fire burning within, some unfulfilled desire that makes her
enter into a risky affair (remember Diane Keaton in 'Looking For Mr.
Goodbar?). She shows this in her sex scenes, but none in other moments.
Mark Ruffalo? Wonderful performance, if being both wooden and extremely
repellent at the same time was the requirement. Kevin Bacon, slumming
once again (he seems determined to make 'Three Degrees of Kevin Bacon
WAY to easy to play) provides the only interesting performance, but his
character is such an obvious red herring that the fun of it diminishes
under the formula. The worst offense, however, is the total lack of
motive for the killings. 'In the Cut' is apparently (and I'm just
guessing here) a skating reference, but what's the point? All the sturm
and drang about the mother and father's romance on skates, and the
ridiculous dream sequence...why? After nearly two hours spent with ugly
characters in ugly surroundings amidst ugly circumstances, there is no
payoff, no explanation, no insight. Yuchh.

Later: I read the book. Somehow I was compelled. And it made this
abortion of a movie all the more egregious since the author had a hand
in it. The book was honest and compelling and had an ending that was
DEVESTATING and COMPLETELY in sync with the rest of the story. Why,
why, why, do these filmmakers think they can't offer an honest,
violent, sad ending to an American audience? This sell-out on the part
of the author ranks right up there with the one inflicted by the
director of both the original 'The Vanshing' and the US remake. Shame
on you for selling out your vision.
<|_=00=_|>

By now we are all more or less  familiar with Ms. Campion's filming style
and tempo.
While she has been successful with this style on previous occasions this
time I think this was a total mishit.
Meg Ryan wallows through the movie in a poetic trance, Ruffalo can't make
up
his mind if he's a tough or a sensitive cop, the killings are totally
unexplained and unmotivated, the sex scene are limp and bland, with porno
type dialogue, no chemistry whatsover between the actors, I could rant on
forever and ever. In fact I so disapointed with this movie that I could
nit-pick on it all day.
Okay so Meg Ryan plays against type. Wow! I personally think she should
stick to her day job.
