
Wow, there are lots of name actors are either in front of the camera or
being used as voices in this unique animated-real life film. They use
real people and animals (except for fake mouths when the animals
"talk") and an animated mouse (Stuart, voiced by animation favorite
Michael J. Fox.) who looks incredibly life-like.

The colors in this movie are terrific, especially with the house that
the Little family lives in. The story has some clever stuff in it but
it strictly played for laughs and reactions since credibility is about
zero in many parts of this story. However, it's supposed to be
outrageous. I don't think Geena Davis has ever played a nicer role than
this. It was good to see. The husband was just as nice, played affably
by Hugh Laurie.

The jokes are good for the kids and adults. I know a couple of parents
who liked this movie even better than their kids, so don't believe it
when someone writes that this is a film strictly for kids. That is not
so. I did object to some profanity in here at the end, which seemed so
out of place, but it's hard to expect Hollywood to get everything
right. 

The sequel to this film is even better!
<|_=00=_|>

Truly a family movie, especially made for kids.
That explains all; the absurdity, the irrational acts, the incredible story
and yet the finale.

Don't mess the story by thinking how can it happen in real life, because it
won't.

The casts are well chosen, unfortunately Jonathan Lipnicki is less adorable
than his appearance in Jerry MacGuire. Geena Davis is very standard as well
as the other casts.
But look at that little mouse! He's so adorable indeed, very sweet and
beautifully made to make you fall in love with him from the first
sight.

Well, it worked well, at least from the ratings and the gross
income.

A family classic movie. Watch it on a Sunday morning. It will lift your
spirit up.


<|_=00=_|>


If you told me five years ago that I'd be watching a movie about a mouse who
is adopted by humans, I'd probably ask you what kind of drugs you were
taking and how many would I need to take to enjoy such puerile piffle. But
five years ago we didn't have the kind of technical wizardry we have now;
witness Toy Story, the new Star Wars, or any of the recent Disney films.
Five years ago, the mouse would have been a regular rodent with a
not-too-subtle voiceover. Remember Homeward Bound, the movie about the two
dogs and the cat? There was no computer animation there, and you were
basically left with three animals who appeared to cavort onscreen while some
humans talked in the background. 

So now here we have Stuart Little, a tiny little mouse (voiced by the
always-fresh Michael J. Fox) who has lived his entire life in an orphanage.
One day, the Littles (Hugh Laurie and Geena Davis) come to the orphanage
looking for a brother for their young son George (Jonathan Lipnicki). Of
course, with so many cute little boys and girls, it's impossible to choose -
until they come across Stuart, who seems smart, funny, and wise beyond his
years. George isn't too fond of Stuart at the start - he expected something
a little... um, taller - but this is a kids' movie, after all, so eventually
they bond as only a boy and his mouse brother can - by winning a boat race
against a nasty bully.

There are a few storylines jammed into this 85-minute extravaganza. Stuart
wants to learn about his natural parents, the family cat wants to kill him,
and the parents want Stuart and George to get along. The way most of it
plays out will come off as standard movie fare - predictable to those of us
over 10, perhaps - but the winning charm of Fox as the loveable Stuart
coupled with an engaging and appealing cast of characters makes up for any
familiarity you might feel. On top of it all - the special effects. Now, I'm
not one to heap overweening praise on special effects, but at no point
during the viewing of this movie did I consider Stuart (or the cat, voiced
by Nathan Lane) to be an artificial computer creation. Sure, you have to
suspend belief a little bit for this movie, but hey - don't you have to do
that with almost any movie, anyway?
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is really sweet, and I enjoyed it enormously. Sometimes it
is a bit overly sentimental, and the human characters aren't as
charming as the animal characters. Jonathan Lipnicki was sweet as
George, but doesn't quite have the charm he brought to the The Little
Vampire. Geena Davis and Hugh Laurie do amiably as the parents, but
both seem subdued. Luckily, the human characters don't interfere too
much with the animals, and still bring a certain charm to the screen.
Stuart is wonderfully voiced by Michael J.Fox, and he joined by a
hilarious Nathan Lane as Snowbell and a villainous Chazz Palminteri as
Smoky. The script is intelligent and sweet, and there are plenty of
charming scenes with Stuart and George. All in all, really sweet, fun
and memorable. 8/10 Bethany Cox.
<|_=00=_|>

A combination of seamless animatronics, puppeteering and computer generated
effects make this a completely believable movie.

You will be left wondering "How did they do that?"

But once you stop being amazed at the wizardry involved in just making this
movie there is a wonderful story behind it all.

Stuart, who just happens to be a very charming white mouse, is adopted by a
very special family -- the incomparable Gina Davis and the ever amazing Hugh
Laurie.

This is a story of acceptance, unconditional love and of a great deal of
caring -- even though you may be a little "different."

This is a "not to be missed" film -- and adults will enjoy it as much as
children do.

In fact, the day that I saw it there was only one child in a nearly full
theater; and I had the feeling that many of the adults there had seen it
before.

Don't pass up a chance to see one of the best written movies of the
year.
<|_=00=_|>

I didn't want to see this movie.  Oh no, it looked to cute for me.  But one
day I turned on HBO and heard that voice.  That voice would be Michael J.
Fox's voice.  He does the voice of little Stuart Little.  This made me start
watching.  So anyway, not only does Michael J. Fox do an excellent job with
the voice of Stuart, but Jonathan Lipniki who plays George Little is one of
the best child actors, and this shows in Stuart Little.  Geena Davis and
Hugh Laurie also do a great job playing parents Eleanor and Frederick.  This
is a must see family film.  I promise you will find something about it you
like.  I didn't think I'd enjoy it, but I'm already ready for Stuart Little
2.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>

The Little family are looking to adopt a boy to give their son George a
brother.  When they go to the orphanage they meet an adorable mouse called
Stuart and decide to adopt him.  Despite early resistance from George,
Stuart makes himself part of the family, much to the chagrin of the house
cat Snowball.  To get rid of Stuart, Snowball reaches out to some local
alley cats to set up a whack on Stuart.

If my plot synopsis has talked up the mafia connotations of the cats, it
is
because that is the part of the film that I find the funniest part of the
film because it is lacking in the syrup that kind of takes away from the
rest of the film.  The main story is quite sweet but also has a good sense
of humour that will appeal to adults as much as children.  It's not
perfect
for, like I said it does get a bit overly sentimental at times although it
just about manages to stay sweetly sentimental and not fall into being
sickly sentimental.

The animation is superb and only occasionally does Stuart look out of
place
in the frame.  For the most part it all flows well together and was
deserving of the Oscar nomination.  Just as deserving is the animal
training
- anyone with cats will know how hard it is to get the little b*stards to
do
anything you want, so to have them do so much work is very impressive
(although I understand it is all about food).

The cast are all pretty good.  Davis and Laurie play it straight and are
lumbered with carrying the emotional side of the film and don't have much
comedy (a shame considering Laurie's talents).  Michael J. Fox does the
best
work - he makes his Stuart very sweet and likeable; a true prince amongst
mice!  Lipnicki does OK but is basically just the `cute kid' that is
legally
required in all American family movies.  The funny stuff comes from Lane,
Zahn, Kirby, Tilly and, best of all, Palminteri, who's mafia cat is
hilarious and sends up his own characters by doing so.

Overall this is an enjoyable family film.  It may not be hilarious for
adults in the way Toy Story and it's like are but it is not dull.  It has
characters for adults and plenty for children and it's all a bit of fun
with
a slightly overly sweet centre to it.
<|_=00=_|>
Both "Stuart Little" and its first sequel, titled "Stuart Little 2" are
two nice little family films that I recommend for their effective blend
of drama, adult humor that never goes out of hand, controlled suspense
and violence as well as language, and yet it never gets so immature as
to become only for the kids. Some critics thought that the movie might
have had some moments too intense or unsuited for young children. I was
eight years old when I first saw this film and it never bothered me. I
was surprised to find swearing in this film, but again, it didn't
degrade the film because it was sparingly used and by that I mean it
was only used once or twice.

The character of Stuart is very effectively brought onto the screen.
The mouse is entirely computer-generated in an efficient way and the
contributions of Michael J. Fox's voice work out very well. The same
goes for the other animated characters. All of the live-action
performances were well-done and they blended in perfectly with the CGI
characters.

"Stuart Little" has a good heart and it is can be a very warm little
family movie for everybody to enjoy. I still enjoy it nine years after
I first saw the film and I do recommend it. It's a film that will suit
audience members of all ages. As long as you enjoy family films.
<|_=00=_|>

Stuart Little: The Little family set out to adopt a child, and choose a
amiable talking mouse instead, much to the chagrin of their son and the
family cat.

There are two words that describe this movie - words I swore I would never
use in a review- :  cute and sweet. Based on the children's story by EB
White, the story is funny, cheerful, engaging and translates well to the
screen.

The filmmakers obviously realized that making Stuart look real was
essential
to the movie's success and spared little expense (approximately half the
film's $60 million budget went to Stuart). The results are phenomenal - you
can see each individual hair on his face, his movement is amazingly fluid
and when he talks, you forget he's animated .  The same techniques are also
utilized to make the film's felines talk. The voices - Michael J. Fox as
Stuart and Nathan Lane as Snowbell - were ideal choices and help to enhance
the experience.

Everyone left the premiere sporting a big silly grin and I think you will
too. One note - you'll never look at pest control quite the same again.

<|_=00=_|>
See this movie is excellent because it re cute, has excellent
performances, excellent script and excellent story, is a fun and
entertaining movie for the whole family.

I really liked "Stuart Little", it's dramatic comedy with a bit of
animation, one of the best movies I've seen, it's about a Mouse that
looks for a home and finds it when the little ones adopt it, to George
it does not like anything and the cat Snowbell hates it and in a part
saves it of some cats that try to eat it to him. In short, it is a film
suitable for all audiences. The voice of the mouse in English is done
by Michael J. Fox and Snowbell is done by Nathan Lane. I can not stop
laughing at the part when Stuart is in the washing machine. I give it
10 points, I love this movie is one of my favorites because the truth
is that I loved this movie.
