
Meryl Streep is absolutely astonishing. I forgot it was her ten seconds
into the film. That opening breakfast scene where all of her story is
written in her magnificent face. As an Italian I know there is no
acting involved here. She IS Italian. She reminded me of Anna Magnani
in "Bellissima" there is not a single false note. Clint Eastwood,
clearly, dedicates the film to her and the results are pure magic. The
film is based on an unreadable book- at least I couldn't get through
it, in spite of the brevity of the volume - the film however, is bound
to become a classic thanks to the powerful chemistry of the stars. If
you love film,like I do, I recommend you to see it once and let
yourself be taken away by the truths in Meryl's eyes then go again and
take note. Look at every one of her moments, from how she closes the
refrigerator door to her laughter. Look at her reaction when she
discovers that Clint stopped at Bari, her home town, just because he
thought the place was pretty. Look at her hands, her walk and then go
back to her eyes. It's a treat of the first order. Clint, in front as
well as behind the camera,does a miraculous job. I passionately
recommend it, no matter how young you are.
<|_=00=_|>
The book on which this film is based is a very thin volume, thin in
every department. As a matter of fact I gave up after a few pages. The
film is something else entirely. Meryl Streep plays an Italian living
in rural America and she is out of this world. Her opening scenes at
the breakfast table are staggeringly beautiful, it could have been a
silent movie, we would've understood and live Francesca's story just by
looking into Meryl's beautiful face. Every laugh, every move, every
nuance is so Italian and so real that I went to look up her background
to see if there was some Italian blood in her. Apparently not, but she
reminded me of Anna Magnani and of my mother - she's Italian too, so I
should know. Clint Eastwood's performance is tender, powerful and
generous. I started going to the movies in the 70's and part of the
fascination was to go and see movies with adults doing adult things,
behaving and reacting to life the way adults do. "Five Easy Pieces"
"Coming Home" "Sophie's Choice" and then the old great old ones from
"Sullivan's Travels" to "All About Eve" As a side note I should inform
the decision makers that on my second visit to the theater I took five
kids with me, two 17 year old boys and three girls, 18, 16 and 16. They
went back to see it a few days later with some of their contemporaries.
The comment of one of the boys was: "It made me think of things I don't
usually think about". He invited his mom to the movies to see "Bridges
of Madison County" According to his mother, that was the first time
ever, but, as it happens, not the last.
<|_=00=_|>

I only managed about two pages of the book before feeling physically ill
by
the trite dialogue, heavy dependence on cliche and ham fisted, adolescent
romance prose style. So a film of the book 'The Bridges of Madison County'
did not fill me with joy and pleasureable anticpation.

Yet Clint Eastwood has waved a magic wand, and worked wonders on the lack
lustre source material, by pairing it down to produce a beautiful, warm
film
with only one real flaw (more on that later)

The film's overwhelming main strength is the casting of Meryl Streep. As
Francesca she dissolves into the role - at times her gestures and dialogue
seem so natural and unforced it is as if Eastwood had installed a
fly-on-the-wall camera into the house of a real Iowan housewife. She lifts
the film - which does centre on themes which could appear trite in the
wrong
hands - to the level of profound piece of art. Her selflessness and
devotion
to her family, and tortured sense of divided loyalites are presented so
powerfully, and so plausibly, that the final scene in the car at the end
(those who've seen it will recall immediately what I mean) pulls at your
emotions so hard you'd swear it was you who was making the decision. I
defy
anyone with a pulse not to shed copious amounts of tears at this point ---
you would have to have a heart of stone not to be moved on some level by
this great, great performance.

Clint Eastwood provides good, solid support in the sense that he doesn't
overact, and allows Meryl to become the heart of the film. This is a wise
decision - part of the terrible weakness of the book was its dependence
upon
the inane thoughts and ramblings of Robert Kincaid. The film is
beautifully
directed, beautifully photograhed and beautifully scored - the radio tunes
and the non-diegetic Bridges Love theme really enhance the romantic, lush
tone and mood of the film.

My only problem is with the misguided decision to cast Francesca's older
children and flash back periodically to them reading through their
Mother's
journals. The acting in these parts is mediocre at best, and they detract
from the elegance and poignant mastery of Meryl Streep's central
performance. The ashes scene at the end is - I feel - necessary for
closure,
but the rest of the scenes featuring the chldren should have been
scrapped.
The Francesca and Robert sections stand alone and require no
interruption -
these other segments cheapen the mastery of Meryl.

Above all, this is a film which (on paper) can be dismissed as pure soap
opera. But it transcends these potentially trite themes to make a
universal
story of love, selflessness, devotion and choice, that speaks eloquently
to
the viewer, no matter what your age or experience. It's a truly
heartbreaking tale of transitory experience and the power of memory. It
will
make you think about your own life, and about your closest family members
and relationships.

And its finest quality has to be the magic of Meryl Streep who proves,
yet
again, why she is uniquely the best actress we have ever had. As Clint
Eastwood said about casting this role: 'I only made one phonecall'. He
knew
as you will too - no other actress could have brought so much depth,
warmth,
beauty, charisma and humanity to this character. As a humble film lover,
it's all I can do to applaud her from the depths of my heart. Bravo, Queen
Meryl!  
<|_=00=_|>
When the soul of a movie is reflected in an actor's eyes then you have
a miracle, you have something that's going to last. Meryl Streep in
"The Bridges Of Madison County" is such a miracle to me. I never
thought for a moment that she, no matter how wonderful an actress she
is, could fool me. Meryl Streep could never be Italian. Well, there I
was, thinking and pre-judging like people I detest. I was so wrong. Not
just because she fooled me, although there is no fooling involved here.
She won me over. I forgot she was Meryl Streep, the actress, and I
lived Francesca's story to the fullest because, I suppose, that's the
mystery of great acting, I was confronted by her sheer undiluted truth.
The truth in her eyes in every one of her gestures. The truth on her
brow. Her thinking, transparent. Clint Eastwood does the right thing
putting the entire film at her service and placing himself as the foil
to liberate that powerful latent side of Francesca. I though it was
ironic and I'm not sure if was meant to be that a wonderful woman like
Francesca will sacrifice, what could arguably be call the love of her
life, for those children. The grown children's mediocrity was kind of
shocking to me. Will the revelation of their mother's secret, reveal a
latent, greater side to their natures. I hope so. Francesca deserved
extraordinary children. Try no to miss this little miracle.
<|_=00=_|>
On the page "The Bridges of Madison County" often read like a reject
from Mills and Boon and yet it was tremendously popular. People who
normally wouldn't read this sort of thing were not only reading it but
quoting it. You could say that for some people it held the kind of camp
appeal that bad books sometimes do for the so-called intelligentsia.
Personally, I am inclined to think that its tale of middle-aged romance
struck a cord. It may not have been well-written but many people
recognized in its two central characters a reflection of themselves. It
spoke of a great passion and a great loss; a "Brief Encounter" for the
nineties. Still, it never quite seemed like a vehicle for Clint
Eastwood; (once upon a time you might have envisaged Arthur Hiller
doing it), yet here it is, larger than life on the big screen and
utterly lovely, utterly heart-breaking.

Perhaps Eastwood chose to film it as a vehicle for himself. He wears
the mantle of the ageing Lothario perfectly at an age when most
romantic leads are played by much younger men, (or are simply
non-existent), yet who blanched when Gary Cooper or Cary Grant were
wooing Audrey Hepburn well into their old age. Admittedly Eastwood
isn't entirely comfortable in this sort of role. He's not a versatile
actor. His best performances have been as tortured losers or just
old-fashioned tough guys but under his own direction he blossoms here.
Of course, the 'romantic' in Eastwood has never been hard to find. You
need look only to the scores he has composed. (He has written the main
love theme here and his use of classic jazz standards by the likes of
Dinah Washington and Johnny Hartman adds considerably to the film's
beating heart).

What is remarkable is that essentially Eastwood's film is really
something of a chamber piece for two players. A few other characters
flit into the frame but for most of the time there is no one on screen
but Eastwood and co-star Meryl Streep and this is one of Streep's great
performances. As Francesca, the woman who finds in Eastwood's
photographer Robert the one great passion in her life albeit briefly
and at a time when the likelihood of such a thing happening was remote
indeed, Streep is extraordinary. Sometimes Streep can overwhelm a
project; her versatility doesn't always work in favour of lesser
material. But here she seems to have tapped quite effortlessly, not
just into the consciousness of her character, but into her very soul as
well. And if that sounds cheesy, let me assure you it isn't. Cheesiness
isn't in Streep's vocabulary, even if it is in mine! Perhaps Eastwood
was able to discern in Robert James Waller's novel the seeds of a great
love story or perhaps he just felt he could bring his artistry to bear
on some unlikely source material. Whatever, it's paid off. On screen
"The Bridges of Madison County" is a great love story; there won't be a
dry eye in the house.
<|_=00=_|>
I've watched this movie yesterday evening and it had a great effect on
me.In my opinion this movie is outstanding because it reflects an
average life,which is then becoming a really extraordinary
one,representing that everyone's life can change from one moment to the
other.And I think this meaning tells something to everyone,because
everyone has dreams that seem that one can't fulfill,but this story
says the opposite,so that at any time can come an opportunity that you
have to recognize and be brave enough not to release.Another thing is
that you may have to live your whole life in only four days and you
have to be able to live it so that after it you can say that you had a
really wonderful life. My favorite part of the movie was when Robert
was leaving and the two cars were staying at the lamps one behind the
other...it was a very touching scene,I think. So to draw the
conclusion:I can recommend to everyone to watch the movie THE BRIDGES
OF MADISON COUNTY because after watching it you're getting an other
state of mind,a better one,that doesn't allows you to give up hoping
for a better life...
<|_=00=_|>

When Francesca Johnson passes away, her grown children are puzzled to
learn that she wishes to be cremated and her ashes scattered from a
local bridge rather than being buried next to her husband. Their
puzzlement turns to surprise and shock when they read their mother's
secret journals and read about an affair she had had many years ago
with a photographer who came to the area for a few days.

I had seen this film many years ago in the cinema when it came out and
had only average memories of it. With it coming onto TV recently, I
wasn't sure if I'd bother because I had the idea in my head that this
was a rubbish weepy but decided to go for it anyway. I am glad that I
do not just make assumptions about films based on genre because my
memory had tricked me in regards this film and in fact it was
surprisingly good. I'm not generally a weepy fan but this is not what
you think a weepy will be. Reading the plot summary and watching the
film itself, it is clear how easily this could have fallen into
sweeping sentiment and unbearable mush and it is to Eastwood's credit
that it never does. Even as the plot sees the lovers falling into
idealised romance, the film never does and it is the cool, calm
direction that keeps it from being this way. Some will see this as
'excusing' the affair but I don't think it does – affairs happen
because the grass is greener and that is just what this film does; it
seems romantic and idyllic but that's because it is meant to be. I'm
the last person to try and defend having affairs but I don't think that
this film did this but I can understand why people would dislike it for
doing this.

Without the mush, what is left is a film that is refreshingly free of
sentiment and is able to deliver a grown up romance that is genuinely
touching. This is seen in the honest chemistry between Francesca and
Robert; sometimes things like this happen – two people just click,
nothing has to be massively wrong in the relationship for it to happen.
The film avoids easy shots (like making the husband be a real idiot)
and just tries to show us why these two fell for one another so
quickly. It isn't perfect of course and it is still a weepy of sorts –
some of the dialogue is a bit self-consciously 'deep' for my liking but
generally it was an adult telling of an adult romance – no corny
ending, no sweeping score or clichéd effort to pump the audience for
sentiment, instead I found it genuine and, as cold hearted a b*stard as
I am, I was moved by the film.

I am a fan of Clint Eastwood and this film was a real pleasant surprise
as it showed how able he is as a director and performer. I have already
praised his work as director but he also turns in an unshowy and
natural performance in the lead. Streep has never totally won me over
and I often felt that doing an accent is not the same as giving a
performance. Here her accent put me off at first but generally she is
good and shows suitable restraint in depicting her character. She
suffers a bit from having to deliver a narration that occasionally
contains sentimental dialogue but she does well despite this. The
support cast is OK but really contributions from Corley and Slezak are
no more than distractions from the main show which is a collection of
natural scenes between the two leads and no one else.

Overall, I consider this film a reason to not just watch any specific
genre of movie and reject films simply because 'those aren't my type of
things'. I was pleasantly surprised by a film that is romantic without
being sentimental or mushy; idealistic without being unrealistic;
moving without being sickly. True it may not be everyone's idea of a
great film (nothing goes bang and there are no car chases) but I liked
it a lot more than I had expected and if you want to see an adult love
story then you could do a lot worse than this.

<|_=00=_|>
Meryl Streep received her first Academy Award nomination for the
stunning war drama "The Deer Hunter" (1978). The following year, she
won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance
as Dustin Hoffman's wife, Joanna, in "Kramer vs. Kramer". She earned
the Best Actress Award for "Sophie's Choice" (1982), and was nominated
for another Oscar for her outstanding performance as real-life Karen
Silkwood... In all, she has received 13 Academy Award nominations, the
most recent for her supporting role opposite Nicolas Cage and Chris
Cooper in the fascinating film 'Adaptation.'

In 'The Bridges of Madison County,' Streep stars as Francesca, a
conventional wife of an Iowa farmer... Francesca cares for her family
with all her heart, as she has done for years... She describes herself
as "happily married," but nevertheless falls easily into a chaste but
tender affair with a charismatic wandering photographer on assignment
for National Geographic magazine in the fall of 1965... 

Robert Kincaid (Clint Eastwood) stops at Francesca's farm to ask for
directions... While close-ups provide Streep's intimate thoughts, some
women lost patience with her indecision and reticence...

Francesca, although nervous by the attention of the courteous visitor,
but guilty about being unfaithful to her passionless Iowa husband,
finds out a mystical attraction for the top photographer who has come
to Madison County to take pictures of the local covered bridges...
Francesca was at home, alone, her husband and two children having gone
for four days to the Illinois state fair...

Francesca and Robert talk about their lives and their old dreams, and
as their relationship grows, they both find themselves drawn to each
other, falling deeply and immediately in love... Their true love
strikes at the heart of everyone... 'In a universe of ambiguity, this
kind of certainty comes only once.'

The suffocating rain sequence has to go down as one of the most
poignant in cinematic history, beautifully complemented by a soundtrack
resonating with a melancholic piece of blues and piano... 

Every performance in the movie is backed up by a truthful, believable
script full of real, everyday people... The poignancy of each moment is
underscored by an unforgettable choice of romantic melodies... 

The motion picture, nominated for the César Awards in France, is
another example of Eastwood's exceptional style as both a filmmaker and
as an actor...

As a filmmaker, Eastwood proves his comprehension of the secret of
romance novels, showing sensuously, and sensitively the way people feel
and think when they are really in love... As an actor, he is very
convincing as the loner with much to share... Although his travels have
taken him far across the 'other side of the world,' he still looks
cleverly back on his life...

His film gives us the passion between two lovers, but also life's
compromises and regrets... It is a realistic portrait of a man and a
woman who love the memories they share... It is a sensitive exploration
of feelings which grows into something neither one can get free... It
is an invitation to consider what might have been missed or lost in our
life... 

Meryl Streep is heartbreaking as a lonely woman surrounded by family...
We truly feel her pain and desperation... She fights with all the love,
hope, frustration and responsibility... She is someone whose dreams of
coming to America have not been fulfilled by the tedious reality of her
life in Winterset, Iowa... Her busy life is filled with details but has
nothing that truly excites her anymore... She is forever altered by a
chance encounter.. Her emotional range is enormous and her laughter is
as charged with energy as her tears... But you never doubt the truth of
what she's feeling... 

As the pair reveal their own lives through each other, a connection is
made, and in just four fateful days, they find one another and commit
themselves to each other for a lifetime even though they remain
apart...

We all dream of the chance meeting, that particular time when we really
feel we are enjoying life... But love never obey our expectations...
Robert and Francesca, couldn't stay together physically, but their love
was so strong that lasted forever as Francesca grew old on the farm and
Robert traveled the world... Women love romanticism and never seem to
get enough... And true love is possible, even in the scope of a life of
compromise, and in the middle of nowhere, on the far side of any age...
<|_=00=_|>

I think this movie of one of the best movies I have ever seen. Meryl
Streep and Clint Eastwood really did a great job in this movie. for him
to come in and change her life in just four days is amazing. To fall in
love with some one in just four days is just wonderful to me. I watch
it on Starz, and it played everyday for a week and I watch it every day
it came on. she was a strong lady to stay there and be unhappy for all
of those years. It is simply a beautiful movie. I love the part when he
was picking flowers for her and she told him that the flowers were
poison and then she started to laugh, that was hilarious to me. Because
just in the few minutes she had know him he brought out something in
her something that has not been released. She was more herself in this
movie.I would surely recommend this movie to some one else.

<|_=00=_|>
I admire the likes of Woody Allen, Chaplin and Clint Eastwood (just to
name a few), who possess(ed) the chops to write, direct AND act.
They're complete artists, and I wish I could be like that (I'll be
already too happy if I can ever achieve my life passion of writing and
directing, though, since my acting would be less convincing than Owen
Wilson playing Hamlet). 

Even though Eastwood didn't write this (Richard LaGravenese did it
beautifully, based on a novel by Robert James Waller), he does a good
job in front of the camera while also directing this human encounter
between a photographer (played by himself) and an Italian housewife
(Meryl Streep, magnificent) in 1960s Iowa. Their four days together
would change their lives forever. 

The premise doesn't sound too original, but Eastwood wonderfully
captures all the raw emotions between these people, who seem throughly
genuine, alive, and passionate. Lennie Niehaus' beautiful music score
helps enhance the romantic atmosphere, and the slow pace is never a
bore since it's necessary to make you live those brief but special
moments with them. From westerns to female boxers to jazz musicians to
war dramas, Clint Eastwood knows how to tell a good story, and "The
Bridges of Madison County" ranks among his best. 10/10.
