
Here's my review of Ralph Bakshi's 1992 Paramount Picture "Cool World",
starring Brad Pitt, Gabriel Byrne, & Kim Basinger.

I won't give a plot synthesis, as that would spoil the fun. Instead,
I'll cut straight to the chase and give you my brutally honest opinion
on this film. I'll start with my view on the widely-held opinion that
"Cool World" is a rip-off of "Who Framed Roger Rabbit". Even though
"Cool World" is undeniably Roger Rabbit-esquire, and Brad Pitt said in
an interview that "'Cool World' is like 'Roger Rabbit' on acid", sexy
cartoon women and combining live-action and animation have been staples
of Bakshi's films before Gary K. Wolf even created Roger Rabbit. "Cool
World" reminds me more of "Gremlins 2: The New Batch", because A: The
rule that noids (humans) and doodles (cartoon characters) can not have
sex with each other is similar to the 3 rules for owning a Mogwai
because they are ancient sacred rules that must not be broken, lest
cartoon-type chaos wreck havoc, & B: Holli's goons (Slash, Bash, Mash
and Bob) reminded me of Gizmo's 2nd batch of offspring (Mohawk, Daffy,
George and Lenny).

Anyway, there are a lot of things wrong with this movie. First of all,
there are lots of plot holes and plot points that are never fully
explained. This might be fun for those with imagination, but most would
find it lazy and rushed. Kim Basinger is a pretty lousy actress in this
movie. True, her character Holli Would was meant to be hated, but the
doodle and noid versions of Holli look and behave so differently it's
almost hard to believe that they're the same character. Gabriel Byrne
plays a pretty dull character in this film, and only part I was
interested in Jack was when he became a super-powered doodle, and that
wasn't even Gabe voicing Super Jack, it was Maurice LaMarche (who is
based known as the voice of Brain from 'Pinky and the Brain'). Also,
the combination of live-action and animation is not nearly as smooth
(in both the way the cartoons are placed onto the live-action and in
the live-action actors' interactions and responses to the cartoon
characters that are added later) as it was in "Who Framed Roger Rabbit"
and similar films like "Space Jam" and "Looney Tunes: Back in Action"
and "The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle". To top it all off, the
whole film just feels dated, even for 1992, I guess partly due to it
using ink-and-paint-on-cells instead of digital ink-and-paint, which
even Bakshi's protégés at the Ren and Stimpy show were able to afford
on an animated TV series budget and use in several episodes of its 2nd
season, which premiered only a few months after "Cool World"'s release.

But the disaster this film ended up being is actually not entirely
Ralph Bakshi's fault. Ralph's original script for this had Holli
(originally called Debbie Dallas) and Jack having a son who was a
strange combination of live-action and animated body parts and who
hated himself for what he was & what he wasn't and attempted to murder
his father. But producer Frank Mancuso Junior (whose father, Frank
Mancuso Senior, was then the head of Paramount Pictures) had the script
completely rewritten which heavily muted the film's messages of the
importance of fatherhood and the dangers of casual sex, and hired Kim
Basinger (who was a pain in the butt during shooting and ruined the
movie even more) and Gabriel Byrne (whom Bakshi felt was too much a
foreigner to play an American underground cartoonist) when Bakshi
wanted Drew Barrymore and Brad Pitt to play the leads.

But even with Mancuso's bastardizing Bakshi's original vision for the
film, there are still some things in "Cool World" to enjoy. For one,
the animation is mostly quite good and reminded me at times of Tiny
Toons and Ren & Stimpy. Also, Brad Pitt does a rather decent job acting
in this picture (despite his interactions with cartoon characters
leaving a good amount to be desired, as he's no Bob Hoskins) as his
character Frank Harris is rather likable. Also, Harris's arachnid
doodle partner Nails is a delightful nutty character voiced by Charlie
Adler, my personal favorite voice-over actor who has done many of my
most favorite cartoon characters like Buster Bunny, Cow and Chicken,
Ickis, Ed and Bev Bighead and many more. The secondary and minor
doodles like Lonette (whom I consider a much more desirable woman than
Holli due to her being a brunette and having a caring personality), the
aforementioned Goons, Sparks and Doc Whiskers are all interesting (plus
they're voiced by greats like Candi Milo and the aforementioned Maurice
LaMarche), as are the noids Jennifer and Isabelle Malley. Too bad
they're kind of stuck in the background. And there are quite a few
memorable laugh-out moments that make this film worth seeing at least
once IMHO.

So in the end, although this film would be perfect for Mystery Science
Theater 3000, I still find "Cool World" interesting and enjoyable. It's
certainly not as great as "Who Framed Roger Rabbit", I'm not quite sure
if I find it better than "Space Jam" and "Looney Tunes: Back in Action"
and I definitely find it better than the well-intended but ultimately
lame "Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle" movie (despite AoR&B having
better production values than CW). All in all, "Cool World"'s not a
very good, but it is very interesting and I recommend that everyone
should watch it at least once (but it's not for the immature and/or
overly sensitive).

Look out for: Future Ren & Stimpy producer Steve Worth in a cameo as a
comic book store patron (he's the fat guy), and also for Maggie "Maude
Flanders" Roswell.
<|_=00=_|>

A mixed bag, to be sure, but not (at least in my opinion) the disaster
that's widely believed to be. The story may be weak and the technology
sometimes flawed, but there is one thing you can't accuse Ralph Bakshi of,
and that is a shortage of imagination and creativity. The screen is filled
with mostly enjoyable throwaway characters and gags, and even though the
film keeps changing tones rapidly (from "slapsticky" to erotic to sad), it
doesn't lose your attention. Neither does Kim Basinger, at her most
gorgeous
here.    (**1/2)
<|_=00=_|>

I wish to state that I don't mean my review title to be sarcastic. I have a
tough time being "cruel" to a movie like this because I was informed
beforehand of Bakshi's well-meaning intentions here. I'm not a Bakshi fan,
but I appreciate what he has been attempting to do even if I personally
don't care for the content of his movies.

While Bakshi certainly has a reputation for creating films that have
outraged, offended and (with certain audiences) entertained, he is also
known by those who have met him for being someone who indeed genuinely cares
about people, wants to use his medium to show how messed up our modern
society is and how folks can triumph over the worst of difficulties while
trapped within it. The only problem is that he has a tough time
communicating with others, both personally and through his films. Somewhere
beneath all the X-ratings and reputation, there is indeed (believe it or
not) a very caring, sensitive man.

Believe it or not, he had thought of COOL WORLD as a statement speaking out
on the dangers of casual sex (his proclamation, not mine). He's trying to
point out just how dangerous such actions can be so as to caution his
audience about bodily responsibility. And, he had hoped, might even help
save lives.

The problem is that his movie is simply a mess. I've been informed all about
the insiders' stories regarding what went wrong with this production
(apparently there was even at least a couple of extra hours of this movie
made!!), including the fact that its storyline was made up as Bakshi went
along (a habit he has, I'm told, with all of his films).

The technical flaws, acting and everything else here are by now legendary to
the public, so (even though it's certainly not a favourite title of mine)
I'm going to instead point out four things I *did* actually enjoy about the
movie.

(1) Conceptual designer Barry Jackson's background designs and paintings are
absolutely brilliant. People familiar with my own work already know that
I've spent a lifetime drawing stuff similar to this sort of "twisted
background" style, so I in particular was fascinated and impressed by
Jackson's amazing work even if it was emotionally the exact opposite of the
sort of atmospheres I create. I actually took the time back in 1992 to call
him up and compliment him personally on his material in COOL WORLD; it's
that impressive. But VERY dark as it appears in this film, which is as a
city imagined in the troubled and desperate mind of a jailed
cartoonist.

(2) I enjoy most of the music on the soundtrack: Mark Isham's score is to
die for, and many of the songs here are a lot of fun, especially David
Bowie's title piece that plays over the ending credits and The Thompson
Twins' "Play With Me" which blares over the opening. (An interesting piece
of musical trivia here: there is a song called "Mindless" which only credits
itself as "Written by Mindless", "Performed by Mindless" and "Produced by
Mindless". I wonder who it really is...? Spooky...)

(3) Holli Would is a thoroughly detestable character; many say she has no
personality, but that isn't the case. She has one, alright... a selfish,
cruel, insensitive personality that doesn't care about anybody or anything
else (much less the results of her own actions) as long as she gets her own
way. She may be physically more beautiful technically than Jessica Rabbit,
but Jessica is by far the more wonderful "ideal woman" of the two in terms
of her true blue intentions and personality. So it probably comes as no
surprise that there is *ONE* scene in the whole film which *IS* funny; it's
at the very end, after the Spike of Power is plugged back where it belongs.
For a split second, we see Holli do in shock the most hilariously
unflattering take you have EVER seen! Watching her be put through such a
hysterical piece of animation after her being so selfish and design-perfect
throughout the rest of the film is a delight.
...and finally,

(4) Yes, it is a sloppy film. And so far, I'm convinced it's the messiest
film of it's type I've ever seen. But at least it had good intentions, which
does place it a mark above other movies out there which were simply
offensive dreck without any intentions at all. I may not enjoy the movie and
never will, but I do personally forgive Bakshi this film because I know he
was trying to say something important for others' sake.
<|_=00=_|>

"Cool World" is one of those films that feels unfinished, and comes across
as a well done test-market film, but not one that's ready for theatrical
release.  The actors seem to have a hold on their characters, but lack some
direction.

The animation is good, though the mixture of genres'll probably throw some
people.  The story's incomplete, the characters are never entirely explored,
and the mechanics of the fictional worlds aren't fully explained.  The
result is a film that's a bit of a mess, but still holds some interest for
its unique take on an old animation genre.

Ultimately it's a film that should've been more than what it ultimately
became.  It's not a film for kids, watch only if you're into
animation.
<|_=00=_|>

Animated films and cartoons have always been looked upon as an art form that
caters primarily to a younger audience.  Though this may be an unfair
assessment to make, it is a logical one, since the child-friendly Walt
Disney Company has dominated the animated film industry right from its
inception after introducing the world to Mickey Mouse in 1928.  After that,
there has only been a handful of daring artists who have tried to disengage
the squeaky-clean stereotype that animated films had since been branded
with.  Ralph Bakshi was such a man.

In 1972, Bakshi wrote and directed FRITZ THE CAT, a full-length animated
feature film that touted a self-imposed X-rating and worldwide critical
acclaim.  Exactly twenty years later, Bakshi would go on to direct COOL
WORLD, his sixth and most recent adult-oriented animated film to
date.

On its own, the artwork and animation in COOL WORLD is excellent.  The girls
are sexy, the villains are ugly, and the backdrops have a surreal, almost
psychedelic quality to them.  The use of rotoscoping (still a relatively new
technology at the time) to fluidly illustrate some of the more complex human
movements was a wise choice, making the animated `Doodles' seem all the more
lifelike.  The animators went to great lengths to make their characters'
interactions with live actors and actual scenery seem genuine.  Many subtle
touches, like the cartoons casting real shadows in the Humanoid world, and
the direct eye contact between the Noids and the Doodles, were added to
enhance the believability of these otherwise unbelievable
situations.

Still, despite the great animation and the artists' valiant efforts at
making the two-dimensional animation intermingle with our three-dimensional
universe, the movie's visuals, while very impressive, are ultimately
ineffectual.  No matter how well these images are drawn, their lack of depth
makes the contact with the live actors seem awkward and even distracting at
times.  Granted, they did the best they could at combining two very
different mediums, but no amount of detail can shake the feeling that you're
merely watching a 2-D overlay atop of a 3-D film, rather than 2-D characters
within a 3-D film as was intended.

The high point of the film, I think, was Kim Basinger's portrayal of Holli
Would as she fervently attempts to adjust to Humanoid life.  Basinger is
suitably perky as the deviant Miss Would, and did an outstanding job
emulating the actions and mannerisms of her cartoon counterpart.  Basinger
succeeds at making Holli's reactions to the Las Vegas public both hilarious
and embarrassing for the viewer, a feat which is probably not easy to pull
off.

Gabriel Byrne's performance as Jack Deebs is another example of fine acting
in this film.  Byrne's character, although probably not as scared or
confused by his predicament as he should have been, is portrayed
convincingly, and there's enough of a well-developed backstory to accept his
antisocial attitude and somewhat pessimistic outlook on life.  Byrne also
handles Deebs's gradual transition from calm and collected to a state of
panic and exasperation exceptionally well, and his sheepishness as he
futilely attempts to disassociate himself with Holli and her embarrassingly
eccentric behavior is another high point in the film.

Brad Pitt plays his role as Detective Frank Harris in typical Pitt fashion. 
This is not to say he did a bad job, but his performances tend to be bland
and unmemorable, and this movie is no exception.  Even as early as 1992, the
year COOL WORLD was released, we've already seen Pitt play the same
no-nonsense `tough guy' character in a half-dozen or so other films, and he
doesn't exactly add any kind of flair to make this role distinguishable from
his others.

COOL WORLD's plot, although thin, is exciting and very original.  The pacing
is lightning fast, constantly jarring the viewer with over-the-top cartoon
sight gags and playful innuendos.  There are chase scenes, fight scenes, sex
scenes, and death scenes; all seemingly back to back, and all set to an
awesome adrenalin-pumping techno soundtrack.  From the opening title to the
closing credits, COOL WORLD plays out like a cinematic roller
coaster.

However, as exciting as the movie was, I couldn't help feeling gypped after
finally seeing it.  COOL WORLD, although undoubtedly a clever picture, lacks
the social themes and political commentary (as well as the bold, overt
explicitness) that Ralph Bakshi is famous for.  In FRITZ THE CAT, Bakshi
takes jabs at a wide variety of hot-button issues and events that were
controversial at the time, such as the Black Panthers, the alarming rise of
police brutality, and the hippie movement.  Cool World, at least from my own
personal interpretation, is devoid of any kind of theme or commentary
whatsoever.

Overall, COOL WORLD doesn't really do anything that hasn't been done before.
 We've already seen adult-oriented animation in FRITZ THE CAT.  We've
already seen the `cartoon/reality crossover' in WHO FRAMED ROGER RABBIT. 
And we've already witnessed rotoscoped animation in Bakshi's own THE LORD OF
THE RINGS.  But just because it isn't groundbreaking does not mean it isn't
entertaining.  When it comes to action, excitement, and eye candy, COOL
WORLD definitely delivers the goods.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw this movie in a theater years ago, people threw things at
the screen: popcorn, soda, candy boxes. One man threw his shoes. Seldom
have I seen a film so universally hated as Cool World. The movie looks
like it was patched together with scotch tape. Did the animators even
know what a storyboard is? As delightfully integrated as the
live-action/animation is in Who Framed Roger Rabbit, Cool World is
exactly the opposite: the live-action actors look like they are talking
to the coat racks they were talking to before the animation was added.
The division between live-action and animation is crystal clear.

Brad Pitt's incomparable acting skills are not enough to allow a
willing suspension of disbelief that he is actually immersed in the
animated world. BTW, never again will I watch Brad Pitt in anything
without hearing his 1930s cartoon voice "What's in the boooooooooox?
What's in the booooooooox?" from Se7en.

The long, awkward pauses that pepper this movie from start to finish
guarantee that you can keep it running AND get a snack from the fridge
without missing a beat, provided of course that you don't lose interest
twenty minutes into the thing and perhaps throw a shoe at the t.v. If
you get to the end, you experience the enviable pleasure of Kim
Basinger being turned back into a cartoon again, as though her
live-action performance isn't already cartoonish. And you get to see
super-long cartoon arms that save the day for everyone.

Sigh. It's as bad as Monkey Bone, Pluto Nash, and Deuce Bigalow put
together. I wonder if I can get a government grant to track down all
copies of Cool World and destroy them.
<|_=00=_|>

Gabriel Byrne plays a cartoonist who is sucked into an alternate reality
where a cartoon character named Holly, Kim Basinger, thinks that having
sex
with a human is the key to entering the real world.  .  Not only is this
loud and obnoxious film poorly-acted and badly-animated, it is also
thoroughly incomprehensible.  It tries to be another "Who Framed Roger
Rabbit," but fails so miserably that the comparison shames it.  This film
really sucks.  I can't think of a good thing to say about
it.
<|_=00=_|>
This ambitious and more adult version of WHO FRAMED ROGER RABBIT (1988)
has its moments, yet its the very extreme contrasts of the now fading
old animation cartoons and live action that carried the movie that with
today's computer digital animation would not be possible. The technical
seamless nature of the fusion of animation and live action isn't quite
as crisp and not quite as effective even in comparison to ROGER RABBIT
of four year's earlier. The storyline is clear, the cartoon humor
consistently adult, yet the ultimate possibilities and opportunities
for a serious use of this media remain untapped. Nevertheless, the
effort improves on the basic initial introduction of ROGER RABBIT and
the fantasy of comics is well captured and the strongest moment is how
the adult relationship in the real world is concluded in the movie that
makes this movie stand out from the more typical television episodes or
average comedy-drama, though the ending could still have used a bit
more sophisticated, layered, and unfinished polish.
<|_=00=_|>
In the highly specialized world of liveaction-cartoon mixes (a category
which actually has over 100 entries to date!) this high-octane treat
is, depending on your POV, either one of the best or one of worst.
Although I usually try, in my IMDb reviews, not to go head to head with
other reviewers, in this case I want to draw the reader's attention to
the earlier review posted here which insisted, absolutely and without
wavering, that this was simply a ripoff of Roger Rabbit. THAT is a
wonderful real-time example of why no one really gets this film. Let's
compare and contrast, shall we? On the one hand, in WKRR, you have one
of the most tightly controlled Hollywood productions of all time, with
none other than Robert Zemeckis, an A-lister, at the helm. The buzzword
here, folks, is control. We may never know all the details of what
happened during the shooting of WKRR -- one of my favourites, by the
way -- but from history, we can safely draw two reliable conclusions.
First, an excellent film resulted. Second, regardless of the first
conclusion, no one in Hollywood was particularly interested in doing a
sequel, and this is a town where, if someone's wedding footage looks
especially promising, at least two agents will immediately start
discussing "sequel." Which brings back to COOL WORLD. While I could
list dozens of obvious "differences" between the two productions, I
will list only one, and then rest my case. Bakshi. I say again, in case
anyone missed it. Bakshi. The core difference between Zemeckis at the
helm, and Bakshi, is that you hire the former, you unleash the latter.
Honestly, you have to wonder if any of the suits had ever seen FRITZ
before they greenlighted this deal? I totally love COOL WORLD, but I
love it for the completely opposite reasons I love WKRR. ROGER RABBIT
is a refined and polished production. COOL WORLD is insane. It should
be shown in theatres with rubber walls. The core story is insane (no
spoilers -- but Bassinger does something no actress has done before or
since, she sells "sexy" both in her live and animated versions) and the
animation is so intense that it should come with a warning about
operating heavy machinery after you see it. Look, folks, Bakshi is the
real deal, a creative genius who never seeks results, only
possibilities. If you are fortunate enough to see this film more than
once, and really watch the animation taking place in the corners of the
frame -- not in the foreground! -- you will see things taking place you
may wish you had never seen. And this tradition is not new, by the way.
Around the WW2 period, the animators at Warner, to relieve tension,
starting sticking odd cells in mainstream toons, and many were never
discovered until much later. (In the 60s a smart entrepreneur did a
tour with reels of the "banned" Bugs Bunny cartoons!) I said that
critics either loved or hated COOL WORLD. I loved it. I think it will
stand the test of time.
<|_=00=_|>
As an animator, I have a thing for movies where real people and
cartoons collide, so I decided to watch this film and after wards I
thought it was a really good movie. First off, the animation is great.
The characters are likable and fun to see on screen, and the whole idea
of the movie is interesting. Though some of the acting is bad, and the
plot isn't fully explained, and the ending is a little anti-climactic,
the rest of the film makes up for it. I also enjoyed the sub-plot of
the film, and Holli Would's dancing (thought it was obviously
rotoscoped). But overall I really do believe this is an underrated
film, because it contains the sexiest cartoon ever made: Holli Would.
I'd recommend this film to a friend, and watch it the second time. It
really is a film you'd remembered.
