

Here we have a story that starts slowly but develops into a tense emotional
drama. Michelle Pfeiffer is not only nice to look at but she plays the role
of a frantic mother in search of her abducted 3-year old with great passion
and at times hysteria. Whoopi Goldberg who plays the part of top policewoman
in charge of investigation gives a moving sympathetic performance. What I
greatly admire in this actor is the clear enunciation of her speech. I
missed not a word delivered with clarity and depth of meaning. The film
explores the feelings of children and parents caught up in the problems
associated with child adoptions. Where does this baby belong: with his
biological mother or his adopted father? It's an interesting film because
the problem is real and with us to-day.  The ending may surprise
you.
<|_=00=_|>

Ulu Grosbard has directed this fine adult drama adapted from the
best-selling novel by Jacquelyn Mitchard. Michelle Pfeiffer and Treat
Williams portray Beth and Pat Cappadora, parents of three youngsters. On a
trip to her high school reunion, Beth loses her three year old son in a busy
hotel lobby. The boy is absent from the family for nine years, after which
he is surprisingly returned to his birth family. This is just the bare bones
of the plot. However, it is the touching performances of all of the
principals which transcend the television movie-of-the-week sound of the
plot.

Michelle Pfeiffer adds another moving performance to her gallery of roles.
If the film had been released in the fall of 1998, as was originally
planned, she might have had an Academy Award nomination. Treat Williams'
role is less defined, but it is alway a pleasure to watch this under-used
and under-rated actor. However, it is Jonathan Jackson and Ryan Merriman as
the oldest son and the lost boy who make this such an emotionally satisfying
drama. Whoopi Goldberg adds some needed humor to the serious proceedings as
the detective assigned to the case.

Stephen Schiff, writer for the New Yorker, has done a lean adaptation of the
novel. Grosbard has unpretentiously directed this fine cast. "The Deep End
of the Ocean" is one of the best contemporary dramas to come along in quite
a while.
<|_=00=_|>

Beth Cappadora is at a reunion in a hotel when her middle child of three
goes missing.  At first the search is informal but it grows increasingly
frantic and official as they realise that Ben has been taken by somebody.
The family never fully recovers and carry the scars for years.  Nine years
later the family have moved to Chicago to start a new life.  When Beth has
a
local boy come to the block to cut the grass, she believes that he must be
Ben because her looks just like him despite the age.  The police recover
Ben
but is it fair to take him away from the people Ben now considers his
family?

The plot summary gives the impression that this is just a standard weepy
that would easily screen on a weekday afternoon.  However the presence of
a
couple of well known names in the cast list suggests that this film will
give the subject a more serious approach that acts more as drama than
weepy.
Partly the latter is true but not 100%, and the film is still essentially
a
sort of weepy that has a control of it's emotions and is actually quite
stable but not to the point where it is an engaging debate.

The material should be thought provoking but it isn't really.  What I
thought would be the main thrust of the film was really just mentioned in
the final 20 minutes and it was not only obvious that it was coming but it
was quite logically dealt with without real emotion - this is not a
`Sophie's Choice' situation but something quite lacking.  The start of the
film is OK but it deals with the loss too easily and I never got
overwhelmed
with the emotions the family must feel.  Towards the end the film does a
good job looking at the effects the whole thing has had on the other son's
character but even this lacks an emotional punch.

The cast are good on paper but they seem strangely stilted.  Pfeiffer is a
good actress who sadly doesn't seem to get as much good work as she gets
older.  Here she tries hard but can't get across what her character must
be
feeling inside.  Williams is an OK support for her and does OK.  Jackson
is
quite good and his character became more interesting to me than the return
of Ben itself.  Goldberg hangs around but attempts to give her a character
through one line of dialogue about her sexuality and security in her job
are
so out of the blue that I was left wondering where it came
from.

Overall this is not a weepy because it aims higher than that and doesn't
wrench all the emotion out of every scene to get the audience.  However it
doesn't aim high enough or reach the level where it is emotional or
thought
provoking, the end result being an interesting film that is a notch above
the level of daytime TV weepy but not as worthy or moving as it wants to
be.
<|_=00=_|>

"Kids don't just vanish up in smoke, kids don't just get lost, PEOPLE LOSE
THEM!" Pat Cappadora (Treat Williams) yells in an argument to his wife Beth
(Michelle Pfeiffer) about their three-year-old Ben being kidnapped while at
Beth's 15-year reunion. It seems that seven-year-old Vincent (Cory Buck)
didn't keep close enough of an eye. Beth's hysterical, and nobody knows what
to do.

Flash ahead nine years. The baby Kerry is now nine years old. Vincent (now
played by Jonathon Jackson) is a rebellious teen with a knack for hot-wiring
cars. Pat has his own resturant in Chicago (named Cappadora's). Beth has
given up photographing. When a boy, Sam Karras (Ryan Merriman), offers to
mow their lawn, Beth takes photos. And, lo and behold, it happens to be
little Ben.

Touching, superbly acted, well written, and emotionally moving. Pfeiffer and
Williams give great performances. When Pfeiffer was hysterical, that seemed
a little forced; other than that she was great. Williams delievered a strong
dramatic performance, he was perfect in almost every way. The supporting
characters delievered strong emotions and were very believeable.

Deep End's sap isn't falsely given to you: it's done in a very believable
way, even if it does seem a little over-the-top and unlikely at first. Not
many movies can truly force-feed you emotion and lump-in-the-throats, but
this one does.

The plot twists actually were somewhat unpredictable. Actually, the movie
was divided in half: the first half is when Ben is missing, the second is
when Sam comes. When the finale comes in, I was surprised, even though they
go for the "Hollywood Ending".

It definately didn't seem scripted. The human interactions were very real,
and the chemistry between everyone (especially Jackson and Merriman) were
extremely believeable.

The Deep End of the Ocean is a touching, sad, yet somehow satisfying yarn of
family.

My rating: 8/10

Rated PG-13 for language and thematic elements.

<|_=00=_|>

I never heard of Deep End of the Ocean until it showed up on cable the other
night.  The whole time that I watched it, I thought that it was a made for
cable movie.  Pretty good performances--I think some of the other reviewers
came down extremely hard on this movie.  Not generally my kind of
movie(emotional chick/family movie), but I was pleasantly surprised, even
though I must say that it did have that "Lifetime Channel", feel about it. 
7/10 stars    
<|_=00=_|>

I think that I would have liked this movie a LOT more if I'd never read
the
book!  If anyone of you have the chance, READ the book!  Oh, it's
AWESOME!!!
In my opinion, the movie left out some stuff that would have made it a
LOT
more interesting!!!  Some people seem to think that parts of the movie are
unrealistic, but when you read the book and get all the detail and
everything, it starts to become a lot more believable than it is in the
movie.  Plus, the older brother has a MUCH larger role in the book, which
makes more sense than how they protrayed him in the movie.  Anyway, I
guess
you can tell, what I'm trying to say is, READ THE BOOK!!!!  :-)

<|_=00=_|>

At last a good movie for Pfeiffer. Great performance. If you're a fan of
Pfeiffer-and not only-it's well worth this. The stories with illegal
adoptions make some people feel uncomfortable. However, this is a movie
with
great actors. Goldberg as Candy Bliss is great and Jonathan Jackson as
Vincent (16 years  old) is a very talented young actor. Generally the movie
has 2-3 very POWERFUL scenes, go and see it!
<|_=00=_|>

Well made, superbly acted film about a family who faces the loss of a loved
one to a kidnapping. He appears 9 years later, but he feels foreign to the
family he once knew. Pfeiffer delivers one of his strongest, most deeply
passionate performances as the emotionally torn mother of the missing child
and she is complimented by Williams (his best in years), Jackson as a
troublesome elder son and Goldberg, in a pivotal role as the detective who
helps find the family's boy. The pacing is just right and the performances
make you grab for the tissues at the pleasant ending. 
<|_=00=_|>

i have to admit that i thought this movie was boring at the beginning. but
as the film rolled along, it turned out better than i expected. the acting
was really good, especially from michelle pfeiffer and jonathan jackson. i
would recommend this film for mothers, and it's also good for people who
have gone through the same thing.
<|_=00=_|>
Beth Cappadora (Michelle Pfeiffer) is at her high school reunion when
her 3-year-old son disappears from his brother's care. The little boy
never turns up, and the family has to deal with the devastating guilt
and grief that goes along with it. Nine years later, the family has
relocated to Chicago. By a sheer fluke, the kid turns up, living no
more than two blocks away. The authorities swoop down and return the
kid to his biological parents, but things are far from being that
simple. The boy grew up around what he has called his father, while his
new family are strangers to him; the older son, now a teenager, has
brushes with the law and behavioral problems. His adjustment to his
lost brother is complicated by normal teenage churlishness, and the dad
(Treat Williams) seems to expect everything to fall into place as
though the family had been intact all along. It's a tightrope routine
for actors in a story like this, being careful not to chew the scenery
while at the same time not being too flaccid or understated. For the
most part, the members of the cast deal well with the emotional
complexity of their roles. Though the story stretches credulity,
weirder things do happen in the real world. The family's pain for the
first half of the film is certainly credible, though the second half
almost seems like a different movie. Whoopi Goldberg plays the
detective assigned to the case; casting her is a bit of a stretch, but
she makes it work. All in all, a decent three-honky movie in the vein
of Ordinary People.
