

I remember a year ago when I went to see this movie. I think of that day as
a turning point in my life in how I view animation.

I am surprised I have not written a review for this movie. After reading
through every single bad review by every paid critic on the planet and
watching this movie fail because of it (taking Fox Animation with it), I
have decided it was about time I added my insight into the pile. Kind of
late, but bear with me. I know more now than I did then.

First off, the storyline isn't what the critics have brainwashed you into
thinking. If you are a sci-fi fan, I guess it is easier to grasp. In the
wide world of science fiction, this movie seems to have struggled to find
originality and found enough of it. Set 1000 years into the future, Humans
have discovered an extremely advanced technology which drives a race of
almost indestructible aliens to destroy Earth in it's entirety. A teenage
boy is left with the power to find the key to bring humanity back before it
is killed off forever. When I saw this movie, I had a breath of relief.
Finally humanity isn't the all-powerful! The movie puts humanity in the act
of a downtrodden, confused, holding-on race manipulated and shunned by
other
races. The emotion I felt from the story in this film and the characters in
it is extraordinary.

The animation by far is a turning point in the world of animated features.
From the start, you can tell the animation is exceptional. Extra time was
taken to make the characters lifelike, as well as the environments they are
in, the coordinating of colors, and even the shadows from a tree on the
character's faces. It's unbelievable. And the 2D animation mixes so well
with the 3D animation - it just adds to the thrill of the movie. The scenes
in the movie are exceptional - from the ice rings scene with the
reflections
to the wake angels scene in space.

The characters are just portrayed so well, like I said. The actors doing
the
voice-overs put so much emotion into what the characters actually felt, and
the characters portrayed it well. There is a nice variety of characters as
well, all the way down to the comic relief of Gune and the angry
kangaroo-like alien, Stith.

Overall, this movie just blew me away. I couldn't think for days. The
animation, the story, the characters - all of it. And I have gotten others
to see this movie, and they agree on it. So next time you are in the video
store, not sure what to rent, think about this movie. I guarantee it is in
stock and it will change the way you see animation forever.
<|_=00=_|>
This film (To be blunt) is one of the greatest animated sci-fi films
ever made. The story is a blast, as are the characters and the visuals
are stunning. Unfortunately the movie was highly underrated by critics
(But what do they know). Any science fiction fan with half a brain can
see this is an intriguing story, and one that the cast is totally
committed to. Indeed the actors put on such a excellent performance
that you can believe in their plight and really feel for them. Overall
this movie is easily able to hold it's own against masterpieces such as
Starchaser: The legend of Orin, Fire & ice and other films in the
animated sci-fi/fantasy genre.
<|_=00=_|>

After reading a number of negative reviews of this film, I went ahead and
bought the DVD.  I had read that, although the movie was mediocre, it was
the kind of film that's great for showing off your DVD player.

I am thrilled to own this movie.

True enough, the story is cliched.  Yet I didn't think about it for a second
while I watched the film unfold.  I was completely caught up in everything I
saw on the screen.  If it was a slow scene, I just gazed at the beautiful
eye candy.  And during the incredibly inventive action scenes, I was
surprised to find myself at the edge of my seat.

There are some who say that the mix of 3d and traditional 2d animation
didn't work.  I couldn't disagree more.  There are times when the two styles
were a glaring contrast.  Yet, as the movie progressed, the two became as
one to my eyes.  I have no problem calling this a revolutionary step forward
in animation.

I loved A Bug's Life and Toy Story.  But this trip, in my eyes blew those
films away.

Finally, though I wouldn't consider this film 'adult' by any means, the
slighter darker tone made it much more accessible as an adult viewer.  Every
year I sigh when I see a preview for another assembly line Disney film.
(Hey, let's dumb down the gothic horror 'The Hunchback of Notre Dame' and
give him cute sidekicks!) The look of Disney films hasn't changed in years.
(If anything, they look more simple)  This film, as cliched as the story
was, was visually inspired.

The original Fantasia needed no story.  It was an appreciation of music and
animation.  Let this be the new Fantasia.  If you want to experience
breathtaking and beautiful animation, I couldn't recommend this any
more.
<|_=00=_|>

This can be a true revolutionary of all the animated films with its real
eye-stunning graphics, a very imaginative sci-fi setting, more
realistic-looking characters, and plenty of real action and yes, even some
blood-spilling violence.

After years of churning out shots of sparkly-starry fantasy like
Rock-A-Doodle-Doo, We're Back: A Dinosaur's Story, and Troll In The Central
Park, Don Bluth's crew finally comes up with a very gritty, mature science
fiction story all about humans being hunted down by the evil aliens who are
out to destroy the planet Earth altogether. So a very brave young engineer
grimly launched an enormous project that his little son was to carry on when
he finally grew up. But it just wouldn't be a very easy path for the young
hero to accomplish this great feat that would give a long ray of hope to all
the innocent humans hiding out in the outer space. But with the help of a
very
spunky young female co-pilot, a group of bickering aliens, and a hardened
space veteran, he just might...even with all those dread monsters hot on his
very tail!

Beautifully made, this sweeping space odyssey really takes GIGANTIC steps to
break from all the traditional aspects of an animated film to introduce
mouth-droppingly MAGNIFICENT visions of the distant future as well as a more
adult approach to storytelling and animation, so it may take awhile for the
casual viewer to get used to it...and one day truly appreciate the great
changes that is taking place in the whole animation industry.

<|_=00=_|>
The first time I saw this I was 13 or 14. I saw it in a theatre with
some friends. Most of em didn't really seem impressed but I really
thought it rocked. I really like Cale's character. He seemed to "click"
as a normal guy you wouldn't mind being identified with. And that Goon
character was just fantastic. I really liked the scene with the giant
ice crystals, and the sound effects during that scene were awesome. And
I noticed this movie had a lot of Starwars references, but who cares.
Didn't bother me in the least---in fact I like that kind of thing.

I was sort of disappointed at how this one just sort of dried up and
blew away (I don't even think it played a whole week at the theatre).
Luckily a friend, knowing I liked this movie, gave me a DVD he'd bought
and no longer wanted. So, again, I watched and enjoyed this
unappreciated great creation. Somehow it seemed even better now.

As usual, I'll leave all the technical discussions to other reviewers
(of which there are a multitude). I try to review on an entertainment
level only...yeah, I suppose I'm the shallow guy who only sees what's
right up front.

Anyhow, if you care a whit about sci-fi, don't miss this one even if it
is animated. It doesn't really have that "anime" feel to it. So if
you're turned off by anime, check this one out anyway.

BTW, this movie is great for family viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
Titan A.E is a story set in a post-earth era (hence the A.E: after
earth, which i thought was a nice touch). Its about the son of a
scientist who is thrust upon him the quest of finding the Titan, the
greatest ship ever built, and is humanity's last chance.

The movie begins with an awesome scene of the evacuation of earth, and
caught me nicely off guard with some great 3D rendering of the Titan
(when launched), and the escape ships. The imagination that went into
some scenes in the movie, especially the cruising alongside the wake
angels, and the ice rinks were fantastic. And the plot, though a bit
unrealistic in terms of modern science, was thoroughly refreshing in
concept. And its got just the right balance of action to move it
quickly from a kids film to a good sci-fi show for slightly older
audiences.

Titan A.E is a great film. It has a story that's original and neatly
executed. It brought about some great 3D rendering in a time where
animation was primarily 2D. Its got good character development with a
nice twist in the middle. And its also got a fine soundtrack, which I
love to listen to.

Go watch this movie. You will not be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>

Filled with spectacular visions of other worlds, Titan A.E. brings us into
the 31st century and 
into a whole new level of science fiction.  The story is pretty simple, a
race called the Drej feel 
the human race is a threat so they decide to destroy us.  The only hope for
the survival of the 
human species is a ship called the Titan.  Only trouble is, no one knows
where it is.  The answer 
lays with Cale, the son of the inventor of Titan.  Once Cale realizes what
he's in for, we're off 
on an intergalactic roller coaster ride.  We get chases in swamps filled
with hydrogen trees and 
an imaginative hide and seek game in a field of ice crystals.  Traditional
hand drawn characters 
are blended in with amazing CGI renderings of planets, ships, and the vast
emptiness of space 
with very good results.  Sure there may be some clunker lines here and there
but Titan A.E. 
gives fans of sci-fi what they want.  Well worth the price of
admission
<|_=00=_|>

TITAN A. E. / (2000) *** (out of four)

"Titan A.E." is like a giant looming over movie animation landscape; it is
one of the most visually bracing family fantasy adventures to come down the
pike in years. The film's animation is wonderfully spectacular, visually
enticing and entirely convincing. Directors Don Bluth and Gary Goldman
enthrall the audience with a sweeping sense of atmosphere and action. This
is the kind of cartoon that is mature to the level in which the characters
and set designs could have been replaced with live action filmmaking without
changing the movie's perspective. 

The production takes place twenty-eight years after the third millennium.
Planet Earth has been demolished by a cruel species called the Drej, who
fear the potential intelligence of the human race. Cale (voiced by Matt
Damon) is a young man working as a space dump attendant who believes his
father abandoned him when he was a child. Cale doesn't know it yet, but he
holds the key to the survival of the human race with a genetically coded map
on his hand showing the course to the hidden position of a special
spacecraft called the Titan.

Cale meets a young woman named Akima (voiced by Drew Barrymore), who
cherishes conventional memorabilia of her late planet. She and her captain,
Korso (voiced by Bill Pullman), and the navigator, Gune (John Leguizamo),
set out to locate the vital Titan before the evil Drej can exterminate it
along with mankind's future hope of existence. 

Instead of our traditional, well-developed bad guy that posses serious
threats to the protagonist's mission, in "Titan A.E." we receive something
of a different sort: an underwritten alien race whose motives and
backgrounds are unclear and undeveloped. The movie seems to know of this,
however, therefore the film wisely switches villains in the second act. The
story provides an interesting twist that supplies us with solid and
comprehendible antagonism. 

	This movie's plot feels somewhat pieced together from previous science
fiction fantasies like "Star Trek," "Star Wars," and "Lost in Space." John
Whedon, Ben Edlund, and John August vividly detail a story that moves along
steadily, but occasionally stalls to build momentum for the character's
purpose for achieving goals. There is a scene on a spaceship holding Cale in
captivity that feels trite and dual, but the film quickly rejuvenates itself
with an exhilarating chase sequence. The film's plot would have been more
involving if we knew more about the characters. They seem pretty interesting
but we never really get to know them because the filmmakers were more
concerned with special effects, a common misconception both animated and
live action films.

	This production is engaging and well animated; "Titan: After Earth" is
smart to jolt a appropriate about of energy into its action scenes and
contains sufficient amounts of style and wit to satisfy younger audiences as
well to hold the attention of the older, more sophisticated viewers. It is
not every day a cartoon is able to do that. 


<|_=00=_|>

The storyline of TITAN A.E. follows standard mythical canon: unlikely
youthful hero from the boondocks is forced to follow his destiny and
struggle against overwhelming odds to save his people. No surprises there,
to be sure, but God is in the details, and the details is where this film
excels. I can't say enough good about the animation and visual
artistry--it's the best ever. Hopefully this will raise the bar for animated
feature films. After forty-odd years, I have had enough of the formulaic
Disney approach.

I would also give TITAN A.E. high marks for acting and for the musical
selections in the soundtrack. This film should make a great addition to any
enthusiast's DVD library.

I agree that the plot is rather holey, but I was so busy enjoying the film
that I didn't notice at the time.
<|_=00=_|>

Saw this on DVD, missing it completely at the cinema. Which was probably
what happened to the audience for the film, as it was difficult to market
for any target group. Having seen it, it's apparent that lot of very hard
work went into producing it.

I can compare it to a few other sci-fi animated films of recent
years...

As ground-breaking as The Last Starfighter was in its day. Though not pure
animation, Starfighter showed off what even early CG could do in terms of
gimbal-free animation of spaceships and vehicles.

Much, much better than Final Fantasy, as the action is genuinely epic. The
story goes places and uses the chosen technology very nicely. Titan is not
a
boring film.

Very similar to Disney's later production of the Treasure Island book.
Disney appeared to have cribbed one or two scenes from Titan A.E. Not
nice.

Graphically, it's up there with Iron Giant, using finely animated CG
figures
mixed with traditional cell animation. The scene where we first see the
older Cale Tucker (in space, cutting up junk) is very impressive.

But something bugs me. There was something missing. Iron Giant gave me a
sense of wonder, which was achieved by some great character acting, clever
pacing and a wonderful story line. At no point was I "taken" by what I saw
on-screen while watching Titan A.E.

I think Titan tripped over itself in the drama department more than a few
times. Along with the latest Star Wars films, it tumbles along without
stopping up and letting the audience know what the characters are feeling.
The actors have to have the skills to enable the audience to feel, to
immerse. Without that, the action has a risk of becoming
incomprehensible.

Pretty, fast-paced, intriguing. But I wish someone would use these toys to
produce something great, something big.

Something wonderful.
