

A clever idea - an thriller played along real time to involve the viewer
directly in the tension and pressure of the deadlines.  Depp is forced to
kill a senator or his daughter will be killed by Walken and Maffia.  He is
given a gun and a time limit to carry it out.

As the basis for a thriller it doesn't quite work - the real time concept
falls apart a few times, but with this much talent on board it still holds
it own.  A throwback to the Hitchcock everyman thrillers of years ago, Depp
plays his character well and you always believe he is just an ordinary man
in an unbelievable situation rather than an action hero in the making while
Walken does what he does best and plays the villain well.

The plot holds together well and you really find stuff out at the same time
as Depp does.  Some of the conspiracy stuff towards the end of the film is
obvious and doesn't add anything to the film, but the main story revolving
around Depp and Walken is tense enough to carry the film.

It doesn't contain any explosions or martial arts but the tension is good
throughout.  It's not a classic thriller but it's quite an original idea and
plot and almost manages to keep the tension for the whole
movie.
<|_=00=_|>

I thought this was a pretty good movie.  A suspenseful movie, Hitchcockian
in that an innocent man gets involved in a deadly plot.  An intriguing plot
that had me thinking what I would do in the situation.  Christopher Walken
was, as usual, creepy and Johnny Depp was believable.  The rest of the cast
was very competent.  I'd advise renting it.  Not a special effects
extravaganza but a nicely written fast moving movie.
<|_=00=_|>

I've read a lot of poor reviews for this movie.  I don't understand it.  The
move is very good, it's not a 5 star movie, but it's still good.  Johnny
Depp (Edward Scissorhands, Ed Wood) stars as an average guy whose wife has
just recently died.  One day on the way home, Depp and his daughter are
kidnapped by two people, one of them being Christopher Walken (The Deer
Hunter, The Dead Zone).  They tell him that his daughter will die if he
doesn't kill a certain person.  He soon finds out that this person is the
Governor of his state.  They give him a gun and tell him that if she's not
dead by a certain time his daughter is dead.  This is a great premise for a
suspense movie and is carried out very well.  The great Charles S. Dutton
(Rudy, Mimic) plays a shoe-shiner who helps Depp.  Depp is solid as the
father in a role that's different from a lot of his earlier roles.  The
always excellent Walken is, as usual, awesome as the bad guy, a role I
always love to see him in.  The film keeps you going, by offering a couple
of nice twists.  Ignore the reviews and rent this movie.

<|_=00=_|>

Johnny Depp takes a break from his usual roles as outcasts, in this playing
a clean-cut accountant who travels by train back to LA with his daughter
after the wake of his deceased ex-wife. Upon entering the station, 2 people
show him a police badge, take him into a van, and blackmail him into
assassinating the governor in one hour or else they'll kill his
daughter.

 The remainder of the entire movie takes place in a hotel where the paranoid
atmosphere gives clues about how big the conspiracy is and the political
motives behind it; with nearly everyone keeping their eye on him and very
little time, he's faced with the difficult task of getting out of this
situation.

 A must-see if you like edge of your seat excitement and an excellent cast,
with Depp (great as Gene Watson), Marsha Mason, Charles S. Dutton, and
Christopher Walken, playing the most despicable bad guy since Laurence
Olivier in "Marathon Man".
<|_=00=_|>

"Nick of time" is directed by John Badham - man behind an amusing 70's
classic "Saturday Night Fever". It was a funny and a jovial little flick but
this one goes maybe just a little bit further. "Nick of time" is a splendid,
action-packed and entertaining thriller and it creates lots of excitement by
practically stealing good ideas from dozens of other thrillers but still
keeping the own basic idea as unique as possible. Even though this isn't
actually the greatest movie of Johnny Depp or Christopher Walken (mostly
because they've appeared in too many unforgettable masterpieces) it's
impossible to deny the fact that their roles in here are quite
amazing.

Depp is great as an ordinary dad of a little girl who's facing the trial of
his life and Walken has always been magnificent in the role of a villain.
His mean performance as a blackmailer called Mr. Smith is just fabulous.
Although "Nick of time" is basically an excellent stuff the idea of the film
is unfortunately way too unbelievable. Could this actually happen and is
this the way assassins work? Not necessarily... It won't bother too much if
you just let the the increasing tension get a hold of you. Best thing of
this movie is the fact that it's got absolutely nothing unnecessary in it
and it certainly isn't over-long. Exquisite "Nick of time" is an interesting
film and it does exactly what it's supposed to do. One of the most
functional and successful thrillers of the mid-90's.
<|_=00=_|>

I went to see this movie in the theater and I have to say that it is one of
the most underrated films I have ever seen. This movie received a lot of
bad
press when it was released but I don't see how it was justified. The story
is great and it makes you nervous watching it unfold. You will know what I
am talking about if you see it. Christopher Walken gives another great
performance as the "policeman" as he calls himself. Walken's voice is one
of
the best in the business. I highly recommend this movie if you want to be
entertained with a great suspenseful film.
<|_=00=_|>
An young accountant Gene Wilson (Johnny Deep) arrived at L.A.'s Union
Station with his daughter (Courtney Chase). From the moment, they
arrived, two mysterious strangers (Oscar-Winner:Christopher Walken and
Roma Maffia) separate him from his daughter. One of them proposed Gene
to assassinate a government official (Marsha Mason) or else, they will
murder his daughter.

Directed by John Badham (The Hard Way, Short Circuit, Stakeout) made an
entertaining, clever if barely believable. suspense thriller that was
filmed in "real time". Which it doesn't always paid off, especially the
director used endless close-up of clocks. Which does at times makes
this movie claustrophobic but not enough. This was one of the major box
office flops and critical disappointments of 1995. But the picture
plays surprisingly better on video and went on to have a sort of a cult
following years later.

DVD has an fine anamorphic Widescreen (1.78:1) transfer and an
good-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD's only extra is the
theatrical trailer. What makes this flawed movie watchable is a game
cast, sometimes amusing dark sense of humour and a few good moments of
genuine suspense. But at times, the film nearly falls apart from the
unlikely false plot moment near the third act and an unsatisfying
conclusion. Despite all this, this is a well directed picture that
certainly worth a look of this truly real mixed bag film. Written by
Patrick Sheane Duncan (Courage Under Fire, A Home of Our Own, Mr.
Holland's Opus). (*** ½/*****).
<|_=00=_|>

When you see the name Wes Craven, John Carpenter or Brian de Palma, we
know
that we can trust that we're in for a couple of hours of
fine
entertainment.

Although not as much a household name as the directors above, John Badham
knows how to tell a suspenseful story as well as any of the other "kids on
the block." Please look up his filmography and see all the countless house
of excellent entertainment he has brought us; not only on the big screen
but
on television as well.

In "Nick of Time" John carefully guides us through one disaster after
another. Johnny Depp conveys his frustration and fear that he might not be
able to prevent any of the bad things that will happen.

Christopher Walken again proves that he is as comfortable being the
"heavy"
as he has been the "hero."

At a time when sometimes the good guys don't always win and the bad guys
sometimes "get away with it," this is one cinematic thriller that should
keep you on the edge of your seat the whole 90 minutes.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the most suspenseful movies you'll ever see, but that
good for only viewing. After you've seen it, the impact is greatly lost
for further viewings.

It got panned by many critics for having too far-fetched a storyline,
and I agree. However, if you can put your brain on "hold" for 90
minutes, you'll enjoy the movie. The only annoying part for me was the
typical Liberal bias in here where the Liberal politician is the target
of a Conservative fanatic. They never show you the other way around. At
least the writers here were somewhat subtle.

As interesting the characters as Johnny Depp usually plays, the two
villains in here were more fun to watch than him. Christopher Walken
and Roma Maffia were riveting as the killers. Depp actually played a
normal person, which is not normal for him.

The suspense was so good, I could hardly watch parts of this. That was
the best part of the movie. The worst may have been the so-overplayed
cliché of the killers hesitating before shooting and then, because of
that, being shot themselves. That is so tiresome. Or sometimes the
crooks talk instead of shoot, and then are shot. It's one of critic
Robert Ebert's biggest pet peeves and I agree with him. It's another
reason this film got low grades by most critics. 

However, this "real time" movie (trying to get the viewer even more
involved), is guaranteed, if you've never seen it, to give you an
entertaining hour-and-a-half.
<|_=00=_|>
The first time I saw this movie a couple of years ago I thought it was
pretty good. Seeing it again I can't remember what I thought was good
about it. There are some enjoyable things like Johnny Depp and
Christopher Walken; it seems that everything these actors do has some
joy in it. Another nice thing is that the movie plays in real time. The
movie is ninety minutes long, and so is the story.

Walken orders Depp to kill a woman, the governor of California (Marsha
Mason), and to persuade him he and some others kidnap his little
daughter. He is given a gun by Walken. He has ninety minutes to do so
and we see that ninety minutes. My problem with this movie is the
Walken character. Although he is enjoyable to watch, he pops up
everywhere, only to serve the plot and make things harder for Depp.
Help comes from Huey (Charles S. Dutton), how I will not reveal, but
his qualities and handicaps are only there to serve the plot, again.
There are some clever moments, I liked them, but I kept wondering
things.

Pretty early in the movie we learn that almost everybody is in the
conspiracy to kill the woman, including members of the security. There
must have been an easier way to kill this woman when security is on
your side. I kept thinking about that, spoiling parts of the movie for
me. Still, if you like Depp or Walken you might enjoy this since both
are on screen almost the entire time.
