

Wonderful movie, visually rich and a nice blend of comedy, action and
 romance, well-written. Hopkins is great; so is Banderas as Zorro-in-training,
 and Zeta-Jones sparkles in her scenes with him. Very little gore
 or skin, what there is serves the plot instead of BEING the plot. The best
 movie I've seen in a long time. Note: previews make it look a lot less
 interesting than it actually is--you just see a lot of things being slashed
 and blown up, while the comic scenes between Hopkins and Banderas don't
 really appear (the best part of the film).
<|_=00=_|>

Zorro is one of my favorite heroes. He looks quite cool and not stupid,
weird or childish like Batman, Superman, Spider-Man and all of their
villains (except The Joker) and he has no superpowers like them, although
sometimes it seems that gravity does not really apply to him. His weapon of
choice guarantees some spectacular sword fighting scenes as
well.

With this hero all you need is a nice story and 'The Mask of Zorro' has a
nice story. I will be short about it. Don Diego de la Vega (Anthony Hopkins)
was Zorro but is too old now. He needs another one and Alejandro Murrieta
(Antonia Banderas) is the chosen one. Their enemy is Don Rafael (Stuart
Wilson). His daughter Elena (Catherine Zeta-Jones) is actually Diego's
daughter. His wife was murdered and his daughter was taken by Rafael a long
time ago. Rafael also made sure the brother of Alejandro was killed by his
helper Capt. Love (Matt Letscher). And now he has an evil plan that will
kill a lot of people. Time for the new Zorro.

It sounds a little simple and may be it is, but for a movie like this it is
a perfect story. Anthony Hopkins who is never bad does not disappoint us
here, Banderas has the right charm to play Zorro, Zeta-Jones is absolutely
stunning and Wilson and Letscher are very good as the villains. With some
nice action sequences and a pretty good soundtrack this is a very
entertaining movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie had just a couple of things I would have changed but the
overwhelming minutes of this 137-minute movie were well done: a nice
old- fashioned adventure story.

Yes, it's hokey in spots, there is a needless irreverent scene in the
confessional and the final action scene goes on too long, but all of
that is almost standard fare in today's films. Anyway, the "good" in
this film far outweighs the "bad."

Some of the "good" is beautiful cinematography featuring bold colors;
good action scenes; very little profanity; interesting and somewhat
likable lead characters (played by Anthony Hopkins, Antonio Bandaras
and Catherine Zeta- Jones), a fun story and very good 5.1surround
sound.

Zeta-Jones was a brand new "face" with this movie and she's never
looked better. Hopkins, as usual, is the best character as the older
"Zorro" who teaches the young one (Bandaras). Some of the action scenes
are almost cartoon-like in credibility (Bandaras doing flips while
riding two horses at once!) but they are fun.

The story is a familiar one that seems to always satisfy people:
revenge.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a truly wonderful movie. In my opinion it belongs with the
Classics.

What is a classic anyway? Something with timeless quality. And this
movie has it.

Just saw this movie again for the 3rd or 4th time since it came out. I
remembered almost every scene and still sat to watch it again. To see
the great photography, to hear the inspirational music, to admire and
have fun with the excellent performances of all actors, leading and
supporting.

This movie has it all. It revives one of the more influential
characters of all time, with the most appropriate way. You get a
dramatic, even tragic, plot, and simultaneously a fun script. Emotion
and comedy at the same time. Great visuals and scenery and also good
action.

In my opinion this a highly underrated movie (6.7 for 2013 doesn't give
it justice at all) and it belongs among the best. For the friend who
gave a low rating a note: Not all the dramas have to be edgy and dark.

Overall: Highly recommended
<|_=00=_|>
Martin Campbell sure knows how to make entertaining movies. After
making "No Escape" and "GoldenEye" he brings us yet another
entertaining movie; "The Mask of Zorro". He actually used to be one of
my favorite directors after seeing those movies I just named but
unfortunately he hasn't made anything good lately. Let's hope this
change after completing "Zorro 2" that is currently being made.

"The Mask of Zorro" is just some good old fashioned fun with lot's of
spectacular moments, good choreographed fight sequences, a love story
and a good old fashioned stereotype villain.

The story is told in a good way which I think is mainly thanks to
Campbell's directing. The pace is high and the combination between the
action, the characters and their relations, romance and some of the
comical moments is done very well, unlike some other movies from the
same genre.

There is some nice cinematography that help to create a good atmosphere
along with the musical score from James Horner. The end fight is good
and it has a spectacular big explosion in it that'll make you go; Wow!

Great entertainment for the whole family.

8/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>

The best thing about this movie is the casting.How ingenius,eh?
Antonio Banderas as Zorro,eh?And Stuart Wilson as the central villain.This
guy is one of the most unrecognised talents around.As a snidy British
baddie,he could easily give your average Dennis Hopper a run for his
money.Catherine Zeta Jones is also marvellous as the love
interest.
The action scenes and stunts are fantastic.Real hollywood at it's
best.Martin Campbell keeps an efficent and steady pace to proceedings as
director.
If there's a problem here,it's that it's probably a tad overlong.But
luckily,this unwantern time is'nt filled with unnecessary scenes but
scenes
as visually exciting as the last.
It's also marvellous that it's a PG,because such past fare,like Bad
Boys,is
loud,action packed,exciting and brilliant,it's also rather flatulent and
rude.This is just superb action entertainment which can be enjoyed by the
whole family.
<|_=00=_|>

Strikingly entertaining and first-rate in most all cinematic categories,
"The Mask of Zorro" is a smart action film that works due to a convincing
titled character (Antonio Banderas), the almost unreal beauty of Catherine
Zeta-Jones and the professionalism of Anthony Hopkins. Anthony Hopkins
starts out as Zorro, but is caught by the evil Stuart Wilson shortly after a
wild rescue of three men in the village. Wilson leaves the country and takes
Hopkins' baby daughter with him. Fast-forward 20 years and Hopkins has
escaped and he begins to teach Banderas (also seeking revenge after the
murder of his brother) the way to be a fighter for truth and justice. The
baby has grown up to become Zeta-Jones and thinks that she is really
Wilson's daughter. A great film that works well due to an adequate
screenplay, good characterization and solid direction. A near-perfect
success. 4.5 out of 5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

I just finished watching The Mask Of
Zorro, and it was a spectacular
achievement. It all seemed cliched at
first, and even though it isn't that
original, it still pays off quit well.
The cast is great. Anthony Hopkins
seems to get away with an English
accent in every movie he does,but his
acting was solid as usual. Antonio
Banderas is teriffic as the new Zorro
and there's funny moments between
Hopkins and Banderas as teacher and
student respectively. Catherine
Zeta-Jones is very appealing in her
role also. The only real complaint I
have is that the bad guys never seem
like a real threat. The direction by
Martin Campbell is very good and the
editing was great. A very good movie.

<|_=00=_|>
THE MASK OF ZORRO ****1/2 Stunning, visually rich, and highly acclaimed
motion picture that retells the story of the Masked Swordsman (Anthony
Hopkins) serving the people of California by saving them from the
devious plans and conspiracies the Spanish empire and trained forces
carry out. Hopkins trains a new Zorro (properly portrayed by Antonio
Benderas) to take his place and save California from a tasteless fate.
What subsequently takes place is nothing short of first-rate
entertainment. The film has delightful humour and well choreographed
sword-on-sword sequences. The musical score by James Horner provides
additional supportive elements to capture all of the film's diverse
moments. Excellent direction by Martin Campbell. A must-see.
<|_=00=_|>
Antonio Banderas is appropriately magnificent along with gorgeous
heroine Catherine Zeta-Jones.This superior Zorro with great swordplay
is a lavish swashbuckler starred by Anthony Hopkins and Antonio
Banderas as the dashing masked avengers . A young Banderas dons a black
outfit and becomes the ideal Zorro riding in the hoofprints continuing
in the wake of the old Zorro-Hopkins who passes his mantle of protector
of hapless ad unfortunates. This is a zesty recounting of saga of
legendary masked rider , though not as distinctive as previous classic
entry starred by Tyrone Power. Here Zorro faces danger from governor
Rafael Montero (Stuart Wilson) as well as corrupt villain captain
Harrison (Matt Letscher). And Anthony Hopkins gives slickness and
distinction as elegant veteran Zorro. After numerous setbacks the hero
and his lovely heroine, a wonderful Catherine Zeta-Jones, help the good
people of California thwart the greedy schemes of a meanie who stands
in the way of statehood for the territory. The nimble actor Banderas
runs and jumps all over the images of this movie, as he deals with the
oppressor with a breathtaking finale and wreak havoc included.

In this first Zorro starred by Antonio Banderas took a chance and
jumped from comedy-action to costumed comedy-adventures; he steals the
show as Murrieta/Zorro relishing his secret identity with cape and
sword; executing bounds and leaps, twists and climbs and throughly
enjoys himself. A great casting and an unstopped action keep this
picture moving at a rapid clip. Banderas made the character of Zorro
his own and quickly established himself as a Latin legend. Antonio
Banderas is terrific as the Zorro, well accompanied by ideal heroine, a
beautiful Zeta-Jones. Nice secondary cast, such as Stuart Wilson,
overacting outrageously as the villain, and actors as Tony Amendola and
Pedro Armendariz Jr , booth of whom will repeat acting in the
following. Furthermore, overwhelming swordplay and horse action and
displays too much of everything. Stirring musical score by James Horner
and colorful cinematography by Phil Meheux. Other versions about this
known character created by Johnston McCulley are the following : The
mute classic adaptation ¨Mark of Zorro¨(1920, Fred Niblo, with Douglas
Fairbanks), the classic ¨Mark of Zorro¨(1940, Robert Mamoulian with
Tyrone Power, Basil Rathbone and Linda Darnell), and followed by ¨The
legend of Zorro¨( 2005, Martin Campbell again with Banderas and
Catherine Zeta Jones, Tony Amendola,Pedro Armendariz and Rufus Sewell)
and European version ¨Zorro¨(1975, Duccio Tessari with Alain Delon,
Octavia Piccolo and Stanley Baker) . Rating : 7,5, good, better than
average. The motion picture will appeal to trio protagonist fans:
Banderas, Hopkins and Zeta Jones. Well worth watching.
