

the greatest casualty may be due to Red Tape.  Not only does this film
benefit from some true TALENT in the acting department, but Howard Deutch
does a great job of portraying the sad state of Veteran's Care in the US.
No, this does not appear to be "based on a true story," but it is typical
of
what goes on in the VA Hospitals; as a former Army Medic (now a Service
Connected Disabled Vet) I know whereof I speak.  I highly recommend this
film!
<|_=00=_|>
There are many good things about this movie. There are a few that are
not as "stellar" but no matter, when the subject is something as
important as this, then that's what counts. (to those like user: Rick
Peach that don't get it... read his reviews, and consider the source!
This isn't an action movie!)

This is a movie about how shamefully the Veterans of our Armed Services
are treated when it comes to medical care. The term Article 99 refers
to when a serviceman/woman is told the care or operation they need will
not be considered because it isn't a direct result of anything that
occurred while actively serving. In a world where many countries have
socialized health care for everyone- you would think here where
capitalism rules the day, we could at LEAST take care of the people who
have guaranteed our freedom and survival. And that is the message of
this movie.

The way the message is conveyed is what we discuss movies for. The
script can be at times overboard and some of Luther's (Keith David) pet
phrases are trite, but he is the "been there, done that" man of the
movie. He's seen it all and like a mascot of sorts, he seems to hang
around the hospital ready to assist new patients who are lost in this
bungling bureaucratic maze. Enter Travis (Troy Evans) a nice guy who
just happens to need a triple bypass. When one of the men who is
"Article 99'd" goes berserk and drives a pick up into the hospital, we
see the main characters start to assert their personalities and their
places in the hospital. Travis has a heart attack on the spot and it
all unfolds from there.

Dr. Sturgess (Ray Liotta) is the voice of reason in this very illogical
world. He is the head of a group of doctors (Forest Whitaker, Lea
Thompson, John McGinley) who are there not for the money, but for
"those who have borne the battle." They are joined by a well meaning
Dr. Walton (Kathy Baker) a psychiatrist who chose to come to this place
from a drug rehab clinic. Although inexperienced in the ways of this
"jungle" she has her heart in the right place. The evil nemesis in all
this is played by the administrator, Dr. Henry Dreyfoos (John Mahoney)
who is more interested in counting q-tips than helping to ease the
suffering and pain of the people for whom this place was built. His
doctors have had to resort to stealing medical equipment and supplies
from the departments experimenting on animals. Apparently a monkey can
get a pacemaker, but not a Vet.

Some of the conditions in this hospital are deplorably shocking and
terrible. There are the sick and dying and the forgotten. Also, there
is the poignant relationship between the new intern, Dr. Morgan (Kiefer
Sutherland) and his patient, Sam Abrams (Eli Wallach) as Dr. Morgan
slowly realizes how special EACH of these people are. There is a story,
a life and a sacrifice behind each bed pan, each IV, each tired old
Vet.

Some of this movie is melodramatic and it may go to some extremes to
make its point, but it is worth the watch. The performances by ALL are
very good and it's a cast that's to die for. Even the smaller roles
(Jeffery Tambor, Lynne Thigpen, Julie Bovasso) are so well cast. If for
no other reason, watch it today and remember those who have given the
"full measure of devotion" for us all.
<|_=00=_|>
Howard Deutsch's "Article 99" is a gripping satire about the Veteran
Administration that is in charge of the health care for the men and
women that served the country in foreign conflicts and who obviously,
have no other means of getting health care. The film is more poignant
to watch right now with the problems the country is facing in Iraq
because today's soldiers fighting there might have to face the
bureaucracy that rules what can, or cannot, be done to veterans without
insurance, or money to pay for medical care.

We meet a group of dedicated doctors at a facility who are real
professionals trying to go around the rules a tyrannical hospital
administrator wants to impose on them. Thus, they will resort to
stealing supplies that are denied to them in whatever form. It's an
outrage to even think that medical care is denied to the people that
were at the front lines to defend the country.

Ray Liotta is the best thing in the movie. His Dr. Sturgess is a
maverick that can do things that others would not dare to do. Mr.
Liotta gets a magnificent chance to shine as the idealistic doctor who
will do anything to help his patients. Kiefer Sutherland appears as the
young doctor assign to the hospital and has no clue what he has gotten
into, but learns fast. Kathy Burke is also good as the doctor who
opposes Sturgess' method, only to realize he was right all along. Among
the staff we see familiar faces, Forest Whitaker, John McGinley, John
Mahoney, Eli Wallach, Keith David, Julie Bovasso, Jeffrey Tambor and
others that do ensemble acting in wonderful fashion under Mr. Deutsch's
command.

The film is an eye opener as to how red tape rules a lot of government
agencies.
<|_=00=_|>

Set in a VA hospital, this movie illustrates what happens when "red tape"
gets in the way of helping people. An enjoyable mixture of comedy and
drama,
it is reminiscent of the Altman classic M*A*S*H, staring Sutherland's
father
Donald. In fact, there's a nice salute to the elder Sutherland, during a
scene between Keifer and an older hospital patient.

Those who didn't "get" this movie were perhaps looking for the wrong
things.
I won't say this movie was meant to inform, though perhaps it was. But it
definitely makes you think. Is a medical system where doctors have to
steal
supplies and schedule proxy operations really what our country's heroes
deserve? Moving and entertaining, I would definitely recommend this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I wish that I could agree with the above poster, but unfortunately I
can't. First of all Article 99 was a great movie, great cast, and an
overall great attempt to put a face on the plight of all our veterans
that are in need of medical care. The only flaw in the movie is that
there is usually no one that will take a stand and fight for our
veterans. From overcrowded hospitals, to canceled benefits, fraud and
abuse from a system that is flawed and useless. I watched my
grandfather go through the agonies of slowly dying from lack of care,
without any dignity, my friends and now myself. I wish that I could say
that it is an isolated case, and/or an isolated hospital, but since I
have been to 4 VA Hospitals in three different states, it is not an
isolated case and/or an isolate hospital. I know we hear it all the
time, another veteran crying that he is not being taken care ofmy only
question is when is someone going to listen and change the system that
created the word "red tape."
<|_=00=_|>

Article 99 displays a side of the medical profession seldom seen by
society.
The humor and over the top antics of the doctors, although extremely over
done, are only the surface. Ray Liota's performance as the struggling ring
leader of a rag tag group of vigilante doctors was not only strong, but
honest. His ability to stay in character the entire time was a difficult
feat, but he pulls it off sincerely. Kiefer Sutherland's performance was as
equally well portrayed as Liota's, even though Sutherland's character is
the
polar opposite of Liota's. His portrayal of an upper class, arrogant, young
intern was right on the money. However, it is not just their great
performances, but the supporting cast is equally as fantastic. The dialogue
is full of well written and delivered witty banter and the cast seem to
play
off each other well, but there is a serious under tone to the humor. The VA
hospital in which all these caring individuals work is suffering badly from
governmental cutbacks, a crooked administration and red tape as far as the
eye can see. For those who are able to understand or "get this" film, it is
a funny, poignant yet honest look at a different side of the medical field.
In other words, this ain't ER or Chicago Hope, it's a whole new ball
game.
<|_=00=_|>

I liked this film because it not only was entertaining but also
enlightening. The film essentially explores the obstacles that veterans
have
to go through to get medical care and to what length some doctors will go
to provide it. It brought me into an awareness that the Veterans
Administration may not adequately care for our soldiers once they leave
the
service. Ray Liotta turned in an endearing performance.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was made in 1992 but i only heard about it when i saw that it
was on FX channel last night (22 Feb 2005). Ray Liotta was a goody
which i'd never seen before, and he was great. The story is about low
paid doctors trying their best to provide war veterans a complete
medical service of treatment (including psychiatric) and operations.
The hospital is overcrowded, understaffed,underfunded and
under-supplied of medical provisions. The film takes us through the
trials and tribulations of the underhanded tricks they pull to get
provisions and perform operations on the needy Vets. The uncaring chief
Administrator, wants the hospital run by the book, which does not
include certain types of treatment and operations. Indeed, it seems
like he doesn't think there should be patients in his hospital at all!
- so of course, they have the expected run-ins with him. Plenty of
famous faces as patients, a little bit of romance, humour in the right
places and an exciting climax, complete this great drama - well worth
watching. I'll be getting the video i think!
<|_=00=_|>

Article 99 is a biting backlash against the absurd beauractic red tape
preventing Veteran's hospital from dispensing much needed care to mounting
numbers of patients. Faced with the endless parade of lost files and missing
certification statements, hiding patients, and stealing medicine, these
noble doctors do whatever it takes, defying a stubborn administrator and
risking the vitality of their medical careers. 

Good performances by all, particularly among Keifer Sutherland as the new
doctor who is steadily learning the difficulties and trade-offs of working
in a system so inexplicably and ineffectively bound by the system,
experiencing this in his exchanges with an elderly patient named Sam (Eli
Wallach). It is disgusting to see Sam, heralded a war hero and honored with
a Silver Star, to be labeled a Gomer (patients who hang around the hospital
on some unknown floor waiting to be approved for their respective
treatments), only to die because the adminstrator restricted the funding so
much that they couldn't perform the tests on him, leaving him to slowly die
and the young doctor to scramble desperately to save his life, not being
able to do much to help him, his hands tied by the system.

Keith David is excellent, too, here in another war-themed movie with John
McGinnis, having previously co-starred together in 'Platoon.' David is
"Luther," a disabled vet who acts as the source of reality, I suppose, of
how the hospital operates, but is also a 'guardian angel' type as he
protects the doctors who just want to take care of their damn patients.
Luther, as evident in the finale, stages his own sort of war, one against
the government when the hospital goes into lockdown, and it is not one he is
willing to give up. Once fighting for his government, now his fighting
against them. David also adds some good humor to the story, a bit of comic
relief to this gloomy drama. Eli Wallach provides some of the
same.

Ray Liotta, Kathy Baker, and John Mahoney likewise give good performances
and it is the cast that really make this movie as good it is, propelled by
an important story. 
<|_=00=_|>

Although somewhat of a comedy it is also a dramatic, realistic depiction of
how the VA treats heros of war and still does to this day. It will make you
angry, laugh & cry. It will also make you jump for joy as the vets and
doctors revolt against VA's political games. I got the point of the movie
and highly recommend it, especially for veterans.
