

Big Bully is probably more suited to the small screen than the big screen. 
Some of the dialogue Tom Arnold spouts out is quite funny.  Rick Moranis
does an acceptable job in the lead role, even though it seems he's been
playing wimpy characters for his whole film career.

The showdown is a little heavy handed (eg. Arnold firing a nail gun at
Moranis), but was obviously thrown in to keep the movie from getting too
dull.

If it's on TV late at night, watch it...and then go to
bed.

Rating:  **


<|_=00=_|>

David Leary was bullied by Rosco Bigger a.k.a. Fang as a kid.  He gets even
with Rosco the day he rats him out after he stole the "moon rock".  Soon
enough David gets his chance to really get even when his parents tell him
he's moving.  Some years later David(played by Rick Moranis) is grown up and
has a son.  He returns to his hometown and discovers that Rosco(Tom Arnold)
grown up too.  Rosco remembers David and soon all hell breaks
lose.

I don't understand why it is that people hate this movie.  Come on, it's
hilarious.  Tom Arnold has never been funnier.  I think it's kind of strange
that David was a victim growing up and now his son is a bully and Rosco was
a bully growing up and that his son is a victim.  

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

[MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS]

           As young boys, David Leary and Rosco "Fang" Bigger
were
the best of enemies. Rosco was always making life difficult
for
David. Then one day, a moon rock would be on display at school.

It soon turns up missing. David sees Rosco with it and turns
him
in, the same day David and his family would be moving away...To a
place
of new beginnings...Oakland.
           Thirty years later: David (Rick Moranis) has grown
up
to be a writer. His son, Ben, is a bully. One day, David get's a
letter
from the school he went to as a lad, it asked him to come
back
and teach a class, so they head for Hastings, Minnesota. They
get
to their house and meet their new overly nice neighbors.

           David finds that nothing's changed, except the
librarian
informs him that "Green Eggs and Ham" is overdue! Several
thousand
days overdue! David also meets the shop teacher, Ross. He and
David
become friends, until David notices the one chipped tooth Ross
had
that looked like a fang. It was him! Roscoe Bigger! Also, Ross's
son,
Kirby, is bullied by Ben. What an odd turn of events. Ben also
thinks
his dad's a loser. 
          Ross soon learns that David is the boy he used to
pick
on and begins pulling mean spirited pranks on him. He does lot's
of
them, in fact. But before then, Ross was a very passive person. He
just
didn't do anything when people were horsing around in his
class or when his kids at home were messing around. But
now
that he's rediscovered his roots, he really put's his kids
in
line and get's a mean student of his to behave by having him
come
face to face with a grinder.
        A nervous-wreck teacher and a woman David likes,
Victoria,
think David's nuts, so he tries to call a truce with Ross. But it
was
then that Ross found out it was David who turned him in for
snatching
the moon rock. Now Ross has murderous anger and goes after David,
while
yelling about what he's been through. But when they're both out
on
a log over a roaring river in the middle of a rain storm,
David
stands up to Rosco and inadvertantly knocks him off and into
the
falls. David tries to turn himself in, but the police station
was
closed. Probably gone out to get donuts or something. Anyway,
David
heads home and is confronted with Ross again. Now their sons,
Ben
and Kirby had become friends. So David and Ross talk it out. Ross
had
stolen the moon rock because he wanted to be an astronaut.

        Next day, it was time for the Leary's to move on.
They
were going to New York City. But they weren't going alone. The
Biggers
were right behind them. They had a mobile home, which was good
because
it's mobile. 

       This is a good movie. Rick Moranis and Tom Arnold are
good
together. Everyone else is good in this movie. Jeffrey Tambor's in
it,
but Curtis Armstrong, I hate that guy. I think he's a pain in the
ass.
He's just annoying!! His role in this film wasn't funny. Nor was
he
good in Jingle All The Way! I just really, really do not like him!

But everyone else was good. I recommend this movie!!
-
<|_=00=_|>
An elementary school nerd, plagued by insecurity and the need to fit
in, lives in a nightmare at the hands of a big, fearsome bully. Nearly
twenty years later, he's moved on with his life, has a son, and has
made a name for himself as a successful writer. He returns home as a
local celebrity to join the teaching staff, but once again encounters
his old childhood nemesis who's bent on repeating the same torment
despite their advanced ages. Not as bad as it sounds, with two likable,
enthusiastic leads who provide some occasional laughs, but the film's
dedication to juvenile slapstick grows tiresome after a while. Fans of
the actors may not mind. **
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is nicely done, and Tom Arnold is this really nice and
lovable character who (even though he's a bully) you like a lot. A
fun movie to watch anytime! Rick Moranis also plays a great
character and proves once again he's a great actor.
<|_=00=_|>

Much to my surprise, I was actually finding this to be an amusing film for
the first hour or so.  I laughed more than a few times, and there was a
touch of humanity that seemed to fit rather well.  Then, for no good
reason,
the writers tacked on a pathetic ending that left a bitter taste in my
mouth.  I would even say that this was a good movie for the most part, but
the STUPID showdown at the end killed all credibility that had been
created.
How aggravating.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie starts out with David Leary(Rock Moranis) narrating about
his youth. He has problems. This huge bully named Rosco AKA Fang
bullies him around. He never has a time to eat his lunch nevertheless
take a trip to the bathroom. So what does David do? He stakes Rosco
out.

We shoot past 20 years to Davids older days. He now has a son, Ben
Leary(Blake Bashoff), and he now works as a teacher. He finally returns
to the town that he had lived in as he was a kid. And who does he meet?
The old bully Fang. Fang now has a huge family of his own. His youngest
son has problems hanging in with the crowds.

So what happens when you have the bullies preys son and the bullies
predator son in the same school with both fathers working under the
same roof? You have a lot of troubles. Including problems with old
friends turned elder.

Along with Honey I shrunk The Kids, Honey I Blew Up The Kid and Honey I
Shrunk Ourselves this should be a number four classic on your favorite
list and shelf. This is a good movie to show your own bullishious son
and or daughter.
<|_=00=_|>

Big Bully is a film filled with laughter and tears. It's the story of a man
who loses his family and finds himself in the process. It's about choices,
how the small decisions we make can affect us for the rest of our lives. Not
for fans of Stephen King.
<|_=00=_|>
Every so often Hollywood takes a serious theme like murder or bullying
and tries to make light of it. When that attempt gropes toward the
inner pain of dark comedy, the film may have merit. Yet when the focus
is on cheap non laughs surrounded by a total disregard for substance,
logic, and human decency, the result is most often a bloated, turgid
mess like BIG BULLY.

Director Steven Miner wastes the limited talents of all concerned. Rick
Moranis is a weedy, nerdy little man who has to relive the trauma of
childhood bullying by beefy Tom Arnold. As the film opens, both Moranis
and Arnold are in the fourth grade. Arnold plays a blubbery bully that
one sometimes sees in a filmed version of a Steven King horror movie.
But in the hands of a King based script, the bully is a source of
unredeemed evil. Here, under Miner's unsure grasp, Arnold is no more
than a walking tub of prepubescent lard who seeks to bully the nerdy
Moranis. Now if Miner had tried to make a serious movie about childhood
bullying, then BIG BULLY might have had something worthwhile to say
about the angst of childhood insecurities.

Now flash forward twenty years. Moranis and Arnold are both teachers in
the same grammar school, and Arnold quickly reverts to the bully that
he was. What makes this regression reprehensible is Arnold's
justification that as a victim, Moranis thoroughly deserved his fate.
What then follows is a ridiculous chase scene between prey and predator
that offers no lasting insight into either demented personality.
Julianne Phillips is a wasted toss in as Moranis' girlfriend. At the
end, when director Miner seeks closure, the film ends in the uneasiest
of endings, one that satisfied neither the desire for revenge nor one
that offers justification for that revenge in the first place.
<|_=00=_|>

I like this film. Not that the plot, acting, script, etc. would worry any
kind of awards ceremony on a bad year because they are pretty awful. It's
just that the film is watchable at 2am when you need to be bored to sleep by
a sappy American movie. That's all I can say about it.

The plot is so transparent and formulaic that a five-year-old could have
told you the ending, and has more holes than fine lace. The acting is
notably bad on all counts. When the established leads get upstaged by an
unknown 10 year-old you have to worry. Rick Moranis plays his usual weedy
character and Tom Arnold plays his childhood bully. Not challenging parts
and this shows; they aren't even trying.

I, like many others, was bullied at school and found the story interesting
in that it showed both sides but the cheezy(TM) subplot involving their
children was forced and let down the one saving grace.

All in all, I give this film 2/5. Watchable but certainly not worth missing
anything else for.
