
Now I'm aware that Home Alone 2: Lost in New York is the exact same
plot as the first Home Alone, and not to mention how silly it seems
that these folks would leave their kid behind, but come on, this movie
was all in good fun. It still has me constantly laughing 'till this
day, I think if you loved the first Home Alone, I'm sure that you'll
just naturally love this one as well. Not too many folks are just
giving it a good chance. I mean, the Wet Bandants are back and they are
just as funny as ever! I think this house that Kevin set up was
actually in some ways a little more fun than the first because of the
traps he was able to set. Not to mention the Plaza Hotel plot was so
great and fun to watch.

Kevin and his family are heading down to Florida for Christmas this
year, but when Kevin gets mixed up at the air port and gets on the
wrong flight, he ends up in New York. Instead of complaining or
panicking, he just plain enjoys it. He goes on the ultimate tour with
his father's bag of money and credit cards and cons himself into the
Plaza Hotel claiming he's there with his dad. But the Wet Bandants who
have now re-named themselves as the Sticky Bandants are in New York as
well and are planning on stealing all the money from a toy store that
is going to be given to the children's hospital. But Kevin is going to
make sure that they don't mess around with the kids and has set his
uncle's abandoned apartment up for a fun house of traps.

Home Alone 2: Lost in New York was an absolute blast. The reason I'm
giving it a ten is because I think the rating should be higher. People
really need to give this movie a shot. My favorite scene is without a
doubt when Marv gets hit in the face with the bricks, also, the scene
where the Plaza Hotel managers are asked by Kevin's mom "What kind of
idiots do you have working here?!"... the lady just smiles and says
"The finest in New York!", it was just too funny! I love this movie and
I'm always going to recommend it for a good watch, I think you'll enjoy
it if you give it a chance.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Too many sequels suffer from Deja Vu. And hardly any of those carbon
copies improve upon the original. Home Alone 2 is a carbon copy, but
it's also much better and more complex a movie than the first. In
another mad rush to the airport the McCallisters make a point of
remembering Kevin this time. But he gets lost in a crowd at the airport
and follows a man who looks like his dad onto the wrong plane. Thirteen
of the McCallisters are going to Miami for Xmas (do they never stay at
home?) but Kevin is headed for the Big Apple. And he's going to have
that once-in-a-lifetime vacation he's been wishing for.

There's much more for Kevin to see and do in New York. He scams his way
into the Plaza hotel where a suspicious Concierge (Tim Curry) gives him
mighty evil looks at every encounter. He goes to Duncan's Toy Chest,
the biggest toy store in town and takes many scenic photographs. Though
it is a little worrying now seeing Kevin on the roof of the World Trade
Centre.

But the Wet Bandits have escaped, and they have just arrived in New
York with loftier ambitions and bigger heists to pull off. They even
brush by Kevin a few times not knowing he's there. Typically though,
once they get a hold of him the give away far too much info. Once Kevin
escapes he takes matters into his own hands once more. His Aunt
Georgette from the first movie is still in Paris so he uses her
half-renovated home as a huge mousetrap for the bungling burglars.

The booby traps this time are much more painful and nasty, so it's all
the more amusing for us. Who can possibly fail to laugh at Marv getting
the shock of his life when he tries to turn on the taps? If the movie
were to be released now I doubt if it would be let away with a PG
rating. Still, it's nothing for any parents to worry about. Unless you
fear your child is going to set your head on fire with a blowtorch.

Home Alone 2 has a more satisfying climax than the first. The film
doesn't simply end once Harry and Marv are back in the slammer as there
is more plot to it than that. Brenda Fricker has a (rather
questionable) role as 'The Pigeon Lady' a woman who lives in Central
Park and talks to no one-until Kevin reaches out. Plus Eddie Bracken
shows up as Mr. Duncan and gives Kevin the best Xmas morning ever as a
token of his appreciation.

With a bigger story (okay some of it re-used) and more characters and a
better playground for Kevin, Home Alone 2 manages to be a superior
sequel. While not excessively so. There's loads of fun to be had in
Kevin's antics, and Tim Curry is downright brilliant as the mischievous
Concierge.

It's a great movie on it's own but sadly it will always be called a
copycat. Watch it now from a fresh perspective and you might like it
more.
<|_=00=_|>

Home Alone 2 has pretty much the same plot as the first movie, but Home
Alone 2 is a very good sequel. The new traps for the Wet, er... Sticky
Bandits are great. Once again Joe Pesci and Daniel Stern give wonderful
performances. Having Tim Curry in this was also a treat. There is a lot of
enjoyment in this movie.

<|_=00=_|>
I have no idea quite why, but Home Alone 2 is my favorite movie of all
time. I have the board game (made a while back), tons of books, the
piano book as well which I play all year round and I've watched the
movie about 80 times so far. I can recite every line and know pretty
much everything bout the whole movie. There's just smoothing about this
one that is so much better than the first. Perhaps it's just the whole
New York scene and I think the bandits do better acting as well. I
CANNOT stand Home Alone 3 though. They totally spoiled it and ruined
the whole "Home Alone" title. The actors are terrible and the movies
just plain sucks. If anyone wants to talk bout the movie with me, don't
be shy.
<|_=00=_|>
"Home Alone 2: Lost in New York" is young Macaulay Culkin's second
greatest hour in the series as Kevin McCallister, who has to learn to
be a man again on the mean streets of the Big Apple after being
separated from his family once more. He checks into a swank Manhattan
hotel (where Donald Trump is apparently staying at too). He's pursued
again by comic bad guys Harry and Marv (Joe Pesci and Daniel Stern),
and director Chris Columbus and screenwriter John Hughes keep the
action and laughs coming. Tim Curry also appears as a concierge who has
to prove that Kevin is on his own, and Brenda Fricker is the pigeon
lady who watches over Kevin's little shoulder. There is another tricks
& traps showdown at the end, which keeps the slapstick and comic
violence at an all-time high.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

***

Starring: Machauley Culkin, Joe Pesci, Daniel Stern, and Catherine O'
Hara.

The same boy who was accidentally left Home Alone a year ago, accidentally
takes the wrong flight.  Instead of arriving in Miami with the rest of his
family, he arrives in New York!  The same two robbers that failed to rob his
house last time, coincidentally arrive in New York to rob another place! 
What a small, freakin' world.

The movie has the same number of slapstick humor and the same amount of fun,
so this should be a holiday treat.
<|_=00=_|>
This should have been the end of the Home Alone series, seeing that the
same premise and cast were used for two films but, naturally, Hollywood
just can't resist trying to squeeze more money from a proved formula.
I'm not one for sequels but this was one of the handful that I can
enjoy time and again, not only because the original cast is in it, but
because of Macaulay Culkin's comedic ability (even as a kid) and Joe
Pesci's and Daniel Stern's reactions to getting their butts kicked,
booby trap style. Kevin is not forgotten (like he was last time) but
hops the wrong plane after he puts fresh batteries in the family camera
right before he gets to the gate at the airport (his family had all the
bad luck with high winds knocking out the electric - and the alarm
clock - twice). He mistakes a man with the same coat as his father and
after Kevin reassures a flight attendant he's on the right plane, takes
his seat ... in a plane heading in the exact opposite direction the
rest of his family is going (naturally, no one realizes Kevin's missing
until they're in Miami and he's in NY). Who could have thought a vacant
New York brownstone could be so much fun? Sure, Pesci's and Stern's
characters are more banged up this time but, hey, they started it. (The
adventures in the Plaza Hotel are hilarious, as well.) Anyway, this is
one sequel worth the time to watch. Just don't bother with the
irrelevant, contrived, and unncessary third installment of the series.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember I was 10 years old in '92, I used to watch that movie at my
old house where I grew up but I was sitting on the floor near the TV in
the living room. Oh, yeah, my favorite part is Macaulay (Kevin
McAllister) was walking around in New York when he was lost then later,
he went to the toy store to buy something then these 2 bad guys found
him then Macaulay (Kevin) was screaming same thing then run away from
these 2 bad guys in the city of NY but it was so funny because I loved
Macaulay's screaming that make me laugh so hard! I remember Macaulay as
Kevin put everything for his ideas of his plan to do for these 2 bad
guys but it is so funny. His brother Kieran Culkin (Fuller McAllister -
Kevin's cousin) was a cute kid and wears glasses in that same movie as
his brother Macaulay. I loved that movie very much since I was a little
kid. That movie is the greatest and funniest one that I ever seen!
<|_=00=_|>
Home Alone was OK, but this was miles better, funnier, with a better
plot. So they kept the same characters and there's a good performance
from Tim Curry to help make it all the more enjoyable. I've grown up
watching home alone. Whenever I think of my favourite films, i think
Home Alone (the fourth the exception). Culkin gets on the wrong plane
this time, an improvement from being left at home. He ends up in New
York, comes across the same crooks and tries to get rid of them. Its
just so watchable - a film i've watched more times than any other. How
can anyone dislike it? OK, the fun factor kind of goes away the more
times you watch it and the older you get but I still cannot praise it
enough. Shame though, that Culkin threw away his career once he had the
cash.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1990, Home Alone came out to great success, so it was no surprise
that, two years later, in 1992, they would go on and make a sequel.
Home Alone 2: Lost In New York, was mainly a rehash of the original,
only it was set in New York City, this time. It's generally considered
to be respectful to the first movie and was the second biggest
box-office hit of 1992. A lot of the original people from the first
film, return to work on this project. Directed by Chris Columbus, and
written by John Hughes, the movie tells the story of Kevin McCallister
(Macaulay Culkin) whom once again, finds himself frustrated with his
family to the point that once again, he finds himself, wishing he can
be without them. We as the audience can't blame him, after all, his
family didn't learn anything in the first film. There are still selfish
jerks who really do mistreat him. Still, Kevin shouldn't be so happy to
get rid of them, too. I thought, he learn that family is very important
to have. Geesthis sequel really makes the whole first movie, really
pointless. Anyways, instead of getting left home again, he loses track
of his father at the airport, and mistakenly gets on a plane headed for
New York City -- while the rest of his family fly to Miami. Now alone
in the Big Apple, Kevin cons his way into a room at the Plaza Hotel and
begins his usual antics. It's there, that he finds out that the two
bumbling burglars that try to rob his home in the first movie, the Wet
Bandits, Harry Lime (Joe Pesci) & Marv Merchants (Daniel Stern) that
are now trying to rob a famous toy store. Instead, of calling the
police, Kevin should had done, he set up his Uncle's abandoned house
with booby traps & forced Harry & Marv to follow him. Will the Bandits
get the edge or will Kevin once again, outsmart them? Watch it to find
out! In my opinion, the Bandits really didn't need to go into that
house, as they honestly could had stolen the money and flee. It's not
like they need the camera picture. They're already wanted criminals!
This movie really doesn't give us, much that's new to work with. Yes,
the New York City setting is cool to see, but honestly, it could had be
downtown Chicago. Half the time, it was. Most of the film are shot
there, while others were shot in California. The movie recycle a lot of
the old gags from the first film, but puts in the extremes. The extreme
cartoony slapstick violence, the cheesy one liners, the break the
fourth wall jokes, the dim-wits minds of the criminals, and Kevin's
hijinks are still worth seeing one more time and very surprising, still
very funny. I have to disagree with certain critics that says cartoon
violence is only funny in cartoons. After all, this film is no differs
to the old school stunts of Buster Keaton, Charlie Chaplin, Three
Stooges and the Marx Brothers. Those films get high marks; why can this
film? I wouldn't say, watch this movie on TV, because it might be
deeply cut and edited. Instead, try to find the movie on DVD. Yes, this
movie is a kid's movie, but parents should judge if this film is worth
their kids watching, because the visual violence are very realism and
has some dark humor. The movie came out when I was a kid, and even for
me. I was like, how are these two criminals, even still alive? Clearly,
Harry & Marv would be dead by now. Like I said in my original Home
Alone review, Kevin might be a little too sadistic. God help us, when
he grows ups. Still, most of the film has a lot of heart. Like the
first film, Kevin meets somebody to help him, understand his family and
Christmas. This time, it's a homeless bird lover woman played by Brenda
Fricker whom is a pretty good actress. Most of the actors were. Joe
Pesci and Daniel Stern never lose a beat. Catherine O'Hara is great as
the mother role. Tim Curry is hilarious as the side villain, Mr.
Hector, the Plaza hotel concierge. Still, it makes me wonder, why the
real life Plaza Hotel was so willing to portray their employees as
idiots. I guess Donald Trump just really wanted that cameo. Oddly
enough, the directions, Trump gives Kevin are incorrect. Once again,
one of the most memorable aspects of Home Alone is the score by John
Williams. It's amazing to hear again. I still love the planning song.
Overall: the concept was still fresh enough for a sequel and it was
very enjoyable. Sadly, Hollywood made a lot of unwanted sequels like
1997's Home Alone 3, 2002's Home Alone 4, and 2012's Home Alone: The
Holiday Heist that didn't have any of the original cast and crew.
Indeed, they should have learn, you can mess with a lot of things, but
you can't mess with kids on Christmas. In the end, those sequels were a
mess, but this one still work. So AHHHHHH!!! Hooray for Home Alone 2!
