

Though it poses a good moral dilemma, `Skulls' is presented in such an
implausible way as to render it crippled at birth.  Luke McNamara is a
small
town boy of modest means attending an Ivy League institution that is never
really named but is obviously Yale.  He is hoping to be called for
membership into the Skulls, a secret society of great status and power.
Members of this society have the doors of power, wealth and influence
thrown
wide to them.  This is a dream come true for Luke, who spends much of his
time fretting over the hundreds of thousands in student loans he is
incurring.  When he discovers that one of the members has committed a
felony, he is torn between his desire for wealth, his loyalty to a friend,
and his conscience.

Writer John Pogue (`U.S. Marshals') has conjured up a good moralistic
tale,
but it is so full of ridiculous premises that it becomes laughable.  This
is
supposed to be a secret society where other than the members themselves,
no
one knows who the members are.  Yet, Pogue and director Rob Cohen present
it
in such a way that they may as well be advertising their identities on TV.
The building where the secret meetings take place is prominently marked
with
a Skull, and only members have keys to the building.  So, Duh, anyone seen
entering the building must be a Skull.  New members get brand new $50,000
automobiles and $100,000 in cash, as if no one will notice this sudden
burst
of good fortune.  The new members are branded on their wrist and we are
supposed to believe that they will never be seen by anyone without their
wristwatch on.  The list of inconceivability goes on ad
nauseam.

The acting is generally quite good.  Joshua Jackson (`Cruel Intentions',
`Urban Legend') is excellent as Luke.  He plays the part with just the
right
combination of idealistic zeal and moral grounding.  He gets great support
from Paul Walker (`She's All That', `Varsity Blues') as Caleb Mandrake,
the
spoiled rich kid trying to step out of his father's shadow.  Craig T.
Nelson
gives a wonderfully nefarious performance as the chairman of the Skulls
and
Caleb's father.

Maybe secret societies exist, and maybe they don't.  The fact that no one
is
sure indicates that if they are more than mere myths, they are a lot more
secret than depicted here.  I rated this film a 6/10.  It is an
interesting
idea that loses credibility in the telling.
<|_=00=_|>

OK the plot is old hat (a secret society that rules the government and
covers up a murder or two) but the movie is entertaining.  The plot is
relatively intelligent and fast-moving; the cast is uniformally good--even
Joshua Jackson!; there's no graphic gore (or nudity); and the action
scenes
are well-done and exciting.  Not a great film by any means, but a fun,
action-filled, entertaining two hours.  Just don't think about it too much
afterwards. 
<|_=00=_|>

The Skulls is a thinly veiled allusion to one of the purportedly most
secret
of all secret societies, Skull and Bones, the Yale group to which George
Bush (the former president) belonged. You know all about those secret
societies; they breed smart, rich young men who will put other smart,
rich
young men in power, and then those men will put other smart, rich young
men
in power, and so forth and yadda yadda yadda. You can find out all sorts
of
things about Skull and Bones online, and I suppose there's a chance some
of
those things are actually true. But for the purposes of this movie - and
this review - suffice to say that The Skulls is a small group mostly made
up
of rich white kids who get paid scholarships, free cars, free women, the
whole works. And what does this secret society ask for in return? Unbound
loyalty, of course. Unquestioning and absolute loyalty, kind of like the
Mob, really, only the Mob is more overtly criminal.

The story focuses on Luke, a townie at Yale University. Luke wants to go
to
law school, but the tuition's a little high. He's parentless and low on
funds, so of course he's prime pickings for The Skulls. Will he join them?
Darn tootin' he will, despite the protests of his best friend and this
hot
young blonde he likes. They try to reason with him, believing their
friendship is stronger than his need to be a lawyer, but they're wrong. If
they were right, we'd have no movie.

So he joins, and wouldn't you know it, all kinds of bad things happen to
poor Luke. There's murder, there's corruption, and gosh and golly, our boy
just doesn't know who to trust. More twists than a Poe novel; the only
problem is, they're not believable twists. If you're cynical about this
kind
of movie (as I am), you'll laugh out loud many times, both at the acting
and
the dialogue. The worst offense is in the timing, quite frankly. At no
point
are we led to believe that this society could be a GOOD thing. We know
immediately it's bad. See, I think to be truly sinister you need to wear a
mask of credibility. If I already know how bad you are, I won't be as
afraid
of you or as startled when you actually do something despicable.

This is a real chucklefest, in the same vein as Final Destination, Urban
Legends, I Know What You Did Last Summer (both movies), and even the
Scream
movies, which I didn't care for (but I know many of you did, so whatcha
gonna do). You have an attractive cast spouting incredible lines in
unbelievable situations. The old moviegoer in us wonders what Jimmy
Stewart
or Gregory Peck would have done in this movie when they were younger (and,
in Stewart's case, alive), but that's probably a philosophical debate best
left to denizens of the old critics' home. As for me, I'd say pass on The
Skulls - it's as hollow as its name might imply.
<|_=00=_|>

The Skulls is not art. In fact it's pretty bad but some films are just made
to entertain. I'm a firm believer of that. When people complain about this
films plot, acting, etc, i just go come on guys give it a break. The movie
does what it was made for. it entertains its core audience. Teenagers. I'm a
teen and i enjoyed it for what it was even if it wasn't the greatest film
ever made.

The plot is intriguing but a  little unrealistic. Luke Macnamara wnats
desperately to be apart of a secret society known as the skulls. But he soon
realizes that being in this society comes at a price.

The plot begins with some intrigue but falls short after awhile and that's
when you realize that this film is just there to entertain and yo shold just
sit back and enjoy the ride. The acting is actually pretty good. joshua
jackson is a telented actor and i bet if he got a better script he could go
places. Leslie Bibb is the best because she displays the most emotion. She's
very good. Paul walker is the weak link. he needs acting
lessons.

so guys don't go into this movie looking for a great script or anything like
that. just be prepared to be entertained. i most certainly
was.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those pretty entertaining-yet-not memorable stories.
It's about a "secret society" in an Ivy League school and a subsequent
cover-up of a murder. There is a neat little twist about a half hour
before the end of the film.

The college kids in here are no-name actors but all credible not
offensive or annoying. The film is nicely photographed. Apparently, the
film was successful enough to spawn a sequel, so that infers this has
enough going for it to check it out if you haven't watched it. 

It's okay, but don't expect anything super. However, I have a good
friend who thinks this movie is super, and he's usually very critical.
<|_=00=_|>
Mix schlocky but hilarious Hollywood hack dialogue with equally
schlocky but hilarious Hollywood hack plotting, and you get a potent
1-2 sucker punch to your intellect...I call it...THE SKULLS. A
delightfully silly movie, it moves briskly through semi-serious
conflicts and silly conspiracies, and all with the the intelligence of
your average CBS movie of the week. But it has a sense of momentum that
you can't escape, and soon your on a ride that combines equal parts
laughs and smiles, nothing too grim, but a (for what it is) fanatical
devotion to its own plot devices. The maguffin of the Skulls society is
their rule book, a device that comes to charming use late in the movie.
William Peterson's senator reminds Joshua Jackson repeatedly that every
conflict, every ordeal, can be solved within the rule book...and indeed
within the world of the Skulls, this book does hold all the answers.
Dropping hints here and there as to how it'll all end, the movie has a
charming level of mystery, no more sinister or thrilling than The Da
Vinci Code, but thankfully much less serious in its handling.

One of my favorite scenes is one of the stupidest. The chosen boys are
given a grand reception with the many distinguished alumni on a remote
island that at times resembles Alcatraz and Hogwarts School for
Wizards. The boys are given expensive diving watches (an obvious
product placement) and then dressed in tuxedos where they shake hands
and shift uncomfortably in their cumberbunds...until the director
inexplicably cranks out Creed onto the soundtrack ("Can You Take Me
Higher" no less!) and then this huge door opens and out walk whatever
waif models were hot in 2000. And they strut out as if on a runway, no
sense of acting in any of their faces, and it's pure schlock...and I
love it!

Rob Cohen went on to XXX and then tanked with Stealth, but this shows
what people in Hollywood saw in the guy. The film is fun, never too
heavy, and perfectly suited for a fall evening with your
none-too-intellectual school friends OR consumed in 12 minute intervals
on TNT. It's plotted swiftly and compellingly enough to justify its
running time...another honor not bestowed on The Da Vinci Code.
Basically, it's perfectly mindless, harmless fun, with a better than
average cast who seem to revel in the camp of it all. Enjoy when you
got nothing better to do.
<|_=00=_|>
Someone in the videostore advised me to see this film. Now I understand
that this probably was a joke. Skulls is terrible. It is not even funny
for it's flaws. The acting is lousy though you must feel sorry for the
actors because the screenplay is even worse. The story itself is a
cliché: blue collar student gets an invitation to join some fascist
fraternity which seems to secretly run this planet. The fraternity
exists for about two hundred years but it's rituals are shallow and do
not go beyond driving expensive sportscars, having sex with supermodels
and quoting the fraternity rules from a bible-like book which seems to
be a mixture of Mao's Red Book and Hitler's Mein Kampf. The blue collar
student completely dropps his old friends from the white ghetto - who
conveniently for the story happen to be video-editing experts and own a
surprisingly sophisticated mixing studio for the white trash they so
unconvincingly try to portray- but becomes remorseful when his formal
best (black) friend get's murdered by his new Buddy's dad who is
president of the fraternity but also a high court judge and a total
maniac. When the hero tries to uncover the cover-up he briefly ends up
in a mental institution but is saved with in a day by this senator -
who is also a skull's member- and by his girlfriend who earlier in the
film made a MacGyver like paint spraying robot. The film drags on to a
most ridiculous ending. One of the rules of The Skulls sacred booklet
states that you are entitled to challenge a fellow Skulls member for a
duel with ancient guns. Till death that is. So we see our hero in a
duel with his formal new buddy, the buff but thickheaded son of the
Skull's president. This troubled young bully kills his dad, the maniac
judge, instead of our blue collar hero. The end.
<|_=00=_|>
The Skulls is a very intense movie that keeps the watcher interested.
This movie does not really have many qualities that would qualify it is
an award-winner, but over all the movie is very interesting and is
Definitely worth watching at least once. The deleted scenes included on
the DVD are also worth watching, but you understand why they were cut.
Joshua Jackson and Paul Walker were both very sharp in this movie, but
some of the acting was a little poor. Through out the movie some flaws
or holes could be found, yet all-in-all they did not affect the story
line very much. In general The Skulls is an entertaining movie and I
would recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>

***** MILD SPOILERS *****

According to the caption at the start of this film this is actually based on
fact . You see at least three presidents of the United States have actually
belonged to the secret guild featured here . Well if that`s the case then
the producers should name names because it`s only fair to the electorate
that they know that the leader of their nation is part of a conspiracy.

The first 20 minutes of THE SKULLS is taken up with Luke a college cook and
sometimes student learning about a secret college fraternity called " The
Skulls " . So far so good in a film that will appeal to teenagers doing
higher education , but as soon as the secret society is revealed you might
not have to read too far between the lines to think the film is pointing
fingers in certain directions . A father and son are members of the skulls a
secret fraternity that likes to prove the courage of its members by starting
wars . Father ? Son ? Hey you don`t think ....? Not only that but there`s a
middle aged southern senator who likes to have sex with girls young enough
to be his daughter ! Well that can only mean it`s..... Alas these witty
pokes at real life politicians are total flukes because instead of witty
humour we`ve got a film that`s taking itself seriously when it should be
splashing the audience with subtle satire . That`s the problem with
conspiracy theorists - Their ideas are bizarre and they lack a sense of
humour , very much like this film     
<|_=00=_|>
It's clear, just from my 10/10 review of this movie I have terrible
taste. But I mean it. Please read my other reviews and don't trust a
word. Seriously, this movie is a quintessential bad 90's movie. And I
love it. 

Suspend your reality for 2 hours and watch this movie. Joshua Jackson
as THE athletic star of THE crew team at an Ivy League school (unnamed,
but I think winking and nodding with the jerseys with Y on it say it
all). I've never seen such a scrawny crew member in my life. Paul
Walker as an IVY LEAGUE student. SUSPEND REALITY. It's worth it. Paul
Walker is one of my favorite actors of all time because he cannot
silent the surfer boy inside himself. 

These two men, coupled with fraternity bro dialog, it has everything.
Remember, skulls are forever. Skulls are soul mates. We are watching
you all the time. You get 20g's and a car. An implied racially charged
storyline. Did you know, that if you really wanted to find out who was
a skull, you JUST have to take off their watch. 

I spent the last 2 hours giggling like a little school girl and I
couldn't be happier. There is nothing real about this movie but I don't
think that's the point. Twelve years after its release, its laughable
at best, but it will put a smile on your face the whole time.
