
I have just read the lead comment for this film that is on the front
page with the voting results and cast run down.

Why is it that some people can not take a film for what it is supposed
to be.

This film is supposed to be a light hearted, tonge in cheek, family
comedy, things to make the kids laugh and things for the adults, and
that is exactly what this film does.

I laughed my nuts off at this film, I thought Carey put in a great
performance and the whole film (if watched at Christmas) really give
you a bit of festive cheer

So to all of you film reviewers stop trying to sound like film students
and knock every film because it is not "Taxi Driver" or "The Godfather"
and take films for what they are supposed to be, entertainment!!
<|_=00=_|>

I have been eagerly anticipating the opening of this film for several
months.  Being a huge Jim Carrey fan, I easily saw how he could morph
himself into Seuss' Grinch and make the character his own.  I was not
disappointed.  

This movie was pure magic.  Carrey is a master at his trade and no one could
have played this role to perfection as he did.  There was plenty to enjoy
for both adults and children alike and this movie is sure to become a
timeless classic for all to enjoy in the years to come.  I already have
visions of my young daughter sitting down year after year to watch this
remake on video, and I undoubtedly will watch with her and laugh as I did
the first time I saw it.

Clearly, this movie has Jim Carrey written all over it, and I do not believe
that it would have come together without him.  However, the supporting cast
was charming and entertaining in their own right, most notably the adorable
Taylor Momsen who was the perfect foil for Carrey's antics.  The set design,
musical score and costumes all lent their hands to a magical, fabulous
finished product and I believe all involved can be proud. 

It is not an easy feat to turn a 22 minute cartoon classic into a full
length live action film, but Howard has succeeded with flying colours.  For
those critics who disagree, perhaps it is your hearts that are 2 sizes too
small.

<|_=00=_|>

In the land of Whoville everyone loves Christmas and count down the whole
year until that wonderful time.  However just outside Whoville lives the
Grinch, a green hairy twisted creature that hates, and always has hated,
Christmas and was rejected by the Who's as a child.  A young girl from
Whoville sets out to befriend the Grinch and help him find his love of
Christmas but, when it goes wrong early on, the Grinch becomes even more
rotten and plans to ruin it for everyone.

I have never read the book or seen the original animated version of this
story, but I do enjoy a bit of Dr Seuss and was worried about how such
imagination would be filled out on the screen.  The film actually manages
it
very well and the whole film has the look of the books, even if it lacks
soul at times.  The plot is stretched out to the running time and could
have
easily been shorter and punchier, but at heart it is a good little moral
that is good from Christmas time.

However, aside from the look of the film, the main reason that the film
works is Jim Carrey.  I cannot think of another actor who could have
pulled
off this role as well as he did.  He is manic and really funny although I
imagine that if you dislike him and his antics that you'd hate the film
totally.  I'm on the fence about him but I did enjoy him here.  Momsen is
OK
but really just a `cute kid' and, while the support cast has quite a few
famous faces, they don't make much of an impact under the makeup and the
film is left to Carrey to save it - which he happily does.

Overall this film is a little too long and padded out, but while Carrey
is
onscreen it seems to go pretty fast due to his hyper acting and comedy
antics.  However, it's Christmas and it has a nice message while not
totally
giving in to syrupy sentiment (thanks again to manic Carrey) and it's
just
perfect for kids and adults at Christmas time.
<|_=00=_|>

If you went to this movie to see some huge academy award
presentation...oh well..but if you wanted to see a funny delightful
adaptation of an old classic, you will love it..Jim Carey was
incredible as usual. The story line was great, a few parts added like
the history of the Grinch made it even better. Ron Howard never misses
a beat..But although there were a few ADULT comments and cleavage
added, this is supped to be a kids or family show. Try not to lose
sight of that ..if you do you really wont enjoy the movie...and as for
the comments about Ron Howard, try to direct a major motion picture and
see how you do..its not easy as it looks ...

<|_=00=_|>
Howard's 'How the Grinch Stole Christmas' is a delightful family flick
that both adults and children can enjoy (mostly with each other). It is
basically an adaptation of the famous children's books and what the
audience gets is a pleasant Christmas treat. Price's screenplay is
brilliant as he cleverly manages to include some adult humour.

The world of Whoville is beautifully constructed and created, full of
colour, life, energy and spirit. The vivacious characters are full of
positive energy and while it is over the top, it is all done within the
context and none of it appears out of place. The CGI team and makeup
crew deserve full credit for making the characters and settings so
lifelike, bringing out a lot of detail and appearing authentic. The set
designs are stunning and the cinematography is just as energetic as the
characters.

Child actress Taylor Momsen is absolutely. The cute dog also turns in a
fine performance. Jeffrey Tambor, a very sexy Christine Baranski, Bill
Irwin and Molly Shannon are first rate. However, what would 'How the
Grinch Stole Christmas' be without Jim Carrey? Carrey is simply
fantastic as he immerses himself entirely into the character. It's a
role that has Jim Carrey written all over it. The actor has
immortalized the Grinch on screen.

The movie itself is not an exact 100% adaptation of the book as there
are a few changes. The romance between the Grinch and Martha May could
have been better developed. Other than the actors mentioned above, the
rest of the cast hardly have anything to do than make fleeting
appearances. Yet, 'How the Grinch Stole Christmas' is a charming little
Christmas family film that is dazzling to look at and hugely enjoyable
with the whole family.
<|_=00=_|>
Good Morning, or should I say Good After Noon, or Good Night? Uh what
the hell, Hello fellow readers. Today we'll be looking at a very great
family adventure, also one of the best Christmas films, THE GRINCH.
This film reaches the pinnacle of family films and Jim Carrey makes a
great choice by signing on to play the lead character. Though this film
has a very poor score on this web site, I am here to tell you that this
may be one of the most under rated film entry's of all time. This film
is called "terrible", "disgusting" and "not even funny!" Now to that I
have one word to say but that word is known as a swear word so I won't
say it for such reasons as: I MIGHT NOT BE ABLE TO WRITE MORE REVIEWS.
Anyway this film is a great motion picture and Ron Howard proves he
still has a lot more life in him then some question. And so finishes my
review on a great and funny film, The Grinch (2000)
<|_=00=_|>
I found this a very entertaining small kids movie that actually is
geared more for adults with a lot of jokes and humor only they would
understand. A few things are inappropriate for the kiddies, but just a
few. Othewise, "The Grinch" (Jim Carrey) cracks so many jokes you can't
keep up with them all, ranging from sexual to cultural to
insider-Hollywood to racial.

The film is very colorful and looks great on DVD. The little girl in
here, "Cindy Lou Who" (Taylor Momsen) is really cute and the costumes
and hairdos of the little people in here are fun to view. Anthony
Hopkins' voice is pleasing, too, so having his narrate this elevates
the movie further. His rhymes are fun to hear.

I saw this in the theater, though it was "fair," but on DVD, it was far
better. I've seen in three times and it got better each time.
<|_=00=_|>
How the Grinch Stole Christmas is by far one of the most enjoyable,
feel-good Christmas movies ever made. Fact. It's creepy, nonetheless,
but it's also very heartwarming in some particular scenes more than
others. A lot of the film revolves around a young Taylor Momsen, but
the title character, the Grinch, played by Jim Carrey, is of course the
best thing about the film. Not all Christmas films are like this one.
This one's unique. It's a different take on Christmas - a different
approach. A good approach, too. How the Grinch Stole Christmas has
plenty of Christmas feel-good moments, a few funny scenes here and
there, and good makeup. It's almost entirely consistently eerie,
because The Grinch is a very eccentric, creative, eerie character in
the film. It's a good film overall, and you should always watch it
around Christmas time. It's definitely one of the best Christmas movies
ever made. 8.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>

I agree completely, this film looks extremely overblown, and it is.

Though the sets and costumes are visually amazing, they go by
too fast too be truly appreciated, and there is the feeling that it is
too much crammed into too little.  Besides this, the supporting
cast have very little to do, and the presence of Anthony Hopkins as
the narrator is rather puzzling.  Besides that, several weak story
points are added, for instance, like the romance between the
Grinch and Martha May seems completely superfluous.  However,
if you want to see this movie, see for Jim Carrey, who steals the
show as the title role.  He is simply hilarious!  He does, however,
run a close race against Cindy Lou Who, who is unbelievably cute.

The difference between this movie, and the cartoon, is that this
movie is set more from the point of view of the Grinch.  In the
cartoon, the Grinch is the villain, a grumpy old hermit who is
jealous of the Whos and their happiness.  The Whos, in the
cartoon, are just simple, country townsfolk celebrating Christmas,
and when the Grinch finds he cannot destroy Christmas, he knows
he cannot make them suffer the absence he feels in his life, and
finally understands the holiday spirit.
In the movie, however, the Grinch is a slightly more modern take
on his character.  Actually, you can't blame him for wanting to do
something about the Whos, who, in this movie, are a grim
reflection of our society, and the crass consumerism and
capitalism that yearly chokes the true meaning of the holiday spirit
for material possessions.  The Whos are so immersed in their
own greed that it almost seems they deserve it when the Grinch
drops the ball on them.  The writers also make them seem as
irritating and overly cheerful and loud as possible, with their gaudy
decorations and foods, and creepy, sugar-coated style.  Cindy
Lou's reaction to this is our own, and she and the Grinch find the
real meaning of the holiday.  She and the Grinch are better seen
as role models to today's holiday company, as a message not to
lose ourselves in our own material greed that has become
common to this holiday, but to instead remember what Christmas
is.  I think this holiday would get a much better reputation if people
made it a routine to imagine a Christmas without presents or
trimmings every year, just to keep that image in mind.  But, if you
don't want to be annoyed by the Whos, or blinded by the slightly
overdone sets and costumes, watch it for Cindy Lou, or, if you don't
like 'cute' movies like me, but like Jim Carrey's raunchy, slapstick,
Marx Bros. style comedy, watch it for him.
<|_=00=_|>
So whatever the reason, his heart or his shoes......This movie has
really grown on me. I'm a huge fan of Dr. Seuss. I saw the movies and
owned the books as a kid and was given the books as a present in my
30's by my friend Amy Fidler. I loved the original movie so it made it
hard at first to accept the remake but honestly, it has been well done.
Jim Carrey is amazing and all of the other players rocked it. The
original movie has innuendos of the character traits of the stars,
however the new movie allows for much more cast/character depth and
development. I have to admit, there's one scary scene here with the two
main characters however I think you have to really let yourself go in
order to experience the thrill. Bought it on the Playstation Network,
can't wait to own it on Blu-ray. Narrater rocked it too.
