
Some films make the viewer a participant. Others make the viewer, well,
a viewer. Others make the viewer a voyeur. SCENES FROM A MALL makes the
viewer a third wheel. A very uncomfortable position to be in.

Like in real life, the third wheel is the poor schmuck who innocently
accompanies a couple on a date or dinner or whatever and often ends up
being less a companion than a witness, or worse, a referee, when a
lovers' spat breaks out. In such a situation, all one can do is to keep
looking at one's watch, pretend that there is nothing wrong and, above
all else, don't get involved.

When it was announced that SCENES FROM A MALL would pair Bette Midler
and Woody Allen together as a bickering couple who spend the day at the
mall, I couldn't help but smile. Bette and Woody married, what a great
idea. They both seem so different, yet so perfect together. And to
their credit, they do have great chemistry here. They click. And they
are certainly convincing as a couple with a whole boat load of marital
issues. Maybe too convincing. What could have been an amusing thread of
a story if interwoven into a larger tapestry becomes instead a tiresome
ordeal. Woody and Bette argue and bicker and insult and break up and
kiss and make up and argue and bicker and insult some more. Their
day-long excursion to the mall to do Christmas shopping becomes an
extended primal therapy session. Despite the best efforts of the two
stars, what begins as an amusing domestic comedy rapidly become just
plain annoying. 

The fault lies with writer/director Paul Mazursky, whose films -- good,
bad or indifferent -- seldom have a strong focus and tend to ramble
shamelessly. It is a style of film-making that, in theory, tries to
represent realism, but in practice it violates the conventions of what
we accept as film reality -- reelity, so to speak. Mazursky's films
always tend to look and feel like rehearsals, not a finished
production.

This film has it assets. Woody and Bette, of course. And the recreation
of a California mall, mostly filmed on a New York soundstage is quite
convincing (though how many malls feature ballroom dancing?). SCENES
FROM A MALL looks right and is acted just right, but in the end, this
trip to the mall wears you out, leaving you just wanting to go home.
<|_=00=_|>

In Annie Hall, Alvy Singer observes that the only cultural advantage
of
living in California is that you can make a left on a red light. Here. in
the thick of it, Woody's character is a committed Los Angelean with designer
suits, fast-talking business deals but still with that underlying angst.
There's a lot to recommend this relatively stagey effort from Paul Mazursky
- the screenplay, the leads and the unique setting - although Kevin Smith
has done it better since in Mallrats. What is perhaps missing here is any
new revelation or insight into the characters who remain pretty much
two-dimensional throughout.
It is alas predictable fare but still worth a look for a touch of Woody as
he might have been if California had enticed him over.
<|_=00=_|>

He lives in Southern California.  He spends time in a mall.  He carries a
surfboard.  He wears a ponytail.  Is this really Woody Allen, or an
imposter?  This movie received a critical beating when it came out, but it's
really not that bad.  In fact, I sort of got a kick out of seeing Woody in
this.  He is well matched by Bette Midler, who reprises her Down and Out in
Beverly Hills character.  Director Paul Mazursky, who usually makes either
Southern California or Manhattan-set social comedies, brings Woody out to
the Beverly Hills that he's trashed in so many movies (the most obvious
being Annie Hall), and plucks him into the center of '80s and '90s
California consumerism--the mall.  The story involves Allen and Midler
discussing their infidelities in various mall settings, but the dialogue is
merely a clothesline for the idea.  It was a hard idea to pull off, but I,
being the Woody Allen fan that I am, enjoyed it.

<|_=00=_|>

Like a stale marriage, after about half an hour you might feel like
retaking
your vows with this one, because although it starts well enough, the fire
soon dies down. The two leads are great, sparking off each other and
generally giving all they've got to these two-dimensional characters. But
there's only so many one-liners you can take before you realise that there
isn't actually anything happening. It's an interesting idea, and worth a
look, but with the credentials of those involved you'd expect to get more
for your money.
<|_=00=_|>

I enjoyed this a lot, but more in the way you enjoy a play than a film. I
can see how this would annoy some people, but I quite like it when film
mimics theatre- for instance, by restricting virtually all the dialogue to
two characters, and virtually all the action to one, claustrophobic,
location. The plot is slow and unlikely, but the writing is good, and the
acting superb. Particularly fine is Midler's murderous side-long glance at
the word 'zombies'. Actually, I don't think I've ever seen Allen have
better
chemistry with his leading lady. So, not a film for laughing out loud at,
but engrossing, well done, and fun to watch. Best thing about it: A mime
gets punched. Worst thing: Woody Allen in a white jacket and- God help us-
a
pony-tail. 
<|_=00=_|>
Years before we see the first shopping malls, Woody Allen has a film in
such mall. The mall was turned by him in embodiment of people's lives
and in particular, their married life. With its multiple floors,
escalators, shops, restaurants, parks, entertainment halls, organized
events for promotions and holidays, the mall has become a world of the
modern humans. But that is not the focus here, it is only the
background of the most important.

This movie is funny and crazy just as love is. Watching it, the viewer
is flicking left and right, up and down, should laugh, gladden, be sad,
excited and put in position to be doubted in his own situation and
maybe to remember and compare it with what is already there. The
metaphors of floors and stores with different emotions that they bring,
the spiral parking, escalators which symbolize the development of a
love affair with all the positive and negative feelings that brings.

What I am saying is messy too, as is the movie - it has everything. If
you're a fan of what is written here, watch this movie and you will
feel truly alive, at least for a while.

http://vihrenmitevmovies.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
Director Paul Mazursky is always at his best when satirizing trendy
Southern California lifestyles, and he does so here from that most
quintessential Southern California setting: the shopping mall, where
Bette Midler and Woody Allen break up and reconcile over the afternoon
of their 16th wedding anniversary. The windy script was obviously
written with Allen in mind, but the New York comedian is just as
clearly out of his element playing a nouveau-riche, pony-tailed
attorney with a taste for sushi and frozen yogurt. The sheer novelty
value of such unlikely miscasting is irresistible, especially with the
typically neurotic Allen paired (for once) against a co-star as
extroverted as Midler, more or less reprising her role from Mazursky's
'Down and Out in Beverly Hills' (1986). But the film never rises to the
laugh-riot level expected from the talent involved: it's a
claustrophobic, one-act, two-character comedy, no less thin and shallow
than the LA culture it mocks, and often pointless except as a vehicle
for its two bankable stars. Imagine the film with two unknown actors in
the same roles, and it all but disappears off the screen.
<|_=00=_|>
One word that describes the movie for me is frustrating. Though the
setting might be a rather original idea, it falls short on the plot and
characters. For me, the couple are not convincing. They seem to
different, a clingy, weak, uncool attorney married to a strong,
manipulative and insightful woman. Whilst, Woody totally destroys any
dignity and self respect for himself, Bette, seems to be constantly
boosting her ego with more and more manipulation.

Another flaw is that the setting works against it. At times, i must
admit they fit the criteria for a realistic approach of those couples
who argue at shopping centre's so loudly, the whole idea in itself
removes the realism from it. Though this is comedy, the mime, for me is
straight up an irritation.

There just seems to be no character development and that's what the
whole film has tried to fit into. The plot is written to suit the
insight of a couple who play mind games on each other constantly, and
for me falls short.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was great, and to an earlier comment, the movie wasn't
filmed in California, it was filmed in Stamford Connecticut. DUH. The
movie made my sides split. What is the matter with you people? Woodie
Alan is so funny in this! I am in an acting class in Palm Beach
Atlantic University, and going by what my teacher has said, they did an
awesome acting job, and I thought that the movie as a whole was
hilarious. Some people are so caught up in critiquing movies that they
don't know how to enjoy movies anymore, just for the pure enjoyment.
Maybe it's just my personal judgement but this movie rocked my socks
and made me wanna pee in my pants. Too bad no one else could see this.
<|_=00=_|>
-Contains some mild spoilers-

Whether or not you like this movie seems to hinge entirely on whether
you're a fan of Woody Allen's neurotic stand-up persona. I'm a casual
fan so I thought it was alright. Nothing horribly wrong with the movie
except for that stupid mime. When he get's what's coming to him towards
the end of the movie I came close to standing up and cheering, and the
lighthearted glory of that moment almost made up for the soul-grating
awfulness of every other moment the mime is on screen, which is too
significant to discount. Also it feels about ten minutes too long, even
for its short length; the movie mainly focuses on Allen and Middler's
relationship, and the chemistry between them is perfectly adequate for
an old stereotypical Jew-y couple, but the cycle of love and hate
between them goes on for too long.
