

   I say this making no pretense at completely understanding the Irish
conflict myself (you'd have to ask someone with experience of Belfast for a
more authentic take on the situation), but the irresponsible way the
troubles were used here as a backdrop to what is supposed entertainment
staggers me.  It isn't as if it needed this detail; the terrorist could have
been from any unspecified organisation.  In the incompetent handling of
sensitive issues that the makers really have no idea of, the production team
involved in this really have let themselves down.  Brad Pitt realised this
too late and henceforth disowned the film, a fact which made me admire and
respect him even more.

   For this I wanted to hate the film, and yet found myself unable to.  
Beneath the misbegotten attempts at 'political comment', there is a decent
little thriller struggling to get out.  Pitt is great as the terrorist
(dodgy accent aside) and Ford is as reliable as ever in the role of the
honest cop.  Director Pakula keeps the story moving at all times and stages
the action well.  Despite all these pluses, I constantly felt uncomfortable
at the ways in which the script tried to manipulate my sympathies.  While
it's not quite enough to make me downgrade the film on an enjoyment level,
it loses big points from an ethical perspective.  Shame on you
Tinseltown.

  

 
<|_=00=_|>

This film is just a second-rate thriller which uses Northern Ireland as a
convenient backdrop to add colour.  Unfortunately, the portrayal of Belfast
and the terrorists and intelligence community is stereotypical, romanticised
and hugely inaccurate.  The gun battle at the beginning is just ludicrous
and from then on the film becomes a showcase for nauseating Irish-American
'culture,' all blarney and dreaming of the 'oul country.  The acting doesn't
help as Ford sleepwalks and Pitt can't maintain the accent.  It is possible
to make good thrillers set in Northern Ireland which do not dodge the
politics and have sensitivity, but none of them have been made by US
production companies.  'Harry's Game' is by far the best example,
devastatingly accurate closely followed by 'The Children of The North' and
the black comedy 'Divorcing Jack' more recently.  See these and give this
Hollywood rubbish a miss.
<|_=00=_|>

There seems to be a certain template for making "Oirish" movies in
Hollywood. Add some or all of the following ingredients to your movie
script
- Aran Sweaters, a sub-Deliverance rural setting, comely maidens with red
hair, a village idiot (teeth optional), impromptu céilís and dancing at
the
crossroads, priests, drunken violence and the obligatory "Ooh arr,
begorrah"
accents and you have an Irish film. And if you want some controversy, why
not try to tackle the situation in Northern Ireland by adding in some IRA
men for good measure. Unfortunately, the Devil's Own has quite a few of
the
aforementioned clichés in abundance.

It is a great shame that with a cast and director of this calibre, they
couldn't have come up with something better. There have been very few, if
any, decent films ever made about Northern Ireland and perhaps it's time
Hollywood stopped trying to put forward its own take on it, especially
when
it is as cack-handed as The Devil's Own. Not only is the whole movie
grossly
offensive to Irish people, and anyone else with a brain, but it is a
dangerous message to be sending out to gullible Irish Americans. It's time
film-makers stopped buying into the idea that the IRA are noble warriors
when in fact they and others of their ilk are terrorists, pure and simple.

Avoid this like the plague. Brad Pitt's accent is the least of the
problems
in this film. He just isn't convincing as the cold-blooded killer he is
supposed to be - he's far too nice. Harrison Ford is his usual reliable
self
but too much of the movie is taken up with a largely irrelevant sub-plot
featuring himself and Ruben Blades as his police partner. At times, The
Devil's Own seems like an IRA film mixed up with NYPD Blue.


<|_=00=_|>
As a child in Ireland, Frankie McGuire (Brad Pitt) sees his dad gunned
down for his involvement with the Irish Republican Army (IRA). As an
adult, McGuire has followed in his dad's footsteps. When the IRA
decides it needs more firepower, they hatch a plan that involves
McGuire going to the United States to pick up a shipment of Stinger
missiles. Through American IRA contacts, McGuire adopts a false
identity and housing is arranged with a non-involved Irish family
headed by New York City cop Tom O'Meara (Harrison Ford).

There is an impression that The Devil's Own is an action film. The
Internet Movie Database has it listed as "Action/Drama/Thriller".
Although there are some action elements in the film, this is really a
tragic drama, almost in a classical sense, and it's best to approach
the film with only that genre in mind. The plot is fairly complex and
the film tends to move slowly--much more slowly than a typical actioner
or thriller.

The heart of the story is McGuire's relationship with O'Meara and his
family. All of the other material--the IRA stuff, the mob and terrorist
stuff, the New York City cop stuff, and so on, are not the focus. Those
elements are present to help establish characterization, to build the
relationship and understanding between McGuire and O'Meara, and to
provide a justification for the developments in the film, and
particularly the conclusion, which all have poignant things to say
about the decisions that we make and why we make them.

The film largely succeeds if seen from this dramatic perspective. It's
not quite a 10, however, as it always seems slightly distanced from the
viewer. It's an 8 out of 10 for me.

(This comment was originally posted on January 16, 2005 and ended with
the above. The following was added much later after reading through
some other user comments:) We should not forget that even though it
takes elements from the real world to construct its story, The Devil's
Own is NOT intended to be journalistic or a documentary. There is no
claim that it is giving an accurate portrayal of political situations,
and it's not intended to campaign for one side or another in a
real-world political situation. This is fiction, folks, and should be
judged _as fiction_. For that, you should forget about what you know of
the real world, and assess the story, images and sounds you experience
from your television. Does the story work as a self-contained entity?
Are the performances good? Is it visually attractive/rewarding? Those
are the kinds of things we should be judging. 

For me, The Devil's Own succeeded as a drama about relationships, with
its poignancy arrived at primarily by making two people from very
different worlds, with very different outlooks, learn to see things
from different perspectives. 

That's great if you're very knowledgeable about Northern Ireland in the
real world and if you have strong opinions about terrorism. However,
your knowledge and opinions on that stuff have nothing to do with this
film.
<|_=00=_|>

A large part of Brad Pitt's genius as a movie star is his ability to pick
scripts. "The Devil's Own" certainly indicates a lapse in judgment, but to
a
Hollywood tough guy, an IRA role is irresistible. You get a leather
jacket,
a ski mask, a machine gun and a cool accent. The Ulster accent is, as
every
movie star knows, very easy to master: just randomly scramble your vowel
sounds, say "fook's seek" frequently--and you're Oirish!

But far more laughable than the accents are the action scenes, which are
so
badly choreographed and edited, it's hard to believe the film is a
Hollywood
product. First there is Sean and Frankie's shootout with "half the fookin'
army," which they win. Then they escape because the British forget to
watch
the back door. Also, there is the mysterious appearance of a vast forest
in
the middle of downtown Belfast, into which IRA terrorists can easily
escape
when cornered. Next there is the shootout with Billy Burke, in which
Frankie
somehow manages to fire three rounds from a double-barrelled shotgun
(taking
out a sniper who, oddly enough, falls forward from the impact of a shot in
the chest), retrieves his pistol and fires the same shot twice--hitting
Billy Burke, who for some reason counted to ten before lunging for his own
gun.

The biggest mistake was in casting Harrison Ford, a lead man who commands
$20,000,000 per film, and putting him in a supporting role, which of
course
had to be rewritten and elevated to a co-lead. The result: instead of a
film
about an IRA terrorist who comes to the States to buy munitions (which is
a
good precept), we get a film about a New York cop who's got an IRA
terrorist
living in his basement. Anyone who initially proposed such a story to the
studio would have been turned down, and that would have been fortunate for
all involved.

In fairness to Pitt, he did try to walk away from the project, and in
order
to save face, ridiculed the movie before it hit the theaters, which
suggests
that he had more sense than anyone else on the set.

<|_=00=_|>
"The Devil's Own" is one of Hollywood's periodical ventures into the
murky world of Irish politics. Harrison Ford, who stars here, had five
years earlier starred in another such film, "Patriot Games". There is,
however, a difference between the two films. "Patriot Games" is an
action thriller which simply uses the Northern Ireland situation to
provide a motivation for the bad guys; they happen to be Irish
Republican terrorists, but they could equally well have been Islamic
militants, or Russian spies, or Mafia hit-men, and it would have made
little difference to the film. "The Devil's Own", by contrast, aims for
something more ambitious. 

The two main characters are Frankie McGuire, a member of the
Provisional IRA on a mission to New York to purchase weapons, and his
landlord Tom O'Meara, an Irish-American police officer. For about two
thirds of the film Tom does not know that his lodger is an IRA man;
indeed, he does not even know the young man's real name as Frankie is
using the alias Rory Devaney. Tom is only enlightened towards the end
of the film when he discovers in "Rory's" bedroom a bag containing
millions of dollars. (Are the IRA so amateurish that they would entrust
the money for their arms deals to a man who then leaves it under the
bed in someone else's house?) 

His discovery of the truth puts Tom in a difficult position. On the on
e hand he disapproves of violence so cannot allow Frankie to go ahead
with his plan to buy missiles for the IRA. On the other hand, he does
not want any harm to come to the young man, so tries to protect him
from the FBI and MI5 agents who are on his tail. (It is quite possible
that the British security forces might set up hit squads to hunt down
IRA men, but it seems highly unlikely that such squads would be
permitted to operate on American soil with the full knowledge and
cooperation of the US authorities). 

There is also a sub-plot involving Tom's attempts to cover up for his
partner Eddie, who has shot dead a criminal who was running from him.
Tom tells his superiors that the man was armed, although he had already
thrown away his gun before being shot. 

I felt, however, that this sub-plot was never properly integrated into
the main film. I was not surprised to discover that the film went
through several rewrites after the original script was discarded, as it
had the feel of a film written by a committee. Each member of the
committee, moreover, appears to have had his or her own agenda. One
member wanted to make an action thriller, a second wanted to make a
political commentary on the Northern Ireland situation and a third
wanted to make a character-driven psychological drama exploring Tom's
ethical dilemma in having to choose between the demands of friendship
and his obligation as a police officer to uphold the law. Eventually
the chairman, who had the casting vote, ruled that the film would be a
mixture of all three approaches.

There is, of course, nothing wrong with a film which attempts to work
on several different levels. The trouble with "The Devil's Own" is that
it doesn't really work on any of them. As an action thriller it is too
slow moving, with most of the action crammed into the opening and the
ending. As political commentary it is too obviously slanted towards a
pro-IRA position with a misguided attempt to make Frankie a sympathetic
figure. (That is perhaps only to be expected from Hollywood,
particularly in its pre-9/11 period. Americans who approve of this
should ask themselves how they would react to a British film which
tried to glamorise Timothy McVeigh or the Unabomber). As a
psychological drama it is dull and the Eddie subplot is never
successfully integrated with the main action. 

The film was turning out so badly that one of its main stars, Brad
Pitt, wanted to leave the set and was only restrained from doing so by
the threat of an injunction. Rather surprisingly, therefore, Pitt's
performance is one of the better things about this movie. (His Irish
accent, too, is quite convincing). He is certainly better than his
co-star Harrison Ford who actually described this film as one of his
favourites. Although Tom O'Meara is a role of the sort in which Ford
normally excels- a decent, solid family man confronted with a crisis-
his performance here is a dull, stodgy one, and not one of his best. 

Overall, the film is a disappointment, despite its two major-league
stars and its major-league director. This was the last film to be made
by Alan J. Pakula before his tragic death a year later in a road
accident. Pakula was responsible for some excellent films, notably
"Sophie's Choice", so it is a shame that his career did not end on a
higher note. 4/10
<|_=00=_|>
Considering that the era of sectarian violence in Northern Ireland has
largely come to an end, and the IRA is rarely heard from anymore (the
fight over Northern Ireland's status having been successfully moved by
the peace process into the political realm) this movie has a somewhat
dated feel even though it's not even 15 years old yet, dealing as it
does with a young IRA operative (Brad Pitt) who comes to America to buy
weapons for use back home. On his arrival, a sympathetic Irish-American
judge arranges to have him stay with a local Irish-American police
officer (Harrison Ford), who isn't aware of of the IRA connections.
Eventually, the arrangement comes to endanger the lives of the
officer's entire family.

I'll grant that the two lead performances were pretty good. Pitt as
Francis (or Rory, as he called himself in America) and Ford as O'Meara
both seemed to capture their characters quite well. The first hour or
so of the movie was rather slow-paced, but it picked up once O'Meara
put everything together and figured out what Rory was all about. I was
somewhat put off by what I thought was an implicit pro-IRA sentiment in
this. At the movie's opening, Francis is sitting at the kitchen table
at the age of 8 while his father says grace before a meal, only to have
presumably unionist gunmen break into their home and shoot him in cold
blood. It seemed to me that this was almost a way of justifying
Francis/Rory's later actions, and it's even said at one point that "if
I had seen my dad shot dead in front of me ..." Sorry, one can't
justify those acts. "I'll do this because you did that," which means
that a cycle just gets started that's hard to climb out of. Both IRA
and unionist gunmen should have been ashamed to call themselves
Catholic and Protestant, their actions having nothing to do with the
teachings of Jesus, whom both Catholics and Protestants claim to
follow.

Pro-IRA sentiment aside, I still thought this was a rather weak movie,
saved somewhat by Pitt and Ford.
<|_=00=_|>

What is it with American-Irish? Some of their richest and most respectable
members have poured millions of Dollars into the IRA, harboured some of
their members, idealised the notion of a "fight for freedom". Believe me,
as
a Scot, with William Wallace et al I've always had a certain affinity for
heroes.
But the IRA are no heroes. They've become Northern Ireland's drug-dealers,
extortioners, gangsters. The people of Ireland as whole have had enough of
them and their way of terrorising innocent people. May it be the IRA or
the
UDP, the notion of a Catholic V Protestant jihad has long ago turned into
a
simple cycle of self-perpetuating violence. These men and women are no
longer anything resembling the oh-so glorious Michael Collins, they are
terrorists who don't know when to quit and never knew anything but how to
fight.
These men aren't the Brad Pitts of the world, nor is the British Army an
oppressor anymore (considering that over 90% of the locals support the
Army,
simply because it provides protection).
Yet in 1997 we still got the great toss of this movie, showing us how
brave
Irishmen fight against an onslaught of British stormtroopers and evil
S(I)S
men. Somehow it seems that America is hell-bent on keeping up the idea of
the stiff upper-lip English villain. May it be The Devil's Own,
Braveheart,
U-571 or most recently The Patriot, Hollywood seems bent on demonising the
US' closest ally, both politically and culturally.
I may not be a great fan of the English, but even I know what harm
stereotypes can do. Perhaps the writer should have gone out to the streets
of Belfast and asked ordinary people what they think of the IRA. Perhaps
the
writer should have also approached a soldier and asked him what it's like
to
occupy Northern Ireland. Somehow, I have severe doubts that a movie about
the post-WW2 SS-"Werwölfe" guerillas would be quite so
romanticised.

And this movie has a Riverdance sequence. Oh please....
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Nobody enjoys Alan Pakula's movies like I do. Klute is one of my
favorite movies. Young people do not know the stories surrounding the
making of this movie. The release kept being postponed and word leaked
out of open warfare on the set between Ford and Pitt and their huge
differences over what kind of movie they wished to make. The movie
shows the result. As other reviewers have pointed out, we have
reflective scenes, action scenes and IRA stuff, as in Patriot Games,
all blended together in one big, brainless collage. What is left are
some good scenes, in places, but there is no coherence to the movie or
the slightest thematic unity. You will watch some scenes and ask why:
we are watching them play pool? Why are we watching the entire
confirmation ceremony of Ford's little daughter? It slows the narrative
down to a glacier. We have the two disparate stories, Ford's corrupt
partner he must turn in and the IRA story of Pitt going on
simultaneously going back and forth from one to the other like a teeter
totter. What the result of the war is, you can easily divine how peace
was struck. Each of the leads get some of the scenes they wanted and
the movie is obliterated.

It really is two movies in one. Ford's wrestling with whether to turn
his idiot partner who killed an unarmed man, or the IRA story of Sean
and his quest to buy Stinger missiles from crooked arms dealer Treat
Williams. This goes back to the beginning where Sean and the IRA decide
until they shoot down some English helicopters the war is lost.
Frankly, the Ford story is boring beyond belief. We get some romance
with his wife which again slows the movie down. We and other people
yelled: pick a movie!! The sad part is the Pitt story is great and
every time it picks up steam back to the Ford crap we go. Treat
Williams is great as a crooked, sadistic arms dealer who you should
never trust. The ending is moving and well done but it will only anger
you at the movie that might have been. Frankly, the Ford story bears no
thematic congruency with the IRA story and I cannot but wonder if it is
here simply to give Ford more screen time. 

The family rituals: dinner, confirmation, pool, walks on the night
streets, why are these here? Pitt's parts are the only ones worth
watching but the movie defies you to keep it on. Just as your interest
in the compelling IRA story unfolds, back to Ford, his squeeze and
their eternal social calender. It was in our paper that the original
director quit or was fired and was replaced by Pakula. There was plenty
of press how neither of the two leads would ever work with the other
again. Whatever the soap opera, this is one absolute mess. If you
really like the Pitt Irish story, you are going to have to endure
plenty of extraneous crap that will really annoy you. If only these two
idiots could have worked together what a movie this might have been. I
am sorry, I cannot recommend this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

There are a number of Hollywood productions that use a foreign political
conflict as a cheap backdrop for an action flick to give it a sense of
urgency and authenticity -- many of which, incidentally, Harrison Ford chose
to star in (I always get confused and mix up The Devil's Own with Patriot
Games and Clear And Present Danger, mainly because Harrison always seems to
play the same, generic character with the same, generic wife), but this one
manages to take the price for most dubious politics AND being dead boring as
well.  Quite a number of commentators seem to take the view that "hey, it's
not a documentary", but I wonder whether their reactions would have been the
same if the "freedom fighter" had been Palestinian ("his father has been
killed by the Israelis and now he's out to buy Stinger missiles to fight
back against the occupation of his home land") or Iraqi ... I dare say that
the reception wouldn't have been quite so sympathetic.  As it is, the movie
stands for a time before 9-11, when the US position on terrorism was
slightly less well defined, if not totally different altogether.

But even taken as mere entertainment, this flick fails miserably.  Starting
with the preposterous title;  then there is only one blood-guns-and-explosions
action scene, at the very beginning (noble freedom fighters vs. the Forces
Of Evil).  Next, both the good guy and his opponent are, ahem, good guys,
which necessitates the introduction of some more bad guys to keep the plot
moving:  namely the weapons dealer (boy, didn't they ever try hard to make
him look sinister -- I was already expecting a scene where he serves beer to
some college kids without asking to see their licenses first) and Harrison's
cop colleague;  actually, when he first showed up I thought that he looked
somewhat sinister for a good guy --pock marks, greasy hair, Hispanic --
until a bit further in the movie it miraculously turns out that, naturally,
he IS a baddie after all!  Director Alan Pakula masterfully rounded this off
with some of the most nauseating cinematographic stereotypes in the book --
especially the use of quaint Irishy flutes full blast whenever the subject
comes to Ireland, but I also found the scene where the two terrorists play
war with water hoses quite memorable.  In a way I'd wager that because the
film tries so hard to cover up its sympathies for the militant Irish
Republican cause it derails so badly in the entertainment
department.

But like I said, this movie is quite interesting, if only for historical and
political reasons.  Nowadays you it would be impossible to produce a movie
which so blatantly justifies terrorism (now that the US have become the
victim) or that portrays the British so badly (now that they have become
allies #1).  Watch this as an example for how quickly attitudes can
change.
