

Action! Adventure! Incredible scenery and cinematography!  But best of all
a
wonderfully powerful cast!  As the deep and thoughtful chieftain Buliwyf,
Vladimir Kulich was splendid.  He played his part with dignity, power and
intelligence.  Another stand-out performance was that of Dennis Storhoi who
played Herger the Joyous.  Perfect timing and temperament.  Really fun to
watch.  Antonio Banderas as the narrator of the piece and, incidentally,
the
13th warrior was also fun to watch.  He has a knack for humor and uses it
well.  The whole ensemble cast was a joy to watch as they moved through-out
the film as a team of men who valued each others strengths and talents.

The camera work in this film is dangerous and thrilling.  Our perspective
is
intimate and that lends a great deal of excitement to the movie experience.
Thank you Mr. Menzes!

The 13th Warrior is for anyone who believes in honor, valor and courage.
Also, for anyone who likes Vikings, horses, battles, blood and gore or men.
Women who like men will like this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
In the early years of the 10th century, an exiled Arabian nobleman
falls in with a band of Vikings. Disgusted by their poor hygiene and
their barbaric ways, he nevertheless reluctantly agrees to accompany
them to a distant kingdom, where an unspeakable menace terrorizes the
land. 

This is an interesting interpretation of the tale of Beowulf, with the
monster Grendel transformed into the fierce Wendol, a tribe of
cannibalistic Neanderthals who have somehow survived long past their
time. Despite the fact that Banderas is the title character and
credited as the star, he is not the hero here at all. The band of 13 is
led by the huge and intimidating Buliwyf (read Beowulf), a hero among
his people who must battle both the Wendol and their deadly "mother."
Alexander Gudonov lookalike Vladimir Kulich is the hero of this film,
and delivers a strong, amazing performance. Banderas spends much of the
film bumbling, stumbling, screwing up and trying to keep up with the
Vikings, who look upon him with contempt but finally, perhaps
grudgingly, accept him. 

Okay, so it's not entirely historically accurate and suffers from
production problems and an occasional overdose of testosterone, but
it's not a bad movie by any means. The casting is great, with standout
performances by the aforementioned Kulich as well as Dennis Storhoi as
Herger, Banderas's translator and only friend; the handsome Scottish
actor Tony Curran (in an unlikely kilt, but who cares?!?!) as the Celt
Weath and the woefully underrated Richard Bremmer as the intimidating
tattooed redheaded (and damn sexy!) Skeld. The film was worth watching
for these three men alone, but then, I am female and perhaps a bit
prejudiced in my opinions. These guys are HOT! But, I digress... 

Beautiful scenery, tense and bloody battles and a claustrophobic climax
in a bone strewn cave lift this movie well above average. There's
something for everyone here; fans of horror, fans of action, fans of
classic literature should all find something to enjoy about this film.
It may not be the best film ever made, but its still one of my very
favorites.
<|_=00=_|>

The 13th Warrior is an excellent movie. The scenery is beautiful, and so was
the cinematography. The music was great. The acting and directing was
excellent. I have no clue why the critics gave this movie such bad reviews.
I enjoyed this movie a lot. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes a
good action movie w/ lots of gore.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an extremely well crafted film, but a poorly edited one. Much
like The Ghost and the Darkness it has such a winning historical
concept that it is easy to forgive a little narrative incoherency from
time to time. This film is a bit muddled when it comes to plot and
characterization but hits all the right notes in terms of creating an
adventurous spirit and thrilling action sequences. Jerry Goldsmith's
score is a real high point, as is the cinematography. This is an
absolutely wonderful film to get all caught up in on a lonely night
because it makes you feel as if you are on the journey with Banderas'
character. It is an action thriller that is actually...thrilling. In
particular the scene with the "fire dragon" is one of the more
memorable battle sequences I have seen in any movie, and I really mean
that. The only negative aspects of the film are the feeling that a lot
of scenes were left on the editing room floor, which is true, and if
there was ever a film that really deserved a director's cut this is
certainly one of them so long as Jerry Goldsmith's music (the soul of
the picture) remains in. (Greame Revell composed a score for the
unreleased longer version, which I have heard and in no way compares to
Goldsmith's thunderous adventure music). The lavish costumes, set
designs, memorable characters, and brilliant camera work somehow allow
this film to overcome its editorial handicaps. All being said, this is
a film well worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
I guess every region has its own legends and saga's, but I've always
found the Scandinavian legends about trolls, monsters and ghosts even
more intriguing and interesting as ours. It's no wonder that these
people have created these legends once. If you've been there and if
you've seen the impressive nature with its immense forests and lakes,
the fact that the sun never rises in winter and stays 24 hours a day in
summer... makes it easy to understand why this is the land of such
creatures.

The movie tells the story of an Arab courtier / diplomat who was sent
to the barbaric North as a punishment for falling in love with the
wrong woman. In AD 922, this could be seen as an execution, because
there was no way he would return (it's the same reason why the Catholic
Church sent people who had committed awful sins, as pilgrims from our
region to Santiago De Compostella in Spain). When they are about to get
robbed and killed somewhere in the fields, they manage to escape and
accidentally stumble upon a group of Vikings, which saves their lives,
because the Barbarians are terrified of these vicious warriors from the
North. They soon get befriended and are able to stay with the Vikings,
when a young boy, a messenger from the North, comes to the Vikings to
ask for help. In their home country many people die because of "an evil
whose name should not be pronounced". They consult an oracle who tells
them that they should send 13 warriors, but that one of them shouldn't
be a Viking. The Arab, however not believing that these mythical
creatures from the forests really exist, joins them in their battle
against the Wendol...

Normally I'm not too much of a fan of Antonio Banderas' work, but this
time I really liked him as the Arab with the impressive name of Ahmed
Ibn Fahdlan Ibn Al Abbas Ibn Rashid Ibn Hamad (I guess you better don't
try to say that 10 times in a row). The other actors all did a very
good job as well, even though I have to admit that I've never heard of
most of them before.

The story is nice and well written, the way it was all shot is done
properly and overall I must say that I really enjoyed watching this
movie. I'm sure that many will not agree, but personally I liked it
more than the "The Lord of the Rings" movies. I like legends and
mystery in movies and this movie gave me both. I give it a 7.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm really wondering why there aren't making more movies like this! What is
in more interesting than the history of the Scandinavian countries? What is
more fascinating than the tales of Northern myths and their legendary Gods??
Well, in my personal opinion, nothing is and that's why I was so enthusiast
when I first heard about this Thirteenth Warrior being released! And even
though I'll admit the film is flawed on several levels, I enjoyed it very
much and I'd like to encourage as much people as possible to find out more
about the North men and their intriguing history. Co-producer Michael
Crichton who also wrote the screenplay bases the 13th Warrior on his own
`Eaters of the Dead' novel. It's a tale of a banished Arab man who joins
twelve North men on a conquest against an ancient form of evil. He learns
their language and becomes a warrior during the journey, he fights along
against the `Wendol'…These are giant bear-like men who're extremely violent
and savage. The good thing about The 13th Warriors is that it contains
multiple impressive battle sequences and extremely interesting characters.
For example the leader of the North men -  Buliwyf -  who's a truly
overwhelming personality. The costumes and geographical settings are breath
taking and perhaps even the most succeeded aspects in the entire production.
And, of course, you can't tell a Viking tale without the use of explicit
violence…the battles are pretty gruesome and the shed of blood is enormous.
I didn't have a problem with that, though. I even love it but it might be
something to keep under consideration when you have a weak stomach and
you're planning to watch this film. Yet, it's only fair that I name a few of
them negative elements The 13th Warrior suffers from. The largest parts of
the script – and especially the dialogues – are very poorly written. The
film also desperately tries to insert humor that is painfully unfunny and
even embarrassing at times. Even the entire last battle scene may have been
skipped since it's too heroic and a bit too much. Terrifically shot, though.
Antonio Banderas will never be a class-A actor, neither…luckily for him, the
accent works out well enough in stories like this. Nonetheless, The 13th
Warrior is good entertainment and the background of it is food for
education! Vikings rule!!
<|_=00=_|>

i have read the book and also seen the theatrical movie.  hopefully this
makes me more
of an objective critic.  through following this story there are two
points i
wish to address,
first being the authenticity of the story.

from what i have read. the movie does justice to the documentation
provided
by the
book. there are of course items in the book which cannot be properly
illustrated by the
film only because much of what occurs is due to the readers fantasy, i
have
not known
any director to be able to illustrate this without some variants.  it
even
seems
improbable that a director could make it echo that of your specific
account,
in reading
the subject.

I think that this theatrical attempt is one of the best, true to text
efforts that you will
find.  the movie provides a vehicle to learn or experience the characters
in
a different
manner than reading about the events, which from the account of the
narrator
are
somewhat bland and overly factual.

this is a great effort to stay true to the story provided and i
personally
find that the
strange connection and distance that you encounter with the main
characters
convey the
true meaning of what it would be like to experience an event like this -
that is without
the language and social skills of the environment one is thrust into.

so on the whole i think that this is a respectable attempt to recreate
the
story as
documented, without taking too much license at "artistic additions" in
the
film version.  i
find that you become attached to the characters even without knowing
their
names or
understanding them on a "language" scale. this story is truly about a
foreign interaction
and a textbook style accounting of the events that haunted the main
character even after
the experience.

excellent for those looking for a real story and not just special effects
to
entertain.
<|_=00=_|>

I was thinking while watching this movie, why are there hardly any viking
movies made? There is a good recipe for an action movie with Vikings what
with the fighting,raping and pilliging and the 13th Warrior is a good action
movie, although the Vikings are the good guys in this.
Antonio Banderes plays an arab who is picked to fight as a warrior against
an unknown race of people who attacked a village of Vikings.
This has the feel of the Seventh Samarai of the Magnifiscent Seven ,the few
oppressed against the many.
While this film has nothing it it to make it a brilliant film it is very
watchable and i would advise you to watch this if you are into
war/action/adventure movies.
7 out of 10.  
<|_=00=_|>

I thought this movie was one of the best I have seen in a long time.  I am
not a big action film lover, and really did not want to see this, but it had
me at the edge of my seat and enjoying it the whole time.  There is enough
dry humor thrown in so it does not get to dark.  This movie will definitely
be added to my DVD collection!
<|_=00=_|>
Don't believe the negative reviews on this one. Its easily the most
underrated movie I have come across, and can best be described as a
hidden gem for the ones who like historical adventure/action-movies
(Braveheart/Gladiator/Kingdom of Heaven/Robin Hood) and fantasy-movies. 

Others have described it better here on IMDb, so I am just going to say
this: It is not a historical correct piece, and do not try to be. It
should be viewed as a fantasy, even though the vikings portrayed and
their buildings/settlement is the most realistic I have seen in any
movie to date.

Btw: To all you who like the above-mentioned movies for the big
battle-scenes and sword-fighting, don't expect this one to have its
major impact in that area (even though it got them). On the other hand
this movie portrays a much more realistic take on fighting in
pre-medieval times. Instead of having the one super-hero defying all
logic, you get a band of fighting comrades which together becomes a
fierce force. There is a fantastic cast in this movie, with Banderas,
Storhøi and Kulich making their characters come truly alive.

This is a great adventure of a movie, which should be regarded
alongside the other movies I mentioned above.

9/10 - Must see for all who like adventure/fantasy
