

It had been years since I had watched this film, but watching it recently, I
was reminded of how much I enjoyed this sequel to the original warlock.  The
characters weren't near as annoying as that girl who lost her bracelet in
the original, and the Warlock was actually given some pretty cool lines and
parts.  I don't know, maybe it was the plot, but the Warlock just seemed so
much more evil in the sequel.  
Is it cheesey?  Yes, because the early nineties were a cheesey time, but
sometimes it's fun to look back at the past and smile.

If you like cheap, cheesey horror films, this one might make you
grin.
<|_=00=_|>
I always loved this movie, there's lots of action, numerous colourful
and inventive grisly deaths, the script is blackly funny and very
mean-spirited, it's a romp! I tend to feel a bit nostalgic whenever I
watch it, it's very 90s and to me is just a very easy and fun horror
movie to follow and get into. The only other picture I've seen that was
closest to it in tone was Wishmaster, which this had to have inspired
in some significant ways, although this is the more scary and better
made movie out of the two. So anyway this is a lot more unintentionally
comic than I remembered..but I still love it. I'm really not buying or
into the part of the story with the old men training the goofy kid to
be a druid warrior and everything, just Sands being a devilish badass
is enough to satisfy me thank you very much! Not one bit of this movie
would've worked were it not for his outstandingly wicked performance.
Unlike the first movie which I didn't like half as much as this, it's
definitely lacking in the protagonist department. I love the beautiful
raven-haired Paula Marshall, and the weird-looking dorky Chris Young is
likable if not completely useless in a battle - but they're both kinda
weak characters, everyone except for Sands is, this is completely his
show and he shines in his rather terrifying role as he positively
glides through the proceedings. This is one of those movies where one
actor is absolutely responsible for why a flick works, and he really
does carry the whole thing and steals every scene that he's in and his
presence elevates it above average horror fare to me. Watching it now
I'm still blown away by how fantastic and just how scary as f**k he is.
He's so charming and perhaps even angelic looking, but at the same time
he conveys such an enormous malevolence and a sense of barely
restrained vicious malice. He's such a ruthless bastard as he unleashes
terror and death on anyone who gets in his way, and makes one-sided
bargains with the unfortunate holders of the stones that he locates
with a flesh-map taken from the corpse of his 'mother' to aid him in
his relentless quest to bring about the apocalypse. There's a lot of
ghastly fun to be had in those suspenseful scenes just waiting to see
what the gruesome punchline will be, particularly the excellently tense
elevator scene and when he warps the art collector into a cute little
work of living art! The real standout to me though is the carnival hall
of mirrors where the poor dumb carny is duped into being trapped in the
dark side of reality forever. It's shot so well and feels so
nightmarish, with the scene just before where the helpless screaming
midget is shoved into the iron maiden after trying to warn the carny
being downright disturbing. The whole sequence should be better
recognised as a great scene in horror cinema as far as I'm concerned. I
dig the grim humour put into it as well, like when the Warlock runs out
of gas and is wrecked by the spell, unbeknownst to them, and when he
runs over the bunny, shuts up the annoying secretary, and horrifically
gives the hooker a closer look at her hair! Also that is a rather
pitiful bit part for Zach Galligan but hey, you can't say he isn't
integral to the plot, he gives the Warlock his trademark black garb! I
don't adore every last thing about it, the CGI on the baseball looks
total caca. And then there's the two cheeseball cringeworthy lines that
Chris Young delivers: "Welcome to the majors" and "Welcome to the 20th
century, asshole!" I mean my god, shudder! Also it really takes the
punch right out of the climax when the ascension of Satan, the fallen
one, the red hot demon himself, is halted by a pair of common truck
headlights! Seeing the Warlock get his spectacularly gross comeuppance
makes up for it though. Whatever other people may think of it, this
will always be a dear favourite of mine, I still find it a horrific
blast after all these years. Definitely Picasso where I'm looking from!
<|_=00=_|>
First off, let me say that you can watch "Warlock: The Armageddon"
without having seen the first "Warlock" movie. Of course you will have
more depth to the warlock character, if you have seen it, but you will
not miss out on anything if you haven't.

This sequel is as good as the first movie in the series.

Again, the role of the sinister warlock is portrayed by the charismatic
Julian Sands. And in this movie the character is much more dark and
evil, far more twisted than the warlock portrayed in the first movie.
Julian Sands is so perfect for the role of the warlock.

The cast is good, and the roles of the druids are good, both for the
young druids and the elderly druids.

The movie has a bunch of cool effects and wicked magics, something that
have to be seen. However, it is not all good though, the scene with the
knife went horribly wrong. That knife is perhaps the worst CGI effect I
have seen to date.

For fans of adventure genres or for people who like to play D&D games,
this movie provides good entertainment. And like the first "Warlock"
movie, this also have enough entertainment for more than one watching.
I never grow tired of it, at least!
<|_=00=_|>
Back in the late eighties/early nineties, when the horror genre was
being fed consistent revenue from a still-growing home video market,
just about any scare film could spawn a franchise. The original
"Warlock" was only a modest success but that was still enough to
justify a sequel two years later. "Warlock: The Armageddon" has a more
ambitious story then the original, a more comedic tone, and is
simultaneously more fun and less satisfying then the first.

Only loosely connected to the first film, "Warlock II" builds a wildly
different mythology around the titular villain. There's some typical
nonsense about lunar and solar eclipse and how the wall between Earth
and Hell is thin during this time. This is a opportune moment for the
Warlock, upgraded from merely a powerful witch to the literal son of
Satan, to reemerge. A sect of druids protect the five rune stones the
villain needs to bring about Hell on Earth. A prophecy marks two of
their children as the true warriors that will prevent the end of days.
The film follows the druids training their youngest members for battle
while the Warlock travels across the country, collecting the remaining
stones and committing magically-assisted murders.

"Warlock: The Armageddon" is essentially two movies stapled together.
One is campy but incredibly entertaining while the other is campy and
boring. The Warlock's killing spree provides the trashy thrills
horror-fans are likely looking for. The film beings with the evil witch
being reborn, in a sick and twisted moment, and continues in similarly
outrageous fashion. The Warlock comes across each owner of the stones,
offing them in ways related to their personality. The death scenes are
high-pitched and ridiculous. A gas station attendant has his eye torn
out, a snooty art collector is bent into a piece of modern art, a
hooker gets scalped, not to mention a lengthy stop at a carnival
sideshow. Julian Sands is having a ball. He hams it up, digging into
each cheesy one liner the script gives. Sands never winks, maintaining
the seriousness of the Warlock character, while letting the audience
know what a good time he's having. Gory, silly quasi-slasher thrills
like this are probably what you'd expect from an underachieving sequel
to a sorta-popular eighties horror movie.

The other movie "Warlock 2" also is doesn't entertain in the same way.
The tale of the druids raising two new warriors is snore-inducing. The
audience certainly doesn't care about Chris Young's protagonist, a
gee-shucks young kid named Kenny. His romance with Samantha, played by
a wooden Paula Marshall, is of no interest at all. The storyline,
involving rune stones and ancient prophecies, is horribly clichéd. It's
the kind of mythological story we've heard hundreds of times before in
horror and fantasy films. Any time the movie focuses on this plot line,
the audience really wishes it would be back to the Warlock killing
people.

Director Anthony Hickox had previously directed the "Waxwork" films,
"Sundown: The Vampires in Retreat," and, most pressingly, "Hellraiser
III: Hell on Earth." Like "Hellraiser III," Hickox has made a movie
about a formally serious villain suddenly performing over-the-top kills
and cracking wise about it. Luckily for us, the Warlock is a far better
fit for this style then Pinhead. Hickox's direction is energetic, with
multiple tracking shots of bodies flying through the air. His
creativity, which has always been fun but undisciplined, is best
displayed during the final fight. The Warlock explodes a building,
walking back to Earth on an invisible staircase. He dismembers enemies
with his hands and shoots them down with his finger. However, the
climax proves a bit underwhelming. Not only is the bland hero pitted
against the far more charismatic Sands, the way the villain is defeated
comes out of nowhere.

I've never gotten around to seeing "Warlock III" but the lack of Julian
Sands doesn't make me quick to check it out. "Warlock: The Armageddon"
probably wouldn't be half as much as it is without Sands' camping it
up. It's a fairly undemanding flick for horror geeks and certainly
would have prospered from a more balanced and creative script. But,
then again, what can you expect from an in-name-only sequel to a
sort-of obscure movie.
<|_=00=_|>
But I absolutely loved this movie. I mean loved it. I don't know why
but I did. Starts out so cheesy with the Druids doing their thing and
then we go whisking off to the our time whenever he is given birth.
With the training of the 'Warriors' and him traveling across country to
find the rest of the stones. So stupid, but I catch myself watching it
on airplanes, and whenever I am traveling. Then Netflix got it, oh man,
stop now.

The special effects are horrible to todays standards, and then the
acting is great, but I think its one of the most entertaining B horror
films ever made. I would highly recommend it to anyone. Trust me, you
will be entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought the sequel to Warlock was okay. The first relied heavily on
the story, which was a about a unfortunate 90's working girl who is
tormented by the son of the devil when a witchhunter chases him through
time to the present day. It sounds far fetched, but it is surprisingly
well-written. This one is about the return of the Warlock, this time
he's trying to collect 7 coveted runestones that, once collected, will
spell out the true name of his demon father and ultimately destroy the
world (hence the title, "The Armageddon"). This one is much campier and
much, much gorier than the first. I love Anthony Hickox though, I just
can't help it. He's like Brian Yuzna, crazy, far-fetched stories, campy
dialogue, tongue-in-cheek humor (check out Waxwork 2) and lots of
over-the-top (but tasteful enough to usually avoid being unrated) gore.
A boy learns that he is a descendant of a long line of "druids", a
group who has been covertly fighting the evil and superhuman for
centuries. Instead of brawn, he must strengthen his mental power in
order to face a final showdown of good and evil. Julian Sands once
again hams it up and makes you hate him, while unleashing his unholy
rage in some of the most creative kill scenes ever. I won't give much
away, but he is reborn through a beautiful woman in a very painful
manner, and the folks possessing the runestones get put through hell,
let me tell you. The deaths are very gory, SFX-filled and creative,
just watch what happens to the art collector. He becomes part of his
own collection, so to speak.

If you liked Children of the Corn 3, Hellraiser 3, the Waxwork series
and can take campy dialogue with a grain of tolerant salt, then rent
this movie for solid entertainment (for 85 minutes or so.)
<|_=00=_|>

Julian Sands returns here, but I don't know if he is supposed to be the same
guy are not.  The rules are all changed around here and in many ways it is
almost an entirely different movie.  The Warlock in this movie seems nearly
indestructible than in the first, and instead of the puritan types that were
the ones to try and stop him in the first one, here he must be stopped by
druids.  This time the Warlock makes a most memorable first appearance, and
then he goes after these magic stones so he can release Satan into the
world.  This makes the druid angle seem rather dumb as I don't think they
believe in such things.  However, it still is a rather good movie, just not
as good as the first...in fact this movie might have seemed better if the
first one never happened.  The movie though does follow a certain pattern. 
You see scenes of this kids coming into terms with their special powers to
stop the Warlock, then a scene of the Warlock finding one of the stones,
finally whoever has the stone is killed in an unusual way, and then repeat. 
This happens till the end and the big showdown occurs.  I do so enjoy the
shotgun scene.  That is about all there is too it, but then the Warlock does
kill people in vastly different and interesting ways.  Not a great movie,
but it is okay and worth checking out, though it is rather gruesome at
times.
<|_=00=_|>
Anthony Hickox is only about a light year ahead of Steve Miner in his
vision of modern-day witches and magick users, but he still gets it
wrong. 

The narrative begins as such: 'Throughout time, people known as Druids
have used their mystical powers to protect the Earth from evil. Once
every millennium, when the sun aligns with the moon, these guardians
summon the magic of their sacred rune stones in the quest to prevent
the birth of Satan's son...' 

Druids would be working hard to prevent untoward events, yes. But the
birth of Satan's son is not a concern to the Druids, who also realize
and understand that Satan is a Christian heresy and invention, and not
one that any pagan would hold in high regard. Therefore, the entire
plot of this movie is moot and negated, as far as learning or 'getting'
anything from this movie.

However, it is an entertaining thriller with a few surprises, turns and
even a twist or two. Classic 'B' movie horror, again starring Julian
Sands, and as sequels go, I find this one to be a more entertaining
endeavor than the flick from which it spawned. 

The idea of the Druid Stones is ancient, though they had nothing to do
with the birth of Satan's son. As legend has it, the Druid Stones were
the only keys to the seven World Gates, leading to seven different
areas within the three dimensions of this World; IE: Primordial,
Psychic, and Ethereal planes. Therefore, the signs and omens utilized
within the context of this movie are quite good and well used. 

The story centers around two young people, Kenny (played by Chris Young
*Buck of Candy/Aykroyd's 'The Great Outdoors'*) and Samantha (Paula
Marshall, who's had a rather...obscure acting career, so far). Both are
children of Druid heritage and blood, and although neither have been
trained, taught, nor raised within the magickal system, now they must
realize their powers and abilities in order to prevent the end of the
world. 

A bit far-fetched, if you ask me. What's also a bit far-fetched is the
very idea that a Druid's power comes from 'God.' Druids were here
thousands of years before christians and the Hebrew god YWYH. That was
just stupid. Outright ignorant. 

A small listing of well-seasoned actors makes this movie quite
enjoyable, regardless of the puerility of story line/plot. This
production is full of 'B' movie effects and classic horror fare. The
mirror scene with the carny has a very strong 'Dean Koontz' feel to it
with the end of that scene finishing out in an almost Hellraiser style.
All in all, not a bad way to kill ninety minutes.

This movie rates a 6.7/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
'Warlock: The Armageddon' is a more than capable sequel to the original
film.

**SPOILERS**

A druid ceremony is interrupted and five sacred stones are stolen and
buried, hoping to never be used again. Today, high school teen and
future warlock Kenny Travis (Chris Young) is having a series of
problems involving his girlfriend Samantha (Paula Marshall) and the
school bully Andy. (Craig Hurley) Kenny's father Will (Steve Kahan)
tells him of his destiny, but he would rather get along with Samantha.
The Warlock (Julian Sands) is reborn and goes off in search of the five
sacred stones that are needed to bring his father back to Earth. One of
the stones is held by fashionista Paula Dare (Joanna Pacula) and
acquires it forcefully. Kenny learns that he comes from a long line of
druids who protect the world instead of destroying it and that only he
can defeat the Warlock. Will and his Warlock friend Franks (R.G.
Armstrong) teach him to learn the ways of the druids to fight the
Warlock, who continues on a bloodbathed path to find the stones. With
Samantha coming along to help, Kenny takes on the Warlock for the fight
of mankind.

The Good News: I'm really glad this one is a bloodbath. The first one
was a very decent effort that featured very few gore effects, but this
one contained several impressive kills. Being impaled on a series of
spikes from a torture chamber, having an eye ripped out, having more
than twenty slash marks all over their body, and being dropped over
thirty feet onto a skylight, then falling trough with blood splattering
on the onlookers are just some of the scenes which are more violent in
here than in the first one. The elevator scene, with the stabbing, was
the real killing highlight because of the suspense it involved. Because
there was a couple false movements where something didn't happen when
it was believed to have been, then it suddenly happens does shock the
first time viewer. However, than is the only main jump in the movie.
Sands really seems to have fun in the role as he actually kills people
in this movie. He almost becomes a sort of Freddy-ish killer in this
movie, as he does have a few pretty funny comments to his victims, but
they just don't seem as good as Freddy's lines. He does kill with
abandon, so it does come as a surprise when he kills them. The actual
method of killing the Warlock was pretty creative, with the whole scene
carrying out pretty entertaining way. The battle shifts back and forth
as no one has a clear-cut advantage over the other and it never loses
your interest.

The Bad News: There was a serious lack of jumps in this movie compared
to the first one. The first one was pretty clever in how it build up
suspense in it through the use of camera, scene layout, lighting, etc.
This one simply abandoned that in favor of simply showing images that
could've been scarier, but instead seems rather dull. If you get used
to the violence, this becomes a very shock-less movie over time. The
Freddy lines do need some work, as only a few are actually pretty
funny. If only they would've taken the same approach, then part three
would've been the laugh-fest it could been.

The Final Verdict: It could've been a whole better than what it was,
but as it stands, this is a very entertaining film. It has a lot more
blood and gore than the first one, so gore hounds will love this one.
Seek it out if you like the first one or if supernatural films about
witches and warlocks are up your alley.

Rated R: Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Brief Nudity, and a brief
sex scene.
<|_=00=_|>
A supremely wicked and powerful warlock (Julian Sands in peak sinister
and sardonic form) gets reborn and plans on unleashing Satan's wrath
upon the world. Two virtuous teenagers blessed with supernatural
abilities have to stop the warlock before it's too late. Director
Anthony Hickox, working from a grim and harsh script by Kevin Rock and
Sam Bernard, handles the extremely macabre subject matter with real
flair and style: Hickox relates the twisted story at a constant brisk
pace, sustains a properly dark and ominous mood throughout, and tackles
the grisly gore set pieces with lip-smacking nasty brio (gruesome
highlights include the warlock's truly vile and revolting rebirth and
the warlock ripping a woman's scalp off). Chris Young as the nice,
reluctant Kenny Travis and the lovely Paula Marshall as the sweet
Samantha Ellison make for engaging protagonists. The veteran cast of
seasoned professional thespians helps a lot: R.G. Armstrong as the
crusty Franks, Steve Kahan as Kenny's amiable dad Will, Bruce Glover as
sensible priest Ted Ellison, Charles Hallahan as the foolhardy Ethan
Larson, Joanna Pacula as snobby fashion designer Paula Dare, and David
Gaines as obnoxious businessman Nathan Sinclair. Ferdy Mayne, Zach
Gilligan, and George "Buck" Flower pop up in cool bit parts. The
special effects are pretty gnarly, with the best moment occurring when
the warlock turns Sinclair into a living piece of modern art. Another
great scene happens when the warlock shoots two men with his fingers.
The climactic battle between the forces of good and evil is lively and
exciting. Mark McKenzie's spirited shuddery score hits the bull's eye.
Ditto Gerry Lively's polished cinematography. An immensely enjoyable
horror movie.
