

F.W. Murnau's "Nosferatu" has always been one of my favorite horror movies,
mainly because it's one of the few that really seems to take itself
seriously.  Often, even the best horror films, classics like "Psycho" and
"The Texas Chainsaw Massacre", include moments of leavening humor.  Even
"The Exorcist" had Father Karras' film discussions with Detective
Kinderman.
Not "Nosferatu".  This is a film that spends every moment of its running
time shuddering along with the audience in fright and disgust at its
beastly
vampire and the plague he visits upon the innocent people of Bremen.  E.
Elias Merhige's intensely imaginative "Shadow of the Vampire" offers an
intriguing explanation of the film's creepy hold.

It's 1921, and Murnau (John Malkovich), a kinky martinet obsessed with
creating films as authentic as breathing, drags his crew to a moldering
castle in Czechoslovakia for the filming of his vampire epic.  There, the
surprised crew meets Max Schreck (Willem Dafoe), the actor playing the
vampire, who, to say the least, has taken method to a new height.  He is,
in
fact, a real vampire, who has made a bargain with Murnau.  He will appear
in
the film, giving the director the realistic horror experience he so
desires,
if he is permitted to drink the blood of the leading lady in the final
scene.  Murnau grows increasingly obsessed with feeding his muse while
Schreck settles for feeding himself, the body count mounting inexorably as
Murnau struggles to finish his masterpiece while his leading man is
finishing off the crew.

Steven Katz' script could likely have gotten by on its strikingly original
premise alone, but fortunately, he turned what could have just been a
corking black comedy into a surprisingly deep meditation on the dark power
of the movies and the sacrifices one is willing to make, of oneself and
others, in order to create art.  Schreck is seen as a dessicated shambles,
the ultimate embodiment of an actor past his sell-by date still clinging to
his past glory, who, in a remarkable scene, talks about the sadness of
reading "Dracula" and seeing how thoroughly his special hell has been
misinterpreted and popularized.  Of Of course, all the crew can say to this
is, "What an actor."  To them, Schreck is just another old hambone who can
no longer distinguish fantasy from reality.

In one of the film's most poignant sequences, Schreck, who earlier
expressed
his yearning to once again see the light of the sun, watches film footage
of
a sunrise through a projector, staring right into the lens so the celluloid
sunlight can wash over his face.  It's a beautiful visualization of the
powerful hold movies exert; everyone can remember memorable experiences
that
we've had through the motion picture camera, things we've done and places
we've been to that we could not have gotten to any other way.  Just because
these experiences were only on film does not make them any less real to us.

Murnau, meanwhile, begins to emerge as the film's true monster, willing to
do whatever it takes to see his vision fulfilled, sacrificing his crew, his
cast, and his own humanity in the name of achieving immortality through
art.
Directors are often compared to God, and "Shadow of the Vampire" is one of
the most effective variations on that theme that I have come across.
Murnau, you see, is one of the old gods, and like those archaic deities, he
demands blood.

Merhige helms this material marvelously, conveying a sense of menace and
impending doom that make this a genuine horror film in addition to a clever
meditation on the form.  The film, for its low budget, has the feel of a
true epic, with its castle looming up over the black hills, mossy
brown-and-green cinematography, and heavy, ominous music.  The supporting
cast does a uniformly fine job, particularly Udo Kier, who invests
"Nosferatu"'s producer, Albin Grau, with unspoken secrets that exist only
behind his haunting eyes.

This film, however, is really a showcase for Malkovich and Dafoe, who
deliver two knockout performances.  Malkovich is the perfect control-freak
director, calm and cajoling one moment, barking angry orders the next.
He's
even willing to shout down a bloodsucking beast if it will get him what he
wants for his film.  Dafoe, buried under a ton of makeup, projects a real
character through his fangs and hissing, making Schreck pitiable, powerful,
and frightening all at once.  Dafoe received a much deserved Oscar
nomination for his work here, and if Malkovich had been nominated as well,
you would have heard no complaints from me.

"Shadow of the Vampire" gets a bit muddled in its final act, when Murnau
finally confronts the vampire with his most powerful weapon.  However, the
final moments are so powerful, the last shot so chilling when you consider
its implications, that the script's imperfections are subordinated by the
power of the film's message.  "Shadow of the Vampire" is a provocative
picture that explores the depths to which creative people will sink, the
cost in lives and their own soul they are willing to pay, just for a taste
of immortality.  One must beware.  The taste is a lasting one.  And
sometimes bitter.         
<|_=00=_|>

Every once in a while, a movie comes along that completely and maybe
consciously defies categorization, and "Shadow of the Vampire" is a great
example.  It is at once a black comedy, a horror movie with a unique
setting, and a biting sendup of the art and business of moviemaking.  And
the fact is that it wears each of these hats quite well, although not
necessarily at the same time.

The movie asks us to imagine:  What if Max Schreck, the mysterious guy who
gave what is still considered one of the best vampire performances ever,
did
so well because, well, he really was a vampire?  The skulking creature, we
are to imagine, was finagled into performing in "Nosferatu" for legendary
cinema pioneer F.W. Murnau.  The story then follows as the crew makes the
movie dealing with all sorts of difficulties, not the least of which is
the
star's habit of snacking on cameramen.

Among the film's many virtues is its portrayal of filmmaking in what was
really its dawn as a form of art and commerce.  People like me, who have
trouble with silent movies may gain an additional appreciation for the
work
and craft that went in to them, and realize that while they may seem hokey
and stylized to us now, they had a beauty and substance that was all their
own, and still is.

John Malkovich turns in a great performance as the visionary Murnau (who,
while tortured, must be a genius because he always gets it in one take).
It
is a characteristic Malkovich role, a rationalist given to bouts of fury,
and it is as much fun to see him discourse pretentiously on the science
and
art of the moving image as it is to see him pitch a fit ("Albon, a NATIVE
has wandered into my FRAME!").

The core of this movie, however, and deservedly so, is Willem Dafoe's
unforgettable portrayal of Schreck.  This is not your slick-talking
Anne-Rice undead-Vogue kinda vampire.  Schreck is the next thing up from a
rat, squatting in filth and clicking his claws, and Dafoe is able to
inspire
laughter as well as fear, and even pathos.  He makes us imagine what a
rotten existence it must be, to have eternal life alone in a rotting ruin
and a withered body.  He and Malkovich have some great scenes together,
including a sick, hilarious moment when Schreck and Murnau try to hammer
out
who on the crew may or may not be snacked upon (the cinematographer is
necessary, it seems, but the script girl is negotiable).

The movie functions best as a sendup of moviemaking, as the harried Murnau
must deal with temperamental actors, unfriendly locals, blood-sucking
undead, and other hazards of the movie trade.  At one point, Murnau must
leave to calm the investors, a scene I really wish had been included.
Some
of the best moments are those of the age-old creature of the night
attempting to take direction and find his "motivation."  Everyone is
afraid
of Schreck, but admire the dedication that keeps him in character all the
time (he's a Method actor, explains Murnau, he studied with Stanislavsky).
The movie makes its point rather neatly, that filmmakers, and by extension
filmmaking itself, have a way of sucking the life and blood out of you.
Anyone who has ever had to shoot a movie on location will attest to
this.

If I have a complaint about the movie, it is only that after its extreme
cleverness, it settles for a somewhat straightforward horror-style
denouement.  Myself, I would have thought the vampire would end up moving
to
Berlin and getting an agent, a swimming pool, and a meeting with Ovitz.
Still, the movie clearly makes its point: an auteur driven by a mania for
artistic perfection can be more of a monster than something that just
lives
in a cave and drinks blood from your neck.
<|_=00=_|>

The premise of "Shadow of a Vampire" is simple, what if Max Schreck was
really a vampire posing as an actor playing a vampire in the Murnau's
masterpiece, "Nosferatu?" Well, the result is both slightly scary and pretty
funny. Director E. Elias Merhige and writer Steven Katz create a fairly
creepy mood, and inhabit the picture with some real interesting
characters.

John Malkovich plays famous silent film director F.W. Murnau. This is
perhaps the funniest performance of the bunch, especially when he is giving
audible instructions to the "actors" while the camera is rolling. Then,
there is Willem Dafoe who plays Max Schreck/ the vampire. It is incredibly
fun to watch an almost unrecognizable Dafoe play this oddball, Max Schreck.
Unfortunately for Murnau, Schreck starts doing what vampires tend to do...
bite people. The original photographer dies along with a few others at the
mouth of Schreck. After seeing this movie, it is quite easy to see why Dafoe
was nominated for best supporting actor at the Oscars. His performance is
worth the price of admission.

This is a film which is hard to classify, sense it is a fictional account of
an actual film with real people. Yet this horror-comedy does have its
moments of wonderful macabre humor along with great performances to help
make it an enjoyable movie. A 7 out of 10. I highly recommend watching this
as part of a double feature. First, watch Murnau's original 1922
masterpiece, "Nosferatu", then watch "Shadow of a Vampire." You will
appreciate "Shadow of a Vampire" a lot more (or maybe vice
versa).

<|_=00=_|>

Back in 1924, the silent movie Nosferatu was released. At the time (as now)
it was the definitive expression of the timeless story of Count Dracula.
There have been, of course, endless renditions of the 1896 Bram Stoker tale;
however, Nosferatu was unique in that the medium of cinema was extremely new
in 1924, and the maker had to deal with prejudices against this newfangled
form of entertainment, which had to compete with the written word. Now, of
course, a new Dracula film need not compete with the original story; it only
needs to compete with earlier versions on film.
 
This movie explains the story of how Nosferatu was produced. The director,
F. W. Murnau (John Malkovich), is filming his masterpiece in Germany (the
widow of the story's author refused to sign the rights to the story, so they
couldn't film in Transylvania or use any of the names in the book). His
choice to play the part of the vampire Nosferatu is Max Schreck (Willem
Dafoe), a beastly, hideous man who will appear to the cast and crew only in
character (an early example of Method acting, to be sure). Shreck will not
travel or bunk with the company; he will live only in the cave dwelling that
the film's protagonist, Count Orlac, calls his home.
 
With a leading man that eccentric, it's no wonder trouble appears on the
set. People get sick, others appear listless and not quite into their work.
Still, the tenacious Murnau pushes on. He must get his shot! His film must
be completed! And as it progresses, he slips a little further into his own
world, and Schrek - who, it has been said, played perhaps the ugliest
vampire in film history - assumes more and more control over the direction
of the movie (although not literally). 
 
Dafoe is unrecognizable in makeup, but the sinister creepiness he brings to
most of his roles is evident here. It's an accomplished actor who can play a
part in full makeup and still make the role distinguishable from... well,
from some chump in a lot of makeup. Dafoe's excellent here, and his
interplay with Malkovich is galvanizing. Their scenes together are like an
actor's class on How To Emote and Project. There are times when each actor
appears to ham it up slightly (or, in the case of Malkovich, more than
slightly), but the two of them together constitute a casting
coup.
 
This is a wonderful little film, yet another that didn't quite get the
acclaim it deserved. The atmosphere is both rich and compelling, both
essential qualities for a film that's all about vampires from long ago. This
is not a movie that's high on special effects, either; don't expect to see a
lot of flash and fancy. It's also a homage to silent movies and to old-time
horror films in general. It's a minimalist film in terms of set itself, but
much is done with so little.
 
<|_=00=_|>

What if the lead character in the film Nosferatu really was a vampire?
Shadow of the Vampire explores this unusual concept as it follows the story
of the filming of the 1921 silent film classic. Malkovich plays the role of
Murnau, the German director who makes the bargain from hell to provide
realism to his Dracula knock-off, only to find that he has unleashed a
monster. This is a horror film that is really a psychological drama -- the
true horror lies in the man who decides no price is too high for the making
of his movie. At the same time, there's a lot of humor, as well as an
intriguing glimpse of Berlin in the decadent 1920s.

Dafoe is definitely an Oscar nominee with this performance (and the film
should get an Oscar for his make-up, too): especially powerful scenes
include his describing his reaction to reading the novel Dracula, by Bram
Stoker; and a confrontation with Murnau near the end of the film, when
Murnau finally is forced to recognize what he has done. Strong acting
performances from the supporting actors as well -- Elwes' accent wanders,
as
does Malkovich's, but the cast (including native Germans) is generally
strong. Some really nice cinematography and editing.

It adds to the experience to have seen the silent film first, by the way;
it
is well worth viewing in any case. It's available in a remastered print
with
a good soundtrack. "Shadow" takes a few liberties with the original film,
but not important ones (those night scenes were obviously not shot at
night,
for example).

I loved this film -- two thumbs up!


<|_=00=_|>

This movie is a true relief for everyone who thought the genre of horror and
mystery was dead and buried. It feels good to see that it's still possible
to create movies like this. Even though the plot is rather simple, the movie
seems to be very original and innovating. The basic idea behind this movie
is so simple that it is - in fact - brilliant and it makes me wonder why
nobody has thought about this earlier. The movie is completely based on the
very early horror milestone "Nosferatu, ein symphony des grauens". Legendary
actor Max Schrek is portrayed here like a REAL vampire who regularly takes a
bite out of his crew. Director F.W. Murnau knows about this but finishing
his movie is a higher priority to him than to sacrifice a few people.

This theme makes it of course a must for the ancient horror fans. Lots of
footage and trivia of the 1922 masterpiece are shown and that's a real extra
value for true cinema buffs ! But of course, this movie reaches far above
average thanks to the brilliant performances. A totally disguised Willem
Dafoe is absolutely amazing in his role of Max Shreck. It's like looking at
the real Schrek...the resemblance is terrific. His appearance (especially
the long nails) give you the creeps whenever he's on screen and his voice
haunts your head every time he says something. Dafoe never gives away a bad
performance but this one is extraordinary. And of course,the same can be
said about John Malkovich...his portrayal of director F.W. Murnau is
extremely realistic and believable. He plays Murnau as the man who slowly
goes insane because he tries to be too perfect. An amazing performance !!

There aren't many shock effects to detect in this movie but that's rather
normal, right ? After all, it's more like a costume-drama than it is horror.
The lack of exiting scenes is made up by the constant presence of tension
and an extremely appropriate atmosphere. Also, a perfect image of Eastern
Europe in the 1920's is presented to the audience. All these aspects make a
much better movie then just some ordinary slashing and slicing throats. A
must see !!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was truly disturbing... ...but not in graphics and horror.
This movie was disturbing in how it captured the true evil of the
legendary vampire and the unsettledness of a set that has been
portrayed by a perfectionist. A movie that captures such evil and
psychosis possesses the true, dark, nightmarish atmosphere that even
the best of horror films lack.

Willem Dafoe has given his best in this film. His dark aura that gave
life to another villain he would later play -- the Green Goblin -- was
perfect for the part of a deranged vampire who yearns from loneliness
and hatred of his decomposing body. A being who is haunted by the loss
of his past. Of his inability to make others like him, and be lonely no
more. And yet, he is also a being that is always one step ahead of his
demise, and manages to evade death and prevent his victims from escape
with the same cunningness that would give him the part of one of the
most evil of comic-book villains.

Though I've seen little of Malkovich, I thought that he played
perfectly the part of the perfectionist. A perfectionist that is
possessed by the desire of the perfect film that captures great evil
and makes it's audience actually experience the feeling of a great dark
presence. A film that 'doesn't make people say 'You should have been
there', but that 'We have been there.'" A director whose desire of
perfection puts the lives of even his most loyal of crew in the path of
Death itself. A Death that has desires nowhere near as dark as the
being that called upon it.

Such a film is nightmarish and heart-throbbing just by Shrek stepping
from the hallow hallway and into the moonlight to welcome his 'guest'.

Overall: perfection...

Rating: 9 out of 10. A truly disturbing film with atmosphere that
remains dark, even during the day...
<|_=00=_|>

First off, this is a much better movie if you have seen Murnau's
expressionist masterpiece, "Nosferatu". There are a number of scenes from
this movie that draw on "Nosferatu", and it makes a lot of the scenes more
enjoyable. The movie is done in very much an expressionist vein it itself,
the kind of film F.W. Murnau would certainly have appreciated.

The concept here is incredibly intriguing - what if a horror movie was a
horror to film? Once the film kicks into gear, it establishes a rather
creepy mood, especially in the sets, most of which mirror those of
"Nosferatu" (the writer's bed, for instance, looks exactly like
Hutter's).

As the film progresses, the actors take over the film, and it's interesting
to see how they stack up to their precursors from 70 years ago. Eddie
Izzard
is an interesting Hutter (the Jonathan Harker analog), as (pretend) silent
acting is well-tailored to his overbearing antics. Udo Kier is quite good
as
reserved producer Albin Grau. Alas, Cary Elwes, one of Hollywood's most
underappreciated actors, is typecast as a kind of roguish, free-spirited
Fritz Wagner, a real cinematographer (and the main one throughout all of
"Nosferatu") and one of the stalwarts of German cinema into the
50's.

Malkovich is ideal for this role. He does a good job of being a manic,
desparate for everything on his film to go right. His Murnau is a
control-freak, a guy who keeps his crew in the dark, and adds to the
generally creepiness.

The most curious thing about Murnau's "Nosferatu" is the vampire himself.
The rest of the characters are pretty direct analogs of "Dracula". But
instead of a suave, cool vampire of the Christopher Lee/Gary Oldman mold
(later roles, of course), Murnau's vampire was a stiff, cold, violent
monster. Willem Dafoe is absolutely brilliant in portraying this. He has
some
moments of comedic relief, bickering harmlessly with Malkovich, and
generally being a fish out of water. Soon, however, his character becomes
undeniably creepy, and Dafoe does a great job of making Count Orlok seem
like the kind of guy who makes your skin crawl. In some way, this Orlok is
less of a monster - he's portrayed a bit more sympathetically, sorrowing in
his loneliness and never getting to see light. Murnau's vampire was almost
always shot from below, making him appear huge and menacing; Dafoe's Orlok
isn't monstrous so much as he just makes your skin crawl.

I do have a couple beefs, though, mainly technical. On a purely nitpicky
level, Murnau is mentioned as a comtemporary of Griffith and Eisenstein,
despite the fact that Eisenstein didn't make a movie until two years after
"Nosferatu". On a less petty level, the characters seem a bit dumb. They
have no problem accepting the fact that Orlok is an actual vampire once
Malkovich tells them, but can't seem to figure it out on their own, despite
seeing, among other things, Orlok pulling a bat out of the air and sucking
the blood out of it.

The film, in general, does not end well. The penultimate scene is horribly
contrived, a lot of silly reminiscing to to advance the plot a little. The
ending itself isn't necessarily bad, just a bit ambigous. You don't come
away with a clear sense of who (if anyone) was wronged amongst the main
characters, and we leave a couple of them in limbo. A couple of technical
details are odd, too. Murnau's Nosferatu has a shadow and a reflection, but
this one only a shadow. Also, in the final scene they are supposedly
filming, there's a wooden stake that's nowhere to be found in
"Nosferatu".

A quick note, by the way - while the movie they are filming actually
exists,
rest assured the story is pure fantasy. Max Schreck went on to make more
movies, as did the rest of the actors in this film, and no actors were
bitten during the filming of the original movie.

A thououghly enjoyable film, especially if you're familiar with the subject
matter.
<|_=00=_|>

Shadow of the takes the viewer to 1921 to "witness" the making of F. W.
Murnau's silent classic vampire film Nosferatu. Shadow of the Vampire does
not pretend to be a documentary; it is a highly stylized, fictional work
that delves into its very own imaginative speculations about a filmmaker's
creative process.

Having assembled his crew, Murnau (John Malkovich) travels to a small town
in Czechoslovakia, where he intends to recreate before his camera the story
of Bram Stoker's "Dracula". Set on creating the most realistic vampire film,
Murnau secretly recruits a real vampire (Willem Dafoe), promising to
recompense the creature with leading lady Greta (Catherine McCormack).
Murnau cautiously introduces the vampire to his producer Albin Grau (Udo
Kier) and scriptwriter Henrick Galeen (John Gillet) as "Max Schreck", a
truly professional "method actor" trained by Stanislavsky. Schreck performs
his scenes suspiciously well, only appearing on the set at night and in
character, keeping his end of the bargain with the director. Soon, however,
his blood thirst takes over and he fearlessly threatens to eliminate, one by
one, Murnau's most dispensable crew members.

Shadow of the Vampire stems from the premise that its protagonist, the
fictional Murnau (Malkovich), must hire a real vampire in order to ensure a
truly authentic representation of the vampire character, "Count Orlock", for
his film Nosferatu. The viewer who seeks a more accurate portrayal of the
making of the real Nosferatu may find this premise strained and far-fetched,
and may even consider the film's ensuing humor a bit aimless. However,
Shadow of the Vampire integrates the humorous premise to its metaphorical
exploration of the artistic process and of the inevitable struggle between
the star, the director and the crew. (In one scene, Schreck tries to secure
his interests --a new victim-- by negotiating with Murnau. He reflects: "I
don't think we need the writer any longer.") Aside from the film's complex
treatment of the film within the film and of the character within the
character (where Shadow of the Vampire re-presents Nosferatu, and Shadow's
cast plays Nosferatu's cast), the film's most enjoyable aspect is its
careful reconstruction of specific Nosferatu scenes. When demonstrating how
Murnau shoots these well-known scenes, Shadow's own shots shift between
black & white and color; from a full-frame to one enclosed by an iris.
Shadow's recreation of the classic scenes are often accompanied by Murnau's
off-screen voice-over instructions to the actors, who in turn stop in
mid-shot, enter, or exit the frame. These choices offer a fantastic
depiction of silent film technique, and they as well add new life and a sort
of magical dimension to the original Nosferatu scenes. Undoubtedly, Shadow
of the Vampire may be most fully appreciated by the viewer that has already
developed a sensitive appreciation for Nosferatu's unforgettable images.
Still, Shadow of the Vampire may be enjoyed as well by those fascinated by
filmmaking or --as Shadow's Murnau put it-- by "the science of the creation
of memory."


<|_=00=_|>

In 1922 filming of Murnau's movie `Nosferatu' has begun.  Murnau has
recruited the mysterious Max Shreck to play the lead role.  Crew fall ill
and Shreck never appears out of character or during the day.  Fellow actor
Gustav believes Shreck is an intense method actor – however Shreck is a real
vampire and has agreed to star in the film in exchange for the neck of the
leading lady when filming finishes.  However Shreck's lust for blood
continues to grow throughout the shoot.

This is an inventive film that looks at how far art will go to create.  The
director Murnau seems as driven by the creative process as Shreck is by his
lust for blood.  This comparison is carried through the whole film until the
inevitable showdown between the two drives.  The setup itself is fascinating
but the comparison between the two men makes it even better.

The film is well shot and uses the different cameras well.  It looks really
good and mixes bright shots with shadowy darkness really well.  It also
benefits from a good cast.  Malkovich is excellent as the driven director
who easily becomes a monster himself but Dafoe is even better.  Despite
being almost unrecognisable under the make up, Dafoe manages to bring
humanity to his monster – he also brings some humour without making his a
comedy role.  Elwes is underused, but Izzard is great as a bad 1920's
actor!

Overall this may not inspire interest in everyone but it has a great cast
and a good central story.  The comparisons drawn between Murnau and Shreck
only improve what is already a very enjoyable film.
