

I'm not sure what the people who dumped on this film were expecting, but I
found it entertaining. I am a fan of good horror and good satire, so I was
able to recognize and appreciate the jokes.

True, this film relies a bit much on poddy humor, but at the same time,
there is a cleverness in the way all the films being spoofed (and there are
many) get twisted together and played with here. Some of the slapstick and
sight gags do fall flat, but the movie is quick paced and the satire is
fun.
If you don't go in expecting Shakespeare, you'll enjoy it. And you might
even get some Shakespeare.
<|_=00=_|>

Like most movie parodies, `Scary Movie' starts out well then begins to head
downhill as it exhausts the possibilities of its limited material. 
Certainly, few genres are as rife for self-satire as the teen slasher films
that have proliferated in theatres ever since the early 1980's.  Seeing,
however, as even some of the earliest `Friday the 13th' and `Halloween'
films seem like ancient history to today's core movie going public, `Scary
Movie' draws upon more contemporary examples of the genre like `Scream' and
`I Know What You Did Last Summer' as its source of inspiration.  In its
opening stretches, `Scary Movie' has a great deal of fun parodying the many
ludicrous conventions that have long defined these films:  the use of
30-year old actors to portray empty-headed, nubile adolescents; the heavy
emphasis on teen sexuality and partial nudity; the inane actions of the
killer's victims who seem to do everything possible to hurl themselves into
dangerous situations; and the oh-so-predictable false scare (usually caused
by a leaping cat) followed immediately by the inevitable killer's
attack.

Directed by Keenan Ivory Wayans and boasting a screenplay concocted by no
fewer than six (count ‘em SIX) writers, `Scary Movie' establishes a high
speed rhythm and pace that the filmmakers manage to sustain through most of
the film's 88-minute running time – though there is a noticeable tendency on
the part of the film to lag in the last half hour.  Part of the problem
could be that, as with most films made up essentially of sound and sight
gags haphazardly strung together, it is inevitable that some of the bits
will succeed better than others and that, as the movie rolls along, the
inspiration will run a little dry and the humor will become less spontaneous
and more forced.  Indeed, this type of movie genre parody has always worked
best when applied in small doses on TV series like `Saturday Night Live,'
`In Living Color' and even the `Carol Burnett Show.'  Stretched out to full
length, such concepts often suffer the curse of diminishing returns.

Occasionally, the screenplay edges so close to the limits of good taste that
one may question whether or not the material is truly appropriate for the
age group at which the movie is obviously targeted.  The crudity is actually
much more comically effective when it is merely hinted at than when it is so
openly spelled out and displayed.  But then subtlety is not exactly a strong
suit of the straight horror movie genre either. 

`Scary Movie' is, at least, blessed with a winning, game cast made up of
appropriately post adolescent actors who understand well the mannerisms and
speech patterns of the stereotypes they embody.  The overall good-natured
quality of the film and its fairly high laugh ratio of gems to clunkers make
`Scary Movie' an imperfect but generally likeable popcorn entertainment.    


<|_=00=_|>

Scary Movie is now (it was a little while ago it was Me, Myself & Irene) my
favorite comedy of the year.  This film gives another word to the
spoof/comedy genre, and even though it doesn't make a breakthrough like
Airplane!, it is still very, very funny. Sure it's not for everyone, but for
those who have seen all the scary movies parodied in this film (example-
Scream, Scream 2, I Know What You Did Last Summer, The Matrix, The Sixth
Sense, The Blair Witch Project, Halloween, The Shining, etc) and can enjoy a
good comedy, this film is definitely for you.

But the plot is unexplainable, but the jokes are.  The spoof follows in the
Wayans bros. tradition (this film is directed by Keenan Ivory Wayans,
written by Shawn and Marlon Wayans, produced by all three, and starring all
three) of they're last spoof- Don't Be a Menace to South Central While
Drinking Your Juice in the Hood.  Jokes include a guy who acts very gay but
isn't (Shawn Wayans) a
pot head (Marlon Wayans) and some other characters (Carmen Electra's cameo
is my favorite).  Also, the references to movies but not parodies are still
funny.  Very sick, very crude, very funny.  The funniest film of the year.
A+
<|_=00=_|>
A group of teenagers are targeted by a serial killer exactly one year
after they ran over a man.

In 1996 Scream was a film that reinstated the slasher horror genre and
Keenan Ivory Wayans' spoof is a true and funny testament to that horror
classic.

Modern spoofs often contain slapstick humour, stereotypes and a fairly
predictable plot. This is evident with this 2000 hit and is pure silly
entertainment that you can't help but love and laugh along with despite
the conventional approach.

Recent releases such as Disaster Movie have brought the spoof genre to
an all time low. Filled with unfunny parodies, attacks on celebrities
and ultimately silly plots, it's a wonder why they are still being
made. In the nineties we had classic spoofs such as Austin Powers and
Naked Gun, silly but with a sharp and entertaining plot.

Scary Movie has such a good plot, choosing to focus its energy on
Scream and I know what you did last summer, that you forget its
intentions to demean other films and therefore, are able to sit back
and enjoy the ride.

The opening is pretty much Scream with some great moments of slapstick
in, and crude slapstick at that with safety signs, sexual references
and an out of control car.

This opening sets the tone for an engrossing comedy and viewers are
thrust head first into typical teenagers lives, filled with some fine
slapstick humour and stereotypes lives There is a consistency to Scary
Movie. There is little wondering away from its objective to tell the
tale of the teens being targeted and therefore achieves a realism in
its own context. With follow-ups 2, 3 and 4 there is a tendency to run
away from the main narrative and have sillier skits that this original
remains the most sophisticated to date.

Though the comedy is frequently predictable, there is still elegance
about the way Wayans achieves this effect. His close and unflinching
style gives that humorous and equally horrific substance to fly across
both genres into this tantalizing tale.

Spoofs are always worth viewing for their sheer cheek to criticize
blockbusters and Scary Movie is no exception with its pin point
accuracy on Scream and other horrors. Filled with likable slapstick and
funny stereotypes, this is the finest in the series
<|_=00=_|>

Very funny comedy from the Wayan team. It's a take on all the recent teen
horror flicks, and it does it superbly well. I hate noise in cinemas while
I'm watching a film, but I couldn't keep quiet, I was laughing out loud, and
I even shouted at the screen. Now I have never done that before. The gags,
from one liners to the set pieces, are so funny, watch out for the sex scene
and the gym teacher - I almost wet myself. This ranks next to Airplane as
one of the top ten funnies.
<|_=00=_|>
A controversial Horror spoof that gained mainstream attention when
released. If you liked and took seriously "Scream" then you should
watch this movie with attention. It's almost the same concept. While
"Scream" tried to be taken seriously , "Scary Movie" mocks about
everything possible in the genre in a raw way.

Anna Faris and the Wayans brothers deliver a funny performance. Sure
the cast is over the top but the movie asks for it. Having such a
pretty girl like Faris behaving like that always shocks and this time,
it entertains. The rest of the cast is pretty good. All in the
"American Pie" style but with raunchy humor. 

The main reason for me to like this movie is that it mocks perfectly
many Horror popular movies. Friday the 13th, He Knows You Are Alone,
Black Christmas, Psycho, etc. That's in my opinion, the best feature of
the movie. It's a joke but it's a homage at the same time. Unlike
"Scream" that tried to convince people that it was an innovative
slasher. 

Give this movie a try if you are in the mood of raw black humor. It
surely will entertain you if you are not easily offended.
<|_=00=_|>

Parody films kind of died in the early 90s, the good ones anyway.  Leslie
Neilson made a handful at the end of the decade, all very stupid as they
didn't even try like the Zucker bros. did in the early days.  But the last
slapstick film I liked was 1993's "Loaded Weapon" so this film was a long
time coming.  Most parodies have some sort of target, and this one attacks
all the teen slasher pics of the last few years.  Since I didn't enjoy any
of them, I really enjoyed watching them get lampooned, as a ton of the jokes
are right on the money.  If you're a fan of parody, I don't know how you
couldn't love some of this.  But even with all the praise, this still just
barely missed being an overall success.  Toward the end it starts to run out
of steam, which is really too bad, as a lot of it is too hilarious for
words.  I do go along with everyone else in saying I don't know how this got
only an R rating.  There is a ton of graphic material, sexually and
bloodily.  Some will laugh, others will roll their eyes at the over the top
approach to some scenes.  I did a little of both.  The cast, for mostly
unknowns, is good, and it was nice to see the Wayans clan finally succeed in
film, after about a decade of poorly self-written clunkers.  I see a sequel
is forthcoming, although I'm not sure whats left to make fun
of.
<|_=00=_|>
First,i'd like to apologize about my bad English,i'm not American.Now
the review,people will disagree,but,this is one of the funniest movies
i ever seen.Warning:If you like political correctness,this movie is
totally not for you,it goes from suicide jokes to ejaculation jokes,it
has lots of sex jokes,some are unfunny and kinda gross,but,are
compensate by how other jokes are hilarious. Now,"Scary Movie" parodies
slasher teen movies,mainly,"Scream" and "i know what you did last
summer",but,take jabs at other films even "matrix".So the film synopsis
is the same than from "Scream" and "IKWYDLS",only adding stupid,because
it is a stupid version of these films.Sinopsis:stupid teens
accidentally kill a man,one year later,these teens are chased by a
stupid killer.See?Now,despite being one of the funniest movies i ever
seen,it still has it bad moments,i mean,even naked gun has bad
moments.One of the problems is after a while,the movie loses it
steam,and the jokes get bad (those are probably the Seltzer- Friedberg
parts of the script) but still it's a very funny movie and i recommend
to everyone who likes stupidity and spoofs,even those who don't like
may enjoy it
<|_=00=_|>

OK people.  Enough is enough. I'm standing up for this movie.  I had walked
into the theater not knowing what to expect.  After hearing about the
nudity, I was definitely intrigued.  Yes, this movie has a TON of gross out
jokes that make Something About Mary seem like Sesame Street. The gross out
jokes will no doubt make many people uncomfortable.  In retrospect, this
movie should have probably been NC-17, but it was really pretty harmless. 
(the girl-in-the-movie-theater-talking-on-the-phone bit should have been
done a long time ago) The stereotyping is pretty bad, but again, harmless. I
was more or less shocked at the material, rather than offended. There could
have been less Scream spoofs and more "old-school" horror jokes, but I
wouldn't trade the Doofy material for anything.  Great impersonation! Cheri
Oteri was a wonderful presence, in a great Blair Witch knockoff.  The
ghostface killer does a nifty little Friday the 13th music impression. And,
there is a very brief Halloween spoof with Cindy in the classroom. The sex
jokes were way over-the-top but pretty darn clever.  After seeing Me,
Myself, and Irene (which was god-awful, especially if you're used to seeing
Jim Carrey doing good movies) I was thrilled to leave Scary Movie thoroughly
pleased. Regardless of the tagline, everyone should expect a sequel. (the
movie is grossing a ton of money) I'm already buying my
popcorn...
<|_=00=_|>
NOTE:Despite already having my review written for the fifth film, I
decided to review the first four.

This is my favorite 2000 movie of all time. It's hilarious.

This movie spoofed my favorite horror films "Scream" and "I Know What
You Did Last Summer". The Wayans Brothers did a good job putting those
two movies in one storyline.

This film is about a group of teenagers finding themselves being
stalked by a masked killer one year after an accidental murder.

It stars Anna Faris, Regina Hall, Shawn Wayans, Marlon Wayans, Shannon
Elizabeth, Jon Abrahams, Lochlyn Munro, Cheri Oteri, Dave Sheridan,
Kurt Fuller and Carmen Electra.

This horror-comedy is my favorite film of all time.

Grade:A
