

Fled is a cheerfully illogical actioner which rattles along at a seriously
rapid pace without ever pausing for breath. It's stupid and spectacular in
equal measure.

The plot hardly seems important, but for what it's worth here it is: a Cuban
mafia boss has foolishly allowed himself to leave some incriminating
evidence on a computer disk. The only guy who knows where the whereabouts of
the disk is in a chain gang in the Deep South. An undercover cop is sent to
the chain gang to find out where the disk is, and to keep the guy alive when
the Cuban hitmen turn up to silence him.

The first half of the movie borrows liberally from The Defiant Ones, with
Baldwin and Fishburne chained together and fleeing through the swamps from
both the good guys and the bad guys. Later on, they reach the big city, and
the film then borrows ideas from any police actioner that you could care to
mention (Lethal Weapon, The Dead Pool, Tango and Cash, Striking Distance, et
al). In fact, the second half of the film consists solely of fist fights and
car chases and shootouts, all inspired by similar movies from the
genre.

Fled never bores you, but it never particularly engages your brain. It is a
quickly forgotten film, but it is also the perfect film to watch with your
mates while you sink a six-pack of beer and a 16" pizza on a Friday night.

<|_=00=_|>

Mindless chasing and shooting. This one leaves plenty of your mind
unoccupied to wonder such things as:
How can a guy shoot a three-quarter inch rope with a handgun and miss
everything with a shotgun?
Why is RuPaul in this movie for 15 seconds?
Would the feds really honour a verbal agreement to let you off after you've
shot up a lot of folks and a lot of Atlanta?
Could a limo really keep up with a Ducatti?
Is it true that all you've got to do to get a semi out of your way is to
lean on the horn?
<|_=00=_|>

FLED is, perhaps, best watched very late at night after a bit of a drink
when you don't seem to care about plot holes, bland characters and poor
acting. Although not as diabolically awful as other reviewers have made
out,
this is a pretty bad remake of a great classic. What they seem to have
forgotten is that when they made THE DEFIANT ONES, it was at a time where
racial awareness was so topical - in FLED the conflict is represented by
just one line.

The two leads are acceptable, with Laurence Fishburne flexing his fighting
skills ready for THE MATRIX. Stephen Bladwin is his usual surly
smouldering
self, and there is a very small (ie no reason to watch it just for this!)
part from Salma Hayek.

Although a little overdone, I enjoyed the film references made by
Baldwin's
character, and you will have a chuckle at the very final
one...!
<|_=00=_|>

As average a film as you'll se. Not much to say on it. Starts off very well
with much promise but once they unchain themselves turns into a run of the
mill action film, nothing different. One or two of the subplots, the
romances especially, seemed trivial. It may even of been a better story had
Fishburne not been a copper and a different plot. 

Quite why they didn't shoot the chain apart when they had the gun I don't
know either, but they chose to drive, still attached. No character is
especially warming, but there's a good cast, nothing wrong with the acting &
great to see old Dex Dexter, Michael Nader in a role, as he was brilliant in
Dynasty & never looked even slightly out of place here.

Better than it's 4.9 rating, but not by much.

6/10.

<|_=00=_|>

I've seen comment about this film putting it down. I disagree.
The film is built on good actors and good directorship.
I agree that the film has weak spots in the script, but HEY what action
film
doesn't.
I don't think I'll put the film in the TOP 10, but don't forget that there
is only place for ten films in the TOP 10.

The plot isn't the smartest one, or a reliable one but it's fun, and
actually has some shining smart points.

If you like action movies in general, you'll like this one for
sure.!!

Rate: 8 of 10
<|_=00=_|>

Fled is an enjoyable action movie, not as bad as other users said it is,
but
with nothing special.
The bad thing about it is that it's a remake, after a movie titled The
Defiant Ones. And of course remakes are inferior movies by definition.

Except that, it has all the ingredients of an enjoyable film, very good to
watch if you don't want to use your brain too much. The acting is good,
there is alot of action, some funny one-liners, a nice ending.

All in all, pleasant, but that's it.
Vote: 5 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
While this is not a film that will mark any new trend in the thriller
genre, it's not unpleasant to watch. The director, Kevin Hooks, working
on the script written by Preston Whitmore, delivers a an action film
that is easy to watch.

Preston Whitmore's screen play combines elements from different movies
that have been much better, but that said, while it's not breaking any
grounds, the film keeps one's interest throughout.

Laurence Fishburne and Stephen Baldwin make an odd couple indeed. Mr.
Baldwin acts with a blank expression most of the time he is seen. Mr.
Fishburne has been around for a while; with the right director he is
more effective than what he shows in this movie.

Will Patton, one of the best character actors working in films today,
has a small, but effective role. It'shame because he can outperform
this cast by only saying his lines. Salma Hayek's Cora, the girl with a
heart of gold, is a welcome presence for the eyes.

The beginning of the film, as well as the closing scenes are the best
things going because it sags a bit in the middle section, but all in
all, it will keep the viewer entertained without pretending to be more.
<|_=00=_|>
As with many movies, as long as the viewer doesn't read too much into
the movie you will do OK! Its a fun fast paced road movie-ish, fugitive
styled chase movie.

It's well filmed, and slickly edited for a low budget chase flick.The
acting is simply and solidly done even if the dialogue is a tad cheesy.
Steven Baldwin is the token down at the heel hero, Laurence Fishburne
is cool as the mentor type character, pulling the hero out of one fix
after another. Salma Hayek is as stunning as ever but the best
character is Gib played by Will Hatton, a highly likable character whos
putting the puzzle together as the heros run around.

Not a classic but worth a late night look see when you get home from
the pub with a bag of munchies.
<|_=00=_|>
The unlikeliest of partners, Laurence Fishburne and Stephen Baldwin are
chained together and make a jail break together from a Georgia road
gang. It's now the Nineties and objections about a black and white
convict being chained together are now passé. Even with race not a
really big issue with these two guys as it was in The Defiant Ones,
they've still got a lot of other problems.

The most curious thing about this is the interest the Feds have in this
jailbreak. They're keeping the Atlanta PD cop who busted Baldwin in the
loop, but at a distance and this arouses Will Patton's curiosity no
end. US Marshal Robert John Burke is playing things way too close to
the vest to suit Patton.

Baldwin's who they're after. He's a computer hacker who hacked into a
holding company that the Cuban Mafia owns and ripped off 25 million
dollars. The local Cuban don, Michael Nader, wants him real bad. The
wild thing in this film is that he's the only one in the cast who is
what he says he is.

A couple of current beauties, Selma Hayek and Brittany Powell, decorate
this film as love interests for both Fisburne and Baldwin. Hayek is
introduced rather clumsily into the situation that our escapees find
themselves in.

In fact the film, enjoyable though it is in many places, could have
been a lot better with a much tighter script. Director Kevin Hooks did
a good job with what he was given. In fact Kevin Hooks got to cast his
dad Robert Hooks in a role as the Atlanta PD supervisor for Patton.

Fled is not a bad film, it could have used a lot of improvement though
in the writing.
<|_=00=_|>
This film, admittedly, is not the best of the genre but it is
entertaining if you set aside the obvious parallels to films that came
before. In fact, the script intentionally incorporates previous films
by references from Dodge and Piper. The one at the end was hilarious!

It could have been better in a few places and it certainly could have
been worse. Better: have a little more animated performance from
Baldwin, perhaps a little less gore and sadistic behavior by the Cubans
and a bit more believability in the fire-fights. 

Kudos to Mr. Hooks for keeping it from becoming worse! My wife and I
enjoyed watching this film and would recommend it to any free-thinking
adults looking for a fairly good film to watch after the kids are in
bed. Don't forget the popcorn.
