

Frankly, I don't think this movie is as bad as some people make it out to
be.   I like the early episodes of the original series (particulary the
first six), when the show had a more serious tone (and before Jonathan
Harris sabotaged it by turning up the comic antics as Dr. Smith) and it's
nice to see the film stay closer to that serious tone and not emulate the
more campy aspects of the series from its later episodes.   The cast is good
for the most part and I love the visual FX.

However, once the Jupiter 2 crashes on the planet and we get caught up in
the time travel older Will Robinson bit, that's when the movie falls apart
completely.   And the biggest mistake of all is that the older Will Robinson
is not played by original Will Robinson, Bill Mumy, even though he badly
wanted to play the part.  Having listened to the comments of the director on
why he didn't cast Mumy on the DVD, I have to say his explanation doesn't
wash.  Especially when both he and the scriptwriter concede that the device
of using the "older Will Robinson" didn't work on the screen as it did in
writing.   It never occurs to them that maybe the scene would have worked if
this new character sprung on us was someone with a definable connection to
the old show.   
<|_=00=_|>
Actually, I was quite surprised at how much fun I thought this movie
was. Hardly perfect by any measure and, sure, there were some elements
that were intrusive, but I found it to be quite faithful to the TV show
- it used plots and elements from the early episodes. Even with the
newer designs, they incorporated older aspects - the planet REALLY
looked like a better version of one of their old sets.

Furthermore, Oldman managed to peg Dr. Smith perfectly, taking in all
the old camp elements and putting them to very good use - even using
some old catch phrases in different ways.

As diversionary, light sci-fi adventure goes, I thought this was great
and I'm usually very picky about this kind of thing. It was fun and a
pretty good kids' movie.

The only thing really missing was Billy Mumy.
<|_=00=_|>
Dr. John Robinson (William Hurt) is taking his family into deep space
to find a life-supporting planet for the human race. Things on earth
are deteriorating, to say the least. Going along with him are his
scientist wife Maureen (Mimi Rogers), his brilliant daughter, Judy
(Heather Graham) and his equally intelligent children Penny and Will.
Needing a good pilot, Dr. Robinson nabs hotshot airman Mark West (Matt
LaBlanc) to fly their spaceship. Evil Doctor Smith (Gary Oldman) tries
to sabotage the vessel but ends up getting caught on board. Amid the
ensuing chaos, the ship goes off course and gets lost. Between battling
spider-like creatures and their own killer robot, the Robinsons still
hope to reach their destination. Will they? This movie starts off with
a bang and ends with a whimper. The problem? Well, it is not the
terrific cast. Hurt, Rogers and Oldman are wonderful in their
respective roles, while Graham and LaBlanc delight the audience with
their wit and charm as the couple who provide the movie's romantic
elements. All other cast members are quite fine as well. The production
looks nice, too, with great costumes, sets, and special effects. So,
that leaves the uneven script. It starts off well, with a quick look at
the Robinsons' quest and the plotting of Dr. Smith. There are even some
great lines, such as the one Maureen hurls at John and Mark, as they
are sparring. "If you guys are done hosing down the deck with
testosterone..." had me laughing heartily. But, it all just fizzles
somewhere in the middle and ends up being utter nonsense, a plot
without a cause. What a shame. Those of us who loved the sixties
television series deserved better. If you are partial to any of the
cast members, from Hurt to Graham to Oldman, do make time for this
film, someday. They are the reason to see this movie, for they are a
joy to watch, even in a film as lame as this one.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't think Lost in Space was a bad movie. Is it a movie to be
honored the all-time best? No, it's not. There are flaws in this movie,
but I don't care too much. The movie is about a family, the Robinsons
trying to go to the other habitable planet in the galaxy. They do all
right until the villain, Spider Smith tries to kill the family and he
ruins the navigational system. Now the Robinsons are lost. The acting
is OK. Some of the actors did a great job such as Matt LeBlanc and Gary
Oldman. The rest did OK. The special effects are not as good as movies
from the time period such as Armageddon or Godzilla. The effects are
good, though. I was disappointed in the writing. Akiva Goldsman is a
respected writer with talent. For a bad script, all the actors did a
good job. The music is pretty good. I liked the electronic soundtrack.
I give this movie a 7/10 because I liked the space scenery, the
gadgets, and the action.
<|_=00=_|>

I liked the movie, but I fear it suffered from the same disease that Star
Trek The Motion Picture suffered from - too grandiose a concept, too grand
an undertaking, too big an effects budget and enough plot for several
movies. Lets see, we have the dysfunctional family becomes functional
plot,
we have the evil traitor in the med lab plot, the time travel plot, the
metallic spider plot, the sexual tension between Dr. Judy and Major Don
plot. This puppy had more subplots than a season of X-Files.

It was great to see Mark Goddard in a role with some meat on it. However
Angela Cartwright and Marta Kristen were given extremely short shrift. And
Bill Mumy and Jonathan Harris should have been involved. I know Jonathan
Harris doesn't do cameos, but dammit, find him a role! And as for not
getting Bill Mumy to play future Will Robinson - as far as I'm concerned,
that singlehandedly reduced this flick from a great movie merely a good
one.
If they had enough money for the hideous yellow excuse for merchandising
(how blatant can you get?), they sure had enough to hire the full original
cast.

<|_=00=_|>
Now, I don't think it was IMDb Top 250 material, not by far but it
still should have been up in the "6"s. First let's look at the basic
for the movie. Lost in Space was a television show from 1965 that was
very low budget. I. Allen had to work from a shoestring and it showed.
The show was a "kiddies" show, something that the kids enjoyed while
Mom and Dad was able to snicker at the goofiness of it, (but not too
loudly or the kids might get mad). Then the show progress into one that
centered around three characters, that of Will Robinson, Dr. Smith, and
the Robot. Mr. And Mrs. Robinson, Major West, and the girls were just
so much window dressing and fodder. This is what the director of the
movie, Lost In Space, had to work with. Either he kept as close to the
original show as he could or he struck out in a totally different
direction, such as what happen when they made Wanted Dead Or Alive for
the big screen. It's not high drama, but then neither was the original
show. Comparing it to the TV show, I believe that the director keep to
the same spirit and I say it's not a bad rendering.
<|_=00=_|>

I think the major problem was the lack of closeness within the family unit.
The
writers choose that as the overall arc and that was a deadly mistake. 
We
needed to see this family battle the unknown enties in space, rather
than
each other. 

I was not interested in seeing Dr. Robinson finally make amends with his
son.
By spending so much time on the 'family' problems, we negated any sense
of
adventure.

The plot should have been about something space, a distant planet
instead
of this internal examination.  Lastly Dr. Smith was just awful. I love Gary
Oldman
but this role just wasn't one of his best. If nothing else Smith was a pain
in the
butt, the writers saw as evil and turning him into a spider and having
the
little spiders eat him was just plain stupid.

Once again the fault lies in a poor "Hollywood" script.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I would like to address fans of the TV show who hate this
film. I am always shocked how many people feel that this film was
"unfaithful" to the original series. I would invite you to go back and
watch the very early episodes of the series, before it became a
camped-up disaster (admit it!), and see how similar the two are.The
1998 film is often a straight remake of the original, only, frankly,
much better.

The idea of a film about a single family trying to survive and function
by itself when they are all alone in outer space is loaded with
potential, and I think this film did as much as could be expected in
what was planned to be a three-movie series.

There's a lot to like in this movie--first of all, it's a science
fiction movie that the whole family can actually enjoy, not just the
twenty-year-old son living in the basement. The special effects were
very impressive for the day and some of them hold up very well. There's
a kick-ass end credit sequence (how often do I get to say that?)
featuring a new version of the classic Lost in Space theme song.
There's some exciting action scenes, good performances by the adult
leads, cool production design, some genuinely touching moments, and two
not-overly-cute performances by a child actors, which is extremely
rare. Penny is actually something resembling a real character this time
around. Also, the fact that the queenish, goofy Dr. Smith actually
becomes a threatening and very creepy villain by the end of the film is
no small feat.

The story is sometimes episodic, but all comes together very well.
Small details become important plot points later in the film in
surprising ways.

Now, there are some down sides. The script is by Akiva Goldsman, best
known for his Oscar-winning screenplay for A Beautiful Mind. However,
comic book fans will always remember him as a boogey-man who concoted
the script for Joel Schumacher's infamous film Batman and Robin. This
script is somewhere in the middle in terms of quality. Although it is
very clever at times and manages to incorporate favorite bits from the
series, some of the dialogue will definitely remind the viewer of
Arnold Schwartzennager's infamous Ice puns from Batman and Robin and
will definitely make the eyes roll. Matt Leblanc is stuck with most of
this. Akiva Goldsman has always written terrible, shameless "buzz"
dialogue, quips where a character tries to say something clever and
cool. It's painful at times. Gary Oldman also has a few of his own, in
which he actually has to refer to himself as evil. Seriously, what
villain actually knows that they are evil? 

Despite some cliché moments, which can easily be forgiven by young
members of the audience (a large chunk), Lost in Space is an
above-average adventure movie. It's exciting, occasionally funny, and
has likable characters. I only wish the sequel materialized, I think it
only could have gotten better.
<|_=00=_|>
When Hollywood turns to the TV Mine to see what it can dig up, the
general rule is to try to do something which recaptures the essence of
the TV original, albeit tweaked in some sort of fashion so as to bring
it up to date. But sometimes there is an attempt to give a twist to the
original - to dress it in clothes which are not so much new as entirely
different. And so we have Starsky and Hutch as a comedy, Bewitched
actually featuring a TV remake of the original but with a real witch,
and so on.

Lost In Space has, thankfully, forgone the overriding two-set (one
interior, one exterior) studio-bound obviousness of its TV progenitor.
It has also lost Robbie the Robot (his update is a lot less sympathetic
than the original), and weaselly serial complainer Dr Zachary Smith.
Much as I enjoyed Jonathan Harris' portrayal, it was essentially a
comedy role, albeit with the capacity for introducing the element of
dramatic tension in a serial drama which was so resolutely formulaic.

Gary Oldman's Dr Smith is an entirely different animal. The TV Smith
was irksome, a nuisance, and could cause some damage. The movie Smith
is dark, dangerous, and potentially fatal.

There are plot elements introduced which are fun and, in some respects,
original. Most of the visuals are excellent (although I found the cute
but hugely unconvincing CGI critter irritating). Most of the cast are
good (with some interesting dynamics between the characters), although
I found Lacey Chabert's squeaky pre-teen even more irritating than the
CGI thingie.

On the whole, there is quite a lot here for science fiction space opera
fans to like.
<|_=00=_|>

(Warning: spoilers ahead)
Like many mature viewers I had enjoyed the 60's TV series before this film
came out so I was prepared for kooky cardboard sets, an even kookier
talking
robot, and getting a new nadir of human mendacity revealed each week in my
shameful anti-hero, the despicable cunning Dr. Smith - oh such Danger Will
Robinson! As a teenage boy back then, I also registered the attractive
mother Robinson, and even more so the disturbingly beautiful elder
daughter
Robinson; I have heard that I am not alone in this.

The film goes to great efforts to reverse all those impressions! It starts
by throwing some of the most mind-blowing space battle special effects I
have seen; the producers are obviously guys who have learned their lessons
from 2001 Space Odyssey and Star Wars, and who have all the computing
power
they need. Silicon Graphics is a computer manufacturer who gets its name
into the script, go figure.

Is this the point to carp at the unreality of the sounds made in space
where
you really can't hear any "whoosh" or "boom" as things explode, or at the
fighters that manoeuvre in 3D, aim weapons and even nudge one another, all
by manual pilot control ? Nah, that's an accepted style these days so let
it
pass.

The puerile homophobic dialog between the pilots (after their fighters
contact in flight: "Does that mean we are going steady together now?") I
chose to forgive in view of the magnificent graphics, but unfortunately
such
lines come back again and again in the miscast trying-to-be macho Major
Don
West's (Matt LeBlanc) passes at the cold-fish elder Robinson daughter Judy
(Heather Graham).

Sadly it quickly becomes evident that Major Don's pursuit of Judy is to be
a
running subtheme through the movie. I say sadly because this is not
Hepburn
and Bogart, nor a school prom B-movie, and the characterisation neither
serves the movie nor the viewer. (Don to Judy: "I'll be happy to let you
investigate my dimensions" - oh puh-lease!) There simply is no chemistry
between these two and their lines are a yawn because we don't need them to
romance in this movie.

I said that the producers make great efforts, and those on space graphics
are successful. Other efforts are on the family relationships, so much so
that I became convinced that Walt Disney scriptwriters must have been
involved. The younger Robinson children characters work well: I liked the
sulky rebellious teenage daughter Penny (Lacey Chabert) though the
dramatic
device of her wrist-worn video diary was strained, and I was rooting for
the
son Will (Jack Johnson) who nearly makes a time machine for a school
project, and repeatedly saves the day by tinkering with or
remote-controlling the robot, who has grown from the capable but
relay-filled Robbie of the TV series (adopted from the pre-computing
Forbidden Planet movie of 1956) into a mightier cargo-handling monster, a
Rambler-Crane model we are told, that owes much to its brother that
Sigourney Weaver drives in the second Aliens movie I saw. This Robbie is
bigger but less interesting for all its weaponry; by this time we have a
right to expect more from a robot than this one delivers.

Unfortunately the movie's main familial theme of How Can Father Robinson
Show That He Really Loves His Son Will left me cold, though it may go down
well with a certain kind of American audience. This is worse than just a
failed theme, it is supposed to motivate the final denouement that I can't
spoil for you because I still don't understand it! Suffice to say that it
involves time travel (more by machinus ex deia than deus ex machina) with
by
now rather overloaded special effects, that serve to gloss over with
thunder/lightning/earthquakes such paradoxes as persons meeting their
time-travelled selves, that obscuration also having become a Hollywood
cliche since movies like Philadelphia Experiment and Final Countdown. A
shame because intelligent time-travel themes have provided, and will
continue to provide, some wonderful movie scripts.

The whole movie is, like the Robinsons' spaceship, a concatenation of
expensive items that are individually impressive and collectively
ineffective. Not to be outdone are the horrid space spiders. These seem to
be downplayed to limit their horror potential; I think we get just a tiny
glimpse of blue (?) gore as a spider leg gets chopped. We think the
Robinsons escape from the spiders, but in true Hollywood horror tradition
we
were only supposed to think that and one spider makes a surprising return
in
the denouement, and I can't explain that either. It is actually very
strange
to see a "thing" that seems to have strayed into the movie from another
film
set (The Fly ? The Seventh Seal ?) too late in the script to be meaningful
in the plot, and apparently also with its horror potential kept down, I
suppose to keep a juvenile audience rating.

Yet another yawn item to mention in the movie is a computer generated
monkey
Blarp that is a baby "she" (we are told, perhaps because a she-chimp is
less
demanding to model ?). For all her blinky cartoon eyes, Blarp fails to
impress me as cute or useful, and she also seems like a character that
strayed in by mistake from another movie.

After watching all the movie action I feel I was served an assembly of
highly crafted but utterly unoriginal elements. Yet for the earlier space
graphics, which nearly rate up there with those in Starship Troopers, I
can
allow the rest as entertainment.

Can you believe that the end credits really spoiled the film for me? I
don't
think I am peculiarly sensitive about end credits, and I am as likely as
anyone to leave the movie theater as soon as they start scrolling. But in
this movie the end credits are used as an opportunity to dump a lot of
inappropriate music and silly graphical effects, to no good purpose. In
the
light of some truly fine craftsmanship and set design that went into this
movie, that ending was a cheapening that was almost insulting.
