
I always found this to be an outstanding based-on a true story
adventure film which holds your interest throughout. It features some
great suspense and the story is fascinating. It's always been ranked
among my top 50 movies. A good surround system doesn't hurt here,
either.

Stan Winston, one of the best special-effects men in the business, lent
his talents to this film while Val Kilmer and Michael Douglas are more
than adequate in the starring roles and the African with the freckles
(sorry, I don't have his name) is really a likeble fellow.

Except for the first one, the lion attack scenes are not gruesome and
the filmmakers did a nice job a having just the right amount of action
and lulls. Neither is overdone. This film has never been given much due
but I've never shown it to anyone who didn't thoroughly enjoy it.

This movie scared me so much I stopped hunting lions. It's just not fun
anymore.
<|_=00=_|>
It is 1898 and charming, cretinous Captain of Industry Beaumont has
hired Col. John Patterson,eminent engineer/bridge builder to complete a
bridge spanning the river by Tsavo, Africa. 

Arriving in the continent he has dreamed of forever, Patterson meets
his project. There are problems with it: Competing French and German
rivals, Ethnic hatred among the crews and, on Patterson's first day
there, a worker is attacked by a lion. He goes to "sort it out" by
shooting the beast with one shot; gaining the admiration of his crews,
lifting spirits, adding motivation to complete the bridge, and
unleashing a nightmare

Only weeks after the shooting the camp is suddenly besieged by a pair
of giant man-eating lions. Their first "kill" is Mahina (Henry Cele),
considered the strongest man in the camp. This serves to unnerve every
man on the project, including Indian rabble-rouser Abdullah, who
doesn't like Patterson from the start. Nerves jangle and fray as the
lions repeatedly and relentlessly attack and attack and attack! They
strike under the cover of night AND during the heat of day; They kill
not for hunger, not for sport, but simply because they like it. Men are
dragged from their beds and mauled to death in the tall grasses; the
hospital becomes a blood-bathe; Laborers aren't safe as the beasts leap
out and snatch them from their work. Everything is falling apart and
Patterson is at his wit's end as Beaumont arrives to make matters
worse. And still the lions attack and attack and attack.

Enter Big Game Hunter Charles Remington who is as determined to destroy
the lions as the lions seem determined to eat every man in camp.

This is an under-appreciated, well made, well scripted nail biting
adventure. It boasts solid artists on both sides of the lens: William
Goldman penned the script, Gail Anne Hurd and H. Kitman Ho are two of
the producers who know how to spend the budget wisely, the great Vilmos
Zigmond is responsible for the mesmerizing African cinematography.
Stephen Hopkins directs with great vision and skill and the actors are
uniformly solid and believable in their roles. Val Kilmer plays
Patterson with an understated, simple and elegant performance; Tom
Wilkerson is the charming snake of a boss Beaumont, Brian McCardie
gains the viewers sympathy as a youthful, innocent, and doomed Angus
Starling, John Jani is the stalwart Project Manager Samuel, Bernard
Hill the irritable/irritating Dr. Hawthorne, Om Puri is the creepy,
sarcastic Abdullah ("You are white. You can do anything.") and Michael
Douglas, also an Executive Producer – he got the money – plays hunter
Charles Remington, removing the sweet edges of his Romancing the Stone
role to create our renown hunter.

Hopkins not only knows how to build tension, suspense, and terror, but
when to let us relax and how to fill that time. The quiet moments are
never dull. They let us empathize with these men, their characters get
to develop and we bond with them and their nightmare. Zigmond (Close
Encounter of the Third Kind) uses deep oranges and blacks for the
African locale, except during a daylight lion hunt and cave exploration
when he switches to bright sunlight, vibrant greens and sharp browns as
if to show us that even a travelogue holds a nightmare. It is near
Hitchcockian.

Rolling underneath the film like summer thunder (or the breathy growl
and snarling of our killer lions) is Jerry Goldsmith's pounding, tribal
driven score, which accents the mood and gives further dimension to the
narrative. Listen closely, you can hear him using tonal motifs he
developed for Star Trek: The Motion Picture.

As the hysteria builds and the men frenzy, many explanations are
offered for the appearance of these animals: Are they the spirits of
medicine men come to exact revenge; Or demons sent by the devil to keep
Africa unsoiled; Or have they come to claim John Patterson? Is it to
helplessly watch as they strip away the layers of security around him
until he is exposed and defenseless against their teeth and claws? It
is no coincidence that Kilmer is photographed at times slack- faced and
full on and LOOKS like a lion himself.

Once this film starts, I can guarantee you that you won't be able to
take a snack break, bathroom break, or even think about dozing off. It
is that good. And remember this: You can see the preserved bodies of
these two giant man-eaters at the Field Museum in Chicago, Illinois
because this incredible story is TRUE.
<|_=00=_|>

"The Ghost and the Darkness" is a marvellous movie, in the literal sense:
the lions come out of the long grass in the daylight or the groundfog in the
darkness like the devils they are thought to be. No true motives are
ascribed to them, as how could they be?, and that actually serves to make
them more demonically terrifying. But whether they are the devils come to
prevent Val Kilmer's Patterson from building his bridge, or merely (!)
animals hunting for the pleasure of it, they provide more suspense, more
terror, and more death than most high-tech cgi aliens. Michael Douglas's
Remington, dispossessed of  home and family in the American civil war, is
an interesting character, but it's Kilmer's British bridge-builder in a time
where engineers had to know how to shoot tigers and manage Hindu-Muslim
conflicts fully as much as how to put up their structures, who is the focus
of the film, and rightly so. Kilmer's performance is quiet, almost
understated, but one of the best I've seen him give; he's fully convincing,
especially as he fights the belief that the lions are, in fact, out to get
him personally. "They are just lions," he says halfway through the movie,
and you can hear how much he wants to believe it. John Kani also gives a
good performance, contained mostly in small moments that are so true they
almost hurt. The cinematography is beautiful, especially the of the lion
attacks and their passages through the grass. Again, no cgi effects could
convey so much beauty and lurking menace. This movie is beautiful, intense,
and dramatic; I highly recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>

The Ghost and the Darkness is an excellent film. It has the ingredients of
a landmark movie. The story is based on fact. There was a bridge being built
in Tsavo in 1898. There were two man-eating lions there who killed 130
people for no reason. And I believe there was something more behind the
intentions of these lions. Evil can and does exist anywhere. Undoubtedly in
humans, and, probably more than we'll ever know, in animals. The Ghost and
the Darkness is a reminder how vulnerable we are to nature's fury, and that
we should never under-estimate the potential of any animal.

In closing, I'll say that this movie is perfectly directed, superbly
scored, and beautifully filmed, and to the adventurous and open-minded
viewer, a movie with lasting satisfying and chilling effects.

<|_=00=_|>
...Well according to Hollywood anyway, since "The Ghost and the
Darkness" actually takes lots of liberties with its story, about the
two man-eating lions of Tsavo. Quite odd since it presses in the
beginning that everything you're about to see in this movie, no matter
how unbelievable it seems, has truly occurred. Oh well, just a good and
clever marketing trick, lets leave it to that. No way they can pull off
a trick like this now days in the days of Internet, were with only a
few clicks you can look up an historical event. Of course the biggest
difference between the truth and fiction is the Remington (Michael
Douglas) character, who never existed in real life and also the looks
of the lions, who in real life were not maned. But oh well, are these
movie changes bad or not believable? No, it strengthens the story and
makes it all even more interesting to watch.

I've always loved watching "The Ghost and the Darkness". It's a great
adventurous movie with action in it and some good characters, all set
in a beautiful environment. 

The story is perfectly adventurous and action filled. It's all the more
amazing knowing that the story has actually occurred in real life, over
an hundred years ago already. The movie and its story is kept simple
and allows its images and characters to tell the story.

What I like about the movie is that it fully treats the 'Ghost' and the
'Darkness' (the nicknames of the two man-eating lions) as movie
characters. It shows them as smart thinking creatures and not simply
just as 'monsters', even though they kill for pleasure (at least in the
movie they do). 

The movie is definitely helped by its environment and atmosphere. The
beautiful African land serves as a perfect backdrop for the movie and
also works quite claustrophobic, since the movie is for most part set
at just this one location (the railroad and bridge building-site). Also
the great Jerry Goldsmith musical score suits the environment and
perfectly adds to the atmosphere of the entire movie, as does the
cinematography from Vilmos Zsigmond. 

Michael Douglas plays a good role and actually shows with this movie
how versatile he is as an actor, though his role is definitely smaller
than he is credited for in the movie. As also the producer of this
movie he obviously claimed to become the top-billing actor of the movie
as well. In fact the main part of the movie is being played by Val
Kilmer, who plays his character in a way like we're used of him; a
humble way and he doesn't try too hard to impress in his role, which
also leaves room for the other actors to shine and of course allows the
story to be told best. Surprising to see that the movie also had actors
in it, that would later turn into big well known names such as Bernard
Hill and Tom Wilkinson, in some good roles. Also Om Puri gives a nice
performance.

A perfectly fun and simple adventurous action movie. This is high
quality entertainment.

8/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>

"The Ghost & the Darkness" is a very good adventure flick set in Africa in
the late 19th century, and is based on a true incident. Kilmer plays an
engineer sent to build a railroad bridge over the Tsavo river. Work is
halted by attacks from two
man-eating lions which terrorize the workers. Seems these lions are
exhibiting behavior not seen in lions before, i.e. they appear to be
hunting
for sport ('the Ghost' and 'the Darkness' are the names given to the 2
lions
by the native workers). Douglas plays a famous renegade American hunter, a
tragically scarred Civil War veteran, hired by the
railroad to kill the lions.

Good adventure, well-paced, with stunning photography of the African
countryside. The movie has an "R" rating which I
can't figure out; perhaps because of the bloodiness of the lion dinner
scenes (and lunch, and breakfast, and between-meal snacks....). I have
seen
many PG13's which have more blood & guts than this.

I give it a straight A; my 10-year old son gave it an enthusiastic
thumbs-up
also).
<|_=00=_|>
(Some Spoilers) True story of the Tasvo Man-eaters who terrorized the
workers working on the Kenya Ungandan Railway back in 1898 killing and
devouring almost 140 of them in nine, March-December 1898, months. It's
during that reign of terror the Tasvo Lions, weighing some 500 pounds
each, lived or dined almost exclusively on human flesh.

The film starts with Irish engineer Col. John Patterson, Val Kilmar,
sent to Kenya by his British overseer, or boss, the pompous and all
full of himself the future Sir, hoping that he'll be knighted by the
Queen, Robert Beaumont, Tom Wilkerson. As soon as Col.Patterson arrives
on the Dark Continent he's faced with a revolt by those workers that
he's in charged of with them afraid to go out and build a bridge over
the Tasvo River.

These two man-eating lions have been snatching and devouring workers at
will and it thought that they, the killer cats, aren't even lions but
evil and murderous spirits preventing the bridge, that's being erected
on sacred native ground, from being built. The killings go on unabated
and it's when one of the local native leaders Mahina, Danny Cele, is
dragged out of his tent and eaten by the lions the rail workers just
refused to go back out and lay tracks, to build the bridge, over the
Tasvo River.

Being like phantoms more then lions the killer cats are immune to
anything that Col. Patterson and his native guide Samuel, John Kani,
can come up with in both trapping and killing the two giant felines.
It's then out of sheer desperation that the "I've never been wrong in
all my life" Robert Beaumont, it must have taken a lot out of his giant
ego, hires big game hunter Charles Remington, Michael Douglas, to do
the job, kill the Tasvo Man-eaters, that nobody including Col.
Patterson can seem to do. ***SPOILER*** Remington who after failing to
put down the killer cats with both Col. Patterson and Samuels' help
goes out on his own, without Col. Patterson's knowledge, only to end up
becoming the Tasvo Man-eaters next victim and meal.

Far better then many of it's critics and detractors say it is "Ghost
and the Darkness" does have it's share of shocks and thrills despite
not having the benefit, like similar movies like "Jaws", of having any
real and state of the art special effects. There's only one scene where
there's a mechanical or fake lion, like the shark in "Jaws", in the
movie and that was about the most ineffective scene in which the killer
cats attacked in the entire film. The lions are seen mostly in close up
when they do most of their damage, attacking and killing the rail
workers. But the few scenes where the lions do fully expose themselves,
like the dream-like attack on Col. Patterson's wife and son, are truly
heart-stopping and as good as anything you'd see a like-wise animal
attack film.

P.S The notorious Tasvo Lions have been said to have become man-eaters
because of an epidemic that killed off most of their food, gazelles
zebra and wildebeests, in the area or their hunting grounds. This
forced them to go for humans as prey since human beings were the only
source of food, with all their normal prey dying out, left open to
them. A far more interesting clue, in later checking out their skeletal
remains, to the man-eating Tasvo Lions turning to prey on humans has to
do with them having abscesses and infections in their teeth and gums.
This had the lions suffer extreme and excruciation pain when they had
to bite into the extremely thick and tough hides of their normal prey
in order to kill and eat them. They turned to hunt kill and eat human
beings only because their skin or hides weren't as tough and thus
easier to penetrate and not cause the Tasvo Lions any terrible pains in
doing so.
<|_=00=_|>

"The Ghost and the Darkness" is based on an episode from the jungles of 1896
East Africa.  Various European countries are engaged in the process of
establishing colonies in the wealthy lands of East Africa, and chief among
those is Great Britain.

Val Kilmer has been given a task--to build a bridge over a river in one of
the British colonial ventures in East Africa.  When he arrives at the site,
he learns that the task has been brought to a total halt by the presence of
two man-eating lions the natives refer to as The Ghost and The Darkness. 
These lions hunt as a team, and seem to have no fear of any outside force. 
What's more, efforts to hunt them down have all ended in failure.  Kilmer
enrolls the aid of an ardent big-game hunter, Remington, played by Michael
Douglas.  Together, the two men set out to end the killing spree and thus
allow the bridge to be built.

The story is marked with violence, may be a bit squeamish for some, but the
scenery and photography, coupled with a good story, makes it all worth
while.  There is also a very unusual musical score, which adds to the
background of the entire film. 
On my own scale, a 9 out of 10 
<|_=00=_|>
When I was in high school, my English teacher made us document all the
differences we could spot between the Ronald Coleman movie version of
"A Tale of Two Cities" and Dicken's novel. It's an exercise I find
myself doing every time a movie comes out - especially when the movie
is supposedly based on fact.

When I saw "The Ghost and the Darkness," I had already read "the
Man-Eating Lions of Tsavo" and already seen the lions in the Field
Museum. There really were two lions that killed well over 40 workers
during the construction of a railroad in Africa in Tsavo, Kenya in the
late 1800s. National Geographic also did an article about the
aggressive Tsavo lions in 2002. I found the real story fascinating, and
was really looking forward to the movie.

I understand that the normally maneless lions found in Tsavo don't look
quite right for us ignorant viewers (could have just explained it with
a one liner from a native, but oh well), so they used lions with manes.

I also realize that we as an audience today are too politically correct
to cope with the way the white man treated natives back then, so the
movie has been historically sanitized, with a few remarks sprinkled
throughout on religious reformation from the doctor. I suppose we must
continue to pretend certain behaviors in history didn't happen.

Yet another key change: I'm not clear why we needed another mighty
hunter in the story. Patterson had the help of a district manager from
time to time, but not another great white hunter. In Africa in that
period, getting messages and arranging encounters wasn't easy -
strangers of European race were apt to consider each other friends just
because they were the same color upon encounter in that era - something
the movie fails to get across - it's unlikely that another hunter could
be reached easily. And certainly great star/hunter Val could carry a
movie on his own. 

Fortunately the character Michael Douglas plays does not detract from
the movie, and there is that extra emphasis on the Ghost/Darkness
nomenclature from the (again, additional characters) Masai. Michael
Douglas and Val Kilmer did play off each other well, although neither
seemed able to fully adopt Southern/Irish (? did we need those?)
accents respectively.

I do think the hunting scenes in the movie captured well the constant
effort to see something, staring into the darkness at nothing, that
hunting at night can be like. Not to mention the cold sweat, stark
fear, blinding pain, and sudden calm and desperation that a near death
experience is.

Which is why, in spite of the factual inconsistencies, I gave the movie
the rating I did. Worth the watch, if only for that. If you really want
to know about the Lions of Tsavo, read the story by Patterson - it's
pamphlet #7, published in 1925 from the Field Museum in Chicago.
<|_=00=_|>
A story of Col. Patterson building a bridge over the river Tsavo in
Africa, and fighting the couple of killer lions and builders scared to
death. Firstly it's the views. Africa's all around with yellow, sun
burnt, high grown grass moving in the wind (you can smell the scent
almost) and the workers who can cast a threat to Patterson if he fails
their expectations of killing the lions. Secondly Val Kilmer's
performance. He's not acting, he's just there fighting the obstacles.
Thirdly Mike Douglas's influential way of telling things. He's more
convincing than in 'Basic Instinct' and sorry Oliver, 'The Wall
Street'. His macho appearance doesn't interfere with the main plot but
comes to be part of it. Last not least it's Jerry Goldsmith's music. I
don't know how he did it but he made it perfect. You just have to sense
it to feel it. One of my favourites.
