


It's hard not to like "Big Daddy", though diehard fans of Adam Sandler may
well cringe at this further step in the sentimentalization of the comic
actor.  For although this film has raised the hackles of a number of
overly
sensitive worrywarts for its seeming endorsement of permissive parenting,
the film is, in reality, far more soft-hearted than hard-edged.  Actually,
this seems to be, probably, the wisest direction for Sandler to go in at
the
moment because, as an actor, he conveys an aura of genuine likability that
fits well with his Average Joe persona.  "Big Daddy" might have been a
better film if it had not given in so easily to sentimentality and
predictable emotional uplift, but Sandler's deadpan portrayal of an
immature
adult forced to grow up into responsibility-laden fatherhood makes the
film
relatively enjoyable.

Sandler portrays a 30-something loser living in South Manhattan, who has
been milking a minor foot injury to the tune of a $200,000 court
settlement
and whose life, consequently, consists of miniscule employment, a general
lack of direction, and a girlfriend who's ready to move on to an older man
with a "5-year plan".  When a little boy suddenly shows up on his doorstep
(the hitherto unknown son of a friend of his), Sandler decides to
temporarily take him under his wing in the hopes of winning his girlfriend
back.  Thus, a man with almost no resources of adult maturity attempts to
instill skewed life lessons into a willing, highly impressionable young
mind.  This leads to Sandler's teaching the boy to indulge in predictable,
but surprisingly timid, antisocial behavior such as urinating on public
buildings, staying up late, tripping unsuspecting rollerbladers etc.  The
film is not always at its peak of creative freshness at such times, but
Sandler's lowkey cynicism provides some humor.

As Sandler grows to care for his tot and the inevitable forces array
themselves against him to take the child away, the film veers off in the
direction of sappiness and maudlin tearjerking.  One may be moved at
times,
but one also craves the satirical sharpness and bite that a more
courageous
screenplay might have provided.

The movie does display an enlightened view of gays (though Hollywood has
yet
to get past the point where gay characters can do more than merely twinkle
at each other), but it loses points for its rather nasty tone towards old
people.  Still, any film designed to send Dr. Laura into spasms of
psychoanalytical outrage should be respected and honored.

Overall, "Big Daddy" is a movie that, if it had taken more audacious
pathways, might have been a firstrate comedy.  As it is, it provides
numerous chuckles and a cuddly warm feeling - and that, given the state of
much of big screen comedy these days, is about all we dare allow ourselves
to expect.


<|_=00=_|>
I watched this film a lot when I was younger, I laughed my arse off.
Then I lost the video, and I discovered it when it fell on my head
about a week ago. It hurt, but the film was worth it. I laughed again,
I nearly cried when Julian got took away, and it brought back a lot of
memories. I don't normally like Adam Sandler, but this is one of my
favourite films. Its underrated, mostly by adults, as soon as I put it
on, my Nana took one look at Adam Sandler and went home. She said he
"Over-acted and wasn't funny." I know a lot of other people who think
this movie is a big pile of crap, but they have no sense of humour. I
would recommend this to anyone who likes to laugh..
<|_=00=_|>

While all of the somphoric pre-teens will be giggling silly at the
childish potty jokes shown in AUSTIN POWERS 2, the real adults will be
laughing their heads off in a much funnier
film called BIG DADDY.  This is Sandler's sixth starring
role
feature, and it seems that the sixth time is a splending charm.  This is
Sandler's best work yet!
Now in case you are wondering, I enjoyed both HAPPY GILMORE, and THE
WEDDING SINGER.  But there's something charming and wonderful on why I
enjoyed BIG DADDY more.  Perhaps it's seeing a over-grown kid taking care
of
a little
boy.  Or it's Sandler mixing his in your face attitude that he gave in
HAPPY
GILMORE with his soft-spot attiude from THE WEDDING SINGER.  Whatever it
is,
it works, and it works very well!
The simple plot of BIG DADDY is a 5 year old child is left on the
doorstep of Sandler's apartment.  It turns out to be the child of his
roommate (Jon Stewart), who's on his way to China
for a legal case.  So what is Sandler to do, but to give him to the child
protective service.  But it's a holiday, and they are closed, so Sandler
keeps him for a day, then another day, and...
well you get the picture.
But the plot doesn't matter much with this film, it's the laughs, and
you do get plenty of those.  But you also get a wonderful supporting cast.
There's a good support from Jon Stewart, the always wonderful and
beautiful
Joey Lauren Adams,
Leslie Mann, and Kristy Swanson (the original Buffy the Vampire Slayer).
And what's a Sandler movie like if you don't have his usual character
actor
friends in small comic roles; Rob Schrieder, Steve Buscemi, Josh Mostel,
Allen Covert (the caddy from HAPPY GILMORE who was also the limo driver
friend in THE WEDDING SINGER), and Jonathan Loughran (the lazy-eyed
football
player in THE WATERBOY).  There's even a funny cameo role by director
Dennis
Dugan, as the man who refuses to answer the door on Halloween, while
Sandler
is taking his adopted son trick
or treating.
This film was a lot more funnier that THE WATERBOY, it
was
also funnier than THE WEDDING SINGER and HAPPY GILMORE.  It was believe it
or not, more touching.  You can understand why Sandler doesn't want to let
this boy go, since he reminds him so much of himself.  And Sandler sees
that
being a father figure isn't only fun, but it redeems himself from the lost
of his girlfriend.
I have to give both Sandler and director Dennis Dugan (the same
director of HAPPY GILMORE) a round of applause.  They teamed up for a
comedy
that is not only successful, but will make A LOT of money. Sandler and
Dugan
are the best comedian/director team since the late John Belushi and John
Landis.  I'm just hoping that they will continue to do films together in
the
futrue.  Until then, take your date, your friends, or heck just go alone
and
enjoy one of the funniest
comedies (next to ANALYZE THIS, ELECTION, and RUSHMORE) of this year.
This
is a wonderful treat!  ****1/2 (out of five)
<|_=00=_|>
Big Daddy- Sonny Koufax (Adam Sandler) is the irresponsible guy - he 
has no manners, and no clue. Although Sonny has somehow managed 
to get a girlfriend, she is tired of his aimless ways, and gives him an 
ultimatum - do something with your life or I leave. Fate steps in with 
a ready-made 'solution': Sonny will raise the little boy who was 
dropped off at the apartment with a note proclaiming his roommate (Jon 
Stewart) the father, his girlfriend will realize his newfound 
responsibility, and all will be well.

Plausibility this movie doesn't have. But we are talking about Adam 
Sandler, the man who has given us such brainteasers as Happy Gilmore, 
and Billy Madison. Sandler's frat-boy humor - childish and, 
scatological - has however, drawn a huge following as evidenced by The 
Waterboy's huge box office, (a movie that I myself enjoyed and will 
surely be pilloried for).

I expected one thing from this movie - a good laugh. And it delivered. 
The obligatory tearjerker scenes were painful, but thankfully few and 
far between. If you are in the mood for some humor-light on cheap 
Tuesday, give this movie a chance.
<|_=00=_|>

Some movies are made for us to ponder questions of morality and ethics.
Some are made for us to question reality.  Some are made for us to find
ourselves.

This movie is not one of them.

This movie was made for one reason and that is to make us laugh.  And it
does that very well.

Sandler plays an incredibly irresponsible derelict that has no real job or
ambition in life.  He gets a kid left on is doorstep and he is forced to
care for him.  The story needn't be described any more than that, we all
know what happens.  But it is what this movie does to our senses that
makes
it worth while.  In short, it makes us laugh hysterically.  This film is a
whirlwind of jokes and hilarity and when it stops to let you catch your
breath it still entertains you.  I admire films like this.  They aren't
meant to be Instinct or The Siege ( two films that I absolutely love ) but
all it aspires to do is entertain you; take you away from life for 90
minutes.  And let's face it.  Sitting in a cool theater with a bag of
M&M's,
a cold Coke and a funny movie is a perfect way to spend a lazy summer
afternoon.

This is a great movie and it will make you laugh.  That's all it is,
nothing
more, nothing less.  And we should be thankful for that.
<|_=00=_|>

Big Daddy- Sonny Koufax (Adam Sandler) is the paragon of
irresponsibility -
he has no job, no manners, and no clue.   Although Sonny has somehow
managed
to get a girlfriend, she is tired of his aimless ways, and gives him an
ultimatum - do something with your life or I leave.  Fate steps in with a
ready-made 'solution': Sonny will raise the little boy who was dropped off
at the apartment with a note proclaiming his roommate (Jon Stewart) the
father, his girlfriend will realize his newfound responsibility, and all
will be well.

Plausibility this movie doesn't have.  But we are talking about Adam
Sandler, the man who has given us such brainteasers as Happy Gilmore, and
Billy Madison.  Sandler's frat-boy humor - childish and, scatalogical -
has
however, drawn a huge following as evidenced by The Waterboy's huge box
office, (a movie that I myself enjoyed and will surely be pilloried for).

I expected one thing from this movie - a good laugh.  And it delivered.
The
obligatory tearjerker scenes were painful, but thankfully few and far
between.   If you are in the mood for some humor-light on cheap Tuesday,
give this movie a chance.

<|_=00=_|>
I am not a Sandler fan in the least, in fact for the most part I do not
enjoy his movies. Still, this one was a rather funny little comedy even
if it did have a rather unbelievable premise. Guy loses girl, guy tries
to get girl back by taking in a kid who may or may not be a friend of
his kid. So aside from that you have your funny scenes of Adam trying
to raise a small boy to the best of his ability while also getting the
attention of a new female in his life. Granted some of the jokes were
just lame such as Sandler dressing up as the boy's favorite toy, but
for the most part the jokes were hits. It did tend to get a bit
sentimental towards the end, but not as bad as other movies of this
type tend to get. Jon Stewart is in this one as is Sandler buddies Rob
Snider. Steve Bushemi is also in it, but his appearance in the movie is
rather stupid. So for a rather good comedy that isn't really great, but
not unbearable like many Sandler comedies can get try this one on for
size.
<|_=00=_|>

Adam Sandler (The Waterboy, The Wedding Singer) has pulled off another hit
with Big Daddy.  Sandler stars as a lazy law-school graduate who won't
take
the bar exam.  One day when his roommate goes on a business trip to China
a
child arrives at the day with a note claiming to be his roommate's son.
Sandler takes the kid for a day and after having a good time decides to
keep
him to impress his girlfriend who doesn't think he's trying to grow up.
His
girlfriend dumps him and he's stuck with the kid.  Not surprisingly
Sandler
isn't a good father, but soon he bonds with the kid and he learns how to
be
a good father.  This might sound like a cheesy feel-good film, but with
Sandler the humor is kind of low-brow, but often hilarious.  The film does
also offer a few touching scenes between Sandler and the kid.  Sandler's
performance was very funny, but reminded me a little of Jim Carrey's
performance in Liar Liar.  Liar Liar if you have seen it was a regular
Carrey comedy, but offered a couple of serious scenes which Carrey pulled
off well.  Carrey then went on to do The Truman Show and win a Golden
Globe.
Sandler also has a couple of serious scenes which he nails well.  I'm not
suggesting that Sandler is going to become a great actor (like Carrey
seems
headed for) but he may have the skill to do it if he wants.  Leslie Mann
(George of the Jungle, The Cable Guy) and Joey Lauren Adams (Chasing Amy,
A
Cool Dry Place) are both good as sisters.  Jon Stewart (The Faculty,
Playing
by Heart) is solid as Sandler's roommate.  Twins Cole and Dylan Sprouse
are
convincing as the kid.  Finally, two favorites of mine have very funny
supporting roles.  Steve Buscemi (Reservoir Dogs, Armageddon) is good as a
homeless friend of Sandler's.  And Rob Schneider (Judge Dredd, Knock Off)
is
hilarious as an immigrant delivery man who is good friends with Sandler.
Highly Recommended. 
<|_=00=_|>

I wasn't sure what was worse -- the muscle cramps that accompanied cringing
at the horrible sentiment scenes, or the strain that resulted from rolling
my eyes so often at the supposed humor.

The movie starts out bad enough, when slothful Sandler seems to have
absolutely no motivation for doing something with his life, yet he can
rattle of a dazzling defense of a complex court case that has the lawyers
scratching their heads. I almost turned the movie off at that point because
I figured it wouldn't get any better. But, being a fan of Adam Sandler
movies, I thought I'd forgive him that one and see what else he had in
store.

Unfortunately, there wasn't much. The plot moves forward with him deciding
that he can resolve his maturity issues by adopting a child. The utter
implausibility of this is maddening. But the kid comes off pretty cute, so
I
settle in again.

The kid soon becomes as annoying as Sandler in this movie. Suffice it to
say
that Sandler spends the movie showing the audience what a big star he is,
degrading women at every possible step of the way, spouting his customary
crude humor in shallow, stupid remarks, and basically maintains a macho
attitude because, being Adam Sandler, he can get away with
it.

Fortunately, it blows up in his face. Sandler's characters are usually
strange, but they have some redeeming qualities that generally make for a
fun movie. Not this time. In this film, he is apparently suffering
indigestion from being too full of himself, and it shows. Hopefully, he
will
get over that and continue the progression in quality that his movies
showed
up through The Wedding Singer.
<|_=00=_|>

"Big Daddy" has the misfortune of premiering in 1999, when the field for
Most Pathetic Film of the Year is loaded with flicks like "Idle Hands" and
the runaway winner so far, "Baby Geniuses". But give Adam Sandler credit:
He
took a decent budget, backing from a historic studio and a couple of
well-respected co-stars and managed to come up with the most disgusting,
stupid and unwatchable piece of cinematic garbage this summer.

"Big Daddy" is a profanity-laced, bodily-fluid-soaked wasteland of a film
with no redeeming value whatsoever. Instead of thoughtful, amusing or
touching scenes and dialogue, the viewer is treated to an endless display
of
urine and vomit cascading forth from the confused little lad at the centre
of the proceedings. Basically, this film is a ruder "There's Something
About
Mary", only this time the butt of jokes is five years old. There's
something
more than a little disturbing about masses of adults and teenagers paying
$8.50 to laugh at a little boy vomiting.

The only reason this film got made, of course, is because it serves a
higher
purpose as 90 minute recruiting video for Hooters restaurants. The Hooter
Girl and "big bust" jokes are funny for the first five minutes, but
quickly
grow tiresome as Sandler uses them over and over.

Sadly wasted in this film are the significant talents of Rob Schneider and
Steve Buscemi, both of whom perform admirably in minor roles.
Unfortunately,
the two are onscreen far too briefly to provide any sort of counterweight
to
the sorry mess created by Sandler and co-stars Joey Lauren Adams and
Leslie
Mann. Adams, who possesses a voice reminiscent of a hysterical toddler,
tries desperately to be lovable, but falls far short.
Mann's Corrine--whom we are supposed to believe worked her way through
medical school as a Hooter Girl--provided the greatest levity of the
evening. Her character is far too malicious to have ever succeeded as a
waitress, and a Hooters job at that? I've seen a bigger bustline on a
Bulgarian gymnast.

Whatever creativity and humanity Adam Sandler had in films like "The
Wedding
Singer" has been completely lost. With "Big Daddy", he has shown he is
completely out of ideas.  
