

Tremendously overlooked conjob flick concerning Woods and co. trying to
mastermind a huge payday over a smalltown giant.  Jimmy gets out of the
pokey and heads to the title town, which is lorded over by Dern.  A bet is
made that Woods boxer, played by Gossett, can wipe out ten men in one night.
 What ensues is a ton of double-crossing, trickery, and surprises right up
until the final moment, which is a doozy.  Terrific performances by all
(Woods as always is a dynamo), as the comedy and suspense are mixed
perfectly.  Film wasn't given much of a chance, as most movies get about
2,000 screens, this one only found its way to a little over 700, which would
explain its anonymity.  But if you find it you should get hooked like us
cult fans who had the chance to go along for the great
ride.
<|_=00=_|>
this is a superb movie that really should have been seen by many many
more people than it clearly has been. The best James Woods performance
I have seen , superb support from Oliver Platt, Bruce Dern and - well,
everyone in it. The script is tight, sharp, incredibly clever and very
very funny. I'm not a fan of boxing movies, don't let it put you off.
yes, the sting ultimately revolves around a fight, well, ten fights, to
be precise, against just one man - but really it's a hugely satisfying
con movie that ultimately becomes about vengeance, paying for your
actions and finding the morality amongst the money. It's brilliant. Buy
it/get it from a video shop that has old movies, steal it, whatever it
takes.
<|_=00=_|>
One night, years ago now, I stumbled across this movie on Sky (known as
Midnight Sting in the UK) With a fine cast including James Woods, Bruce
Dern, Heather Graham and Oliver Platt, I had stumbled onto a really
good movie.

James Woods is a con man who with the help of his partner (Oliver
Platt) sets up a fight between his age old friend Honey Roy Palmer, an
ageing but very accomplished boxer and any 10 Diggstown men (a small
out of the way boxing loving town, controlled by Bruce Dern) The con is
on, Woods and Dern set the wheels in motion on this exhibition of
boxing, and as the stakes get higher you will find yourself engaged by
the tension of the event. Who is hustling who? And why? I am amazed at
how few people seem to have seen this movie. So if you fancy a film,
with a some good laughs, a clever story, a fine cast and a cracking
ending. Then give it a try, yes there are better films, but there are
far more that are worse.

8/10 Go and rent yourself a copy
<|_=00=_|>

Diggstown is one of the few movies that has ever made me actually cheer out
loud.  If you've seen it, you know the moment at the end that I'm talking
about.  I've seen it a few times now, and even though I know how it ends, I
still love seeing the ending over and over.  It's pretty much a formula
movie, but is well-done and has some very clever moments and one-liners
thrown in to keep you interested.  Take for example when Woods and Dern are
discussing the rules for the fight.  Woods opens a bottled drink in one
motion only with his thumb (twisting, not prying), right before answering
one of the questions posed to him.  It's a great effect and lets the
audience know just how smooth Gabriel Cain is.

Louis Gossett does a great job and is believable as a boxer.  The fights are
obviously over-choreographed, but they're still better than any of the
horribly unrealistic Rocky sequences.  Oliver Platt is excellent as Cain's
sidekick, Fitz.  Look for Heather Graham before she became a
celebrity....some things never change, though....yowsa!

I definitely recommend Diggstown...it's not an award-winning or
thought-provoking type of movie, but it's a lot of fun.

<|_=00=_|>
Diggstown (also known as Midnight Sting) is directed by Michael Ritchie
and stars James Woods, Louis Gossett, Jr. and Bruce Dern. It also
features Heather Graham, Oliver Platt, a pre-fame James Caviezel and
Randall "Tex" Cobb. The plot sees Woods as con-man Gabriel Caine,
recently out of prison he and his cohort Fitz (Platt), set up a boxing
"sting" in Diggstown, a hickville place out in Olivair County that is
run by egomaniac John Gillon (Dern). The set-up entails Caine's old
friend Honey Roy Palmer (Gossett Jr) having to fight, and beat, 10
Diggstown men in one day. As the money goes down and secrets come out,
corruption and violence is never far away.

Midnight Sting was one of those film's that came to my attention in the
early hours of one morning. I couldn't sleep and turned the TV on out
of pure frustration at lack of sleep. What I didn't know at that time
of irksome sleepy annoyance was that I would fall in love with a movie,
a love that lasts to this very day. The TV announcer said the name of
the movie and that it stars James Woods. Since Woods is always value
for money I thought I would give it a go, for the next 98 minutes I
laughed out loud, I cringed at some sad moments and I punched the air
on more than one occasion. It quickly became one of my favourite movies
of all time. On the surface it looks a very simple tale, but it has so
much more to offer outside of the excellent fight sequences and some
belting one liners. 

Based on Leonard Wise's novel The Diggstown Ringers, the film deals in
loyalties, friendships, greed, power, corruption and lies; not to
mention small town mentality being under the microscope. It's
impeccably acted too, with the Woods and Gossett play off one of the
most engaging duets of the 1990s. While the twists, and there are some
corkers, really crown what was already a smart and witty script. It was
a film that went largely unnoticed on its release, and even now in this
age of rampant internet use it appears to still be under seen or sadly
forgotten. It of course wont become a personal favourite of all
newcomers to it, but just maybe one day if you can't sleep or you are
stuck for a rental then you should give it a chance. Because it
deserves a chance to at least try to welcome you into its fan club. 

I love it, you know that by now, and there's a chance that you will
too. Punch the air brilliant. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
A really nice guy movie. Some language, very few sexual overtones,
great boxing sequences. Great guy movie to watch with a younger
audience or with a girlfriend. OR just a great movie for a lady into
boxing! Louis Gossett Jr. is great. He portrays his character of an
aging boxing ringer very well. He was in pretty good shape and whoever
was fight choreographer (probably Benny "the jet" Urquidez) did a
really nice job of showing some intricacies of old school "dirty
boxing".

James Wood and Oliver Platt are hilarious as a pair of con men.

Bruce Dern is, as always, a villain you love to hate.

it has a serious tone, but with the occasional joke to keep this film
from becoming tense.

i'd recommend it to anyone that likes a good fight movie. its not high
theater, but it sure is entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
I find Diggstown to be one of the best movies of all time. My only
regret is that I don't have amnesia so that I can go back and
experience the ending for the first time again.

I love the background music. Storyline and plot are wonderful. I can
watch this movie over and over again. There are at least 50 great
quotes that I use on a daily basis. Acting is good throughout. Some of
the best acting is by the extras in the background of the bar scenes.

James Wood is terrific, maybe his best role ever. Lou Jr. is very
believable as an aging fighter. Bruce Dern plays a scumbag to a tee.
Tex Cobb's best role also. Platt is terrific (as he always is). Only
disappointments were Heather Graham - She gave a lackluster
performance, and Hammerhead - he was way too young, should have been
more aged.
<|_=00=_|>
At least it has recently appeared on ESPN Classic so it would seem that
a cult following may be building for this terrific film. I don't think
this one lasted three weeks in the theaters around here, but the first
time I saw it on cable, I was hooked. Diggstown is not only a hilarious
film, but it's also one of the best "sports" movies I've ever seen.

Our story has a small group of con men led by James Woods who are
trying to outwit a corrupt small town kingpin. They bet that "Honey"
Roy Palmer (Louis Gossett Jr.) can knock out ten of the town's best
boxers in a 24 hour period. Palmer is an outstanding, yet aging talent
who "never got his shot". His skills, and the help of some local
insiders make Woods and Co think they have a real shot at robbing the
town blind. The funny thing is how Bruce Dern, who plays the local
kingpin, reacts. He is no fool. He knows that Palmer will be tough to
beat, and that Woods is trying to con him. But he has too much pride to
pass on the wager. He also thinks the boxing talent in town is
certainly good enough to beat a forty-eight year old fighter no matter
how good he used to be. You'd think the locals would have the upper
hand, but Woods and his people have all kinds of tricks up their sleeve
both leading up to and during the matches. Once the wager is agreed to,
the film never lets you up for air.

Diggstown is a very funny movie. James Woods could sit down and read
the newspaper aloud and it would be entertaining, but here he has a
great script to work with. Plenty of one-liners and intelligent dialog
are used by everyone. The fight scenes are a considerable cut above any
Rocky film ever made. It really looks like people are getting the crap
beat out of each other in the ring. The motley crew of locals that
Palmer has to fight are a hoot. One of them is even played by The
Passion of the Christ's very own Jim Caviezel. He actually makes the
mistake of calling Palmer the N-word in the ring. Yikes! There are
numerous twists as the conclusion draws near. It becomes a question not
of which side has the most endurance, rather which side has the biggest
surprises in place to trip up the other. The final twist in one you
will absolutely NOT see coming. For great comedy, spectacular fight
scenes, and a surprise ending, check out Diggstown. It's a shame more
people don't know about this film! 9 of 10 stars.

The Hound.
<|_=00=_|>

I like James Woods.  Yes he is over the top blah blah blah but he takes risk
and among his many bad films there are many good ones.  In this movie he is
at his best.  The veteran actor paired with Louis Gosset Jr. does a great
job.  Gosset is also great as the overweight but still feisty boxer.  The we
are to old for this is a subtle joke that runs throughout the movie.  The
film has good twists and turns and real nasty villain played by Bruce Dern. 
When you get a few quality professionals as they did in this film you tend
to produce a quality product.  The script is sound and everyone looks like
they had fun making the movie.  The film has charisma, atmosphere, and a
great deal of whit.  In my opinion it is one of the better boxing movies
made as well.  The Great White Hype is witty but at many times is forced and
requires more knowledge of the boxing industry for its jokes.  Raging Bull
is of course a masterpiece so there is no touching that, but if you are in
the mood for a good comedy and just a flat out good movie I recommend
it.
<|_=00=_|>
'Diggstown' is An Entertaining Film, that earns itself a viewing, by
sheer merit. Also, It's lead-star, the ever-dependable James Woods,
delivers an exceptional performance from start to end. 

'Diggstown' Synopsis: A charming con man teams up with a boxer fallen
on hard times in hopes of making some quick money. 

'Diggstown' gets it right, because the humor works & so do the
characters. The Boxing Match in the finale, is superb & stands out.
Steven McKay's Screenplay is entertaining & well-done. Michael
Ritchie's Direction, is good. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design, are
passable.

Performance-Wise: Woods is exceptional, as expected. An Actor who NEVER
Disappoints! Louis Gossett, Jr. is very impressive. Bruce Dern is
decent. Oliver Platt scores. Heather Graham is her usual self. Others
lend support.

On the whole, 'Diggstown' is an entertaining flick, that definitely
deserves a watch.
