
I am a big fan of the animated movies coming from the Pixar Studios.
They are always looking for the newest technological possibilities to
use in their movies, creating movies that are more than just worth a
watch, even when they were made a decade ago.

The movie is about toys that come to life when their owner is asleep or
not in the same room. When the young boy's birthday is coming up, all
the toys are nervous. They don't want to be ignored when the new one
arrives. Woody the cowboy is their "leader" because he's the most
popular one of them all. He's the only one that hasn't got to be
afraid, but than a new favorite arrives ... Buzz Lightyear. He hates
him and tries everything possible to get rid of him, but as the time
passes by they learn to appreciate each other...

When you see Toy Story, you may think that the different human like
characters (Woody the cowboy for instance) aren't always as perfect as
we are used to see in todays animated movies. Perhaps that's true, but
if you keep in mind that all this was done in 1995, when computers
weren't yet as strong and the technology for creating such movies was
almost unknown, than you can only have a lot of respect for what the
creators did. I loved the story and liked the animations a lot. I give
it an 8.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Toy Story is not only the best Disney film because it has the best story and
the best animation, but also because of the excellent actors chosen to
provide the voices of the animals. The casting was perfect from top to
bottom, and the movie provides an excellent adventure story about friendship
and loyalty that keeps you engrossed until the nail-biting climax.

Tom Hanks and Tim Allen provided excellent voices for Woody and Buzz
Lightyear -their performances alone are one of the biggest things that made
this such a spectacular movie. Besides that, though, you have the excellent
story that is not only noteworthy because it has never really been told from
this perspective before, but also because it was just told so well. All of
the characters in the film are very well developed and all have appropriate
and effective actors chosen to provide their voices. 

And of course, who could forget the revolutionary animation! The computer
animation used for this movie not only made it startlingly realistic but
also opened up tons of possibilities, and thankfully the filmmakers chose to
explore these possibilities. There are dozens of things that are hidden in
the woodwork throughout the film, as well as in the songs – note, for
example, the subtle playing of the Indiana Jones theme song in the scene
where Woody knocks Buzz out the window with the desk lamp.

Toy Story is by far the best Disney film ever made, it's pretty much
perfect. It's adventurous, it's exciting, it's entertaining, it's good for
the whole family, it's got great characters, story, and plot, and above all,
it's fun.

<|_=00=_|>

Andy's toys live a reasonable life of fun and peace, their only worries are
birthdays and Christmases, when new toys could easily replace those already
there.  One such birthday Andy's top toy, Woody the cowboy, finds himself in
direct competition with Andy's new Buzz Lightyear doll.  When rivalries boil
over Woody tries to hide Buzz down the side of the bed but accidentally
pushes him out the window, the other tops expel Woody, and he leaves with no
choice but to find Buzz and return him to the house.  But with only two days
before Andy moves house, time is of the essence.

Given how often the same mix of animation, wit, jokes and kids humour has
been used since Toy Story (Ice Age, Monsters Inc, Bugs Life) it is easy to
forget how refreshing it was when it first came out.  I have just watched it
again and it is dating a little in comparison to more recent twists on the
formula.  It seems each one has to be sharper and have more references etc
in the background.  However it is still very funny and deserves praise for
being the first of a successful formula.

The plot is simple but effective and actually has genuine drama and
excitement to it.  The main story is fun but the degree of character
development is what really shores it up.  The conflict between Buzz and
Woody is taken deeper than this and, when confronted by the truth of his
status as a toy, Buzz's turmoil is very real as opposed to him being a
cartoon character and nothing more.  Despite the two strong leads there is a
real depth in the support cast.  They may not actually have that many lines,
but they have all the funniest lines.  Most of the `adult' wit comes from
the Potato Head, dinosaur, the pig and slinky dog.  They are funny and are
very well used.  In fact the majority of this humour and plot will go right
over kids heads.

Looking back on it, I do feel a cynical edge on it in so much as this film
must really have helped sales of the toy companies in the film.  It's hard
not to see the marketing department standing behind this film rubbing their
hands.  However the actual product is so wonderfully fun that I forgot this
quickly.  The voice work is excellent and the characters match the actors. 
Hanks is good as Woody and Allen has a good B-movie type voice for Buzz. 
Varney, Ratzenberger, Ermey (doing his usual), Rickles and others are all
really good in the support roles and, probably, come out as the favourite
characters for adults.

Overall this is a classic film that will appeal to adults as much as to kids
(if not more).  A good plot and a really sharp script make the already short
running time fly by.  The only downside is that your kids will want you to
go out and buy the damn things!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a very clever animated story that was a big hit, and
justifiably so. It had a terrific sequel and if a third film came out,
that would probably be a hit, too.

When this came out, computer technology just was beginning to strut its
stuff. Man, this looked awesome. Now, it's routine because animation,
which took a giant leap with this movie, has made a lot more giant
strides.

The humor in here, however, is what made this so popular. There are
tons of funny lines, issued by characters voiced by Tom Hanks, Tim
Allen, Jim Varney, Don Rickles, Wallace Shawn and John Ratzenberger,
among others. As good as Hanks is as "Woody" and Allen as "Buzz
Armstrong," I think the supporting characters just about stole the
show: Mr. Potato Head, Slinky, Rex the dinosaur, etc.

Multiple viewings don't diminish the entertainment, either. There are
so many things to catch, audibly and visually, that you always seem to
discover something new. The colors in here are beautiful, too. This is
a guaranteed "winner" as is the sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
Toy Story – 5/5 stars

Children play with toys. It is a known fact. At one time or another, we
all played with toys, whether they were action figures, dolls, little
green soldiers, etc… But what if toys were real? What if they could
talk?

Pixar and Disney serve us this theory in what was the first full-length
computer-animated film ever, 'Toy Story,' chronicling the events in the
life of a cowboy doll, Woody (voiced by Tom Hanks).

Woody is the favorite toy of his owner, a small child named Andy. Andy
brings Woody everywhere, and cherishes him, as we see in the beginning
of the film. However, this all changes on Andy's birthday when Andy
gets a new toy: a Buzz Lightyear doll (voiced by Tim Allen). Woody is
suddenly forgotten, left with the rest of his friends: Mr. Potato Head
(Don Rickles), Rex (Wallace Shawn), Slinky Dog (Jim Varney, better
known as Ernest) and Ham (see if you can guess the voice of this one?
I'll give you a hint: 'Cheers'). 

But after Buzz accidentally gets knocked out an upstairs window, Woody
is the prime suspect. Now, after Woody and Buzz end up next door, in
toy killer Sid's house, Woody must prove his innocence by getting both
Buzz and him back to Andy's house safely.

'Toy Story' builds on an element we all shrug off carelessly and
thoughtlessly. Much like they did last year with monsters under the
bed, Pixar took the theory of live toys to a new level in 'Toy Story,'
filling our minds with endless possibilities.

What Pixar does is a strange thing. It doesn't just try to expand our
mind, but also out world. I respect and enjoy that. In 'Monsters,
Inc.,' Pixar managed to preach to us 'What if monsters under the bed
are real, and what if they have a world much like ours, and have
feelings like humans,' while never forgetting the equally important
formula of humor. Much is the same with their earlier film 'Toy Story.'
What if those wooden and plastic toys we all played with as kids are
real? What if they have feelings, emotions, voices, and human
qualities? An interesting idea by itself, but when mixed with a wicked
sense of humor and reality, you've got yourself one of the best films
ever.

Tom Hanks is perfect as Woody. Pixar must have modeled the doll's
expressions and movements after Hanks, because after a while, I feel
like I AM watching Hanks on screen, and NOT a computer-generated image.
When you get to the point of not being able to tell animation from
reality, you know that the voices are good.

The same goes for Tim Allen, though the body gestures were most likely
not modeled after Allen's physical expressions (Buzz is a short,
pot-bellied toy).

The rest of the cast is excellent, all very believable and
entertaining. You begin to love each character for their distinguishing
traits, and that is always refreshing.

I can safely say that I have not enjoyed animated films quite so much
over the years as I have enjoyed Pixar films. The only film they made
that I named forgettable was 'A Bug's Life,' which was in and of it not
horrible, but lacking the sense of humor the other Pixar films have and
had.

Pixar makes very refreshing films. In an era of cheap, made-for-video
Disney sequels, rip-off cartoons and television babysitters (i.e. 'The
Jungle Book 2), Pixar holds true to the values that made Disney films
so entertaining back in the 30's-60's: Respect for the audience's
intelligence, humor, provocative ideas to base the film upon, and
respect for the audience (not the exact same thing as the first
element), all of which are forgotten in this day and age of
money-makers. I respect Pixar very much, and after hearing how little
Disney does in helping with their films, I feel that Disney is just
trying to cash in on their ideas by having their name branded on the
posters for Pixar films. Shame on you, Disney. Proof that Disney has no
respect for audiences is the fact that they will not let another sequel
be made – something that fans like me would rather have than something
like 'Finding Nemo.'

'Toy Story' 1 & 2 are both on my 'favorite films' list. It may sound
stupid, but if I made up a top 250 list like IMDb.com, both of those
films would be on there; so would 'Monsters Inc.' After an unpromising
trailer for Pixar's upcoming film 'Finding Nemo,' I think that after
their licensing deal with Disney is disputed (they have to cough up
five more ORIGINAL films – not sequels – by 2005), they should
definitely try to make a 'Toy Story 3.' I'll be first in line for it,
anyway.
<|_=00=_|>
Though I am not a big fan of computer animation,I have to give the
folks at Pixar credit.This brand of animation is nothing short of
brilliant.The attention to detail,such as eye and body movement is
quite remarkable.Computers allow them to make their characters as close
to human like as possible,something we have never seen in traditional
hand drawn animation,though the latter will always be the closest to my
heart.Combine this excellence with a genuinely good story idea and a
top notch voice cast and the result is good family entertainment.It's
obvious that the people at Pixar are not only caring perfectionists
when it comes to film making,but they care about our kids,something
rarely seen today.Highly recommended for any home library.
<|_=00=_|>
Toy Story is the film that started Pixar Animated Studios into its long
string of never ending success. What Pixar does is not just absorb the
younger demographic and keep the older ones mildly entertained. It
completely absorbs everyone watching no matter the age or the level of
maturity, films of Pixar, starting from Toy Story, have kept a certain
magical touch around it with an unexpected amount of depth. Everyone as
a child imagines their toys will come alive and go on their own
adventures. One of the great things Pixar does is that it does not
attract audiences with its overloaded superstar casts but rather with
its material. The only superstar here is Tom Hanks and Tim Allen is the
next most aforementioned voice over. Unlike what most people think
their is an actually a method to casting for animated films as there is
to a live-action one. As a result of this Pixar stays faithful to its
material and creates a great genuine and warm feeling around the film
and its characters.
<|_=00=_|>

Toy Story is a sheer delight to view on the screen.  The characters are
well
done, the plot is exceptional, and the best thing of all, the film is
entirely produced on the computer.  The animation is extraordinary in it's
ability to bring such great entertainment to the screen.  The film also
teaches some good lessons for the kids like friendship (mainly between
Woody
and Buzz Light-year).  Spectacular entertainment all around and one of the
best films Disney has come with.
<|_=00=_|>

Just in case you were also wondering what happened to all the toys that
went
missing when you were a kid, the answer is clear: They
escaped.

"Toy Story" is the kind of children's movie adults can enjoy just as much,
because it very cleverly mines deep deposits of nostalgia from the memory
banks. That may be the reason the 1990s bedroom of young Andy is populated
by playthings of the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s. If Andy was a real boy of
his
time, there would be a computer and a TV/Nintendo, and not much
else.

The voicings of the various toys add to the enjoyability. Tom Hanks was
the
biggest star of the moment when "Toy Story" came out, and he works with
that
likeability by creating a stable center as Woody the cowboy doll. Don
Rickles has the screen role of his career (not that "Kelly's Heroes" was
Oscar material) as a prickly Mr. Potato Head, while Jim Varney and R. Lee
Ermey are standouts in the supporting cast.

Tim Allen gives the movie's best performance, as a newfangled toy that
takes
Woody's place in Andy's heart but can't bring himself to accept that he's
just a plastic plaything. It's the role of the story that gives him the
best
lines ("I don't believe that man has ever been to medical school"), but
Allen delivers them with real panache. He more than holds his own, and you
kind of see where he took off with that note-perfect William Shatner
parody
he perfected on screen in the underrated "Galaxy Quest."

While this movie's use of computer animation makes it a milestone, it
neither represents the most innovative use of the technology or the
cleverest Pixar-ated treatment of a story. "A Bug's Life" seems a more
worthy apex; that story was funnier, worked better on its own merits, and
used the animation to better effect. But given how novel all of this was
in
1995, "Toy Story" could have been a lot less thought-through than it was,
and still made gobs of money. The fact it is instead invested with real
heart, and can be watched and enjoyed today just as easily as when it
debuted nearly 10 years ago, is a tribute to the people behind
it.

I like Randy Newman's music, just not here, and while the animation
textures
are surprisingly lifelike, there are places, especially with Scud the dog
but also with the baby's drool, where it falls short. The story itself
gets
kind of rote with repeat viewings, though the transition to Sid's bedroom
and its sad mutilated toys is a genius moment. So too are the vending
machine aliens, who gape in rapt wonder at the judgment of "the claw." If
it
reached for pathos a little less often, "Toy Story" would be an undeniable
classic.

As it is, it is very, very good, the kind of film that's only good for
children, even (especially?) the inner ones.

<|_=00=_|>

A very sweet and fun movie. TOY STORY has great computer animation. A simple
yet well told story is also added as well. The voice overs are top notch and
everyone gets a fair share in this movie. PIXAR has done a good job placing
itself on the map.

Set in Andy's room and before the family moves, his mother decides to throw
a birthday party for the young lad. Andy's toys all have a conscience and
are led by his favorite, Woody. But alas, the big new toy from the party
unknowingly takes Woody's mantle.

Envy and jealousy are brought up well. So is the ignorance of Andy's toys
and the loss of innocence from Buzz Lightyear. TOY STORY is well packaged
exceeded only by its sequel. A good rent.
