

When a trio of American teens travel to Paris for a daredevil challenge they
decide to bungee jump off the Eiffel Tower.  During the jump Andy manages to
save the life of a girl attempting suicide.  However when he later tries to
find her again he finds that she has something to hide.  When he and his
friends attend a party held by friends for hers they find they are trapped
by werewolves.  Andy gets bitten and becomes part of a world he wants no
part of.

This is a belated sequel to the 1980's classic `American Werewolf in London'
and indeed it tries very hard to be just like it - the corpse black humour,
the dreams within dreams sequences etc.  However the story is different as
it introduces a wider werewolf conspiracy idea to the plot.  It actually
works quite well - it's not better than many other creature features but it
works OK.

The main problem with it is that it is very much another teen horror movie -
with a stupid rock soundtrack, valley girl style humour and dumb spectacle. 
It lacks the original's black humour and it isn't anywhere near as tense as
`London'.  The special effects are totally CGI and they don't work as well
as `London's' - it all looks too computerised, and seeing everything takes
the scare factor out of it.

In fairness when you look at it as a stand-alone film it's not so bad even
though it doesn't stand out from other teenage horror movies.  But a sequel
to `London'? - sorry but it's not a great addition to that piece of
work.
Tom Everett Scott looks like he's stepped out of American Pie into a horror
movie!  He's OK but he doesn't compare with Dunne all those years ago. 
Julie Delphy is actually quite good - she doesn't have much of a character
but she carries herself well.  The other characters are either rough French
skinheads or American teens.

Overall it's entertaining enough - but it pales terribly when compared to
the original.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, so I don't know why they decided to make another movie about a
Yankee college student going to a European capital and becoming a
lycanthrope. But still, "An American Werewolf in Paris" definitely has
its moments. Some scenes were no doubt thrown in for comic relief, like
"You can't just pop up and tell me what to do." I agree with a previous
reviewer that people who slam this movie are comparing it too much to
"An American Werewolf in London". Maybe there's a slight feeling of
that one, but you have to take this one as something new - and rather
campy - to really enjoy it. Tom Everett Scott and Julie Delpy do a
pretty cool job. But either way, I think that I've had my fill of
movies about US citizens becoming lycanthropes in the Old Continent.

So what do YOU plan to do the next time that there's a full moon?
<|_=00=_|>
I can't honestly believe that this is a sequel or follow up of John
Landis classic comedy horror movie from 1981 . I suppose you can't
really describe it as an original werewolf movie either since the bare
bones of the story steal elements from the one set in London: An
American tourist visits a famous European capital , he narrowly
survives a werewolf attack that kills a colleague , he embarks ( Pardon
the pun ) on a sexual relationship with someone in the medical
profession , he turns into a werewolf , he's visited by apparitions of
his dead victims , etc etc . and reading the previous line I've just
discovered how much the storyline has in common with the original that
it seems very similar indeed . The difference lies in how enjoyable and
entertaining the Landis movie is 

With this Paris based movie there's no scenes that really stand out .
There's no naked man waking up in a zoo wondering how he's going to get
back home with no money or clothes , there's no bizarre dream sequence
of Naziwerewolves and there's no spectacular climax . AAWIP does try to
be funny but is there anything more embarrassing than failed humour ?
I'm thinking of the scene where Andy McDermott has to convince someone
he's got chewing gum in his pocket and not condoms ! Perhaps the
biggest difference between the two movies is that there's no poignancy
involved with this dubious follow up . You really do feel sorry for the
protagonist's fate and dilemma in the London movie , here you just feel
Andy is nothing more than a cypher going through the literary motions
of a script . There's also a large number of plot holes visible . Is
this the first time The Lunar Club have carried out a massacre ? If not
then aren't large numbers of corpses with their hearts torn out been
reported in the world's press ? Why haven't the police got leads ?

Everyone else has mentioned it and so will I - The visuals are poor .
Look at the bungee jumping scene at The Eifell Tower , it's painfully
obvious that it's achieved via some blue screen projection while the
werewolf transformation is done by some very cartoonish CGI . I won't
put Anthony Waller in the same bracket as Stephen Sommers as a director
who totally ruins a movie because of an over reliance on CGI ( The
major problem with AAWIP is the screenplay coupled with a high degree
of expectation from those who saw the 1981 movie classic ) but I would
have preferred the Rick Baker type special effects used for the
transformation . To be fair it's reasonable to speculate that perhaps
the budget didn't stretch that far . But at the end of the day this is
a fairly poor horror movie that didn't need to be made and DOG SOLDIERS
is much better entertainment
<|_=00=_|>

"An American Werewolf in Paris" is an excellent horror-comedy, in the
great
tradition of "The Lost Boys" and "Fright Night".  I see that a lot of
people
dislike this movie.  These are obviously hardcore horror fans who wanted
to
see something dark and gothic; but instead got something blackly humorous
and were not amused by it.  I admit, "An American Werewolf in Paris" is
not
really scary, but neither are "The Lost Boys" and "Fright Night," and
those
two movies seem to be highly regarded by horror fans.  I don't understand
why everyone hates this one so much.  If you are a fan of horror-comedies,
or if you have a morbid sense of humor, this is definitely for you.  I
think
it's great: nine out of ten stars (On a one star DVD, I should say.  It
would have been nice to have some extra features besides the
trailer.)
<|_=00=_|>
As a sequel to An American Werewolf in London, this film is sure to
disappoint many. It certainly doesn't have the talent that was involved
on that one. No John Landis. No David Naughton. No Jenny Agutter and
other more-than-competent actors. No Rick Baker and dazzling,
innovative special effects. I could go on...and on. But if one
distances themselves from seeing this film as a sequel(and really it is
not a sequel at all...it doesn't have any of the same characters from
the first film), this film is not that bad on its own. Sure it is
relying on your memories of the London film to get fannies in the
seats. Yep, it uses the same character TYPES and situations(dead
victims talking and being funny comes to mind quickly). Other than that
and the fact that werewolves are involved(and a romance of course), I
found few other similarities. This film is definitely going for more
laughs and takes itself even far less serious than An American Werewolf
in London. The leads...Scott and Delpy are pretty good. The rest of the
actors are pretty good too, with Julie Bowen as a slutty American and
the guy playing Claude particularly good. I also loved all the French
police and the gentle humour inherent in every line they said. The
script has some genuine scares laced throughout the picture but always
comes back to the humour. French werewolves enjoying feasting on
Americans was a particular funny storyline. Director Anthony Waller
creates a fast-paced film with some excellent sequences interspersed
with some sophomoric plot strands. By no means is this a great film, or
even a great horror film/spoof, but it is a film that should grab and
hold your attention. Make you jump a few times and laugh out loud now
and then.
<|_=00=_|>
This DVD is missing its calling as a Heineken coaster.... This is a
great example of why no one should ever go see a sequel with a
different director/writer than the original. Two hours of this turkey
left me begging for Exorcist 2 reruns. 

NO legitimate laughs. NOT ONE decent scare. The script was just a mess
and I felt bad for the actors who had to perform it (they must have had
sick relatives at home or monster coke habits or something).

The original was a makeup effects landmark. So naturally, the producers
of the sequel thought it would be a great idea to to scrap makeup FX
and do CG werewolves instead. These CG werewolves had me laughing a lot
harder than any of the "comedy". It was just a total miss. If ya want a
night's entertainment, go rent the original again. Or go take a film
class and make your own horror film. You're bound to do better than
these fools did.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why I get my hopes up for sequels... my hopes are always
destroyed.

This movie is no exception. For starters, it's important to note that
An American Werewolf in London (AAWiL) will always have a special place
in my heart as one of the first horror movies I remembers seeing on HBO
as a kid.

This movie lacked just about everything that AAWiL had: good acting,
good special effects, a decent soundtrack, etc. 

Tom Everett Scott is a terrible actor... the kind of actor I see and
wonder how he ever gets casted for anything. Julie Delpy is OK and I
dig her accent. Everyone else was pretty much fluff and/or fodder. The
effects were God awful. It's hard enough to pull off CGI monsters and
hairy ones are even harder to make believable. When you are making a
sequel for a movie that had effects that are still impressive by
today's standards, some serious effort has to be made if the intent is
to make a movie that rivals the original. This one isn't even in the
same league as AAWiL. The music for AAWiL was also very well done.
AAWiP had... Bush? Yeah, that's the route you want to go to create a
timeless classic.

Unlike other reviews I wouldn't even go so far as to say this movie
would have good as a stand-alone (no connection to AAWiL), but I
wouldn't even give it that much credit. 

It just sucked.
<|_=00=_|>

5.5 out of 10

Werewolf movies are usually alarmingly bad, even though they should, in
theory, make for more interesting villains than vampires, zombies, and
slashers.  But An American Werewolf in Paris is an exception, sort of.  Tom
Everett Scott stars as a daredevil who tours Europe with his buddies,
performing outrageous stunts.  During one particular escapade, he saves the
life of a young woman (Julie Delpy) who tries to commite suicide.  Thinking
she's the girl of his dreams, little does he know what he's getting
into.

Paris tries to be a mixture of different genres: it wants to work as a
horror film (to a mild extent), an action/adventure, and as a comedy.  Dog
Soldiers was definitely far superior at these aspects, but AAWIP's campy
approach makes it a decent timewaster.  There's not a single boring moment,
though a lot of the material is admittedly very silly.  Thankfully, none of
it's taken very seriously, and some of the humor is actually very funny. 
Scott and Delpy (who's probably the third most beautiful French actress I've
ever seen, behind only Mathilda May and Sophie Marceau) have good chemistry
together, even if Scott's performance is a little on and off.  The werewolf
effects are obviously CGI, but more "serious" effects work would have ruined
the campy mood.
<|_=00=_|>
The daughter of the werewolf from AWIL is alive and living in Paris
where her mother and stepfather are trying to overcome her lycanthropic
disease. A trio of American tourists on a thrill seeking trip around
Europe manage to stop her from plunging to her death from the top of
the Eiffel tower and are embroiled in a horrific but often hilarious
plot involving a secret society of werewolves based in the city and a
drug which allows werewolves to change at any time... This time there's
no need for a full moon...

This film is so bad, it could be the worst film I've ever seen. The
characters in the film are very dumb, we don't even care about them,
and seem to have fun making the movie instead of making a good horror
film.

There are so many horror clichés in this film, but I think they were
trying to make fun of them. This film relies on humor more than making
a scary film. And for the funny scenes, I did not believe it one
second. I thought they were trying to make a horrible film on purpose!
And in this horror film, it has violence, gore, and tons of sex scenes
(AKA a lot of nudity). That's probably the lines for a horror movie.
The sex scenes comes out of nowhere, like the director told the actors
to perform them because of the line "sex sells".

All of the acting in the film are horrible. The CGI was mediocre. I
really didn't like that that much either. Well, here are some good
things in the film: The last 10 or so minutes in the film have some
horror elements. It's more like a creature fight between two
werewolves.

If you would like to see a horror film, STAY AWAY from this one. I
think people who love this movie are so dumb. Maybe they've seen
another film. This is one of the worst movies ever with everything bad
in it and characters who don't even know they are in a werewolf film.
<|_=00=_|>

One of two movies I have actually thought about asking for money to stay
until the end.  Most movies have at least one thing that is worth staying
for, even if it just to laugh at how bad it is.  I never found it for this
movie.  Nothing was good, from the script, to the very bad effects.  The
worst movie I have ever seen.
