

I enjoyed this film very much.  It is well acted, and has plenty of star
power, with great performances from Roberts and Washington.  The story is
compelling, and the cinematography lends itself to excellent suspense. 
However, many moviegoers (including myself) will find elements of the plot
confusing and hard to follow.  There are a great number of characters, and
it is often difficult to tell who is who -- most of the "bad guys" dress
alike and have similar hair, so distinguishing them becomes challenging. 
This may be a minor flaw in either casting or costume, making the characters
somewhat undistinguishable.  However, it also makes the plot quite
intriguing, as the intelligent moviegoer becomes entangled at guessing just
exactly who is associated with who, and so on.  Still an excellent suspense
movie -- if you like other Grisham movies (The Firm, the Rainmaker, etc.)
you will like The Pelican Brief.  But be warned: watch the film in an
attentive state, and be prepared to think a lot.  If you are a lazy,
sit-back-and-relax type of viewer, this may not be the film for
you.
<|_=00=_|>
You gotta love Alan Pakula. His Pelican Brief is true to the source
material but manages to complement it with artfulness learned from
Hitchcock and the events portrayed in All The President's Men (also
directed by Pakula).

The result is a thriller which never has to resort to the hackneyed or
the obvious. Even the chase scene in a car park manages to be a little
different.

He has casted brilliantly (perhaps Fletcher Coal should have been
older?) but his masterstroke is commisioning James Horner to provide
the score. At times sparse and at others boldly chromatic it jangles
the nerves as Julia and Denzel duck and weave their way through a maze
of unease.

A great way to spend two hours.
<|_=00=_|>


Forget the plot holes.  Forget the implausibility of the story.  This is
Grisham, the modern-day master of legal and political conspiracy and
intrigue.

This movie centers on one thing: the chemistry between the on-screen duo of
Julia Roberts and Denzel Washington.  And they do not disappoint.  Both give
absolutely stellar performances, Washington as the reporter who desperately
wants his story to see the light of day but is not afraid to let his
compassion show through, and Roberts as a terrified law student engulfed in
a situation where she is way over her head, trying simultaneously to survive
and avenge the death of her lover.  There is not one scene, not one bit of
dialogue, verbal or non-verbal, that doesn't make be believe everything they
say, and that is a testament to the acting abilities of Roberts and
Washington, two of Hollywood's best.

For pretty much the entire second half of the movie, Denzel and Julia's
characters work together to find proof of the conspiracy that resulted in
the assassination of two Supreme Court judges, while at the same time
dodging unscrupulous lawyers, heavies and an international
hitman.

In their final scene together, when Darby is taking the FBI director's
private plane out of the country, the bond that has grown between her and
Gray is extremely noticeable.  They deplane, and Gray shows Darby the
headline exposing the conspiracy.  Darby smiles, shakes Gray's hand, and
proceeds to walk to the car that will take her to her new location.... but
no, a handshake is just not enough, not after what they'd been through... so
she goes back and gives Gray a huge hug, which he returns.  The mutual
respect is there for all to see.  No words are spoken throughout the entire
scene, they are not necessary.

Having read many of Grisham's books and seen all of the movies adapted from
those books, I wondered how "The Pelican Brief" would stack up against all
the others in the long run.  In my opinion, it is still the best of the
bunch.

My score: a solid 10.
<|_=00=_|>
JULIA ROBERTS is a damsel in distress when she writes a brief,
theorizing what and who was behind the murder of two Supreme Court
justices. DENZEL WASHINGTON is the investigative reporter who sees some
merit in her theory and reluctantly decides to offer his help in
tracking down the bad guys.

It's based on a terrific John Grisham thriller and given a well crafted
script, good performances and taut direction from Alan J. Pakula. I'm
not a fan of either Roherts or Washington, so for me to praise this
movie shows you how suspenseful and entertaining it is as a thriller.

The overrated Julia Roberts is a huge box-office star who never once
appealed to me despite her enormous popularity and Denzel Washington is
a competent actor who sometimes does extra fine work--but neither one
would win a popularity poll with me.

So, with that personal bias showing, I still give THE PELICAN BRIEF a
respectable rating because it does what it sets out to do--it keeps you
hooked until the ending after a few unexpected plot twists totally in
keeping with this kind of story where the heroine is in peril because
she knows too much.

Well worth a view.
<|_=00=_|>
Take any John Grisham novel and have it brought to screen, written and
directed by Alan J. Pakula (Sophie's Choice, All the President's Men.
To Kill a Mockingbird), and add Julia Roberts and Denzel Washington as
the leads, and you have a movie that is worthy of 141 minutes of your
life.

I love political films. You know that if you have read my reviews.
Political thrillers are especially great. This one is well worth
watching for the story, the directing, and, most especially, for the
lead actors. I do not think that Washington and Roberts have ever
disappointed me - OK, there was that License to Kill in 1984.

I won't synopsize - you can get that anywhere - but, I will say that
you will not be disappointed. It's not a popcorn movie, you have to put
some effort into watching it, but the rewards are great. And the
chemistry between Roberts and Washington is fantastic!
<|_=00=_|>
Another John Grisham novel becomes an entertaining thriller that opens
with the murder of two Supreme Court justices. A Tulane law clerk
suspects that the killings are too much of a coincidence and suggests
that a Louisiana oil magnate and the White House may be involved.
Determined to find out the truth, the clerk's research puts her life in
danger, which is clear enough when her law professor is killed. Julia
Roberts spends most of the film on the run, dodging killers and murder
plots. Denzel Washington is a reporter who get pieces of information
from an unknown source and eventually Roberts and Washington team up to
investigate the assassinations. The film has complicated twists as
Roberts and Washington work together to stay out of harm's way as their
investigation points its compass at the White House. The supporting
cast is great as are all the tech credits and James Horner contributes
a nice music score.
<|_=00=_|>
John Grisham's bestseller becomes paranoia thriller directed capably by
Alan J. Pakula. "Eager beaver" Louisiana law student Julia Roberts does
some home research trying to connect the backgrounds of two Washington,
D.C. Supreme Court Justices who were murdered; her theories regarding
the two men--who wanted them dead and why--turns out to be scarily
accurate. The brief manages to get into the hands of top Presidential
aides, and soon a contract is put out on her life. Shady political
business is mixed with detective yarn and a (semi) love story between
Roberts and stalwart newspaper journalist Denzel Washington, who is
excellent. Smoothly done commercial package, well-paced and
entertaining, though exceptionally far-fetched (which parlays into the
enjoyment factor). Roberts pouts too much, and her first meeting with
Washington (talking in a weepy whisper) is awful, but there is
chemistry between the two and they help gloss over the more nonsensical
parts of the script (such as a chase through a parking garage--full of
cars but no witnesses--and the ridiculous, fatuous way the writers
explain Roberts' seemingly unending credit and cash flow--"I have the
money my father left me"). The supporting cast is filled with
recognizable character actors all playing two-faced sons-of-bitches,
with the minor exception of John Lithgow doing a nicely benign turn as
the editor at Washington's paper. *** from ****
<|_=00=_|>
This is just a great 'whodunit' legal thriller. Gripping, intelligent,
acting is superb, the story is well constructed and builds in this
beautiful crescendo. It' a huge cast and everyone is perfectly suited
for their role. It moves beautifully, it flows like a movie should
flow. I can't find any real flaw worth sharing. Just isn't there. I
think it sets up Denzel Washington to continue in his escalating career
as a wonderful character actor, a huge movie star, a big talent. Tony
Goldwyn, since GHOST has this tendency to play the 'bad guy' but what
can I say, he's good in this film too. Robert Culp, I love his
impossible character. Julia Roberts is wonderful as the young
starry-eyed law student who stumbles upon things bigger than anything
she ever imagined. I loved every moment of the film. I recommend it to
anyone who enjoys good solid film making. It should be used in teaching
film - how to construct a story, how to keep the story one step ahead
of the audience, making it suspenseful and exciting without having to
resort to unnecessary violence or sex to make a movie work. It almost
breaks through 'formula' scripts as suggested by the pundits who often
don't have their finger on the pulse of what audiences want. It's one
of the few films that when ever on television draws me in again and
again and again!
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't read this particular John Grisham novel on which this film
was based, so I can't comment as to the film's faithfulness to it. I
can surmise however that from reading other Grisham novels it "feels"
like it might be quite close. I'm sure someone will correct me if I'm
wrong.

The storyline is fairly straightforward. Why were two Supreme Court
Justices assassinated? Darby Shaw, a curious law student (Julia
Roberts), does a little research and writes a thesis on a possible
reason. She shows it to her law professor boyfriend (Sam Shepherd), who
in turn shows it to a colleague, also a lawyer (John Heard), who works
for the FBI. The professor is blown up in a planted car bomb and his
friend is shot dead in a hotel room. And someone wants the student dead
also. She goes "on the run", and eventually turns to Gray Grantham, an
investigative journalist (Denzel Washington) for help.

This is a superb "conspiracy" movie within the genre of "All the
Presidents Men" and "In Defence of the Realm", and although starting
relatively slowly, builds up the tension and is never dull. It has an
excellent supporting cast featuring Robert Culp as the worried
President (what President isn't?), with John Lithgow as Grantham's
newspaper editor, British character actor Nicholas Woodeson as an
assassin, and Stanley Tucci, who gave such a wonderfully chilling
performance as Adolph Eichmann in the British TV production
"Conspiracy", is equally pragmatically chilling here as a hit man.

There is a muted chemistry between the two leads which, like the film,
(although there is a little action), never quite gets, perhaps
purposely, to boiling point. It's all suitably and superbly played in a
low key, which helps to maintain a sinister element to the overall
development of the plot.

I suspect that "The Pelican Brief" is probably not to everyone's taste,
but I personally love it, and given the oft modern corporate disregard
for environmental matters, is by no means implausible, and indeed has
the ring of truth about it.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't think that you have to be a conspiracy nut like me to enjoy
this movie, but it sure helps. Sure the conspiracy was a little far
fetched and hard to believe but that is what makes it fun,, Julia
Roberts and Denzel Washington star as our two main leads,, countless
other actors and actresses make this a great movie,, there are so many
I can't even think to list them all, but they were great nonetheless.
Supreme Court judges are getting offed by someone ,, and our junior law
clerk,, played by Miss Roberts has to figure out who done it,,because
she is writing a paper on it for class, Mr. Washington plays a local
reporter for the newspaper, and eventually she contacts him,, brings
him up to speed and the two team up and try to solve the murders of the
Supreme Court Judges,, along the way they are almost blown up,, shot at
, and numerous attempts on their lives,, as the bad guys who are
responsible will stop at nothing to keep this from going public,,
excellent crime thriller that really shouldn't be missed.
