

I feel compelled to speak up for this film against the spoilt ravings of the
it-said-it-was-like-the-Matrix-but-I-didn't-see-any-cool-computer-graphics-a
nywhere crowd that have dominated these pages.

There seem to be two schools of thought on the use of special effects in
movies.  The prevalent theory - depressingly common among film goers and
film-makers alike - seems to be that a good effect should stand out of a
film and make the audience coo like a pigeon.  If you subscribe to that
theory, fine, watch the Matrix and be happy.  If you think that a special
effect is a means to an end, a way to portray a fictional vista as a
believable realism, then watch eXistenZ and marvel at how a grotesque and
visceral world can be made so engrossingly real and intriguing.  This film
has its fair share of effects, but they are so well grafted into the ethos
the film evokes that you just won't notice them on first viewing.  And in
contrast with the current trend towards computer-generated effects,
Cronenburg knows the value of his tactile world; the physical creativity
involved in the gristle-gun building scene is a fantastic example.

Okay, so virtual reality has been used many times as a concept - and by
films that actually came BEFORE the Matrix too - but the totality with which
this film portrays its own organic brand of VR is truly engrossing.  Jude
Law and Jennifer Jason Leigh are utterly watch-able and the chemistry
between them is the perfect vehicle to lead an audience through the
admittedly gruesome situations the film describes.

There is an element of old-fashioned escapist fantasy in this film that
manages to be strangely endearing despite the gore and I suggest that this
is where the film triumphs - a triumph that can be attributed to clever
writing, intelligent acting and characterisation, a compelling story,
charismatic leads, a vivid and disciplined imagination and the discerning
use of effects and visual style.

If the Matrix is an `oooh, aaah' sort of film, then this is more an `oooh,
eeugh' movie - but don't allow the glare of the Matrix to dull your senses
to the darker appeal of eXistenZ.

<|_=00=_|>

Everybody seems to compare this to The Matrix and The 13th Floor, and when
I
first saw it I would have agreed -- I was expecting The Matrix and was a
little disappointed.  But upon repeated viewings my respect for this movie
has grown immensely.

The thing to keep in mind is that The Matrix is a great action movie with
some philosophical mumbo-jumbo thrown in.  The 13th Floor is a passable
action movie with some slightly more interesting philosophical mumbo-jumbo
thrown in.  Existenz is not an action movie at all, and is not (as many
seem
to believe) about "reality" or any such "deep" concept.  It's about the
human tendency to intentionally replace reality with an artificial (both
in
its origin and in its behavior) world of make-believe.

The most chilling moment in the movie is when Allegra Geller repeats her
"scripted" line.  It's at that point you realize that the people in the
game
have voluntarily surrendered their free will in order to participate in a
story.  This is made even more frightening at the end when D'Arcy Nader
(or
rather his player) comments on the possibility of spending one's life in
the
game.  I sympathize completely with the "realist" philosophy, that
providing
interesting worlds in which people simply locate the correct predefined
path
to the end goal is ultimately a recipe for a soulless existence.  Living
"in
the game" is not living at all, but is a tempting way to spend one's time
on
earth.  As Allegra comments about the real world, "there's nothing going
on
here."  Might as well jack into someone else's imagination, and pretend to
be doing something interesting.  (Although I have to ask whether
Cronenberg
considers this a self-indictment, considering that he himself offers up
worlds to be experienced in 90 minute snippets.)

Upon leaving the theater after first watching this movie, I thought it was
one of those movies that was watchable only to see how it ended.  But
having
seen it a couple more times (thank you SciFi Channel) I've realized how
much
deeper it goes.  Seriously, if you've only seen it once, it deserves
another
viewing.
<|_=00=_|>

David Cronenberg, much like colleague David Lynch, is an acquired taste. A
director who plays with themes like reality, perversion, sex, insanity and
death, is bound to get the most extreme reations from audiences. He proved
this with films as The Fly, Naked Lunch, Crash and eXitenZ (capital X,
capital Z) and more recently, Spider. It's best to see eXistenZ with a
clear
mind. Try not to read too much about the plot, or it'll be ruined for you.
What I can tell you is that Cronenberg takes you on a trip down into the
world of videogames that acts as a metaphor for any kind of escapist
behaviour. Living out fantasies is something people always dream of, but
how
far can you go into it, before reality gets blurred and the fantasy takes
over and turns into a nightmare? Those are the themes touched in eXistenZ,
an exploration of identity, the human psyche, physical bodies being
invaded
by disease and most importantly, reality itself.

The story and directing are excellent. Cronenberg knows his trade very
well
and succesfully brings to life an artificial world, avoiding the usual
pitfalls and clichés linked to stories such as this. The film shows some
pretty disgusting stuff, but is unusually low-key in the gore department
in
comparison to Cronenbergs other work. The shock effects he plays on are
never over the top and the plot progression is very intelligent and
creative. It's not the most intellectual movie ever, but it will leave you
thinking about it, wondering and pretty confused.

The acting gets two thumbs up as well. Both protagonists, Jennifer Jason
Leigh and Jude Law, play their parts perfectly and cleverly portray their
character's shifting moods and identities. The dialogue may seem a little
stale and clinical at times, but that is part of the effect Cronenberg was
going for, to create a disaffected and alien atmosphere that puts you
quite
at unease. Supporting actors as Ian Holm, Don McKellar and an especially
creepy Willem Dafoe lift the movie even higher with their disturbingly
familiar performances.

This movie takes some getting used to, but if you can appreciate the dark
tone, blood-curdeling imagery and existentially warping story, you'll love
it.
<|_=00=_|>

'eXistenZ' sorts out the men from the boys. That is, your reaction to this
marvellous movie will depend whether you are S.F. literate and familiar with
Cronenberg's oeuvre, or a 'Matrix'-loving, Johnny-come-lately. Now I enjoy
'The Matrix' as a superior action movie, but no movie in recent years has
been so overrated, and grossly exaggerated as intellectual fare! 'eXistenZ'
and Alex Proyas' similarly overlooked 'Dark City' are everything 'The
Matrix' claims to be - intelligent, thought provoking, CHALLENGING
S.F.

 This movie is almost a summary of all the themes and motifs that Cronenberg
has been obsessed about for the last 25 years or so. Especially the
Burroughsian "biological horror" and the Phildickian questioning of reality.
While it echoes many of his previous movies, it especially evokes his
masterpiece 'Videodrome'. It may not reach the hallucinogenic heights of
that movie - very few have - but it certainly takes you to places most
contemporary S.F. and horror movies don't even try to reach.

However this movie isn't just Cronenberg rehashing his "greatest hits".
There are more than enough new and interesting touches, especially the
Rushdie-like Fatwah theme, the odd sexual symbolism, and the witty touches
such as the bone guns that fire teeth. Helping all this along is the
interesting, carefully chosen cast. All are good, but I especially like
Willem Dafoe's creepy garage mechanic, and it was also great to see Canadian
cult star Don McKellar ('Highway 61', 'Twitch City',etc) as the enigmatic
"Russian" Yevgeny.

'Videodrome' has taken many years to find its real audience, and maybe
'eXistenz' will too. But I believe eventually it will be recognised for what
it is - a work of great imagination and flair.
<|_=00=_|>

By far the most bizarre and inventive films from David Cronenberg, and a
film that is sure to become a cult classic. The story cannot easily be
summarized in a small review without spoiling the movie completely, so
you'll have to see it for yourself.

The special effects are well done, but thankfully not overdone. The film
relies mainly on the chemistry between Jennifer Jason Leigh and Jude Law,
who plug in and out of the game throughout the movie, and what is actually
the real world become less clear as the movie goes on. The violence and
carnage, which Cronenberg has become famous for, certainly catches you off
guard at times. In fact, some scenes will send a shiver up your spine. The
acting is superb, with Jennifer Jason Leigh playing a convincing hero, while
Jude Law is excellent as the uneasy, often unwilling participant in her
mind-boggling game. Willem Dafoe is, as always, a treat to watch as the
mysterious, intimidating, and off-the-wall characters he is so good at
playing.

eXistenZ is the most unusual Cronenberg film to date, and that is saying
something when comparing to his earlier movies like Shivers, Scanners, and
Videodrome. It has a great script, great direction, and the idea behind the
film is pure gold. Cronenberg is definitely one of the most daring and
original directors of our time. 
<|_=00=_|>
Who should watch this film? Anyone who has ever taken acid, read Philip
K. Dick, thought the premise of the Matrix was better then the special
effects, has an interest in Philosophy, or likes having their sense of
reality messed with. I laughed out loud at this film, just because it
was so outrageous and so spot-on. This film is great. This film is
cool. It is better than the Matrix, by a long shot (I didn't fall
asleep in Existenz, for a kick off: action/special effects films bore
me stupid, and despite a plausible philosophical gloss, that is exactly
what the Matrix is). Existenz is gross, it is disturbing, and it is
funny. David Cronenberg has done some shonky stuff (Rabid) and some
works of genius too (Videodrome is another one worth checking out, as
is Stephen King adaptation The Dead Zone). But this is one of my
all-time favourites. I can't remember the ending- which is a good
thing, cos it means I can watch it again. Or perhaps I never watched
this film at all. Maybe it's an implanted memory. Or maybe it 'really'
happened to me. I don't know. At any rate, it is now seamlessly
stitched into my overall illusion of reality, and I'm glad.
<|_=00=_|>

David Cronenberg's `eXistenZ' is a well designed reflection of the
philosophy of existentialism. It addresses the problems of a culture that
is
plugged into technology that it can no longer distinguish between fantasy
and reality or between the organic and the mechanical. The movie shocks
the
audience with its replacement of mechanical technology with organic,
metabolismic one. In this context the technology is able to be part of
human
body. After playing the virtual reality game of `eXistenZ', the real world
feels like a game and as a result, human behavior change in order to apply
violent game-urges even when the game is over.
In eXistenZ, technology has evolved from machinery to biological organisms
that plug directly into the human nervous system; an idea that reflects
Marshall McLuhan's belief who is a well known media theorist, that
computers
are extensions of human consciousness. Like telephone is an extention of
the
ear, television is an extention of the eye, telegram is an extention of
the
central nervous system high-tech virtual reality is an extention of human
consciousness. In eXistenZ, technology is biological and thus more human
than it is in our world. But as technology becomes organic, humans become
more mechanical and therefore less free, unable to resist their
game-urges.
eXistenZ is a virtual realty simulation of man's existence. Jean
Baudrillard
describes a mediated society in his book of Simulacra and Simulation,
which
all power to act has been transformed to appear. The world has passed into
a
pure simulation of itself. In eXistenZ it is obvious to see Baudrillard's
mediated society with the themes of the invasion of the body, the loss of
control and the transformation of the self into other.

While you are in the eXistenZ, consciousness slowly replaces with another
identity, your role in the game, which is a reflection each individual's
real life subconscious. While you gain the control of your hyperreal life
step by step, the aura of your real life disappers. For Baudrillard,
`.simulations or simulacra, have become hyperreal, more than real.' Our
hyperreality, like Cronenberg's world of computer simulation, `.now feels,
and, for all intents and purposes is, more real than what we call the real
world.' (Baudrillard)
The purpose of the game which can basically be called 'experience' is
quite
metaphorical. Because you can not even know what is experience unless you
experience it. As existentialists say that, life without an exact
explanation is absurd, the game of eXistenZ is absurd too. Cronenberg,
ironically reflects the absurdity of our lives. For instance, in the game,
the other roles just stand still unless you ask them a pre-programmed
question. And when you put their aimless funny looking state of being into
the representation of our lifes, the exposed absurdity really shocks.

The theme of the game is to understand what it is for? This hidden
metaphorical question creates anguish over the people who play eXistenZ.
They have no doubt about their existence, however they do not know the
underlying reason of their existence. The essence.

Existentialists have held that human beings do not have a fixed nature, or
essence, as other animals and plants do; each human being makes choices
that
create his or her own nature. In the formulation of the 20th-century
French
philosopher Jean Paul Sartre, existence precedes essence. `Choice is
therefore central to human existence, and it is inescapable; even the
refusal to choose is a choice. Freedom of choice entails commitment and
responsibility. Because individuals are free to choose their own path,
existentialists have argued, they must accept the risk and responsibility
of
following their commitment wherever it leads.'
Perhaps I should mention, `eXistenZ' deals with the concept of freedom of
choice too. You achieve your final role in the game by taking right
decisions. If you don't than the game becomes irrevelant and boring. So,
you
begin to interrogate the game, your existence rather than your essence.
You
suddenly become schzopfrenically alianated from the game and realize your
position outside the game. Well as a last word, eXistenZ is a well
designed
reverse simulation of life thus existentialism.


<|_=00=_|>
"We're both stumbling around together in this unformed world, whose
rules and objectives are largely unknown, seemingly indecipherable or
even possibly nonexistent, always on the verge of being killed by
forces that we don't understand." So says Ted Pikul in the film. Which
for some people sums up life and 'eXistenZ' probably is a film about
existence. What is real and what is unreal and how you tell the
difference. Or not. The last line of the film is superbly ambiguous.

The film seems like a shaggy dog story (indeed it has a real shaggy dog
in it) but it takes you along on an interesting ride, full of
provocative Cronenberg touches that will make you look at amphibians,
game pods, fish, spines and bones in a new light. Some bits are quite
icky. It takes place in a rural setting where the gas station is called
'GAS STATION' and a Chinese restaurant is called 'CHINESE
RESTAURANT.'The film has an engrossing texture that is leagues away
from your usual big budget science fiction movie.You can read many
things into the film and it repays watching more than once.

The main actors are Jude Law who is OK and Jennifer Jason Leigh who is
great. Some roles don't suit this very talented actor but when she has
a good role like this she is unmatchable. Her unconventional beauty and
fascinating voice suits the part of Allegra. (Looks great in a short
black skirt too.) There are other familiar actors but they are not
given much to do. It looks good, sounds good and a Howard Shore score
complements the film very well. Cronenberg is possibly the Alfred
Hitchcock of the sci-fi/horror genre. No matter what film he makes he
is always worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
"All reality is virtual. It's collaborative. It's invented." – David
Cronenberg.

In retrospect, "Existenz" is part of a group of films released between
1998 and 2001, all of which examine the fragile lines separating an
illusory reality from a supposedly more authentic Real. These films,
which include "The Matrix", "Vanilla Sky", "Eyes Wide Shut", "Dark
City", "Existenz", "Mulholland Drive", "The Truman Show", "Fight Club"
and "A History of Violence", all portray reality as a hyper-real
simulation in possession of a dark and violent underside.

But what separates "Existenz" from its big budget counterparts are it's
biomechanical themes. Marshall McLuhan famously asserted that all
technological advancements are merely extensions of the human body;
clothing an extension of our skin, binoculars of our eyes, cars of our
legs, media of our minds and desires. McLuhan believed that as media
builds upon itself, it grows further and further away from our human
skin until the limits of our bodies becomes less and less definable.

This bodily alienation is highlighted in "Existenz". The film
establishes a series of layered hyper-realities for the players of a
virtual reality game to connect to. In order to enter each new layer of
the game, the players must literally "plug in" using organic looking
spinal grafts. These grafts let the players enter the computer
generated landscape of the game whilst leaving their physical bodies
behind. They are, essentially, wilfully disembodied from their physical
reality.

The irony of the film is apparent at the end, when we discover that the
film's "reality" only exists when the characters decide to enter
another reality (at the moment of plugging in). Since the movie begins
at the second plugging in, without referencing the first, Cronenberg
suspends all reality to imply that no reality is grounded. In other
words, the audience's act of playing the film was the first "plug in"
to an alternate reality. In this way, Cronenberg engages the
disembodiment that technology offers and threatens us with. The
audience embodies media because media becomes an escape from the body
through its prosthetic extensions. These plug in extensions are
themselves sexualised, implying that man's virtual escapes are
themselves pleasure centric activities, man hiding in fantasy by mind
humping his machines. (Importantly, the film's "machines" become less
organic and more mechanical and rigid as we get closer to reality.)

But though McLuhan suggests a "re-fragmentation" of the Self through
extensions into media realities, other thinkers suggest less
pessimistic models. For example, though our instruments have become
detachable organs, they need not displace us entirely. Isn't it
possible that our senses, no longer limited to our physical bodies, now
become receptors to a wider variety of stimuli and perceptions?
Cronenberg acknowledges this, but highlights the complications in
returning to our real bodies. Recalibration to a pure reality is
becoming increasingly impossible. One can imagine future generations
thinking of their own brains as "organic computers" and not computers
as "imitations of the brain". In other words, the machine becomes
something that our body aspires to or increasingly enjoys being with.

On yet another level, "Existenz" portrays a war between a group of
"game players" and rebels known as "The Realists". The Realists want
all game designers and games destroyed. They want the simulation to
end, and all of humanity to re-enter reality. The great joke (which
only Cronenberg and Kubrick seem to acknowledge) is that these Realists
who delight in such demystification are operating under the most
lamentable and unsupportable of assumptions: the idea that you can
strip away all fantasy. The "reality" they defend is, in fact, the
ontology of a depressive, shabbily empirical, nothing ever adding up to
more than the sum of its parts, nothing worth getting worked up about,
nothing connecting with nothing, existence. IE- post modern hyper-real
hell. They're defending simply another fantasy level in a game, unable
to face the fact that The Real is itself a cosmic ateleological event,
completely without design. The Real is purposiveness without purpose.
Think the giant conversation at the end of "Eyes Wide Shut", Tom Cruise
standing over a pool board as "everything is explained" but "nothing
actually adds up".

Cronenberg is thus a kind of ontological existentialist, believing that
the very nature of reality itself, the individual choices of subjects,
is radically open. Watch how he has his lead character (played by Jude
Law), confront the existential horror of abandonment and despair when
he complains to the game designer (who is herself a mere player and not
the actual game designer) that the game is without final purpose and
that they are forever being assaulted by malevolent forces intent upon
destroying them. It's a game that would be hard to market, he moans.
And yet, as she smartly replies, it's a game that everyone is already
playing.

The Realists, however, want to defend their comfortable self-delusions.
They want to believe that the particular world in which they find
themselves, a mere consensual hallucination, is fixed and determined.
What guarantees such pre-determination is of course the functioning of
a transcended game designer whose role is basically a metaphor for God.

Finally, "Existenz" makes a distinction between players who are capable
of making choices and preprogrammed drones who are nevertheless also
players. Unable to act unless triggered by specific lines of dialogue,
these drones are reminiscent of so many interactions with "real" human
beings in late Capitalism: robot announcers, telemarketers, call centre
employees etc. These days, professionalization means becoming as much
like a bureaucratically controlled drone as is humanly possible, man
losing all signs of autonomy, unable to sensitively engage with
situations or people around him.

8.9/10 – This film has aged well. Briskly told, "Existenz" has an
elegance and sexiness which lifts it above its big budget, more action
oriented, brothers.
<|_=00=_|>
In a near future, the Antenna Research and the Cortical Systematics
Corporations dispute the market of games. When the designer of the game
eXistenZ Allegra Geller (Jennifer Jason Leigh) comes to a lecture to
demonstrate and test her game, she is attacked by a fanatic terrorist.
However,the marketing trainee of Antenna Research Ted Pikul (Jude Law)
saves Allegra and flees with her in his car. 

When Allegra awakes, she requests Ted to let her connect in his
bio-port to check the damage in her pod with the original version of
eXistenZ. Ted does not have bio-port since he is afraid of any possible
infection, but Allegra convinces him to go to the gas station, where
she asks the attendant Gas (Willen Dafoe) to make a hole in Ted's spine
and install a bio-port. Sooner she learns that Gas works for the enemy,
but Ted and she play eXistenZ, in a bizarre virtual world. When the
game merges in the real life, Ted and Allegra question whether they are
still playing the game or whether the game has been transported to the
real world. 

"eXistenz" is another bizarre and original film by David Cronenberg,
with a weird and gruesome concept of virtual reality. The twisted story
has similarities with "Matrix", entwining virtual world with reality,
but both were made in the same year (1999); therefore it seems that
there is no plagiarization of the idea. Jennifer Jason Leigh and Jude
Law show a great chemistry and the plot has many twists. Surprisingly,
"eXistenz" has not been released in Brasil neither on DVD nor in
blu-ray. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): Not Available
