
This review is not coming from someone whose top ten films consist
primarily of Farrelly Bros. films, nor do I have a particular liking
for anyone involved in the film.

First of all, hats off to Jim Carrey. I read under the trivia section
that his role wasn't originally intended for him, but be honest; can
you see anyone else playing the cable guy? He was brilliant. He takes
the film from what would have been a run-of-the-mill comedy, to levels
of greatness, and anyone that thinks I'm being too kind either doesn't
like Carrey (it was the film that made me do a complete turn around),
or needs to see the film again.

The overall tone of the film is a bit of a mix, it gets darker as the
story goes along, but the jokes never mollify. I mean, it's a stalker
story with clever film and television references... It's really hard to
pin down the identity of this film.

This ranks as Stiller's best directorial performance to date. Reality
Bites and Zoolander are good, but not great. This film expresses a lot
more of his prowess. I see him as a very capable film maker, he is just
yet to make his mark with something more widely appreciated.

The Cable Guy is by no means a classic film, and admittedly, you wont
see it on any AFI lists anytime soon, but there is no denying the
quality effort that was put into this film by all of it's contributors.
And there are many of them -- check out all of those cameos! Chip
Douglas' (Carrey) contrived relationship with his customer Steven
(Broderick) ranks as one of the most memorable in recent history. It
has set a precedent in black comedies that has scarcely been touched
since.

I would have seen this film at least 30 times by now and it still seems
fresh, and this has lead me to believe that the film probably needs to
be viewed more than once for it to completely appreciated. I only wish
that there were more people out there that 'get' this gem.

This concludes our broadcast day. Click.
<|_=00=_|>

the most astonishing thing about the cable guy is that it simply wasn't
liked by critics! however, this was to be expected given the way it was
promoted. Not just another Jim Carrey "stupid humour" movie as it was
unfortuanately promoted as, the cable guy was an entirely different
genre; a comedy so dark it bordered on horror/thriller. and it is
utterly brilliant.

to watch this movie a second time is highly recommended, as is an open
mind to the dark web that Ben Stiller weaves masterfully. The actors
fill their roles extremely well; Broderick perhaps a little
underwhelming, but Carrey's astonishingly dark and eerie portrayal of
his character carries the film. the cameos are brilliant, and show the
respect the movie received by those who read the script, with many top
actors willing to appear for only short roles. in the vein of other
Stiller comedies that must not be taken at face value, such as the
classic Zoolander, this film genuinely needs a repeat viewing. and try
to forget Carrey was ever Ace Ventura before you watch the movie.
naysayers will be converted! 

full marks!

<|_=00=_|>

When first released, Cable Guy was such an unusual departure for Jim Carrey
and his usual slapstick, manic, goofy comedies that people just didn't
understand it or like it.  When word of Carrey's enormous $20 million
paycheck for this film spread, hopes were high that Cable Guy would be
smothered in Carrey's slice of hilarious dementia to the
extreme.

Carrey certainly brought an air of craziness to Chip Douglas, a lonely,
TV-addicted, and creepy cable installer who befriends the unwilling Matthew
Broderick (here, looking just nervous and bewildered for the entire film). 
But something was missing from this Carrey vehicle from the others: he was
not all fun and games. In fact, he was downright funny weird, not funny
haha.

So here lies one of the major problems people have with this film: it veers
from dark comedy into darkness, period.  Carrey isn't making an ass of
himself in every scene.  No.  Instead, Carrey's Chip Douglas is an
obsessive, extreme, two-faced sociopath.  The result? What would be Jim
Carrey's best performance to date, surpassed only by his Truman Burbank in
The Truman Show.

Sure, it's got a story that's been done to death: normal guy meets psycho
and is stalked.  But oh, what fun it is to see Jim
drag Matthew Broderick into such uncomfortable situations as playing Porno
Password with his parents (Carrey whispering "Nipple" into Broderick's ear
is absolute brilliance).

Cable Guy is definitely not for fans who want to see Jim Carrey do what
created his career; that is, silly, goofy, and flailing comedy.  However,
avid fans of black comedies will love seeing Carrey's first step in his
evolution as a gifted, serious, and undeniably interesting actor.

8 out of 10.

<|_=00=_|>
To some people, movies are more than a passion. They are a way of life.
For me, movies are not only one of my favorite hobbies, but I feel that
all films express a certain reflection of the individual watching them.
They say that you can tell a lot from a person by the way they act,
talk, walk. I believe you can also tell a lot about a person from the
sort of movies they like. 

And I think that for Chip Douglas (Jim Carrey), movies and television
are more than disposable entertainment. They are his entire life. He is
consumed by film to such an extent that he creates multiple personas
based on TV personalities. Many critics bashed Carrey's performance for
being too sadistic. I think it's perfect because it's daring and hugely
different than his other movies, and accurately reflects the mindset of
a troubled individual who has grown up on his TV, rather than actually
experiencing true life. Not many movies are like "The Cable Guy," and
most of them don't have the guts to make a statement so bold and
striking.

In "The Cable Guy" Carrey is the title character, his real name
supposedly Chip Douglas, but towards the end we're not really sure
what's true and false anymore. Chip works for a cable company and
offers to hook up new apartment tenant Steven (Matthew Broderick) up
with illegal cable. All Douglas asks for in return is a friendship,
which Steven reluctantly agrees to. But what he doesn't realize is that
Chip is an obsessive monster -- bred on films as a child and unable to
separate celluloid from reality, he pursues a "Fatal Attraction" route
and begins to stalk Steven. This is one of those movies, like "What
About Bob?", where the hero is apparently the only one who realizes how
crazy the "bad guy" is. Richard Dreyfuss went nuts trying to convince
his family of Bill Murray's insanity in "Bob." In "The Cable Guy,"
Matthew Broderick has a tough time trying to expose Chip's sadistic
side.

I am not Carrey's biggest fan. But I have to admit that over time the
comedian has grown on me. And when I see him in "Dumb and Dumber" I
can't picture anyone else taking on the role. Here he is in another
role where I can see no one else portraying his character, and yet he
still hasn't convinced me that he's a great talent. Strange.

I think Carrey's comedy is distinct and the reason his films have
become more well-received over the years is because he has invented a
certain area of modern-day comedy and thrived in that cubby hole for
quite some time. I believe that humor is not existent; it is invented.
Different forms of humor come and go. Right now, Adam Sandler and Jim
Carrey are two of the highest-paid comedians the world, and yet in
fifty years, where will they be?

Comedy is constantly changing. Humor is invented and re-invented to the
point that what was once funny no longer is. That is why so many
comedies from various eras of American history seem so outdated by
today's standards. We are living in a world of Jim Carreys, Adam
Sandlers, and Mike Myers. Although they still receive jobs, Steve
Martin, Eddie Murphy, Bill Murray, and especially Dan Aykroyd -- some
of the most popular comedians of the '80s -- have found themselves all
stuck in ruts, filming kiddie movies for Disney and -- some of them
(especially Murray and Aykroyd) -- departing comedy to pursue more
serious careers in an area of film that will never become outdated:
drama (for Murray, it is "Lost in Translation"; Aykroyd is less lucky
with projects such as "Pearl Harbor," which might as well be classified
as comedy).

The movie was directed by Ben Stiller, who carefully balances the
neurotic against the sweet. The movie has its fair share of cameos, and
in a great sequence Owen Wilson stars as a confident jerk who takes out
Steven's girlfriend on a date. The Cable Guy finds out and, thinking
he's doing Steven a favor, assaults Wilson in the bathroom of a fancy
restaurant.

Perhaps the reason so many critics disliked "The Cable Guy" when it was
released in 1996 was because they found themselves relating to Carrey's
character. Maybe not. All I know is that it is one of the most daring
and surprising comedies of the '90s -- not especially great but very
unique and entertaining. I relate to its main character because we both
love movies. My obsession is much calmer than Chip's. But the film does
have a good eye for spotting good areas of satire. Yes, it's often
rather dark and absurd. But isn't that the point?

4/5.
<|_=00=_|>
Regardless of what people say, this movie has some very funny moments
scattered throughout. When I first saw this movie, I will admit I
didn't find it that funny. But it's one of those movies that grows on
you with time. Even if you don't like it at first, give it some time.
You have to accept this movie for what it is. A dark comedy aimed at
poking fun of the lighter things in life. Jim Carrey obviously carries
the movie with his infamous quirkiness, but Matthew Broderick holds his
own as the anal retentive guy which he is great at playing. Whether you
are talking about the Midevil Times restaurant scene or the karaoke
scene, this movie is a gem. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

I divide movie fans into two types - those that love The Cable Guy, and
those that don't. The latter I try and avoid.

 Welcome to the most misunderstood, unjustly dissed movie of the 90s! Even
Homer Simpson hates it! I'm not going waste time trying to change anybody's
mind on this gem. If you don't see the sheer brilliance of this you're
beyond hope. All I can say is that it ROCKS in every way. Jim Carrey has
never been better as the creepy, psycho stalker "Chip Douglas", and Matthew
Broderick is wonderfully likeable as Chip's unsuspecting customer. Add to
that a tremendously cool supporting cast of cult legends including Charles
Napier, Janeane Garofolo, Eric Roberts, Mr. Show's Bob and David, Sean
Whalen,Owen Wilson, Andy Dick and BOTH members of Tenacious D, among
others.

Full of memorable sequences - the Karaoke jam, the Medieval theme
restaurant, director Ben Stiller's recurring duel role - The Cable Guy is
smart-as-a-whip, black, surreal, FUNNY, FUNNY stuff!
<|_=00=_|>

The Cable Guy has now all but been forgotten by the movie world. It was
released when Jim Carrey was on his way to being the new A list comedian,
and thus, was considered only a slightly funny version of 'Ace Venture'. or
The Mask' Or whatever. Personally, I don't consider The Cable Guy a comedy
at all. Sure, there are some side splitting moments - Carrey is hilarious
alongside Matthew Broderick's by the numbers 'average Joe', but id suggest
that anyone who was not taken in by this film to look at it a little
differently...

This is a horror film. I swear!

For me, Chip Douglas does not come across to me as a harmless lisping clingy
chump - HELL NO! The guy is a maniac. An obsessive, intelligent,
controlling, stalking "Fatal Attraction" styled nutter!

Watch it again!

For me, this is Jim Carrey's career launching performance. He has a lisp
right? after a while, you don't really notice it do you? Right. This is an
incredibly difficult task for an actor - maintaining a speech impediment for
an entire film, keeping it level, and not exaggerating it, its really
something to take a look at. Carrey's character is sick, and very very
creepy. With Broderick et al giving relatively standard performances,
Carrey's performance is a stand out, and Ben Stiller should be proud of this
film and what it lead to in terms of Jim Carrey's career.

Trust me, if you didn't like this, take another look, and prepare to be
freaked out by a very not funny, very creepy Carrey performance...

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Matthew Broderick asked his girl to marry him and she asked him to move
out. The eccentric guy who shows up to install cable in his new pad
arrives just at the right time to become his friend. Only The Cable Guy
(Jim Carrey) wants to be a little closer than Broderick is comfortable
with...

The Cable Guy is a brave and daring tragi-comedy, a rare sort of movie
where you're laughing one minute and scared the next. 

I'm not sure if we'll ever get another chance to see Jim Carrey go this
far out on a limb: director Ben Stiller has seemingly given him total
carte blanche, resulting in a seemingly completely over-the-top
characterisation, yet not so over the top that we can't get involved in
the plot and take what his character does as really happening.

Notice the way that the cable guy often mimics moments from his
favourite movies and works them into his controlling of the plot of
this movie - or how he starts humming movie-music along to certain
scenes, while the actual music of the movie mirrors the music the cable
guy is creating. This will clue you into the other subtle elements
which add towards this movie's satire of the effect TV has had on the
modern psyche.

Its worth the price of rental alone to see Carrey's rendition of "Don't
You Want Somebody to Love" in the famous karaoke scene.

After repeated viewings since its initial release, its one of the most
memorable Carrey comedies, and one of the most memorable flicks of the
90's. 4/5.
<|_=00=_|>

Some people really hated the movie. I saw it, I'll note I saw it on
video and frankly I loved it. I think this was the start of Carrey
really coming out although it has a couple of crude jokes I could have
done without. You really feel for Broderick who starts out having a
slightly annoying friend and ends up dealing with a stalker! Somehow
the stalker goes from being exceedingly annoying to outsiders gaining
acceptance from everybody around his victim. He casts a spell having
his victim believe that he is in danger of losing everything if he does
not co-operate with his tomentor. Anyway, if you like a bit of light
dark comedy and order a pizza, I think the movie is worth a watch.

<|_=00=_|>
This movie is one of Jim Carrey most perfectly crafted. His subtle
style slipped through the cracks after his horribly obnoxious
endeavours in both Ace Ventura and The Mask (but they were funny too).
He actually addressed this phenomena in a SNL sketch, where in his
opening monologue a fat guy in the front row refuses to laugh at any of
the jokes except his trade-mark lines i.e. "Sssssssmokin'!", or
"Alllllllrighty-then!", or "Le-hooo... -zeherr", and so on. This sort
of attitude continued onto the Truman Show set, where none of the crew
were allowed to comment on any other of his "meatball" sort of films.
Ahhh boy.

Anyway, this film is unsettling and funny. Chip Douglas is an
interesting guy because he is both desperate and confident. On one
hand, he can't believe someone wants to know his name, on the other, he
is adept at sabotaging Stevens life, even putting him behind bars.
Clever huh? It is underrated and Carrey's manner is really very good.
It is jam-packed full of subtle connotations and interesting
undercurrents as Chip crosses the line again and again...
