

This is a "fun" movie, surprising and funny but much more for adults than
children- it's too scary and graphic for little ones.  Sandra Bullock and
Nicole Kidman give star-powered performances- both deliver the goods here
and you'll enjoy it whether you're fans of them or if you're not. They're
simply charming and as much as people may want to dislike Kidman for being
Ms. Cruise, she again proves she's a star in her own right.

Forget the critics and the Be-faithful-to-the-book drones, this is a good
movie- hip, edgy and sometimes spooky.  If this was a movie made by two
unknown actresses, it would be a "gem" critics would recommend to
audiences,
but for some reason with Bullock and Kidman, it gets reviewed on a
different
scale and ends up short for people.  Forget all that- it's great
entertainment with yes, two pretty big stars- but they can't help that so
get over it and enjoy the movie for what it is- a real
"gem."
<|_=00=_|>

Normally I don't care for chick flicks, but I can't seem to stop watching
this one over and over again.  I was surprised that so many others didn't
care for it.  I just loved the sets, the costumes, the women and their
relationships, the real magic in the film, the special effects, the child
actresses.  This was stuff that women could relate to better than men. 
Aidan Quinn was the only boring part of the movie.  I wished they'd chosen
an actor who was more into the role.  He seemed bored and made his part in
the film more boring.  (Also, he mumbles.  Someone should give him elocution
lessons.)

This movie wasn't meant to be heavy.  It was meant to be light, fun fluff,
and that it is.  The characters weren't meant to be deep, but I felt the
relationship between the two sisters was deeper and well performed by two
skilled actresses.  In spite of the fluffiness of it, I enjoyed the two
scenes in which we got to sit and relax to the sound of Stevie Nicks'
"Crystal."  So what if cars weren't crashing and guns weren't shooting. 
They weren't supposed to be.  I felt the camaraderie of the moment as the
two sisters and their aunts got drunk on "midnight margaritas" while dancing
to Harry Nilsson's "Lime in the Coconut."  It was just plain light fun. 
Also, women can enjoy the vicarious satisfaction of watching these women
destroy the evil, bullying man who tries to destroy them. 

The end of the film was rather Disney-kiddie-flick-like.  Another ending
might have worked better, but it was tolerable because it reminded the
audience that the film was all in fun, and not to be taken
seriously.

I usually prefer deeper films, but I thoroughly enjoyed this piece of fluff.
 Sure it was silly and campy, but it was fun.  A film doesn't have to take
itself seriously to be fun.  Bullock, Kidman, Channing, and Wiest are
beautiful, charming and wonderful to watch in this flick, and I love
watching the four of them over and over again.
<|_=00=_|>

Reading the reviews of this movie is like being on a teeter-totter. One
hates, the other loves, one hates... I LOVED THIS MOVIE.

Maybe it's because I come from a family of 6 sisters.... The bonding and
care between the sisters and the Aunts, standing against the rest of the
town's distrust and dislike shows family strength.  When Sandra is weeping
over her husband dying, I cried with her. I thought it was a fabulous moment
for her in the movie.

If you want a movie about a woman getting revenge on an abusive husband,
rent The Color Purple (ALSO a fave of mine)  This movie was playful, at
times slightly spooky... Hello? It's a Witch story... it should have SOME
spooky stuff in it, and I don't feel the special effects were too over
done.

As far as them inviting the women of the town in to help, I loved that whole
sceen as well. The flash backs to the sisters as children and not wanting to
let the other go... all of it. Each time that sceen pops into power mode, it
makes me want to call every one of my sisters.  

I haven't read the book, so I understand there might be some disappointment
from those who HAVE read it. Movies rarely pack the punch of the written
word they're based on. (Like EVERY King movie EVER put on
film!)

But I adore Practical Magic.  I saw it in the theater, and bought it as soon
as I could.
<|_=00=_|>

I liked Practical Magic a lot. I didn't think I would because it was about
two sisters and seems to be a "chick flick". However, there was a lot more
to the movie than the relationship between Gillian and Sally Owens. For
example, Gillian is possessed by the soul of her cruel mate after Sally
accidentally kills him with too much magic. Also, the Owens curse plays a
pivotal role in the movie. I was surprised by the movie and I know it should
have made a lot more money, but the timing of the release was probably
wrong. Good actors, and good direction. I bet the book is good
too. 
<|_=00=_|>

Light and easy, suspenseful in parts, funny, charming. How you'd expect
normal ladies to act if they happened to be witches. I spent a pleasant
Sunday afternoon with this film. Best part is when they use the PTA phone
tree to recruit a coven. Watch it, you won't be sorry
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is one of my favorites - I love watching it.

I have to agree with the remarks by AshIsTheGal and Warlen. Nicole Kidman
had never been one of my favorite actress either, but I loved her in this
movie (as I did Sandra Bullock). The real standouts though were Stockard
Channing and Diane Wiest - watching them perform was almost worth the
price
of admission itself! They are wonderful.

I don't see this movie as being about magic or witchcraft, the romance
between Sally and Gary Hallet or even Jimmy Angelov chasing Gillian (which
is a huge catalyst - but not really any more than that). For me, this
movie
is really about the relationships between sisters and women (the Aunts
Franny and Jet, Kylie and Antonia, the Owens' women and the townswomen and
of course, between Sally and Gillian - both young and adult).

All of the actresses had a great chemistry, but I couldn't believe how
well
matched Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman were. I felt that their bond was
very believable and I loved watching their relationship to each other (and
themselves) grow and mature as they went from being children to
adults.

I certainly don't think that this film will appeal to everybody, and I can
see why so many people "don't get it", but if you watch it more for the
relationships between the women and not so much for the romance angle or
the
magic I think that you will really enjoy this movie. I thought that the
romance and magic were handled very well, I just saw them as being
secondary
to the real story. Also - it has a wonderful soundtrack.

I read the book after seeing the movie, and while there are many changes
between the two, I really enjoyed both. I thought that the changes made to
the movie made for a better movie overall.

All in all, a very enjoyable movie. I highly recommend
it.


<|_=00=_|>

Finally.....

Through this autumn's movie mediocrity, comes a fresh, fun and deliciously
wicked movie by acclaimed actor/director Griffin Dunne.  I must first point
out that I did not read the book... and also that I am male (drawing
attention to this fact since most of my male friends would not be caught
DEAD in a male-bashing, chick flick dark comedy that reeks in the
celebration of womankind!)

Sondra Bullock and Nicole Kidman are devilishly sexy as the spell-casting
sisters doomed to be single for the rest of their natural life... and
Stockard Channing and Diane Weist are also enchanting as their aunts that
have raised them on chocolate cake and midnight margaritas!  Aidan Quinn
rounds out the superb cast as a detective determined to find out the truth
behind the disappearance of a wanted killer.

With a terrific soundtrack and an equally impressive musical score,
Practical Magic will surprise and delight many a filmgoer who delves into
the fantasy and fun of being bewitched!
<|_=00=_|>

It appears that director Griffith Dunne tried to keep this film from being
as powerful as it could have been.  The movie fails to fully develop the
town's overt fear of witches (missing only slightly), the full foreboding
of
"something wicked this way comes" with Jimmy (although the script lets them
get away with it), and the magical love bond between Sally and Gary.  A few
small changes, such as more supportive background music, would have made
these points support and counterpoint the lighter parts of the
flick.

Bullock and Kidman are very good as the central characters, very believable
as different-but-bonded sisters.  Kidman is a little too flaky at times to
be a fully credible witch, but this characterization runs well enough in
context.  Channing (whom I rarely enjoy) and Wiest are excellent in major
supporting roles, outdone only by Webb and Wood (Sally's daughters) who
show
their abilities by *not* overacting their potentially cutesy roles.
Instead, they do a great job in stating variations on their mother and Aunt
Gilly.

Overall, I think most aspects of direction and production could have used
one more iteration of quality improvement.  Still, the movie is quite
enjoyable, and worth watching again some time.
<|_=00=_|>
Fish, tosh to those who didn't enjoy this movie. I guess the old saying
is true "you can't please every one". I don't get it. This movie is
light as a feather offending no one. It has the best beginning of any
movie I have ever seen. What other movie gives you a laugh in the fist
30 seconds? When Maria Owens jumps off the hanging ramp, snaps the rope
and scares the hell out of 38 people and the dove even flys away as
quickly as he can. That's funny! It's easy to follow all through the
movie and I really like that. This movie was a laugh academy all the
way. So so many laughs. The best one was when Sally mouths out "I don't
know" When Gary has Jimmy's hand go into him and he's outside the look
on his face is priceless. I could go on and on about this baby. It was
great with a great cast, great acting and of course Sandy Bullock and
Nicole kidman. How can you beat that? Those two are a sheer delight. I
think you get the picture. I love it! p.s. Nice po po in the garden
scene of SANDY. I also don't want to get in the way of Sandy's left
hook. Joe Frasier would go down.
<|_=00=_|>

Although this film received a lot of negative feedback from the press I
think it is one of the best films I have seen! The acting, settings, etc
were all spot on and the characters easy to relate to. This also received a
lot of bad press from Wicca Organisations - I am interested in the craft
too
and found the film to relay the information in a suitable and exciting
manner - Excellent!!!
