
First of all, I want to say some of my thoughts about IMDb ratings. If
you look at IMDb top 250 you can hardly find any family movie . In
fact, there are only three family movie (I mean live action movies not
animated flicks) in this chart. They are Princess Bride on the 99
position (haven't seen yet), A Christmas Story on 142 (a movie nobody
heard of besides English speaking countries) and the E.T. on the 244
(forever classic - no point denying that). And I bet you would be
unable to find another one even in top 500. On the other hand you can
find in this list, for example, more than eighty thrillers or more than
thirty 30 war movies. Does that result means that family movies can't
be good. Obviously it is not. For me the point is that many of people
as well as lots of critics don't appreciate movies sweet movies without
profanity, drugs, sex and violence. Cheesy movie for kids only that's
not a fair grade. Well it's only my opinion but for me it's very sad
when such a beautiful movie become so undeservedly underrated. Now,
more directly to our movie. I watched Free Willy no less than four or
five times and found it one of the best family and animal movie ever
made. The bonds of friendship between man and animal are shown
incredibility well here. From this point Free Willy remembered me
another beautiful animal movie The Black Stallion. The unlikely
friendship between twelve years old Jesse and giant whale as the main
element of the story is very sweet and touching. Overall plot is well
constructed (and there's no point to complain its unreality) with
decent development of the main characters. Young and definitely
talented Jason Jammes Richter created terrific performance of a young
lonely problem boy Jesse. Also very good in the movie were August
Schellenberg (as Randolph) and Michael Madsen (as Glen). As I always
mentioned cinematography is pretty good, including first-rate animal
action (Keiko is so cute there). The beautiful movie soundtrack written
by Basil Poleuydouris a bit resembled for me terrific Carmine Coppola's
score for The Black Stallion. And finally, that's maybe the most
important Free Willy is a very humanistic movie, a movie that what was
made with love and care about nature. Thanks to Simon Wincer for this
great masterpiece. We need more movies like this, not a laughable
rubbish that Hollywood studios now provide for family entertainment. I
rated Free Willy 10 out of 10 as an excellent and beautiful family
friendly movie. Check out also its two sequels. They are also pretty
good.

Thanks for reading and sorry for my bad English.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh, this one is underrated here. The story of Jason James Richter's
character trying to escape from a life of crime and missing prospects
is way beyond the average. The growing affection for Willy is not even
stereotyped or clichéd. It's a genuine bond that focuses on two outcast
characters who slowly but surely come to experience true friendship and
the value of trust. Jason's performance really appealed to me when I
saw this movie as a kid. It is a sincere depiction of friendship, of a
way out, of fighting for your values against all odds and of never
giving up. Right, I'm grown up now, but this is one of the movies of my
childhood I'd like to watch again, and I'm sure I'd enjoy it almost as
much as back then. Jason James had very few acting appearances, but the
Free Willy series assured him his place in movie history. His entire
performance in here is sincere and straight, he doesn't laugh nor smile
if it wasn't just natural in the specific sequences. His facial
expressions and body language fit into the total frame as well. The
story has some profoundly human themes to it. I can't help it, I think
this one is both entertaining and deep, dealing with emotions and
prospects of life, with integrity and courage in the face of danger.
<|_=00=_|>

If a movies greatness is measured by its cinematography and its direction
and its deep characters and its thought provoking script and its
revolutionary special effects, then Free Willy is not the next Citizen
Kane.
But if you can appreciate films that have something important to say and
something that it wants people to open their eyes to, then Free Willy is
just as important and gripping as anything from Gandhi to Platoon,
Mississippi Burning to Boyz and the Hood and JFK to Dancing With Wolves.
And that is the truth.  The problem with films like this is that it is
viewed in the same light as movies like Gorillas In The Mist and Instinct.
And that is they are bleeding hearted fluff.  They ask you to "feel" for
animals.  It asks you to realize that we are bad people and that we should
change the system from within.  The only problem with that last statement
is
that it is said while people are rolling their eyes and using a sarcastic
tone.  But if we can look at films like Schindler's List and Cry Freedom,
films that examine the atrocities perpetrated towards humans, see them for
the genius that they are, why can we not take a film that has something to
say about the abominable treatment of animals more seriously.  After all,
as
Shylock once said, "Does a Jew not bleed?"  Does an animal?

We are so desensitized towards cruelty to animals that we are practically
oblivious to their plight.  When we hear of a stray dog that shows up at
the
humane society with internal bleeding and a missing eye, we say that it's
terrible and then we turn away and forget about it until the next ones
shows
up.  When we go to water parks and see captive whales performing tricks we
laugh and cheer and go back to our freedom and think nothing of the life
that was destroyed when that beautiful beast was taken from its habitat.
If
anything, this movie shows us that we should not imprison these or any
wild
animals, and it does it so well that if you have any ounce of compassion
in
you, it will affect you.  This film is not just for 10 year olds, it is a
film that should be viewed by everyone that takes their freedom for
granted.
Because if all of a sudden one day we were put in prison for no reason,
then and only then would we truly understand what animals go
through.

Perhaps you think this review is not really about a movie and all I am
doing
is expressing my political beliefs, and that may be true, but if someone
doesn't say something about this, then what good is our right of freedom
of
speech.

The film itself is about a parentless boy that ends up in foster care.
There he ends up working at a Sea World type place where he meets a newly
captured whale.  He then takes it upon himself to free the whale knowing
that the whale is going to be killed for insurance purposes.

As I said though, I believe this is an important story and if you
disagree,
think about the film " A Time To Kill ".  Matthew McConnauhey ( wrong
spelling, I know ) gives his speech at the end about the heinous crimes
that
were committed against the little black girl.  He asks the all white jury
to
close their eyes as he tells the story.  At the end of his graphic
description he tells them to imagine she was white.  It won him the case.
Now do the same thing in regards to stories like Free Willy.  Close your
eyes and picture a whale held in a cell just big enough to move in.  This
whale is fed every once in a while and he is taught to do tricks so that
people can laugh and cheer.  He is separated from his family and his
friends
and his natural surroundings.  He can hear them crying for him to come
home
at night.  He has done nothing wrong, committed no crime and he just wants
to go home.  But he is kept against his will, for our entertainment.

Now picture what I am describing to you isn't a whale.  Picture "it" as
being human.

I applaud Richard and Laura Donner for making this film and I certainly
hope
people can see this and change their thinking about things.  It is a
powerful film.  And it is one that should be taken more
seriously.
<|_=00=_|>
It might not be the Shawshank Redemption or an equally provocative and
important movie. But it's touching. As a child it was my favorite movie
and I'd watch it every day for a period of about 3 months. It made me
cry, but it meant a lot to me. It might have it's corny moments, but
kids like it, and my parents liked it too. Compared to a lot of the
movies kids force their parents to watch, this one isn't so bad.

It's really sweet, and it puts out a good message. It allows you to
feel and care about things that go on it the world. I dug this out
today and watched it again and it was still pretty magical to me,
although I'm much older now. I don't see why this is rated a 5.2. I
guess I wouldn't tell every adult to go out and watch it, but if you
have kids, or just love animals, then give this a shot. It's a good
film.
<|_=00=_|>
Its a real family movie with lots of love. This film is a great way for
kids to learn about Whales, family and friendship. Its one not to be
missed, its makes you feel all warm in side. It made me cry back when I
was 5 and it still does today. This Film will always be in our hearts.
If you have kids this is the one to show them, they will laugh, cry and
learn to love the adorable killer Whale Willy which a lot of us have
done. This film has taught us a lot about captivity and the need of
freedom. There should be more films like this. If you are in need of a
friend there will always be on in animals and this film has shown us so
with Jesse and Willy. This film will continue to touch many hearts of
the world.
<|_=00=_|>
I absolutely adore Free Willy. It ranks well above any movie about
whales or dolphins, even Flipper. Free Willy provides an exciting story
about a troubled boy who befriends an orca whose situation is much like
his own. And of course, we all love the star of the show, Keiko! Keiko
had a life filled with traveling from one theme park to the other, and
in a lot of ways he experienced much more that Willy did. Keiko played
the part of the whale terrifically! James did a great job too acting as
Jesse, and gave the perfect image of a young boy who has lived on the
streets. Some people call it the best friendship movie since ET. This
movie rocks over ET!, and shows us the true meaning of friendship. We
all should learn that caring for another person or animal goes a long
way.
<|_=00=_|>
FREE WILLY, in my opinion, is a very touching movie about a special
friendship for all ages that will warm your heart. I really loved the
tricks that Willy did. If I could have, I would have helped him get to
safety myself. The only problem is how I would get him to safety, since
I can't drive. The score was good, the costumes were perfectly
designed, everyone was cast perfectly, and the direction was flawless.
In conclusion, I highly recommend this very touching movie about a
special friendship for all ages to anyone who hasn't seen it. You're in
for a real treat and a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or
buy it, kick back with someone close to you, and watch it. I guarantee
you you'll thoroughly enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
I just love it when there is a story that has two negative forces
coming together, and somehow, magically healing each other. Jesse,
roughened from his abandonment and time on the streets, and Willy,
kidnapped and separated from his family are the duo. It is a great
story, and a wonderful film.

It is so rare, that of all the movies and books and media that I have
consumed in my 25 years of life, I can only think of one other story
that has this same type of magical quality (The Secret Garden). This
movie is also great for environmental reasons, and as an avid watcher
of Captain Planet, I fell in love with this movie when I was a child.

As an adult, I have an annual pass to Seaworld, and I love killer
whales. They are so intelligent, and extremely beautiful. Willy is no
exception. Free Willy!
<|_=00=_|>

i love free willy to bits, it is a fantastic , and to me the most touching
childrens movie ever, a friendship with a 12 year old boy and a whale. The
movie sets out with a 12 year old kid out with his mates and doing naughty
things, the young boy named Jesse is arrested as he caused vandalism in the
sea life center and putting grafiti on the glass windows where the while can
be viewed from. Jesse is soon fostered by a couple who get on very well with
him. Jesse gets back to his tricks and is told that he has to do a job at
the sealife center as part of his punishment, he meets the whale again and
becomes a friend to the whale, jesse then decides if he could teach and work
with the whale, things start to get odd when the bad guys come in. As weeks
go by, there is danger at the sealife centre, water is leaking from the
window view and is getting less with water in the tank with the whale. Jesse
starts to panic and asks Randolph (Owner of the sealife centre) and the
foster parents for their help. The bad guys hear about this and goes after
jesse and the whale, it all ends when the whale is free and is told to go
far away as possible and be a free whale, the whale jumps over the rocks and
is back with it's family. I give free willy 10 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to see this film because of my love of Orcas. I was not
disappointed. This film will make you think of what it would be like to
have the bestest friend you could ever have. The film brings together
Jesse,a 12 year old boy and Willy,a killer whale. Jesse having painted
graffiti in the sea park where Willy is. Is told he has to clean it all
off. It is doing this that he is introduced to Willy. The pair start to
bond and Jesse starts to train with Willy for a show to get him a
bigger tank. On night after he ran away,Jesse sees a light coming from
the other side of Willy tank. He goes and has a look. The park owner
wants to kill Willy. So this sets Jesse of.He wants to save his best
friend,and he will do whatever he can. Well Willy............. I cant
tell you that would spoil it. But if you want a feel good film,that
makes you feel good inside this is it. But I will warn you,i'm 24 now
and still whenever I watch it,I get teary.
