

 'In the Line of Fire' is one of those Hollywood films that shows up on tv
quite a bit, but although I've seen it a few times, I usually end up sitting
through the whole thing again. Why? - It's GOOD! 
           
Clint Eastwood is great as usual, and the character he plays is interesting
and more fleshed out than usual. The character, Secret Service agent Frank
Horrigan, is haunted by the fact that he was on the detail that failed to
protect President Kennedy in Dallas, and now he's forced to match wits with
a professional assassin that is openly declaring that he will kill the
president. However, the film doesn't make him a depressed, brooding, and
obsessed character. He's charming and personable, and is realistic as a guy
that has experienced a lot in life and is comfortable in his own skin. He's
even quite convincing when he flirts with the pretty younger agent played by
Rene Russo. The killer, played by John Malkovich at his best, is cerebral,
deliberate, and enjoys playing high stakes games of life and death. He even
goes by the name of another presidential assassin, John
Booth.

  The film is consistently enjoyable, and it delivers all the goods -
suspense, action, romance, and drama - all in their proper amounts. It's a
fun film that is really helped by the great actors in it!  

<|_=00=_|>
Quite simply a well-made, well-written and wonderfully acted movie.
Eastwood is classic as grizzled Secret Service Agent Frank Horrigan and
Rene Russo

holds her own as partner (and love interest) Lilly Raines. But the
movie's

greatness rests on the shoulders of John Malkovich as "Booth". He
captures

this character's rage and hatred, as well as his humanity oddly enough. 

Personally I think this was his best performance and should have
received an

Oscar for it (But I loved Tommy Lee Jones in The Fugitive as well that
year). Overall a great movie to see you want to peek into an assassin's
mind and be

on the edge of your seat the whole way through. Enjoy!!
<|_=00=_|>

In The Line of Fire gives us a great game of cat and mouse.  Clint Eastwood
is plagued by John Malkovich in this riveting film.  Malkovich says he's
going to kill the president, and he purposely calls Eastwood, and pushes his
buttons.  He questions Eastwood's ability to protect someone.  Malkovich
brings a cold, but very intelligent mindset to his character.  Everything he
does, he does for a reason, and he's not shy about killing.  Eastwood has to
overcome the suspicions of his superiors in order to catch Malkovich, but no
one wants to listen to him.  The result is a film that crackles with
suspense that escalates to a tense scene in a ballroom at the Bonneventure
Hotel.  Wolfgang Peterson ratchets up the tension and we feel every
turn.
<|_=00=_|>

Clint Eastwood scores big in this thriller from 1993.Teamed
with
an absolute master of edge of your seat suspense,Wolfgang
Peterson,
Eastwood delivers as only he can.Also,John Malkovich goes on my
list
of most effective screen villains in the history of cinema as
the
demented assassin.As for Rene Russo as Clint's love interest,I
think Kirk Douglas said it best when he said,referring to his
own
career,"I keep getting older,and my leading ladies keep
getting
younger".This film is a very effective thriller with enough
plot
twists and surprises to keep you going.Eastwood and Peterson
should
team together more often. Top notch movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Frank Horrigan (Clint Eastwood) is a secret service agent plagued with
guilt over the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, while he was
on duty. Thirty years later and the current president is entering a
re-election campaign, but he is receiving death threats; and Horrigan
has been called in to assist in what should be a routine research
operation. John Malkovich plays the professional assassin and master of
disguise who is tracking the president, and using the past he begins to
torture Horrigan in a psychological duel of cat and mouse.

Malkovich, Eastwood and Rene Russo all give wonderful performances in
this top notch thriller. The direction is excellent and the entire
picture is charged with tension and intrigue throughout.

A must see for thriller fans 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Clint Eastwood could do no wrong in the early Nineties.

Hot on the heels of Unforgiven, he teamed up with The Perfect Storm director
Wolfgang Petersen for one of the best thrillers of the decade - In the Line
of Fire.

Imagine a cross between The Day of the Jackal and The Bodyguard and you get
the idea. 

Hollywood's craggiest leading man plays Frank Horrigan, a troubled bodyguard
assigned to protect the US president against a psychopathic assassin.

John Malkovich delivers a stunning performance as the man on the end of the
trigger and acclaimed German director Petersen directs with such skill,
Eastwood even asked his advice when he came to direct A Perfect World.

Clint was 63 when he made this and brought a lifetime of experience to the
role of a world weary Secret Service agent haunted by the fact he failed to
save President Kennedy from the fatal bullet. 

The clever use of a doctored photo by Hollywood whiz kids shows the
actor/director stood at the side of JFK. A nice touch which is well worth
looking out for.

To be honest, ITLOF is a cliched thriller, the sort of story which crops up
most weeks as a glossy, no brain offering on Channel 5.

However, both director and stars took the well worn material and gave it a
fresh spin, upping the tension several notches with each passing scene,
resulting in a spectacular finale which is great value for
money.

Rene Russo is so good she could play the part in her sleep. The former model
adds a degree of mature charm to her role of an agent who Horrigan believes
is mere `window dressing' for the department.

As with all of Wolfgang's movies, believability is everything.
A rare degree of authenticity was achieved during the crowd scenes when the
German film-maker integrated his fictitious President with the crowds from
the Clinton and Bush election campaign. 

The cost? A cool $4million.

The script had been knocking around Hollywood for a decade before it was
dusted down and given a green light.
It was originally to star Dustin Hoffman (who signed up for Petersen's
follow up, Outbreak). 

British director Michael Apted (The World is Not Enough) was due to direct
the Hoffman version, but when David Puttnam took over as the head of
Columbia in 1987, the movie was put on hold.

Producer Jeff Apple (a man more known in the trade for his interactive
shopping shows than films) brought in Jeff Maguire to polish up the
script.

The idea of Horrigan as an agent who failed to stop JFK's untimely death
gave the movie a twist that Hollywood execs found delicious.

Before long, there was a feeding frenzy over the new, improved script and
eventually, Rob Reiner's Castle Rock company snapped it up for a million
dollars with Clint Eastwood on board.

Petersen had wanted Harrison Ford, but eventually cast him as the President
in Air Force One (which you may remember was the film of the week a couple
of weeks ago).

As any Clint fan knows, he's a jazz fan - a passion shared by Horrigan in
what seemed to be a tailor made role adapted for old Mr Squinty after he
signed on the dotted line.

However, Frank's love of piano and jazz was already on the page - a happy
accident which helped turn Horrigan into one of Clint's most likeable big
screen characters.

Top drawer stuff.

<|_=00=_|>
This is another of Eastwood's many movies mixing intrigue, action, and
a dollop of romance, along with "The Gauntlet," "Firefox," and so
forth. Clint's acting range by now is pretty familiar. In this one,
he's taciturn and a bit outrageous, especially with women and
superiors. There are no surprises in his performance. But the film
itself is something of a surprise; it's above average. 

Clint is Frank, a Secret Service agent who, perhaps in a moment of
doubt, failed to catch the bullet that killed JFK. He then took to
drink, which drove his family away, and now plods along in the
bureaucracy until he is contacted by John Malkovitch, calling himself
"Booth," who strikes up a sort of skewed relationship with him based on
their shared, disillusioned conviction that everything is meaningless
except the impulse to escape dreariness and predictability. Now, this
is rather an anfractuous set of attitudes for a performer like Clint to
project, but he does rather well, less robotic than usual. And he does
seem to carry around with him, like a burden of stone, the memory of
that moment in Dallas. 

He's tested again halfway through this movie. He is hanging from the
roof of a tall building, grasping Booth's hand, and he pulls his pistol
and points it at Booth, who asks him if he is really willing to shoot.
If he does, of course, he saves the president from an attempted
assassination by a CIA-trained murderer, but he does so at the cost of
his own life. Booth twits him about the situation as they hold hands in
midair. 

Later Clint even has a short speech, talking to Renee Russo, about his
failure to save the president in Dallas. "If I'd have reacted quickly
enough, I could have taken that shot . . . and that would have been
alright with me." It's underplayed, but his voice chokes slightly, his
eyes water, and his lip trembles. It's one of the few scenes in any of
Clint's films that might properly be called "moving." We know from his
newfound resolve that given another chance he would take the bullet
this time. (The irony is that he doesn't like the current president.
Who could? He gives pompous speeches in Colorado about how they "carved
a nation out of the wilderness." Didn't they do the same thing in Las
Vegas?)

It's often said that a movie is only as good as its villain. It isn't
true, nothing is that simple, but an argument could be made for its
truth value in this case. The reptilian John Malkovitch with his Tartar
eyes is marvelous.

Talk about disillusioned. Okay, he can ham it up a little, sniffing
with disdain even as he plugs two innocent hunters between the eyes,
but he's fascinating on the screen. Renee Russo has little do to. Fred
Thompson, as the chief White House aid, is now back in politics, a
relief for movie-goers. If Clint's acting range is limited, Thompson's
is something less. In every film he's been in, he wears the same solemn
and dissatisfied expression, as if constantly plagued by some form of
volcanic digestive disorder.

The direction by Wolfgang Peterson is as good as it was in "Das Boot,"
which is pretty good. There is a great deal of the usual suspenseful
cross-cutting in the final shootout. And when Clint and Russo fall into
an impassioned embrace in her hotel room and scuttle backwards towards
the bed like two weasels in heat, Peterson playfully shows us their
feet along with a succession of objects dropping to the floor -- not
only the usual garments but handcuffs, guns, beepers, palm pilots, Dick
Tracy wrist watches and other impedimenta. Interrupted, Clint lies back
on the bed and sighs, "Now I have to put all that stuff back on again."

Well written and worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
A great performance by Clint Eastwood and particularly John Malkovich
in my opinion his finest one to date. Malkovich had this one nailed
right down to the floor it's incredible. Eastwood is Agent Mike
Horrigan, an aged and cynical Secret Service Agent who is finishing out
his career busting counterfeiters and chasing down routine assignments.
But one assignment which appears to be run of the mill at first turns
complicated and deadly serious. Horrigan and his new partner Al are
sent to investigate a threat on the President by a "wacko". As fate
would have it Horrigan has stumbled not upon a delusional nut but a
professional lone wolf who has a big bone to pick with the White House.
As Horrigan dives deeper into "Booth's" world he attracts the bad guy's
unwanted attention and unbridled admiration for him. Horrigan was JFK's
top agent and present in Dallas, Texas when he was assassinated and
blames himself for what happened. Now he feels it's up to him to stop
the current Head of State from joining the list of dead Presidents. But
this killer has turned the tables on Horrigan and now he's the hunted
one in a life or death cat and mouse game. Who will win? Who will die?
It's a race against time to save the Pres from a chameleon-like enemy
who can get to anyone. My favorite Secret Service movie and as good a
nail biter as any.
<|_=00=_|>

"In the Line Of Fire" is an expertly crafted thriller that has a fantastic
climax. The film starts building suspense a half hour into the movie and it
doesn't let up until the final scene. Clint Eastwood does exceptional work
as does John Malkovich as the villian, the rest of the cast turns in good
performances as well. Director Wolfgang Peterson knows how to build suspense
and he does it extremely well, he also directed another top notch suspense
thriller "Air Force One."
<|_=00=_|>
Here's another entertaining Clint Eastwood action-suspense film. I am
not a particularly fan of his but I have to hand to him: he knows how
to make entertaining movies. This is one more example. It didn't hurt,
either, to have John Malkovich as his co-star. Now there is an intense
actor! In this story, Malkovich plays an assassin, and he is
fascinating to watch, thanks to his different disguises and the
terrific dialog he was given. He also has a interesting voice.

Rene Russo is fairly low-key (for her), but that's fine and Eastwood
plays the usual loner-cop role, not appreciated by his superiors but
showing them all up in the end. I guess he couldn't stop playing the
"Dirty Harry"-type figures, but he played them well.

There were some negatives this film, however, namely: credibility in
parts as there were a couple of times, had this been real-life, the
killer would have done away with Eastwood. The climatic scene, in
particularly, had too many holes in it. There also were too many abuses
of Lord's name in vain in here.

Overall, however, this is good, escapist fare.
