
I know it's easy to put "Terminator 3" down. Everybody had great
expectations and it was clear that this movie would have lots of
enemies, especially if someone else than Cameron was going to direct.
So, here it is now, T3, and the truth is, it is a good action movie,
just not as good as Terminator 1 & 2.

What I liked best about this movie is that it doesn't include any
martial arts. Since "The Matrix" came out, I often wondered if it would
even be possible to make an action movie without Kung Fu anymore. Also,
Mostow really tried to not only focus on the action but include some
story and character development, too. The problem is, the story is
nowhere near as good as it used to be. The writers mistook character
development for endless whiney monologues by John Connor, supposed
leader of mankind. Where Cameron always found the right balance between
someone explaining what was going on and action scenes, T3 fell into
the trap of slowing down too often.

What's bothering me even more, is that writers really had a lot of
chances to turn „Terminator 3" into an interesting story that picked up
from the end of T2. I hoped that finally we'd get an explanation for
why only one Terminator is sent back at a time, how the time portal
works, how CyberDyne recreated the information on future technology
after it had been destroyed in part 2, etc. Instead writers gave vague
or no hints at all to previous riddles and went away too far from the
original ideas of „Terminator". „No fate but what we make for
ourselves" we were told in parts 1 & 2. Now it has changed to
„Judgement Day is inevitable". Why is that, you may ask yourself and
why would a Terminator know that? It's only one of many things that
don't really make sense. A fact that's even more annoying when you
think about how perfect the series has been so far. Sure, James Cameron
had also made mistakes (John's and Sarah's age, for instance) but the
main story did always make sense.

Mostow obviously was afraid of stepping into Cameron's shoes and be
compared to him, so he decided to put several nods to the previous
movies in sequel no. 2. Nice thought, but T3 is definitely too much of
a „nod" to T1 & T2. It's part parody, part rip-off that has only few
new elements. Again there are two Terminators, one brand new, one
obsolete, we get a spectacular car chase, desert scenes, etc.
Furthermore, we get a funny version of the bar scene at the beginning
and a „funny" cameo by infamous psychiatrist Dr. Silberman. Yes, some
of the jokes are actually quite funny, but really, why would the
Terminator smash the gay glasses? Come on, this is supposed to be a
serious movie! The worst thing about all this repeating old stuff is
that this time there's no suspense whatsoever. It just feels like we've
seen it before and we know exactly what's coming.

One scene that could have brought a cool twist to the movie was the one
where Arnold gets reprogrammed by the T-X. It would have been so cool,
if the T-800 had turned into the bad guy again now. It would have
showed that a machine knows no loyalty. Instead we got the most stupid
scene ever in a „Terminator" movie: John Connor asks the T-800 not to
kill him and the Terminator obeys. Reese said in part 1 „It can't be
bargained with" and now John did just that. Sad. I couldn't believe
what I was seeing. And what's with John Connor? Isn't he the one who
will go on to lead mankind? In T3, he isn't much of a leader to me. Is
it the writers fault or Nick Stahl's, I don't know, but the character
is such a sissy in this movie, it's painful.

About the T-X: why the hell isn't that thing bigger, stronger, faster?
The T-X has no real improvements compared to the T-1000 and it seems to
be really stupid. How else could it lose to the trashy T-800? And why
did it change back to its known form just before it could have killed
Kate Brewster in the disguise of her fiancé. Why would it walk around
with the same face all the time, anyway? (Granted, that's a question
that T2 had already raised and not answered) Although Kristinna Loken
played her part quite well, I think it was a bad decision to have a
woman play the T-X in the first place. How cool is it to watch Big Ol'
Arnold beat up a girl? There are so many more minor mistakes in this
movie it gives me headaches (why was the T-800 already programmed to
not kill innocent people and look for the keys in the car when it was a
different Terminator than the one in part 2? If Arnie is not programmed
to answer John's questions why did he answer when John asked if he was
gonna kill him? Why did the T-X investigate the place where Kate
Brewster works at night? Why didn't the T-X try to reprogram the T-800
from the beginning? Why has the Terminator never used the little atom
bomb chip, he's carrying within, against an enemy?), but I think I
better stop here.

However, I did like the ending a lot as it's the only real improvement
to the whole story and an open door for a sequel. "Terminator 3" is
still the best action movie of this summer and it feels really good to
see Arnie back in action one more (last?) time.
<|_=00=_|>
No matter what people say Terminator 3 was a turkey.The tone was wrong
and bad decisions were made in the casting and character phase of the
film.Sarah Conner is feebly written out of this story and the film
suffers badly for missing her presence.There is also too much self
referential parody,there are times when Arnie is made to look silly
through the use of badly timed and misjudged comedy moments.I partly
blame Jonathan Mostow,he held the reigns on this one and would have had
a big say in how it all played out.I couldn't believe they went as far
to copy the scene in T2 when Arnie gets his leathers in the bar only
this time he gets them from a gay bar and ends up wearing 70's style
plastic Elton John style glitz glasses instead of his iconic
shades.This was embarrassing.Ed Furlong is replaced by the inferior
Nick Stahl and Clare Danes is just filler. The Terminatrix doesn't
really come off although Kristianna Loken tries her best.In all this is
a hugely disappointing experience for people that have followed
Terminator films so far.It has some great standalone action sequences
but as a whole is a lazy retread that indulges parody and comedy far
too much divorcing itself from the serious tone set by the previous two
films.
<|_=00=_|>

Have just returned after a triple show of T1 + T2 + T3. An excellent way in
which to spend a rainy day!

Before the films my three friends and I were looking very much forward to
re-see T1 + T2 on a big screen. As for T3 we didn't expect too much.

While the copies of T1 + T2 were slightly dated, to say the least, both
films were absolutely superb, also despite the fact that the effects in T1
were quite primitive compared to today. Nevertheless, T1 remained our
favorite not the least because of its very stringent and no-nonsense
non-moralistic narrative. T2 was also strong in this aspect, though there
were slightly more plot holes and a little too much sentimentality,
something which unfortunately plagues many American films. Nonetheless T2 is
also great.

Then came T3 ... well, a film taste is very individual. Therefore you, dear
reader, should not be deterred from going to see this film, despite the fact
that my three friends and I all couldn't care less about it.

Why didn't we like it? Well, surprisingly we were all in agreement about the
lack-of-Cameron-touch as one of the worst failings of the film. The new
director does not have the ability to time scenes, events, statement and the
narrative anywhere near the brilliant level of Cameron.

Therefore the new director tries to make up for this deficiency in making
the car chases and the explosions bigger, the new enemy T-X more deadly, and
destruction more extreme. But it all lacks energy, soul and credibility. The
narrative is messy and coincidental, as if the director thinks "now it will
be nice to have this scene from a previous Terminator film included and just
beefed up" or "let's try this - it might be funny". 

This unfortunately lets the actors down, leaving them with empty hulls and
we couldn't care less if they die or live. This, incidentally, is comparable
to the Matrix II and the new Star Wars films. The director believes that he
has a good film if he/she can include some cool effects. Doesn't work,
though! 

Furthermore, the scenes lack anything that might even remotely draw the
audience into the film. While you can feel the anguish of the humans and the
one-mindedness of the robots in the earlier films, this piece of junk left
my friends and I with the feeling of "who cares!" 

The first and second Hellraiser movies were absolutely splendid. However,
what followed should not ever be mentioned anywhere - especially number
three sucked big time and should never bee seen by anybody. Terminator 3 is
not so bad that it shouldn't be seen, though. However, it is highly
advisable that you lower any expectations - and the lower them again. Then
you might enjoy this film. Alternatively wait for the cheap version of the
DVD. 

Finally, if the studio really wants to make a T4, which is highly suggested
in T3, then they better get Cameron back on the job. Otherwise they will
have just another silly action flick, with no real innovation or originality
on their hands, like a gazillion other action flicks from Hollywood -
because this is what they have with T3. So unless they rediscover the
respect they owe to the great old Terminator-films : Who
cares!

<|_=00=_|>

The Terminator is a character idolized by thousands of people around the
world. The imagery - along with unconscious symbols - made this character an
icon for generations.

 Jim Cameron ingenuity (with the help of Bill Wisher) gave us two movies
that complement each other, folding the story in ways ever more interesting
each time you watch them.

 Action packed, fun and original. We helped spread the word on Terminator
mythology.

 How come a movie studio using their rights to use a character build up such
a opportunity-jackpot-halfbaked popcorn movie just to make cash out of
loyalty of this huge fan base?

 I felt betrayed and sad when I saw this (God permits) last installment on
this sequel. What have they done to my robot?

 What did they do with my movie?
<|_=00=_|>
Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines is often criticized by fans as being
not in the same tone as its predecessors. While I agree with that
statement in many ways, I think Jonathan Mostow made an honest effort
to bookend the series.

Storyline: The story is probably one of the things I take issue with
most. It brings up new questions on the nature of time travel within
the Terminator universe, as well as bringing new plot holes (something
the previous films also had). Some of these flubs could've been
corrected with a little research, but I digress.

The story tends to be a retread of Terminator 2, which hurts it a lot.
But Mostow tries to draw attention away from this with some awesome
action sequences. The storyline, in this respect, takes it up a notch
with scenes such as the restroom fight and crane scene.

Acting: I think the acting is one of the best things in this film.
Mostow did an excellent job in casting. Rather than going for actors
known for their work in action films, the director instead used
performers known for their talent in dramatic roles. Nick Stahl and
Claire Danes both portray their characters with depth and humanity.
Stahl does an especially good role in showing the paranoia and
uncertainty of the future.

And, as always, Arnold Schwarzenegger does a great job as the
Terminator. His lack of social interaction provides many humorous
moments throughout the film, while also giving him a drill instructor
approach when dealing with the John Connor character.

Lastly, there is Kristanna Loken as the T-X. While not as intimidating
as the T-1000, I didn't expect this to be the case. Robert Patrick
played a character with no face and every face, which can only work
once if at all. That being said, Loken does a decent job in the role,
providing a very cold performance for an equally cold character.

Visual/Special Effects: The visuals of Terminator 3 are pretty good.
The liquid metal effects are still as great as they were in 1991 along
with some of the CG animated endoskeletons in the Future War sequence.

My only qualms with the visuals is that there is a lack of blue tint
that was prevalent in James Cameron's previous films, but this is more
a matter of taste than anything.

Musical Score: Brad Fiedel's dark and mechanical theme is absent from
the film until the credits arrive, which is something that bothered me.
Not only that, but T3's rendition of the theme isn't as powerful as it
is in its predecessors. 

However, Marco Beltrami does manage to increase the tension of scenes
with his score, though little else. This aspect, like the storyline,
could of been improved.

Conclusion: Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines wasn't a necessary
sequel, but a decent one. I don't believe this installment ruined the
series as much as, say, Alien^3. This film will no doubt continue to be
one that either fans love or hate.

I happen to love it.
<|_=00=_|>
Even if there were no Terminator or T2, T3 would be a horridly mediocre
movie. The original Terminator was an exercise in imagination
conquering budget limitations, while T2 showed what could be
accomplished if imagination were wedded to an unlimited budget. T3
shows what a tremendous budget with little imagination gets you - a
terminator whose unique ability is to make her fingers into sharp
points. Whoopee! There are narrative lapses too numerous to mention,
such as our non-tech hero operating an atom smasher. Or a heroine who
doesn't know exactly what her father does for a living traipsing into
the super secret underground & armored military installation where he
works. T3 operates best as a self-administered IQ test: if you thought
this movie was good, you should seriously consider remedial education.
<|_=00=_|>
T3 was actually very good. Put it this way, if we had never been
treated to the classic and innovative T2, I believe a lot more people
would have been in love with T3. T3 was looking at some serious
obstacles: 1.) following up T2, a monster success 2.) an aging Arnold
Schwarzenegger 3.) making a cohesive story that wouldn't contradict the
former Terminators 4.) making a better terminator than the T-1000.

As I said before, they followed up T2 respectably enough. There were
good fight scenes with the T-800 and the T-X (I particularly like the
fight in the bathroom), and there was an excellent car chase scene near
the beginning. The action was good and plentiful, the effects were
nice, and there was some good humor in the movie as well.

Arnold was still in shape enough and made up enough to be believable.
Of course he wore the leather jacket the entire movie. Not only that,
he was an older Terminator model anyway, so any signs of stiffness or
slow wittedness could easily be blamed on that.

The story flowed well. John Connor (Nick Stahl) was again the focus
except he is now a bit more subdued and scared. In his attempts to stay
out of any electronic systems, he chooses a horrible life of
joblessness, homelessness, and just plain bumming it. He was
complimented by a much smarter, cleaner, and stronger partner, Kate
Brewster (Claire Danes); she was tied into the story rather well. They
stayed true to the Armageddon type story line and even had a bit of
misdirection at the end to make the movie even more interesting.

The T-X model terminator (Kristanna Loken) was nice. Sure, they chose a
beautiful woman for the T-X, but she was not to be trifled with. The
T-X had the same shape shifting abilities as her predecessor (the
T-1000) but she also had abilities to control anything that had a CPU
and she could form her hand into a variety of weapons. Similar to the
T-1000 (Robert Patrick of T2), the T-X (Loken) took the T-800
(Schwarzenegger) to town, but she was a bit more dangerous even than
the T-1000.

T3 was a solid movie for a third installment. Usually by the third
sequel you are begging Hollywood to stop, but I can't say that about
this movie. This movie is good enough to watch more than once.
<|_=00=_|>
Schwarzeneggar is back (he said he would be) as another T-1000 cyborg
sent through time to protect the now grown up John Connor (Nick Stahl),
and his future wife, Kate (Claire Danes), who are being stalked by the
T-X (Kristanna Loken), the latest in murderous machines hellbent on
destroying the human race.

Rise Of The Machines might not be the (near) perfect juggernaut of an
action sequel that was Cameron's Judgement Day, but as far as
edge-of-the-seat, sci-fi fun goes, it's still bloody good! Director
Jonathan Mostow certainly makes the most of his mega-budget, and
delivers plenty of jaw-dropping mayhem along with loads of impressive
special effects. And Schwarzenneggar does what he does best: blowing
things up, shooting huge weapons, and delivering cheesy one-liners.

The (mostly) smart script follows on nicely from The Terminator and T2,
further developing the character of John Connor, neatly explaining away
the absence of Linda Hamilton in a not-too-disappointing way, and
brilliantly bringing the whole affair to a satisfying, and not
altogether happy, conclusion. There is blistering action (a set piece
involving a massive crane causing untold damage to umpteen cars and
buildings is absolutely incredible), some nice touches of humour, and a
bit of quite gruesome violence (for a DVD that is rated 12!).

Sure, T3 isn't quite as good as its predecessors, but how many films
are? Both the original The Terminator and T2 are extremely tough acts
to follow. I think Rise Of The Machines does a pretty good job and
deserves a lot more praise than it gets.
<|_=00=_|>

*Spoilers Ahead*

For T3, I wanted a serious movie with dark tones(afterall it is the
supposed
Rise of the Machines) that had a message of deep meaning like the previous
2
movies and that would develop each character, their inner thoughts, and
expand the storyline while being faithful to the Terminator universe. I
wanted to see the Skynet A.I. being developed, i wanted more hints at the
establishment of Skynet and the machines. I wanted a movie with dazzling
chase scenes. I wanted an established and well executed plot. I wanted a
moving T3 score on par with the previous 2 Terminator movies. I wanted an
Arnold that was "the Terminator". In all i just wanted a decent film
faithful enough to be able to call itself a "Terminator"
movie.

But what did we get instead? A bizarre comedy which made fun of the
Terminator and destroyed everything Terminator previously stood for. A
movie
which had no serious tones and that preferred comedy and weak action
scenes
directed in a careless manner. So much for T3 being a "REAL" Terminator
movie. The crane truck sequence was ok, but every chase scene in T2 s***s
all over it. Was that the only chase sequence in T3? Well no if you
include
that p***weak hearse chase. So much for upholding the strong element of
chase scenes the previous 2 Terminator movies were renowned
for.

What about the T-X? Given a secondary mission as well as a primary one?
How
stupid - there should only be one mission - to kill John Connor. Any
secondary objective just takes away any impact of the primary one. What
about her one liners, array of cheesy weapons, and crappy abilities?
Again -
more stupid decisions. I didnt once feel that the T-X was a threat to
John,
nor did i feel that it had the screen presence likened to that of the
T-1000.

What about Arnold? Now a T-850 he has a basic knowledge of psyhcology, the
ability to change power cells, and a great sense of humour. He should be
called the T-850 wise cracking breakdancing disco cyborg. Not once did i
take Arnold seriously, and cringed everytime he said anything.

As for Claire Danes and Nick Stahl - i thought they were ok - but
ultimately
the story didnt allow to develop their characters or give them any scenes
of
deep meaning or of a serious tone.

What about the futurewar sequence? What a joke - we get about 1 minute of
CGI endoskeletons - and an older John Connor parading victory in front of
an
American flag. Where the hell are Stan's menacing T-800's? Where the hell
is
the "future war"? All i see is a rushed scene.

And the supposed "Rise of the Machines?" We get about 3 minutes explaining
that there is problems with Skynet, a virus, and a little hint of the
creation of a machine army. Woah! Don't go overboard on story Director
Jonathon Mostow! I would have been much better to see the plot more
fleshed
out and explained properly rather than told in a poorly rushed
manner.

Was the movie fun? If your looking for a paper thin movie with lots of
comedy and crap action scenes you'll probably like T3. But ultimately T3
came off as a stupid popcorn comedy flick devoid of any serious tones or
intelligence, filled with undeveloped characters, poorly directed and
lacking action scenes, a non-existent score by hack composer Marco
Beltrami,
and an unfilling and rushed storyline. T3 felt as if the movie had at
least
20 to 30 minutes cut from it, so it wont surprise me if we see a "hack
directors cut" T3 DVD. Painfully obvious is the absence of James Cameron,
Brad Fiedel, and true Terminator Arnold Schwarzenegger.

T3 is the Alien 3 of the Terminator saga, but at least Alien 3 went with
more of a serious tone instead of making the Dog Alien a wisecracking
breakdancing disco Alien. Comparitively with Alien 3, T3 will probably
garner the same reaction from hardcore Terminator fans - treating it with
a
ghostlike non-existence. Because that is what this movie truly
deserves.

<|_=00=_|>

Poor writing and poor directing plagued this film.  The characters simply
weren't who they were supposed to be.

John Connor (Nick Stahl) who was trained in weapons and warfare from
childhood by his mother dealt unflinchingly with the threat of the T-1000
as
a 13 year old boy now appears to be a scared and confused drifter who
freezes under pressure and exudes none of the confidence or ingenuity he
did
a decade ago.

The T-X (Kristanna Loken) is cartoony.  In place of ruthless efficiency
for
which the terminators are known she kills sadistically.  Rather then
relentlessly pursuing her enemy she seems to saunter and pose in what I
can
only assume is an attempt to build suspense.   And in the end, she simply
isn't that frightening of a villain.

Arnold was the biggest disappointment if only because he played the role
with far too much of a human feel.  He has emotional conversations with
John
Connor, appears angry and surprised at times, and has a number of
one-liners
during action sequences that require far more wit than a machine with no
emotion should be capable of.

The sound was absurd.  When the terminator or the T-X was hit with
something
heavy we were greeted by a cartoony "boink" rather than something
realistic.
The soundtrack also lacked all of the attitude and intensity that truly
set
the atmosphere for the first two movies.

*spoilers*

And the continuity errors and unanswered questions ruined any hope of a
story the movie may have had

Terminator 2 tells us that terminators (at least stock terminators) can't
learn.  Arnie clearly does, after learning and reciting the "talk to the
hand" phrase.

Terminator 1 tells us that The Terminators were only sent back to kill
John
as a last ditch effort once the resistance had destroyed the skynet core.
Now, Skynet doesn't have a core at all.

Why would the US government leave a secret, high grade fallout shelter
COMPLETELY unguarded?

How did John, Kate, and a 6 foot tall terminator in black leather make it
to
the command center of a busy high tech military research facility without
authorization and while carrying loaded weapons?  And why isn't anyone
surprised to see them there until shooting starts?

While the T-X can control machines, how can she remotely move the gear
shift
of a car from park to drive, an action that requires physical
interaction?

If, as T2 suggests, the concept of skynet was only made possible by the
discovery of the pieces of the destroyed terminator from T1, how was it
possible in T3 after John Connor destroyed all remnants of the terminators
sent back through time?

Unfortunately I could go on and on from here.  From the final product it
appears as though the writers spent less time on the script for this movie
than I did on this review

