

First, let's admit that we're not watching this to learn the medical
characteristics of autism. The purpose of watching the film is for
entertainment.

That said, this film held my attention. I *DID* figure it out shortly before
the end and admit that the clues were there all the way through, some pretty
strong. Personally, I think that's what makes a good mystery, that it *CAN*
be figured out.

Performances: I always enjoy Richard Dreyfuss' work. While he has done
better, he didn't disappoint me. John Lithgow was completely believable as
always. The real star, though, was Ben Faulkner as Tim, the autistic boy.
Ignoring the voice dubbing for the adults (part of the script), he did a
wonderful job in a part that had to be difficult at best. I find it strange
that this is the only acting job he held. Hopefully, it's because he decided
that he wanted to be a kid rather than an actor. Hollywood's
loss.
<|_=00=_|>
This film has received very little recognition and I guess that is why
I never heard of it till I saw it despite the fact that it had quite a
few big stars in it.

Liv Tyler stars in one of earliest film roles in this movie and has
made quite an impression, which is no wonder why she is as famous as
she is now.

Judging by the name I thought that this was a thriller or horror movie,
however I was pleasantly surprised by the plot and the depth of the
story. Autism isn't something that we are all familiar with but like
"Mercury Rising" this film shows the audience what autism can seriously
do to those unfortunate enough to live with it.

A murder mystery and drama this film does start out slow but do not
hesitate because it does eventually become quite intriguing to watch
just how the story unfolds, so if anyone likes a good mystery detective
movie this is the one for you.
<|_=00=_|>

I had many doubts about viewing this film after all the negative reviews
that it was given.  But I was intrigued by the story line and I did not
want
this movie to end.  I found it to be filled with suspense, and it sure
kept
me guessing.  And it was a delight to see newcomer Liv Tyler do a great
job.

I would recommend this film, but then everyone is entitled to their
opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
This genteel retelling and moving film starts with a double murder of a
parents , being witnessed by autistic little boy son, named Tim
Warden(Faulkner), he's overprotected by adolescent sister Sylvie(Liv
Tyler). Retired therapist Jake(Richard Dreyfuss), married to good
spouse(Linda Cameron), is reluctant to get involved, but he's deemed
guilty because a little autistic in his care committed suicide, though
he was acquitted . But when rival Dr. Harlinger(John Lighgow) is called
instead, Jakes takes the little boy for learning. Traumatized Tim is a
nine-years-old kid with damage psyche but plenty of extraordinaries
faculties, as he imitates language of people. Jake whose patience and
perseverance finally enable Tim to learn to communicate and resolve the
murders.

The film depicts the unconventional method the psychiatrist used to
help the autistic adjust to the world and shows the relationship that
build between the two courageous starring. The dysfunctional and
breakthrough relation among Tim and Jake carries strong emotional power
and intense, moving experience. Actors interpretation is good, Richard
Dreyfuss as affected and obstinate therapist, J. T. Walsh as sheriff
that investigates the deeds and Liv Tyler and Faulkner in their film
debut. Interesting script with a final full of lurid turns, red
herrings and plot twists by Akiva Goldsman.Sensible and perceptible
musical score by Stewart Copeland. Luxurious and colorful
cinematography by cameraman Peter James.

The motion picture is professionally directed by Bruce Beresford. He's
a cool Australian(Braker Morant)director, working in Hollywood and
achieving hits(Double jeopardy,Crimes of the heart,Tender mercies),
winning Academy Award (Driving Miss Daisy) and flops (King David
,Mister Johnson, Silent fall).
<|_=00=_|>
I like mystery tales, and this one is very good. The music is very
accurate with all the scenes, and yes, I feel transported to this inner
boy world. Very Strange Things happen in this movie, but yes, I think
kind of things like this happen in reality, even worst. At least in
Mexico all the time happens wild things with people more than in nature
by itself. The actors plays their roles very well. Since long time ago,
I didn't see Richard Dreyfuss, and was a pleasure for me, to see this
actor again. Linda Hamilton had a very short role, but Liv Tyler is
awesome. Maybe sometimes sounds like illogical, specially when the
witness boy, make all this voices. Looks like unreal, but maybe this
could happen. Anyway, I found this movie, because I'm always looking
for Stewart Copeland music, since many years ago...
<|_=00=_|>
I never thought I'd find a movie about Autism so interesting. At first
it wasn't what I'd expected. Going by the cover I'd imagined it was
going to be very spooky. After about 5 minutes I wanted to turn it off,
but I'm glad I sat through it. The story is about a murder, but starts
out a little slow. Gradually it becomes more dramatic and thought
provoking as it reaches the end. YOU'VE GOT TO WATCH THIS PICTURE
THROUGH TO THE END. It will stay in your mind for a very long time. The
little boy, (Tim) Ben Faulkner is a brilliant actor. I haven't been
able to find him in another movie and I don't understand why.He's
great!!!

At the very least I'd give this movie a 6.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie had it all...a chilling plot...great actors and superb
conclusion...I was on pins and needles throughout the whole movie...I
highly
recommend this movie to anyone who is in for the most captivating movie
ever...I give this movie 5 stars out of 4...
<|_=00=_|>
An autistic boy appears to be the only witness to a murder. Because of
the boy's inability to communicate with others, a child psychiatrist
must work with the child to solve the crime. I presume that the film's
"take" on autism is at least reasonably accurate. But, as a murder
mystery, the film was a disappointment. There just isn't that much to
the story, which contains large amounts of filler. The plot is
contrived. And the film's pace is very slow.

One gets the impression that the real purpose of the film is to
"teach", or tutor, viewers on the subject of autism. I have no problem
with that, except that by using a vulnerable child as a major
character, the film becomes manipulative, in that it uses the child to
invoke a sympathetic response from viewers.

The film's music, costumes, and production design are fine. Ben
Faulkner, as the little boy, does a fine job in a difficult role. Other
actors also give credible performances. But Richard Dreyfuss, as the
psychiatrist, is dreadfully miscast. An older actor with a more refined
persona would have been more believable.

If you have an interest in autism, "Silent Fall" is worth watching. And
the film does have moments of suspense, especially toward the end. But
the film lacks the complexity and depth to be a truly entertaining
whodunit.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie a few years ago, I think when it was a new release on
VHS... rented it with family/friends without knowing ANYTHING about it... I
get scared easily in movies, and this movie absolutely petrified me... I
was
too scared to go to sleep that night, and didn't want to even leave the
room
because I was so frightened.  I can't even remember if it was a decent
movie, but I think that the suspense element must've worked if it freaked
me
out so much.  See it... see if you're less of a wimp than I am... :
)
<|_=00=_|>

This could just about sum up the impression I got from this psychological
mystery-drama. Its was not a very bad movie, but it was far from great.
Anyway, the plot of this movie is that a rich couple has been murder in
their bedroom and the only witness was their autistic son, Tim. Since the
police aren't able to get much out of him, the rely on a retired
psychologist, Jake Rainer (Richard Dreyfuss) who, with some encouragement
from his wife (Linda Hamilton) reluctantly agrees to take on the case. He
also tries to get some help from the boy's eighteen-year old sister
Sylvie(Liv Tyler in her debut film) who has some issues of her own.

  Despite some flaws, Silent Fall had interesting moments. *spoilers ahead*
The key scene of the movie was where Rainer was giving Sylvie a brief, but
memorable, history of autism. He then goes on to explain that autistic
people have to retrace every single step in order to process something they
have seen. Some, in Tim's case, can do near-perfect imitations of things
that they have heard. This part was especially key throughout the movie, but
definitely on the more implausible side. The voice imitations almost added
on a somewhat cartoon-like quality to an otherwise believable thriller. The
scene where he impersonated a P.A. speaker at the fair was especially
hilarious. On the more serious side, we find out some rather disturbing
facts about Sylvie and Tim towards the end of the movie. Throughout the
movie, we also see their characters develop very thoroughly with every
nuance in their mood captured so perfectly (especially Liv Tyler, not bad
for her first time out to bat). I suppose that could help to explain the
somewhat slow pace of the film.

  Another highlight of the film was John Lithgow performance as a doctor who
believes in the use of drugs and straight jackets to keep his patients under
control. All in all, not the best movie I have seen, but not the worst.

