

I remember hearing about this film before its release.  It had caught a
great deal of flack for its use of Arabs and Muslims in particular as
violent extremists.  Even at that time I knew that the protests against
this
film were nothing more than politically correct nonsense, as even then
the
only trans-oceanic terrorists that existed were of the fake-Muslim
variety
that today we hear about every hour.

When I saw the film, I was impressed by the fair nature of the film, in
that
it portrayed the truth:  these extremists exist in the overwhelming
minority
of Muslims, and that it is unwise and unfair to paint them all with the
same
brush.  With a very good script, excellent performances and exciting
action
pieces, I was impressed.

Jump ahead a few years, and we see what we have learned.  This film was
not
just an intelligent story.  It was a warning sign.  It examined things
that
people did not want to talk about.  It examined things that people
thought
it more politically correct to ignore.  It portrayed events realistically
and in fact far less devastating than what was possible.  If there is one
thing that can be learned by examining a film such as this in
retrospective
of recent events, it is that our species chooses to ignore that which it
does not want to accept.

Those who do not learn from their history are doomed to repeat it.
Perhaps
there are other subjects we should stop being so PC about and actually
talk
about instead of worrying about "how it will look."
<|_=00=_|>

This film, made in 1998, is so close to the reality of Sept. 11, 2001 that
it sends chills down your spine.  Although events played out differently, so
many elements in the film are near-mirror reflections of the reality.  The
attacks are carried out by Islamic extremists, whose core network were
trained by the CIA, their attacks were dramatic and centered on New York
City, there was little cooperation between, the FBI, CIA and military, and
Arabs and Arab-Americans were rounded up in large numbers, or were subjected
to harassment and violence.  The images of bodies and debris are no less
shocking than the sight of people jumping to their death from the World
Trade Center.  Torture was employed by US soldiers, in pursuit of
terrorists.  With all of that said, even had the attacks of Sept. 11th not
occurred, this would still be a tremendous film.

Director Ed Zwick and actor Denzell Washington team up once again for a
great one-two punch.  Denzell brings great humanity to his role as an FBI
agent, charged with counter-terrorism operations and investigations.  He is
aided by Tony Shalhoub, who delivers another great performance and some of
the best lines.  Annette Benning displays her talent as a CIA operative at
the heart of the whole crisis.  Roger Deacons adds his wonderful
cinematography, and Bruce Willis turns in a fine performance as an
over-zealous army general.

The film delivers a cautionary tale about extreme reactions to terror and
the loss of freedoms that can result from acting in anger, rather than with
reason and law.  The rounding up of citizens, as depicted in the film, and
the declarations of martial law, are not that far away from the provisions
of the Patriot Act, which violates First Amendment rights, the right to
privacy, and the right to due process.  The film suggests that by giving up
these rights, or stripping them away, we become the very thing that our
enemies claim we are. It suggests that that may be the terrorists true
aim.

This is not a crystal ball prediction of 9/11; but it is a fine thriller. 
The filmmakers did their homework and got quite a bit right.  They also
extrapolated things to an extreme, but not an implausible one.  However,
they delivered an excellent film, and one that should be seen and
studied.
<|_=00=_|>
At first glance, The Siege looks to be a jingoistic, typically heroic
American patriot film. But upon further review, and if you honestly
give this movie a chance and listen to what it has to say, you'll see
that it wants us to listen, it wants us to learn and it wants us to
just look at the possibilities of " what if? ".

This is one of the best movies that I have seen in recent years and
what kind of stumps me is the negative criticism surrounding the film,
not just the complaint of racism ( I'll get into that later ) but about
the film in general. And I have come to a conclusion that not everybody
will agree with and certainly many will dislike.

The positive reviews that have been in the IMDb have been, at least a
great many of them, from people that are nationalities other than
American. And perhaps the reason for that is that we can sit back and
look at the U.S. from afar and it may be easier for us ( as non
Americans ) to understand more clearly what this movie is trying to
say. And it may be easier for us ( whatever nationality we happen to be
) to understand what is wrong with America and why a film like this is
just trying to give one possible reason for the decay of American
society. That is not to say that our own countries don't have problems,
because they do, but we can just see what is wrong with America a
little easier, we are not blinded by our own patriotism. It may be
easier still for perhaps Europeans to appreciate the movie even more
than others because maybe their own countries have been under siege at
one point or another. And maybe the relevance is that much more
prevalent when you have been that close to something.

And what this movie has to say perhaps should not be taken lightly.

Steve Martin's character in " The Grand Canyon " uttered the line "
watch the movies, they have all of life's answers. " Perhaps that has
never been more true than what this film's message is. And I believe
that message is that sooner or later if there is always going to be
that one watch dog, that one Big Brother that is known as the United
States, then something like this may happen. What if....

I truly believe this movie has been unfairly criticized about it's
apparent racist tones. Every time there is a bombing by terrorists that
are Arab in heritage, there is always a scene that follows where the
Arab leagues lend their support and let the FBI know that they want
these criminals brought to justice just as much as anyone does. " They
love this country just as much as we do. " Denzel says in one of his
speeches to the people in charge. Is it really racism when a movie
tries to explore what could happen when one body of government takes
matters in their own hands and breaks international law? To me every
effort was made to show Arabs as normal, family loving, law abiding,
peaceful citizens that they are. A bunch of Arab terrorists does not
mean that all Arabs are fanatics that are bent on destroying America.
That perception is like believing that all we as Canadians do is play
hockey, drink beer and play in the snow.

The movie itself is so well acted and it is so well written that I
really can't understand why Washington did not get a nod for best
actor. He is mesmerizing. And I think his final confrontation with the
general is tense, and brilliant.

Washington plays Hub, a very patriotic, by the book FBI agent that is
personally affected by all the chaos that has ensued in his city, and
he plays him brilliantly. Bening and Shaloub are also wonderful in
their roles and the music in the film is haunting. Willis is a little
weak in the film but that is minor in comparison to the rest of the
movie.

If you haven't seen this film because of what you have heard, give it a
chance, it is well worth it. And try to watch it and listen to what it
has to say. You may be surprised. I'm not sure if something like this
could ever happen to the US, but it is not out of the realm of
possibility.
<|_=00=_|>

I still can't see why this film was 
looked down upon objectively by 
the Arab-Americans living in the USA. 
Granted, this was before all of the 
Sept. 11 bombings, but the way the 
people were depicted in the film was 
objective. You had the extremists, 
capable of destroying building with no 
remorse from life, and you then had 
the other side. The innocents, the legal 
Arabs who love this country as much 
as the next person, blindly being 
lumped into one group without any 
provocation. This film isn't about anti-Arab 
sentiment, its more about paranoia 
and hasty decision making brought 
about by reactionary leadership. Interesting 
and enthralling, this film is better than 
what most people give it credit for.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a very strange film. Strange, because it had so many of its
facts right for 9/11. Right city, right jihadists, right plot.

And the military's answer to the terrorist threats? Go in, plunder,
pillage, torture, abuse and kill the bad guys. Moral? If we stoop to
their level, we are no better than the enemy. The real irony is,
Denzel's character had the CHARACTER to do the right thing. 

Oddly, and presciently, Bruce Willis' general was about to do all the
wrong stuff, and with a little help from Denzel, decided not to resort
to all the things we really have resorted to. This movie is notable for
several reasons, but the uppermost is showing us the future we
shouldn't take, but took anyway. 

The irony is not lost. What is confounding here is how much of this
originally semi-corny movie got right. Washington, Benning, Shaloub,
and Willis, all deliver in a big fashion, with some pertinent warnings.
The road not taken was the moral. How scary that in the long run, when
presented by a much larger threat, we one-upped this movie's punch line
in reality. How much stranger can you get than that? 

This was a fairly realistic portrait of the underworld, the intrigue,
the terrorism, and gave us a scary view of our future. Hopefully, next
time a movie like this one comes along, we might be better served by
taking it more seriously.
<|_=00=_|>
Watching the 1998 THE SIEGE in 2007 and then rolling through all the
reviews of this film from the time of release to the present is a
lesson in the power of the cinema. The obvious initial response was
less about the film as a film than about the manner in which the FBI,
CIA, Military, Terrorists, and public responded to the unimaginable:
shouts of protests about 'glorification of occult terrorists', the
Hollywood idea of the impossible happening, and the criticism of the
fine cast of actors who steeped into roles 'beyond swallowing' are all
here in these reviews.

Now, six years after 9/11 reviewers are taking a different view, though
most still find the film pompous and obnoxious. Offensive versus
defensive. And after viewing the movie as a movie it is gratifying to
know that people feel strongly and are vocal about the depiction of the
'war against terrorism' we continue to lose. Movies that make people
think and talk are valuable, and in that light the film is more
successful than initially considered.

Yes, there are gaping holes in the script and the plot and the concept,
but as a little thriller it maintains our attention throughout and
offers some fine moments from actors such as Denzel Washington, Annette
Bening, Tony Shalhoub, Bruce Willis, Sami Bouajila, Ahmed Ben Larby,
Aasif Mandvi among others. And then there are the panoramas of New York
City under siege with the Twin Towers standing mightily in the
cityscape... It begs the question: if scriptwriter Lawrence Wright and
director Edward Zwick (Blood Diamond, The Last Samurai, Courage Under
Fire, Glory, Leaving Normal, Legends of the Fall, etc) were thinking
along these lines and finding flaws in our intelligence forces, why
weren't the leaders in Washington, DC in tune with 'absurd
possibilities'? It makes one think - and that is the best thing about
this film. Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>

I seem to remember that this film was looked down upon by the
Arab Americans.  I don't understand that considering the bombing
of the World Trade Center in 1993 and some of the perpetrators
who were eventually apprehended.  My husband and I found The
Siege frighteningly entertaining. Once more Denzel Washington
gave a tour-de-force performance. The rest of the cast was
excellent.  The script was prophetic. The writer understood what
might happen if the war on terror resided in New York City.
Where is Lawrence Wright now?

<|_=00=_|>
Edward Zwick's The Siege is a well made suspense film about the
de-construction of NYC. Not literally, but by arab terorists that set
bombs off all over the City and Denzel Washington (great as always)
plays a FBI agent who is trying to catch the units that are doing this.
Annette Benning is also good as a foreigner who has a link to the
arabs. But soon, this leads up to martial law in NYC, and army man
Bruce Willis (also very good as a stone figured tyrant) begins to get
arabs into concentration camps. This is pretty controversial in and of
itself becauase this seems to be where NYC is headed. Director/writer
Zwick knows that, and makes that knowledge into one hell of a good
thriller.
<|_=00=_|>
What if the events in the news about the Middle East were to happen in
the crowded streets of Brooklyn? Buses being blown by terrorists, or a
bombing at the FBI headquarters, downtown Manhattan, or even a Broadway
theater? No one is spared in this war being waged by terrorists that
have infiltrated the country. In view of how the world has changed in
the post September 11th era, it is not a far fetched idea because it
could happen at any given moment.

"The Siege", directed by Edward Zwick, who also collaborated on the
screen play, in retrospect, can be seen as precautionary warning of how
things could degenerate when a group of Middle Eastern extremists start
setting up a number of deathly attacks on institutions one holds dear.
After all, wasn't the purpose of most of the wars to be fought overseas
in order to keep America safe? 

Anthony Hubbard, the level headed FBI agent in charge of investigating
the terrorists' activities must face deadly enemies. In doing so, he
also has to deal with the bigotry as the press and the government
decide to round up innocent law abiding people whose only fault is to
be of the same race as the few people that are creating panic in the
city with their agenda. Of course, all this came out in a 1998 movie,
which proves to be almost prophetic in heralding the attacks on the
Twin Towers.

"The Siege", in a way, points out to the present Guantanamo. When
hundreds of Arab-Americans are detained, they are sent into holding
places where there is no hope of having justice done. Things go from
bad to worse when Frank Haddad, Hubbard's own partner, learns his own
teen aged son is taken to one of those places. A father's despair is
real since he works trying to preserve law and order, but suddenly he
realizes that bigotry has won the battle.

The other aspect of the story involves a sort of Mata Hari, an American
born in Lebanon, whose loyalties are always questioned. We don't know
whether to believe Elisa Kraft, and yet, she is always at the right
place at the right moment, sometimes fighting Hubbard, who is skeptical
of her methods.

When all hell lets loose, a misguided Army general, William Devereaux,
is made to be in charge of the forces protecting New York City. Martial
Law is declared and the city is living its worse moment until Hubbard
rises to challenge Devereaux and his men.

As thrillers go, "The Siege" is packed with action. Denzel Washington
is perfect as the decent FBI agent in charge. Annette Benning brings an
aura of mystery to her CIA operative, who could be also a double spy.
Tony Shalhoub appears as Hubbard's partner. Bruce Willis is the uptight
Gen. Devereaux.

Edward Zwick directed with his usual style, making this a satisfactory
tale that can well happen, although one can only hope it never does.
Steven Rosemblum's editing works well with the action in the film. The
cinematography of Roger Deakins captures a Brooklyn that is seldom seen
in pictures. The music score by Grame Revill adds to the texture of the
film.
<|_=00=_|>

Warning: Contains minor plot spoilage

 When I first watched the movie a year or so ago, the first thing that
really caught my attention in the beginning of the movie was the first
explosion. There was no ludicrous running from the explosion like you see in
most action movies. Washington's character blinked because of the explosion
flash and then was thrown on his tail by the force of the detonation.
Because he was facing the explosion he received a bloody noise from the air
concussion (before even hitting the ground), and he couldn't hear after the
explosion. They also showed him in  shock right after the explosion.  The
impact of the explosion  on inanimate objects was also more accurate. You
could clearly see the inverse falling off effect of distance from the
explosion.

Glass shattering was shown in slow motion at the same slow mention speed as
the fireball moving in the background. These are details of things that
happen in real life that I haven't seen in any other movie, action or
otherwise. And that was a very small thing about the movie that impressed
me.

 I think the story line is extremely plausible and appropriately complex
(which I thought before 9/11). The analysis of the culture of the terrorists
was very accurate compared to most  movies dealing with the topic. The
terrorists weren't demonized and their motives were examined and explained
in a well balanced way.

 I think Bruce Willis does the movie a disservice, although it is  his
history of action and mediocre characters that hurts the movie, not his
actual acting in the movie. The complexity of his character is interesting.
The movie leaves it up to interpretation whether General Devereaux is really
reluctant to impose martial law on New York, or whether he just tells the
congressional committee what they want to hear in order to get himself in.
Devereaux is definitely the "bad guy" in the movie, but not because he is
portrayed as the nexus of evil, but because his world-view allows him to
rationalize actions that are un-American.

 One of the biggest criticisms that I have seen of the movie is that the end
of the movie is not believable because of the martial law that is imposed on
New York City. But if two or three more significant attacks happen to New
York City, I won't be surprised at all if martial law is declared there.

 I always thought the movie was excellent, but with the events in recent
days, the impact of the movie has definitely ratcheted up a few notches.

