
I wish there were more movies about the different cultures in the UK.
Not just the Anglo, but the Asian and West Indian perspectives. Even
the Southeast Asian view. The Middle Easterners have shown great
strides with movies like "Bend It Like Beckham" and a few others. This
movie got away from me until recently. I saw in the library video
section and decided to check it out. The box is very misleading. They
put a young interracial couple, front and center on the cover when
actually their subplot is very peripheral to the story. I guess the
movie studio figured they'd get a wider audience interested with
younger faces on the cover since the main characters look to be in
their 50s.

George Khan (Om Puri) has left his native Pakistan to live in the UK
with its soveriegnty ties. Though he has a wife back in his homeland
(she is only mentioned, not seen), he marries a white Englishwoman,
Ella (Lynda Bassett). They have 7 kids: 6 boys and 1 girl. Flash
forward to the late 60s (where the movie actually begins) and we see
his kids are truly English in behavior though he stresses that they
must go to Mosque to study and worship. His oldest is to be wed in an
arranged marriage to a woman he hardly knows. He runs out in the middle
of the ceremony in fear, embarrassing his family especially his father
who disowns him. This sets the tone of the movie. His kids are
English-born and want to live like their friends in their working-class
neighborhood but George wants to raise them as traditional Muslims,
despite opposition from his wife, Ella, who only wants the kids to be
happy. She tries to help them avoid run-ins with their father who
despite his cheerfulness is quite an ogre when angered. The kids range
in attitude and indifference toward George's attempts to introduce them
to the traditional ways. 

This is a decent introduction to immigrant life in the UK especially
since it's set during a time when there was political strife over
immigration of non-whites into Britain. Though it's an effective
comedy, it also touches on the frustration immigrants of any culture go
through to hold onto or reject their identity. The only thing marring
this movie is a domestic violence scene that may bother some. Still a
very good movie worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>

`East is East,' something of a modern day version of `Fiddler on the Roof,'
explores the culture clash that occurs in the context of a half
Pakistani/half British family living in early 1970's England.   George Khan
is a Muslim who, upon immigrating to Great Britain in 1937, married a
British woman despite the fact that his first wife still lives in Pakistan. 
Now, twenty five years later, the still happily married couple lives in a
small apartment with their daughter and six sons all of whom have been
raised to honor their father's religion and traditions.  Yet, like Tevye,
George is suddenly confronted with the fact that, as times change and the
world moves on, the younger generation will no longer abide by the archaic
rituals of an ancient age.  In many ways, this is the flip side of `Fiddler'
in that here the reluctant marriage partners are sons and not daughters. 
For indeed, George's ultimate goal in life is to arrange marriages for his
teenaged sons within the accepted tradition of the Muslim faith.  But
culture is often a force that parents try in vain to withstand and these
children, raised in the far more open and liberated society of `mod'
England, are not about to take such dictatorial parental control lying
down.

In the script based on his play, Ayub Khan-Din provides an evenhanded and
comprehensive view of the situation.  George is not presented to us as an
inflexible or unreasonable ogre, yet at the same time, he will, in his
frustration, strike out even physically at the children and the wife who
seem to oppose him.  We sense the fear that runs through him that, if his
sons are allowed to exercise their freedom in this one crucial area, the
family will sever that connection with the past which brings stability to
their lives.  Thus, without any traditions to anchor them, George dreads
that he and the family will be cut adrift in a seemingly rudderless world
that suddenly seems in the 1970's to be in such great and terrifying moral
flux.  Moreover, we are left to ponder the strange contradiction between
George's own words and the choices he himself has made.  After all, his
opting to marry a British woman who does not share the tenets of his faith
obviously went beyond the bounds of the very traditions he is now so
dogmatically insisting his sons uphold.  This type of ambiguity within the
characters enhances their credibility, for indeed life and the people we
meet therein come replete with such maddening inconsistencies.

Khan-Din and director Damien O'Donnell establish an effective balance
between low-key humor and occasionally searing drama.  The relationship
between the husband and wife who comprise this interracial marriage is
complexly realized and fully drawn; the obvious difficulties the two have
experienced as a result of the nonconformity of their union has obviously
strengthened their devotion to one another and they appear to greatly enjoy
each other's company.  She has undoubtedly made any number of concessions
and compromises to her husband's belief system, yet she has retained her
British feistiness and knows how far to let George go before she draws the
line, especially when it comes to protecting the rights and happiness of her
own progeny.   In a similar way, we see, in thorough detail, the
complexities that make up the two very different sets of relationships
between the respective parents and their children.  Din and O'Donnell have,
wisely, chosen to limit the scope of their film by downplaying the broader
theme of how a suspicious and prejudiced society deals with so
unconventional a marriage and family.  We see only bits and pieces of this
in the form of bigoted comments uttered by a disapproving neighbor and a
mere mention of a political rally intended to rouse the populace on the
issue of `repatriation.'   Instead, the authors concentrate almost
exclusively on the internecine struggles taking place within this one
family.   This helps to keep the scale of the film life-sized, thus
enhancing our identification with the characters and their universal
parent/child conflicts.  For, in a way, the Khan family is really not
undergoing any crisis not already familiar to countless families the world
over, as parents cope with children eager to cut the filial chords and
establish life on their own terms and as children, likewise, deal with
parents who want to determine the course those lives will take.  The Khans
just happen to provide a more heightened and intensified view of this
subject.

`East is East' is a small movie but an absorbing one.  Thanks to uniformly
excellent performances from a gifted cast and a careful modulation between
humor and drama, the film emerges as a compelling and insightful glimpse
into a life that is, as for all of us, so full of both terrifying and
wonderful complexity.

  


<|_=00=_|>

Engaging, well-made comedy based on the play by Ayub Khan-Din concerning the
misfortunes of an Anglo-Pakistani family verging
on the brink of change in early 1970s Salford. 
Traditional dad Om Puri is shocked when his oldest son (Ian Aspinall) runs
away from
an arranged wedding, and decides that from now on his family will be more
respectful. Among his plans are the weddings of two of
his
other sons, both of whom are far from delighted with the idea. Khan-Din's
fine script never resorts to cliche resulting in a funny,
study
of the clash between the old and the new.

Linda Bassett as superb as Puri's second wife, an English woman who
straddles both camps between her husband's traditionalism
and
her kids' sense of rebellion while nonetheless attempting to keep her own
dignity.

Fine performances from Chris Bisson and Jimmi Harkishin (Coronation Street)
and Jimi Mistry (EastEnders) while little Jordan
Routledge is great as the parka-loving Sajid.

However, it's Puri who shines as the complex father, desperately trying to
hang on to tradition and finding nothing but rebellion
from
his family.

The ending could easily have been a familiar family seeks revenge on their
overbearing father but what results is a refreshing change
to
the many TV movies that usually opt for an easy solution to a difficult
problem. 
<|_=00=_|>
"East is East"- another boring film we have to watch in our English
lesson. These were my first thoughts when I heard that this film will
be the next topic our English class has to deal with. But that is
absolutely not the case! This film is a great enrichment for the viewer
and it is no boring stuff at all.

Ayub Khan-Din wrote a fantastic script which is perfectly put into
action by Damien O'Donnell. The cast members did a good job by giving
their characters influences to link them into the right direction. For
example Om Puri who played his complex character "George Khan" with
such a conviction and even the youngest cast member Jordan Routledge
who has absolutely not to hide behind his co-cast members in his
performance of „Sajid Khan". Also the setting in the 70's is a big
success so that you get the impression as if you are living within this
time. Mostly I liked the way the writers handled the difficult topic of
the different lifestyles of Pakistani and British people without
speaking in favour for one group. They used a lot of prejudices about
both cultures but they converted it into funny scenes everybody has to
laugh about. So a good balance between comedy and tragedy is created
because of the spontaneous comic relieves. The film gives a good
opportunity for watching it for entertainment but also for talking
seriously about it, like for example the two generations and their
different points of view: On the one hand we can see the young
generation of Sajid who does not care if his friend Earnest is a
Pakistani or not. And also Tariq who does not want to be a devout
Pakistani and likes partying all night even if his father gets angry
about it. But on the other hand, there is the older generation of
immigrants George belongs to which is extremely influenced by their
traditional values and it is hard for them to adapt to the British
society. It seems as if especially George does not learn from his
mistakes: After the failed arranged marriage of eldest son Nazir, he
tries to plan marriages for his sons Tariq and Abdul who are strongly
against it. At the end, left alone from his family, George seems to be
contemplative and Ella goes back to him for reconciliation. But the
viewer does not get to know whether George changes his behaviour or not
but you can still hope it! And that's why "East is East" is such an
intoxicating movie: Everybody can identify with one of the characters
and so you suffer with Ella when she is beaten up by her husband, you
laugh with the siblings when they are teasing each other, you want to
give them good advices and most importantly, you think about what you
would have done in their situation.

So I can really recommend watching this movie because of the good
balance of comical and tragically effects, the great actors and not to
forget, the fantastic story written by a man who collected his first
experiences by creating this script which was such a success.
<|_=00=_|>
Three teenagers are sitting in front of a TV, enjoying their large
helpings of pork sausage and bacon. Suddenly they hear a door opening
and immediately start cleaning up all of the dishes and unsuccessfully
try to get rid of the fumes of grilled bacon and sausages that billowed
through the whole house. This is, of course, not depicting the normal
life of three teenagers, but taken from the film "East Is East" by
Damien O'Donnell. It deals with the story of a family in England in the
1970s with a Pakistani father (multi-facetted enacted by Om Puri) who
still believes in his Pakistani traditions and his Muslim religion and
an English mother (great performance by Linda Bassett) who tries to
give her seven children as much freedom as all of their "fully English"
friends enjoy. This movie was labeled as a Comedy both in theaters and
on DVD or VHS, but anybody looking for light-hearted entertainment
fitting for a Saturday night will be hugely disappointed. This movie is
out to teach the viewer about how difficult it is to get two very
different cultures to not only co-exist peacefully next to each other,
but to merge them to create a new one. The script by Ayub Khan-Din, who
also wrote the book and the stage version of this movie, does have its
funny moments, and the whole cast, including the children, is in for
some good laughs. But the more intense moments are those where the
viewer has to deal with outbursts of domestic violence or things like
arranged marriages that seem so far away and cruel to Westerners. The
cast shows its brilliance in those intimate moments. Even though the
script might sometimes appear to be too ambitious – there are just too
many characters all developing in a very distinct manner and all
crucial to the movie – the movie can be recommended to anyone who is
not looking for a standard comedy and is willing to have his views on
life challenged.
<|_=00=_|>
„East is East" is a refreshing inventive family story. Directly the
first scene where two different religions and also two opposing views
of life (namely the children's and the view of their conservative
father) clash together. With the funny way of telling which is typical
for the whole film, nevertheless the problems are shown in their
graveness. The cast represents every member of this Pakistani family as
an individual but the good relations between the siblings and their
mother is shown as realistic as the problematic relation between them
and their incorrigible father. The viewer gets the impression of a
different culture but he will recognize a lot of aspects of his own
family life, too, what was aimed by the makers who brought in the
personal experiences. All in all, this movie is an evening-filling
enrichment for the viewer.
<|_=00=_|>

Excellent film of interracial family, traditions versus the contemporary and
chartering somewhere in the middle ground. I was somewhat dubious about the
way EAST IS EAST was touted as a comedy, seemingly about horny teenagers and
adolescent rebellion against parental authority. I thought, Oh Lord, the
Americans have a lock on this type of flick, and now the British want in,
too. 
   
Then, I saw Om Puri's name as the lead. I have been a longtime fan of this
amazing actor, and thought, well it's worth a look.

Wow! What a captivating, interesting and at times, humorous film. I found it
unpretentious and unflinching, and marvelously human, which is where the
humor rested. The mingling of cultures, and those becoming an amalgamation
of the two, lead to uproarious clashes sometimes. The wishes, well in this
case, the demands of the draconian father for his children, and the reality
in which they live clearly head for confrontation. The screenplay by Ayub
Khan-Din is a great slice of life; it's certainly wasn't hard to tell that
he might have culled some of the notions included from life experience. It's
not meant to be exacting, as some have criticized. No more so, than Laura
Ingalls Wilder's "LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE" was meant to be a strictly
historical factoid on pioneering life in the early western US. It's meant as
a slice of it, of one persons vision or interpretation.

EAST IS EAST is extraordinary, a marvel to watch, and one that simply gets
better with each viewing. Don't miss this one. Highly recommended.  

<|_=00=_|>

A bitter-sweet comedy with some moments of truly stark drama, this is a
high-class movie.  Yes, there are randy dogs and fat, ugly girls - but the
piece is a class act because it mixes those "laugh-out-loud funny" comic set
pieces with great drama so cleverly.  

Very much a period piece, the movie is set in Salford in 1971 - a telling
time for a part-Pakistani family with Enoch Powell's shadow never too far
away and the break-away of East Pakistan (Bangladesh-to-be)unravelling as
the film goes on.  The poverty of 1971 Salford with the outside toilet,
bedpans and tin bath is excellently portrayed.  And at a more mundane level,
the constant sight of a bright orange space-hopper and its comedic demise is
truly nostalgic, especially to this reviewer whose own space-hopper suffered
a similar fate around 1971.  

Superb acting performances all round - Linda Bassett used to be one of the
better-kept secrets on the UK stage, but now I suppose the secret is out. 
Highly recommended movie.
<|_=00=_|>
"East is East" tried to cover too many issues and genres in the one
film. In the end I don't think the script was strong enough to tie all
this together, and the film suffered because of it. Having said that I
believe it was a strong performance from a talented cast.

In it's favour there were some hilarious scenes throughout the movie,
and an insight into the Pakistani families and communities in England.
Not the typical English stereotypes usually portrayed by Hollywood, nor
the typical London lifestyle so often seen in movies today, which was a
refreshing change.

Oh Yeah, this confirmed how dangerous and damaging religion has the
potential to be. Definitely worth a look.
<|_=00=_|>

East is East is a good example of British comedy drama.  Set in the north of
England in the 1970's it is the story of an mixed race Asian family living
in a mainly white community.  However the film doesn't really tackle the
conflict between the races but rather the conflict within the family itself
- both the clash of the cultures between the white mother and Asian father,
and the children resisting the traditional culture of their
father.

The film rises easily above TV sitcom/drama to be of film standard in every
sense.  The director captures the size of the house and the community well. 
The acting is good - especially Om Puri as the father.  The film builds the
picture of an eastern family mixing with the western culture well - with
comedy scenes used as well as more dramatic scenes used to show
this.

If you enjoy this style of domestic humour, you'll love this (especially the
scenes where the family are all together - check out the youngest who is a
very British indeed and reminds me of Kenny from South Park!).  But don't be
fooled into thinking that this is a crude toilet-humour style comedy (like
the marketing suggests) it is much more than that.
Also if you have a father who wanted his children to be raised a specific
way (not necessarily Asian) then you'll get much of the drama between father
and children.

My only problem with this is that the characters sometimes seem to be
caricatures, and the plotting is sometimes a bit ropey with so many things
to fit in.

Is it realistic of the experience of british Muslims at the time? Probably
not but it's funny, moving and thought-provoking in equal
measure.
