

Low-key thriller/drama about an ex-con seeking revenge on the man that
caused his daughters death. That's the surface of this very interesting and
fascinating movie from director Soederbergh. There's more than meets the
eye, and the patient viewer will be highly rewarded.

This is, in my point of view, a film about all our efforts to review our
own
lives - i.e. trying to make memories of our past fit in with the reality of
today. To try to understand all sides of an event between two people; how
actions we take, and decisions we make, makes a difference in the long run
in our lives.

Wonderfully directed and edited, this movie is really alive, and shines
with
various tricks and treats of pure movie magic. The score is perfect, and
the
acting is great (Stamp in the lead is amazing). The way the film makers
intertwine dialogue and voice over is fascinating, and reminds me of the
films by French movie makers in the sixties (the French "New
Wave").

Obviously not in everyone's taste since this movie is quite demanding in
attention and pace, this is still one of the best films ever from director
Soederbergh. Rating: 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>

The `revenge story' is a pretty overdone plot device, so when a film comes
along that employs this theme and still remains fresh and compelling, it is
safe to say that is a truly good film.  Steven Soderbergh's `The Limey' is
able to do just that.  In `The Limey', Terrence Stamp plays Wilson, a career
criminal who, upon being released from prison in England, finds out that his
estranged daughter has died (or perhaps been murdered) in Los Angeles. 
Wilson's mission is to find out what happened to her, and prescribe his own
brand of justice on the man behind her death.  

Soderbergh's direction in `The Limey' is superb.  While I enjoy and admire
most of his filmography, I was so enamored with his second film, the
barely-seen, highly acclaimed `Kafka' for its originality, its daring style
and intellectual feel, that films like `Oceans Eleven' and `Erin
Brockovich', while quite good, didn't reflect what I felt was to be his true
maverick style.  Seeing `The Limey', made before `Erin Brockovich' and
shortly a couple of years after `Kafka', I was happy to see that he kind of
held on to that spirit (for lack of a better expression) for one more film
before producing more commercial fare.  `The Limey' is told in a very
non-linear style, and not even as clearly delineated as say, `Pulp Fiction'
was; rather it is flashbacks and real-time events expressed by fluttering
scenes and an almost wispy presentation.  Soderbergh also employs scenes
from one of Terrence Stamp's films from the 1960's for some flashbacks, a
thoroughly brilliant and creative tactic.  

Terrence Stamp certainly deserves mention for his performance as Wilson. 
Whether seeing him as General Zod in `Superman II' or as the drag queen
Bernadette in `The Adventures of Priscilla Queen of the Desert' he is a true
badass.  Watching him chase after Peter Fonda in `The Limey' was like
watching a reincarnation of Yul Brunner in `Westworld'; he just never let
up.  Anyone who would get in his way were pretty much toast, but it was all
so coldly done that it was almost clinical – just by the hard and distant
expression on Wilson's face you know that all of these people were
incidental and he wouldn't receive any pleasure until he comes face to face
with his nemesis; and even then, it's possibly more of a duty than a
pleasure.

Check out this film – you won't regret it.  However, if you're expecting a
film with the same kind of commercial tone as say, `Oceans Eleven' you may
be in for a surprise, albeit, in this viewer's opinion, a pleasant
one.

--Shelly

<|_=00=_|>

I always thought the Russian Montage 
Theory was too outdated for modern 
cinema, but Steven Soderbergh had 
other ideas. The Limey had one of the 
more interesting editing styles I have 
ever seen, which is why it probably threw 
so many people in a loop. Its too bad 
we will never see another film like this 
from Soderbergh, considering he's 
probably going to keep making films 
like Oceans 11. Terence Stamp was 
especially good in this film, and Luis 
Guzman provided one of the best screen 
roles by a Mexican-American. What I 
especially enjoyed about this movie wasn't 
just the unique editing style, it was how 
it affected the emotional standpoint 
within the movie. You felt distanced, 
unsure how to look at this film due to 
the range of images passing before 
your eye. One of the more unappreciated 
films of 1999, especially when one looks 
at the amazing body of work which came 
out that year.
<|_=00=_|>

Somewhere between Out of Sight and the hype of the Erin
Brockovich/Traffic
double-punch, Soderbergh made this diamond of a film.  Terence Stamp is
the
gem at the centre of it, his beautiful face, always a cinematic treasure,
a
virtual masterclass in film acting.  How this performance went ignored is
beyond me but maybe that punishment is fitting for the career criminal he
plays.

He is Wilson who after finishing a nine-year sentence "at her Majesty's
leisure" goes to L.A. to discover how his daugher, Jenny, met her end
while
he was in the big house and to avenge her death.  Peter Fonda plays her
former lover, a wicked, soulless record producer who was big in the
sixties
and both actors trade on the ghosts of their cinematic pasts to striking
effect; particularly Stamp, as footage from his 1967 film, Poor Cow
(directed by Ken Loach), is repurposed and edited into the film's
ever-shifting timescape.  (It is a credit to Soderbergh that he would
dare
to use another filmmaker's footage and make it so central to his own,
even
using Loach's footage for his closing  shots.  In Soderbergh's hands it
shows that he is first and foremost a storyteller instead of a shallow
egotist and it plays like a grand, cinematic homage to his
star.)

Soderbergh shuffles time and Wilson's life like a deck of cards yet
always
keeps the story moving forward--the editing by Sarah Flak is a marvel.
It's
a lovely, startling effect; rather than weigh the narrative down with a
number of plodding, onerous details, this style keeps the thing as light
as
a souffle yet full of implications as we imagine the ways and necessities
of
Wilson telling and retelling, hashing over his life, representing and
misrepresenting his actions or inaction.  These are the lies he tells
himself, the truth he can live with.  It's completely engaging and frees
the
viewer to imagine the surrounding details and circumstances however they
like.  He certainly couldn't have done it with anyone but Stamp, who is
solid throughout; his stillness and his beautiful blue, crystalline eyes
like placid pools of water that mask a depth of feeling and a lifetime of
regret.  That we empathise with an ignoble savage like Wilson at all is
purely down to Stamp's controlled, unsentimental performance.  Stamp's
Wilson doesn't make apologies.  Terence Stamp is iconic precisely because
of
the films he chose to make, particularly after Schlesinger's Far From The
Madding Crowd when he could've done anything but went to work with Loach,
Pasolini and Fellini instead.  Like his co-star Fonda, who also spent
many
years in the wilderness, Stamp's performance in The Limey stands as a
long-promised return to form, which he'd been hinting at for
years.

There's great support from Luis Guzman, Lesley Ann Warren (as an L.A.
acting
coach, who suggests in her few short scenes with Stamp a potentially epic
romance), Barry Newman as Fonda's henchman and the startlingly fresh
Amelia Henle
who shows that, yes, there is an art to playing "the girlfriend."
(Joe
Dallesandro is in there somewhere as well in some capacity but is
completely
unrecognisable.)  If the slight bit in the middle lacks the polish of the
beginning and the end (it appears a large subplot about two hitmen
must've
been jettisoned in the editing room), the dialogue still crackles
throughout, with Stamp--as a one-man amalgam of London's east
end--throwing
off Cockney rhyming slang ("China" "plates" thus "mates") and reminding
us
of what made London swing in the '60's.  Very stylish, Soderbergh's
control
of the emotional depth of the story is impressive, as is the acting--as
always in his films.  Deserves a much wider audience.

<|_=00=_|>
I'm sorry, but I'm really not going a comment on this film so much as
comment on some of the other comments I've seen here. People
complaining that they couldn't follow the narration or don't understand
why the main character doesn't enact his revenge, I really don't know
much what to say other than for you it's probably best to just stick
with the Hollywood fluff pics where the male star lead always makes it
in the end with the female star lead and there's plenty of explosions
and bright flashy images to keep you distracted from the fact there's
no plot, no decent dialog, no character growth, and no appreciation of
film making as art. If your point of reference is recalling the
fantastic ground breaking story telling tools of True Lies, well,
you're hopeless.

This was an incredible piece dealing not with revenge or action or any
of the surface issues used to tell the story, but actually about a man
realizing how his decisions in life impacted his daughter. It's about
personal growth. In the end, he, himself, is ultimately the one he's
seeking revenge against. There is a good speech he gives about mid way
through the movie while talking to the DEA agent that clearly explains
why he doesn't kill the Fonda character. You have to know what matters
and when. When he comes to the end and realizes where and when he
stands, ready to kill, it's very clear it's no longer the issue he
needs to deal with, so he moves on.

And one more thing about the way this story is told with the flash
forwarding technique, sometimes you just have to sit back and watch a
film. Not spend most of the movie being confused and dissatisfied over
what you can't pin down and put into linear sense before you've seen
the whole thing, but just sit back and let the director and writer do
their thing and take it in. When they're done with their work, it will
be clear (unless you spend 90 minutes furrowing your brow and resisting
of course...).

I mean, Pulp Fiction is an incredible movie, but did you spend the
whole thing confused and upset over what Pumkin and Honey Bunny were
doing in the opening scene or how it would fit into the film to the
point of not understanding the rest of it? No, you just take the scene
in and move on to the next one, and when you reach the end, it makes
sense.
<|_=00=_|>

Soderbergh is a really odd director. His movies have run the gamut from the
wacky, self indulgent surrealism of 'Schizopolis' to the pandering, sell-out
mediocrity of 'Ellen Brockovich'. He's really hard to get a handle on. 'Out
Of Sight' was stylish with an outstanding cast but left me cold. 'Traffic'
featured a handful of great performances, most notably Benicio Del Toro's,
but was overall simplistic, unconvincing and cliched. For my money his
strongest achievements to date have been  his overlooked noir-ish
'Underneath', and this, his involving revenge drama 'The
Limey'.

Terrence Stamp, a fine actor who has appeared in more than his fair share of
bad movies, really takes this role and runs with it. He radiates dignity and
power as Wilson, the English career criminal out to avenge the death of his
estranged daughter. My only problem with his performance, and the movie as a
whole, is his Cockney accent, which borders on caricature. If you can get
over that hurdle you'll be impressed by the depth of his performance.

Peter Fonda, who has never impressed me much as an actor in the past (not
even his much lauded role in the overrated 'Ulee's Gold'), is also fine as
the sleazy record producer who Wilson suspects of wrongdoing. Stamp and
Fonda obviously relish playing these characters, and their chemistry
together is the cornerstone of the movie. Both actors are supported by an
impressive array of old and new faces - including a surprisingly effective
Lesley Anne Warren (her best since 'Cop'), the always watchable Luis Guzman
('Boogie Nights', 'Carlito's Way', etc.), blasts from the pasts Barry Newman
(cult classic 'Vanishing Point') and Joe Dallessandro (former Warhol
superstar), and future star in the making Nicky Katt ('Strange Days',
'SubUrbia').

Soderbergh cleverly uses footage from Ken Loach's kitchen sink drama 'Poor
Cow' for flashbacks, and plays upon Stamp and Fonda's 60s screen personas,
but the film is no exercise in mere nostalgia. 'The Limey' is a rarity in
Hollywood these days - an intelligent, thoughtful, well crafted and acted
adult movie. I liked it a lot. 
<|_=00=_|>
For modern-day revenge movie, this is unusually low-key and pretty
good. It's nothing super but it sneaks up on you. It might bore you,
but it might not:. It's really hard to say.

If you enjoy a character study by an interesting actor (Terrence Stamp)
you might like this. But, beware, it has its slow moments. What it is,
is simply another revenge tale, so often told but so often fun to
watch. This one is about a British criminal (Stamp) getting out of
jail, finding out that something bad had happened to his daughter in
Los Angeles, and going for the man (Peter Fonda) he feels is
responsible for that.

There is a bit too much flashback in here, so you have to be prepared
to put up with that. Of note, the filmmakers used actual film footage
from a 1967 film of Stamp to show him in his younger days.

What I did really enjoy was Stamp's vocabulary and the interesting
looks on his face. The supporting cast also adds nicely to this story,
particularly Barry Newman, who plays Fonda's bodyguard. There isn't a
lot of action in here but when it does occur, it's pretty intense.
<|_=00=_|>

Spoilers herein.

Soderbergh deserves respect, as much for his failures (`Brokovich,'
`Traffic') as his successes (this, `Sight,' `Videotape'). When he
experiments, it is with simultaneous layers of different kinds involving the
eye, the mind, time, remembrance.

Here he works on small, intimate layers, small visions of the future (and
possible futures), persistent large memories from the past. All is handed
with a shifting perspective -- the camera is nowhere because it is
everywhere -- you are not eavesdropping, the limelight is on you. Unless you
insist on driving, this editing is mind-expanding -- literally -- because he
places you all around simultaneously.

This is such a controlled little film, one wonders why Soderbergh is so
irregular. I believe it is because he crafts his vision to the peculiar
conditions of the narrative. He knows to replicate the last victory would be
impossible (listen up Coppola!) so why try? Move on. He deserves as much
respect, I believe, for the failures as well as solid gems like
this.
<|_=00=_|>

Like its title and leading man (Terrance Stamp), "The Limey"
surprises
by what it is NOT.  Stamp plays an aging hood, a "Limey," who has spent much
of his life in prison.  At first glance, Stamp appears a
"loser,"
who is now throwing what remains of his life away on a
questionable
vendetta against an aging rock producer (Peter Fonda) who may or
may
not be responsible for the death of Stamp's daughter.  However, director
Steven Soderbergh ("Traffic," "Out of Sight," "Erin Brockavich"),skillfully
intercuts scenes of past, present and future, nonsync dialogue, music,
peripheral action and plotting to create an efficient, consistently
surprising and highly effective movie. Just as the film is about to become
routine and predictable, new key characters and plot information is
revealed.  To Soderbergh's credit, this never seems forced or contrived. 
Alas, Soderbergh's style tends to undercut the effectiveness of Leslie's
Warren's role, and the climactic shoot out
is disappointingly pat.  Nevertheless,the payoff is terrific.  Special note
should be made of the performances of Luis Guizman, Barry Newman and,
especially, Nicky Katt ("Boston Public").

Don't let the title fool you, "The Limey" is one terrific movie
and
Soderbergh, for once, deserves all the praise he can get.
<|_=00=_|>

This is no lime! I mean lie! Director Steven Soderbergh's "The Limey" is one
of the most beautifully photographed films I have ever seen. The film stars
Terence Stamp who once again readily delivers a terrific performance. The
film is about an aging ex-con who tries to avenge the killers who murdered
his daughter. Oh blimey! I mean limey! I almost forgot! Peter Fonda executes
a very subtle but assenting performance as the mischievous paranoid record
executive. However, it is Director's Steven Soderbergh direction that makes
this film sweet as lime. Colors reflecting moods, overlapping dialogue
intersecting between different scenes, and character thought-provoking
facial gestures are all Soderbergh traits that are once again perfected to
make every scene work. If you don't believe me, go watch "The Limey" and
then you will now that I am not lying.
**** Good

