
Probably my favourite film of all time. The thing about First Contact
is that it's not just about Star Trek. If you don't like Star Trek but
can live through the first 20 minutes you'll find a gem of a movie
which is as much about the future of humanity & an invention so
wonderful as it is about Yet More Star Trek Plot.

Warp Speed - they've been saying that since Captain Kirk. But how did
it happen? and why might it all not happen, our future could be in
ruins and one flight of one makeshift spacecraft some time after world
war III will make all the difference.

The on-screen relationship between Picard & Lily is totally magic, as
is the relationship between the Enterprise crew members - you get a
sense of team, of family.

First Contact is one film I enjoy watching again & again. The flight of
the Phoenix is one scene I totally love, along with the end scenes.

The only sad thing about the movie is that you come away and deep down
you know there is no Cochrain, no FTL engine around the corner. Well,
not yet!

"I envy you, the world you're going to" "I envy you, taking these first
steps"
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the two best Star Trek movies ever made (the other being
"Wrath of Khan"). Everything about this film is superb.... acting, set
design, special effects, plot, and action. The story progresses at a
breathtaking pace, and from the first 10 minutes when the Enterprise is
locked in a life-and-death struggle with one of the best villains in all of
sci-fi history (the Borg), to a perfect ending; there isn't a wasted or
redundant moment. This is a film that both trekkers and non-trekkers can
enjoy because the film explains enough about the back-story to get non-fans
up to speed, and does it in a way that will keep the fans interest (check
out the excellent opening sequence that introduces Picard's first encounter
with the Borg and explains much of his implacable and obsessive attitude
towards them throughout the film).

In addition to fine performances from the crew (highlighted as always by
Patrick Stewart as Captain Picard), the supporting cast is more than equal
to the task. Its too bad that the crew didn't bring Alfre Woodward back
home
with them........ she's one of the very few actors/actresses in Star Trek
history who have been able to match Patrick Stewart's personality, acting
skills, and histrionics. Also, I thought I detected a touch of romance
between the two that could have been further developed at another
time.

James Cromwell makes a perfect Zefrem Cochrane. It was a humorous touch to
portray him as somewhat of an anti-hero, in contrast to the god-like
reverence with which the characters in the film viewed him from a distance
of 300 years.

The protagonists in the film, the Borg, have never looked more dangerous.
I'm glad that this film returned them to their "roots", unlike their last
few appearances in the television series in which they were becoming a
little too domesticated.

This is a film to savor for any science fiction fan.
9.5/10.0 !
<|_=00=_|>

Star Trek: First Contact represents, at least to me, the pinnacle of the
Star Trek movie franchise.  This film was, in my opinion, -by far- the
best
of the "next generation" outings, and perhaps the finest from the entire
collection of silver-screen Treks.

The Borg, a futuristic race of half-man, half-machine cyborgs from the
other
side of the galaxy, try once again to conquer the Federation, by attacking
it at it's very core, our beloved Earth.  This time, however, the Borg
have
a "plan B" up their sleeve.  After the destruction of their main vessel,
they send a small group of Borg back in time to 2063, a time when Earth is
vulnerable after suffering massive casualties due to World War III.  Once
there they intend to prevent "first contact", an event that dramatically
changes the course of human history, when friendly aliens discover
humankind
has learned how to travel faster-than-light, and make contact with the
inventor of the warp drive, Dr Zefram Cochrane.

Of course the Enterprise crew must once again save humanity from certain
destruction, by "following them back and repairing whatever damage they've
done".  When they reach the 21st century, however, the Borg find
resistance
is not so futile, and begin to take over the crippled Enterprise, deck by
deck.  Directing every move is the evil Borg Queen, played excellently by
Alice Krige.

Patrick Stewart is, as always, fantastic as Captain Jean-Luc Picard.
Stewart's background in the dramatic arts shines as he convincingly
portrays
a somewhat troubled and vengeful Picard, determined to destroy the
insidious
Borg once and for all.

The direction of Jonathan Frakes is flawless considering this film was his
first attempt at directing on the big screen.  In a few scenes I get the
feeling that Frakes was committed to squeezing the absolute best out of
Stewart, and this he did, apparently with ease (earning him the nickname
"Two-Takes Frakes" from production members).

This film has it all.  A well-conceived, intricate and dramatic plot,
excellent acting, fantastic special effects, and real emotion on-screen.
Picard's chilling "the line must be drawn here" monologue to Lily
represents
a scene with such dramatic quality that is rarely seen in science-fiction
films. You can completely suspend disbelief and feel the anger, the pain,
the sheer hunger for revenge in this broken man.  You are there with him,
the future of humanity is on the line, and not for a second will you think
otherwise.

Whether you are a "Trekkie" or not, this is a film you will enjoy, and
while
there are references to previous Trek happenings in the film (such as when
Picard was captured and assimilated by the Borg several years earlier),
non-Trekkie's should definitely be able to follow what's going
on.

All-in-all this is one of my favourite films of all time, and one that I
can
watch over and over and never get tired of.  If you haven't seen it, why
not
grab a copy and check it out?  I give it a well-deserved 9 out of
10.
<|_=00=_|>
Star Trek's successor to Gene Roddenberry, Rick Berman, never allowed
the poor reviews for STAR TREK: GENERATIONS to upset him; he had been
given an 'obligation' to provide a transition film between the original
cast's series, and his own 'Next Generation' films, and 'killing' James
Kirk freed him to focus on the film he REALLY wanted to make, STAR
TREK: FIRST CONTACT. And he created a classic, a film that for many
fans has become the 'definitive' STAR TREK movie.

From the opening scenes, which re-introduce the 'Next Generation's'
greatest villains, the Borg, finally achieving their long-time goal of
attacking Earth, and literally tearing Starfleet to shreds, as Picard
and the Enterprise are ordered to stand down (Picard had been
'assimilated' once by the cyborgs, and the success of his
'deprogramming' was in question), there was an intensity that 'Trek'
films hadn't shown since THE WRATH OF KHAN. When Picard decides to
disobey orders and go 'in Harm's Way', you nearly want to cheer!
Turning the battle around, the Enterprise sees victory at hand...until
they discover that the 'core' of the Borg mother ship has plunged into
Earth's atmosphere, and gone back in time. As the crew glimpses a
'changed' Earth, with humanity totally assimilated by the Borg, they
plunge after the mother ship, to prevent history from being rewritten.

Quite an opening scene!

The film breaks into two stories, each entertaining. In an era two
hundred years earlier, with Earth reeling from internal wars that have
devastated much of the planet, Picard realizes that the Borg is
attempting to prevent warp drive creator Dr. Zefram Cochrane from ever
completing his prototype spaceship, thus denying the galaxy to the
human race, and leaving them defenseless against the Borg. As First
Officer Riker and most of the series' regulars protect the feisty
engineer (first introduced in the original 'Trek' TV series by hunky
Glenn Corbett; in FIRST CONTACT, the role is played by James Cromwell,
hawk-nosed, antisocial, and hooked on ancient Rock n' Roll music), Data
and Picard must deal with the growing Borg infiltration and
assimilation of the Enterprise, and the imperious Borg Queen (lovely
Alice Krige), who seduces Data with a chance to become 'human'.

Jonathan Frakes proves an excellent director, balancing the action,
comic, and dramatic elements with sensitivity and skill. While most of
the series' regulars have little to do (a problem that would never be
resolved in the 'Next Generation' films), Frakes still manages to give
each a bit of on-screen time to at least remind fans that they are
present, and he even manages to provide a brief but funny cameo by
semi-regular fan favorite Dwight Schultz, as the terminally shy Lt.
Reggie Barclay.

FIRST CONTACT has so many memorable moments that it is nearly
impossible to pick a single favorite one out. Cochrane's use of
Steppenwolf's 'Magic Carpet Ride' as launch music for his guided
missile/spaceship...Alfre Woodard's Lily Sloane, hiding in terror from
the Borg, but still able to lecture Picard on doing the 'right
thing'...'Star Trek: Voyager' regular Robert Picardo in a cameo as his
medical hologram character, at a key moment...Data delivering the
famous Borg 'tag line'...the Vulcan science party (led, although
unmentioned, by Sarek, Spock's father), bemused at meeting the 'new
kids on the block' for the first time...this movie has it all!

There is only one major continuity error; the Borg, as cyborgs, depend
on their human 'host' bodies to survive (a key factor in the film's
climax), yet in one whole sequence they operate in the vacuum of space
WITHOUT spacesuits! I cringe each time I see the scene, but I STILL
love the movie!

One other key element of the film cannot be praised enough; Jerry
Goldsmith's score is one of his finest, combining the best elements of
the STAR TREK: THE MOTION PICTURE theme with a sweeping inspirational
hymn for Cochrane, and eerie, discordant music for the Borg. The score
is so profoundly moving that it could stand alone, as a symphonic work.

Sadly, Berman and company never achieved the same heights with either
of the subsequent 'Trek' films, but at least we have FIRST CONTACT, to
show that a 'Next Generation' feature could be done 'right'.
<|_=00=_|>

Star Trek:First Contact is the best Star Trek film in my opinion. Far better
than the average Star Trek:Generations or any of the films featuring the
original crew.

I won't go into the plot too much because I hate spoiling it for fans and it
is easy sometimes to give away too much. Let's just say that the cast of The
Next Generation take on the inhuman Borg, one of the best race of Star Trek
villains ever.

There are no slow spots in this film. It is one big long action fest and
every character is utilized. There are some terrific scenes and there is
quite a bit of tension between the crew, particularly Worf and Picard.
Picard has some harsh words for Worf at one point in the film and it really
does look as though Worf will hit Picard. You could cut the tension in this
film with a knife.

I'd also like to mention the great job done by the beautiful Alice Krige as
the Borg Queen. Again, there is not a wasted moment in this film and Krige
does a brilliant job as the Borg Queen.

I strongly recommend Star Trek:First Contact-it is the type of film which
you finish watching and feel as though you have spent your money
well.


<|_=00=_|>

Many of the Star Trek Films have relied heavily on character interaction,
dialogue, and suggested events to tell the story.  Star Trek: First Contact
breaks from this tradition by producing a sharp, fast paced action film that
never relents from beginning to end.  There are moments of reflection for
the characters, but the movie has an inertia that makes the other entries in
the franchise seem as if they plod along at five miles an hour.  The result
is one of the most satisfying films in the series.

Part of the appeal of Star Trek: First Contact, is that the central enemy is
the Borg Collective, which has surpassed all other villainous races in the
Star Trek universe in popularity.  The central villain in this chapter is
the Borg Queen, played by the chilly yet seductive Alice Krige. Krige is
confident, convincing, and absolutely threatening in her performance, and
seems to almost border on a character from a horror film.  She lends an edge
that is unique from other villains in the series, and is perfectly suited to
the nature of the Borg.  The design for both the Queen and the rest of the
Borg is unsettling, and the story line and history of this race serves to
illicit an emotional continuity between the events in the television show
and the films.  

Star Trek: First Contact probably has the widest appeal of all of the
episodes, in much the same way as Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home did in 1986.
 It is action packed, filled with decent visual effects,  clearly plotted,
and supplies a threatening villain.  This is definitely the best Next
Generation film to date, and one of the strongest movies in the entire
series.  
<|_=00=_|>
Star Trek VIII: First Contact - Stardate: 50893.5

Finally, after the dismal Generations outing, they got it right with
this one! First Contact indeed is on par with the very best of the Star
Trek films - The Wrath of Khan and The Undiscovered Country.
Unfortunately, they won't get it right again to the present day (with
the above average but still not as good Insurrection and awful
Nemesis). The script is very solid, the acting above par (with kudos
going to Alice Krige as the seductive Borg Queen and Alfre Woodard as
the trusting Lily Sloane), and the score by Jerry Goldsmith again
another hit. All of that combined with visual effects that service the
story and not is the story makes this outing a spectacular success - a
solid 9 out of 10!
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

The jewel in the manure of the TNG library, yes, this is good as TNG
gets and admittedly it is Citizen Kane compared to the rest. If you
enjoy their Matriarchy castrated crew, you will adore the movie.
Evincing the verisimilitude of antimatter powered toilets, I recommend
drinking once the movie begins. Yes, the Borg are back, Starfleet,
after seeing chrome dome weeping like a little schoolgirl with wet
panties, has sent Captain Baldy way out of the action. Do not worry, he
has changed his panties and put on a clean skirt. He is ready for
action, the albino people with really bad skin are attacking earth.
They are trying to stop humans from making any more of these movies;
Zefrem Cochran must be stopped from his warp ship's completion. Baldy,
having been Lucretius, I know, if he were alive he would be suing, I
would too, shows Data how to blow them up but they run away in a flying
turd ball into the past. When they get to earth, the warp ship was
damaged, and Cochran keeps running away from them; I know, he must have
seen their movies. I would have run away too: their films suck. On
earth, we are treated to Troi doing the worst drunk ever depicted on
film and the quest to chase down Cochran and get him to save the future
by making that requisite warp voyage: to show us all how we may be
pathetic, earth bound monkey boys now, but someday we will truly pack
the gear, we be bad, just wait longer, honest. 

The bad news is that metallic turd ball beamed some albino zombies, who
move as fast as the seasons, onto the Enterprise. They begin converting
the ship into some kind of green lighted Disco while turning more and
more of the crew into people with guts. The movie, if you can call it
that, is two stories at once. On earth, the crew is still chasing
Cochran: trying get him to fix the ship and be in one of their movies.
On the ship, the anti green Disco, a.k.a. the battle of the eunuchs is
underway. Baldy puts down his dollies and returns to fight the war.
They decide to go outside, I would too, and they blow up some albinos
and prevent them for calling for reinforcement from Bad Skin Land. The
castrated Whorf goes toe to toe with Heidi and backs down, they will
abandon the ship; hey, disco isn't that bad. Meanwhile, the queen Borg
has sex with Data's skin, I know, don't ask, watch for yourself: CREEP
OUT. Yes, she tries getting the access codes so she can blow them all
to crap: I wish I could have sent them, what's her E mail? Please, I
would push the button; the ultimate act of humanistic sacrifice, I die
but no more Star Trek: fair trade.

She tries to bribe Data with becoming the penultimate of all
lobotomites, becoming a human being, yes, ever visited Auschwitz? Data
acts like he joins her, Baldy, not on his period, saves the day with
the old double switch gag that works on people who love TNG. I hope you
are in to your second six pack by this point. Is this ironing your
pants? I know, they like Star Trek, let them have this: they think it
is Solaris. Suffice to say, if you notice the Borg move: really,
really, really SLOW. They try camera tricks, oh, don't open that door!
He is standing right there: BOO! Outside, on the giant dish, one of
them sneaks up on one of the crew. Come on, my grandma could outrun
them with her walker; even if I gave one some skin creme and a
head-start. This is the essence that all critics, who had IQ's in the
three digits, attacked this putative classic for: the world's slowest
villains, bowel movements move faster. Look, make it realistic have
them trip or fall. I love she doesn't read Melville but she knows the
lessons of Moby Dick without reading it. Hey, why bother reading those
stupid books, I pick them up osmotically from holding the book? He
knows his audience if you know what I mean: flatter them, they have
never even opened a book without people wearing capes. 

Look, it is the best of the library, I grant you that. Forgive me, but
that is analogous to saying Green Eggs And Ham is the best Dr. Seuss
book. Yes, you are right, it is, but it is still retarded. Please, vote
this to the back, I do not want to be up front with you, know what I
mean? 

"It's A Miracle His Brain Can Generate Enough Energy To Keep His Legs
Moving." Lex Luthor
<|_=00=_|>

When the Borg launch an attack on Earth, the Enterprise is sent to the
neutral zone due to the Admiralty's mistrust of Picard's abilities as he
had
been assimilated in the past.  The Enterprise however, disobeys and
returns
to help destroy the Borg ship.  However a smaller ship escapes and travels
back in time, causing the assimilation of Earth in the future.  The
Enterprise follow the ship back in time and have to undo the damage the
ship
did on the surface to an experimental warp drive unit that will led Earth
to
it's first contact with alien life.  Meanwhile, on the Enterprise,
survivors
of the Borg ship begin to assimilate decks within the ship
itself.

The trend of the `even good, odd bad' continues in Star Trek with this
good
entry in the series.  Linking to previous story lines, the film starts
immediately and continues at a good pace.  Where the previous time travel
excursion for the crew was more funny than anything else, this film goes
down a more dramatic route with the main plot not turning out to be on the
ground (as I first thought it would be) but on the ship where the crew
struggle to contain the Borg's advances.  This aspect works well - it is
not
edge of the seat stuff, but it is dramatic and involving.

In contrast the stuff on the surface is more a side issue that is used
well
to contrast with the pace on the Enterprise itself.  There aren't many
laughs but it does have a nice little bit of self mocking humour that
raises
it's head occasionally.  The cast (crew?) all do good work, but it is
Stewart's film and his Borg past help to enrich his character well.
Frakes
does an able enough job as director but as an actor he has little to do,
as
indeed do most of those on the Earth aside from a cameo from Cromwell who
adds humour.  Woodard is OK in her role but not as good as I've seen her
be
in other things.

Overall this is a solid Star Trek film, which although not excelling in
any
one area, has a strong backbone of drama and action aboard the ship that
works well with the lighter stuff on the earth.
<|_=00=_|>
The next generation crew of the Enterprise star in their best movie.
Picard and his crew hitch a ride back in time to save the Galaxy from
being infested with Borg, by saving the drunkard who invented Warp
Drive from being killed by the Borg. This Star Trek movie is nuanced
enough for the 'trekkies' to get into, while still being very
accessible to the rest of the cinema going public. Johnathon Frakes,
for all of his smarmy, cocky demeanor, still I have to admit that he
hits a home-run in this initial outing (now his "Insurection" is a
whole nother story, one for a different day) This film is
action-packed, features good performances, and is just plain fun. All
those aforementioned traits easily puts it among the top echelon of
Trek films.

My Grade: B+ 

DVD Extras: Disc 1) Commentary with director/actor Jonathan Frakes;
Second commentary with writers Brannon Braga and Ronald Moore; Text
Commentary with Michael and Denise Okuda Disc 2) 12 featurettes (Making
'First Contact', The Art Of 'First Contact', "The Story, The Missile
Silo, The Deflector Dish,From 'A' to 'E', Jerry Goldsmith: A Tribute,
The Legacy Of Zefram Cochrane, 'First Contact': The Possibilities,
Unimatrix One, The Queen, and Design Matrix); 3 Scene
Deconstruction;Storyboards, Photo Gallery; Teaser & Theatrical
Trailers; and Trailer for the Borg Invasion Hilton show in Vegas

3 Easter Eggs: In the Main Menu, click on the sun for a list of all the
alternative titles considered; In the Star Trek Universe menu highlight
a circle for an interview with Ethan Philips; In The Borg Collective
menu highlight a circle for an interview with Alex Jaeger
