

Roman Polanski again explores the depths of the human psyche in Bitter Moon,
a magnificent epic tale of obsessive lust and the oh-so-familiar winding
course of a passionate romance gone sour.

Bitter Moon centers around a familiar Polanski theme, that we are capable of
being both torturer and victim, and usually both simultaneously.  For anyone
who doubts the validity of much of the past century of French intellectual
thought, from the likes of Andre Gide, Foucault, and others, see this movie.
 For anyone who has been in a painful twisted relationship, see this movie. 
You will understand it.  Some of it might be hard to stomach but that is the
nature of truly great filmmaking.

A beautifully crafted movie, almost lyrical at times, Bitter moon is set in
contemporary Paris but is told in a series of long complex flashbacks
superbly narrated by Oscar (a terrific Peter Coyote) to Nigel (Hugh Grant as
the usual British prat), both passengers on a  cruise ship to India.  Nigel
and his wife Fiona, played by Kirsten Scott-Thomas, are on a holiday to
enliven a stable but stale marriage.  The couples become embroiled through
the lurid tale of Oscar and Mimi's (Emmanuelle Seigner) love affair. 
Emmanuelle, Polanski's real-life wife, is superb and her incredible
performance takes her from sumptuous beauty to complete wreck, a performance
that deserves far more praise than was received.  The lack of attention to
her performance in this movie is no doubt due to the notoriety in the
puritanical American press of her husband.

As a whole, Bitter Moon may not be Polanski's best film but some periods of
the movie represent his very best work.  Throughout, limits are pushed to
the brink of tastelessness but Polanski masterfully pulls back just in time.
 The direction is complex and highly sophisticated and the movie arouses a
range of emotions from dread to empathy to disgust to hilarity.  The story
line is far too complicated to synopsize appropriately in this review. 
Bitter moon is a great film, one of this reviewer's top 10 for the 1990s. 
Another must see!  A word of caution, however, Bitter Moon is not a good
date movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Every man should watch this film, it is a Polanski masterpiece. The
parts are wonderfully played and the script is menacingly accurate. Why
it didn't get greater exposure at the time or since baffles me,
particularly as two of the principle characters have since become
"famous" , Hugh Grant and Kristan Scott Thomas.

Most men will empathise with the morality or lack of in this confused
relationship between an older man obsessed with his sexual object in
the form of the stunning French actress, and her adoration for him. The
haunting reality is that for so many the lack of depth in a
relationship is frightening once the sexual desire diminishes. An
awesome film 10 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
WOW...

This is without doubt one of the most HUMAN films I have ever seen.

A totally gripping and tragic tale of Fools falling in Love... Only to
fall out of it again... TRAGICALLY...

I'm a man, who is NOT afraid to admit that he cried at the end of this
film... It was THAT moving... And I'm guessing that if you are one that
feels... Or has felt... REAL emotion in your life... Then you'll be
moved by this movie too... Perhaps to tears.

The performances are excellent... Perfectly portraying the
complexities, contradictions and 'perversions'... If one can call it
that... Of the Human heart and spirit.

I seriously felt ashamed to be a man!!! And for once, a movie has made
me really think what it must have been like to be a woman who is
hopelessly in love with a total bast**d!!! I've never seen so many
broken, sad and confused characters in one film before... And the
interplay between them is moving and captivating...

Be warned however... This is a serious movie about love, lust and
obsession. It is VERY dark on the emotional level, and has NO happy
endings... A bit like REAL life perhaps...? So, if you are not yet
emotionally mature and have not yet had your heart broken... Or have
yet to break any hearts yourself (which is where I'm coming from...
Yes, I AM ashamed!!!)... Then I don't think this film is for you...

This film is SO far removed from your usual Hollywood bulls**t, in that
it depicts REAL Human emotions on a non superficial level... So stay
well clear if you're just looking for a movie to chill out to...

You won't chill out to this one... It sucks you in, bleeds you dry and
shatters that age old myth that 'Love Conquers All'...

'Cos take it from me... As this film shows... Love is FAR from
perfect...

It's NOT a great movie... But given its very moving emotional content
and realism on the portrayal of Human Beings...

I give it 9 / 10.
<|_=00=_|>

when i first saw this movie in 1992 i found it shocking by its erotic
scenes
and burn-out love story. i noticed it was a good movie, but that was the
end
of the story.

now i bought it in dvd and saw it for the 2nd time. it's a
masterpiece.

everything blends perfectly in this film: 1990's paris, the colours of the
film (etalonage), the excellent vangelis's music score, the evolution of a
love story, the roles played by the 2 couples...

emmanuelle seigner is great playing the role of a nymph and a sorcerer,
peter coyote is magnificent playing the part of a regular guy who gets
insane, hugh grant becomes a perfect boring middle-class british bourgeois
and kristin scott thomas her discreet wife looking for
action.

one of the best amour-fou stories, along with louis malle's "damage". as
rui
wrote before, a must see.
<|_=00=_|>
Bitter Moon once again sees the master of the macabre, Roman Polanski,
doing what he does best. With echoes of his earlier film 'Knife in the
Water', Bitter Moon is a story of lust, revenge, betrayal, dependency
and most of all; love, wrapped tightly around a coil of taboos and
sexual perversions. While not as good as some of Polanski's other
works, Bitter Moon still stands out as a highlight of his filmography
and is certainly a lot better than many people have reputed it to be.
The film follows two very different couples on a cruise ship; An
English couple, Nigel and Fiona and an American cripple, Oscar, who is
married to the French seductress Mimi. After meeting Mimi in the ship's
bar, Nigel becomes entranced by her and later meets her husband and
proceeds to learn his and wife's story...and it's not exactly pretty.
With this movie, Polanski has obliterated the barriers of decency, and
sometimes even makes you, the viewer, uncomfortable due to the goings
on. And that's the mark of someone that knows how to handle his
audience! 

The acting in the movie really is first rate and there isn't a weak
link there, especially not within the four leads. I'm no fan of Hugh
Grant, in fact I hate the man, but he's exactly the right casting
choice for this movie and it's almost a shame that he went on to make
lots of rubbish movies after it. The two women, played by Kristin Scott
Thomas and Emmanuelle Seigner are well done in terms of the characters
and the acting, but it is Peter Coyote who steals the show as the
abominable Oscar. His character in this film is the sort that actors
can really get their teeth into, and Coyote bites down hard in this
movie. Polanski's direction is excellent as usual and the gritty style
mixed with the great director's edgy camera-work help to create a
claustrophobic environment that allows Polanski to perfectly portray
his characters' mindset. The themes on display are impressive, and in
spite of the fact that it oversteps the mark on several occasions,
Polanski's film always feels real and the lesson in the love that the
film teaches is duly noted. Bitter Moon is a film that will get under
your skin and stay there and not only that but there's enough happening
to ensure that this is always a fun watch. Recommended viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
The British Nigel (Hugh Grant) and his wife Fiona (Kristin Scott
Thomas) are celebrating the seventh anniversary of their marriage in a
cruise to Istanbul and Bombay. While in the trip, the American cripple
and frustrated writer Oscar (Peter Coyote) gets close to Nigel, and
invites him to listen to his unconventional love and hate story with
his French wife Mimi (Emmanuelle Seigner). Oscar tells how he met Mimi
in Paris and all their relationship, including details of their sexual
life, along the past years. Meanwhile, Nigel feels a great attraction
for the sexy and gorgeous Mimi, in a story with tragic consequences.

'Bitter Moon' has been released in Brazil on DVD this week, and
yesterday I watched it for the fifth or sixth time, since it is one of
my favorites movies ever. This story, about relationship, moral,
hypocrisy, behavior, love and hate, fascinates me and shakes my
emotions. I really believe that 'Bitter Moon', Peter Coyote and
Emmanuelle Seigner have been not nominated to the Oscar because of the
problems of Roman Polanski with the American Justice. Emmanuelle
Seigner has her best role and performance in his career playing Mimi,
an adorable French woman, very much in love with Oscar, who poisons and
destroys her. Their love increases, reaches the top and crosses all the
boundaries of a sexual relationship, including those 'accepted by a
moralist and hypocrite society' (represented by Nigel), questioning how
long a love can last, making Oscar bored of Mimi. The problem is that
their relationship was supported by sex only, without friendship and
respect, basic parameters for a long-term everyday life of a married
couple. Hugh Grant is perfect in the role of a typical British man and
symbol of a hypocrite society. And Kristin Scott Thomas has a minor,
but very important part in the plot, playing a sexually repressed woman
due to the behavior of her husband, who released the chains of her
repression. The wonderful music of Vangelis and a soundtrack of nice
songs, which includes a Brazilian pop song, conclude this masterpiece.
My vote is ten.

Title (Brazil): 'Lua de Fel' ('Bitter Moon')
<|_=00=_|>
This film is utterly compelling - it will have you glued to the screen.
It's about 2 hours and 15 minutes long, yet it never loses its grip.
Although there are a few "funny" moments, you can never be sure whether
they were intentional or not. The pacing is slow but wonderfully
methodical. But what really makes this picture delightful is the level
of the acting of the male stars. While the female leads are also
wonderful, the cynical Coyote and, especially, the charmingly shy Grant
(his performance here is underrated) provide two different ways for the
viewer to enter the story and their interplay is offbeat and endlessly
entertaining. This is methodical, first-rate filmmaking by Polanski.
<|_=00=_|>
The film begins with the camera focused on the sea and the waves, and
the music with the piano playing to good effect, then an increasingly
enlarging zooming shot of a porthole. Then to the cruise liner where
the four main characters are based. It is a story narrated and told by
Oscar, played by Peter Coyote, who is wheelchair-bound, to Nigel,
played by Hugh Grant, a man he meets on the cruise. Nigel is intrigued
by an entwining and serpentine tale Oscar tells him, and so are we, and
even though it starts to sound incredulous, he has to return to Oscar's
quarters to hear more. The tale is so engrossing because it concerns
Oscar's beautiful, sultry and seductive wife, Mimi, played
mesmerisingly by Emmanuelle Seigner. Oscar is entranced at first with
her and delves into all kinds of sexual games, then his passion for her
begins to subside and he rejects her and leaves her alone on a plane.
All the while Nigel's wife (Kristin Scott-Thomas) is becoming
disillusioned with Nigel's fascination with Mimi and Oscar. I do not
want to unveil anymore, just to implore you to watch this film and let
it mesmerise you, like it did me. I felt as though I had to keep
watching and somehow I did not want to leave and let go of it until the
end.
<|_=00=_|>

I found this film extremely well done for several reasons I will
nominate.

It debates some moral issues, how far is it acceptable for a society still
full of consevative people, such as the one performed by Hugh Grant, to
acept a relationship such as that of the main characters? It is totally at
the border of normality (meaning normality not necessarily what's good but
what's common). The film also touches strongly the theme of hipocrisie
(probably wrong spelled, this word.) once more in the character of Hugh
Grant who, despite showing all the time disgut and repugnace for the story
he is being told, is always secretly desiring and wanting something
equivalent to happen to him (this hipocratic attitude may be the result of
growing up in a world and a society where this kind of sexual liberties
and
practices are repressed and in here once more we are taken to atrong moral
issues which take us to rethink the whole thing...).

Apart from this questions this film makes me also think about the
relationships between men and women... Is there an everlasting love? or at
least an everlasting relationship?... Suddendly I recalled Schopenhauer
who
claimed that no man could be happy with only one woman... maybe this film
is
showing that he was right... the pace of the relationship between Mimi and
the writer was so high that they just emptied all there possibilities very
soon, but if we put that at the scale of a normal marriage, aren't all the
possibilities also tried at the end of 10 20 or 30 years? Can a marriage
last happy for both till "death tears them apart" ?...

Besides this few topics of discussion (to which I could add some more if I
just remembered them right now) I found this film very well directed with
some beautiful scenes... also some strongs scenes that stay with us...
Excelent performances for the three leading roles... Kristin Scott Thomas
is
also good in here but not so as in other films also because her somewhat
small part in this one didn't allow her to show more than she did. This
film
proves once more Roman Polansky as one of the greatest directors of our
times, since he shows he is totally in control of every detail of
direction
(I enjoyed the increase of the speed together with the increase of
intensity
of the relationship among the couple). Good dialogues but specially
excelent
speeches of the writer whenever he becomes the narrator which is often...
Also an excelent note for the soundtrack by Vangelis and other well known
songs which appear along. A must see.
<|_=00=_|>

Extremely well made, extremely well acted, extremely intense
and disturbing, and extremely conscious of areas of the
sexual psyche that I'd never seen so honestly explored in
a
movie.  According to Polanski, it is not love and hate
which
are opposite, but love and indifference.  Obsessive sex
gives way, at least between the two lovers of Bitter Moon,
to a hatred as savage as cold-blooded murder or all-out war.

These extremities of love and hate work themselves out in
a
game of power and manipulation, and it remains the only
vehicle by which these two can merge with one another so
as
to lose both their independence and the rest of their
inhibitions and illusions.  In the end, they become so
bound
up in their mutual need that the sex itself is no longer
central.  They might as well be prisoners lashed forever
to
the same stake, learning actually to enjoy the various
torments that the other is able to inflict.  Freud thought
similarly that all sexual love was ultimately a form of
masochism--identification with a partner whom one has caused
to suffer.  These questions are essential as long as the
blood continues to throb in us; and, whether or not we
find
Polanski's story credible (I do), any thinking person would
recognize it as a serious attempt to define who we humans
are, both as rutting mammals and as something more.    

