
This movie seems to have gotten a bad rep on IMDb. Less than 5/10??? It
ain't Shakespeare, but it's better than that.

This movie was unpretentious and fun. You could clearly see that
everyone involved in this project was having a good time.

Tank Girl is a campy comic-book splashed up on your screen. The folks
who take it too seriously should lighten up. It was well written (as
camp) and I really enjoyed all of the characters. It's the ultimate "In
your face" movie. The feminist subtext was interesting. I didn't notice
it right off, I was too busy enjoying the ride. But if you look at all
of the characters, it's the women who are strong, and all of the male
characters are either villains or are defective in some way (1/2 human
Rippers).

It was (and is) one of my favourite flicks and I can be very critical
of badly done movies.
<|_=00=_|>
A lot of people tend to dismiss this movie because of it's "comic book"
feel and comic-book (really) transitions.

I enjoyed this movie a LOT, as it has the same "feel" as the original
comic books I remember reading, and the same style of humor. It's very
well done for 1995, the dialogue is well-scripted for the intent of the
movie, and the funny stuff is actually funny. Some of the action scenes
are a bit "campy" - but then again, they're *supposed* to be that way
in this kind of movie. In addition, I thought the acting was excellent,
and that Lori Petty (who played "Kit" in "A League of Our Own) Malcolm
McDowell (practically legendary) and Naomi Watts were excellent choices
for their characters, as were the rest of the supporting cast. Lori
Petty hasn't been in anything "huge" since this movie, which is truly a
pity as she is an excellent and versatile actress. Look for some
interesting supporting actors, including Ice-T, Iggy Pop, and James
Hong.

Listen to the comedic dialogue carefully - most of the punchlines are
funny on several levels, which I found most refreshing, and you'll
encounter a lot of funny double-entendre.

Don't look for a bunch of CGI computer effects in this movie. However,
well-designed and imaginative props and sets give a good feeling of
"authenticity" to the scenes, and the visual and special effects are
excellent.

Don't bother critiquing little details and spurious claptrap like that
with this movie - it sets out to be a comic-book-style fun
action-adventure and accomplishes that goal magnificently. (The
funniest thing is that the plot precept of a mega-corporation in
control of the world's water supply is becoming more and more of a
plausible idea and leads one to think of a possible metaphoric
reference to the world oil situation) This movie might have been rated
"R" at the time for adult situations & violence (and a little nudity),
but I didn't notice a whole lot of "foul language", and I didn't really
see much in the movie that wouldn't be put on broadcast TV today.

This movie has everything - good acting, evil villains, cute heroines,
mutants, cool vehicles, explosions, big sets, a huge supporting cast,
hilarious humor, great stunts, and even a classic musical number with a
full chorus line! ("Let's Do It" by Cole Porter) It even pokes fun at
beat poetry. All-in-all, well worth seeing.

If you like stuff like "The Wizard of Speed and Time", "Flash Gordon",
"Johnny Mnemonic", "Space Truckers", "Ice Pirates", or "Yellowbeard"
then you'll definitely love this movie. Even if you don't, see this
movie anyway - it may change your mind about this genre.

From personal experience: "Chicks dig this flick." 

Get the popcorn & enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the best films ever based on a comic, Tank Girl should not be taken
seriously, but it's enormous fun, and a badly needed send-up of all those
testosterone-pumped action movies. Instead of the usual male buddies, you
have two sassy young woman, while a genetically modified and not very
bright
kangaroo plays the part of the Bond girl. All the leads perform well,
particularly McDowell as the villain, and the script has some great
one-liners, even if the plot is pretty dumb (it's a comic, ok? Get over
it.)
<|_=00=_|>

The main problem I had with this otherwise appealing movie is that Lori
Petty's Tank Girl has exactly the same attitude toward virtually every
incident in the movie... good, bad, otherwise.  And while it's a really
sharp and cool attitude, the movie might have soared if instead of merely
being an attitude it had been a personality.  Then, arising from this Tank
Girl personality, a whole range of interesting emotions could have been
emerged, adding variety and a chance for excitement to build instead of
plateauing in the first few minutes.  Because even in a romp of a pic, you
still need to care about the characters.  And it's a whole bunch easier to
care about a person than it is to care about an attitude.

Still, I had good fun watching this movie.  The "Feeling a little
inadequate?" scene is a minor classic.  And by chance I happened to watch
this movie the same day I saw "Mulholland Dr." and I still have a very
difficult time recognizing that Naomi Watts is the same person in both
films.  She's excellent in both, but so very different.  Ice-T, Jeff Kober,
and Reg E. Cathey do a surprisingly effective job of creating characters
from underneath their Ripper make-up... they're so good that one of the best
parts of Tank Girl is just watching and listening to them.

This isn't a movie to go into with high expectations.  Read all the negative
comments, take them to heart, and then watch the movie anyway.  It will make
Tank Girl a pleasant surprise.
<|_=00=_|>
Movie adaptation of a British comic book. It's 2033--Earth had been hit
by a giant comet 11 years before. It wiped out most of civilization and
(somehow) caused it never to rain again. Water is in very short supply
and evil Kesslee (Malcolm McDowell) is hoarding it all and controlling
it. He's attacked by the Rippers--a gang of mutant man-animals (don't
ask). He also attacks Rebecca (Lori Petty) and destroys most of her
friends. She vows revenge. That's (sort of) the plot.

The original comic book was great. Tons of sex, nudity, violence,
strong aggressive women and a stubborn refusal to take itself
seriously. The movie tries to recreate that--and it succeeds! The
nudity is gone and sex and the violence were toned down but the strong
female characters remain. It all starts out with a great opening song
and cartoon images from the comic book shoved in your face. Then
Rebecca orders her boyfriend Richard (Brian Wimmer) to strip at
gunpoint! Then it starts to get strange... There is a plot but the
story keeps taking detours with STRANGE (but fun) dialogue, a loud
aggressive alternative soundtrack, animated sequences and even a show
stopping song and dance number! This all somehow fits together and the
movie never stops moving. Set designs are incredible--filled to the
brim with pop culture. Director Rachel Talalay deserves credit for
keeping this all together.

The acting is great--McDowell goes over the top (enjoyably), Naomi
Watts is fun as Jet Girl and Petty is just beyond belief as Tank Girl.
Loud, aggressive, snapping off one-liners left and right and a STRONG
female character who never stops fighting. Just great all the way!
United Artists had no idea how to market this picture (it IS difficult)
so it bombed but it acquired a cult following. This isn't for everybody
(a lot of critics hated it) but I loved it. A 10.

Best exchange: Tank Girl asks the madam of a whorehouse to sing. The
madam asks, "What song?" Tank Girl responds, "Let's Do It by Cole
Porter, 1929." The madam: "I HATE that song".
<|_=00=_|>

IF your looking for a movie that is intellectual, smart, sassy and leaves
you thinking you have found the wrong movie.  If you're looking for a
movie
that has its own type of humor, some good laughs, and leaves you thinking
that was one silly movie- you've got it.  Although this may not be a movie
for the average type of person, if you have a sense of humor and adventure
you can admire Tank Girl for the work it is and admire Lori Petty's
performance in the role she was born for.  
<|_=00=_|>

Okay so not all people are comic lovers and neither am I. But this movie is
wonderful fun. So maybe being male I find the girl more entertaining than
necessary but it is still funny. One should not forget that this movie is
based on a comic strip and therefor very simple and (slightly)predictable.
There is no deep story here. It is a movie to watch with friends and enjoy
the music(Bjork, Portishead,  etc) and glib retorts of tank girl herself.
Why the low ratings?? Maybe people just don't appreciate the humour and
subtle jokes. Like the buffalo being a water buffalo! Think about it, it is
very funny in context.
This movie is a must-see cult classic. So maybe not Malcolm Macdowell's
best(that is clockwork orange). Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
the original comic book version of tank girl is a cheerfully
nonsensical riot of sex, violence and awesome fashion. unfortunately,
for some inexplicable reason, the filmmakers have decided that the
film-version of tank girl has to make more sense and be more "deep". so
they gave her an environmental motivation, a shy best friend she can
empower, and a little girl whos mother figure she can be. none of this
works, and it takes away a lot of the charming randomness that made the
original tank girl so awesome. add some pretty bad performances,
unfunny jokes and a boring plot, and you have a seriously awful movie.
and yet and yet... i found myself enjoying it. is it because of my low
expectations? or because of my weakness for ass-kicking female leads?
the funky costume-designs? the high energy level? or was i just won
over by that male strip early in the movie? (every movie should start
with a cute dude getting nekkid!) whatever it was, tank girl is fun
despite its frustratingly low quality - the way barbarella or xena
warrior princess are fun.
<|_=00=_|>
My poor Tank Girl, they ignored everything great about you. Why does it
have as little to do with the comics as possible? I would have loved a
movie that followed the plot, or at least had the characters right.

WHY WAS TANK GIRL American? She's Austrailian, dammit! And she's not
living in a post apocalyptic war zone either, she lives in the outback
with Booga like a savage. She does it because she wants to live that
way, not because she has to because Malcolm Mc Dowell is acting the
git. And why's she looking after those kids? The only children in the
comics end up violently being choked by her, it's terrible that they
made her into a lame mother figure.

And my poor Jet Girl and Sub Girl! In the comics, Jet is a sarcastic
wisecracker and Sub girl is... another sarcastic wisecracker with a
weird sense of humour. In the movie Jet is this mousy little thing and
Sub is this ditzy middle aged hag. And Booga doesn't look or act
anything like what he's meant to be either. Though maybe hot roo/human
love was too much for the USA box office? The humour was so lame too.
Whatever happened to all the stuff about the Smiths and that brilliant
slang they used all the time? What sort of line is "Will this take
long? I don't wanna miss Baywatch."? Even programmes for tiny children
can come up with better material than that.
<|_=00=_|>

When this movie first came out there was a lot of hype and I was keen to
see
it. Unfortunately (at least I believed it was unfortunate at the time), I
never got around to it and so it was consigned to the "I'll get the video
out one day" bucket.

Recently, it was screened on TV so I recorded it. I was excited. I had
waited a 7 years for this. And that is the why I forced myself to sit
through the whole thing despite the signs being bad initially, falling to
awful, then 'oh my god' and somehow still managing to sink further by the
end.

This is the first time I've ever written a review of a movie for IMDB but
was compelled to do so to try to save others from the suffering I endured
as
a result of this movie.

To name but a few of the very worst elements (and I really am skipping a
*lot* of other bad things):
i) Continuous "cool" "attitude" from the "sexy" heroine. Note the usage
quotes to indicate those terms I believe to be woefully misused. By the
end
I really *really* wanted the bad guys to kill her.
ii) Mutants (including Ice-T!!) dressed up as human kangaroos. Suspension
of
disbelief became challenging at this point.
iii) "Humour" on a par with that of David Brent in The Office. For those
who
haven't seen The Office, David Brent is the ultimate exponent of
not-funny-but-thinks-he-is and the point of the program is largely how
cretinous he really is. Actually, Tank girl's writers were possibly
worse.
iv) No, sorry, can't really go on as the flashbacks are too
painful.

Tank Girl has now taken the crown as the worst movie I have ever seen away
from Highlander 2. I really didn't believe it possible, but there you
go.
