
Recipient of the prestigious Palme d'Or award at Cannes, David Lynch's
"Wild at Heart" is an amazingly brilliant spectacle for the senses.
Bold splashes of deep red, curiously staged musical numbers (Nicolas
Cage does his own singing – and he's great!), and the continuous
references to "The Wizard of Oz" help create a surreal and dreamlike
texture to the narrative. The story in brief: Sailor and Lula
(excellent performances from both Nicolas Cage & Laura Dern); two
broken souls passionately in love, flee the vengeful wrath of Lula's
mother Marietta, who for reasons of her own will stop at nothing to
ensure the lovers are kept apart. Diane Ladd practically steals the
show in her brave portrayal of Lula's psychopathic mother Marietta. Gut
wrenchingly violent in places, hopelessly romantic in others; Lynch has
crafted an adult fairy tale worthy of multiple viewings. Recommended to
those who enjoy and appreciate abstract methods of film-making – a
definite 10/10!
<|_=00=_|>
Outrageous! This is another sick-but-fascinating David Lynch film,
maybe his sickest, although I've never seen Eraserhead. 

The most interesting feature of this strange movie, I think, was the
weird characters, one after the other. Make that ultra-weird.....and
the strangest of them all is "Bobby Peru," played by Willem Dafoe. In
all my years of movie watching, I think "Bobby Peru" still has to rank
in the top five of the creepiest characters. He is so outrageously
disgusting and perverted you just have to laugh out loud at him.

In fact, "outrageous" might be the best word to describe this film,
characters and all.

This wild and entertaining film sometimes makes me shake my head in
disgust that I own it, and at other times makes me just laugh out loud
at the absurdity of it. You really have to have a dark sense of humor
to appreciate much of it. I do, to some degree....enough to keep
viewing this.

Nicholas Cage is particularly fun to watch and provides most of the
laughs. Laura Dern is also convincing as a trailer-trash-type. If you
want a clue on why Dern would play such a sleazy role, check out her
real-life mom in this film, Diane Ladd, who plays her mother in the
movie. It looks like Mom passed on her wholesome values.

As with some other Lynch films, the music is outstanding: just a great
soundtrack. I bought the CD to this a year after first seeing the
movie, and I've always enjoyed it. And, another Lynch trait that
certainly is here is the excellent visual style, which is enhanced by
the widescreen DVD.

So, if you are looking for an outrageous two hours and you aren't
easily shocked or offended, this would be a film to consider.
<|_=00=_|>
Wild at Heart begins with an arresting scene of bloody violence by one
of the two lead characters, Sailor Ripley, and this immediately grabs
our attention. After this he hooks up with his lover, Lula, who he
fiercely protects, and goes on a bizarre road trip into the deep south
of the states, while avoiding Lula's mother, played with passion by a
deservedly Oscar-nominated Diane Ladd, who has an obsessive hatred for
Sailor. They meet an assortment of weird people, especially Bobby Peru,
and also Perdita Durango, who has appeared recently in a film with her
name as the title, also written by Barry Gifford. It is classic David
Lynch, with a homage type theme to the Wizard of Oz. It has the
sensuality and eroticism later seen in Lost Highway, the violence and
gore, the head sequence after the bank robbery being graphic, and a
general uneasiness throughout. But it is a darkly humorous and
transfixing piece.
<|_=00=_|>

The most creative and controversial director in cinema is back with a
road-movie! Wild at Heart is one rough roller coaster ride and a typical
Lynch-cocktail of violence, sex and of course…bizarre characters. I
challenge you to find one personality in this film that could be referred to
as a ‘normal human being'. As usually, Lynch introduces a bunch of wicked
individuals in his film who're all messed up in the head pretty bad. Yet, I
feel like Wild at Heart might be Lynch's most accessible film (outside The
Elephant Man and The Straight Story). The structure remains chronological
and quite easy to follow. Unlike the previous Blue Velvet, I feel like the
plot and development of Wild at Heart is a bit inferior to the wonderful
photography. The greatest aspects in the screenplay are in fact the
delicious side-chapters that are told without absolute necessity. Like the
story about Lula's cousin Dell (Crispin Glover), the torture of Harry Dean
Stanton's character and the nasty and disturbing images of a car accident
the protagonists come across. These are the little sequences that truly
prove Lynch's talent as a storyteller. Overall and simply put: this movie is
COOL! It's a joy to watch and you really hate to love some of the offensive
characters. Willem Dafoe takes the cake as Bobby Peru. His portrayal is a
neat follow-up to Blue Velvet's Frank Booth. Peru is a filthy and despicable
pervert with itchy-trigger-fingers! It's a damn shame he hasn't got any more
screen time. Wild at Heart surely isn't the greatest masterpiece out there,
but you should love it for what it is: an absurd and entertaining adventure
with a couple of thought-provoking values and an extraordinary love-lesson.

<|_=00=_|>
This is one of my favorite David Lynch films. It is also one of the
more transparent, easy to understand Lynch films, although that's not
the reason why it's one of my favorites. But that fact also makes Wild
at Heart a good candidate for introducing someone to Lynch.

On the other hand, although it's more transparent and linear on a
surface level, I'm still not sure I've figured out the multilayered,
bizarre subtexts and symbolism that lie deep beneath the surface--even
though I've seen it a few times now. Assuming that there is indeed
something to figure out. To an extent, it seems like maybe the hint of
something "deeper" is in this case more of a red herring. This is one
of Lynch's funnier films, albeit very macabre humor. It contains
references to all of Lynch's most common "content quirks"—including
sequined ingénues singing jazz, manipulative housewife types, shots of
asphalt speeding by, minor characters with freaky speech "impediments",
severed body parts, and on and on--but it's almost as if he's making
fun of himself. Combine that with excellent performances (including a
hilarious bit part for Crispin Glover, one of my favorite
actors/personalities), a sublimely incongruous score, and a retro,
gripping, violent road trip saga cum romance that presages both Oliver
Stone's Natural Born Killers (1994) and just about all of Quentin
Tarantino's career, and you've got quite a film.

Wild at Heart, based on a novel by Barry Gifford, is the tale of Sailor
(Nicolas Cage) and Lula (Laura Dern), a doe-eyed, "classy white trash"
couple. As the film starts--and what a start it is--someone tries to
stab Sailor to death as he's exiting a theater. Sailor will have none
of it, and Lynch begins the film on an exhilarating, brutally violent
note--this is not a film for the faint of heart. To complicate matters
and set up the primary conflict, we learn even before the attempted
stabbing that the hit man was sent by Lula's mother, Marietta Fortune
(Diane Ladd), who claimed that Sailor tried to seduce her in the
bathroom (this isn't quite true, as we learn in detail later).

There isn't a character in the film who isn't involved with some shady
business, either presently or in the past. Sailor and Marietta's
tensions stem from many years ago, when Lula was just a girl (she's
supposedly quite a bit younger than Sailor). The events of the film's
opening result in Sailor being imprisoned. Lula dutifully waits for his
release, much to the consternation of her mom. The basic gist of the
film is disarmingly simple--Sailor and Lula are headed across the
country, with an eventual goal of California, as Marietta tries to
arrange for Sailor to be put away for good. There are many finely
realized subplots and detailed tangents, but that's the crux of the
plot on the surface.

In addition to his typical hyperreal/surreal weirdness, Lynch concocts
a very improbable stew of influences that work together beautifully.
Lula has something of an obsession with The Wizard of Oz (1939). She's
haunted by visions of the wicked witch (including the "evil cackle"),
and she sees the road trip as a veritable journey to the Emerald City.
Lynch works in a lot of subtle references to The Wizard of Oz with
other characters, too. Sailor is something like lounge version of Elvis
reincarnated as a gangster flunky, with even better karate moves to
match. Yet the two are huge heavy metal fans, especially of a band
named "Powermad", whose music exquisitely punctuates many sequences,
including some sublime dance scenes. In the first half, important
scenes are set in New Orleans, with the familiar unsettling undertone
that that locale often has in films--you can just smell the voodoo,
sex, drugs and death bubbling beneath the skin of the city. Later
scenes are set in the desolate, desert prairie country of Texas, which
turns out to be even more unsettling (even though I really find such
places refreshing and relaxing). There are other kinds of symbolic,
stylistic and literal references worked into the film, such as the
constant fire motif, which Lynch shoots beautifully, but the above is
to just give you an idea of the stew.

It all seems like it should add up to some subtextual grand narrative,
and maybe it does, but I haven't quite figured out what it all means
yet. But it doesn't matter. The stylistic flourishes are ingenious
superficially, too, and maybe Lynch _is_ just poking fun at being
Lynch. Here, perhaps more than in any other work, he has found the
perfect balance between the soap-operatic and the utterly bizarre--the
filmic equivalent to author Harry Crews' best work.

Tarantino doesn't tend to have pithy subtexts in his films, either, but
they're no worse the wear for that, and when Wild at Heart takes a turn
into typical Tarantino territory, Lynch is just as captivating, gritty
and groovy, plus he's doing it before Tarantino himself. At the same
time, Lynch manages to maintain a parallel lush, erotic romance between
Sailor and Lula--Dern is incredibly sexy/sensuous here. This material
works as well, and supplies what just may be the message of the film
after all--that love can (eventually) conquer all, even the stuff
that's "wild at heart and weird on top".
<|_=00=_|>
Wild at Heart is probably the most conventional David Lynch film I've
seen. That being said, it still remains very far from mainstream. Wild
at Heart revolved around a young couple, played to perfection by
Nicolas Cage and Laura Dern. Fast paced, mostly ridiculous, and pretty
unrealistic, Wild at Heart is far from perfect, but a very fun film to
watch.

The premise is strange, but intriguing. A young couple is separated
when the guy, an Elvis fanatic named Sailor (Nicolas Cage), goes to
prison for manslaughter after defending himself against a man who
threatened him. When he gets out, he is desperate to get Lula (Laura
Dern), the girl he loves, back again. Lula is more than willing to pick
up the relationship, but if her mother has anything to do with it, she
won't have a chance. Being young and in love, the girl rebels. However,
her mother's desperation leads her to contact a hit-man she is in knows
and the young couple is forced to run away. The two lovebirds head to
California and encounter all sorts of crazy situations along the way.

Arguably the best thing about Wild at Heart is its great cast. Nicolas
Cage is in his prime here and the role is, somewhat, reminiscent of the
"repeat offender" he played in Raising Arizona. Nicolas Cage was great
in his pre-action-hero movies. Laura Dern is equally excellent. I'd
never understood the reason for her popularity in sexy roles. It's
effective here, though, and she embodies sweet yet trashy Lula
wonderfully. Supporting performances by Willem Defoe, Harry Dean
Stanton, and Diane Ladd also provide liveliness that enhances the film.

Although it deals with such serious subjects as murder, incest, and
general family dysfunction, Wild at Heart is anything but serious. The
film is chocked full of amusing moments and over the top clichés. The
best example of this is the presence of a rich, older crime boss with a
penchant for having young – preferably naked – young girls surrounding
him at all times he's present. There are a few moments when the style
gets repetitive and the characters do something worthy of much
eye-rolling. Despite that, this movie is never boring and fairly
unpredictable.

Wild at Heart is a fun adventure to hitch a ride on. It is full of
energy and snappy dialogue. Unlike most Lynch films, it is very linear
and straight forward. The acting is excellent and the characters are
strangely likable. Wild at Heart feels a little long and drags in a few
places toward the end, but this barely hinders the film in its
entirety. This is an amusing film, one that would make a good
introduction to Lynch for those unfamiliar. For the rest of us, it's
simply an enjoyable piece of film-making.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
When Lynch wants to say something he takes his time, no doubt about it.
Sometimes he takes his time even when he doesn't have much to say.
Example?

Isabella Rosselini in torn stocking, shabby wig, and red shoes is
swaying gently to some music when Willem DaFoe crashes in and gives her
a vigorous smooch. That's the beginning and the end of the scene.
Another example? Cage and Laura Dern are having an argument just after
he's let out of the slams. She's nervous and upset because she hasn't
seen him in six years. He looks at her intently and tells her it's a
mistake for them to get back together again. There is about a
twenty-second closeup of Dern's magnificent blue eyes. They don't drip
with tears. They don't even blink. They stare directly into the camera.
Why? Like you, I'd have to guess. (I'd guess that her unblinking,
unteary stare is meant to tell us that she sees things pretty clearly
despite being shaken. That's pretty banal, I know, but my mind is open
to other interpretations.)

I don't mean to sound as if I'm bashing the movie because that's not
what I mean to do. Let's linger a little over a much later scene. It
takes place in the middle of a city street, El Paso I would guess, but
it's one of those industrial-area streets that are deserted on
weekends. It's a wide sun-baked silent street cluttered with
drunken-looking telephone poles and lined with one-story factories and
warehouses, and there is a city skyline way in the distant, cerulean
with urban haze. And Cage is walking alone through this bleak and
ominous landscape. But it's not only the visuals that makes this scene
outstanding. A handful of viperous dudes wearing black fall in behind
Cage's figure and another group of Thugees finally blocks his way in
mid-street. The music comes to an abrupt halt. Nobody says anything.
The atmosphere throbs with threat. Cage sets down his suitcase, takes
the time to deliberately light a cigarette, looks around him, and asks,
"Okay -- what do you faggots want?" What they want is to beat the hell
out of him, and they get their wish. The unconscious Cage has a vision
of The Nice Witch of the West (don't ask) and when he recovers he finds
he's still surrounded by these sadistic brutes who ask him if he's had
enough. He struggles to his feet, gingerly feeling his "broken" rubber
nose, and says, "Yes, I've had enough. Furthermore, I'd like to
apologize for referring to you dudes earlier as homosexuals. You've
taught me a lesson." Then he runs away ecstatically. How many other
movies can boast ten minutes worth of film like that?

Now, I can see where a lot of ten-year-olds (or ten-year-old minds)
might be bored with this film. It's long. There isn't an abundance of
violence, although DaFoe does get his head blown off by twin blasts
from a shotgun. I mean, quite literally, his head is blown completely
off. It bounces off the wall like a football and lands with a loud
splat on the pavement. So maybe there's a little hope for the horror
afficionados after all, but not much, when you get right down to it.

The movie is punctuated with violence and, even more, with oddities,
but mostly it moves languorously. Cage and Dern thrum through the Texas
night in a shiny old convertible whose radio plays nothing but news
like, "A man won his appeal today for dismissal of charges that he ate
his own child." Well -- not that, but equally weird. One relative of
Dern gets his kicks by putting a cockroach directly on his nether
orifice. Willem DaFoe should definitely sue his dental surgeon. He
thrusts his mouth close to Dern's at one point, urging her to say
something filthy to him and he'll let her go, and his mouth is like a
limpet's, his lips a disgusting circle of membrane filled with hideous
teeth.

I wouldn't argue that "Wild at Heart" should be put into a time
capsule, but it's not a movie that's easy to forget. David Lynch may or
may not be a hot commercial property but he's one of the most original
directors working today.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is along my TOP-10 favorites. It's a shocking experience and a
proof of what David Lynch's movies mean to those of us who enjoy shocking
movies. It's a love story told in a different way. Great acting, great music
(from Classic to Speed Metal), erotism, suspense, this film has everything
you could ever want in a good movie. Two thumbs up!
<|_=00=_|>
"Wild at Heart" is one deranged and twisted road trip as only David
Lynch could bring you. It's so dark but at times funny too. Lula (Laura
Dern) and Sailor (Nicholas Cage)are in love, but Lula's mother played
by Laura Dern's real life mother Diane Ladd is evil. She doesn't want
to see them together. Because of a murder, Sailor is finally released
from prison. Lula's mom hires people to kill sailor. So Lula and Sailor
go on a crazy road trip with dark and fellini like characters. William
Defoe is unforgettable as the creepy and perverted Bobby Peru. The film
almost received an X/NC-17 rating. It's easy to see why, it has lots of
disturbing sex and violence. But than again that's a David Lynch
trademark. This film is probably on my list of favorite road trip
movies, next to Godard's "Weekend" (1967), "Thelma & Louise" and
"Natural Born Killers". Both Nicholas Cage and Laura Dern give amazing
performances. Dern's character Lula is the complete opposite of Sandy
in "Blue Velvet", cause she's so wild and sexual. But Lula still has a
naive child like charm. It seems that actor Nicholas Cage was born to
play Sailor, a charming Elvis like ex convict who wants to change his
ways. Also check out Berry Gifford's sequel to Wild at Heart, "Perdita
Durango" (aka. dance with the devil) These films are both Wild at Heart
and weird on Top!
<|_=00=_|>

A real stimulatingly offbeat exhibition from Lynch is the dark and wild
backdrop of a romantically engaged traveling pair: "Sailor" who is on parole
after committing a brutal murder, and "Lula" whose mother demands her to
return from a spoiled trip to Texas with help from a detective. It's a
twisted, artsy journey that is often repulsive and long to boot (and
certainly not for the squeamish!), but fares inventive at a certain degree
and boasts some of the strongest performances ever worked on a Lynch film,
perhaps even in 1990. Cage's concert act and the magically rendered
semi-ending are two classic acclaims put together in this moving cinematic
collage. 

RATING: * * *
