

Steel is one of those films where you constantly have to keep telling
yourself "this is NOT a TV movie". A cheap, outrageously bad superhero
vehicle for the acting... er... talents?... of 7'1 basketball player
Shaquille O'Neal.

Commendably, the film does actually have three clear acts, and Steel's
emergence, though underplayed, doesn't happen for over forty minutes.
In-jokes are a-plenty, as it mentions Batman, Superman, Jerry Maguire ("show
me the money!") and three instances of John Irons (O'Neal) having to net
basketballs. The final time sees a life-threatening toss of a grenade. A
lousy basketball player throughout, Shaq gets to quip "I never make these".
Or would you prefer Richard Roundtree as Uncle Joe, who designs Steel's
hammer for him? "I did the metalwork," he explains, "I especially like the
shaft." Cue lots of double-takes and knowing glances, with Roundtree looking
round, hands in the air, proclaiming "what?"

The special effects are reasonable for tv movie land, but, as this is (pinch
me, I must be imagining it) a real cinema movie, they're quite cheap. Steel
is badly written, contains atrocious dialogue, is poorly acted, shabbily
directed and with an overbearing, repetitive musical score. It is, of
course, tremendously entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a B-movie classic. The special effects are awful and the acting is
worse, but at least it's not boring. As a cinematic experience, it's below
par, but as entertainment it's top notch. It's basically like a B-movie,
unintentionally hysterical version of Superman (which makes sense, since
apparently Steel is based on a DC comic series which was an offshoot of the
Superman Funeral for a friend storyline) , except Steel's only discernible
superpowers are: being tall, having a metal suit that makes him walk slowly,
and uttering unfunny catch phrases that are so bad you have to bust out
laughing. This movie is probably the funniest thing I've seen all year. Of
course, it's not intended to be funny most of the time when it
is.

Watching Shaq "act" is the highlight of the film. I fell out of my chair
laughing every time he said something. Shaq's still a better actor than Hulk
Hogan though, not that that's saying much. They should give Shaq more
movies. Hulk Hogan made a dozen or more, and they were all awful, why not
Shaq?

The special effects look like they were made in the 1980s. Bad miniatures
and Superman-esque laser effects look pretty silly in this day and age. This
adds to the fun factor of the movie though since you'll probably scream
"Dear Lord that laser is the same miniature they used in Godzilla in the
60s!".

The plot to the movie isn't horrible, even though it's pretty thin.
Basically Steel is a superhero with a secret identity out to save the world
from an evil supervillain. Pretty standard superhero fare.

This movie has earned its place in my heart alongside other bad movie
classics like "cool as ice" starring vanilla ice. A must-see for bad movie
buffs. Some folks who like superhero films might like it too since it's
mildly diverting and quick-paced. Those who relish quality cinematic
experiences should avoid.
<|_=00=_|>

Oh man, I don't believe this. Perhaps with the exception of "Barb Wire", I
don't think I have watched anything that comes anywhere near this. When I
come to think of it, "Barb Wire" is actually better than this, because I
could laugh while watching it. This film is so bad it reaches a certain
quality of lousiness only reserved for the very worst of bad ideas. I
mean -
Shaquille O'Niell in a steel suit with a super weapon made from the
contents
of a lost-and-found at the scrap yard? Please!
<|_=00=_|>

I've never seen a movie as bad as this one.  A few come
close,
but none have the power to topple "Steel".  First off, when
are
people going to realize most athletes can't act, ESPECIALLY
Shaq??  The effects are not-so-special, and are in fact quite terrible,
which is ironic because so is the plot, the acting, and generally everything
else in this so-called movie (read : vehicle to make some money off Shaq's
name).  I think the director and producer deliberately wanted to insult the
audience with this tremendous piece of crap. 

<|_=00=_|>

Sure, the acting is bad, the special effects are amaturish, the direction
incompetent, the story sadly changed from the comic book, and the
screenwriting lame, lame, lame, but the casting is interesting in a drug
induced sort of way.  I was hoping that this would be one of those "it's
so
bad, it's funny" movies", but it was just bad.  Please don't watch this
fiasco, it will just steal precious moments from your life you can never
get
back.  I beg of you, your brain cells beg of you, just say no.  Shaquille
O'Neil should be legally barred from acting.  Annabeth  Gish should be
ashamed,  Judd Nelson couldn't possibly sink any lower, and poor Richard
Roundtree, how the mighty have fallen.  I hope the next time I see Shaft,
I
don't remember seeing this waste of time.

<|_=00=_|>
Steel was a character created for DC Comics during the "Death of
Superman" storyline. So naturally, based on the lack of movie since
Superman IV, the makers of this movie could spin that as Superman as
being dead or missing, therefore Steel was created, right? Wrong. It's
has no reference to Christopher Reeve's Man of Steel stories, so it
sucks.

This "comic book" movie stars the Miami Heat's Shaq as John Henry
Irons, a technical/scientific genius (*snicker*) who creates the super
armor just to beat lame bad guy Judd Nelson! In doing this, "Steel"
becomes one big joke. It's 100% obvious how Shaq was miscast, and once
he dons the "armor", looks like he poured glue all over his body and
fell into Fred Sanford's junkyard. Peppered with unnecessary inside
jokes about Shaq's crappy free throwing, this movie has no value to
comic readers or movie lovers. Action scenes had potential, but fell
flat with neither creativity or fun. Bad bad bad. Better casting,
better written story, better special FX and a tie to Superman would
have ensured a blockbuster, but now it's just cannon fodder for comic
book fans.

To see the true Steel in motion, look to the 90s Superman cartoon, he
looks like the character and is voiced by Michael Dorn( ST: TNG).
You'll be happier watching that than this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

James Berardinelli gave this 2/4 stars - more than he gave "Trees Lounge." I
find that hard to believe. This is one of the worst films I have ever seen
in my entire lifetime, and I've seen quite a few.

It's yet another comic-book-adaptation based on a series that was unpopular
to begin with. Shaq does his Attack as Steel, a superhero who runs around
very slow in a heavy metal suit.

Whereas Spidey and Batman, et al, all have their special powers, Steel
really just has a bulletproof metal suit - the "wire shooter" is a rip-off
of the device used by Michael Keaton in "Batman." It attaches itself to a
building and up, up and away he goes! However, the device moves at an
astonishingly slow pace. Why didn't the cops just shoot him instead of
standing there for over thirty seconds (yes, I counted) watching him pulled
up into the air by a thin thread?

No matter. This movie is awful. Not even Richard Roundtree can save
it.

And what's with the wheelchair lady?

Why, Bender, why?
<|_=00=_|>

Shaq is an actor in movie with no plot - nothing more to
add

OMG, this is so sad, its not even funny;
that is why there is a saying that "to each is own"
I guess he know joins the list of other talented actor-athletes like
Dennis
Rodman, Hulk Hogan and Randy Savage - man, I am not even going to attack
the
movie, because its unfair to tackle crippled opponents

worst waste of time and space in universe since Poly Shore

0/10

<|_=00=_|>
I finally forced myself to watch as much of this as I could stand when
the movie appeared on cable. I tried to find something, anything, to
like about this film, but it's simply dreadful.

Why do they insist on putting Shaqille O'Neale in movies? However
imposing and charismatic he may be in person, and no matter how
entertaining he can be in various short TV commercials, he's a dullard
and a lug on film. He's got no range, no gravitas, and he's so odd
looking in the context of a 'normal' film world that he is actually
rather repellent.

I know, I know - Shaq is a celebrity, and celebrity sells.

Some of the problem is that the director and screenwriter paid millions
of dollars to cast a 7 foot 2 inch man in the role of an armored, high
tech superhero, and then they threw the premise away on story elements
and fight scenes that utterly waste the idea's potential.

The DC superhero "Steel" was incredibly powerful, and resourceful: he
could fly via boot jets, he fired big steel spikes from wrist
launchers, he could pick up and throw railroad box cars, his armor
could withstand mortar bursts and artillery fire, and his 'homing'
hammer was the neatest visual gimmick since Captain America's
shield.And he had a deeply resonant spiritual side as well - he was a
man who was brought back from death itself by Superman and destiny, who
took up his armor to fight the good fight in a world that needed heroes
more than ever.

Instead of all this great potential appearing on the screen, we get a
big doofus with a bulletproof suit who runs around on foot and uses his
hammer like a gun.

If I wanted to really frustrate myself, I would imagine the black actor
who played the Commander of Deep Space Nine (Avery Brooks) being cast
in the role of Steel, and the millions of dollars that went into Shaq's
salary being spend on cool SFX and CGI, so that Steel could fight
sprawling high tech battles with the bad guys from under the sea to the
edge of space, with building, bridges and tanks being flattened like
tin foil and and attack helicopters getting knocked out of the sky by
the hammer. And I would give Avery Brooks, who can ACT with a dignity
and potential worthy of James Earl Jones, room to do well all the
things that Shag does so badly: act, emote, express rage and anger and
indignation at the perfidy of the bad guys, and make you feel too his
strife and extremity and pride.

Well, "Steel" killed the franchise, and so we will never know what
could have been.

Shaq, go back to playing basketball (and making amusing commercials);
you do that supremely well. Please stop inflicting movies on us.

1 star added because the idea of a high tech, armored black superhero
who came back from the dead to be a hero was such a great idea. Too bad
they dropped the ball so badly.
<|_=00=_|>
Garbage superhero movie based on the Superman spin-off character,
Steel. One of the all-time bad comic book movies. Shaquille O'Neal is
terrible, delivering lines like he's reading a menu. The armor his
character wears is ludicrous and cheap. His sidekick is a woman in a
wheelchair named Sparky, played by Annabeth Gish. Poor Annabeth tries
but the material she's given is dreadful. Judd Nelson gives a
self-consciously bad performance as the villain Burke. He knows he's in
trash and doesn't even try to make the material work. In many scenes
he's clearly suppressing laughter at the terrible lines he's given. It
may not be professional behavior but I can hardly blame the guy.
Collect that paycheck, Bender. Despite taking place in 1997, the police
are driving cars that look like they're from the early '80s. Just
another sign of the shoddy production, I guess. The whole thing looks
cheap like it was produced by the dollar store. I suppose there is some
unintended comic value of the "so bad it's good" variety. But mostly it
just stinks.
