

Runaway Bride is just a good romantic comedy. Yes, the director and the two
big name stars are the same as the film's 1990 counterpart, but even though
the two films have striking and almost offensive similarities, Runaway Bride
has a good enough story that I refuse to believe that it relied on the
success of its predecessor. 

Julia Roberts is Maggie Carpenter, a hardware store owner (a laughable
profession surpassed only by Denise Richards as a nuclear weapons specialist
in The World Is Not Enough. Yeah RIGHT!), and Richard Gere is a newspaper
columnist (Ike Graham) who has been fired for printing a supposedly false
column about a woman who consistently runs out on her marriages. When he
travels to the tiny town where she lives to learn more about her life and
possibly get his job back, he finds that there is more to her than just a
newspaper column. 

By the end of the film, there is such a huge media hype about Maggie's
wedding that it's a wonder that Ike wasn't honored for his 'false' column
about her. Joan Cusack has never looked and acted better than she did in
this movie, delivering a wonderful nasally performance that was strangely
heartwarming. 

Runaway Bride had all kinds of wonderful scenes. I particularly liked the
wedding rehearsal scene. The look on Christopher Meloni's face was
priceless! There were so many good things about this film that I am able to
overlook the superficial look of unoriginality. If you just look past the
director and the two big names, the story itself is not at all like any
other film. There will, of course, be the inevitable cynical comparisons to
Pretty Woman, and these complaints are understandable, but people who
condemn Runaway Bride as a rip-off of Pretty Woman or some sort of re-make
are simply not looking at the film, but only at the names on the bill. This
is a very good romantic comedy, and it should not be missed simply because
of a superficial comparison to Pretty Woman.
<|_=00=_|>

Until Runaway Bride came on the scene, I didn't realize how dated Pretty
Woman had become!  Fans of Pretty Woman will delight in the thinly veiled
references and homages that Runaway Bride serves up.  This is a fun film,
very tongue in cheek in it's delivery.  The first viewing of the film may
seem a little flat, but after watching it subsequent times, you get a
definite feel for the dance that is perfected here.  That is what I look for
in a movie; can I watch it over and over and still delight in it? 

I took absolute delight in the setting of this film more so than anything. 
The movie refers to the town as Hale, Maryland.  The actual town is Berlin,
Maryland, absolutely gorgeous and located more to the Northeastern part of
the state.  Setting is everything here because you focus more on the
characters and the small town atmosphere than the glitz and glitter of a
major city.  The character Maggie Carpenter is not unlike women of her
generation--perhaps we tend to marry later in life now more than ever
because we don't want to make that mistake that ends in divorce.  Maggie
doesn't know what she wants out of life, but she has enough sense to get
down to the minute and realize a mistake.  Her timing is rough, but it
manages to avoid divorce lawyer, right?

Drink in the backdrop of the movie, and enjoy the main characters and the
strong ensemble cast in this enticingly amusing tale of love and romance
redefined.
<|_=00=_|>
Julia Roberts seems to be one of the most hated celebrities on this
website. I can't really understand why. I find her to be talented and
charming as well as engaging and usually likable, until I saw Runaway
Bride. I thought I was going to like this one but it offered some of
the most unlikable characters I have ever seen in a romantic comedy.
Generally, the audience should want to cheer for the two people to get
together but I couldn't care less. I don't think Maggie Carpenter
(Julia Roberts) actually deserved to be in a marriage because she was
selfish, immature and seemed incapable of love. I just couldn't fathom
why anyone would actually be attracted to her. She has weddings like
there no big deal and she probably wasted a lot of money between the
four failed ones she had. She has her fiancé invest all of his time
into the relationship, trying to show her that he does indeed love her
only to be left at the altar. I guess the situation was supposed to be
humorous and I shouldn't have taken it so seriously but it was tough to
overlook all of the garbage the film was trying sell to me.

Acting wise the film was decent, which did save it a little. Julia
Roberts gives an okay performance, although it's one of her worst.
However, she is working with rather weak material and she's portraying
a woman that is just so hard to like. Richard Gere was also decent
although nothing special. The chemistry between these two was basically
non-existent which made their relationship seem completely fake and
unrealistic. It was hard to buy that a cynical man would fall for a
woman that has no problem trampling all over a man's heart. They did
have a few funny scenes together though which made the film more
enjoyable. Unfortunately, the film runs for an inexplicable 116 minutes
so there are a lot of dead spots.

Romantic comedies shouldn't really be loathsome movies. The characters
should be likable and engaging so it's easy to get behind them and the
story shouldn't be too far-fetched. Unfortunately, Runaway Bride
commits the worst sin for a romantic comedy by offering unlikable
characters, making it basically impossible to really get into the movie
despite how talented the cast may be.
<|_=00=_|>

When I first saw this movie, following the wonderful "Notting Hill," I was
less than thrilled.  However, I have watched and watched and watched
"Runaway Bride" and it really is a witty romance.  What is particularly
poignant about the film is the chemistry between Gere and Roberts.  Though
it seems very fast, it is completely natural for fans of "Pretty Woman,"
who
saw these two fall in love a decade earlier.

Roberts is wonderful in this movie.  She is completely comfortable,
natural,
and highly believable as the spunky Maggie Carpenter.  Gere is cocky,
weathered, and attractive as the misguided Ike Graham.  The plot is
predictable, but the first act is snappy and the climax is well-done. It
may
not please most people on the first run, but rent it again and you'll
begin
to see the subtleties that make it great.
<|_=00=_|>

If you have seen the Simpsons Episode mocking it, you know why this is the
worst movie ever. You know the rich snob will lose, and Gere and Roberts
will get together. This is a tired story, with no suprises. Julia and Gere
have done better together, apart and in their sleeps. Avoid this movie at
all costs, runaway from all showings of this movie or suffer the pain of a
horrible movie!
<|_=00=_|>
This was probably one of the most god awful movies I've seen a long
time. It amazes me how the director, Garry Marshall, can find work
after putting this piece of garbage out. This movie is even worse than
an earlier debacle of his "Dear God" starring Greg Kinear. The plot is
stupid and makes no sense and the chemistry between Julia Roberts and
Richard Gere is non-existent. I think I'd rather watch paint dry than
to watch this film again. It ranks up there with Freddy Got Fingered,
Gigli and the Adventures of Joe Dirt as far as bad movies go. This will
be the last Garry Marshall film that I will ever see. What happened to
the director who filmed "Frankie and Johnny" and "The Flamingo Kid"?
There's nothing worse than wasted talent.
<|_=00=_|>

I found "Pretty Woman" charming, and I suppose I still do, but in one
respect its storyline is contrived.  (In ONE respect? I hear you ask.  Well,
maybe more than one, but only one that worries me.)  This much of the
standard formula a light love story MUST follow: (a) boy falls in love with
girl, (b) girl falls in love with boy, (c) obstacle, (d) union.  Timing is
surprisingly unimportant.  It doesn't matter when (c) is established - it
can be before the curtain rises, or half an hour before it falls - nor does
it matter if (a) and (b) are simultaneous, or over an hour apart.  (And
obviously it doesn't matter which one comes first.  Even the order c-b-d-a
is acceptable.)  The trouble with "Pretty Woman" is (c).  So she's a
prostitute.  So what?  It's a pity that twentieth-century writers have
somehow acquired the idea that external obstacles are less interesting than
internal ones: it isn't true, and in any event, internal obstacles are
harder to draw convincingly.

Which is why (FINALLY, I get to the point) "Runaway Bride" is a more
pleasant confection than "Pretty Woman".  Believe me, you don't know how
surprised I am to find myself writing this.  Before I saw the movie I was
all but certain it would be deathly stale.  The premise - love blossoms
between an insulting newspaper columnist and a serial jilter he writes about
- screamed, "This will spend two hours going nowhere" at me ... and the
curious thing is, now that I've seen the film, I can't even remember why I
found the idea so unpromising.  Maybe I was unduly swayed by the last Julia
Roberts romantic comedy I saw, "I Love Trouble", which was at once thin,
bloated, and flat.

"Runaway Bride" is none of these things.  It's over two hours, but none of
this is bloat: it takes its time because it NEEDS this time, given obstacle
(c), to convincingly establish (a) and (b).  The film doesn't waste our time
any more than it wastes our own.  I was never bored; very often I was even
basking in the glow.  Tastes in romantic comedy are hard to justify or
defend, so I'll leave it at that.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a thoroughly contrived film, but a pleasant watch nonetheless.
Julia Roberts and Richard Gere still exhibit an easy going chemistry
after their blockbuster 'Pretty Woman'. This film though isn't as good.
The characters are superficial, and the story unbelievable. However, a
lovely romantic sound-track and some soothing romantic moments between
the two likable stars carry the film. The humor is mild but generally
works. The supporting cast including Hector Elizondo and Joan Cusack
work hard to elevate mediocre material using effective comic timing. A
pleasant watch at home.

Overall 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
I'm normally a huge Julia Roberts fan and while I found this romantic
comedy entertaining enough, it cannot compare with her fabulous earlier
movie, Pretty Woman, also starring Richard Gere. Nor did I care for it
as much as her other comedy romances (most notably Notting Hill) or
most of the Meg Ryan ones, especially Sleepless in Seattle.

The story revolves around a lovely young woman, Maggie Carpenter, who
has left a series of three would be grooms partway through their
wedding ceremony. A reporter named Ike Graham gets fired after writing
an exaggerated article of half truths on her story, so to salvage his
career, he travels to her small hometown, where he attempts to ferret
out her true tale and get the scoop on her upcoming fourth nuptials.
Needless to say, Ike does not prove very popular with his journalistic
subject, Maggie, as he harasses her family & friends for info. However,
he begins to feel protective of her when townsfolk mock her track
record of jilting her fiancé at the altar.

Julia Roberts is invariably appealing & sympathetic in her roles, and
typically this proves true in her portrayal here of Maggie. Richard
Gere is competent as the journalistic vulture, Ike. I don't fault the
lack of chemistry as much as the story, which simply isn't as good as
Pretty Woman.

Of course romantic comedies are never exactly bastions of realism, but
this tale where such a young woman has already run away from three
weddings and is now embarking upon number four, really seems too far
fetched even for this genre. One would suspect that any prospective
groom would be quite leery by now, and why does Maggie keep planning
these gala ceremonies if she suspects she might ultimately get cold
feet? All in all, it's a cute, light hearted, & entertaining movie with
some good scenes, but definitely not the best of its genre. For sure,
it lacks the magic of Pretty Woman but judge this one on its own
merits.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was a light hearted comedy as expected. I could not help
comparing it to Pretty Woman, and it fell short. I wanted to love this
movie
as much as I did Pretty Woman, but Garry Marshall dropped the ball.

It was so obvious to me what was missing from the formula.

It had a weak musical background sound track when it should have had a
score
that would carry your emotions to a climax.
Pretty Woman used the love duet from La Traviata.
The second thing it was missing was some better defined sub characters. The
actors were wooden, and it was harmful.
Remember the elevator boy in Pretty Woman? Remember the miserable sales
lady
in the dress shop?
They were great characters. ...and of course, the theme song Prett Woman.
This was a good movie, but Garry dropped the ball. He had a built in
audience ready to embrace Runaway Bride, and just couldn't.
Fred Auerbach
