

Great performances by Meryl Streep and Shirley MacLaine.  They are both
hilarious and poignant in this Carrie Fisher story about a show business
daughter coming through the process of working out emotional trauma and
baggage in relation to her mother, upbringing and subsequent addiction
problems.  Also especially good is Gene Hackman in a small supporting role
and a cameo by Rob Reiner. Streep and MacLaine carry this film with their
talents and are very entertaining as they confront each other and themselves
about personal flaws and foibles.  What makes this work so well is the smart
and oblique humor that is employed to address the internal pain of the main
character. I also liked the little jabs at the movie industry itself as well
as its nonchalant way of revealing some of it's visual tricks too.    

One particular touching and bittersweet scene is between Hackman (as movie
director) as he comforts Streep (an actress he's working with) with a sort
of lighthearted understanding and encouragement to overcome her drug
addiction as he builds her up with appreciation of her
talent.

Considering the obvious autobiographical nature of this story for Fisher, it
would appear to be sort of a catharsis for her. She does a good job in
bringing painful personal issues to light with humor through her writing. 
Personal pain and demons often seem to be the source of great art and
entertainment as well as amusement for many artists and through their art,
for the rest of us as well. This is a case in point and definitely worth the
time.     
<|_=00=_|>
Luke Skywalker is not the only member of the Star Wars gang with parent
issues. Carrie Fisher, the actress who played Princess Leia, channeled
hers into a novel that became another winning Mike Nichols domestic
comedy, "Postcards From The Edge."

Meryl Streep stars as Carrie alter-ego Suzanne Vale, a once-successful
actress trying to restart her career after a near-fatal O.D. Her
mother, a screen legend in her day named Doris Mann (Shirley MacLaine),
happily takes on the responsibility of overseeing Suzanne's recovery,
especially given the attendant oversight she gets on daughter's life
and career.

"I really hate that you have to go through this," Doris sighs upon
visiting her daughter in the rehab clinic. "I wish I could go through
this for you." MacLaine gives, frame for frame, the best performance in
the film, one of her best ever. She and Streep seem to feed off the
best aspects of each other's prior screen work, Streep picking up on
MacLaine's sass and comedic chops, MacLaine on the way Streep can give
you a sea of sadness through just a flickering gleam in her eyes.

Streep's comedy turn is the big surprise here, especially given how
successfully she pulls it off. No dingoes running off with babies in
this production. Nichols helps by putting her in situations that are
very un-Streepish, like being threatened by cheesy "Scarface" extras or
inhaling Fritos. Whatever the props, Meryl herself makes me laugh,
something I never expected. Not that she lays back. Her gift for
inhabiting others' skin is on fine display, as she gives Suzanne Carrie
Fisher's wry intonations and wan half-laugh.

You can hear the connection on the DVD commentary; a candid, amusing
piece by Fisher in which she explains the background of "Postcards,"
why she considers it "emotionally autobiographical" in the way it deals
with her own past drug issues and especially her relationship with her
movie-star mother, Debbie Reynolds. At the same time, it's fictional in
many key details.

Fisher's clever Hollywood-dream-factory send-up of a script gives
MacLaine and Streep plenty of great lines that pop off the screen like
cherry bombs. "Instant gratification takes too long," Suzanne whines.
"I know you don't take my dreams seriously, even when I predicted your
kidney stones," crows Mom.

The film does get rather pat in the second half, especially when both
bond by rounding on Suzanne's ancient grandmother (Mary Wickes). Given
that Suzanne's the central character, and the one with the drug
problem, more effort should have been made on exposing her flaws and
weaknesses, rather than making her seem the most normal character in
the story. Fisher makes this point herself in her commentary, wishing
she was "tougher" on Suzanne.

"Postcards" is most effective when it focuses on the paradox of how
these people perform so well in the limelight and so clumsily outside
of it. "We're designed more for public than for private," is how
Suzanne puts it at one point. Some comments here complain of too many
musical numbers, but of course entertaining is what these women live
for. Watching Suzanne watch her mother sing "I'm Still Here", realizing
for an instant that a throwaway line in the song is really a cry of
pain over Suzanne's way of life, and finally responding, silently but
in a nakedly emotional way, communicates all you need to know about how
much these two people love each other, beneath their banter and blame.

Such subtle touches allow Streep, MacLaine, and Nichols to keep the
longer dialogues crisp and funny. You may have a hard time
understanding the lives these people lead, but you will enjoy their
company.
<|_=00=_|>

Postcards From The Edge is one of my all-time favorites. It's a truly
addictive movie that's always funny and touching no matter how many
times I see it. Some of the criticism I've read have always seemed just
a tad off base, particularly the ones that say that Streep never seems
to get a handle on her character--she just acts kind of comically
frazzled. Well I think that's the point, isn't it? Streep as Fisher
doesn't know what she wants or who she is, and while trying to discover
these things, she must battle her drug dependence, rebuild her career
against all odds and hope, in addition to trying to reconcile her
relationship with her outlandishly domineering mother, who just happens
to be a legendary star with issues of her own. In this scenario,
"frazzled" would seem to be the way to go.

In any case, those who have commented positively on the movie have
mostly mentioned the great performances (as well as Carrie Fisher's
wonderful screenplay), and rightly so since this is one the most
smartly acted (and well-written) movies you will ever see. But it seems
strange that the outstanding direction of Mike Nichols is rarely
mentioned. I remember one Oscar ceremony when a producer whose movie
had just won Best Picture, and, indeed, swept all the major
awards--except Best Director--said "apparently the Academy thinks that
the actors directed themselves." It would seem that many of the viewers
of Postcards From The Edge think the same thing. In my opinion, Nichols
doesn't get enough credit for the seamless way this movie moves or for
the crispness of the comic timing. At every turn, he brings out the
best in his actors, most especially in the dynamic scenes involving
Streep and McLaine. I also love the way he shows, through shifting
background effects, how movie illusions are created, which he further
uses to illustrate how we often hide our true motivations. (The great
example of this is in the scene on the lot with Streep and Dennis Quaid
where he was trying to convince her he has always been sincere in his
feelings for her--and maybe they should even marry. Then suddenly the
background, a house and white picket fence cardboard front, is moved
away by a production crew.)

This is a wonderfully entertaining movie, brilliantly acted and written
and, yes, superbly directed.

<|_=00=_|>
This is easily one of the best American films of the 90s and certainly
one of the best screenplays of the last 50 years.

Carrie Fisher writes dialogue like nobody else in show business and she
outdoes herself with this semi-biopic about her life growing up in the
biz with her actress Mom, Debbie Reynolds.

The film is loosely based on the novel of the same title by Fisher, and
I say "loosely", because Nichols asked Fisher to re-write several parts
to make them more "film-friendly". The book is more about drug
addiction and the character of the mother (played brilliantly by
Shirley MacLaine) is barely involved.

The film focuses (smartly) on the relationship between mother and
daughter and Maclaine and Streep have a field day and create some of
the most memorable mother-daughter scenes in American cinema history,
thanks to the able direction of Mike Nichols. Dennis Quaid is also
wonderful as the narcissistic drug addicted man that plays with
Streep's character's emotions.

This is one of my all time favorite films, it's the only film on my top
10 list made in the last 25 years, and will be remembered for
generations to come as the gem that it is. The screenplay is so amazing
that about 80% of the dialogue is totally quotable and can be repeated
ad nauseum to the delight of its fans (and annoyance of their relatives
and significant others).

Wonderful cameos from everyone from Mary Wickes, Rob Reiner, Gene
Hackman, Annette Benning, Oliver Platt and more...if you can get your
hands on the DVD with Carrie Fisher commentary, it's just as hilarious
as the film itself. The woman is a genius and it's a crime she wasn't
nominated (or won) an Oscar for Best Screenplay for this film.
<|_=00=_|>

A really wonderful, funny and sad film with bravura performances by
Streep,
MacLaine, Quaid and a hilarioius cameo by Annette Benning ("they give you
and endolphin rush!").  One of Streep's best performances and won of the
many Oscars she should have won but was passed over for. This film holds
up
each time I see it.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a very addictive movie.  It got me hooked on its genuine and rich
characters, sassy and intelligent dialogue that made fun of a serious
subject.  The performances were spectacular, not only by Streep and
Maclaine, but also by the veteran Mary Wickes, Dennis Quaid and Robin
Bartlett as Aretha ("my parents expected me to be black").  All of the
cameos were enjoyable and added SO much to this fabulous film.  It's
refreshing to see Streep do something where you don't need to buy out a
store's tissue supply to get through the movie.  And Maclaine shines as this
disturbed yet determined matriarch.  I like almost everything about this
film.  Especially the singing at the end, and Maclaine's rendition of "I'm
Still Here"

Great Movie!
<|_=00=_|>

Meryl Streep, cast against type in a comedic role plays Suzanne Vale, an
actress struggling with drug addiction and a difficult relationship with
her
alcholic has-been singer/actress mother played by Shirley
McClaine.
The film starts with Vale, making a film, high as a kite and making a
mess
of her scenes, then she overdoses and is put into rehab.

Following her rehab stint, she is forced to live with her mother in order
to
be able to keep her job on a new film.
Her mother tells her that she is making all the wrong career moves, stays
up
all night waiting for to come home from a date and generally otherwise
makes
her life very difficult.
I won't give away anymore of the plot than that.
Streep and McClaine are amazing here, and suprisingly, Streep can sing,
very
well.

<|_=00=_|>

Meryl Streep is just about the best actress around and this, I think, is one
of my favourite performances by her. (so far).
Why? Because she is not playing her usual self -- she is a total nut case in
this film --- neurotic and downright hilarious.
Much like 2002's "Adaption" she is playing against her normal dramatic type
and is a wonderful comedienne -- a role she should play more often ---
actresses usually playing actresses usually are not memorable --- this is a
"keeper" role --- and what a voice. (had she not been an actress, she could
give most singers these days a run for their money!)
Do rent it and laugh --- it is worth the trip to the video
store!


<|_=00=_|>
Debiee Reynolds/Carrie Fisher or MacLaine/Streep? It doesn't really
matter. A comedy that swims around a theme without ever getting
anywhere. To see Streep and MacLaine together is enough to make this a
collector's item. The cheerful side of the Ingrid Bergman/Liv Ullman
grim Ingman Bergman "Autumn Sonata" I know that Carrie Fisher with her
American wit was telling us something, something personal but did it
have to be so shallow? There is nothing about this characters with a
hint of depth. Drugs and alcohol part of a culture in permanent denial.
Maybe that's what it is. We're witnessing the replicas of what used to
be human beings. The hurt is so flimsy. He may have told a million
women that they smelled like Catalina, so what? Didn't she notice the
phoniness in Dennis Quaid's smirk? I had to rush and see "Plenty" and
stare into Meryl Streep's face to be reminded of her greatness. Not
that she's bad here, not at all, she's wonderful, it's the character
that made me recoil in horror. Okay, enough of that. the combination of
MacLaine and Streep is terrific and the film will keep you entertained
even if, like in my case, will leave you with a toxic aftertaste.
<|_=00=_|>
Postcards from the Edge (1990)

Mike Nichols is as close to a William Wyler as the New Hollywood
(post-1967) gives us. His movies are both impeccable and emotionally
taut. They feature the very best production values and impressive
acting. And they take chances carefully, which isn't actually an
oxymoron. Nichols knows he's pushing boundaries, but within the
established forms. Even this movie, with its insider look at Hollywood,
feels ingenious in a safe way, with echoes of "The Bad and the
Beautiful" but with everyone toned down to a perfect realism.

One of the tricks of this movie, which is a little over the top in so
many small ways (again, careful restraint all around), is keeping the
acting believable. And foremost is Meryl Streep, lovable and
sympathetic but not quite admirable or otherworldly the way older
generation actresses so often get portrayed. Streep as a drug-troubled
actress is a wonder, and right behind, with deliberate hamminess, is
the woman playing her mother, Shirley MacLaine. Add Gene Hackman and
Richard Dreyfuss in smaller roles, a cameo by Rob Reiner, and a pretty
boy role for Dennis Quaid, and you can see there is something cooking
here. 

So why isn't this a great movie? It has the trimmings of greatness,
even beyond the acting. Story by Carrie Fisher, music written by Carly
Simon (and performed by the cast). Photography by German import Michael
Ballhaus (who by the 1990s was also working for Coppola and Scorcese). 

Well, some might say it really is great. Even though it is lightweight,
even airy as a farce, and even though it leaves you only slightly glad,
or happy, at the end rather than transformed, you could argue that
Nichols intended something with this flavor, and achieved it. Could be.
But for a simple example, take his second movie, "The Graduate," and
notice the same tone, humor and irony laced with important topical and
emotional strains. How different the effect there, and maybe for a
couple of reasons. One, I think, is the subject matter here is the
famously glib, plastic, unsympathetic world of overly rich, tabloid
saturated Hollywood itself. Another is the inherent plot. What happens?
A woman overcomes her addiction to star in another movie, and she seems
to move a little forward in her relationship with her mother. Enough?
Maybe not.

But knowing it's not trying to change the world, you might appreciate
the illusory nature of the medium, exposed for us in a whole bunch of
different ways (moving props, back projection, doubles used for
blocking and framing, lights and camera in action, screening rooms and
overdubbing, and so on. This is the stuff behind the drama enacted by
Streep and MacLaine and the rest. It's worth watching in its own right.

And Nichols and Ballhaus have filmed this to glossy perfection,
layering and moving and keeping the long takes going as long as
possible (with an apology by Hackman, as a movie director, to Streep,
the actress playing the actress, for using such long takes all the
time). It's almost as if Nichols is making fun of himself, and the
excesses that cause the cast and crew to go a little crazy.

Brilliant and entertaining? Completely. Probing or socially satirical
in any way? No, not even into Hollywood, which is safely behind all
these layers. Still, a film not to miss.
