
Colin Farrell is a self-professed star publicist with an attitude to
boot. Watch 81 minutes of gut-wrenching nerve-wracking dialog reduce a
pretentious "kiss my ass" punk into an enervated and regretful
reprobate. Farrell is simply awesome in portraying the gravity of the
situation. "The Caller"'s voice is absolutely worth a mention. Calm,
creepy and authoritative! Something different and the movie would have
fallen flat on its 'flab less' anterior. Sutherland plays 'The Caller',
manning a high profile sniper rifle, while he thrusts honesty upon Stu
Shephard (Colin Farrell). Frankly, I couldn't keep my eyes off the
screen for a second. 

Ebert himself was marvelled by the creativity of "Phone Booth". Why! It
wasn't without good reason! A gaudy character stuck inside a phone
booth in a busy locale, some good camera work, bunch of apartment
windows, a psycho sniper and 10 days of excellent filming supported by
a 'worth a mention' cast easily will manage to get into a good bundle
of "top ten" lists. Fabulous entertainment and a good display of
creativity. Graham Bell is still aiding marvels, I guess!
<|_=00=_|>

Anyone who doubts that people are as easily programmable as Pavlov's pets
need look no further Graham Bell's little box.  While most of us generally
don't start salivating at the sound of a ringing phone, few people (unless
they work for a software help desk) can resist the urge to answer one.
Pray
that the darkest force that dials your number is a telemarketer.

For Stu Shephard, sincerity is little more than a fuzzy concept. A shady
publicist, his life consists of spinning interconnecting webs of lies to
further the careers of clients and raise his stature. In his spare time he
enjoys abusing his assistant, and ignoring his wife. Stu is, is also
determined to give an impressionable young actress a test run on the
casting
couch. When he enters the one functioning pay phone in a ten-block radius
in
the hopes of setting up a liaison, the phone rings. It turns out to be
Stu's
conscience on the line.  With a sniper rifle aimed at
Stu's head.

When you take into account that `Phone Booth' was filmed in just ten days,
on a limited budget with a dearth of special effects, one principle actor
and a single venue you could be forgiven for questioning the potential
success of this film. The original November 2001 release date might give
one
pause - films that sit on the shelf usually do so for a reason - read
`straight to video'. In this instance the studio wanted to wait until
Farrell was more familiar to moviegoers. He achieved this with a little
film
called `Minority Report' (the name of his co-star escapes me at the
moment...). `Phone Booth's' new release date had to be pushed back once
again after the sniping episodes in Washington. Some things are worth the
wait.

While he stole the spotlight as the maniacal hit man in `Daredevil',
Farrell
is faced with a different animal in `Phone Booth', an 80-minute soliloquy
which lives or dies on his performance (several A-list stars walked away
from the project for this very reason).  Reminiscent of his much-lauded
turn
in `Tigerland', Farrell confirms that he isn't a one trick pony,
proffering
a wide-ranging display of emotions, from cocky to cathartic without
straying
into soap opera or comic territory.  He delivers his lines with a solid
fluidity rare among his peers, no simple feat when one takes into account
that he's suppressing a harsh brogue. Farrell also demonstrates a
presence,
beyond mere charisma - his good looks can only inspire interest for so
long
- that draw the viewer into the story.

While the supporting cast - Katie Holmes as the naive ingenue and Forrest
Whitaker as the good cop - fulfill their purpose, it is Keifer Sutherland
who takes up what little slack there is. While the audience doesn't get to
see Sutherland, he is amply menacing as the cold, otherworldly voice on
the
other end of the phone. The audience is never privy to who he is (`Just
call
me Bob') or what his motives are, but it is inconsequential - he sees all,
knows all, and is clearly in charge.  Unlike S&M, there are no safe words.
And for a control freak like Stu nothing could be more
terrifying.

Although tied to a static location, deft camera work provides action,
perspective and mood with such techniques as quick pans, compressed
zooming,
and picture in picture sequences, while careful not to cross the gimmickry
line . Enhanced sound editing bolsters the visuals: ringing phones are
jarring, Bob's quietly booming voice is unsettling, and the sound of a
round
being chambered is deafening.

`Phone Booth' could easily have been a quirky novelty flick that played
well
amongst the art house set. Thanks to Farrell's performance it makes for
good
mainstream cinema (normally an oxymoron) and may actually make a few top
ten
lists.

<|_=00=_|>

I saw the premiere of "Phone Booth" at the 2002 Toronto
International Film Festival, and I LOVED IT!  It's unusual for a
feature like this to even show at the TIFF, which should say
something about it.  I know it sounds like a hard sell.  The whole
thing takes place outside a phone booth in Manhattan, and it was
shot in 10 days for less than 2 million dollars.  But this movie is
electric.  It BLEW ME AWAY!  Stuart `Stu' Shepard (Colin Farrell), a
sleazy publicist, uses this phone booth to call his girlfriend,
because his wife checks his cell phone bills.  The phone rings,
and when he picks it up, all hell breaks loose.  The voice on the
other end (Kiefer Sutherland is just terrifying) warns him that if he
leaves the booth he will be killed.  At first Stu doesn't believe him,
but we find out pretty quick that his life is in real danger, and the
stranger on the other end of the line knows EVERYTHING about
Stu and his life.  Then the police show up, (Forest Whitaker is
wonderful as always as the cop in charge) and order Stu out of the
booth.  I spent the next hour on the edge of my seat.  I don't want to
give anything more away, but it is one of the most suspenseful
movies I've seen in a very long time!  You should go see this
movie!  I don't think it's going to get a very big release, even though
it's directed by Joel Schumacher (St. Elmo's Fire, Flatliners,
Batman and Robin, 8mm, Tigerland).  Schumacher was at the
screening, and he talked about how a number of different actors
(including  Mel Gibson) and directors had been attached to the
script, and it had taken years to get it to the screen.  He was able to
do it with Colin Farrell after 20th Century Fox exec's saw him in
`Tigerland' and decided to take a chance.  But he's still not
considered a `big' star.  And Kiefer only came to the project at the
end (though Schumacher said he was the only guy for the role,
and I agree), and you don't see him much.  So the movie may not
get much of a push when it comes out.  Don't let that dissuade
you.  If you like a good ride, you should go see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the kind of movie that is rare these days. It didn't cost an
arm and a leg to make, it stars some good actors and the story line was
plausible.

The Hitchcock influence is obvious and the pacing of the film was just
right. This is the best work of director Schumacher. The lead could
have been played by any yuppie looking actor but Colin Farrell does a
good job anyway in a role that puts you in his character's place.

It's hard to make a movie work when it takes place in a confined space
with few characters, but when those movies succeed, it shows. And
that's how it is with "Phone Booth."
<|_=00=_|>
I only looked at this because a friend loaned it to me so, at zero
cost, what could I lose? Well, it was a lot better than I anticipated.
Oddly, even though it's only 80 minutes long, I think this could have
been better with about 10 minutes chopped off. It starts to repeat
itself too much near the end. You have to remember, almost the whole
film takes place within a phone booth!

Colin Farrell does a super job playing a sleazy guy held captive in the
phone booth by a threatening sniper-caller. The story, although simple,
holds your attention because there is great suspense, innovative
camera-work, an involving story that hooks you in pretty fast and some
great sound. I hope you have a surround sound system because the
caller's (Keifer Sutherland) voice on the other end of the line is
something to hear!

There is a big moral message in this film, too, about doing the right
thing and paying for your sins, which Farrell sure did. It was really
refreshing to hear that message, effectively told. Maybe some of us
need a sniper to get the message across, but I hope not! 

Are there holes in this story? Sure, but it's still good and has a cool
ending. The only warning I would give readers here is the language:
this is a very profane film with Farrell going overboard on the f-word.
If that offends you, then stay out of this phone booth; otherwise, it's
pretty entertaining
<|_=00=_|>

Have you ever seen a movie that you would actually pay money to watch more
than once?  What if I told you that this film had a setting of only one
main
location, two main actors and three supporting cast members?  While these
elements don't make up what a classic movie sounds like on paper, add
director Joel Schumacher (Bad Company, 8mm) into the mix, along with
screenwriter Larry Cohen, who had this story handed down to him by Alfred
Hitchcock himself about 30 years ago, and you have the perfect blend of
blackmail, violence and extortion:  Phone Booth.
The story begins by showing a glimpse into the life of Stu Shepard
(Daredevil's Colin Farrell).  Stu is a New York hustler that people love
to
hate.  He is egotistical, two-faced to everyone he knows and does what he
can for personal gratification.  He even fantasizes about cheating on his
wife Kelly (Pitch Black's Radha Mitchell) and the object of that desire is
Pamela McFadden (Dawson Creek's Katie Holmes).  Pam is a young actress
trying to get her first break, while Stu has been grooming her for the big
time.  To avoid having his calls to Pam appear on his cellular phone bill,
Stu calls her from the lone phone booth left in the heart of NYC.
However,
things would be different on this day.  Upon hanging up, he receives a
call
that would turn his whole world upside down.
The caller (24's Kiefer Sutherland) is a sniper, who has been targeting
high-profile underhanded suits, just like Stu.  He has a few simple rules
so
that Stu does not meet the same fate that two others had before him:
don't
leave the booth, don't tell anyone who he's talking to, and most
importantly, don't hang up.  To prove his seriousness, the caller shoots
and
kills a pimp who tries to physically remove Stu from the booth for taking
too much time with his call.  This, as expected, does not help matters,
and
the fallen pimp's hookers now believe it was indeed Stu who committed the
murder.  Soon, the NYPD and numerous media outlets are covering this
serious
situation.
Things become increasingly difficult for Stu Shepard as Kelly and Pam both
show up.  In the meantime, the caller continues to play various mind
games,
while the sympathetic NYPD Captain Ramey (Twilight Zone's Forest Whitaker)
tries to solve the issue.  During all of this, Stu tries to maintain his
sanity and not risk any more lives.  His lies no longer matter.  As a
result, he must now search his soul, discover himself and attempt to
outsmart the caller, taking the game to a whole new level.
The cinematography is outstanding. Schumacher uses the right angle for
every shot, and manages to keep everyone's attention with quick pans and
abrupt cuts.  In the end, the 80-minute movie seems longer but not because
it is boring.  The biggest payoff comes with the twist ending that changes
the film's outcome within sixty seconds.
There was not one bad performance in Phone Booth.  Farrell's ability to
convert his Irish brogue to a Brooklyn drawl makes his performance as
Bullseye in Daredevil look like a child's school play when compared to the
Broadway-level of acting he manages here.  While Mitchell and Holmes did
not
have lengthy parts, their roles added just enough to the story and they
managed to perform up to the standards of their characters.  Forest
Whitaker
was a surprisingly great addition to the cast and his role as a
sympathetic
cop is one that's not often seen, and should thus be welcomed.  However,
all
of these actors are outshined by Kiefer Sutherland, who ends up being
extremely creepy and one of the best antagonists in recent movie history
by
just using his voice.
Will this win Best Picture at next year's Academy Awards? It probably
won't.  However, with a great story, top-notch directing and a cast with
great chemistry, what more could you ask for?  Out of a possible five
stars,
I give this the limit of five with desires to go even higher.  While I
would
go see it again and again, not everyone has the same tastes.  However, I
would put down the $8 for a ticket to see the flick at least once.  If
nothing else, it will make you stop and think:  the next time you enter a
phone booth, just who will be watching?

<|_=00=_|>

Stu Shepard (Colin Farrell) uses a pay phone to call his mistress (Katie
Holmes) and after he hung up the phone rings. He picks it up, of course, and
learns that there is a sniper on the other side of the line. When he hangs
up the sniper will shoot him, so he is told. Before he entered the booth we
saw Stu talking on his cell phone as a PR-man, constantly lying to people.
The sniper has observed Stu and thinks he deserves to die.

When the sniper demonstrates he is real by shooting a pimp near the booth
the police arrives and thinks Stu is the shooter. Capt. Ramey (Forest
Whitaker) slowly understands things are not as they seem.

Colin Farrell who is in almost every scene is great. First he looks so
confident and slowly he becomes more and more desperate. The voice of the
sniper (Kiefer Sutherland) is also perfect for the movie. It sounds calm but
creepy, like a dangerous man who knows what he is doing.

The movie is not very long and here that is a very good thing. Scenes are
not dragged to make the movie as long as most movies and therefor it doesn't
get boring. It kept me on the edge of my seat. A very good
thriller.
<|_=00=_|>

Stu Shepherd is in public relations and uses lies and deceit everyday in his
job to get things moving.  When calling a client from a phone booth in the
hope of getting her to a hotel.  When he hangs up the phone rings and he
answers to what he assumes is a prank call.  However the caller reveals more
and more about Stu exposing his lies.  When Stu tries to leave the caller
reveals that he has Stu pinned down with a sniper rifle and the death of a
man by the booth proves it.  The police arrive and surround Stu while the
caller continues his game.

Everyone knows that it had a small budget, a shooting window of just over a
week and that it was made years ago and shelved as Farrell's star power
increased and real life terrorist attacks and snipers came and went in the
media and the mind of the American public.  So I'll not dwell on that and
instead talk of the film!  The pitch was enough to get me interested – `man
is held in phone box by sniper' – sounds great!  I really wanted to see this
film but was put off by the trailer, but not of the films I saw wrong in the
trailer were to the detriment of the film as over 80-odd minutes it really
runs like a race horse.

Starting with humour and a free-flowing pace it turns sinister early on but
keeps the pace.  In terms of plot it has many good twists and turns that
will keep you interested and on the edge of your seat.  The only issue for
me was accepting why the sniper was doing it and how he was able to get
access to the equipment he would have needed as well as the information –
not to mention the WILL to do it!  Also little things bugged me, but the
film carries itself over these obstacles well enough and reservations are
soon forgotten.  It sounds simple but the simple ideas work best and,
although low on action (sorry, teen boys!) it is driven by dialogue and
simply not knowing what will come next.

The direction helps the film by constantly moving and using split screens
etc to give the impression that a lot is going on at once – again making the
film feel like it has a fast pace.  It feels a little gimmicky (especially
now that we've had 2 series of 24 doing the same thing) but it works
regardless.  I wrote in an old review (8mm I think) that I would never pay
to see a Joel Schumacher film ever again, and I DIDN'T pay to see Phone
Booth!  However I was surprised because he didn't ruin it!  He did a good
job – yes,  you heard me!  His usual excesses seem to have been controlled
by a good producer and editing team and the film works – much to my surprise
and relief!

Farrell may not be a bona-fide Hollywood star yet but he takes the task of
being onscreen for almost the whole film and runs with it.  He makes a
comically cruel character someone that reveals himself to be a loser but
never loses the audience – and that takes talent.  Sutherland's voice on the
trailer didn't work for me (too normal and slow) but in the film he is
excellent, like the director said, no-one else could have done the role, he
is right for it.  Whitaker makes up the third lead and he holds his corner
well.

It may not be without the odd flaw but this film manages to be simple,
gripping and very effective.  Well worth a look.
<|_=00=_|>
At first I thought the film was going to be just a normal thriller but
it turned out to be a thousand times better than I expected. The film
is truly original and was so dark & sinister that gives the tensive
mood also it is emotionally & psychologically thrilling, the whole
movie is charged with pulse pounding suspense and seems like it's
really happening. It's amazing that how they managed to make an 80
minute movie with just a guy in a phone booth but the full credit goes
to Colin Farrell and Larry Cohen the writer not Joel Schumacher because
he is a crappy director. Joel Schumacher's films are rubbish especially
The Number 23, Phone Booth was shot in 10 days with a budget of $10
million so it wasn't a hard job to make it, that's why Joel doesn't get
any credit but the cast & crew did a fantastic job. I also really liked
the raspberry coloured shirt Colin was wearing and it was an excellent
choice of clothing because the viewers are going to watch him
throughout the whole film. When I first saw the movie I fell in love
with it and I bought it on DVD the next day and I've seen it about 20
times and I'm still not fed up with it. Phone Booth is and always will
be Colin Farrell's best film! Overall it is simply one of my favourite
films and I even argued over my friend because he didn't like it.
<|_=00=_|>

Director Joel Schumacher preserves his reputation with a script by Larry
Cohen about personal morals and hopefully the truth providing some kind of
redemption. This is a white knuckle nerve wrecker about a self-serving
publicist(Colin Farrell)making the mistake of his life by answering a public
telephone. On the other end of the phone is a self empowered mad man(Kiefer
Sutherland) inflicting demands on the fast talking, fast thinking publicity
dealer who just happened to be walking by the phone booth he passes every
day. The mystery voice on the phone demands the publicist to stay in the
phone booth until he tells his wife(Radha Mitchell)and the TV watching
public of his cheating, lying and making use of others. Of course behind the
demanding voice is a sharpshooter that is not afraid to pull the trigger.
The senior officer on the scene(Forest Whitaker)tries to make sense of the
situation while fighting back thoughts of his own past personal problems. At
least 90% of this thriller is made up of witty, threatening and revealing
banter between Farrell and Sutherland. And talk about a clever twist to end
this flick. Also of note in the cast are: Katie Holmes, Richard T. Jones and
Paula Jai Parker. Think twice about answering that ringing
phone.
