

Probably one of the most significant things about Apollo 13 is the fact that
it managed to be such a strikingly realistic film despite the abundance of
well-known Hollywood actors. Tom Hanks, of course, can convincingly act any
part in the world, and his role in Apollo 13 is no exception. All of the
actors involved seemed to have been given parts that they were born to play,
because they were so successful in the roles. The true events of the
historic Apollo 13 mission are amazingly re-created here, and the results
are spectacular. 

Not only is this film wonderfully acted, it also presents a nearly flawless
portrayal of the time period, even down to the slide rulers that were used
to do calculations. The audience is literally taken back in time to the
1960's, and all of these universally exciting events are brought back to
life, and this is one of the things that makes this movie so special. So
many films try to do this, and the vast majority of them fail miserably, so
it just feels so good to occasionally see it done right.

Another thing that was used in the perfect amount in Apollo 13 was the
special effects. I am entirely against excessive special effects, because if
they aren't justified in being in the film, they can sometimes ruin the film
by themselves (remember The Perfect Storm?). The special effects in Apollo
13, however, served the film very well. Of course, the most significant
special effect in the film, aside from the space scenes, was the zero
gravity, which was done flawlessly. I'm just glad that they decided to go up
in one of those Zero-G planes for these scenes, rather than have the actors
drift lazily around and act as if they are in zero gravity, because that
would have taken a lot away from the film. 

Apollo 13 has an excellent story made even better by the fact that it is
true, it has great acting, skillful direction, and plenty of tasteful humor.
It is not only a highly entertaining film, but is also educational, which
should please parents (as if they need any more pleasing than seeing their
younger years brought back to life on the silver screen). Definite must-see,
Apollo 13 is a contemporary classic.  

<|_=00=_|>

My first job as an engineering graduate in 1960 was with NASA. I was
fortunate enough to have been a Project Engineer on the Apollo Program, and
I am familiar with the technical aspects of the program. But this movie was
not as much about the technical aspects of the program as it was about a
thrilling, real-life drama that just happened to take place during a
glorious time and a once-in-a-lifetime project. Despite all of the little
technical errors, Ron Howard and his crew have put together a superb film,
one that deserved the 9 Academy Award nominations which it received. I wish
that present-day film-makers would concentrate on happy situations, like
this one, instead of the constant barrage of drivel to which we, the
movie-going public, are made subject. Long live NASA and long live
courage!!
<|_=00=_|>

It's difficult to say what makes Apollo 13 such a great film - perhaps it is
the idea that it "really happened", and that someone can look at a history
book, then at the film, and see an overall reality. Some might say they love
it just for the effects; but I believe that it has a great story, and a
perfect selection of actors, perfectly cast. Ed Harris excels, as does Tom
Hanks - and Bill Paxton and Kevin Bacon are each superb in their roles.

The most wonderful thing about this movie is that it encompasses so many
parts and peoples, and appeals to so many, that by the last reel you feel
that if they don't make it through, you have lost some of your closest
friends.

In short: a minor masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
I couldn't take my eyes off the screen, i was simply compelled to watch
it until the end. I already knew how it ended so i was surprised it
commanded my attention so intensely.

The fact is the characters were all so realistically portrayed and the
film was so expertly directed that it was almost as if the Apollo 13
disaster was filmed and that is what i was watching.

Now this film is certainly not to everyone's taste, it is quite slow in
the build up and the film relies almost entirely on the script and
ability of the cast.

If you like your disaster films loud and in your face then this is
probably not for you, but if you like them realistic (slightly
dramatised) then watch it and be astounded.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

I can watch this film over and over. Not only because I am so terribly
interested in the exploration of space and the historical events that have
taken place - but because it's a great film with excellent performances and
a truth-telling style. Heck, even Lovell's wife dropping the wedding ring in
the shower the day of the launch is true!

Just the fact that this film is true makes it even more enjoyable. It's hard
to understand how in the hell one can make it back to Earth and survive with
a fatally crippled space-craft. It's even harder to appreciate just how
close they actually got to dying out there.

The performances are astounding. Ed Harris is just stupendous as Gene
Krantz, and Tom Hanks, Kevin Bacon, Garty Sinise and Bill Paxton (who seems
to always get the role as the whiner...) are also great.

As Hanks put it: this story is one of the greatest ever. The question is,
how do you get home? That question is as old as humanity
itself.

You can tell he put his heart and soul into this one. And the fact that this
happened to the American space explorers is hardly noticeable. Good
job.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a very well-done true story of a space mission that came
extremely close to being a disaster, but the astronauts miraculously
made it home safely. Except for some language problems, it's good
storytelling and so interesting that it made me want to study the real
Apollo 13 astronauts.

The movie is fairly long at 140 minutes and there is not much "action"
but there is a lot of suspense and first-rating acting, both of which
should keep anyone's interest. Knowing this was a true story makes one
all the more involved with it. You can usually count of Director Ron
Howard putting out an interesting and well-photographed film.

What also was interesting to me, too, was to see these actors, most of
whom usually play volatile characters- or did prior to this film - act
in such low-key roles. I refer to Ed Harris, Gary Sinise, Bill Paxton
and Kevin Bacon. 

By the way, one of the young Lovell children was played by Miko Hughes,
who became a co- star in a film - "Mercury Rising" - several years
later.

For such a tense story, with these astronauts lives on the line, none
of the astronauts or people at NASA or anyone's family members are ever
seeing praying throughout this ordeal! You can bet, in real life, a lot
of prayers were answered on this mission. 

Overall, this is good movie-making and recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know what the real event was like, because I wasn't even born
then, but I guess it must have been really shocking to see how these
astronauts were fighting for their lives. The movie really has done a
good job on showing how inventive people can be in times of need, and
on recreating the emotions that the crew, their families and the people
in the flight command center had to go through.

If you ask me, the film really was at its best as soon as the crew was
actually taking off in their rocket. Before that the movie was a little
bit too slow to my taste and it didn't have that much to say. However,
from the moment the problems with Apollo 13 started I was sitting on
the edge of my seat. It all felt very real and you just have to
empathize with the crew and their family.

Tom Hanks, Gary Sinise, Kevin Bacon, Ed Harris, Bill Paxton,... all did
a great job showing us the astronauts, their families and the flight
crew on this doomed mission. Their performances made "Apollo 13" one of
the better movies of the nineties. I reward it with an 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>

APOLLO 13 (1995) ***1/2 Tom Hanks, Kevin Bacon, Bill Paxton, Gary Sinise,
Kathleen Quinlan, Ed Harris, Loren Dean, Clint Howard.  Exhilarating and
absorbing true life account of the 1970 mishap of the American space
program's Apollo 13 that nearly became a tragic catastrophe based on
astronaut and team leader Jim Lovell's novel "Lost Moon".  Hanks is
excellent as Lovell, grace under pressure realized, as is the rest of the
fine ensemble and perfect visual effects of space travel and ingenuity.  
Harris won a nomination for Best Supporting Actor as Mission control's chief.  Noteworthy: that's director Ron Howard's real life mother as Lovell's mom
and look sharp for Lovell himself at the film's conclusion.  Oscar winner
for Best Editing and Best Sound.
<|_=00=_|>
Astronauts Lovell, Haise and Swigert are on Apollo 13. People aren't
worried about this expedition because the people already made it to the
moon safely and had came back alive. That's not the point when things
go very wrong and the hopes of coming back alive starts to fade.

This is a very good film. It shows human dedication and perseverance
that they won't give up, even though hopes from other people seems to
increase.

The acting by Tom Hanks, Bill Paxton, Kevin Bacon, and Kathleen Quinlan
are all great. This film also delivers some of the best lines in movie
history.

This is a true story and has turned into a great movie and has great
acting. Although I wouldn't say it's the best film, it's still one of
the best films.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is my all-time favorite.  It has every element that makes a movie
a classic.  It is suspenseful, thrilling, and touching.  It has drama,
comedy, suspense, and even a little romance.  I read the book "The Lost
Moon" written by Jim Lovell and was the basis of the movie.  The writers,
producers, director, and actors did a marvelous job of portraying the events
of the perilous flight of Apollo 13.  The actors (Tom Hanks, Bill Paxton,
Kevin Bacon, Ed Harris, Kathleen Quinland, and Gary Sinise) did a wonderful
job as their character.  I absolutely love movies where everyone comes
together to fight and work toward a certain, unified goal, and I cannot
think of a better example of this than what is shown in Apollo 13.
