


Shrek is completely new.  Never has a fully CGI movie taken on the twists,
turns, and surprises as Shrek has.  It's a full parody of numerous
fairytales, and its humor is, well, humor at its best.  Grown men will
laugh
at the jokes of Farquaad's Stature and the hidden meaning behind every
little comment.  Of course Shrek, like all other movies, has its emotional
moments (so what if I lied about it being completely new?).  And these
moments aren't cheesy or anything.  They are kind of funny, but at the
time
of viewing you won't really feel like laughing.  You'll feel like the
characters.

Like its CGI, Shrek has taken a new dimension.  It stretches out.  You're
in
the movie.  No, wait, you're watching a movie.  It's so hard to tell.  The
characters are so real, so lifelike, it makes you feel you're there.  The
environments are realistic, yet still animated.  The wind whispers through
the grasslands and the characters' hair; the lightning and clouds are
really
there... aren't they?

I was stunned and absorbed in this movie.  And unlike other movies, it has
more than just CGI.  It's actually got a plot.  And what a plot it's got!
This one is totally new.  Shrek is ordered to rescue a princess from the
fiery keep guarded by a dragon in order to clear out his swamp of the
menacing fairytale creatures.

But it doesn't stop there.  The movie is full of surprises and stretches
on
further into what actually happens after.  The dialogue demands your
attention throughout the movie, and then the dragon comes in.  Whenever
you
see the dragon, you'll know good things are bound to happen (but not
necessarily for the characters in the movie).  The dragon is a comic
relief,
but still provides most of the action in the movie.  She chases Donkey and
Shrek through the keep, she flies to help rescue Fiona from a despicable
marriage, and she even has the satisfaction of swallowing a
midget.

Now some disputes have arisen about certain things.  But I must say what I
always say:  this is only a movie, and it has no deeper meaning (despite
the
parodies).  Take it as it is.  There can be nothing offensive from Shrek
unless you have something against overthrowing tyrants and good-natured
humor.

I must take a moment to speak about Donkey.  He is, and always will be,
one
of my most favorite characters in the world of movies.  Eddie Murphy was,
no
doubt, the perfect actor for him.  He is so funny, so unique, and so...
fluffy.  What a perfect donkey!  His design is flawless and his dialogue
perfect.  I can find nothing bad about this character.

Shrek is perfect for everybody to see.  The little ones will love the
vivid
colors and lush landscapes.  The adults will enjoy this as well as the
intelligent humor and deep plot.  And no one could dislike the arrangement
of songs.  They fit really nice into the movie.  Harry Gregson-Williams
and
John Powell's composed music is impressive (especially the theme for
Escape
from the Dragon).

Shrek is brilliant moviemaking.  With a groundbreaking DVD, an all-star
cast, great music, excellent graphics, and a great parodized yet original
plot and storyline, Shrek is no doubt one of the best movies I've ever
seen.
<|_=00=_|>

9 OUT OF 10!!!!
We went to catch the matinee preview of "Shrek". We were still giggling by
the time we got home afterwards. Two hours later, we dragged a friend out
and went back for the evening show. Some of the shock value was lost, but we
caught a few of the background sight gags we missed the first time, and
anticipation of some of the other scenes had us in tears before they even
happened. Interesting to see the different audience reactions of different
age groups, too. This is a *very* funny movie, but it should be noted that
most of the kiddy humour is on the burp/fart and yucky dining habits level -
Shrek is rather closely related to Raymond Briggs' Fungus the Bogeyman
without the orange mohawk. The dialogue and main action quips are mainly
aimed at adults and sophisticated kids. One little voice in the afternoon
audience piping up "WHAT's he compensating for?" cracked me up...

Be warned that this movie is a non-stop send-up of all things Disney. If
predictability and saccharine is your cup of tea, you may not like it. On
the other hand, if you are cynical about theme parks and like the idea of
fairytale classics getting the Monty Python treatment, you'll love it. Every
time a scene looks familiar, it means it is about to
go pear-shaped. And it's not just old classics that get the treatment. I
spotted (mis)quotes from films that are just being released, both Disney and
non-Disney. You name it, it gets an affectionate pie in the face at some
point in "Shrek".

As a fairytale, however offbeat, "Shrek" is tighter plotted and better
characterised than most Hollywood dross.The parodic twists, a love story
subplot that owes more to Shakespeare's comedies than fairytale formula, and
the "ugly is the new beautiful" Message more than make up for the
derivativeness due to extensive quotation.

As for the acting, confinement to voice-overs keeps the egos of Myers and
Murphy in check, and they do a fantastic job as the big fat green smelly
recluse and the obnoxiously manic donkey respectively. Diaz is great as a
feisty princess who reminds me of Lloyd Alexander's Eilonwy crossed with
Lara Croft. Lithgow's Farquaad is a
wonderful Bad Guy, modelled on Olivier's Richard III apart from his Little
Problem being different. And the Fairytale Creatures...excellent, all of
them. The graphics, of course, are state of the art for at least another 2
weeks. We're talking freckles, skin pores and stubble, pupil dilation, and
amazing light-and-shade. They had to tone down the realism of the humanoids
to stop them looking creepily android-like.

Highly recommended, except for overly precious schmalz addicts.
<|_=00=_|>
Shrek is a wonderful parody of every fairytale story that you can think
of, for the kids it has charm, humour and tons of fun, and is a
delightful film for them to enjoy. In addition, Shrek has plenty of
subtle innuendo and more adult themes running seamlessly along side the
story, much of which may pass younger children by, without spoiling any
element of their enjoyment; while at the same time enhancing the
enjoyment for the older viewers.

Shrek is simply so well created that it can successfully appeal to a
huge audience excellently voiced as it is, by Mike Myers, John Lithgow,
Cameron Diaz and Eddie Murphy.

Brilliant characters, solid script and hilarious parody, make this film
a simply wonderful achievement, and that's without mentioning the
awesome computer generated world that houses it.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Shrek is a movie like no other.  It stands alone in its appeal to people
of
all ages and in its presentation of comedy, romance, and creative story
line.  Shrek is a delightful comedy about a crude ogre, an energetic
princess, a witty donkey and an uptight ruler.    The movie has a
brilliant
story line, following the path of an initially moody ogre as he discovers
friendship and love all in the face of hysterical comedy.  The story line
is
layered for different levels of understanding; it is an enjoyable film for
people of all ages.  One clever tool Shrek uses to humor the audience is
its
spoof on other fairy tales.  In one scene, Princess Fiona's singing causes
a
bluebird to explode.  And in another scene, the Magic Mirror's description
of Snow White is "She may live with seven men, but don't be fooled, she's
not easy."  While these subtle comedic lines amuse adults, it is the
simple
humor, such as the movie opening with the ogre sitting in a swamp
"farting,"
that amuses children.  The amazing cast of Shrek, including Eddie Murphy
and
Mike Myers does a great job of living up to their comedic expectations.
Shrek has something for everyone; it is a great animated tale that is
wonderful for adults and children alike.
<|_=00=_|>
"Shrek" is fun. People who haven't seen this movie, and are wary of
seeing what's popular, should give it a try. It's worth watching, and
will probably win you over.

Taking a Fractured Fairy Tale approach to a "Beauty And The Beast"-type
plot, throwing in a few mild profanities, flatulence jokes, and Michael
Myers' over-the-top faux-Scots accent, "Shrek" shows off a very snarky
humor, full of jokes that will likely go over the heads of a cartoon's
target audience while registering with their parents. 'Sure it's big
enough, but look at the location,' Shrek observes upon seeing a giant
castle in the middle of nowhere. The kids, though, will love 'Shrek'
every bit as much. It's impossible not to be carried along by its merry
madness.

Myers, as the title character, is certainly easier to take than he was
in his last Austin Powers movie, his voice work registering real
tenderness as well as the expected laughs as a misunderstood ogre who
would rather tell a group of frightened villagers about the cruelties
he will inflict on them and their dead bodies than cause those
villagers any genuine harm. He's a bit of a softie, actually, and
scared to let anyone know it.

Cameron Diaz is as beautiful to listen to hear as she is to look at in
her other films. Her character, Princess Fiona, doesn't have as much
room to shine as Shrek (the balance turns out better in the sequel) but
she does well with what she's given.

The comic highpoints in terms of voice characterization is Eddie Murphy
as Shrek's donkey companion and John Lithgow as nasty Lord Farquaad,
who wants to rid his domain of Duloc of all fairy tale creatures.
Murphy never stops being funny even as he helps set up key plot
moments; in fact he's never been this funny since the first "Beverly
Hills Cop" movie. "We can stay up late, swapping manly stories, and in
the morning, I'm making waffles," the donkey tells a much put-upon
Shrek, and you still laugh the fifth time you hear it. Lithgow just
makes you smile whenever he opens his mouth, like when he grills a
hapless gingerbread man in such a convoluted way it turns into a
nursery-rhyme recitation.

Why exactly Farquaad is grilling this gingerbread man so closely isn't
clear, and there are similar plot holes throughout the movie. Shrek may
be too tame a character; we never really feel any worry around him. The
donkey falls into a relationship with a dragon that screams "plot
convenience," and there are strange little bits of cruelty, like
turning a frog and snake into balloons, which just is thrown out there
and let be.

But the central story, about how Shrek and Fiona struggle to overcome
the odds and find true love, is really sweet and well-rendered. The
animation is spectacular, a revolution for the eyes in its deep-dish
panoramas and remarkable attention to textures. And the jokes keep
flying, the major ones as well as hilarious bits of filigree you won't
notice the first or second time but reward you for paying attention.

This is not a Disney movie, something "Shrek" makes very clear not only
with its PG-13 humor but its knocks at Disney characters like Snow
White and at the Magic Kingdom in the form of Duloc, where an array of
"It's A Small World"-type dolls lecture Shrek and Donkey on all the
things NOT to do. Frankly, "Shrek" could use a little injection of
Disney heart, but Disney could use some of this picture's freshness as
well. A very charming movie worth your time.
<|_=00=_|>
Shrek is one hell of an animated ride, and right when you're certain
you know where to expect the next gag it one ups you. If you need a
reason to see Shrek, here is that reason: imagine Eddie Murphy as an
annoying not to mention obnoxious talking donkey. Yeah. Eddie Murphy
gives Robin Williams a serious run for his money in terms of greatest
animated side kick. From there we get Mike Myers voicing a big green
ogre, who plays off Eddie Murphy with perfect comedic timing like the
two were meant to do this film together. 

Shrek is merciless in its humor. Targeting everything from fairy tales
to Disney films to narrative clichés to bad puns, sliding in its own
commentary, all the while giving the typical fantasy story a few modern
twists and turns to deliver a strangely original unoriginal story with
original unoriginal characters . . . that doesn't make sense, but Shrek
does, does it well, and doesn't care. And you never know where this
humor is going to come from, either – either visual gag, musical nod,
or spoken dialogue. All three provide their share of narrative and
commentary to the concepts in Shrek. 

I think the beauty of Shrek is it's taken the typical fairy tale (which
all of us have heard), and it answers the silly 'what if . . .' and
'why don't they ever . . .' questions we tend to ask. But that's not
the core of the story - the core of this story is the friendship
between Shrek and Donkey, which works in a funny goofball, but touching
and unique way. If the audience can buy into Shrek and Donkey's
relationship to one another, then they can believe entire film (which
more or less focuses on the adventure the two share together). True,
Shrek has a love theme . . . but it's Donkey and Shrek who sustain the
film through most of the picture. 

As for Cameran Diaz and John Lithgow, while not on screen as much as
our two heroes, still play an important role. I wouldn't want to
downplay Lithgow and Diaz who do bring their respective characters to
life, but Shrek is a tale about an enduring friendship with a romance
story on the side.
<|_=00=_|>

Shrek is a green ogre who lives in a swamp, but his king sends him on a
mission which he must complete to get his own land back.

You only have to watch ten minutes of this film to realise that this is
going to be a classic. Eddie Murphy being employed as a wisecracking donkey
was a casting dream and plays well against the more plain Shrek, voiced by
Mike Myers. 

Ok the plot is old, new, borrowed and blue (all recaps and references to
fairy tales), but I don't care. It is all so much good fun and better than
that, the kind of thing that can be enjoyed by young and old, male or
female. It is really a dream of movie and some brilliant pop tunes are
employed that really work fantastically against the images. Real
tear-to-the-eye stuff.

A real bliss-out of a movie and all parties should be congratulated for
making it so great. A real DVD buyer, because it can be enjoyed over and
over again. Bring on the follow up, I can't wait. 
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not one of those persons who praises "Shrek" all the time as one of
the greatest movies ever made, like many other persons seem to do.
Quite frankly I never really understood what the hype was all about.
But still you have to give credit to this movie, it's very entertaining
and fun to watch over and over again.

A good sidekick is always important, especially in an animated movie. A
good sidekick can make the movie better but a bad sidekick can really
ruin a movie. "Shrek" doesn't have a good sidekick...it has an
excellent sidekick! Donkey is a wonderful and entertaining character
thanks to Eddie Murphy who voiced him. The other main voices are
provided by Mike Myers, Cameron Diaz and John Lithgow.

Further more I would like to add that I absolutely love the character
Pinocchio in this movie.

The story is told in a good way with a nice pace, I especially like how
subtle some Disney movies and characters are spoofed. But for some
reason I never really found the story in general that very appealing.

The movie is well animated and it shows that DreamWorks is a worthy
competitor for Pixar.

The music is good and takes the movie to an higher level and I'm not
just talking about the evergreen songs but also about the movie
soundtrack by John Powell and Harry Gregson-Williams who know how to
compose a good and fun score for animated movies.

Although it's getting more credit than it really deserves, it's still a
fun and entertaining animated movie.

8/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
Shrek is an awesome movie! Based in the ordinary fairy tales,the main
thing here is to break the rules and the enchantment of those stories
and show it all in a different way; Why the prince needs to be so
perfect? Why the princess needs to be so beautiful?Why they need to
live in a perfect castle?Why can't the royals be problematic? All of
these answers are more than answered in Shrek. By the way, this is a
movie with lots of humor. :)So, be prepare to laugh. (Donkey is
annoying, but the biggest part of the fun comes from him!)

Ps: All the cast is great as well. I already know Eddie Murphy's and
Mike's(Myers)abilities as comedians,but I could never imagine that
Cameron Diaz could be so perfect to do Fiona! Her voice is really cute,
and I really cannot imagine a better one for Fiona ,than Cameron Diaz
's voice!
<|_=00=_|>

I never set the bar too high for children or animated films because adults
can never seem to get into them.  Adults go to animated films because their
kids complain and fuss and drag them to see it with them.  Meanwhile, the
parent is stuck there trying to watch the movie, but can't because all the
children are either asleep or screaming their lungs out and the parent just
wants to go see the new action flick playing right next door.  It's a waste
of $7.00, I know.  However, Shrek was a real treat to go to and is meant for
an older crowd.

The bedtime stories our parents used to tell us as children and which we
pass down to ours is retold to please a much older crowd who grew up with
these stories.  It's a spoof of all the fairy tales that we all know.
However, this story has a wonderful twist to it.  There's no prince charming
and there's no dashing night to save the day.  Shrek is an ogar, who has to
rescue the princesses so he can get back his land from the storybook
characters that have overrun it.

Mike Myers is witty and brilliant as the voice of Shrek.  He allows the role
of Shrek to come alive.  This probably has to be one of Mike Myers' better
films, and the great thing about working as a voice animator is that you
don't have to spend three hours in make up and another hour or so in
wardrobe.  You can just get up at six o' clock in the morning go in say your
lines and get out.

The other great thing about this movie is that it spoofs of such movies as
the matrix and almost any fairy tale ever made.  However, it so original in
plot.

Eddie Murphy steals the screen as the talking donkey.  It seems everything
out of his mouth gets wittier and wittier throughout the entire movie.  He
brightens up the screen with a zany performance.

Cameron Diaz shines as the princesses.  She enlightens us with her witty
charm and surprising outbursts.   John Lithgow plays the devious prince who
sends Shrek on the quest to save the princesses.  For some reason John
Lithgow seems to have an amazing and talented voice.  All in all I enjoyed
the film and would give it about a 7.  If you liked the movie I would
suggest watching There's Something About Mary, Wayne's World, and Austin
Powers.

