

Misery is a dark, but witty venture into Stephen King territory.  It's
about
a popular novelist who crashes his car on a snowy mountain road and is
rescued by a nurse who claims she is his number one fan.  As the time
goes
by, he realizes she has no intention of letting him leave.

The film moves with a brisk, taut pace thanks to director Rob Reiner,
who
helmed another excellent Stephen King film, Stand By Me.  Tension is
kept
mostly throughout (there are some predictable moments...but who cares?)
And
the performances are also a major plus.  James Caan is very easy to
empathize with, and he manages to keep his cynical sense of humor.
Richard
Farnsworth, as a grizzled sheriff was a nice addition to the film since
his
character didn't exist in the book.  He also has a nice sense of humor,
and
he's the kind of guy who you want to root for.  But the most amazing
performance is from Kathy Bates, who treads a fine line alternating
between
sweet and lovable to amazingly evil.  She won an Oscar for this movie,
and
whole-heartedly deserved it.

Side note:  This is one of the few films which took an Oscar, that you
can
actually say the Academy had the guts to give out.  Can anyone name
another
horror film which won such a notable prize?

ANyway...by the end, the novelist and the viewer or put through some
torturous activity.  We sometimes feel his pain, and it is so much fun
to
hate this woman................the book is excellent.....the movie is
just
as good in about 1/6th of the time it would take to read.  Either way,
enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
Misery is without a doubt one of the best films of the 90's, and in my
opinion, Stephen King's best adaptation into a movie. This is TRUE
horror, there's no monsters, no mega special effects, just Kathy Bates
who is truly made the big time on one of the scariest villains in
horror movie history.

It's about a man named Paul Sheldon, he's an author, made incredibly
famous by his popular books, specially his series called "Misery", the
books are apparently about a woman in the old days who goes through
heavy times in her life and he shares her pain and strength with the
readers. When he finishes his last Misery book, he decides to celebrate
and is heading back for his daughter's birthday, but he gets caught in
a horrible blizzard and gets into a nasty and fatal car accident, but
is saved by Kathy Bates, or as we know her Annie.

He wakes up in a bedroom with his legs badly broken, bruised up, and
cut up, but hears a light and charming voice saying "You're going to be
just fine. I'm your number one fan!". Annie nurses Paul back to health
and says she'll get an ambulance once the storm clears up. She's so
lovely and charming, you would never have any clue that she'd even just
harm a fly. But when she gets ahold of Paul's last Misery book, she
gets infuriated when she finds out that he's killing off Misery and
continuing onto more dramatic and dark stories. She makes him write a
new Misery where she is resurrected, Paul used to write for a living,
now he's writing to stay alive. Discovering slowly how crazy Annie is,
he tries to escape more and more, but Annie is so convinced she's in
love with him, she'll never let him go! 

Kathy Bates truly is the amazing star of the film, she is so disturbing
to watch. Especially during the "hobbing" scene, she breaks Paul's legs
again, she makes it seem so innocent, but it's HORRIFYING to watch!
Both her and James worked so well together and were just incredible.
The movie is so awesome, I would highly recommend this movie for
anyone! It's a movie not to be missed.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the novel by him, 'Misery' is a real Stephen King film. It is
a drama film, but also a thriller and sometimes even a horror. In one
scene the horror is very clear, you will know what scene I mean.

Writer Paul Sheldon (James Caan) gets in a car accident. He is helped
by Annie Wilkes (Kathy Bates) who claims she is his number one fan. In
his latest novel Sheldon has killed the favorite character of Annie
making her a little mad. She keeps Sheldon in her home; he has to bring
the character back to life in his next novel.

Bates, who won an Oscar, is terrific as Annie, one of her finest
performances. James Caan who is in bed or a wheelchair most of the film
is very convincing. The room he is living in is one of those spaces in
the movies you will not forget very soon. Directed by Rob Reiner this
is a great film, although it could be a bit slow for some from time to
time.
<|_=00=_|>
"Misery" accomplishes something which Hitchcock achieved in "Psycho"
but which very few modern horror films achieve: it entertains without
seeming exploitative. Even the movie's most gruesome scene, which ranks
up there as one of the more memorably horrifying moments in all of
cinema, ends with a laugh that somehow doesn't cheapen the
material--maybe because it arises so naturally from the basic situation
which the movie takes very seriously. We're not being urged to find the
violence itself entertaining, as is the case for so many horror films
these days. Rather, the humor is a way of breaking the tension of a
desperate, nightmarish scenario. It is, we suspect, what helps the
protagonist survive the ordeal.

Like many of the greatest thrillers, "Misery" begins with a bizarre set
of coincidences. A bestselling romance novelist named Paul Sheldon
(James Caan) is on his way to the countryside to work on his next book
when a blizzard causes his car to crash, leaving him severely injured
and unable to walk. Annie Wilkes (Kathy Bates), a retired nurse and
obsessive fan who was following him, takes care of him in her house
without letting him leave or contact anyone. She is upset that he has
recently killed off a central character in his series, and she forces
him to write the new book more to her liking, though in total isolation
from the outside world. His family and friends fear him dead, but the
local sheriff (Richard Farnsworth) is investigating a little more
closely.

"Misery" belongs to a unique genre in which a single character is
trapped in a small area and spends the entire story attempting to
escape. I've been fascinated by this type of story ever since I first
read Edgar Allan Poe's "The Pit and the Pendulum." With his fine
attention to detail, Stephen King has made two notable contributions to
the genre: "Misery," and the unfilmable "Gerald's Game" (where a woman
spends the entire novel handcuffed to a bed in the middle of nowhere).
Everything is topsy-turvy in a story like this. The protagonist must
adapt to a weird new set of rules that put a diabolical twist on normal
routines. To most people, a house is a mundane setting where you wake
up every day and leave without blinking an eye. For a house to become a
prison seems almost unthinkable. Stories like "Misery" have the urgency
of a nightmare, where the thing you fear most is always on the verge of
happening.

In particular, this movie has much in common with the 1962 suspense
drama "Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?" (which I recommend). The basic
structure of the story is the same, involving a disabled person in the
house of an insane woman, who subjects her captive to physical and
psychological tortures while almost everyone on the outside doesn't
even know the victim exists. But in the older film, the motives were
simpler, rooted in sibling jealousy and old wounds. "Misery" brings the
conceit to a new level by making the captive a famous writer and the
kidnapper a crazed fan. The movie makes much of the irony that she's a
pretty good editor. She's not really sadistic or vengeful, as was the
case with the Bette Davis character in "Baby Jane." The tortures she
inflicts on Paul are the natural result of her trying to fit him into
her bizarre little world.

Kathy Bates won an Oscar for her performance, one of only three horror
performances ever to receive that award. (The other two are Fredric
March for "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde" and Anthony Hopkins for "Silence of
the Lambs.") One of the best actresses working today, she's fortunate
not to have been typecast in this sort of role. She later proved
herself quite adept at playing vulnerable women, like the battered wife
in "Dolores Claiborne." She brings to the role of Annie a certain
earthiness that you don't expect in this kind of role. She plays the
character as a woman who doesn't perceive herself as insane, who acts
bubbly and cheerful most of the time and seems to view her sudden mood
shifts as merely a personal weakness. At times, the movie almost comes
off as a demented parody of a normal relationship between a man and
woman living together.

The very best of the Stephen King horror movies, "Misery" is a film
which I count among my favorites even though it is so intense I
sometimes have trouble sitting through the whole thing. With a
screenplay by William Goldman, who has a knack for developing bizarre
torture scenes (the Nazi dentist torture in "Marathon Man," the Machine
in "The Princess Bride"), the movie manages to be scary and classy at
the same time--a rare feat for a modern horror picture. Kathy Bates is
in my nightmares!
<|_=00=_|>

Misery has to be the best adaptation of a Stephen King novel.  A close
runner up is Stand By Me, but for suspense and tension that just gets
tighter and tighter, watch Misery.  Kathy Bates can go from nice and
cheerful to downright crazy like someone turning on a light switch.  While
watching James Caan suffer through the torture that Bates puts him through,
you can't help but sympathize with the guy.  Rob Reiner presents us with the
problem, and he slowly escalates the tension and the dread that creeps over
the movie.  Even though the book was different in the "hobbling" process,
Annie Wilkes' method of hobbling still gives me the chills whenever I watch
it.
<|_=00=_|>
Writer William Goldman and director Rob Reiner do Hitchcock proud with
this one. It has all the elements: a seemingly innocent place and
situation invaded by a growing sense of sinister dread until a
breathtaking climax. The intelligent script is peppered with moments
that will either make you cringe or make you laugh, depending on how
morbid your sense of humor is. It is a harrowing movie to watch the
first time around. The crew has done a good job of making you feel Paul
Sheldon's pain. Few films torture the audience like this one. In fact,
I venture to say this is the best film of its kind since "Psycho"
thirty years earlier.

The acting is good all-round. Farnsworth steals every scene he's in
with his sardonic and relentless sheriff - he did not get enough
accolades for what would have been a routine part in a lesser actor's
hands. Caan is solid and underplays beautifully, and the inimitable
Kathy Bates carries the film with her alternately hysterical or
ridiculously-sappy Annie, the psychotic Sheldon fan. Her performance is
a throwback to Hollywood's old days - it's not subtle, not quiet, and
borders on over-acting. This is not method acting, this is showing off.
But Bates makes it work, investing Annie with enough pitifulness to
make the character complex and, thus, hold the role together. This
movie is famous, of course, for making Kathy Bates an overnight
sensation as everybody went into the movie wanting to see what Sonny
Corleone looked like as an older man, but left with accolades for Kathy
Bates on their lips. She is absolutely terrifying and unforgettable in
this role and perfect for it. 

Brilliant performance that elevated a 7-star thriller to 9-10 classic
status.
<|_=00=_|>
Horror movies generally aren't my cup of tea, but people have always
talked about how great Misery is. So I decided to give it a look when
it came on TV today. All I can say is that I was definitely not
disappointed; this was an amazing movie.

Misery is the story of writer Paul Sheldon (James Caan), who is driving
through a snowstorm after just having finished his newest novel. The
car crashes, and it seems that Paul will die, trapped in his car in the
snow in a deserted forest, when he is rescued by a mysterious stranger.
She turns out to be Annie Wilkes (Kathy Bates), a former nurse who
dresses his wounds and gives him a comfortable bed. In addition, it
turns out that Annie is Paul's self-proclaimed Number 1 Fan.
Specifically, she is obsessed with the Misery Chastain series, Paul's
major claim to fame. Annie keeps Paul in an isolated room for days,
then weeks, as the outside world searches for him. Eventually, when
Annie objects to the content of Paul's latest manuscript, and when she
has a hysterical reaction to the death of Misery in the latest novel,
Paul (and the audience) come to see that there may be something wrong
with Annie.

Caan and Bates were absolutely stunning in their performances. The vast
majority of this movie focused on them, so it was crucial that they
both be able to convey the sense that something horrific was going on.
It was no surprise that Kathy Bates won the Best Actress Oscar for her
role. Everything in this movie really worked to show just how trapped
Paul was, and how hopeless his situation seemed. And of course, this
movie left a few indelible images in the mind. (One in particular comes
to mind, and I really wish that I hadn't seen that scene previously on
some other TV show; that almost took away from the impact of seeing it
in context.) So, if you are a fan of suspenseful fare, or you just want
to see a horror movie (mostly) sans blood and guts, Misery is for you.
You will never, ever want to hear anyone say that they're a fan of
yours again.
<|_=00=_|>

Misery is my favorite Stephen King thriller. Misery displays a writer held
hostage by his #1 fan. Misery is a spectacular movie because it keeps you
wondering what will happen next. Kathy Bates' performance was the best and
I'm glad she won an Oscar. Misery is one of King's real-life situation
novels. I think that's what he's nest at, writing about real things. Yet,
his horror books are still pretty scary and wild. Reiner impressed me with
his direction in this film. Highly recommended, if you have any comments for
me, please e-mail me at tylerripen@yahoo.com.
<|_=00=_|>

MISERY (1990) *** Kathy Bates, James Caan, William Farnsworth, Frances
Sternhagen, Lauren Bacall.  Bates, perfectly cast as loony tune Annie
Wilkes, won an Oscar for Best Actress as the self-proclaimed `#1 fan' of
bodice-ripping novelist Caan, who finds himself in her web of horror after a
car crash landing him in the snow engulfed remote home of his sociopathic,
homicidal nurse who will not take no for an answer.  William Goldman
expertly adapts the Stephen King best seller with a few nice nasty turns
here and there and Rob Reiner gives just enough gruesomeness (watch the
sledgehammer scene a few times; you'll see what I mean) for frightful
flavor.
<|_=00=_|>

"Misery" is one of those films that over-achieves.  The material is not very
good, the plot is somewhat thin, and most of the characters are
one-dimensional.  However, with that said Kathy Bates takes the material and
runs with it all the way to the bank.  This film made her a household name
and provided her with a Best Actress Oscar in 1990.  She stars as a crazed
fan who cares for author James Caan after he's involved in a near-fatal auto
accident in the middle of nowhere.  Quickly her mood goes from cheerful to
downright frightening when she learns that Caan's fictional heroine "Misery"
will die in his newest novel.  Caan's character is not very well developed
and this somewhat stalls the film, but it really does not matter because of
Bates's performance.  All in all, "Misery" is one of Stephen King's novels
that actually plays well on film.  If Bates were taken away, I am not sure
how this film would fare.  Thank goodness we do not have to find out.  4 out
of 5 stars   
