

Great fun!

Jackie Chan brings his brand of physical comedy to Hollywood with another
buddy movie.  Similar to his "Rush Hour" series with Chris Tucker, Chan sets
this one in the American old west and chooses Owen Wilson as his
partner.

I like these better than the Rush Hours.  Tucker and Owen are both excellent
playing opposite Chan in both series, but the Shanghai series seems to offer
Jackie better venues for his elaborate fight sequences.  Saloons, brothels
and even wilderness settings are used with great success.

And make no mistake, the fight sequences are what make (or break) a Jackie
Chan movie.  "Fight sequence" of course means something different in a Chan
movie as opposed to normal action fare.  Rather than true violence, Jackie's
fight scenes are more Vaudeville than "Pulp Fiction".  More Chaplin than Jet
Li.  Each fight is painstakingly choreographed to interact with the set
surrounding it.  Tables, chairs, vases, antlers, shrubbery... the list goes
on.  

A successful Jackie Chan movie seems to contain a comedy-oriented story, a
lightly delivered moral message, and lots of action.  Shanghai Noon
certainly delivers here.

I spent the entire movie either chuckling to myself or laughing out loud,
and had a very satisfied smile when the credits rolled.  Highly
recommended.

7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
It seems this film has been out longer than just six years but I
remember it was one of the first modern-day humorous martial arts films
to be seen in North America. It also introduced a much wider English-
speaking audience to the charm and talents of Asian star Jackie Chan,
who now is well-known everywhere, even if he is getting up in age.

This is considered one of Chan's better films and the setting certainly
is different than normal for him: the American Old West. Good action
scenes, some solid humor, fun characters and nice cinematography are
all the pluses. Chan speaks English so there is no need for dubbing,
either. 

The only "minus" I found was the final action scene going on too long,
but that's typical of films. All in all, this is a very entertaining
movie. Owen Wlson and Lucy Liu also are two big reasons this film
became so popular.
<|_=00=_|>

Final Score: 8.9 (out of 10)

Of all of the `east-meets-west' scenarios Hollywood has concocted to
showcase the talents of international action star Jackie Chan, Shanghai
Noon
turns out to be the most fun and surprisingly fresh yet. His American
partner this time is one blonde haired Owen Wilson in his first big lead
role. Chan and Wilson have more chemistry and are more fun to watch then
Chan and 'Rush Hour' co-star Chris Tucker ever were. Not to mention the
high
concept setting that successfully mixes the buddy comedy, a Hong Kong
martial arts movie and an old American western (the deadest of generas).
It
is the 18th century. Chan is imperial guard Chon Wang who winds up alone
in
the old west searching for the Chinese royal family's kidnapped princess
(Lucy Liu, thankfully with little screen time). Wilson is, and I remember
it
so well because it just sounds like a typical cowboy name, Roy O'Bannon -
a
hapless, 2-bit train robber with an even more incompetent team behind him.
Wilson gets huge laughs with his motor mouth and that constantly befuddled
look on his face. He looks like he'd rather be surfing. It isn't long
before
a series of events throws them together and send each into a little bout
with culture shock. In typical buddy movie style they are at each others
throats one minute and in a tub bonding over drinking games the next.
There
may be a cliché here and there but watching these two bounce off each
other
is so exuberant and entertaining it's hardly noticeable.

'Shanghai Noon' is helmed by first-time director Tom Dey who makes a
remarkable debut. Dey lobs the gags at us, well timed and many times from
the periphery of our vision (something noticeably lost when the movie is
seen in a pan-and-scan version). O'Bannon's first stage coach robbery and
a
scene with a drunken Jackie Chan and his drunken horse are absolute riots.
The movie also has put equal time into the action department. There are a
lot of great fights and action set pieces in here allowing Chan to show
off
his magic. He makes use of ropes, trees, antlers and all sorts of props
when
improvising in some terrific - and even exciting - fight scenes. The
cocktail premise of 'Shanghai Noon' is so original that it is only in
those
patented Chan moments where we are brought back into being aware that this
is `a Jackie Chan vehicle'.  At nearly 2 solid hours the movie threatens
to
drag, but have no fear. It has enough wit and creativity up it's sleeve to
grab our interest and not let go. Many recent action movies are long for
the
sake of it, but Noon makes ample use of it's time to give us a fully
realized and satisfying comedic adventure. And with Dey and two comic pros
like Chan and Wilson driving the antics, Shanghai Noon is a hoot and a
half.


<|_=00=_|>

Pairing Jackie Chan and Owen Wilson together may seem the most unlikely
thing to do since color televisions were first invented. But both of these
actors are funny, in one way or another--Chan through his innocence,
Wilson
through his sarcastic, snide remarks. Wilson is as impressive an actor as
he
is a writer--he shares writing credits on such films as "Rushmore" and
"The
Royal Tenenbaums."

Chan, on the other hand, is a better martial arts master than Jet Li and a
more likable character actor than Chow Yun Fat (whose disastrous film
"Bulletproof Monk" made me want to split his head open to prevent him from
ever making another American mainstream motion picture ever
again).

In "Shanghai Noon," Chan plays Chon Wang, a 19th century Chinese martial
arts master who ventures out to Nevada in order to rescue the kidnapped
Princess Pei Pei (Lucy Liu), whose name is misused by Roy O'Bannon
(Wilson)
on at last one occasion.

After Chon Wang (mistakenly pronounced "John Wayne") meets up with Roy,
the
two decide to form an alliance and rescue the princess -- one for honor,
the
other for loads of money awaiting them upon her safe arrival back home in
Imperial China's Forbidden City.

Roy is a lousy wannabe cowboy who used to stage clumsy train robberies
along
with his band of thieves, who betrayed him and left him for dead. He
offers
his help to Wang, and tries to play it cool, but he can't -- after all,
he's
not a very convincing cowboy. But, as the smarmy wisecracking sidekicks
always are, O'Bannon just wants money. But as his friendship with Chan
grows
stronger, he realizes that money isn't everything.

Sounds routine, doesn't it? Well, it is, to a certain extent. But it
succeeds due to a fine cast -- Chan and Wilson are extraordinarily good
together; so good, in fact, that Chris Tucker is just a forgotten memory
by
the time that the film is over.

It's a classic spin on the Old West formula; what "The Princess Bride" or
"Shrek" did for fairy tales, "Shanghai Noon" does for Westerns. All the
old
cliches are poked fun at in a light way. And as great as Chan is, and as
much as he carries most films he's in with his sweet charms and likable
personas, Wilson comes across as equally likable as Chan.

Chan's martial arts are usually the highlights of these films, but in this
he proves he can do more than just kick -- he can be funny. Well, okay, he
proved that in "Rush Hour" (1998), but I like this better.

The jokes in "Shanghai Noon" aren't "great," but I laughed a lot at this
film. It's smarter than one might think, and is certainly one of the most
enjoyable experiences I've had in quite some time. Probably years. I
wasn't
expecting much (especially because I wasn't an enormous fan of the
sequel--see below), but if fun could be rated on a scale of 1 - 10, this
would be an 11.

I give this film nothing more than four out of five stars because it's not
a
great film on all critical levels. But it's certainly fun--likely more fun
than any film you'll see for quite some time--and for that it will soon be
earning a place in my sacred DVD collection.

I must say that I wasn't a huge fan of "Shanghai Knights," the sequel to
"Shanghai Noon," which involved Chon Wang and Roy O'Bannon venturing to
England in order to save Wang's sister. But after seeing this film I'm
thinking I might just have to pay a small revisit the sequel again.

4/5 stars.

- John Ulmer
<|_=00=_|>

When Princess Pei Pei (Lucy Liu) is kidnapped and taken to American by Lo
Fong (Roger Yuan), the honour guard of The Forbidden City is dispatched to
deliver the ransom and bring her back. Chon Wang (Jackie Chan) accompanies
the guards on their journey and finds himself entangled with Indians,
cowboys and the greedy attentions of train robber Roy O'Brannon (Owen
Wilson).

This is essentially a mismatched buddy movie transferred to the American
West and in that respect it is not exact an original plot, there aren't any
great twists to grab you and a lot of the plot drivers are forced or
predictable. However let's be honest - we're not hear for the plot! As with
the Rush Hour movies, the plot is secondary to the comedy and the fight
scenes.
Here Owen Wilson provides the comedy as the laid back train robber while
Jackie Chan provides the action and the comedy. The strength here is that
this is a little unassuming film that will take you by surprise. The
chemistry between Wilson and Chan is effortless and is as comfortable as the
Chan/Tucker combo. Wilson's character is hilarious in a very easy way - he
is clearly so out of place in the West and partially accepts it but also
wants to be more than he is, as one of the bad guys put it "you're terrible.
How have it made it this long?"

Chan again shows that he is the closest we have to a modern day Chaplin, he
is as good at interacting with Wilson as he is with the physical comedy that
is his trademark. One complaint is that, as with Rush Hour, we could
probably have done with a few more fight scenes. However the comedy more
than fills any voids that are between fights.

Other cast members are little more than excuses for the action. Roger Yuan
and Xander Berkeley provide good baddies (Berkeley especially) but Lucy Liu
is almost in her own little 'serious' movie and doesn't have much to do
except be rescued (although she does show some of her "Charlie's Angels"
potential in a fight scene towards the end).

Overall a gentle enjoyable comedy that is made all the more enjoyable by the
ease by which it succeeds at making you laugh. Chan's fights are a little
less impressive than other films but he excels in the comedy stakes. One
very good thing is the customary outtakes at the end - unlike Rush Hour 2
they are NOT funnier than the rest of the film.

<|_=00=_|>

'Shanghai Noon' is a western-comedy starring Jackie Chan and Owen Wilson.
Chan is Chon Wang (sounds like John Wayne) and Wilson is Roy O'Bannon, a
perfect name for the outlaw he is. Wang is in the USA because he has to save
a princess, played by Lucy Liu. He and O'Bannon have to work together, why
and how is not important at all.

What is important is the fun they have together, and therefore the fun we
have while watching that. We have the usual Jackie Chan martial art and this
time it is combined with the very funny Owen Wilson talking. For some reason
I like him in almost every movie and here he gets at least one laugh in
every scene. Try not to think too much and you must be able to enjoy this
movie as much as I did.
<|_=00=_|>

Jackie Chan does it again; this time with "Shanghai Noon." Unlike his
previous films, Jackie has finally found a sidekick that works well
alongside him and is able to play off of his physical stunts.

"Shanghai Noon" is unlike any other Jackie Chan movie I have seen. It
is his best since "Rush Hour" and is among one of the best all-action
movies that I've seen with an actual plot behind it. 

After watching previous Jackie Chan movies such as "Rush Hour" and
"Rumble In The Bronx, I was expecting to be dazzled with his comedic
talent as well as action filled sequences. I was pleasantly surprised
to learn it had every one of the components and requirements that I
require for a good movie.

Owen Wilson was comedic treat to this film as he added spark to an
already great movie. Other than the cliché plot, "Shanghai Noon" brings
a lot of excellent comedy, dialogue, action, thrills and even a little
romance. I was expecting Owen Wilson to be similar to Chris Tucker, but
in "Shanghai Noon" Wilson proved himself to be much better than other
Jackie Chan sidekicks I've seen him teamed with. 

I was glad I rented this movie so I would be able to recommend it to
everyone.

<|_=00=_|>

Jackie Chan is a master martial artist and stuntman.  Every film he stars in
is an exercise in demonstrating his skill in different, creative ways.  If
you go to see this movie expecting anything different, you'll be sorely
disappointed.

However, if you're a Chan fan, prepare to be amazed once again.  It's not
the same spectacle one would find in previous works such as Rumble in the
Bronx, but impressive nevertheless.  Furthermore, the plot that ties these
action sequences together is better than can be found in most films of the
same genre.  The clash between far east and wild west cultures and
cinematographic stereotypes is amusing enough to keep the film entertaining
throughout, and Chan's own tongue-in-cheek sense of humor makes the piece
that much more delightful to watch.

Don't look for this one at the next Academy Awards, but then that's not what
Jackie Chan is all about, is it.  If you want a couple of hours of mindless
entertainment and spectacle, this is the one to see.
<|_=00=_|>

Spoilers herein.

Martial arts movies have a hard time in the US. There is a small core
audience that likes to see fighting of any type, and a still smaller group
interested in the ballet. So to make the numbers, producers wrap them in
something else: racial commentary, cop buddy movies, the thriller, comedy.
Jackie Chan was always a comedian, but in China, his comedy was in the
actual fights. That won't work here, so he has been forced to search for a
comedy form. And boy he's tried a lot of them and failed.

I think this is his most successful. That's because of Owen Wilson. Owen is
not the type of old fashioned actor who tries to adapt to each role. He's
the John Wayne, Harrison Ford type who markets a personae that people can
exploit if they wish. When Bruce Willis does this, his commodity is a smirk;
he is winking at the audience in a layered conspiracy as if to say: `I'm
acting this stupid role, so chuckle along with me at how stupid it is.' He
didn't pioneer this attitude, but inherited it from Cary Grant, who adapted
it from some of Clark Gable's winks. Willis has spawned a bunch of copies,
some of whom Chan has tried on.

Now along comes Owen Wilson. What Owen sells is a whole next generation of
audience-winking. With him, the attitude is `You and I know this role is
bogus, so lets trash it.' Its the attitude we all know from some guy in
school who made trouble by going along. TeeVee opened a niche for this
attitude in acting, and now Wilson is making a career of it. Stiller does
this too, and that's why `Zoolander' was such a gas; it exploited just this
sort of posing.

I'm amazed at how many places Wilson has made this work. His ironic comedy
of course. But `Minus Man' was made more chilling with him doing his thing,
trashing his own locker. Garofalo is the queen to his king of
selfdeprecation, and made `Minus' work. 

Now consider this film. What works is the completely goofy space Wilson
creates. As an example, that speech to himself at the showdown with the
sheriff: `I'm going to die! No, be the bullet, be the wind, you can do this.
No, I'm going to die!' Interspersed with Chan crushing the posse with a
horseshoe. Its rather clever engineering of mood, and the creative force
behind this film needs to be congratulated. This is Wilson's best comedy, I
think, because we aren't asked to laugh at him. He sets the tone for Chan to
step into so we can laugh at him. Its more comfortable and less risky than
laughing at ourselves.

Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4: Has some interesting elements.
<|_=00=_|>
Perhaps that statement is a bit of an exaggeration, but perhaps I'm on
to something.

The obvious natural and easy chemistry between Jackie Chan and Owen
Wilson went a long way towards endearing this work into my collection.
As a solid fan of Chan's work, I have a modest (in comparison to
hard-core fans) collection of his works. In consideration, I have to
say that...while this attempt, like his other American attempts, does
not exhibit enough of that marvelous comedic fighting style we all know
and love, Shanghai Noon is genuinely enchanting, action packed,
earnest, and entertaining.

Owen Wilson is a natural talent. He brings an honesty to his otherwise
shifty personae in everything he does. Frankly, I'm surprised at some
of the places he has succeeded in making this work for him. He is a
true comedic force on the big screen. 

This work is a rival to other comedy/action teams, and bears a serious
viewing, as I feel it is comparable to my second favorite comedy
western, "Cat Ballou." In case you're interested, "Blazing Saddles" is
my first.

If you enjoyed this, I highly recommend the following:

Jackie Chan: Mr. Nice Guy, Rumble in the Bronx, and Around the World in
80 Days (2004)

Owen Wilson: Anaconda, The Haunting (1999), and the Big Bounce. 

It rates an 8.2/10 from...

the Fiend :.
