
OK this film has virtually no budget for a sci-fi movie and no real
stars to speak of other than Peter 'Robocop' Weller but that doesn't
matter because what it does have is a good story well told. It's a
shame that bigger budget sci-fi productions never seem to remember that
sci-fi should be have an interesting premise and not just throw a few
explosions at the screen every few minutes.

What is on offer in Screamers is a solidly entertaining 1hr 40mins of
sci fi fun, reasonable acting and a great story based on a Phillip K
Dick short. The main idea of screamers is a very scary one a war that
had been taken over by machines that fight on our behalf a war that
can't be stopped.

For sci-fi fans this is a must see, for everyone else it's still
solidly entertaining 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Screamers impressed the heck out of me.  Reviews I'd read of it called it a
"slasher" movie and said that it was highly derivative of other movies, such
as Aliens and Blade Runner.

In fact, I found it to be highly imaginative and original, very much in the
spirit of the Philip K. Dick story that inspired it, pondering the ultimate
meanings of humanity, war and technology.  The scenery and story surrounding
the film were both intriguing: despite the film's low budget, the director
did an excellent job of constructing the devastated planet.  Peter Weller
and Jennifer Rubin turned in excellent performances, and the supporting cast
was also quite good.  Finally, every scene is shot with a real urgency to
it; particularly well done are the nightmarish confrontation 2/3 of the way
through the movie and the poignant and shattering ending.  In short, this is
a very very good movie and well worth renting.  It will stay with you for
quite a while.

Before signing off, I should say something about construing one science
fiction movie as a ripoff of others.  Screamers had elements of its plot
which can be found in other films (ie men and machines, monsters) but it
blends them seamlessly into its own original story.  The mere presence of
identifiable elements from other films has given people ground to criticize
this movie as unoriginal.  By their standards, I don't think it would be
possible at all to make new movies or novels or anything.  These surface
similarities will always be there.  One can argue that the Matrix is merely
an update of Socrates' cave allegory.  In conclusion: ignore the critics and
see Screamers!!
<|_=00=_|>

This movie aptly showed that you don't need a huge budget to make a good
picture, even when that picture is a sci fi.  It wasn't the best movie I've
ever seen, but for crying out loud it was a heck of a lot smarter than
Independence Day and that movie cost a mint.  I had read Phillip K Dick's
'Second Variety', the short story upon which this movie is based, before I
ever saw Screamers, and I didn't realize Screamers was even based on the
story until I watched it.  Being a big fan of the original story I was glad
to see it brought to the screen, and more or less faithfully - I thought
Peter Weller did a great job in this movie, the atmosphere was actually
somewhat as I had imagined it reading the story (they updated it somewhat
by
placing it in a totally different location, since the original story's
wasteland was a result of nuclear war between the U.S. and Russia;
something
which I'm sure seemed plausible at the time it was written but is a little
dated now), and although I don't think they pulled off the sort of paranoia
we saw in The Thing, there was some nice tension as the story unfolded,
although it fell apart a bit at the end.

Bottom line - if you're a sci fi fan sniffing around for some sci fi you
haven't seen but don't want to sit through a total dog, it's not a bad
renter.
<|_=00=_|>

In the future the mining planet Sirius 6B has become a war zone with two
warring factions. The ground is patrolled by underground robots called
Screamers who target anyone not wearing identifying marks. One side receives
a plea for peace negotiations after 10 years of war and discover from a lost
soldier that the war has been forgotten on earth. The two sides have been
left to die on Sirius 6B while another way is started on another planet.
Commander Hendricksson (Weller) sets out with the lost soldier Jefferson
(Lauer) to contact the other side and declare peace. However what they find
will spell the end of their war one way or another.

This is based on a Phillip K. Dick story and has all the intelligence you
would expect from a sci-fi from him - this is not a gory horror movie. This
is an intelligent story about the creation of the Screamers and their
"evolution". It also has a cynical edge lended by the way that the soldiers
have been deserted by their leaders and continue to be tricked into fighting
while the leaders get on with their business.

Weller is excellent as the world weary commander who finds his life sold out
from under him. The supporting cast are OK with their stereotyped characters
but the real stars are the Screamers who start out by small things with
saw-blades and gradually take other forms. The child versions of Screamers
are particularly creepy and perhaps a little disturbing.

However this is not as terrifying as it should be, nor is it as intelligent
as it starts out being.  The whole issue behind the different screamers is
not explained and towards the end they just keep popping up without reason! 
It also has one of those "watch out for the sequel" style endings - although
in fairness it isn't quite as bad as that.  The special effects are a bit
ropey but do the job - after all this is a very low budget
movie.

The whole thing is not as good as it could have been but is certainly head
and shoulders above a lot of low budget sci-fi thrillers.
<|_=00=_|>
Screamers is a futuristic Sci-Fi Horror set on another planet, Sirius
6B. The film starts off very poorly with a narrative spoken in a
robotic voice, indicating that Screamers will be no more than Z-grade
garbage. Luckily, Screamers proves to be a respectable, suspense filled
film that superbly displays the extremes of raw human emotions.

Screamers always has the advantage that it was written by Philip K.
Dick, the author whose stories lead to Blade Runner, Total Recall and
Minority Report. Whilst Screamers is no way in the same league as these
films, it is much more thought provoking and gripping than other Sci-Fi
films on a similar budget. The pace at which the plot moves is
extremely intense; it seizes the attention of the audience and leaves
them waiting for the next scene. The relationships between each
character are all very compelling; every character has their own little
story which ensures Screamers does not become one dimensional.

Peter Weller is excellent in his role as Hendrickson. I've only seen
him in Robocop so it is good to know he is not simply good at playing a
robot. His character is complex as he misses earth, yet has submitted
to being stuck on Sirius 6B. His relationship with Jessica (Jennifer
Rubin) develops wonderfully throughout the film and is a good contrast
to the horror taking place. Jennifer Rubin also puts on a great
performance as her character starts as a mystery and gradually opens up
in to someone the audience really cares for.

The "Screamers" are a tremendous idea as underground defence robots who
adapt to produce a new, human looking batch of screamers. The sound
they make is very chilling and really brings up the hairs on the back
of your neck; this is greatly reflected in the characters reactions on
hearing the screams. Sadly, poor stop motion effects mean it is a
disappointment when it comes to seeing the screamers attack but it is
not hard to overlook special effects for a good story.

It is a shame Screamers wasn't given more budget as it had potential to
be a truly great film. I don't care about special effects very much but
I feel the films vision could have been realised more if there was more
money in this area. Also some of the sets are poorly designed as there
appears to be a lack of effort in some places. The outlook is supposed
to be bleak but the director does little to emphasise this.

Possibly the best thing about Screamers is the end. With paranoia
levels reaching those in The Thing, the twist at the end is very
surprising and tense. Weller and Rubin really shine in these scenes and
do well to affect the audience's emotions. The script, which is good
throughout, is also especially good in the final sequence.

With more money behind it and better direction, Screamers would be a
Sci-Fi classic, as it is, Screamers is an underrated, well acted, great
story.
<|_=00=_|>

Obviously most people didn't think this movie to be much anything special,
although I tend to disagree. I thought this movie was probably one of the
best sci-fi films in years that I've seen. Peter Weller (best known as
RoboCop) is also a very under-rated actor who deserves some good roles
these
days. The only problem with this movie was the very poorly done special fx.
I'm sure if this movie would have been given a bigger budget it would have
done better in theaters.
<|_=00=_|>

Based on a Phillip K. Dick story (the writer of "Do Androids Dream of
Electric Sheep," which was the background for "Blade Runner") this movie
delivers, but suffers because of the apparently tight budget. Some scenes in
here reminded me of the original "Star Trek" episodes, where the production
crew had to become quite inventive to get effects on an almost non-existing
budget.

So movies low on money have to rely on their scripts and on good actors, and
"Screamers" has them both. The story and its subplots could serve for three
movies and especially Peter Weller showed a superb performance here.
Generally there are some weaknesses, but they can be forgiven, if you allow
yourself to get into the story.

If you have enough of FX loaded movies that cover their thin plot with a
multitude of explosions, then give it a try.
<|_=00=_|>

Under rated, scary, yes, even creepy. I LIKE IT! I rented the DVD years
ago, and look to buy it for my collection... to put next to my soldier and
starship troopers dvds, no less. Petter Weller carried the movie. No doubt
about it.
The whiny, phsycologically scarred soldier from the NEBs was far better
tolerated than Mr "Game over man!" from Aliens (bill paxton at  his
unusual
worst).
This movie deserved a better budget, but was well made within what they
had. Yes, I see the static back drops... a far cry from the dynamic CG
animated ones we have grown used to in recent films. However, the "Outer
Limits" style of cinematogrophy worked well for me. Okay, everyone just
getting up and dusting themselves off after launching a mini-nuke into
their
kid-infested base was unrealistic and could have been portrayed
better.
The David screamer caught me off guard from the beginning, I didn't
suspect
anything until he was shot. And the chick? classic move. The teady bear at
the end was UBER CREEPY... and begs for a WELL DONE sequel... with Peter
Weller... or else don't even try.
Mark this as one of my favorite unsung movies. A must see for the SCI-FI
afficianado. 
<|_=00=_|>
Another highly entertaining sci-fi film based on a Philip K. Dick short
story which I have subsequently read; and I agree with other reviewers
that the movie is true to the story for the most part.

Have yet to view a movie based on a Dick story that wasn't enjoyable,
e.g., Blade Runner, Minority Report. If you liked either of those
movies,you will enjoy this movie for its intelligent entertainment.

Weller's character Hendricksson is fairly straight forward as a
disenchanted commander believing that his command has been abandoned
and that their battles on this outpost planet have been made irrelevant
by the higher authorities. Consequently, Hendricksson sets out to bring
a truce proposal to the enemy forces.

But technology gone awry rears its ugly head in the form of
self-manufacturing killing devices known as the screamers named for
their high pitched sound just before they slice and dice humans.
<|_=00=_|>

For the few who happen to be fans 
of Peter Weller, this is certainly one 
to hang onto. A great little film that is
 just as brutal and vicious as any 
movie by Paul Verhoeven. I was 
surprised Verhoeven didn't direct a 
film like this. A little cheesy, but often 
times interesting, Screamers  is a 
little film I like quite a bit. The funny 
thing is, I liked this film, even though 
I had watched Twelve Monkeys just 
a couple hours earlier (I did a little 
theater hopping). A cool little film 
with a freaky ending.
