

If this quirky British comedy could be summed up in a word, that word
would
be "charming".

The story is a simple, low-budget British one: two orphans scam as many
people as they can for as much money as they can in an effort to buy the
stately home they always dreamed of as children.

Everything is going swimmingly, until they join forces with a typist,
Georgie (the perfect Kate Beckinsale), and the plot leads on from
there...

The acting is perfect for the film, neither overstated nor low key, and
suits the plot and style very well.  The direction is quirky, but makes no
new ground, and also fits the script to a tee.

This film would be great viewing for a date (perhaps not for a lads night
in), and has the simple comedy you might expect from such classic British
TV
series as "Only Fools and Horses", or "Last of the Summer
Wine".

It doesn't require much brain power, but is one of the best homegrown
(British) comedies of recent(ish) years.
<|_=00=_|>

I first saw this at the cinema, believe it or not, purely on the strength of
the fact that it uses 'Me And You Versus the World' by Space as the title
music. I'm so glad that I did.

The film is a lightweight romp with implausible but thoroughly likeable
characters. It isn't a thought provoking piece of angst, but then it never
ever professes to be.

I now own this on dvd, and after several watches it still remains fresh and
engaging and never fails to put a smile on my face.

There's no individual outstanding component in this film, but it's one that
I just *keep* coming back to. Superb fun.
<|_=00=_|>

I have seen this film so many times and never get sick of it. The casting
is
brilliant with Dan Futterman and Stuart Townsend in fantastic
performances.

The plot is quite original following Dylan and Jez - two English con
artists
who are tricking people out of their money by selling voice recognition
computers and other false devices. They need two million dollars to buy the
house they never had - having grown up as orphaned children. On one of
their
scams they employ a secretary and medical student named Georgie, who is
convinced they are raising money for an orphans project. This adds romantic
themes into the story to make it even more entertaining. A stand out is the
interesting relationship that Dylan and Jez have with each other, Dylan
being the fast talking American and Jez being the British techno genius.

I recommend 'Shooting Fish' to all movie-goers. It has a great soundtrack,
is funny, romantic, creative and a great achievement for British
filmmaking.
<|_=00=_|>

Shooting Fish was something I got out on a risk, you know.....no other
film in video store, take a chance.

It proved to be a wise decision as the film was very funny, two great
opposites for the main male characters and the stunning kate beckinsale
acted the part wonderfully.

The film has no slow points, but does not rush things, the accompanying
music is very good and acting first class.

I would recommend this film to anyone
<|_=00=_|>

	Take a couple of con men who see an opportunity to separate a mark from his
money in just about everything, throw in an attractive young woman with an
altruistic agenda, blend together for about ninety-three minutes and the
result is `Shooting Fish,' an amiable, entertaining comedy, directed by
Stefan Schwartz.  It's the story of two guys who grew up in orphanages on
opposite sides of the ocean, Dylan (Dan Futterman) in America, Jez (Stuart
Townsend) in England; and who, by the time they had reached the age of
consent, had each been endowed with a particular talent: Dylan has the gift
of gab, Jez is a technical wizard.  Dylan's gift has quickly gotten him into
hot water with the wrong kind of people, however, and to stay healthy (read:
 `Alive') he flees to England, where he meets Jez.  And it's a
friendship/partnership born in scam/scheme heaven.  If there's a way to make
a fast buck, they know it-- from selling bogus computers, to selling
insulation for homes that's never installed, to entering any and every
contest that comes down the pike.  If there's a nickel in it, they're
in.

	Then one day they hire a girl from the temp pool to help them out with one
of their scams.  Georgie (Kate Beckinsale) is beautiful, smart, and has a
cause she's trying to fund, so she needs the job; but from day one she's on
to what Dylan and Jez are trying to pull.  She stays on board, however, when
Dylan convinces her that they are something like modern day Robin Hoods--
that the money they're `raising' is going to orphans.  What he doesn't tell
her is that the `orphans' he's referring to is them.  And Dylan is a born
salesman-- not to mention the fact that he's a real charmer-- and the three
of them become a real team.  

	Schwartz delivers a film that is in no way exceptional nor particularly
memorable, but it is entertaining.  It's exactly what it promises to be:  a
diverting hour and a half or so that provides some laughs and a good time. 
It's pleasant fare that's inoffensive and features some engaging
performances and a story that will keep you involved.  There are a couple of
scenes, in fact, that are downright hilarious.  And Schwartz has good timing
and sets a pace that keeps it all moving right along, which, when you add it
all up, makes for a satisfying, enjoyable experience.

	Futterman has a winning personality and a resonant, mesmerizing voice that
fits his character perfectly.  Dylan is the salesman you hope you'll never
meet, because if you do, chances are you'll walk away with the deed to the
bridge.  He's a likable heel, convincingly brought to life by Futterman (who
is probably best known for his role of Vincent Gray in the `Judging Amy' TV
series).  It's a good performance, and one of the strengths of the
film.

	As Jez, Townsend does a fine job, too, and though he's overshadowed a bit
by Dylan-- intentionally the flashier of the two-- Jez is the one who
secures the sympathy of the audience.  After all, this is the guy who at
least seems a bit remorseful as he's taking other people's money and trust. 
And it's interesting to compare Townsend's fairly reserved performance here
with his role of the vampire Lestat in the more recent `Queen of the
Damned.'  He's a fine young actor whose style contrasts nicely with
Futterman, and along with Beckinsale they make quite the team of scam
artists.

	The one who draws the attention, however, is the lovely and charismatic
Kate Beckinsale, who is beguiling in the role of Georgie.  She makes her
character accessible, and plays her with a savvy, rather than naive
sensibility, and it's a portrayal that works well.  Most importantly, she
makes Georgie real, with a winsome appeal that makes you care about her and
what happens to her.  She's the most grounded of the trio, and it's her
character that keeps the story within the realm of credibility.  This may
not be the stuff Oscars are made of, but it's an enjoyable, engaging
performance that will win you over, without question.

	The supporting cast includes Rowena Cooper (Jez's Teacher), Myles Anderson
(Jez, aged 8), Jacob Macoby (Dylan, aged 8), Jane Lapotaire (Dylan's
Headmistress), Tom Chadbon (Mr. Greenaway), Phyllis Logan (Mrs. Ross), Peter
McNamara (Geoff), Arabella Weir (Mrs. Stratton-Luce), Nickolas Grace (Mr.
Stratton-Luce) and Claire Cox (Floss).  An easy-going comedy with enough
twists and turns to keep you on your toes, `Shooting Fish' is a solid, feel
good film that will put a smile on your face and provide a pleasant
evening's entertainment.  And in the final analysis, that's not such a bad
deal; and it's all a part of the magic of the movies.  I rate this one
7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Normally when it comes to voting for movies on the IMDb, I'm quite
liberal. I don't set very high standards for movies. I always tend to
rate films based on how much I enjoy them and this means that most of
the time I always rate films highly cos I try and find something good
in every film I see. I saw this film when I was vacationing in England.
BBC One actually transmitted this at 11 PM, since they believed that
The Peacemaker was a film more deserving of the 9:00 slot. Unlike the
Peacemaker, Shooting Fish is a film that almost anybody would enjoy,
unless he/she was the kind of person who found simple effective
storytelling a turnoff.

Everything about this movie seems in perfect harmony. The chemistry
between Dan Futterman and Stuart Townsend is perfect, word for word.
And Kate Beckinsale is a perfect third piece to the puzzle; When the
conversations in the movie occur, you never get the feeling you're
watching a contrived conversation written by someone else, you get the
feeling you're watching real life unfold. That's a hallmark of a good
scriptwriter and the people who wrote this deserve credit for the
story.

As for the story itself, it never lets itself become too complicated
and lends itself to a lot of funny situations. Fast-talking Dylan and
socially naive Jez (Futterman and Townsend) are two con men trying to
raise money to build their dream house. They end up enlisting
Georgina's (short-haired Kate Beckinsale in a beautiful role from her
pre-Hollywood Glamourpuss days) help on a particular scam. Soon she
discovers what they're up to and the story unfolds from there, with
both Dylan and Jez seemingly falling for Georgie. Here again, the movie
doesn't nosedive and morph into a conventional love story; rather, the
romance builds in a backdrop to the main story and culminates in a
heartwarming finale. As for Dan and Jez, some of their schemes may not
be very believable and yet you cant help but be amused by the way they
go about implementing them. 

This film is a good reason why small budget comedy romances are popular
- simply put, they work. On every level. Watching this film gives you
the same kind of feeling as watching While you were Sleeping, for
example. For the sheer sweetness of the film and for Kate Beckinsale's
performance, I'd give it 7 on 10.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is brilliant. The scams these guys pull are 
genius and the comic timing is superb. The first scam 
deals with artificial intelligence and the exaggeration grows 
as they scam more people. The lead American actor is 
really handsome, too.  This one is right up there with Lock, 
Stock and 2 Smoking Barrels, except without the violence.
<|_=00=_|>

So I just caught this movie, years after it first came out.... and loved
it!
The lead characters are perfectly cast, complimenting each others
performances wonderfully throughout. Ok, so I knew from scene one that it
was all going to turn out for the best in the end, but it was the sort of
movie where I didn't care! Great comedy situations, and strong writing
ensured a thoroughly enjoyable experience. N.B - No review of this film
would be complete without a mention of the fantastic soundtrack. From 60's
American, past 90's Britpop, and culminating in the utterly magical
workings
of Neil Hannon - it was a joy to listen to.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is simply great.  While it perhaps lacks a larger social
message,
other than the simple "do good with what you have", it is a smart, funny
movie which definitely has its moments, both cinematic and dramatic.  The
rags to riches story of two orphan con men: one, a genius Brit, the other,
the American spin doctor.  Together they engage in "shooting fish", or
fleecing rich people of their extra cash, in order to buy themselves the
lavish house they've each coveted because of their simple upbringing.  The
story is fun and engaging, the characters seem very very real, and the
different cons they pull off together are extremely funny.  I won't give
away any of the story, except to say that the has a nice, unexpected
twist.
An excellent date movie, or even to take in with a couple of close
friends.
You may not laugh out loud the whole time like you did at "There's
Something
About Mary" or other slapstick comedies, but you'll definitely be smiling
the whole time, and by the time the credits role you'll simply be in a
much
better mood than you were when you started.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie by Stefan Schwartz (co-written with Richard Holmes) thinks it is
cleverer than it actually is, and comes out as an odd hybrid of crime caper
and romance.

Two conmen - the charmless Dan Futterman as American Dylan, and geeky Stuart
Townsend as Jez - have long-standing dreams of making lots of cash by any
means to fund their very own stately home.  Posh totty Kate Beckinsale as
Georgie (a doctor-in-training with secretarial skills) joins them as the
beauty and brains of the team and causes havoc between
them.

Involved in this semi-engaging brew are voice recognition computer systems,
cremation, loft insulation, blow-up dolls, light sabres, a tatty old
racehorse, £50 bills, and the music of Burt Bacharach.  Glimpsed in the cast
are Phyllis Logan, Annette Crosbie, Peter Capaldi, Jane Lapotaire, Nickolas
Grace, Nicholas Woodeson, and (in a small but wickedly funny role as
Georgie's boyfriend) Dominic Mafham.

'Shooting Fish' is fairly enjoyable but tends to shoot itself down quite
early on, without much chance of recovering.  Does it know what it is
supposed to be?  An idea with potential and some laughs, but this movie
doesn't know which way to jump. 
