
52. DRAGON: The Bruce Lee story (action, 1993) A re-telling of the life
of legendary martial-arts star Bruce Lee (Jason Scott Lee). From his
brief childhood days in Hong Kong, to his days as a dishwasher,
martial-arts teacher and eventual cinema superstar in Hollywood.

Critique: The life and death of Bruce Lee has inspired many a film and
documentaries since his death. Most of these accounts center around
Lee's 'mysterious' death from a 'brain edema', never developing
anything really new of interest, just speculations. Incredibly it took
over 20 years for a film to finally put to rest the many theories and
innuendo. 

"Dragon" is by far the best of the legendary Lee story, not only for
omitting the many death scenarios but also for giving us the closest
account of the man. Apart from these welcome omissions, the film
wouldn't have worked without Jason Scott Lee in the role. He gives a
spirited, charismatic performance that captures the zest for life that
Lee possessed. It's a long way from one of his first 'extra' roles as
an Asian immigrant in the rather forgetful "Born in East L.A." (1988).
Scott Lee is totally appealing here, taking on such a legendary figure
and making us believe that Lee is truly up there once again on the
screen. 

The film's major theme of the "demon curse" Lee's family inherited, had
a frighteningly real resonance when, after the movie premiered, Lee's
eldest son Brandon (for whom the film is dedicated) was accidentally
killed on the set of "The Crow". This would prove to be his breakout
film, just the same way Lee's last film, "Enter the Dragon", made him a
world wide superstar. This gives the film an added prophetic note that
puts it in a category all its own. 

Based on wife Linda Lee Cadwell's book, "Bruce Lee: the man only I
knew", directed with skillful restraint by Rob Cohen (who also
co-scripted). Randy Edelman created the unforgettable musical score
(you'll be humming the tune long after you hear it).

QUOTES: Linda: "All these years later people still wonder about the way
he died. I prefer to remember the way he lived."
<|_=00=_|>
This film as a stand alone kung fu movie would be worthy of your
attention, as it is very enjoyable and well made. The thing that makes
it special is Jason Scott Lee's portrayal of the legend that is Bruce
Lee.

He successfully captures his mannerisms, attitude and even his fighting
style, extremely convincingly (a truly remarkable feat of acting
ability.)

Although dramatised to heighten your viewing pleasure, the story
actually follows the events in Bruce Lee's life and shows us the man
behind the martial arts, covering his inner turmoils and personal
struggles as well as his famous physical ability.

A great movie, befitting the legend that is Bruce Lee.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Once you became a Bruce Lee addict and begin seeing and reading the numerous
different biographies and biopics, you're going to realise that DRAGON has
quite a bit of fiction in it - and in the bits you don't really expect it
to.  For example, Lee approached Raymond Chow's Golden Harvest production
company to make a marital arts movie, not the other way round and Chow isn't
even the guy!  Also, due to Lee's 'mysterious' death, the film also doesn't
really an idea of how its going to wrap it all up.  Therefore, the film is
the perfect example of the word 'vivid'.

However, what makes Dragon the fine film that it is is that it decides to
look at the two lesser-known aspects which dominated Lee's life - his long,
ongoing 'battles' with an inner-demon and of course the racism of sixties
America.  These are managed and brought to the screen extremely well
although to be fair they aren't particularly well developed.

The highlights would have to be the performances of Jason Scott Lee as Bruce
and Lauren Holly as his devoted wife, Linda.  They share a remarkable
chemistry together and are certainly a credit to their subjects.  This
review probably hasn't made Dragon sound like a very good movie.  Well if
that's the case, then please think the opposite. 
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was amazing. Before I saw this movie, I had an idea of who
Bruce
Lee was. I knew he was one of the greatest martial arts masters of all
time
and I knew he was in a couple of movies. But, I had know idea about the
kind
of man he was and the struggles he had to go through. He is, in my eyes,
an
amazing human being with an unimaginable amount of courage and a whole lot
of heart. This movie showed me that much. The score is also one of the
best
I have heard in my life. All in all, this movie is an inspiring take on a
legend's life. Great story, great music, great human being.... What more
can
I say? Amazing!

A solid 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

This is a great movie. Nice action scenes, nice soundtrack, nice photo...But
it's not a biography of the greatest fighter of all time: Bruce Lee. I am a
big fan of Bruce and I know his life from A to Z, and this is not what I saw
in that movie. I could tell all the mistakes I saw in the movie but here's
just a few: In the movie: he is a unique child Reality: He had one brother
and two sisters and he didn't live with his father only, he had his mother.
He didn't leave Hong-Kong because of the cops (what the?...) he left because
he wanted to be famous. And please! What is that story of the ghost from the
depts of hell?!?!?

 No, if you want to make a great action movie, good, go ahead, the right way
to do it. But if you want to make a bio of a true legend, please tell the
true story.

 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
The story told in the movie is really excellent and entertaining.
However it feels more like a story based on the life of Bruce Lee
rather then an actual biopic of his life.

Jason Scott Lee perfectly plays Kung Fu legend Bruce Lee. Not only the
way he plays Lee is impressive but also his fighting skills.

The music by Randy Edelman was also surprising good. 

There are way too many fictitious and untrue things added in the movie
to be considered a fair biography. But does it really matter for the
movie? It's like "Ed Wood" that was also filled with altered things and
false truths but still it was a movie that told us the story of an
unique character and what drove him. "Dragon: The Bruce Lee Story"
isn't much different in that way. OK it's not completely fair to
compare this movie to "Ed Wood" since that was a far superior movie to
"Dragon: The Bruce Lee Story" (what a horrible title by the way).

The fight sequence are probably the best thing about the movie and they
were highly entertaining, although very hard to believe that they
actually really happened that way.

It's a good entertaining movie but if you want to get to know more
about Bruce Lee this isn't the best material for you to start with.

7/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>

Very Good But Horribly Inaccurate Account Of His Life

If you are watching this as someone who has no knowledge of Bruce Lee's
life
then this is a good fun action film but someone who knows the history and
the story of his life may be dissapointed as this is not at all accurate.
And knowing Bey Logan, he must cringe watching this. The film depicts
Bruce's early childhood in Hong Kong, his teenage years in the US right
way
through to his eventual death in 1973. The element that I think drags this
film down the most is the mythological side of it, if it had just been a
realistic account of his life without the myths and demons, it would have
faired much better. There are many innacurate scenes and occurences in
this
film which understandably makes the film more exciting for mainstream
audiences but as a Bruce fan myself i wish they would have stuck to what
actually happened. I wish there were more scenes where Bruce was on set of
one of his films, like Way Of The Dragon or Fist Of Fury. There could have
been more scenes with Bruce with Yip Man or Brandon. There could have been
scenes of Bruce being challenged on the street in his infamous street
fights, the episode of the green hornet they portrayed i don't think was
an
actual episode. And Bruce was not injured by the fighter at the martial
arts
challenge in Chinatown it was when he was weightlifting and pulled his
back
out. But the fight scenes are well choreographed.

Jason Scott Lee has got his portrayal of the man spot on, he brings the
right amount emotion and power to the role, he's clearly done his research
on Bruce's mannerism's and got himself in shape for the role as well as
training for the fight scenes. Its hard to imagine anyone else who could
have played the role, maybe Jet Li who at the time the film was made was
30
and roughly the right age to play Bruce, but Jet spoke very little
English.
Lauren Holly is equally as good in her role as Linda. The strong
portrayals
are in many ways successful because of the on set help of the real Linda
and
Shannon(who makes a cameo as a singer). The music is perhaps the film's
strongest part, somehow the main score seems to catch the right emotion of
Bruce's death and Brandon's death in 1993. I like the way the film
captures
the aura of Bruce Lee.

There will indeed never be another Bruce Lee. I find it fascinating to
imagine what Bruce would have done if he had lived, the 80's and 90's
would
have been very different if Arnie, Stallone, Wiilis, Seagal and Van Damme
had Bruce to compete with, Bruce is sometimes critcised for being a bad
actor, but i disagree, if anyone has seen his episodes of `Longstreet' or
`Marlowe' they will see that Bruce could convincingly carry a dramatic
scene
given the right script and no dubbing and he oozed charisma, and he showed
glimpses of good acting in Enter The Dragon.

Being a Bruce fan i kind of wish that Jet Li would do the films that bruce
did or was planning on doing, Jet's early work in Honk Kong like the
Shaolin
Temple or more recent stuff like Fist Of Legend(remake of Fist Of Fury)
and
Once Upon A Time In China was very promising and it seemed he was the
successor to Bruce but instead now he's doing crap in Hollywood with DMX
and
Jason Statham. Strangely the mediocre Lethal Weapon 4 is Jet's best
Hollywood film, Maybe Jet should do a project with John Woo, it would be
interesting and they'd probably get the best out of each other.


<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Yes, detractors, I have heard that many of the incidents in Linda's
biography of Bruce are apocryphal, yet this is a great tribute to the
legend. It shows what is often missed in lesser biographies of Lee: his
great spirituality. The movie was never intended to be pure fact, in
honor of Bruce, it incorporates the Chinese mysticism that was part of
his reality. It opens with the small Bruce already being chased by the
demon that was to destroy so much of his family. His father sends him
to America, in part, to hide him from the demon. It follows his
education and eventual marriage to his wife Linda. Meritoriously, it
shows Lee fighting to the death to be allowed to teach non-Chinese. His
philosophy is here, the famous comparison to water: That you should
become like the nature of water when you fight, changing, flowing and
adapting to your opponent and eschewing fixed stances and forms as
straight-jackets that wreck the free dance like nature of physical
combat. What I love about this movie is what you see others above me
decry: its spirituality. Yes, for those empiricists who believe that
the 12% of the light they can see from the sun contains all of the
known universe's secrets, you will laugh also. For those who think the
other 88%, that we cannot see, may hold unknowns that we shouldn't rule
out with typical humanistic hubris. 

The spiritual part of Lee's life, the tragedy that befell Brandon and
others of his family, Cohen integrates this into the story. The demon
appears in America soon after Lee gets settled in. For me, Jason Scott
Lee effects a remarkable transformation into the likeness of Bruce.
Admittedly, he is much taller and wider but he mimics Bruce's cat like
noises and stances very well. My favorite scene is the last one where
Bruce mounts the high wall, all the warriors stop their Katas and
salute the legend. The other feature is the one also attacked: the
crippling back injury. This is here to show you the other often unknown
trait of Lee's: his legendary training and endurance of pain forging
himself into the ultimate warrior. The movie is not all surface, it
addresses the racism towards Chinese both in the film world and
everyday American culture (the eternal wait for the table). Lee is
idealized but he is shown losing his temper and driving his family away
with his eternal quest to become a film star. We see his creation 'Kung
Fu' put on television with an American actor rather than Lee. 

The fights are well staged and Jason's physique shows you the work he
put into honoring Bruce with his role. The racism is present and dealt
with but it never overcomes the narrative: Cohen shows Bruce viewing it
as just another obstacle he has to overcome. It is a fitting tribute
for it shows the Dragon's spirituality, his singular determination and
his overcoming of all the impediments in his way. I liked Scott Lee in
Soldier but he is even better here in a far more demanding role. It is
not an easy thing to portray a legend, Jason Scott Lee renders him as a
deeply spiritual, loving warrior. When you last see that iconic image
of the sun behind Lee, as all the warriors bow, he was so much more
than a martial artist. His spirit is what this film captures, his wish
to train others to become fearless warriors, to overcome prejudice and
preconceptions of others different from ourselves, and, above all, his
transcending to become not just the hero of China but the legend of the
world's. I applaud Jason Scott Lee for the courage to take a role that
could have led to great danger and disgrace if he had bungled it. He
acquits himself masterfully, I think the Dragon would have loved it.
His spirit lives on inside all of us who admire the great master. As a
philosopher, I often look upon his poster to remind me that we are all
warriors in this life. A Good Movie. Q.E.D. 

"When Life Gives You Obstacles You Must Summon The Courage And Walk
On." Bruce Lee
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers, clichés and big dumb white guys abound.

Bruce Lee was an artisan, an innovator, an indomitable warrior, a
genius. Inspiring many to create tributes to him, it unfortunately does
not follow that those inspired to create these tributes are creative
enough or qualified enough to do those tributes justice. Such is the
case with Dragon: The Bruce Lee Story.

Not really a story about Bruce Lee, more the story of an invented
character from the Cliché Handbook of Action Film Heroes (Body-Oil
Edition). And not so much a "tribute" as a "gratuitous insult";
excepting Jason Scott Lee's physical prowess and the overwhelming
hotness of Lauren Holly, the film boasted absolutely no redeeming
qualities. And lots of body-oil. 

The dramatic contrivance of the "po-boy-immigrates-and-makes-good" was
bad enough, even if it were true (which it is not) but then, in a film
where "assault and battery" assumes a form of high art in the hands of
the film's protagonist, we viewers are summarily assaulted and battered
by the artlessness of the film-makers who opted for cliché over
substance at every turn.

In Lee's first fight at the prom, he conveniently loses his shirt (a la
Vintage Kirk) – beneath the shirt, judiciously body-oiled like a seal
at a massage parlor, big dumb white sailors not so much being beaten up
by him as sliding off his pecs like penguins and hitting their heads on
the floor.

The gym scene, and more big dumb white guys (and a token black guy)
assault Lee for no reason – remember that these were simple bygone
days, when big dumb white guys were unaware that Every Asian Person
Knows Kung Fu.

Clichés for breakfast, lunch and dinner: We've got the mother who
doesn't approve, the searing hot white chick love interest, the
battered loft converted into the martial arts school, the racism, the
idiot antagonists attacking the hero with meat cleavers (which they
never think to THROW at him), the kung fu veterans ordering Bruce to
stop teaching – or else - ! We've got the obligatory husband & wife
confrontation (once again the wife bitching as her husband achieves a
fame that she can only ride the coat-tails of: "I don't know who you
ARE anymore!" – how about "the guy who keeps you wealthy and your
social status high"?). Even if many of these aspects were marginally
accurate (such as his wife truly being the ideal 70s stunner), the
storyline unfolded in such a PG-13 paint-by-numbers format that one
couldn't help but question the veracity of its dramatic elements.

Then there's the goofy Black Knight character that haunts Bruce's
dreams, proving beyond a doubt that the film-makers were higher than
the publicist who engineered Janet Jackson's "wardrobe malfunction".
Besides the fact that this was an insulting dramatic metaphor for the
mystery surrounding Lee's untimely demise, how dare the film-makers
presume that this metaphysical nonsense in any way rationalizes,
palliates or absolves the misfortune of Bruce's passing? 

Enter the Bad Guy combatant – we can tell he's the Bad Guy on accounta
his scowl and ominous theme music, and his body-oil is a whole inch
thicker - and Bruce's debilitating cliché-defeat at his hands, achieved
by CHEATING on the Bad Guy's part, of course. It's all true. Hollywood
tells us so. 

Then we are treated to the obligatory montage of the Hero regaining his
prowess through his Iron Will and jump-cut editing – all due to his HOT
WIFE'S pep talk - yes, if it weren't for bony, bossy Linda Lee, we'd
never have Jeet Kune Do or Enter The Dragon.

Bruce's book, The Tao of Jeet Kune Do, was published posthumously – but
in this film, he miraculously receives a copy while recovering from his
bogus back injury – a miracle only Hollywood could achieve. We cannot
even disregard the fallacies of this movie and focus on the broad
strokes to glean Bruce's life story, for those broad strokes themselves
are indiscernibly shrouded in misinformation.

Much like Capricorn One, another film which insulted the viewer from
frame one to conclusion, with misinformation and egregious stupidity
sprinkled so liberally throughout its makeup that one could not find
any one point to logically start unraveling the threads of idiocy,
Dragon bludgeons viewers with the unsubtle thematic gist that we are
all obviously congenital idiots for watching it in the first place.

One such example of just how IGNINT the film-makers believe us to be is
the scene in which we are made privy to the methods on how to film a
movie, with the fight scene on the "last day of filming on The Big
Boss". With just ONE tripod-mounted camera, they captured no less than
43 camera angles, and also captured slow motion shots without once
loading different-speed film! Then, apparently you have to open the
clapper and rip the film out and throw it on the ground in order to
develop it, which is what Bruce does. Very informative! And all true,
of course. Hollywood tells us so.

It seems ironic that these film-makers, who attempted to portray a
pioneer who fought to elevate the martial arts film above that of
B-Movie schlock, unwittingly created B-Movie schlock in the process.
Though their intentions may have started out sincere (which I doubt),
what is left on the screen is a rancid marketing vehicle cashing in on
Bruce's fame, rather than what might have been a much more interesting,
entertaining - AND THEREFORE even more commercially-successful -
exploration of Lee's life and times, adversities and triumphs.

We can only hope that one day there will be a more reverent, less
body-oiled, more factual movie to celebrate the life and achievements
of The Little Dragon.

(Movie Maniacs, visit: www.poffysmoviemania.com)
<|_=00=_|>

I really liked Jason Scott Lee's portrayal of Bruce Lee, but I noticed
many
inaccuracies in the story. If I had not seen the AMC special on Lee last
year, I would not have a problem.

-according to Linda Lee, Bruce was not hurt when competing for the right
to
teach whoever he wanted to. He hurt himself when he didn't stretch
properly
for a workout in 1970. That was the big inaccuracy

-Bruce auditioned for another role in early 1965 before the role of Kato
was
offered to him.

- other roles he took in America were completely ignored: "Marlowe", his
appearances on "Longstreet", etc...the movie went right from 1967 to 1972
within a minute

If you want to see a really good special on Lee, as well as see lost
footage from a project that was butchered after he died, check out the AMC
documentary.

-
