
I'm slightly puzzled as to some of the harsher comments featuring
BOILING POINT . I will confess that it's not a thriller classic but I
will defend it against the accusation that it's a terrible movie Red (
Dennis Hopper ) is released from prison and owes some mafia types money
and so is given a seven day ultimatum . Jimmy ( Wesley Snipes - And no
early 90s urban thriller is complete without Wesley Snipes )loses a
friend in the course of duty and the audience instantly know that these
two unconnected characters will tie in with the plot somehow - And they
do in a script that while not being the most tightly plotted screenplay
you will ever see since there's a few too many characters involved is
at least undemanding and easy to follow .

On the style front it's not exactly in the same league as HEAT but
probably contains more substance than an episode of MAIMI VICE while we
also get to see an early supporting role from Viggo Mortenson . I rate
BOILING POINT six out of ten
<|_=00=_|>

Wesley snipes as a detective out to find his partners murderer and Dennis
hopper as a man on the run from the mob.. the two stories interweaving
until
they both cross paths and one meets a violent end.. an ok suspense action
flick with good acting by snipes and hopper in an understated role
Davidovich plays her part well as an ill fated lover but there is just not
enough for all the talent to work with ...overall a disappointment..
on a scale of one to ten ..a 4
<|_=00=_|>
With everyone battling each other over this movie, I just had to put my
own say in it as well.

Boiling Point is a movie that I got for free on a giveaway shelf.
There's a reason it was on that shelf.

Boiling Point has less action than any other Wesley Snipes movie I've
ever seen. A documentary about real boiling points would've had more
thrills than this wannabe actioner.

Almost nothing about this movie made me want more. Wesley Snipes put on
an okay performance, but nothing more than marginal. Dennis Hopper
acted weird the whole movie with over-exaggerated hand movements that
made his character very off-putting. Except for a few killings, there
was literally no action in this movie. The story could've been
interesting, but instead it moves slow and lags at many places. The
cinematography was nothing interesting, no better than any other
average movie. And the script was dull and didn't move the story at
all.

Overall, this movie was well beyond average, not Snipes best at all.
Even The Art of War (and we all want to forget he was in that) wasn't
as bad as this movie. This movie has already found its way to giveaway
shelves and $.99 bins all over the country. Take that as a warning.

HandHStudios Rating: 2.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
I skimmed through the other reviews about this film and it's
unbelievable that none of them made mention to "To Live and Die in
L.A.". First of all, both films were based on novels written by former
Secret Service agent Gerald Petievich, and if you look closer the plots
are very similar: there's a whole police investigation on a dangerous
counterfeiter, then there's the death of an undercover agent and his
partner will revenge his death doing whatever it takes to get the bad
guy. And once again, it's all criminals doing fake money and spreading
all over...Los Angeles!

But the thing "Boiling Point" doesn't imitate from Friedkin's movie is
the quality, the surprises, the plot twists. And there's so much life
in that movie that it's really difficult to make something so close to
it. Not to mention that Warner changed the game and edited down the
film in order to generate a bigger hit after their success with another
movie with Wesley Snipes, who plays the hero in this one. Maybe this
could be a different kind of film with an unusual approach on the
villains played by Dennis Hopper (in one of his best efforts I must
say) and the then unknown Viggo Mortensen (who plays one of the most
deadly and mean guys I've ever seen) as the original project conceived
by director/writer James B. Harris was.

Most people don't like comparisons but it's hard not to. One must
compare to have a full idea of what's going on. The main difference
between "To Live and Die in L.A." and this in terms of plot is that the
bad guy is quite sympathetic despite his frightening looks and his
strange yet confident walk. We kind of trust this guy because there's
worse guys than him, people of whom he owns a lot of money. We look at
him, thinking he might kill someone just to get what he wants but no,
he refuses to do so, even when we're sure he's about to do it. Willem
Dafoe in "To Live..." was a real artist who used of his kraft to be a
criminal but he was also a unmerciful stone cold killer. What connects
both films is one character named Max Waxman (here played by Jonathan
Banks), a corrupt lawyer who meets his fate in the other movie. 

"Boiling Point" is a fine movie, although a little bit dated, more
dramatic than what's not supposed to be. The few action scenes, the
engrossing tension built in all the business transactions scenes worth
the view just as seeing the good cast giving solid performances. Dan
Hedaya, Paul Gleason, Lolita Davidovich, Seymour Cassel, Tobin Bell,
James Tolkan made the show very enjoyable. 

Entertaining but only just another average picture. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

I have seen this movie about ten times. Every time I start to watch it, I
finish it. I cannot believe all of the negative reviews. It was intelligent
and well acted. Dennis Hopper plays one of his best "sleazes" ever. Viggo
Mortenson is great as Hopper's mindless attack dog. The story deals with a
Secret Service sting gone bad. One agent is killed and Wesley Snipes (Agent)
goes about finding out who did it. What I liked about this movie was that it
was smart. The author did some great research and that was reflected in the
movie. You see it in the dialog and you see it in the story. Moreover, the
acting was first rate, with many talented performers acting at the top of
their trade. Ignore the bogus reviews. What I think happened, is that the
movie did poorly at the theaters. There is this misconception that failure
at the box office is an indication of a bad movie, wrong! Plenty of good
movies bomb and plenty of terrible movies do well, some even win the
Academy. Good story, good performances and good movie!
<|_=00=_|>
The good and evil are presented as the two faces of the same coin, just
notice the bad guys and the policeman crossing their paths from the
very beginning. The sense of justice and comradeship is carried out by
the policemen up to the last consecuencies. All the characters are draw
with a few but deep brushstrokes. One can't but feel pitiful for the
destiny, in same cases dull, that each of the protagonists carve out
for themselves. Life in this film is presented in a crude way but also
considering the profoundest and better feelings of each of the figures.
Of course there is more that is worth to be seen and all of it
enveloped by a much appropriate and wonderful song as well as filmed
with agility.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked this movie, it had a lot of action and even a little
comedy.Denis Hopper plays the bad guy of course like usual but the
movie focuses on what his character is going through and I sort of
worried about what was going to become of him.Wesley Snipes was the
"good guy" but while watching the movie I got so annoyed with his
character{one of the many characters hes played that all look exactly
the same with the same personality and dull face expressions} i wanted
to shoot him myself. So il give this movie a 7 out of 10 but without
the help of Denis hopper the movie would only get about a 3. Also look
for Viggo Mortensen{who played Aragorn in the Lord Of The Rings
trilogy} as Denis hoppers slightly phycotic partner.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's another movie that fails to satisfy. When judging by it's bold
cover, you'd think this was a sure guarantee for action. You've been
mislead again folks. This is basically just a revenge story, with cop,
Snipes after an aging scam artist, Hopper, perfect here, who's into
money laundering, making his own cash. For those who didn't know, this
is sort of a prequel to that 86 hit To Live And Die In L.A. which makes
this film look duller than an empty casket. Even a slimy character from
that movie is resurrected here. Hopper has good support, not from from
Snipes though who's on a revenge driven journey to kill Hopper, who
shot down in his partner in an undercover operation. Hopper's protégé,
Viggo Morttessen fits the bill of character here. It's great to see him
play vulnerable where he hooks up with old ex who assists in his
criminal exploits. Watch for Tobin Bell a.k.a Jigsaw as a ex con Snipes
questions. He gets information from Bell in return for letting him gets
some vitamin C outside in the prison grounds. You don't realize how
many films Bell has done before his trademark role in the Saw movies.
Boiling Point falls under that "Why bother making this movie category"
There's hardly any action. Hopper is funny though in this, a player
sort of character, doubling his sexcapades with Lolita Davidich and
Valeerie Perrine, a real veteran of film. He kind of partly makes up
for the loss of action and suspense that's minute. The gas explosion
with the junkie was a surprise though. Filmed in 93, this was Snipes's
year as this was one of four four films that came out of his. Never has
music at the start, fitted the title so imperfectly, as in that
Jennifer Lopez film, Enough. My long lost friend was late returning
this flick where he owed 75 dollars. With this movie, the video store
clerk should of just let him off. Don't be duped by this one. May'be
just copy the video cover and blow it up, as a poster.
<|_=00=_|>
Chalk this one up with some of Hopper's other "GREATEST FILMS EVER
MADE" like Super Marios Brothers and Waterworld. Wow! is all I can say
about this movie, which rivals the excitement of an episode of Mr.
Roger's Neighborhood. I have no idea how this movie made it's way into
my home but if we should ever have a rolling blackout in America ever
again, I have kindling for a fire. I would have rather this movie been
about actual boiling points, like a pot of water boiling, then roll
credits than have to go through this travesty of bad acting, where
lines and movement are isolated. A line is read, then the character
makes a movement, stops, reads another line, just awful.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an above average Cop thriller, with fantastic performances and
a story that keeps you interested. All The characters were great, and
the story was pretty cool,plus Wesley Snipes is simply amazing in
this!. Dennis Hopper is fantastic as the sleaze ball, and i really
liked the gritty location, plus it was quite thrilling in some places!.
However it does have a couple dull spots, and i felt it could have been
a lot better then above average, as it didn't take advantage of it's
vast potential however, it's still an above average Cop thriller that's
enjoyable to watch and one that will keep you interested. Wesley Snipes
is extremely charismatic and, it also had a great supporting cast as
well, plus i wish Paul Gleason had more then 1 scene. Wesley and Lolita
Davidovich had good chemistry together, and i thought the finale was
quite exciting, plus it usually keeps you guessing, with only a few
predictable moments here and there. This is an above average cop
thriller, with fantastic performances, and a story that keeps you
interested, and i say it's well worth the watch!. The Direction is
good. James B. Harris does a good job here with good camera work, good
angles and keeping the film at a pretty good pace. There is a tiny bit
of blood. We get a bloody corpse, blood and quite a few bloody gunshot
wounds. The Acting is awesome. Wesley Snipes is AMAZING as always, and
is amazing here, he is extremely likable, fantastic in the acting
department, is very charismatic, had good chemistry with Lolita
Davidovich,was quite intense, an just did an amazing job overall!
(Snipes Rules!!). Dennis Hopper is fantastic as always, and is
fantastic as the sleaze ball, his character is quite pathetic, but he
did such a good job of portraying it, this man can play anything!, i
loved him (Hopper Rules!). Lolita Davidovich is very hot and quite
sexy, and did a great job here, she had good chemistry with Snipes, and
did a good acting job as well, wished she had more screen time though.
Viggo Mortensen is excellent as Hopper's partner, his character was
very interesting, and he was quite spiffy overall, i liked him lots.
Seymour Cassel and Jonathan Banks do well in there small roles.
Christine Elise is extremely cute, and did fine with what she had to
do, also wished she had more screen time. Paul Gleason is fantastic in
his 1 scene, however he should have been used for more then that!. Dan
Hedya does what he has to do adequately, and had okay chemistry with
Snipes. Rest of the cast do okay. Overall well worth the watch!. ***
out of 5
