

I've read many comments about the Vacation movies. Most people give the
original "Vacation" high marks, but trash the others. I think a lot of
people just like to be pick on Chevy Chase. "Vacation" is the best, but
I liked the sequels and "Vegas Vacation" is my favorite of them. My
kids just love to watch "Vegas Vacation". You can't pop in the DVD
expecting to watch a movie that will be thought provoking or life
altering. It was made to make people laugh and it accomplishes that
very well. Chevy Chase and cast are very funny in this movie. The Wayne
Newton bit was great. I love going to Vegas, and I love this movie.
When my wife and I fly to Vegas, we always kid about going to the
bathroom to join "the club" like Clark and Ellen. Numerous other things
remind us of the movie when we are in Vegas, and it has made those
trips even more enjoyable. Just wish Chevy would do another "Vacation"
movie.

<|_=00=_|>
"Vegas Vacation" makes no pretenses to be a good, hearty, intelligent
piece of cinema: it features many critical, inexcusable flaws, such as:
trafficking in mindless frivolity, some occasionally cheesy dialogue,
and even wavers constantly from scene to scene without any means of
resolution or connection. Yet, if you can ignore its many irksome
qualities, the latest outing with the Griswalds is simply an
outrageous, hilarious, and pleasurable romp of a movie. If you laugh at
something senseless and absurd, such as Cousing Eddie babbling on about
his worthless, pathetic existence, or Clark Griswald finding himself at
the edge of the Hoover Dam, or even a busload of tourists crashing into
the estate of "Mr. Las Vegas", Wayne Newton, so what? Where logic and
reasoning are scarce behind the odds of the scenarios the Griswalds
encounter, laughs are aplenty to make this one gleeful, jovial outing
full of some really effective comedy. The idea of the dysfunctional
Griswalds venturing to Vegas for yet another "family vacation" and
finding themselves experiencing the whims of the city of entertainment
in their own individual ways, with Clark being a hapless, compulsive
gambler, Ellen having somewhat of an affair with Wayne Newton, Rusty
hitting it rich at the casinos and masquerading as a "playboy", and
Audrey aspiring to be an exotic dancer, how hilarious can it get?
Couple this with the outrageous imbecilic likes of Cousin Eddie
continuing to plague Clark's existence, and "Vegas Vacation" succeeds
in delivering a royal flush of laughs. If it's silly and inane, if
scenarios are too illogical for words, and if not everything really
comes together by the end, at least you have plenty of funny material
to laugh away at, and that makes for a jolly good outing, when you find
yourself laughing consistently throughout the film, which warrants a
solid recommendation for "Vegas Vacation". Hilarious! *** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>

Okay--You've probably seen reviews on here that say, "Vegas is the best
Vacation ever!", and then "Vegas is the worst Vacation ever!".  Now, that
doesn't help a person who hasn't seen the movie for himself yet.  Here's the
middle ground:

This isn't as good as the first--sequels rarely are.  There isn't as much
humor potential as in "Christmas Vacation", either.  But for god sakes,
people, this is MUCH better than the "European Vacation" movie, which has
misfire gags left and right (you can check out my review on THAT by clicking
on "mdnrules").  

Vegas Vacation has as much "Cousin Eddie" humor as in the Christmas Vacation
movie which seems to make up for the "diaster" humor Vegas is lacking.  This
movie seems to have the happiest ending of all of them. 

Based on many opinions, here is the order of the Vacations, starting with
the best and ending with the worst:

1.  a tie between "Vacation" and "Christmas Vacation"
2.  Vegas Vacation being a fair third, and
3.  European Vacation being a very distant fourth.  

Hope this helps, all.  
<|_=00=_|>

`Vegas Vacation' - 1997 - 3.5/5 stars

In 1989, audiences were introduced to `Christmas Vacation,' which turned out
to be more than a pleasant surprise. Then, in 1997, almost a decade later,
another `Vacation' film churned out. The fourth in the series.

 `Vegas Vacation.'

 Clark Griswold has finally gotten his break. His food preservatives have
been approved, and he has gotten a bonus. Now, what to do with the money? He
has an idea. Take the wife and kids to.(big surprise) Vegas! But soon after
the ordeal of arriving in Vegas is over, Clark finds himself wasting away
his money gambling; especially playing craps! Now, with the help of Uncle>
Eddie, he must regain his money, and regain his wife from the grasp of Wayne
Newton!

 Chevy Chase returns to the role of Clark Griswold, he gets these crazy
notions and perfect ideas built up in his head, and as we have learned in
the other films, they always disintegrate one at a time until he blows his
top.

 Beverly D'Angelo returns to the character of Ellen Griswold, she pulls off
the housewife/mother role quite believably; she is not nearly as bad as
anyone would expect. Many people say she was in the first movie just to
flash the screen a few times, but that's just from the mouths of people who
dislike the movies; I think her role is important, and D'Angelo carries it
well. The only other person I can think of that fits the Ellen character is
Goldie Hawn, but that's probably because she acts a bit like D'Angelo so it
is easier to imagine her as Ellen.

 The kids in this `Vacation' film are (finally!) older; Rusty is on the
verge of manhood, and Audrey has matured as well. The things they get
themselves into during the film are quite funny. Audrey becomes a Vegas
dancer, and Rusty becomes a rich tycoon with the help from some `friends.'
We splice back and forth to their predicaments during the film.

 One hilarious segment includes a bit where the Griswold family visits Uncle
Eddie (a returning Randy Quaid) out in the middle of nowhere; he says that
he got his land for free from the government because it used to be a nuclear
test site (`I got tomatoes growing this big!'). Uncle Eddie is more
disgusting than ever; he lives in a small trailer with about forty-something
kids, all of which have strange deformations.

 In `Vegas Vacation,' Randy Quaid has the longest screen time that Eddie's
ever had before, and I think this is a good thing. Perhaps some people
thought it went a bit over the top with Eddie, but I say, `The more Eddie,
the better!'

 Wallace Shawn makes a rather long cameo as the craps dealer; Clark has a
vengeance built up against Shawn's character. He MUST beat him. However,
Clark always loses and that is how he loses all his money.

 Wayne Newton takes a rather big role as well. He pretends to be in love
with Ellen Griswold (`It's a lock of my hair.') in the film; he tries to
steal her from Clark, who forgets to pay attention to his wife while he
blows his money away like it's just paper and nothing more.

 John Hughes, writer of `Vacation' and `Christmas Vacation,' did NOT return
to the keyboard for this one; someone else wrote it. I think, however, that
the writer of `Vegas Vacation' wrote the script well; the jokes are
plentiful and enjoyable. It's nowhere near as bad as some comedy sequels get
(i.e. `Police Academy' sequels).

Many people really hated `Vegas Vacation,' saying that is was just not
funny. But no one can tell me they didn't laugh - or even chuckle - at this
film. I understand that it is not as good as the first film, but to tell you
the truth, I used to have a hard time choosing a favorite - the three films
(`Vegas,' `Christmas,' and the original - NOT counting the `European'
sequel) are so different and funny that it really is hard to choose.
However, `Vegas' is more familiar to the first film than the sequel(s), and
it's a bit easier to compare. When I look closely at them, I decide (a) the
first film was a first, and no one had ever experienced Clark Griswold
before; (b) the jokes are a bit better and (c) the cast was a bit younger
back then and could go for more physical gags. In the new film, Clark swings
over the Hoover Dam, and it looks like Chevy really strained himself doing
some of the physical stuff (even if it means dangling over a green screen).

 All in all, I feel that `Vegas Vacation' is a very underrated comedy. I
really, really enjoyed it, and had a fun time watching it. It's always nice
to take another visit to the Griswold family, and I'm up for another sequel
(perhaps John Hughes should write the next one?).

 3.5/5 stars -


<|_=00=_|>
Well, Clark Griswold has so far botched a road trip, a European
vacation and (most memorably) a Christmas vacation; so why does he
continue to make his family go through hell on his endless quest for a
fun vacation? That's easy; it's pretty enjoyable for us to watch :)

"Vegas Vacation" sits comfortably as the third most enjoyable film in
the series; surpassing "European Vacation" but not as enjoyable as
"Vacation" or "Christmas Vacation". It's pretty far reaching at times
but there are solid moments here; such as Clark damn near destroying a
damn and getting crazy (as only Clark Griswold can) playing cards and
losing everything.

The Wayne Newton gag soon grows tiresome and everything concerning
Audrey and Russ pretty much stinks but Randy Quaid delivers once again
as obnoxious Cousin Eddie and Chase hasn't lost his touch as the
world's most annoying (yet somehow oddly endearing) family dad.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie when it was first released in the theatres, and thought
it
was one of the worst films ever made.  Since then, whenever this movie
comes
on TV, I cannot turn it off.  What was once like watching a car wreck has
become an enjoyable viewing experience that is a very funny experience.
Still can't figure out how the daughter grew up Latina but Marisol
Nichols
is so cute, who cares?  Sinatra imitator very funny, as is the seemingly
five minutes of silence they hold on the Quaid/Newton bit.  Also funny,
the
server in the buffet "oh you're right, this is chicken WANT SOME!"  and
Chevy Chase butt-ugly costume.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the forth and last movie about Griswalds. Well , at least until
the new remake of "Vacation" doesn't show up. It doesn't have the
National Lampoons title , but it is the sequel to previous three
movies. It was directed by Stephen Kessler. What is more important is
that John Hughes (writer of all three movies) isn't the writer of this
one. "Vegas vacation" was written by Elisa Bell and Bob Ducsay.

It's hard to find a good third movie in the series , much less forth.
It's also a risk to make a sequel to an 80's movie . Many of the
sequels to 80's movies fails , because they aren't able to capture that
specific 80's magic of the original ("Another 48 hours" , "Beverly
Hills cop 3", "Blues brothers 2000" for example). Griswalds didn't
really needed another sequel , since the third one was really good . So
who needed it ? Chevy Chase . After the 1989 he wasn't able to make a
successful movie and this was his last attempt to become a major star
once more .

In the end it's a movie that should have been made as straight to video
flick . It is so bad , that it's worse than "European vacation" . At
least I had few laughs with that bad movie , with this one I had none.

"Vegas" lacks freshness . The writers tried to keep "Vegas vacation" in
style of previous movies , but failed terribly. None of the usual
Griswald charm is here . The jokes fell incredibly forced and don't
work. Only SOME of the jokes with cousin Eddie APPROACH being funny
(which doesn't mean they are , mind you). The franchise had simple ,
but funny , slightly raunchy sense of humor . This one is boring and
bland like most of US sitcoms. It feels more like a commercial for Las
Vegas than a comedy.

The old cast is back – Chevy Chase , Beverly D'Angelo and Randy Quaid.
The kids has been recast again . Ethan Embry plays Rusty and Marisol
Nichols plays Audrey. I have to say they are my least favorite couple
from the whole series. They give very flat performances.

National Lampoon took their name off the title of this film. It's hard
not to understand why. Surprisingly, "Vegas Vacation" was fairly
successful at the box office, taking in almost $40 million (the budget
mus have been low for this movie) Which meant there was yet another
chapter in the saga, the even worse than this "National Lampoon's
Christmas Vacation 2- Cousin Eddie's Island Adventure". Oh , boy...

My advice ? Stick to the first and third one , avoid the rest. I give
it 1/10.
<|_=00=_|>

I thought that this one was the one of the best movies from the "Vacation"
series.  It's really funny, and it was pretty cool to see Audrey and Rusty
all grown up!  I loved the characters, especially Shae D'Lyn's character,
Vicki, the Vegas stripper, who Audrey hangs out with, and when Randy ends up
as professional gambler and Vegas icon, Nick Papagorgio.  Ellen, played by
Beverly Dangelo, ends up being lured by Wayne Newton, while Clark becomes
seduced by the thought of BIG fortune.  Also, you have old friends like
Randy Quaid's totally gross, but funny Eddie and his wife, Catherine, and
many more!  A great movie for laughs! :o)
<|_=00=_|>
I'm way biased here. This is now my favorite Vacation movie after binge
watching all 4 from a BluRay box set. I'm biased because I'm a Vegas
fanatic and it's hard to watch how they get Vegas wrong in so many
movies. Here, they actually shot in so many of the locations and the
views from their rooms made sense. Too many times, including the most
recent Paul Blart Mall Cop 2, do they just make up sh|t as they go
along and hope no one's ever been to Sin City. I digress. I know this
isn't everyone's favorite, and some scenes made me cringe, like Clark
climbing the Hoover Dam, but I found myself laughing more in this
installment than the previous three. Mostly with Cousin Eddie, again,
the gambling – specifically the off-strip casino and Marty the Devil
Dealer and the luck of Rusty. Am not ashamed, despite my obsession with
Vegas, to say, this is my favorite Vacation…so far.
<|_=00=_|>
The final installment to the Griswald family's madcap misadventures,
they're just as funny as the other three outrageous film before this
one, as Clark, Ellen, Audrey and Rusty are out to stir trouble for
themselves and everyone else surrounding them only this time the stakes
are higher in the 1997 film "Vegas Vacation." The laughs are gut-
bursting, and the hot Nevada desert is the perfect resort to capture
just how zany and outrageous the Griswalds can be. Sure it's good to
watch one in a blue moon, after seeing the same gags over and over
again, it does loses its flavour like a piece of chewing gum and you
can easily become bored after a while. 

The film is truly a follow-up to "Christmas Vacation" as Clark finally
got his big bonus from his marketing business after his newly invented
cereal bars are a success and decides to use his money to his advantage
and brings his wife and kids with him where they'll go on a frenzy
gambling and living the life on Easy Street. During their stay, the
Griswalds venture on their own to see what fortune comes their way.
Such scenes involves legendary crooner Wayne Newton trying to get it on
with Ellen (Beverly D'Angelo). Clark and the kids have their moments as
well. 

Sure the Griswald family follow the same path as the other three
installments, but that's because of their inept ways of life, they have
managed to make us laugh. We all come to see them struggle, fail and
try to move up only to still remain left behind, but we love them for
that and that is what keeps their fans from coming into theatres for.
We were all shocked to see Clark as he dangles off Hoover Dam and
crashing through Wayne Newton's house with the van.

The movie is very rich because the film is unpredictable. You think
that they slowed the tempo down in "Christmas Vacation", but think
again, the falls, the slapstick humour is still effective as we await
for every gag to takes its shape and every way for the Griswalds to
bend it. The laughs continue and never gets bored the first time seeing
it at least, but after multiple viewing it loses its flavour like
chewing gum. 

Clark and the gang had their moments of laugh-till-your-stomach- bursts
moments, however, the funniest scenes will involve the funniest
supporting player to the Griswold clan. I'm talking about Randy Quaid's
Cousin Eddie. From the first and third installments (he wasn't in
"European Vacation"), he was always a dynamic character and the reason
why is that even though he's dumber than rocks, his heart is in the
right place and looks out for Clark even in the the most dire
situations. But his redneck ways and caring charm puts a light touch to
someone's heart. 

This film isn't without its weaknesses. For one thing if you seen the
other three Griswald adventures you seen them all. The madcap over-
the-top slapstick humour has been done many times before and many times
better. Even the dialogue and the facial expressions have all been
executed in the very same pattern. But hey, what do I expect this film
was going to be, a life-changing drama? Hell, no this is "National
Lampoon" baby, so the film should be about overdosing in slapstick
comedy so why spoil a good thing.

Another fault is why was Wayne Newton playing a pivotal part in the
film. Sure he's a respective singer and I would have been okay if he
played a cameo role in the film. But as a supporting character, he was
just plain awful. He was just playing himself, a sleazy Vegas singer
who had the hots for Ellen.

Usually in the other three films I laughed with the family, but in
"Vegas Vacation", I couldn't help but feel sorry for them, especially
from the kids (who looked too old to play the parts of Audrey and
Rusty). The lack of chemistry is missing in this film because the kids
and the parents seem to go their own separate ways. I thought it
angered me that Clark kept forgetting his daughter's name most of the
time (making her feel like the black sheep of the family a la Meg
Griffin from "Family Guy"). I also felt that there was a lot of
parental negligence as the kids Audrey and Rusty found themselves in
dangerous predicaments. It was also very angering that Clark spent over
$23,000 of his bonus money on gambling when he should have done as he
promised in "Christmas Vacation" was to install a swimming pool. It
made me think where's social services when you need them feeling I got.
Surely a family could not have been this dysfunctional. But though it
all it still succeeds in providing you with non-stop gags and having
you laughing the whole way through. 

Overall this movie is by far a terrible movie. The laughs are plentiful
and you'll surely have a good time and Randy Quaid was wonderful as
Cousin Eddie. I would recommend it as a comedy and really nothing more
than that.
