

This was Jessica Tandy's last movie, and even as an 80-something was lovely
and sexy enough to do a nude skinny-dipping scene in the Atlantic off
Georgia. Her foil was played by Bridget Fonda, and the main of the story is
the two of them taking off to go back to Toronto to hear a Brahms violin
concerto while Tandy's son and Fonda's husband are out of town on business.
A highlight was a scene near the end when Camilla met up with her old
boyfriend, played by her real husband, Hume Cronyn, and there is something
very special seeing two actors who have been married for over 50 years do a
romantic scene. 

Critic Ebert has a fairly accurate review, but I believe is overly harsh in
his analysis of it being too contrived. The film was meant to be funny, with
Camilla making up these grand stories and her flustered son trying to find
out where she had run off to. All she wanted was to get back to her old
Russian boyfriend.  I would recommned this film to anyone who likes a
"character" film. It felt more like they were allowing us, the audience, to
enter in and become a part of their lives.
<|_=00=_|>

A gem of a movie! Jessica Tandy's Last screen credit, is yet another
winning
performance. Sweet and pleasant movie, never awarded the attention it
deserved, however somehow to the average viewer it is not that memorable.

Dealing with just a so-so story-line that is very soft and mellow. It
won't
be hard to like this movie, if you can acually find it at the video
store.
Tandy and Fonda work well together, but watch this one for Tandy's sake,
she
is a film legend, and deserves this one on us!
<|_=00=_|>

Noteworthy in the first place because of Jessica Tandy, a great actress.
Because her acting is great also in this film, she looks so young and lively
at 85, because it is her last film. But noteworthy also because of the rest
of the cast, all of them credible and well-played. And certainly also
noteworthy because of the script. It moves so effortlessly from light to
heavy, from drama, to adventure, to comedy, and so equally effortlessly
weaves in small subplots and sidelines. The writers really should have
gotten top notch assignments after this great performance. Sad to see they
didn't really. Also soundtrack fits very nicely (esp. the Brahms).

I saw the film on TV in Romania, on a channel usually aimed at the
housewives taste. The film deserves much better than that. 
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those movies that should work and almost does. The cast
is good, it's generally the sort of thing I should really like, but it
all just feels a little too artificial. Yes, movies like this are
inherently artificial, but sometimes the writer and director's
sincerity makes it feel real. Here, you can see all the seams showing
in the fabric; the movie has the contrived sense of a film with a very
specific series of talking points it wants to present. There are
occasional moments of insight and sparks of imagination, but for the
most part there is a real been there done that quality to the whole
thing. A decent enough movie, but nothing special.
<|_=00=_|>
Camilla is an adorable road film, combining a perfect mixture of drama,
romance, and some comedy thrown in for good measure. It's a surprise
for me to see so few reviews on this lovely little film. The film is
about people, their relationships, and their passions. It's a
fascinating character study of a young couple and an elderly woman who
all need a little bit of a vacation from life.

Bridget Fonda plays Freda Lopez, a young, married woman who dreams of
musical stardom. She plays guitar and sings, but she's had to put this
passion on the back burner in order to support her husband Vince (Elias
Koteas). The two of them have just moved south and into a small house
next to an old woman named Camilla (Jessica Tandy, in one of her last
roles). Camilla is also a musician – she used to play violin and,
according to her stories, was quite famous on tour. Freda immediately
connects with Camilla and begins to spend time getting to know and
talking to the woman. At the same time, her husband is spending time
with Camilla's son Harold (Maury Chaykin), who swears that his mother
is senile and needs to be put into a home. When Vince announces that
he's going to Canada for a work related trip that he's received thanks
to Harold, Freda refuses to go with him. This causes a fight between
the couple. Vince and Harold go alone. With the men gone, Freda and
Camilla decide to take a little trip of their own. They head to Canada
to see a violin concerto. When the men get back, they must follow their
hearts to find the women.

The acting is superb here. I've always liked Bridget Fonda and I wish
she would get back on the screen. She is simply adorable here. Freda is
a good character: she's strong willed, knows what she believes in, but
has a little self discovering to do. Bridget Fonda is excellent in this
role. I couldn't imagine anyone else doing a better job. Elias Koteas,
who is always wonderful, is equally good as her husband. He's not given
a lot to do here, but he plays it the best he can given the material.
As Camilla's son, Maury Chaykin is very effective. He embodies the
angry Harold perfectly. The real standout here, though, is Jessica
Tandy. It's easy to see that, even as an old woman, she was confident
enough in herself to play this role as if she were young – even doing a
nude scene! Camilla is a great character – she's funny, sweet, and
extremely sharp for her age. Jessica Tandy is perfect here.

The film is a little predictable, but it's still very sweet. It
provides several laughs and shows a realistic relationship between an
elderly woman and a younger, more composed version of herself. It's a
story about life, love, and how we as humans sometimes have the wrong
priorities in life. Camilla is an easy film to watch – a nice, light
film that can easily entertain and lift a person's spirits. With good
acting, a sweet story, and a nice message, Camilla is an underrated gem
of a film that should be appreciated more than it is.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
A little slow moving perhaps (even though it's a small film) but for me
'Camilla' was worth the watch for Jessica Tandy who delivers a
beautiful final performance. Deepa Mehta's execution is quite alright
though perhaps she would have benefited more with more finance. She
does use a lot of detailed references, for instance a painting of
artist Frida Kahlo at Frida's apartment (hinting on the association
between both women). I liked how Tandy's character was introduced and
how Fonda's Freda is both intrigued and amused by this enigmatic but
lovely older lady and eventually they head on a journey searching for
the same thing, that thing which everyone searches. The scenes between
Fonda and Tandy are both fun and moving to watch. Fonda holds her own.
The score is gentle and of course Brahm's piece is almost always a good
listen. Overall, for me it was a good enough watch for a quiet tired
evening.
<|_=00=_|>
Jessica Tandy and Bridget Fonda costar as two alike souls who embark on
a quirky road trip in CAMILLA. Camilla is Tandy's name in the movie,
and unfortunately this was the great actress' last film. She looks
terrific for a woman her age, and effortlessly steals every scene she's
in. Fonda plays a footloose musician paired up with a Canadian guy
(Elias Koteas) who ends up going off with a soft-porn filmmaker on
business, leaving Fonda in Georgia with the guy's mom (Tandy), who is
slightly addled and evidently was a famous violin player in her time.
The gals decide to take a ride to see a Brahms concert in Toronto, but
quickly lose their car and have a series of silly adventures along the
way, including running into to car thief and all-around nut job Graham
Greene. Meanwhile, Camilla's son (Maury Chaykin) becomes convinced his
mom has been kidnapped. All ends well, with a surprise appearance by
Tandy's real-life husband Hume Cronyn playing an old flame. The last
shot shows Tandy playing the violin on the beach. A pleasant little
movie, even if it is a chick flick.
<|_=00=_|>
Freda Lopez (Bridget Fonda) is a musician who wants to front her own
band. Her husband Vincent (Elias Koteas) belittles her dream more as a
hobby. While on vacation, they meet Camilla (Jessica Tandy) and her son
Harold (Maury Chaykin). Freda is immediately fascinated with former
concert violinist Camilla. Vincent gets a chance at work, and decides
to leave along with Harold. He and Freda have a fight, and she stays
despite of Vincent. After some reminiscence from Camilla, Freda
suggests that she and Camilla return to Toronto's Winter Garden Theatre
to attend a concert. The men return to find the women gone, and must
come to terms with their relationships.

This is a rather slow moving movie. It's a road trip, but unlike
'Thelma & Louise', they don't blow anything up or shot anybody. I do
have to warn the more squeamish that the ladies do get naked. It's a
road movie of self discovery and reliving old memories. What truly
stands out is the absolute brightness of Jessica Tandy. She doesn't
miss a beat. She illuminates the screen. This is one of her last
movies, and she commands it like the legend she is. Her longtime
husband Hume Cronyn also shines in the latter part of the movie. If
you're a fan of their work, it's a movie you should search out.
Otherwise, it's a little too slow moving for me.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved movie. I have placed it with my favorites. I will compare the
splendor of this movie with another one of my favorites, My House In
Umbria starring Miss Maggie Smith. Jessica's performance, as always
gives a touch only she can accomplish. Miss Fonda gives a good
performance. Had this movie been on a larger budget i would have chosen
someone else to play her role. I noticed that the coat check woman has
same last name as Hume Cronyn. All in all, the story was uplifting and
a definite re-watch for a rainy day, which is exactly what today is. I
love when I've accidentally stumbled upon a movie that turns out out be
so worthy you want to see it again. For those who enjoyed this, please
make an effort to see My House In Umbria.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a rather silly, inconsistent and unconvincing piece of fluff.
And yet, despite this, it is still very watchable and interesting.

The plot, is quite convoluted and ever-changing. In fact, it's really
secondary at best in the film. Because of this, I really want to
explore the acting and writing and direction. This was Jessica Tandy's
last film and she shows amazing vigor for a woman in the last months of
her life. Her character is silly, but she infuses it with a lot of
sentimentality and charm--and you can't help but like her. I also like
her son as well as some of the VERY quirky characters you meet along
the way. Graham Greene is perhaps the most charming car thief and
nut-case, and the Indian-born small town sheriff is really pretty funny
(though difficult to believe in rural Georgia). As for Bridget Fonda,
she is okay in the film, but is clearly upstaged by Tandy.

The journey, as handled by director Mehta, is slow and gorgeously
framed. I have loved all the other movies I've so far seen from this
director and look forward to seeing more. Even when the material is
weak, her skill is quite evident.

By the way, as I mentioned, the plot is a silly and muddled thing.
Early in the film, Fonda says she no longer eats beef as she feels
sorry for the poor cows and Tandy states that she NEVER eats meat.
Later, they are sitting in a restaurant chowing down on
cheeseburgers--sloppy touches like this are unforgivable for the
writers.
