
John Spartan (Sylvester Stallone) is a reckless Los Angeles policeman,
known as the "demolition man" for the destruction he routinely
engenders while apprehending big baddies. After a particularly ruthless
criminal, Simon Phoenix (Wesley Snipes), sets him up by making it
appear that Spartan wantonly caused the deaths of a bus load of
hostages, Spartan is sentenced to 60 years or so in prison. The film
begins in a not-too-distant future (relative to its 1992/1993
production date) of 1996. Prisons are quite a bit different, and
there's a new policy of cryogenically freezing inmates. We cut forward
to 2032. Phoenix is up for an obligatory parole hearing when he
escapes. The film's 21st Century society is extremely different
(worsening cultural chaos, exacerbated by a huge earthquake,
precipitated the change), and the "San Angeles" police cannot capture
Phoenix or keep him in check. Chief Earle makes a decision to revive
Spartan, reasoning that an out of control but effective cop mired in
the ways of the late 20th Century may be the only one who can capture
the out of control criminal, but he, and the future society, may be in
for a lot more than they bargained for by reawakening the Demolition
Man.

Demolition Man is one of the funniest, most action-packed and most
poignant social satires of at least the last 30 years. It's not
necessarily the easiest film to appreciate, as it makes its points
through extremely over-the-top "mindless" action and tongue-in-cheek,
purposefully cheesy plot and dialogue, but it's well worth trying to
acclimate oneself to the style if you're not an action or sci-fi fan,
as the satire cuts deep. There are other films with somewhat similar
aims, such as Total Recall (1990) and Starship Troopers (1997), which
are perhaps just as good as Demolition Man, but they certainly can't
top it, and they have aims other than the purely satirical.

The opening scene feels like a typical late 1980s/early 1990s action
sequence. At least until we realize that there's not going to be a
happy ending for the hostages that Spartan is trying to save. Once we
arrive at the future, a lot of viewers might misjudge the performances
of the principal cast besides Stallone and Snipes. Sandra Bullock, as
Lieutenant Lenina Huxley (a reference to Aldous Huxley's book Brave New
World), and Benjamin Bratt, as Alfredo Garcia (a reference to Sam
Peckinpah's 1974 film, Bring Me the Head of Alfredo Garcia), at first
seem to be turning in bizarrely incompetent performances. It's only
later that we realize they are spot on for the film's "brave new
world", which is basically an instantiation of a staunchly moralist
cult run by Dr. Raymond Cocteau (a reference to famed director Jean
Cocteau combined with Cocteau's friend, novelist Raymond Radiguet).

Technically, the film is quite impressive. The production design,
cinematography, effects, staging of the action sequences, score and
soundtrack are excellent. But what sets Demolition Man a cut above the
rest are the script and the performances--yes, even from Stallone and
Snipes, although Bullock, and especially Denis Leary, in a relatively
minor part where he gets to do his motor-mouthed, ranting comedy
schtick that made him famous, both threaten to steal the show.

Director Marco Brambilla (who has remained oddly inactive since
Demolition Man, which was his first film) and his writing "team" skewer
a lot of cultural norms as relatively arbitrary conventions. Radio and
television commercial jingles are considered the pinnacle of musical
art in the film's world. Strict morality is enforced through constant
computer monitoring of behavior combined with fines--a running joke
throughout the film is that profanity results in fines. Meat and
alcohol have been outlawed. So has physical contact, including sex. All
restaurants are now Taco Bells (in some cuts of the film intended for
foreign markets, this was changed to Pizza Hut instead). There is an
underground, outside of the cultic mainstream society, but they're
literally underground, living relatively lawless (well, at least they
eat meat and drink beers) in tunnels strewn with utility pipes.

As a result, serious crime is a thing of the past, swept under the rug
(or into the sewers) and labeled with Orwellian newspeak. Phoenix and
Spartan's reintroduction of violence and mayhem, including
"murder/death/kill", results in a reawakening of cultural freedom,
analogous to their own thawing out. The anti-utopian, anti-utilitarian
political message, like that of Orwell's 1984 and later films
influenced by the same, such as Equilibrium (2002), couldn't be
clearer. And the message can be extended to situations that are not
political. I didn't use "cult" above carelessly. The idea is that the
society's warts are necessary for individual authenticity. Yes, things
can run smoother under a dictatorship, but who wants to live under a
dictatorship, even a supposedly "benevolent" one?
<|_=00=_|>
I thought it was one of the greatest movies of all time. As a social
commentary, it's extraordinarily on-target. I mean, come on, this is
the movie where the joke was made that Schwarzenegger would be
president and Taco Bell would win the franchise wars, and what do you
know? Now people want the constitution amended so Arnold can run for
president and Taco Bell is winning the franchise wars (they merged with
Pizza Hut and KFC).

The story parallels Brave New World and there are numerous references
to it. It's the best "Big Brother" film to ever be made. It's got great
laughs, great action, and just great stuff. The basic plot is pretty
mediocre when you get right down to it, but when you factor in all the
detail and the very well-thought script, it's a must-see movie. It's
like the anti-movie, it's great, but nobody likes it, apparently.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of those films that it is popular to think is rubbish.  I'm not
quite sure why.  Don't take it seriously and it's a fun
ride.

Wesley Snipes and Sly Stallone play off each other well as the forces of bad
and good -- old foes that have come out of chryo-generic storage hundreds of
years into the future.

Sandra Bullock as the nostalgia [for Stallone's time, naturally] struck cop
isn't even rubbish and annoying -- a first time for everything!

Watch out for a fun performance by Nigel Hawthorne also.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie features Sly Stallone at his muscle bound, destructive best.
Around the same time he did the excellent Cliffhanger he also did this nifty
action flick.
What you get with Demolition man is an entertaining and satirical look at
the future of Los Angeles where people walk about in robes and are a peace
loving society. Anything remotely bad for you, including spicy foods, is
illegal and the whole new system is run by Raymond Cochtoe played by the
late Nigal Hawthorne.
The opening action scene is set in the present day and is a rip roaring
sequence with Stallone polishing off bad guys with stylish flair, before he
has a face off with the show stealer Wesley Snipes. Snipes plays the baddest
of bad guys Simon Phoenix and does so excellently. The films pacing is good
and in particular there are three big action sequences that shine, these are
the opening and the end as well as a very good action scene set in a museum.
The comedy factor is high in this film and the film certainly has tongue
fastened firmly in cheek. The two leads are very good and in particular
Snipes revels in his nasty role. Sandra Bullock is good as the gratuitous
attractive lady you get in practically all action films. All in all this is
a great way to spend 90 or so minutes and is certainly how I would like to
remember Sly Stallone, in his action prime. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

Sylvester Stallone was really beside 
himself when he took this film. 
Instead of trying to be the tough guy, 
he sort of made fun of his pre-existing 
persona in his role as John Spartan. 
Funny, and satirical of a gun-free society, 
it just proves that peace doesn't 
necessarily result in the most diverse 
range of self expression. The humor 
in the film was exceptional, and Wesley 
Snipes was great as Simon Phoenix. 
This also proved to be my favorite film 
with Sandra Bullock, who subsequently 
destroyed her career thereafter. This movie  
will always be good for a laugh, especially 
for the characters singing all of the 
commercial jingles.
<|_=00=_|>
Sgt. John Spartan (Stallone) is a tough cop for a tough age and Simon
Pheonix (Snipes) is a nasty and violent criminal. When Stallone finally
catches his man, he is found guilty of killing a group of innocent
civilians at the same time; and they are both given sentences in the
new cryo-prison. When Simon Pheonix escapes into a new world in the
year 2032, the police have no way of dealing with such a vicious
arch-criminal so they re-animate John Sparton, and so it begins.

I simply love the way the future is portrayed in this film, it is a
wonderfully satirical crime free environment where the humans have
become ultra-placid geeks under the new regime. Sandra Bullock and
Nigel Hawthorne are the two main police-persons that we see and they
are brilliantly funny in their performances.

Demolition man is as funny as it is action packed and although it's
pretty shallow, it is still great fun to watch.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

In 2032 San Angeles,its a felony to swear,its bad to eat greasy food,Taco
bell is the only fast food restaurant,and the cops are wimps with no
guns,only glow-sticks.When super bad guy Snipes escapes from prison,the only
cop who can stop him is Stallone,a cop in an icecube.
Its been years since I saw this,so I decided to check it out on Space
t.v.The action is pretty good,with a cool fight inside a museum.The whole
joke about a crime free & peaceful San Angeles is funny,with Stallone trying
to adapt to the new lifestyle.Good one liners are present,example:"You're
gonna regret this for the rest of your life.The whole 2 seconds of it!
Wesley Snipes is very over the top as a blonde villian.

Rating:**** (out of five)
<|_=00=_|>

I first saw this movie in the theater when it came out in 93 and loved it.
The cool futuristic toys and Stallone and Sandra Bullock make a great
on-screen couple. Snipes delivers as the bad guy, and Stallone is the cop
who is frozen but thawed out 36 years later to stop him once again. Plenty
of one-liners and action. 
<|_=00=_|>

Demolition Man is just good, goofy fun.  You plop yourself down when nothing
else is on and watch 
Sylvester Stallone and Wesley Snipes blow up everything around them.  Snipes
plays Simon 
Phoenix over the top and that's exactly where he's supposed to be.  Stallone
has some good lines 
in this film, and he's actually a funny guy when he plays things straight. 
Of course, no action 
film would be complete without the prerequisite snappy one liners,
outlandish action and bullets 
flying everywhere.   A silly, but fun film to watch.        

<|_=00=_|>

'Demolition Man' is a lot of fun to watch. A lot of things in the movie
don't make any sense but those things create opportunities for some nice
action and some funny moments. I am not sure if all the laughs in the movie
were meant to be funny, but if you laugh, what does it actually
matter.

In the future in the city San Angeles (the area from San Diego to Los
Angeles) after the earthquake people live in a perfect world. For a long
time no murder has committed. Then Simon Phoenix (Wesley Snipes)escapes.
Over 40 years ago he was a criminal arrested by John Spartan (Sylvester
Stallone). Spartan killed a lot of people during Phoenix' arrest, so he was
punished as well. They both were frozen, possible in 1996 in a cryo-prison.
Now Phoenix has escaped (how he does this is a secret that will be revealed
later in the movie) the police can't handle him because they are not used to
his violent behavior. The only thing they can come up with is Spartan. With
the help of Lt. Lenina Huxley (Sandra Bullock) he must catch Phoenix and
learn to know the new world.

The story above sounds ridiculous which it sometimes is. But you can
understand there must be a lot of funny moments. Almost everything Spartan
used to do is illegal now and he just can't get used to it. Snipes is a
great villain, Stallone is nice as long as he is in this kind of movie and
Bullock has some fine lines. I enjoyed it very much.
