

"Let me give you a little inside information about God..."

Despite the misleading title, "The Devil's Advocate" is a shocking and
inspiring thriller, visually beautiful as well as thought provoking. The
Devil has been portrayed thousands of times throughout the years. Every
year
Hollywood produces countless movies about Lucifer. Yet, there has not been
a
single film or book (besides "Rosemary's baby" ) that was good enough to
be
called interesting. Most of what we see about the subject is either
regular
horror films, that despite of their primitive premiss take themselves too
seriously, or we watch action films of supernatural forces where the Devil
is nothing more than a foul beast. In either case 90% of these movies are
pure cliches - dumb and predictable. When I went out to see "The Devil's
Advocate" I was expecting one of the two "genres" mentioned above. I got
neither. What I saw was a fabulous, intelligent and amazing film, which
engages both heart and mind. The first surprise was the cast, which can
boast of Keanue Reeves, Charlize Therone and, in my opinion, the greatest
actor of all-time Al Pacino. Only the fact that some of the most famous,
and
not to mention, talented actors of our time agreed to star in this film
immediately draws your attention. Throughout the picture, you start
realizing the unusual complexity of the story and script.

Kevin Lomax (Reeves) is a success in the courtroom and out of it. He's a
young Florida defense attorney who has never lost a case. No matter how
repugnant the crime, no matter how guilty the defendant, Kevin Lomax has
the
power to mesmerize the jury into accepting his arguments, buying into his
logic, being convinced by his charisma; and freeing his clients. Soon
after
he has successfully won the case, where he defended an obviously guilty
child molester, Lomax is invited to New York, where a powerful law firm
has
become aware of the Florida hotshot's acquittal record. Here he meets John
Milton (Al Pacino), the founder and head of "Milton, Chadewick, Waters", a
mysterious and powerful law firm with contacts and clients all over the
world. It is this charismatic and charming man that opens the door to a
completely different world; a world of luxury and pleasure, wealth and
power; a world of endless possibilities. This is heaven on earth. But as
Lomax tastes the power of being a wealthy New York attorney, something in
him changes. Winning is no longer just a goal; it becomes an obsession.
Soon
he starts to realize that things are not what they seem to be; and all the
things he once had and cared about -a happy marriage with Mary Ann
(Charlize
Theron), his relationship with his mother, all his happiness - everything
disappear amidst the sparkling illusion of paradise. He suddenly realizes
that Heaven and Hell can coexist..at the same place and at the same
time.

I do not intend to reveal anything else, since all of the interesting
surprises will be presented in the intense and inspiring climax. 'The
Devil's Advocate' is a story about some characteristically American
values:
ambition, drive, materialism. Going after success and its trappings is a
classic American male behavior, and Kevin Lomax shows us what can happen
when that behavior gets out of hand. Winning has become such a core value
in
our culture that we never stop to consider the consequences of our own
actions. This is a story about a man that has always been a winner and was
rewarded for it with the kind of things that winning brings - wealth and
power. At the end he realizes that winning may not always be the best
thing,
but then it is too late. The characters in this film are both complex and
real, partly because of the good writing, partly because of some wonderful
performances by every actor. This is probably Reeves' best performance. He
manages to create a believable character - a kind of example, a role model
for the American way of life. Kevin's wife, Mary Ann is most likely the
hardest character to play, since she goes through a complex and difficult
emotional evolution. From being strong, devoted and ambitious (a female
copy
of her husband) to vulnerable, hurt and on the verge of madness. Charlize
Theron gracefully floats into this character. The most interesting of
performances and characters is John Milton - the essence of Kevin Lomax's
temptation. The invitation by a modern-day Satan to enter a world,
represented by the excess of our most worldly pleasures. Al Pacino is
nothing less than astonishing, an award worthy performance that is as good
as anything seen this year. His power and presence is felt everywhere
throughout the film, even where he is not present. This eerie and
unsettling
feeling is one of the elements that help creating the movie's intense and
frightening atmosphere. At the same time he provides the most entertaining
moments and colorful quotes. I can't imagine an audience not smiling when
he
screams out: "I am a humanist!" . And the fact that Milton's law firm is
involved in all the dirty business, from drugs and money laundering to
murder, doesn't prevent the Devil to call himself John Milton, who is the
author of the most brilliant epic about Christianity. This is entertaining
by itself.

As I have said previously, the major difference from the other films with
diabolical themes, is the complexity of the story. The Devil is not shown
as
a ugly monster with red eyes. And the purpose of his existence is not to
posses innocent children. One of the many interesting things in this film
is
the fact that the Devil is never really pulling the strings by himself --
he's giving people their choice, their free will to decide -- a demon
whose
world is our own, with all its mundane events. He appears in human form
and
presents human choices, and his greatest lure is what we have in common
with
him: our greed, ego, jealousy, competitiveness, lust, dishonesty. Another
thing is that the director is very careful to not let the monster out of
the
box, so to speak, by using any images that are obvious. Things appear and
disappear in a moment; sometimes they seem real and sometimes they seem
like
a bad dream, so that when the events in the story actually do emerge into
reality, the Lomaxes don't know what's real and what isn't anymore. The
third element is the fabulous production design, grand art direction and
rich cinematography. These elements help creating a strange and surreal
world - heaven and hell almost floating into each other. Hell is here not
a
blackness, haunted by ghosts and monsters, but the rarified world of New
York's ultra-wealthy and privileged society.

After a thought provoking finale, I sat amazed by what I have seen. If you
are looking for entertainment, action and ugly monsters, this is not the
right answer for you, but if you are interested in a more serious and
inspiring film experience, this is a spectacular and meaningful movie that
is well worth your money and time.

This is clearly one of the most clever and stunning works of art I've ever
seen, and a pivotal film of the 90's.


<|_=00=_|>
The reviews for "The Devil's Advocate" were not too kind, to say the
least. But what did the critics refuse to see in this? With movies
nowadays being nothing but flashy, over-the-top, masturbatory,
CG-fests, "The Devil's Advocate" holds up like osmium.

The cinematography is good because it's quite understated and that's a
virtue in today's cinema. The acting, while containing pretty lame
Southern accents, is still pretty good. Even from Keanu, dude.

Sorely forgotten in it's day, the script tells a very deep, original
and interesting story, with lots of development, respect for the
characters, delicate pacing, and a head-spinning ending. The movie is
solely about the people and their struggles. Fear takes hold of the
audience through the dialogue.

Think of "The Devil's Advocate" as Woody Allen trying his hand at a
horror/thriller and succeeding. This movie never makes you jump, but it
puts you in a general state of discomfort through it's atmosphere. As
with all memorable supernatural dramas, this one handles its spectacle
with discretion and grace.

Isn't that what we hope to see when we watch any movie? 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Stylish, sexy, suspenseful thriller stars Reeves as an accomplished
southern lawyer who's never been beaten; he travels to New York City to
take a job with powerful legal mogul Pacino, but his once ideal life is
soon turned upside down as he's plunged into a surreal, demonic world
of lust, temptation, and vanity. Slick writing, direction, and an array
of startling scenes, breathtaking effects, and dazzling performances
make this an imaginative thriller quite unlike any other. Reeves gives
one of his finest performances to date, aided immeasurably by a wild,
wickedly over-the-top performance from Pacino and a first-rate
supporting cast. Not for all tastes, but highly watchable indeed. ***½
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie on DVD. It will be enough for me to mention that
there had been no other movie where I'd had to pause the play in mere
awe at the magnificence of the storyline! At a point, It was as if I
could see my jaw on the floor praising in thorough amusement the
brilliance, relevance-to-our-daily-lives, deepness of message,
sophistication, great portrayal, top-of-the-class creativity, marvelous
acting/directing/screen writing all having come together in a movie,
which called for a rating of 9 out of 10 and no less, certainly,
undoubtedly.

Al-Pacino's acting is to no surprise as brilliant as ever, exuding
confidence, proficiency and clarity as always. Keanu Reaves leaves a
great master-play in his work, meeting up to the acting skills required
in displaying a character of wisdom, success, love and perhaps, of
vanity. Charize Theron too puts up a play of passion in its right.

But what amused me more than all were the great and fantastic
script-lines thrown around. All very meaningful and interesting indeed.
The whole movie got me stunned and fixed at the edge of my desk seat,
but the favorite part for me has to come at the end, where the theme of
the movie comes to words and finds a chance as of clarifying itself in
one the most brilliant ways I as one have ever seen possible!
Recommended for everybody willing to enjoin on a meaningful story and a
blend of excellent plays... surely a 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Wow, I am amazed. He actually has some talent. No offense, Keanu. Very
rarely do I see a great performance by him. 

"The Devil's Advocate" is a great movie. I was a little surprised that the
rating wasn't a little higher. After all, it has a great all star cast that
gave their best in the movie. The effects are awesome; and the plot is
beyond incredable. Except, I always had an idea that lawyers work for the
devil. :D Just kidding! 

I would recommend this movie to anyone. It has great acting and it's just a
kick @ss movie to watch. 

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the most intensely dark and beguiling movies I have
seen. The purpose behind it is to create a moral drama about the fight
between good and evil in a man, or the devil's everlasting quest to
conquer man's soul. In retrospective, there are few movies I've seen
that bring out such strong feelings in me. Specially the first hour. We
follow a young couple, played by Reeves and Theron in her first big
picture, who move to New York from the south when he is given a job as
attorney in one of the biggest firms in the country. We see the change
come in Kevin as he is introduced to a world of luxury and pleasure by
his boss, THE DEVIL, played by old master Al Pacino.

The ending brings a new, unpredictable and great twist to the story. I
will not give it away. The supporting cast is pretty strong, specially
Jeffrey Jones who plays a senior partner in Lucifer Pacino's firm and
who first arises the suspicion in Kevin/Keanu with his mysterious
behaviour, and Connie Nielsen as Cristabella, an extremely hot Italian
colleague who is the very symbol of temptation. Nielsen looked even
better here than in "Gladiator" and her performance is also more
interesting. Charlize Theron displayed her range here for the first
time, showing she had a great potential to become a star with her mix
of ethereal beauty and acting talent. Reeves was also very good as the
hotshot attorney and his looks elevated his macho hero potential. Al
Pacino didn't disappoint, but his performance here counts as one of his
least spectacular.

This is a dark movie with elements of horror and some gore and sex
thrown in for good measure. I think Taylor Hackford never did it
better. He gave us something to ponder on while entertaining and
scaring us at the same time. It is a film one can't forget.9/10
<|_=00=_|>

this movie received many many bad reviews, including personal opinions of
friends of mine ... however, the premise, script (although thin at times)
and finished product were all amazing ... keanu reeves gives an extremely
surprising performance ... when it starts off he is every character he has
played, not a bad character actor, but not over the top, just a regular
guy... but as the story progresses his ability takes on a transformation and
he
really astonishes ... of course, al pacino's performance goes without
saying; he is a genius in any and all of his movies ... and charlize theron
is at her best as she often is in her films ... however, despite both
pacino's and theron's talented performances reeves is the one to watch ...
look out for the change in him ... it is completely
awe-inspiring...
<|_=00=_|>

What a surprisingly rewarding film. I have not watched a film that is so
engaging for a long while. I had never even heard of the film before and
only saw it by chance on the shelf at the video store. I am glad I picked it
up as I enjoyed every minute of it. The Devil's advocate is heavy viewing,
it is not a light cinema experience, yet it is rewarding in it's heaviness.
It is very clever depicting the devil realistically and giving a totally
truthful example of how people can un-knowingly be sucked in by evil. The
film though dealing with a unrealistic concept is totally believable due the
the fantastic acting by all involved. Keanu Reeves gives the performance of
a life time, he is perfectly cast opposite Charliez Theron who is also very
impressive. The two posses an obvious chemistry. I recommend you see this
movie ASAP!
<|_=00=_|>

I don't think you could put this movies in a particular catagory. It's
 not quite a drama and it's not quite a thriller but a bit of both. Both the
 movie is good, for instead of making the devil just a blood thirsty killer,
 it's based on temptation. Al Pacino lives in a world of beautiful women,
 money, power, and no guilt. There is a lot of nudity and extreme violence
 in this movie, but if it wasn't there the movies purpose and story wouldn't
 work. The final half of this movie put me in more suspense then any movie
 has in a long time. In conclusion, don't miss this film.
<|_=00=_|>

When I first saw The Devils advocate I was in amazement of how good it
was. I was thinking about it for a long time after and when I got to
catch it recently on TV it made me think about it all over again and it
this time raises some questions and.

I didn't find it as good the second time round. I have watched it many
times since I first saw but the recent viewing I was paying more
attention than ever. I still think Keanu Reeves was maybe not right as
Kevin Lomax. He has great moments but I think he has to many moments
where he is trying to act is ass off and making it look obvious. Is it
me or in some scenes where Keanu is talking he sounds like Elvis with
his accent. Just a thought. Al Pacino was perfect as John Milton but
again he was a bit over the top but makes up for it in his charm and
charisma which he tackles head on easily through the movie. The best
acting we get here is from Charlize Theron which is no surprise to me
considering how well she has done since in films like Monster. The
story doesn't really kick off till the very end where everything
unfolds very fast to a massive climax which without this film would
have failed badly. I don't know much about Taylor Hackford's previous
work but I am impressed with how he handled The Devils Advocate and if
he directs an y others films of this caliber then he might be poised to
win an huge award of sort. The film is just not about paranormal goings
on with Satan, it is also a law film which actually makes being a
lawyer look like a lot of fun with a lot of tension thrown in. If any
adrenaline junkie wanted to go for a mainstream job then a lawyer would
be his cup of tea as Kevin Lomax will show you.

The direction, music, cinematography and nearly everything about this
film is perfect. The story is quite close but towards the end there is
just to many revelations that happen all to quick and it gives you this
feeling that the film is getting a bit silly and that's how I feel
about it now. If you haven't seen it before and you are wanting to see
it for yourself then you should see it without a doubt. Don't let any
review including mine put you off as this as the movie is one hell of a
ride but it may raise questions of how much they tried to cram inside
the movie in the time it had. It does run for nearly two and a half
hours but they run quicker than you can imagine and as soon as the film
finishes you will be wanting to watch it all over again so you can see
where everything makes sense.

Al Pacino does pack a punching performance to the very end and is as
crazy as ever if a little over the top at times but without him we
wouldn't be talking about this film as much.

