

Other than the explanation of where he came from, who he and everyone else
is, at the beginning, this film stands nicely on its own. for those of you
that know the first one, then this opening explanation will be a little
irritating (and a tad confusing, but it becomes clear later). The opening
does smell strongly of franchise potential, being repeated in all the
inevitable sequels still to come. Once past this though, we are lead
through
a massive fight and action scene that sets up the whole movie. and warns
anyone who can't stand Hong Kong action scenes that they are probably
watching the wrong screen.

The movie is essentially a platform for Snipes to have fun with his most
renowned character. And he does so with very entertaining results. The
movie
has reasonably well rounded characters, suspicion piled on top of
everyone,
some amazing set pieces and a good sense of humour. The impact of all the
blood and guts is reduced by the obvious fantasy of the fights (wires and
SFX a lot of the time), but its still pretty powerful.

The lead performances are all very good, although some of the peripheral
characters are a little too hammer horror. Luke Goss demonstrates great
potential, although you would need to see him without the make up, body
doubles, and special effects to really judge. and there is occasionally
that
urge to shout "when will I be famous." and the pure blood female vampire
who
takes a shine to blade is well worth being bitten by.

Overall it feels less like a sequel and more like a stand alone movie.
with
this in mind, I think its in fact better than the original (a rare example
of the exception that proves the rule).

<|_=00=_|>

Having rescued Whistler from the grasp of the vampires and acted
quickly enough to combat the vampire virus in his blood, Blade reforms
his team. When his base is infiltrated by two vampires, he is offered a
temporary truce that Blade accepts. He meets with the vampire council
who ask for his help to track and kill a new strain of the vampire
virus called the Reaper. The Reapers feed on vampires and humans, are
immune to garlic and silver and threaten to rapidly multiple. Blade
agrees to join forces but fighting alongside those he would hunt puts
him very ill at ease.

Opening with the same style that made Blade enjoyable, it is
immediately apparent that, if you liked the first film then you should
enjoy this one just as much. The plot has quite a few major holes but I
can't help eel it's a little unfair to attack a vampire horror movie
for being a little illogical at times! What remains is a series of fast
and stylish action scenes, held together by a reasonable plot and a
nice few little twists and turns to keep it engaging. While the plot
may only be average it is probably the dark action that you came for
and it is as enjoyable as in the first film. The wirework was pretty
good, mainly because the cast members involved could actually do it
without looking like they had become members of Thunderbirds! The CGI
stuff is not very good and the computerised characters, despite looking
good, don't look or move real and thus take away from the energy and
impact of the fights. Director del Toro handles the action well and
also brings the same dark feel that he brought to Cronos and Mimic.

However generally the fights are good – good moves but still
rather rough. Snipes has certainly worked on his body to the degree
that he can perform these moves with a natural feel, only the WWF style
moves came across as being rather silly or ill fitting. As a leading
man he has really come on since reinventing himself as an action hero,
and Blade is his best character in that regard. This film scales back
on the complexities of his character and it damages the film a little
bit but chances are that isn't what you came here for! Kristofferson is
good but his character isn't really used well here. Perlman uses his
screen presence well and he holds his own with Snipes. Varela is quite
sexy but again the script doesn't use her relationship with Blade as
well as it could do. Goss is very good in this role and it bodes well
but I'd need to see him play a character (as opposed to a monster) to
be able to judge if he has real ability as an actor – all the
makeup also helped forget his Bros personae too. Jules is a very
strange find but he looks good. Donnie Yen was, as he often is, poorly
used – he has one small fight scene but considering the amount of
martial arts action in this movie it would have been better to have
actually used him in more of the action; wisely the film uses him
better as the main fight choreographer.

Overall this is an enjoyable action movie with a horror twist. The plot
is OK and has enough to it to be engaging despite having several themes
that it should have done more with. The action is solid and enjoyable
and not too hurt by the odd bit of poorly used CGI. A good cast helps
and the action flows reasonably consistently to produce an enjoyable
two hours of dark style.

<|_=00=_|>

There are some types of movies that you walk into expecting a lot of
killing,a lot of swearing and snappy dialogue. Blade II is this kind of
movie, and it is great. The plot is great, (albeit a little predictable)and
some of the computer graphics are extremely noticeable, but altogether this
is a great action movie. So many people die a body count would be
impossible. The second to last fight scene is unbelievable. Blade puts the
icing on the cake when he vertical suplexes the last security guard through
a plate glass floor. The music lines up perfectly with the fighting, and I
was very impressed with the way the Reaper looks and feeds. A GREAT SEQUEL
TO A GREAT MOVIE!!! Looking forward to a trilogy!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I have a weak spot for comic-book action. Something about the mix
between today and the supernatural has always drawn me to it. And i
found the first "Blade" to be one of the more entertaining in the
genre.

Blade (Wesley Snipes) has been looking for his old-time companion
Whistler (Kris Kristofferson) for a long time. Whistler was taken
captive by vampires and Blade has slaughtered his way through the
vampire clans of several countries to find him. Now though there is
another threat to the human race that also affects the vampires
themselves. Soon Blade is given an offer he can't refuse, resulting in
a unholy alliance between the vampires and their greatest enemy.

Guillermo del Toro is a man with what the Germans would term
"fingerspitzengefühl". He's got that special feeling for what works on
screen, especially when it comes to movies like this one. Blade 2
refines most of the elements seen in the first Blade movie. This is a
violent and action-filled journey into a comic-book world and del Toro
is not taking any prisoners. Wesley Snipes seems to enjoy himself as
Blade and most of the other actors also seem to blend in nicely in the
mood of the film.

There were only a few minor flaws that bothered me. Most of all the
sometimes shaky CGI-work. Some of the special effects look cheap to say
the least. Especially the use of digital "stand-ins" for the actors
that are used in some action scenes to spice them up a bit. All in all
though this is an entertaining ride in it's overblown testosterone-rich
way. I rate it 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Blade 2 takes what made the first Blade film good and transforms it into a
different country with different characters (outside of Blade and
Whistler)
and a possibly deeper feel, and it works without going into the bad sequel
range.

This time, the vampires Blade (Wesley Snipes) has been hunting down for so
many years want to make a truce so that he can help them kill a new breed
of
monsters called reapers, which if you want a brief description are
creatures
that look like half vampires half zombies and half, whatever, with a chin
that opens up a big damn mouth that before attacking it's prey could
resemble a mini-sarlac pit (star wars reference).  Blade reluctantly
agrees,
knowing full well that the vampires could turn on him and Whistler if
things
go wrong.

Overall, Blade 2, for the fans of the first one, will not dissapoint them.
It contains enough imaginativeness and gore effects to brighten the most
down of horror film and comic book enthusiasts.  The film also contains
some
of the best makeup I've seen in a while in a horror movie.
A-
<|_=00=_|>

Blade and his alter ego Wesley Snipes are back yet again to battle the
vampiric scourge terrifying the world of the humans.  But this time he
helps...that's right, you heard me...helps the vampires fight a mutant
vampire that prefers feeding on vampires over humans.  Well, to spin a long
(actually not that long or terribly complicated) story, Blade is...Sorry I
cannot say anymore or I might give away too much of the plot - and you know
movies like this are plot-driven.  This film is exactly what you would
expect.  Gobs of blood, tons(maybe even more!) of CGI's kicking heads in,
bashing heads in, splitting bodies, turning into sparkling dust, and so on
and so on and so on, cute one liners with Wesley twisting his neck a lot,
and lots of techo-weapons designed to do everything and anything to the
body.  Is it a great film?  Get real.  Is it entertaining?  Yes, somewhat of
a guilty pleasure for me I must confess.  Snipes never seems to take his
role or what is going on too seriously with his low-key, stoic acting.  Kris
Kristofferson is back as Whistler.  You might remember he died in the first
Blade movie, but through some plot contrivance that was designed for us not
to really understand - he is back and much older and somewhat wiser for
wear.  The rest of the cast is acceptable EXCEPT for Reedus who is annoying.
 Ron Pearlman seems to be having the most fun hamming it up as a villainous
vampire out to get Snipes.  All in all not a bad way to spend an hour or
two. 
<|_=00=_|>
Blade 2 takes what works in the original and gives us more.
Unfortunately, plot and character development appear to have been left
on the cutting room floor.The fight scenes are fun, but it grows
tedious. While blade 2 is much more eye-catching than its
blood-drenched Stephen Norrington-directed predecessor, the new script
by the returning David S. Goyer is much sillier.This bloody punch-fest
lacks the charming antagonists that livened the original movie.If only
as much time was spent on the script as was spent on the fight
choreography.Take away everything that was original about BLADE, add
some exploding vampires, and vampire night at the WWF - you get BLADE
II, a knock-off, rip-off waste of film, released to suck the blood and
money out of audiences everywhere.Just never seems very convinced of
itself that a sequel was even necessary.This second instalment in the
trilogy tries to crank things up even more than in the action packed
original, which makes for an obnoxiously hyper active movie.Isn't as
sharp as the original,Despite some visual virtues, Blade II just
doesn't cut it.The fast-paced action is unnervingly fast, almost
dizzying. The story is thin, the plot is predictable, but Wesley Snipes
carries this comic book character off with enough clever humour and
self-indulgent pathos to carry it off.There are plot twists and
inventive fight scenes galore, but what director Guillermo Del Toro
loves most is the gore.Blade II is almost excessively violent OK, it is
excessively violent but that's exactly what Snipes and Blade fans want.
Believe me, they get it.Everything that was right about Blade is wrong
in its sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
I believe the original Blade is a highly underrated comic book film
that is great but this film is okay and fails to live up to the level
of the original. This film sees Blade ally with a group of Vampires to
go against a new vampire hunting race that could affect vampires and
humans alike. Wesley Snipes is fantastic as Blade and I really believe
that he was the perfect casting for the mix of charisma and sturdiness
for the character. The supporting cast is a bit of a mixed bag I don't
understand why Whistler was in this film but I thought he was good in
the film. I thought the person who was looking like he was having the
most fun was Ron Perlman who was great in his villainous role with his
chemistry with Blade being really good. Blade's love interest is poor
and a waste of time for the story and the main villain is not memorable
at all. The story is poor compared to the first one with the romance
being lazy and most of the team are not developed at all and the
unnecessary bringing back of Whistler. The script is okay with Snipes
and Perlman having the best lines and delivering well but nobody else
had any decent lines at all. The style was great with the Gothic take
of vampire lifestyle mixing with real life that makes this character so
unique. Blade 2 is okay but it isn't as good as the original and I
won't be rushing to see it again.
<|_=00=_|>

I had to put my 2 cents in on this movie.  I'm a projectionists at a
theatre
and some nights can be very long having nothing to do up in the booth and
having to work till 2:30 am in the morning sometimes,

but this movie was excellent as far as a follow-up movies go, where
most
films fail like the dusk till dawn trilogy. Blade 2 had some awesome
fighting sequences at the end unlike any i've seen, great special effects,
and it's a damn good movie, i've watched it like 30 times and i never get
tired of seeing it.
you won't regret buying this film.   trust me, it's well worth
it!
<|_=00=_|>

Ok, I didn't think it was as good as the first one, though there was an
obvious improvement in the special effects - but this movie really rocked.
My wife who didn't particularly like the first one absolutely loved this
one.  The action scenes were amazing, and though it looked like Blade was
gonna get all sappy towards the vampires - (especially the girl), he still
kicked ass.  And it had an awesome ending - comparable to the ending in
Russia in the first movie.
