

I'm 25 years old.  I have no children.  So why am I praising a 'kid's
movie'
which nobody saw?  Because I have never seen a film pack the emotional
wallop 'The Iron Giant' provided.

The film's plot is similar to 'E.T.' - a young boy meets an alien robot
from
outer space, who is stranded on earth, and runs afoul of paranoid
government
agents.  Not to knock the Spielberg film, but what makes 'The Iron Giant'
the better film is that the young boy is the teacher.  It is he who has to
teach the Giant about the beauty of life, the difference between good and
evil, and choices we have to make.  The Iron Giant, it turns out, is a
weapon, who has to struggle against his own nature.  The film has an
obvious
(and timely) gun control message, but its real message is about the choice
we make when dealing with other people.  We can use our powers for good or
lash out at everyone around us.

I dare not give away the climax.  All I will say is that it features a
sacrifice absolutely breaktaking and emotionally shattering (albeit
somewhat
blunted by the ending).  The animation is gorgeous, Michael Kamen's score
is
perfect, and the film beautifully evokes the 1950s.

Sadly, poor marketing kept audiences away in droves.  All I can say is, to
heck with the box office gross.  Despite Warner's appearant desire to
pretend the film never existed, the word is getting around about what a
magical film this is, and I have no doubt it will join 'It's a Wonderful
Life' as a film which bombed in theatres but became a classic over the
years.  See it now, so you can say you discovered it before everyone else
did.
<|_=00=_|>

What a GREAT movie! Not just for kids, but adults as well. Kids will love it
on one level, and adults will love it on another level. Even adults who are
not parents will love it!

There's humor, there's action, there's nostalgia, there's the perfect
capture of being a child, there are positive messages (be yourself, don't
kill, etc.), there's satire, there are adults who are not stupid and not
comic relief....there's GREAT WRITING!

AND NO SONG AND DANCE NUMBERS! Also, there are NO COMIC-RELIEF ANIMAL
SIDEKICKS! Take that, Disney! 

I know some people might be resisting this movie, because it looks like it's
aimed for kids - and they might be expecting a Disney clone (and we all know
the bad results of Disney wannabes).....but TRUST ME. Give this movie a
chance - you'll love it!

Is there ANYTHING wrong with it? Well, the only thing that bugged me (just a
little) were some close-ups of the characters - these certain close-ups had
a "sketchy" look a la the movies "We're Back!" and "Balto".

Fortunately, there's very little of this. Other than that - this is a
PERFECT MOVIE!

<|_=00=_|>

All too often, "family films" are only infantile, simplistic formulas with a
few self-referential and pop-culture jokes thrown in to try and keep adults
awake.  But then along comes  something like "The Iron Giant", which is
sophisticated enough to demand respect while maintaining a mythic and
pure-hearted tone that actually does appeal to the kid in
everybody.

"The Iron Giant" is refreshingly non-Disney in no end of ways.  Characters
seem real and chosen to fit the story, instead of being a superficial
reshuffling of an old formula.  The animation definitely has its eye-popping
moments, but there are also scenes of great wonderment, pathos, and humour
that only top-drawer animation can convey.  The Giant itself is a great
character, who only becomes MORE interesting as the film continues (another
huge break from Disney).  No scene is wasted in this film, either; every set
piece, even the really funny ones, helps either to establish the "world" of
the movie, or to advance the plot.  At no time do you feel that you are
merely waiting for the story to crank up again.

"The Iron Giant" is funny, exhilarating, and touching as well.  It's sad to
see it failing at the box office, as a blunt reminder that the success of
films is often in direct proportion to their publicity budget.  Hopefully,
though, word-of-mouth will come to its rescue.  Go see it!  Tell your
friends!  Then go again!  (Repeat as necessary.)

P.S.  I find myself comparing the Iron Giant character to Martin Donovan's
character in "Amateur".  If there is anyone else on earth who has seen both
films you may wish to entertain the notion yourself.

<|_=00=_|>

"The Iron Giant" is the kind of animated film you wish there was more of.
It respects the audience's intelligence, it has genuine emotion without
resorting to schmaltz, and best of all it balances fantasy (well, science
fiction) with believability.  I think Warner Brothers animation has
out-Disneyed Disney by adding thoughtful writing to clean, understated
animation.  What a concept!

The story is deceptively simple: Iron Giant falls from the sky at the dawn
of the Space Race and befriends a young boy.  But within that framework we
get a double story, one for the grown ups and one for the kids, but the
message is essentially the same one: paranoia and violence begets violence.
I appreciate very much, as others who have commented, that no one burst into
incongruous song and that there were no cutesy animal sidekicks.  I should
add that there were no clever yet implausible plot twists, nor were there
any stock characters.  The bad guy gets a little overheated, true, but he is
never the embodiment of all things evil.  The townspeople are your average
small town Americans, not bumpkins.  Mom is, well, mom-ish, caring but
neither shrewish nor prone to whimpering outbursts.  And our hero is plucky
but not annoyingly precocious.

A BIG plus for this film is how well it weds the computer animation to the
hand-drawn animation, a feat that the Big Mouse hasn't mastered yet.  Even
as recently as "Tarzan" it is glaringly apparent what parts are computer
graphics and which aren't, and the contrast is very distracting. "The Iron
Giant" makes a virtue of streamlined animation that draws your eye to the
beauty of its color and motion.

It was a very VERY distinct and unusual pleasure to be treated to a film
such as this.  Give us more . . . please!

<|_=00=_|>

Animated movies have long been considered strictly for children.  The old
Disney classics that started it all are indeed aimed at kids, but are still
very watchable, even for adults.  With the advent of TOY STORY and its
countless mimics,  animated feature films have taken long strides to be
considered worthy of serious attention.  THE IRON GIANT is just such an
animated piece.  The 87 minute wonder is, to put it mildly, incredible. 
Everything about it is good.  I've also never seen so many influences and
references in an animated film before.

This is a movie with a heart the size of the title character.  A gentle,
gigantic robot is rocketed to earth and befriends a 10 year old boy.  The
kid has a single mother (voiced nicely by Jennifer Aniston) and he is just
looking for a friend, whether it be a squirrel, or even a 50 foot tall
machine.  The familiar premise is obviously out of Spielberg's E.T.  One
scene even has the giant reaching out his finger to the boy in much the same
way ET did to 10 year old Elliott when he departed this earth.  E.T. was an
out of this world fantasy that took place on this earth.  Here, it is
animated and almost just as effective.

IRON GIANT takes place during 1957 in a small town in Maine.  The 1950's was
a time when the American public was fearful of atomic bombs and the
possibility of alien life off the earth.  Live-action sci-fi films of the
1950's always depicted the arrival of "dangerous" alien life and our efforts
to destroy it.  THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL is an influence on this film
for evident reasons.  Ultimately, the characters in that classic learn from
the extra-terrestrial being and realize the dangers of the A-Bomb.  It is
amazing to see an animated feature which can relay this same type of message
some 50 years later.

A beautiful and touching ode to BAMBI is witnessed about halfway through. 
It also brings back some tearful moments from the key scene in that great,
hand-drawn film.  Here, we see both hand-drawn imagery coupled with a
computer-generated "iron giant".  The title character is actually a 3D
composition done digitally, mixed with the 2D action surrounding him.  There
are some highly imaginative shots of the robot mixing in with the film's
environment.  At one point, he appears to be a lighthouse until the lights
begin to blink.  I guess robots must blink too.  

Enough analysis.  I loved this movie.  It is ranked #81 on the top list by
other user authors for a reason.  Not only is it escapist, fantastic
entertainment for kids, adults, and seniors alike, it is an animated picture
like no other.  It combines the joy of SNOW WHITE and PINOCCHIO, the
commentary of 1950's science fiction, and the wizardry and laughter of TOY
STORY and its sequel.  Do not miss this enchanting flick.

RATING: ****

<|_=00=_|>
After seeing this movie, I was overcome by a strange feeling. I
realized that I had found a treasure where I had least expected it. The
Iron Giant is intelligent, funny, touching, and visually superb, and
should show the world that an animated movie does not need to be A)
computer-animated, or B) based on a fairy tale to be successful. One of
the best American-made children's movies I have seen in a decade:
[b]8.5/10.0[/b]

Now, I'm a 17-year-old who is slowly transitioning into the domain of
movie buffdom, which basically means that I am watching a stream of
movies based on recommendations from friends, critics, and the IMDb Top
250 list. I got this one almost by accident after the local rental
place could not find the movie I was really after, choosing it
basically on the knowledge that it was the previous project of Brad
Bird, director of The Incredibles (a personal favorite). After watching
it, I felt like calling up every mother I knew and telling her to have
her children (and herself) watch this.

The Iron Giant revolves around an adventurous young boy in 1950s
small-town America who discovers a gigantic robot out in the woods that
has arrived on Earth from goodness-knows-where. He befriends the robot,
while trying to keep him safe from a nosy government agent. The story
seldom lags, with a series of comical adventures connected by the boy's
growing relationship with his friend. 

This movie is very appealing as entertainment. The voices are
well-done, and the scenery is also terrific. Most importantly, though,
is the animation, which is a bright spot from this time period. The
characters are well-drawn, especially the Giant, who through terrific
design, lifelike movements, and clever small touches (i.e., the eyes)
seems both alien and human, imposing and childlike. Furthermore, the
animation is comical. I don't know when I have ever seen slapstick or
punchlines so well-complimented by the animation. The script, written
by Bird and based off the book The Iron Man, is also very well done.
Though the movie relies upon a few minor crutches common to children's
movies, it is still very original and clever.

One thing that I must point out about this movie is its morals.
Throughout the movie, the main moral of the story, about the Iron Giant
learning and choosing to be good, is actually fairly adroitly handled.
At no point when the subject comes up, including standard sentimental
climax, does the idea seem contrived. Throughout the movie, evidence of
Bird's influence by comic books is quite evident, and his ultimate
message about heroes (variations of which will resurface in The
Incredibles) is relevant and sincere. However, I do have to say that
the secondary moral, about the evils of xenophobia and paranoia, both
of which are embodied by the movie's antagonist, the government agent
and the military, are very politically charged. While this may sound
initially controversial and politically charged for a kids' movie (the
second of which I do not deny), I noticed that it was in large part a
thoughtful spoof of Cold War America, with jokes as well as valuable
lessons about "duck and cover" and 1950s nuclear edginess that I found
very clever.

On a final note, I do have to point out that this movie had me laughing
hard, but more importantly, it brought me closer to tears than any
animated movie I can remember (including Bambi), closer than I like to
admit. I wish that I had discovered it sooner, and I hope that everyone
gets the chance to experience it the way I did.
<|_=00=_|>

Hmmm, what to say...well....  it was really good.  I've seen it several
times, and I've enjoyed it immensely each time for different reasons.

Analytically I find the animation incredible.  The characters are extremely
alive and quite realistic, not because of incredible drawing, well,
actually, yes: the way the characters are drawn, and animated, is
incredible.  From the jerking, swaying and swooshing of body parts to the
magnificent and CONSISTENT use of eyes, eyebrows and cheekbones to show
real
emotions, it's definite that this movie is a masterpiece in terms of
animation.  The backgrounds are wonderfully lush, and evoke a wonderful
sense of everything that shows fall for the beautiful season it is.  I love
animation, and I love good looking landscapes, so the artists behind this
movie are making a fan out of me very quickly.

I admire (analytically) most of all the enormous apparance of little
details
in the film: the season sublty changes from fall to winter; the characters
are always doing something, even if they aren't directly in focus (the best
ad-libbing a director could dream of); I also think in some parts of the
movie the little details actually become crucial to the movie's strength
and
validity (the time and setting of the story help it to make more sense,
also, the "duck and cover" scene)

You know, I think it's amazing when sometimes a movie can move you so much,
talking about it's good qualities seems like child's play.  This is the
kind
of movie that you can watch over and over and take a long time to get sick
of. We all have movies like that, very few can do that to us, but we have
them. I'm realising as I write that I like this movie very much, because
I've written two or three paragraphs and have not even started talking
about
the iron giant yet.

The animation and expression of emotion in the giant, who is a computer
graphics animated character, a hundred feet tall and with a certain old
time
sci fi persona to him, equals and even surpasses it's traditionally
animated
companions.  There were scenes in the movie that the giant almost made me
cry because of his expressions.  The director, Brad Bird I think, should
earn good credit for his work bringing the giant to life.  The giant was
very organic and fluid, always animated and extremely alive, without really
trying to be. After a while it obvious he's not your average rigid
robot.

It's hard not to give away details when you write a lot, but thankfully I
haven't really given anything away.  I will say this...the movie is about
not prejudging things you are unfamiliar with, big or small, and it's about
doing what is right and not using gray areas and politics as an excuse not
to do the right thing. The movie explores the strange concept of finding
friendship, love, and innocence inbetween past guilts and prejudices. It is
one of the most well rounded, enriching, thought provoking movies I have
seen in my lifetime, and the best part is that it wasn't the visual effects
that made me say that...something other feature animation companies have
used a a string to lead me on for almost a decade.  I feel like I just
recovered from an extended brainwashing experiment.  I've learned my
lesson.
No longer will movies that use stunning graphics to redeem themselves be
an
interest to me.  Rather I will watch movies for the messages they give and
the depth those movies have. If anything Brad Bird must have tried to make
the giant as close in simplicity to the regular animated characters as
possible, because you CANNOT tell the difference between CG and traditional
in this movie.  Exceptional stuff.

I can't imagine anyone I know not liking this movie.  I've shown it to a
LOT
of people, college students mostly, of all races and religions, with
different prides and prejudices, the result, amazingly, always seems to be
the same: I have some after movie comments here, and I quote:"Wow!" ; "That
was NICE!"; "That was SO...GOOD!" ;"That giant is crucial, dog!" ;"It was
good...yeah...I liked it!",; and "Dang man, that joint TIGHT!".  If you
actually read this review all the way, that's nice. Now forget everything I
bumbled about and go see this movie, that way you can spent less time
writing your own review than you did reading mine.
<|_=00=_|>

The Iron Giant is a critically acclaimed piece of animated cinema. I wasn't
expecting it to be that good, but The Iron Giant was an amazing movie, it
is
easily the most exquisite animated movie I have ever seen.

Hogarth Hughes (Eli Marenthal) is obsessed by the opportunites offered by
science fiction, the possibility of an alien take-over or, at the very
least, an attack from outer space. The original story, which the late Poet
Laureate had set in England, saw the innocent Titan of the title emerge
from
the sea; here he is a visitor from another galaxy.

The Iron Giant is an amazing piece of animation, the voice-overs were done
perfectly, the actors obviously enjoyed themselves, the animated art
direction and cinematography was beautiful and the giant itself is
just...breathtaking.

The Iron Giant is not just another silly little kiddies movie, it is
perfection in filmmaking. Please, for the love of God, make your life
better
and see this brilliant film.

I rate The Iron Giant 10 out of 10. 
<|_=00=_|>

It's nice to see an elegantly crafted piece of animation come out of
America.  How did they manage it?  The writing is great the animation is
excellent and the voice acting is superb.  I don't think I've liked an
English animated film this much since The Plague Dogs.  The film doesn't
talk down to it's audience, and instead tells a simple story very well.  My
only complaint would be that Hogarth is somewhat of a smart-alec at times,
but I guess this is the era of Leave it To Beaver.

Many of the situations are standard movie-fare, the ex-lax in the food, the
helmet on the bed, but it's nice to see them in an animated film for a
change.  As an anime fan, the realism of the movie didn't impress me as much
as the quality of the writing, voice acting, and the music and sound
effects.  I particularly remember the sound of the power lines snapping and
the musical score building up to the climax of the film.

The character design for the giant is excellent, it's amazing how they could
draw out very subtle emotions without noticeably distorting the face.  I
bawled like a baby near the end.

Finally, most importantly for me, there are NO CHEAP LAUGHS in the movie.
One of the best moments in the movie for me was when Hogarth is running
through the woods and he slams his face into a low branch.  The theater full
of kids raised on recent Disney crap bursts into laughter, but wait, there's
no stupid sound effect, he's not hopping back up to his feet instantly with
a ridiculous lump or distorted face or little birds flying around his head,
he's still on the ground ... and what's that coming out of his nose.. it
CAN'T BE.. it IS, a trickle of BLOOD.  The kids (and parents) quickly cease
their laughter.  I couldn't stop smiling because I knew then that like me,
they actually cared about the character on the screen and frankly that
doesn't happen very often.

Tarzan was a small step in the right direction, and near the end of the long
path beginning with that step is The Iron Giant.
<|_=00=_|>

An ambitious take on Ted Hughes' 1968 children's book The Iron Man, director
Brad Bird's The Iron Giant works well as both archetype-infused allegory and
heartstring-tugging tale of friendship.  Set in small town Maine in the
1950s at the height of Cold War paranoia, the film explores the relationship
between a lonely, fatherless boy (a photo on a nightstand hints that the
father was a combat pilot killed in WWII) and a monstrously huge, hulking
metal behemoth (the origins of which are brilliantly left to the
imagination).  The animation marks a welcome contrast from the virtually
ubiquitous Disney template, with the human characters bearing a stylized,
comic book exaggeration that fits perfectly with the story material.  The
Iron Giant has more than enough imagination and sparkle to interest kids and
adults, and nicely balances its action-adventure aspirations with a
solidly-crafted sense of moral purpose.
