

When I first saw this movie in the theater, I did not really know what to
expect.  In the end, I never laughed so hard in my life.  Granted, its not
everyone's kind of humor (which certainly can be seen by the IMDB people
that trashed it) but it is an extremely intelligent, yet slapstick dark
comedy that may have you rolling on the floor.

I do not think that this movie is good for kids.  From the very beginning,
the movie isn't afraid to "cross the line" by causing upheaval at a
funeral.
But it handles things without the gratuitous use of sex, unlike most
comedies these days.

Some of the funniest things about Mousehunt are in the details.  (Keep an
eye on the painting...)  But the thing that I enjoyed the most was how the
mouse was interweaved into the rest of the story.  Although the movie
isn't
really about a mouse (it was about two brothers coming together in the
wake
of their father's death), I think we all could use a little chaos in our
lives once in a while.
<|_=00=_|>

Nathan Lane just makes me laugh........this film is sophomoric and silly
but
it's so inept that it's hilarious, however improbable it might be.
Christopher Walken is superb in his small role, and the mouse is magical (
notice he takes a dump in Walken's mouth at the end of his sequence ) ,
down
to his sense of nostalgia ( pictures of Hawaii on his wall , and old
mementos ) Don't dismiss this first time round, you'll need to view a few
times to catch the clever inserts ( like when Nathan Lane says " akuna
matata " to an Arab at the auction ) Also note the beautifully whimsical
moments of labor within the garishly dated string factory.......a lot went
into this and although it is ridiculous there are many things to love about
this film.............James
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those movies that catches you off-guard. As campy and
seemingly silly as it is...it's still all around fun. From the first
opening minutes you'll see some of the humor is a bit on the dark-side,
which is what holds it's appeal. The brothers both seem dim witted, yet
lovable. You see their just as fumbling and off as many of us have felt
attimes, which helps us relate to the characters. The way the CGI
andmouse was done gives a real sense of interaction, and a surprise
cameo by a notable Hollywood HEavyweight is a nice surprise. Yet in the
end, without giving too much away, it's about tolerance and someone
trying to find a balance to everything and their surroundings. This
falls along the ways of Babys Day Out. So if you enjoy prop driven
humor and gag setups or just need a break from the stamped out
Hollywood flicks, this is a MUST see and you'll find yourself laughing
uncontrollably. :)
<|_=00=_|>

When their father dies, brothers Ernie and Lars inherit a rundown string
factory and a run down house.  When they find the house may be worth
millions they set about renovating it to auction it.  However they don't
reckon on the house's one inhabitant – a small mouse – who has no intention
of going anywhere.

In the wrong hands this could easily have turned into a cruel slapstick and
nothing else.  It's easy to see this sort of thing turning into a Home Alone
type thing with the mouse dishing out cruel punishment after cruel
punishment.  However it's more than that, although it has elements of those
films.  The film is witty – mixing the slapstick with a more adult humour
and, although the slapstick is cartoony, it is also clever and imaginative
in most cases.

The strength of the film is in three performances.  First and second is Lane
and Evans, both have an air of Laurel and Hardy (especially Lane) and they
make for a good double act.  Lane gets to do his usual stuff while the more
goofy antics of Lars suit Evans' stand-up routine background to the ground. 
However the main success is the mouse.  In other hands he would have been a
mere excuse for destruction, however here he has `humanity' – a character if
you will.  This is perfectly demonstrated by the unintentional chase with a
nail gun – how dramatic! How tense! But also how touching – the mouse is
given intelligence and has a motivation for what happens.

Of course at heart this is a kids film and it is a very good one at that. 
However these other points give it the feel that it was made for adults too.
 Certainly the inclusion of Walken as a pest controller is one no child will
get.

Overall this is well made and is more that just a crude slapstick affair. 
It can be enjoyed on that level but it just feels that little more mature. 
To illustrate what I mean – can you imagine the difference if Chris Columbus
had directed it?  Now you've got me!
<|_=00=_|>

  Nathan Lane and Lee Evans star in this fun and sometimes touching film as
brothers Ernie and Lars who inherit a mansion from their father. They are
really dissapointed when the mansion turns out to be an old dump! They're
keen when they find out that it's worth an absolute mint! They go about
selling it to a collector of LaRue houses for loadsa dosh but there's one
problem.....the mouse living in it! Throughout most of the movie we see the
two comic stars chasing after the mouse and coming off the worse for it!
It's fairly predictable but still very funny and the storyline and the
scripts are actually quite original. Nathan Lane was pretty good in this
movie as was Lee Evans.
  I'd say that this movie appeals to adults and kids because it has a decent
storyline and engaging comic moments. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

What a pleasant comedy! Here's a movie that brings back a subject which was
specific to the cartoons from the forties and fifties: the game of the cat
and the mouse. Here, there's a real mouse and the cat is epitomized by the
Schmuntz brothers who wish to get rid of her in order to sell an old but
expensive house. The more the film advances, the more the traps prepared by
Lars and Ernie Schmuntz are worked out: it begins with the simple, trivial
trap: the mousetrap and it ends with the appearance of the
mouse-exterminator ( an unexpected and irresistible Christopher Walken). In
short, what it seems to be a child's play at the beginning of the movie,
ends up becoming a merciless fight in which there'll be no winner, no
loser...
Gore Verbinski adopted an inventive and clever making and he rightly choose
his actors. Nathan Lane and Lee Evans form an ideal duo, not very far from
the legendary Laurel and Hardy. They've got a different personality but are
united to kill this mouse. Moreover, the movie doesn't only focus on this
"mouse hunt" but also on the Schmuntz brothers' efforts to earn money in
order to save their father's string factory ( a world without string is
chaos...).
Let's add some hilarious and efficient gags ; the movie pays a tribute to
Tex Avery. Dialogs that kick the bull's eye and some cues are powerful such
as: "in this mouse's mind, you are the intruders" says Walken to the
Schmuntz brothers.
At last, the real mouse is, of course, a little pest (she's even compared to
Hitler with a tail) but in parallel, Verbinski attempts to make her
touching.
At the end, a comedy without too many claims but efficient enough to please
to a large public. 
<|_=00=_|>


Smuntz brothers are Laurel and Hardy type buddies inheriting an old house
from the father. They discover that the house is a real classic and worth
millions. However the current houseowner, one little mouse will give them a
hard time.

Smuntz brothers'war with the mouse is really great fun. Christopher Walken
as the Exterminator Caesar with his weird mouse hunt equipment is
wonderful.

Don't hesitate to see this film. Though it is rather for kids, it has still
much to entertain all. Enjoy it.

<|_=00=_|>

A children's film with a moral.  Unlike a certain purveyor of saccharine
entertainment, however, this moral is political, even metaphysical - if you
exploit your workers, if you pursue greed until it makes you mad, if you
break the ties that bind; if, in short, you snap the string, a Pandora's Box
of chaos will be your lot, until you become a latterday Roderick Usher, your
crumbling mansion a metaphor for your disintegrating mind. 

With its Gilliam-like recreation of a dank, Orwellian universe; with its Tim
Burton pervading of Gothic atmosphere; with its twisted Coens' live-action
cartoon sensibility (imagine Christopher Walken in a children's film?  Even
better than that), and you have fun for all the family.

<|_=00=_|>
Luna Macwilliams, age 6, Chicago, il.- 10 stars. "I love this movie
because there are real people and a real mouse and it's real-ly funny!
I also like the mouse's secret tricks that the viewer will wonder-how
did he do that? Check out the mouse swinging across a chasm on a light
bulb chain! It's amazing!" Kris- I give this movie 8 stars. Luna, age
6, gave it 10 stars and I thought since this is a family film, one I
might not have seen without her, she deserved a voice. She gives a lot
of kids flicks 10 stars, but not all. I thought the film captured the
perfect feel of a cartoon, but done in live action. There are a few
films that come to mind from the past that pulled off the cartoon feel,
the Coen's Hudsucker Proxy, or more so even, Raising Arizona, Tim
Burton's early films and a few others. None may be shot as perfectly in
cartoon style as Mousehunt however, and none are as perfectly suited
for kids age 3 to 10. Some of its visual delights could be called
cinematic bliss, as great as anything procured by Welles or Lean. There
is a fade from a white plastic home on a white cake that dissolves into
a white home on a snowy white hill that should be shown in every film
school. There is use of shadows and water that would make Ingmar
Bergman proud. And of course, there is the mouse. The effects and
photography are done so well that he convinced the kids he was real,
and really smart and acrobatic. Lee Evans and Nathan Lane are perfectly
cast as black and white characters. They don't look like they're
related, Evan's too nice and Lane is too mean, but hey, it's a kids
movie. Their characters work perfectly in the cartoon world they
inhibit. They make you laugh, no matter how old you are. Christopher
Walken plays an exterminator and it was right before he became
overexposed in every other hip movie made. His best dialogue comes
off-screen from a tape recorder. Walken could be just as funny on radio
I guess, it's all in his verbiage. So rent or buy this for the family.
It's one of those few gems that will have you all laughing at the same
joke.
<|_=00=_|>

   I love this movie because Nathan Lane and Lee Evans both seem to be doing
an homage to the slapstick movies of Laurel And Hardy. One of my favorite
actors, Nathan Lane has quite a few scenes where he looks like he's
duplicating Oliver Hardy's mannerisms and quirks. Bronson Pinchot could have
made a better sidekick especially for the physical humor, but even with
Evans, the movie is a fast furious laugh riot as the guys try to catch one
inescapable mouse which knows the house better than they do. Ian Abercrombie
of Seinfeld fame also joins the fun as does veteran actor William Hickey of
Wings in this his last role. The mouse which is in part portrayed by real
mice, puppets and computer animation steals much of the movie as does a cat
from Hades which then in turn unleashes a wild and funny John and Larry (Tom
and Jerry ???) sequence far funnier than the sadisticly lousy cartoon. This
movie rates a ten for humor, plot and camera effects as we see the world
within the walls of our house.
