

OK this is going to be a bit long... but it will be good food for
discussions.

Yes, this movie is "Hollywood". The Plot line is predictable, but it is
the concepts that the director explores along the way that make it
interesting an thought-provoking, assuming you pay attention and didn't
just rent it for the bang-bang, or a chance to see Demi in a wet
T-shirt. Ridley make some mistakes, but he does some really good things
too. Let me comment on what some other people have said, and talk about
what I think Ridley does well with this film.

I think Mr. Scott gets a really excellent performance from Demi. I feel
this is her best film, but I haven't seen to many, because she usually
gets on my nerves. However, she is believable in the role of a woman
who just wants to prove to herself that she can do this. I believe her
when she says she doesn't want to be a poster child for women's
rights... and the Commander is right in telling her that she's gonna
have to wear that hat anyway.

Viggo is great too. I don't think too many people knew who he was when
this movie came out, but he was even billed above Anne Bancroft.
Someone said he looks embarrassed in every scene... hogwash. He looks
like a very tough character in a very difficult situation. He knows
that the issue is not whether a woman can make it, many can. This isn't
about women's rights... this is about how men, mainly YOUNG men, relate
to women in stressful situations. If all soldiers were in their late
thirties, emotionally and psychologically, then the issue would be much
smaller. Most of these guys are young, dumb and full of... you know the
rhyme. I was there too, once upon a time. Viggo is excellent, he reacts
the way many military instructors would... trying to stop the
inevitable, fighting against politicians way over his head who have
never been in the crap, but think they know better. Pay attention, you
can just see that he respects LT O'Neil. But he believes he has to make
an example out of her. Ms. Bancroft is excellent as well, some people
say over the top, they obviously haven't had to deal with high level
politics before. Perhaps she is a bit rough for reality, but remember,
it is a movie, making a point, and being entertaining, things have to
be gritty... and Senate will always be more vicious than any military
training. I find her performance fun and a joy to watch.

I don't know if Mr. Scott has any military training, but he does a
better job of conveying the realities of it to the screen than most.
Yes, the SERE segment goes farther than real SERE training would go...
but not by much. Talk to someone who's been through it. It would not
have been the same group of instructors... it's a very specialized
field and the instructors have extensive psychological screening and
training. However, I'll give that one to Ridley, he's trying not to
complicate the plot, and he needs the scene with Master Chief Urgayle.
BTW Women do go through SERE sometimes... and the instructors do use
them against the men's emotions.

As for other Militray stuff, much of the language, feelings about chain
of command, frustration with training constraints and political
a**-covering was /On The Spot/. I speak from 6 years of experience as
an Army officer (some of the stuff you see on active duty is amazing,
but in the end it all balances out and the US Armed Forces are still
the best in the world). Even the way Ridley has to frig with the plot
to put the trainees in a an actual firefight was plausible... not
possible, but plausible. Remember, it is a movie, he's got to have a
real combat situation to entertain the dumber audience who just came to
see the boom. But Ridley even goes far enough to give the Master Chief
a chance to back out. It is a group of Navy SEAL trainees, deep into
their training cycle, with a buttload of prior experience (IF you pay
attention you will note that one of the trainees is a US Army Ranger,
one a Marine, probably from RECON, these are guys who know the job
already, and this is true to reality). You are also talking about a
straight forward mission facilitating extraction of US Army Rangers
from the deep inland mission. Ridley even has that right, this would be
a Ranger mission, and the Spec-ops community may do a joint op where
the SEALS secure the sea-side extraction point.

Quite frankly... the movie is better than most people could have done.
Matter of fact, I think it was a tough challenge for Mr. Scott and
don't think anyone could have done much better. One bad point I agree
with is that artistically, the movie is shot entirely too dark.. that's
about the worst thing I can say about it though. As for plot
predictability... how often do you REALLY see an original plotline?

One last comment. I was at the Army Officer's Advance Course when this
movie came out. There was a group of Officer's that were gong to see
this movie, ostensibly to have a good laugh. These were
Ranger-qualified Infantry guys, a Marine officer from RECON, a couple
guys going to or coming from SF training... all Type A's. The next day
they weren't laughing... they just said "you know what, that wasn't
half bad." That don't sound like much, but it's high praise from that
group.

Probably why this has such a poor rating is because it isn't Hollywood
enough for the lowest-common-denominator crowd.

Enjoy the film.

<|_=00=_|>

I fully admit I am not the biggest Demi Moore fan in the world.  As a matter
of fact, she's been in some of my least favorite movies of the decade (A FEW
GOOD MEN, INDECENT PROPOSAL, THE SCARLET LETTER, THE JUROR, STRIPTEASE), and
she really hasn't been good in any of those.  But she did win me over in
this movie, because she lives up to her character's line, "Look, I'm not
trying to make any sort of statement here."  And she isn't.  Instead of
letting vanity get in the way, or injecting pathos, she lets her actions
speak for her, just like her character does in trying to win acceptance as a
SEAL.  The haircut scene is a good example; though it's directed with
cinematic flourish, she does it matter-of-fact.

Moore's performance is one of the two performances that elevate this from
your standard grunts-become-soldiers movie.  The other is the riveting Viggo
Mortenson as the Master Chief, who's the drill instructor.  He doesn't play
the role as a sadistic tyrant, but rather as a subtle manipulator who
gradually recognizes Jordan O'Neill(Moore) is someone worth taking
seriously.  He also avoids going for pathos.

The movie is best when it concentrates on the training.  Ironically, making
just a standard grunts-become-soldiers movie makes its message work, because
like O'Neill's superiors, we take her seriously because she becomes no
different than anyone else.  The beginning is bad, and the climatic battle
at the end is overblown, which weakens the movie.  Still, it's worth a look,
and I maintain Moore was only given a Razzie Award for this movie and
performance because of her past work, and the naysayers really weren't
paying attention to her performance here. 
<|_=00=_|>

G.I. Jane has some good points, good scenes, and (some)good acting.
However,
I saw its main point as trying to promote a "can-do" scenario for women in
the military (I am a female veteran of 24 years) and I think several
things
in the movie do just the opposite.  If the idea, problem, or goal is to
prove that women can succeed in a traditionally male career, task, or
training, then that should be presented while maintaining the woman's
gender.  What I mean is, O'Neil doesn't succeed until she shaves her head
(shorter than the men's - and unnecessary), bulks up to the point where
her
body fat falls below normal and she ceases to menstruate, and generally
becomes "one of the boys."  The point is, she's a woman, not a man.  She
shouldn't have to become a man to prove she can succeed with a group of
men.
This is painfully clear when she screams "Suck my dick," at the Sergeant.
The obvious point is that, since she's a woman, she doesn't have one of
those.  Nor should she need to metaphorically develop one in order to
succeed.  Another point I'd like to make is that her dialogue as a
prisoner
of war was ridiculous.  The object is to survive.  If you don't, your
mission has failed.  Taunting, bragging, and arguing with captors is a big
NO-NO.  Her, "I'm sorry, am I supposed to be afraid?" line would have
gotten
her stripped naked and suspended under a water hose for hours.  There are
no
cadets that are tougher than the captors(instructors).  Bringing unhappy
attention to oneself in that situation is inescapably stupid.  It is not
tough.  Her worst line, though, is "I'm going in." CLICHE!!

<|_=00=_|>

I ignored this on it's release and caught flashes of it during it's
run
on HBO, there were some exciting action sequences and amazing glimpses into
the hell that SEAL training requires, but somehow I just couldnt put all the
pieces together. It didnt make sense.....until now. I finally watched this
movie in it's entirety last night and I am hooked.
Whether the film misses the target on it's "statement" is not the point.
It's just a good flick. Demi Moore pulls off the roll in convincing style
and Viggo Mortenson has his best part as the Master
Chief of the SEAL training unit. They have this crazy dynamic between
themselves that finally unfolds at the ending, leaving you wishing for just
a little more. Solid action film with a great support cast and a perfectly
despicable villain played to the hilt by Anne Bancroft as a Senator who
compromises GI Jane for her own political gain. Well, at least she tries. I
think Demi Moore is one of the most underappreciated talents in recent
memory. She has this unique combination of hardass determination and
sensitivity that is rare. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

Demi Moore gave a good performance to a role that suited her really well.
I
can understand where her character was coming from when she said that she
did not want to become a poster figure for women's advancement in the
military and society at large.  However, being that she was the only
woman
in the NAVY Seal training camp, it was sort of inevitable for that to
happen.  Hence, her character's comments were unnecessary.

Viggo Mortensen was excellent as Master Chief.  I found myself still
liking
his character after he beat the crap out of Demi Moore's in a training
game
gone wrong.  That scene was brutal but very necessary. In this case, the
social message was that equality in the military does not just mean that
men
and women get an equal share of the pie but also that they both get an
equal
share of the pain.

SPOILER: I would have liked to see Anne Bancroft's character on Moore's
side
towards the end but as politics goes, she only cared about getting
re-elected.  It was a good reality check for the viewer.

I recommend this movie.  
<|_=00=_|>
Actress Demi Moore shaves her head, dons fatigues, and totes a machine
gun in British director Ridley Scott's opportune but exploitative "G.I.
Jane," a sexual equality polemic about the first female to graduate as
a Navy SEAL. This lackluster basic training epic serves up a volatile
but exemplary message about equal rights and the armed forces that cost
the filmmakers the aid of the Department of Defense. When "G.I. Jane"
isn't preaching gender parity, this cynical but slickly done "Top Gun"
clone is gung ho on showing Moore kicking butt in the kind of role her
husband Bruce Willis excels. Sadly, "G.I. Jane's" melodramatic
storyline combines with its juvenile heroics to undermine what little
credibility it musters as a socially conscious exercise in political
correctness.

Writers David ("The Fugitive")Twohy and Danielle Alexandra collaborated
on what can only be called a prefabricated screenplay. "G.I. Jane"
marches to the familiar beat that has characterized the formulaic
military service picture since the 1920s. Movies such as "Courage Under
Fire," "Heartbreak Ridge," and "Stripes." have done what "G.I. Jane"
tries to do. Moreover, they have done it better. Basically, the plots
and the heroics in military pictures remain the same, only the sex of
the hero has changed with "G.I. Jane." The Twohy-Alexandra script
alternates between Congressional and Naval brainstorming sessions about
Lt. O'Neil and the obstacles she confronts at the SEAL training base in
Florida. A shrewd but slippery Texas Senator, Lillian DeHaven (Anne
Bancroft), cuts a deal with the future Secretary of the Navy Theodore
Hayes (Daniel Von Bergan). He'll snag her vote of approval if the Navy
opens its elite SEAL commando school to a woman. Secretary Hayes caves
in to Senator DeHaven's request, but squirms when she demands approval
of the SEAL candidate.

DeHaven picks Lt. Jordan O'Neil (Demi Moore) for her physical agility
and her keen mind. O'Neil is the kind of woman who makes men nervous.
When we first meet her, she is monitoring a satellite transmission with
a commando unit trying to escape from enemy country. She arouses the
hostility of her male superior officer when she provides the best
solution to the extraction problem. But Lt. O'Neil is not a person
easily ignored. Neither Senator DeHaven nor Secretary Hayes expects her
to finish the course. After all, Navy SEALs are the most demanding and
merciless elite combat force in the world. Sixty percent of the
recruits who enter the program wash out.

When the press snaps photos of O'Neil on SEAL maneuvers, a controversy
erupts in both the Pentagon and Congress. Secretary Hayes and Senator
DeHaven sought to keep the project under wraps, but the news wants to
interview O'Neil. Suddenly, O'Neil finds herself caught in the middle
of a JAG investigation.

Guys will relish the last half-hour of "G.I. Jane." That's when the
bullets start to fly. During a training exercise in the Mediterranean
Sea, the SEALs get to help out U.S. troops retrieving a fallen
satellite in Libya. This part of the script is straight out of a "Star
Trek" movie because the SEAL recruits are the only force close enough
to respond to the situation. Nobody else can rescue these troops, so
the Master Chief (Viggo Mortensen) takes his recruits into battle.
Unfortunately, things go sour and the Master Chief catches a bullet. He
sends O'Neil packing, but she refuses to leave him to his fate.
Instead, O'Neil figures out the master chief's escape plan and stages
an ambush to wipe out his adversaries. Not since World War II Nazi
movies have the enemy been so gullible and easy to kill. These Libyan
soldiers present about as much a threat to the SEALs as the Iraqi
soldiers did to Charlie Sheen in the "Hot Shots" movies.

Demi Moore knocks herself out as Navy Intelligence officer Lt. Jordan
O'Neil. Even her character's name has a masculine quality to it. When
Demi isn't trying to impress us with her brains, she displays her
feminine brawn. The calisthenics that she performs in her tight undies
defy gravity. The one-armed push-ups are enough to make you break into
a sweat. All of this resembles the grunge side of last summer's idiotic
opus "Striptease," except that frontal nudity is avoided. Moore's
performance, to her credit here, is both straight-forward and serious
even when O'Neil plays toy soldier in the last reel.

Veteran actress Anne Bancroft of "Point of No Return" shines as the
crafty Texas senator whose willing to use as well as abuse Lt. O'Neil
to save her own congressional bacon. This is Bancroft's juiciest role
in years, and she plays it to the hilt. Her best scene with O'Neil has
Bancroft's cagey Senator explaining why women in combat will remain a
hot issue. According to DeHaven, lawmakers fear the political suicide
that television images of dead women being shipped home in body bags
would prompt. Director Ridley Scott pulls some slick optical tricks to
bolster "G. I. Jane," but they don't beef up the action. Jiggling his
camera during the combat scenes may create disorientation in audience,
but it doesn't trigger a rush of adrenalin. This artsy gimmick doesn't
generate either tension or suspense. Anyway, you know that Demi Moore
isn't going to get a scratch on her because she's smart enough to dodge
the bullets that stupid men are firing at her.

Simply, Scott doesn't make "G.I. Jane" rock and roll. The grueling
training sequences are okay, but the final combat scenes resemble Boy
Scout antics, compared with even a marginal effort like "In The Army
Now." Ridley Scott has produced some memorable films that deploy women
in gender stretching roles, such as "Alien" and "Thelma & Louise."
"G.I. Jane" boasts none of the art, hype, or viscera of those movies.
In the commercially oriented market place, if the next movie doesn't
top the last, trouble lies ahead. Compared with last summer's dignified
masterpiece "Courage Under Fire," "G.I. Jane" amounts to sheer hokum.
<|_=00=_|>
Senator DeHaven (Anne Bancroft) pressures the Navy to be gender blind.
They accept as long as a woman test case can measure up to the men's
standards. They figure on the U.S. Navy Combined Reconnaissance Team
which has a 60% wash out rate. DeHaven picks Lieutenant Jordan O'Neil
(Demi Moore) out of the approved candidates for her looks. Command
Master Chief John James Urgayle (Viggo Mortensen) is their trainer. She
has to overcome expectations, sexism, politics and the pressure of the
program to succeed.

There is nothing surprising or original in this movie. It's got all the
training and director Ridley Scott is an expert at jazzing up those
'action' scenes. The most compelling originality comes from Demi Moore
shaving her hair. I do have to say that she looks fierce with the bald
head. She looks fierce generally and Scott has her exercising up a
storm. The movie probably needs some of the other characters to step up
but nobody can ever be on the same level as Demi.
<|_=00=_|>
G.I. Jane (1997): Dir: Ridley Scott / Cast: Demi Moore, Viggo
Mortensen, Anne Bancroft, Scott Wilson, Morris Chestnut: A film about a
woman in a man's world with violence being the key factor. Demi Moore
gives a convincing portrayal of a woman in military training and trying
to withstand painstaking labour, crude gender jokes, and eating out of
a trash bin. She exercises constantly and even shaves her head to blend
in but outside forces attempt to sabotage her. What really comes across
is her sense of human worth and her demand to be treated equally.
During war games her entire troop is captured and she endures torture
at the hands of her commander. Director Ridley Scott is skilled at
presenting realism but the screenplay is marred with clichés and
predictable ending that borders on farce. Scott has made superior films
such as Blade Runner and Alien but this is hardly ranking up there with
films that demonstrated greater skill. Moore displays a real sense of
individuality while her co-stars surrender to stereotypes. Viggo
Mortensen plays her heavy handed commander in what is easily a
predictable stereotype with all the integrity of a playground bully.
Anne Bancroft is also wasted in a role of a woman who is stuck so far
back in tradition that it is a wonder that she exists in real time. For
Moore this is barely a step up from Striptease. Message of equality is
strong. Score: 5 ½ / 10
<|_=00=_|>
"G.I. Jane" is the story of Lieutenant Jordan O'Neill, a Naval
Intelligence officer who gets chosen by a senator to be the test dummy
for woman's acceptance into Military Combat. She gets put into training
for the Navy SEALS, the most elite and toughest training. Now, O'Neill
must prove she has what it takes to be among the best of the boys.
Directed by Ridley Scott and co-written by the creator of the
"Chronicles of Riddick" series, I wasn't sure what to expect. Ridley
Scott is an amazing director but I didn't like "Pitch Black" that much,
so I didn't know if I ended up liking this movie. But you know what? I
highly enjoyed it.

Demi Moore plays Lieutenant O'Neill, a tough, no-nonsense girl who just
wants to get in on the action. Out of all the roles I've seen Demi
Moore in, this is my favourite one yet. She's strong-willed,
determined, and as the film goes on, she becomes a giant badass. If
there was ever a woman's version of "The Expendables", Demi Moore would
definitely be in it. She's a great character and you really want to see
her succeed and kick all the guy's asses. She also gets into the best
shape of her life. Even when she shaves her head, forms abs and gets
totally ripped, she is still incredibly hot.

Viggo Mortensen plays John, the Master Chief. No, not the one from
Halo. The moment he steps on screen, you know this guy is hardcore.
He's brutal, mean, and is really a dick towards O'Neill. Of course
towards the end they become allies but the stuff he does to O'Neill is
just terrible. You do not like this guy at all, but that just shows
that Viggo Mortensen did a good job as Master Chief. Only way he could
be any more badass is with an energy sword.

The atmosphere in this movie is awesome. You're watching all these guys
and O'Neill go through boot camp and you're just sitting there going
"Yeah, I couldn't do that. That's just gross". Like there's one part
where they have five minutes to eat dinner and do they get fresh food?
No. They get the scraps from their lunch. So their eating like half
eaten corn and weird goop that been sitting there for half a day. I
have to be honest, I wouldn't survive 1 day at that place.

The last 20 minutes are my least favourite part of the film. It's kind
of like "Full Metal Jacket" in the way that once they leave bootcamp,
the movie goes downhill. But unlike "Full Metal Jacket", the movie only
goes downhill a bit. It was kind of just an excuse to make stuff blow
up and have a gunfight but I'm not complaining. Got to say, Demi Moore
grenading Iraqis and Aragorn sniping people is pretty cool.

Overall, I highly enjoyed "G.I. Jane". I thought it was a great
entertainment and Demi Moore was excellent. It's a badass military film
that shows that girls really can kick ass, and I would watch this any
day. Definitely a buy on Blu-Ray.
<|_=00=_|>

Spoilers herein.

I have a lot of respect for Ridley's filmmaking. He shoots high and the
stuff he does takes learning. This and White Squall are practice for
Gladiator, all people striving under impossible external
constraints.

You can see it here, where he works on the character to personalize each
scene. He still hasn't mastered the art of projecting a scene into the next.
Moore can carry the focus, but not the focus to come in anticipation. (Crowe
can.)

I first saw this in a theater near the SEAL base. SEALs train two blocks
from my house. This film doesn't capture how crazy these guys are made to
be.
