
I spent over a decade watching and reviewing films for my job at MTV
Europe. Even before and since I voraciously consume cinema of truly all
kinds as a passion, I don't care about genre or even subject, only that
a work is honest, inspired, effective. As with any art, of course. 

I saw The Indian Runner at its Cannes film festival debut in 1991 and
left the Grand Palais screening speechless. Where to start? We often
hear about the usual checklist of script, acting, cinematography,
editing, music, and so on, and of course all are stellar here. But it's
the magic of the mix of all these and so many more subtleties about the
experience of this film that makes it not just a terrific, achingly
beautiful thing, moving, illuminating, but, I believe, having revisited
it so many times over the last thirteen years (like so very few others
among the hundreds seen once), one that is important and bound for a
belated re- positioning as a cinematic gem in the history books of the
future.

Cassavetes is clearly a major force behind this in the best possible
way; he'd have stood up and applauded the way Penn took his spirit, his
openness and gave it a more cinematic scope, color, pace, size, without
compromising his own direct gaze on the human condition. Before this
film Cassavetes' huge contribution had not been properly picked up, the
baton in some respects still dangling where the late auteur had left it
years back. In Indian Runner Penn points the way forward for this bold
tone of cinematic voice (in a way to my mind even more clear than in
his subsequent The Crossing Guard and The Pledge). The moment at the
start of the film when Joe's dead victim's father begins singing a work
song at the police station still stands out as the revelation that this
movie had its own palette. I could go on and on but I'd probably
bore... even ME (like Frank, no?).

What struck me in Cannes and forever since is how this massive
achievement was so overlooked by other critics and then the public. I
felt I was simply out of step but never wavered in my commitment to
the film as a private cause which I'm pleased to say everyone I've
talked into seeing it has agreed during exciting post-mortems. Also, as
with great works in general, I notice it only gets better with repeated
visits over the years. And seeing the comments about it on this site
has cheered me up no end. I'm not alone!

It's one thing for a film to endure; another entirely for it to emerge
from obscurity years after it was made and left aside. That very
trajectory, likely, it seems now, for The Indian Runner, is going to
become one of its many very special qualities. Conversations about its
simple and complex strengths are gaining a new dimension with this look
into what it was that made it so inaccessible to most of its viewers
for its first decade and what it is and will be that finally unmasks
the gem that until now was so oddly neglected. Suddenly it's on DVD and
people are discussing it. Could it be good taste or whatever you call
this kind of appreciation is on the rise? Wow. Reasons to be cheerful
indeed. 

And for those of us who first came across Viggo Mortenson here, imagine
how itchy it made us sitting through his fine but passionless Lord of
the Rings!

Here's to poetry, vision, and honesty about pain and life without
judgment. Lord knows it's rare these days.
<|_=00=_|>

This film has deeply affected me.  The first time I saw it I had tears
pouring down my face throughout.  The second time I found myself really
getting into it.  Sure, you know what it's about from the other reviews.
We
ask ourselves why Frank isn't content with life.  Most of us would feel
closer to Joe, but Penn enables us to sympathise with this wretched
character of Frank.  He's not a nice guy.   Myself; I am happy that this
film is not necessarily a period piece.  It takes a while for you to
understand in what context the film is set.  What makes this movie so good
is that is underlining message remains ambiguous.  This is certainly a
film
that will stand the test of time.  It's not about the nation of America
during the 70's.  It's about the relationship of two brothers, and one
just
so happens to have come back from Vietnam.  It could have been set in 2003
and the underlying message would remain the same.  The talent of Penn is
in
that he never once blames Frank's actions on the Vietnam War.  He was a
bad
kid before the War.  I urge everyone to see this movie. You will either
sympathise with the characters and understand the underlying message or
you
will not.  I also urge you to open your mind before you see the movie, and
if you don't understand it.  Think about it for a while
longer.
<|_=00=_|>

Few actors who move over to directing have done so with as much success
(artistically) as Sean Penn. John Cassavetes, a major source of inspiration
to Penn, did so in the past, and Penn is one of the very few to follow in
his footsteps who could possibly end up rivalling  him as a maker of complex
and haunting character based dramas. 'The Indian Runner' was Penn's
directorial debut, and it is an extremely impressive achievement. Inspired
by Springsteen's song 'Highway Patrolman' (from his underrated 'Nebraska'
album from the early 1980s), it is a slow, almost hypnotic look at two
brothers with totally different world views and their attempts to come to
terms with each other. The siblings are played by David Morse ('Twelve
Monkeys') and Viggo Mortensen ('The Prophecy'), and both performances are
superb, and career high points. Mortensen is now a major movie star due to
his involvement in the 'Lord Of The Rings' trilogy, but for his best acting
work look no further than here. The rest of the movie features a first rate
supporting cast which includes Valeria Golina ('Rain Man') and Patricia
Arquette ('True Romance') as the brother's respective love interests, and
veterans Dennis Hopper ('Blue Velvet') and Charles Bronson ('Death Wish'),
testament to the respect Penn has in the acting community, I'd say. Bronson,
who plays the father, puts in an uncharacteristically subdued performance,
one of his best ever. Also keep an eye out for Benicio Del Toro ('The Usual
Suspects') in a small cameo, and Penn's mother Eileen Ryan ('At Close
Range'). This movie may not be to everyone's taste, but I was knocked out by
it. Easily one of the most overlooked dramas of the 1990s. Highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

What word better describes this picture than `strong'?  Strong characters,
strong actors, strong directorial choices.  Brilliant writing and a
performance that told anyone who saw it that it was only a matter of time
before Viggo Mortensen became a somewhat unwieldy household name.  Everybody
shines, everybody is used more intelligently than they were very often. 
Valeria Golino didn't have a part this good until `Frida,' Charles Bronson
is given room to stretch, Patricia Arquette gives her best performance ever
by far (doesn't she look a bit like Robin Wright in this film?), and David
Morse is always excellent, I see that he directs TV from his bio, hopefully
he'll try a feature soon.  Just like `Jesus' Son' another film set around
the 60's/70's split, if this film had been made in the time in which it is
set it would have been a classic.  As it is it hasn't even been released on
DVD yet, which is embarrassing.  I wasn't the biggest fan of `The Pledge'
and actually didn't know that A) Sean Penn had a film like this in him,
though I suspected, or that B) he made that film more than 10 years
ago.

One false step was using someone giving birth for that scene.  We know it
isn't Patricia Arquette, it is unnerving to watch someone give birth even if
you know them but especially when you have some random person splayed out in
front of the camera.  Immediately I was taken out of it, wondering who would
volunteer to have a baby for a film.  Oh, and you never ever really believe
it's 1963.

Certain shots are eerily reminiscent of the haunted and empty America we see
in Philip Ridley's `The Reflecting Skin,' a Viggo Mortensen film from the
year before.

Greatest thing about the film is that it doesn't try too hard.  With
symbolism, with drama, it lets the people do their work and what happens is
consistently interesting.  It has a great soundtrack and more importantly
music is used well within the film.  The film is even more poignant
considering that it come from the famously volatile, occasionally
traditional occasionally misanthropic but always mercurial Penn. 


<|_=00=_|>

Absolutely one of my favorite films of all time.  Not enough real movies
like this.  Tells an important tale of family, love and loss.  Sean Penn
is
a national treasure as both an actor and filmmaker.  David Morse and Viggo
Mortensen give their best performances of their careers.  Charles Bronson
is
such a surprise as the father.
<|_=00=_|>
There are a few of us who feel that Sean Penn is one of the major
driving forces in American cinema, an actor of pure artistic
intentions, utter sincerity and empathy, and thoughtful (if often
misconstrued) politics. He's kind of an heir to a few different giants
-- Brando, in terms of rough sexuality and pugnacity; Nicholson, in
terms of intelligence as an actor (he shares with both a volatile,
sometimes over-the-top acting style and tendency to play human beings
with emotions rather than playing acting techniques); and Cassavetes,
emphasized with this film (which he dedicates to him). He's more
meticulous and crafty than Cassavetes, but just as emotionally direct.
(And like him, there may be times where you don't know what to think of
what you're seeing; I think that's true of anything original, or
anything that eschews typical film conventions.) But despite that
similarity, the film isn't quite real -- the Indian mythos, the
narration of David Morse, Viggo Mortenson hopping on a moving train.
It's the stuff of hazy dreams. The whole picture is imbued with a quiet
feeling -- you wish you could show it to those on the right who hate
Penn for his outspoken politics, just to prove that he cares deeply
about exactly the type of people they think he and his Hollywood
friends are against.

At first the Indian stuff is a little cheesy, but it leads up to a
climax where it really works and feels organic. More than being an
actor who can direct, Penn is at times a real master -- he's got a rare
gift of ending films with a real punch, without it being cheap. Here,
the film gets more technically flamboyant as it goes along -- the
camera moves a little more, the inter cutting between a few different
scenes gets quicker -- and it ends wonderfully. You have to have a
certain willingness to go along with the story that Penn's telling
(many times characters do things that don't make any logical sense, but
emotionally it fits), and the semi-metaphysical closing really worked
for me.

Part of the value is in the chance to see good actors work; it's
strange that actors known for their histrionics so often direct films
that are completely devoid of showiness in terms of acting. That is to
say, when Mortensen freaks out on his wife (Patricia Arquette, whose
constant squeals are incredibly -- and aptly -- uncomfortable), it's
tense because of the exchange of emotions and not because of any
actorly shaking or screaming. Penn is a very generous director, and I
think that's shown by his allowing Charles Bronson to do some of the
finest work of his career. The movie feels very indebted to the '70s,
what with a few of the zooms, the folk/rock music, and the kind of
small, rural movie this is that rarely gets made anymore. (It owes
something to Dennis Hopper's own films, I think; specifically in
Mortensen's speech about the "math kids.") 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

The only reason I wanted to see The Indian Runner was because of the
stunning multi-talented Viggo Mortensen. But I have to admit that this
movie
touched me. When it finished I sat for about half an hour just thinking
'why?'

The movie moves along quite slowly but I think it was meant to. Penn
wanted
us to see, feel and identify with the characters. To witness the bond
between the two brothers and Frank's struggle to tame himself.

And we do. Viggo shows amazing range as an actor here and is easily one of
the best films he has ever done. We see Frank go from relaxed to angry to
livid to sorrowful and are drawn in to his tortured soul. Mortensen makes
us
want to feel for the character and we desperately want him to be happy.
His
emotions evoke a wide range of emotions in ourselves. His performance is
nothing short of astounding. We never know if we are meant to hate Frank
or
feel sorry for him but we gradually begin to love him and want to
understand
why he is so angry with the world due to Mortensen's performance. Where
was
the Oscar this year???

The rest of the cast shine as well. David Morse is utterly convincing as a
man trying to salvage the last remains of his disintergrating family and
the
actress who plays his wife is equally good.

All I can say is WATCH IT!
<|_=00=_|>

A great melodrama in a small town during the seventies about two
grown-up
brothers; Joe (David Morse), is married and a deputy sheriff who seems to
be
highly devoted to his job.  Frank (Viggo Mortensen), who is the younger one
of the pair, comes back from Vietnam even though he has the habit of being
a
troublemaker.

Morse and Mortensen are nothing short of excellent in their performances
and are backed up by a solid supporting cast (Valerina Gorlino, Patricia
Arquette, Dennis Hopper, Sandy Dennis, and Charles Bronson).   Out of the
bunch, Bronson is the one to watch here as the boys' quiet and solemn
father
and he treats it to perfection.  In one scene, he tells Joe while they're
sitting out on the porch that he was wrong about Joe marrying Maria
(Gorlino), who is Mexican.

There another surprise that makes the film more compelling to watch is
that it's the directing and writing debut of actor Sean Penn.  The movie
was
inspired by the Bruce Springsteen song that's called "Highway
Patrolman".

Anthony Richmond's cinematography is extroadinary and the musical score
by the late Jack Nitzsche is very solid.

"The Indian Runner" presented a rare and very interesting question to
me:
"Why doesn't any movie director make a film that shows the two sides
(bright
and dark) of the director themself?"

In conclusion, this movie is intelligent and seriously moving.  And it
shows that Penn can write and direct beside act.    
<|_=00=_|>
Penn was 30 when he made this movie,and it seems to be a mature
director's work.Although it takes place in America,it has an European
sensitivity;in a nutshell,it recalls John Cassavetes (to whom the film
is dedicated) and Kenneth Loach. Connection with John Cassavetes? Penn
refuses any dramatization;the mother's death (Sandy Dennis has only a
cameo)is totally non-melodramatic:a short scene between the father
(almost unrecognizable Bronson,in a part diametrically opposite to his
usual he-man performances)and Joe,another one between the two
brothers,in which emotion is so subdued it takes a stranger
-Dorothy,Frank's girlfriend- to shed a few tears.No dramatization too
when Frank smashes the man's face in:we only see Frank's bloody face.
Frank was a Vietnam veteran,but never Penn uses it as an excuse or an
explanation as far his behavior is concerned:no flashbacks,no bad
dreams,no hints at the war he had to fight,no clichés.Joe is a good
man,he's an Abel who wants his brother to find his "delicate balance"
although he does know it's impossible.It seems that this impossibility
has its roots in childhood,as Penn insists on the picture of the little
boy dressed as a cowboy with a pair of revolvers.Some are born to
endless night,some are born to sweet delight. And here's the connection
with Loach:like him,he focuses on ordinary people,on the small joys of
their routine life.Joe dreams of a simple happiness,between his wife
and his kid.He knows that life is hard,but he wants to hope against
hope,and his nephew's birth is to him one of these sweet delights he
has learned to content himself with.The last sentence is a message of
hope,and God knows how much we need it.The late Laura Nyro wrote this
line:"and when I die,there will be a child born to carry on".
<|_=00=_|>
Sean Penn is a great actor, the best of his generation, so it would
seem a bit much to think that he would be a great director. This is
what I had in mind when I went to see 'The Indian Runner'. I couldn't
be more wrong. Featuring great performances all around, Penn manages to
succeed on almost every level. Bold, moving, tough, full of tender
sadness, this film is a unique take on brotherhood and loss. Penn
proves that he is not only an amazing director, but he is also a very
brave screenwriter. The issues he chooses to feature are far from safe
and he treats his characters so tenderly, even if they are broken
beyond repair, that demonstrates a fascinating voice of his own,
something very rare in a debut film. His latest film,'The Last Face',
is facing terrible reviews but that doesn't mean Penn isn't a
courageous artist. Using his fierce need for truth on what it means to
love, to suffer, to exist, we might live long enough to see Sean Penn
deliver his masterpiece. But even if we don't, we will always have 'The
Indian Runner', and that's no small deal.
