

I'm usually pretty cynical about cheesy movies but this movie absolutely
floored me.  Drew Barrymore was phenomenal playing role of Julia
Sullivan.
I've seen the movie at least 30 times by now and her expressions still
make
me cry, they're just so sincere. I don't know how else to put it.  As for
Adam Sandler I think that this is his best role yet, he's a real person
in
this movie not just some overgrown immature goofball.  On top of
everything
it's a brilliant 80s satire, for me its right up there with American
Psycho.
I understand why someone would have reservations about watching this
movie
but my advice would be to put your cynicism aside for a couple of hours
and
just watch with an uncritical mind.  I think you'll be pleasantly
surprised.
<|_=00=_|>
A little known fact about me is that I'm a big fan of fluffy romantic
comedies. Why wouldn't you want to spend 90 minutes or so watching a
film; laughing and ultimately feeling good at the end of it? I don't
consider fluffy romance films to be at the absolute top of cinema, but
they're good fun, and therefore get a thumbs up from me. The Wedding
Singer, however, gets not one thumb up; but both thumbs, firmly, up.
So, why does The Wedding Singer succeed more than most films in it's
sub genre? Is it the jokes? The beautiful female lead? The gratuitous
helping of 80's pop songs? No, it's that this movie has a lot of heart;
that's what makes it a winner.

Adam Sandler stars as the quintessential 'loser'. He's a wedding
singer, and not a very good one either. He specialises in doing
terrible covers of 80's songs. It's not the sort of act that I would
want at my wedding. His life gets worse one day, his wedding day, to be
exact, when someone doesn't turn up. The bride, that is. Now in a deep
spiral of depression, our hero doesn't see any way forward. His next
gig is a washout and there's love all around him; even his newfound
friend, the cute little waitress that works at the same place as him is
getting married. And to a man who doesn't deserve her, I might add. I
don't think I really need to tell you what comes next, but even though
it's a predictable ride; trust me, it's a ride you want to be on. 

Adam Sandler tends to be a very annoying actor; and for that reason he
is almost universally disliked, but it is undeniable that he is good in
this movie. Nobody else could have given the character what Sandler
gave him; his performance is both entertaining and believable, and
therefore is just right for the movie. Drew Barrymore was also
perfectly cast. She is the perfect girl in this movie; all smiles and
sunshine, and it's impossible not to fall in love with her. The movie
also features great little turn from Steve Buscemi, who provides the
film with one of it's funniest moments towards the start.

As mentioned; The Wedding Singer has a lot of heart. From the way that
the characters interact with each other, particularly Sandler and
Barrymore, it is obvious that they are in love. The movie also has some
points to make on the subject of love; The Wedding Singer portrays that
being in love is overall better than being a 'Fonz' type, womanising
character. The message at the movie's centre is also a worthwhile one;
the movie professes that it isn't important who you fall in love with;
it doesn't matter whether or not he's merely a wedding singer, all that
matters is the love between two people. The movie says that love is all
you need; and that is a worthwhile message in any movie. The movie's
message is lost somewhat under the barrage of jokes; but it's most
certainly there and I for one think that it's a shame that a movie that
is entertaining and funny can't be considered in the same league as
other, more serious movies with a similar message.

Overall, The Wedding Singer is at the very top of the romantic comedy
genre. It will make you laugh, and you will ultimately feel for the
characters. The fact that this movie has something to say is only
another reason to recommend it; especially as it says it with a great
big smile on it's face. The Wedding Singer is not a film that you will
want to miss; it's feel-good at it's best.
<|_=00=_|>

To repeat a theme, I'm not a big fan of Adam Sandler, but I love this
movie.

Robbie Hart is a genuinely likable character; he's a person I would
like to have as a friend, and he's a performer I would gladly hire to
sing at my OWN wedding (Sandler also seems completely comfortable with
his character, while even Drew Barrymore sometimes sounds like she's
merely reciting written dialogue). Yes, he's a capital-R Romantic, but
that seems like a strong qualification for someone who makes his living
at other people's weddings. I like the whole idea of a romantic comedy
being set behind the scenes of the whole wedding game, and some of the
most telling scenes involve Robbie guiding Julia through the
preparations with an insider's eye.

Probably the funniest parts of the movie (to me) are those that play to
Robbie's broken heart; it's probably the best depiction of the
depression of the newly-dumped I've ever seen (in particular, I love
the "Kill Me Please" song). Hey, I've been there.

This all being said, however, I think the
touch-all-the-landmarks-of-the-mid-'80s approach gets awfully
heavy-handed at times. The musical choices, though, were excellent.

<|_=00=_|>

The Wedding Singer and Punch Drunk Love standout from typical Sandler
movies
is two important ways.  1) The humor is subtler in these movies, and
Sandler
is much more subdued.  2) Critics actually like these two
movies.

The Wedding Singer is a pretty average romantic story that wins because of
funny performances and the ever elusive "chemistry" between Sandler and
Barrymore.  This was the first movie that taught me what romantic
chemistry
was.  While you're watching it you not only want the characters Robbie and
Julia to get together, but you want Adam Sandler and Drew Barrymore to get
together.  The chemistry is that strong.  A reason people, especially
guys,
don't like romance movies is because often the love between the leads seem
contrived and forced.  Thankfully, the Wedding Singer steers clear from
that, and actually allows you to have an emotional stake in the
characters.

Sadly, the movie is slightly forgettable, as it merely succeeds in its
goals
but fails to impress.  However, it's great fun while it lasts and you'll
always have a fond, if somewhat faded, memory of the movie.
<|_=00=_|>

I've said it before,Adam Sandler does not do great films.He merely
wants
to entertain us.Though there are times when he has failed
miserably,this
is not the case with The Wedding Singer.While it does showcase
Sandler's
usual juvenile humor,this is by far his most likable character,even to
date,and the chemistry between him and Drew Barrymore is
undeniable.
Though this film is not flawless by any means,it is funny and
charming
just the same.
<|_=00=_|>
Adam Sandler (a Wedding Singer) and Drew Barrymore (a waitress) first
meet at someone else's wedding. They soon meet again, when Barrymore is
making plans for her own wedding (to a total jerk), even though deep
inside she feels that she's "settling" for security without true love.
Meanwhile Sandler finds out about the two-timing bozo, when the
groom-to-be brags about his adventures with every sexy girl that comes
along. Secretly in love with Barrymore, Sandler eventually sweeps her
off her feet.

Look for a great cameo appearance by Billy Idol. The air plane
"proposal" is a sweet highlight, you'll love it! The soundtrack (all
hits of the mid 80s) is a nice touch, too. From "Love Stinks" to "99
Luftballoons" it's all there. -- This is my favorite Adam Sandler
movie. Treat yourself to a bag-a-laughs and a few mushy moments, this
is top entertainment!
<|_=00=_|>
I think that 'the wedding singer' is a simple, feelgood movie, which
doesn't try to be anything else.

Like Jim Carey, who took many goes to strike the right balance, Adam
Sandler is a far better comedian when he stops trying and realize he is
far funnier being himself rather than over-the top characters (like the
awful 'Billy Madison')and allows his supporting cast to be goofy.

My 10 year old son is a huge fan of all the SNL (90s)crew and their
movies, and loved this even more than '50 first dates'. The wedding
singer appeals to the those waiting to feel that way about someone and
those of us who feel that way right now about someone.

The 'knockers' of this flick would be those that can only relate to the
dumped 'Robbie Hart', or have no heart at all!

So if you can relate to loving and being loved (by anyone!), this film
will leave you feeling warm and fuzzy. Great to watch with the whole
family!!

Just had to add...being a teenager in the 80's probably helped my
endearment to this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Adam Sandler plays Robbie Hart, a wedding singer with only enough money
to get by. He was going to get married, but Linda, his fiancé', doesn't
show up, and finally confronts him saying that she was having second
thoughts. Drew Barrymore plays Julia Sullivan, a shy girl engaged to
the wrong man. They meet when Julia is waitressing at the place Robbie
works at. They are instantly friends and get along quite well.

This simple plot is expanded by the great and memorable characters and
the actors who portray the roles. It is funny and has plenty of
memorable lines. And if this isn't enough for you to shout "WAHOO!" the
chemistry between Julia and Robbie is right on and I'm surprised they
aren't dating in real life. This is a great romantic comedy so just
watch it without any questions! It has become one of my favorites.
<|_=00=_|>
This quirky film has everything- lots and lots of comedy, a nice touch
of romance, some violence and a hint of sadness now and again. Oh and
it also stars 2 of the most charming actors- Drew Barrymore, as Julia
and Adam Sandler, as Robbie. Their on-screen chemistry is very
remarkable to watch and their individual charm is most appealing. The
movie is set in the 80's and is a great nostalgic piece for that time
period- in all is cheesiness and glory! Sandler as the Wedding Singer
will surprise you with his musical talents. And musicians who have run
the gamut of various music-related jobs will have extra giggles. And of
course Barrymore will dazzle you with her cuteness and poise. This
movie will leave you in stitches! And a must see!!!
<|_=00=_|>

Adam Sandler stars as a hopeless romantic in this
warm and witty comedy that co-stars Barrymore as Sandler's
love interest. This one is a big surprise for me. It's
the funniest of Sandler's films because he seems calmer than in
his previous and recent efforts. He's connecting to a character
here it's a nice one. Barrymore is quite lovely as Julia.
She's actually adorable in the role and the conclusion
to the film is one of the most creative endings of recent
romantic comedies. Directed by Coraci, who with Sandler, followed this up
with the hit "The Waterboy."
