
Closet Land. The title itself conjures up thoughts of secrets. And that
is really what's at the heart of this Amnesty International film.
Government secrets, personal secrets, both are integral pieces of this
story.

By far the greatest acting seen in too long a time, both Alan Rickman
and Madeleine Stowe were phenomenal in their portrayal of a Government
Interrogator and Victim respectively. With only the two actors in this
unusual standard length film, it is instantly clear that both actors
were dedicated and talented enough to pull the viewer into this tiny
bubble of a world and shut the door.

A WORD OF CAUTION...

What isn't mentioned on the description of this movie is that there is
a subplot that deals with childhood sexual abuse. While there is no
graphic detail about the abuse, the nature of it may be difficult for
some viewers to watch - especially given the intensity of the film on
whole.

I'm not a big fan of Amnesty International films, but this movie drew
me in because the acting was so exceptional, and I can't help but make
this movie one of my personal favorites.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie only a few days ago at a convention, and was moved to
think about a side of torture tactics that I had never examined. The
power of mental abuse can surely override any physical abuse, and that
is shown through Madeline Stowe's wondrous acting in this movie.
Likewise, Alan Rickman brings to the screen a marvelous portrayal of a
ruthless government interrogator. It is interesting, though, even while
he tortures Stowe's character, how you see a bit of himself shine
through his terrorist personality. It grabbed me, in the scene where
she is blindfolded, and he is pretending to be someone else, how he
lets the mask fall from his face even as his voice continues his work. 

The basis of the plot is this: A children's book writer (Stowe) is
arrested on the premise that her books hold subversive political ideas,
trying to get children to go against the government. The writer
continues to deny these allegations, even as she is questioned and
eventually abused physically and mentally by a government agent
(Rickman). The showing of these torture techniques is disturbing, and
probably should not be watched by those who are squeamish about such
things. 

The film was made in partnership with Amnesty International in the
early 90's. On the surface of this movie, I would have to agree with
all their policies, but as with any movie of this sort, a viewer should
not support the organization purely on the face of the movie screen,
but it should spur the viewer to outside research. I believe that is
what this movie does for many of us. 

The upshot of this: I would say I enjoyed the movie, but 'enjoy' is not
quite the right word. I would watch this movie again if the opportunity
arose, and would also recommend it to anyone who has a taste for
realistically disturbing movies. 

4 stars out of 5.

<|_=00=_|>

These 2 fine actors played off each other perfectly in this terrifying film.
Rickman was very effective as the brainwashing and brainwashed interrogator.
Stowe as the confused writer was good, letting the crafty Rickman convince
her that he only wanted to go one step further, then one more, etc. This
movie came off as something that could happen in a country plagued with a
police state. Very good film.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie gave me recurring nightmares, with Alan Rickman's voice
representing an omnipotent, insidious, fascist ruler. The scariest
movie I have ever seen - psychological terror more powerful than
anything any "horror" movie has ever achieved. Alan Rickman's voice
will always represent to me the power and terror of a totalitarian
state, reminiscent of Orwell's 1984. This movie describes to those who
don't care the reality of a large part of current world governments.
This film is disturbing, but in a way that everyone should watch it -
it's a description of a reality that no one should ever have to
experience, but so many do.

<|_=00=_|>

"Closet Land" tells a powerful story and has many different subtle
elements.
You could read lots of stuff about the movie's plot before hand, but you
don't really need to.  All you need to know is that the movie is all about
an interrogation.  Along the way, we learn lots of things about the
interrogator and the person being interrogated.  We also learn that the
world can be a dark and scary place.  Especially when you have absolutely
no
control over it.

In the end, the movie amounts to a warning (really though, the movie has
several different aspects to it) about what happens to people's freedoms
when they "look the other way" and ignore injustices happening to those
around them.

If you've got about an hour and a half and know where you can rent this, I
strongly recommend that you do so.
<|_=00=_|>
Even the trailer for this movie makes me cry, like the first time I saw
this movie. Not for people who are easily upset by intense material!
The finest performances by Alan Rickman and Madelaine Stowe, without a
doubt. This dreadful tale of a society with the power to kidnap and
torture it's citizens for ANY reason, whether they are anarchist's or
the writer of children's books will chill you to the bone. I saw it
when it first came out 1991 and I remember every frame. It still scares
the hell out me today. It's happening now.

Apparently, IMDb requires ten lines to meet their criteria for a film
review. IMDb might want to GET A GRIP! Some of us are a little more
succinct about writing opinions.
<|_=00=_|>

Placed somewhere in the midst of ‘1984' and ‘Twilight Zone' this film may be
about abuse of power, it may be about government control, it may be about
overactive imaginations.

One certainty is after watching ‘Closet Land' you will ask yourself a few
questions. A second viewing will raise even more.

Many will be turned off at the notion of a film with only 2 speaking parts
(David Mamet's brilliant Oleanna comes immediately to mind), but this is not
a film for mainstream tastes. Chances are, if you would like it, you
probably have seen it.

Powerful premise, powerful performances, powerful film.


<|_=00=_|>
"Closet Land" was sponsored by Amnesty International and does have a
lot of political overtones, but there's so much more to this richly
stirring story than that...

This is not just about the political tension of the late 80s - it's
about the personal persecution that a woman puts herself through as a
child who was molested by a family friend. We see the subtle allusion
to the parallels of a dishonest government/society structure and the
culture of sexual predation where one in four young children are
molested and one in three women has experienced some form of rape.

For me, it brings up a chilling chicken-and-egg question: does the
attitude of our sexual repression-leading-to-predation create the
political environment of fear and censoring, or does the
socio-political dysfunction fuel a culture of sexual predation? The
psychological ramifications of even asking this question force us to a
place where we are brought to develop our own answers.

In the end, our young lady writer (Stowe) has a similar moment to the
one at the end of Hensen's "Labyrinth" - she realizes in one shining,
brilliant moment that the idea of having her power stolen from her by
the secret police (Rickman) is an illusion. No one can steal your power
- they can only trick you into giving it up, and then you have the
right to take it back at any time.

This is not a movie to be entered into lightly, and you most certainly
do ENTER it. The minimalist aspects coupled with the child-like
animation stirs the deepest parts of the psyche and leaves no viewer
unchanged.
<|_=00=_|>

This film hits the heart with a reality like no other I have seen. It
shows what us what we, in a democratic society, take for granted, and
just what we are lucky enough not to be experiencing. The acting in the
film is superb, sometimes you have to remind yourself that the movie is
a dramatization, and not real life. Mr. Rickman does wonders with his
role (as he does with all roles) making the interrogator fully
dimensional and human. The set is incredible. It gives the feeling of
'in the round" theater. Which does not add or take away from the
emotion of the action. This movie seeks to open the eyes of the viewer,
and I'd say they have made a success of that goal.

<|_=00=_|>

Acting, of course!  Think about it, Closet Land could easily have turned
out
so horribly - an entire movie filmed in one room with only two people,
they
better have some damned interesting things to chat about.

But it didn't turn out horribly.  On the contrary, thanks to incredible
portrayals by both Stowe and Rickman, Closet Land is a masterpiece in its
own right.

That's not to say it is for everyone.  Persons who have had their
attention
spans decreased through glitzy sex scenes and random gun fire may have
trouble digesting Closet Land.  However, those who can appreciate good
story
telling without explosions should give it a look (no matter how many video
stores you have to call to find someone who has it in stock).
