
BEWARE OF BOGUS REVIEWS & REVIEWERS. SOME REVIEWERS HAVE ONLY ONE
REVIEW. WHEN ITS A POSITIVE REVIEW THAT TELLS ME THEY WERE INVOLVED
WITH THE PRODUCTION. NOW I HAVE REVIEWED OVER 400 Christmas MOVIES. I
HAVE NO AGENDA. I AM FARE.

The director of "Dirty Dancing" could have done a better job in filming
this production. The is not the first feature film to showcase the
world's most beloved ballet.

This is a huge chore to watch this interpretation of the holiday
classic ballet! The Nutcracker tells the story of a young girl whose
love for a toy turns it into the handsome prince Macaulay Culkin
("Richie Rich," "Home Alone"), and together they are brought to the
Land of Sweets, where an enchanting spectacle awaits them. Directed by
Academy Award-winner Emile Ardolino ("Sister Act," "Dirty Dancing") and
narrated by Academy Award-winner Kevin Kline ("Dave," "A Fish Called
Wanda"). 

The lack of closeups and static shots hinder the viewer from fulling
embracing it. The 1986 Nutcracker: The Motion Picture is a better
viewing experience!
<|_=00=_|>

This was so beautiful. I am a ballerina and I have played both the
Sugar Plum Fairy and Marie in numerous productions of this, but I have
to admit that this is IT. This is the ultimate #1 version of this
classical ballet. It was so beautiful. The music is absolutely
marvelous and the scenery is gorgeous. The woman who plays the Sugar
Plum Fairy is absolutely beautiful and does a fabulous job! I saw the
Broadway version of this on a visit to NYC and I have to admit that
this version was better than the one I saw there. George Balachine does
amazing ballet, I wish I could study with him at his School of Ballet.
And the composer(I know who it is, but I cant spell his name) is a
musical genius. I give it 10/10.

<|_=00=_|>
As far as I can recall, Balanchine's alterations to Tchaikovsky's score
are as follows:

1) The final section of the Grossvatertanz (a traditional tune played
at the end of a party) is repeated several times to give the children a
last dance before their scene is over.

2) A violin solo, written for but eliminated from Tchaikovsky's score
for The Sleeping Beauty, is interpolated between the end of the party
scene and the beginning of the transformation scene. Balanchine chose
this music because of its melodic relationship to the music for the
growing Christmas tree that occurs shortly thereafter.

3) The solo for the Sugar Plum Fairy's cavalier is eliminated.

It seems to me the accusation that Balanchine has somehow desecrated
Tchaikovsky's great score is misplaced.
<|_=00=_|>
I'd seen parts of this production before but I wanted to refresh my
initial reactions and see if they were correct. I think they were!

I've always thought Balanchine was very old-fashioned in his attitudes,
particularly in the ballerina-and-her-cavalier prototype. But this is,
of course, what Russian ballet is all about.

I was mostly interested in seeing if Balanchine would keep the music up
to speed and I find he has. After seeing the traditional performances
where everything is slowed down to a glacial pace to accommodate the
dancers, this is most refreshing and as a record of Mr. B's approach,
this video production is invaluable.

Others have mentioned the music-tampering but this is not unusual in
the dance world or even in Balanchine. One glaring example of this is
his "Serenade" where Tchaikovsky's last two movements are reversed; the
"Elegy" is the last thing heard instead of the fast finale. In all
fairness, Balanchine assumed that his own works would be forgotten with
time and would not become the monuments they have.

Is the 12 year old Culkin as bad as all that? In context, his star
power has proved a liability here and this is at least partly due to
his overall awkwardness in the nephew-prince role. Smiling or smirking
professionally in that dreadful pink Lord Fauntleroy suit he can often
look downright sinister. (He later used that quality in "Party Monster"
for example.) And, with almost nothing to do except lend his presence
to the second part, whenever they show him in passing I find the effect
jarring.

Mack aside, the photography is good in general though awkward in the
pan-and-scan version close-ups. The narration really shouldn't have
happened but it's not too disturbing.

the DVD: It's a two-sided DVD with no real labels. (Watch your
fingers!) The second side is the letterboxed one which I think is more
successful than the pan-and-scan first side. The extras are informative
but sparse.

6 or 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Those who have given this production such a low rating probably have
never seen the celebrated George Balanchine production live onstage, or
are letting their disdain for the star casting of Macaulay Culkin
influence their judgement. The Atlanta Ballet was fortunate enough,
from the 1960's to the 1980's, to be the first ballet company
authorized to stage this production other than the New York City
Ballet, and I have seen it live onstage several times. I can assure
readers that the film is a quite accurate rendering of this production,
and that the use of a child with limited dancing abilities in the title
role is not a cheap stunt dreamed up to showcase Culkin; it was
Balanchine's idea to use a child in this role, just as it was his idea
to use a child for the role of Marie. The "heavy" dancing is left to
the adults in the story.

This is deliberately a stagebound film; in a way, it resembles Laurence
Olivier's "Othello". Exactly as in that film, the sets of the stage
production have been enlarged to the size of a movie soundstage, but
not made any less artificial, and the ballet is straightforwardly
photographed with discreet closeups, and without the distracting "music
video" quick cuts featured in the 1986 overrated Maurice Sendak-Carroll
Ballard version. There are only two false steps in this 1993 film. One
is the addition of distracting and completely unnecessary sound effects
(mouse squeaks, the children whispering "Ma-gic!" to
Drosselmeyer,etc.). Those sound effects are never heard in any stage
production of any "Nutcracker", and they have been put in as a cheap
concession simply to appease unsophisticated audiences who may not
relish the idea of watching a ballet on film.

The other false step is Macaulay Culkin's nutcracker make-up, which
looks absolutely ridiculous. When he is on screen as the Nutcracker,
rather than wearing a huge mask (as is always done when the Balanchine
production is performed onstage), Culkin is actually made up as the toy
- he wears what looks like a bald cap, as well as a white wig,
whiskers, and a beard. He also has his face rouged up somewhat, and the
worst aspect of his make-up is that it is still recognizably his face,
amateurishly transformed in a manner similar to Ray Bolger, Jack Haley
and Bert Lahr's makeups in "The Wizard of Oz" (that film's makeup
results though, worked spectacularly, as this one's does not). And a
comparison with Baryshnikov's nutcracker in *his* production shows how
wonderfully creative Baryshnikov's nutcracker mask was - the "jaws"
actually seemed to move whenever Baryshnikov tilted his head back.

The dancing itself in the Macaulay Culkin version is excellent, of
course, except for Culkin himself, whose dancing, as I said, isn't
meant to even be spectacular. (The Sugar Plum Fairy and her Cavalier
are the prominent dancing roles in Balanchine's production of "The
Nutcracker".) The film's colors, though, could be a bit brighter since
this IS a fantasy. The choreography is also brilliant, and the
adaptation of it is so faithful as to include the sequence that
features additional music from Tchaikovsky's ballet "The Sleeping
Beauty" - as Marie sneaks downstairs, falls asleep on the sofa, and
dreams that Drosselmeyer is "repairing" the broken Nutcracker (this
sequence was, of course, never included in Tchaikovsky's original
ballet---it is the only sequence in this production which features
music from a work other than "The Nutcracker").

Those who have missed out on this film, or those who despise (or loathe
it) should give it a chance, despite its two big drawbacks. It is far
better than it seems when one first hears that Culkin is in it.
<|_=00=_|>
This 1993 Balanchine version is not as good as the 1985, 1989, 1994,
2001 and 2009 productions, all of which are just magical and entirely
captivating. It is however superior to the self-indulgent Maurice
Bejart, incoherent Mariinsky(the worst version) and dull 2012 Mariinsky
productions. I found myself rather mixed on the whole on this version.
There were things I didn't like, all of which have been said before.
The sound effects really do distract from the music and quite frankly
were not needed. The Nutcracker's make-up and costume looked
ridiculous, I actually asked myself was there any particular reason for
it to be this particular colour scheme? Macaulay Culkin is rather stiff
as the Nutcracker(and I do agree he overdoes the smirking too much),
and there is some overacting from Drosselmeyer. However, I did like the
rest of the costumes,- well maybe except for Sugar Plum Fairy's tights-
the production is well lit and the sets were enchanting. The
photography was fine I thought, I highly doubt there'll be a Nutcracker
production as poorly shot as the 2012 Mariinsky version. The effects
are not the best I've seen but are serviceable. The music has a lot of
tinkering but is still timeless and beautiful, typical Tchaikovsky
really. It is lovingly performed by the orchestra and the tempos are
well chosen. I do love the story, always have, and on the most part the
production is faithful to the ballet, with some touches like Marie
sneaking downstairs, falling asleep on the sofa and then dreaming of
Nutcracker and Drosselmeyer. The choreography is outstanding, with
Balanchine's musicality and style all over it, the standouts being the
Soldier Doll, Snowflakes, Arabian and Waltz of the Flowers dances.
Culkin aside, the dancing was exemplary complete with an impeccable
Corps De Ballet. Overall, problematic but does have a number of things
to warrant it a partial recommendation. 6/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
I first watched this when I was 15. I enjoyed most of it since then.
What I used to say when I get scared was to list off the delights the
Sugar Plum Fairy brought in. Thanks to Kevin (Kline) I now know it's
"The little Polichinelles". You see, most people would pop this into
their players to use as background noise if they've seen it before like
I would every year during the holiday season. At the situation where
Marie was running back and forth to get the nutcracker she had, I would
often suggest "Either leave the nutcracker or don't." My sister watched
this and she preferred Barbie in the Nutcracker more. Personally, I
wouldn't wear a crown from a dead rat. The snowflake sequence was the
best I've ever seen. I recalled seeing the play when I was in
Elementary School at a local high school. (Personally, I think College
plays are more experienced than High school plays.) I pretended to be
Kevin the narrator for a second when he said "A soldier with a strong
jaw." while Drosselmeier revealed the nutcracker and I said "And a long
beard." Even though it's 1 hour and 33 minutes, it feels like it's been
at least 1 hour and 10 minutes or longer. I just bought my DVD on Ebay
in a Like New condition. Double DVDs are risky as I had to not place
fingers on either side. It was amazingly good. Kudos
<|_=00=_|>
The best thing about this movie was the Orchestra and the incomparable
Tchaikovsky score. A few of the dancers were literally amazing and
virtually all of them were superb. The staginess of the production was
very evocative of a live performance. However,the production as a whole
detracted from the art we should have gotten. We ordered the DVD in
hopes of showing it to our grandchildren, but the score, story and name
alterations were so disconcerting that we decided to not introduce them
to the Nutcracker this way. Of course, inserting a non-dancer into a
ballet is like asking Rosanne Barr to sing at the Met. It is sure to
elicit the exclamation: "What WERE you thinking?!?!" and it did. The
major complaint about the production as a whole is hard to pin down,
but the DVD was disappointing nonetheless. It just lacked the essence
of great art. We simply were not "swept away." In general, some
performances leave you feeling they were not up to snuff, but this one
left us with the feeling of having been affronted. I would love to see
it re-shot with a standard plot line, all dancers (no current
heartthrobs), and more drive via the editing. One final whine: as the
music was the best part, why don't they include the names of the
musicians in the end-title roll? It wouldn't take up that much time.The
violin solo was one of the high points of the entire performance, yet
we got the names of all kinds of tradesmen whose output was
indiscernible to us, but not the names of the musicians.
<|_=00=_|>
this is no spoiler I think people have seen this movie The
Nutcracker...it was good I loved it...in fact I loved The Nutcracker
since I saw it live at the historic Jefferson Theater in Beaumont,
Texas in December 1980 when I was 11....loved the music and the growing
tree in fact everything in the film was what I remembered seeing live
except it was in a movie and I don't understand that person griping
cause Macaulay Culkin's outfit was pink it was a nice color....wonder
what happened to Jessica Lynn Cohen who played Marie????!!!..is she not
acting now????!!!....I know Darci Kistler turned 50 this year and quit
the ballet...wonder if any of the other ballet stars who were in the
film are still dancing especially Bart Robinson Cook who played
Drosselmeier who was Marie's godfather who gave her the Nutcracker who
became the prince...I would recommend this movie for anyone for
Christmas it's fun and clean and can be seen by anyone
<|_=00=_|>
The Nutcracker has always been a somewhat problematic ballet. It bears
little resemblance to ETA Hoffman's original story on which it is
based.

In the ballet, the story is essentially over by the second-half when
Clara (or Marie in this version) travels to the Kingdom of Sweets to
watch a series of character dances.

There's an infinite variety of stage productions that re-interpret the
story in myriad ways (not always successfully) to compensate for the
ballet's weak libretto.

Balanchine's version doesn't really have any sense of drama or story at
all (despite the fact that there is plenty of drama and mystery in
Tchaikovsky's wonderful first-act music). The result is a completely
forgettable first-half Christmas party where hardly anything happens
and where even the dancing (the little that there is of it) isn't
particularly memorable.

The pantomime over-acting, particularly of Drosselmeier, which might
look passable on the stage, just looks silly filmed for the big screen.

Unfortunately, things aren't much better when we get to the Kingdom of
Sweets (Act II in the stage version). Although there are a few
choreographic highlights, most of the choreography is bland and
uninspiring. This certainly isn't vintage Balanchine.

Balanchine is widely regarded as a master of abstract dance, but I have
always felt he was less successful as a creator of narrative ballets.
Watching this film version of his stage production of The Nutcracker
has only re-affirmed this view.
