

Dragonheart is, in my humble opinion, one of the best-ever dragon
movies I have seen. And believe me, I have seen a lot of them. Most are
poorly made with lagging stories and characters you cannot get into. I
found that was not the case for Dragonheart. Draco, the dragon, was in
my opinion a gorgeous creature and it didn't make it worse that he
sounded like Sean Connery. :) Dennis Quaid is always enjoyable, a
gorgeous man with an infectious smile. Dina Meyer is lovely as Kara. So
what if some of the plot is not 'believable'. It's a fairytale.
Anything goes in fairy tales. Heck, that's what fairy tales are all
about. Fantasy, imagination. So, when and if you watch/re-watch this
movie, do so with an open heart and suspend your disbelief and
analytical minds. This is fantasy in the truest sense.

<|_=00=_|>

Ah, Dragonheart.  I still love this film...  I could talk about the
top-notch special effects of the time and the inclusion of Sean Connery and
Dennis Quaid, who performed their roles of noble dragon and despairing
knight incredibly well...I guess I just did...but I think there's something
else about this film that needs mentioning.

Dragonheart is an incredibly uplifting film.  In a day when a lot of movies
are chilling visions of the world around us, we need something to show us
hope.  Dragonheart, with its tale of a knight who lost his faith and a
dragon who was trying to restore his honor, paints a beautiful picture of
kindness, friendship, love, and sacrifice that never fails to inspire me.  I
am not a man given to displays of emotion, really...but the film makes me
laugh and cry throughout everything.

And the soundtrack certainly helps.  It is a textbook example of the proper
use of a soundtrack to emphasize the plot and emotion.  The beautiful "To
the Stars" remains one of my absolute favorite songs.  I can never listen to
the soundtrack without seeing the movie happening again before my eyes.

Get the movie.  And get the soundtrack.  You'll love them both.
<|_=00=_|>

There are many fantasy films around today that show how far some people's
imagination can be stretched. Loads of these films have the good idea, but
the bad production making it a very poor film. This is NOT the case in
Dragonheart.

For a film to be a success, you need to show as much goodness you have as
well as badness. You need to have the equal balance of a nasty character
that contains the exact amount of evil to comply with this.

In the case of Dragonheart, we have the evil King Einon, demonstrated by
David Thewlis. A fine performance to show how much evil can be inflicted by
the control of one heartless man.

Yet, in every film we have a hero, or in this case, 2. Dennis Quaid plays
Bowen, a strong and faithful knight who lives in the service to protect
others. Our other hero is the unlikely character of a dragon (Sean Connery
and his lovely voice) named Draco. Between these 2 hero's, an alliance is
made and they work together in hope of making peoples lives
better.

The direction, the acting, the costume and the characters all fit together
to make this film be, what I believe, an amazing success. I know not many
may agree to this, but I think, when you look deep into this film, you can
see the true magic that is brought alive by the relationship between these
two characters.

In my view, an amazing film, an amazing cast and an amazing
result.

<|_=00=_|>
I have read innumerable reviews stating emphatically how "stupid" or
"unrealistic" "Dragonheart" is. And, I suppose the largest fault this
movie has is not going as in-depth into its own mythology as it could
have(Draco being able to share his heart, and the like). But for me, it
is great, for one big reason: I love dragons. I always have. I hate how
they are always depicted as evil monsters in most fantasy stories(this
would be Tolkien's biggest flaw in my opinion). And here is one where
the dragon is noble and kind! Sean Connery, by the way, has just about
the best dragon voice there is(Gregory Peck might be a close second).

"Dragonheart" may strike casual viewers(or the terminally
unimaginative)as a silly, special-effects extravaganza; but, for people
who love dragons, it provides something more.
<|_=00=_|>

Dennis Quaid is Bowen, a passionate knight who falls under bitter
circumstances and finds himself roaming the land avenging himself against
dragons who he blames for his lot.  He finds his match in one dragon, Draco,
who instead of finishing off Bowen offers to declare a truce.  The two
cynics team up and stage sham combat in front of terrified villagers who are
only too willing to reward the knight for "slaying" the dragon and who won't
miss a few sheep to the dragon either.  The con goes bad though and the two
are forced to confront their common destiny.

This movie was originally heavily sold based on its superb digital effects
and it remains that Draco is a magnificent creature in these days when
digital effects are no longer unusual in movies.  Even so, the cast and
cinematography are excellent and everything moves along seamlessly.  It is
an all round great movie.

There is some brutal medieval warfare, but nothing so graphic that a
pre-teen couldn't handle it.

I saw this film originally at a theatre and again on rented
VHS.
<|_=00=_|>

Dragonheart is an excellent movie.  The CGI of Draco is superb, especially
for its time, and the storyline is well thought out.  Although the movie
lacks a decent antagonist, the plot fills in for whatever Einon lacks in his
role.

Draco is such an excellent character, possibly one of my favorites of
all-time in films.  He is exactly what a dragon should be, exactly how I
imagined.  Quaid does an excellent job as Bowen, and did well as Draco was
not really there during filming.

The music in Dragonheart is one of the most memorable themes ever composed. 
Randy Edelman composed a great theme for this film, which could probably be
recognized by nearly anybody.  "This is from Dragonheart!"

This is definitely one of the best movies ever made.  The acting is
excellent, CGI fits perfectly, the characters are deep, well-rounded, and
the storyline and plotline are both great.  The ending is so sad, though. 
If you're a male, make sure no one else is around while watching this movie
if you're ashamed of crying in front of people.

Watch this movie.  It's a great way to spend some time.
<|_=00=_|>
This was kind of a hokey Class-B fantasy-adventure story but with Grade
A special effects (with the dragon) and sound. Those visual and audio
treats make it worth watching. This was early "demo"-type DVD disc,
exhibiting some excellent surround sound when very few other DVDs were
as audibly as good.

The story begins a bit slowly but once the dragon appears it's a fun
and fascinating movie to watch. A decade ago when this came out, I
marveled, "It's amazing how they can make strange creatures so
lifelike." Of course, FX has only gotten better and better.

For me, the dragon was the only endearing character in the movie.
Dennis Quaid plays the good guy, but he's mostly annoying in here. I
think it was his fake raspy voice that was irritating. In all, a fun
movie.

At any rate, the movie is pure medieval fantasy and theology but
entertaining enough for kids and adults. There is no bad language in
here.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, I'm going to start with the fact that this is one of my favourite
films-I remember seeing it when I was younger and last year when I
spotted the 'special edition' DVD I snapped it straight up!!

********SPOILERS!*******

Okay, mainly people who have seen/liked/or just generally want to
comment on a film come here-so I shall not describe the whole film-just
bits that are needed.

Firstly, casting-I actually think the casting was good on this film-

Quaid as Bowen was good-physically he is right (strong, good looking
etc.) and his presence is right-you believe that this character
generally believes that Einon has 'turned' bad because of this Dragon
who gave half his heart-thus creating a good straight-forward story
line. In the beginning Bowen really loved the younger Einon and thats
why it is quite painful to see in the first fight scene between Bowen
and Einon (at the waterfall) that in fact Einon never believed Bowen's
teachings of 'the old code,' you can see the sadness and realisation in
Bowen, that Einon is 'bad' and was even at the beginning.

Thewlis as Einon-brill-actually Thewlis is one of my favourite actors
because of the 'brains' he puts into his characters-take Einon, for
example-not outly strong, etc.-but you can see that this character
thinks-he's educated he knows what he is doing. You only have to look
at the scene with Einon and kara in the bed chamber-look at how Thewlis
plays the character-using words, the ideas of 'power' to manipulate
her. Of course, its a family film and he is generally a good 'badie'
but luckily not a straight-forward, stereotypical one. I must say he
gives one of the best performances in the film.

Dina Meyer- this was one of her first films I believe and she does
well-physically quite strong (which is quite a rarity to see a female
who can stand up for herself in such films)but also adding a good
character to assist Bowen.

Postlethwaite- very funny-I think he's a great actor and I loved him in
this-different to a lot of stuff he had done, especially before this
film-the character adds a comical touch to the film-but also he just
generally portrays a 'good' character.

Connery-good, for the voice-you can tell the actor straight away and I
think thats why he was chosen-but also I think his voice just adds
something to the part.

The effects-brill, esp. for their time-even now they still stand on
their own and as a viewer you can just relax and freeze reality for a
while and believe that a dragon is actually talking etc. on screen.

Overall, a great film, that will touch the hearts of many-young and
old. This is a film to watch over and over-full of laughs, fights, the
odd tears and of course the classic battle between Good and Evil.

If you haven't seen it before-rent it, relax, forget everything in
reality for a couple of hours and just watch this great fantasy film.
<|_=00=_|>

Like others, I rate Dragonheart far above most mindless summer blockbusters,
loaded with hip witticisms and sarcastic heroes.  Dragonheart is not cynical
at all, and is lots of fun for kids of all ages (why is this movie PG13?).
If you're looking for a really ferocious dragon, Draco isn't it.  Draco is
much more human than most movie dragons (if you want a scary dragon, watch
Dragonslayer), but he is very realistic.  In fact, the scenes without him
tend to drag, but Dennis Quaid's Bowen is strong as the disillusioned
knight.  If you are looking for a deep plot, you won't find it, but that's
no big deal.  Dragonheart is more about adventure and dragons than about
plot twists and in depth characterizations.  Edelman's music is great for
the most part, especially in the final scenes, which I think are the best in
the movie.  Check it out.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a hard movie for me to rate, because when i was small I loved
this movie, it was my favourite in fact but now that I am older and
have watched it again it just wasn't the same.

I used to be amazed by the special effects and the acting but upon
reflection there is very little to really like in this movie, that
being said Sean Connery does some very nice voice acting here

So basically what I am saying is its brilliant when you are small so it
is a good movie to watch with kids but its not very good on your own,
this may be a good movie to buy just for a cheap thrill if you like
medieval era stuff
