

In a style reminiscent of the best of David Lean, this romantic love story
sweeps across the screen with epic proportions equal to the vast desert
regions against which it is set.  It's a film which purports that one does
not choose love, but rather that it's love that does the choosing,
regardless of who, where or when; and furthermore, that it's a matter of the
heart often contingent upon prevailing conditions and circumstances.  And
thus is the situation in `The English Patient,' directed by Anthony
Minghella, the story of two people who discover passion and true love in the
most inopportune of places and times, proving that when it is predestined,
love will find a way.

It's WWII; flying above the African desert, Hungarian Count Laszlo de Almasy
(Ralph Fiennes) is shot down, his biplane mistaken for an enemy aircraft. 
And though he survives the crash, he is severely burned.  To his great good
fortune, however, he is rescued by a tribe of nomads and winds up in a
hospital.  But existing conditions are governed by circumstances of war, and
Almasy soon becomes one of many patients being transported via convoy to a
different facility.  Upon reaching Italy, he is too weak and ill to continue
on, and a Canadian nurse, Hana (Juliette Binoche), volunteers to stay behind
with him at an abandoned monastery.

Hana soon discovers that her charge is something of a man of mystery, as
Almasy remembers nothing of his past, and not even his own name.  Thought to
be English, the only clues pointing to who he is are contained in a book
found in his possession after the crash, but even they are as cryptic as
Hana's patient.  Slowly, however, under prompting from Hana, Almasy begins
to remember bits and pieces of his life, and his story begins to unfold. 
And his memory is helped along even more by the appearance of a mysterious
stranger named Caravaggio (Willem Dafoe), who suspects that Almasy is the
man he's been looking for-- a man with whom he wants to settle a score. 
But, burned beyond recognition, Almasy may or may not be that man. 
Meanwhile, Almasy's memories continue to surface; memories of a woman he
loved, Katherine Clifton (Kristin Scott Thomas)-- as well as memories of
Katherine's husband, Geoffrey (Colin Firth).  And, crippled in mind and body
as he is, those memories become the only thing left to which he can cling
with any hope at all, even as his life seems to be slipping farther away
with each passing moment.

In addition to directing, Anthony Minghella also wrote the screenplay for
this film, which he adapted from the novel by Michael Ondaatje.  The result
is an epic saga presented in the tradition of Lean's `Doctor Zhivago' and
`Lawrence of Arabia'; a magnificent film that fills the screen and the
senses with unprecedented grandeur and beauty.  Simply put, Minghella's film
is genius realized; crafted and delivered with a poetic perfection, watching
it is like watching a Monet come to life.  From the opening frames,
Minghella casts a hypnotic spell over his audience that is binding and
transporting, with a story that has an emotional beauty that equals the
engagingly stunning and vibrant images brought to life by John Seale's
remarkable cinematography; images that virtually fill the screen as well as
the soul of the viewer.  In every sense, this is a film of rare eloquence,
with a striking emotional capacity that facilitates an experience that is
truly transcendental.  Nominated in twelve categories, it deservedly
received a total of nine Oscars, including Best Picture, Director,
Supporting Actress (Binoche) and Cinematography.

If one had to choose a single word to describe the `essence' of this film,
it would be `excellence.'  Even an extraordinary film, however, does not
receive nine Oscars without performances that are extraordinary in kind; and
the performances given by Ralph Fiennes and Kristin Scott Thomas here
transcend the term `Oscar worthy.'  Nominated for Best Actor for his
portrayal of Almasy (Geoffrey Rush was awarded the gold for `Shine'),
Fiennes has never been better, achieving an emotional depth with his
character that is nearly palpable.  Private and introspective, Almasy is not
by his very nature an individual to whom the audience will be able to form
an intimate connection; Fiennes, however, finds a way to open that emotional
door just enough to let you in, enough so that you taste the honest passion
welling up within him.  And it works.  Almasy does not seek your friendship;
he will, however, gain your compassion.

Kristen Scott Thomas, too, received an Oscar nomination for Best Actress
(Frances McDormand received the award for `Fargo') for her portrayal of
Katherine, a woman whose stoic countenance masks the emotional conflict
raging within her, born of the forbidden passion that enslaves her and yet
to which she gives herself willingly, casting off her shackles of repression
to embrace a love so strong it threatens to consume her.  The reserve
Katherine must maintain evokes the empathy of the audience, as Scott Thomas
successfully mines the emotional depths of her character to the greatest
possible effect.  It's the kind of performance that draws you in and holds
you fast, taking you as it does beyond that curtain of hypocrisy that
dictates what must be if only for the sake of appearances, and allows you to
experience a true sense of unbridled passion.  Understated and shaded with
subtlety, it's terrific work by Kristin Scott Thomas.

Binoche gives a stunning, affecting performance, as well, as the kindhearted
nurse, Hana; it is her humanity, in fact, which defines love in it's purest
sense and offers a balanced perspective of it within the context of the
film.  Her relationship with Kip (Naveen Andrews) affords us a glimpse of
passion of another kind, which contrasts effectively with the intensity of
that between Almasy and Katherine.  `The English Patient' is a film that
will move you and fill you emotionally; one you will not want to see end. 
10/10.       

  

                 

               
<|_=00=_|>

I can understand why some people think this movie is boring. I think it
appeals much more to people who are used to the pacing of classic
books.

I'm sure many of those who hated it are much like a co-worker of mine who
said "Books? I haven't a book since I had to in high school." I checked
some
of the names of the people who reviled this movie and sure enough it seems
many of them think Armaggedon was an "awesome" movie and Chris Farley was
a
"Comic genius". And that's O.K. Taste is an individual
thing.

My sensibilities tell me that the english patient is a very good movie
that
takes effort to appreciate. Much in this movie is very subtle. It is not a
vacation for the brain.(Hey, sometimes the brain NEEDS a vacation, and
stupid movies provide that!) Also, it is not a cynic's movie. It's about
idealism, tragedy and regret. About how people can want the best but have
it
all fall apart because of bad choices, and have to go on with the regret
of
never being able to remedy the situation. Not so much a love story as a
tragic one. So many people destroyed because of the selfishness of two
people couldn't(wouldn't?) control themselves.

I would ask those who thought the movie boring to watch it again when you
feel able to pay full attention to what's going on in the film and how
different bits of dialogue dovetail into subtle suggestions of how the
characters are feeling and thinking. This movie takes an investment of
time,
thought and emotion. If this investment is made, I think most people who
watch it will feel rewarded.


<|_=00=_|>
'The English Patient' is a love story set in Europe as World War II
ends... It is a wartime romance mystery epic, like 'Hiroshima, Mon
Amour,' 'The Sweet Hereafter,' and 'After Life.' Anthony Minghella
weaves extravagant beauty around a central character whose condition is
grotesque, and puts emotional barriers between the characters and the
audience...

This adult love story is an intimate portrait in the tradition of
'Casablanca' and 'Dr. Zhivago.' The film sweeps gracefully attaining a
level of eroticism and emotional connection that many similar films had
missed... Told in flashback, it is a masterpiece of intimate moment and
spectacular largesse...

Ralph Fiennes plays the English patient, Count Laszlo de Almasy, a
Hungarian cartographer of few words, who works for the British
government, and is stationed in the North African desert...

Count Laszlo is the unidentified survivor of a plane crash turned over
to the Allies, taken into custody by a medical convoy in Italy, and
essentially left to die in peace, in an isolated monastery in Tuscany,
under the care of an inspiring pretty nurse who injects him with
morphine, and reads to him a book, considered his great treasure, and
his one surviving possession...

Hana seeks to stimulate his touching memories, wrapped up in his head,
released in lost pieces from his disturbed mind...

Fiennes gives a haunted, pained performance, playing the young man
whose veneer of charm cannot plainly cover his heart's capacity for
passion... He makes us sympathize with the character in showing
self-doubt and weakness... As a badly burned man, he has only cherished
memories... His joy and heartbreak are completely clear and visible in
his eyes... He remembers falling under the spell of an attractive
English married woman... He remembers the way this turns him from a
harsh abrupt wanderer into a man willing to betray everything for
love... His tragic love affair forms the heart of the motion picture...

Kristin Scott Thomas matches Fiennes' work with a radiant sensuality...
She is captivating as the married European woman, conveying the
audience with the energy and enthusiasm for life that the Count finds
irresistible... Their different world, despairing and hopeful, menacing
and resilient, is simply beautiful... With intense passion and
intelligence, this attractive blonde burns the screen as the different
wife...

Juliette Binoche seems to shine as the French-Canadian nurse full of
life and energy... This vibrant young woman has a heart of gold,
kissing wounded soldiers, but she thinks that she is a curse as anybody
she ever loved tends to die on her...

Colin Firth is good as Katherine's husband... He is a British spy
flying into the tough desert in a yellow biplane to take aerial maps of
the whole North African continent... He quickly becomes friend of the
Count, yet when he realizes that his wife has committed adultery, his
face reflected a peaceful fury...

William Dafoe plays a double-agent spy who covers his anger with a
strange charm... He is a crippled war veteran who has a hidden
agenda... This cunning Canadian man seems to know of some dark secret
in Almasy's past... He believes the 'English patient' is partially
responsible for the mutilation of his hands, and is busy seeking
revenge on everyone even remotely involved...

Naveen Andrews is Hana's ardent lover… He is a handsome Sikh, and an
explosives expert with a dangerous job… There's a scene that is stuck
in my head because it literally had me on the edge of my seat for what
seemed an eternity… In this particular scene, the military sapper has
to cut the wires on a bomb that has been hidden on a bridge… It's on a
timer and he only has a few minutes left… The scene cuts back and forth
between his tense face, the wires and his dirty fingers as they try
madly to figure out how to untangle and cut the wires without
detonating the bomb… 

All the conventional elements of the genre are at peaks of excellence
in "The English Patient." John Seale's cinematography is breathtaking,
and Gabriel Yared's majestic music is dreamy, and romantic… This is a
rich motion picture with ambition and style, a fever dream, lyrical and
complex… We are almost able to feel the heat of the desert, the pain of
the burnings, the intimate flush of humanity that becomes the most
haunting element of this epic love story...
<|_=00=_|>

I've seen a few movies in my time, but this one is exceptional. You'll have
to watch it more than once to truly appreciate it, it is emotionally very
complex, it explores love and passion at it's most extreme and it's
cinematography is just breathtaking. The character of the Count is
intensely
passionate and tragic without him having to raise his voice or indeed leave
his bed, the film is perfectly cast and perfectly acted. The film has a
sort
of mathematical precision and perfection to it which is rare these days. It
combines action, love, tragedy, drama and politics all in one. This movie
is
unmissable, all the hype surrounding it and all the awards cannot begin to
do it any justice. Hats off to Michael Ondaatje for writing the incredible
book on which it is based.
<|_=00=_|>
I like this movie above all others. It is "multi-layered"; there is so
much to see and appreciate. Every viewing brings a new appreciation of
the story-line, the plot and the characters. Faultlessly acted and
extremely enjoyable if you take the time to watch it and appreciate it.
I love the interaction between the players; the subtle relationships;
the period atmosphere. Ralph Fiennes is perfectly cast as the brooding
lover and Geoffrey the wronged husband is beautifully underplayed by
Colin Firth. The scene in the sand storm where Catherine & El-masy are
discussing the different types of sand storms is one of the high-lights
of the film and where the affair really starts. The other relationship
between Hanna & El-masy is yet another "layer" of the movie which is
totally enchanting (and heart-rending). A worthy winner of so many
awards.
<|_=00=_|>
as can be read in many reviews here it is a movie you love or hate -
apparently not so much space for opinions in between. I for one think
that is a good sign. 

I always appreciated this movie, although the genre is not my typical
style (I never watched Titanic for instance, and am not planning to).

The English Patient grips because it shows how people can be different
when they are in an exotic environment as opposed when they are 'home'
(Katherine), it shows how destructive love can be in a slow, strong and
utterly painful way, it excites because of the extremely passionate
affair, the pain of the one(s) who leave behind, how pointless one can
feel to move on. 

The photography is just stunning, not to mention the play of the
actors. The pace is slow, but timely, and that does justice to the
book, the timeline, and the depth/development of the characters. To put
this in 110 minutes (as some seem to suggest here) would amputate the
multi-layeredness of this movie. People tend to have difficulties with
the pace of movies... as if they are in a rush to get to work.. hey -
get a life ! ;-) enjoy...

I give this movie 4.5 out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>

Tuscany WW2.  Traumatised by the loss of anyone she cared for or loved,
Canadian nurse Hana stays behind her unit with a dying patient, Count Laszlo
de Almásy.  de Almásy is burnt all over and has lost his memory.  When a
vengeful, mysterious thief arrives at their abandoned monastery with a past
that seems to include de Almásy , and as Hana reads from his book, memories
return regarding his past.  He relives his story of lust and love and the
destructive force that forbidden passion unleashed upon his
life.

This is quite a modern epic.  It has the running time of an epic, it has the
gorgeous cinematography of an epic, it has the acting of an epic and it has
a story of love (lust) against the backdrop of major events in history. 
Even though it changes or leaves out a significant amount of the original
novel it still manages to be a great mix of passionate desire and mystery. 
The mystery of the story is represented by the thief Caravaggio who casts
light on what he knows of de Almásy's past (as he sees it) while the love
story is unfolded as it develops in a passionate affair between him and
Katherine, a colleagues' wife.  The story is compelling enough to carry the
long running time, at times the pace seems a little slow and when I saw it
in my local multiplex there were some moments where large portions of the
audience seemed to be shifting in their seats.

The ‘love' of the story was interesting as it seems to be contrasted with
Hana's relationship with Kip the bomb disposal expert.  While de Almásy's
relationship with Katherine starts as lust and desire before growing into
what seems to be love (or could be grief at the result of their affair),
Hana's is portrayed as purer and more careful as she fears those she loves
will die.  This difference helped me see that the film did want to show the
destructive power of lust and affairs, however the fact that the central
relationship was based more on lust than love took away from the emotional
core of the story.

The acting is almost impeccable.  Fiennes is excellent even when he is lost
behind an unrecognisable mask of burnt flesh.  Thomas is actually very good,
I find she tends to be very wooden in some things but this type of very
English character brings the best out of her.  Binoche is excellent as Hana
and carries the heart of the film.  Dafoe is truly excellent - his element
of the story is the mystery and he does it well.  He is a great actor and
deserves to be in things this good.  The support cast include plenty of good
actors including Colin Firth, Jurgen Prochnow and Naveem
Andrews.

The film is beautifully shot - even though it's all a bit too picturesque to
be real!  However the director can handle himself well with many different
scenes - a tense bomb diffusal, a passionate love scene, a dangerous sand
storm etc.  Overall the slow pace may frustrate some younger audiences but
this is a really good film that draws it's values from classy
sources.
<|_=00=_|>

TEP is like a long cool drink of water after crawling across the Sahara to
classic film buffs who have been too long deprived of that certain cinematic
magic!  Not only is it beautifully photographed, but the characters are
perfectly portrayed.  If you're looking for the film to be a mirror of the
book, you will be seriously disappointed.  Instead, it is an excellent
"companion" to the book, and I think that is what Anthony Minghella
intended.  Ralph Fiennes is probably the most beautiful man in the world;
not to mention a brilliant actor.  Juliette Binoche is the posterchild for
vulnerability and childlike enthusiasm.  And, of course, I'll go see any
film in which Kristin Scott Thomas is featured.  She simply must be THE best
actress since the likes of Deborah Kerr.  So much was promised with this
film, and so much is delivered!
<|_=00=_|>
Count Laszlo (Ralph Fiennes) has just been transferred to a hospital in
Italy during World War II. He is horrifically burned from an ambush.
His nurse Hana (Juliette Binoche) tends to him, body and mind, for she
fears, quite rightly, that he may be a very troubled soul. In the
course of his care, the Count starts to tell Hana of his recent past.
It seems he worked in a government capacity in Africa, where he met a
beautiful married lady named Katherine (Kristin Scott Thomas). Although
they tried to avoid each other, they fell in love. After a brief
affair, Katherine called it quits, leaving the Count desolate. Even so,
the two would meet again, under heart-wrenching circumstances.
Meanwhile, Hana herself falls for a Sihk man in the British bomb squad.
Yet, the war is raging relentlessly. Can love exist when the world is
in turmoil? This is a tremendous film, based on an equally fine but
complex novel. The plot has many story lines that are woven together
beautifully, each of them poignant beyond description. The script
itself is elegant and contains many memorable lines. Fiennes is
magnificent, both as the burn victim and as the man who thought love
was a myth. Scott Thomas is also quite fine as the woman who fights
against her passions. As for Binoche, she richly deserved the Oscar
that she was presented, as her nurse is a shining example of hope in a
hopeless situation. The scenery is utterly gorgeous, as are the
costumes, the direction, and the production. If you have missed out on
viewing this film, rectify that soon, very soon. The English Patient
will remain one of the greatest achievements in film for centuries to
come.
<|_=00=_|>

 'The English Patient' can rightly be compared to the films of David Lean,
whose sweeping epics such as 'Lawrence of Arabia' and 'Bridge on the River
Kwai' must have inspired the director Anthony Minghella. The film is
beautifully photographed, and like 'Lawrence', is set in Northern Africa,
but during the second world war.  The story is complex, but it boils down to
a forbidden love between an opinionated and often difficult archeologist
played by Ralph Fiennes and a married woman played by Kristin Scott Thomas.

  The story, based on a novel by Michael Ondaatje, is told in flashbacks by
Fiennes' Count Laszlo de Almasy  - the titular character.  The fact that his
name does not sound like he's English plays a key role in what unfolds. He
has been badly burned in a plane crash, occurring just as the film opens,
and is being cared for back in Europe by Hana, an army nurse played by
Juliette Binoche. What makes this story epic is the vast sweep across place
and time, and the development of characters beyond that of the two ill-fated
lovers. 
  
  The film makes clear that true love and passion, even with dreaded
consequences, can make life worth living, or worth dying for. If you're a
romantic at heart, and can appreciate a film without the standard happy
endings and simple moral codes, you may find that 'The English Patient'
speaks directly to you.

   
