

I loved ZERO EFFECT and would heartily recommend the film to 
anyone who enjoys a great story told with great style and wit.
Jake Kasdan is in his early 20's and has written and directed
a wonderful film that belies his age and relative inexperience.
I take my hat off to him.  On this evidence he is a major
talent and I can't wait to see what he does next.

When I heard about the plot of ZERO EFFECT, the story of an
eccentric and reclusive, private detective and that this part
would be played by Bill Pullman, I was sold on the film immediately.  Bill
 Pullman is a wonderful actor who I admire
greatly and is always a joy to watch on screen.  The part of
Daryl Zero is a very tricky one and very few actors could pull it off, but
 Bill was simply brilliant. The scene where we hear
Daryl playing his guitar and singing a song but don't actually
see him  for about three minutes was perhaps the most wonderful
introduction of a character I've seen in any film.

Ben Stiller provides sterling support as Daryl's right hand man
and Ryan O'Neal (nice to see him again) and Kim Dickens are
also terrific.

There are so many great lines in the film, particularly
those where Daryl is explaining his methods of deduction
and surveillance. His explanation of the best way to follow
someone is priceless, as is his explanation on how to find 
things !

This film is a pure joy and very refreshing. Go see it !


<|_=00=_|>

This was a really pleasant surprise.  I didn't know what to expect before
watching this film, but what I got was a great movie that featured some
really good performances.  Stiller and O'Neal are solid, but the
always-likeable Bill Pullman is the real standout here.  There are lots of
great moments in this film, many of them comedic, and except for an
occasionally slow pace during the second half, I was greatly entertained
throughout.  Definitely worth checking out this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Excellent story and dialog. Certainly underrated. The film has great
performances by Bill Pullman and Kim Dickens, as well as Ben Stiller.
This one seems to have gone unnoticed by most people, but it was clever
and entertaining. The plot moves and has plenty of twists, but the plot
twists are not what makes the film great. The characters and their
development are what make this movie unique. Daryl Zero is one of the
most memorable private detectives I have ever seen and his relationship
with Gloria Sullivan (Kim Dickens) is well developed. Daryl's sidekick,
Ben Stiller, is interesting too as his loyalties are tested throughout
the film. At first it is difficult to determine how astute Daryl is--is
he really the "most observant" person in the world? Or is he a bumbling
fake? As the story develops, you see how adept Daryl Zero is. Even the
soundtrack is good with a great song by Nick Cave.
<|_=00=_|>

Bill Pullman is a very underrated actor, and this film he totally steals
the
show as the reclusive, quirky but 'greatest detective in the world', Daryl
Zero. He certainly suited the part in Zero Effect!

Ben Stiller, Ryan O'Neal and Kim Dickens all provide great support in this
different but interesting comedy. It had a very good story, some
interesting
social commentary and observation. Not quite a thriller but for its acute
observation, realistic characters and storyline, Ill give this a ***1/2 out
of *****!!!


<|_=00=_|>
OK, I thought this was an excellent movie. Having said that, where is
the credit to Arthur Conan Doyle? When movies are based on the works of
Shakespeare, such as modern day versions of Hamlet and Macbeth they
always credit Shakespeares works. 

Compare Zero Effect to A Scandal in Bohemia.

Compare the character Zero to Holmes: 1. both use drugs 2. both play a
musical instrument 3. both apply astounding powers of observation to
solve cases 4. both use disguises 5. both are loners who rely on their
intermediaries (Watson/Arlo)

In Zero Effect, Arlo deals with conflicts between his romantic life and
Zero's need of him to function. In A Scandal In Bohemia, Watson has
recently married and Holmes and Waston must deal with the issue.

The first line of A Scandal In Bohemia reads: "To Sherlock Holmes she
is always THE woman."

Guess what, in the end Sherlock doesn't get the girl and he admires her
as his most capable adversary. I guess Doyle must have a copy of Zero
Effect stashed away somewhere.

Again, I will say I thought is was a fantastic movie. I'm not always a
big fan of Pullman, but he was excellent in the role. If you are
considering not watching this movie because you don't like Ben Stiller,
well don't let that stop you. He takes his normal persona down a couple
notches. Don't expect to see any traces of Zoolander or Meet the
Parents.
<|_=00=_|>

As soon as the "Zero Effect" finished, my wife and I turned to each other
and said, "that's one of the best movies we've seen." Bill Pullman shows
why
he is one of the best, if often overlooked, actors. He plays the very
private detective Daryl Zero who is uncannily insightful on the job, but
otherwise is a mess.  We laughed so hard at times that we had tears in our
eyes. And it isn't just funny - there is a very well-woven story involving
murder and blackmail.

For its cleerness, acting, story, and directing, I give it a solid "9" of
"10", and one of my all-time favorites.
<|_=00=_|>

A lot can be said about the superb writing that this film contains. It is
also very well acted. But one thing that has always shocked me is just how
emotionally involving it is. Darryl Zero's budding relationship with the
woman, Kim Dickens, is so well written and acted that I believed every
moment of it. Kim Dickens' character goes through some very difficult
situations, and they all work. Ben Stiller's problems ring true, also. And
I'd like to point out that his girlfriend is the woman Bruce Campbell has
to
defend in S-Mart at the end of Army of Darkness.

There are only a couple of criticisms I have of the film. The first ten or
fifteen minutes seem to contain an entirely different style of comedy than
the rest of the film. With Darryl Zero's horrendous guitar stylings and
fridge full of TAB and tuna, I expected it to be an off-the-wall comedy or
spoof of a detective film or something. The first time I saw the film, I
was
told how funny it was, and after I saw the ridiculous first ten minutes or
so, I was constantly expecting the film to use slapstick and other such
jokes. The film is funny, but if you go in expecting a comedy, or only a
comedy, anyways, you're going to miss the emotional cues. Also, some of
the
discoveries and some of the trivia that Darryl Zero exhibits is a bit
ridiculous. I mean, Sherlock Holmes, who was actually based on a real
person, a college professor at Oxford, I believe, had amazing powers of
deduction, but not even he could guess which bus Kim Dickens was going to
tell her victim to get on. And I would also think that someone who does
have
the abilities that Darryl Zero supposedly has would never make up a job
and
tell that to one person, and forget that job and make a new one to give to
someone else who frequents the same place as the first one!

<|_=00=_|>

I didn't see this in theaters because most critics up here were dismissive
of it, so I checked it out when it hit video and what I wanted wasn't
available.  I should have ignored the critics.  Even if, like me, you're not
well versed in Sherlock Holmes (which this film is inspired by), you should
enjoy this movie.  Bill Pullman is wonderful as Daryl Zero, who lives his
professional life by the two "obs; observation and objectivity."  He's
quirky without being overly eccentric, and he's very believable and
touching.  Ben Stiller is a nice foil as his front man.  Kim Dickens proves
after PALOOKAVILLE and this that she's a talent to watch.  I even liked Ryan
O'Neal, whom I'm not a fan of.  I'm definitely looking forward to Jake
Kasdan's next film; he looks like he may be as talented as his
father.
<|_=00=_|>
The cast in this movie is well thought out!! Bill Pullman plays
Detective Daryl Zero, and he is a consortium of unorthodox emotions!!
Your initial perception of him being one whereby he is an amphetamine
freak, who chants like a castrated country rock singer, and drinks 68
cans of Tab in a single day!! Concocting irrational conclusions for
everything is Daryl Zero's favorite hobby, and, all of his ersatz
proclivities, which unalterably require a necessary detachment, are
peculiar enough to put him in either Belvue or Believe it or Not!! He
can astutely characterize a white collar criminal, and speak six
different languages, yet, he is incapable of filling out a tax form!!
With regard to something or someone being hazardous, Daryl Zero should
come with a personalized warning label which reads: Compared to this
guy, arsenic seems like an innocuous and palatable beverage!!

The movie starts off with Gregory Stark, (Ryan O'Neal) who is the
anonymously wealthy guy. Stark has now become the aggrieved recipient
of blackmail!! Steve Arlo, (Ben Stiller) plays Detective Zero's
business manager, Steve (Ben Stiller) manufactures a mystique about
Detective Zero through a bastardized affidavit containing a bevy of
counter culture mannerisms!! Arlo (Ben Stiller) presents a cogent case
to Gregory Stark (Ryan O'Neal) that Daryl Zero's doggerel of
accomplishments consists of numerous radical approaches and techniques
which serve as a means of being the most effective method to "cracking
the case"!! Desperate and annoyed by pecuniary depletion from a petty
(yet stinging) series of blackmail tactics,Gregory Stark (Ryan O'Neal)
is ready to give way to the unconventional!!! Consummation of this deal
opens up the floodgates for an onslaught of nuances to surface which
everyone in the movie becomes besieged with.. Daryl Zero's prescience
is profound in his ability at pinpointing the perpetrator to this
blackmail crime!! This film provides a precarious pontification to many
different ideological premises for all parties concerned!! More
importantly, it should be established that the trivial details and
innate intricacies of everyone's sordid human nature, are far more
significant to the plot of this movie, than the overall complications
which pertain to this film's resonating end results!! The two OB's;
observation and objectivity, guide Detective Zero in the direction of
satiating his desires to resolve everything... This acute
homogenization of deductive logic is what is referred to in this film
as the "Zero Effect"!!

This movie is loaded with talent, the writing is particularly well
thought out, and the innovative genre to this film makes it
intellectually gratifying to watch!!! All is well, but ends well,
however, it is not manifested in the proverbially neon accented format
that people are accustomed to when viewing a film with a happy ending..
Everyone's aggravated afflictions are related to their environment,
and, Detective Zero's concluding jeremiad, which establishes a
mandatory closure on the whole blackmail issue, winds up getting
categorized accordingly!! That being said, let's put it behind us, it's
over, so why not just go sky diving, or attend someone's funeral or
something!! Extremely well made film. It is Crazy with a capital "C". I
am very glad that I saw it!!!
<|_=00=_|>
The movie rides on this goofy charm from start to finish. In the past,
I'd always been mildly turned off by Pullman. But he converted me here
with a pitch perfect portrayal of such a strange character. 

One thing I dig about this movie is that even though it follows the
standard plot requirements of a detective mystery, everything comes
across fresh. I was continually, completely fooled into believing these
characters were not constrained by the requirements of the plot. I'm a
sucker for mysteries, and used to settling into that mystery movie
groove. I don't think it's a bad thing. But every now and then, one
comes along that makes you forget there's a groove at all. And this is
one of those. 

On top of Pullman's 1st class perf. (I'm cracking a smile just thinking
about it), Ryan O'Neal and Ben Stiller play to their strengths to great
effect. I've never been huge fans of them, either. One of the reasons I
chose to review this movie is that it took three actors I've never been
incredibly fond of, and I loved it in spite of it. Loved them in spite
of it. 

Not to mention Kim Dickens, who is a revelation (she's gone onto a few
other movies and a meaty role on the HBO series Deadwood). She's just
excellent here. You can never figure out what's going on in her head.

If you love this movie, rent "Freaks and Geeks". The director, Jake
Kasdan, directed several episodes of this classic, short-lived series.
