
I consider this film a guilty pleasure. Yes, it's terrible, and my
inner film critic tells me I should absolutely hate it, but hey, it's
like one of those comedians such as George Carlin whose sole purposes
are to offend and make you laugh. This movie did both for me. I
absolutely hate stupid comedies without a brain, but actually, there
seem to have been some brains behind this film. The prolific science
fiction screenwriter and short story author Richard Matheson - one of
my favorites - worked on the script with his author son, so there was
obviously more behind this than all the other absolutely awful
mainstream "comedies" of the '80s. I think I know what they were
getting at - they had a bunch of really wild, unrelated ideas, and
decided to put them all into one movie. What other movie can you think
of with Neo-Nazis, a cop-buddy formula, Colombian drug dealer torture,
Isreali agents, a long-lost porno film starring Adolf Hitler, S&M, and
multiple-personality disorder all in one movie, and a comedy at that?!
I give them credit for the balls they had in putting all that stuff
together. Heck, they were probably making things up as they went along.
A lot of it is actually quite funny. Also, believe it or not, director
Bob Clark has a very good eye for detail. This is a movie all the
critics were destined to love to hate, considering the pedigree of the
cast, producer Aaron Spelling (The Love Boat, Charlie's Angels) and
director Bob Clark ("A Christmas Story", "Porkies", and "Turk 182").
But if you approach this in the right mindset - as a trashy
drive-in-type movie with a bigger budget that's both intentionally and
unintentionally funny - you may enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>

Both my son Jack and I very much enjoy this film. The critics have given
this film a bad review but we don't care. Gene Hackman's presence as always
lifts the film and Dan Aykroyd makes a good foil; a sort of Dean Martin and
Jerry Lewis. Not over violent with some good jokes. Ronny Cox, always
watchable.
Paul Koslo makes a good heavy. Come on critics, lighten
up!!
<|_=00=_|>
GOOD movie!!! I dunno what the other people are griping about, maybe
they are easily offended.

If you like the 48 Hours Movies, you will like this one.

Is it crude? Yes. Is it stupid? yes. Is it REALLY stupid? REALLY yes.
Fun to watch? AMAZINGLY so.

Although I agree Dom Deluise "Can" butcher movies sometimes, this one
he was good in..the obnoxious, fat Triple XXX movie producer. Dan
Akroyd as lunatic #1 makes a good performance....Not a full laugh all
the time movie, but the one-liners and stupid acts make it funny

Although it jumps A lot, and is somewhat..eh..loose-ended at times. it
is a joy to watch.

They were able to cram SO many movie cliché's and references it was fun
to watch because of that!!!(It's amazing all the people in it that you
know from other shows. Stargate SG1, Coach, etc.) Cop-buddies, S&M,
Porno and Nazi smut and sympathizer, hunted down by Israeli Mossad....

Let me put it this way: If you like occasional stupidity mixed with
comedy and crudeness...this is the movie :D Plus you can find it half
ways cheap.

My opinion=9 stars....IF...you don't watch it that often :D Only 2-3
times a year.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm 15.  I first remember seeing this film along time ago when I was about 8
or 9 years old.  Now after renting from the video store I had a chance to
view it again.

Gene Hackman plays Mac, a cop who is reluctantly partnered with Ellis (Dan
Aykroyd) to solve a series of grisly murders.  Ellis also happens to have
Multiple Personality Disorder and when faced with violence he begins to go
into these alternate personalities, mostly characters from popular
television shows.  Back to the story, the killer behind the murders is a
German named Von Metz (Robert Prosky) who has employed a group of
bloodthirsty hitmen to kill anyone who has viewed a snuff film that contains
the death of Hitler at the hands of Von Metz.  Now Von Metz, if he can get
the film off the black market, will almost certainly be elected as
chancellor of West Germany.  

Now a lot of people have dissed this movie for numerous reasons; I only
agree with a few of them.  Yes, I think Dan Aykroyd's character could have
been pulled off by somebody better, like Robin Williams.  This movie isn't
really all that violent, yes people get shot a lot, but that is about it,
even though many people say it is.  Also many people say this movie isn't
really that funny, I found myself laughing quite a few times. 

I give it a 6/10 
<|_=00=_|>
Let me tell you that i haven't had such a good laugh in ages. I saw
this film last night for the first time and it was hilarious from start
to finish. Paring up Dan akroyd and Gene hackman i think is one of the
best team up in film I've actually scene, to the jokes,the action and
the actual characters themselves. Having the plot about the Germans and
having it set in Washington was pretty stupid i have to admit but it
was all part how the story came together. Both the lead stars you
rarely see these days due to idiots like eg(jack black,will Farrel)
taking all the air time. This is the sort of comedy that the younger
generation of today should be watching instead of the crap thats out
these days. Well im glad these old films like this still exist.
<|_=00=_|>
It was funny and witty and Gene Hackman and Dan Akyroyd are balls of
laughter in the film. I'm a fan of buddy cop films, I always look
forward to a buddy cop film, from 48 hours to lethal weapon and the
dirty harry series; the buddy cop films are a blast.

Dom Deluise is hilarious, a Mel Brooks regular putting in that usual
fat charm that made him funny in the first place to good use in this
typical but funny caper.

The story is as clichéd as what you see in an 80's/90's cop film; A
murder was committed and two cops with different personalities learn to
cope with their differences to break the case and shoot-up bad guys.
Now I can't say its original but I like the shoot em ups and this was a
good shoot em up film. The car chases were inventive and the scene of
the train being hijacked from men on helicopters was a well directed
action scene. It focused on the humor but didn't ignore the action. The
acting was good, Hackman is always great to watch on screen and Dan is
a good partner combination.
<|_=00=_|>
This is comedy! Sometimes people are offended by stuff like this, but
really! How could anybody be offended by silliness like this? Some
reviewers found Akroyds "personalities" offensive. I found them amusing
as they, of course, should not be taken seriously. It's slapstick, not
Ingmar Bergman! 

The movie was well paced, and reasonably suspenseful as such a movie
that tries to follow in the footsteps of movies like "48 hours" should
be.

There's one thing I dislike about this movie, however, and that's Dom
DeLouise. He tries his best to ruin this movie, as he tries to ruin
every other movie I have ever seen him in. That man simply cannot act!
It makes you wonder why he's in so many movies. Does anybody know?

Based on the other reviews I almost didn't watch this, but once again
it shows that what's comedy for someone is not necessarily comedy for
everyone.

I enjoyed it a lot this late evening, and will probably watch it again,
and give it a solid 8.

Possibly because I was positively surprised after reading the other
reviews...
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great movie. Generally I find American Comedies dull, but
this is seriously great. The wit is very clever: my favourite being the
license for sex, and some of the slapstick is quite amusing. The plot
is not deep but the movie is what I call a fun movie.

The movie stars Gene Hackman, who plays far better bad guys that good
guys, though in this movie he was good. Then there is Dan Ackroyd who
simply steals the show with his antics. Ackroyd is a very good actor as
he can take on different roles. Early in his career he seemed to play
simply comic roles, such as the Blues Brothers, but recently he has
taken a little more serious approach to his roles, such as the assassin
in Grosse Point Blanc. Loose Cannons has him playing a cop with
multiple personalities, and some of them, such as the Road Runner, are
a hoot.

As for attitudes, I guess it deals mainly with tolerance for those who
are mentally disabled. Ackroyd's character is disabled due to a painful
experience in the past, and Hackman puts in effort to actually help
Ackroyd return to his job and overcome his experience. It played a
little part of the film, but not much. Moreso it was an action/comedy
flick.

The one thing that concerned me was that the title had little to do
with the movie. A loose cannon is somebody who does not take part in
the team, somebody who is not under control and goes about doing their
own thing. Obviously it comes from the times of wooden sailing ships in
that if a cannon was not secure, it could roll all over the ship and
possibly cause quite a lot of damage. These guys did not seem to be
loose cannons, rather they were involved in a case and were doing what
they could to solve it. There was no big police cover up and their
superiors were not ordering them to desist from the case. Other than
that, which is minor, but I tend to drag up minor things, it was a good
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Some movies you want to see just because you want to see how bad they
are and that is the reason why I wanted to see "Loose Cannons". This
movie was strange as a comedy because the jokes just weren't funny.
Also as a cop-buddy movie it doesn't work due to the chemistry between
it's lead actors. Gene Hackman and Dan Aykroyd play off each other like
two actors who needed the money. The premise was oddly interesting
which concerned a piece of Hitler memorabilia and Aykroyd as a schizo
cop trying to come to grips with his demons (aka his other
personalities). 

What could have been an inspiring premise for something unique and
twisted in the cop-buddy genre instead gets bogged down by generic
action sequences, lame jokes and slapdash direction.
<|_=00=_|>
Oddly enough, when it's a dark crime caper with some comedic/absurdist
elements, the movie actually works pretty well. There are stakes,
people are getting killed, and there are Nazis being evil...there are
some genuinely exciting sequences in this movie.

Then Dan Akyroyd's "Multiple Personality Disorder" rears it's ugly head
again and the whole thing turns into a farce. You think his impressions
of pop culture characters are supposed to be funny...and they are...
until (here's the spoiler) you learn that he developed this MPD after a
gang captured him and tortured him so severely he almost died.

Yes, that is his actual back-story in this movie.

How are you supposed to laugh at that? If they'd played this as a
mostly straight movie with some jokes thrown in, it would have been
fine. If Ellis had been what he was originally presented as: a
brilliant detective with a broken mind trying to claw his way back into
functionality, that would have worked. Hey, when Dan Akryoyd isn't
mugging, he actually gives a pretty touching performance. This whole
thing would have gone down as a dark but functional crime flick.

Bur someone decided this had to be a "comedy." A comedy with Nazis,
torture, and murder in it. And that killed the flick.

Still, somethings have to be seen to be believed.
