

Arnold Schwarzenegger gets pregnant.  That's about it.  The premise is
ridiculous, the twists and turns in the plot are mind-bogglingly stupid and
every joke is predictable and hammered at you--but I still like this film! 
The script does have it's moments, but the performances really carry this
one.

Arnie is suprisingly very funny when he becomes pregnant (when asks DeVito
in all seriousness "Does my body disgust you?" I broke up); DeVito is just
along for the ride but is good--he's the straight man to Arnie;  Emma
Thompson is just gorgeous, very funny and full of life as a clumsy
scientist.  Also Judy Collins (yes, the singer) pops up looking radiant as
the head of a center for pregnant women.  Everything looks wonderful and the
film is slickly made to cater the the audience.  I usually hate films like
that, but this worked.  The only bad part is Pamela Reed--she's a wonderful
actress and comediene but she's shamefully underused--she doesn't get any
good funny scenes till the end.  Also, where else will you see Arnie in a
dress?

It's a one joke film.  Is it a good film?  No.  Do I like it?  Very much. 
Call it a guilty favorite.

One complaint--at 2 hours it's too long.  Couldn't it have been trimmed a
little?  


<|_=00=_|>

Arnold Schwarzenegger as a scientist who makes himself pregnant? The premise
is pretty funny, even if the idea of Ah-nold in a comedy makes one
suspicious. I thought "Twins" was awful, and "Conan" a comedy by accident.
"Kindergarten Cop" was better because Schwarzenegger was mostly a straight
man. Here he is called on to act the part of a pregnant man opposite Danny
DeVito and Emma Thompson. While it is not an Oscar calibre performance, he
gets the job done.

The story is reasonably simple. DeVito (a fertility specialist) and
Schwarzenegger (a scientist) are partners working on a new miracle fertility
drug. Their project gets canceled by the University and replaced by an
ovarian study under the direction of Emma Thompson. They decide to implant
an embryo in Schwarzenegger and continue the study illegally. They steal an
egg from Thompson's ovarian study and the stage is set. Of course, the egg
is Thompson's and she and Schwarzenegger are attracted to each
other.

Ivan Reitman does a very good job with the story, keeping it simple and
staying focused on the characters. Had he spent a lot of time focusing on
the physical comedy, the film would have failed. Instead we get to watch the
ultimate "macho" figure take on the ultimate "female" experience. The
contrast keeps the comedy rolling, while the characters carry the
film.

It is hardly a profound film, although it is intelligently written. The
issues raised rely on simple male vs. female differences and the contrast of
Schwarzenegger's image with this role is used to full effect. It's an
enjoyable film with strong performances by Thompson and
DeVito.
<|_=00=_|>

Wonderfully light comedy based on a fantastic fiction about a researcher
who
gets himself pregnant for the sake of Science and Glory, but goes through
the nine months for the sake of Motherhood and Baby.
There are plenty of plot boo-boos, but the movie is tongue-in-the-cheek
throughout, so maybe the boo-boos are meant that way...
Anyway, if you don't mind the occasional sexist cliche, and if you want to
see Mister (Hollywood) Universe in the charming role of a peaceable
pregnant researcher, this movie packs two hours of hearty laughter. In the
whole movie, Arnold sends flying only one man, once - the only bad guy in
the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Dr. Alex Hesse works at Leland University with his colleague, Dr. Larry
Arbogast. They are developing a new, experimental drug, Expectane, that
will ensure pregnancies. So far they've been testing on chimps, but now
they want to test it on humans. They meet with the FDA, who turns them
down. Alex decided it was time to leave the university, so he packed up
his things and left, just as his replacement, Dr. Diana Reddin,
arrived. She was smart and beautiful, but very clumsy. Alex wanted to
go back home to Europe, but Larry Arbogast wanted to continue
experimentation with Expectane.He wanted to try it on, not a female
specimen, but a male! He had Alex in mind. Alex declined, but Larry
continued to plead with him, so finally he gave in. Larry "borrowed" a
frozen egg from Dr. Reddin's cryogenics freezer, mixed in some
Expectane and injected them into Alex. Then they perform a test
and...Alex was pregnant! Alex stayed with Larry and continued to take
Expectane daily. He even went back to work at the university. Right
away Diana could tell something was up by the way Alex began throwing
up and experiencing cramps. He even had a nightmare about what his baby
would look like.

One week later, Larry and Alex go out to dinner, and while Larry
strikes a deal with Lyndon Pharmacuticals about marketing Expectane,
Alex met Diana, and they dance. On the way home, Alex was seriously
wondering what his baby would be like. This rush of hormones began to
annoy Larry so he demanded that Alex stop taking Expectane and the
embryo inside him would just absorb into his body. Alex didn't want to
stop because he really wanted to see his baby, whom he called Junior.
So he continued to take Expectane regularly. Ten weeks later, Alex's
birthday, he was beginning to show. Larry found out and was not
pleased, but he let Alex stay with him again. All the while, the head
science professor, Noah Banes, grew suspicious because even though he
had the Expectane project shut down, it was still being experimented
with; One afternoon while Larry went to the lab, Alex stayed home.
Diana suddenly dropped by because she wanted to see him, but acted like
she was dropping off a file. Alex, with his rushing hormones tried
moving in on Diana, until Larry's ex-wife, Angela, who was also
pregnant stopped by. She wanted Larry to treat her, even though he was
reluctant to do so. Alex begins living like any other pregnant man and
scarfs down a monstrous dinner with Angela. Unfortunately, Larry was
not the father of Angela's unborn baby, it was a member of Aerosmith.
Boy was Larry Hurt; Noah Banes decided to pay Alex and Larry a visit
one afternoon and while snooping around the house, he found their
stockpile of Expectane so he thought they had used it to impregnate a
woman. Boy was he wrong!

Alex soon finds out that the egg he was injected with had actually been
Diana's. She had named it Junior too! When Alex went to the university
to tell Diana what has been happening, Banes got a good look at Alex,
who was really showing now, and realized it hadn't been a woman they
were experimenting on after all. Well, Alex told Diana that the baby
inside him was actually THEIRS and, well, she didn't take it too well.
That's when Banes burst in and threatened to exploit Alex and his
pregnancy. He responded by tossing Banes into a rack of beakers and
ran. Larry takes Alex somewhere to hide out for a while. They go to
Casitas Madres, a health resort for pregnant women, then Larry leaves
for Canada to negotiate with the Lyndon people. Alex tried fitting in
among the other pregnant women ala Mrs. Doubtfire. But then, one
fateful day, Alex, who has now been pregnant seven months, began to
feel...Contractions! Larry called to check in and was told what was up
so he dashed home. Diana, who had finally forgiven Alex, also raced
over to help. Larry, Alex and Diana race to the hospital where Banes
had set up a media circus. There was Paparazzi everywhere. Larry had a
plan, so while Alex and Diana sneaked around back, Larry entered the
hospital with Angela. With no pregnant man to see, Banes became a
laughing stock. He also became unemployed; In the operating room, Dr.
Snellin, Louise, and Larry all performed a C-section on Alex
and...Before long, the blessed event took place and Alex was a father!
Angela also gave birth that night and she proclaimed Larry the honorary
father. Well, from then on, our new fathers and new mothers all lived
happily ever after.

What can I say about Junior? It was a good movie. Arnold Schwarzenegger
was good. He is reunited with his co-star from Twins, Danny DeVito and
his co-star from Kindergarten Cop, Pamela Reed. Also here is Emma
Thompson. Everybody was good in their parts. Sure the movie may be
absurd and bizarre at times, I mean when you hear about a pregnant man,
you're bound to expect craziness. I wonder if something like that could
ever be attempted in real life. But then men having babies would be a
lot more trouble than with women. It's the natural order of things I
guess, but anyway, if you like Arnold Schwarzenegger (the governor of
my state) and Danny DeVito then I recommend Junior, and Twins. See them
both! If you've ever wondered what it would be like to see
Schwarzenegger pregnant, this is the movie to see it in! I recommend
Junior!

-
<|_=00=_|>

Delighful piece of fluff concerning male pregnancy and the effect of
hormones on one's personality and entire outlook on life. Arnold is a
dedicated research scientist who volunteers his own body for scientific
research at the urging of a more money-motivated physician (Danny DeVito).
His evolution into a  typical maternal figure under large doses of hormones
and an experimental medication provides lots of opportunity for comedy and
some real poignant vignettes. Frank Langella's character as dean of the
university sponsoring the research is a bit over-done and becomes annoying.
Emma Thompson plays lonely research scientist attracted to Arnold who
becomes much more involved than she originally intended.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is one of the strangest films I've ever seen, and I've seen some
pretty strange movies (Attack of the Killer Banana anyone?).  Although
extremely strange, it's funny, in only a way the director of Ghostbusters
could make it.  Arnold's explanation of why he's so ugly in drag is
hilarious.  Emma Thompson gives a particuarly good role by Danny DeVito.
Worth a rental, if not a buy.
<|_=00=_|>
My daughters love this movie and I've watched it with them over 100
times. OK, that is excessive and probably unwarranted. But I've really
grown to appreciate it. The acting from DeVito, Frank Langella, Pamella
Reed and Emma Thompson is great. No scene or action is unnecessary. The
scene where Arnold and Pamella are pigging out, cocktail weenies,
struedelhounds, DeVito's reaction to "feel how soft my skin is" many
more, are hilarious. Arnold is stiff as usual, but he's able to show a
convincing transformation. They almost make the premise believable.
Bono's rendition of "Got You Under My Skin" at the closing credits is
my only fault with the movie.
<|_=00=_|>

The first time I saw this I was like "ok, that is kinda strange", but this
movie gets better every time you see it. There are some funny parts in
this
movie especially where arnie is in the dress! I wanted to see this,
because
I really liked Twins and Junior also stars Danny De Vito so it was like a
reunion. If you liked Twins I think you will like this too. Ivan Reitman
is
a pretty good director. i don't think he has made a movie that I haven't
liked. If you want a good laugh then go out and rent this arnie movie
today.
It is not as bad as you have heard from others. 8.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Hey here's something interesting. If you type "Junior" in to Google,
the first hit is this movie, but if you type it in to the IMDb, the
first hit is George W. Bush. I just thought that was funny.

So by 1994, Schwarzenegger had just done a series of pretty hardcore
action movies – Terminator 2, Last Action Hero (shut up, that movie
rocked), and True Lies – so I'm really curious to know who came up with
the idea of making a movie in which he gets pregnant and carries a baby
to term. Yeah, Last Action Hero and especially Kindergarten Cop showed
the world that Arnold was a big action movie star that was not above
having a little fun with himself, but a pregnancy??

Amazingly enough, however, the movie is much better than you might
think. He stars as Dr. Alex Hesse, a scientist working on a new formula
that will help create successful pregnancies for women having trouble
conceiving. But the problem is that they are unable to get
authorization to perform necessary tests so, desperate to prove that
their formula works, Hesse and his partner Dr. Larry Arbogast decide to
create a pregnancy in Hesse – the world's first pregnant man!

They do not, however have any intention of allowing the pregnancy to go
on for more than a month or a month and a half, they just need to prove
that their formula works. I am reminded of that scene in Terminator 2
when they are all at Miles Dyson's house and Sarah is telling Dyson
that men like him through of the hydrogen bomb and they only know how
to create destruction, they have no idea what it's like to feel a life
growing inside you. In Junior, Hesse learns what it's like to have a
life growing inside him, and tat life becomes more important to him
than the science experiment that he and Arbogast were carrying out. 

There is a cleverly designed side story about Arbogast's ex-wife
carrying a baby that resulted in a one-night stand after an Aerosmith
concert, but the majority of the comedy in the movie is derived from
Schwarzenegger literally not only turning into a woman, but poking fun
at his real life self. When he goes to a pregnancy retreat dressed as a
woman, he explains his manly performance by stating that back in "her"
native Germany, she was a body-builder and excessive steroid use was
considered perfectly common and acceptable. He experiences all of the
ups and downs of being pregnant, but no matter how outlandish the
premise is, there is no denying that the movie is definitely pretty
charming. 

It was great to see Schwarzeneggger and Danny DeVito together again
after their classic work together in Twins several years earlier. Once
again, they have come together and brought us a great piece of family
entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>

When reading the comments I saw lots of pro's and lots of
contras.
But the comments are quite strong so it is worth reading them
carefully.

Then again, what does it mean, some people like apple pies, some
don't.

I watched this movie on TV, there was nothing better to watch, and at first
I thought this is crazy I have ten 4-starred videos that I can watch
tonight, but I stayed on.

It's just a bit of fun. I also wanted to see the combination Schwarzenegger
- Thompson, which really works. Add De Vito and you're in for 3/4ths of an
apple pie. Add Reitman and you have a complete apple pie.

The cream on top is not provided, mainly because the antagonist, the evil
guy at the University does not work. 

I don't think it's worth a rental, certainly not a buy, but better than
Prozac.

