

Boogie Nights is perhaps one of the greatest examples any would-be
filmmaker
should take a long hard look at.  Sure, you could spend loads of quality
time reviewing the clasics from Hitchcock to Scorsese; but lets follow suit
for the modern generation and study half-heartedly.

Where to begin, I suppose one could look at the film as simply a story,
perhaps even docudrama which focuses on the late 1970's porn industry-and
what an industry it was!  The other half could focus on the incredible
detail one brillant filmmaker can achieve simply by using polyester and
*ahem* rubber.  But honestly, Boogie Nights brings back the pure,
no-bul!shi$, in your face kind of cinema I haven't experienced since the
film greats of the 1970's...ironic...or stroke of genius.  The story is
full
of richly detailed characters, all of which you either can relate too,
love,
or hate; but the impact is clear-you are feeling something for them.  Among
the characters the two performances which stand out are: Burt Reynolds as
Director Jack Horner, and Mark Wahlberg as Eddie Adams/Dirk Diggler.
Julianne Moore is also brillant, as is Heather Graham...but if I focus on
any one actor it would have to be John C. Reilly.  John's performance is a
perfect balance of comedic timing and character driven emotion...I'm a
sucker for the line "Ever see the movie Star Wars?...People say I look like
Han Solo."  Anyway, the look of the film is incredible, the Director of
Photography and Director/Writer/Producer, have come up with a vibrant
colour, and flashy style that compares to Martin Scorsese, and Stanley
Kubrick(in terms of his perfection of his craft); but with creating his own
unique look, and pushing the edge with the longest single shot I'ver ever
seen...that being the New Year's party sequence.

The music, like in any great film, is a character of its own.  At times, it
consumes oneself with sorrow or grief...but mainly its all about fun,
dancing, and having a good time; the spirit of the 1970's.
OK, back to the performances.

Burt Reynolds plays the character of Jack Horner, a porn director who feels
the burden of what the future of "film" means to his genre.  The awful
transition from shooting on film to recording on magnetic tape. The lose of
his art, as it were...and the changes in mentality to the people he works
with.  Walhberg adds the perfect blend of innocense and sexual bravado
needed for the character.  For all those individuals who have seen Burton's
Planet of the Apes, pay no attention to the performance of Wahlberg in that
film...rent boogie nights and see what a difference a good script can make!

Julianne Moore plays the would-be mother to all, and with that comes the
torment and anguish she feels, as life imitates art; and she loses all
those
close to her.  Heather Graham is the eye-candy, but later holds her own,
and
steals some of the scenes from even the great Mr. Reynolds himself.  Each
character is multidimensional, rich with life, and performed by actors that
seem to be picture perfect for the part.

The film itself is often funny, tragic, exciting, and provides a
uncompromising look into the turblulant lifestyle of the fast-pace 1970's.
It makes no excuses, and tells no lies; and offers the audience a trip
back.
But even more importantly, the movie gives us a grand example of how films
should be made; and a new director whose bold visions bring back art in
film.
<|_=00=_|>

Paul Thomas Anderson's stylish and compelling take on the 70s porn
industry follows Eddie Adams, aka Dirk Diggler (Mark Wahlberg), through
six years of sex, drugs and disco. His chance meeting with pornography
director Jack Horner (Burt Reynolds) starts his career as one of the
greatest adult actors of the time. Dirk's character is based on
real-life porn actor John Holmes, who, like Dirk, was renowned for
being extremely "well-endowed". This is where Dirk finds initial
success.

The main themes in Boogie Nights are the obvious ones relating to a
film of this genre; pornography, drugs, sex, betrayal, violence and
music. Boogie Nights deals with the pornography theme with some
control. It is not overplayed and the sex scenes are surprisingly
minimal, but mentally explicit when they take place on screen.

Throughout the film cocaine is abused enormously, and the film's
setting, Los Angeles 1977-1983, reflects the popularity of the drug at
that time, which the film captures perfectly. However, Boogie Nights
does not promote cocaine, as there are some scenes involving addiction
and overdoses. For example at Jack's party, they find a girl who has
recently, and graphically, overdosed; blood pours from her nose and she
begins an unconscious fit. The film, before this scenes, has been
fairly upbeat and comic, but from this point it foreshadows the
darkness that it will occur.

The music scenes are executed brilliantly, from superbly-staged disco
scenes to a down-and-out Dirk singing terribly in his new music career.
The soundtrack too is excellent, featuring tunes from The Emotions,
ELO, The Beach Boys and the unforgettable Sound Experience. The
standout scene in the whole film comes down to the music; Dirk, Redd
Rothchild (John C. Reilly) and Todd Parker (Thomas Jane) visit drug
dealer Rahad Jackson's (Alfred Molina) house in order to make some
quick cash from selling phoney drugs, but Night Ranger's Sister
Christian, which is playing in the background, increases the intensity
of the scene incredibly, proving that music can bring so much more
depth to a scene. Boogie Nights is filled with those kind of scenes,
which makes the film even more fantastic.

The standout performance in Boogie Nights is Burt Reynolds as the
enigmatic, yet moody, film director. In the scene where he attacks a
young guy for slating his movies, it is a complete shock for the
audience, because before this point he has been pretty mellow and
content. Other notable performances are Julianne Moore, Heather Graham
as the beautiful Rollergirl, John C. Reilly, and Mark Wahlberg, who
delivers the performance of his career.

Boogie Nights is also a surprisingly original film, using common themes
but filmed in its own sharp and realistic way. Anderson's approach has
been fully captures these characters in a time when nothing seemed to
be going wrong, or at least until the 80s arrive. From then on, things
turn very dark indeed, and all signs of the recognisable characters and
situations from the first part of the film have gone. This does not,
however, reduce the high level of engaging entertainment that this film
offers.

Boogie Nights was not a box-office success, earning only £2 million at
cinemas in the UK. But this is not the film's, or the director's
concern. Anderson recognises quality, not popularity, which is evident
in his three other films, Hard Eight, Magnolia and Punch-Drunk Love. I
would recommend this film to anyone who enjoys a simple parable filled
with excellent and variable situations, because at the end of this film
you will realize that Boogie Nights is a simple morality tale, but one
which will stay in the mind days after you watch it. Boogie Nights is
at once shocking, hilarious, devastating and both visually and audibly
outstanding.

<|_=00=_|>

This is not so much of a review as it is a testament that it has been
proven, yet again, that the Academy rewards money, not artistic
accomplishment. And I must say I am saddened that this usually artistic
and
intelligent band of imbd members have left this off the top 250. Boogie
Nights is powerful, raw, and gutsy through script, direction and acting.
Very few movies can claim this triple crown.  
<|_=00=_|>

Director Paul Thomas Anderson has created a fascinating account of a
family
of pornographers in the late 1970s.  It is a frank, compelling, and
disturbing vignette of unforgettable characters.  Mark Whalberg (in his
best
performance to date) plays a well-endowed 17 year old who begins working
in
the porn industry under porn director Burt Reynolds (in an Oscar nominated
performance).  John C. Reilly plays a fellow porn star, Julianne Moore
(never better) as a famous porn queen, Philip Seymour Hoffman as a timid
homosexual porn crew member, William H. Macy as a fatalistic loser who's
wife is always cheating on him, and Heather Graham (Reynolds daughter) as
a
rising porn star.  Everybody does a fine job.  The best scenes belong to
former porn star couple Don Cheadle and Nicole Parker who add some of the
comic relief to the film.  What's intriguing is the way the actors
interact
with each other and the way they struggle to find their self-identity,
plus
a bravura script, colorful and startling cinematography, and a rousing
rocking 70s soundtrack that make Boogie Nights one of the best films of
1997.  It is a touching, humorous, and shocking film bursting with
originality with an overall message of: redemption and forgiveness.

<|_=00=_|>

       Boogie Nights is an excellent picture.  You don't have to have be
 a part of the whole 70's scene either to appreciate it.  The title is very
 misleading to some who do not generally read reviews beforehand.  This
 movie is an exhilerating piece on a late 70's-early 80's porn star.  Yes,
 it sounds like a very simple plot and much gratutious sex.  But it's so
 much more.
       While you may be thrown off by the violence and the sexuality Boogie
 Nights is nowhere near pointless.  It features great acting all across the
 board-even Reynolds is very sympathetic.  Some advice though, seeing this
 movie more than once is a good idea.  It grows on you.
       This movie takes you to the deep down threshold of your heart.  It
 shows you the rise of a porn star and the downhill spiral that follows it. 
 Even in some of the sleaziest of characters can a human being be
 reached out to.  Rent this one tonight -  and who cares about all that talk
 about the use of prosthetics anyway. 
       This is the pulp fiction of the 70's porn industry, "a low class
 subject made in a high class way".
<|_=00=_|>

     One of the things that I like about PT Anderson, is that he has the
guts to take talent that most people push to the side or have pushed to the
side and makes them stars. Case in point, a washed-up... Burt Reynolds
delivers a great performance in this film. And if proving Adam Sander can be
a great actor (Punch Drunk Love) wasn't enough... here comes Mark
Whalburg... like you've never seen before.

I think many people pass up "Boogie Nights" cause they are anti-porn, or
just flat out hate the adult industry and can't overlook that aspect of this
film. But underneath that is a great story about characters losing
everything and battle to regain themselves. There is a beautiful film... and
it's too bad that enough people see that.

<|_=00=_|>

Boogie Nights is full of surprises, nothing quite prepares one for it its
soul. Yes, it does have soul, whilst tackling the tackiest of subject
matter, with both a wry smile and respect.  Brillantly cast and wonderful
character development, the performances somehow combine the best of stage
acting with improvisation within a cinema verite style.

The plot proved richer than I expected and the underlying themes are teased
out quite profoundly as each "B grade" human being is brought, through
crisis, into perspective.

A sociologist's dream case study, the film resonates the raw truth of what
we all know about self-esteem, parental love and lack of it, attention/love
deficit and its manifestation in adulthood, the desperate need to belong.
Something for everyone here.. almost camouflaged as issues of untouchables
and their separate milieu but of course they are universal.

The film works on a number of levels. The ironic loop is that the milieu
portrayed exists only because of the voyeur, who happens to be watching the
film...

Boogie Nights is non judgmental of its subject matter and characters, a
rarity. It deserves every accolade it has achieved and
more.
<|_=00=_|>
Boogie Nights is one of the best films to come out of the 90's and I'd
go so far as to say it should be in the IMDb top 250. I can actually
understand why many would dislike it, due to the subject matter. I
personally feel however as many do, judging from the aclaim this film's
received by viewers and critics that it's topnotch film making.

The direction and acting in this film surpass good and reach the level
of brilliance.There is not one scene in this movie that isn't amazing.
The individual characters reach out and touch you. Given that this is a
movie about the porn industry, one wouldn't imagine the sex scenes
could be handled with such sensitivity but they are. The direction is
among the best I've ever seen-and I've seen a lot of films.

The film isn't about one particular personal individual's story, it's
about many.It's a character study about people who have many layers to
them and who maybe in an industry most would find alien but who still
dream the same dreams and have both bad and good to them. Boogie Nights
draws you into their story from the beginning, and though the film is
long(I believe almost 3 hours) you honestly don't even notice. And when
it ends you kind of don't want it to....

I'm not easy to impress, meaning there aren't many movies I'd give a 10
of 10 rating to but this is one. Beyond the multiple character study,
is the use of music in the film. I have never, in all my years of
seeing movies seen music tell a story as well as in this movie.There
was such flawlessness to it, you know it's not something your gonna see
everyday.

Burt reynold's performance was perhaps the best I've ever seen him do,
and Mark Wahlberg is incredible(I'm astounded there are still people
saying he doesn't act well. I don't know how anyone viewing this could
possibly think that)but the person who really surprised me was Heather
Grahem(Rollergirl) who is absolutely fantastic in her role, in
particular the one memorable scene with Burt Reynolds in the Limo,
towards the end.

Again, I'll echo other IMDb reviewers in saying this movie is not for
everybody. But I still think this was topnotch.10 of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
The brilliance of this story delivers at least one skillfully crafted
message to each viewer in the audience. This story is about success,
it's about failure. It's about the choices you make in life and the
choices others make for you. The story deals with self realization and
determination on a scale so large, no camera angle could cover it.
Within the grasp of each scene is resides an element marked for
depiction within your imagination. Keep this in mind as you watch the
movie; it's more than eye candy. The sexually suggestive, rarely
explicit scenes serve only to distract and entertain you during the
tedious process of character development.
<|_=00=_|>
I rented Boogie Nights last week and I could tell you, when I watched
the film I had a blast. If you think that when you watch the film you
will get sicked by the porn. I mean yes, if your not a porn person who
can't bother being by it, than this isn't the film to see. But the
thing is, the whole film isn't really about porn. Well halfway through
the film is about the porn industry but the other half is about the
character development and the bad situations these characters go
through. The actors played there roles perfect, especially Mark
Wahlberg, John C. Reilly, and William H. Macy. The sex scenes, of
course are terrific but mainly focus on the character's hype in porn
films until there struggles. Excellent film, one of the best! 

Hedeen's Outlook: 10/10 **** A+
