
Jim Carrey puts so much energy and pure comedic brilliance into this
movie that we hardly noticed how corny and hackneyed was the plot or
how wearily didactic was the moral lesson for all fathers who neglect
their children for the goddess of success. And really we didn't care.
What we loved almost as much as Carrey's rubber mouth and oral blockage
(like an overheated boiler fighting not to explode) was the premise: a
lawyer that can't lie. Now there's an oxymoron! As Carrey tries to
explain to his son Max, lawyers need to lie. Actually he says grownups
need to lie, which is a truth that we really do not need to exam too
closely here. To laugh at something deeply troubling in our nature is a
way of dealing with it.

So the genius of this movie is first the talent of Jim Carrey, but
second, for kids who come to the realization of adult mendacity for the
first time, it is the discovery of comedy as a way to cope. Why do
adults need to lie? is a question that a kid can never figure out, and
then by the time he is an adult himself (or actually a teenager), he
can no longer comprehend how important the question once was. Call it
innocence lost, or the socialization process.

My favorite part of the movie is the courtroom scene with Jennifer
Tilly dressed oh so sluttily and her adulterous beaux looking like a
model for the cover of a romance novel and Carrey in tatters in his
$900 suit. Second would be the bathroom scene in which Carrey tries to
tear himself apart (and seems to almost succeed). His flapping mouth
between the toilet seat and the bowl was inspired. Give some credit to
director Tom Shadyac, who managed to steer the vehicle with Carrey at
the controls, and to writers, Paul Guay and Stephen Mazur, who wrote
some funny lines.

The great comedians totally let themselves go. They are totally on.
They go to extremes and beyond. It's like transcending not just the
ordinary, but even the imagined. See this obviously for Jim Carrey, one
of the great comedic talents of our time, an original who would have
delighted Charlie Chaplin with his extraordinary muggings, his blatant
audacity and his suburb timing.

(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut
to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it
at Amazon!)
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie, it's so funny :D one of the best comedy movies
ever!!! It has (like many movies) a message, that it's best to tell the
truth, but above all it was very funny. My favorite scene was: 

About Mr. Allen 

Miranda: Well, what do you think of him? Fletcher: He's a pedantic,
pontificating, pretentious bastard, a belligerent old fart, a worthless
steaming pile of cow dung, figuratively speaking. a moment passes and
Mr. Allen starts laughing. The other board members follow his lead and
start laughing also] Mr. Allen: That's the funniest damn thing I have
ever heard. You're a real card, Reede. I love a good roast. Do Simmons.
Fletcher: Simmons is old. He should have been out of the game years ago
but he can't stay home because he hates his wife. You have met her at
the Christmas parties, she's the one that gets plastered and calls him
a retard, and you, Tom; you're the biggest brown nose I have ever seen.
You have got your head so far up Mr. Allen's ass, I can't tell where
you end and he begins. Mr. Allen: *roaring with laughter* Priceless!
*Fletcher continues with every member* Fletcher: You have bad breath
caused by gingivitis. You couldn't get a porn star off. Your hairpiece
looks like something that was killed crossing the highway. I don't know
whether to comb it or scrape it off with a shovel and bury it in lime.
Loser! Idiot! Wimp! Degenerate! *Slut*! Mr. Allen: I like your style,
Reede! That's just what this stuffy company needs - a little
irreverence! Fletcher: Good! I'll see you later, dick-head! 

Great movie!!!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is absolutely hilarious! There are few movies as humorous as
this one, being "Mousehunt" one of those few - another 1997 motion
picture.

Every minute of "Liar Liar" is pure fun and every minute means a good
laughter. Many moments are hysterical! Jim Carrey is often a great
comedian, but this is him at his funniest side.

The story is very funny and entertaining: Fletcher Reede, a lawyer with
the habit of lying and breaking promises, suddenly sees himself forced
to become honest during the next 24 hours after his son's birthday wish
comes true. He doesn't understand what's happening to him and that is
driving him insane... he can't tell any lies, not even write a little
lie! Whenever he tries to and whenever he talks, it's a huge mess for
sure! He even transforms the court room into a circus, seems to lose
his mind and makes goofy faces! Incredibly hilarious!

The actors have great performances. Jim Carrey is great as Fletcher
Reede, but there are other equally good actors, like Maura Tierney as
Audrey Reede, Cary Elwes as Jerry and little Justin Cooper as Max
(Fletcher's son). Max is also referred to as "Maximillian" and "Monster
Max" by his father, who loves to do "The Claw" much for his son's
delight. I know Cary Elwes from "Robin Hood: Men in Tights" and I do
know that he is an English actor, but he speaks with a good American
accent in this film. Some might think that Jim Carrey overacts here and
that his humor is too crummy, but the energy he shows here is not
something anybody could do. It requires a very energetic and patient
comedian and Jim Carrey proves his talent to do so. The kid is cute. He
almost looks like Sean Marshall in "Pete's Dragon", with that face and
long hair.

At my point of view, "Liar Liar" has funny humor, not irritating or
dirty humor. It is a modern light-hearted comedy. Its aim is purely fun
at the highest level. I think it's difficult not laughing while
watching this movie. Lots of very funny lines are another attribute.

Directed by Tom Shadyac, "Liar Liar" is the best thing Jim Carrey and
Tom Shadyac ever did together and slightly superior than the later
"Bruce Almighty".
<|_=00=_|>

Liar Liar is about a boy who, after being stood up by his big-shot lawyer
father one too many times, wishes that for just one day his dad couldn't
lie. This wreaks havoc on his personal life and even more on his
professional life as a lawyer who makes a living putting criminals back on
the streets. 

Carrey is immediately and constantly hilarious in his role as the
unwillfully honest Fletcher Reede. Every scene is full of awkwardly
straightforward behavior and dialogue ("Whatever takes the focus off your
head!) that is funny because it is so unusual and unexpected. Maura Tierney
delivers one of the best performances of her career (second only to her
wonderful job in Primal Fear), but Cary Elwes plays a disappointing turn
from his amazing job in The Princess Bride. Seeing him as the endlessly
charming Wesley in that film and then seeing him as a squirrely step-father
type in Liar Liar just didn't seem to fit, but the film was able to overcome
such small problems and present itself as a good and entertaining comedy.

In addition to the good comedy that Liar Liar presented, there were strange
comedic scenes that Carrey had never done before. For example, I have never
seen him portray a descent into madness as was shown with the blue pen, and
it should be noted how well this funny man played the part of a man trying
very hard not to be funny, with hilarious results. This is a bit like his
role in Man on the Moon where he was a comedian playing a comedian who was
often deliberately not funny, and the results there were hilarious as well.
Jim Carrey's great comedy acting skills were a crucial element of this film,
but they are not the only redeeming value of the movie itself. The story is
solid and legitimate as well, and it is well-presented and directed,
resulting in a good, fun comedy. 
<|_=00=_|>
Liar Liar is in my top 3 favorite comedies of all time and my favorite
Jim Carrey flick! He was just so awesome and hilarious in Liar Liar!
Not only did he do mental comedy, but physical comedy that will make
your stomach hurt from laughing so much! I'm not kidding when I say
that I know a dozen people where we just rehearse the lines from Liar
Liar back and forth, because all the scenes are just so memorable.

Fletcher Reed is a lawyer who, surprise, lies to win cases. He's a huge
success and is about to be made partner by his firm if he wins one last
case for Mrs. Cole, a divorcée who cheated on her husband with tons of
proof against her, Fletcher has to prove that she was a victim of
circumstance. Fletcher has a son and an ex wife as well, he lies to
them all the time as well and makes excuses why he can't spend enough
time with his son, Max. When he lies and cancels going to Max's
birthday party to sleep with his boss to get ahead, Max is terribly
disappointed and hurt, so he makes one birthday wish, that his father
cannot lie... guess what? It works! 

Fletcher wakes up and tells his boss she was not the best he had,
leading to an encounter with a hottie in the elevator and making
offensive comments about her "jugs". He passes a homeless man and tells
him why he doesn't give change to "the decay of western society!" and
goes to court not very ready to fight his case that could make or break
his career since he can't lie. More comedy ensues as Fletcher deals
with the pressure on how to learn to tell the truth to win the case and
prevent his son and ex wife from moving to Boston with her new
boyfriend.

Liar Liar will make your sides hurt and you'll watch this movie again
and again when you see how hilarious Jim Carrey is. My sister isn't a
Jim Carrey fan and even admitted that she had more than a few good
laughs watching this film. Not to mention that it has a great feel good
ending that you'll just fall for.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

I have to admit, I'm probably a little biased with this movie, as it
contains two of the things I love the most in any movie; court scenes and
Jim Carrey. I'll try my best to be objective in this review, though. The
plot is good, and as the film barely takes 90 minutes it's fairly
fast-paced(well, for a Jim Carrey comedy, anyway); I don't think there ever
passes 5 minutes without one single joke. The acting is fairly good; Jim
Carrey is in his element, so it's no surprise that he's good, but I did find
both Maura Tierney and Cary Elwes pretty good too. I know that Elwes is
English, not American, and after seeing another movie in which he has a
strong English accent(Robin Hood: Men in Tights), I was impressed at how
well he does American parts as well. The characters are well-written and
credible. The humor is great, partly because it's, well, Carrey, but also
because unlike some of Carrey's previous roles, this is fairly "clean", so
teenagers and some kids will be able to enjoy it as well. The theme of the
film is great; I mean, we all know that we lie several times a day(heck,
it's even been scientifically proved), but what about if we, for one whole
day, couldn't tell one single lie? Great theme, provokes some thought and is
executed fairly well in the film, though I do think it could have been done
a tad better. Overall, I don't have any major complaints with the film
though; I guess it could be argued that most of what Carrey does in this
film, the comedy and all, is stuff he's done before, but that's OK; it's not
any less entertaining here, regardless of the fact that we've seen it(or
something similar to it) earlier. The dialog is great, with some very
memorable and quotable lines. All in all, a typical Carrey film, which can
be a good thing as well as bad; Carrey does exactly what you expect him to,
and he's very entertaining and all, but it never transcends the standard
level of the typical Carrey comedy. On a final note, I think this(as well as
his other work) proves that Tom Shadyac is the best there is at bringing out
Carrey's talents(he also directed Ace Ventura: Pet Detective and Bruce
Almighty).
I recommend it to any fan of Jim Carrey and/or Tom Shadyac.
7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Liar Liar is one solution to the problem of what kind of movie vehicle
to write for overacting, rubber man Jim Carrey. Following the success
of Ace Ventura, director Tom Shaydac casts Carrey as a divorced lawyer
who has no time for his young son. In the film, the word liar is a pun
on lawyer, equating the two words since his character is a lying
lawyer. Every time he promises to attend one of his son's school events
or play with him, Carrey finds some excuse to get out of it. His son
makes a birthday wish that just for one day his dad would tell the
truth and it happens. Carrey is incapable of lying and when he tries to
lie, his face and body go into every contortion imaginable as he tries
to suppress the truth. There is a literally "off the wall" scene where
he beats himself up in a bathroom. Carrey is a likable guy and carries
the movie. Of course, you can't believe for a second that he's a lawyer
but belief is not needed in this film. This is a movie with a message
that fathers shouldn't ignore their children. For a film aimed at kids,
there is a surprising amount of boob and sexual humor. Maura Tierney is
very cute as his ex-wife. Amanda Donohoe plays Carrey's seductress law
partner and Jennifer Tilly is a buxom, bimbo client. Director Tom
Shadyac later worked with Carrey in Bruce Almighty. Liar Liar is for
Jim Carrey fans and fathers who ignore their kids.
<|_=00=_|>

Jim Carrey plays a liar lawyer called Fletcher Reede.His son Max (Justin
Cooper) makes a birthday wish that his father can't tell a lie in 24
hours.And the wish comes true.
That gets Fletcher in many embarrassing situations.It's hard to tell the
truth all the time especially for a lawyer.That's not the only problem
Fletcher is having.His ex-wife Audrey (Maura Tierney) is moving to Boston
with his boyfriend Jerry (Cary Elwes).That must be stopped.Jim Carrey does
incredible role work
in this Tom Shadyac's 1997 comedy Liar Liar.Jim is amazing comedian.He can
pull his face just like Jerry Lewis.This is completely a Jim Carrey
show.There are many hilarious scenes in the courtroom.Liar Liar is for all
you liars out there.

<|_=00=_|>
Jim Carrey is an attorney, who finds putting his family before his work
to be a tough challenge, when he fails to show up at his son's birthday
party; his son make a wish that prevents him from lying. With a huge
career changing case that is based solely on lies about to go to trial,
he is stuck in an unfamiliar position, that may just change his life.

Jim Carrey is on top form for this one, giving one of his most
hilarious performances to date, he is well supported by the likes of
Jennifer Tilly, Swoosie Kurtz and Amanda Donohue, and the winning
concept of the movies theme realises its potential.

7/10 Great fun
<|_=00=_|>

"Liar, Liar" was easily the best comedy of 1997. When I saw this when it
first came out in theaters I was literally laughing my head off. Jim Carrey
gives the best comic performance of his career here as Fletcher Reede, a
fast-talking lawyer who's always lying. His son Max doesn't like this one
bit. Fletcher promises Max that he'll be at his 5th birthday party. But
Fletcher calls and tells his ex-wife Audrey that he can't make it because at
the moment he's being seduced by a female partner. Max has had enough. His
birthday wish: for one day his father can't tell a lie. And it miraculously
comes true! And this is where the movie gets explosively funny. This is the
beginning of a long and crazy day for Fletcher. He gets in trouble left and
right. Everyone around him thinks he's going crazy. And the habitual liar
continuously makes a complete fool of himself. Carrey is the whole show here
in what has got to be the craziest, nuttiest, silliest, goofiest, and
downright best comic performance of his career. And he's got a terrific cast
of actors to support him. Maura Tierney and Justin Cooper shine in the main
supporting roles as Audrey and Max, respectably. Swoosie Kurtz, Jennifer
Tilly, Amanda Donohoe, Anne Haney, Cary Elwes, Mitchell Ryan, and the late
Jason Bernard also generate laughs amongst the craziness. "Liar, Liar" is
one extremely funny comedy directed by Tom Shadyac who directed another
crazy comedy, the aptly titled remake "The Nutty Professor". "Liar, Liar"
has lots of big laughs and I enjoyed it alot. One of the best comedies of
all-time.

**** (out of four)

