
Why do people trash this movie? It's not high art but it's thoroughly
entertaining. WH's performance in this movie is better than all her
others...just watch the scene when she asks Frank Farmer to take her on
a date. Natural, unaffected and charming. Kevin Costner underplays his
role and I enjoyed watching him. I just bought the anniversary DVD and
it has great backstage footage and very interesting tidbits. For
example, it was Kevin Costner's idea, against a lot of protest, to have
WH sing the first few bars of 'I will Always Love You' acapella. Smart
man. And it is interesting to listen to the comments of Costner about
this movie. He was a major star but he waited and held up production of
this movie a year so he could get WH. He didn't want anyone else and
was willing to wait for her. He refused to interject a story line that
would 'explain' the Black/White thing (Bravo). And although Black/White
pairings are fairly common now, THEN, for a major star to have a real
black love interest ( and an untested actress at that) was a bold move.
And it paid off. I don't know why he has not been as successful
recently. The DVD interviews were done about 2 yrs ago and WH was still
drug crazy (so no interviews with her) but Kevin Costner's last words
in the interviews are about her and he said, among other things, that
he would always love Whitney. Their chemistry was spot on. I WILL
ALWAYS LOVE THIS MOVIE.
<|_=00=_|>
The story of a superstar singer who falls in love with her bodyguard
could have been a major disaster. I remember the previews and thinking
it was going to be one. However once the film was out and I actually
watched it I was pleasantly surprised to find out that this is a really
good romance and a really good thriller. Of course its hokey and
Hollywood and all of that but you get sucked in and carried along for
its running time.

Trust me this is better than you think it is.

The only problem is that the film is a bit too long to do what it has
to do. I think the problem is in the early part of the film where all
of th e pieces are being set in motion, however once its all going its
great.

Get some popcorn your honey and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
The Bodyguard is fundamentally a love story between two contrasting
characters with their own idiosyncrasies. The plot is intriguing enough
to carry the film through and the romance between Costner and Houston
builds steadily and realistically.

With some decent action scenes, a decent cast and a great soundtrack, i
found the Bodyguard to be an enjoyable movie.

Clearly this film is not for everyone, it doesn't have enough action to
satisfy the action fans, it isn't thrilling enough to be a thriller and
as a pure romance film it is fairly weak; but i have to admit it does
balance between these 3 genres quite well without excelling in any one
of them.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Frank Farmer is a top line bodyguard, formerly secret service protector
to President Reagan, he is approached to guard Rachel Marron, the
latest pop sensation on the cusp of Hollywood domination. After
initially being reluctant to take the job, Farmer gets to the task of
protecting Rachel from a potential maniac who's been sending her
threatening letters. As the initial in camp hostilities die down, Frank
& Rachel start to draw ever closer, but so does the person who wants
her dead...

The Bodyguard is one of those films that was long in gestation,
originally mooted in 1976 to star Steve McQueen (it was written with
McQueen in mind in the 60s) and Diana Ross, it was put on the back
burner after McQueen fell ill to the cancer that killed him. Then it
resurfaced in 1979 with Diana Ross to play opposite Ryan O'Neal, but
the two stars just couldn't get on and the project again fell by the
wayside. Enter Kevin Costner and his boys at TIG Productions, original
choice to star alongside Costner, Maddona, ruined her chance
(thankfully) of starring after being a bitch to Costner in her Truth Or
Dare documentary. In stepped Whitney Houston (brilliantly diva
casting), Costner gave himself a crew cut (in homage to McQueen) and
The Bodyguard went on to make $410,900,000 worldwide.

The film now seems like a myth to me because the rating across many
forums is on the low side, critics hate it and you will be hard pressed
to find macho film fans readily about to own up to liking the picture.
That's a shame because as undeniably nonsense as it is, it has got a
great thriller heart to blend in with its romantic core. The good ship
Bodyguard may dock at all the formula ports in the genres, but it's one
hell of a journey getting to the end, even with that song that seemed
to top the charts for years! (the soundtrack to the movie selling 17
million in America alone).

In spite of the obviousness of the plot, and the general feeling of
familiarity, The Bodyguard has much going for it, things that ensured
it became a monster hit and had cinema goers queueing round the block
to see it. Houston is something of a revelation, here she nails the
diva bitch heart of gold portrayal of Rachel with astonishing ease, and
couple that with a voice sent from some deity paradise far away, makes
her total value for money. Costner also stepped up to the plate to win
a new breed of fans as Farmer, his charm and laid back manner works
well with a ruggedness that the male viewers could easily get on side
with. The rest of the cast are merely playing second fiddle to the well
matched up leads, and outside of Gary Kemp becoming increasingly
annoying as the film progresses, they all blend in well to create what
is now a sadly undervalued picture.

See it with someone you love, don't just take my word for it, look at
the box office take, it doesn't lie. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

The Bodyguard is a movie with many flows and one redeeming factor: the
WH factor. People went to see this picture because they wanted to see
Whitney singing and she delivered some of her most passionate vocal
performances before the mesmerised eyes of her millions of fans on the
big screen. Let's face it, who wants to see her acting when she can
sing so beautifully? 

The unrelenting criticism by couch 'drama experts' of her acting seems
a tad over the top. She never claimed to be an actress and despite this
being her film debut, she did not disgrace herself. She did the best
she could with what she was given: a patchy character with very little
to say. What else could she do to play this role? Well, just what she
did, sing her heart out.

The best thing that Kevin Costner did was to insist that Whitney was
the only one he wanted for this part. He knew he had a winner, but he
also tried to do too much with the story: a romantic thriller with
patches of 'comedy', a study in professional-personal conflict and 'who
done it' thrown in. That's the reason for the plot's erratic turns and
the non existent character development. The glue that holds the whole
mess together is Whitney, the singer, looking stunning and sounding
like an angel.

This could have been a gigantic flop and instead it was a massive hit.
It will remain a phenomenon in popular culture because it delivered
what the vast majority of its audience wanted: escapism, a couple of
hours away from their own reality and a look inside the glamorous life
of a superstar. They were entertained by a great pop singer, who had
made a huge video clip for her songs and they did not mind paying for
the privilege. Those who hate The Bodyguard, went to see it with some
unrealistic expectations of 'serious cinema and acting'?! Hey, go to
see foreign movies with subtitles for that and come down from your
pretentious cloud.

<|_=00=_|>
I have watched many action movies but this one makes one think: what
happens next? This material could have been handled badly, but it comes
out refined and elegant.

Both Whitney Hustoun and Kevin Costner stay true to their types, yet
sharing a common purpose giving a spiritual dimension to the movie as
observed by a commentator.

This is not a conventional romantic movie and that is why many are
disappointed. It is a throwback to old concepts of chivalry and
knighthood. The remarkable point to observe is that it is a modern
story about an independent woman and her child.

This is a movie which feels good and genuine in the end.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh my, what a wonderful movie. Hollywood is known for churning out a
lot of sentimental mush that's supposed to pass for romance. But,
thankfully, this is not one of those movies. In this movie the main
characters, the bodyguard and the lady he is hired to protect, are
likable and have a relationship that develops into something really
beautiful and special. Moreover, the story is plausible and the movie
is well-acted too, with Whitney Houston turning in an outstanding
performance reminiscent of Diana Ross's in Lady Sings the Blues (which
is another great movie). If you want to watch a movie with good acting
and an engaging story, then this is the movie to watch.
<|_=00=_|>

I just recently watched The Bodyguard again and i forgot how good it was.

Costner plays the role of the obsessed bodyguard perfectly and Houston's
first feature film performance was flawless.

This story of an obsessed stalker terrorising a famous performer and the
bodyguard trying to protect her at all costs, was made in a refreshing
way,
even to compete with todays movie standards

Mick Jackson's The Bodyguard is a great movie to watch over and over again
even when you find out whodunnit .

<|_=00=_|>
A movie/music star who needs protection from a psychotic fan, wow what
a concept. And who better to play it than Whitney Houston, a stretch I
know.

The plot is totally disappointing and bland. Luckily the on-screen
romance and chemistry from Houston and Costner, along with a great
soundtrack, save this film from being a total bust. The love story
between Costner and Houston becomes the main driving force, preventing
the film from running out of ideas. In the end the romance is what you
take away from the film, not the convoluted mystery plot.

It's enjoyable in the end and I would recommend it. Of course the
soundtrack is one of the best and most popular in history with "I Will
Always Love You", "Run to You", "I Have Nothing", and "I'm Every
Woman."
<|_=00=_|>
I was interested to note from your "Trivia" page that it was originally
intended to make this film in the seventies with Steve McQueen and
Diana Ross in the leading roles, but that the film never got made
because it was "too controversial". The cause of the controversy was
presumably the mixed-race love-affair between Frank and Rachel, as
there is little else in the script that might upset anyone. The story
centres around Frank Farmer, a former Secret Service agent now working
as a private bodyguard. He is hired by Rachel Marron, an
African-American pop star, who has been receiving death threats,
presumed to come from a mad stalker. Frank's obsessive concern with
security initially alienates both Rachel and some of the other members
of her entourage, but, after a number of misunderstandings, he becomes
first her friend and then her lover. He, however, is unhappy about
becoming emotionally involved with a client and ends the affair. He
would also like to end his employment with Rachel, but she is becoming
genuinely frightened for her own safety, and he agrees to stay on to
protect her when it is clear that she is in danger from an unexpected
source.

When I first saw this film in the cinema I disliked it. I was a great
admirer of Kevin Costner's performance in "Dances with Wolves", and I
went to see "The Bodyguard" in the hope that it would be a film of
similar scope and vision. Of course, it isn't, but then it was never
intended to be. Having seen it again recently on television, I was
rather more impressed than I had been the first time. There is a
respectable performance from Costner as Frank, a man who on the surface
seems cold and detached but who hides his emotions under the surface-
not only his love for Rachel, but also his feelings of guilt stemming
from the assassination attempt on President Reagan in 1981. Frank was
not on duty at the time- in fact, he was attending his mother's
funeral- but he cannot escape from the thought that, if he had been
present, he could have prevented the President from being shot.

Whitney Houston is a beautiful woman, with a beautiful voice which was
shown off to good advantage in this film. Her rendition of "I Will
Always Love You" is one of the most haunting ballads I know, far
superior to the Dolly Parton original. Her character is supposed to be
an actress as well as a singer- the finale actually takes place as she
receives a "Best Actress" award at the Oscars. Unfortunately, it seems
unlikely that Whitney will ever emulate her alter ego in this respect,
as her acting is certainly not in the same class as her voice. She
seems to have too small an emotional range, and it is no surprise that
her subsequent film career has been so patchy. "The Bodyguard" is a
perfectly adequate thriller-romance, if at times too slow-moving, but I
felt that it might have been better with a more commanding female lead.
6/10
