

This is really an example of how a romantic comedy should be and how
fantastic a romantic comedy can be. Intelligent, witty and great fun.
It gives its audience respect by delivering a clever story with good
actors and great lines. 

The story is quite absurd and so is the duo in it - Marlon Brando and
Johnny Depp. But this is just a good thing. Hollywood usually thinks
its audience is filled with morons when making romantic comedies, but
this is not so. There are still a few of us out here who enjoy the
combination of intelligence, elegance and romance. This film delivers
on all counts.

Love is a simple enough ingredient for a film. This film knows how to
use it and the result is wonderful.

<|_=00=_|>

Unless you understand these 4 secrets, you will miss what the film is all
about:

1.  The film is NOT about Don Juan !

2.  The film tells us how to rekindle love in our lives, even if we are old
and gray-haired.   This is so very important!!

3.  If we do not have a good dose of fantasy, of rich imagination, of
beautiful dreams in our lives, then we will become 'burned out' by the harsh
boredom of reality-as-we-perceive it. We are also challenged by the question
"What really is real?"

4.  If we have too much fantasy and not enough reality, then we cannot cope
with the rest of the world. Also, society will not be able to cope with us
and we will be isolated, perhaps in a mental institution or at least in our
own twisted world.

Oh - did I say that this film is not about Don Juan?  Well, in a sense, I
lied. It is and it is not.  See the film and think about
it.

Superbly well acted by Johnny Depp, Marlon Brando, and Fay Dunaway (what an
incredible beauty even at her age!). An amazing script and a very original
story.  Unless you understand the meanings above, or if you have a cold
heart, you'll probably rate it a 5 or 6.

 I give it a 9 out of 10!!
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie. Within five minutes I was smiling and didn't break
stride for the entire performance. Depp is strong in this role and very
convincing as the world's greatest lover. Marlon Brando is funny and
witty and is well supported by Faye Dunaway in the marital relationship
of a couple heading for retirement and the best times of their lives.

Johnny Depp is perhaps one of the most versatile actors of all time.
His performance is true and expressive and I just love his smile. I
compare this performance to that of his character of Jack Sparrow in
"Pirates of the Caribbean". 

I have no problem, whatsoever, recommending this movie to everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
Psychologist Dr Jack Mickler (Marlon Brando) is called upon to
negotiate a man down from the top of a tall building - a man claiming
to be the great Latin lover Don Juan de Marco (Johnny Depp). Although
Mickler is about to retire, he agrees to take Mr de Marco on, and delve
into his mind and past. What he didn't count on was that Don Juan is
starting to make him feel like HE'S missing something...

The lives of Brando and Dunaway interact with their roles in the film -
as oldies in need of rejuvenation by the young sex god. They were both
sex symbols in their youth - Brando, till about the age of 60, was a
real life Don Juan - he really HAS probably slept with over a thousand
women. So if you know this it brings an interesting layer to the movie.

It is a great journey which calls up all the great noble romances of
the past in a tongue in cheek manner, with a love of stories, of
fantasy, of women.

I wouldn't hesitate to call it the most romantic movie ever made. If
there was one flick you had to put on to set the right mood between you
and a girl, this would be it.

Looking at Johnny Depp might also help her in that regard.

Its also a great fun family movie - which is a delicate balance to
strike.

4/5

Disclaimer: there are about two sex scenes, which, though very
discreetly and beautifully shot, featuring no vital organs, may be
inappropriate for littlies, if you wish to shield them thus.
<|_=00=_|>

A  superb story where patient helps heal the doctor. In this case by
spreading a bit of his romantic affliction. When one is so utterly
convincing in their fantasy, it can become charming and attractive. If you
have one ounce of the whimsical in your soul, who can't help but be drawn
in. A story so well written and acted by all involved, it has to get a
perfect 10. 
<|_=00=_|>

I want to live in Don Juan's world.  Johnny Depp at 32(?) is quite
believable as a 19 year old.  He is also even more sexy than usual.  I
love
him as Don Juan, but I think the most touching scene is when he is being
interviewed by the judge and is "just a kid" and admitting to his real
story.  I cried when Marlon Brando asks Faye Dunaway what she wants to do
and she says "I thought you'd never ask."  I missed these characters
after
the movie was over.  I could watch it over and over.
<|_=00=_|>

A witty and original story with a real sense of character. I was compelled
by the mysteries of Don Juan before gradually understanding that the
question I had been asking myself - whether Depp is a slightly insane guy
from Phoenix, or the world's greatest lover of 1502+1 women - is irrelevant.
His story, whether fact or fiction, is a highly effective feel-good fable
that brings across a whole new concept of the meaning of  passion -- while
not attempting to take itself too seriously. Equally enjoyable is
psychiatrist Brando's transformation from mid life crisis-ridden man to great
Hispanic lover.
Hilarious, thought-provoking and romantic in equal measure, this film will
make you hum latino melodies for days to come, and is perhaps the ultimate
date movie for those less fortunate than the Don.
<|_=00=_|>

I recently re-watched this film with some friends and found myself, yet
again, swept away by it's enchantment, romance, and live of life.  In
talking about it afterwards, I was struck by how well this film serves to
reflect the romantic state of our souls.

Quite simply, watch the film and, at the end, notice how you feel the about
the character of Don Juan DeMarco.

Was he a sad, lonely youth who invented a rich, romantic fantasy world for
himself that became so appealing and rejuvenating to his psychiatrist that
in the end they fly off to Mexico to re-live that fantasy world under his
benevolent supervision?

Or was he Don Juan DeMarco relating his adventures to Dr Mickler who
becomes
transformed by his tales of life and romance and is convinced  of who Don
Juan DeMarco is so that, in the end, they rehearse a story believable for
the staff of the mental hospital that would set Don Juan free to fly off
and
reunite with his beloved Dona Anna?

The film supports both interpretations.   Ponder deeply which one you
*really* believe and it will reveal the state of your romantic soul.


<|_=00=_|>

This is simply another great film by Johnny Depp. In the film, he plays
a delusional man who believes that he is Don Juan. When I first watched
the film I was actually waiting for another film to begin. However, I'm
glad that I watched it. It has just the right balance of comedy and
drama to make it a very unique film. As the movie progresses, Don Juan
is telling his life story to his psychiatric doctor. As Don Juan
commences, his doctor is also affected in many ways. The movie is
directed very well, the ending is well done as well. I definitely
recommend this movie to those who are fans of Depp's other works or
just for anyone who hasn't seen a good film in a while.

<|_=00=_|>

Wholly different the usual fare Hollyood dished up in the nineties, DON JUAN
DEMARCO is charming and disarming. The screenplay seems lovingly crafted
around the two stars, Marlon Brando and Johnny Depp. They share
scenes of relating, discovery and moving, personal respect. Mr. Brando shows
easily, why he is still one of America's leading thespians. Faye Dunaway as
his wife, is marvellous beyond words. The interplay between these three
characters is a spirit lifting tour de force, that will leave you holding
hands long after the screen has gone dark. 
