

Why should anyone find it necessary or even appropriate to hijack one of
the
landmark works of American literature to replace it with an emotionally
slack, thematically vacant, and feebly agenda-driven narrative?  Demi
Moore's curious Scarlet Letter is almost an hour underway before it even
reaches the point where Hawthorne's book begins: whereas Hawthorne's novel
is a study of sin, psychological torment, and forgiveness, this film has
neither heart nor mind behind its high-gloss presentation: it is
apparently
a libertine tract in defense of adultery, and an attack, pretentiously
lofty
but incapable of more than junior-high subtlety of thought, on
intolerance.

This can only be pulled off at all by systematically reducing Hawthorne's
three-dimensional characters to flat and dull-witted markers, inane in
their
dialogue, a set of manic and breathy artifacts of a soap-opera
sensibility.
Accordingly, the characters of Hester Prynne (Moore) and her erstwhile
husband Roger Chillingworth (Robert Duvall) emerge as parodies of
themselves
-- bad acting and bad direction across the board by one bad actress and
one
good actor.  Gary Oldman's Arthur Dimmesdale is astoundingly more or less
credible for whole scenes at a time, but he has nothing to play against,
and
the thematic underpinnings of the story have been knocked out from under
him.  One can defend this film for its cinematography, for its score, and
for any number of other production-based virtues, but when they are all
added together, they still don't come close to justifying the film's
existence.  It is a vulgar and banal demolition of one of America's
greatest
novels.
<|_=00=_|>

I was expecting something really awful, but once I got about 15 minutes into
the movie, I decided that the only way to enjoy it was to forget that it was
"based on" a famous novel and just enjoy the movie for what it was.  And I
found myself very entertained.

I was impressed with Gary Oldman's performance.  It's nice to see him
portray someone who isn't a psychotic ham and he did admirably well.  Demi
Moore suprised me with her acting and apart from a few stilted scenes and
discomfort with the dialogue, I think she pulled it off pretty well.  I
found myself caring about her character and her relationship with
Dimmesdale.  Perhaps the bathing scene was a little too gratuitous -- c'mon,
Demi, do you need to show it all? -- but it was only a few minutes out of
135.

I wish that Pearl could have been given more screen time and character
development and the woman who did her voiceover throughout the story left
much to be desired.  As did Robert Duvall's performance.  I didn't much like
his acting in this movie at all.

The supporting cast was excellent: Joan Plowright, Edward Hardwicke, and
others.  The locations and set design were exquisite and the costumes were
gorgeous.

Overall, I thought it was a very good way to spend a couple hours.  You see
some early colonial atmosphere, something which is almost extinct in movies
nowadays, and adequate and sometimes inspired acting.  Just don't expect to
see Hawthorne's novel on the screen.  If you want to see the unhappy ending
in all its self-mutilating glory, see Lillian Gish's silent version that is
sometimes aired on Turner Classic Movies.  6/10
<|_=00=_|>
I just caught this movie on cable. Eager to see a film version of the
Hawthorne book I was, Very Disappointed. It is sad that some people
will think that this is the real Scarlet Letter. The names of
characters are the same as the book but it rapidly departs from the
book beyond that -- and for the worse.

You will read commentaries here about what a wonderful film this was
with discussions of the beautiful cinematography and great acting. They
will also say how it is "loosely adapted" from Hawthornes' book. These
are all true statements and the "loose" in loosely should be especially
emphasized. I even agree that normally an adaption might be judged on
its own merits. 

So why did I give this a low score? 

Because it is titled "The Scarlet Letter". That is a classical book
with some very deep moral messages. The very term "Scarlet Letter" has
taken on a special meaning in our language and culture. But, if someone
recognizes what Hawthorne was trying to do with his book, they will
immediately see this as a rotten-to-the-core script. Consider: the
Scarlet Letter, a central theme in the book and holding so much
meaning, is just a minor prop in this movie that almost gets in the
way.

In Hawthorne's book, the heroine, by her actions through life, turned
the Scarlet Letter from meaning "Adulteress" to meaning "Angel" -- it
became an emblem of her inner beauty, redeemed through her strength,
integrity and good heart. In our own time, people often find themselves
"labeled" or identified in some way as bad or as a loser. What a great
thing it is to have messages that say "You can rise above that!". This
movie completely and totally misses that opportunity. It is one of the
great messages that can be given to others in this life, and it is
abandoned in this movie.

And what is it traded for? Feminism, rebellion and justifications of
immorality. Edgy? Groundbreaking? Incisive? No. So shallow its like
cliff diving in a birdbath compared with what Hawthorne brought. In
this adaptation, Hester, the heroine claims to not know if what she did
was wrong -- or sometimes suggesting it was right. From that high moral
ground, Hester almost becomes a feminist warrior or icon leading an
insurrection of women against men. That rebellion is ridiculous
historically but worse, it completely guts the morality of the book.
And the Scarlet Letter? From what I can tell, the movie Hester seems to
finally throw it away when she gets her freedom. It has no meaning
other than as a talisman for oppression.

That is a different message than the book gave out. But the Movie is
still called "The Scarlet Letter". If the screenwriter wanted to send
out a different moral message, then he should have retitled the movie.
Something like "Hester's Anachronistic and Pointless Rebellion" would
have been good. Then it would be truth in advertising.

The actors and technicians did a great job but after reading the script
they should have dropped the project. I suppose they needed the money.
Beautifully shot, well acted, great score ... it still gets a "1" for
being an egregious lie.
<|_=00=_|>
If this movie were original it would be only fair to mediocre, but
claiming its based on Nathaniel Hawthorne's classic novel is insulting.
I hear the ads for this movie say its based 'freely and liberally' on
the book. Well, this is an insult to the book. Is Demi Moore so
illiterrate she comments (see trivia section) that it was okay to
change the ending of the book from sad to happy because not many people
read the book? Unbelievable. The Scarlett 'A' imagery has been
permanently etched in American culture. Take classic literature and try
shoving it through the Hollywood formula mill and this movie is the
result, a faceless, emotionless and forgettable movie. Try sayign that
about the book
<|_=00=_|>
For my point of view "The Scarlet Letter" is a good film with great
performances… All the actors do a superb job… I was worried that Demi
Moore might not have the range to handle the role of Mistress Prynne,
but she is excellent... She is strong, passionate, intelligent and
damaged… In another place and time she might have been a leader; in
this movie she is quite believable as the woman who defends her love at
all costs… Gary Oldman looks perfect as Reverend Dimmesdale… He
projects force and sexual magnetism along with the guilt for his sin…

The film opens in 1666 when Hester Prynne (Demi Moore) arrived in the
Massachusetts Bay Colony filled with hope that here, at last, in this
new World, would come the freedom to worship without fear or
persecution… She didn't suspect that beyond the trees there is a savage
land of savage passions dark and untamed, and that soon she will face a
scornful community in which she will forever be shamed by the scarlet
letter… 

Mistress Prynne rejected the idea of staying in the congregation until
her husband's arrival and looked for a house of her own… She finds a
beautiful and frightening place, just as 'Eden must have been so
untouched…' 

On one Sabbath morning, Hester met Reverend Dimmesdale (Gary Oldman)
who helps her when her cart got stuck in the woods… She truly enjoyed,
few minutes later, his sermon … It was rare, for her, to find a man so
young and fiery who could speak with such force of passion… She was
moved by his passion… 

Dimmesdale thought that comprehending God was going to be his greatest
challenge, but—after he met Hester—he was not the man he seems to be…
He lost his power before this seductress beautiful woman… He lived in
this township his whole life and his purpose was clear… But now he
would risk everything—his life, his ministry, his soul—just to spend a
few moments alone with her… After he asked her why that morning in the
forest, she didn't say that she is married, he wondered how she were
able to see so deeply into his nature… 

From that moment, two hearts were there struggling against a love that
grew stronger with each passing day… 

Hester was courteous enough but her tongue knew no rules… She earned
more than a few reprimands in her life for speaking too bluntly… With a
frightening strength, she challenged her persecutors and stood up to
their hypocrisy, refusing to reveal her lover's identity… 

"The Scarlet Letter" compels us to recognize the shadow side of our
lives, including this passion that pushes us beyond our limits... The
climax also compels us to contemplate about whether there is anything
that we would be willing to die for…
<|_=00=_|>

First, I apologies because my English, I'm from Panama. Second, for me,
TSL
is a very beautiful movie and I know that it is far from the book by
Nathaniel Hawthorne, nevertheless, I found nice things there, for
instance,
the setting was so refreshing to me and the love scenes were very romantic
too. In this movie I felt in love to Gary Oldman.  I consider that Demi as
well as Gary were chemistry.  On the other hand, I think that the producer
and the whole team portrait the epoch of the pilgrims, the way they lived
and thought about morality and religion. Demi was pretty in this character
and convincing.  For me this was a sad story of love. Although, the
screenplay changed at the end, I found that this movie was done to give
audience happier than the original book.
<|_=00=_|>
I must inform you that that Roland Joffé has utterly bastardized
Nathaniel Hawthorne's work with this film, but I find I must review the
film as a film, rather than an adaptation due to the strength of the
film itself in comparison to the original literary work. As an
adaptation, it is a sexed-up, stylized-down piece of detritus. But as a
film...

This work stands alone, as it will not bear up under scrutiny when
compared against Hawthorne, but aside from that, this "based on" work
is a fabulous dramatization of Hawthorne's story. I have to say the
performances are marvelous, the story is captivating, and the emotion
of the portrayals is wrenching.

I highly enjoyed this bastardization, and rate it at a 7.6/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>

I am an English major and have to say, yes, the book was better and this
film is not equal but by itself as a "freely adapted" version it too has
merit.  It has a beautiful score by excellent film composer John Barry,
superb acting by both Gary Oldman and Demi Moore (as a woman way ahead of
her time) and even excellent supporting cast.  It is beautifully filmed and
on its own - is a rare romantic treat that would be great in a double
feature with say "THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS" w/ Daniel Day Lewis.  Oldman is
terrific...his best role I believe.  The only distraction....the always
wonderful Robert Duvall as a madman...who starts to stray this film toward
THE CRUCIBLE area of witchcraft.
<|_=00=_|>
Nathaniel Hawthorne wrote The Scarlet Letter, one of the greatest
classic American novels. This Roland Joffé movie would have caused
Nathaniel Hawthorne to roll over in his grave. The only similarity the
movie had with the original story line was the character names and the
title. It was an absolute embarrassment to the intelligence of anyone
who actually read the novel, or even those few who went to see it.

It would be impossible to name all the things that were changed from
the novel to the movie, but the most drastic were the 80-minute
prologue, the entire Indian plot line, and the changed ending. While
watching in class, I noted only three major lines taken from the book,
two of which were out of context. In a deranged cinematic nightmare,
the movie added a nonsensical prologue that Hawthorne never would have
included in his wildest dreams. Also, added into the movie was an
Indian plot line. This was never even slightly mentioned in the book.
The battles and gore were a figment of the imagination of Hollywood,
and a horrendous attempt as well. The most offensive part of the movie
for me personally, was the changed ending. Not only did it not make any
sense, but it undermined the entire point of the story. The Scarlet
Letter by Nathaniel Hawthorne was not supposed to have a happy ending
in North Carolina. It was absolutely scandalous of the writers of this
movie to allow that to happen. Demi Moore reportedly said it was, "okay
with her to make the ending happy because not many people have read the
book" (http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0114345/).

Besides creating a bastardization of a classic American novel, Joffé
created a generally horrible film. The acting was unrealistic, the sex
and violence utterly unnecessary, and the symbolism offensively
overdone. The unsubtle, tacky symbolism was an insult to anyone over
the age of four. In one pathetically obtuse moment; Hester chases a red
bird into the forest; a place of evil doers, and eats the forbidden
fruit off of a tree. Clearly the American public did not appreciate
this terrible movie either, according to www.boxofficemojo.com, it cost
46 million dollars in production, and earned a surprisingly high 10.3
million dollars; equaling a net loss of over 36 million dollars. The
only saving grace of this movie was that there wasn't a sequel, but
maybe if there had been they would have eventually found some essence
of the original plot.
<|_=00=_|>

You could try to imagine a worse film, but why bother?  As a film and as
an
adaptation ("freely adapted" is perhaps the greatest understatement since
our involvement in Vietnam was labeled a "police action") of a book, it's
a
complete failure.  The acting ranges from the clueless to the atrocious.
Gary Oldman is apparently trying to do a Scottish accent, Demi Moore is
just
plain terrible, and Robert Duvall is nuts.  The soft-glow sex scene is
risible.  There's no tension to the story because Oldman & Moore don't
appear to have souls to lose.  Instead of a perceptive & morally soaked
tale
of guilt, sin, and conscience, this is a trite, gushy story about being
true
to yourself.  It's basically a Disney cartoon message, except without as
sophisticated a presentation.
The script (it's idea of 17th century English is lots of thees & thous) is
as bad as everything else, substituting a nick of time rescue happy ending
for Hawthorne's.  So bad that it's not even enjoyable on a camp level.
C-R-A-P.

