

Okay it's not exactly the biggest stretch of casting to have Robin Williams
playing a ten year old in the body of an adult. 
However, Jack is a pretty decent and funny movie.
Jack Powell is born and he ages at four times the normal
rate.
For the first ten years of his life he is tutored at home and sheltered by
his parents. Bill Cosby plays his tutor Mr. Woodruff. Diane Lane and Brian
Kerwin play his parents who are reluctant to send Jack to public school
because they fear the other children's reactions to him.
When he does go to school, his teacher, played by Jennifer Lopez, welcomes
him with open arms while, predictably the kids are both awed and afraid, and
teasing soon follows.
Jack gains acceptance when the boys realize that he is a natural for
basketball, and he soon is running with a whole group of new friends.

The rest of the movie is basically about Jack and how his body is just
naturally slowing down, leading to his withdrawal from school, his eventual
return, and the epilogue at his high school graduation.

Jack was a pretty charming film and I liked the way that Robin Williams
acted in his scenes with Diane Lane as the 10 year old with a strong bond
with his mother, and her feelings of longing when he shows that he is
pulling away when he gains friends his own physical age.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has something very important attached to it: a message of
life. This is due to the underlying themes as well as to Robin
Williams' touching performance which is saddening and inspirational at
the same time. He is able to transform the sheer hopelessness of his
fate which subjects him to an early death with such outstanding and
sincere skills that are deeply moving. Apart from that his entire
character - as it is designed - demands substantial acting throughout
the whole plot. He delivers a performance that many other actors would
simply not have been able to accomplish. It takes a special kind of
actor to portray such a character just as Jack here. The message is
that despite a fate that destines us to be exposed to tremendous
agonies and blank despair, there is always a light of hope, and this
light burns in our hearts. It's up to us only what we do with the time
that we're granted with. In Jack's case time is even more precious than
for normal people. Despite the sadness and despair that is ultimately
caused thereby, we still have the chance to make the best out of every
minute. All we have to do is value the little things, such as
friendship and love, and thus escape the shades of darkness. The movie
itself is funny and sincere, it has important dialogues and, as stated
above, a real massage, which makes it special. Watch out for it.
<|_=00=_|>

"Jack" is a silly, genial and charming story about a "little" boy who ages
four times faster than he should. It's a tragedy disguised as comedy. It has
some comic elements but who couldn't admit the basic idea is rather sad.
"Jack" is the kind of a film you least expect from the man who directed
violent crime, war and horror masterpieces "The Godfather" -trilogy,
"Apocalypse Now" and "Dracula". Nevertheless it's one of the most personal
projects of Francis Ford Coppola since his own son died at an early age.
Even though this is not a classic Coppola movie it's definitely classic role
from Robin Williams.

It's hard to think of another actor to play the part of a ten year old boy
who looks like a man of middle age. Williams really relieved the child
inside of him. Bill Cosby is also splendid as Jack's sympathetic teacher
Woodruff. For the sake of comparison I might mention that Penny Marshall's
"Big" starring Tom Hanks is an outstanding, heart-warming classic and I've
seen it many, many, many times but it's hard to get tired of a movie that's
simply so enjoyable and entertaining. "Jack" is watchable once or probably
even twice but unfortunately it doesn't come even close to "Big's" glamour.
"Jack" has a good idea and yet another excellent performance from Williams
but it's a movie that just might have been even better.
<|_=00=_|>
Watching this movie is absolutely stunning. Not because it is a good
movie, but because this immature, idiotic, brainless mess was directed
by the same person who directed The Godfather! How does that happen?
How can a man have such an incredible run in the 70's, making literally
some of the greatest movies ever made, and then go on to make Jack? But
I digress. Jack is the story about a boy who ages four times faster
than a normal human being. He lives in his house with his two loving
parents and his tutor, played by Bill Cosby. Why Cosby subjected
himself to this schlock I don't know, but that's beside the point.
After ten years of seclusion Jack realizes he wants to go to school, so
his parents reluctantly enter him in public school. It seems the
smarter thing to do would have been to put him in private school, but
let's face it, there's nothing smart about this film. But anyways, Jack
begins to make friends and meet all kinds of new people, his age and
older. What is supposed to be a heartwarming tale of friendship and
acceptance really just turns into a silly and jumbled mess with a
boring story fueled by a poor script.

You know your film is set for disaster when it starts with a dumb
premise. There's only so many places a premise like this can go, but
the film doesn't even make the most out of what little it has to work
with. Every situation is predictable, and nothing elicits a laugh, at
least not from me. I could blame this on Jack being a kids film, but
the problem is, Jack is not a kids film. It's rated PG-13 and has all
sorts of innuendo and adult situations. Jack gets his friends adult
magazines and they sit in their treehouse talking about erections and
women. So I feel like the humor here is supposed to be adult, but I
didn't enjoy it at all, but I hardly think a child would either. It's
just too stupid and ridiculous to the point where instead of anything
being funny, it is all just sort of awkward and forced.

By the end of this film it takes a turn towards the serious, but fails
just as much here as it did when it was a comedy. This is probably due
to the fact that I just had no interest in the characters or their
story by this point in the film. Everything that had happened up to
this point was just so pathetic and forgettable that it built a wall
between me and the films emotion. Maybe under different circumstances
in which the first half of the film had been engaging, the last half
would have really pulled at me heart strings. But in this case it
didn't at all and I could have cared less what happened to Jack and all
his friends. Nothing about this film seems real. It all feels like
actors delivering a mediocre script, all the while wondering what the
hell they are doing on this set for such a bad movie. Then they
remember, oh right! I'm getting to work with the genius behind The
Godfather and Apocalypse Now. Only now he's lost his mind and is
directing horrible dramadies.

Watching a film like this just makes you want to go back and watch the
Coppola classics, just to remind yourself that this man is a genius.
And that's the thing. With so many incredible films under his belt,
Jack can be easily forgotten and we can all pretend like it never
happened. Hell, Coppola could direct Smokey and the Bandit sequels for
the rest of his life, but he would still go down in history as one of
the greatest directors who ever lived. But even if you take Coppola out
of the equation, Jack is still an awful movie with no motivation and no
heart behind it. Spare yourself the two hours and avoid this film at
all costs.
<|_=00=_|>

Robin Williams is great as a ten year old, who looks like
40.
When he plays with his mother (Diane Lane), explores the world or has a
rendez-vous with the mother of his best friend - that is more than
well-played. Williams as Jack: his best role after playing Adrian Cronauer in
"Good Morning,Vietnam".Supported by the lovely, warm performances of Jennifer
Lopez and Bill Cosby,
Williams makes "Jack" a wonder. You can either love or hate this
movie, depending on your RQ (=Romance quotient).
<|_=00=_|>
A curiosity coming from Francis Ford Coppola (who also co-produced for
Zoetrope) has pregnant Diane Lane going into labor after only two
months, delivering a healthy-seeming baby boy (when she pleads to her
husband in the delivery room, "It's too soon!", it's rather an
understatement). Doctors have never seen another child like this, yet
quickly determine the boy has an internal clock which is ahead of
itself by four times the average rate, meaning that when Jack is
ten-years old he'll look like a man of forty. This peculiar movie
gimmick aside, what we really have here is Robin Williams back in grade
school. Although this may sound perfectly inexcusable, not to mention
somewhat derivative, it isn't a silly movie (at least, not at its core)
and has good acting. Williams manages to hold back a bit from his usual
barrage of vocal effects and facial expressions, and a few of his
scenes are peddled quite softly (as they were in "Awakenings"). Also
quite fine are Bill Cosby as Jack's initial tutor and Jennifer Lopez as
his schoolteacher. The little boys are way over-the-top, and some of
their gross-out talk is just stupid (they hole up in a tree house,
equipped with TV, looking at nudie magazines--probably an attempt to
mirror grown-ups but it plays sour). Oddly, Coppola can't stop himself
from ultimately tugging at the old heartstrings, and not just once but
for an entire sequence and an epilogue! I could have done without the
"seven years later" bit, but for the most part this is a warm family
comedy with a bigger heart than it knows what to do with. ** from ****
<|_=00=_|>
When you see a shooting star... Robin Williams makes a really great
acting as a 10 year old boy!, it's amazing how he can represent the
feelings of a boy of this age!; the only role almost similar that i saw
was Tom Hanks in Big (1988); but Tom act as a totally shy boy; Williams
combines here innocence with happiness and a funny life!. The message
of the movie is touching and with a beautiful message! In this touching
and really good story you will surely have an important message for
life: live everyday as it was your last, and always maintain that child
that you'll always have inside you (as Mr. Woodruff). The role of Fran
Drescher as Miss Dolores is also great too!

ABOUT THE MOVIE: Robin Williams plays here Jack Powell, a child who has
a medical disorder that makes him grow four times faster than any other
boy, because of this, he, at the age of 10 looks like a man of 40
years, only that his brain and behavior maintains like the child he
really is. Only this makes this role a total challenge for any actor.
Jack's fathers (Diane Lane as Karen and Brian Kerwin as Brian) don't
put him on a regular school afraid of what his classmates or other
people will say; but at the age of 10, and after an excellent and
touchable education of Mr. Woodruff (Bill Cosby), they decide to put
him on a normal school where he finds difficulties but also great
friends, specially Louis and Eddie (Adam Zolotin and Todd Bosley), he
finds also an amazing teacher, Miss Marquez (Jennifer Lopez).

Good movie,..Worth to watch 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

If you give this movie a chance, let your imagination go and you will
believe (if you WANT to) that Robin Williams *is* a ten year old boy.  I was
surprised at how much I actually liked it.  The premise sounds weak, but
they did a fairly good job with it.  The kids in the movie are great.......
and the term "boys will be boys" is never as true as in the 'treehouse'
scene.  Watch it if you have boys !  You'll know what I mean!  There is
little if any 'language' in this movie ;  no shoot-em-ups; no sex...the
family can watch this together safely. Enjoy and let your imagination go...
be a kid again!
<|_=00=_|>

There was aomething a bit off about this film, but I, for some reason
still
liked it.I think it has many possible meanins depending on how you look at
the story, I remebered seeing it when I was quite young... I thought that
Jacks parents would have to see their child die and that was sad. I saw it
when I was older and thought maybe it was about not taking life for
granted
and living life to its fullest, but that still didn't really seem quite
right...And then I thought maybe it is about always being a kid even when
your an adult, but that makes absolutely no sense with the story..........
and maybe I was right when I was a younger and I thought that it was about
loosing a child... not only to death but to friends.... perhaps the aging
thing was added to show a different form of somebody being picked on, as
Jack was in the movie, even if they may look tougher.

I thought the relationship between jack and His mother was brillant, I
really felt that, however I thought parts of the story digressed whoch
gave
the story multiple meanings....which is interesting to ponder, but in some
cases makes the story jump around to much, adn I am the kind of person who
likes movies to jump around a bit if you can not tell y my writting
style.... I loved the chracters though...

please forgive me for my randomness and at the moment
tired-ness....overall,
it was thought provoking, sweet,and just a little bit off....
<|_=00=_|>
Many reviewers have compared this work to Tom Hanks's Big, wherein a
young boy wishes he were "big," and the wish is granted. However, this
work is the anti-thesis of that work, as an adult portrays a young
child, physically, which thrusts Jack into the same venue as Martin
Short's "Clifford," which was done some two years prior to this work.

That not withstanding, Clifford was a holy terror, while Jack is a
mother's dream. While both works require a total suspension of belief
in order to enjoy them, Jack is endearing, sweet, sentimental, and
entertaining. There is nothing endearing, sweet, or sentimental about
Clifford.

Jack is born with a genetic disorder which causes him to age 4 years
for every 10, thereby causing him to appear as a 40 year old man at the
age of 10.

Many have bludgeoned Coppola's involvement in such a scheme, citing his
prior "masterpiece" works while bemoaning this one. The fans seem to
forget that artistic people who do not spread their wings, and plant
their feet on strange ground, never grow as individuals and artists.

Some found this work "insulting" due to the premise. It is called
unintelligent. But not all films are based on intellect, and not all
movie-goers care to have to think in order to enjoy a movie. And there
is the added benefit of the heartwarming sentiment carried by this
work. 

It did well in the box office, nearly doubling its budget, worldwide,
and is generally under-rated here at IMDb (if only mildly so), which
says that word of mouth (that this film wasn't as bad as the critics
said) carried this film further than the negative reviews would have
liked. 

It rates a 6.2/10 from...

the Fiend :.
