

Point Break is one of those films that everybody loves, but that nobody
actually talks about all that often. It is a film that if you mention it in
conversation, everyone else around is bound to say how much they enjoyed it.

The film's two main assets are unexpected ones, in the form of the direction
and  the script. The direction by Kathryn Bigelow is nothing short of
excellent. Her handling of the action and suspense scenes is exciting and
riveting. The two sky-diving scenes are brilliant as is the foot chase
through the streets (and houses) of the city. The script, by W. Peter Illif,
is also very good and the best thing about the film. The plot is
multi-layered and has an original relationship between the hero and the
villain. The way the story resolves itself and the ultimate resolutions is
excellent, by the standards of most Hollywood action films.

This film deserves to be remembered as one of the better actioners of the
nineties, not up there with Die Hard 2/3 or Speed, but better than 90% of the
action junk made nowadays.
At least this film has a plot.
<|_=00=_|>

Movies are like Bands. People come together--maybe they're not even the
greatest musicians individually--but together, something meshes and they
make great music. It takes more than great musicians to make a great band.
Just so, some movies, no matter how much money, talent, and horsepower is
brought to bear, just don't coalesce. Others, like Point Break, come
together with an ineffable "rightness" that defies any of the parts,
logic,
or analysis. This is one of my favorite movies. Period. Everything
"works."
This movie ROCKS.
<|_=00=_|>
Thirteen years on it sounds a little trite - an FBI agent examines his
inner self whilst trying to bring down a gang of surfer bank robbers by
infiltrating their scene. But dude, how Point Break pulled this off!

In what can now safely be regarded as one of the more
generation-defining cinematic moments of the nineties, Point Break
serves as not just a credible well-paced action thriller spectacle, but
also as a voice for advocates of the adrenalin rush. The movie's
sleeper popularity at the time would no doubt have helped issue in a
new generation of 'X' sports for a new generation, as hungry sponsors
leapt at a new market.

Kathryn Bigelow takes some key pointers from then hubby James Cameron
and paces the movie brilliantly. There are many key moments of unique
action - that chute-less jump from 4,000 feet being the highlight -
that filled the trailer, but it is the cumulative effect of bringing
these moments together that adds to the picture. For so many films the
denouement is a gross failure but Bigelow controls the films peaks and
troughs expertly and the ending is genuinely well handled, something
that appears to be a real struggle for Hollywood today.

In what will go down as Patrick Swayze's finest moment on film, he
plays the adrenalin guru Bodhi with glaze-eyed and silver tongued
expertise, and manages to pull off the very difficult assignment of
being both sane and insane simultaneously with accomplishment.

You can almost feel pulled by Bodhi's enthusiasm for a sensation 'as
close as you get to God', and as a result can excuse the decade for
being labeled that of the 'slacker' generation. The nineties weren't
about slacking, just looking for a different kind of high.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, sure it is just a big action film with a flimsy script and crazy
stunts but.... it is filmed so great. It feels so summer in Cali. It
makes you want to forget your blah zaa blah job, move to the beach and
surf your azz off and have summer bonfires all night and party the
night away. I have been reading others comments on why they can't
understand the guilty pleasure about this movie.... Duh that's the
whole idea. Yes you can like movies that have you thinking about this
and that at the end. You can have movies that astound you. And of
course you can have movies that can make you feel like you had a great
F'N experience. This is what this movie is. Eat your popcorn. Dive into
it AND have a great time. Who cares about the social impact. Enjoy it
and think about this. Sex Wax! If it's in the movie, it's a FUN movie!
Holla
<|_=00=_|>
There are a couple of things you should remember before attempting to
become a bank robbing surf god.

First: Odd's are you are no where near as cool as Bodhi and that's a
major hill to climb. Here's my advice on that subject. Start smoking,
everyone's a little bit cooler if they smoke. Then start drinking. A
man will always be judged on how much alcohol he can consume and a
woman will always be impressed, whether she likes it or not. You might
also want to pick up a copy of Road House.

Second: Change your appearance. Actually you might want to start
working on this immediately, as it's probably the most difficult. Grow
your hair out, then use "sun in" everyday for 3 weeks. Repeat for
goatee. Then go shopping. Hit up the local surf store. There your find
all the ponchos and skids you will need. If there's no surf store, find
a good will or second-hand shop.

Third: Meet new friends. By now you're strung out and paranoid from
being alone all the time. You're going to need people to follow and
worship you. Try making pamphlets explaining your cause. If pamphlets
don't work, actually try talking to people. Instead of asking for
change this time, try discussing sports or politics. And I know what
you're thinking, finding friends is hard. Can't find them, buy them.

Finally: Funding. So you think you're ready to surf the big waves. The
next step is to find money. Banks have plenty of money. Try asking
nicely if they could give you some donations. If that doesn't work, try
getting a job. If that doesn't work. Try robbing the bank you first
went too. If that doesn't work. Start lifting weights. In jail you're
going to need be able to defend yourself. Repeat step 1, watch Road
House. Patrick Swayze kills like 7 people in that movie.

You're on your way. Remember your roots. You're freaking Patrick
Swayze. He once survived a plane crash. He was flying the plane.
<|_=00=_|>

Katheryn Bigelow's 1991 action thriller "Point Break" is still a
ground-breaking film of the early nineties. It tells the story of the cop
John Utah (Keanu Reaves) hunting a bunch of bank robbers camouflaged with
masks of the former U.S. presidents. His investigations leads to a group of
surfers and extreme sports worshippers, and the cop becomes fascinated by
the free-style philosophies and adrenaline rushes of the gang around the
charismatic leader Bodhi (Patrick Swayze). Their close friendship changes to
a hard-fought rivalry at the end when cop and gangsters face point
blank.

Bigelow uses typically American surf beach settings for this unusual and
very stylish action thriller with great stunts like parachuting scenes, bank
robberies, a car chase, police raids, martial arts, breath-taking chases and
brilliantly photographed surf sequences. Watch out for the Red Hot Chillie
Peppers as a gang of brutal surf nazis beating up Keanu Reeves and being
captured by him during a hard-fought police raid.

But "Point Break" is even more than that - it also shows the lifestyle of
the nineties in many ways. Bodie and his gang are a group of New Age-like
grunge guys reaching out for the most extreme adrenaline experiences. They
stand for the new style of extreme/fun sport worshippers, ravers and new
spiritualists of the post-yuppie era in the nineties who don't care about
wealth and status symbols but for fun, action, breaking the limits and
finding the sum of all senses. "Point Break" is not only a well-done example
of modern action entertainment 
without computer-generated special effects but also a very philosophical and
spiritual study of society in the nineties.

<|_=00=_|>

I must have seen this film a dozen times now, and I'm not going to stop
watching it until I'm well and truly sick of it - it's just superb.

Certain sequences are stunning - the camera work during the chase and free
fall scenes leave you breathless, and the surfing footage is excellent. The
acting is generally good, particularly Busey as a veteran FBI agent, but
Keanu's usual expressionless vocals and face disappoint. The script is
sharp
and witty. And the stunts really shine, particularly the Bond-style psycho
skydiving near the end.

This is, in my opinion, a very underrated film which deserved better from
the critics.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie has energy. The story is kinda goofy, but the direction from
Kathryn Bigelow has the right amount of pacing and atmosphere. The chase
scene midway through the film is a breath-taking example of what film-makers
can do, if they have energy and vision. This movie is pure entertainment
and a blast to watch.
<|_=00=_|>

Die Hard might be the greatest action movie of all time, but "Point Break"
is not too far behind. Keanu Reeves plays federal agent Johnny Utah(a role
he was born to play) who is teamed up with a veteran federal agent Angelo
played by Gary Busey to crack the case of the ex president bank robbers.
Angelo has a theory that the bank robbers are surfers, and Johnny goes
undercover as a surfer to bust the bank robbers. Along the way he meets
adrenaline junkie Bohdi played by Patrick Swayze. Well I am not going to
give anymore away. This movie has some of the most amazing action scenes
ever! It is highly entertaining and very quotable. Reeves is playing a role
he was born to play(next to Ted in Bill and Ted) and Swayze has a lot of
fun
in his role. The movie is also very quotable and has a great soundtrack. So
if you are in the video store looking for a good action film rent "Point
Break". "Vayo Con Dios"
<|_=00=_|>

I like this movie. I can't really go into why too much but I can tell you
that I watch this flick everytime it comes on cable if I'm home. I think
it's worth a couple of hours of your day. It first comes off as kind of
hokey but somehow ends up becoming very engrossing. Keanu Reeves gives us a
nice display of things to come in his career as this movie was released
pre-Speed and Matrix. Patrick Swayze gives us a nice little performance as
surfing zen Bodhi. The surfing scenes are well done and so are the bank
robbery pieces. Kathryn Bigelow does a good job directing this one and the
rest of the cast, especially Gary Busey, turn in solid performances. Note
the chase scene with Keanu Reeves going after a Ronald Reagan masked Swayze:
I'd put it in the top ten chase scenes of all times and I think most people
would agree with me on that one. Definitely worth checking out. **** out of
*****.
