
Stanley Ipkiss (Jim Carrey) is a bit of a dorky pushover. For example,
he buys hot concert tickets to try to get a date with a fellow bank
employee he's been pining after, but she easily scams him into keeping
the tickets for herself, and he is too weak to publicly object. But
when he comes across an ancient mask of Lodi long ago discarded by
Vikings who tried to bury the "troublesome object" at the "end of the
Earth", he discovers it has the power to unlock his true self--suave,
smooth-talking, manic, a bit dangerous, and a hopeless romantic.

The Mask was a perfect vehicle for Jim Carrey. It not only allowed
provided the perfect justification to flamboyantly engage in his
rubber-faced antics in a manner even more over-the-top than what he'd
become famous for, but it provided an opportunity to stretch his acting
chops towards a more serious side at just the right time in his career,
paving the way for later work such as Man on the Moon (1999), The
Majestic (2001) and Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind (2004).

The success of the film wholly depends on Carrey, as he has to sell his
characters' frenzied insanity so that it's believable as a reflection
of Stanley's inner self while at the same time likable but teetering on
the edge of becoming obnoxiously overbearing. Of course, the amazing
special effects and make-up help, as well as the clever script and more
than competent directing and cinematography, but with the wrong actor
in the part, the whole affair could have easily collapsed. The other
cast members are fine in supporting roles, with Cameron Diaz coming
across as being almost otherworldly beautiful, but Carrey is rarely
off-screen, and rightly so.

The Mask is notable for both spoofing almost the whole history of
cinema while at the same time respectfully paying homage to it. The
audience is treated to everything from silent film slapstick to lavish
musical numbers (with excellent songs), frenzied Tex Avery-styled
animation to gangster film suspense. On its surface, the film is a
crazy, often funny, hyperactively paced cinematic pastiche.

The subtext about identity and public faces versus private selves is
interesting, but not the focus. It would be fine to explore further,
but to do so in this particular film would have taken too much time
away from Carrey's surrealistic tour de force. Besides, we've had later
films where that subtext has been closer to the heart of a story, such
as Catwoman (2004), and where it was very thoroughly and competently
dealt with.

Many aspects of The Mask differed from the comic book source material,
but this is a case where the changes led to such an excellent result
that most people have forgotten about the source material and primarily
remember Carrey's performance in this film as definitive.
<|_=00=_|>
Actually, I saw The Mask by accident. I wet to the cinema with my
friend to watch something. When we arrived at the cinema and saw the
poster showing The Mask we did not feel like watching it. But as it was
a long way home we decided to go and see the film. And we enjoyed the
movie so much that we decided to go to see it next day again. The first
time we watched it we did not catch everything as our eyes were flooded
with tears of laugh and our bellies hurt form laugh cramps. The story
is really catching and Jim Carry is simply fabulous. The plot makes you
think what it would be like if you had the mask and what you would do
with it. Stanley Ippkiss in his funny quest made me be happy with what
I am and what I have. The Mask is undoubtedly one of my most favorite
comedies and it has a steady place on my video shelf.
<|_=00=_|>

This is easily Jim Carrey's greatest picture! Not only that but in my
opinion this was one of the funniest films of the `90s. This is such a fun
movie that you can see it 10 times and it's still as fun as the first time.
The film stars Jim Carrey in another amazing performance and the BEAUTIFUL
Cameron Diaz in her debut. 

Also this is kind of like the Rocky Horror Picture Show of my generation. I
remember Halloween 1995 when my friends and I dressed up as the characters
from this movie and did the Cuban Beat! :)

4(****)out of 4(****)stars

An ENTERTAINING MASTERPIECE!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
"The Mask" was the movie that introduced my family to Jim Carrey. And
we all thought that it was great. Carrey plays unlucky bank clerk
Stanley Ipkiss, who one night finds an ancient mask. When he puts it
on, he turns into sort of a cartoon character; think Roger Rabbit on
acid. The really great thing about the movie is that they just turn
Carrey loose. Anything that you can imagine him doing, he does here. A
particularly funny scene is when the police tell him to freeze, you'd
better believe that he freezes! All in all, Jim Carrey's humor will
never get old. He may have given his all-time funniest performance in
"The Mask".
<|_=00=_|>

This was the movie that got me into Jim Carrey (though I'd seen him on "In
Living Color" a couple of times), and it's still my favorite, though Ace
Ventura #1 was also kind of funny.

The great thing about this film is that Jim is actually really restrained
all throughout, only going into goof ball mode when he puts on the Mask.
He's pretty likable and engaging here, not quite as prone to irritating
some
audience members like he did in "Batman Forever" and "Ace Ventura #2".
Cameron Diaz... my God, she looked SO GOOD here, how have her looks faded
so
quickly since this film? She looks so... plastic now, kind of like a giant
Barbie doll.

One of the big standout scenes in this one is Jim singing "Cuban Pete" to
escape all the cops. Not that the other Mask gags are unfunny, but Cuban
Pete really stands out. Too bad the cartoon Mask didn't have a little more
restraint to it. 
<|_=00=_|>
Carrey is on top mad-cap form in the Mask, he plays Stanley Ipkiss, a
boring Mr. nice guy with a longing for more excitement and success in
his life. When he finds a relic of an ancient mask, he gets slightly
more than he could have dreamt of; he becomes a cartoonish superhero
and at last he can live out his desires; or not! 

This film also introduced the very beautiful Cameron Diaz, and what man
can forget her first screen appearance as she breezes in to the bank in
all her splendour.

Hilariously funny, cracking special effects and a thoroughly
entertaining story, the Mask is a winner people, and it's an absolute
must-see for everyone who likes a bit of Jim Carrey madness.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

It's hard to use Jim Carrey in a movie.  He's very good at his rapid-fire
mimicry routine, but how can it ever be anything other than a diversion from
both character and story?  (Very rarely is it a pleasant diversion.  `Ace
Ventura' was unendurable.)  And yet, what else can you do with
him?

The `Mask' solves the problem so neatly it almost cheats.  The story is
ABOUT someone with a double life - so by day, Carrey does all the character
and story stuff, and by night, wearing the mask, he does his stand-up
schtick.  The two are as integrated as they need to be.  It's pulled off
with such an air of innocence I can't possibly complain.  SOME of the
clichés (those to do with the police especially) are so very worn out that
even the most thorough of movie-goers is surprised to find them still alive;
but the writer seems to have been honestly unaware that they were clichés,
so that's okay.

I was told that the film is saturated with animation in-jokes.  I couldn't
spot very many.  Stanley-with-the-mask has the soul of a Tex Avery cartoon
character: I suspect that's all there is to it.  The computer animation, or
the computer-enhancement of Carrey's animation, is tastefully done.  It
never looks pasted over the top of the footage the way so much computer
animation does.  (`The Mask' failed to win an Oscar in the special effects
category - like so many other more deserving films, it was beaten by
`Forrest Gump'.)  The Cuban dance numbers are irresistible, as is Stanley's
pet dog.  Sure, `The Mask' is no masterpiece, but it's a clever, charming
film that richly deserved its runaway success.
<|_=00=_|>
If you ask me, 'The Mask' is Jim Carrey's best work ever. It's his best
movie and the only one of him I find really great. It's not a movie
without its faults, but it's original, imaginative, creative and has
very good comical gags. It's a classic. Or, to use only one word to
describe it: "Smokin!"

Jim Carrey can be two things: either a really funny comedian either a
comedian who does his job well but overacts, although no one can deny
that there is a genius inside this man. In 'The Mask' he is awesome. I
consider this one of his best actings of all time, if not his very
best.

In 'The Mask' Jim Carrey portrays Stanley Ipkiss, a clerk in a nice
Edge City bank. He is a very nice and easy-going guy with great sense
of humor (which matches his funny name). He is «the nicest guy», yet
shy and somewhat depressed and he does not have much success in his job
and personal life. He doesn't have much friends, except for his
co-worker Charlie and his loyal dog Milo (a Jack Russell Terrier).
Stanley likes to watch cartoons (particularly a Tex Avery one with a
whistling wolf), decorates his apartment with items from these cartoons
and he has the most unusual pajama :)

Jim Carrey also portrays the title character (The Mask), which is the
other side of Stanley Ipkiss... or at least what he wants to be but
can't be without the mask. The mask gives him superpowers and courage
to do things he wouldn't be able to do without it. For example, he can
dance like Fred Astaire, Gumby and Barishnikov (all together) - and he
can flirt with the gorgeous Tina Carlyle. The Mask is a cartoonish
figure that can do incredible things.

This film is a crazy comedy, a film that surpasses the limits of
imagination. Yet, despite its cartoonish humor, it also works well as a
thriller and has a dark atmosphere. At the same time, this movie is
clearly inspired (in many ways) on several cartoons, such as the Looney
Tunes, Tex Avery's 'Red Hot Riding Hood' and even the live
action/animation movie 'Who Framed Roger Rabbit'. The movie also has
great sceneries and backgrounds, as well as great lines, nice special
effects and its magic.

Cameron Diaz in this movie... my goodness! Is there any guy who
wouldn't fall in love with her in this film? She was really a stunning
beauty in this film. She was absolutely at her hottest and most sensual
here: she was more curvy, sexier, so beautiful and her smile was even
more enchanting. Her role as the gorgeous and loving Tina Carlyle was a
great acting debut for her. Plus, she was great in this role. In fact,
she was a better actress in her early acting years than in more recent
years. And she got slimmer with time.

Cameron Diaz also sings very well in this film, with a husky, jazz-like
voice. What a difference comparing to 'My Best Friend's Wedding', where
she sings terribly. She was 21 years old in 'The Mask' but she surely
looked older than that. She is really like a live-action version of
Jessica Rabbit in this film.

Other funny characters (along with Stanley Ipkiss) are Charlie
Schumacher, Milo, Detective Doyle and the impatient Lt. Mitch Kellaway.

Most of the soundtrack is great: the opening theme and other
instrumental themes during the movie and even the cheerful songs "Hey
Pachuco" and "Cuban Pete" - this last one is sung by Jim Carrey himself
in a hilarious part where he (as The Mask) dances and makes the
policemen dance either. It really makes one wanna dance.

Most actors are pretty good in their roles: Jim Carrey, Cameron Diaz,
Peter Riegert, Peter Greene, Ben Stein, Amy Yasbeck, Richard Jeni,
Nancy Fish, Jim Doughan and Max.

Max is the name of the dog that portrays Milo. The intelligence of that
dog deserves to be mentioned. This breed of dog is known for its
intelligence and loyalty, but also for being lovable, playful and
stubborn dogs. Milo is all of that. Plus, Milo seems to understand
everything they tell him. When his master is giving him orders, he
moves his head as if he is understanding every word that is said. Plus,
he climbs a considerably tall wall to rescue Stanley and we can see in
his eyes when he is feeling fear, joy and sadness, for example. What a
fabulous dog actor!

The loaner... what a piece of junk! That car makes its own scenes
hilarious! Why? Simply because of what it is: a charger in a junkyard.

Jim Carrey makes this movie as good as it is. I believe that this movie
couldn't possibly be this good without the great Jim Carrey. This role
was made for him and couldn't be played by other than him.

This should definitely be on Top 250.
<|_=00=_|>
Broad, inventive comedy stars Carrey as a repressed, down-on-his-luck
banker whose once uneventful life is dramatically changed when he
uncovers a mysterious ancient mask that brings out his innermost
desires. After developing a close bond and gradual affection for a sexy
songbird and prospective client (Diaz), he then tangles with her
ruthless, lowlife gangster boyfriend (Greene). Lively, imaginative
comedy with big laughs and nifty effects that almost make you feel like
you're watching a live-action cartoon. The violence borders on extreme,
but Carrey is in peak form and provides more than enough classic
moments to make up for it. A must for Carrey fans. ***
<|_=00=_|>

 Jim Carrey plays Stanley Ipkiss, a "zero" as the film tagline says, who
never speaks his mind about anything. The typical mild-mannered
guy.

 After Stanley finds an enchanted mask under a bridge one day, though,
everything changes. He goes from "zero to hero". But first, he plays around
with his new found menacing powers.

 Calling the mask a hero is like calling Hitler kind of a good guy. The mask
makes Stanley rob banks, scare people and more. He's half-hero.

 "The Mask" is not great, but it fits Carrey's film persona quite well. He
bounces off the wall (literally) and just doesn't sit still. Typical
Carrey.

 If you're not one for loser-to-hero films or wacky slapstick, don't see
"The Mask". Otherwise, it's worth a peek.

3/5 stars
