

Is 'Species' a groundbreaking, visionary SF movie? No, of course not. Is it
silly, trashy, but FUN b-grade exploitation SF in the tradition of Tobe
Hooper's 'Lifeforce'? You bet! It isn't quite as entertaining as
'Lifeforce', the original naked space chick movie, but it's a still pretty
good way to waste an hour and a half of your life. Why it gets slammed so
much is beyond me. Maybe people just don't have a sense of humour. The
opening of the movie is terrific. In a lab we see a cold scientist (Ben
Kingsley) overseeing the murder of a young girl (Michelle Williams),
imprisoned in a glass case. Only she escapes by showing some super human
strength. She is immediately pursued by dozens of soldiers, but manages to
elude them. We then learn she is in fact a genetic experiment, a mixing of
extraterrestrial and human DNA. Kingsley heads up a task force consisting of
Michael Madsen, Alfred Molina, Marg Helgenberger and Forest Whitaker, each a
specialist in a different field. Pretty soon our alien fugitive mutates into
a gorgeous blonde (Natasha Henstridge), who spends most of her time topless.
Kingsley and company face a race against time, they must capture the horny
alien girl before she screws guys to death(?) or something... Who knows.
Henstridge is great to look at and the above average cast give it their best
shot with the lame dialogue and cliched scenes. Whitaker's empath character
quickly irritates with his constant stating the bleedin' obvious, but I
always get a kick out of watching Madsen, here in stereotypical tough guy
mode. 'Species' is big dumb fun.
<|_=00=_|>

"Species" has a hopelessly derivative premise that makes it a completely
unnecessary view for anyone who has ever seen "Alien" or "The Predator" (or
their sequels), but it does have some things going for it. To be short and
specific: Natasha Henstridge is dreamily, extraordinarily beautiful; the
rest of the cast is distinguished, with a very cool Michael Madsen stealing
the show; the special effects are convincingly yucky; and the pacing is
fast
and unrelenting, with the "search-and-destroy" team being always only one
step behind the pursued alien "monster". A forgettable film, but not nearly
as bad as many reviews have suggested.      (**) 
<|_=00=_|>
For thirty years, powerful telescopes have been scanning the space
searching from signal of alien civilization. In 1974, the SETI (Search
for Extra Terrestrial Intelligence) team sends a message to the space
with the human DNA, map of our solar system and other information. In
return, they receive two messages: the first one, with a catalyst for
methane; the second, a detailed alien DNA together with instructions to
join it with human DNA. The result of the experiment is the deadly
creature Sil. When Dr. Xavier Fitch (Ben Kingsley), who is leading the
research, decides to terminate the experiment, the girl Sil (Michelle
Williams) escapes to Los Angeles. Dr. Fitch joins the mercenary Preston
Lennox (Michael Madsen); the anthropologist Dr. Stephen Arden (Alfred
Molina); the scientist Dr. Laura Baker (Marg Helgenberger); and the
empathic Dan Smithson (Forest Whitaker) to chase Sil (Natasha
Henstridge). Sooner they discover that the predator Sil has grown-up
and became a beautiful woman, trying to copulate to generate an
offspring.

"Species" is one of the best sci-fis of the 90's. Full of action, sexy
and with a great cast, this film introduces the stunning Natasha
Henstridge, one of the most gorgeous and sexy actresses of Hollywood
ever. Her debut could not be better, and together with the cult Michael
Madsen, they make this pleasant movie work. The story recalls those
B-movies from the 50's, but spiced with erotic and very sexy scenes. I
have just watched this movie for the fourth time, and I do not get
tired to this attractive story. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "A Experiência" ("The Experience")
<|_=00=_|>
Some scientists working for the government tamper with a DNA sequence
they got from a message from outer space. The subject turns into a
little girl with amazing superhuman powers. She escapes and turns into
a beautiful woman (Natasha Herstridge) who wants to mate and produce
others like her. A team led by a head scientist (Ben Kingsley!) try to
track her down.

OK--it's kind of silly but this moves quickly and is well-done. There
are many excellent, if gruesome, special effects and the SIL creature
at the end is truly astounding. The script is good (considering) and it
actually makes sense...if you don't think about it too much.

Acting varies--Kingsley is TERRIBLE in his role. Michael Madsen is
pretty good as part of the team as are Marg Helgenberger and
(especially) Forest Whitaker. Herstridge is certainly beautiful but
can't act--but the role doesn't call for acting.

I'm giving it an 8. It's no classic but it moves quickly and I was
never bored.
<|_=00=_|>
Species is like a meeting between an amateur low budget film, and a big
budget horror movie. On the one hand; the film has a great cast and is
professionally produced, but on the other - the special effects
wouldn't have looked out of place in an eighties film, and the plot
concentrates mostly on its sleazy and often silly by-products. That
being said, however, the movie is lots of fun; and overall I wouldn't
hesitate to call it one of the best horror films of the nineties. The
film takes obvious influence from a range of similar films, such as
Tobe Hooper's Lifeforce and Jack Sholder's 'The Hidden', but it brings
all of it's elements together well and somehow manages to feel fresh
and inventive. The plot is pure hokum, but it works well; as
alien-human crossover 'Sil' escapes from a testing lab with a team of
professionals, comprising a psychic, an action hero, a woman etc, on
her tail. Sil's ultimate goal is to reproduce, and to complete that aim
she must find a man. So basically, what we have here is a sexy, horny,
naked chick being chased around before she can have sex with someone.
Sounds good to me...

I'm not quite sure how director Roger Donaldson managed it, but he's
managed to get quite a few names to appear in his film; and most of
them do well with their roles. Despite the fact that she probably isn't
really, Natasha Henstridge looks clean and pure in the lead role; and
this both ensures that she looks the part, and the film is great in
that it carries off the juxtaposition of having a sweet-looking
virginal woman act like a prostitute. Ben Kingsley is the biggest cast
surprise, as the former Ghandi actor looks slightly out of place in a
B-movie like this. Michael Madsen is absolutely great in his typecast
action hero role and the cast is completed by a memorable performance
from Alfred Molina, and a rather annoying one from Forest Whitaker.
Marg Helgenberger fails to make much of an impression as Madsen's love
interest. The two plots that run concurrently are played out well, and
climax nicely. The special effects are key in a film like this, and
even though they're cheap throughout - they do look fairly realistic.
It's not until we get to the end and the director decides to spoil it
with some abysmal CGI that the effects become a problem. But even so,
Species takes its plot well and isn't too serious, and I've got to rate
this as a really fun flick overall.
<|_=00=_|>
Now I'm not a big Sci Fi buff but species wasn't to bad, it mainly
focused on the story of how some alien woman was trying to mate on
planet earth and of scientists were trying to stop her. It is just your
average story but it was fairly entertaining and suspenseful. 

Species is fairly gory and at times is quiet frightening but it all
adds to the entertainment of this horrific Sci Fi. At first the
audience does believe that the alien means absolutely no harm but as
the story goes along you discover that if the deadly alien is not
caught then it could very well mean the end of humanity forever, this
frighten's the audience and makes you more eager for the crew of
scientists to catch the alien before it mates.

In conclusion, 'Species' is at times entertaining and suspenseful but
there seems like there is noway to catch the alien after a while which
frustrates you.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's face it, SPECIES is a B movie with an A list cast & production
design to match. It's a deceptive entertainment that finally shows it's
hand during the boring, silly showdown in the sewer level from Quake II
where you have to find the red key & beat the boss monster without the
quad damage. I'd always drown before I could find the biosuit. Why this
was never made into an adults oriented video game is beyond me, other
than the obvious problem with marketing it to teenagers.

The whole SPECIES franchise was meant to cash in on the success of the
ALIEN films, obviously, and go straight for the amniotic fluid in the
reproductive cycle at the expense of logic, probability, and science.
It's probably a better movie than it had to be and I'm sure that
multiple viewings will bring out more nuances, though that's probably
not the idea they had in mind when making it. Once will suffice for
most viewers.

I enjoyed seeing Natasha Henstridge naked, however, and the H.R. Giger
creature designs are fabulous as always. In fact I wondered, is the
whole film really a contrivance just to get to see Giger's aliens
mating with humans? Why yes, it probably is. And for some people that's
enough to warrant watching it regardless of whom the lead body actress
is. Giger's designs were sexually suggestive to begin with and with
this movie he finally got to see them doing the nasty. I trust he was
well paid.

In any event it's a wildly popular film for reasons that have nothing
to do with the professionalism of the cast & crew. Which by the way
someone should have told them before prodding us with their serious,
emotive performances that serve as buffer zones between the sex & ooze
scenes. Only Michael Madsen seems to be aware that it was essentially
an exploitation film and acts accordingly. He's spoken of his pride in
the work and it shows, especially when considering that he turned up
for SPECIES 2 with it's bonus deathmatch levels and Capture The Flag
mod.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
For some reason I've always loved watching "Species", even though I
very well realize that it isn't a particularly good movie. Still due to
its approach and handling of a really unoriginal concept and story, the
movie can be regarded as one of the best science-fiction movies from
the '90's.

If you need to compare this movie to something, you can easily compare
it to any of the "Alien"-movies. Of course over the years "Alien" and
its sequel "Aliens" have been ripped-off countless times and
film-makers often tried to cash in by making basically "Alien" and
"Aliens" clones, using the same concept, settings, characters,
locations, complete sequences and whatever more that it was that made
these two science-fiction movies such an highly acclaimed success. Yes,
in my opinion "Species" can definitely be seen as an "Alien" clone but
out of all the movies that ever tried to rip off the "Alien" movies in
any way possible, this is easily the best movie, that at times even
makes you forget how unoriginal it actually truly is.

Also no big wonder that the movie should remind you of "Alien" at
times, also since the alien in this movie got designed by the same man
who designed the original alien for "Alien" and all of its sequels. So
perhaps this is also part of the reason why you so easily can forgive
this movie from ripping off "Alien" in parts.

It's a surprising movie from Roger Donaldson, who had never done any
science-fiction or horror before and he also hasn't done any ever
since. Donaldson is these days mostly known for directing more serious
movies.

It's perhaps its horror that also makes this movie work out so well.
The movie is not just a science-fiction movie about an alien on the
loose but truly knows to create a dark moody atmosphere as well and
puts in a couple of true great and effective horror moments, which
makes the movie tense and in a way also unpredictable to watch, also
since the movie is not too afraid to kill off its main characters.

There is also some gore in the movie that is good looking, with its
often graphic killings. Also the make-up effects are great and the
movie uses some early special effects, that especially for 1995
standards seem like pretty good ones, even though the movie itself
somewhat feels and looks like a low budget production.

The movie makes a choice not to only follow the team that is called in
to hunt down the alien but also shows things from the perspective of
the alien herself. She's constantly learning things, which she uses to
adapt and blend in and to eventually get what she wants. This approach
gives "Species" a nice extra dimension. It's like "The Day the Earth
Stood Still", only with a not so friendly alien. 

The movie also has an amazing cast with actors such as Ben Kingsley,
Michael Madsen, Alfred Molina, Forest Whitaker and Michelle Williams
involved. Whenever I hear the name- or a thinking of Ben Kingsley, I'm
not thinking about "Schindler's List" or "Ghandi" but I'm thinking
about "Species". I don't now, I just find it to be a very amusing role
by him, despite the fact that he plays his character totally death
serious.

I love this movie!

8/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
Species, for its time, was an extremely well executed Sci-Fi Thriller,
with action packed WoW-in special effects work. It is extremely
underrated as most people's first recollection was that they were taken
aback at how much skin Henstridge's shows throughout the movie. I mean,
c'Mon... she's a horny alien, trying to propagate, for chrissake... and
yes, your husband was thinking about alien sex later that night with
you, ladies.

Okay, I'm losing my train of thought, let alone my focus...; This is
what most people do when you bring up this movie, most viewers soon
forget how awesome, by definition of the term... that the movie really
is, and therefore, it's NOT just some trashy R-rated B-movie, like so
many were from the mid '80s to the early '90s.

The story balance is very well kept from beginning, with solid
character development... throughout the crazy plot, to the climax, and
quickly to a unexpected, yet fitting finale. Natasha played the role to
a "T", with her almost, perfect appearance, and bright, and justly
glowing & huge green, also already (alien-ish), eyes. 

Action scenes, and special effects are top notch, as is standard
execution by Steve Johnson, who created costumes, robotic structures,
prosthetics and effects for this and a cache of blockbusters like
Spider-Man 2 (Easily arguable as the pinnacle of the trio), War of the
Worlds, the 1989 classic - The Abyss... and definitely not to be
unlisted here, Pet Semetary II, the best one in my opinion, and a
personal favorite scary thriller of this reviewer. Sorry for the TLDR;
run-on movie-geek splashing there.

Check out those Green eyes: http://tinyurl.com/6hntl7q

Overall, Species follows the winning recipe for great Sci-Fi Action
Thriller, by combining great complimentary casting in Kingsley,
Whitaker, and Molina, oh, and Micheal Madsen... shoot! That's a Sci-Fi
cast, what? Something must've smelled good, right! :oD

The acting and follow-through by scriptwriters from story-2-screen,
showed balance... extremely important for movies of this genre. It also
stands up to the test of time, which for many of these Special FX
Blockbusters, expected to explode all over the tail-bone of a 3-day
weekend release for maximum payoff and publicity, it usually does NOT
hold true. I'm gonna watch this right now! AND, I want you to watch it
again for the 3rd time, but you need to pay for it; you can even watch
it on Amazon... see the free preview on IMDb first and get your mouth
watering for "'Ol Green-Eyes gonna get ya!" - Sir SmokeAlot.

Reruns on FX while cooking dinner for the kids doesn't count. Get your
Netflix, OnDemand, Hulu, Meebo, Boxee, Apple Video, Torrent, Direct
Download, or Newsbin on ASAP on a cold dark 'n scary night. Don't get
raped by a ha-wt-bodied alien sex machine!
<|_=00=_|>

Admittedly you would either need to be 50 plus with a good memory, or to be
a well-versed student of older sci-fi but in 1961 Miss Julie Christie made
her screen debut in the British TV Sci-fi serial A FOR ANDROMEDA. The plot? 
Signals are received from deep-space seemingly the blue-print for the
creation of human life. Scientists of course find the opportunity way too
tempting and before you can say "Told you that was a dumb move!" we have a
genetically engineered, rather stunning young blonde walking around the lab,
causing all sorts of political and scientific unrest.....sound familiar? 

Yep, SPECIES was a total conceptual rip-off and to my knowledge, either
no-one has ever noticed the fact OR has failed to put such view into print.
Certainly not a solitary film critic worldwide that I read at the time was
aware of the fact! That said, SPECIES wasn't a total flopperoo although Ben
Kingsley looked majorly uncomfortable, if not stunned for the greater part
of the flick, as the head science honcho really wanting his creation (the
delectable and statuesque Miss Henstridge) dead on sight....a task he
bequeathes to Mr Madsen who always enjoys work of this
sort!

Never really scales the heights. Neither a major gore-fest or a jaw-dropping
ALIEN-wannabe. It labors on beneath its own mediocrity and when it finally
finishes, about the only emotion left to the viewer is.."Hmmmmm, OK, now
I've seen SPECIES....what's for dinner?"  Compared to its sequel however, it
remains a rare masterpiece!
