

Tarantino presents this little gem, which he caught at an Italian genre
festival while promoting Reservoir Dogs (he relates the fateful anecdote in
an epilogue after the movie on video.) It shares with that director the
nervy, hip black-comedy attitude, an absolute command of cinematic
techniques, and a post-modern approach steeped in b-movie history. However,
where QT's films (and similar triumphs like Go) are explosive, this one is
insidiously subtle and dead-pan; so much so that the gradual recognition of
the filmmakers' intentions will give you the shivers. The creeping
revelations of the themes, the dark pastels, self-referential script and
straight-faced performances are reminiscent of earlier successful dark
comedies, like Parents and I, Madman. Jones (her solo dance is a knockout)
and Baldwin are both dead-on, and the director and editor never miss a beat.
This is one of the best films of the 90s. (by the way, did anyone notice
that this film opened about the same time as Headless Body in Topless Bar?
quite a coincidence.)
<|_=00=_|>
In my opinion, this is one of the most underrated movies of the 90s,
featuring one of my all-time favorite performances by the enchanting
Angela Jones. It is based on a short made in 1991, about a childlike
murder-obsessed Colombian-American who takes a job as a maid...who
cleans up after violent murders. Apparently, Tarantino liked the short
so much that he cast Jones in Pulp Fiction and produced a full length
version of "Curdled" with Jones and William Baldwin (who is
surprisingly great.) This is one of my favorite black comedies and
easily the funniest serial killer thriller ever. Angela Jones lights up
the screen with her animated facial expressions (think Audrey Tautou)
and quirky delivery. Oh, and this movie features one of the best dance
sequences in a movie (yes, even better than Britt Ekland's in "The
Wicker Man"). The recently released DVD is a blessing and surprisingly
chockful of extras (including the original short film) for a movie that
is apparently so reviled. The worst thing I can say about "Curdled" is
that Braddock didn't go on to make another film and Jones went on to do
a freakin "Children of the Corn" sequel. Recommend to all fans of
serial killer movies and dark comedies. My rating: 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

This film was originally a 20 minute short by Reb Braddock.  Braddock
extended this after seeing the success of his short.  Angela Jones plays the
lead character superbly.  For those of you not familiar with Jones, she is
the Taxi Driver in Pulp Fiction.  William Baldwin plays the killer.  Angela
Jones' character is mesmerized by murder scenes and gets a job with a
company that cleans up after murders.  She soon comes in contact with the
murderer on the job site and the suspense begins to build.  Great
performance by Angela Jones and a brilliant story and dialogue provided by
Braddock.  
<|_=00=_|>

I really liked this movie, especially the main character.  It was really
cool linking the similarities between her and Esmerelda Villa Lobos from
Pulp Fiction-besides both had Tarantino having some role in them- both
characters exhibited an almost childish facination with death and murder. 
And, I have to admit, Billy Baldwin was really stylish as the Cold Blooded
killer.  This movie is definitely unique, and a treat to
watch.

My only complaint is that, the movie, as a whole, is rather strange.  It
doesn't decide whether to be a dark comedy or some weird, violent romance. 
It is definitely dark and weird, but never steps into a comfortable niche to
decied which one it really is.  This really isn't that big of a deal,
really, and after awhile, you learn to just forget the analyzation, and just
enjoy the madness being thrown at you. This movie is definitely not for
everyone, in that the gore is played so casually, as if it were a normal
fixture of a room, like a table or a rug.  It also has a few scenes that b\c
of the conversational build up during the movie about what it's like to see
a crime scene for the first time, and the casual way that the gore is
treated, it may not be suitable for everyone.  However, I enjoyed it b\c of
it's pure creativity and of course, wonderful acting by the two main leads. 
A give it a strong 8/10 stars for having the courage to be different.  That
is my story and I am sticking to it.  
<|_=00=_|>

When Curdled was in the cinemas I missed it, but now I rented the VHS and
I'm happy, having seen it. I had a couple of hours of pure fun. This is a
very good "black" movie: in Europe we'd rather say "noir with a touch of
sophisticated humour"or "black comedy". The actresses are impressive and the
plot unique. Just follow my advice: if you loved Pulp Fiction or Reservoir
Dogs don't miss it, Curdled it's even better! 
<|_=00=_|>

One of my favorite scenes in Pulp Fiction was the one with Butch and
Esmeralda Villalobos, the cab ride. Not many people I watched it with, and
most of you maybe, didn't really care for it. More than half of the scene
didn't make the final cut. I thought it was intriguing, this woman wants
to
know "what it would feel like to kill a man."

Imagine my surprise when I turned on this movie, CURDLED; starring
Esmeralda
herself, Angela Jones. Her character, Gabriela is fixated on murders. She
keeps scrapbooks of newsclippings and the likes. Then she joins a crime
scene clean-up crew. Only she aint too bothered that much with the actual
cleaning up. Instead she savors the thought that 'this is where the
killing
actually happened, right here.'

What miffed me was that I found out that Tarantino was the Exec Producer,
but he didn't help out with any of the writing. (IMDb only credits him
with
the news reports) There were a few scenes he could have spruced up, I'm
sure, especially at the cleaning crew's home base. There were a few blahh
moments. I also wondered if he could've been ballsy enough to keep Angela
Jones as the same character as in Pulp Fiction, instead of the ditzy
not-all-there Gabriela. But I guess this was a Reb Braddock vehicle. I see
this started out as a short of his. Billy Baldwin is also very good in
this.

I give this a 7 or an 8, I'm not sure which I'll choose just yet. It's
really a solid 7.5 on IMDb's 1-10 scale.

Definitely check this movie out.


<|_=00=_|>
Gabriella (Angela Jones), a Colombian immigrant, is obsessed with
understanding violent crime. The current string of murders by the Blue
Blood Killer of affluent Miami socialites provides her with fodder for
her scrapbook of death. She lands a job with a post-murder cleaning
service and during a Blue-Blood clean-up job, discovers evidence that
police have overlooked.

While this is not a perfect film, it is a fun dark comedy that should
appeal to "gore hounds" and fans of Robert Rodriguez. Apparently this
exists in the same universe that "From Dusk to Dawn" does, plus
features Billy Baldwin as a killer. That is pretty sweet.

I would need to see this a second time to really get a handle on it,
but I think I was pleasantly surprised and hope this film somehow makes
a resurgence on people's to-see lists.
<|_=00=_|>

It's surprisingly hard to make fun about serious subjects, like murder.
Curdled succeeds in it: it's a hilarious film about a girl obsessed
with murder, with a nicely twisted vision of the world. Yes, it has
it's faults, but there are some irresistibly funny moments in it as
well.

Jones does an excellent job in this black comedy, it really is a shame
we haven't heard more of her. Even Baldwin fits in his role! The
soundtrack is spicy and quite excellent. Braddock has extended this
from a short film, and unfortunately it shows in some places. A few
scenes feel, well, boring, and dialogue isn't as sharp as it could be.

Tarantino is often linked to this film, although he was only the
producer and wrote a very little piece of script. However, there are
connections to his movies in Curdled and they are fun to catch.

My score: 3/5

<|_=00=_|>
This film does everything that it wants to do right, and it does it in
a time frame that fits. Unlike most Tarantino flicks this movie has a
less than 90 minute run-time, which could leave a certain fan
unfulfilled and unsatisfied by the end. 

That being said, the film is fantastic in the time it's given, it's
full of details, style and a soundtrack that honestly made me stand up
and dance.

The main character is a young Columbian woman, Gabriella, who has an
obsession for gore and a serial killer "The Blue Blood Killer" who
specializes in murdering and cutting off the heads of rich women, clean
cut with a Tanto. Gabriella begins working for a forensic clean up
crew, but finds more interest with the scene of the crime than the
cleaning. 

The ending may come a bit sooner than you would think, but it feels
very similar to the ending of Inglorious Basterds, and will leave you
smiling and satisfied if you see the film for what it is and is trying
to be. 

A solid 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
This always quirky, sometimes funny, sometimes dark, and sometimes
misses film isn't a masterpiece. But, certain scenes make it worth
watching. The exchange between Baldwin and Jones is one of those
scenes. 

Gabriela is obsessed with violent crime. When she sees an ad on TV from
a crime scene cleaning company she quickly contacts them to get a job
with them. She is reluctantly hired and quits her other job. It gets
somewhat slow at this point, but a key scene is when her partner
complains about Gabriela's childlike behavior. The juxtaposition of
Gabriela's demeanor, the crime scene, and her happy salsa music is a
strange combination indeed. It sometimes works and it is sometimes
grating. 

William Baldwin as Paul Guell is actually quite brilliant and doesn't
get enough credit. You have no idea how much it pains me to write that.
But, anyway here it is. He has a very difficult job to do here and he
pulls it off and makes it look easy. He has to be a menacing serial
killer, check he is very creepy. He has to manage to make it funny
somehow as well, check. As mentioned before his exchange with Jones,
was well worth watching the movie. He also manages to show some
sensitivity, we can almost see into the pit of his dark soul, what
motivates him to kill. 

It does't all work however, there are parts that are so illogical.
Aside from the fact that the childlike main character is obsessed with
violent crime. Things that would never ever happen in real life. I will
have to leave it at that, if you watch the film you will spot at least
one glaring example at near the end of the film. The ending will leave
you with more questions than this film can answer.
