
Beauty and the Beast is without a doubt one of Disney's finest
classics. The first animated film to ever be nominated for best picture
and after you see it, you could understand and agree with it's
nomination. Beauty and the Beast is going to be one of those films that
will always be remembered, I know that it's a movie that I will show my
children one day. It has unbelievably terrific animation, a beautiful
story, lovable characters, and is just over all a perfect movie. I
really love this film so much, I don't think anyone couldn't fall in
love with it.

Bell is just a simple girl in her town in France, she reads books
constantly and her father is an inventor. They are sort of the outcasts
of their town due to their "oddness". But Bell is being pursued by the
town hunk, Gueston, simply because she's the one girl he cannot have.
One day when her father's inventions are about to be displayed at the
fair, he gets lost in the woods and stumbles across a castle and is
held prisoner. Bell goes after him and comes to the castle; it turns
out that her father is being held by a beast who is cursed with this
hideousness unless he finds a true love before a rose he has welts.
Bell trades places with her father; the house also has living objects,
a candle holder, a clock, a tea pot, all who are also cursed until the
curse is broken. They look at Bell as the perfect opportunity for the
beast to find a true love, but he must learn to be a gentleman, but
Bell brings out the best in him and it turns out that this might be a
happy ending after all.

This was actually the first movie that I ever cried in, the ending was
just so beautiful and heart felt, you'll have to see what I mean. The
songs are just so lovely and perfect for the scenes that they are
performed for. Beauty and the Beast, the song, was just one of the most
touching songs ever. This films is a major recommendation for me, it's
one of my favorite Disney films of all time, it's a timeless classic
that is just perfect and reached a new level of great animation.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

The only animated movie to receive a Best Picture Oscar nomination, and it
deserved it.

Magic from the opening prologue to the final credit, "Beauty and the Beast"
is the last real classic to come from the Disney crew before John Lasseter
came along. This was one of the few movies I happily paid to see twice in
the cinema, and sitting in a sparsely-populated Friday night audience (I was
living in Barbados at the time, and it was hardly the most artistic place on
Earth... it was a crying shame that there was hardly anyone there while
"Home Alone 2" went through the roof) the second time, the magic
remained.

You all know the story, so apart from pointing out the movie's one flaw (the
prince's spell had to be broken before he turned 21 or he would remain a
beast forever; so if it was cast ten years before the events of the movie,
wouldn't that mean he was 11 when the spell was cast...?), let's look at how
well the movie works. You have a monster who's more human than the movie's
medallion-man villain; you have a heroine who's PC but engaging with it; you
have a supporting cast of magic utensils who wisely never upstage the couple
at the centre of this love story (and despite the Disney animated trappings,
it IS a love story); and you have a captivating story, beautifully
told.

The movie's also got wonderful design of its French setting and characters,
with the ballroom scene a standout (the tiny but appreciative audience were
impressed by the sight of the Beast and Belle in their evening wear - the
only time I've ever seen cartoon characters get wolf-whistled in a cinema);
and Alan Menken's score is his finest work for the Mouse, with matchless
lyrics from the late and much lamented Howard Ashman - how many musicals can
you name where ALL the songs are brilliant? But ultimately it's the movie's
very real heart that makes it a keeper; the cliche "You'll laugh, you'll
cry" is all too true in this case. A lot of movies called 'classic' don't
deserve that appellation, but this one does.

I'll be slaughtered by anime fans, but what the hell... one "Beauty and the
Beast" is worth a thousand "Akira"s. And "Shrek"s. And, I'm willing to bet,
"Treasure Planet"s. This is a truly adult animated feature that's also one
for the entire family. Forget "The Silence of the Lambs" - this is the real
best picture of 1991.
<|_=00=_|>

a great movie story done with wondrous animation and lovely music.  the
pacing was perfect, the music blended extremely well with the action, and
each character was developed charmingly.  the contrast between the mean but
insecure beast plays very well against the lovely but bright and secure
belle.  the animation was top notch: even now, after disney has had time to
develop better computer animation techniques, it still has beautiful color
and flow.  except for pinocchio, I don't know any disney movie more lovely.
It's a movie that appeals to children of all ages, especially adults :
)

enough of the "technical stuff"  let's get on to my emotional attachment to
the movie.

I remember the first time I saw B&tB so vividly; I was completely
enthralled
by the movie that all I could do on the way home was smile and cry.  I've
seen it many, many times, yet the ballroom scene still gives me goose
bumps.
Angela Landsbury as Mrs. Potts sings the title song with so much feeling
that every time I hear the song, I'm swept away back to that ballroom.

I was also moved by Belle's strength of self worth and generosity.  She is
a
heroine I'd love girls to emulate.  She knows what she wants, but yet is
sensitive to others in trying to achieve that goal.  She also learns to
apologize and to forgive, no small task.

I've loved this movie from the start, and it has grown into an obsession.
I
collect everything I can now, and watch it when I need a lift.  So I know
my
opinion is strongly biased : )  but I hope you get a chance to see this
film
and judge for yourself.  I realize it is difficult to get access to the
videos or laser discs (check out the spanish version cover imdb is using in
B&tB's page) but it is well worth the search.  The first time is most
magical.  I envy you.


<|_=00=_|>
Beauty and the Beast is an engaging movie with so much care and beauty
fused into its core. Beauty is much more than just an influential
animated classic. It is a grand and powerful fable, sugar coated with
the best animation effort in a time where CGI was becoming a movie
mainstay. In its finest moments, Beauty is a rousing musical, making
your head move and getting caught up right in the mix. The score is
unforgettable and the characters are so easy to get into. A movie that
children and adults alike will love, Disney deserved its Academy Award
nominations for creating such a joy.

Small town Belle longs for more than a local life, maintaining her
imagination through books and taking care of her kind, yet eccentric
father. But when their horse returns without papa, Belle sets out to
find the awful truth in an enchanted castle.

You can see that so much time and care was spent in drawing this
masterpiece. I cannot think of many other movies that show such
meticulous background and animation. That such effort is woven
effortlessly into its songs that make Beauty and the Beast the timeless
classic Disney rightfully lauds itself over. 'Be Our Guest,' 'Beauty
and the Beast,' 'Gaston,' you will be humming these songs at one point
in your your life! Kudos to Disney for creating a charismatic,
attractive villain in Gaston. He would not be a villain if he was not
such a jerk. You must watch this movie at least once in your life, in a
comfortable sofa and with the sound turned right up for the Broadway
scores. You will enjoy it!
<|_=00=_|>

I've not seen the newly added song sequence (Human Again) featured in the
latest IMAX version so my comments are based entirely on the original
theatrical and VHS release.

BEAUTY AND THE BEAST is Disney at its peak. From the stained glass window at
the opening and the beautiful narration, the viewer is drawn into the story
by the appealing music and clever lyrics ("Belle's Song") which gets the
picture off to a bouncy start. The opening sequence showing Belle and the
townspeople in song is masterfully handled and choreographed for maximum
effect, setting the tone for the entire story.

The plot becomes thicker once Belle's father enters the castle grounds where
the Beast resides. The castle interiors are brilliantly Baroque and the odd
characters inhabiting the grounds are delightfully rendered by a perfect
blending of art and voice talent. Cogsworth, Lumiere and Mrs. Potts are
delightful creations, each with strong, consistent personalities. David
Ogden Stiers, Jerry Orbach and Angela Lansbury cannot be praised enough for
their contributions. 

Two of the musical highlights are Orbach's dazzling job on "Be My Guest"
(with French accent) and Angela's tender rendering of the title song,
"Beauty and the Beast". Unforgettable movie moments. As Gaston, Richard
White's robust baritone voice adds greatly to the effectiveness of his
villainy.

It's no wonder the film was the first to receive recognition by the Academy
with a Best Picture nomination. Outstanding in every department, including
the end title song sung by Celine Dion and Peabo Bryson in a more "modern"
style. 

Along with SNOW WHITE and SLEEPING BEAUTY, a top-notch fairy tale with its
appeal evenly divided between adults and children--as well as the child in
all of us.


<|_=00=_|>

	Indeed, it's a tale as old as time, with a complex message that is as
ageless as it is universal; but beneath all the layers it can be summed up
very simply:  love one another, and refrain from judging others who `seem'
to be `different.'  And leave it to Disney to present it in such a way that
it can be embraced and understood by young and old alike as they have here,
in one of their best animated features ever, `Beauty and the Beast,'
directed by Gary Trousdale.  When a young Prince fails the test of an
enchantress disguised as an old hag, she transforms him into a hideous
beast, as he is destined to remain until he opens his heart and learns how
to love and be loved in return.  And so that he'll know where he stands as
time goes by, she gives him an enchanted rose, which will bloom until his
twenty-first birthday, and he has only until the last petal falls from the
flower to effect the change within himself that will be his salvation. 

	The beast, however, seems doomed, as he shuts himself away, alone in his
castle, taking up a reclusive existence far from everyone and everything. 
Until, one day, a beautiful young woman named Belle shows up at his
doorstep.  Belle is searching for her inventor father, Maurice, who
disappeared while taking one of his latest inventions to the fair; and his
trail leads Belle to the castle of the Beast, where she discovers he is
being held prisoner, having run afoul of the Beast by trespassing while lost
during the night of his journey.  Repulsed by the appearance of the Beast,
Belle nevertheless strikes a bargain with him:  If he will release her
father, she will stay in his place.  The Beast agrees, with the stipulation
that she must remain with him forever.  And as the Beast casts Belle's
father from the castle and sends him on his way, Belle's fate seems sealed. 
The only hope now for either Belle or the Beast lies in the remote
possibility that true love may somehow prevail before the last petal of the
enchanted rose falls.

	With the help of a richly textured screenplay (by Linda Woolverton) that
invests the characters with a depth of humanity that is often lacking even
in `non' animated films, and an Oscar winning score by Alan Menken, director
Trousdale provides some real insights into human nature in this retelling of
the familiar story of how true love can change even the darkest and coldest
of hearts.  There's magic in this film, which holds an enchantment of it's
own, and the message is presented ever so subtly and with a sensitivity that
draws you in gradually until you are so caught up in the story that you
become immersed and totally involved without being consciously aware of it. 
It's a film that enfolds you and takes you where it will, and you go
willingly.  A beautifully rendered and realized film that successfully
transcends it's genre, it is the first animated feature ever to be
recognized and rewarded with an Oscar nomination for Best Movie (quite a
feat in itself, as it received the nod over such films as `The Fisher King,'
`Fried Green Tomatoes,' `Thelma and Louise' and John Singleton's `Boyz N the
Hood' that year).  

	The talented cast supplying the voices of the characters includes Paige
O'Hara (Belle), Robby Benson (The Beast), Richard White (Gaston), Jerry
Orbach (Lumiere), David Ogden Stiers (Cogsworth), Angela Lansbury (Mrs.
Potts), Bradley Pierce (Chip), Rex Everhart (Maurice), Jesse Corti (LeFou),
Hal Smith (Phillipe), Jo Ann Worley (Wardrobe), Brian Cummings (Stove),
Alvin Epstein (Bookseller) and Kimmy Robertson (Featherduster).  There's a
scene in this film that is so entrancing and so emotionally involving that
it stands up against the best from any drama ever made:  As Angela Lansbury
(as Mrs. Potts) sings the Oscar winning title song, Belle begins to perceive
the true nature of the man within the Beast; and it's no longer the
cold-hearted Prince upon whom the enchantress cast her spell, because he has
changed.  And as they come together and the Beast takes Belle in his arms,
sweeping her in dance across the elegant ballroom floor, it becomes one of
those rare cinematic `moments' that are entirely transporting, and it does,
indeed, take you away.  It's a memorable scene that exemplifies the quality
and craftsmanship of this film, as does the scene in which the Beast is at
last transformed; that such emotion can be captured and expressed in an
animated film is an exemplary accomplishment, and it's all a part of why
`Beauty and the Beast' is one of Disney's all time greatest films. 

	One final note:  Stay for the credits to hear Alan Menken and Howard
Ashman's title song once again, this time performed by Celine Dion and Peabo
Bryson.  Hypnotically beautiful, this version has a magic all it's own and
makes the perfect ending to an enchanting experience.  It's all a part of
the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 9/10.                 

<|_=00=_|>
This is a classic movie. We have breakthrough films like Snow White and
Fantasia, and we have other greats like Aladdin and The Lion King, but
this definitely tops them all. There is so much here that is missing in
other Disney classics. This film has emotion, incredible music and
animation, characters that you admire, laugh at, and despise. This
movie is a fun ride from beginning to end. We can all relate with the
suffering of the Beast (being an outsider), and we all know a Gaston in
our lives. The way we can identify with the characters sucks us into
the story. Don't miss this classic...the only animated film to be
nominated for a Best Picture Oscar.
<|_=00=_|>

Who can resist this beautiful story? I love the fact that even though Belle
hated Beast at first, she saw underneath that he was a kind and gentle
soul,
and didn't care what he looked like on the outside! And what girl hasn't
known a Gaston in their lives? I thought it was so great how he was put in
his place! All the voiceovers are amazing, especially Robby Benson as
Beast.
Another Disney masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
When an arrogant Prince turns away an old woman looking for shelter
with only a rose for a gift, she warns him not to just take the surface
appearance as being the all of a person; however he rejects her a
second time – only for her to reveal herself as a beautiful
enchantress. She casts a spell on him, turning him into a beast with
the only hope of return being to fall in love with a woman and have her
fall in love with him before the rose wilts and dies. Resembling a
carpet stuffed with walnuts, the prince figures he has no chance and
withdraws into his castle. When an elderly man wanders into the castle,
the Beast holds him prisoner and only lets him go when his daughter,
Belle, offers to replace him in the Beast's castle. With time running
out, the Beast's staff hope that Belle will be the one to break the
curse but the Beast cannot remember how.

Being quite a cynical, acerbic person I must admit that I prefer modern
animated films that deliver lots of adult humour along with a good
emotional story and often I struggle to enjoy films that take the more
traditional Disney route. However with this film I was quite taken by
how classy the whole affair was, with great effort being shown in every
area from the animation, to the songs through to the emotionally
involving story whose telling is touched with a nice sense of wonder
throughout. The story doesn't really hit many bum notes (I thought
Gaston's sidekick was a bit too obvious and half cooked) and it is
interesting and enjoyable for the vast majority of the time. The story
and comedy is aimed at both adults and children – but the stuff for
kids is not basic pratfalls, nor is the adult material just a load of
references or suggestive jokes. Instead the two are quite well blended
with good physical comedy and plenty of wit. Again, it is the sense of
spectacle and wonder that came through that I really appreciated.

The animation feels more impressive for the reliance on mostly
traditional animation rather than computer effects – in fact the
computer effects look a bit dated now, even if they do still produce
the goods in some key scenes. Mainly it is the feeling that every frame
has had a lot of effort and love put into it that makes the whole
affair feel classy. The songs are also great and feature quite a few
memorable songs that stick in the mind; meanwhile the choreography of
these scenes is generally very imaginative (Be Our Guest was my
favourite). The cast don't feature many big stars and perhaps this is
good because the real people don't distract from their characters. That
said, I thought that Benson, O'Hara, White and a few others were quite
unremarkable even if they were good enough for the film. Orbach,
Stiers, Lansbury and others provided comic work in the support
characters and everything worked well.

Overall this is a really classy animated film that shows the effort and
care put into it in many different regards. It does suffer a bit from
cuteness and sentimentality but I didn't think this was a massive
problem or something that was not to be expected from Disney and
generally I really enjoyed the film and see it as one of the films that
define Disney for people of my generation.
<|_=00=_|>
The first and possibly last animated movie to be nominated for best
picture, and it should have won. This is an absolutely beautiful movie,
and it makes me miss the art of hand drawn animation. Don't get me
wrong Scilence of the Lambs was great movie and its really a tough
choice but i think this one should have won. I hate to admit it but it
brings a tear to my eye every time I watch it. If only Disney could get
back to the likes of this film, and stop dicking around with the boring
cgi movies. I hope someday we will see an animated movie win best
picture, but sadly i think it will not happen, the only one in my
opinion that came close was spirited away, and thats still no Beauty
and the Beast.
